[180]
ARTICLE V.
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
BY S. W. WILLIAMS, L.L.D., U. S. A. SEC. OF LEGATION, &C., &c.
Delivered Tuesday evening, October 26th 1858.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: The subject of my remarks this evening
is Japan; and if the numbers and respectability of my audience
form any index of your interest in that country, I infer that the
recent events which have taken place in it, and the treaties its rulers
have formed with the ministers who have come to their court,
have had their effect in arousing and deepening your desire to
learn more of this hitherto secluded land. Mystery always invests
a subject with charms, and wonders increase around it in proportion
to the glimpses we get of it, thus stimulating the imagination to
supply the deficiencies of our knowledge. Sometimes, however,
these fancies come to be accepted for facts; and then, when the
truth is known, our disappointment is proportioned to our ex-
pectations. Such in some degree has been the case in respect
to the Japanese, and their empire has been regarded as the
scene of many things, excellent or dreadful, which further research
will show never existed. Still there is much to repay a candid
examination, and it will disclose many new features in the history
of the human mind, especially in that great problem of self-govern-
ment, and the maintenance of order, such as secures the life and
property of every individual.
The time afforded by a single lecture will only allow of such a
cursory survey of the Japanese and their country as will tend to
show their national character, and enable us to define somewhat
their position in the human family. And I beg of you not to
regard them merely as objects of curiosity with which you have
not much sympathy, but rather as a numerous people whom you
yourselves may influence for good.
It will enable us to form a better idea of the Japanese empire,
if we compare it with some other countries of the world. Its
position, as you are all aware, is in that line of islands which

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
181
ontlies this great continent on its eastern shore, stretching from
Kamstchatka along through the island of Karafto, Yeso, Nippon,
Kiusiu, Formosa, Luzon, and thence down to New Holland. The
Japanese empire includes all between Formosa and Karafto; and
by a recent arrangement, either with the Chinese or Russians, its
border passes so as to include the southern third of this last-named
island. There are four large islands in the kingdom, viz. Nippon,
Kiusiu, Sikok and Yeso, and, as the Japanese reckon, over three
thousand small ones and islets. The three first named are in-
habited entirely by the Japanese, but the Ainos still occupy a
large part of Yeso.
When Columbus reached Hayti he observed in his journal that
he had at last reached Zipangu, of which Marco Polo wrote, and
which country, we know, was the great object of his search; the
remark did not more clearly prove his ignorance of what sort of a
people the Japanese were than his misapprehension as to where
they lived.
The word Japan, as it comes to us, is of Chinese origin, and in
its meaning is identical with Nippon, the native name of the
largest island in the group; the word means "Sun's Origin," or
the Dayspring; the people themselves, however, do not recognize
the word "Japan." The other two islands Kiusiu, i. e. the
Nine Departments, and Sikok, or the Four Kingdoms, lie south
of it.
The area of all that the Japanese claim is estimated by Siebold
at 158,235 square miles, of which the three principal islands
measure 115,801 sq. m. If we compare the first sum with the
provinces of China, it is a little smaller than the province of
Sz'chuen, and about the same as the three provinces of Kiángsú,
Ngánhwui and Kiángsi, under the jurisdiction of the governor-
general of Liáng Kiáng. It is rather smaller too than Spain, and
about half the size of Texas. The smaller area is nearly the same
as that of the United Kingdom, and the two groups of islands, on
account of their size and position on opposite sides of the same.
great continent, have often been compared. Yet how different has
been their influence and power in the world's history!
The islands forming the Lewchewan archipelago, reaching from
Van Dieman's Straits nearly to Formosa, are under the control of
the prince of Satsuma, who does not allow any interference in his
control by the emperor at Yedo.

182
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
The ports which have recently been, or are to be, opened to
foreign residence and commerce, are Yedo, Simoda, Ohosaka,
Nagasaki, and Hakodadi.
Yedo (it should not be written Jeddo) lies at the south-eastern
part of Nippon, nearly on the latitude of Naples, at the head of a
fine large bay. The name means River's door; and by those who
have means of knowing, the city is reckoned to contain two and a
half millions of inhabitants; Peking is estimated, on good autho-
rity too, to be equally as large and as populous; this will place
Yedo, Peking and London, in point of population, far in advance
of all other cities in the world. Yedo is the centre of everything
which is desirable in the eyes of a Japanese, far more than Peking
is to a Chinese, or perhaps even than Paris is to a Frenchman, or
Berlin to a Prussian; luxury, arts, power, and amusements all are
found there in their highest degree.
Simoda (i. e. the Lower Field) is a town of about 7000 inhabi-
tants, lying near the entrance to the bay of Yedo.
Ohosaka (i. e. Great Board) is siuated nearly half-way between
Simoda and Nagasaki; it is one of the largest cities in the empire,
and the entrepôt of Miyako, but has not yet been visited by any
foreign ships.
Nagasaki lies nearly at the southwestern extremity of the coun-
try, in Kiusiu, and has long been associated in our minds with
Japan, as Canton used to be with China,-a place where a few
merchants were willing to submit to almost any indignity and
privation for the sake of gain. It lies nearly on the same latitude
as Nanking, Malta, and Norfolk; is beautifully situated at the
extremity of a safe harbor; and contains over 60,000 inhabitants.
The name means Long Cape, given to it from the point of land
stretching south of it.
Hakodadi is in the island of Yeso, and has been the resort of
many whalers since it was opened to them in 1855. Its name
means Box Shop, perhaps from its position as the entrepôt of most
of the trade of that island.
The surface of Japan is rough, and no contrast in scenery can
be greater than is presented when one leaves the flat region of
Shanghai and crosses over to the bold headlands of Nagasaki.
It is probable that this town may by and by become a sanitarium
for the residents here in Shanghai.
The most striking object in the whole country is the ancient

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
183
volcano of Fusi, which rises in a regular cone to the height of
nearly 17,000 feet, or about the same as Ararat, and is visible from
the city and bay of Yedo. Its top is bare in summer, and no
eruption has occurred for ages. This magnificent mountain forms
a favorite subject for embellishing the wares of the Japanese, and
identifies articles with that country.
Another volcano, about 3,500 feet high, still in action, and well
known in the annals of the nation as the scene of the sufferings
of the Christians, is Unzen-daki, visible from Nagasaki. An
eruption of this volcano in 1792 desolated the country at its foot,
and destroyed over 53,000 inhabitants.
Nor should the beautiful cone of Kaimon-daki, at the entrance
of the bay of Kagosima, southeast of Nagasaki, be overlooked, for
when once seen it is always remembered.
Japan is without doubt densely peopled; but the total number
has been so variously estimated, from 15 to 40 millions, that we
shall perhaps get a better idea of its amount by comparing the
surface and extent with those of some other countries whose cen-
sus is known. The province of Sz'chuen in China, for example,
contains twenty millions, and like Japan is fertile and moun-
tainous; while the aggregate of the inhabitants of the Liang
Kiáng, a rich alluvial region, is reckoned to be over ninety mil-
lions. The last census of the United Kingdom gives twenty-seven
millions, and you all know its soil and resources. The first
comparison of areas with Sz'chuen and Kiángnán includes Yeso,
whose inhabitants can hardly average twenty to a square mile;
but the latter, with Great Britain and Ireland, is much more
analogous to the thickly settled islands of Nippon and Kiusiu.
In Japan, I think I am safe in saying, there could not be found
an acre of land cultivated merely for feeding animals, and the
country is more rough than England; on the other hand, there is
in Japan little arable land occupied by parks; and the number of
cultivable acres is probably less than in the United Kingdom.
Siebold reckons the population of Japan at 35 millions; but
judging from the comparisons just now made, I am not inclined
to put it higher than 18 or 20 millions. The enumeration of the
people is carefully made in each principality, but no one has the
power to demand the several censuses and combine them into one
satisfactory table. The northern part of Nippon in the princi-
palities of Dewa and Mutsu is rough and sterile, and cannot support

184
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
half the number of people that the fertile valleys of Kiusiu easily
maintain. By the help of these facts and comparisons we can
form a reasonable conclusion respecting the total census.
The greatest part of the inhabitants of Japan are agriculturalists,
and a genial, healthy climate encourages them in their tillage by
developing the fertility of the soil. The extent to which terracing
is carried is almost unequaled in other parts of the world; and no
one who visits the neighborhood of Simoda or Nagasaki can restrain
his admiration at the natural beauty of scenery, ornamented and
improved by the careful culture of the farmer, or cease to wonder
at the labor which he has expended in terracing the hill-sides.
The rate of wages of the day laborer in the workshop or on the
farm is about the same as in China,-twelve cents or a sixpence
per day, and his condition in the two countries does not materially
differ. As an index of their greater security, it may be remarked
that their farmsteads and hamlets are scattered over the country,
not always clustered in large villages.
The people themselves who occupy this group of islands present
the most interesting subject of inquiry. Their character is marked.
Xavier, whose opportunities of observation were extensive, early
called them the Spaniards of the east; and like them, they are
proud, and rather irascible; vindictive when offended, and spirited
in repelling insults. They are licentious and gross in their morals;
polite and even obsequious in their manners; and have an inqui-
sitive turn of mind. If compared with the Chinese, they are not
so democratic in their institutions, so industrious, or so mild, nor
have they on the whole as much physical strength; but they exhibit
some traits which encourage us to expect a more rapid advance in
the essential elements of national prosperity and strength. They
belong, like them, to the great Mongolian family of the human
race; but the probabilities are that at an early period in history
their ancestors found their way from the north to their present
location, branching off from the Tungusian and Kamtschatdale
races, and not directly from the Chinese. Their average height
is about five feet four inches; their heads are large; their eyelids
exhibit the peculiar obliquity that is noticed among the Mongolians,
and like them, too, they have coarse black hair, and small hands
and feet.
The Lewche wans, now under their oversight if not their direct
rule, are less in stature, and slighter in form. Their origin is

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
185
perhaps different, their ancestors having probably come northerly
from Luzon through Formosa, for the Malayan features are distinct-
ly traceable, though all intercourse with even Formosa has ceased
for many ages. On these points further research is needed, and a
comparison of languages, &c., before a decisive opinion can well
be formed.
The government of such a people as the Japanese presents a
very interesting topic of inquiry to us, owing in a grest measure.
to their isolation, and the persuasion that every feature is of native
growth, modified slightly if at all by the institutions of other
countries. Like that of the early Chinese dynasties, it took the
form of a feudal monarchy, there being an emperor, supposed to be
of divine origin, and sixty-six princes, each acknowledging him as
their sovereign, but retaining the power over their own domains.
Of these sixty-six principalities, five were the peculiar possession
of the emperor, and the remainder were grouped into seven do, or
circuits; but no general authority over the do seems ever to have
existed. In process of time, and in consequence of the decay of
imperial power and course of revolutions, the pure feudal form of
government became modified, and the authority centralized at
Yedo in the person of a lieutenant-general or lord high constable.
From him it has since gradually passed into the hands of a council.
The government might be called now a federal monarchy, or
federal oligarchy, according as we ascribe the real power to the
Siogoun or to the council, though it still retains so many of its
characteristics, that it is undoubtedly the most feudal government
on earth. The semi-independent princes retain much power in
their own fiefs, while the interest of each in the politics of the
whole empire is made safe by the sense of security from attacks by
his neighbors, or of absorption by the state.
The earliest monarch dates B.C. 667, and there have been 126
sovereigns up to the present one, who began to reign in 1853; some
of them have been females. His court is at Miyako, (a word
which means the capital, like king or tú in Chinese,) a large city
near the centre of Nippon, about forty miles from Ohosaka. He
is regarded as the descendant of the Sun-Goddess, though he does
not arrogate such idolatrous titles as his compeer at Peking. His
common titles are mikado, a term analogous to the "lord of the
world," and dairi, which corresponds to our word "court." He
is often called the spiritual emperor, in distinction from the siogoun,

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
187
slipped away from the hands of the siogoun into the grasp of his
council, and he is now little more than a function in the state,
like the mikado, an effigy rather than a reality.
This council is composed of thirteen members, five of whom are
chief ministers, and eight of secondary rank. At the formation of
the council, in 1603, they consisted of the friends of Taiko-sama,
and the dignity has since remained in their families. In this we
see a rememblance to the council which Darius Hystaspes formed
of his friends; but in the functions and power of the Japanese
council, there is perhaps more similarity to the Venetian senate.
It has a president, who carries on the government while he holds
that post; he is responsible to the council for his acts, and for
carrying out its orders. It perpetuates itself,-a feature in its
organization which accounts for the energy, and partly for the
equity of its course during the last two centuries. The members
have each a department, whose duties are performed according to
a prescribed code.
Laws are enacted or changed by the Council, and the result
submitted to the siogoun, who, like the king or queen of England,
in most cases ratifies the decisions of the councillors. If, however,
he vetoes their enactments, the question is not sent back to them
nor is it dropped, but is referred to his three nearest relations, one
of whom is the heir apparent. If they sustain him, the councillors
must resign in disgrace, or commit suicide, which is supposed to
save their characters from disgrace; if they disagree with him,
he abdicates his seat, and, report says, sometimes puts an end to
himself.
One of the consequences of a political system like this is to give
great force to enactments which have already had the sanction of
the rulers, and to place the laws far above the lawgivers. It is
always difficult to remodel the institutions of any country; but in
Japan it must render all change and improvement increasingly
difficult, when the advocates of a new state of things support it at
such a risk. The stability of the government and the apparent
contentedness of the people under its sway, must be mainly owing
to the general consent which all ranks give to the requirements
of law, and the long experience that it has been the safest course.
The respect paid to law is, however, not that of affection but of
fear; and the orders of the government are carried out by a system
of espionage and mutual responsibility extending throughout the

186
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
who has been styled the temporal emperor; but both these terms
convey erroneous ideas, when used in this connection.
In the eyes of the Japanese, though his power is reduced to a
cypher, he is still their emperor de jure, and his sanction is neces-
sary to legalize certain acts in religion, etiquette, and succession.
His court is now the abode of a large number of titular officers,
whose pursuits are of a literary character, and give an air of
refinement to their society. The arts and manufacture are carried
to a high degree of excellence in this region, and many articles
are described as of Miyako work to show their superiority, even
though they may not be actually made there. The siogoun has
his agent at the city, and the mikado also sends a yearly envoy to
Yedo in return for the same compliment paid to him.
The office of siogoun (in Chinese teiáng kian, or commander in
chief,) was known in ancient times, and in its duties corresponded
to the maire du palais of the early French kings; but it was in
A.D. 1280, that Yoritomo, then holding the office, made himself
independent of the emperor, as Pepin l'Heristel had done in Paris
six centuries previously, and established his court at Yedo. This
title is still retained, but the more common appellations are culo-
sama, which means "Lord of the Palace," and tenha-sama, or
"Lord of the Empire." In the treaties lately negotiated he is
called Taigoun, or Tycoon, i. e. Great Ruler, an appellation
which may be of recent origin.
The power and titles of the singoun became hereditary in the
family of Yoritomo, and the influence of the mikado gradually
diminished during the next three hundred years. In the latter
part of the 16th century, a man, known afterwards as Taiko-sama,
arose, who by his talents and prowess overthrew the family of
Yoritomo, completely subduing all opposition of the emperor and
the princes, and engrossed the sovereignty in his own person,
though he allowed them to retain their titles and fiefs. He con-
solidated his power in 1603, but was unable to bequeath it to his
son, for his coadjutor and intimate friend, Iyeyasu, whom he
made guardian of this youth, usurped the station, and founded the
present family of the siogoun, taking the title of Gongin. With
him the present system of government commenced, and in its
prominent features has been maintained to the present day; though
by reason of the inherent weakness of hereditary power, dependent
entirely on personal character, much of the real authority has

188
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
entire population. Every man and individual, every household
and the people of every neighborhood, hamlet, village, and city,
are bound to each other by this invisible chain. Each becomes
the keeper of his neighbor, for the conduct of that neighbor may
implicate himself in the greatest misfortunes. It is, therefore, the
interest of every person to maintain the laws, and see, too, that
others obey them.
A striking instance of their regard for law was exhibited at
Simoda in December 1854. The Russian frigate Diana was in
the harbor when an earthquake occurred, which shook the town
and overthrew many of the buildings, accompanied by an immense
tidal wave, which as it rushed in nearly submerged the place,
carrying the debris out to sea on its reflux, with nearly a hundred
human beings among the broken timbers. The boats of the Diana
were immediately manned to endeavor to save the wretches from
drowning; but out of the whole only two accepted the proffered
help, alleging that it was against the law for them to go on board
a foreign ship. During the five months Commodore Perry was
in those waters, only three unofficial persons ventured on board
his ships in the night, though crowds of spectators could be seen
on the hills near Kanagawa, most of whom we were told came
down from Yedo to get a sight of the squadron.
The princes, commonly called tono-sama, differ in their rank
and power, and have little authority out of their own principalities.
Those of Kaga and Satsuma are now among the most powerful,
but all of them were so reduced in 1600 by Taiko-sama, that they
have never since attempted to throw off the control of the siogoun,
nor is mention made of any internal broils resulting in actual
hostilities. They were then obliged to conform to an order to
spend half the year at Yedo, and the periods were so arranged
that adjacent prir.cipalities seldom enjoyed the presence of their
own rulers at the same time. The same system of surveillance is
in force in all these petty palatinates, (as they might also be called,)
and the siogoun has also his own spies, who in some of them are
exposed to risk in exercising their functions. In Satsuma it is said
to be not very safe to be an imperial spy.
The plan of weakening the princes by obliging them to go to
great expenses in various ways, and of placing imperial cities near
and in their jurisdictions, is resorted to; but as a whole, peace has
been the uniform result of the present system, and this is saying a

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
189
good deal in its praise, when we remember what a state of anarchy
existed in Europe during the feudal ages. One result of the semi-
annual res dence of so many dignitaries at Yedo has been to make
every nobleman look upon the sojourn at his own capital as the
real exile. The officials at Hakodadi, in May 1854, often expressed
their desire to get back to the metropolis, which however was no
wonder there on other accounts of climate and comforts, as well as
family and enjoyments.
The imperial cities and fiefs are numerous, and governed by
officers sent directly from court. In 1854, when an article in
Perry's treaty of Kanagawa opened Simoda to American vessels,
it was set off from the rest of the principality of Idzu, and placed
as an imperial city under the prince of Mimasaki; the town was
separated, with a small suburban region, from the former authority
of the principality. I do not know whether such a division could
be made of the territory of every prince; and there are many
other questions of internal police, necessarily arising under such a
complex state of things, which cannot be answered here. These
territorial princes, or counts palatine, (for the word prince to my
mind seems to imply too much,) do not form usually a part of the
council.
There are eight hereditary classes recognized in Japanese society,
three of them can wear swords, viz. the dai-mio and sai-mio, who
are the princes; the ki-nin or the noblemen; and the samorai or
military men. Those who are called princes, in the treaties, are
merely kami, or titular noblemen, raised to that honor by the
siogoun or entitled to it by birth, and having no territory. Judging
by the characters used for their titles, the term marquis, i. e. a
guardian of the marches, is much nearer to the rank than prince,
which last appellation corresponds better to the meaning of sama.
The priests, gentry, merchants, artisans, and serfs, constitute
the remaining classes, except tanners, who are regarded as out-
casts, and obliged to live on the outskirts of towns. The principle
of hereditary descent runs through Japanese society more com-
pletely perhaps than in any other country; though not to the
extent, probably, which has been stated, viz: that no man can
ever follow any other occupation than that of his ancestors.
The system of responsibility, together with the minute details.
of etiquette, which officials must conform to, has resulted in a
curious form of deception, which the native word naibon can alone

190
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
properly designate. Naibon implies that though the incumbent
is dead or has resigned his post, all its duties are still performed
in his name, until such time as it is deemed proper to announce
officially that his successor has entered on them. The burden of
ceremony is so great, and the restraint of official life so irksome,
that it is very common for dignitaries of every grade to transfer
them to their successors when circumstances admit of their doing
so. During the late visit of the frigate Minnesota to Nagasaki,
the governor officially announced the demise of the siogoun on the
16th of September; but it has been ascertained that he actually
died some weeks previous. The convenience of the naibon is,
among such a people, likely to perpetuate it so long as the system
of which it forms a part may exist; but the index it gives of the
disregard of the truth should not be lost sight of by us.
In the Chinese hamlets a similar system of eldership obtains,
as that here described as part of the Japanese rule, but the latter
carry it out more thoroughly. In Japan a commoner cannot go
abroad without his passport, a piece of pine wood with his
residence, name, &c., burnt into it,-which he suspends from
his girdle; it is his protection and his permission, and he willingly
conforms to the law for the sake of the security it affords him.
By means of it he can be traced everywhere, and without it he had
better, as the phrase is, "be nowhere." The headmen, or ottona,
of these tithings, examine small crimes, and punish the guilty
without further appeal, but more serious misdemeanors are taken
before the judges. There are not, it is said, many public executions
in the empire; and I was told that only three persons had been
beheaded in Nagasaki the last year, and those for smuggling.
Suicide is very common and even considered rather honorable.
One of the chief interpreters informed me that he had heard of as
many as five hundred cases in a year, which at least proves how
very common it is, even if he had no foundation for his statistics.
One instance of the effects of this system of the solidarity of
neighborhoods was exhibited when the shipwrecked sailors, carried
back by the Morrison in 1837, had gone ashore to report them-
selves at a small village near the entrance to the Bay of Kagosima.
They gave the whole detail of their location to the headmen,
hoping then to be received and restored to their friends; but when
refused a landing, they said that it would now be useless to put
them ashore privately, for this information would be sent to their

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
191
homes, and they would be arrested and imprisoned as soon as they
appeared, for the crime of conducting a foreign ship to the const
against the laws.
The dress of the Japanese of both sexes is very simple, consisting
chiefly of long robes, like nightgowns, worn one over the other.
In summer the laboring men go as nearly naked as decency per-
mits, and the women generally uncovered down to the waist. The
material of apparel is usually cotton, the rich wear crape and other
silk, some of them of very fine texture. The men shave the top
of their heads almost daily, tying the hair on the crown into a
queue, an inch or two long. The socks of both sexes have a separate
place for the great toe, in order to allow it to close upon the clasp
which retains the straw sandal on the feet. Leggings are worn,
but no trowsers. Large girdles confine the gowns, and a
capacious bosom is thus made, in which the wearer carries a variety
of articles. In other cases, the mouth of the wide sleeves are sewed
half way, so as to form a pocket, in which light things are placed,
and a reservoir for the nose-papers which are used instead of
handkerchiefs.
The common official dress, which is worn over the other, consists
of two parts. The upper garment is shaped somewhat like a large
old-fashioned ladies' cape, wide and stiff on the shoulders, where
it projects two or three inches, and is fastened at the waist; the
lower garment resembles loose trowsers or over-alls, open at the
sides. The cape has the wearer's coat of arms stamped on the
right and left breasts and on the back, and his two swords are
thrust through the girdle underneath it. These swords are worn
in the most inconvenient manner, and are very seldom laid aside
in public.
The dress of females is confined by a broad girdle on the outside,
which is tied behind in an immense knot. Their hair is bound up in
a tuft on the back of the head, somewhat like that of Chinese women;
in front its jet black color is relieved by gay hair-pins of silver or
glass, by a flower, or by a bow of crimson or blue crape. A dozen
or more of these hair-pins are sometimes stuck in sideways, giving
the head a strange bristling aspect. On the birth of a child, a
married woman shaves her eyebrows and blackens her teeth,-a
custom which though not so painful and discommoding as the Chi-
nese fashion of crippling the feet, is more repulsive to a stranger,
and disfigures their faces in a way that must be seen to be appreciated.

192
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
Their marriage ceremonies resemble those of China in many
particulars, such as the employment of a go-between to arrange
the match, the worship of the ancestral tablets, &c. The sexes
are not separated to the degree known in China; but I do not
think that the relative position or influence of females is higher than
it is among the Chinese. Polygamy is legal in both countries,
and its consequences are the same. Instruction in embroidery,
and other kinds of needlework, skill in playing on the samisken
or guitar, and singing, with book learning enough to enable them
to write a letter or cast up an account, seem to be their principal
accomplishments. The most educated women of the common
people are said to be courtesans,-who are, however, often honorably
married.
At the marriage ceremony a singular contrast to our own ideas
as to the meaning of the same dress is noticeable; the bride is
nearly concealed in a white robe, which is among these islanders
emblematical of her shroud, meaning that she henceforth is dead
to her own ancestors, and has become incorporated with the family
of her husband.
The Japanese are a social people, and contrive to have many
public festivals and holidays, as well as private feasts and merry-
makings. Every town has its annual matsuri, or patron saint's
day, at which the whole population assist. The day for the worship
of the graves is a grand occasion; and if the night be pleasant a
beautiful sight is exhibited at such a place as Nagasaki, in the
various fire-works and illuminated boats which are sent out to float
away on the water.
It is ore part of polite education to learn how to send presents
properly to different grades of people. Every present should be
accompanied by a strip of dried fish or seaweed enclosed in a piece
of paper and tied loosely with a red and white string. The meaning
of this has been explained, by some, that the giver hopes that his
friend is in good health and able to eat as usual; while others,
with perhaps more reason, say it refers to the humble origin of
the Japanese, whose ancestors were simply fishermen. To omit
this accompaniment on any occasion would be highly indecorous,
as an incident will illustrate. The day before leaving Hakodadi,
I was conversing with Yendo, the deputy bungio, while waiting
for a shopman to bring in some pictures on silk I had engaged of
him. Yendo looked at them as I turned the parcel over to see

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
193
if all was right, and seeing me about to pay for them insisted on
giving them to me as his parting remembrance, their cost being a
mere trifle. I agreed to the proposition,-but before he could or
would hand them to me, he sent a servant to buy the usual sea-
weed to accompany them.
Rice and fish form the staple articles of food with all classes.
The former grows throughout the southern parts of the country,-
some of it upland rice, which does not need much water. Wheat,
barley, buckwheat, and millet are also largely cultivated. Broc-
coli, sweet-potatoes, eggplant, rape-cabbage, and other culinary
vegetables increase the list of plants used as food. Every thing
from the sea or river, fish, shellfish, seaweed, mussels, &c.,
all are eaten; indeed fish is to a Japanese, what roast-beef
is to an Englishman, or sauerkraut to a German; he regards it
as necessary to a meal, and the seas around him bring it forth
abundantly.
Tea and aaki are their only beverages. The finer sorts of the
former are described as equaling the best descriptions of Chinese
leaf, and the plant grows in most parts of the southern islands;
near Simoda and Kanagawa it is a common hedge shrub. Saki
is the native name for the spirits distilled from rice, and is like
arrack or samshoo, its taste not being very agreeable to those who
are uninitiated. The best comes from Lewchew.
The dwellings of the Japanese are chiefly constructed of wood,
unpainted and without chimneys or windows. They are built so
that, in case of an earthquake, the outer frame-work and the inner
partitions and moveable panels will fall as one mass, and not
crumble in beneath the roof; for in such a case the inmates could.
better escape from under the ruins than from a mass of brick. The
roofs of dwellings generally project beyond the walls, increasing
the darkness of the rooms; they are of brick tiling, neatly laid in
mortar and guttered; the eaves are furnished with troughs to
collect the rain. Sliding panels, covered with thin paper, form
the substitute for windows. Poor houses are covered with a tuif
or straw thatch, about a foot in thickness, which renders them
dangerous in case of fires; and this is a calamity which very often
occurs in Japan. While one of the Dutch embassies was in Yedo,
a fire occurred which destroyed more than half of the city, and
owed its ravages, in a great measure, to the number of these thick
inflammable thatches.

194
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
The floors are raised about two feet above the ground, in common
houses and shops, and are covered with mats on which the family
sleep, and by day carry on the business of the shop. No chairs,
tables, bedsteads, couches, or any of the numerous articles of fur-
niture, which fill up apartments in western lands, are seen in them.
They are warmed by braziers, placed in the middle of the room,
filled with burning coal or charcoal.
When Commodore Perry gave to the Japanese Commissioners
at Yokohama the various presents which had been intrusted to
him by the American Government, he told them that among the
return presents he would be happy to receive the entire furniture
of a room, in order that he might fit up an apartment in the
White House in good Japanese style. They assented, and when
their articles in exchange were brought in, showed him a pile of
a hundred fine mats as the fulfilment of his wish.
These mats are kept scrupulously clean, and being cheap are
easily renewed when worn-out. The remarkable cleanliness of the
Japanese is somewhat to be ascribed to their usage of sitting on
the floor, for it must be kept tidy if it is to serve successively for
table, bed, and parlor, during every twenty-four hours, or else the
house would soon become intolerable. The habit of leaving the
sandals at the door and shaking the feet clean before stepping on
the mats, promotes general cleanliness. The contrast between the
appearance of Nagasaki and Shanghai, in this respect, must be seen
to be fully understood.
In the rear of the house there is usually a courtyard, where a
few plants in pots, a pond for gold fish, a tree or two, and some-
times a shrine for an idol, are all neatly arranged, pleasantly
exhibiting the tastes of the householders. Near the house in which
the headman of Yokohama lived, there was a pretty ornament of
a grafted fir and pine tree, which had been dwarfed and trained
to spread over the ground, for a rod or more, a few feet above it
and covering a little fish pond. Many years' careful culture had
been expended to bring it to that condition. A mile or two from
it was another larger tree, a pine, which had been trained to
form an umbrella-like arbor on the bank of a rivulet; it was near
a hamlet, whose inhabitants could thus refresh themselves in the
heat of the day, and evidently did so from the seats placed under-
neath its shade. The top of this tree was as nearly level as possible,
and measured over 200 square feet!

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
195
The streets in Japanese towns are wider than in Chinese. In
Nagasaki, the gutters run underneath a granite pavement in the
centre, each side being made of a composition exceedingly hard
and smooth. Other streets are made like macadamized roads,
but not so hard. In Hakodadi the streets are nearly all made in
this way. Many of them in both places are swept and watered
almost daily. In all towns substantial wooden gates divide the
streets into neighborhoods and from each other, and near them
are the police stations. These gates, among other uses, prevent
the rush or the assemblage of crowds and mobs, and thus assist
the authorities in maintaining order. Near them are to be seen
charms and prayers of various sorts, exhibiting the superstition
of the people. It was remarked that in Simoda the things which
we did not see made a curious catalogue, as showing its contrast
with American towns. There were no bricks, no window-glass,
no fire-places, no pigs, no sheep, and no beggars,-the last item
being the most surprising of all after seeing their numbers wherever
one goes in China.
The language of the Japanese is mellifluous from the prepon-
derance of vowels. Until about B. C. 200, when the Chinese was
introduced, they seem to have had no written language; and it
was not until the first part of the eighth century A. D. 733, and
after, that the present mode of writing was introduced, by select-
ing parts of Chinese characters to represent their syllables. Unlike
most other languages, the Japanese is written with syllables, not
with letters like our own, nor with characters like the Chinese,
but with indivisible syllables, like the mode adopted by John
Guert for the Cherokees. There are 48 symbols, but by means
of diacritical marks, the number of syllables is increased to 72.
In this syllabary, or iroho as it is called from the first three
sounds, there is no l; and it is difficult to express many sounds
common to other languages, though the elision of vowels is fre-
quent. A written word cannot end in any consonant, except »;
but the syllables fu, tsu, ku, and some others, are elided in speak-
ing, as ftats for futatsu, sikok for sikoku, Nippon for Nitsupon,
thrano for shirano, &c.
The first syllabary, formed to express the Japanese sounds and
called the kata-kana, was very simple, but not long after three
others were invented to repeat the same thing. Parts of other
Chinese characters were selected, to denote the syllables, sometimes

196
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
two or three for the same one, and then the entire characters were
introduced. The one now most in use, called hira-kana, is a kind
of running-hand, and contains over a hundred forms, and if it was
the only one used would not increase the labor of learning to
read, but it is joined with the two others, called yamato-kana-and
manyo-kana, in a most perplexing way. These latter syllabaries
are however rather Chinese characters, taken to denote a sound
with some reference to their meaning, than mere phonetic symbols,
and in a manner which resembles that said to have existed among
the ancient Egyptians.
The Japanese scholars, unfortunately for themselves, perhaps,
having the Chinese language to draw from, have gone on intro-
ducing its characters into their language, apparently for no other
reason than to show off the learning of the student. Pedantry has
multiplied the media of thought by allowing a great variety of
symbols for mere sounds, and then adding these characters as
substitutes for native words, until the medley is very troublesome.
In short, I should place the Japanese written language at the head
of all living tongues for difficulty of acquisition; not only has
the student to learn about three hundred arbitrary symbols for the
mere sounds of the iroha; but he must become acquainted with
Chinese too, both the regular and running-hand, as both are used
indiscriminately. Owing perhaps to their isolation, the meaning
of many characters has been altered by the Japanese, so that I
have seen a good Chinese scholar unable to understand some
specimens of their composition.
The spoken language is exceedingly rich in expressions, for it has
had the resources of Chines? to draw upon, and facilities of com-
bination of its own to an almost unlimited extent. It has also
inflections of tense, case, and mood, which with gender and number
are all lacking in Chinese. There is one peculiarity in it, found
indeed in most Asiatic languages, but here carried to a very high
degree, viz: designating the position of the hearer by the mode of
addressing him. It is not exactly like constantly interlarding the
words, your honor, your worship, my lord, &c., in English, though
it has this effect. The difference in the same phrase spoken to an
inferior and to a superior will partially illustrate this. In the
question, Where are you going to-day? the first will be
Kon-nichi omaiyena nani no tokoroni yukuka?
but when addressed to one higher in station, it is
Kon-nichi no kimi wa nani no tokoroni on ide asobasaruka?

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
197
While the spoken language is euphonious and comparatively
easy of acquisition, a full knowledge of the written is the labor of
years. Certain names, as those of people, places, time, deities,
&c., are usually written in pure Chinese, and the knowledge
of these characters is general and indispensable. A Japanese
does not try to talk Chinese; he changes it, when reading, into.
his own sounds, or else translates the meaning, somewhat as
he pleases.
Education is general, but probably goes only as far as an ability
to read or write a letter, to east up accounts, or peruse an easy
story. One native informed me that the seven years he had spent
at school were occupied almost wholly in these branches. It is
praiseworthy that with such difficulties the people should be so
generally educated in their own literature; I was told there were
fifty schools in Nagasaki, but only one book-store, and the number
of books seen in the streets is less than in China.
In English we have adopted three words from the Japanese, viz:
soy, bonze, and moxa, to which I think suki and naibon are likely
erelong to be added.
The religion of the Japanese much resembles that of the Chinese
in its great lineaments; it has more power over them, and they
seem to be more under the influence of their priests, who conse-
quently hold a higher relative position in society. The worship of
ancestors is at the foundation of the national faith, and the inter-
vention and intercession of the Budhists are used in all ceremonies
relating to the dead.
The system of ancient mythology of the Japanese still remains
distinct from Budhism, as is the case also in China. It is called
Sintu, and is celebrated in its own temples, or tera, which are
placed under the guardianship of sextons, who usually reside near
them with their families. The shrines of this sect are seen every-
where, by the road-side, on the tops of hills, and in groves, some-
times with an image, and at others only a picture. At one of
them near Simoda, sailors who had escaped shipwreck or made a
good voyage had presented many votive offerings of small junks,
pictures, oars, and other articles, an.ong which were scores of
quenes cut off from their own heads. Pilgrimages are common to
the spots deemed sacred, and these places of resort are famous for
their attractions.

198
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
The Budhists came to these islands about A.D. 550, and though
received with suspicion, erelong made way for their tenets
adapting themselves to the habits of the people. Budhism is a
pliant faith, willing to take almost any form, and during its long
isolation in Japan has adopted many rites quite unknown in Ceylon
or Tibet. The temples, called miya, are larger, more costly, and
much more numerous than the tera; graveyards are usually placed
near them. Their priests assist at funerals and masses, and exhibit
so many ceremonies in their worship like those of the Roman
Catholics, that one is puzzled to decide which copied from the other.
Their temples, unlike those in China, contain great numbers of
ancestral tablets, some arranged in a separate apartment, and
others, as if belonging to particular families, placed in small chapels
or side oratories. These temples are models of cleanliness and
usually well lighted-presenting a great contrast to the dingy,
dirty abodes of the same sect in China.
A singular result of the long seclusion of the Japanese is seen
in the use of Tibetan words and sentences for charms, as if they
were really, as they are to them, parts of a dead language. These
Tibetan charms are seen written, with short prayers in Chinese, on
posts at the street gates, and over the doors of private houses.
In the graveyards these posts are tall and very numerous, and
some of them are provided with a small iron wheel, inserted in
the wood; a turn of it when set a whirling, is reckoned as equi-
valent to saying a prayer. In every place the idolatry and
superstition of the Japanese are seen; like the Athenians they are
in all things very superstitious; but all their services have no effect
in improving their morals, which are more openly licentious than
most heathen nations. Budhistic and other images are scattered
over the country in vast numbers, but their worshipers derive
neither happiness nor instruction from them.
In their tombs and epitaphs they present many differences from
the Chinese, and a collection of the prayers, written on the posts,
would vividly illustrate their theology. The body is placed or
forced into a small square grave, and over it there rises an
obelisk, a pillar, or a mere upright tomb-stone. In the epitaphs,
which are altogether in Chinese, the deceased are called "believing
scholars" and "believing women." It is the custom to place fresh
flowers frequently before the tombs, so that the cemeteries are
constantly visited.

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
館書圖學大京燕
Yenching University Library
199
With respect to the manufactures of the Japanese, and their
attainments in the arts of designing, weaving, printing, and other
branches of labor, it is impossible here to enter into many particulars,
or attempt even to describe those which are peculiar; and the
desirableness of doing this is very much lessened on account of the
great variety of specimens of their best productions in porcelain,
lacquered-ware, silk, crape, metals, &c., which have latterly been
brought to Shanghai by recent visitors to Yedo and Nagasaki.
You have doubtless examined these and formed an idea of their
relative excellence, when compared with the same articles in China
or Europe. The ingenuity and skill of the people, by reason of
their very seclusion, perhaps have been more severely taxed and
more fully developed than would have been the case had their
country been opened: this much is certain, that the Japanese at
present entirely supply their own wants; and the trade which
attracted and employed so much capital at the beginning of the
17th century, has now to be almost recreated.
Since the closing of the ports of Japan to Europeans, about the
year 1635, when the Dutch were allowed to retain their factory on
the islet of Desima at Nagasaki, the people have learned more and
more to depend on their own productions. The trade, up to that
time, had been mostly in the hands of Spaniards and Portuguese,
and had been profitable to these three nations, though the details
of its articles or their amounts are not clearly recorded. It was a
trade famous in those days for the quantity of gold and copper it
introduced into Europe, and their enormous drain is alleged by
the Japanese rulers as one of the reasons for restraining it.
The Dutch accepted the proffered opportunity of remaining in
the place of the Portuguese at Desima, to supply the Japanese
with certain European commodities. There could be no worse
instance cited, of the lengths to which commercial, religious, and
political rivalry were carried in those days, especially between the
Dutch and Spaniards, than the assistance given, at the request of
the Japanese authorities, by the Dutch chief Kockebekker with his
ships, in destroying the last remains of the native Roman Catholics
at Simoda. It was a disgraceful act; but it was done at a period
of the bitterest hatred, and must be judged of by the spirit of
those times.
The trade with the Dutch was carried on under many vexatious
restrictions, and gradually diminished in amount while the expenses
METROPOLITAN LIBRARY
PEKING

200
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
remained the same, until the whole total of imports and exports
were, in 1846, under two millions of francs. The exports consisted
of copper, vegetable wax, soy, lacquered-ware, straw boxes, paper,
porcelain, saki, and sundries of silk, camphor, curiosities, &c., for
which they exchanged sugar, fancy European articles, medicines,
&c. The trade had been rather a losing one for some years past.
The Chinese were confined to Nagasaki at the same time with
the Dutch, but their trade does not seem to have been so much
restricted, and has probably been on the whole quite equal to the
demand and supply, and is now much more necessary to the
Japanese than the other. They carry to Nagasaki raw silk, sugar,
woollen cloth, gold thread, and a great variety of medicines, such
as are known in this country, and to an extent in some years
enough to load a dozen junks. They take away many articles of
food, some furs, pearls, straw boxes, and lacquered-ware, in the
proportion of three-fifths, copper forming the other two-fifths.
The Chinese dwell on the mainland within a walled inclosure
containing several acres, where they constantly remain. An un-
successful attempt was made through the governor to visit their
residence, while I was lately in Nagasaki; and in the reply, sent
through him, one reason for the refusal was stated that neither I
nor my friend Mr. Syle had any acquaintance with those people,
as they had been asked if they knew us. There are many native
women allowed in the compound, but the Chinese are not permitted
to go at pleasure about the town, for the Japanese seem to be
afraid of them, and of granting to them much liberty. Their
number is less than formerly, and is now under a hundred persons,
all of whom come from Chapu in Chelkiang.
of
The currency of Japan is cast like the Chinese; it is composed
copper, gold and silver. The koban, a thin gold coin, like a
wafer, is reckoned to be worth one tael of silver of $1.33. One
quarter of a tael is an ichibu, or 33 cents, an oblong silver coin,
three of which equal a dollar; there is also a gold ichibu of the
same value; and a piece made of gold and silver worth halfan ichibu,
or 16 cents, called ni-shiu. The isshin is the smallest silver coin,
about 8 cents, 16 of them being worth a koban. The copper coins
are the zheni and tokiuku: the first is a cash, of base metal;
1000 of them are equal to a tael: the other is worth 100 cash, or
a mace, each; it is about the size and shape of an egg, cut length-
wise, and the best made of all the Japanese coins. As an instance

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
201
of the comparatively limited intercourse between distant parts of
Japan, it may be mentioned that this last coin is sold in the streets
of Nagasaki as a curiosity, while it is the common currency of
Simoda and Hakodadi. Paper money is used at Nagasaki in
foreign traffic. The bills are oblong strips of thick paper, about
one-fourth the size of a Bank of England note, having various
stamps and checks upon both sides; their denominations vary
from half a mace or 50 cash up to 500 mace, and they are renewable
annually. Their rate of exchange at Nagasaki, for foreign silver
coins, varies from time to time; it is now about 43 and 4-fifths of a
mace for a dollar, which is a discount of about nine per cent. The
relative values of silver and copper are nearly the same as in the
United States, but those of silver and gold are nearly as 6 to 1,
which makes the latter metal only about one-third of the value
it bears in other countries. This remarkable difference will erelong
cause the gold rapidly to disappear from the country, as soon as
commerce extends; the reason of this extreme cheapness has not
been satisfactorily explained.
The treaties which have been formed during the past few months,
between the Japanese and the ministers of the five western nationз
most interested in their prosperity, are the result of many attempts,
by each of them, to reopen amicable relations. Though they all
failed to effect any apparent change in the laws until Commodore
Perry's treaty was signed in 1854, they doubtless all had some
effect upon the Japanese authorities in bringing about a modifica-
tion. The hour for this lecture affords me time only briefly to
notice the more recent; for it is unnecessary to go so far back
as the attempt of the Portuguese in 1639, when the citizens
of Macao sent their envoys to ask a resumption of their trade, and
nearly the whole embassy and ship's crew were executed at Naga-
saki by the vindictive Japanese.
The Russians, in 1792, sent an envoy from Siberia named Lax-
mann who was favorably received, and urged to return. Circum-
stances prevented his doing so, but in 1804 the Emperor sent
Count Resanoff as his special ambassador to resume negotiations.
He was not received courteously, and after a delay of six months
at Nagasaki, under very irksome restrictions, he was dismissed
with a refusal. Irritated at this treatment, he instigated two
Russian officers with their men to make reprisals on some un-
protected fishing villages on Yeso; this of course only exasperated

202
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
the Japanese authorities, who watched their opportunity till in
1811 they had the chance to capture Golownin, Rikord, and some
other Russian officers, and detained them prisoners many months.
The Dutch have never sent a special mission, but many of the
chiefs of their factory have from time to time endeavored to show
the Japanese the benefits of a more liberal policy, yet apparently
with no success. In 1844, the king of Holland made particular
efforts to this end, setting forth the advantages of commerce with
Europe, and offering his assistance in any way to promote it.
The constant suggestions of the gentlemen of the Dutch factory
have no doubt contributed much to explain points which were not
clear to the Japanese, and led them to see the matter in a
practieable light, but more decided action was necessary to get
them to move.
The English had very little trade with the country when it was
closed in 1640; and have not since that time made many attempts
to resume it. In 1803, the merchants of Calcutta sent a vessel to
Nagasaki; and in 1822, Captain Gordon visited Simoda, to see
whether any trade could be effected; both these attempts proved
unsuccessful. The vessels sent by Sir S. Raffles from Batavia,
during his sway there, in 1811 and 1812, were admitted only as
Dutch ships, and no progress was made towards securing trade
under the English flag. The unhappy results of the violation of
the neutral port of Nagasaki by the English frigate Phaeton in
1814, and the details of the later visits of the Samarang, in 1844,
and of the Mariner, in 1848, to Nagasaki and Simoda, are all
known. None of these experiments were specially ordered by the
English government, and nothing was learned by their officers
as to the sentiments of the Japanese.
The French, under Admiral Cecille, commanding two or three
ships of war, visited and surveyed the Lewehewan archipelago in
1845 and 1846; afterwards he entered the barbor of Nagasaki,
where he was received courteously; but no intercourse with the
people was allowed.
The Americans began their efforts to open trade with this
country at an early period in their history. In 1797, an American
ship, commanded by Captain Stewart, appeared in the harbor of
Nagasaki and obtained a cargo under the Dutch flag. He came
again two years after; and seems to have also been employed by
the Dutch government at Batavia, with one or two other ships of

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
203
the same nation, to carry on their trade during the hazardous times
of Napoleon's European wars. This same Captain Stewart, deter-
mined at last to show his own colors, anchored in Nagasaki as an
American ship, demanding free trade; but the demand was re-
jected, and he left the port without a cargo.
Many years elapsed without any further attempt on the part
of Americans, when a go d opportunity seemed to present itself to
make one more. Three shipwrecked natives, the only survivors
of a crew of twenty-seven, who had drifted in fourteen months
across the Pacific to the Columbia River, and were thence sent to
England by Sir G. Simpson, had recently reached Macao. They
were joined by four others, likewise driven off by storm to Luzon
and thence sent to China. Mr. Charles W. King, of the house of
Olyphant & Co., Canton, determined to take the whole seven
directly to Yedo, all intercourse at Nagasaki having been so often
refused. He sailed in the Morrison (a ship named after the Rev.
Robert Morrison) in July, 1837; and as that was my first visit to
Japan, I may be allowed to detail its principal incidents.
To show her peaceful character, her four guns were taken out
and Mrs. King accompanied her husband on the voyage. The
Morrison stopped three days at Napa in Lewchew, where the
proposal was made to the Japanese themselves, as they best
understood the risks, to be left and thence find their way home;
they preferred to stay by the ship. She made the entrance to the
Bay of Yedo in thick weather; and, guided by the experience
of our Japanese navigators, proceeded onward into waters which
were perhaps never before visited by a foreign keel. The morning
light showed the headlands near where the town of Uraga lay,
and the sound of distant guns showed that the Japanese were on
the alert. She anchored about four miles below the town, for the
shot were seen falling in the water, and the navigation became more
uncertain. During the day one or two officials came on board,
who would enter into no conversation, and also one or two hundred
of the common people who were allowed to look at everything on
deck.
Next morning at dawn four cannon which had been brought
down to the beach opposite the ship, began to fire upon us, and
continued to do so for six hours as rapidly as they could, until we
could get up the anchor and make sail; four or five large boats,
armed with guns, then pursued the ship until she was far down

204
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
the Bay. No serious damage was done by the three or four
random shot which came on board. She then sailed down the
coast till she got off the Bay of Kagosima, where Mr. King
determined to make another trial to communicate with the autho-
rities. Here the men were landed at the first village, as soon as
the ship entered this beautiful bay, and allowed to tell their own
story. The villagers commiserated their unhappy lot, but the
headmen had no power to receive them, and referred the matter
to the prince of Satsuma, sending him all the particulars of their
names, vessels, and business. We remained at anchor for three
days, when a boat came alongside to say that the men could not
be received there, but must be taken to Nagasaki. Early the
next morning, while yet at anchor, a company of matchlock-men
were ordered out to add, by their firing at us, energy to the
refusal.
The Morrison now took her departure from the Japanese shores,
and returned to China having still on board the seven men we
had hoped to have returned to their homes.
The name of the excellent man who commanded the Morrison,
has been commemorated by Admiral Cecille in the "Ingersoll
Rocks," lying southwest of Kagosima, discovered by the former;
and the headland near where the four guns were placed is now
known as "Morrison Bluff."
In striking contrast to this rude reception was the treatment of
the whaler Manhattan, whose captain had picked up the crews of
two water-logged junks and taken them up the Bay of Yedo in
1845, nearly to Uraga. He was not permitted to land, but the
sailors were cheerfully taken ashore, and his ship supplied with
spars, provisions, and water, though he was told not to return
even if he found more shipwrecked natives. In 1846, Commo-
dore Biddle, by direction of his government, visited this Bay in
the U. S. S. Columbus and Vincennes, formally to request the
Japanese to open their ports to some extent for the accommoda-
tion of American whalers frequenting these seas. He likewise
was unsuccessful. About that time the authorities issued a noti-
fication, through the Dutch, to all the world, that henceforth no
ships bringing shipwrecked natives would be received, as all
such unfortunates could be returned to their homes through the
Dutch or Chinese.
In 1849, Captain Glynn of the U. S. S. Preble went to Nagasaki,

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
205
and took away several American sailors who were detained in
prison there, and had been harshly treated.
These repeated visits had attracted the attention of the world,
and especially of the government at Washington, whose interests
in the Pacific were constantly becoming more important, from the
rapid settlement of California. The President of the United
States, therefore, resolved to set on foot a more serious attempt
than had before been made by any government, to come to a
better understanding with the Japanese authorities on two or three
points. With this object in view, Commodore Perry was instruct-
ed to concentrate the East India squadron in the bay of Yedo,
and lay three propositions before the siogoun for his consideration
and acceptance, viz. the humane treatment of shipwrecked sailors
cast on the shores of Japan; the opening of ports where vessels
in want of provisions could be supplied; and the establishment of
a dépôt for coal, somewhere on the southern coast. The squa-
dron anchored off Uraga in July 1853, and the President's letter
was received by the prince of Idzu on behalf of the siogoun at the
village of Gorihama. I made one of the landing party on that
occasion, and it was ample gratification to me to see a force of
nearly 700 Americans go ashore in the presence of about 3,000
Japanese, within half a mile of the spot where, sixteen years be-
fore, they had opened their cannon at the Morrison.
The Commodore returned the next year and resumed nogotia-
tions at Yokohama, where he concluded the treaty of Kanagawa,
March 31st, 1854, by which compact the Japanese government
resumed amicable relations with other nations, granting all and
more than all the President had asked. The merits of the Com-
modore's negotiations are to be judged therefore by the terms of
that letter. It was recently remarked in the North-China Herald,
in a notice of Lord Elgin's visit to Yedo, that "It would have
been well had Commodore Perry of the U. S. Navy adhered in
his treaty closer to the text of Capt. Saris's concise and liberal
document, and we can only hope that Mr. Consul-General Harris
of the American Legation at Simoda, in his haste to sign a treaty
with Japan, whilst the echo of the Allied guns from northern
China was still booming in the ears of the nervous Japanese, has
secured as good terms for Europeans in their future intercourse
with those people."
There is not time now to go into particulars respecting this point;

206
LECTURE ON JAPAN
it should be stated, however, that Commodore Perry proposed all
that was in Capt. Saris's treaty of 1613 (long ago annulled by
Japan) and much more, but the consent of the Japanese as well
as the Americans was first to be obtained. No resort to force by
them was contemplated in any case, but a full explanation was
made of the desirableness and benefits of a better understanding
and free intercourse with other nations. The chief interpreter,
Moriyama, said on one occasion, "You must give us more time;
it is all very plain to you, but we are now like people coming out
of a dark room into the glance of sunshine, and we do not yet see
the bearings of things clearly." To make a favorable impression on
the minds of the Japanese rulers and people of the power and
peaceful designs of the United States, was better than to force
them by the capture of a fort, or the threat of a bombardment, to
grant what they were determined to resist in detail.
The regulation of the rate of exchange, by which foreign coins
were taken at only a third of their value, and for allowing which
Perry has been so often blamed, was made by them to hamper
trade, which they were careless about. The Commodore vainly
endeavoured to show them its injustice, but he never sanctioned it.
The treaty of Kanagawa was friendly and not commercial; it
did not provide for trade; and when, soon after its ratification,
two persons with their families presented themselves at Simoda to
reside, the Japanese properly refused them permission to do so.
The residence of a Consul was guaranteed in it, and obtained, too,
with much difficulty; but its benefits have been conspicuous, and
Mr. Harris too has now obtained further privileges for his own
and other nations. His treaty was drawn up and ready for sig-
nature before he, or the "nervous Japanese," ever heard of the
attack on the forts at Taku, and only signed just as it was agreed
to after learning that news.
To claim precedence, however, in such small details, where the
privileges obtained from great pagan nations of the earth like
Japan and China are as much for their benefit as for our own,
is but a petty rivalry. It is a triumph, in this time of the world's
history, to know that intercourse with Japan has been reopened,
by Christian nations, without injury to a single individual in the
empire, without browbeating or threatening its government, and
I believe with the general consent of the people. Treaties signed
at its capital successively with the ministers of the United States,

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
Holland, Russia, Great Britain, and France,
207
attest the success of
Though their com-
the policy commenced by Commodore Perry.
pacts supersede his, and that of Admiral Stirling's of 1855, I
wish to place his negotiations as their basis, and it is a gratifica-
tion to learn that the Japanese officials remember him with respect.
By these several treaties, then, we may regard Japan as giving
up her seclusion of two centuries, and she seems to have done
so with a full willingness to risk the consequences.
We are
ignorant of the discussions and steps which have led to this result,
but there have been many and serious deliberations respecting it,
formations of parties among her highest statesmen, resulting, we
are told, in the dismissal and degradation of the minority. It
would be interesting to know the history of these debates, for then
we could form a better estimate of the value of the concessions,
and understand to what degree they are likely to be carried out.
It may be very easy for us, possessing the consciousness of supe-
rior physical power, and ready on occasion to resort to it, not to
care much for those laws or institutions of the weak nations of
the earth which make against our own notions; but at present
this principle of procedure has no place in the law of nations.
The difficulty, however, when two nations come into contact
politically, without previous knowledge of each other's views and
power, is to prevent the weaker in its folly from irritating the
stronger through acts prompted by pride and guided by igno-
rance, acts which must urge the latter to use force to right itself.
In such a position, the latter may, in asserting its rights, be in
antagonism to its own best interests, by doing things which shall
only provoke and destroy, and not teach the offender.
The treaties which have opened Japan as far as they have, (and
the same remark is applicable to China also,) give the right of
being governed by his own laws to the stronger party to those
compacts. There are other rights granted in them too, besides
exterritoriality, and we ourselves, as belonging to that stronger
party, will be careful to claim all we have a right to. But while
we have rights under these treaties, we have duties also; and we
cannot leave our duties to be done by others, while we claim the
rights, and force their acknowledgment. Our obligations to do
to a weak, and ignorant, a prejudiced, and a lying pagan, as we
would have him do to us, are not to be measured by his attainments,
nor our culpability in wrong doing by his ignorance of our laws.

208
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
The Japanese have entered into treaties whose full consequences
they may not understand. Five great nations of the West have
required them to do so, and those nations will doubtless hold
them responsible for their fulfilment. But those nations, in tak-
ing upon themselves this tutelage, have taken a great responsi-
bility. The United States, for instance, in making their treaty
with Japan, pledge their citizens to the observance of the obliga-
tions of peace and amity it contains. This treaty and that too
with China have the form of law, and bind the public faith. They
affect the individual conscience as firmly as an act of Congress,
passed in conformity with the Constitution and pledging the pub-
lic faith. The treaties are made in the name of all and in behalf
of all, by the constitutional authority, and no citizens can deny or
evade their stipulations, or break the pledges they contain. The
central government is alone invested with the power to repeal a
treaty, or dissolve the obligations of its citizens. It cannot en-
courage any of its citizens to disregard the condition of a treaty,
or connive or wink at violations of the spirit of these treaties.
while it pretends to maintain them. The same principles also
apply to the others of these five nations, to Great Britain, Russia,
Holland, and France, for they form the chief safeguard as to
the validity of such instruments.
It is no reason, surely, for us to excuse ourselves from fulfilling
the duties we owe to the Japanese, or Chinese, because they bave
not the force to compel us to do so. These two secluded nations,
with their vast population, have been opened in a remarkable manner
during the present year to intercourse and influences from abroad,
for some higher and better purposes than merely the extension of
trade by the development of new markets, or even the gratification
of the most intelligent curiosity; though these two objects will be
best promoted by attending to the higher purposes I allude to.
These nations are sunk in ignorance, and the ignorant have no
desire for what they do not understand or feel the want of. They
are weak, too, because they are wicked; and they are wicked, and
vile, and mendacious because they have no knowledge of the Truth.
We must not look for honesty, purity, and power, therefore, among
such; but still our duties to them are not to be avoided, and they
cannot be disregarded, without our ultimately suffering ourselves.
Situated as we are on the confines of these two empires of the
far East, we are, and have been, and will be, exercising an influence

LECTURE ON JAPAN.
209
for good or evil upon their inhabitants that we curselves cannot
estimate. It. is like the power of a ship under weigh, whose
momentum is often most disastrously seen as she crashes into
another ship, to their mutual destruction. This influence we cannot
help if we wish it. We may look to governments to make treaties,
but the real results of these instruments, their good and their evil
consequences, lie mainly in our own hands. If we conduct in a
manner to prove to the Japanese and Chinese that their worst
fears are likely to be realized, and thus set the people justly against
us through our own individual misbehavior, no treaties, no promises,
can alter their views and feelings. In their present mind they
know that only force, or the fear of force, can restrain them from
carrying out their evil intentions; but when they see us individu-
ally acting from higher motives, and not using force, but reason
and patience, they will receive the influence and instruction they
so much want.
This community in Shanghai, especially, occupies a position
in relation to China, and will soon to Japan, which makes its in-
fluence very great.
Whether that influence shall extend and be
advantageous to them, depends far more on your individual bearing
towards the people, than on the stipulations of treaties or the
presence of force. Trade will enlarge when it brings mutual
benefits, and peace is a necessary function to its great development;
but there is a merchandise of forbearance, of equity, and of kindli-
ness towards the weak and even the wicked, which has greater
beneficial results to both parties. China and Japan were both open
to occidentals two centuries ago, but I am inclined to think that
they were allowed to be again closed to preserve them intact from
foreign conquest: nor can I divest myself of the impression that,
as they are no longer in much danger of that in this period of the
world's history (when it is felt that to conquer a weak nation as
Pizarro or Cortes did is not the best use which can be made of it),
they have been reopened to receive the great benefits of a higher
faith and civilization.
In one respect the Japanese stand in advance of their ancient
neighbor, in that their attention is directed to obtain a knowledge
of other nations. Their own efforts in this way will form their
greatest security. Their soldiers once formed the body-guard of
the king of Siam; their consuls once examined Spanish ships in
Acapulco; their sailors once took a Dutch governor out of his

210
LECTURE ON JAPAN.
house in Formosa, and carried him prisoner to their rulers; their
princes once sent an embassy to the pope; their emperor once
defied the vengeance of Portugal by executing her ambassadors.
The knowledge of these historical events remains among them.
We may reasonably hope for a great preponderance of good results
from an extension of an intercourse, which has recommenced so
peacefully. Let us indulge the expectation that the land of the
Rising Sun may not only soon be fitted for taking her place among
nations, but also among Christian nations, and with all the institu-
tions and liberty and purity of the best of those nations.