ARTICLE V.
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE OF THE CHINESE.
BY JAMES HENDERSON M.D., F.R.C.S.E.
It is not without a feeling of deep interest that the
Student of Medical history proceeds to survey an art which
has occupied the research, and afforded scope for the
talents of some of the greatest philosophers and best men
that our world can boast of. His interest especially will be
awakened, if he sees the people of an Empire equal in
number to one-third of the whole earth's inhabitants, all
but utterly destitute of the benefits and blessings accruing
from an advanced and carefully cultivated knowledge of this
art. We believe, too, that China was one of the first (if not
the first) nation to practise Medicine, and in all probability
was at one time the most advanced in Medical science. The
mind wanders backwards over a period of nearly four
thousand years; and during those hoary ages, when Abra-
ham fed his flocks on the plains of Mamre, and Joseph sold
corn in Egypt, Medical art in China was just as well known,
the nature of disease as well understood, the structure of
the body and the functions of its different organs as well
known, and the people of China as much benefited by the
healing art, B.c. 1892 as in A.D. 1862. Why is this?
When we glance backwards at the history of Medicine,
those mighty in Medical art and science, though long dead, are
conjured up before us, and pass on as a panorama. A grave-
looking Chinaman seems to take the lead; the shadowy form
of some Egyptian priests, and some Grecian priests headed
by Esculapius scarcely less shadowy, follow; then come.
the silent and deeply contemplative Pythagoras and his
disciples; next come the Cnidians and the Asclepiades, with
Hippocrates at their head. Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle
bring up the rear of this group. Afterwards come the
disciples of the Alexandrian schools, with those of Perga-
mus-Galen, Coleus, Aretous, Aurelianus, Pliny, Dioscori-
des, Avicenna, Paul of Egina, Boetius, etc. Then follow
the Arabians, with Rhazeres at their head in the 9th century.
It is a strange and motley array; cowled priests, short-
frocked bath men and barbers, hooded women, gowned and
bearded Necromancers, with the symbols of Astrology and
Christianity on their banners. The panorama moves on;

OF THE CHINESE.
65
cal power when human strength was not sufficient to restore
the displaced bones. His minute description of accidents
which are common at the hip and elbow joints shew him to
have been a profound thinker, an accurate observer, and a
scientific man.
His remarks on the nature and treatment of club foot.
also display a sagacity and skill that might shame some
professors of Surgery in the present age. His work
entitled "De Aera, Locis, et Aquis," shews that he paid
great attention to the influence of climate, temperament,
changes of the weather, food, and drink upon health and
disease.
He was the first to observe critical days and crises in
disease, and the natural tendency which the body has to
cure itself by critical evacuations at certain periods of the
disease.
His work De Virtus Ratione in Morbis Acutis, shows that
he was also well versed in the science of dietetics, and no
physician of the present day could read it without profit.
At that early age we do not wonder that the Chinese
physicians knew so little; we only wonder that Hippocrates
knew so much, especially when we remember with what
abhorrence the dissection of the human body was then held.
Practical anatomy was not permitted, physiology was not
known, and in this respect Hippocrates had no greater
advantages than the Chinese. We have no reason to
believe that he had any opportunity of acquiring a correct
knowledge of the structure of the human body, of the
circulation of the blood, of the existence of a nervous
system, or of the relations of different parts to each other;
but he did the next best thing, which the Chinese have never
done he examined and dissected animals, and thus by
comparative anatomy, and by the study of pathological
changes as occurring in the lower animals, and by an
inductive philosophy, he traced the structure and functions
of healthy organs from the lower to the higher animals;
and that with certain modifications the same diseases and
the changes produced by them, are common to both.-Thus
he attained to a degree of Medical knowledge based on
inductive science and experience, which greatly surpasses
anything to be found in China even at the present day.
The Anatomical period may be called the fourth in the
history of medicine. (It is necessary that I should thus glance
rapidly at the progress of Medical art in the West, in order
more fully to shew its real condition in China.) The third or
Philosophical passed into the Anatomical. Aristotle mastered
the philosophy of his day, and after middle age, began
to study comparative Anatomy, Natural History and

66
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
Philosophy; he attended Plato's Lectures with the greatest
assiduity. A Macedonian by birth, he was selected by Phillip
as preceptor to his son Alexander; and when he went to the
conquest of Asia Minor, Aristotle corresponded with him on
matters of science, and had many interesting specimens of
Natural History sent home to him, and thus formed a
museum. The patronage which Alexander bestowed on the
studies of his Tutor, soon set the prejudices against human
dissections systematically at defiance, and two of his Generals
-Ptolemy Lagus in Egypt, and Eumenes in Mysia,-
followed in their great leader's footsteps, and became rivals
in all scientific pursuits. The one founded the school and
library of Alexandria, the other those of Pergamos; and
science and literature received such an impetus that in less
than a century after they were founded, the library of Alex-
andria contained no less than 600,000 volumes-and that at
Pergamos 200,000.
The whole cycle of science was vigorously cultivated by
the Ptolemies; they made large collections in Zoology and
Botany, they fitted out geographical and commercial expedi-
tions, and cultivated bibliography; but medical science was
their favourite pursuit. Ptolemy Soter and his son Phila-
delphus established an University or academy of science, and
at a great expense arranged the Alexandrian library, and
encouraged and supported both teachers and philosophers.
Amongst these were the two distinguished Anatomists-
Erasistratus and Herophilus; the former was the grandson
of Aristotle, and founded a Medical School at Smyrna.
The Ptolemies not only encouraged human dissections,
and made provision for supplying the Medical Schools with
subjects, but they also dissected themselves; and so famous
did the Alexandrian School become at last, that to have
studied there was sufficient to establish the reputation of any
physician. Such a happy state of things however did not
continue very long, for the Romans conquered Egypt and
interdicted all dissections of the human body; the noble
library of Alexandria was also destroyed under Julius Cæsar,
and although Cleopatra subsequently transmitted that of
Pergamos there, the obstinate imbecility and folly of
Coroialla rendered her praiseworthy patronage all but
useless.
After the lapse of nearly a century, the Medical school
at Alexandria again began to flourish, and produced amongst
other great and good men-Galen, Celsus, Pliny, and
Dioscorides. The sixth and seventh books of Galen's work
prove that his knowledge of physiology as far exceeded any-
thing that the Chinese have ever known, as the physiology
of Europe at the present time exceeds that of Galen. He

OF THE CHINESE.
47
67
taught that the heart was the fountain of life-the seat of
vital powers, "the stove from which the innate heat is
diffused over the system by the arteries." He says the pur-
poses of respiration are twofold: first, to mainatin the animal
heat, and to evacuate the fuligrinous part of the blood.
Indeed, it may be said that Galen anticipated the theory of
respiration, lately so accurately described and announced by
Liebig, for he points out the analogy between combustion
and respiration, and concludes that the two processes are
very similar. He compares the lungs to a lamp, the blood
to the oil, the heart to the wick, and the animal heat to the
flame. He gives a wonderfully accurate description of the
arterial and venous systems, and everywhere inculcates.
that the heart is the centre of the arterial system, and that
the office of the valves of the heart is to prevent the regurg-
itation of the blood from the left to the right side of the thorax
during the systole. The valves and cavities and substance
of the heart are also described with marvellous accuracy.
(De Motu Musculi-3). It must be admitted, and Harvey
himself admits, that Galen made a very near approach to
the theory of the circulation, for he seems to have been well
acquainted with the anastomosis of arteries and veins, and
stoutly maintains against Erasistratus that the contents
of the arteries is blood and not spirits. He also seems to
have held that at every systole of the heart and arteries a
portion of blood is thrown out by the exhalant and secretary
vessels; and also at every diastole, blood from the liver and
air from the lungs, rush forward to supply the vacuum.
Thus like some physiologists now, he seems to have
held "that the expansion of the ventricle and arteries is the
cause of the influx of the blood," instead of teaching like
Harvey that the diastole is caused by the influx of the blood.
This period closes with the works of Paulus Ægineta,
which constitute a complete Cyclopædia of the Medical
literature of his day.
In A.D. 640, the Alexandrian school was again broken up
by the Saracens, and its library of some 500,000 volumes was
used to heat the public baths for a period of six months. By
this time also, the Franks, Visigoths, and Lombards had
overrun Europe, and the Arts and Sciences found protection.
only at Constantinople, and with the Caliphs of Arabia; and
here the 5th period may be said to have commenced.
Haroun al Raschid was the most celebrated and
enlightened of the Arabian Caliphs. His court became a
refuge for the intellectual persecuted Christians. He
established public hospitals and schools in Bagdad, and here
his son founded an University, which in the Middle Ages
almost equalled in reputation that of Alexandria. He

68
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
directed his Ministers and Ambassadors to purchase at any
price, all Medical and philosophical manuscripts, and for 40
years he paid a Christian for translating, literally the weight
of what he translated in gold. Rhages, a Persian by birth,
was a distinguished writer and professor at the University
of Bagdad, and chief Physician of the great Hospital.
About this period also, the Moorish princes cultivated
Medical science in Spain. The library of Cordova con-
tained 224,000 volumes on Medical science and philosophy.
The school of Salerno in Italy was also famous for this
branch of learning, between the 10th and 13th centuries.
Between the 11th and 15th other Physicians and Sur-
geons of great note flourished in Western Europe: Lanfranc
professor of Surgery in Paris, and Jean Pitard, who founded
the famous College St. Come, in the 16th century.
Nicolas Leonicenus, professor of Medicine at Ferrara,
translated some of the works of Hippocrates and Galen into
Latin, in 1428.
In 1483, at the siege and sack of Constantinople, many
learned Greeks fled into Italy, taking with them valuable
manuscripts on Medicine. Linacre studied at Florence,
under Demetrius Chalcondyle, a Greek refugee; he founded
the London College of Physicians, also, a Chair at Oxford
and Cambridge, for expounding the works of Hippocrates.
and Galen.
It was necessary for me thus to glance rapidly at the
history and progressive steps of Medical art in the West
during the Early and Middle Ages, in order that its condi-
tion and real state may be fully understood in China at the
present day. I am also anxious to demonstrate by these
means, what I feel is so true, and what I have already
asserted, namely, that Medical art in China has not yet
reached by a long way that degree of progress or perfection,
which it did in Greece in the days of Hippocrates; nor has
it ever been cultivated with anything like that degree of
earnestness, and thirst after knowledge and love of truth,
which was displayed by that great and noble truth-loving
man, and his energetic followers.
Nations do not differ so much in physical conformation,
as they do in mental characteristics and peculiarities.
Classical and æsthetic taste distinguished the ancient
Greeks. A solid substantial and warlike cast of mind marked
the old Romans. Roving predacious and contemplative
habits characterized the Arabs; persecution and bigotry the
Mahomedans and Turks; and metaphysical subtelty, listless-
ness and pliability, the dark-eyed Hindoo. The Chinese
may be stamped a matter-of-fact and practical people, great
utilitarians, ready to sacrifice everything for present profit.

OF THE CHINESE.
69
and pleasure, decidedly low in their æsthetic taste, sadly
defective in the sentiment of religious veneration,-knowing
little of, and caring less for, beauty, sublimity, perspective,
proportion, picturesqueness, melody, harmony, sculpture,
drawing. &c. They are, however, an observing people in
matters readily cognizant to their senses, though their
observations are often superficial, and their deductions con-
sequently ridiculous.
They are neither fond of, nor profound in, scientific
pursuits, and as the study of the natural and abstruse
sciences appears to them unproductive of immediate benefit,
they all but utterly neglect them.
In their habits they are industrious and indefatigable;
they have made considerable progress in the Science of
Ethics; but the politeness which they exhibit seldom has its
motive in good will, and consequently when the tarnish is
off, the rudeness, brutality, and coarseness of the material
is seen.
One of the worst features however of the Chinese
-character, and that which I believe proves the greatest
obstacle to their improvement as a people, is their UTTER
DISREGARD FOR TRUTH.
In the pursuit of every branch and department of science,
a love of truth must ever form the integral element from
first to last; every consideration, opinion, and system must
bend and break down before the force of truth.
There must first be a strong desire to find her; she must
be loved and highly esteemed for her own sake alone.
But how can the science of Medicine, which for its very
existence leans on the love of truth in its cultivators, pro-
gress amongst a people who individually are trained from
their birth to falsehood,-whose highest officers of State
feel no shame at being detected in a lie,-a people whose
talents are measured by their ability to deceive, and who
are taught to fear no punishment from their gods for
deception and falsehood.
The Chinese are no more ignorant of the science of
Medicine than they are of the other sciences; of
pneumatics, hydrostatics, optics, electricity, mineralogy,
geology, chemistry, and many cognate sciences, they literally
know nothing, nor do they profess to know them. Of
Medicine, however, they do pretend a knowledge, even
from the remotest times of antiquity.
Perhaps there is no tribe of men, far less a nation, on
the face of the Earth, but what has some knowledge of the
healing virtues of some plants, and of the use of them in the
cure of disease. Before, however, diseases can be treated
with safety or any prospect of success, it is absolutely

70
70
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
necessary for the student to have a thorough knowledge
of the structure and function of the human body in
health. Man must be studied both in his physical and psy-
chical nature; his relation also to the external world must
be intimately known, and as these studies necessarily open
a vast field of scientific research and accurate observation,
the subjects connected with the moral, mental, and physical
constitution of man will form a good criterion, by which we
may judge not only of the scientific superiority of some
nations over others, but also of certain individuals in regard
to talent and superiority over their fellows of the same
nation.
I shall now give a brief account of the Medical writers.
and their writings in China, beginning only with those
whose authentic history may be traced. Afterwards I shall
summarily describe the present state of Medical practice
in this great Empire.
Chinese Medical authors have been numerous from the
most remote periods. Before the Christian era volumes
were written on the various branches of Medical practice;
and there seems little doubt that the art had been reduced
to a sort of system as early as the days of Solomon, or the
siege of Troy.
Shing-Ming, and Hwang-te, are described as the first
who wrote treatises. Their writings are chiefly composed
of traditional rules and maxims handed down from the time
which no authentic history reaches; twenty-four volumes of
commentary were written on Hwang-te's works in the
Eighth century by Wan-ping.
A work in twenty-four volumes called "Ling-chu-king,"
describing minutely the practice of amputation and the
nature of internal diseases, is also said to have been written
by Hwang-te, and has been largely commented on by sub-
sequent writers down to the 18th century. A curious work
called the "Nang-king," is said to have been written in the 3rd
century B.C., wherein 80 difficult or doubtful questions are
said to have received a solution. It must have received
considerable attention, for no fewer than 11 commentaries.
were written upon it before the 14th century. In the 15th
century, a physician named Chan-she-hung, published a
new Edition of it illustrated by diagrams. The celebrated
court physician Wang-shuh-ho, published a work on the
Pulse in 10 volumes about A.D. 290, called Mi-king, along.
with his own observations; much traditional knowledge on
the same subject is taken notice of. Many subsequent
editions of this work have been published during the
several dynasties, and the work is much prized at the
present time.

OF THE CHINESE.
71
In the 10th century a small work on diseases of the Eye
was written, called Yung-hae-tsing-we.
During the Sung dynasty Chingkuo, published a collec-
tion of prescriptions in 8 volumes, entitled Su-Chin-leang-
fang.
A work on Fevers in six volumes, Shan-han-tsung-pin-
lung, was also written during this period. This work
contains a chapter on the composition of medicines.
In the 13th century, Ching-tsze-ming wrote a work in
24 volumes, called Foo-jin-ta-tsuen-leang-fang, on the
diseases of women. This contains a large number of
prescriptions said to be useful in curing the various
complaints. Subsequent abridged editions of the work have
appeared.
About this period was written a book in 12 volumes,
called Eh-lin-yuen-jung.-It treats of fevers and other
diseases, and has undergone much alteration in various
editions.
About 1340, Wae-yi-ling wrote a book in 20 volumes,
called She-e-ti-hean-fang. It is divided into 7 parts. The
1st treats of the diseases of large blood vessels; 2nd, small
blood vessels; 3rd, nervous diseases; 4th, parturition and
diseases of women; 5th, Eye diseases; 6th, diseases of the
mouth, teeth, and throat; 7th, the treatment of fractures and
arrow wounds. In treating of the diseases mentioned above
the writer describes the cases where he thinks acupuncture
may be used with success.
About 1360, Wan-le wrote on Fevers a work called
E-kin-soo-hwy-tsie, treating also of external and internal
diseases generally, and of apoplexy. A treatise on diseases
of the Skin was written about this time by Tse-te-che, in
which he discusses the causes and cures of different skin
diseases.
A celebrated work on Therapeutics called Poo-tse-fang,
was written by Choo-su an Imperial prince of the Ming
dynasty. It consists of 160 volumes, and contains some 2,000
lectures on about 2,150 subjects. It has upwards of 770
rules, 240 diagrams, and about 22,000 different prescriptions.
The famous Materia Medica entitled "Pun-tsoon-kang-muh,"
was written by Le-she-chin, in the middle of the 16th century,
in 52 books. A considerable part of this work is made up of
extracts from more than eight hundred authors, and of 1,890.
different Medicines or remedies only about 370 are new.
The basis of this celebrated work is said to be a small treatise
written by Shing-Ming, several centuries before the Christian
Era. The Pun-tsans has not been translated into any
European language; but through the kindness of the author,
Mr. Daniel Hanbury of London, I have before me a most

72
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
interesting and carefully written paper, reprinted from the
"Pharmaceutical Journal" for July and August 1860, contain-
ing "a synopsis of the contents of the Chinese Herbal" in a
tabular form. A careful perusal of this excellent paper will
repay any one who is interested in these subjects. With
rare talent and research the author has made the most of
his scanty materials.
It was about this period, (during the Ming dynasty,)
that the faculty of Medicine was fixed by the Government to
consist of 13 branches. The Imperial Medical College at
Pekin, however, at the beginning of the Tartar dynasty,
fixed the number at 11, and subsequently it was reduced to
nine, and the branches are at present-diseases of large
blood vessels and small-pox; diseases of small blood vessels;
diseases of the skin diseases of the eye; diseases of the
mouth, teeth and throat; diseases of Women, diseases of
bone, fevers and cases for acupuncture.
In 1602, a work by Wang-kang-tang, in 120 volumes,
was published, called Chin-che-chun-shing. It treats of the
diseases of women and children, fevers and ulcers. The
writer quotes largely from preceding authors.
In 1591, a work of 20 books was published on Hygiene,
called Tsung-sang-pa-tsun. It treats of diet, drink, regimen,
amusements, rest, study, proper clothing, how to prevent
disease and live virtuously. Several short treatises appeared
about this period on the diseases of children, with collections
of prescriptions and cases and rules for treatment quoted
from old Authors. About this time a work came out in 7
volumes-Tung-pu-chin-kew-king, on acupuncture, with a
large number of rude diagrams. Two copper anatomical
figures of the human body were made by command of the
Emperor to assist in illustrating the practice of acupuncture.
One of these models it is said is still in Pekin, but is most
unlike that which it is intended to represent.
During the Ming dynasty several works were published
on Smallpox. The first is called Wang-jen-tho-tow-chin-
lung. Some of these books are illustrated with diagrams of
the disease, and contain numerous prescriptions for its
treatment. Two works on Cholera were written during the
17th century. One is called Chu-chin-tseum-hoe, the other
Cha-choou-yeu-hang-tseuen-shon, which contains a large
number of prescriptions, and discusses largely the methods
of treating that disease.
In 1684 a work in eight books, called Neu-ko-king-
hing, was published by Swon-Hein, on the diseases of
parturition.
In 1674, a work in six volumes, entitled Shing-sho-you-
han, was published by Foo-jin-yu on diseases of the Eye;

OF THE CHINESE.
73
and about this time another on parturition called Ta-san-
yaou-cho, in which are given directions for the management
of Children.
In 1696 Sung-yu wrote a work in 16 books, called Sung-
yoo-tsung-sang-tseuen-shoo, in which he gives many rules
for the preservation of health, and mentions several drugs
which will cure every disease. A work on the properties of
Medicines in 6 volumes called Chin-ste-ee-kun-fang-lung by
Ching-le-ting, was written about this period; another
edition was published in 1707, containing prescriptions for
almost every pain and symptom of disease that man could
have. A work appeared about the same time called Keh-
kew-kwang-sang-tsel, made up of plans for saving life in
case of accidents and suicide, and also for its prolongation.
The most complete work on the practice of Medicine was
published in 90 books in 1740, called Yoo-tswan-e-tsun-king-
kee. This treats largely of the pulse, discusses the circula-
tion of air in the body, contains many prescriptions of
celebrated physicians, and rules for the treatment of fractured
bones: It contains many plates and diagrams, and a vigorous
attempt is made to classify different diseases. Several
summaries on the practice of Medicine were written about
this period, amongst others, one by Chin-kwo-pang, called
Eh-heo-sin-wu, which embraces the whole art of Medicine:
another, Eh-tsun-pie-tu, in ten chapters by Le-chun-tsze. In
1832 a work was published by Le-tsun-yung in 8 books called
Eh-kong-te-yoon. It contains chapters on cold and heat,
dry and moist, full and vacant, stoppage and free passage,
ascending and descending, masculine and feminine, external
and internal &c., &c.
Other works on Medical art might be mentioned, but enough
has been done to shew, that however fanciful and worthless
the quality of the material, there is no lack of quantity.
Unfortunately, however, throughout the whole range
of Medical literature in China, lamentable ignorance and
supercilious conceit, are everywhere manifest. In all their
writings, there is no evidence of disinterested industry, or
yearning after knowledge and more light; their best theories
are based upon empty speculations and wild fancy; in their
endeavours to support what they consider consistency and
harmony in their system of physics, they unscrupulously
sacrifice not only truth, but also intelligibility and reason; in
most of their writings their aim seems to be to mystify and
make every subject as mysterious as possible, professing as
they do most to admire and reverence that which is least
known and understood. In none of their works is there any
evidence to shew that human dissection was ever practised,
so that both human and comparative anatomy as a science

74
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
is utterly unknown; hence they make no distinction between
arteries and veins, or between nerves and tendons; true,
they have some anatomical diagrams, but as Mr. Lockhart
says, "these are just as if some person had seen an imperfect
dissection of the interior of the body, and then had sketched
from memory a representation of the organs, filling up
parts that were obscure out of his own imagination, and
portraying what according to his own opinion the parts
ought to be, rather than what they in reality are." The
Chinese are as ignorant of physiology as of anatomy, of
the functions of the heart, lungs, liver, kidneys, and even
of the brain they know literally nothing; they make no
distinction between venous and arterial blood. They seem,
however, to have some idea that certain sympathies exist
between different organs, and viscera, and of one organ
deranging another, as they call the heart "the husband, and
the lungs the wife." They call a man Seaou-tien-tsz, i.e., a mi-
crocosm, or little universe. Man's body they say is composed
of five elements-fire, water, metal, wood, and earth, and these
in some extraordinary manner they connect with 5 plants,
5 tastes, 5 colours, 5 metals and 5 solid viscera, excluding
the brain; diseases they say are produced by a derangement
in the balancing of these 5 elements. Fire and moisture,
cold and heat, when in excess or deficiency, derange the
economy, and the secret of success in the healing art is to
supply what is wanting in the body or withdraw what is
superfluous, and thus to reproduce harmony and an equilib-
rium amongst the five elements; hence they pretend to have
Medicines to "strengthen the breath, put down the phlegm,
equalise and warm the blood, repress the humours, purge the
liver, remove noxious matters, improve the appetite, stimulate
the gate of life, restore harmony," &c., &c. Medicines also
are said to have a healing and correcting influence upon
certain mysterious dual powers in nature called the yin and
yang, corresponding to light and darkness, earth and heaven,
strength and weakness, &c. They call the heart the prince
of the body, and from it, and the pit of the stomach, all ideas
and delights proceed. The soul resides in the liver, and from
this organ emanate all great and noble purposes. The
gall-bladder is the seat of courage; and the individual is bold
or timid according to its size; its ascending in the body is
the origin of anger. "The Chinese sometimes procure the
gall-bladder of animals, as tigers and bears, and even of
men, especially notorious bandits, executed for their crimes,
and eat the bile contained in them under the idea that it will
impart courage." The small bowels are joined to the heart,
and the urine passes through them to the bladder, the large
bowels are joined to the lungs, and "have 16 convolutions."

OF THE CHINESE.
75
They regard the osseous system as a sort of framework;
they speak of the skull as one bone, so of the fore-arm, leg,
and pelvis. But of all the systems of solemn quackery,
none is so evident or prevalent both in theory and practice
as their doctrine of the pulse. As they are ignorant of the
function of the heart, so they are of the circulation of the
blood. This is proved, 1st, by their asserting that there is a
different and distinct pulse for every part of the body. 2nd,
In none of their writings is there any mention of valves in
the veins, which both Galen and Harvey were much struck
with, and concluded that they were placed there for some
great object. 3rd, No notice is taken of the changes which
the blood undergoes in lungs and capillary vessels, nor is
there any mention of a double circle. 4th, Their practice of
feeling the pulse at both wrists, or as they say at both sides
of the body, and declaring that not only does the pulse differ
on both sides; but they pretend to distinguish three on one
arm, the first immediately on the metacarpus called respec-
tively "the bar" and "the cubit." It is true that in their
early writings they mention "the blood as the chief source of
life;" but this they seem to have gathered from the fact that
when all the blood is withdrawn from the body the individual
dies! All they say is, that the blood "moves or oscillates in
blood vessels." Some of their diagrams "represent tubes is-
suing from the fingers and toes, and running up the limbs into
the trunk, where they are lost, or reach the heart, lungs, or
some other organ, as well as they can, wandering over most
parts of the body in their course."-Scarcely two Authors
however agree as to the manner in which the body is irrigated
with blood.
Now what is most striking and what excites our surprise
is, that century after century, and generation after genera-
tion, should have passed away in a vast country like this, and
especially among such a large number of men who set
themselves up as authorities or teachers of others, there
should not be found one with a mind independent enough to
make fresh investigations, or sceptical enough to doubt the
numerous unreasonable assertions of his predecessors.
The observations and facts of Chinese physicians are of
an extraordinary nature, and would never satisfy the mind of
the truth-seeking student of the Caucasian division of the
human race. Observation it is true must form the basis of
advancement in Medical Science; but we must first clearly
understand what observation is, and what it implies. An
observation means more etymologically, than an act of the
senses; it means also an act of the mind, the careful investig-
ation of a thing; nothing can be carefully investigated with-
out a knowledge and reference to a thing's antecedents,

OF THE CHINESE.
77
wonderful properties of the pulse, and palm a lie upon the
public in professing to distinguish its minute and varied
forms, yet I have never met with one Chinese Medical prac-
titioner who dared affirm to my face that he had done so; or
was willing to try his boasted skill on a patient of mine,
though offered a considerable reward to point out any well-
known disease by the pulse alone."
Again, in the same paper, Dr. Hobson writes,-" The
extent of the pulse is one Chinese inch on the right and left
wrists, and nowhere else. It is divided into three parts,
called Tsün, Kwan, and Chih. Each of these has an
external and an internal pulse, that is, there is a distinct
pulse in each of these three places, and on the inner and
outer side of the plusating vessels, making altogether twelve
pulses, six on the right, and six on the left. This explains
why both wrists must be felt, and the astonishment that is
expressed on a foreign physician's being content with feeling
the pulse in one wrist only. Besides these twelve, there are
others which scarcely admit of explanation, being too refined
even for Chinese doctors themselves, and are confessed to
be unimportant in practice; but of those just mentioned,
each one of the twelve corresponds with, or belongs to,
twelve viscera, two of which are imaginary, viz., the gate of
life, and three upper, and middle and lower membranous
expansions, which I translate Membranes of the Viscera.
The following table will shew the theory more clearly:-
CHINESE THEORY OF THE PULSE.
EXTENT, one inch, or three fingers placed side by side on
the right or left wrists.
DIVISION into three parts,-1st called Tsün; 2nd Kwan;
3rd Chih.
Pulse of the left wrist.
(External side bel'g to the heart.
Tsun
Internal side
Kwan
(External side
وو
(Internal side
Chih
(External side
33
Internal side
"
"
small intestines.
liver.
gall bladder.
kidney.
bladder.
Pulse of the right wrist.
Outside belong to the lungs.
Tsun
Inside
Outside
Kwan
Inside
(Outside
Chil
Inside
great intestine.
"
spleen.
;,
stomach.
"
gate of life.
"
Membranes of the Viscera.
There are four kinds of pulse,-1st Fow, the strong full
pulse; 2nd Chin, deep, feeble, small pulse; 3rd Che, the slow
pulse; 4th, So, the quick pulse.

80
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
But there are certain distempers wherein the patient,
though free from such pulses as we have just mentioned, has
his intellects disturbed, loses his speech, or has hardly any
voice. Sometimes also one cannot perceive any motion of
the pulse either at the wrist or joint. If however it be felt
at the extremity of the cubitus,-if the beating and intervals
have much the same extent, and if the motion continues
pretty regular for some time, though the patient seems to
be at the last extremity, he will not die; at least a skilful
physician may save him. This is the sense of an ancient
text: the tree is without leaves, but the root is still alive.
The manner of feeling the Pulse.- On the left, the heart,
the small guts, the liver, the gall, the left kidney. On the
right, the lungs, the large intestines, the orifice of the
stomach, the stomach itself, and the right kidney.
On the right (at the wrist), the lungs, the large intestines;
(at the joint) the orifice of the stomach, and the stomach
itself; (at the extremity of the cubitus) the right kidney.
The same doctrine will hold in examining the distempers
in women, with the difference, that in females the pulse of
the cubitus in its natural and healthful condition, is contrary
to that of men.
There is a bone which rises at the joining of the arm with
the hand, and there the pulse must be felt, which is called
the gate or the joint; before this joint is that which we call
the mouth, an inch long. Tsun-kew (the wrist) behind the
same joint, is what we call the cubitus, Che; the wrist is
termed Tang, and the cubitus In, in the language of
physicians. In feeling the pulse at these three places, great
care must be taken to lay the fingers upon the vessels
precisely where they ought to be.
If in the same space there are six pulses, there is an
excess of heat; if seven, the excess is considerable; but if
they amouut to eight, the danger is very great; and if they
exceed that number, the patient is dying.
If in the space of one respiration the pulse beats but
once, the distemper is come to a great height and dangerous;
but it is much worse if it beats but once in the space of two
respirations, for it is a sign death is not far off.
Too many beatings of the pulse proceeeds from excess of
heat, and too few from excess of cold. This is a constant
tradition received from all ages; the various degrees thereof
are set down in the book of the eighty-one difficulties.
In Spring the long tremulous Hyen, in Summer the
overflowing Kong, in Autumn the softness of hair or feathers,
in Winter the hardness of stone: it is necessary also to
subdivide these seasons into Tsye-ki.
Seven sorts of Pulses which indicate danger of death.

OF THE CHINESE.
81
When the pulse being felt in the morning seems to
bubble under the fingers irreguarly like water over a great
fire, one may be assured that the patient will die in the
evening; that is, has very little time to live.
It is a sign that death is equally near, if the pulse seems
like a fish, whose head is stopped and cannot move, but
frisks with its tail, not very regularly. The cause of the
distemper lies in the kidneys.
When the pulse after beating in a hurry changes all of a
sudden,and becomes very slow and sluggish, there is likewise
danger of death, but it is not altogether so near.
If the pulse by the hardness of its beats, resemble in
some sort a bullet or stone, or dried earth shot out of a
cross bow, both the lungs and stomach want spirits, nor is
this a transient failure but a rooted distemper.
In like manner, if the pulse seems like drops of water,
that fall into a house through some crack or little hole in
the roof, and in its return is scattered and disordered, much
like the twists of a cord that is unravelled, the bones are
dried up, even to the very marrow.
Also, if the motion of the pulse at the extremity of the
cubitus in both arms resembles the pace of a frog em-
barrassed in the weeds, or that of a toad, death in all these
cases is certain.
If the motion of the pulse resembles the hasty picking
of the beak of a bird, there is a failure of spirits in the
stomach. We may also conclude that the heart performs
its functions ill, and the blood is in no good condition.
He who is to feel the pulse, takes the left hand of the
patient if a man-the right hand of a woman.
He begins by placing the middle finger exactly where
the wrist bone locks with the cubitus, then claps the two
next fingers one on each side. At first he presses but gently,
then a little harder, and at last very hard, taking care that
his fingers be rightly adjusted; after which he may proceed
to examine the pulse in the three places appointed, laying it
down for a principle, that a regular pulse beats four, or at
most five times to two respirations.
The pulse at the end of every season, commonly called
the pulse of the stomach, is equally and moderately slow, and
felt by a moderate pressure.
When these pulses are in a due temperament, it is a sign
of health; if there be an excess or defect it is a disease.
To a long wrist you need not apply the finger several
times, but on a short one there must be a good number of
trials, and very close to each other.

82
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
OF THE PULSES OF THE SEVEN PASSSIONS, OR AFFEC-
TIONS OF THE MIND.
In joy the pulse is Wan, moderately slow; in compassion,
Twan, short; in sadness, Se, sharp or rough; in frenzy, Kye,
very irregular; in fear, Chin, deep; in a sudden fright,
fluttering; in anger, close and hurrying.
DIFFERENCE OF THE PULSES ACCORDING TO THE SEX.
In a man, the pulse of the wrist should always be
brisker than that of the cubitus; if the contrary happens, it
is unnatural, and indicates a defect in the kidney.
On the contrary the pulse of the woman at the cubitus
ought always to be brisker than that of the wrist; otherwise
it is unnatural and indicates a defect in the Tsyau, the
superior stove or fireplace."
Then follow long descriptions of the pulse, peculiar to
different organs affected with different diseases, as 'the
pulse of the Heart;" "the pulse of the Liver;" the pulse
of the Stomach;' the pulse of the Lungs;' the pulse of
the Kidney;" "the pulse of the left wrist proper to the
Heart;" "the pulse of the joint of the left wrist proper to
the Liver;"
;" "the pulse of the extremity of the left cubitus
proper to the Kidney;"
;" "the pulse of the right wrist proper
to the Lungs;" "the pulse of the joint of the right wrist
proper to the stomach;" "the pulse of the extremity of the
right cubitus proper to the Kidney," etc., etc., etc.
Thus it will be observed that Chinese books contain so
much nonsense and patent absurdities regarding the pulse,
that an effort is required to repress a feeling of rising in-
dignation against a hoary system so full of falsehood and
folly. What is still worse, a system which every Chinese
physician knows to be utterly false, but which must be re-
spected because it is old, and because being false it is much
more in unison with all the other systems and institutions pre-
vailing in China. Poor China! she seems quite unable to dis-
tinguish between truth and falsehood; she seems to have been
"given over to strong delusions that she might believe a lie."
"The Chinese Materia Medica," says Dr. Hobson "fills
several volumes; it is of ancient origin, and as the science
of Chemistry is unknown, it contains very few preparations
from the Mineral Kingdom, which forms so important a
part of our Pharmacopoeia; nor is there anything at present
in the language to represent an oxide, alkali, or salt, hence
medicinal substances are drawn chiefly from the Vegetable
Kingdom, and are confined to those produced in China and
the neighbouring countries. In a popular abridgement or
selection of Chinese Materia Medica, which I examined a
few years ago, I found there were 442 medicinal agents
described. Their name is just given, then the part or

OF THE CHINESE.
83
organ of the body into which they enter or assimilate
with; next their properties, whether hot or cold, their taste,
smell, and colour; and lastly their uses and doses. It
had the advantage of the larger work in being methodi-
cally arranged into classes and orders. A list of these, so
far as I have been able to identify and name them, will show
what disgusting and worthless substances are mixed up with
what are appropriate and useful even in a selected Chinese
Materia Medica. It will also exhibit the plan of a therapeu-
tic arrangement in putting the properties of Medicines before
their mere physical qualities, which is an improvement
worthy of commendation.
ORDER I. TONIC MEDICINES.
First. Those Medicines which warm and strengthen the
Viscera, such as the ginseng, dried dates, fruit of lung-gan,
li-che, flesh of fowl, beef, honey, &c.
Second.-The mild or tranquillising tonics.-Liquorice
root, parasite of mulberry tree, fruit of the cypress, old rice,
broad beans, species of yam, asses' glue, birds' nests, duck,
mutton, pigeon &c., &c.
Third. Medicines which increase the natural fire (or
stimulating Tonics).-Cassia, cinnamon, aloes, wood, sulphur,
asbestos, stalachite, fresh tops of stag horns, dried red
spotted lizard, silk worm moth, etc.
Fourth. Medicines which nourish the secretions, espe-
cially of the Kidneys.-Linseed, hempseed, Elm bark, medlar,
minium, black and white lead, tortoise shell, human milk,
and various parts of the pig.
Fifth.-Medicines which strengthen kidneys and testes.-
Extract from stag horns and various parts of the animal,
dog's flesh, dried placenta, a species of fern, walnuts, &c.
II. ASTRINGENTS.
First. Warm and tonic Astringents.-Nutmeg, gallnuts
seeds of lotus flower, poppy heads, &c.
Second.-Cooling Astringents.-Pomegranate, charcoal
bones and teeth of the dragon, oyster-shell, &c.
Third. The general pure Astringents.-Seeds of the
.date, armenian bole, quince, sour plum, &c.
Fourth. Repressing weakness or Astringent tonics.-Iron
filings, hematic iron ore, loadstone, talc, litharge, gold and
silver leaf, &c.
III.-RESOLVENTS.
First.-Dispersants of cold.-Fragrant basil, a species
of ginseng, fresh ginger, orange stalks, different parts of
onions, &c.
Second. Medicines which disperse wind.-Mint, cala-
mint, species of bivalve shell, branch of cassia, mimosa
pods and seeds, seeds of species of acacia, tiger's bone,

OF THE CHINESE.
85
blood, peach seeds, arrow root, old copper cash, dried leech,
red marble, goat's ordure, cantharides, &c.
VI. MISCELLANEOUS.
First. Medicines which destroy worms.-Assafoetida,
betel extract, quicksilver, a chloride of mercury, vermillion, &c.
Second. Medicines which disperse poisons.-Seeds of
castor-oil plant, resin, shavings of ivory, Elephant's skin,
preparation from toads, &c.
Third.-Expelling poisons (or alteratives.)-Seeds of bur-
dock, honey-suckle stamens and pistils, species of green pea,
dried earth-worm, &c.
Fourth.
arsenic, &c.
Poisonous substances.-Seeds of croton oil plant,
The following is a list of the kingdom and class from
whence they are taken :-
Vegetable Kingdom.
Herbs.........
.... 191
Shrubs and Trees.
72
Fruits.......
Seeds......
Vegetables.....
ཊྛམཋཋ」
25
16
10
314
Mineral Kingdom.
Metals.......
Minerals......
Crystals...
Earths....
Animal Kingdom.
Parts of Animals.......
Reptiles......
Fishes.......
Molluscous shells.....
Insects.....
Parts of human body.
ཧྨཋ༞ ⌘”==
6
29
10
5
50
25
3
10
22
10
78
Chinese doctors know nothing of the composition of the
simplest compound substances. They regard as simple
bodies what we know to be compound. When told that gases
in certain proportions constitute water and atmospheric air,
they profess a sceptical surprise. They have no knowledge
of gases (except so far as these impinge on their olfactory
nerves.) Ke air-or breath, embraces all they know. When
composing a work on pneumatics, Dr. Hobson had to invent
names for oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbonic acid gas,

88
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
entertained respecting it. The Revd. J. Edkins in a com-
munication recently laid before the China Branch of the
Royal Asiatic Society, has pointed out that alchemy was
pursued in China long previous to its being known in
Europe; in fact that, for two centuries prior to the Christian
era, and for four or more subsequent, the transmutation of
the base metals into gold, and the composition of an elixir
of immortality, were questions ardently studied by the
Chinese. It is moreover a matter of history, that intercourse
between China and Persia was frequent both before and
after the Mahommedan conquest of the latter country; that
embassies from Persia as well as from the Arabs, and even
from the Greeks in Constantinople, visited the court of the
Chinese Emperor in Shansi; that Arab traders settled in
China, and that there was frequent intercourse by sea
between China and the Persian Gulf; that China had an
extensive alchemical literature anterior to the period when
alchemy was studied in the West. All these facts go to
prove that that pseudo-science originated not with the
disciples of Mahommed, but that it was borrowed by them
from the Chinese. With regard to the Philosopher's stone,
it is remarkable that while the alchemists of the West have
spoken with doubt as to what it was, with the Chinese
its identity appears hardly to have been questioned.
That wonderful body, which when used as a Chemical
agent was supposed to have the power of converting
other metals into gold, and when employed as a Medicine of
conferring immunity from death, is according to the Chinese
alchemists Cinnabar. Of this the author of a work of the
fourth century writes in terms thus translated by Mr. Edkins:
'When vegetable matter is burnt, it is destroyed, but when
the Tan-sha (Cinnabar) is subjected to heat it produces
mercury. After passing through other changes it returns to
its original form. It differs widely therefore from vegetable
substances, and hence it has the power of making men live
for ever, and raising them to the rank of the genii. He who
knows this doctrine is he not far above common men? In
the world there are few that know it, and many that cavil at
it. Many do not even know that mercury comes out of
cinnabar. When told, they still refuse to believe it, saying
that cinnabar is red, and how can it produce a white sub-
stance? They say also that cinnabar is a stone--that stones
when heated turn to ashes, and how then can anything
else be expected of cinnabar? They cannot even reach this
simple truth, much less can it be said of them that they have
been instructed in the doctrine of the genii.'
Unfortunately the idea of rejuvenescence is not confined
to the power of this pseudo-philosopher's stone; Chinese

OF THE CHINESE.
89
medical books say, that old people can renew their youth by
drinking human milk. "Its taste," they say "is sweet; it
nourishes the viscera, is a soothing application to abraded
skin, and to inflamed eyes; it fattens old decayed persons,
and its virtues surpass considerably cow's, goat's, or mare's
milk. Formerly some toothless old men who took human
milk lived on a hundred years, became fat, had good spirits,
and begat children." Nor is this opinion of the wonderful
virtues of human milk confined to doctors or their books.
Dr. Hobson, mentions a case which I believe is not singular
among Chinese nurses in Shanghai. "An infant a few
months old, in consequence of the mother being unable to
continue nursing, was committed to a Chinese wet-nurse,
and as money was no object, the woman that had the best
supply of milk was chosen for this purpose. For a few days
the child seemed to go on tolerably well, but it soon after
became affected with head symptoms; and as one child had
died a year before from symptoms somewhat similar, the
parents became alarmed, and begged that I would come in,
in consultation, to see the child. I found the child lying
listless and almost insensible on a friend's lap, labouring
under the symptoms so graphically described by Dr. Marshall
Hall, and Dr. Watson, of spurious hydrocephalus. I examin-
ed the nurse, who was a young healthy-looking woman, with
breasts full of milk to over-flowing. I had some put by in a
cup for inspection; it threw up no cream on its surface, and
looked pale and watery. On further investigation I discovered
that the woman had been in the habit of selling her milk in
small cups-full to old persons, under the idea of its highly
nutritive properties, and thus her milk though abundant in
quantity soon became quite degenerated in quality, and
instead of being nutritious was actually poisoning the child
dependent on it, and now fast sinking from inanition. I
recommended the nurse to be changed immediately. Happily
a suitable one was found in a few hours, and in three days
afterwards I saw the child laughing and playing on the sofa
by the side of its new nurse."
From these short notes given above it will be seen that
there is great variety of metallic substances in China, and
that it only requires Western science, capital, and energy,
to develope a rich and splendid commerce of these metals
to other lands.
In Kampfer's History of Japan, 1727, I read at p. 113,
that "Quicksilver and Borax are imported (into Japan) by
the Chinese. I met however with two sorts of Borax growing
naturally in Japan, but they are so thoroughly mixed with
heterogeneous substances, that the inhabitants don't think it
worth their while to pick them up. Sublimate Mercury is

90
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
very much asked for by some private people, who will give
an extravagant price for it. They use it as the chief ingredient
of a Mercurial water, which is in great vogue among them
for the cure of ulcers, cancers, and other cutaneous disease.
Native Cinnabar is by them given inwardly in several
distempers. The artificial cinnabar they make use of for a
colour. Both are imported from China. The buying and
selling of this commodity is in the hands of private merchants,
who monopolize it by virtue of letters patent from the
Emperor. The native cinnabar in general is of a beautiful
red colour, but some of it is so exquisitely fine that it is sold
for more than its weight in silver."
The Chinese make a beautiful vermilion, the preparation
of which is described by an old Chinese author, and recorded
by Mr. D. Hanbury thus,-"I lb of mercury and 2 lb of
sulphur are triturated together until they form a blackish
powder, which is put into a crucible closely covered with an
iron lid, and luted down. The heat of a wood fire is then
applied, the lid being kept cool by something wet. The
sublimation is thus effected, 1 lb of mercury usually pro-
ducing 14 oz. of cinnabar of the first quality, and 3 oz. of
the second. In the library of the India House (London) is
a series of beautiful native drawings representing the pre-
paration of vermilion by the Chinese."
Chinese vermilion is an article of regular importation
into London, where the finer qualities realize from 3s. 3d. to
3s. 6d. per lb.
Native orpiment or yellow sulphuret of Arsenic is
occasionally taken to produce death. A young woman was
lately carried to the Chinese Hospital here, who had
in a fit of anger or disappointment swallowed nearly two
drachms of this substance; she recovered. Opium, however,
is in much greater favour for such purposes among the
Chinese, the irritating poisons produce too much suffering
and trouble. Both orpiment and realgar are used by the
Chinese to cure intermittent fever, but the dose is so uncer-
tain that it proves worthless in almost every case. They
have cups made of realgar (red sulphuret of arsenic) and by
making the patient drink a little warm water out of one of
these cups, they say they can cure an ague.
Arsenic is found in Yunnan and Burmah; 60 years ago
it was exported in large quantities from China to India. An
impure preparation of carbonate of copper is sometimes used
by Chinese practitioners to induce vomiting in cases of opium
poisoning. Nearly all the medicines used by Chinese
physicians are of the most simple and inert kind. In the
medicine shops which are well arranged, and used only for
medicines, there are drugs of different qualities neither of

OF THE CHINESE.
91
which is first rate, all the best being sent to the foreign
market; while the second and third qualities only are kept for
native use. Dr. Hobson says-" I found that the medicines
sold in the druggists' shops, were not only naturally weak in
their medicinal properties, but were often much injured by
damp, and the careless mode of collecting and drying them.
Rhubarb instead of a bright yellow variegated colour, was
generally of a dark colour, with little smell. On enquiring
the cause, the medicine vendor said that the people would
only pay for cheap medicines, and, with regard to rhubarb
and musk all the best was bought up for the foreign market,
so between the ignorance of the doctors, and the poor quality
of the medicine administered, the sick in China stand but a
poor chance of deriving much benefit from medical skill, even
though the doses are unusually large.""
The quantity ordered makes up to some extent the defect
in quality, for pints and quarts of infusions and decoctions
are sometimes taken for a dose. Fluids as well as solids
are sold by weight, for the druggists have no fluid measure.
In making up prescriptions the weights most commonly
used are from ten grains or one candareen and a half, to
ten drachms, or one tael. The drachm weight or 60 grains
is most frequently used. Respectable Chinese doctors
seldom keep their own drugs, but write prescriptions, and
give to their patients, to send to the medicine shops.
Medicines are all classed under one or other of the five
elements, and to remedy the disorder must possess the
suitable qualities of hot or cold, dry or moist, sweet or bitter,
&c. In practice also, much is spoken of the yin and the yang,
or the dual powers in nature, relating to strength and weak-
ness, light and darkness, Earth and Heaven, &c. Upon
these, medicines are said to act in some mysterious manner.
Like physicians in Europe, some are much more popular
than others, not so much on account of superior skill or
greater success in practice, as on account of extra pretension,
more assurance, and assumed mannerism.
The description by Dr. Hobson of the active every day
practice of a Chinese doctor whom he knew at Canton is a
very good example of the life and work of the medical prac-
titioner in every city in China. Dr. Hobson says-"This
man was nick-named Ta-wang-seen-sang, or Dr. Rhubarb
(from his frequent use of this medicine, and his great faith
in its remedial powers). He and some others that I could
name were engaged from morning to night in medical
practice. He would keep at home prescribing for the sick
until a late breakfast hour; after ten he would commence
going his rounds in the sedan chair carried in great haste by
three or four men. Those patients were visited first who

92
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
had their names and residences first placed in the entry book,
and as the streets were narrow and crowded, to avoid trouble
in finding the house, a copy of the Doctor's sign-board would
be posted up outside the patient's door, so that the chair
bearers should be able at once to recognize the house with-
out delay."
The Doctor being ushered into the hall or principal
room, is met with bows and salutations by the father or
the elder brother of the family. Tea and pipes are
offered in due form, and he is requested to feel his patient's
pulse; if a male, he sits opposite to him, if a female a
screen of bamboo intervenes, which is only removed in
case it is requisite to see the tongue. The right hand
is placed upon a book to steady it, and the Doctor with
much gravity and a learned look, places his three
fingers upon the pulsating vessel, pressing it alternately
with each finger on the inner and outer side, and then
making with the three fingers a steady pressure for several
minutes, not with watch in hand, to note the frequency of
its beats, but with a thoughtful calculating mind, to diagnose
the disease and prognosticate its issue. The fingers being
removed the patient immediately stretches out the other
hand, which is felt in the same manner. Perhaps a few
questions are now asked of the father or mother, concerning
the sick person, but these are usually few, as it is presumed
the pulse reveals everything needful to know. Ink and
paper are produced, and a prescription is written out, which
consists of numerous ingredients; but there are one or two
of only prime importance-the rest are servants or ad-
juvants. They are all taken from the vegetable kingdom,
and are mostly simples of little efficacy. The prescription
is taken to a druggist to be dispensed; the prescriber
seldom makes up the medicine himself, and as large doses
are popular (a quid pro quo), so the decoction made from
the whole, amounts to pints or even quarts, which are swal-
lowed in large portions with the greatest ease; powders, bol-
uses, pills, and electuaries are also used. If the patient is an
officer of the Government or a wealthy person, the nature
of the disease, prognosis, and treatment are written out for
inspection of the family; for this the Doctor's fee is a dollar,
about 5s, but generally speaking, both the Doctor and the
patient's friends are quite satisfied with a verbal communic-
ation; and if the man has a gift for speaking and has
brass enough to use it to his advantage (both of which are
seldom wanting in time-serving men) he will describe with
a learned and self-satisfied air the ailment of the patient,
and the number of days it will take to cure him. The fee is
wrapped up in red paper, and called "golden thanks," and

94
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
regarding the whole symptomatology of diseases of the eye
and of surgical diseases generally, I may say of all kinds of
disease. For example Dr. Hobson says: "The Chinese have
no name for inflammation, and I had to transfer the term, or
a contraction of it, before I could describe its symptons
and treatment. They have a term which means hot; but a
hot disease is not inflammation, nor have the well known
characteristics of the disease ever been described in any
book that I have seen or heard of in China; so that though
they have a large nosological list, this most important
pathological affection is not even so much as named. A
more striking proof of the want of accurate observation in
the study of diseases could not be given." Their chief
surgical operations consist in acupuncture, i.e., where a bone
or muscle or joint is in a state of inflammation chronic or
acute, a substantial stiletto is thrust into it and stirred about
in a most reckless manner. Thus in some cases producing
the most terrible consequences, sometimes causing death, or
making the patient a cripple for life. In bad cases of
dyspepsia also where there is much pain, a long, strong
needle is thrust in, through the epigastric region for several
inches, piercing the stomach or liver, or both together as it
happens. I have had several serious cases brought before
me of this kind with the marks of the needle quite fresh and
distinct, where it had evidently pierced the stomach and pro-
duced a large amount of inflammation, and a very unmanag-
able form of gastric irritation. Thus it will be observed that if
the Chinese ever knew as much of anatomy as to enable them
to practise acupuncture safely and usefully, they certainly
do not so now. The mode of treating fevers, small-pox, etc.
is just as absurd, and were their remedies powerful would
be as mischievous; happily however for the patients, the drugs
are generally inert and unless the case is very severe, the
sufferer struggles through, just as patients do at home under
homoeopathic treatment. On one occasion I was requested
to visit the daughter of a graduate, a girl of 16. Three
native doctors had been attending, but had pronounced her
disease necessarily mortal, and some of her friends had com-
menced to make the grave clothes. I found her labouring
under one of the most severe forms of typhus fever; there
was intense restlessness and delirium, and altogether the
case looked very unpromising. I prescribed quinine and
wine in large quantities with fifteen grains of Dover's
powder at night. Twenty-four hours after, there was a
decided improvement, and convalescence proceeded gradual-
ly and steadily. In treating low fevers no Samsu or strong
stimulants are used; infusions and decoctions of weak and
simple herbs with cups of warm, very weak tea, and for

96
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
female children. Chinese doctors can do nothing for it, and
should the poor sufferer survive the ravages of the disease,
the mother or friends endeavour to dispose of the patient in
such a way as not to be troubled with it in future. Diarrhoea
and dysentery are the most fatal diseases in China. From
extensive observation I believe that one half of the
mortality amongst the Chinese, is more or less connected
with these two diseases.
Diseases of the respiratory organs are common, especially
in the Northern provinces. Phthisis however is not nearly
so common as in Europe. Bronchitis in all its stages and
forms prevails, with catarrh and hæmoptysis. Chronic
rheumatism is extremely common, but as might be expected
gout is never met with, nor is there much of heart disease
and aneurism, which are so common amid the rivalry and
intense excitement and competition of Western nations.
Venereal diseases of the most malignant kind, in every
possible form and stage, prevail to an alarming extent
amongst all classes. Chinese doctors seem to know nothing
of this class of diseases; at all events nothing is done in the
way of treating them, and hence the poor victim frequently
sinks under its ravages. Paralysis is also common, and the
native doctors can do nothing for it. It is usually of a simple
nature and readily yields to a course of strychnine. Skin
diseases I need scarcely say are terribly common; every
possible form is met with, though psora is most usual. Indeed,
so prevalent is this disease that it is almost rare to meet a
mandarin, merchant, official, or man of any calling, who is
perfectly free from this unpleasant and uncomfortable form
of skin disease. Rupea, Elephantiasis, herpes, lepra, porrigo,
favus, psoriasis and leprosy, also prevail to a greater or
less extent.
Cases of apoplexy occur though they are not common.
Apoplexy is called Chun-fung, i. e. struck by wind. The
doctors are in utter darkness as to its pathology. Hysteria
is exceedingly rare amongst the Chinese; I have never met
with a well marked case of it. Many Chinese women suffer
from diseases resulting from over lactation. It is no un-
common thing for a mother to continue to nurse her child
two, three, and even four years; many however break down
in consequence, and the woman begins to look old before she
is two and twenty. The mortality resulting from parturition
must be very great in China. No data can be found on
which to form an estimate of women who die from this
cause, but judging from statistics made of the native women
in India, where as in China every thing is left to nature, the
mortality must be immense. Statistics on this question
some years ago, shewed that 20 per cent. of the native

OF THE CHINESE.
97
women in India died in childbed. In other words, one woman
in every five dies for want of proper attention! In contrasting
this with European statistics, we see strikingly manifested
the advantages of science and art in obstetric practice. For
example, in 1660 when this art had made but little progress,
I find from the London bills of mortality, that one woman in
thirty-six died in childbed. A hundred years later (in 1760)
when more attention was given to this branch of medicine,
the deaths fell to one in eighty-one. In 1800, the mortality
had fallen to one in a hundred and thirteen, and now it is so
low as to be about one in a hundred and fifty or sixty. What
a contrast to Asiatic nations, where absurd prejudices,
helplessness, and ignorance, in art and science, cause an
amount of mortality which might easily be prevented, scarcely
to be credited. Ignoratione rerum bonarum et malarum
maxime hominum vita vexatur.
Several authorities have stated that Insanity is rare
among the Chinese. This however is not my experience.
For example, since the middle of January this year, I have
had eleven cases of insanity under my care, as indoor patients
in the Chinese Hospital. Of these, four have been cases of
dementia, and seven have been acute mania. One case of
dementia is in the Hospital at present, and one case
(a woman) of acute mania; both are under treatment and
have considerably improved, and will I think be ultimately
cured. In cases of mania the Chinese tie firmly the patient's
hands and feet, lay him on the ground, and leave him to
struggle, so that in two or three cases that have come
under my care, the wrists have been much cut with the
cords used for binding. Two or three cases have been as
violent as I ever saw in England. To the great terror of
their friends and bystanders, I have invariably set the patients
at liberty, though sometimes I have been obliged to have re-
course to handcuffs, having been attacked on three occasions
by the worst maniacs. One attempted to bite in a most savage
manner, more than once, but was ultimately cured. Indeed,
all were cured except two who positively refused all food,
drink, and medicine. For a time they were fed by the
stomach pump, but ultimately died from inanition.
My opinion has often been asked regarding the effects
of Opium on the Chinese. The epidemic denunciations, or
the systematic crusade against Opium in China, seems to
have died away, and the last two or three years we have heard
nothing of it. The first year I was in Shanghai, Dr. L--,
from the United States, attended very regularly for a time
at the Chinese Hospital, and professed great interest in the
emancipation of the Chinese from this bad habit. He
denounced the use of opium in a most unqualified manner,

98
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
and told me that he was about to open an Hospital for the
Chinese, and would devote much of his time, talents, and
attention to the cure and prevention of opium smoking. As
I never saw him without a cigar in his mouth, and having
seen the bad effects of tobacco as well as of opium, I
proceeded to examine this radical reformer regarding his
own personal habits; with the result that on an average he
smoked 14 cigars, drank from one to three tumblers of
beer, and two or six glasses of wine, every twenty-four hours!
"Physician heal thyself,"-reform thyself before you com-
mence the reformation of others.
Mahomet denounced the use of wine among his followers;
hence we must point to Mahomet as the Father of all the
Opium smokers, because, in those countries where the sway
and influence of Mahomet have been most felt the use and
abuse of opium have prevailed. In every nation, among
every people, some beverage is used. Alcohol in some form
or other has been employed by most nations from the ear-
liest times; and when the pseudo-Prophet put his strong veto
upon wine, a substitute had to be sought for, and hence we
see Persia, India, Turkey, and last of all China becoming
centres of opium-consuming nations; simply because the
religion of the people prohibited the use of wine. China
however would seem to be a sort of exception, being of so
passive a character as to be the slave of circumstances
rather than the devotee of religion; but no one can deny that
of all the beverages used by man, opium seems to be the
most suited for the Chinese; and as soon as we can prevail
on the people of England to give up wine, then, and not till
then, shall the Chinese be prevailed upon to give up the use
of opium. In saying this I do not advocate the use of opium.
I have seen much mischief result from it; never so much,
however, as I have seen at home produced by alcohol. But
this does not modify the evils of opium; still we should all
study a little consistency, and wipe our own eyes before we
proceed to operate on those of our fellow men.
Upwards of 1,500 opium smokers have been under my
treatment, but (except in cases of suicide) I have not been
able to trace a single death directly to the effects of opium
smoking. I often see men who have smoked 20 to 25, and
some 30 to 35 years, who appear to have suffered very little
from its use. In other cases again, visible effects are
produced after a few months' indulgence, and the man has
to stop, which I do not think is such a formidable thing as
some writers say. The first injurious effect of opium is the
derangement of the digestive organs, the appetite is diminish-
ed as in that of a wine-bibber. If the habit is largely indulged
in, little food can be taken, and emaciation becomes great, with

100
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
falter, and my breathing is imperceptible except on a mirror,
they immediately pour the solution of opium into my throat
and restore me as you have seen. Within four hours I shall
have swallowed many ounces and much time will not pass
away ere I relapse into my ordinary torpor." Although the
subject has been largely discussed by many writers, and even
tried in Courts of law, there is no proof to show that indul-
gence in opium shortens life. This was very fully investigated
in a trial which took place in 1831, between Sir W. Forbes,
and the "Edinburgh Life Assurance Company." The late
Earl of Mar had effected large insurances on his life, while
much addicted to the use of opium, and which the Company
did not know at the time of the insurance. Lord Mar died
two years after the insurance, of dropsy and jaundice, and the
Company refused to pay, on the ground that his Lordship had
concealed from them a habit which shortens life. After a
long trial and much discussion, the Insurance Company was
found liable, and had to pay the policy. The chief ground
however of the decision was, that they had not made proper
enquiries into his Lordship's habits. It was proved that the
Earl had taken from one to three ounces of laudanum daily
for 30 years, that he lived very freely, that he suffered much
from rheumatism, and that he died of jaundice and dropsy at
at the age of 57. Dr. Christison mentions "a well known
literary author about 60 years of age, who has taken laudanum
for 35 years, with occasional short intermissions and some-
times in enormous quantities; but enjoys tolerably good
health." The same distinguished author records the case
of another "eminent literary man who died about the age of
63, and was in the habit of drinking laudanum to excess from
the age of 15. His daily allowance was a quart of mixture
consisting of three parts of laudanum to one of alcohol."
Thus it will be observed, that it is still an open ques-
tion, whether the constant use of opium really shortens the
natural life of man, or whether its constant use be productive
of any particular train or forms of disease which necessarily
shorten life. In cases of opium poisoning, Chinese doctors
are not usually sent for; the popular remedy in such cases,
is to pour common oil down the patient's throat till he runs
over. Doctors have been known to give a crude preparation
of copper to induce vomiting. This practice however is very
rare.
Tumours, both simple and malignant, are very common
amongst the Chinese. Among the former the cystic and fatty
are most general. Carcenoma and cancer are frequently
met with both in the breast and in the uterus. Chinese
practitioners can do nothing either to prevent or to cure this
class of disease. I have never met with, nor have I ever

OF THE CHINESE.
103
treatment of disease, so that no objection can be taken to
our now naming them the Western school, in addition to
the Eastern spoken of above.
"This new treatise on the human body is written by
Hobson, a Western Physician. Whenever in his country a
person dies of an unusual disease, it is imperative on the
Surgeons to open the body of the deceased, examine all the
internal parts, in order to ascertain the cause of death, and
experiment with various medicines how the disease could
be cured. We know therefore, for these reasons, that some.
benefit may be derived from this book; the order in which
it is arranged is similar in some respects to that of the
illustrated work of Wang-wei-tih of the Sung dynasty.
Notices are limited to the anatomy of the human body in its
original or sound state, and the treatment of diseases is
not entered upon. For as the art of healing disorders,
whether they be of an internal or external nature, consists
simply in restoring the whole frame to its original condi-
tion, it follows that a knowledge of this subject, aided by
deep study and careful thought, will ensure the acquirement
of the requisite skill of the Practitioners.
"Although this book is entitled a new system, it is not
to be supposed that all which it contains is new to us. Thus
the argument that the brain is the seat of human under-
standing may be judged to be credible by the case of Tse
Tsze-fung, a Doctor of the Hanlin College, which is related
in the prose and poetical works of Woo-ting. At one time.
he possessed such an extensive learning and so powerful a
memory, that he was called a walking library. Having
fractured his skull by a fall from his horse, a skilful Mon-
golian Physician replaced the injured part of his cerebrum
with a portion of the brain of a Cow, and so far saved his
life; but the accident occasioned the utter prostration of his
eminent powers of mind, and he became from that time
forward a wholly different man to what he had been before.
Those parts of the book, on the other hand, which expressly
contradict the doctrines of Ling-Hew and Soo-Wan, serve
only to prove the partial and narrow bent of the writer's
views, and the one-sided nature of his reasoning. Take, for
instance, that passage in which he states that the moral
qualities of courage and decision have no dependence on the
size of the gall-bladder. Is he ignorant that this fact, accord-
ing to the old writings, was ascertained by post-mortem.
examinations? and would he maintain that proof is only to
be deduced from the postmortem examinations of his own
country, and that those held in China are not sufficiently
trustworthy for the verification of facts? Again, in regard
to his theory of the circulation of the blood, and of the

104
THE MEDICINE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
different form of the foetus during the several stages of
pregnancy how, may we ask, could any post-mortem exami-
nation have shewn him the blood flowing in the veins of a
corpse, or have enabled him to ascertain the age of the uterine
formation? All that he says therefore on these subjects, is
distorted and erroneous. Still, as the writer is able to study
Chinese works, and to inform himself of the excellent
instruction they contain, we may assume that what he
advances is not entirely without foundation. He says on his
part, 'I think so and so,' and no harm can come on our part
from giving him a hearing. Viewed as a means of opening
up new trains of thought, and stimulating the mind to under-
stand the mode of curing disease, the book itself can scarcely
fail to be of service to the members of the Profession, and
on this account, therefore, I have been induced to give it a
place in my collection, and have endeavoured in these
prefatory remarks to indicate briefly its merits and defects.
Written by Tih-yu, the proprietor of the Hae-shan-seen-
kwan, and dated on the 8th day of the 12th month of the 1st
year of Heen-fung."
In another edition published at Canton, a recommen-
datory notice of the same book runs thus,-"A Western
writer Hobson, has published a Treatise on Physiology, with
illustrations, in which the subject is thoroughly elucidated.
He gives first a general description of the entire body, and
afterwards treats of its various parts separately. The illus-
trative figures are 271 in number, they were lithographed
at the free Hospital at Kum-le-fou in Canton. These I have
arranged after the orginals on eight scrolls which may be
hung side by side, and so be conveniently studied, and they
will be very suitable for presents. To persons desirous of
acquiring the healing art, they will give a complete insight
into the internal and external structure of the body, and the
principles of its organization, and possess them of the means.
to obtain a true diagnosis of diseases. They are properly
characterized in the following terms,-The myriad processes
of life are here displayed, and the human frame is opened to
view. The internal and external organs are distinguished
and accurately delineated. From the form the nature is
demonstrated; what appears to be anomalous is shewn to be
well ordered. It is the first time that we have beheld such
productions. Our science indeed cannot compete with that
of the philanthropic Author. By Yeh-Suy-ung; from the
Palace of the Governor General of the Two Kwang provinces,
in this 8th autumnal month of the third year of Heen-fung."
From the foregoing remarks, it cannot be doubted that
the people of China are both ready and willing to be taught
a more excellent way in regard to Western science and

OF THE CHINESE.
105
藏書
philosophy, did we but take the trouble to lay the principles,
practices and truths of these matters before them. That
the people of China can be taught, no reasonable man could
doubt. What China wants, are-1st, Good schools super
intended by Europeans, in which will be taught one of the
most universally spoken European languages, because it is
now an established fact, that, modern science can only be
taught in an European tongue. 2nd, We want schools in
which would be taught the various sciences-Philosophy,
Mathematics, Medicine &c., &c., &c., all superintended by
Europeans. And I feel convinced that if such schools were
once established, and in good working order, the people
would support them of their own free will-for nothing is
ever to be expected from this effete and despicable govern-
ment, or dynasty. The great question is,-Who is the man
or where is the body of men that will earn immortal laurels,
and the gratitude of one-third of the whole human race by
establishing such schools? Is such a man or body of men
living? We shall see. The work on Physiology was
succeeded by one on Surgery, a large octavo volume, with
upwards of 400 illustrations in wood, carefully copied from
Liston, Fergusson, Druitt, Erichon, and others; this also
was well received, and after this a small work was published
on Midwifery and the diseases of children. As I have already
said, Chinese doctors know nothing of the subjects treated
of in any of these works. The fourth work by Dr. Hobson
was on the Principles and Practice of Medicine, and con-
tained a digest of the British Pharmacopoeia. At the end of
this work there were short treatises on the properties of
light, heat, air, electricity, and water, &c. These interesting
works have not only been well received and circulated
throughout the Empire of China, but every one of them has
been printed and published in Japan. They have appeared
in fourteen thin octavo volumes both in Yedo and Miaco, and
it is a fact worthy of record, as it shews how well the Japanese
know the Chinese written language, that these works are all
published in the Chinese language, with interlineations and
various notes in Japanese bearing on the meaning of the
text. It is only fair to state that British and other foreign
merchants with their proverbial munificence and liberality in
every good cause, bore all the expenses of the first publication
of these most useful and interesting works for the edification
the people, and for the advancement of the Medicine and
Medical Pratice of the Chinese.