ARTICLE III.
NARRATIVE OF AN OVERLAND TRIP, THROUGH HUNAN,
FROM CANTON TO HANKOW.
BY DR. W. DICKSON.
Read before the Society, 20th August 1861.
NOTE. The Editorial Committee, in presenting this Narrative to the public,
regret that it is not in their power to accompany it with a map of the country
visited by Dr. Dickson and his fellow travellers, R. F. Thorburn, Esq., and
the Rev. Messrs. Beach and Bonney. In the absence of a map, a few figures
and geographical details may be acceptable to the general reader. Both the
names of places and the figures are taken from the surveys made by the Jesuits,
as given by Du Halde, Biot, and others; and all these localities may be seen on
the Imperial maps, such as are found in, or accompanying, the Ta Tsing
Whui Tien.
府縣府州縣縣府縣縣府縣府
Kwang-chau fu,
Tsing-yuen hien,
縣德英 Ying-teh hien,
Shau-chau fu,
Loh-chang hien,
Lat. N. 25
Lat. N. 23° 08'09".
Lat. N. 23 44 24
Lat. N. 24 11 32
Lat. N. 24 55 00
15 00
Long. E. 112° 57'01"
Long. E. 112 41 50
Long. E. 112 55 00
Long. E. 113 08 30
Long. E. 112
48 00
if fun. I-chang hien,
Chin chau,
Lat. N. 25
27 00
Long. E. 112
38 00
Lat. N. 25
47 00
Long. E. 112
48 00
Yung-hing hien,
Lat. N. 26
Lai-yang hien,
Lat. N. 26
Hang-chau fu,
Hang-shan hien,
Siang-tan hien,
Chang-shah fu,
Siang-yin hien,
Yoh-chau fu,
04 48
29 48
Lat. N. 26 55 12
Lat. N. 27 14 24
Lat. N. 27 52 30
Lat. N. 28 12 00
Lat. N. 28 42 00
Lat. N. 29 24 00
Long. E. 112
44 51
Long. E. 112 40 48
Long. E. 112 23 00
Long. E. 112 37 50
Long. E. 112 41 52
Long. E. 112 46 57
Long. E. 112 38 00
Long. E. 112 54 52
These figures may not be all correct; indeed we are quite sure that there
are slight errors in some of them; but, as our authorities differ, it is not in our
power to ascertain exactly what these errors are, and of course we are not able
at present to make the desired corrections. However, as the cities here named
are all situated on the western route, its position is tolerably well indicated
by these figures, showing the latitude and longitude of each place. Taking the
Tungting lake as a centre, (and it is not very far from the centre of China
Proper), and thence drawing radii to the sea all round from Canton to the
mouth of the Yangtsze, there will thus be presented to us a quarter of a circle
nearly, say a quadrant, comprised between the periphery, the coast line,
and the extreme radius on the one side, running nearly due south, and that on
the other side, running nearly due east,-there being a difference of longitude
less than three miles between Yohchau (at the mouth of the Tungting lake)
and Canton, and a difference of latitude less than two degrees between
Yohchau and the mouth of the Yangtsze.

30
TRIP THROUGH HUNAN, FROM CANTON TO HANKOW.
With this outline figure fixed in mind, we now invite the reader's attention
to the Narrative, only further remarking that the trip from Canton to Hankow,
a distance of eleven hundred miles, more or less, occupied only forty
days, from April 11th, when the gentlemen took their departure from the
"City of Rams."
MANY travellers have passed up the Canton river, and
by the way of Nanhiung, over the Meiling Pass and across
the Poyang lake, reached the Yangtsze Kiang through the
province of Kiangsi; while very few have reached the same
Great River through the province of Hunan, across the
Tungting lake and over the same range of hills, further west,
by way of Loh-chang in the province of Canton. Before
the foreign trade in this country began to assume large
dimensions and was limited to Canton, the growth of teas
for that emporium was in a great measure restricted to the
provinces of Fuh-kien, Kiang-si and Cheh-kiang; and the
general route for all these teas was over the Meiling Pass;
likewise the northern silks, the nankeens, and porcelain, all
came by the same way, while the only articles of foreign
consumption coming to Canton through Hunan, the more
westerly route, were rhubarb and muck, which, particularly
the former, thence assumed an importance in the eye of the
Chinese, which they never deserved.
Of late years, however, the cultivation of teas has
extended rapidly in the provinces of Hupeh and Hunan; and
the city of Siang-tan has become the inland depôt of these
teas, to the mutual benefit of both it and Canton. But by
the opening of the Yangtsze to foreign commerce, and the
establishment of a new mart at Hankow, a problem has to
be solved, viz: in what way and to what extent will Canton,
in its commercial prosperity, be affected thereby; and there
are so many elements to be taken into consideration here,
that time alone, and that not a few months or even years,
can give us the true solution of this problem.
Anxious to ascertain what are the facilities as well as the
difficulties of travelling by the western route, and aware that
many respectable Chinese every spring make their way from
Canton into the central provinces, we concluded that what
they could do, we, with the official support afforded by the
late Treaty, could do also. On consulting these gentlemen,
they told us that the obstacles were great and the discom-
forts many; while the teamen were all, en masse, opposed to
foreigners visiting the interior of the country. Thus both
difficulties and dangers were magnified with a view evident-
ly to deter us from our purpose.
Now in regard to the modes of travelling, the whole
route, with the exception of about thirty miles, is performed
by water. On this side of the hills, in the province of
Canton, only two changes of boats are required; and only

TRIP THROUGH HUNAN, FROM CANTON TO HANKOW. 31
one, in Hunan. The stages and time ordinarily occupied by
the Chinese in passing from one to another, were stated to
be, to Loh-chang, ten or twelve days; to Ping-shih, two; to
Ichang, one half-day; to Chin chau, two days; to Siang-tan,
six; and to Hankow, five days.
For the first stage, we hired one of the largest boats
employed in the northern trade, manned by natives of
Hwuichau, a prefecture between Canton and Hongkong.
One of the principal difficulties of travelling in China arises
from the great variety of dialects, spoken in different parts
of the empire; but on a great thoroughfare it might reasonably
be expected that persons, speaking any one of the local
dialects, would easily understand that of the provincial city..
On starting, however, we found that it was very difficult for
our boatmen to understand what we or our servants said to
them. This drawback was compensated for in part by their
thorough knowledge of the river,-its depth, its currents, its
branches and of the localities and villages on its banks,
and also by their great good-nature towards us, as well as
towards each other.
After passing the market-town of Fatshan, we reached
Sanshwui (Three rivers), where the expansion of the waters
is very great,-forming a delta of some thirty miles in
breadth, the whole being a complete network of divisions
and subdivisions. In the channel through which we passed,
the depth was only three or four feet; but the water was
unusually low, and the boatmen said it was then twice that
depth in other branches of the delta.
Five days brought us to Tsing-yuen: but on a pony, it
may be reached in about as many hours, from Canton. The
"North river," Peh kiang, after running nearly due south,
makes a great bend near Sanshwui, and thence passing
Fatshan flows on due east to the provincial city.
"
In order to avoid any difficulty at the custom-houses on
our route, we stipulated with our boatmen that they should
not take cargo on board; and, moreover, we were furnished
with a communication from the Commissionner of Customs,
the Hoppo of Canton, addressed to the principal of the cus-
toms at Shew-kwan, as the station is called at the city of
Shau-chau. Officers, however, were usually deputed from
the Yamuns to visit us; but being quite aware of the nature
of our expedition, they gave us no molestation. The levies
collected at "Loopau," below Tsing-yuen, are always spo-
ken of by the Hunan and Szechuen merchants as something
frightful, and our boatmen manifested no small anxiety on
account of two bags of salt, which seemed to be all the cargo
they had with them.
The whole traffic between the central and northern parts.

34 TRIP THROUGH HUNAN, FROM CANTON TO HANKOW.
or other mark appeared to indicate the exact boundary line
between the two provinces.
The city of Ichang, though small, is prettily situated,
and has extensive suburbs on both sides of the river, with
many warehouses, inns, and shops. The dwelling houses,
both within and without the walls, have an air of neatness,
indicating the prosperous condition of the inhabitants; and
some of them, built on three sides of a square, with gables
brought forward, have quite an Elizabethan look. A large
store-house for salt, belonging to the government, stands
near the east gate, and this article for local use, in this
district, is probably brought up from the province of Canton.
The country, so far as it came under our observation, seemed
fertile, much of it being under rice cultivation. Surrounding
the town and at no great distance from it, there is a range
of mountains, some of them rising 3,000 feet above the plain.
Having made the necessary arrangements for chairs,
coolies, etc., we left Ichang on the 2nd of May, and soon
found ourselves on a good road, ten or twelve feet broad,
flagged with large slabs of limestone. This road, instead
of passing over the high range, named above, runs along a
valley, and at its greatest elevation did not seem to be more
than two or three hundred feet above the plain of Ichang.
It is a great thoroughfare for man and beast; and during the
day and a half, we were upon it, we met many hundreds of
mules, carrying merchandise, both foreign and domestic
and in considerable quantities. Its length is about thirty-
five miles, and throughout, except for a short distance at the
northern extremity, we found it in excellent repair.
The inn, or half-way house, at which we passed the night,
gave us anything but comfortable quarters or quiet rest.
Our rooms were in the second storly; and we had not been
long there when it seemed as if all the people of the village
had assembled on the premises to keep holiday; and crowd-
ing into our apartments, the floor at length gave way with
a crash, but no serious damage was sustained by them or us.
The next day brought us to Chin chau, a prefectural
city, situated at the head of navigation on our route through
Hunan. The curiosity of the populace and the rudeness
of the soldiery here were no less than at our last station;
and we were no less willing to take our departure, which
we did in two boats, at early dawn on the following day.
We had not gone far before a chain across the river
brought up our boats before a custom-house, and so we
went on shore to get a glance at the scenery along the
banks and over the hills, where we saw camps, and soldiers
under drill, going through odd manoeuvres. After a short
detention, our boats were again in motion, carrying us

TRIP THROUGH HUNAN, FROM CANTON TO HANKOW. 35
rapidly down stream. The country was beautiful, and the
objects of attraction numerous on every side. The river,
in some parts of its course, has worn its way through sand-
stone, the action of the current along the banks by slow
degress rounding off the faces of huge masses of the rock
into smooth black round walls, down which the water, from
the fields above, was seen trickling in perpendicular lines.
The strata, much softer in some places than in others, had
been so worn away as to form shelves, on which huts or
joss-houses were seen; and in some parts also steps had
been cut in the face of the rock, up the steep bank, leading
to the fields above.
Nga-ping is a small village situated on the west bank of
the river; and there we exchanged our two small boats for a
large and more commodious one, the river having now
become deeper and broader by the confluence of two
branches just above the village. The country and its
inhabitants on the north of the watershed, over which we
had now passed, we found to be very different from what
we had seen on the south. In Hunan we saw no rapids, no
broken boats, no dead bodies, while the people in their clean
varnished boats floated leisurely down the meandering
stream without fear of danger.
Our course was now due north, on the Lui Shwui; and
having glided past the city of Yung-hing, we came directly
upon the Siang Kiang which is the principal river. The
Lui-shwui unites with it just below the city of Hang-chau,
which in its position in Hunan is not unlike that of Shau-
chau in Canton. Both are admirbly situated for commercial
purposes. Below Hang-chau, the Siang Kiang becomes a
noble stream, with a depth of water seldom less than 14, and
often over 25, feet. In our walks along the banks we were
surprised to find the country exceedingly sterile, and in some
places perfectly barren, and the population sparse.
We reached Siang-tan on the 11th of May, just one
month from Canton. The river seemed covered with boats,
all having white cotton sails. Long rows of junks were
anchored near the town and the landing-places were all
thronged. The city itself is not more than 1,400 yards in
length, and surrounded by a good wall, abutting on the
river. There is an extensive suburb, extending some two
miles above the city. At present, Siang-tan is evidently the
centre of a very large trade, which is not confined to the teas.
of Hunan, but extends to those of Hupeh as well, and also
to many articles coming from, or designed for, the markets
of Canton, Szechuen, and other regions. Its position is
such, in relation to the Yang-tsze, the Tung-ting lake, and
the provinces on the west and south-west, as naturally to

36 TRIP THROUGH HUNAN, FROM CANTON TO HANKOW.
make it a great emporium, a great resort for merchants
from various and remote parts of the empire. About two
years ago, it was visited by a band of rebels, who soon.
retired, and have ever since left it unmolested.
Proceeding on our way, we next came to anchor off
the provincial city Chang-shah, which appeared even larger
than Canton. Imperial junks with long streamers were
seen close to the shore, near the city; but no considerations
could induce our captain or crew to move from our
anchorage over to that side of the river-which is there
perhaps a little broader than the Hwang-pu off Shanghai. It
was said that an attack on the city was expected from the
Nanking rebels.
Near Chang-shah there is a branch of the river, coming
from the westward, which is the ordinary route to Sezechuen,
running south of the Tung-ting lake. So we were told by a
merchant going to that province.
On the 17th of May we reached the city of Siang-yin.
It is a small place, with dilapidated walls. It has a temple
dedicated to Confucius, celebrated as having been built, in
part at least, by the Emperor Kien-lung, who is said to have
visited it while on a tour through this part of his dominions.
On elevated grounds near the mouth of the river, there
stands a pagoda which forms an excellent landmark for
those on the lake, especially for such as wish to make this
river. We passed this pagoda early in the evening, when the
lake in the distance was all dotted over with white sails,
seeking shelter for the night. Eastward from the pagoda
on the shore of the lake there is a hill, one part of which
forms a peninsula, where there is a little cove, into which
our boat with several junks ran and there anchored for the
night.
Starting early the following morning, our boat formed
a unit in a long fleet of some two hundred or more of white
sails, wending their way across the lake and making for a
strait between two islands and the shore. Through this whole
course there was always more than twenty-six feet of water.
The day was beautiful; nearing the shore we landed at a
temple, which some years ago had been demolished by the
rebels. That same afternoon we reached the city of Yoh-
chau, just after the departure of the U.S.A. steamer
Saginaw. Having visited the city, we soon again made
sail, and with many other boats laid our course down the
"Great River," for Hankow, where we arrived on the 19th
of May, thirty-nine days after leaving Canton.
Having thus given a résumé of the trip, I will now add
a few notices of what may appear of more or less general
interest. The journey was so quiet and attended with

TRIP THROUGH HUNAN, FROM CANTON TO HANKOW. 37.
so few incidents, that the regularity of breakfast, tiffin,
and dinner was never or rarely broken. The scenery
was on the whole quite what we expected to find it, though
in some parts less grand. The hills and mountains about
Loh-chang present a fine field for botanical research; and a
trip to those regions can easily be made in twelve days from
Canton. By taking up his residence at Loh-chang, the lover
of natural history can extend his researches in all directions,
far and near, over almost any sort of ground he may
please.
To the geologist the whole route is one of extreme interest,
as it is also to the political economist and merchant. I am
unable to give any detailed account of the different strata
over which we passed, but they semed to consist of all kinds
and of every variety; and any geologist, particularly
acquainted with his subject, would here have a new and
comprehensive field, marked by clear lines and decided
boundaries.
The very extensive and extraodinary deposit of limestone,
in the district of Ying-teh, is succeeded by symptoms of
black clay-slate and sandstone; and in the prefecture of
Shau-chau coal is found between the layers of sandstone,
and is of different kinds in different places. On crossing
over the hills, as we passed from Loh-chang into the province
of Hunan, sandstone again came into view, and with it coal
also.
This coal-field doubtless extends quite across the
mountains, which form the watershed between the provinces
of Canton and Hunan, and I know not how far eastward,
and westward, but at least one hundred miles in the latter
direction from the route on which we travelled. Some of
the very best coal comes from Pauking fu. Judging from
the number of boats and men, women and children, engaged
in the working and the transportation of coal, labouring hard
all night in some instances, we may safely conclude that
the present system of supplying the market is inadequate
to the demands, and would soon give way to one furnished
with all the appliances of modern science. At the present
day, when the demand for coal is so great in China, and is
likely ere long to become far greater, this subject calls for
investigation and detailed reports, so that all the various
kinds of coal, and the means and cost of procuring each
kind, may be ascertained.
The thickness of the strata and their depth below the sur-
face will doubtless be found to vary in different localities here,
as in other parts of the globe. So far as we could ascertain,
the Chinese are ready to go to any depth, provided they
only have the requisite apparatus; but as they are wholly

TRIP THROUGH HUNAN, FROM CANTON TO HANKOW. 39
Now, in the first place, a physico-geographical view of
the country shows that to the North River, running nearly
due south, there can be but few tributaries, and that con-
sequently only a few ranges of hills can intersect its course.
Such is in reality the case. Up through its whole course,
we found only four or five streams, of any size, coming into
it from the east. Nor are there, on that side, many hills
that would require cuttings. The great bend at Sanshwui,
between Canton city and Tsing-yuen, would be avoided by
the railroad; and but little or no difficulty would be any-
where encountered in the hills, except at the Tsingyuen Hap
(or gorge), and one other near Lohchang; and both of these,
I think, might be easily overcome by proper engineering.
In the second place, we know that there is, even in the
province of Canton, much uncultivated land, not indeed
close on the banks of the rivers; but far back from these
water-courses, there are no canals, no rice fields, and but
few gardens.
Ignorant as we all were of what engineering difficulties
are, it seemed to us that a line of railroad might, easily be
made along the whole course of the North River and over
the watershed into Hunan. There is a road for chair-bearers
over the Lohchang range, but of its exact course and
gradients, I am unable to speak. Further on, beyond Ichang,
the country was so level that it seemed as if rails might be
laid down on the present road.
If then a railroad were made along this route, from
Canton to Hunan, it would not only take up the present
enormous traffic, but would in due time develop a much
larger amount of business, especially in coal and such
articles of commerce as are now barely remunerative or
unproductive on account of expensive carriage. When we
take into account that at the season we passed over the hills
the pay of coolies was unusually low, in consequence of the
little business then doing,-though on an average, we met
one at every ten yards,-and also that we met some five
or six hundred heavily laden mules in two hours, we
may form some idea of what an amount of traffic and
travelling there must be in busy times. As we passed
along, constantly observing the primitive mode of carriage,
it seemed to us more and more evident every day that no
greater boon could be conferred on these provinces, and
indeed on China generally, than the introduction of our most
approved modes of land carriage. It seemed to us that the
formation of a company in England, to send out competent
engineers and the means for laying down a good railroad,
would hold out the prospect of a most remunerative enter-
prise and of a most excellent investment of British capital.

40
TRIP THROUGH HUNAN, FROM CANTON TO HANKOW.
Everywhere, both in the country and on the rivers, we
were much impressed with the want of capital to carry on
any extensive operations. An influx of it into China, with
proper securities and under good direction, would develop
wonderful resources, now dormant only for the absence of
such capital and such direction.
The elements, on which we must found the prospects
of a good investment in this case, are three, the gradients,
the water-courses, and the traffic. We have already seen
that the points of difficulty in the gradients are but few,
the amount of difficulty at each of these, however, can only
be determined by an actual survey; that the water-courses,
requiring bridges, are not very numerous; and that the
traffic, likely to be secured on such a railroad, must be
immense. I would, therefore, urge on all those who are
interested in the prosperity of Canton, and especially on the
mercantile community, the expediency of promptly setting
about what will alone restore the fallen fortunes of the
Queen of the South and replace her in the situation she held
so long, and which, from the very nature of the country, she
must be destined ever to hold, whenever steam carriage
shall be able to supplant steam navigation.
Among other products of Hunan, which came under
observation, were the tea shrub; likewise the plant from
which grasscloth is manufactured; and also a small shrub
or tree, from the fruit of which the Cha-yu, a well-known
oil, is expressed. This latter is manifestly of no inconsider-
able importance, as large tracts of land were covered with
it. We also saw here and there, the cotton, tobacco, and
other plants, with some fields of rice.
Much of the hill country, over which we passed,
especially in the province of Canton, seemed to hold out
inviting prospects to sportsmen. Deer of different kinds
are said to abound on the mountains; and we know that
pheasants, partridges, and other game are not wanting.
Here too, may be noticed the regularity of private mail
carriers, who, as we had opportunity to learn, are despatched
at stated times from nearly every line on our whole route.
This postal service may be turned to good account, as we
can testify, and it may too be greatly improved.
From what we now know of the navigation on the
Yang-tsze, it is easy to see why it was that the Hunan and
Hupeh teas came to Canton rather than to Shanghai. As
we now understand all the circumstances of the two different
routes, that to Canton on the one side, and this to Shanghai
on the other, it is no longer any matter of surprise that
these teas were carried off on the southern route; but
whether Canton is actually to lose this great traffic