部
**
JOURNAL
OF
THE NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF
THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY
ARTICLE I.
NOTES ON THE CITY OF YEDO, THE CAPITAL OF JAPAN.
BY RUDOLPH LINDAU, ESQ.
The Capital of Japan, situated at the north of the great
and beautiful bay of Yedo, has a circumference of 38
kilometres, and covers a surface of nearly 85 square kilo-
metres. The O-gava, or Great River, divides the city into
two parts; the eastern part is called Hondjo; the western
part bears more especially the name of Yedo.+
HONDJO has a circumference of 14 kilometres and
covers a surface of 12 square kilometres. It is an island,
the boundaries of which are: South, the bay of Yedo; West,
the Ogava; North, a large canal; and East, a river running
parallel with the Ogava. This island is traversed from
north to south by four canals, and from east to west by three
large and a great number of small canals. They cut each
other at right angles, and divide Hondjo into eight principal
districts.
The districts Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 contain in their northern
part thirty and odd temples, all surrounded by extensive
gardens. In their western part, along the banks of the
Ogava, are several large store-houses, which belong to the
*One kilometre 1,093 yards. 1 mile 1.6 kilometre; accordingly the
circumference of Yedo is 24 miles, and the surface covered by the city
36 square miles.
+See map of the City of Yedo at end of article.

2
NOTES ON THE CITY OF YEDO.
government; and on the banks of the canals are found the
habitations of a few merchants, workmen, and fishermen.
The largest portion of these four districts, however, are
occupied by the palaces of the daimios.
The districts No. 5 and No. 6 contain almost exclusively
residences of daimios. Besides there are thirteen temples;
among which the temple of Yoiaka Lakan (temple of the
500 images) is particularly venerated and deserves particular
attention. It consists of two large old buildings which have
suffered severely from earthquakes; a part of the idols
belonging to Yoiaka Lakan have been removed into a store-
house or depository built near at hand.
The district No. 7 contains about twenty temples, whose
gardens and out-buildings cover nearly half of the whole
district. Among these temples is that of Hadsuma, the
Japanese "God of War." The rest of this district is
occupied by governmental stores and warehouses with a
few dwellings of citizens..
The district No. 8, besides many houses belonging to
the government and to the daimios, contains one large
temple and a good many dwellings of citizens.
The whole eastern part of Hondjo is covered with paddy
fields, in the midst of which are thirteen temples and twenty-
four palaces of daimios and a few dwellings of labourers.
Estimating the surface of Hondjo
to be twelve square kilo-
metres, we find that-
Paddy-fields cover
3 Kilometres,
Palaces of daimios cover
5
Kilometres,
Govt. buildings, Forts, etc., cover 1
Kilometre,
Temples cover
11
Kilometre,
...
1
Kilometre.
Dwellings of Citizens cover
Hondjo is connected with Yedo by four great wooden
bridges of very simple but solid construction. They are
called, commencing on the north, (1) Hadsuma-Bassi, (2)
Liogoku-Bassi, (3) O-Bassi, and (4) Yetai-Bassi. The largest
of these is O-Bassi, or Great Bridge, its length being 350
yards.
Hondjo is a very quiet part of the capital. One might
compare it to the Faubourg St. Germain of Paris, if the whole
of Yedo was not the rendezvous of the Japanese aristocracy.
The quay of Hondjo, on the banks of the Ogava, forms
a large and beautiful street, and may be especially recom-
mended to a traveller who has only a few days to spend in
Yedo. In passing along the quay, he will see across the
stream several fine temples and great buildings, which stand
on the western bank of the Great River, and he may get at
the same time a very good idea of the animated river-life

NOTES ON THE CITY OF YEDO.
3
of the Ogava, whose waters are always covered with junks
and boats of all descriptions.
YEDO PROPER is divided into three parts: (1) Siro, or
the Castle; (2) Soto-Siro, or Outside of the Castle; and (3)
Midzi, Town and Suburbs.
SIRO (Djiro) or the Imperial Castle has a circumference
of eight kilometres, or nearly 5 miles, and covers a surface
of 5.4 kilometres or 1.7 sq. ms. It contains the palace of
the Tycoon and of his successor; the palaces of the three
Gosankios of Japan (brothers of the Emperor), named
Taïas, Simira, and Hitotsbas; the palaces of the members
of the Council of State; and about twenty palaces of high
daimios. There is no one public temple in the Siro, and not
one habitation of a simple citizen. The space which contains
the two imperial palaces is surrounded by high walls, and
by several canals which the public is not allowed to pass.
There are eighteen public bridges in the Siro, and a
multitude of private bridges, for almost every palace is sur-
rounded by a moat and moreover communicates with the
main road by several little bridges.
The two imperial palaces have not at all the character of
grandeur and magnificence which several writers have at-
tributed to them; I have not seen them myself, but take it
from the authority of gentlemen who have seen them, that
they exhibit that entire simplicity, both within and without,
which distinguishes all Japanese buildings, except the
temples.
The public walks round the castle are very agreeable and
picturesque. They form large streets and roads and are
perfect in their cleanness. The finest part of these walks is
that on the banks of the principal canal. It is covered with
thousands of aquatic birds, and surrounds the fine old walls
of the two imperial palaces.
Outside of the Siro, or Castle, but so near to it that I
may mention it here, and close to the palaces of the
Gosankios, there is a hill, which every foreigner should
visit for the purpose of getting an idea of the great extent of
Yedo. The sight of this vast city, with its innumerable
temples, its large white buildings and fine gardens, exhibits
one of the most beautiful and interesting panoramas that
can be imagined. It looks less like a city than a vast
assemblage of parks and villas. In certain districts there
may be seen regular streets, but by far the greatest part
of the ground is covered with palaces and temples,
surrounded by extensive gardens.
The large temples-and there is a great number of
them-are generally very beautiful. As regards the palaces
of the daimios, they are long buildings, of one single high

NOTES ON THE CITY OF YEDO..
story, ordinarily whitewashed and look like good large
warehouses, having absolutely nothing remarkable in their
architecture. The large doors of these habitations are some-
times ornamented with good carvings; but usually they are
made of plain wood, covered with small plates of copper,
forming various designs, such as the proprietor's coat of
arms. The interior of these palaces is-so far as I could
learn-of great simplicity, and the beauty and fineness of
the mats, carvings and paintings, are the only points of
distinction between the houses of the princes and those of
the simple citizens. There is no furniture in these houses,
and their principal ornament is their cleanliness, which is
said to be such as nothing can surpass.
THE SOTO SIRO has a circumference of nearly 16
kilometres, or 10 miles. It is separated from the Siro
by the canal which surrounds the latter; from Hondjo by the
Ogava; and from the rest of the city by a large canal,
bearing the name of Chori. It is united to Siro by eighteen
bridges; to Hondjo by the before-named bridges, viz: Liogoku-
Bassi, O-Bassi and Yetai-Bassi; and to the rest of Yedo by
thirty bridges. In the interior of Soto Siro there are about
twenty more bridges, among which is the celebrated
Nibon-Bass or Bridge of Japan. This bridge is considered
as the centre of the Empire, inasmuch as all geographical
distances are counted from it.
Of the twelve square kilometres, (5 square miles)
which form the total area of Soto Siro, not less than 7
are occupied by daimio palaces. The fifteen temples which
are to be found in this part of Yedo cover a surface of one
square kilometre.
The remaining space of Soto Siro is very densely
inhabited, and may be called the Mercantile Place of Yedo.
This interesting district is situated on the east of the castle
and has the form of a parallelogram. It is traversed in its
whole length by the To-kai-do, (the main road of Japan,)
and communicates by 15 bridges with the rest of Yedo.
Of these, two are on the west, communicating with the
Siro; five on the south; five on the east; and three on the
north part of the city. The middle one of the three
northern bridges is the Nippon-Bass.
The Mercantile Place contains five longitudinal, and
twenty-two transverse streets, cutting each other at right
angles, and forming seventy-eight districts, separated from
one another by wooden gates, ordinarily kept open, but
always guarded by a small police force, who at any moment
can isolate any given part of it.
In this Mercantile Place and in the three adjacent
precincts, north, east and south of it, there is not one daimio's

NOTES ON THE CITY OF YEDO.
ON THE CI
palace nor any large temple. It is in this part of Yedo that
the principal commerce of the city is concentrated and itis
only in this part that regular streets are to be found. These
streets are very animated, though the total absence of
carriages makes them less noisy than the great arteries of
western capitals. The aristocratic quarter and the environs
of the temples are extremely quiet, having almost an air of
desertion.
The To-kai-do, already mentioned, traverses the whole
of Japan, from Nagasaki to Hakodadi. From Nagasaki to
Yedo this road bears the name of To-kai-do (western road);
in Yedo, it takes the name of O-to-ri, (grand street); and
from the northern extemity of Yedo to Hakodadi it is called
Oskio-kaido (northern road). The Nippon-Bass, situated on
the O-to-ri, forms the limits of the To-kai-do and the
Oskio-kai-do. This important road is through its whole
extent-notwithstanding it passes through a great number
of daimio principalities-the property of the Tycoon.
It is on the To-kai-do that one goes from Kanagawa to
Kawasaki and from Kawasaki to Yedo, which circumstance
explains the great animation one always finds on the road
when proceeding from Kanagawa to Yedo.
Yokuhama is situated at about three miles distance from
the To-kai-do. At the points where the To-kaido enters and
leaves Yedo are situated the two places of capital execution.
Among the above-mentioned fifteen temples, to be
found in Soto Siro, there is the temple of Monzeki, the
greatest Tera of Yedo; and the temple of Sanno, one of the
principal Mius of the capital. Tera is the name given to the
Buddhist temples, and Mia designates the temples of the old
primitive religion of Japan,
MIDZI, OR TOWN AND SUBURBS. This general name
comprehends the whole of Yedo, exclusive of Siro and
Soto Siro. It has a circumference of 38 kilometres (24 ms.),
and covers a surface of nearly 69 s. kilometres (or 29 s. ms.)
Deducting from this number the 12 square kilometres
which belong to Hondjo, there is still to be described a sur-
face of 57 s. kilometres (23.75 s.m.). For the easier under-
standing of this exterior of the metropolis, I have divided it
into three parts, which may be called respectively, north,
south and west, viewing them from the castle, as a stand-
point. Hondjo, as will be remembered, lies to the eastward
of the castle.
The part NORTH OF THE CASTLE covers a surface
of about 26 square kilometres (11 s.ms.), and extends
northward to the Ogava, across which, at this part of the
capital, is the fifth great bridge of Yedo, called Os-kio-kai-
do O-bassi, the Great bridge of the northern road.

6
NOTES ON THE CITY OF YEDO.
This northern suburb is remarkable for the number and
extent of the temples which are found there, and which
cover a surface of not less than 8 square kilometres (3
s.ms.). The mausoleum of the Tycoons alone, surrounded
by thirty-six temples, occupies a space of more than one
square kilometre. Among the other temples of the north-
ern suburb there must be mentioned those of Quanon,
of Amida, of Confucius, and of Kanda, the tutelary deity of
Yedo.
The temple of Quanon is one of the most beautiful,
most venerated and most frequented of all the temples in
Japan. Before one arrives at the long avenue which leads
in a straight line to this temple, he passes through a
large portico, the pillars of which are beautifully varnished
with red. This varnish, though exposed to all the changes.
of the air for so many years, has lost nothing of its brilliancy.
In the middle of the portico is suspended an enormous
lantern, the largest, I think, which ever was made. The
avenue leading to the temple is lined with shops, in which
are exposed all sorts of articles, religious and profane, to
be sold to the numberless pilgrims who every year visit the
celebrated temple of Quanon. Amongst these articles,
exposed to the sight of all, I must make mention of a great
number of Priapi of all sizes: it is quite evident that the
Japanese do not attach to the exposure in public of these
objects any idea of immodesty.
The temple of Quanon is elevated about 20 feet from
the ground. A grand flight of steps gives access to the interior.
The arrangement of this, like that of almost all other Buddhist
temples I have seen in Japan, resembles very much that of the
interior of Catholic Churches. There is first a chief altar at
the extreme end of the temple, with side chapels at its right
and left; there is also a great number of wooden images, which
with the "glory" round their heads, are often entirely like
the images of Catholic saints. As a trifling point of resem-
blance, I many mention moreover that at the door of the temple
is seated a man selling rosaries and holy pictures. In the side
chapel, at the left of the chief altar, may be seen a well-
sketched picture, representing some of the prostitutes of
Yedo, who have been celebrated for their beauty. The
interior of the temple is not very large, and has not the cha-
racter of perfect cleanness, for which most of the public
buildings in Japan are remarkable. Doubtless the reason
for this is that the temple of Quanon is always filled with
people, who arrive there during the whole year, from all parts
of the empire. At the right of the temple there is a fine old
Pagoda, and near this Pagoda two colossal stone statues. At
the left are nicely arranged pleasure gardens with tea-houses.

NOTES ON THE CITY OF YEDO.
7
and shops, where curiosities and rare plants and birds are sold..
The buildings which are called the Temple of Confucius
form the University of Yedo. Foreigners have not yet
obtained permission to visit it.
The temple of Kanda is remarkable for its vast out-build-
ings, and its elevated position on a hill, from which a good
view of Yedo may be got.
A great part of the remaining 18 square kilometres
(7.5 s. miles), forming the district which I have called "North
of the Castle" is covered by paddy fields, in the midst of
which rise picturesquely-situated houses. There are also
extensive pleasure gardens, such as Askia-yama, and
neat little villages, which are to Yedo what St. Cloud is to
Paris. Among these villages the most remarkable for the
beauty of its situation is one called 0-dzi. Every foreigner,
coming to Yedo, ought to visit it, but he will not expect to
find there those artificial landscapes which surround the
capitals of the west. He will see nothing but a fresh little
valley, compassed by a small limpid stream on the banks of
which reigns a peaceful tranquillity.
Near Odzi is a little temple which has been erected by
Hieas, the father of the reigning dynasty, and which is now
consecrated to this Emperor under the name of Gangen Sama
Tera. The Tycoons go there sometimes to pay homage to
the memory of their great ancestor; near this temple they
have a villa, a part of which can be vistited by foreigners.
I estimate the surface covered by paddy fields and
pleasure gardens at 11 square kilometres (4.6 sq. miles).
Out of the remaining 7 square kilometres (2.08 square
miles) 5 may be allotted to daimio palaces; among these
are the palaces of the great daimios of Mito, Ovari and
Kanga.
The dwellings of citizens, situated in the district "North
of the Castle," cover scarcely more than 2 square kilometres
(less than a square mile,) and even from this comparatively
small space must be deducted the grounds on which stand
the great theatre of Yedo, and Yosivara.
Yosivara, or the court of public women in Yedo, forms
a regular parellelogram of 1 kilometre circumference, '8 sq.
mile. It contains four longitudinal and three transverse
streets, cutting each other at right angles, and is exclusively
inhabited by prostitutes and their servants. Foreigners
are not allowed to visit this part of the city. It is said to
contain 5,000 public women: this number may be considered
small, in view of Japanese customs and of the large popula-
tion of Yedo; but it must be remembered that Yosivara
does not contain all the females who in Yedo are devoted to
prostitution. There are in several parts of the capital, but

NOTES ON THE CITY OF YEDO.
19
ed of transient residents. One may form however an idea
of the amount of the total population by examining the real
extent of Yedo.
The capital of Japan covers a surface of 85 square
kilometres, 36 square miles, distributed in the following
manner:―
Honjo,
Siro,
Paddy Field. Temples. Palaces. Residences. Total.
Soto Siro,
3
11
61*
1
12
0
0
4
0
4
0
1
7
4
12
8
5
2
26
4
5
1
12
5
3
1
19
19
30.
81
85
N. of Castle,...11
W. of Castle, .2
S. of Castle, ...10
26
Though these figures are not mathematically exact,
yet they are as near an approximation to the truth as can
well be obtained. They show at once that the city of Yedo.
is much less considerable than it seems at first view. By
deducting from the total of 85 square kilometres the 46 square
kilometres, covered with paddy fields and temples, there
are left not more than 39 square kilometres (16.25 sq.-miles)
for residences. It must be undertood that there are a few
houses in the middle of the paddy fields and that there is a
large number of fields to be found in the temples; but
notwithstanding it is beyond question that Yedo contains a
much smaller number of inhabitants than would be found
in any occidental city of equal extent.
I calculate that there are 200,000 priests in Yedo. This
number is less considerable than is generally supposed;
but it must be remembered that the 20 square kilometres
covered by temples contain very extensive gardens and that
the dwelling houses occupy a very small portion of the
above mentioned surface.
Considering the 30 square kilometres (12.3 square
miles) allotted to daimio palaces and to the imperial and
governmental buildings, we arrive at the following con-
clusions. The laws of Japan prescribe that one half of the
daimios must always be personally present at Yedo. There
are eighteen great daimios and 342 smaller ones. I am told
that the great daimios often take from 6,000 to 10,000 follow-
ers with them. By allowing the maximum of 10,000 followers
to each of the nine great daimios, who must be present at
the capital, we thus find 90,000 followers always residing in
the capital.
The palaces cover only five kilometres, and one and a half more is
occupied by fortifications.

10
10
NOTES ON THE CITY OF YEDO.
The number of the followers of the small daimios varies
from a few hundreds to a few thousands. Altogether we
may accept 2,000 as a very fair average number for the re-
tinue of each of the 171 small daimios residing at Yedo. We
thus find 342,000 followers.
Besides these men there are the imperial functionaries
to be also mentioned here. Their number may amount to
050,000.
It must be remembered that even the absent daimios
have always more or less of their subjects present at Yedo.
We need not take them into our estimate, however, for the
numbers of followers, which we have allotted to the resident
daimios, are very liberal.
The number of merchants and other non-official in-
habitants of Yedo is known; and it amounted, in 1857, to
572,848.
And lastly we must take into the account the floating
population, composed of pilgrims, visitors and other travel-
lers, who congregate in Yedo. Their number may be about
200,000.
Recapitulating, we now find that the population of Yedo
is composed of the following elements :-
Followers of the great daimios,
Followers of the small daimios,
Imperial officials,
Priests,
Residents,
Floating population,
...
...
90,000
342,000
150.000
200,000
... 572,848
200,000
1,554,848
Yedo, as viewed from the bay, is certainly a very beauti-
ful city. Situated on undulating ground, and covered with
fine old trees, it spreads out under a sky which has well been
compared to the sky of Naples. The many large temples
with their great roofs, surmounted by gilded globes, and
covered with metalled plates, produce a beautiful effect.
The pagodas, the large daimio palaces, the long line of well-
constructed quays, the fortifications, kept in perfect good
order-all these together present an imposing coup-d'œil.
On arriving in the city itself, however, one is rather
disappointed. The temples disappear behind the trees with
which they are surrounded; the palaces resemble scarcely
anything better than large fire-proof warehouses; and the
dwellings of the merchants and other citizens, though ex-
tremely clean, are small and look rather poor. There are
no handsome shops, no grand establishments, no triumphal
arches, no statues, no monuments; in short, nothing of what
constitutes generally the beauty of our occidental capitals.

12
NOTES ON THE CITY OF YEDO.
amusement is to play at flying kites, which, in favourable
weather, literally cover the whole city.
The streets in Yedo are generally large and well kept.
The environs are very picturesque and offer a great variety
of pleasant walks or rides. Foreigners cannot do better than
to spend their leisure hours in rambling over the country.
The finest scenery is at the northern and western sides of
the city, where the country is surrounded by beautiful hills
with the distant view of the grand mountains of Hankoni,
beyond which rises the solitary summit of Fuzi-yama.
NOTES EXPLANATORY OF THE MAP OF YEDO.
By the Editorial Committee.
The accompanying map of the City of Yedo has been
prepared, in part, by the author of the foregoing Essay, and,
in part, by Mr. Blackney, of H.M.S. Actaeon. An original
draft, furnished by Dr. Lindau, was of such dimensions as to
require recasting, and the Editorial Committee gladly
accepted Mr. Blackney's offer to reduce it to the size in
which it here appears.
The Bay of Yedo, the Ogava River, the numerous Canals,
and the Scale of miles attached to the Fleur-de-lis, are all ex-
hibited with sufficient clearness, though much less con-
spicuous than on the large Japanese maps.
F. Fortifications.
ROADS.
Tkd
To-kai-do
Otr
O-to-ri
Os k d
NB
YB
ов
Oskio-kai-do.
BRIDGES.
Nippon Bass.
Yetai Bassi.
O Bassi
Liogoku Bassi.
Hadsuma Bassi.
ABBREVIATIONS.
SOTO SIRO.
CC Chori or Canal.
TS Temple of Sanno.
T M Temple of Monzeki.
MP Mercantile Place.
Ps Its precincts.
A Hill.
Y Yosivara.
LB
T
HB
OSB
Oskio Kaido O Bassi.
GS
TY
HONJO.
Government Stores.
Temple of Yoiaka Lakan.
TH Temple of Hadsuma.
1234567
SIRO.
Place of Tycoon.
Palace of the Heir.
Palace of Gosankio Taias.
Palace of Gosankio Simira.
Palace of Gosankio Hototsbas.
Council of State.
Palaces of Great Daimios.
Theatre.
MIDZI.
TQ Temple of Quanon.
TA Temple of Amida.
TC Temple of Confucius.
TK Temple of Kanda.
M.
Mausoleum of the Tycoons.
PK Palace of the Prince of Kanga.
PM Palace of the Prince of Mito.
PO Palace of the Prince of Ovari.
PG Palace of the Prince of Gotairo.
PSK Palace of the Prince of Kiusiu.
PS Palace of the Prince of Satsuma.
OPT Old Palace of Tycoons.
CP Chief Priest's Cemetery.
FOREIGN LEGATIONS.
EL English Legation.
FL French Legation.
A L American Legation.

At t
in what
mercial
object
importance
M
and of
PM
☐
climate
80
PG
PKs
نان
0
E
S
TM
ce
OTS
OSB
PK
TOO
OTA
뭐
T
D:
TK
ko
HB
I
2
R
0
LB
3
I
R
0
2
7
6
MID Z
AL
I
M
P
29
E
PS
FL
B
5
D
OTH
F
Y
OF
Y
E
J
4
TY
6
D
0
ア
W
2 mt E
CITY
OF
OPT
YEDO
S