ARTICLE VII.
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA
DURING THE YEARS 1861 TO 1864.
BY R. A. JAMIESON ESQ.
After the political storms which had disturbed the current
of European intercourse with China during the years 1858,
1859 and 1860, the year 1861 arose upon renewed friendly
relations, based on a foundation far more durable than any
which had formed the ground work of the hollow alliances
previously made between the central Flowery land and the
nations of the West. The exclusive policy, which had for so
many years obtained in this country, was finally proved
untenable, and a tacit acknowledgment of the superiority of
European civilization was forced from the most bigoted
native conservatives. The means by which this desirable
consummation was brought about are well known. Constant
misunderstandings, arising from false representations made
to the court of Peking by unprincipled local mandarins,
rendered a change in the system of official intercours
absolutely necessary, and the comparatively trifling nature
of those causes which in the first instance led to hostilities
was eagerly seized by the foreign representatives as a pretext
for closing a fruitful source of ill feeling. The absolute
necessity which existed for direct and unrestrained inter-
course between the representatives of the treaty powers and
the Chinese central authorities had been recognised, and
instructions were accordingly issued by the home govern-
ments to the effect that permission for the foreign ministers
to reside at Peking should be made a sine quâ non in any
understanding that might be arrived at. The conscientious
yet uncompromising stand taken by the European ministers,
supported by a display of overwhelming physical force,
brought about the results in which we now find valid reason
to rejoice. It were vain to suppose that the temper or
character of the Chinese official mind has been altered by
these events. The local mandarins are affected solely by
passing circumstances, and act either under definite instruc-
tions from Peking or in accordance with great general
principles laid down for their guidance. It will, therefore,
abundantly appear that continued residence at Peking, or,

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA 143
in other words, the continuance of direct intercourse between
the European ministers and the Crown is necessary to the
stability of official and commercial relations at the ports,
and to the safety of foreign life and property.
The year 1861, although, as I have said, opening on
renewed professions of mutual friendship between European
nations and the Chinese government, witnessed at its com-
mencement a state of confusion within purely native circles
almost unprecedented except in the history of this particular
country. Large and most important portions of crown
territory were in open rebellion, whilst the venality and
utter powerlessness of the provincial officials were becom-
ing too apparent to escape notice, and so serious as to
threaten the total wreck of the empire. The debauched
ruler of the myriads of China had retired to the recesses of
the mountains, and ensconced himself within his luxurious
palaces at Jehol, where, although the victim of disease and
disappointment, he devoted the latest hours of a miserable
life to the pursuit of every species of vice. Such a close, in
truth, accorded well with the manner in which the earlier
portion of Hien Fêng's reign had been spent, and with the
horrors which disgraced the latter portion. The inhuman
slaughterer of unoffending foreign prisoners could not have
expiated his crime by any suffering too severe or by any fate
however appalling. His death (22nd August 1861), therefore,
accompanied as it was by all that is most horrible to an
autocratic prince-powerlessness and disgrace-was a penalty
far more lenient than might have been expected at the
retributive hands of justice. Let us drop the curtain on the
closing scene of the reign the style of which was Universal
Plenty, and turn to the circumstances which attended the
the accession of the present Emperor under the style of
Good Luck. It was soon made manifest that the men who
surrounded the throne and had been compelled by dire neces-
sity to profess compliance with the newly inaugurated policy,
were in reality opposed to foreigners, and desired nothing
more than a return to the old exclusive system. So far did
they carry this feeling that serious apprehensions were enter-
tained lest the reins of government should be wrested from
the hands of those who had but recently assumed their
guidance in chief. However, on the 2nd December 1861,
a decree was issued, setting forth the high crimes and mis-
demeanors of which the Council of eight appointed by the
late Emperor had been guilty, and ordering a report on the
degree of punishment to be awarded to Tsai Yuan
Prince of Yi, Tuan Hua, Prince of Chên, and Su Shun
AMA, one of the members of the grand secretariat. On the
same day an order was given for the degradation of the two

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA 145
that the verbal commission given them by his late Majesty would carry them
scatheless through any dangers in which their crimes might involve them. But
they were ignorant that His Majesty never constituted them a commission of
Regency. We look reverently to His departed Majesty, and WE are at a loss to
discover how WE may vindicate the sacred trust reposed in US except by making
an example of these men. Otherwise WE should violate the precedents of the
empire, and hand down a misleading example to thousands of generations. But
although the gravity of their offences would warrant US in inflicting upon them
the death decreed by the court appointed to try them, yet, taking into considera-
tion that universally recognized nobility of blood given by a nearness to the
throne, WE are disposed to mitigate their punishment. While, on the one hand,
it were impossible to pardon them, on the other WE will spare them the shame
of public exposure.
Wherefore, out of OUR unbounded clemency, WE direct that Tsai Yuan
and Tuan Hua be permitted to commit suicide, and WE order the undermen-
tioned officers to convey OUR Imperial will to the prisoners:-viz. Hua Fêng,
the Hsu Wang; and Mien Shan, president of the board of punishment.§ This
indulgence is extended in order to preserve the credit of the state, and not
from personal friendship for Tsai Yuan and Tuan Hua. As to Su Shun, al-
though the extravagance of his ambition renders his guilt greater than was
that of the before mentioned criminals, and leaves US every excuse for carrying
out the utmost rigor of the law, yet WE are unable to decree so ignominious a
death, and WE accordingly order his immediate decapitation under the supervi-
sion of Jen Shan and Tsai Ling. Thus a warning will be given to others who
may contemplate following in his steps. As to Ching Shao, who although
related to US by marriage was privy to the whole transaction, and Mu Yin and
others who have disgraced their office by making no struggle against the usur-
pation of power by these men, the following is decreed :-The Court appointed
to try them, while it accounted Mu Yin the worst, as he had long been a mem-
ber of the Great Council, recommended that they should all be banished to the
uttermost limits of the Empire. Such is, indeed, what they deserve, and such
should be their fate, but that they were put in a predicament by Tsai Yuan and
the others, so that it was almost impossible for them to do right.
Wherefore, Ching Shao is deprived of his office of Grand Chamlerlain,
but his hereditary rank of Kung* will not be taken from him, neither will he
be deprived of his dignity as son-in-law to the Emperor. His sentence of banish-
ment is also remitted. Mu Yin is degraded from his post, and banished to the
military stations beyond the frontier. The others are deprived of their offices,
but their sentence of banishment is remitted.
RESPECT THIS.
On the 7th November, Yi Hsing F, Prince of Kung
E, a younger brother of the late Emperor, was ap-
pointed Regent in conjunction with the two Empresses
Dowager, and the style of the new Emperor was, on account
of a verbal difficulty, changed from Chi Hsiang. "Good
luck," under which he had ascended the throne, to t
Tung Chi, or "Union in order."
Meanwhile, the friendly relations which existed between
the Eastern and Western powers were being rapidly cement-
§ A Peking Gazette of August 31st 1864 announces that, in view of the
signal services rendered by the ancestors of Tsai Yuan and Tuan Hua, the
princedoms are to be revived, and bestowed on distant members of the family.
*Duke.
The common use of the second character or ming of the new Emperor's
name Tsai-shun, was, in accordance with Chinese usage, on his
accession, forbidden. On ordinary documents it is now replaced by the character
The first character or pan pei may however be used as before.

146 RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA
ed by the conciliatory policy adopted by the representatives
of France and England. The foreign ministers, once estab-
lished at the capital, with a highroad to and from it kept open
by means of the port of Tientsin, found themselves in a
position so secure as to warrant them in relaxing somewhat
of the severity with which the Chinese government had been
treated. Accordingly the city of Canton (Kuang-chou fu)
which had been held' by the allies since the commencement
of the war, as a security for the indemnity, was on October
21st 1861 formally handed over to the native officials. The
successful working of the customs system at the various open
ports, and the greatly increased revenue obtained by means
of the foreign inspectorate tended to keep up the good feel-
ing, and to exhibit the unspeakable advantages to be derived
from friendship with the western powers. Thus, the over-
whelming force which at first was necessary to break down
the barriers which separated the inhabitants of China from-
their foreign brethren, was succeeded by an influence no
less powerful in its effects, although far more in accordance
with the laws of friendship and the rule of right. Glancing
back now after more than three years of intimate political
and commercial relations with the Chinese, we cannot but
be struck by the far sighted policy which guided the nego-
ciators of the Treaty of Tientsin and Convention of Peking..
The motto
Est modus in rebus, sunt certi denique fines,
Quos ultra citraque nequit consistere rectum,
was well appreciated by the English and French plenipoten-
tiaries, and to that moderation which distinguished their
actions, we owe our present satisfactory position. Had the Chi-
nese been more hardly treated, had, in fact, the representatives.
of the western powers pursued their advantage to the limits
to which they might justly have pushed it, the breach would
have been made so wide that friendly relations might never
again have existed. But with a force sufficient to crush the
reigning dynasty at once and for ever, the foreign pleni-
potentiaries remembered mercy in the midst of justice, and
refrained from annihilating a prostrate foe. Doubtless the
immense responsibilities which, in view of the disorganizéd
state of the country, would have weighed on the English and
French nations, had the general anarchy been increased by
any act of theirs, operated in favour of the existing govern-
ment. I need hardly recall the horrors of the Taiping re-
bellion, which for many years had devastated the country,.
or lead my readers to dwell on the painful pictures which
the history of its progress unfolds. When referring more
particularly to the state of the Kiang-su province in the
years 1862 and 1863, the consideration of the subject will be

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA 147
forced upon us. In the meanwhile it will be sufficient to say
that, at least up to the time of which we are now speaking,
the insurgents had given no proof of an ability or even of a
desire to establish any form of government by which the
welfare of the country and the happiness of the people might
have been secured. The friends of the Taiping movement
have laid much stress on the fact that while the insur-
gent armies were advancing it was impossible to institute
any form of general government. But the sad reality re-
mains, that even where a district or a city was left in the
peaceable possession of the Rebels, no local civil gov-
ernment was ever formed, but, on the contrary, martial
law remained constantly in force, if, in truth, the exercise of
arbitrary power by a few sanguinary tyrants can under any
circumstances be qualified by the name of LAW. Thus, while
the foreign relations of the established government were en-
veloped in clouds big with disaster, the internal administra-
tion was in a state of unparalleled confusion. The ancient
capital of the Empire, the seats of learning and of commerce
had been seized, and the great producing districts had been
devastated by fire and sword. Even the literature, all honour-
ed as it was, stood in imminent danger of being utterly lost in
company with the grand historical monuments of bye-gone
ages. The haunts of religion were desecrated by iconoclasts,
whose only ambition was destruction, and whose evangelising
machinery consisted solely of the axe and the spear. The
scholar was driven from his books, the labourer from his toil,
the ashes of the husbandman's vine and fig tree lay mingled
with the smoking embers of his humble dwelling, and helped
to form a pall to shroud his murdered remains. The
singing of birds and the warbling of running brooks were
alike hushed, and gave place to the howling of dogs amongst
the ruins of the once peaceful hamlets.
The enormous resources of the Empire cannot be more
forcibly illustrated than by a simple relation of the steps
taken to resist the advance of foreigners into the country.
That that resistance was a desperate one none will deny, and
that it entailed a vast expenditure of life and treasure is at
once manifest. It is difficult, therefore, adequately to realise
the state of the interior, unless we examine the plain
unadorned facts which from time to time came to light during
the rebel occupation of the central provinces. However,
when we do obtain a simultaneous view of the crippled state
of the Empire, and of the extraordinary display of wealth
and power which was at the same time made, we are struck
with astonishment at what evidently might be done, were
the natural resources of the country fully availed of, and the
financial administration entrusted to competent and highly

148 RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA
principled men. Unfortunately the whole mineral wealth of
China still awaits the pick and shovel of the adventurous of
both hemispheres, and the general ignorance which prevails
with regard to the simplest axioms of agricultural chemistry
renders the produce of the fields far less than what might
with the proper means be obtained. But doubtless a day
will come when China, in spite of all opposition, will be
truly opened, and its immense wealth poured at the feet of
the outside barbarians. Judging by what has already been
seen of western enterprise in the far east, an attempt to
develop the resources of the land must be in the long run
successful. But the history of foreign progress in countries
rich in mineral wealth, is so disheartening that we can hardly
without shuddering contemplate the sudden advent of thou-
sands of our fellow countrymen in China. In relation to
that period, whenever it may arrive, the troubles which of late
years have convulsed the country will be found to have
exercised a beneficial influence. But for those troubles and
the imminence of the danger which threatened the constituted
government, foreigners could never have appeared to the
Chinese in so favourable a light as that in which they
now stand. Jealous of encroachment, the native officials
possess so much confidence in the integrity of the western
representative as satisfies them that no measure outside
the provisions of the Treaty will be forced upon them,
although, of course, very considerable influence may be used
to induce their compliance. Thus, to take a familiar instance,
the proposed railroad from Shanghai to Soochow was, as is
well known, recommended powerfully to the local mandarins,
but, when their opposition was found unbending, the project
was, for the time at least, dropped. The line of telegraph
from Shanghai to Wusung furnishes another example of tacit
compliance on the part of foreigners with the prejudices
and caprices of the unenlightened Chinese mind. We might
have wrung from the central authorities a reluctant consent
to both of these propositions, even without the slightest risk
of bringing on any open demonstration of ill feeling, but I
believe that by permitting western civilisation to make its own
way, we are ensuring to the country a larger share of the bless-
ings of that civilisation than if we in all cases compelled the
adoption of such measures as to us appear wisest and best. Fora
new state of things cannot spring full grown into existence, and
take the place of old established and time-honoured customs.
We are not sufficiently acquainted with the minutiae of the
Chinese character or mental constitution to decide ex
*If the mines be opened it will lead to much that is nefarious, and trouble-
some. It must not be done. Peking Gazette-Kea King 19th year 1st
moon, 20th day [Feb. 9th 1814]. Translated by Doctor Morrison.

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA 149
وو
cathedra on the fitness of such and such innovations. But
so long as foreigners remain in the country, the influence
now exerted will be sustained, and the obstacles which at
present retard its progress will, like the block of stone
adduced as an instance by the Roman poet, be worn away
"by constant dropping. Thus the gradual advance of
knowledge may aptly be compared to the gradual permeation
of water through rugged and apparently impenetrable strata.
Its progress is necessarily slow, but it is none the less
inevitable, nor can it be hastened by any mere mechanical
contrivance. But when, as years and cycles glide by,
bringing with them the truths which are already current
coin amongst the more favoured races of the west-truths,
whether physical or moral, which are now unknown to the
Chinese or neglected and despised by them, the whole civilised
world, of which China will then form a part, will unite in
ratifying the poet's dictum :-
All truth is precious, if not all divine,.
And what dilates the powers must needs refine.
That many will look on this condition of the celestial
empire as a vision never to be realised, I do not for an instant
doubt. But we have already seen how, partly by physical
force and partly by moral suasion, many of the old institu-
tions of the country have been broken down, and foreigners
allowed to share the privileges which before were considered
the exclusive birthright of the sons of Han. Thus the right
to live at the capital has been tacitly granted to missionaries
as well as to officials, the customs at the open ports have
been placed in the hands of foreigners, foreign officers have
been placed in command of the Imperial levies, a foreign
arsenal under the direction of a foreigner has been es-
tablished at Soochow, and may before long be transferred to
Peking, and foreigners both in the capital and the provinces
are often invited to aid in the counsels of the native officials,
With such an amount of progress to look back upon, it
would bespeak a want of faith in the destinies of the world
were we to despair of eventually welcoming China into the
commonwealth of nations.
At the end of the year 1861 such was the position in China.
The old restrictions had for the most part disappeared, and a
healthy tone had been infused into the mutual feelings of
natives and foreigners. The two civilisations were placed
side by side, and a fair chance given to each by the Treaty
stipulations. Much depended on the steadiness with which
the reins of diplomatic power were held by the western
representatives, and much also on the circumstances which
might arise to prove the value of foreign assistance. The
new start was a fair one, and opportunities were soon afforded

150 RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA
of exhibiting the immense advantage which the central govern-
ment had gained by bringing the Lion and the Eagle into
terms of friendship with the Imperial Dragon. Early in the
year 1862, the Taiping rebels who had for some months left
Shanghai in a state of fancied security, again appeared in
the neighbourhood of the city, terrifying the officials, paralys-
ing trade, and inflicting woes unnumbered on thousands of
helpless villagers. The local government saw with painful
distinctness that the revenues of the richest port on the sea-
board of China would be lost to them unless the foreigner
should draw his sword, and bring to the assistance of the
effete Imperial army all the resources of brute force and of
organising ability. Accordingly all the aid which we were
in a position to afford was freely extended to the Imperialists.
Their raw levies were drilled with arms and accoutrements,
and taught to look with no terror on the tatterdemalion hosts
which before seemed invincible. English and French troops
were massed at Shanghai and in its neighbourhood, a powerful
naval squadron was kept in constant readiness to operate
wherever its presence should happen to be most needed, whilst
the interior safety of the foreign settlements was watched over
by a strong and enthusiastic body of volunteers. From
January 1862 until May 1864 each month witnessed sangui-
nary contests between the insurgents and British troops, or
between the insurgents and Chinese soldiers led by Europeans.
Thus, the whole moral and physical influence of the western
governments was thrown into the scale against the Rebels,
and was lavished on the support of the Manchu rule. In the
immediate neighbourhood of the foreign settlements, and far
in the interior of different provinces, the prowess of foreigners
was displayed, and the advantages of foreign drill and dis-
cipline tested. The result has been most satisfactory to the
credit of the European name, and has afforded a selfish
motive which cannot, so long as the recollection of the
Taiping movement remains fresh in the minds of the
government, be without its influence in determining the
bearing to be for the future observed towards European
states. I need not enter into a detailed account of the vic-
tories gained over the rebels. The tales are so alike in every
material particular that one simple relation, accompanied by
a list of actions might adequately represent the history of the
campaign. Under Ward, Burgevine, Holland, Cooke and
Gordon, it was still the same--an utter inability on the part
of the insurgents to stand against the disciplined troops.*
The following is a list of the principal actions which took place during
the campaign in Kiang-su and Che-kiang:-
captured by the Rebels
... ...Dec. 9th 1861
(on the Woosung road) Jan. 20th 1862
by Ward (on the Putung side,) Feb. 21st 1
NING-PO
Kao-chiao
Chang-to-chao
"

152 RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA
(Abstract) Li Hung-chang announces that the foreign commanders in
conjunction with the "Ever victorious army" have taken the rebel stronghold!
at Nan-jao, and that the French Admiral has been mortally wounded. Such
is a resume of his report... ...The French Admiral daringly headed the
advance as far as the moat which surrounded the works, and personally dashed
into the midst of the rebels whilst he shouted to the soldiers to follow him.
When however he was in the thick of the fight he fell mortally wounded.
Now to US it seems that this heroic conduct on the part of the Admiral, whilst
it adds new lustre to his fame as a French officer, is in itself a proof of the
most exalted and disinterested valour. The particulars of the report have
deeply moved US, and WE therefore order the aforesaid Li Hung-chang to
appoint two high officers to act as OUR deputies in presenting an offering to the
manes of this distinguished officer. WE also order that one hundred marten
furs, and four rolls of Imperial satin be sent through the Prince of Kung to the
family of the deceased as a mark of our consideration. Respect this.
Next we note the death of Ward, whose exertions in aid
of the Imperial supremacy in the province of Kiangsu are.
well known to all my readers. As a reference to the note:
on page 150 will shew, he was mortally wounded at Tzu-chi
on September 20th 1862. On October 12th the following:
edict was published:-
Li Hung-chang reports that at the recovery of Tzu-chi General Ward was
mortally wounded, and he begs that an altar may be dedicated to him as a
mark of OUR Imperial consideration.
Now Ward was an American who entered OUR service at Shanghai, and
leading OUR troops recovered the city of Sung-kiang fu, where as well as at
many other places he repeatedly routed the Rebels. These exertions were
at the time rewarded by his appointment to the rank of Fu-chiang. The
report forwarded by Li Hung-chang informs US that Ward, having heard that
the Rebels on their way to Ningpo had taken Tzu-chi, proceeded with the utmost
rapidity to the place, and commenced operations against it. The enemy, nothing
daunted, returned the fire of our troops, and one bullet struck Ward on the
breast, traversing his body and coming out at his back. His men, however,
completed the work whilst he himself was carried back to Ningpo where he
died on the following day. In truth Ward was a great man-a soldier who
caused no shame. Li Hung-chang has already directed Wu Hsun and other
officers to look after the funeral, and WE order that at Ning-po and Sung-kiang,
altars be erected to his memory, while the Board of Rites will indicate the
proper ceremonies to be observed in accordance with his rank, that thus his.
spirit may be comforted and refreshed. Respect this.
The officers who immediately succeeded Ward in the
command of the Anglo-Chinese contingent did not obtain any
large share of credit, and I therefore pass rapidly on to the
expressions of the Imperial favour lavished on Gordon.
On the 24th December 1863, the following decree was
issued to the Inner Council:-
Li Hung-chang memorializes announcing that having led his forces to the
attack of Soochow, he has retaken the city. The perusal of his report has.
afforded US joy and satisfaction indeed! Gordon, as a Tsung-ping of the
Province of Kiang-su, in command of his auxiliary force has displayed
thorough strategy and skill, and has put forth most distinguished exertions.
We ordain that a medal of distinction of the highest class be conferred upon.
him, and further that he receive a donation of Ten Thousand Taels, in token
of OUR approbation. Respect this.
Chang-shing
NANKING
HOO-CHOW
captured by the Imperialists...
fell
...
captured by the French Contingent
1st 1864
...July
...July 19th
...Aug. 28th
3

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA 153
On the same day the following private decree was
issued:-
Li Hung-chang is enjoined to communicate OUR Decree of approval and
praise to Gordon for the great bravery and exertions (which attended) the
re-capture of Soochow. The donation of Ten Thousand Taels is to be pro-
vided and sent to him by LI. Foreign nations already possess orders of
merit under the name of "Stars;" let therefore the decoration of the first
rank which we have conferred upon Gordon be arranged in accordance with
this system. Respect this.
This "cumshaw" was sent to Quinsan for Gordon's
acceptance, but he, under the impression that it was a present
from the provincial authorities, refused to receive it.
In the Gazette of April 9th 1864 we find the following:-
Li Hung-chang reports that General Gordon some time since started from
Li-yang hsien to attack Kin-tang. He carried with him mortars to breach
the walls. At the attack he was wounded in the leg. Li has therefore
recommended him to remain at rest. Such is the despatch. Now Gordon
being excessively brave and fearless was wounded in consequence. WE
are on this account deeply moved (with grief and admiration). On the other
hand we are informed that the wound is not serious. WE order Li-Hung-chang
to visit Gordon and enquire for him daily, so as to keep his mind at rest re-
questing him to wait until he shall be perfectly restored to health and strength.
Respect this.
Again, in the Gazette of April 30th:-
Li Hung-chang reports that Gordon when leading his men towards Kin-
tang was wounded in the leg, and the Futai has therefore recommended him
to rest for the present.
Gordon has proved himself most formidable in every way to the Rebels. It
was thus that he was wounded. WE are deeply grieved, but are yet some-
what relieved by hearing that the wound is not serious. Li Hung-chang is
therefore directed to see Gordon constantly, and enquire about him, so that he
may remain tranquil, and await his recovery before attempting other conquests.
Respect this.
In the Gazette of May 21st the following commission
was issued:-
Gordon, the Commander in Chief in the province of Kiangsu, as a leader
of soldiers, assisted US in destroying the Rebels, and was continually in
action. On this occasion he with (Li Futai) attacked and subdued Chang-
chow in a manner most extraordinary. He is, therefore, promoted to the
rank of Ti-t'u. Moreover, in accordance with Li Hung-chang's request,
WE present him with a banner and a star in order to mark OUR high appre-
ciation of his services. WE await the settlement of the affairs of the "Ever
victorious army," which, when reported to us by Li Hung-chang, will elicit a
generous mark of OUR favour.
The further distinction of a Yellow Jacket (Hwang ma
kua) and short peacock's feather was conferred on Gordon by
the Gazette of June 16th, which was to the following effect:-
Formerly on account of Gordon's having acted as leader of OUR Imperial
forces against the enemy, and having assisted to take Chang-chow, WE issued
an Edict, expressing OUR will that he should be elevated to the honorary rank
of Ti-t'u, and should be presented from OURSELF with a banner and a medal to
mark OUR appreciation of his services. Li Hung-chang now reports that the
"Ever victorious army" which Gordon used to lead has been disbanded in the
most satisfactory manner, and he begs US to heap further distinctions on Gordon's
head. Such is the substance of his despatch. Since the spring of last year
Gordon has headed the "Ever victorious army," and aided the ordinary
Imperial forces in the subjugation of Fu-shan, the relief of Chang-shu-hsien,

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA 155
steps taken, and day by day the design set before each progressed. In the
seventh month of the eleventh year (of Hien Feng) OUR Imperial Father
ascended on the dragon, at which time one half of Kiang-su and Chekiang had
fallen into the hands of the Insurgents. On His death-bed he expressed his
deep regret that he had not completed the extinction of the rebellion. WE,
thus left at a tender age, were compelled to assume the onerous duties of the
Throne, and carry out the designs of OUR August Father. We begged the
assistance and guidance of the two Empresses Dowager, who recommended the
appointment of Tseng Kuo-fan to the office of Vice Prime Minister, and mil-
litary governor of four provinces, with sole power of organising a force. This high
official has, ever since his appointment, fulfilled the duties imposed on him.
His only idea seems to have been to force his way and exterminate the rebels.
He ordered Peng Yu-ling, Yo-ping and Tseng Kuo-tsueh to act in concert on land
and water. Day by day the cities on the banks of the Long River gave_in
their allegiance, until more than one hundred were restored to OUR sway. Be-
tween one and two hundred thousand rebels met their fate in the field, and at
length the investment of Nanking was completed, and all means of supply cut
off. On the 16th day of the sixth month of this year (July 19th) Tseng Kuo-
tsueh, leading vast numbers of military officers and soldiers, made a successful
attack on the outer city, and killed an incalculable number of the enemy. The
Rebel chief Hung Hsiu-tsuan with his most desperate followers were, however,
said to have determined to hold out within the inner wall.
So much for Tseng Kuo-fan's first report. WE received a second
despatch announcing the capture of the city which by the Rebels was falsely
called "Heaven-preserved." The Rebels who had made a stand within its
walls were in truth excessively determined, but on the 30th day of the fifth
month (July 3rd) Li Chiang-ho with others, taking a body of soldiers, seized
the Dragon's Neck hill, and thus on the next and following days all the forces
were enabled, by taking turns, to keep up a constant attack. Li Cheng-tien and
Wu Tsung-kuo with others commenced to mine even under the guns of the wall,
where the fire was the hottest. Hsiao Fu-szu, etc. raised a battery close to
the wall and most courageously carried on the attack. On the 16th day of the
month (July 19th), very early in the morning, Tseng Kuo-tsueh ordered a
simultaneous attack on all sides, exploded the mines, and blew up more
than two hundred feet of the wall. Li Chen-tien, Wu Ming-liang and
others, oustripping the soldiers, made for the breach, whilst the soldiers
themselves, racing on, flung themselves in a body into the opening.
The Rebels who still held the wall to the left of the breach flung down
enormous grenades on our men, destroying very many of them, and for
a moment checking them. Peing Yu-chü, Hsiao Pen-szu and others,
with their own hands cut down some few of the fellows who were retreating,
and thus not a single man succeeded in forcing his way to the rear.
Mean-
while Wu Ming-liang, &c. led their troops to the Kuang Lung hill, and at-
tacked the Rebel position to the right of the Tai-ping gate, and thus the
garrison was driven back. Li Chiang-ho and others at the same time at-
tacked the suburb outside the Tai-ping gate, and effected an entrance in
that direction, whilst Wang Yuan-ho and his men assaulted the wall to the
north of the palace occupied by the soi disant Heavently Prince. Liu Lien-
chieh led a body of men to the Shen-tsai (North East) gate, and by lad-
ders scaled the wall at that place, all his soldiers rushing in simultaneously,
fighting up to the Lion hill. The Yi fen (North) and Chao yang (East)
gates were at the same time taken. Meantime Lo Fen-yuan got in through
an old mine on the West side of the Tsu pa (South) gate and thus found
his way to the top of the wall. Li Ching-chou and others having established
themselves in the suburbs of the Tung chi (little East) gate, scaled the wall
at that place, whilst Chen Shi and his troops made a furious attack on the
Han Hsi and Shui Hsi (West) gates. Li Hsin-chen, the soi disant Chung
wang, at the head of a rabble of desperadoes, thought to escape by the
Han-hsi gate, but was opposed by the steady resistance offered by Chen
Shi and his force. The rabble above mentioned were driven back, anp

156 RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA
were fain to take refuge on the Tsing Liang hill. Huang Yi-shen, a naval
commander, attacked the Chung Kuan and Nan Kiang Chi, and had a heavy
fight with the rebels on the bank of the river. In conjunction with
Chen Shi and Yi Liang-hu he also attacked the Han-hsi and Shui-hsi gates.
Thus was the entire number of gates taken. About one or two o'clock next
morning the palace of the soi disant Heavenly Prince as well as the resi-
dences of many other fellows who called themselves Princes, were burned, and
the smoke which arose filled the heavens. The Rebel Hung and other atrocious
wretches to the number of more than one thousand, issued from the palace by
the Southern gate, and took refuge in the houses which surrounded it. Yuan
Ta-shen with others searched them out, and killed more then seven hundred of
them, taking also two jade seals and one gold seal which Hung Hsiu-tsuan had
been in the habit of using. At three or four o'clock on the same morning (20th
July) a band of about one thousand rebels, having assumed the dress worn by
the Imperial soldiers, advanced by the breach near the Tai-ping gate, but were
stopped by the men in the Kuen-tzu and Hsiang-hou camps. Tseng Kuo-tsueh
ordered a squadron of cavalry to throw itself into the Shun hua-chen (a suburb
of the South gate) where the soi disant Zealous King, by name Li Wan-tsai,
was taken. The fugitives were chased to Hu-shu (a city about twenty miles to
the south of Nanking), and completely exterminated. Tseng Kuo-tsueh
questioned Li Wan-tsai, and elicited from him, that after the seizure of the city,
the soi disant Chu Wang (Chung Wang's brother), the minor Western and
Southern Kings, and the Ting, Tsung and Chu Wangs had fled by night, but
had been taken by the Imperial forces and executed in company with many
other inferior chiefs. Others who were examined stated that head rebel Hung
Hsiu-tsuan, had during the fifth moon of this year committed suicide by poison,
and that his grave was within the so-called palace. The young lord, Hung
Fu-tien, had, they said, assumed his father's duties, but as soon as the city
was carried he had ordered a funeral pile to be built, upon which he had burned
himself. That criminal Li Hsiu-chen, having been wounded during the assault
upon the city, took refuge in a private house on one of the hills, where he was
ferreted out by Hsiao Fu-szu, and captured. In the same place Hung Jen-ta,.
the second brother of the soi disant Tien-Wang, was also seized. Thus were
those old Rebels who had come from the two Kuang and the two Hu completely
exterminated by the Imperial troops during the 17th and 18th days of the sixth
moon. Within three days, more than one hundred thousand men were
slaughtered, comprising those fellows who called themselves Princes, Field
Marshals and Heavenly Generals, as well as a miscellaneous collection of high
and low officials to the number of more than three thousand. (To sum up all)
not a single individual escaped.
This was indeed a special Dispensation in OUR favour, for which we are
grateful to Heaven and OUR Sacred Ancestors. The Empresses Dowager
are unanimous in their feelings of gratitude for the peace and order which
have been granted to US. They knew how to choose fit persons (to whom
to entrust this great undertaking), so that everywhere there was the
greatest unanimity, and both civil and military officials girded themselves
for the task set before them, which has been fully accomplished. OUR
Imperial Father, now enthroned in Heaven, will congratulate himself on
the turn affairs have taken, whilst the inhabitants of the world, from the highest-
to the lowest, will be grateful. WE acknowledge that virtue lies not in our-
selves, how then could WE bring about these successes? WE look back on the
deceased Emperor, who never desisted from the pursuit of that purpose of his
(the extermination of the rebels). It continually grieves Us to think that HE
did not survive to see his designs carried out. Since this Rebel Hung first
created confusion in Kuang-hsi, fifteen years have elapsed, and since he settled
himself in Nanking twelve years have dragged slowly on. The Insurgents have
trampled more than ten provinces under foot, and overthrown several hundred
cities, which have gradually been won back. Now, however, that the originator
of all this mischief has met his fate, those great warriors who during the pacifica-
tion of the country were exposed to every blast of heaven, and were drenched

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA 157
with rain, tasting every danger and difficulty, are indeed entitled to most
unmistakable marks of OUR favour and gratitude.
As to those two criminals Li Hsiu-chen and Hung Jen-ta, Tseng Kuo-fan
is directed to seek out most reliable officers to whom they are to be entrusted
for conveyance to Peking, where they will be carefully tried, and compelled to
expiate their crimes. Hung Hsiu-tsuan's corpse is to be exhumed, his flesh
torn from his bones, his head cut off, and hung up, after having been sent
round to the scenes of his villany as a warning to others. Thus the grief and
anxiety of the people will be alleviated. Other matters are left to the arrange-
ment (of the Boards), Respect this.
Thus closed the rebellion, so far as it was likely to prove
formidable to foreigners, and when we look back calmly on
the political influence we have gained by its means as
balanced against the shock given to our mercantile interests,
we may, I believe, confidently assert that the rebellion was
an important element in the attainment of that position
which we enjoy. Whether, theoretically, our influence is
now likely to diminish on account of the restoration of tran-
quillity may safely be made a matter for speculation; prac-
tically we may assure ourselves that the government of China
as constituted at present will never be in a position to des-
pise foreign assistance. It may even be premature to
assume that tranquillity has been restored-the recent
rumours of rebellious movements in the south and west, as
well as the formation of strong coalitions amongst the
powerful chieftains in the northern and central provinces
may bode no good to the established government. But,
under any circumstances, the friendliness which now exists
between the Chinese and ourselves, cannot be shivered
without endangering the Manchu rule. Having this hold
on their interests as a guarantee of their faith, we need not
fear that the officials will commit themselves to any act of
hostility directed against us.
I have not yet referred to the attempt made to establish
an Anglo Chinese fleet in these waters. The particulars of
the scheme are familiar to all, and I am therefore absolved
from entering with any minuteness into its details. But as
the train of circumstances which attended the organisation
and subsequent disbandment of that fleet seemed to indicate
an indifference to foreign opinion, and a desire to throw off
the yoke which foreigners appeared ready to impose on the
country, it is necessary to allude briefly to the nature and
probable results of the Lay-Osborn expedition. The condi-
tion. The conditions under which the fleet was fitted out
were as follow:-Mr. H. N. Lay, then Inspector-general of
customs, animated by a desire either of raising the Chinese
nation to a level with western powers, or of personal ag-
grandisement, obtained permission from the Tsung-li Yamên
Foreign Board.

158 RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA
to purchase vessels, guns and stores in England, to engage.
English officers and men to serve in the vessels, and to draw
from the different Custom Houses funds sufficient to meet
the requisite expenditure. The document which conferred
this authority on Mr. Lay was dated "Peking, October 24th.
1862." Mr. Lay accordingly proceeded to England, and made
the necessary arrangements in conjunction with Captain-
Sherard Osborn who was by him appointed to the command
in chief. In July 1863 the Prince of Kung issued instruc-
tions for the regulation of the affairs of the fleet, by which
Captain Osborn was required to take a position subordinate
to some Chinese high official who was to be entrusted with
the supreme direction of whatever operations were contem-
plated. Captain Osborn at once refused to recognize this
change in the intentions of the government, and with the
approbation and under the instructions of Sir Frederick
Bruce proceeded to disband the men and officers employed,
sending them to England in detachments. The vessels were
ordered some to England and some to India to await pur-
chasers. The personal and political elements which brought
failure on the scheme have been verv fully set forth in a
despatch from Sir F. Bruce to Earl Russell, under date of
November 19th 1863, and to that despatch I would refer
my readers for a most luminous discussion of the entire
question. The limits within which this article must neces-
sarily be compressed prevent me from giving quotations at
length. Suffice it to say, that the Chinese were so pene-
trated with the idea that Mr. Lay's objects were wholly
selfish, and his mode of action utterly incompatible with his
position as a paid agent of the government, that they sum-
marily dismissed him from the post of Inspector-general of
customs, at the same time hinting strongly that their con-
fidence in foreign agents had been rudely shaken by his
conduct. The following is a translation of the despatch
conveying Mr. Lay's dismissal:
To MR. LAY.
IN consequence of your having failed to manage the affairs connected with
the steam fleet in a proper and satisfactory manner, although that matter was
fully entrusted to you, this Board considers it no longer expedient to employ
you. Mr HART has received orders to assume the Inspector-general-ship, and
you are now commanded to resign the office from the day upon which you
receive this despatch, for after that time the control of the Imperial Customs
will no longer be entrusted to you. The sums of money resulting from the
Tonnage Dues, which have hitherto been placed under your charge, must be
at once handed over to this Board, and you will yourself proceed to Shanghai,
where the period of four months from the date of this despatch will be allowed
Correspondence respecting the fitting-out, dispatching to China, and
ultimate withdrawal of the Anglo-Chinese fleet, under the command. of
Captain Sherard Osborn, and the dismissal of Mr. Lay from the chief inspec-
torate of customs, page 21.

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA 159
to wind up every portion of the Custom House-business, and to hand over all
monies and accounts to Mr. HART. Mr. HART will on receipt of the same,
report the matter for the consideration of this Board. For the four months,
which we have granted, although you will have formally given over office, your
pay shall continue as heretofore, but will end on the expiration of the said
period. This is to be considered as a proof of the great liberality of the
Chinese Government. It is further to be noticed that this period is ample
for the despatch of all the necessary business. It must, therefore, on no
account be exceeded.
This communication has been forwarded to Mr. HART, the Inspector-general
of Customs, and to the Superintendents of Customs at all the Ports, and to you
also, in order that you may act in obediehce to its directions. Respect this..
A Special communication."
This in brief is the history of the Anglo-Chinese naval
expedition which, had it been entrusted to more competent
hands, would doubtless have proved a most valuable element
in the reorganisation of the naval and military system of
China.
I am unable to enter at length into a statement of the
trade carried on at the Northern ports during the three years
ended 31st December 1863. The annual returns published
by order of the Inspector-general of Customs set forth very
clearly the gratifying fact that the legitimate commerce of
the country is steadily on the increase. The extension of
trade produced by the opening of the new ports has not alone
given foreign nations a larger number of markets for their
goods, but has also brought them nearer to the producing
districts, and has afforded an opportunity for increased in-
tercourse with the natives. The advantages thus gained are
none the less certain because no tabular statement can do
justice to them. From enlarged relations with the natives
occupying the interior we have everything to gain and
nothing to lose. Victories gained over their prejudices are
more creditable to us as pioneers of enlightenment than
were the sanguinary successes which crowned our efforts at
Canton, at Taku and at Peking. Indeed, we may take it for
granted that so long as foreigners confine themselves to al
trade conducted on those high principles which are supposed
to guide the first class English merchant, they will have
nothing to fear from the hostility of the Chinese. The nation
is in its essence cowardly, and when it finds itself made the
victim of chicanery or deceit it avenges itself in a mode
which we stigmatize as barbarous or treacherous. But if"
any provocation should stir up a third Chinese war, I believe
that I am justified in assuming that it will proceed from
foreign nations.
During the past four years missionaries of all creeds.
have not been idle. The Catholic ministers who penetrate
the country in all directions, carrying with them little germs.
of knowledge, civilization and refinement which they plant.

160 RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN THE NORTH OF CHINA
side by side with the truths of the Gospel, are not often heard
of, but are nevertheless idenifying themselves more and more
with the people, and are rapidly pushing the work of evan-
gelisation. The different denominations of Protestants are
also working according to their several lights, but the system
pursued by them is by its very nature incompetent to produce
effects in any degree similar to those to which the Catholic
missionaries may point. While the former trust to preaching
and teaching alone, the latter use these powerful engines,
and follow up their operation by entering heart and soul into
the interests of their flocks-by living amongst them, sharing
their joys and sorrows, healing their diseases, and com-
municating to them those useful arts which tend to elevate
an ignorant people. It is much to be regretted, that (to
adopt the words of an eminent contemporary writer) Protes-
tant ministers "do truth the honor to believe that on mani-
festing it to the world as the sun casts its light upon the
waves, the world will be inspired by it."* Never was there
a more fatal delusion. The Chinese are by nature irreligious,
and on that account require ocular demonstration of the
truths which they are expected to believe. The age of
miracles is past, but in the hands of the properly qualified
preacher of the gospel, modern science has placed a power
by which he can prove the vast usefulness of his scientific
teaching and thus prepare a way for the reception of the
mysteries of revelation. It was by miracles that the divine
Founder of Christianity commended his moral teaching to
the unbelieving Jews, and it is by their imitation of this
model that the Catholic missionaries have succeeded in
drawing thousands of adherents to the banner of the cross.
Could there be found some devoted Protestants, who would
give up their prospects in life, the fair reward of their talents
and their industry, and consecrate themselves to the work of
bearing the twin messages of physical and religions truth to
the ignorant and perishing myriads of China-were a few
properly qualified medical men sufficiently inspired by the
love of souls to leave country and kin, to take up the cross and
advance into the heart of China on a new and noble crusade,
then indeed some hope of the evangelisation of the country
might reasonably be entertained. But so long as very many
of the missionaries sent forth by the Reformed churches
possess no special education and but a small modicum of
general knowledge, mission work will remain what it is, but
will never accomplish any useful end. I am naturally
anxious to avoid going offence, to the few really talented
and earnest men who have devoted themselves to this work,
La Religieuse.