ARTICLE IV.
THE OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN.
BY A. WYLIE, ESQ.
A QUAINT old volume entitled "The principal Navigations,
Voyages, Traffiques and Discoveries of the English Nation,
by Richard Hakluyt," gives a detail of the "Journey of Master
Anthonie Jenkinson, from the famous citie of London, into
the land of Persia," whither he had gone with a view of
opening up a commerce with Eastern Asia and Kathay.
This may be considered the beginning of English enterprise
towards the East. Some Portuguese adventurers had already
found their way to the coast of China, and the fame of
their deeds led to the formation of a Company of merchants in
London, "for the discoverie of lands and countries unknown."
Instead of risking an encounter with the former on the high
seas, they preferred to seek an entrance into China by
some more northern route; and Jenkinson, their agent in
this undertaking, was only prevented from continuing his
adventurous journey, by the incessant warfare existing in
the countries that lay between him and that great eastern
empire. During his residence at Bokhara, however, he
obtained the itineraries of several travellers, for the route.
from the latter city to the kingdom of Kathay, all of which
are still on record. Giving an account of his voyage from
London, Jenkinson thus commences his journal: "First by
the grace of God, the day and yeere above mentioned, I
departed from the sayd citie, and the same day, at Gravesend,
embarked myself in a good shippe, named the Primerose,
being appointed, although unworthy, chiefe captaine of the
same, and also of the other 3 good ships, to say, the John
Evangelist, the Anne, and the Trinitie, having also the
conduct of the Emperor of Russia his ambassador named
Osep Nepea Gregoriwich, who passed with his company in
the sayd Primerose." These "four talle shippes being well
appointed, as well for men as victuals and other necessarie
furniture," left Gravesend on the "12th day of the month of
May 1557," pursued their journey northward and after
several times taking the ground, meeting with head winds,
and putting into haven for safety on various occasions, on
the 17th day of June, the squadron lay off Flamborow head.
Well satisfied, apparently, with their progress, they sailed
from thence with a "mery winde," and skirting the coast of
Norway, Finnmark, and Lappia, they reached the "citie of
Mosco," viâ the rivers Dwina and Succona, on, "the sixth day
of December," having been nearly six months on the journey..

44
OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN.
The natural difficulties of the route, however, and the
harassing wars that prevailed in Central Asia, held out little
hope of a profitable trade in the direction of Persia, and
European commerce with the East began to be established
by way of the Indian ocean. About the same time Russia
was commencing its conquests in Siberia, and within a
century, the whole of that vast country was brought under
Muscovite rule. In 1619, we find a Cossack named Evashko
Pettlin was despatched from Tomsk, with instructions to
endeavour to search out his way to Cathay. He reached
Peking, and brought back a letter to Tobolsk, which none
of the worthy Siberians were able to decipher. A more
formal embassy was sent under Boicof in 1659, with little
better result. Individual traders, in the meantime, had been
finding their way into the Chinese empire, and carrying
on an irregular traffic, but it was not till 1689 that this
kind of commerce was duly licensed and protected by the
treaty of Nerchinsk, concluded with the Chinese authorities
by Count Golowin on behalf of the Czar. With the view
of enlarging this trade, which was found very productive,
Peter 1st despatched an embassy under Isbrand Ives, in
1692, who obtained the same liberty to caravans, which the
previous treaty granted to individuals. Since that time,
the caravan trade, which was the exclusive privilege of the
crown, has become gradually open to the enterprise of private
mercantile firms. Year by year the journey between St.
Petersburg and Peking has become more frequent and
familiar; the difficulties of the way have, in great part, been
overcome; the once desolate Siberian steppes and the arid
desert of Mongolia, have become a well-beaten and much-
travelled highway; and the distance between London and
the capital of China may now be accomplished in very few
days more than Anthonie Jenkinson spent between London
and Flamborow head. It is a fact that Russian officials can
perform, and have performed the journey from Peking to
St. Petersburg, in 35 days; and although they possess
certain privileges and facilities above the mass, yet the same
may be done by the private traveller in some two weeks
more. The electric telegraph is now completed as far as
Irkutsk, which is within about 15 or 16 days journey of
Peking, and by a line of couriers, that distance might
probably be effected in little more than half that time;
while negotiations are now in progress with the Russian
government, for the regular transmission of the English
mail to Peking viâ Siberia.
For those travellers who feel themselves altogether out
of sorts, as soon as they quit their native shore, and are
miserably put about at the first French railway station or

OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN, 45
hotel, because they do not find everything according to the
English model, this is by no means an advisable journey.
But for one who is willing to comply with the customs of
the country in which he travels, who can easily forego the
little conforts and luxuries of home life for a season, who
feels a pleasure in the study of national character and
characteristics, and who possesses an ordinary share of
health and vigour, this route will be found full of interest,
and will amply repay the little inconveniences and trials to
which he may be occasionally exposed.
In several European countries, passports are now dis-
persable; but in Russia it is otherwise, and the traveller
who proposes entering that empire will do well to be careful
that all necessary formalities are attended to before he
leaves London. A passport may be obtained at the Foreign
Office for two shillings, giving a general permission to travel
through any country of Europe. This must be viséd by the
Russian Consul, whose office is at 2, Winchester Buildings,
Old Broad Street, London; the fee for the same being 1s.
7d. Every necessary information may be procured there;
but should anything be overlooked, or remain doubtful, if
the bearer of the passport be in Berlin between the hours
of 12 and 3, by shewing it at the office of the Russian
Consul in Unter den Linden, he may prevent much needless
vexation. Some good letters of introduction for the principal
towns in Russia will be found of great service. Should the
traveller be familiar with the Russian language, he will then
find the journey as easy and practicable as in any other
European country. In any case it is desirable'to get up a few
common phrases. After Russian, the most useful language
is French, as most well-educated Russians speak it with
great facility. There are a great number of Germans and
German-speaking Russians in the principal towns of European
and Siberian Russia; but English will scarcely be found
serviceable beyond St. Petersburg and Moscow. It is a great
mistake for two who are ignorant of the Russian language
and customs to travel together, as they thus lay themselves
open to annoyances and impositions innumerable; whereas,
the single traveller will have little difficulty in meeting
with a native who can speak French, in almost every part
of Siberia, and who will be glad to accompany him, as the
advantage will be mutual.
If the route selected be by Dover and Calais, it is
desirable to get a sovereign changed into francs before
leaving London, and some five or six pounds may be changed
into Russian rubles; but the latter is not necessary, as
rubles may be obtained easily at Berlin; and at the frontier
railway station in Russia, an exchange office is always opened

OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN. 47
9.17, he has a quarter of an hour. By 1.6, next morning, he
reaches Königsberg, where the train stops for
half an hour, and there is a buffet and dressing
3rd day.
room at the station.
Eydtkuhnen, the last Prussian station, is reached by
5 a.m., half an hour after which a train starts for Wierz-
boloff, the first station across the frontier, which is only a
five minutes run. Here a scrutiny of luggage takes place,
and if there are any foreign books or papers, they are taken
away and sent to St. Petersburg for examination, the owner
receiving a ticket to reclaim them, on payment of the
carriage for the same. If there be nothing objectionable in
them, they will be returned at the Censorate in the capital,
on application. The passport is also examined here and
returned. There is above five hours to wait at this station,
and very little of interest to occupy the attention of the
wayfarer. At 11 the train starts, passing Kowno at 2.7 p.m.,
and reaching Wilna at 5.24, where there is a well-supplied
buffet, and a stoppage of half an hour. Arriving at Duna-
burg at 11.18, the train stops nearly three hours,
4th day.
leaving again at 2.5 a.m. The passports are
taken away at Gatchina, the second station before reaching
the capital, but are returned at the terminus, where the
train arrives at 5.40 p.m.
The stranger will find the Hotel de Russie a well-
conducted establishment; the proprietor is a
5th day.
German, and there is a waiter who speaks
English. Miss Benson's boarding establishment is much
frequented by Englishmen, and will be found exceedingly
comfortable. The charge for board and lodging is four
rubles per diem. The house stands on the Naberejnaya
Angliskaya, (English Quay) immediately facing the landing-
place for steamers coming up the Neva. Droshkies are
always in attendance at the railway station, ready to convey
passengers to any part of the town. Should expedition be
paramount, the traveller will, immediately on arriving,
hand over his English passport to the Commissioner at the
Hotel or Boarding house, instructing him to procure one to
leave the country with; and he should be very careful to get
it made out for Peking, and not for Kiachta; otherwise the
Commissary at Kiachta may consider he has no authority to
grant a pass for crossing Mongolia, and thus cause some
trouble and delay; but with one for Peking from the Governor-
general of St. Petersburg, all difficulty is at once removed.
The English passport will be returned with the the Russian
one, and should be preserved in case of need. If by previous
correspondence he may have been able to obtain, from the
Minister of the Interior, a special general order for assist-

OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN. 49
scantily cultivated country; with very little variety until near
Moscow, when it becomes somewhat more picturesque.
As it is customary with the Russians to carry feather
pillows with them when they have to pass the night in a
railway carriage, it will be well to provide one before
leaving St. Petersburg.
Arriving at Moscow by 8 A.M. the traveller has a long
day before him, but there are so many objects to be seen
and examined in this city, that he will only be puzzled to)
know to which the preference is to be given. As Englishman
will find a comfortable location at Billo's private hotel, and
Mr. B., who speaks English perfectly, will put him on a
plan to see the chief points of interest in the shortest time.
The Kremlin of course will be visited, and if it be possible to
get admission into the Treasury, it should, by all means, be
seen. The collection of historical antiques deposited there
is rare and unique. The Great Bell is not far from the
same building. Ivan's tower should be ascended, as the view
of the city with its 365 churches, from the summit, is a
sight not to be equalled. The Cathedral of the Archangel
Michael is sumptuous, and contains the coffins of nearly
all the Czars, previous to the time of Peter the Great. The
Riding school, the Chinese city, the Gardens, the Monasteries,
the Palaces, the view from the Sparrow hils, and the drives
about Peterskoi, are enough to occupy several days. When
time is of importance, a judicious selection must be made,
and a guide may be procured for 2 rubles per day.
At 10 P.M. an express train leaves Moscow for
7th day
Nijni Novgorod, reaching the latter city about 9.
next morning. The country along the line is uninteresting,
abundance of sand being the chief characteristic, and
this obtains to a painful extent on entering the city, if it be
dry weather. Should the traveller arrive here at the time of
the fair, which lasts from about the middle of July to the end
of August (Old style), he will feel a strong temptation to linger
for a day to witness one of the most extraordinary scenes that
are to be met with. Considering that there is then an influx
of some two hundred thousand people to a town usually
numbering about thirty thousand, and that merchandise.
changes hands to the amount of £15,000,000, while the vari-
ous traders arrive even from the most remote countries of
Europe and Asia, it may be well imagined that the novelty of
the group is of surpassing interest. At other seasons there is
nothing particaularly worth stopping for in Nijni, and
the traveller will possibly be disposed to drive direct
to the steam-boat wharf, which lies on the other side of the
town, and where there are vessels for Perm, six days out of
the seven, either at 10 A.M. or 3 A.M. These steamers are

OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN. 51
post horses, along with which a certain kind of vehicle is
furnished gratis, but it is presumed there are very few
Englishmen who will have the hardihood to venture a
Siberian journey in a Russian telega; in which case a
tarantas (kind of post chaise) may be hired as far as
Ekaterinburg; but, as it is impracticable to hire beyond that
point, it is advisable to purchase one at Perm, where there
is a better choice than at Ekaterinburg. By making a bar-
gain, a sufficiently good article may be got for 100 rubles or
less, and the chances are that it may be sold for nearly as
much on reaching Irkutsk, where there is a constant demand
for them. As it is most desirable that two at least should
travel together, if the traveller has come thus far by himself,
it will have been well if he has secured a companion for the
journey, among his fellow passengers in the steamer; this
may generally be managed without much difficulty, as there
are always passengers to and from the various towns in
Siberia. By making enquiries at the hotels in these towns,
an agreeable companion may frequently be obtained. A
mattrass must be purchased here, and a supply of tea and
sugar. These and all other things requisite for the journey
may be bought at the Gastini dvor, a kind of bazaar that
obtains in every Russian town. It will not be amiss to lay
in two days' stock of bread also, as there is little but black
bread to be got at the villages on the road. It should be under-
stood that there are no hotels between the large towns, and
the passenger must consider himself fortunate if the post-
master has anything prepared in the shape of dinner, which
is often the case. Shtshee or babbage soup with meat in it,
is the most prevailing dish, sometimes accompanied with a
joint, and more rarely game, with abundance of excellent
milk and cream. From Perm to Bogandinskaya, the stage
beyond Tumen, the posting is in the hands of a private
company who have a contract with the government for the
monopoly. The charge is three kopeks per verst for each
horse. From the 15th May to 15th September, and 1st
December to 15th March, (O. S.) two travellers pay for
two horses only, without regard to the number actually
employed; three persons pay for three horses, and so on.
At the other periods of the year, an extra horse has to be
paid for. The traveller must always be provided with a
padarojna, i. e. a government order, without which he
cannot procure horses. This is obtained for the sum of
kopek per verst per horse, and is examined at every station.
Supposing the arrangement of preliminaries
13th day. to occupy a day, and the traveller starts by
post at noon on the day following his arrival, he will
reach the fortified town of Kungur about 8 or 9 in the

OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN. 53
commissioners from some of the lapidaries, offering their
precious wares for sale, and some of these are of exquisite
beauty. This is the chief mart for the sale of the Ural
gems, among which are found jasper, agates, amethysts,
diamonds, malachite and lapis lazuli. There is a Government
establishment for cutting, polishing and manufacturing these
into various articles for the imperial palaces and many
beautiful specimens of Siberian work help to decorate the
apartments of the Czar, in St. Petersburg and elsewhere.
There is also a government machine factory in Ekaterinburg
where steam engines are now made. The nominal chief is
a Russian officer, but the practical director under him is
Mr. Bispham, an English engineer, who receives a far
higher salary than his superior. Immediately adjoining this
fabric is the mint where the copper currency of Russia is
coined. The whole process from the melting of the copper
to the completion of the coin may be seen at the same time,
the ingenious and complicated machinery being worked by
a powerful steam engine. The finished coin however is far
inferior to the productions of the English mint. The pre-
paration and engraving of the dies is also carried-on on the
premises. The famous gold washings of Berezofsky are about
10 miles from Ekaterinburg, and although the mines are now
mostly closed, the stranger will probably be interested to see
the manner of collecting the gold from the surface earth.
The number of hands now employed is not nearly so great
as formerly.
If however the traveller resolves to proceed
16th day. without stopping to see any of the lions, he will
reach Kamuyslof next morning. This is a neat little town
on the river Pushma, containing a few thousand inhabit-
ants, and in great measure dependent on carrier traffic.
The country now assumes that flat monotonous character
known as the Steppes, which continues with little variation
for about a thousand miles. The soil is black and exceed-
ingly rich.
Tumen is reached next day about noon.
This
17th day.
is a long straggling place on the banks of the
Tura, with a good deal of trade, being the earliest Russian
town in Siberia. There is a good gastini dvor and a
market, the town being a busy and interesting scene on
market days. Great numbers of Tartars come in from
the surrounding country on these days, to dispose of
their wares and provide for their wants. In the summer
season, steamers run from this to Tobolsk, Omsk, and
Tomsk, being used as tugs, but they take passengers also.
Their progress however being slow, and the route very
circuitous, they are two or three times as long in making

OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN. 55
river Tom, and arrive at the town of Tomsk, where if he be
disposed 'to stay the night, he will find no want
of hotel accommodation.
26th day.
Tomsk is a town of about 24,000 inhabitants, and contains
some handsome buildings. There is much wealth in the
place, and having been long notorious for intemperance and
its attendant evils, its present character fully justifies the
charge. When Pallas visited it in 1771 he complained that
the mud was so abundant that carriages sunk up to their
axles in it. Even now, although it must be vastly improved
since that time, any one who is there on a wet day, will have
no difficulty in believing his statement.
Proceeding eastward from Tomsk, the country becomes
more irregular and hilly, and the fir and cedar
27th day. begin to appear in the forests. There are nothing
but villages on the first day's journey. Next day brings the
traveller to the small town of Mareinsk of no
28th day.
special note; and the following, he enters the
government of Yennissei, remarkable for its beautiful
macadamized roads. Towards evening he will
29th day.
pass through the town of Achinsk pleasantly
situated on the banks of the Tchulym. Let no one be deterred
by the statement of Cochrane who travelled this road in 1820.
He says: "I proceeded through it (Achisnk) and many
villages, till I reached Krasnojarsk, distant eighty miles,
over a road, with little exception, almost impassable; that
part which lies between Chornaresk to Malokemtchoutska
is so bad that I know of no better punishment to call the
faculties of the director-general of the roads into exertion,
than making him ride the distance of fifty miles every day
in a téléga; if that did not recall him to his duty, I think
nothing could,-at all events, it would be no sinecure. For
my own part, my bones were so shaken, that I preferred
walking." Whether the complaints of the worthy Captain
and other persecuted wayfarers may have had any influence
on the director-general, does not appear, but it is certain that
in that very place, the roads are now almost proverbially
excellent, being unsurpassed in any part of the Russian
empire. The writer of this traversed the greater
part of the distance named at full gallop. If the traveller is
determined to sacrifice everything for the sake of time, he
may save 15 versts by avoiding Krasnoyarsk altogether, but
it is to be presumed, few who take the Siberian route,
will consider that a satifactory equivalent. The city
of Krasnoyarsk may be reached on the afternoon of the
following day, and there is a hotel in connexion with the
posting house, where every requisite may be obtained.
This is a clean town lying in a valley between the

56 OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN.
Yennissei and its affluent the Katcha, in a picturesque
situation, almost surrounded by hills. The commerce of the
place is insignificant, but agriculture is in a thriving state,
and cereals very abundant. A project for planting a colony
of Scotch agriculturists in this neighbourhood was favoured
by the emperors Paul and Alexander I., but was never
brought to fruition.
30th day.
If the traveller resolves to proceed without
delay, he will cross the Yennissei on a ferry
boat, about fourteen miles from the city, and proceed along a
very hilly road, in some parts even precipitous. The road,
on the following day, lies through a fine hilly country,
remarkable for some iron mines and foundries; and early next
31st day.
morning the town of Kansk is reached. This
place is said to have been celebrated in former
times for its trade in furs, but at present the trade in that or
anything else seems to be insignificant.
32nd day.
During the night or at an early hour in the
morning, the river Kan will be crossed, this
being the boundary between the governments of Yennissei
and Irkutsk, the same being indicated by a white obelisk on
each side of the river. The road for the day lies through a
succession of forests abounding with game; bears are yet
sometimes seen and foxes are very abundant, but wolves
have entirely disappeared.
33rd day.
Nijni Udinsk is reached the following
morning in good time for breakfast. This
town, which stands on the banks of the Uda, presents a
rather imposing appearance on approaching it from the
North west. Provisions here become scarcer and dearer.
At Hudoslanskaya, the second station beyond, the made road
ceases, and for 150 versts there is the most wretched route
that can well be imagined. The work is in progress
however, and in the course of a year or two the present'
state of matters will be rectified.
34th day.
35th day.
36th day.
or so.
The next day's journey is through a more open
country, assuming something of the steppe
character; and Irkutsk is reached towards the
evening of the day following, after a pleasant
and picturesque drive of some hundred miles
Irkutsk is the largest and finest town in Siberia, having
a great number of handsome shops and other buildings of an
imposing appearance. Besides the Governor of the city,
the Governor-General of Eastern Siberia resides here, as also
the Archbishop of Irkutsk. In addition to the usual govern-
ment establishments, civil and military, there is a museum,
a Geographical Society, and other devices for the instruction

OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN, 57
and amusement of the residents. The best hotel is the
Gastennitzi Amur.
If the traveller arrive at Irkutsk between the middle
of May and middle of August (O.S.) he will be able to cross
the Lake Baikal in a steamer. From the beginning of
December till the middle of March, it may be done even
more expeditiously by sledges on the ice; but during the
intermediate times, when the ice is forming and thawing.
the lake is impassable. It is necessary then to take the
mountain road, round the south end of the lake, which is a
very difficult path, and in time of snow, not without danger.
About 150 versts must be travelled on horseback, as there is
no made road yet. During the time above indicated, a
steamer crosses to and fro twice a week, leaving the landing
place on the western side every Wednesday and Saturday
morning at 7 o'clock. The fares across are, 1st cabin, 8
eubles; 2nd, 5 rubles; and deck, 3 rubles. It should be
observed however that the weather frequently interferes
with the above arrangement, as regards time; for the storms,
which are specially prevalent towards the end of the season,
often delay the steamer for days beyond its time. Should
the traveller resolve to continue in his carriage on to
Kiachta, he will have to pay twenty rubles for taking it
across the lake, and four rubles for landing it. He will how-
ever find a much better market for the sale of it at Irkutsk,
and the kibitkas furnished by the post between that
town and Kiachta are quite passable for so short a distance.
Assuming then that the traveller arrives at Irkutsk on
Tuesday or Friday, and is anxious to push on without
stopping, he may start by post the same evening about 10
or 11 o'clock, and coursing along the north bank of the
Angara, he will reach Listvenishnaya, the third station, an
hour or two before the steamer weighs. The scenery of
the Baikal is grand in the extreme, and is considered by
many travellers to be unparalleled. If the steamer start
at the appointed time it will probably get to the other side
about noon. Our salt water captains would no doubt be
somewhat amused at the appearance and conduct of the
Baikal skipper, and no less so at his Buryat crew. As there
is no jetty, the landing has to be effected in boats, on a spit
of sand, stretching out about 12 miles from the village of
Possolsky; to reach which, carts will probably be in waiting,
but it will be safer to have engaged horses by previous
correspondence as this is off the post road. At Possolsky
there is a large monastery and an archimandrite, who is the
head of the Russian mission to the Buryats. It will be
observed that the majority of the inhabitants are now
Buryats, but exhibiting little of their original independence,

58 OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN.
being everywhere in abject submission to the Russian
power.
By the following morning, the traveller will
37th day. find himself in quite a picturesque region, cours-
ing along the left bank of the Selenga, and if desirous, for
the sake of saving time, he may shorten the route a little by
38th day.
avoiding the town of Verchni Udinsk, leaving it
on the left, and passing on to Selenginsk, which
he will reach in the evening. This is a small town, but was
formerly of considerable importance as in the immediate
neighbourhood of the mercantile entrepot between Russia
and China. Early next day he will arrive at Kiachta on
the frontier, the authorised station now for all commercial
dealings with the Chinese. It is a small town, but contains
much wealth and many good houses.
A different style of travelling has now to be adopted;
the tarantas, if brought thus far, must be disposed of at all
hazards, and some subsitute employed more in accordance
with Mongol notions. Officials in the service of the Chinese
and Russian governments have the privilege of posting
across the desert, and may in that manner accomplish the
journey to Peking in 12 or 14 days, which costs about 200
rubles for a single person without baggage. This is not a
charge, however, as the service is theoretically free; but it
is customary to make presents to the Mongols, to the
amount of about 3 rubles at each station. This is generally
given in brick tea, as the use of money is not yet fully
understood among these nomads. The mere private
adventurer, however, is not allowed to travel in this
manner, and must consequently make an engagement with
some of the numerous Mongol carriers to convey him across
the desert. He may either engage sufficient camels for
himself and his baggage, and have merely two
or three Mongols as his attendants, in which case the
journey to Kalgan on the Great Wall may be done in 23 to
30 days according to the weather. Or if he is willing to
join some caravan, he will find the journey less expensive,
though perhaps occupying a little more time; but, on the
whole, it will be the pleasanter way of proceeding. In this
part of the route, the Mongolian is undoubtedly the most
useful language, but there are generally some Chinese in
the caravans who can also speak Mongolian. Any other
tongue is of little use in crossing the desert. The Mongols
are accustomed to journey for eighteen hours at a stretch
on the backs of their camels, and then pitch their tents for
six hours, the time allotted for cooking, eating, sleeping,
etc. The Chinese merchants, however, often take their
own carts with them, which are drawn by a camel, and

OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN. 59
being covered, are very warm and commodious for sleeping
in; and most European travellers will no doubt be disposed
to follow their example. These carts are of two kinds;
the better sort, having wheels with spokes and an iron tyre,
may be got at Kiachta for from 60 to 70 rubles; but another
kind of a ruder make will be procured for from 20 to 30
rubles. The main difference is in the wheels, which, having
no iron on them, get worn into a very irregular shape.
after a few days' use, giving a most unpleasant jolting
motion, which increases as the journey continues. There
is no fixed charge for this journey, but contracts have been
made according to circumstances, from 30 to 150 taels. It
has been usual to have such contracts made out in writing
either in the Chinese or Mongo! languages, but the Mongols
will be found most scrupulously faithful to their engage-
ments, and the mere verbal agreement will probably be held
as sacred by them as by any people. Europeans often carry
their tent with them, and have it pitched at every halt; but
much trouble will be saved by one who is willing to put
up with the tent occupied by the Mongols; he will receive a
welcome to a place among the rest, and will thus, moreover,
have an opportunity of seeing something of Mongol life.
Before leaving Kiachta, it will be advisable to lay in some
stock of provisions for 25 or 30 days. Sheep may be
purchased in the desert for about a tael of silver each, and
in summer time milk may always be got. A canteen with
portable cooking apparatus is a most useful auxiliary, and
a small Mongol grate should also be procured. If towards
winter, a good supply of furs is indispensable.
Having waited on the Russian Commissary at Kiachta,
and shewn his passport received at St. Petersburg and
made out for Peking, the traveller will receive from that
functionary a passport drawn up in the Russian, Chinese
and Mongolian languages, and stamped with the seal of the
Chinese mandarinat Maemaechin, the Chinese mart adjoining
the Russian town of Kiachta.
All preliminaries being so far arranged, five
44th day. days' continuous travelling through a rugged
mountainous region will bring him to the Mongol town of
Urga. This town, which is inhabited by ten thousand lamas,
is the head quarters of Mongolian lama-ism, being the
residence of the Kutuchtu or spiritual chief, and in the
neighbourhood of which is the establishment of the Tsetsen
khan, one of the most powerful of the Mongolian princes.
There is a Chinese town about four miles distant, also
called Maemaechin, where almost all the trade of the place
is carried on. About midway between the two, on an open
plain, is the Russian Consulate, where a large and handsome

60 OVERLAND JOURNEY FROM ST. PETERSBURG TO PEKIN.
building is now being erected. About 20 days more will
probably see the traveller at the town of Kalgan
64th day.
on the Great Wall of China, after having crossed
the magnificent pass in the Hinggan chain of mountains.
It will be necessary to shew his passport to the local
Chinese mandarin at Kalgan, and for the journey thence to
Peking, the usual way is to hire a palanquin borne by two
mules, and extra mules for baggage if required. A palan-
quin with a couple of mules will cost about 8 or 9 taels.
The first day he will pass through the prefectural city of
Seuen-hwa, the ancient Ta-too, or Great Capital of the
Mongols, likewise a picturesque mountain pass, and stop the
night at Ke-ming-e. Next day, passing through
65th day. the cities of Paou-gan, Sha-ching and Too-moo,
he will stay the night at Hwae-lae. About noon on the
following day he will reach the Cha-taou fort
66th day. from which he will travel through 15 miles of the
67th day.
grandest mountain scenery in the whole of his
journey, and stop for the night at Nan-kow, a
village at the southern end of the pass. Beyond this it is
all a level and extremely dusty country as far as Peking, the
68th day.
metropolis of China, which may be rached before
the gates are shut on the following day, this
completing the journey from London to Peking in two
montlis and a week, without any particular exertion, and
with what some will consider a great advantage,-a sea-
passage of only 100 minutes. By pushing matters, probably
it might be done in a week less time.