[248]
ARTICLE XI.
RECORD OF OCCURRENCES IN CHINA.
PREPARED BY THE EDITORIAL COMMITTEE, April 20th, 1859.
THE treaties of Tien-tsin and Yedo form a memorable epoch in
the diplomatic records of Eastern Asia, from which the future.
historians of China and Japan will date the commencement of free
intercourse with the nations of Christendom. The treaties,-nine
in all, four Chinese and five Japanese,-are very remarkable, alike
on account of the facility and dispatch with which they were
negotiated, and for the value and magnitude of their respective
stipulations-political, religious, and commercial.
At the date of our former record, 1st of June 1858, the Chinese
defenses at Taku had fallen, and the allied forces had advanced.
without opposition up the Pei-ho to Tien-tsin, where the plenipo-1
tentiaries of England, France, Russia, and the United States were
in friendly communication with duly accredited ministers from
His Imperial Majesty the Emperor Hien-fung. Lord Elgin's first
public interview with Kweiliang and Hwashana was on the 4th
of June, and Baron Gros' on the 6th. The principal cause of
difficulty and delay with the allied ambassadors in meeting the
Chinese high commissioners, appears to have been the lack of
proper credentials from the Emperor. When the letters of credence
were objected to, as not corresponding to what were held by Kiying
and others at Nanking, it was even averred that Kiying's were a
forgery! The terms adopted in Chinese, Teiuen Kiuen, for "Full
Powers," may deserve further consideration of diplomatists; their
use, as a technical phrase, would seem not to have been well
understood by, or satisfactory to, the Emperor and his Cabinet.
The foreign forces that had assembled in the Gulf of Chibli
previously to the advance, consisted of thirty-five vessels,-one
Russian, two American, twelve French, and twenty English.
Subsequently these were somewhat augmented. Nearly one half
of the whole were gun-boats..

RECORD OF OCCURRENCES IN CHINA.
249
Previously to the destruction of the forts, negotiations had been
opened by the Russian and American ministers and were proceed-
ing favorably. But it was otherwise with the allied representatives,
whose position, on account of the occupation of Canton by the
English and French troops, made it necessary for them to act
with the greatest caution. So dissatisfied were both Lord Elgin
and Baron Gros with the credentials of the Emperor's ministers
and the hostile bearing of the Chinese, especially in their vigorously
extending and strengthening the defenses at the mouth of the
Pei-ho, that they finally deemed it expedient to advance towards
the Capital.
Preparations were made accordingly by the two commanders-
in-chief, rear-admiral Sir Michael Seymour and rear-admiral C.
Rigault de Genouilly. On Thursday, the 20th of May, at 8 A.M.,
a summons demanding the surrender of the forts within two hours.
was sent on shore, and with it a guarantee that, being surrendered,
the forts should be held intact, and duly restored on the termina-
tion of the negotiations. The two hours having elapsed, the
advance began, and the forts opened fire. The contest lasted two
hours and a half, when the native troops were all dispersed, and
the defenses were in course of being destroyed.
The number of Chinese engaged, of all arms, was variously
estimated from five to ten thousand. Their number killed during
the engagement was believed to be not more than four hundred;
the total casualties on the part of the allies were twelve killed
and seventy-six wounded. None but gun-boats and other light
vessels were brought into the river on account of the bar at its
mouth.
No further hostile collision occurred; and the armed flotilla at
once proceeded up to Tien-tein, "Heavenly Ferry;" at which place
the Pei-ho, "White River," forms a junction with the "Grand
Canal," Yun ho, lit. "Transport River." Tien-tsin is a walled
city, situated about sixty miles from the mouth of the river and
nearly the same distance from Peking.
On the 29th, the allied admirals having reported the river to be
clear of obstructions and its banks without any native force to
oppose their progress, all the foreign ministers moved from the
outer anchorage, off Ta-ku; and the next day, May the 30th,
they reached Tien-tsin. Negotiation now became the order of
the day.

250
RECORD OF OCCURRENCES IN CHINA.
Such an atitude as that then exhibited had never before been
assumed by the powers of the west in regard to any of the nations
of Eastern Asia; and the spectacle was as novel as it was imposing
in the sight of the Chinese. The English and French troops were
occupying temples and other buildings on the west side of the
canal, while their ships were anchored in the Pei-ho close to the
canal and on both sides of its mouth,-their position enabling
them, if it should be necessary, to shut off every person from crossing
the canal or river, and at the same time to command the city on
the north and west. The four ambassadors were all comfortably
quartered on shore in native buildings.
Our present record of the negotiations which ensned must be
very brief, comprising only a few leading particulars with some of
the most prominent and immediate results. To be fully under-
stood, however, these must be viewed in connection and contrast
with former usages in the celestial empire, especially such 'old
customs' as have had relation to foreigners.
The intercourse between the nations of Christendom and those
of the far east, till recently, has been very unlike that which has
characterized the independent governments in the opposite hemis-
phere in their international relations. In China, Japan, and
the neighboring kingdoms, the people of the west, and especially
the agents of western powers, have been usually looked upon as
most unwelcome visitors; and they have been treated accordingly,
watched and restricted to a degree well-nigh intolerable. This
state of things, disagreeable and unnatural as it was, could not
even half a century back be altered. The Chinese especially
considered themselves as a great and powerful people, and, in
comparison with most of their immediate neighbors, as enlightened
and refined; and the little that they saw and knew of the people
of Christendom did not much alter this opinion of their relative
standing, when compared with their more distant neighbors, the
inhabitants of Western Asia and of Europe.
The Russians, early coming upon their northern frontier, were
by force of circumstances long ago compelled to negotiate with
the Chinese. Two treaties were formed, one in 1689, and another
in 1727. Among the best results of these treaties was the esta-
blishment of a college in Peking consisting of ten Russians,-four
ecclesiastics, two students in Chinese, two in Manchu, and two in
Mongolian.

RECORD OF OCCURRENCES IN CHINA.
251
After nearly two centuries of commercial intercourse with China,
Great Britain, in 1793, sent an embassy to the Court of Peking;
and another in 1816. Both of these were misunderstood by the
Chinese, and failed to work out any salutary results; and it was
not till 1842, after three armed expeditions in three successive
years had been sent out from England, that a treaty was negotiated
and finally ratified between the two empires.
Both the United States and France-taking advantage of what
had thus by force been secured to the English nation, and at
great expense, came forward and pressed, ably and successfully,
their respective suits; and each, through its own representative,
obtained a similar recognition, with some additional advantages.
The treaty of Wanghia was signed on the 3d of July 1844, and
that of Whampoa on the 24th of October the same year.
All these earlier compacts, with Russia, England, the United
States and France, were negotiated under somewhat peculiar
circumstances, and by experience were found to be defective and
unsatisfactory. Consequently the Four Treaty Powers resolved,
almost simultaneously, to have new ones framed and accepted in
their stead. In fact, one of the four stipulated in express terms
that after the lapse of twelve years negotiations if desired might
be reopened.
We have thus gone back to past times in order to show, as
distinctly as we can, that all the treaty stipulations entered into
by the Chinese have been forced upon them by foreigners. In
this same point of view, too, we must not fail to place the new
treaties now under consideration. Situated as the representatives
of foreign powers were in China, contention by force or the sur-
render of their independence were the only alternatives.
They err, we think, who fancy it was any one single incident,
such as that of the Arrow, which moved the English government
to send out an armed expedition and one of its ablest diplomatists,
to establish a new and improved basis of reciprocal intercourse.
It was, we believe, nothing less than the clear conviction of duty
to secure those just and equitable rights and immunities, long since
recognized as reciprocally due between independent nations. They
err no less, perhaps, who imagine it was the loss of a single mis-
sionary by violent hands, which induced the Emperor of the
French to join in the great "demonstration." It was a long
series of cruel and oppressive acts, placed on record but not

252
RECORD OF OCCURRENCES IN CHINA.
redressed, which forced the allied powers to interpose, as well for
others as for themselves. The unsocial and overbearing policy of
the Chinese government must be looked upon as the chief cause of
all the past hostile contentions,-henceforth to be succeeded, we
hope, only by peaceful and honorable relations.
While the intercourse between the Chinese and the people of the
west was exceedingly limited, the claims of the imperial court to
universal homage, holding that its head was the true sovereign of
"all people under heaven," might be tolerated; but as the distance
between the ends of the earth became shortened, and the inhabitants
of the two hemispheres were brought into closer proximity, by the
aids of modern science, changes in modes of intercourse and in
political relations became inevitably necessary. The Japanese, in
regard to their own place in the scale of nations, saw and appre-
ciated this necessity, and wisely yielded without an open rupture.
The Chinese have been less discerning, less prudent, and must now
abide the consequences, however disastrous to their ancient and
venerated system of government. Had not England and France
entered the lists against the Chinese, as belligerents, Russia must
have done so very soon. The chief aggressions, in fact, on the
domain of the Manchus, have been along the northern frontiers,
throughout the whole extended line of demarkation between the
Russian and Chinese empires, from Central Asia to the Pacific.
Ocean.
The scene at Tien-tsin, now under review, was one of very
extraordinary interest to the Chinese and to all the world, and in
it we may recognize the hand of Him "whose kingdom ruleth over
all." Holding diverse instructions from their respective govern-
ments, the foreign ministers were all alike importunately demanding
immediate concessions, and would accept no denial. The old
order of things could be tolerated no longer, and must give way.
That government, which for more than three thousand years had
claimed preeminence over all others, must now become subordinate,
make indemnity for the past and give securities for the future.
England, France, Russia, and the United States, with large and
important interests in common, had each their own claims, for
which at once legal provision must be made by solemn compacts.
Accordingly four new treaties were formed,-severally bearing
date as follows: that with Russia, June 13th; that with the
United States, June 18th; that with England, June 26th; and

RECORD OF OCCURRENCES IN CHINA.
253
that with France, June 27th, 1858. These were all signed in one
and the same place, the Hai-kwang sze, one of the large temples
of Tien-tsin.
To the great surprise of all Europe and America, the news of
the signing of these treaties was announced in St. Petersburg,
Paris and London, by way of Siberia, and then flashed across
the Atlantic-being one of the first messages transmitted by the
submarine cable. Mounted on horse-back, the Russian courier
who had come from St. Petersburg in April, set off on his return
June 27th.
Immediately after the signing of these treaties, the combined
squadron withdrew from the Gulf of Chihli, and the Bay of Yedo
became the scene of leading interest. First and last, great efforts
had been made to negotiate with the Japanese,-the most recent,
and the most successful having been made by commodore Perry
in 1854, and by J. H. Donker Curtins, Esq., in 1857. It was
not, however, till the summer of 1858 that the opening of Japan
to the principal nations of the west was effectually secured.
Mr. Townsend Harris, with only his private secretary, proceeded
up to the city of Yedo, and there with two imperial commissioners
concluded a new treaty, drafting each successive article with his
own hand. The 29th of July, on board the Powhatan off Kana-
gawa, this treaty was signed. On the 18th of August, and in the
city of Yedo, the Dutch commissioner, Mr. Donker Curtius, signed
a new treaty. At the same place, and about the same time, Count
Poutiatine followed his example. On the 26th of August, just
two months from the conclusion of his treaty at Tien-tsin, Lord
Elgin signed a new treaty with the imperial government in the
city of Yedo. In the same place, a few weeks later, Baron Gros
signed in like manner.
By these several treaties with China and Japan, concluded in
such quick succession, great and manifold advantages have been
secured, and numerous and weighty responsibilities incurred. In
them are involved, more or less directly, the varied interests of
more than half the population of the earth; and the importance of
their being duly observed, therefore, can hardly be overestimated.
By these solemn compacts the Middle Kingdom and the Land of
the Rising Sun are brought into the family of nations, and must
stand amenable to their laws. All people will watch and wait for
whatever may be the issues of these new relations, as the several

254
RECORD OF OCCURRENCES IN CHINA.
treaties come into operation. The specified periods are near at
hand for the exchange of the ratified copies; but till that exchange
shall have been made, and the treaties have been published by
authority, we cannot detail their provisions-for resident ministers
at Peking, the opening of new ports, &c., &c.
A few collateral topics, in addition to those already noticed,
must not be omitted in our present record.
During Lord Elgin's visit to the city of Yedo, H. M. steamer
Emperor, a yacht of 318 tons, was presented to the Japanese
government, with appropriate honors; and, named Dragon, now
carries the Japanese flag. On the 16th of August the Cubo-sama,
or Tai-goun, deceased; his death was concealed from the public
and from foreigners until the 12th of September, to avoid inter-
rupting the then pending negotiations. The new emperor is a
youth of some fifteen years; his coronation took place in the
capital on the 4th of last January.
The melancholy fate of Kiying is strong testimony against the
equity and justice of the Imperial government at Peking. During
the negotiations at Tien-tsin, he was suddenly brought forward
as commissioner, and as suddenly disappeared. The particulars of
his case seem to be involved in mystery; and, for the honor of the
court and cabinet, may well be consigned to oblivion. It is gene-
rally believed, however, that he died by his own hands, in
obedience to the Emperor's commands. This must have been
early in July; his first appearance at Tien-tsin was on the 9th of
June; and on the 13th, "bound in fetters," he was on his way
back to Peking. While at Tien-tsin he was accompanied by his
old friends, Hwang An-tung, Chau Chang-ling and others.
While the foreign ministers were at Tien-tsin, it was stated by
one of the Chinese officers that their last census gave to the
empire a population of 400,000,000 and odd,-thus corroborating
that found in the governor's palace in Canton, and that of the
Imperial Russian embassy at Peking, both of which give above
four hundred millions.
The Russian mission in Peking is no longer to be considered
temporary. Its members can now go and come at pleasure. A
postal service, by carriage, passes once a month between Kiakhta
and Peking, delivering mails in each place in not more than
fifteen days; and every three months a convoy is despatched, to
perform the same journey in the period of one month. The

RECORD OF OCCURRENCES IN CHINA.
255
frontiers between the two empires are to be surveyed by a special
commission and definitely fixed by a separate treaty.
Here in Shanghai, on the 8th of November, the new Tariff
and Trade Regulations previously agreed upon were duly signed,
by the Imperial commissioners Kweiliang and Hwashana on the
part of the Chinese government, and by Lord Elgin and the Hon.
Mr. Reed in behalf of their respective governments.
The same day Lord Elgin and suit embarked here for an excur-
sion on the Yang-tsze. Having proceeded up the river to Hankow,
his Lordship returned to Shanghai on new year's day, January 1st
1859. This expedition, one of the legitimate results of the new
system of relations, must be regarded as the first grand move
towards the effectual opening of this empire to free and friendly
intercourse between the Chinese and foreigners. Its particulars
can not be here detailed beyond a few fragmentary items touching
the Kwangsi insurgents.
While at Nanking, Woohoo, and other places, gentlemen con-
nected with the expedition had repeated opportunities for observing
the condition and character of these insurgents. A great deal of
uncertainty still hangs around them; and the impression left on
the minds of the visitors, taking them all in all, were not favorable.
Whether Hung Siu-tsiuen is dead or alive is still a matter of
doubt. Certain it is, however, that the printing of the Bible has
been continued at Nanking. We have seen the first and last
books of the New Testament, which they have published; and
also some of the books of the Old Testament. The insurgents
have also, from year to year, issued their own Almanac, that
for this year being the ninth of their Tai Ping Tien Kwoh. It
may be remarked that they still continue their original chronolo-
gical arrangement, which is causing an accumulation of error year
by year in regard to the half monthly solar terms. The months
are alternately 31 and 30 days, without intercalary periods. The
sexagenary cycle, the stellar cycle of 28, and the Sabbath days
are all correctly placed in their Calendar.
In the summer of last year, the Austrian frigate Novara, on a
voyage round the world, arrived in the harbor of Shanghai. She
had been fitted out under the patronage of His Imperial Highness,
the Arch-duke Ferdinand Maximilian, and was under the com-
mand of commodore B. de Wuellerstorff and Urbair, baron Pück
captain, with a staff of ten officers, three physicians, a chaplain

256
RECORD OF OCCURRENCES IN CHINA.
and a secretary. The expedition left Trieste in April 1857, and
was designed to be the first of a series of scientific voyages. Her
visit here was rendered specially noteworthy by the presence of a
scientific commission, consisting of Messrs. Frauenfeld and Zelebor,
zoologists; Mr. Tellmek, horticulturist; Mr. T. Selleny, artist; Dr.
Schwarz, botanist; Dr. Hochstetter, geologist; Dr. Scherzer,
ethnographer, &c., &c.
These distinguished visitors, the officers of the Novara, and the
gentlemen of the Scientific Commission, were welcomed by the
members of the Shanghai Literary and Scientific Society at a
special meeting on the 10th of August. At that meeting an
interesting paper, explanatory of the objects of the expedition,
was read by Dr. Scherzer; "it was," he said, "designed to be
advantageous not only to the Austrian navy but to science in
general; almost all the principal scientific institutions in the
empire, the Geographical Society, the Central Institute for Me-
teorology and Terrestial Magnetism, the Geological Institution
of the Austrian Empire, the Imperial Society of Physicians, also
a number of Austrian and foreign savants, with the noble and
venerable Von Humboldt at their head, had all, in various ways,
contributed to the fitting out of the expedition."
Last, but not least, in our record of Chinese affairs, we notice the return of
foreigners to the City of Rams, and the peaceful advances of the allies, first to
the headmen of the ninety-six villages, and then up to the frontiers of the
"Wide-West." In point of geographical interest, the excursion to Wuchau fu
in Kwangsi, 200 miles more or less from the city of Canton, is second only to
that to Hankow. We are glad to know that a "surveying staff" accompanied
the expedition, the whole under the direction of their excellencies general Van
Straubenzie and commandant D'Aboville. The excursion occupied about three
weeks, dating from the 16th of February.
In Annam (or Cochin China, according to our old geographers) the opera-
tions of the French and Spanish authorities are as yet too imperfectly reported
here, to enable us to state the actual results. We doubt not, however, that by
their means, under an All-wise Providence, modern science, commercial enter-
prise, and true religion, will be greatly extended. To the natural historian of
our day, South-eastern Asia, like Central Asia, is to a very great extent
almost literally terra incognita.
Over this whole wide continent of Asia, from north to south, and from cast
to west, the signs of the times are auspicious; especially so are they in India,
in China, and in Japan.