[231]
ARTICLE IX.
SAILING DIRECTIONS FOR THE YANG-TSZE KIANG,
FROM WOOSUNG TO HANKOW.
BY CAPTAIN JOHN WARD, R.N., H. M. S. "ACTEON."
UNTIL resurveyed, buoyed, and local pilots established, this River
above the Red Buoy off Woosung must be navigated with extreme
caution, the charts at present in use affording a very imperfect
idea of the hydrography of the south branch of the river. The
constant accumulation of a very fine kind of sand having created
banks, where, at the period of the last survey by Captain Collinson
and others in 1842, deep water existed, shoals, which then were
at all times covered, are now, from the constant supply of alluvial
deposits, at low water in many places exposed to view.
The Blonde Shoal, which at that period had 2
fathoms on it, and a knoll marked to the S.S.W.
of it, appear to have formed a junction, and the bank made by
them shows at low water in many places.
Blonde Shoal.
In November 1858 the ships forming the escort of His Excel-
lency the Earl of Elgin, Retribution, Furious, Cruiser, Dove and
Lee, passed to the southward of this bank; but at low water not
more than 15 or 16 feet will be found in the channel: the
Retribution, drawing nearly 20 feet, had to wait till half flood,
and then had but six inches to spare.
South Blonde
This channel was chosen in preference to the
one on the northern side merely from its having Channel
been examined and partially buoyed,-want of time preventing the
examination of the other, which will be found to be the deepest,
straightest, and most desirable channel of the two. The course
from Red Buoy to entrance of southern Blonde Channel is N.W.
W. about seven miles; when that distance has been run, it will
be prudent, if drawing not more than 15 feet, to approach the land,
(a large and rather conspicuous clump of trees bearing south)
touching with the lead in from 3 to 4 fathoms on the edge of
the bank off the shore of the main land,-it being less abrupt and

232
SAILING DIRECTIONS FOR THE YANG-TSZE KIANG
affording more warning than the edges of the Blonde Shoal, or
rather Bank.
As the monotonous embankments of this part of the River
afford no landmarks that could possibly be recognized from de-
scription by a stranger, their height hiding the houses &c. in the
rear, the lead must be mainly depended on. The course through
the channel is about N.W.
A quick eye may possibly detect two small joss poles, which
occasionally may be seen through the tops of the trees over the
embankments; if seen, when brought to bear west, a push should
be made to the northward, clearing the north end of the Shoal;
should the joss poles not be seen, a boat should be used to sound
and mark the N.N.W. end of the Blonde Bank; clear of which,
the channel should be crossed steering N.N.E., on which course
from 8 to 10 fathoms will be obtained, until the bank extending
from Tsung-ming is approached; and when in from 5 to 6.
fathoms, alter course so as to keep on the edge of the bank in that
depth, the course being about N.N.W. W.; by this means the
"Dove's Nest," a very dangerous collection of
banks, will be avoided. The Cruiser and Dove
both grounded on the 7th November 1858, and the Furious
on the 9th, on these Shoals; from which the following bearings.
were obtained-
Dove's Nest.
Village on Harvey Point, ....
Single tree,
Great bush,
Left extreme Mason Island,
...N. 9° E.
.N. 70 W.
...N. 68 W.
....N. 8 W.
The captain of a steamer called the Confucius, in the pay of
the Imperial Government, reports that there is a good channel
close along the main shore, but he acknowledged that his steamer,
drawing about 8 feet water, often grounded in it; and therefore
it was not considered desirable to try that channel until time per-
mitted an examination of it to be made.
Harvey Point.
Harvey Point may be passed within of a mile,
and when a conspicuous clump on it is brought to
bear S.E. by E.E., steer N.W. by W. W.; from 6 to 7
fathoms may be expected on this course, until the single tree,
marked on the chart and conspicuous, bears S. 30° W.; then steer
W. by N. N., making due allowance for the tides which here
run N.W. and S.E.

FROM WOOSUNG TO HANKOW.
Plover Point may be known by its having a village
ou it and a small fort or breastwork. A number
Plover Point.
233
of junks are generally to be found at anchor in a river or creek
opening at Plover Point. When the fort bears S.W. the dan-
gerous banks and shoals known as the "Lang-shan Crossing" may
be said to commence.
The squadron, in November 1858, navigating by the chart at
present in use, passed along shore and was stopped abreast off
Foo-shan by a long sandspit, effectually barring the Lang-shan Crossing.
passage; and for three days the two gun-boats
Dove and Lee and the boats of the squadron were sedulously
engaged in searching for a passage through, until at length the
tail of it was rounded by the Dove, but as low down as Plover
Point; and the squadron had to return thirteen miles.
The fort on Plover Point, which is low and will require a good
glass to make it out, must not be brought to the southward of
S.W., until Foo-shan Hill, if seen, bears W.; then steer for the hill.
If the weather is clear, Foo-shan will be made in the shape of a
hummock crowned with trees and a few white houses. A small
fort like a Martello-tower, situated on the slope, may also possibly
be seen.
If unable to get a bearing of Foo-shan, when Lang-shan Pagoda,
a very conspicuous object situated on the submit of the highest
of three hills, bears N. 31° W. (N.W. by N. nearly) and a white
house on the left bank of the river, if distinguishable, N. 27° E.,
steer W. until Lang-shan Pagoda bears N. having from 7 to 9
fathoms; then haul more to the northward, W. by N. & N., until
Lang-shan Pagoda bears N. 13° E. (N. by E. E.), when the
course becomes N.W. N., until Lang-shan Pagoda bears N. 72° E.
(E. by N.), when again the course may be altered so as to approach
close to the left bank of the river, which may now be for some
distance kept on board.
Kea-shan Point, which when seen from the S.E. Kea-shan Point.
is wedge-shaped, the thick end-90 feet high-being
outwards and very conspicuous, should not be approached, in
passing, nearer than from 2 to 3 miles.
In the vicinity of Kea-shan Point very great alterations have
taken place since the survey of 1842. An entirely new island,
cultivated and inhabited, has been formed; the small islands
marked in the chart appear to have formed a junction; and exten-

234 SAILING DIRECTIONS FOR THE YANG-TSZE KIANG
sive banks, occasionally showing, have been called into existence,
and are constantly being added to, by the earthy matter brought
down by the River-doubtless eventually, perhaps shortly, to be-
come islands themselves, and add their quota of rice, &c., to the
support of the teeming population of China, while at the same time
the River appears to be gouging out the land on the opposite (or
left) bank.*
After passing Ken-shan Point, the most anxious and most dan-
gerous part of the navigation of the Yang-tsze Kiang may fairly
be said to have been accomplished; in no other portion of the River
do we find the same rapid alterations in the bed, especially in the
vicinity of Foo-shan and Lang-shan, where the strong tides appear
to be actively and constantly engaged in removing some banks,
while others are being formed. Until a good local pilotage has
been established, vessels, especially sailing vessels, proceeding up
would act wisely by always having a boat ahead shewing the
soundings; the time lost in this slow mode of progression is not to
be compared with the loss of time consumed, exelusive of damage,
in heaving a ship off a sand bank.
Hwang-shan.
After passing the islets formed and in course of formation,
abreast of Kea-shan, the River becomes pretty clear; a mid-chaunel
course may be safely pursued, steering for the high land about
Hwang-shan, which from Kea-shan looks like an
island in the centre of the River, the lead giving no
bottom at 8 fathoms. Anchorage, if required, ean be had in
Hwang-shan Bay, but the water is deep; the squadron, in Novem-
ber 1858, anchored there in 12 fathoms close in shore; the hills
in the vicinity range from 252 to 300 feet high. A rise and fall of
tide of from 4 to 6 feet takes place here. The River narrows to
a mile between Hwang-shan Bay and Kiang-yin, but immediately
afterwards becomes wider. A mid-channel course is still to be
steered, following the trend of the River until approaching Starling
Island, when the left bank must be neared and may be kept pretty
close (about mile), passing to the eastward of the Island.
The terms, north, east, south, and west banks, in river navigation,
should never be used, as they may occasionally lead to confusion,-the North
sometimes becoming South, East, or West; "Right" and "Left" banks can
never be mistaken, the reader supposing himself to be standing with his back
to the source of the river, and his face to its mouth, in fact looking the way of
the stream.

FROM WOOSUNG TO HANKOW.
New Bank.
235
A New Bank, bearing from Kea-shan Pagoda S.
73° E., is forming in the River, and will doubtless
before long become an island; it lies close to the left bank, with
at present a boat channel inside of it; it shows at low water. The
old joss house marked in the chart is not to be seen; the left
bank should still be kept on board, passing to the eastward of a long
low island, which appears to have grown considerably since 1842.
No other banks appear to be forming until abreast
of the Island of Chang-sang Chow, where from the
right bank a dangerous shoal stretches nearly half-way across the
River; to avoid which the Island of Seaou-sha should be kept on
board.
Chang-sang Chow.
The banks of the River are excessively monotonous between
Kiang-yin and Keun-shan, the left perfectly flat; the only rising
ground through the whole extent being a hill called Koo-shan, on
which are some houses.
Flood Stream.
The remarks of Mr. H.M. Inglish, Master of H.M.
Sloop Styx, with regard to the termination of the
Flood Stream 10 or 15 miles below Kea-shan Point, must, be sup-
posed to refer merely to that period of the year, June and July,
at which he visited it. From the fact of the River then having a
large body of water in it, the downward current would naturally
have greater weight and check the Flood Stream; but in November
1858 the level of the River was lower, and the influeuce of the Flood
was felt much higher; and on the 29th of December the level of
the water being still lower, the Flood Stream was sensibly felt as
high as Nanking. The Retribution, Dove, and Lee, were actually
compelled on that day to move their engines to enable them to
preserve a position off the forts, during the time some negotiations
were being proceeded with on shore.
In passing Silver Island the southern channel should be taken,
being careful to keep a mid-channel course, to avoid a danger,
"Furious Rock" (vide plan), about of the passage over from
Silver Island, having 14 feet on it, and a rock terminating some
broken ground which extends from the right bank. A quick helm
will be required in passing through, to avoid being at the mercy
of the whirling eddies caused by the check these rocks oppose to
the stream.
Silver Island is evidently destined to form a junc-
tion with the small Island called Ta-sha; a spit now
Silver Island.

236
SAILING DIRECTIONS FOR THE YANG-TSZE KIANG
runs out from the low flat tongue of ground, which has accumu-
lated to the N.E. of the high ground of Silver Island towards
Ta-sha; while another appears to be working its way from Ta-sha
towards Silver Island; and the channel between the two is clearly
filling up, as the chart shews 12 fathoms; but no such depth is
to be found now, and the channel has become so narrowed that
it was not deemed prudent to take H. M. S. Retribution through
in November 1858.
After clearing Silver Island the left bank of the River should be
gradually approached; and, passing Chin-keang Foo, kept close
on board, so as to avoid a rock said to have 10 feet on it, which
lies nearly in the centre of the River to the N.W.
of Golden Island, in the vicinity of which Island
several rocks appear to exist. Golden Island is now connected
with the mainland by a low isthmus well covered with grass.
Golden Island.
Pih-sin Chow.
Both channels, north and south of Pil-sin Chow,
appear to be safe and clear; the south one was
taken by the squadron in November; but at the same time a
Chinese Imperial steamer was observed passing through the north
channel; it is very probable, therefore, that it is navigable; the
Chinese steamer drew 9 or 10 feet. In proceeding through the
south channel the Island Pih-sin Chow should be kept on board; and
after passing it, a mid-channel course steered until abreast of
Yang-tsze-ke, when the left bank should be closed
in order to avoid an outlying rock said to exist
near the right bank, after passing which a mid-channel course.
may be again steered, giving a mud-flat at N.W. side of Tsaou-sha
Island a berth: this flat has formed on the spot where the shallow
water is shewn in the chart.
Yang-taze-ke.
Nanking.
After passing this flat the River appears to be perfectly clear.
Theodolite Point and the Nanking Forts may be
approached within pistol shot. The Forts (two)
on the right bank of the River are erected on a detached tongue
of land in front of the city walls: twelve 24-pounders, mounted
on solid wooden carriages, were on the mud bank in front of the
wall of the lower Fort, not on it, consequently no shelter is afforded
the gunners. Af.er detecting the exposed position of their guns
it was an easy matter, on the morning of the 21st November, to
prevent them with rifles from loading or working their artillery.
The upper Fort on the right bank, mounts three 24-pounders

FROM WOOSUNG TO HANKOW.
237
and six 6-pounders, in the same exposed position. Some gingalls
and light guns are on Theodolite Point, where armed junks were
also stationed.
A Fort on the left bank mounts a few light guns and gingalls.
Vessels forcing a passage should keep close in to the right bank,
and steady rifle practice will effectually keep down any fire,
especially as the elevation of their guns is great and they never
alter it.
Elgin Reach.
After passing Nanking, a mid-channel course may be steered, the
hill marked in the chart on left bank of the River opposite San-
shan does not exist. At this point the survey of 1842 terminates.
Elgin Reach appears to be clear; a mid-channel
course may be taken, until the centre of some rising
ground about 150 feet high and 3 miles S.W. of a remarkable
rebel stronghold on left bank of River, bears west, when the right
bank should be closed, to avoid a spit running to the N.E. of what
appears to be a small island.
Wade Island.
The squadron in November 1858 took the chan-
nel east of Wade Island, and generally found no
bottom at 8 fathoms. Some rebels in three small stone Forts, at
a village called Tsai-shih-ke, had the temerity to fire a few match-
locks and gingalls at the squadron on the 21st November; a
couple of well-directed shot from the Retribution knocked the
fi rts down, and they were still in ruins when the squadron returned
at the end of December.
The channel west of Wade Island is said to have been used by
the U. S. A. S. Susquehanna, and to have had 8 fathoms in it;
both channels may therefore be said to be navigable. The western
one, Susquehanna's, if clear, is most decidedly preferable, as by
using it, some shallow ground 33 miles W.S.W. of Taiping Pagoda
and abreast of the small village of Tang-too is avoided.
Should the eastern channel be used, care must be taken not to
approach the right bank of the River near Tang-too, passing close
to the S.W. end of the small island south of Wade Island, as a
dangerous shoal stretches out from the village before mentioned;
by keeping Taiping Pagoda nearly touching the south side of the
small island not less than 17 feet was obtained.
When the River, as in January, may be considered to be at its
lowest level, close the left bank to within half a mile, keeping
Taiping Pagoda as before, and steer a mid-channel course passing

238
SAILING DIRECTIONS FOR THE YANG-TSZE KIANG
The Pillars,
between the East and West Pillars, two rugged
eminences strongly fortified; one, the eastern, is
supposed to contain the treasures of the Taiping. From the Pillars
the course up the River is southerly.
Point Morton may be kept close aboard passing to the eastward
of a small flat island.
A rock, just shewing in November but dry 6 feet in December,
rises on the right bank of the River 3 miles south of Point Morton,
and about a cable's length from the shore, and would be covered
earlier in the autumn.
Woohoo.
Barker Island.
Off the rebel city of Woo-hoo, a shoal lies about a
cable's length from the right bank, and dries in
December. A mid-channel course clears it, and may be steered
with safety through the Woo-hoo Reach, gradually closing the
right bank on approaching a range of hills (700 feet high), op-
posite which are a small island and some mud patches at about
cable's length from the shore of the left bank. These mud banks
were covered in November, but dry for nearly two miles in December.
After passing them a mid-channel course may be
again followed, passing to the southward of Barker
Island, from the N.E. point of which Kieu-bien Pagoda may be
seen. As the difficulties in the navigation appeared to be increasing,
it was determined to leave the Retribution at Kieu-hien, where it
was understood liberal supplies were to be procured. Good an-
chorage may be obtained at Kieu-hien in from 5 to 8 fathoms. Off
the town, which lies on the right bank of the River about 80 miles
above Nanking, some conspicuous hills ranging from 1,500 to
2,000 feet high, lie to the southward of it some three or four miles
distant. The left bank of the River is a perfect flat, some mud
banks are accumulating about the S.W. end of Barker Island; a
mid-channel course should be steered, the least water found being
33 fathoms. This part of the River should be approached with
caution. The channel north of Barker Island is supposed to be
clear, and if so would avoid the shoal water before mentioned.
Osborn Reach.
Osborn Reach is clear; after passing Teih-keang,
keep close to the right bank until clear of Osborn
Reach, and approaching a large village, name unknown, lying on
the left bank of the River, which may now be crossed, keeping
that bank on board until after passing the large village before
mentioned.

FROM WOOSUNG TO HANKOW.
239
Wild Boar Reach.
The course now becomes south; through the Wild
Boar Reach a mid-channel course may be steered.
Some high land may here be seen on the left bank of the River,
which is the first rising ground to be met with on that bank
after passing through the Pillar hills, a distance of more than 50
miles. Keep the left bank in view to prevent being enticed into a
wide channel opening on the right bank of the River, and which
at first has all the appearance of being the main stream; it lies
north of a walled village on the left bank of the River, at a
distance of about 2 miles. On nearing the walled village close
the left bank slightly, to avoid some shallow ground lying abreast
of it off the right bank; after passing which Wild Boar Reach
is perfectly clear, the course still southerly. After passing a
ruined temple which stands on a very conspicuous bluff about
100 feet high, edge over to the left bank of the River to avoid
some shallow ground on the right bank, where the channel takes
a more westerly course (W.S.W.) for about 23 miles.
shallows lie off the left bank of the River east of
Fitzroy Island, to avoid which keep the right bank
aboard until Chi-chau Pagoda bears south, and then edge over
towards the east part of Fitzroy Island, passing through the chan-
nel north of that Island, keeping pretty close to the left bank,
as some mud flats lie on the north side of the island.
Some
Fitzroy Island.
After passing Fitzroy Island the channel is again clear, and a
mid-channel course may be steered, about S.W. by W.
Liang-klang-ke.
The country about this part of the River is hilly. About 8
miles S. W. of Fitzroy Island lies, about 300 yards from the left
bank, a very dangerous shoal, dry in December, but covered a
month earlier; to avoid it, pass within a cable's length of a con-
spicuous rocky islet about 30 feet high, which is situated nearly
in the centre of the River and cannot be mistaken. From this
spot until past Liang-kiang-ke or Hen Point
numerous rocks lie in the bed of the River. From
Liang-kiang-ke a very dangerous cluster of rocks extends for more
than half-way across the River; in November the outer rock was
marked by a small bush sunk on it; it was however dry in De-
cember. To clear these rocks the left bank of the River must be
kept on board, the course becoming again southerly for five
miles, when a westerly course is to be steered through Nganking
Reach.

240
Nganking.
SAILING DIRECTIONS FOR THE YANG-TSZE KIANG
Approaching Nganking the left bank of the River
must be kept, passing close under the walls of the
city to avoid extensive shoals and mud flats which exist on the
other bank.
Nganking was, in November, in the hands of the rebels, but
closely besieged by the Imperialists, who however appeared in
December to have raised the siege.
After passing Nganking the River is again clear, steering
S.Wly. until passing a sand point where the course becomes W.
keeping to the left bank.
After rounding a small islet called Rover Island,
Rover Island. the course again becomes south, gradually approach-
ing Christmas Island, the south point of which should be passed
at 1 cable in order to avoid some mud flats lying on the left
bank, only dry in December. Having passed these flats a mid-
channel course may again be steered until approach-
ing Toong-lew, a third-class city with rather for-
midable looking walls, situated on the right bank of the River;
abreast of which, on the left bank, an extensive flat is in course of
formation.
Toong-lew.
It is advisable to give a point on which stands Toong-lew
Pagoda a good berth, as, although shallow water was not obtained
there, a great commotion was observed in the stream, apparently
caused by some rock or other check to its even course.
After passing Pagoda Point keep to the right side of the River,
thereby avoiding some banks in the centre, dry in December.
The squadron, ascending the River in November, crossed over to
the left bank, and became entangled among these shoals, Furious
grounding on one; they are right abreast of three
Brick Kilns, looking like mounds of earth and stones.
In January the Furious and Cruiser cleared them by keeping
close to the right bank, and had deep water.
Brick Kilns.
When abreast of Hwang-nen-chin, where there is a Custom-
house having joss poles, these dangerous banks have been passed.
On the right bank of the River here are some high ranges, but the
left is a perfect flat; and, although the bank was in November
and December from 25 to 30 feet high, the country shewed
evident signs of being frequently inundated. Sanpans were found
at most of the farm-houses as far inland as from three to four miles,
affording a very significant hint as to the state of the country

FROM WOOSUNG TO HANKOW.
241
when the River is at its highest level. It must be borne in mind
that the left bank, probably both, would then be covered, the
River becoming a large lake; under those circumstances it would
be advisable to keep in the most rapid part of the current, as it
always runs strongest in the deep water.
Dove Point.
Bullock Reach
Little Orphan.
At Dove Point the River takes a sudden bend
at right angles to its former course for a short
distance, the course becoming W.N.W. Keep the left bank
aboard until entering Bullock Reach, when a S.S.W.
course is gradually obtained. Near the termina-
tion of this Reach is situated the Seaou-koo-shan,
or Little Orphan, a most remarkable small rocky
islet rising almost perpendicularly out of the River and nearly
300 feet high; it has some joss houses and temples on its summit.
Half way up its southern face some houses are perched, probably
the residence of the officiating priests; if it were not for these
convincing proofs to the contrary, it might well have been deemed
inaccessible. In November it was separated by a very narrow
belt of water from the left bank, but in December its base was
connected by mud.
Right abreast the Little Orphan, a bold rocky head rises
abruptly to a height of 400 feet; it is crowned by forts and look-
out houses. At its base (south), is situated a fortified town (name
unknown). The right bank is still rich in hills, which about here
are very rocky and uneven. A mid-channel course may be adopted
in passing the Little Orphan, getting no bottom at 9 fathoms
until nearly abreast of Sea-kea-kow, when the left bank is to be
approached, avoiding some shallow sand-banks near the opposite
shore, the course becoming about west for five miles, when, still
keeping to the left bank, it takes a more southerly direction into
Blackney Reach; about half way down which is a
shallow apparently extending right across the River,
and over which in December the greatest depth of water appeared
to be about 14 feet. After passing a village on the north edge of
a small creek or stream about a mile, steer S. by W. for a low
point near which are some houses, Chang-kea-kow, until the water
deepens to 5 fathoms, when the right bank may be followed,
gradually deepening the water to 8 and 10 fathoms.
Off Point Becher a sharp helm will be required,
the eddies here being very rapid. West of Point Becher lies
Blackney Reach.
Point Becher.

242
SAILING DIRECTIONS FOR THE YANG-TSZE KIANG
Oliphant Island.
Oliphant Island, about 5 miles long, dividing the
River into two branches; they are both shallow.
The southern one was used in November, when 3 fathoms was
the least water obtained. The branch north of Oliphant Island
was examined but not approved of, as, although more water was
found in it, several dangerous banks were sounded on. On 22nd
December 1858, the water had fallen seven feet since the examina-
tion of these channels in the preceding month; consequently it
was found necessary for H. M. S. Furious and Cruiser to await a
rise in the river before attempting either of these channels; they
were anchored at the imperial city of Kew-keang, and were detained
there some days, when the shoals having been carefully buoyed
and a rise of water having fortunately taken place, the north
channel was passed;-the Furious grounded. Opposite point
Becher are several sand-hills, on the right bank of the branch
which conducts the tributary waters of the Poyang lake into the
main stream. A fortified (?) temple situated on a steep cliff is
also to be seen on the same bank.
Seymour Reach.
After passing the west end of Oliphant Island the course becomes
S.W. by W. past the imperial city of Kew-keang, which lies
on the right bank of the River having most imposing looking
walls enclosing desolation and ruin, until entering
Seymour Reach, where it becomes more northerly,
and a mid-channel course may be safely steered. In November
the channel south of Hunter Island was passed
through, but much difficulty was met with in get-
ting the Furious over a flat extending right across the River, and
on which are several sand-banks. This shallow ground lies abreast
some very conspicuous red cliffs from 40 to 60 feet high situated
on the right bank of the River. When opposite the west end
of these red cliffs, cross the River carefully feeling the way by
Hunter Island.
the lead.
In December the channel north of Hunter Island was taken;
Furious grounded, but after some hours worked a passage for
herself through the mud, and got into a vein of deep water very
close to the left bank.
Court Reach.
The course through Court Reach is mid-channel,
about W. by S. passing the town of Woo-tsih-tsan
on the left bank. A lively trade in timber appears to be existing
here. Three miles west of this town, some hills about 600 feet

FROM WOOSUNG TO HANKOW.
243
high occur, the first break to the dull monotony of the left bank
since leaving the vicinity of Nganking.
Abreast these hills the course becomes a little
more northerly. Opposite the town of Foo-tsz-kow
Foo-tsz-kow.
some shallows are forming in the River; the right bank appears
to have most water.
Ruined Fort.
The course up the River now begins to be about N.N.W.; no
shallows appear to exist after passing Foo-tsz-kow, until approach-
ing Ke-chow, when a very remarkable Ruined Fort
standing on an isolated rock must be closed in
order to avoid mud flats lying off the right bank. On passing
two small hills about 2 miles below Ke-chow on the right bank
of the River, steer for the Ruined Fort, passing at a hundred
yards outside, and the shore at Ke-chow, at the same distance;
by this means the mud flats which extend some 4 miles parallel
to the bank will be avoided.
Ward Reach.
Ward Reach, which lies about N.N.W. and S.S.E.
is now entered, and appears to be perfectly safe
and clear; the left bank was kept aboard by the squadron, and
no check whatever was experienced.
Ke-tow, or Cock's Head, may be passed close to;
it is a very remarkable bluff rising perpendicularly
Cock's Hend.
to a height of 300 feet; it lies on the right bank of the River and
cannot be mistaken.
Leo Rock.
A very dangerous rock, or rather collection of
rocks, "Lee Rock," lies abreast some limestone
quarries; at a place called Shih-hwuy-yaou on the right bank; in
December six feet was obtained on them; the Lee struck when
descending the River.
From Ke-tow steer west, being careful not to approach the right
bank until Cock's Head (Ke-tow) is touching the low point of the
opposite shore (left bank), when the Lee Rock will have been
passed to the northward. The right bank may now be kept aboard,
passing close to the densely populated little town of Hwang-shih-
kang, when the left bank should be gradually closed, taking the
channel east of Collinson Island. A small rocky Collinson Island.
hill 70 feet high and about 2 miles north of
Hwang-shih-kang lies on the left bank, and marks the com-
mencement of this channel, in navigating which the left bank is
to be kept aboard.

244 SAILING DIRECTIONS FOR THE YANG-TSZE KIANG
Off the north end of Collinson Island an extensive flat lies,
extending across the River; 4 fathoms was the deepest water
found, and that was about mid-channel; a careful lead is the best
guide here.
The right bank may be gradually closed, aud, passing the small
village of Yang-ke, kept close aboard to avoid a bank on opposite
shore; it was dry in the month of December.
Pa-ho Reach
After passing a small ridge of hills on one of which is a very
remarkable and conspicuous boulder, cross over to the other (left)
bank, to avoid some shallow ground lying off the small village of
Tsz-koo-kang; 33 fathoms was the most water found at this
crossing; on obtaining 5 fathoms, on the left bank,
steer boldly up the Pa-ho Reach, passing to the
northward of two rocks, one 18 and the other 10 feet high; the
latter lies due north of the third class city of Woo-chang-hien.
In the summer these rocks would be covered; to avoid them keep
the left bank aboard.
Woo-chang-hlen.
After passing Woo-chang-hien a mid-channel
course may be steered until abreast of Hwang-chow.
Pagoda on the left bank of the River, when edge over towards
Bythesea Channel. The squadron ascending and
descending the River, was compelled to use this
channel in December 1858, there not being sufficient water for the
Furious in the eastern channel.
Bythesea Channel.
It must be navigated with extreme caution, keeping the right
bank aboard; it is so narrow that a vessel touching on either side
and swinging across would touch the opposite bank and have the
whole weight of the stream pressing her down. At an earlier period
of the year the eastern channel would have plenty of water in it,
and if so the Bythesen Channel should be avoided.
Gravener Island.
Washington Reach.
The course now becomes due north and the River
clear; Gravener Island should be kept aboard,
avoiding sand-banks off the opposite shore. After passing Gra-
vener Island, a sudden bend of the River leads into
Washington Reach, through which a mid-channel
course (about W.S.W.) may be taken; 44 fathoms was the least
water found in this Reach in December, and the River was then
nearly at its lowest level. The right bank is to be approached on
nearing some rising ground nearly 300 feet high, which lies on
that side of the River, and after passing which the same bank is

FROM WOOSUNG TO HANKOW.
245
West Ti er Hill.
Yang-lo.
Pakington Reach.
to be followed, as there appears to be shallow water off the left
bank, after passing the Pih-hoo-shan, or West Tiger
Hill, a prominent elevation of about 400 feet high.
The River again takes a northerly course about N.N.W., and
appears to be clear and free from any impediments.
Yang-lo, a small town on the left bank, may be
approached close to. A ruined temple standing on
the spur of a hill one mile south of Yang-lo is a conspicuous
object. A mile north of Yang-lo Pakington Reach
is entered, the course taking rather a sharp turn to
the westward, gradually turning to the southward
into Haukow Reach, which lies nearly S.W. and
N.E., and becoming still more southerly at Hankow.
The two last-named reaches are, by keeping to the left bank,
free of any impediments. North of a remarkable
Bluff (200 feet high) called Kin-shan, which is on
the right bank of Pakington Reach one mile inland, lies a sand-
bank which dries in December; it is easily avoided by nearing the
left bank.
Hankow Reach.
Kin-shan Bluff.
Opposite Hanyang just above the entrance to the River Han,
lies an extensive mud bank, dry four feet in December; a spit
gradually deepening stretches to the northward from this, and
affords good anchorage in from 3 to 7 fathoms.
At Hankow 384 nautical miles above Nanking, the River still
maintains the same characteristics, shewing no signs whatever of
a decrease, either in breadth or depth; the water under the walls
of Woochang-foo is just as deep as at Nanking; no bottom at 9
fathoms can be obtained.
The season of the year at which the squadron ascended afforded
good opportunities of observing banks and shoals which would be
covered at an earlier period, but no just estimate could be formed
of the force of the constant downward stream; a rate varying
from 1 to 4 knots was observed, the latter only obtained in
certain localities. In the summer the stream is said to obtain a
constant rate varying from 5 to 7 knots,-a circumstance which
will effectually deter European sailing ships from attempting the
voyage up.
An immense fleet of junks are always at anchor at the mouth
of the Han discharging and taking in cargoes; and large fleets
appear to be constantly moving up and down the Yang-tsze and

246
SAILING DIRECTIONS FOR THE YANG-TSZE KIANG
Han, telling tales of populous cities in regions still farther inland,
westward and northward.
The latitude of Hankow is 30°32'51"N., longitude 114°19'55"E.
Variation, 0° 13' 0" (approximately).
No observations for dip were obtained.
(Signed,)
JOHN WARD,
Commander and Surveyor,
II. M. S. Acteon.
NOTE BY THE EDITORIAL COMMITTEE.
Commander Ward has kindly favored us with the following memoranda
of distance :-
Gutzlaff Island to Woosung, 60 miles ;
Woosung to Chinkiang, 138 miles;
Chinkiang to Nanking, 46 miles;
Nanking to Hankow 384 miles;
Total distance 628 nautical, or 729 geographical miles.