164
MISCELLANEOUS.
short account, with a reduced copy, was published in the
Transactions of the China Branch of the Royal Asiatic
Society, part 5. 1855. M. Pauthier of Paris has more recent-
ly been occupied with the matter, and has published some
papers on it in the Journal Asiatique; a font of type for the
character having been cast in the Imperial Printing Office
there. We have records of the existence of about thirty
specimens of the character throughout China.
The next compartment to the right is what the Chinese
term the Ouigour character, being the base of the character
in present use for the Mongol language; but whether this be
a specimen of the original form, as brought to China by the
Ouigours themselves, or whether it be the form it assumed
after it had received the modifications of Saadja Bandida
and Tsordji Osir, two Tibetan lamas, who successively ap-
plied themselves to the adaptation of this character to re-
present the Mongol sounds, it would be premature to state
without a more minute examination. It is certainly very
different from the modern Mongol character, and it differs
also in many particulars from the two Mongol letters found
in the French archives, sent from two Mongol princes of
Persia to Philip le Bel of France, in 1289 and 1305; although
it approximates much closer to them than the other. A fac-
simile of these letters was published by Remusat, in his
Account of Correspondence between Christian and Mongol
Princes.o neisdit
The other two compartments are in vertical columns
read from the right to the left. The first from the right
is Chinese. The next is the Neu-chih character, probably
the most interesting of the whole, as being the only verit-
able specimen which has yet reached us of a long lost
language, and of which a very few specimens are known
to be in existence. The history of this character is briefly
told in the native annals of China. When the Neu-chih
Tartars became established in China, as the Kin dynasty,
in the early part of the 12th century, Akuhta, their first
monarch or Tae-tsoo, jealous of the dignity of his empire,
was desirous of reducing to writing their national lang-
uage. As a rude tribe, but recently emerged from bar-
barism, they had no national literature; but having captured
many subjects of the Leaou dynasty, and also of the native.
Chinese, they acquired some knowledge of the written
language used by these two nations. Taking a hint from
what had been done by the Leaou, Akuhta commissioned a
scholar named Kuhshin, to invent a set of characters on the
same principle, but based on the Chinese Keae-shoo or pat-
tern hand characters, suitable for expressing all the sounds.
of the Neu-chih language. These characters when com-

MISCELLANEOUS.
165
pleted, were authorized by imperial edict, and ordered to
be brought into general use, in the 8th month of the year
1119. These were afterwards termed capitals, and Hetsung,
a succeeding emperor of the same dynasty, invented a set
of small Neu-chih characters in 1138. These were first
employed officially in the 5th month of 1145. A note to Ma
Twan-hu's "Antiquarian Researches" states that the Classics
and Histories of China were translated in this character.
There is little probability however that they were ever
printed, and the slightest chance of now meeting with such
a rare and curious literary treasure, is too feeble to be
entertained. Amongst a number of books in this character,
in one of the imperial libraries in Peking, the catalogue
names one on the Neu-chih alphabet. The importance of
such an aid is obvious; but the stringent and unrelaxing
jealousy with which every foreigner is kept without the
dragon walls, effectually excludes the hope of any assistance
in that quarter.
It will be observed that the inscription in each case is
in two different sizes of the same character. The large
character portion is one of a class of Buddhist formulae,
known by the name of To lo-ne king, in Sanscrit Dharani,
being a kind of precative charm, in the virtues of which
much reliance is placed by the Chinese; but it is at the same
time utterly unintelligible to them, being merely a trans-
literation of Sanscrit sounds. The last fact however renders
it especially important for obtaining a clue to the phonetic
value of the Neu-chih elements. At the same time there are
some offset difficulties to be overcome. On comparing the
four versions we find they do not literally correspond, parts
in the one being omitted in the other; whilst the large and
numerous blanks, occasioned by the broken condition of the
stones, in each of the versions, completely break the thread-
of identification, and add greatly to the labour of the process.
It is probable they are all made, though at different times
and by different hands, from the Sanscrit original. If a
copy of that, together with the complete inscription can be
procured, the obstacles to decipherment will probably be very
much reduced.
Another interesting fact is that the small character parts
of the inscription are not a mere transliteration, but contain
some explanatory details regarding the other part. These
are given in the proper Chinese and Mongol languages, and
there is every reason to believe that in the Neu-chih part,
we have a specimen of that language and literature. Unfortu-
nately there are many of the small characters, which we
do not recognize amongst the large. As the Neu-chihs were
the ancestors of the Manchus or present dominant race in

168
MISCELLANEOUS.
the next 4 miles present a series of gaps of 400 to 500 yards:
in length. Immediately beyond we came upon a break of
not less than 2,000 yards in length where the wall has been
completely obliterated. Beyond this however there are
only a few small breaks of minor importance. It is from
this large gap of 2,000 yards and in those immediately
preceding it, that the water now finds its way into the creeks,
and inundates at high water some 60 square miles of the
surrounding country. Thence it penetrates to Shih-mun
on the Grand Canal, and afterwards reaches the Hwang-poo,
but as that derives its water from the Tai-hu which flows
into it through many creeks and small lakes south east of
Soo-chow, as well as from the hills and country near Hang-
chow, it is evident that so large a body of water can only be
very slightly affected by the small quantity of brackish
water which enters it through the breaches in the sea wall
above described. This circumstance need not therefore
awaken any apprehension as to the waters or vegetation
around Shanghai being perceptibly affected by brackish
water. Immediate steps should however be taken to repair
the inner bund. This could be accomplished in a short time
if sufficient means be employed at an expense of one hundred
thousand taels.
The principal causes which have brought about the
destruction of the outer wall, independent of those arising
from its not having been kept in a proper state of repair for
the last four years, are:-
1st.
Faults of construction.
2nd. The undermining action of the currents of the
river.
3rd. Want of protection from the action of water at
the back of the wall.
With reference to the first, there are three faults of
construction:
a. The wall is built without counterforts and conse-
quently is wanting in solidity and strength.
b. The lowest course of stone is not carried sufficiently
below low water mark, which often allows the water
to act under it at low water.
c. The piles on which the wall rests are not of sufficient
size or strength, and consequently the foundations.
are insecure.
The undermining action of the currents is the most
difficult to deal with. It tends to bring down the angles of
the wall, and more efficient means should be used to guard-
against this by employing stronger piles and heavier masses.
of stone at the foot of the wall, constant attention being paid.
to keep it always in a state of repair.

MISCELLANEOUS.
169
The remaining cause, viz: from water acting at the back
of the wall arises from the want of proper "puddling". This
is one of the most important things to be attended to, because
in most instances the wall has been brought down by this
cause alone, from the water working its way under it, and in
course of time carrying away its foundations.
III. REPORT on the appearance of the Rugged Islands.
By EDWARD WILDS ESQ. Master commanding H. M's
Surveying Ship Swallow.
Read before the Society August 5th, 1864.
ON Tuesday 14th June we entered the Rugged Island
group from the northward, passing between Spire Island and
the islands next eastward, not named on the the chart; and
took up a berth near the centre Rugged group, in 5 fathoms
mud, with Ta-yung Island bearing S. 38° E. and the summit
of Tri-point Island N. 48° E. We passed within of a mile
of Spire Island, and carried 4 fathoms water.
In the evening a party landed on the S. W. side of Tri-
point Island, and visited the village and neighbouring hills.
This island has three small fishing bays open to the south-
westward. A mud flat extends to some distance from the
shore in each of these bays, which dries at low water for
several feet.
Within a few feet of high water mark, at the upper part
of the centre bay, (which is the largest) is situated a fishing
village running parallel to the shore; and 100 feet behind it
is a salt lake about 800 yards long and 250 wide, but apparently
only a few feet deep.
The bay alluded to is about 600 yards long, and contained
at the time of our visit 3 Ningpo junks, and 20 native fishing
boats. The crew of some of the former, whom I questioned,
said they came for stones for ballast, and for repairing roads
at Shanghai. The village contained about 300 miserable
looking houses, and I should think quite 450 inhabitants..
The houses were all thatched over, and inhabited by poor
fishermen, who were extremely civil, and informed us they
had not been visited by pirates for several years. Some
poultry were seen in the town, and several goats were
grazing on the sides of the hills. Numerous small fish
houses were situated on the slopes and ridges of the hills
above the village, and a number of long bamboos were fixed
in the ground, on which the fishermen trice their nets to dry
and repair them. They also spread them over the roofs of

170
MISCELLANEOUS.
their houses as in the Corea. They store their fish by
covering them over with large coarse mats, and secure them
by passing a thick piece of grass rope about 6 inches in
diameter round each about a foot from the ground. A land-
ing can invariably be effected at any of these bays, but at
low water it is very inconvenient, on account of the mud
flat, as the mud is very soft, and the water is too shallow for
a boat to approach close to the shore.
There appears a great scarcity of water on Tri-point
Island, and it is altogether so rugged and uninviting a spot to
reside upon, that at a glance, any one would condemn it as
totally unfit for a sanitarium. From its highest hill, (which
is about 300 feet high, situated on the N. E. side of the
island,) we had a good view of the Saddles, and all the islands
for 35 miles round. The marginal line of discoloured water
trending to north-eastward was very clear, and a refreshing
breeze was blowing, which was quite a relief after the weather
.we had experienced at Shanghai. There are a few cultivated
spots on the sides near the upper part of the hills, producing
barley, some of which was cut and tied up in small sheaves
ready to be stored.
Rocks, 4 to 10 feet high, and 6 to 20 in width, were scat-
tered all over the island, and between them are small patches
of smooth grass, kept close by the goats notwithstanding
their small number. On the sides of the hills blackberry
and wild strawberry bushes grew thickly; they were chiefly
in bloom, many were half grown, and a few ripe. The wild
honey-suckle was also occasionally met with.
Throughout the night and following day, (Wednesday,
15th June) we experienced very thick weather, with rain, but,
being anxious to leave the group early the next morning, at
1 P.M. I went away with a party to explore as far as possible
the Island of Tayung, the largest of the Rugged Islands: and
returned to the ship at five in the evening. After a hard
pull of more than a mile, in heavy rain and thick weather,
with a fresh breeze, we reached the extreme of a mud flat,
that runs off full half a mile from the upper part of a bay
which is on the N. W. side of the island; but being unable
to wade through the mud to the foot of the hill, we were
compelled to return to the boat, which had in the mean time
by accident got broadside on to the sea and nearly filled.
We then coasted in search of a better landing, which
was at length effected under the lee of some projecting rocks
on the north side of the island. We walked some consider-
able distance to the foot of a fertile ridge, that runs from
the summit of Tayung, passing through paddy fields, by a
narrow foot path ankle deep in mud. The greater part of
the north western side of the island has a gradual descent,

MISCELLANEOUS.
171
is well cultivated, and is I believe the most valuable of the
group, having numerous fields of bearded wheat in ear nearly
ripe, fields of ripe beans, besides Indian corn, which was very
tall, strong and promising, but not yet in ear. I also noticed
patches of water melons, which appeared to thrive well in
the soil, and fields full of young plants of the sweet potato
in large furrows. The Chinese cabbage also grew in small
patches. The soil generally was of a loose, but dark sandy
nature, apparently very easy to work.
We visited two villages; the principal named large Yang-
seu, is on the north side of the island, the other called little
Yang-seu, is very small and is situated about half a mile
from the former, on the N. W. side.
The larger village contains about 125 houses, and I
should think 400 inhabitants. It is situated at the bottom
of a small bay, (with a mud flat which extends some con-
siderable distance, but dries long before low water.) Six
Ningpo junks were at anchor just without its edge, and a
large number of native fishing boats were hauled up on shore,
besides several which were on the mud or afloat. The
inhabitants all appeared very poor; they were civil and
acknowledged themselves to be fishermen. A few hundred
yards westward of this bay there is another smaller one, in
which fishing boats were hauled up, and at the upper part
of which there was also a mud flat. These mud spots in
nearly every case extend from the right to the left extreme
of the bay. We saw a few goats, a fair number of fowls, and
plenty of native dogs. The natives at this village also in-
formed us, that they had not been visited by pirates for
several years. The paths through the town were very
narrow, but evidently bore signs of improvement, as I oc-
casionally saw flints and stones newly laid down. The roofs
of the houses were of coarse grass, and the sides a mixture
of mud and stone, altogether rudely constructed. Over
many of their houses fishing nets were spread to dry. Inside
several we saw heaps of salt, and much of their time we
were informed is taken up manufacturing it for use. The
inhabitants stated that there was no sickness on the island,
and that their general health was very good. Through a
gap in the land in a south easterly direction, I saw several
junks at anchor off a small bay on the S. E. side of the
Island, but time and weather did not permit my visiting the
S. E. or opposite side, which is probably as well cultivated
as the N. W.
A few trees about 20 feet high, resembling the lilac,
were seen in full bloom. The smaller village contains about
30 houses, and about 50 inhabitants:-a great deal of salt
is manufactured and stored here, fish is also corned, and

MISCELLANEOUS.
173
and the sides of the hill are dotted with little houses originally
intended for the shelter of pilgrims. The height of the summit
is 5,040 feet, and thus any degree of temperature may be
obtained. Add to this that delicious water is to be found in
springs which occur at regular intervals, and it will appear
manifest that the Lew-Shan would form an excellent sum-
mer sanitorium for the foreign residents at Shanghai and the
Yangtze ports.
Note: The following observations were taken between 24th September
and 3rd October 1864. The weather at Kiukiang and in the neighbourhood from
the 23rd to the 27th September was very equable, a strong N.E. breeze blowing
steadily, the atmosphere clear and dry, and a few fleecy clouds passing at great
height and with considerable velocity. All the barometers used are aneroids.
That bearing the number 24,706 has no maker's name, the other two are
by Negretti and Zambra-one without a number, the other No. 1,241. The
former two are about the same size, and have thermometers attached, from which
the register given below was taken. No. 1,241 is a small pocket aneroid with-
out a thermometer. The observations made on 28th September and 3rd October
were for the purpose of comparing the instruments, and were taken at a height
of about 10 feet from the bund at Kiukiang. No boiling-point observations
were taken.
ANEROID BAR. AND THER. No. 24,706.
NO NUMBER.
No. 1241
Date.
Place.
Time. Thermo. Barom.
Place. Thermo. Barem. Barom.
Sept. 24 Kiukiang
24
"
2 p.m.
9.45
"
30.05 Kiukiang
30.20
"
do.
78
"
"1
"
24
"
10.00,
Se-sung-szu 73
"
"
25
"
5.45a.m.
do.
"
"
25
"
25
7.0"
8.30"
72
30.18
do.
25
25
"
25
25
25
"
=
او
255
"
25
"
25
28
"
Oct. 3
: : : : : : :
=
"
"
9.0"
72
30.20
*do.
"
"
'
11 00,,
72
30.19
do.
"
"
Noon.
73
30.16
do.
"
"
"
"
1.0 p.m.
74
30.14 Summit of
63
25.12
24.92
L.S.
2.0,
74
30.14
tdo.
"
"
"
"
8.0,
73
30.10
do.
=
"
11
::
= = =
"
4.30,
5.0,
8.20,
72
=
"
Se-sung-szu
74
29.90
29 57
30.12
do.
=
"
"
1.0 p.m.
9.0",
: 28
Tsing-ken-
72
30.35
29.96
"
poo
70
30.02 Kiukiang
80.20
=
29.85
69
30.14
do.
70
30.98
29.96
Tien-cha-szu
= 23:3
"
30.15
"
29.98
80.08
"
61
27.30
"
26.90
The instruments were placed on the dry ground in the shadow of a wall
+ The instruments were placed on the dry ground but o ly in the shade of chair cases,
none other being available.
The instruments were hung up in a boat about the level of the Kiukiang Buad distance
about 8 miles to S. of Kiukiang.

SUMMARY OF PROCEEDINGS.
1st March, 1864.
The North China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, which had from
various causes fallen into decay, was formally re-organised at a meeting held
on the first of March, James Henderson Esq. M. D. in the chair.
It was proposed and carried that a meeting of the former members of the
Society and those desiring membership should be held on the 9th March.
The meeting then adjourned.
9th March, 1864.
James HENDERSON Esq. M. D. in the chair.
The Rev. R. Hamilton, Doctor Johnston and Messrs. R.J. Thomas, R. A.
Jamieson, E. Lawrance, R. Hart, R. F. Gould, J. M. Hockly, O. R. Crockett,
R. S. Gundry, W.S.F. Mayers, Thos W. Kingsmill, J.M. Lloyd, S.A. Viguier,
H. Noetzli, J.H. Gwyther, J.A. Maitland, G. W. Talbot, A Fisher, G. Martin,
0. Martin, J. J. Dawson, J. Clark, J Anderson, E. C Bowra, J. Cull, H. W.
Dent, John Morriss and W. Remé were elected Resident members. Messrs. C.
Thorne and A. J. Man were elected Non-esident members.
It was proposed and carried that Sir Harry S. Parkes K. C. B. should be
asked to accept the office of President,
The following officers were then elected by ballot :-
James Henderson M.D.
Thomas Hanbury
Vice President.
Corresponding Secretary.
Treasurer.
Recording Secretary.
H. W. Dent
R; Alex. Jamieson
R. Hart
F. C. Sibbald M. D
Directors.
R. F. Gould
O. R. Crockett
Librarian.
The meeting then adjourned.
6th May, 1864.
Sir Harry S. PARKES K. C, B., President, in the chair.
Doctor Lamprey (67th Regt.) and Messrs. Rennie, Koch, Dore, F. A.
Groom, Pollard, MacDonald, Oliphant and Johnstone were elected Resident
members.
The inaugural address was delivered by the President.
Mr. Wylie exhibited four impressions of inscriptions on a remarkable arch
near the great wall (See page 163).

176
SUMMARY OF PROCEEDINGS.
Mr. Hanbury exhibited a collection of coleopterous and other insects,
made during the past summer in the province of Che-keang.
The meeting then adjourned.
June 8th, 1864.
Sir Harry S. PARKES K. C. B., President, in the chair.
H. E. Ying, Taotai of Shanghai, Doctor Elliot and Messrs. J. Markham,
F. B. Johnson, J. Nutt, C. E. Parker, O. K. Gordon, J. T. F. Bowker, W.
Pardon, A. Vischer, E. Marston, G. J. W. Cowie, J. G. Dunn, G. A. Brett,
W. Tarrant, J. G. Marray, Thos. Dick, C. Jamieson and E. Oppert were
proposed as Resident members.
DONATION:-From W. Saunders Esq-A Series of nine interesting views
in Japan.
Doctor Lamprey read a paper on Architecture in China, for which
the thanks of the meeting were voted.
The meeting then adjourned.
July 6th 1864.
Sir Harry S. PARKES K. C. B., President, in the chair.
H. E. Ka, late Perfect of Sung-kong, Captains Fairbrother and Drummond
and Lieut. Wood (2nd Belooch Regt), Doctor Miller, and Messrs. C. J. King,
W. Cheshire, J. K. Davis, J. S. Mackintosh, A. A. Cross, and W. W. King,
were proposed as Resident members.
DONATION:-From the Imperial Royal Zoological and Botanical Society
of Vienna, several volumes of Transactions.
Doctor Henderson V. P. read a paper on The Character of the Chinese,
and received the thanks of the meeting.
A series of rubbings from the Confucian temple at Wu-chang fu were
exhibited.
The meeting then adjourned.
August 5th, 1864.
Sir Harry S. PARKES K. C. B., President, in the chair.
Messrs. Thos. Martin, H. S. Batchelor, J. Jameson, T. Canny, H. A.
Sidford and A. R. Tilby were proposed as Resident members.
A report on the Rugged Islands by Mr. Wilds, H. M. S. Swallow (See
page 139) was read.
Extracts from a report by Major Edwards R. E. on the state of the sea
wall at Hang-chow bay were also read (See page 169).
An account of the appearance of Nanking immediately after its recapture
was given by Mr. Alabaster.
The meeting then adjourned.
September 5th, 1864.
Sir Harry S. PARKES K. C. B., President, in the chair.
The Rev. F. K. Mitchell, Messrs. H. P. Hanssen, F. B. Forbes, A. Little,
N. Latimer, R. R. Westall, A J. Adams, E. Anderson, J. McCollop, J. P.
Lynill and A. Stout were proposed as Resident members. T. T. Canny Esq.
read a paper on The Coast of Russian Manchuria (See page 106) for
which the thanks of the meeting were voted.
The meeting then adjourned.