ARTICLE VI.
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
BY J.M. CANNY ESQ.
Read before the Society on 5th Sept. and 29th Nov. 1864.
The following paper on the Russian possessions on the
coast of Manchuria is the result of the writer's personal
experience while serving in the Russian navy in the years
1862-3. During that time he visited in succession almost
all the settlements and colonies along the sea-board of the
Amoor Territory and the opposite island of Saghalien; and
living as he did amongst the Russians themselves, hearing
their opinions and having access to all the information within
their reach connected with the different places, he had many
facilities for seeing and judging of the country and its
inhabitants. When to this it is added, that a slight know-
ledge of the Russian language enabled the writer to com-
municate with the settlers at the different ports, including
soldiers, peasants and convicts, and to ask them of their
hopes and fears, their joys and sorrows, the society will be
at once in possession of the various sources of information
from which this paper is drawn, and of the circumstances
under which it was written.
In order, however, to understand more clearly what
follows, it will be necessary to take a brief retrospect of the
facts connected with the occupation of this country by the
Russians. It is only a few years, no doubt, since the
annexation actually occurred, and the leading events of the
affair are still familiar to many of the gentlemen here pre-
sent to night; but nevertheless the present state of the
country is so intimately connected with its past, and so much
the result of that annexation, that a brief glance at history
is indispensable for a complete apprehension of the subject.
Down to the middle of the present century the posses-
sions of Russia on the Eastern coast of Asia, did not extend
further south than the 55th parallel of North latitude.
Aian in the sea of Okhotsk and Petropauvloosk in the
peninsula of Kamschatka were her two most southerly settle-
ments; and these were quite inaccessible to traders for the
greater part of every year. It was consequently natural
for the Russians, located in these inhospitable regions, to

THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
107
cast their eyes longingly southwards, where there were ports
and harbors in which their ships could conveniently winter,
and a country rich in timber and other unexplored resources,
and but loosely held in the feeble grasp of the Chinese
Government. It would have been a tempting bait even to a
less aggressive nation than the Russian; but to a man like
the Emperor Nicholas it was irresistible. In the year 1849.
therefore the first advance was made to the south, and
Petrovsk on the Northern entrance to the straits of Sagha-
lien or Tartary was occupied. In the year 1850 the exact
position of the mouth of the Amoor was determined, and in
1857, Nicholaiëfsk, now the center of government for the
whole of Maritime Siberia, was founded. Shortly after, in
1853, De Castries Bay, latitude 51° N, and Port Imperial,
lat. 48 were taken possession of, and a military post of
150 men located at Aniva Bay in the South of Saghalien.
This was a rather rapid advance southward-seven degrees
of latitude on the main-land and the whole southern end of
the island of Saghalien were annexed-and from the facility
with which it was done and the want of opposition on the
part of either natives or Chinese, there seemed much to hope
from the future.
But hitherto the occupation of territory and the advance
of the Russians had been confined to the coast-and the
great valleys of the Amoor and Usuri as well as Manchuria
proper remained still as they had been for centuries, Chinese
soil. Russia might have wished, as no doubt she did, to
advance down the Amoor and thus obtain an easy communi-
cation between the far interior of Siberia and the ocean-but
the opportunity was wanting; and without the opportunity
she was obliged to wait and watch.
She had not long, however, to wait. The outbreak of
the Crimean war was just the opportunity she wanted.
England and France were occupied in Europe, and Russia
was left to do her will in Asia. But it must be admitted
that while the Crimean war afforded her an opportunity of
extending her possessions in Eastern Asia, it also, to a
certain extent, imposed the necessity of so doing on her.
Russia could not have well avoided the invasion of the
Amoor Territory in 1854. She had several men of war out
here, some of which had been chased half round the world
by the Allied fleets. They had no ports of refuge, no place
where they could provision in safety;-Aian and Petropauv-
loosk were perfectly open to the attack and blockade of the
allies; the sea-board of China was still more insecure, and
the coast of America equally unsafe. It was a trying time
for them a stormy period that of the spring of 1854 :-
clouds surrounding the horizon on every side and hardly

108
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
one glimmer of hope anywhere visible.
The difficulties, however, were bravely and successfully
met. In the beginning of that same year, Count Mouraviev,
Governor General of Siberia, who, by the way, should not
be confounded with his namesake of Polish notoriety, fitted
out an expedition of 1,000 men with provisions and supplies
for the fleet; and while the snow was still on the ground
they marched out of Irkutsk for the head waters of the
Amoor. In May they reached the Shulka, one of its upper
sources where a small steamer built in the Trans-Baikal,
and a fleet of fifty rafts were in readiness to convey them
down the river. On their passage they met with a good
deal of opposition from the Manchus and local mandarins-
but nothing in the shape of positive resistance. They were
too strong for the small Chinese posts along the river. In
July they reached the sea, and the object of the expedition
was accomplished-the fleet in the Pacific was relieved, a
place of refuge opened for it, and a grand line of some 2,000
versts of water communication connecting the interior of
Siberia with the sea was for the first time thrown open to
the Russians and the civilized world.
From that time forward, we may look upon the northern
valley of the Amoor as virtually Russian territory. Strong
military posts were located at different strategic points along
the river. In 1855-6 and 7, men were poured down by the
thousand, and such a firm hold was taken of the country
that it became, thenceforth, utterly impossible for the Chinese
ever to recover what they had lost. But while the Russians
kept strengthening themselves on the Amoor they did not
quite neglect the coast of Manchuria. In 1858 Olga Bay
was occupied; and in 1860 Ports May and Passiet, both in
Victoria Bay and the most southerly of any of the places
hitherto annexed, were formally taken possession of. This
completed the list-Russia had gone as far South as she
could; her territory reached to the Northern frontier of the
Corea-only the Shan-a-liu chain of mountains separating
her from that country. It was a natural boundary which
Russia did not deem it either advisable or prudent to pass, and
which has remained and is likely to remain the frontier line
between the two countries on the south.
Up to 1857 Russia had invaded and taken possession of
Chinese territory without any attempt to obtain a legal right
to it. In that year, however, overtures were made to get a
formal cession of the country from the government at Pekin
-but unsuccesfully. In 1858 they were again renewed, while
the Chinese were smarting after the capture of Canton, and
so effectually, that a treaty was obtained from the Emperor
transferring the left bank of the Amoor and the right bank

THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
109
of the Usuri to the sea, to the Russians. In 1859, after our
repulse at the Taku forts, the Chinese government denied
the authenticity of this treaty:-but the taking of the Summer
Palace in 1860 by the Allies brought them again to their
senses, and in November of the same year a new and much
more ample treaty was signed, transferring, once and for
ever, the whole of the newly acquired territory to the Russian
government. By this treaty Russia obtained a sea-board of
over 700 miles in extent, and a stretch of country along the
Amoor of more than 2,000 versts inland.
It was in the autumn of 1862 that the opportunity first
presented itself to me of visiting the country. I was at the
time on board an eleven-gun corvette which was ordered
from Hakodadi to make a survey in Victoria Bay. The
survey lasted eleven weeks; and during that time we visited
many parts of the coast of the southern Manchuria and the
two Russian settlements of Ports May and Passiet.
Victoria, or Peter the Great's Bay, as the Russians call
it, is a large inlet extending N. E. and S. W. for 140 miles,
and indenting the coast westward to a depth of some 40
miles. Its northern boundary is Cape Polormpoëe and on
the south it reaches to the Corea. It is a noble bay,
possessing, in its center a magnificent group of islands called
the Eugenie Archipelago and several fine harbors and
anchorages in which ships are safe at all seasons of the
year. The country all along its western and northern shores
is exceedingly fertile and productive; it is thickly wooded,
and watered by numerous small streams from the coast
range. To the north, Victoria Bay is divided into two deep
gulfs, called respectively Guerin and Napoleon, by Albert
peninsula; and on the southern extremity of this peninsula
is situated Port May, the chief Russian settlement on the
coast of Manchuria. The name of Port May, which it has
in our charts, has been changed by its present masters, who
call it Vladi-vostock-Dominion of the East. It is in 43°.3'
N. and 131°.58' W. and within two days and a half of
Hakodadi by steam. About 120 miles south of Port May or
Vladi-vostock is Passiet-the next most important place in
southern Manchuria. Passiet is the frontier post on the
south betweeen the Russians and the Chinese. It is only a
few miles from the River Tumen, the actual boundary, and
within sight of the Shan-a-liu chain of mountains which
divides Manchuria from the Corea.
Both Ports May and Passiet are military settlements-
especially the former, the governor of which has more ment
under his command and more extended powers than any
other on the coast. He it is who superintends the postal
communication with the different settlements and colonies,

110
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
and the despatch of couriers to the center of government at
Nicholaiëfsk on the Amoor during the winter. In the
summer there is no regular post maintained-the carriage
of letters and despatches being effected in an uncertain,
irregular manner by means of the government transports on
the coast; but in the winter, when the rivers and lakes get
frozen over and travelling may be done in sledges, there is
a fortnightly overland mail. The route taken by the mail
carriers is from Vladi-vostock to Lake Hanka, and from
thence in sledges down the river Usuri to the Amoor-the
whole journey being made in a month or five weeks.
The Russian settlement at Vladi-vostock on our arrival
there in September 1862, consisted of some twelve or fifteen
log huts with a population of fifty or sixty men and only two
women. The men with a few exceptions were all either
soldiers or sailors-the less said about the women, the better.
They were pardoned convicts sent down from Siberia and
given their freedom and liberty at Vladi-vostock. The excep-
tions referred to amongst the men, were, two free peasants, a
tavern keeper, and an agent of the Russian Amoor company
who kept a small store of what the Americans call "notions."
Rum, sugar, printed cottons, woollen stuffs and all sorts of
imaginable things, were given in exchange for furs, or sold
at an exorbitant price for Russian roubles.
All the houses at Vladi-vostock are wooden structures
-one story high,-such as are commonly known as block
houses. The trees are felled, stript of their bark, and then,
without any further preparation than that of cutting them to
the proper length, are laid longitudinally one over the other
-the interstices being stopped with oakum, flax or coarse
grass to keep out the wind. At the angles they are morticed
and joisted into one-another-the structure being completed
by a wooden roof painted red or green, and a few glass
windows. They look rather picturesque from ship-board
with their coloured roofs and white window-frames gleaming
amongst the trees, and contrasting with the brown, unpainted
timber that forms the side of the house. They are well built
and durable structures, but they become fearfully infested
with insects, and are hot and uncomfortable in summer. The
hospital, one of the first buildings we visited on shore, was
comparatively clean and orderly, but it was utterly impractic-
able to rid it of the thousands of insects and creeping things
that congregated in the crevices and interstices of the timbers.
In the house of the port captain or governor this evil was
partially remedied by having the walls of the rooms well
cleaned and papered; but whenever the paper got torn, as it
frequently did on such an uneven surface, the insects would
again make their appearence-much to the discomfort of a

THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
111
stranger visiting the place for the first time, though without
in the least disquieting the permanent residents.
Besides the houses already noticed, there are in Vladi-
vostock barracks for the military and sailors, two or three
government stores, a church, bake-house and public bath-the
latter, no unnecessary appendage, by the way, to a Russian
colony. All these are substantial wooden structures-the
church in particular, which is the best building in the place.
Attached to it is a very old padre, or pope as the Russians
call their priests, who was chaplain in the navy so long ago.
as 1812. He remembered quite distinctly the death of
Catherine the second, and had served in almost every part of
Russia from Bessarabia to the Amoor. Nevertheless he was
still strong and hearty; and seemed to care little about the
prospect of ending his days in such a solitary, out-of-the-way
place as Vladi-vostock. His wants were few and easily
satisfied. An invitation to dine on board ship, where he could
get something better than his own coarse fare of black bread
and fish or some sort of meat, was enough to make him per-
fectly happy. The present of a few roubles for the decoration
of his church never failed to bring down his blessings. Hi
room-he had only a single room to live in-which I frequently
visited, was primitive in the extreme. Its whole furniture
consisted of a rude wooden bedstead-the linen of which was
neither very fine nor very carefully arranged-a table, a
chair and two or three old religious books. The walls were
bare and unpainted; and the only ornament visible was a
picture of our Saviour in one of the angles of the apartment
before which a small lamp was suspended.
The house of the governor, one of the most pretentious
buildings in the place, is located in the center of the settle-
ment without any enclosure or compound to separate it from
the others. It is an oblong structure of about 45 feet by 30
feet, divided into four apartments-a sitting room, two bed
rooms and a kitchen. The interior of the house with its
furniture and fittings, has been admirably described by M.
Lindau in the Revue des deux Mondes for August 1863 :-
the sitting room, "in the middle of which was a round table
covered with an old cloth, on which were scattered glasses.
and cups, cigars, cigarettes, an open book and some journals;
behind the table a sofa which bore traces of long use; in
another corner, a square table for writing, and underneath,
as a sort of carpet, a magnificent bear skin on which no one
had ever trod; above the table a portable book case was
attached to the wall, containing treatises on navigation and
meteorology, as well as some French novels. Near the
window there was another table, the work of a sailor, and on
this, as well as on the sill, might be seen jumbled together

112
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
indiscriminately, uniform caps, a tobacco bag, boxes of cigars
and several tattered volumes of the works of Gogul, Poushkin,
Lermonthog and Krylov. Round the room were hung a
number of bad likenesses of the Tzar and different members
of the imperial family, alternating with those of the relatives
and friends of the master of the house. In another part was
suspended a carbine and revolver, two swords, a pair of
pistols, a cocked hat, a pair of spurs, together with a riding-
whip, a marine glass, a barometer and thermometer." The
description is admirable; it would be perfectly accurate only
for one oversight-M. Lindau failed to notice a pack of cards.
I have never been in the house of a Russian officer on the
coast of Manchuria in which I did not see not only one, but
several packs of them thrown loosely about the sitting room.
They are as indispensible to a Russian as food and drink; they
are the resource by which he contrives to trifle away the dull
summer's day and the long winter nights in these lonely
regions. But though not elegantly or tastefully fitted up, we
passed some very jolly evenings in the house of Lieutenant
Bouratchock whose hospitality was unbounded. In fact, he
kept open house for us during our stay, and hardly an even-
ing passed without a party of officers going there to play
lansquenet, or otherwise amuse themselves. A supper of
venison, fowl or fresh pork with black bread was served
every evening at 10 p. m., after which vodhka and brandy
made their appearance. Invitations were never given on
these occasions; every one came and went just as he pleased
--it was hospitality sans cérémonie.
The officers at Vladi-vostock and all the coast settle-
ments pass a dreadfully isolated and lonely life. Cut off
almost completely from communication with the rest of the
world, it is rarely that anything occurs to disturb the
monotony of their existence. Months frequently pass without
their hearing from home, and a newspaper half a year old is
quite a god-send to them. Lieutenant Hildebrandt told me
that he had been on one occasion for over five months with-
out having any authentic information from home, either in
the shape of letters or newspapers-and that, at a time when
the internal state of Russia was extremely critical-the period
of the emancipation of the serfs.
During the summer there are occasional breaks in the
dulness and monotony of these places; ships arrive with
letters and periodicals, and the daily routine of life in
superintending the men at work, is in itself a distraction. But
in winter everything is in a state of stagnant unchange; the
sailors and soldiers are shut in by the cold and cannot en-
gage in out-door labor. One day follows another without
variety. The officers sleep, smoke and play cards; they

THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
115
It was rumored at the time that 1,000 men were shortly to
arrive from Nicholaiëfsk to construct batteries and forts:-
but the rumor turned out to be a myth. The men did not
come, and the construction of the batteries was deferred
sine die. The real cause of the delay was owing, I believe,
to the fact that the government had not decided whether
they were to be erected at Passiet or Vladi-vostock. Both of
these places possess fine harbors-particularly the latter;
but they are not naturally strong, and it would be difficult
to protect either of them satisfactorily. Vladi-vostock might
be easily protected from an attack by sea, as the entrance
to the harbor is narrow and admirably suited for defence--
but it is perfectly open to the attack of landing parties, and
is completely under the command of a ridge of hills on the
opposite side of the ba y-only a mile and a half distant.
Passiet is more expo sed still, and might be shelled without
any difficulty by a fleet. In the summer of last year,
Generals Condratiev and Ushakov were sent from the
capital of Siberia to judge of the capabilities of these ports;
and an adjutant of the Emperor sent from St. Petersburg
followed directly after. What the result of their inspection
has been, I am unable to say, their reports were sent ir
to the government last winter, but have not, as far as I am
aware, yet been made public.
The native inhabitants of Port May and of all the country.
round Victoria Bay, are a Manchu race, intermixed with
Chinese and a few Goldi from the head waters of the Usuri.
They are, for the most part, adventurers who have run away
from the neighbouring Chinese provinces, and made their
way into Manchuria in order to avoid the punishment for
crime or debt at home, or through a mere spirit of adventure.
On this account they are almost all young or middle aged.
men with hardly a woman or child amongst them. They
cannot bring their families with them, of course, when they
leave China; and in Southern Manchuria there is no ahor-
iginal race with whom they can again inter-marry. Further
North the country is inhabited by the Tazas or Oroches, and
when the Manchus wander so far up the coast, they take
wives from amongst them with whom they form temporary
unions. The natives of the country round Victoria Bay live
in small villages of from three or four to a dozen miserable
cabins, and pass their time in hunting and the cultivation of
small plots of ground. Some of them, especially those that
live near Hanka lake and the Upper Usuri, cultivate the Gin-
seng plant, and others devote themselves to the search after
gold which has been found in small quantities in the beds
of the rivers that flow from the coast range.
In their dress and personal appearance they hardly

116
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
differ from the Chinese. They shave the head, and wear a
tail, but they are dirtier in their habits, and generally speak-
ing, possess a much coarser and more Mongolian type of
features. During the winter they wrap themselves in skins
and furs which they seldom change, and in the summer they
wear white and blue cottons tied round the body with cords
and strings. These garments are almost invariably in a
tattered, ragged condition, and have very little to boast
of in the matter of cleanliness. Their shoes are after the
Manchu fashion; they are made of tanned leather and are
similar in shape to those worn throughout Manchuria Proper.
They live in miserable cabins made of reeds and long grass.
Several of the native huts which I have seen on the coast
were so small that a man could not stand erect in them, and
so narrow that there was only room in the interior for two
beds-one on each side of the entrance. These beds, which
were almost on a level with the ground, were covered with
bear and deer skins; the inmates sat and lounged on them
during the day and slept on them at night. In the large
villages of the interior the houses are said to be much better.
Even on the coast I have seen some two or three comfortable
houses, built of roughly hewn planks after the northern
Chinese style.
It may not be amiss here to correct a statement of M.
Lindau's, in the article already referred to in the Revue des
Deux Mondes, with regard to the natives of this part of
Manchuria. Speaking of some he had seen at Vladi-vostock
he says: "Ils etaient hidieux de saleté et de laideur, et il y
avait dans leur regard farouche et craintif quelque chose
de la bête fauve."-"They were hideously dirty and ugly,
and there was something of the wild beast in their fierce,
cowering look." Nothing could convey a more erroneous
idea of them in my opinion. I have seen far more of the
natives of the whole country both north and south than
M. Lindau has, and I must say, that any one who should take
the above statement as a literal fact applying to the people
in general, would be very much mistaken indeed. That many
of them are both dirty and ugly, I am readily prepared to
admit; but that they are offensively so,-"hideous with dirt
and uglinesss" is far from being correct. I have seen few of
them, no doubt, whose clothes or person might not have been
improved by a bath-but none that were so bad as M. Lin-
dau's words would seem to imply. The same may be said with
regard to their good looks-many of them are certainly ugly
enough; but I have seen among them some fine-looking, well
made Manchus, standing over six feet high, and models of
anything but ugliness. There is no reason why these men
should be either fierce or cowering. I have never noticed

120
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
they were prepared to catch them with nets and spears-
but they were so numerous that they were afraid the nets
would break, and they rushed into the midst of them and
began tossing them on shore with their hands. Next morn-
ing they returned on board with nine poodhs weight (324 lb.
English) of salmon. The natives, when they have salted
and dried enough salmon for the winter's consumption, carry
the surplus into the interior where they exchange it with
the more settled Manchus for clothes, millet, pipes, powder
&c. They also bring for barter a species of sea-weed which
is much esteemed and which they collect in large quantities
round Victoria Bay. It is not so good as the Japanese. I
have seen as many as fifty or sixty closely packed bundles
(about 70 or 80 lbs. each) of this at Vladi-vostock ready to be
sent down the coast for transportation into the interior. I
am unable to say what price was demanded per bundle.
Capt. Fletcher says it is equal to No. 3 Japanese but much
dearer.
Gin-seng can hardly be said to be an article of commerce
in any of the coast settlements. It is chiefly cultivated in the
interior, towards the upper waters of the Usuri, and the
Manzas of the seaboard set quite an extravagant value on it..
I remember having been once asked $160 for a handful of
roots by a native. He kept it carefully preserved in a rich,
black clay, wrapped up in birch bark. It was much whiter
and more transparent than Japanese Gin-seng and quite
smooth on the surface. Near Hanka Lake Gin-seng can be
bought for a very moderate price; and further north on the
coast I have seen living plants sold for $3 or $4 a piece. A
native of Olga Bay made me a present of one in August last
year, with the necessary instructions as to its proper treat-
ment. It was to be planted in the richest earth I could get-
to be kept moderately watered, and screened from the sun's
rays. I followed my instructions to the letter-watering it
daily and protecting it from the sun with a white cloth,.
according to the advice of my Manza friend, but all my care
was useless. In about ten days it began to wither, and died
in a few weeks after.
A word about the timber trade of Southern Manchuria..
This is the only trade in the country at present which might
be really valuable, and it is the only trade which the govern-
ment interdicts. Permission was granted, a short time ago
to export lumber from Port Imperial-a small settlement on
"Capt. Fletcher says that the salmon is of a very fair description-
somewhat similar to Japanese; but not so good as English.
Beche de Mer of an excellent quality is found all round Victoria Bay!
but the natives asked such a high price for it ($60 a poodh) that they must
have a better market for it in the interior than is to be had at Shanghai.

122
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
common. There is hardly any other disease known, how-
ever, and the country is said by the Russians to be exceed-
ingly healthy. In winter the cold is severe-the harbor of
Vladi-vostock being frozen over for nearly four months, and
Passiet for nearly the same time. The following table of
Meteorological observations will give a correct idea of the
temperature of Passiet. It was given to me by Captain
Cherkasky who was himself the compiler. It shews the
average temperature for each month of the year 1861-2
according to Reaumur's thermometer.
September
October....
November
December
January
1861-2.
...
... +11°
+42
...
1
8
8
February
March
April
May...
June
July...
August
...
...
...
...
...
...
***
...
...
...
5
07
+6
+92
+14
+18
+17
North of Victoria Bay there are several Russian settle-
ments on the coast, but only three of any great importance.
These are, Olga Bay, Port Imperial and De Castries Bay.
Port Imperial, or, as we call it, Barracouta Bay, I have not
seen, but Olga and De Castries I visited last year, and made
a stay of six weeks at the former. As there is nothing how-
ever to distinguish De Castries Bay from the Russian
settlements already described-nothing very remarkable
about it, except that it is the port of call for vessels bound
to the Amoor, in which they can get pilots and steamers to
tow them through the difficult navigation of the Liman,-I
will conclude the present paper with a description of Olga,
which is a purely agricultural settlement and as such some-
what different in character and type from the others.
Olga Bay, situated 43° 40' N. by 135° W. was discovered
during the Crimean war by Captain Forsyth in H. M. S.
Hornet, and called by him Port Seymour. In 1857 it was
visited by Admiral Count Putiatine, who gave it its present
name and decided on sending a colony thither. The colony
arrived in the following year, and consisted of an officer
with about a dozen sailors under his command and five or
six agriculturists with as many women-all pardoned con-
victs. These latter the government supplied with everything
necessary to their new position,-farming implements, live
stock and grain, and agreed to support them for two years,

THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
125
life; while the sable and squirrel are shot by him for their
valuable furs which are exported in large quantities into
China and across the Russian frontier to Haborovka and
Nicholaiëfsk.
The Tazas are the Oroches of European geographers-they
inhabit the sea-coast of Manchuria from Olga Bay to near
De Castries, seven degrees of latitude, and are quite a distinct
race from the Goldi and Manguns of the Usuri and Amoor.
One proof of this is in their different ways of dressing the
hair another in the fact that the Tazas do not tattoo them-
selves a practice very common amongst the Goldi and
Manguns.
It may not be uninteresting here to give some extracts
from a diary which I kept during my stay in Olga last summer.
It will give an idea of the life a European may lead in such
an out-of-the-way place. I had been up to the Amoor and
the island of Saghalien in a gun-boat with Admiral Popov,
and on our return six officers and myself were left at Olga
to wait the arrival of the flag ship to which we belonged.
She was here in Shanghai undergoing repairs, and instead
of a few days, as we anticipated, we had to remain six weeks
before she came.
DIARY-
July 27th. Left by the Admiral at Olga Bay with six
officers to wait for the Bogatier. The governor of the settle-
ment has given us half his house. We have all squatted
ourselves, however, in one large room-two of us only having
sofas, the others being obliged to sleep on the floor. There
are no beds; one fellow has got a bear skin, and another a
Japanese mat,-the rest manage as best they can.
The Abreck left yesterday, so that we are now quite
July 28th.
alone in this barbarous place. Except the society.
of the commandant and wife who speak nothing but Russian,
there is no one with whom we can converse. About a dozen
sailors, with as many peasants and their wives-these latter
all pardoned convicts-make up the rest of the community.
The peasants live about a verst inland, where they have from
15 to 20 acres of land under cultivation-and we, on a hill
overhanging the bay. There are two bays at Olga, an outer
and an inner-the latter, round which the settlement is built,
is perfectly land-locked and about a mile and a half in length
by three quarters of a mile wide. Our resources for passing
the time until the Bogatier comes, are:-a couple of guns, a
boat to pull round the bay, a small collection of books, four
dozen of wine-and a few packs of cards.
July 29th.
Got a horse and rode into the country for about
ten versts-The country through which we passed was very
beautiful-lovely green hills crowned with timber-valleys

126
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
open and free from any impediment to cultivation. Reached
a few native houses and had a sort of conversation in broken
Russian with the master, a tall good looking Manza. The
interior of the house was neat and comfortable-construction
of the fire-place rather peculiar. A square dais or platform
of masonry about two feet high by four or five wide extends
nearly the whole length of the house. At one end of this is
the fire-place, from which a tube or channel runs longitudin-
ally under the dais, and after passing beneath the wall of
the house, close to the foundation, suddenly turns upwards
and forms a regular chimney on the outside. By this neams
the smoke is all utilized and made to heat the dais on which
the inmates sleep at night and lounge during the day. Several
bear and stag skins were spread over it which were used
both as bedding and covering. Many junks of dried venison
and some sacks of rice were to be seen, the house was as
comfortable in fact as the houses of the Russian peasants-
though not so substantially built nor so warm in winter.
Two or three Taza cabins stood near the house of the Manza
-wretched abodes built of reeds and long grass. Two women
and a man were lounging about them. They were neither
clean nor good looking and their huts were closs and stifling.
This place is fearfully infested with insects
July 31st.
and all sorts of creeping things. Mosquitos and
other more dangerous insects, at night-and millions of the
most tormenting flies during the day. We have no mosquito
curtains of course-such a luxury was never seen at Olga.
It has been raining for several days, so that
Aug. 4th.
we get up to our knees in mud and slush when we
leave the house. Some of the fellows have been out to shoot
once or twice, but returned with only a few small birds and
a solitary duck. No fishing to be had at this season of the
year. Yesterday we were amused by the arrival of four or
five natives, both Manzas and Tazas, with venison and wild
boar for sale. Our host, who acts as caterer for us, bought
a side of vension weighing over forty pounds for a dollar-
and twice the quantity of wild-boar for three.
We visit almost every day the houses of
Aug. 7th.
the peasants. The men are good looking and
have very little of the appearance of convicts about them,
but the women on the contrary, are coarse, ill-looking and
forbidding. These Russian peasants are the laziest men
imaginable. We never enter the village without finding
some of them lounging about their doors, wasting their
time smoking and drinking. They are true Asiatics in indol-
ence, and Russians in their passion for vodhka. As for the
women-they are hardly the class suited to increase the
population of the country.

THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
127
The houses of the peasantry are rather comfortable and
clean, if we make allowance for the thousands of insects that
are generated in the crevices of the wood. With their liberty
and freedom from official interference, the peasants are better
off, in my opinion, than they would be at home. The single
apartment, which is kitchen, sleeping room and all, in these
houses, is invariably boarded-the walls either white washed
or papered with the leaves of books. I was surprised to find
among the ornaments which decorated one of them, an old
number of the Illustrated London News and a placard of
Bass's Pale Ale! There is always a heavy, oppressive
atmosphere in these houses, owing to the large Russian stove;
and I cannot remain any time in one without sitting near the
open window.
Aug. 24th.
More boating and shooting, with occasional
excursions several miles up the Gilbert river and a
few short rides on horse-back. Shooting good in the interior,
but not so, near the coast.
Have had several visits during the past ten days from
Tazas. They come to sell furs and game, and buy lead. One
of them had some Ginseng plants to dispose of. They navi-
gate the bay and rivers that fall into it, in boats of from
twenty to thirty feet long formed from a single tree scooped
hollow. I have seen a whole family, husband and wife with
a couple of children, in one of these open boats-their entire
furniture consisting of a few skins, a matchlock, fishing spear
and some dry birch-bark used as torches for their night
fishing. Their fishing spear is a three pronged instrument
with a double barb on each prong. Was down yesterday at
the jetty when a Taza boat arrived. There was on board a
family consisting of husband, wife and child. The woman
exceedingly good looking-pretty in fact, with a rich olive
complexion, regular features, brilliantly white teeth and large
pensive, dark eyes. Never saw a better looking Tartar wo-
man-she was almost beautiful.
Have been to visit the native village again
Sept. 5th.
where I met a Manza. He repeated some words
in English and counted up to thirty with considerable
facility. He had Chinese ink and brushes with which he
was writing when we entered, but we were unable to make
out from him what he had been writing. Went into another
house and found the owner softening in hot water the hard
tendons at the roots of a stag's antlers. He was converting it
into a gelatine which is much prized all through Manchuria.
NOVEMBER 29TH.
In the paper read before the Society on the 5th September,
the writer gave his experience of the Russion settlements in

128
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
Southern Manchuria. In the present, he proposes to ad-
vance much further to the north, to the town of Nicholaiëfsk
on the Amoor river, and again off the mainland to the
posts of Kusunai and Dui on the island of Saghalien. The
subjects have much in common-the Russian settlements
both North and South, in Manchuria and in Saghalien, being
all to a certain extent alike, founded and established after a
particular type, and occupied by similar classes of men; but
at the same time a new field of enquiry is opened and many
new questions of interest are suggested. This is particularly
the case with that part of the subject which refers to the
settlements on Saghalien where the Russians are circums-
tanced very differently from their compatriots on the main-
land, and where they are brought into contact not only with
the aborignal races of the island but with the Japanese.
They have only two settlements on the whole island-viz.
Dui, where there is a considerable body of convicts who
work the coal mines, and Kusunai situated so low down as
48° N. lat. where the Russians and Japanese meet and have
two small out-posts on the frontier line. It was my good
fortune to visit these places in the summer of last year on
my way to the Amoor, and though in neither was my stay
very long, yet it was sufficient to enable me to see what the
Russians were doing, and how they conducted both their
own affairs and their relations with the natives and Japanese.
KUSUNAI-On the 8th of August 1863 I left Olga, and
after two days with calm weather and clear skies I found
myself before Kusunai, Lat 48° 35 N. and 142° E. The Rus-
sians first settled on Saghalien in 1853, when Dui and the
Muraviev post in Aniva Bay were occupied. During the war
they found it necessary to abandon both of these settlements
but shortly after the conclusion of peace in 1856, Dui was
again occupied, and a garrison of about twenty men sent to
Kusunai. On some grounds, which have not transpired, the
post in Aniva Bay was not re-established; so that Kusunai
is now the most Southern of the Russian possessions on the
island. It is an open road-stead, utterly unprotected, and
exposed to all gales from S. E. to N. We dropped a single
anchor about a mile and a half from shore, and from ship-
board we had an excellent view of the little settlement. It
is prettily situated on a rising ground some two hundred
yards from the beach, and is backed by a range of beautiful
green hills clothed with maple, birch and oak, and with
occasional patches of long rank grass on their slopes. The
houses are similar to those we have already seen on the
coast of Manchuria-black buildings of one story high, with
white sashed glass windows, and a wooden roof painted red
or green. That of the officer in charge of the post stood

THE SEA BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
129
out prominently on the summit of a hillock, and beside it a
flagstaff from which floated the Russian tricolor.
Shortly after casting anchor a party of us went on shore
with Admiral Popov, where we were met by the commandant
and about twenty soldiers whom he had under arms to receive
us. A group of six or eight natives, who formed in regular
military line, stood a few yards apart, looking curiously at
the novel spectacle. They were stout, strongly built fellows
of about the middle height, with the long hair, flowing beard
and regular eyes of the Aino. Their costume was after the
Japanese fashion, but some wore Russian boots and a few had
old military uniform caps which they removed on our approach.
They saluted us as we passed after the manner of Russian
peasants, and looked frightened at the crowd of strangers in
gold lace that surrounded them.
There are altogether only six or eight houses in Kusunai,
that of the governor hardly differing from the others in
furniture or appurtenances. The barracks, bakehouse and
bath-rooms which we visited were clean and orderly, but the
men seemed to feel their loneliness and isolation more than
their brethren on the mainland, and several of them
questioned the officers as to when they were likely to be
recalled to the Amoor. They have certainly a dull monotonous
time of it there-they are not agriculturists, and consequently
have no interest in the cultivation of the soil, but are a purely
military post, thrown on their own resources for occupation
or amusement nearly all the year round, and having hardly
any connexion or communication with the rest of the world.
There is no line of posts from Kusunai to the Amoor in winter,
as is the case with the settlements in Manchuria, and the
vessels on the coast very rarely visit the place in summer.
The little garrison had been left for nearly two years
previous to our visit without receiving either money or
supplies, and they were at one time so hard pressed for provi-
sions, that the men were obliged to be put on a short allowance
of black bread. Tea or sugar they had not tasted for ten
months, and the only thing in the shape of spirit they could
procure was a little saki from the Japanese.
The harbour of Kusunai, as has been already remarked,
is an open, unsheltered road-stead; a small stream which
runs in a S.W. direction and falls into it is almost the only
break on the coast line. This stream is the boundary between
the Russians and Japanese in Saghalien. The former occupy
the northern or right bank of the river about half a mile from
where it falls into the sea, and the latter have located them-
selves lower down on its left bank. Opposite their settlement,
which is nearer the mouth of the river than that of the
Russians, they had erected weirs, and so effectually dammed

130
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
the river across, the Russians were unable to get a single
salmon in their part of it. The Russian officer in charge
had frequently remonstrated and threatened, but remons-
trances and threats were useless:--the Japanese said that
they were the first comers, the rightful owners of the country,
and that to them belonged exclusively the privilege of fishing
in the river. The Russian officer in command of the station
was unwilling to push matters to an extremity and come to
open hostilities, although he might have done so with very
little risk; and the Japanese gained their point for the time.
Matters remained in this way up to the period of our arrival.
When the case was explained to the Admiral, however, he
made but short work of it. No interpreter being to be had
at the time, it was of course impossible to argue or reason
on the case with the Japanese; he therefore ordered a boat's
crew to break down a passage in the dam, and gave directions
at the same time to the Russians not to allow them to rebuild
it. I could not avoid admiring the coolness of the polished,
two sworded officer, a veritable Yakoneen, shaved in the
most approved fashion, during this trying scene. He seemed
to look on the work of the boat's crew with the utmost indif-
ference, though I have no doubt that he was vowing in his
own mind at the time to be even with the Russians on
some future occasion.
The Japanese settlement at Kusunai consists of about
half a dozen houses, built in the Japanese style, though
somewhat more substantial than the houses in Japan, in order
to resist the severe cold of the winter season. The precise
number of their garrison I am unable to state; it may be
safely set down, however, as within ten or twelve, in addition
to which we may add an equal number of natives employed
as servants. While we were parleying with the officers on
the right of fishing the river, we were surrounded by six or
eight of these latter. They were all pure Ainos, with broad
faces, small eyes and long black hair divided in the middle.
Two of the number were particularly not iceable and contrast-
ed strongly with the others. They were mere youths, of
what sex I could not determine; they stood somewhat aloof
from the crowd, and seemed rather afraid to approach us.
Their immense heads, broad, bloated features, and large,
dark lustrous eyes immediately characterised them as the
very exaggeration of the Aino type. There were no women
in the group, and if there were any in the houses they were
not visible.
We have just seen with what jealous watchfulness the
Japanese at Kusunai look after the Russians, and how ten-
aciously they adhere to their claims. They yield their ground
foot by foot and inch by inch, and submit to necessity only

THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
131
when they are absolutely obliged to do so. They are precisely
the neighbours for an aggressive nation like Russia. Their
ingenuity in creating obstacles and impediments stands in
the place of physical force, and gives them a means of check-
mating the Russians, so long as there is no resort to arms.
This is the only alternative the Japanese have to dread; the
Russians could at any time drive them out of the island if they
wished to fight, but they are not prepared to do so. There
are diplomatic difficulties in the way; the treaty which opened
Japan to the nations of the west guaranteed the integrity of
Japanese territory, and Russia would have to answer to more
governments than one for any infraction of its terms. Even
as it is, however, the Russians look upon the whole island as
really theirs. I have hardly ever met one of them who does
not so consider it, and in a semi-official map of Oriental
Siberia in my possession, published in 1861, the whole of
Saghalien is coloured as if it were Russian territory. That
it will eventually be so, there can be no doubt, and I, for one
should not regret the change. If there is to be any amelior-
ation brought about in the lot of the natives, especially in that
of the interesting race of Ainos, it can only be accomplished
by the Russians. Any one who is at all acquainted with the
history of Northern Japan, and the grinding tyranny to which
the Ainos are subjected, must see that there is no hope from
the Japanese. Centuries of wrong have raised an insur-
mountable barrier of hate and fear between the two races,
and the Japanese of the present day, instead of trying to
remedy these evils, only perpetuate and augment them. The
'Aino in their eyes is but a dog and he is treated little better
than one.
Of the interior of Saghalien but very little is known.
The northern part of it was partially explored by Leopold
Von Schrenck, who crossed the island near 51° North latitude,
in a sledge drawn by dogs, in February 1856. The southern
part is still a terra incognita. The Russians have no settle-
ments in the interior, and it would appear, from all that can
be learned on the subject, that the Japanese are similarly
circumstanced. According to Schrenck, as quoted by Rav-
enstein, Saghalien is occupied by three different races-the
Gilyacks in the north, the Oroke on the east coast, and the
Ainos in the south. Of the Gilyacks we shall hear further
on:-the Orokes I have never come in contact with, they are
said to be a Tungusian race, and are the only people on
Saghalien who domesticate the rein-deer; they are a purely
Tartar tribe, however, akin to several on the mainland, and
with the oblique eye and high cheek bones of the Mongol.
With the Ainos it is quite different. These are possibly the
most curious and interesting people that Europeans have

THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
133
on the subject. Only a few copies of M. Mermet's book have
as yet reached China-none of which I have been able to see.
DUI Dui, 50° 46' N. 142°.20' E. is the second settle-
ment of the Russians on Saghalien. It is 120 miles north of
Kusunai and about 60 miles to the S. E. of Castries Bay on
the opposite coast. It is at present the great coaling station
of the Siberian fleet, and is the most populous of any of the
places hitherto described. Steaming in from the sea-ward,
the first object that strikes the eye is a range of hills 800 or
1,000 feet in height, which change their color from blue to
green as the vessel advances; and next a neatly built,
wooden light-house situated on a bold headland which over-
hangs the settlement and falls down to the beach in an
abrupt cliff of five or six hundred feet in height. Then, as
we approach nearer, the fir and larch, with which the hill
sides are clothed, become clearly visible-the cliffs seem to
rise higher and higher, the visitor strains his eye inland to
discern some positive indication of a village or a human
habitation, but nothing presents itself to his view except a
few black patches and streaks on one of the cliffs, which
might be the openings to coal beds or the stains of coal
working. A few minutes later, however, we can distinguish
a wooden jetty which runs for some twenty yards into the
sea, and two or three long, low sheds filled with coal. Then,
in a pretty little valley, lapped in between green hills, and
forming a regular vista, we see a line of block houses.
The settlement is composed of twenty or thirty houses
similar to those already seen on the coast of Manchuria,
winding along the valley for about half a mile inland. They
are pitched indiscriminately in all sorts of places, wherever
the owners' freak or fancy suggested, without any regularity
or system; a plot of ground for growing vegetables is at-
tached to each, and a net work of foot-paths leads from one
house to another. The barracks which we visited were rather
comfortable and in fair order, but badly ventilated. The ap-
pearance of the soldiers was not prepossessing, but their
rifles and side arms were kept clean and in good order, and
they themselves, if not very neat in their personnel, were
certainly stout, healthy fellows. Few of them appeared
to have suffered from bad health or the severity of the
climate, and in the hospital the cases of sickness were not
worth mentioning.
After visiting all government buildings, such as the bar-
racks, store houses, hospital etc. the house of the Nachalnick
posta-chief of the post, or governor, next claims attention.
It resembles in all essential particulars the houses before
described as occupied by Russian officers in these inhospit-
able regions. The personal comfort of the occupant is not

136 THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
pointed down towards the sea. The Gilyaks are the dirtiest
and most ill-favored of any of the Mongol races along the
Amoor, and their houses, which are miserable sheds con-
structed of fir bark, are described both by Tilley and Raven-
stein to be wretchedly filthy dens. Those which I saw were
mere hovels in which the whole family were huddled indis-
criminately together, the sexes living promiscuously. They
are said, however, by the Russians, not to be an incontinent
or debased race. Their notions of right and wrong, of
meum and tuum are, it is true, rather hazy-and if I could
believe the Russians whom I met on Saghalien and the
Amoor, they are the most vindictive and unforgiving of the
Mongol tribes of Eastern Asia. An injury is never forgiven
by them, and a wrong is only to be blotted out in the blood
of the wrong doer.
The Gilyaks dress something after the Chinese style;-
they do not shave the head, but train the hair backwards
into one or two plaits which fall on the shoulders. They
subsist chiefly on fish; but in the winter they support them-
selves by hunting, and carry on a barter trade in furs with
the Russians and the neighbouring tribes on Saghalien and
the mainland. From the Russians they get woollen cloths,
lead, powder and spirits. For these commodities they
exchange sable, fox and squirrel skins. The sable is bought
from the Gilyaks for three or four rubles, and forwarded to
St. Petersburg to realize from ten to fifteen. This trade is
principally in the hands of the American and the Amoor
companies, and with proper management very much might
be made out of it, but it has not proved over lucrative, and
neither company has much to boast of its commercial success
on the Amoor.
With regard to the approach to the Amoor, and the
appearance of, and mode of life at Nicholaiëfsk, I cannot do
better than transcribe a few pages from a journal which I
kept at the time of my visit.
This morning at 2 a.m. we left Castries Bay
July 2nd.
with its bold cliffs and steep headlands. Today
we are steaming slowly northward through the Liman or
narrow straits that separate the north-western shore of
Saghalien from the mainland. The shores on either side
are quite visible-on the right, the low, sandy shore of
Saghalien-and on the left the abrupt, hilly country that
intervenes between the lower Amoor and the Straits of
Tartary. Neither looks very inviting from ship-board. The
coast of Saghalien is a level sandy flat with a range of
mountains that looks like a blue mist, far away in the
interior, and the opposite mainland a bleak-northern looking
country, the hills covered with dark-hued spruce and pine,

138
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
the patient's name and disease.
There is, or ought to be, a telegraph between here and
Mariinsk, but although it was begun three years ago, it is
still in statu possibilitatis. It is like everything Russian
here; brilliant projects and grand schemes are being per-
petually canvassed and accomplished on paper-but their
accomplishment is confined to paper. This affair of tele-
graphic communication from Nicholaiefsk up the Amoor
river and on to Irkutsk and St. Petersburgh is an instance
-the fortress of Chnerah is an instance, and a railway across
the whole continent of Asia from Europe is another instance.
The telegraphic line was begun by the government in 1861,
and was to have been completed in some four or five years,
but I have not much hesitation in saying that it will not be in
working order in ten. At the time of my visit to Nicholaiefsk
last year, only 120 versts-80 miles-from Nicholaiefsk to
Mikhailovskoi were completed, and that short distance was
hardly ever in working order. The fortress of Chnerah is a
still more notable example of what I say. This was begun
in 1859 on a very large scale, and the Russians said great
things of it and looked upon it as the Sebastopol of the east.
Military engineers were sent from St. Petersburgh to
superintend its construction, two thousand convicts were
sent down the river to build it, and in three years some
3,000,000 rubles-about half a million sterling--was spent
on the work. The result has been that a few weeks before
our arrival orders suddenly came from St. Petersburgh to
stop the works, and it was found that the labour of 2,000
convicts for over three years was perfectly useless and that
half a million of money had been utterly thrown away!
I am far from denying, however, that the Russians have
done very much on the Amoor. On the contrary, I believe
they have done more than any other European Power could
have done under the circumstances. The mere fact of their
having some 50,000 European settlers in a country so remote
as Oriental Siberia, where ten years ago there was not one
single representative of our civilization, speaks for itself.
Then, they have opened up a country hitherto unknown to
Europeans, and established steam communication on a river
which is navigable for vessels of light draught 1,400 miles
inland. They have located a force of about 15,000 military
in the country, have constructed strong batteries and estab-
lished a dock yard.
The club house at Nicholaiefsk, although not entitled to
rank higher than a second class European tavern, is called
in Russian "The assembly or club of the nobles of Oriental
Siberia." Living at the club costs three rubles a day-about
$2.25. During the summer it is not much frequented, but

140
THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
houses (there is not one English merchant at Nicholaiefsk),
one or two to Mr. Sühdorf, a German merchant, and the
rest are government property.
It takes these vessels from 20 to 25 days to ascend the
river as far as Stretinsk-a distance of nearly 1,500 miles.
inland-but only 12 or 15 days to return. This is explained
by the fact that the current of the Amoor is very strong,
running some 4 knots an hour at Nicholaiëfsk, and the tides
in the river are hardly perceptible. These steamers do a
fair passenger and cargo trade, but from what I heard from
Mr. Sühdorf on the subject they were not paying. Accord-
ing to him, there were too many of them, and the summer
was too short to allow of their making a sufficient number
of runs. The navigation of the river is open about the 20th
of May and closed about the middle of November, and during
that time the river steamers can make only four or, at the
very utmost, five trips up and down.
I am rather surprised to learn that the Russians have
hitherto taken no steps to convert the native races that have
come under their rule. There are no missionaries amongst
them, and all the priests that I have seen here are for the
exclusive service of their countrymen. The French, how-
ever, have not overlooked the field, and several of them have
made their way from Peking and Shanghai through Mongolia
to the Amoor. Amongst others Père Franclet, a Lazarist
missionary, who was lately in Shanghai but is now in
Sze-chuen.
July. 19th,
Have been several times at the stores of the
"Amoor company" to buy some things, but
can never get what I want. This company started originally
under very favorable auspices, but has now almost fallen to
pieces.
The Russians have done very much to improve the
country round Nicholaiëfsk, but it still remains bleak and
desert like. The town is surrounded on all sides by dreary
patches of forest land whence the timber has been cut, but
the stumps still remain in the ground, and being from a foot
to a foot and a half in height are exceedingly inconvenient
to the traveller either on foot or on horseback. There is
hardly anything in the shape of cultivation to be seen in the
neighbourhood, if we except a farm of the governor's and a
few acres of cultivated land at a village some five or six
miles distant. Oats, barley, rye and some vegetables are
the only productions.
There are no roads in the neighbourhood, at least no-
thing that we would characterize by that name, and only
foot paths lead from one settlement to another. The great
highway is the river-on the banks of which, or only a few

THE SEA-BOARD OF RUSSIAN MANCHURIA.
141
miles inland, all the Russian settlements are situated, and
this is traversed by steamers for four or five months in the
summer and by sledges during the winter. The sledges for
the wealthier classes and for the government mail which
arrives fortnightly from Europe, are drawn by horses and
dogs. Throughout the whole course of the river there are
Cossack stations 20 or 30 versts apart, and at these stations
relays of horses are kept, and travellers can get a few
necessaries such as tea, bread and eggs during their winter
journeys.