ARTICLE II.
NOTES ON SOME OF THE PHYSICAL CAUSES WHICH
MODIFY CLIMATE.
BY JAMES HENDERSON, M. D.
Read before the Society, 21st May, 1861.
At the present time, when many people are considering
in what localities it will be best to seek residences for com-
mercial and other purposes in China, it will be neither.
uninteresting nor unprofitable to make a few remarks on a
subject which is confessedly one of the greatest interest and
importance. Two cities, even in the same degree of latitude
and of the same elevation, may be diametrically opposite in
climate; and it is highly desirable that every one, who visits
a new locality, should know" what ought to be observed," in
order to be able to pronounce that locality healthy or the
reverse.*
Great differences of opinion prevail as to what con-
stitutes a good or a bad climate; and this, I think, is
principally owing to neglect of the above rule, but partly to
a too limited view of so vast a subject, and perhaps partly,
also, to individual experience, since the same climate will
be found to kill one man while it cures another.
One man, for example, has no other idea of climate
than that of a locality situated on a certain degree between
the equator and the poles. Another confines his attention
to a certain degree of elevation above the level of the sea.
A third declares that climate is influenced only by local
elevation and latitude. A fourth, to make up his opinion,
asks for nothing more than a well-arranged table of
thermometric, hygrometric, and barometric degrees; while
a fifth declares that Hankow is very unhealthy, because the
river overflows its banks, and the streets of the city are
covered with water. Now, with all deference, I must say
that all these views are much too limited for a subject so
Malte Brun says, "Physical climate comprehends the degree of heat
and cold, the drought and humidity, and the salubrity which occur in any
given region of the earth."
Hooper says, "Climate is the prevailing constitution of the atmosphere,
relative to heat, wind, and moisture, peculiar to any region."

14 NOTES ON PHYSICAL CAUSES WHICH MODIFY CLIMATE.
comprehensive, and which is based on principles in physical
science so subtle and refined as that of climate. I believe
it is impossible to take a too comprehensive view of physical
climate, and the influence which it exerts on individuals of
different constitution and temperament. Many have the
idea that man's body can resist the injurious effects of
climate better than that of any other animal, except perhaps
the swine's. I am convinced that this is an error, if all
things are taken into account. Dr. James Johnson, whose
experience was great in this matter, says: "It is evident
that nature does not operate more powerfully in counteract-
ing the ill-effects of climate on man than on any other
animal; it follows that we should not implicitly confide, as
too many do, in the spontaneous efforts of the constitution,
but on the contrary call into its aid those artificial means of
prevention and amelioration which reason may dictate and
experience confirm; in short, that we should study well the
climate and mould our obsequious frames to the nature of
the skies under which we sojourn.'
Great variety of climate must be found in different
localities in a portion of the earth's surface so very large
as that of Northern China. A distinguished authority in
England, writing on the climate of Devonshire and
Cornwall, observes that these counties not only possess a
climate different from any other part of England, but the
different parts of these counties differ widely from each
other. How much more will the climate vary over a
space which embraces about one-fifteenth part of the whole
habitable globe? Surely a subject which so powerfully
influences man's health, and consequently his happiness,
demands all the attention and the most careful investi-
gation which we can possibly give to it.
I shall state, very briefly, what I consider some of the
principal physical causes which modify climate; I do so
advisedly, having carefully considered the subject, and I
believe there will be found, in China, little short of all the
varieties of climate suitable for invalids of every class, with
different diseases, and different stages of the same disease,
that are known in Europe, provided the localities here are
carefully selected.
It is easy to lay down certain principles, founded
perhaps partly on experience, and partly on theoretic
grounds, and by the aid of these, we may in a general way
determine the nature of a climate and its peculiar influences
on different individuals. But it is not so easy to determine
accurately, without much investigation, because of the nice
shades of influence which are capable of modifying in a
surprising degree the instruments with which we make our

NOTES ON PHYSICAL CAUSES WHICH MODIFY CLIMATE. 15
observations. Besides the major influences, which no
careful observer will overlook-such as direct sunlight, warm
exposure, reflected and radiated heat, currents of wind,
rain, etc., there are ever varying conditions, which, unless
carefully watched, will produce marked differences and
modifications on the instruments we use; for instance, two
thermometers, placed within five hundred yards of each other
may show a difference of 6 or 8 degrees of heat for several
days together, simply because one is near the surface of the
earth or in a sheltered situation, while the other is elevated
and exposed to currents of wind or rain. Now, under such
circumstances, if one instrument only is employed, a very
inaccurate idea may be formed of the locality, and this
shows the necessity of multiplying observations, and of
carefully watching all modifying influences.*
The principal particulars which ought to be observed
in forming an estimate of physical climate are these,
namely:-
Temperature; Humidity; Geological Nature of the Soil;
Drainage and Cultivation; Proximity of Sea and Rivers;
General and local Elevation; Position of Mountains;
Prevalent Winds; General and local Aspects; Trees and
Vegetation.
Besides these, if we wish to arrive at anything like ac-
curacy, many other points must be observed, as perpendicular
pressure of the atmosphere, electricity, the purity and
transparency of the air, the quality of the water, the ozone,
the moral condition of the people, their degree of intel-
ligence, appearance, etc., whether or no there be many aged
people among them, what diseases prevail in the locality,
and especially what is the type of the diseases. I shall only
very briefly touch on each of these points.
1. TEMPERATURE. What ought especially to be observ-
ed here, are the sudden changes and range of temperature
during the different months of the year. In Shanghai, for
example, the temperature is tolerably uniform during the
months of July and August, while in some other months the
changes are sudden and the thermometric range is large.
Thus this year, in the month of March, it ranged during the
day, from 41 to 70 degrees: during the night, from 32 to 53
Erroneous notions are apt to be formed of certain places for want of
proper investigation. The rate of mortality among the English troops at Hong-
kong presents a striking example of this. In the years 1842 and 1843 the
deaths were from 19 to 22 per cent., or from 190 to 220 per 1,000. In 1845,
when better accommodations had been provided, the mortality was only 8
per cent., or 85 per 1,000; and subsequently, when "model barracks" had been
erected, the number of deaths did not exceed 2 per cent. or 25 per 1,000;
clearly showing that the climate of Hongkong had nothing to do with the
appalling amount of mortality.

16
NOTES ON PHYSICAL CAUSES WHICH MOEIFY CLIMATE.
degrees. In April, during the day, it ranged from 54 to 76
degrees, one day it rose to 84 degrees, but suddenly fell
to 63 degrees; during the night, it ranged from 46 to 64
degrees.
The temperature of a locality will be much influenced,
also, by the action of the sun upon the atmosphere, for it by
no means follows that the feeling of heat is the same in
two places, because thermometric degrees are the same. In
some localities the thermometer will be 4 or 5 degrees more
during the day than in the evening, and yet the evening is
the only time that the heat is felt to be oppressive; this is
owing to the free radiation and increased humidity which
take place immediately after sunset, for at this time the
atmosphere approaches nearer to the point of saturation, and
consequently, much relief and comfort will be afforded by
closing the doors and windows just before sunset, before the
relaxing damp air shall have entered.
2. HUMIDITY. The most accurate method of measuring
the amount of moisture in the atmosphere, is by marking
the difference between the temperature of the air and the
temperature at which dew is deposited. Thus, when both
are widely different, the climate is dry; and when both are
nearly the same the climate is moist. Caeteris paribus, the
amount of watery vapour in the atmosphere increases as we
approach the equator; it is much influenced by circumstances
which retard evaporation, and also by the fall of rain.
Instruments made with a view to ascertain the amount
of moisture in the air seem only to measure the degree of
evaporation. We may get a good general idea of the amount
of moisture in the air by its action upon inorganic bodies; as,
where there is much moisture, iron and steel become oxidised
very rapidly; and common salt speedily dissolves when
exposed to the air. So it is also with organic bodies; boots
and shoes become mouldy; glue and paste soon lose their
tenacious qualities; furniture falls to pieces, and wall paper
is soon destroyed, whilst fermentation and putrefaction take
place rapidly. The quantity of rain which falls should also
be noted every month and day, since in some latitudes as
much rain will fall in three days, as will fall in others in a
whole year, though more or less may fall every month.
3. GEOLOGICAL NATURE OF THE SOIL. This largely
influences the qualities both of air and water, and modifies
climate in a remarkable degree. For example, light coloured
soils, like this in Shanghai, during the summer months reflect
a large amount of heat, while dark soils radiate and absorb
heat. Clay and chalky soils are cool, as they long resist the
solar rays; while ferruginous and carboniferous soils are
heated rapidly, and also cool rapidly. Soils containing much

18 NOTES ON PHYSICAL CAUSES WHICH MODIFY CLIMATE.
improvements; this single fact should certainly excite this
community to still higher efforts to excel in all sanitary
measures.
*
5. PROXIMITY OF SEA AND RIVERS. Maritime climates
are more uniform than those remote from the sea. In hot
countries the neighbourhood of the sea is much more cool
and pleasant than districts inland. Where the country is
flat and intersected with rivers, the tides and the influence
of the sea may be felt from 100 to 200 miles inland, especial-
ly at the change of the monsoons; and generally, wherever
the influence of the sea extends, there the climate will be
more or less equable, soft and humid.
Both in India and in China, much mischief has been
ascribed to overflowing sluggish rivers and the action of
the sun upon them; the best informed, however, and those
who have given most attention to these matters, look upon
rivers with a far more friendly eye. There is nothing to be
feared from a river when it moves at the rate of from two
to five miles an hour; and few rivers, even in the dry season,.
move less than two miles an hour; while in the rainy season,
and when inundations are passing off, the current will run
from six to ten miles an hour. There is nothing to fear
from an overflowing river, except at the time when the
water is passing off, and when the ground is uneven and
very loose, for it is then that any noxious exhalations are
apt to be concentrated, more especially if any trees or wood
have been long soaking in the water and are left to dry in
the sun. Under these circumstances, it is of great import-
ance to have a close line of umbrageous trees by the side
of the river, or along the water mark. The drying up of
rain, river or sea water, is much less hurtful than the drying
process when the water is brackish.
6. GENERAL AND LOCAL ELEVATION. For every
hundred yards of altitude above the level of the sea
temperature is diminished one degree, which is caused by
the rarefaction which air acquires in its enlarged capacity.
Consequently if we rear a structure 3,000 feet high, we
may enjoy a temperature 10 degrees below that on the
May not the evident change and amelioration which have taken place in
the climate of Europe be largely owing to cultivation and drainage? Caesar
says, that "the vine could not be cultivated in Gaul on account of its winter
cold;" and the reindeer, now found only in the zone of Lapland, was then an
inhabitant of the Pyrenees. In the reign of Augustus, the Tiber, the Rhine
and the Danube were frozen over two or three months every winter, which now
never happens. One cause of this, however, may be astronomical, namely on
account of the apogee position of the earth's orbit being in the northern
hemisphere during the summer part of the year, or between the spring and
autumnal equinoxes; thus the summer half the year is now, according to
astronomers, seven days longer than the winter half. Hence also the
northern hemisphere is relatively hotter than the southern.

20 NOTES ON PHYSICAL CAUSES WHICH MODIFY CLIMATE.
With regard to atmospheric pressure, other circum-
stances being equal, the relative quantity of oxygen in a
given space is considerably greater at a pressure of 31 than
at 28 inches; and hence it will be readily understood why,
in thick, humid weather, people experience a certain amount
of lassitude and languor, and not the buoyancy of feeling
peculiar to clear dry states of the atmosphere. It is also
worthy of notice, and shows that the variations of atmos-
pheric pressure greatly influence man, that paralytic and
apoplectic cases are most frequent during rapid changes of
the barometer, especially when its level is suddenly depressed;
and minor affections of the head, such as shooting pains,
vertigo, oppression, etc., are also more frequent.
I cannot but think that a climate is considerably modified
by different states of electric tension, although some authorities
assert the contrary. We know, that electric equilibrium is
considerably altered by change of temperature, that every
chemical action produces electric change, and that decom-
position of surface water and all evaporation do the same.
Even the spray of a waterfall sensibly alters the balance of
the electrometer placed near it. The rising and falling of
the tides, as well as the amount of moisture in the air, cause
the amount of electricity to fluctuate. The amount of
atmospheric electricity is greatest for a few hours after
sunset, and least before sunrise and sunset. Marshes
produce effects upon the animal economy very analogous to
those produced by the galvanic pile; and this injurious action
is increased by certain proportions of water, especially if
the water holds in solution any organic substances. The
drying up of a marsh is very similar, in many respects, to a
galvanic pile deprived of humidity.
A peculiar and special action is produced on the nervous
system by the electric machine, very similar to that produced
after exposure to a marshy atmosphere, where malaria exists.
Here is a most interesting field for investigation.*
*I am strongly inclined to believe that electricity in a modified state is the
agent which influences and regulates to a great extent the various secretions of
the body through the sympathetic or organic system of nerves; and hence the
various proportions of the amount of electricity in the atmosphere, in certain
localities at different seasons of the year, have a considerable influence on the
health of the animal economy, more especially on persons whose nervous system
has been rendered susceptible by often repeated changes; as those who have
been several years in a warm or hot climate always suffer more or less on
removing to a colder one; and even those long exposed to the Shanghai climate
suffer in the early part of summer until the warm weather sets in; this feeling
I think, is greatly owing to the low electric condition of the cold atmosphere,
or the small amount present being in a negative condition, the body is deprived
of its positive electricity and a feeling of listless irritability and sinking is the
result. The same also takes place at the close of the hot seasons, when the
body is less able to resist the existing causes of disease.

NOTES ON PHYSICAL CAUSES WHICH MODIFY CLIMATE. 21
If we attach an animal to the opposite pole of a galvanic
battery, and thus deprive it of its positive electricity it will
soon pine away and die; and I think there can be little
doubt that, if the human body is exposed to an atmosphere
with a negative electricity, it will very soon be deprived of
its power of resisting the many causes of disease which
surround it. I am also convinced that human health is much
influenced by the ever varying states and degrees of the
earth's magnetism to which it is always exposed.
Here is the place to offer a few words on the production
of malaria and the laws by which it is regulated. Although
we can determine, with the greatest accuracy, the various
constituents of the atmosphere, and by the nicest shades of
chemical analysis ascertain the relative proportions of each
permanent gas, and also certain subtle substances found
only occasionally and under certain circumstances, as ozone,
iodine, free chlorine, nitric acid, etc.; yet hitherto no chemical
analysis has detected a single trace of marsh malaria; still,
when we consider the great advances which are constantly
being made in chemical science, we need not despair of this
being done. In such an investigation, however, perhaps as
much may be expected from the miscroscope, as from
chemical analysis.
All previously organized matter, in a certain stage or
mode of decomposition, is largely concerned in the evolution
of malaria, especially under a certain temperature and within
certain limits; also various kinds and various degrees of
this poison will be evolved: one form will produce plague;
another, yellow fever; a third, low continued fever; a fourth,
remittent; a fifth, intermittent; and these too in all their
various types and degrees of intensity. Moreover, the soil
of a locality has much to do in this production of malaria.
Contrary to general belief, certain sandy soils produce
fevers of a more aggravated nature than the swamp. This
is proved in a very striking manner in the Alentejo and
Algarve of Portugal, regions which are never free from
fever, and yet the soil is almost entirely composed of sand.
In India the most fatal and intractable forms of fever have
occurred in localities where the soil was ferruginous, and
amongst hills principally composed of granite, but containing
also mica, felspar, quartz, and highly magnetic disintegrating
ferruginous hornblende, and this last in very large quantity.
Beds and banks of rivers containing ferruginous clay
and red sandstone are said to be much infested with malaria.
Soils though black may contain much iron mixed with
decomposing organic matter. Yet in order to render ferru-
ginous and sandy soils thus dangerous, I believe that a
certain high degree of solar heat, humidity, etc., are necess-

22 NOTES ON PHYSICAL CAUSES WHICH MODIFY CLIMATE.
ary in certain localities. It also prevails in a greater or
less degree in deep rich alluvial soil, with much vegetable
mould. The action of the sun upon all stagnant moisture
near the level of the sea seems to favour the production of
malaria, and yet it appears that a certain degree of heat is
only capable of producing it when combined with a certain
amount of moisture, since a very dry season may render a
marsh or swamp quite harmless, and it is always much less
dangerous to traverse a marsh during the day than at night.
Excess of moisture also checks its development, as in very
wet seasons marshes are less unhealthy. Malaria has never
been known to be developed in ships in latitudes north of
48 degrees. Water also seems to absorb or destroy it, as
is evinced by the fact that people living on the bank of a
river or lake, 1,000 yards wide, and opposite a marshy swamp,
or on board a ship at 1,000 yards from an infected shore,
will escape with impunity.
It seems heavier than air, for people who occupy ground
floors are oftener affected than those who live in upper
apartments. Good fires in a house seem to destroy its
power. Trees attract it powerfully, so that to sit or sleep
under a tree in a marshy district, is to meet it in all its
concentrated intensity. Peat bogs, however swampy, are
not malarious, being free from decomposition and effluvia
of every hurtful kind.
I need scarcely say that the constitution of some indivi-
duals has greater power to resist the injurious influences of
the various forms of malaria than that of others. Much also
depends on the habits of an individual, the degree of health
and vigour enjoyed. A healthy man may be quite free from
ague until he gets a cold; or becomes debilitated; or exposes
himself to malarious influence at night, or early in the
morning, with an empty stomach; in all which conditions
an ague may commence, modified however according to
individual peculiarity.
For example, four people being exposed to cold, one
gets bronchitis; another, sore throat; the third, a diarrhoea;
whilst the fourth escapes entirely: all four were equally
exposed to the same cold; three were predisposed to disease,
though each in a different way; but the fourth was not, and
therefore the exciting cause produced no effect. And so it
is, in short, with all other diseases.
During the decomposing process of water in a marsh,
little or no oxygen can be detected, although it is found in
its usual proportion in the neighbourhood of the marsh.
And as oxygen is emitted in considerable quantities from all
other surface waters, and during its emission ozone is
formed, it follows in theory, as it is found in fact, that no

NOTES ON PHYSICAL CAUSES WHICH MODIFY CLIMATE. 23
ozone is formed in or over a marsh. In surface water, free
from decomposition and abounding with infusoria, a rich
supply of pure oxygen is emitted; say two cubic inches of
oxygen for every square foot of surface water; and as
there is a larger amount of watery vapour in the atmosphere
in summer than in winter, equal volumes of air will contain
less oxygen in summer than in winter; and as ozone, whose
presence for some time has been and is still considered so
essential in order to constitute a healthy atmosphere, is
increased or diminished in quantity according to the relative
amount of oxygen, the health of a locality might be ascer-
tained in this respect by testing the atmosphere for ozone.
The latest investigations declare ozone to be a teroxide of
hydrogen, and its chemical formula would be HO3. Some
have named it electrified oxygen. It is produced in the
atmosphere by electric discharges. It may also be produced
by the action of phosphorus on the surface of water.
Paper impregnated with starch and iodide of potassium
makes a good ozonometer, being rendered blue by ozone,
faint or deep according to the amount in the atmosphere.
The air of no locality can be considered unwholesome which
contains ozone. Various gases, especially those spontan-
eously developed, prevent the formation of ozone, or destroy
it when formed; and all these gases are also injurious to
man, and the other higher animals; such as carburetted,
sulphuretted, and phosphoretted hydrogen, with similar
emanations. It cannot be detected in the atmosphere
during the prevalence of epidemics, such as cholera, low
fevers, ague, etc. In Shanghai, except when the wind is
from the west or north-west, traces of it can always be
found; but when the weather is warm and the air
approaches the point of saturation, scarcely a trace can be
discovered. During the months of July and August, 1860, I
failed to detect it, except immediately after a thunderstorm
when the air was purified and tolerably cool. It is always
present in the atmosphere at sea, and in seaport towns when
the wind is off the sea.
In a country like China,-larger than the whole of
Europe and necessarily containing almost every variety of
climate, though that of each locality is comparatively very
little known probably one of the best methods of obtaining
a knowledge of the climate of each different locality would
be to institute a series of comparisons. By this method the
climate of any one given locality in China might be compared
with that of well-known localities in Europe, which are
found to be decidedly beneficial to different classes of
invalids, and to the same invalids in incipient or advanced
stages of the same disease.

NOTES ON PHYSICAL CAUSES WHICH MODIFY CLIMATE. 25
out the whole year, the climate of Madeira is declared by
the highest authorities to be the finest in the northern
hemisphere.
It seems not at all unlikely that the climate of Hankow
will, in many respects, be found to resemble that of Rome,
which is mild, soft, and, owing to its singular stillness of
atmosphere, is rather oppressive and relaxing; yet, Sir
James Clark considers it one of the finest climates in Italy.
Such a climate, however, should be avoided by persons of a
melancholic or nervous temperament, also by those pre-
disposed to apoplexy and paralytic affections.
It has often been observed that in localities where ague
prevails, cases of consumption are exceedingly rare. Now
it seems to me that ague and phthisis are essentially
antagonistic; and I cannot conceive any man who has an
intimate knowledge of the various organs involved in these
diseases, with their different functions, coming to any other
conclusion in theory; and facts, I believe, will abundantly
prove the correctness of this theory. In and around
Shanghai, for example, where ague in a modified form is very
common, from the middle of April 1860 till the end of July
1861, among upwards of 28,000 cases which came under my
own observation, only ten were of pulmonary phthisis; and
even of these ten only seven were well marked, while there
were more than 1,400 cases of intermittent fever. Tubercle
is common, but is almost entirely confined to the abdominal
organs.
During the sudden changes of temperature, which at
certain seasons occur in Shanghai, bronchial catarrh is
exceedingly common; and in elderly people passes into a
chronic state; and in almost every respect simulates con-
sumption, and will pass for this disease, unless the chest is
carefully examined, when the disease is found entirely
confined to the bronchial tubes, the lungs being perfectly
sound. The climate of Shanghai is essentially humid; and,
during the hot months of July and August, the atmosphere
approaches close to and often reaches the point of saturation;
the air is much rarified, and contains less oxygen in a given
bulk, than when it is cold and dry, while respiration is
shallow and more slowly performed. Thus the blood is less
perfectly oxydized and contains too little oxygen to stimulate
the heart, blood vessels and nerves, and the individual is
predisposed to low types and forms of disease of a periodic
character; less oxygen is also inhaled and less carbonic acid is:
exhaled during the moist heat. Indeed, when it is very hot
the lungs perform their functions so imperfectly that other
organs have to adapt themselves to new duties, in order to
relieve the body of accumulating carbonic acid; the liver,

28 NOTES ON PHYSICAL CAUSES WHICH MODIFY CLIMATE.
of its houses, one might almost call them palaces, have been
built on the best principles for health, elegance, and
accommodation; but itssystem of drainage is very incomplete
and not well regulated. If this matter be not attended to,
and if the Chinese, already so numerous, with their
extraordinary notion of sanitary measures, still be allowed
to build all manner of houses in such close proximity all
round about and among our residences, both the health and
the comfort of the foreign community must suffer; and ere
long, instead of the desired improvements, we shall have to
witness deterioration, with nuisances and diseases hitherto
unknown in this settlement. Surely, it ought not so to be;
and there will be no excuse for it, if the case be allowed to
reach such an unseemly condition.
for encroachments, such as have been made here of late.
There is ample space, westward and northward, beyond our
precincts, for all building purposes.
But the danger is, and
it is imminent, that the introduction of the proper sanatory
measures will be delayed too long, and only come when it
will be too late to secure all the desired improvements.
There is no necessity