[225]
ARTICLE VIII.
NOTES ON SOME NEW SPECIES OF BIRDS FOUND
ON THE ISLAND OF FORMOSA.
BY R. SWINHOE, ESQ.
(Supplementary to Article I, page 145.)
ORDER II.-PASSERES. TRIBE III.-DENTIROSTRES. FAMILY
I-LUSCINIDE. SUBFAMILY I-MALURINE.
Two species of birds in this subfamily, not coming under any
genus described by G. R. Gray in his Genera of Birds, for which
I propose a new genus under the term Calamanthella, may
be thus defined:-Bill shorter than the head, broad at the base,
but compressed towards the tip; culmen gradually arched towards
the tip; gonys long and ascending; nostrils placed longitudinally
in a basal membranous groove; gape furnished with short weak
bristles. Wings moderate; the first quill abruptly short, the
second shorter than the third, which with the fourth and fifth are
longest in the wing. Tail moderate, or short, and graduated.
Tarsi much longer than the middle toe, and covered with in-
distinct scales; toes long with the outer toe shorter than the inner,
and united at the base to the middle one; the hind toe long and
armed with a long curved claw.
These birds differ from the genera Prinia (Horsf.) and Cala-
manthus (Gould), to which they are nearly allied, by their active
habits, being constantly on the wing, flying high in the air
uttering their singular notes. The two distinct species which I
procured in Formosa, I have named Tinnabulans and Volitans
respectively. The former of these is very common in the plains
and on the hills of the N.W. side of Formosa, and I have since
found it very numerous among the rush-covered tumuli in Shanghai.
The latter was abundant in the E. and N.E. of Formosa. I will
now venture to give a few words on the general description of the
two species, as also on their habits as observed by myself.
Calamanthella tinnabulans. Bill along culmen 3 inch; bill to
gape; tarsus ; onyx ; middle toe ; wing 1; tail 1.
Total length 4 inches.

226
NEW SPECIES OF BIRDS FOUND
Bill yellowish, wood-brown towards the tip and along the
culmen. Legs ochreous yellow. Irides orange yellow. Upper
parts yellowish brown varied with sienna red; the feathers on the
head, back, wing-coverts, secondaries, and tail-coverts, dark-brown
with yellowish brown margins. The wing-feathers hair-brown
broadly margined with pale yellowish brown. Tail consisting of
13 feathers almost equally graduated; the uropygials brown-mar-
gined paler; the other 10 feathers marked with dark brown and
reddish sienna, each feather being deeply tipped with white.
Eye-streak, throat and under parts white tinged with sienna or
straw yellow, deeper on the sides, and approaching red on the
flanks.
Habits. These little sprightly birds abound in Hongsan and
the N.W. coast of Formosa, among the long grass and rushes,
hopping with upright tails from one blade to another, so light, so
airy in their build, that one often mistakes them for locusts, with
which insects their haunts abound. Suddenly springing into the
air, they rise to a little height uttering the notes te-te-te, then drop
with a ting-ting-ting; and when many are singing over a plain,
the effect may well be compared to the "drowsy tinking" that
"lulls the distant fold."
In Shanghai I noted,-"The Formosan Tinkler is also here, and
continues to sing, as he flies along in the air, his singular notes;
now flying downwards with a curve as if he would settle, then
sweeping up again and hovering, all the while uttering his notes.
At last he makes up his mind to descend, and down he comes and
perches on some stalk of maize or other plant, and carefully preens,
and rests himself; a few minutes more and he is again on the wing."
The Chinese settlers in Formosa call this bird the Mangtang;
the same name that in Amoy is applied to the Tailor-bird (Or-
thotomus sp.) and most small birds of that family.
Calamanthella volitans. Bill along enlmen, over inch; bill
to gape; tarsus ; onyx ; middle toe ; wing 1; tail 1.
Total length 34 inches.
Bill pale wood-brown. Legs straw color. Irides orange yellow
Head, nape, and all the under parts pale sienna yellow, more or
less ochreous. Back and wings hair brown, the feathers margined
with light yellowish brown. Rump light sienna brown. Tail
dark hair-brown; the feathers graduated, but broad at their tips
giving the tail the appearance of an isosceles triangle.

ON THE ISLAND OF FORMOSA.
227
Habits. This species, which is even smaller than the foregoing,
is found in numbers among the grassy hills on the N.E. side of
Formosa. It soars much higher than its congener, and flies long
distances uttering notes similar to "chee-chee-cheup-cheup;" and
often when the bird itself is not visible, lost in the expanse above,
you are made aware that it is somewhere overhead, by the fall of
its notes on your ear.
GENUS, PRINIA. (Horsf.)
Prinia striata. (n. sp.) Bill along culmen
inch; bill to
gape f; Tarsus f; wing 2; tail 4. Total length 8
inches.
Bill black. Legs ochreous yellow. Irides orange brown. Upper
parts a rich brown, each feather having darker centres and whitish
side-margins, giving a striped appearance. Wings yellowish hair-
brown; the feathers broadly margined with yellowish brown.
Tail light brown; the shafts dark, and the tips yellowish. Under
parts of a dingy yellowish tinge spotted on the cheeks and head,
and striped on the sides of the neck. Thighs reddish brown.
This bird was procured on the N.W. side at Hongsan, some little
distance inland. It is much larger than any Prinia I have yet
met with in China. In its accustomed haunts, it may be seen
mounted on the top of some tall rush-stalk, singing a monotonous
ditty of a few notes, somewhat resembling those of the Bunting
Lark, often repeated.
FAMILY, TURDIDE. SUBFAMILY, FORMICARINE.
NUS. HYDROBATA (Vieill) OR DIPPER.
GE-
There appear to be several Dippers, more or less similar, from
totally different parts of the world. Such are the H. unicolor
(Pr. Buon.) from America, the H. Pallisir (Temm) from Europe,
and the H. Asiatica (Swains). To the last species I should be
inclined to assign the present bird, but there being some little
doubt about it, I propose describing it under the term Hydrobata
marila:-Length in toto 8 inches; wing from flexure 3.
Bill and legs indigo blue; the latter thick and rough-soled,
with strong claws. Irides deep brown. The whole of the body
umber-brown, blacker on the under parts, and tinged with raw
sienna on the upper. A line of white nearly encircles the eye,
and a few indistinct whitish spots occur on the wing-coverts.

228
NEW SPECIES OF BIRDS FOUND
The specimen from which the above description is taken was a
female, shot over one of the waterfalls on our inland expedition to
the sulphur mines. She was seen to take one plunge, and was
sitting with tail erect on a rock in the gliding stream.
SUBFAMILY III.-TIMALINE, OR BABBLERS. GENUS,-GAR-
RULAX (Les).
Garrulax Taewanus. (n. sp.) The song-thrush or Hwa-mei
(G. Sinensis), remarkable for a white eye-streak, so common on
the hills in the vicinity of Foochow, is replaced on the Formosan
hills by a dingier species, which is destitute of the eyebrowed
distinction, and may be thus described:-Male: length 94 inches;
wing 3; tail 4. Female: length 9 inches; wing 3; tail 3.
Bill of both along culmen ; bill to gape ; tarsus 11.
Bill horn-yellow. Legs ochreous. Irides grey. Top of the
head and under parts buff ochre; the feathers of the head, and
some few on the sides of the neck and breast, being streaked with
black. Belly smoke grey. Upper parts dingy olive brown,
brighter on the wings, and transversely barred on the tail with
indistinct bars.
The song of this species is very fine, but, like all this genus of
babbling birds, it is very rarely that it will sing a set song of many
minutes duration. While rambling over the hills, I have been
startled by a burst of delicious melody from some neighboring
bush, and on approaching nearer, have spied this bird flit noiselessly
into an adjoining cover, where with several of his comrades he
would keep up a constant chatter until I removed some distance off.
The male and female are very much similar in dress.
GENUS, POMATORRHINUS (Horsf).
This has been noted as a genus of unmusical Thrushes, whereas
the species abounding in Formosa is remarkable for its sweet song,
and very different from the small Wren-like species procured on
the Pihling hills near Foochow.
Pomathorrinus musicus. (n. sp.) Male: length 7 inches.
Female: length 7 inches. Wing 33 inches; tail 3; bill
along culmen ; bill to gape 1; tarsus 13; onyx ; middle
toe 1.
Bill black on the upper mandible, yellowish on the lower. Legs
deep indigo blue. Top of the head and cheeks blackish green.

ON THE ISLAND OF FORMOSA.
229
Space between the bill and eyes deep black. A streak over the
eyes; throat and breast white, the latter blotched with black.
Nape, back of the neck, and upper part of the belly, fine chestnut
red. The rest of the plumage olive green; in the males deeply
tinged with chesnut, especially on the wings.
These Thrushes enliven the copse-covered hills with their song.
They may be seen about the branches of some tree that lifts itself
higher than the surrounding brushwood, hopping from twig to
twig with rounded backs. On alarm they drop with amazing
velocity into the scrub beneath, and there chatter and gabble in
an undertone, as if telling one another what they had seen and
what a narrow escape they had just had. From these retreats the
male loves to pour its melody into the delighted
ear of the passer-
by, and the nearer the approach the louder sound the notes, until
the bird thinking the propinquity of the stranger too great an
intrusion, quietly slips out at the back of the bush, and betakes
himself to some other spot, and while you are waiting anxiously
to get a look at him, you hear him exerting his musical powers
some distance off.
ORDER III.-SCANSORES. FAMILY IV.-CUCULIDE. SUB-
FAMILY III.-COCCYZINE. (Ground Cuckoos.) GENUS,-CEN-
TROPUS (Illig.).
Centropus dimidiatus. (Blyth?) Length 12 inches; wing
5; tail 7; bill along culmen 1; bill to gape 1; tarsus 11.
The feathers of the head, neck, and wing-coverts have stiff
acuminated shafts. Bill and legs black. Irides blood red. Head,
neck, under parts, and tail, greenish black. Back and wings light
chestnut-brown; the shafts of most of the feathers, especially on
the wing-coverts, being yellowish white. The quills browner
towards their tips. Feathers of the rump very soft, and transversely
barred with brown and dingy yellow.
On first meeting with this bird on the N.E. coast of Formosa
among the hills of Saw-o and Kelung, I took it to be the same
species that is so abundant in the valley of Foochow, (Centropus
Philippensis Cuv. or Crow Pheasant of the foreign residents),
remarkable for its notes "hoo-hoo-hoo," which have been compared
to the noise produced by the stops of an organ suddenly drawn out.
But on procuring a male bird, from which the above description is

230
NEW SPECIES OF BIRDS FOUND
taken, I found it to be scarcely more than one-half the size of the
other species and differing from it also in color. Besides, the notes
are different, the "hoo-hoo-hoo" being followed by the dissyllable
"ka-tock" thrice repeated, the sounds produced somewhat re-
sembling the distant blows of a woodman's axe, as it falls on the
trunk of some devoted patriarch of the forest. On looking up the
face of a hill you might often see this small Larkheel sitting
conspicuous on the top of some bush and bending forward its head
and neck as it gave utterance to its strange notes.
To the above I may also add another bird, which, though not a
new species, I have not as yet found on the coast of China. Such
is the Philippine Noddy.
ORDER VIII.-ANSERES. FAMILY V. LARIDE. SUB-
FAMILY II-STERNIDE (Terns). GENUS,-ANOUS (Leach).
Anöus pileatus. (Scop.) Philippine Noddy. Male: length
14 inches; wing 10; tail 6. Female: length 14inches;
wing 10%; tail 6; bill along the culmen 13; bill to gape 23;
tibia bare about inch above the knee; tarsus ; middle toe
1%; onyx
Bill and legs black. Iris dark brown. Forehead and top of
the head white, gradually changing as it passes to the occiput
into smoke grey, which again darkens into brown. Space between
the bill and eyes, and chin, dark black. A circle of white round
the eyes. The rest of the plumage brownish-black, of a deeper
color on the quills.
A male of this species flew so close past the ship's gig in
Saw-o harbor that a seaman knocked it down with his hand, and
at Kelung a female was brought alive to us by some fishermen for
sale. Far away from land I have often watched these Black
Terns following at some distance in the wake of the ship, darting
backwards and forwards in numbers across the broad trail left in
the water by the steamer speeding onward on her course, and I
suppose preying upon the numerous small fish that, startled at the
agitated waters, commit themselves for a while to the treacherous
air, distrusting the state of their natural element.