[176]
ARTICLE IV.
ON THE MUSICAL NOTATION OF THE CHINESE.
BY THE REVD. E. W. SYLE., A.M.
Read before the Society, February 16th, 1858.
In the following remarks we have purposely restricted ourselves
to the one topic of the Musical Notation found in common use
among the Chinese, without going into the more general subject
of the characteristics of their Music. Indeed we do not profess
to give anything more, or other than that which is commonly met
with in the region immediately surrounding us; but leave to
other and abler hands the task of gathering up and generalizing
the facts which individual observers, like ourselves, may put on
record for general information. It is not our purpose even to
give an outline of the contributions on this subject which have
been made by recent writers, such as Mr. Lay, Sir John Davis,
and Dr. Williams; but simply to give an account of what we
have met with ourselves individually.
We do not feel at liberty, however, to refrain from quoting a
passage which contains so much misinformation, that one finds
it difficult to account for its occurrence in a work so remarkably
accurate and reliable on almost all points as is that admirable
compilation which goes under the name of "Du Halde." Yet,
in the 3rd vol. of that work, under the heading "Of the Skill of
the Chinese in the Sciences," we find it stated-
"They have no musical notes, nor any sign to denote the di-
"versity of tones, the raising or falling of the voice, and the rest
"of the variations that constitute harmony: the airs which they
"sing or play upon their instruments are got only by rote and are
"learnt only by ear;" &c., &c., p. 68.
We must repeat that it is difficult to account for the occurrence
of such a statement in such a work, considering the remarkable
advantages possessed by the Jesuit Missionaries for becoming
acquainted with all that concerned the Science and Literature of
China. But so it stands.

A. Lok Pan.
上六六尺工、四、工
上尺工工工尺四六
四工尺六六上尺板
六 ‘上,
合尺
上、尺、六、尺、合,
工五 四合
工六上、工、上、四
四、 尺
尺六五,上、画、
上、
上五上上上四,
六上,四上上
合工五上四上,
四尺、六尺,合工
尺
上
尺六工六
四六五尺六工

B
In ny Cottage.
上合,四配合
上
四合:
尺乙尺四尺舍
乙尺尺合尺間
乙尺上、
In
上工上尺工
1、乙、尺尺
合六回上
王乙上上,
乙尺,上乙,上
四、乙乙
合

C. Swih Voong Yang.
說鳳陽話鳳陽鳳陽原是个好地方自從出了
朱皇帝十年倒有九年荒十年水大十年吴十
年蝗虫降災殃大戶人家賣田地小戶人家賣
尺工六稔上
兜郎我家没有兒郎賣搬了花鼓上街方

唱
D. Siau Chok.
寸ㄕˊ肩*
歌餐步文背多
穿
༢4བརྟ
不少着*
離蔥花多
不離途杏
唱歌穿街過巷两脚走如梭
鼓
手
提示
走素顏鑼
梭
俏
愛平美妻环
妻恩
為愛
时
情片

The Sian Chōk.in our Notation.
Andorle
712
Vinace
Kich boy tsak Imo......
700......sur de tsak........200 ....foo se
Ung
Oly...tsun boo reh le doo
-ant hien yung yien Sian..pine Sung woy tsong koo
tsay hia.........hoo...
oug....liany Inol
tsur.. Zoo.. Soo

The European and Chinese
Musical Scales compared.
龙云
The notes in alho thus
乙上尺&
or
E
Exhibited in another way
In alho thus
仉
凡工尺上
五六瓜工尺上』田 合

ON THE MUSICAL NOTATION OF THE CHINESE. 177
For ourselves, we can only say that we had not been in this
place many months before we became aware, through the second
Chinese teacher we employed, of the existence of a very respect-
able system of writing music-one which compares quite well
with that used by the Greeks.
Using a small melodeon, it was no difficult task to ascertain
what notes upon the instrument corresponded (or nearly so) to the
notes of the common Chinese flute; which being done, the next
thing to be observed was how the different sounds which my
teacher played were represented on the paper that lay before him.
This also could be seen without much difficulty; and a little patient
"comparing of notes" brought out this result:-That they employ
nine different characters, or syllables; which is exactly the num-
ber that can be written on our common five-line stave, without the
use of leger lines either above or below. Those characters are
合, 四, 一, 上, 一, 尺,工,凡,六, which are pronounced
ho sz' yih zang tsei koong van lieu oo; and in writing out a
tune they follow the usual order of their other writing; so that their
method is as though we should add two more syllables to our do, re,
mi, fa, sol, la, ci, and then use these words to express the successive
intervals of a melody, instead of circles and dots written on the
different lines or in the spaces of what we call a staff. When it
is required to write in alto, the same characters are used with the
addition of a little flirt of the pencil added; thus, Z,,R,
I, or else the character for man 1; thus, 12, 1, 12,
工,凡,
1I, VL,
After these explanations the following tune, which is the com-
mon back of all learners, will be understood without much diffi-
culty.
(See A the "Lok Pan.")
When performed on a Chinese instrument it would be obser-
vable that some of the notes differ slightly from those which our
instruments produce; but as the explanation of the difference
would require a discussion of the Chinese musical scale, as compared
with ours, we do not enter upon it at this time.
We must, however, take notice of the way in which the time is
marked, for that comes strictly under the head of notation. It
will be perceived that the only things which mark the time here,
are the occasional spaces left to indicate rests, and the dots which

ON THE MUSICAL NOTATION OF THE CHINESE.
178
show where the beats should come. And here we touch the
weak point of the system: for the notation of time is unquestion-
ably faulty, and requires that much should be learned by tradi-
tional teaching from the master; and even then it leaves not a
little to be decided by the individual taste of the performer. More
on this point, however, subsequently.
This Lok Pan, which has just been explained, seems to occupy
here the unenviable, forlorn-hope, position which used to be given
in our instruction books, some twenty years ago, to " Sul Margine
d'un Rio," or the "Leiber Augustine," or "In my Cottage near
a Wood."
At the risk of reviving painful memories to the mind of some
whose place of study or business may have been near the room of
some "young gentlemen learning to play the flute," I will en-
deavor to make this Chinese notation less unfamiliar, by translat-
ing into it this last named tune.
(See B: "In my Cottage," Sinicized.)
We must now proceed a step further and notice how, in writing
out songs, the words and music are combined together; and in
this we shall be obliged to add one more instance to the list of
contrarieties which are found to exist between our own and the
Chinese method of doing things. Our song music, whilst it is
generally composed in accommodation to the words to which is
married, is nevertheless written out and printed as if it were
altogether the "better-half," and the words are made to accomo-
date themselves to the music-being either spread out or crowded
together as the music may require.
Not so among the Chinese. With them, the words are written
down in a severe and stately column, and the music is left to find
room for itself in the best way it can. All the vocalization that is
to be done upon any particular word is made as it were to flow off
from it, sideways and downward;-the performer must look sharp
after his notes and rests and beats among the odds and ends of
writing that appear to the uninstructed like the after-thoughts of
hasty composition. Of this we will give first a simple and then
a more elaborate specimen.
(See C: Swih Voong Yang.)
In this the most noteworthy feature is that little, unwritten
twitch, or ad libitum deflection, sometimes upward, sometimes
downward, which constitutes one of the pecularities of what we

ON THE MUSICAL NOTATION OF THE CHINESE.
179
may call the Chinese style; but this is one of the tricks of per-
formance, for which there is no notation.
In what follows, however, there are other features which deserve
notice-e. g. the manner of indicating a rest, which is by a little
angle-thus ; though the duration of the rest is left to be
learned traditionally, or inferred by the pupil himself. He is kept
within bounds, when making such inferences or conjectures by
the proximity of the neigbouring beats; and as to the beats
themselves, when we find that every fourth one is marked by a
circle, instead of a mere dot, it is to be understood that the beating
of the time is performed thus: 1st, the whole hand strikes the
table-2d, the fore-finger only-3d, the middle finger-and 4th,
the ring finger; the circle marks the beat of the middle finger-
thus (with consistent contrariety) giving that prominence to the
third beat which we give to the first of each bar.
(See D: Siau Chok.)
I must add that Chinese musicians are generally found to be
excellent timists; and that they seem to delight in abrupt rests
and in the frequent occurrence of syncopation.
As to their instruments, they have been so accurately described
and commented on by Mr. Lay, in the 8th chapter of his admirable
little book "The Chinese as they are," that nothing more need be
added to what is there said, until a fuller acquaintance with dif-
ferent parts of the country shall have brought us acquainted with
more than meets the eye in the regions to which we now have access
We append finally (See E:) a draught of the Chinese and European
scales combined, by the use of which it will be in the power of any
one who has patience enough, to reduce a Chinese written tune
to our notation, at least so far as the pitch of the notes is con-
cerned the time it will be more difficult to puzzle out, and as to
the style, it must be heard to be appreciated or imitated.