[170]
ARTICLE III.
CHINESE BIBLIOGRAPHY.
BY D. J. MACGOWAN, M.D., NINGPO.
Letter to the Secretary, read before the Society March 16th, 1858.
DEAR SIR: I beg to express my thanks for the honor that the
Literary and Scientific Society of Shanghai has conferred upon
me in placing my name on its list of Corresponding Members. It
shall be my aim to discharge the duties which that relation imposes;
and I avail myself of this occasion to beg your acceptance of the
accompanying works, viz: The
Yuh-shan Hien
Chi, Miscellany of the Yuhshan District in Kiangsí; and the
-B, Tien yih Koh Pei muh, being a Catalogue of
the Library of the Fan family in the city of Ningpo.
I perceive that you contemplate the formation of a Library and
Museum. Perhaps I cannot now better serve the Society than by
calling attention to the vast importance of a good collection of
Chinese books. In no way can foreign residents in China do
more to command the respect of those who mould the public
opinion of this empire, a large body of educated men, than by
founding a Chinese Library.
Permit me to commend, as worthy of special regard, that class
of works styled, Chi, of which I send a specimen. These
works have hitherto attracted little attention, yet are they of
infinite value to almost every class of inquirers. They have been
designated Topographies by some, Statistical works by others;
the term Miscellany, perhaps, best expresses their comprehensive
character. They may be consulted for facts relating to Topogra-
pby, History, Archaeology, Biography, Statistics, Natural History,
Religion, Literature, Manners and Customs, and, in fine, on
questions bearing in any manner on the localities which they
describe. Ancient as well as modern editions should be sought
for. Let efforts be made to secure a complete collection of these
works-those of every province, department, and district, as well

CHINESE BIBLIOGRAPHY.
171
as those of more limited places-of lakes, mountains, temples,
&c. With the assistance of students in Chinese, you may soon
obtain a better collection of the Chi, or Miscellanies, than is to be
found in this empire; for an examination of the catalogues of the
libraries known to exist in this country, shows a great paucity of
such works,
The Miscellany of this province, Cheh-kiang, would itself make
a library of seven hundred volumes. The Chi of the whole empire
cannot number much less than ten thousand volumes, of the
pamphlet form into which Chinese books are divided. Miscel-
lanies of departiments are of more value than those of provinces, as
those of districts are more valuable than the departmental ones,
and for the same reason, namely, their greater fullness and cir-
cumstantiality.
Again, native libraries seldom contain works on Medicine,
Natural History, the Arts and the like; so that these several
important departments of bibliography must also demand your
attention.
A reference to the Miscellany of any place of note will show to
some considerable extent, what contributions its scholars have made
to the literature of their country; and if at the same time inquiries
be made after their productions, it will be seen that wonderfully
large proportions are irrecoverably lost. In no land are books
suffered to die as willingly as in China. Take, for example, the
Hangchau Miscellany. The list of books by authors of that city,
beginning with the latter half of the fifth century and extending to
the latter half of the eighteenth, shows two thousand four hundred
and twenty-nine works: of these, the principal bookseller of
Ningpo, who has agencies in various cities, says that only about
eight hundred are procurable, and of those extant the number is
not much greater. Lest that list, the Hangchau Miscellany, should
be taken as the measure of the literary activity of that provincial
capital, I must here remark that a Fu Chi, or Departmental
Miscellany, often omits works which are inserted in the Hien Chi,
or District Miscellany, while this last only gives those the names
of which survived when the Miscellany was compiled.
The coterminous department of Kiahing gives 570, and the
ancient department of Shauhing, on its south, gives 1991. The
mortality in those two departments exceeds that of the provincial
capital Hangchau.

172
CHINESE BIBLIOGRAPHY.
A further evidence of the mortality of books in China, is afford-
ed by the unavailing efforts that have been made, at the instiga-
tion of Prof. Julien, to discover works that have been written on
the countries north and west of China, between the 9th and 18th
centuries. Vid. Chinese Repository, vol. XVII. p. 575.
These losses have been the greater owing to the want of
libraries. A Public Library, as we understand the term, can hardly
be said to exist in China; and private libraries are guarded with so
much jealousy that they are of little use, even to their possessors;
while the few collections that belong to government are so diffi-
cult of access as to be of no value. Of the collections which exist,
there are but a few that can be called ancient. The impoverish-
ment of families, civil wars and dynastic revolutions, have been
very fatal to libraries in this country.
One of the most celebrated private libraries in the empire is
that of the Fan family, whose catalogue is herewith transmitted,
as specified above; it is often referred to in the
B, Sze Ku kwan Ti yau Shú muh, of the Emperor Kien-
lung. The dwelling of that family is in the southern part of this
city. The Gallery, or Library, is in the midst of their garden,
which is beautifully diversified by grove and grotto, miniature
mountain, glen and lake, such as Chinamen of wealth and taste
delight in. The library was commenced by the Yung family,
among whom were numbers of scholars and statesmen. On their
decay the rising Fans purchased it; one of whom, a provincial
treasurer, was given to bibliolatry. Thus it happened that when
Kienlung, in 1774, undertook to enlarge the imperial library, the
Fans were able to render him signal assistance. The particulars
of this remarkable undertaking are recorded in a succession of
documents forming part of the Preface of the Catalogue.
That enlightened monarch issued a proclamation requesting
copies of all books not already existing in the Imperial Library,
catalogues of which were extensively distributed. The books
were to be sent to the provincial governors. Such works as
were sent on loan were to be returned to the owners. Rewards
were to be bestowed on persons who distinguished themselves by
sending large numbers of rare books. So little success attended
the attempt, that in the following year another proclamation was
ssued, calling the attention of booksellers to the subject, and

CHINESE BIBLIOGRAPHY.
173
directing them to search for and purchase suitable books for the
imperial library.
Four families of note distinguished themselves in this enterprize,
three of whom belonged to this province, the foremost being the
Fans of Ningpo, who sent up 696 works not possessed by the
literary monarch. To each of these the emperor presented a copy
of the
Kú hin Tu Shú Tsih ching, Com-
plete Collection of Ancient and Modern Books. Persons who
presented or sent up a hundred, and upwards, were rewarded by
gifts of the Pei-wan Yuen-fú, or Great Thesaurus. Five officers
were thus rewarded, two of whom belonged to Suchau in Kiang-
su, the others to Chehkiang.
This is a rule that obtains in
The rooms are opened but once
season, when those who have
One of the duties
The Catalogue of the Fan library contains the names of 4,094
works, comprising 53,799 kiuen. The inutility of this library may
be inferred from the jealousy with which it is guarded. Each
member of the clan keeps a key to his own lock, so that the place
can be opened only by consent of all, and the rule is that it shall
be opened only in presence of all.
large private libraries generally.
a year, at the close of the damp
any regard for books expose them to the sun.
of the provincial chancellor, when he visits Ningpo to examine
the district candidates, is to inspect this library. The family was
induced to open the building by Sir J. Bowring, a few years ago.
On that occasion they displayed with much pride some engravings
about which there are various exaggerated rumors. Those prized
sheets are said to be masterpieces of Chinese art, equalling any
thing which foreigners exhibit. The praise was not wholly un-
merited; but a scarcely perceptible inscription, in one corner,
showed the sheets to be a gift from Louis XVI. to Kienlung, for
whom they were engraved to illustrate the campaign against the
Kalmucks in 1756.
There is another library, smaller and also private, in this city,
that of the Loo family. It is guarded with the same jealousy,
but at the same time is greatly neglected, and is said to possess a
copy of the Complete Collection of Ancient and Modern Books,
purchased at Peking.
On two visits which I paid to the provincial capital, Hang-
chau, I took a look at the Wan-lau Koh, or Library in the Palace

174
CHINESE BIBLIOGRAPHY.
of Kienlung. It contains all the works named in the accom-
panying catalogue and many more besides. That library was
designed for use and for the public. Indeed it is accessible to
those who apply for the privilege to the local authorities. Faci-
lities are afforded by which the student may procure lodging and
food at the establishment, but from some cause or other the library
is rarely or never consulted.
Having named the Kú hin Tu Shú Tsih ching, Complete Col-
lection of Ancient and Modern Books, it may be proper to call
attention to it, as it may be new to some whom I address. It is
a library in itself. It was projected by one of the most enlightened
rulers of his age. Completed just at the close of Kanghi's reign, it
was not presented for imperial approbation until Yungching
ascended the throne. The undertaking is without a paralel in
the history of literature. It was printed with a font of moveable
copper types prepared on purpose. The ten thousand kiuen of
which it is composed, are usually bound into 5,000 volumes,
exclusive of one hundred and eight volumes of indices. The
whole Complete Collection is about equal to eight hundred New
Testaments.
This Great Collection is divided into six general Departments
or Pien, comprising works on Astronomy, Geography, Society,
Science, Classical Literature and Government. The Scientific
department probably contains a larger proportion of otherwise
inaccessible information than any of the other grand divisions. It
is subdivided into works on the Arts, 824 kiuen; Animated nature,
192 kiuen; and Botany, 320 kiuen; works on the Arts of Music,
136 kiuen; and War, 300 kiuen. The subdivisions of the Geogra-
phical department, including as it does works on foreign countries
known to the Chinese, must be of great value.
The Bibliothèque Impériale at Paris is so fortunate as to possess
some important portions of this magnificent work, respecting which
Julien has said, that for "elegance of form and beauty of impres-
sion, it rivals the finest works published in Europe." It is also a
rare work, as the entire font consisting of two hundred and thirty
thousand types was melted after only about thirty impressions
were struck off. A portion, consisting of eight-tenths of the whole,
was lately brought to this city from Hwuichau by an impoverished
family and sold for about four thousand dollars to an officer from
Kweichau.

CHINESE BIBLIOGRAPHY.
175
It is impossible perhaps to obtain a complete set at any price.
That however need not be deplored, as with some exceptions the
Collection is continued in the Chi Tun Pan, Pearl
Type Collection, also printed at the imperial office, but with earth-
en or wooden types, while the wanting portion and more is con-
tained in the 文苑英華 Wan yuen Ying voa, 冊府元龜
Teah foo Yuen kwei, and the
Taiping Yü lan, the
whole of which can be purchased for a few hundred dollars.
With our mercantile fellow-countrymen for patrons you may
soon be able to lay broad the foundations of your Library by pro-
curing this valuable Collection of ancient and modern authors and
a set of the above named Topographical Miscellanies, forming
in themselves a library of no small worth. As in our native lands
we are accustomed to see munificient donations and bequests made
to Institutions of Learning, so we may expect, when the claims of
your Library and Museum are fairly exhibited, to see the liberal
affluent availing themselves on quitting China of this channel to
leave marks of their denizenship, which shall contribute to the
enlightenment of this land and to the honor of that to which they
belong, aiding at the same time in the diffusion of knowledge.
among mankind generally.
By such a Library and a Museum, exhibiting the natural pro-
ductions of this empire, you may expect to see men from the
mountains of Yunnan and the deserts of Kansuh repairing to you
for information on the land of their birth, rendering Shanghai as
much an object of interest to the native scholar as it already is
to the merchant.
Your corresponding members, enjoying as they do the honors
and some of the privileges of your Society without cost, will I hope
consider it a privilege to promote the undertaking to which I have
ventured to call attention.
To the Rev. J. EDKINS,
Secretary of the Shanghai
Yours respectfully,
Literary and Scientific Society.
D. J. MACGOWAN.