ARTICLE VIII.
THE REMAINS OF ANCIENT KAMBODIA
BY DR. BASTION.
The fate of Kambodia has been a singular one. Its name reaches
with a mysterious sound in tradition and ancient lore. It is sung of
in the Indian poems of the heroic age, it is pointed to by the nations
of Ultra-India, as the cradle of their literature and religion, it is
described in gorgeous colours by the Chinese geographers of former
centuries. At present the country exhibits the saddest aspect of utter
desolation and ruin, and in truth, those who have landed at the small
ports of Kamput or Kangkao, and have there observed the devastations
of Siamese and Cochin-Chinese soldiery, and the vast solitude which
reigns around the puppet-still flattered with royal titles, shut up in a
bamboo palace amogst the swamps of Wong-could not indeed but
wonder, at the entire disappearance of its former splendour and glory
and would not unnaturally doubt (as has often been done) the vera-
city of the relations handed down about anceint Kambodia, and
consign them to the regions of myth. But ancient Kambodia existed
all the while. It lay concealed, like an enchanted land, amidst the
dense forests to the north of the great Lake, unknown to foreigners,
known hardly to the natives themselves, looked upon with superstitious
awe and never mentioned in profane ears. Geographical discovery
has always been indebted to idealistic phantoms, which combined
with ardour and enthusiastic perseverance to overcome hardships and
fatigue in pursuit of the wished for object. Religious chivalry led
the crusaders to the Holy Land and gave rise to the subsequent
voyages in Central-Asia, in search of the Prester John. The African
continent was doubled by the Portuguese; and the glittering vision of
the Eldorado pushed onward the Spanish conquests in America, both
northward and southward. The Eldorado has been revived in our

114
THE REMAINS OF ANCIENT KAMBODIA.
own days. Since the gold discoveries in California and Australia, bands
of adventurers traverse the globe in all directions to look for the
precious metal. They have penetrated into the valley of the Amazon
river and the recesses of the Andes; they have explored New-Zealand,
New-Guinea, Borneo, Sumatra-and lastly, they have approached the
hallowed ground of old Kambodia. And now, after the traveller's
foot has trodden again these regions, so long neglected and deserted,
there suddenly lies unrolled before us, in the clear light of day, what
once appeared to belong only to the misty realms of fable and
romance. The whole of an ancient civilization, of a culture of the
highest degree, reveals itself to our eyes, a civilization the more
important, as it gives the key to the primitive history of Ultra Gangetic
India, about which we can hope to glean little from the chronicles
of the nations, who rule there now, all of these being of modern and
quite recent growth. Out of the ruins of the Kambodian capitals,
down from the magnificent halls of the great temple of Nakhon Wat,
light will be shed on many obscure pages in the annals of Java, of
Ciampa, of Ceylon, Siam, Malacca, Birma, Pegu and Cochinchina, yes,
and more than this, even on China and the regions beyond. The
temple of Nakhon Wat was the residence of the Buddhistic Patriarchs,
built in honour of the famous Buddhaghosa, who introduced the
letters from Lanka, and amongst his successors ranks Tamo or
Bodhidharma, the apostle of China and subsequently of Japan, from
which latter country vessels visited Kambodia to collect the religious
books of the foreign faith.
The monumental remains of Kambodia are spread over a wide extent
of country. They abound on the shores of the great lake (Bien-hoa
or Thale-sap), but they are met with also in Korat and among the
mountain fastnesses of the Loo tribes. A military road can be traced,
which formerly ran from Naphburi in Siam to Inthapataburi,
the capital of Kambodia, and then penetrated farther on, into the
country of the Cochinchinese or (as they are called after the
Mongols, who had placed their dynasty on the throne of China) the
Yuen. Two massive stone-bridges, constructed with enormous slabs
of hewn stones, are still remaining, and have so well resisted the
inroads of time during so many centuries, as to be still possible to
elephants and bullock-carts. One of them, 400 feet long, spans in
thirty arches the river Lam-seng, the other passes over the Paleng
river and both lead on straight to Inthapataburi or Wakhon Tom in
the modern province of Siemrab. This province contains the most
important portions of the monuments. Those I visited were: (1) the
temple of Nakhon Wat in a still perfect state of preservation with
the exception of a few spires having fallen down; (2) the town of
Inthapataburi on Wakhon Tom, formerly the royal residence, the vast
extent of which is still marked, by the remains of three city walls, the

THE REMAINS OF ANCIENT KAMBODIA.
115
innermost of which encloses the palace; (3) the town of Patentaphrom,
which became the capital on the former one being deserted and
contains the palace of thirty towers, still distinctly traceable; (4) the
well preserved temple of Ihra-keoh in a more severe style of architec-
ture, than that of Nakhon Wat and without the rich sculptures, which
adorn the latter; (5) the temple of Lailan, containing a great number
of those curious inscriptions, called Akson Ming, which are thought
undecipherable by the natives, but are related, without doubt, to an
antiquated form of Pali; (6) the hill temple of Bakong where is found
the artificial lake of Sasong (the royal lake) with the remains of
temples all round and stone-ghants leading down on the four sides.
The temple of Ihra-Inkosi lies nearer to the town of Siemrab. In the
province of Battabong I visited: (1) the town of Baset with the remains
of temples, fortifications and tanks; (2) the temple of Wat Ekand; (3)
the hill-fort of Banon. On the way from Bangkok to Kambodia, I
passed the ruined palace of Panomsock and heard a great many more
spoken of by the people.
Of these different remains, the most prominent object is the temple
of Nakhon Wat. It is situated near the Siemrab river, at four hours'
distance from Nakhon Tom [the great city] or Inthapataburi, the
most ancient of the Kanbodian capitals, about the foundation of which
I succeeded in collecting a great many legends, still current among
the people of the country. Some of these traditions receive a curious
support by coincidences, mentioned in Siamese, Birmese and Chinese
histories, but my limited time here forbids to dilate on them. The
temple, it is said, was likewise originally a palace, but converted into
a temple on the arrival of the patriarch Buddhaghosa to whom it was
given as his residence and was therefore called Nakhon Wat (the city
of monasteries.) The figure of Buddhaghosa, or Phra Phuttathosa
(the holy voice of the Lord) plays a momentous part in the Buddhistic
missions of Ultra-India. A stone inscription on the island of Ramree
fixes his arrival at an earlier date than he is spoken of in the Cingalese
chronicles, but most versions agree in placing this in the fifth century.
The temple in which he dwelt, and from where the monks went forth
to gather the savages of the surrounding mountains into the pale of the
Church, stands now in a lonely jungle, which has grown up again on
the soil, fertilized by the graves of bygone generations. A few
Talapains have erected their huts between the columns of the stone-
paved courts and contribute to keep the temple in repair by claiming
the occasional help of some neighbouring villagers, who were assigned
to them, as slaves of the temple, by the Kambodian kings. The
workmanship of the temple is far superior to anything seen in the
neighbouring countries, inclusive of India. It is built of large free-
stone, fitted admirably together without the help of mortar, and the
sculptures display an elegance and a beauty in their execution, which

116
THE REMAINS OF ANCIENT KAMBODIA.
recall to the beholder the productions of Grecian art. Of the four
squares, which, enclosing each other, surround the high dome (prasat)
of the centre, the corridors of the outer one are embellished with those
sculptures, in such a profusion, as scarcely to leave room for the
inscriptions, interspersed between them. The objects represented
are mostly taken from the mythology of Brahminical India, but in two
compartments they appear to have reference to the special history of
Kambodia, and no doubt will soon contribute to its illustration. One
of these corridors contains, in a large procession, a catalogue of all
the different nationalities, once subject to the empire, each one being
represented in its peculiar costume and equipment. The characteristic
features of the figures are marked quite distinctly. The Caucasian
type prevails, in the lineaments of the face, and only at the end of the
procession follow some rude mountaineers, recognizable as savages by
their fantastic attire but with those physical features which characterize
the present inhabitants of the Indo-Chinese countries. In an adjoining
apartment the first meeting of the conquering race with the aborigines
and their subsequent dealings are represented. I regret not to able to
go into particulars, as there is here a fruitful field for discussion
and much that calls for explanation. The octagonal dome, sur-
mounting the whole building, which, in its entirety, forms a Dagob,
like Buro-Budor in Java, enclosed in four niches, looking to the several
points of the horizon, four standing Buddhas, and the Brahminical
deities, occurring in the lower stages, are only added to Buddhism, in
the same way as in Ceylon, Nepaul, China, Japan &c. One of the
galleries represents the fight between the gods and the Asura, about
the dragon-king, with four-handed Vishnu in the middle, standing on
a tortoise. Others contain battle scenes of the Ramayana, with
Hanuman, Lakman, Ravana, Garuda and such familiar objects. There
are still many colonies of Brahmins extant in Kambodia, where
formerly Banon is supposed to have been their stronghold. Some are
attached to the royal service, as court astrologers and guardians of
the Regalia (the same as in Siam and Burmah) but others follow the
pursuits of common life. When the Thai tribes of the present
Siamese (in consequence of the Mongolian wars in Yunnan) first
descended into the valley of the Menam and its contributaries, they
met every where colonies of Brahmins, who aided them in founding
cities and regulating the religious worship. Thus, for instance, it is
said in the Siamese history, called Phongravandan Müangüia (the
history of the northern towns), that king Tri-tham-trai-pidok sent out
two officers (Cha Nakrong and Cha Kanlun) in company of 500
merchants to expiore the country; an expedition, which led ultimately
to the foundation of Phitsanulok. After having crossed the rivers
Trom and Keo-nuay, they arrived at the plain of the Brahminical
villages, where Phra Phutthachao (Buddha) had been in the habit of
'

THE REMAINS OF ANCIENT KAMBODIA.
117
collecting alms. Of the villages of the Brahmins the eastern one
contained 550 houses, the western one more than 100 houses. The two
officers, after consulting together decided to stop there. "Here" they
said "is plenty of grass, let us therefore remain. The place is level
and quiet. There are Brahminical villages on both sides. Let us
build a town here for our lord the king." And the officer Nakrong
ordered the merchant Xaphokha to mount the cart and drive the 500
carts to the west, where the camp was placed. They then built a
village called Xaphorat. And the servants of Nakrong assembled
there to make bricks, in the number of one thousand. And the officer
Kanlun built a village, which he call Xapho-Phraman; and his people
collected there, were in number one thousand. And they made a
great many bricks. Then having sent for the Xapho-Phrahmana (the
priestly Brahmins) they kept the religious feasts and acted plays for
three days. And the Brahmins tied up the hair of the head into a knot
and, mounting on ropes, danced on them in honour of Phra-Insuen
(Siva). A nobleman then came forth, to fix the site of the city. And
the Brahmins enclosed the place with strings, marked the sites and
then divided the ground. They parcelled out what should belong to
the Brahmins, what to the Thai and what to the Lao" &c.,
An important date for Siam, and the whole of Ultra India, is the
middle of the seventh century (the time of the Tang dynasty in China and
the ascendancy of the Chola in the Dekkhan) when the new civil era
(the Chunla-Sakkharat,) supplanted the religious one of Buddha (the
Buddha-Sakkharat.( This change is sometimes ascribed to Phra-
Ruang, who (as king of Sukhotay as also of Naphburi) has many
representatives of his name in Siamese and Peguan history, but more
generally to Phaya Krek, the "Leprous Beggar," who became king of
Kambodia in the place of the hero Kottabong, whose fame still lives
in the songs of the mountain tribes of the Kha. With the legends,
concerning Phra-Ruang, is connected the rise of the Thai (the free
ones or the Franks,) as the Maha-Thai or Si-fan, of whom the Chinese
historian says, "that there was no people in the world more jealous of
its liberty and no people, which lived more independant," in the same
way of senatorial government, as is still preserved in many com-
munities of the Shans and of the Laos. The Thai language is still
spoken, with only slight dialectical differences, from the Siamese gulf
to the mountains of Assam, bearing unmistakable signs of relationship
to the languages of the Himalaya. According to the Y-toung-tche, a
uniform language was introduced, when the Si-fan (called thence forth
Tou-fan) had subjugated the 150 tribes of the Kiang. This was done
by a successor of the celebrated king Hou-ty-pou-tsoui-ye, who came
from the West, as the lawgiver and civilizer of those countries, which
fell afterwards to the share of the Emperor of the Tan (Ta-fan-cheng-
chen-Tsau-pou,) when the Han (Chinese) and the Fan divided Asia in

118
THE REMAINS OF ANCIENT KAMBODIA.
an eastern and western portion (821 P. D.) in the same way as Spain
and Portugal afterwards divided islands of the oriental seas. The king
of the Sifan, (Loung-tsan-tche by name,) was the first, who (634 P. D.)
sent ambassadors to China (real or pretended tribute bearers) and
received (641 P. D.) from the Emperor a Chinese princess in marriage.
The Siamese historians of the Phongsavadan Müang Nua give a long
account of Phra-Roung's or Ruang's voyage to China (638 P. D.) which
they represent as a kind of conquest, and whence he brought home a
veritable princess of China (for be it observed these princesses given
to tributary kings, were often supposititious ones) as his legitimate
queen. Phaya Krek is sometimes represented, as the rival of Phra
Ruang or, more correctly, as his royal master, [who, frightened
by the miracle of water being borne in a sieve, ceased to ask for
the tribute of the meritorious One,] but generally the two cyclic
legends of Phra-Kuang and Phaya-Krek run paralell with each other
undisturbed in the liberal allowance made by the unscrupulous
mind of the Siamese to everything that concerns chronology and
dates. In one of the halls of Patentaphrom stands a statue of stone,
the hair tied up in the Brahminical fashion. It is said to represent
Phaya Krek, with whom, the seat of the capital, and the royal dynasty.
changed [636 P. D.] This figure is popularly known, as Ta-Phrom
[grand-father or ancestor Phrom] and thence the name of Paten
Taphrom [the citadel of Ta-Phrom]. Phrom is the Siamese and
Kambodian pronunciation of Phramana or Brahma, called Fan in
Chinese books. Contemporaneously with the supposed date of Phaya
Krek lived the last king of the Fan dynasty in Tonkin. The royal race,
called Fan or Fane, which began 347 P. D., when Fane-yuen ascended
the throne [at the death of Fane-Y the grandson of Kuliene], reigned
till the year 653 P. D; when it became extinct. The historians of
Tonkin and Cochinchina speak frequently of wars with the Ciem,
which have generally been understood to refer to the pressent Siamese,
whereas they are to be explained as alluding to Csampa [or Trampa]'
the kingdom of Tchan-ts-cheng in Chinese records. An old legend
divides Ciampa and the whole of Annam into the country of the coast
and the country of the mountains, and pretending that the first was
ruled by the queen and the latter by the king of the primordial dynasty.
Something similar is related of Tchen-la or Tohan-lap [the Chinese
name of Kambodia], where a kingdom of the sea is spoken of, in
contradistinction to a kingdom of the land. Afterwards two kings
are mentioned, a king of water and a king of earth, whereas
Ciampa was governed [before the introduction of Irlam by a colony
from Malacca] by the king of fire and water. This very personage,
the king of fire and water, still resides amongst the mountain
tribe of the Radeh and is said to receive a customary tribute from
both the kings of Kambodia and of Cochinchina. Of the fact of his

THE REMAINS OF ANCIENT KAMBODIA.
119
still exercising some influence over the barbarous tribes, called
collectively by the name of Kha, I received confirmation in Saigon
from a French missionary, who had passed sixteen years in the
stations of those parts, and had seen him several times. The king-
doms of Fou-nan and Tchan-la having been united, they were in-
volved in war with Tchan-tcheng [1183 P.D.] The king of Tchan-
tcheng invaded Tchen-la and ravaged the country, carrying off a
great booty. But the first successes were followed by disastrous
reverses and the king of Tchen-la, in retaliation for the injuries
inflicted on him, finally took possession of the whole kingdom of
Tchan-tcheng (1197 P. D.) Both parties applied to the Emperor of
China, as arbiter, and he decided that Tchan-tcheng should belong to
Tchen-la, but that the new kingdom should bear the name Tchan-
tcheng. So, when afterwards on the ascendancy of the Thairace, the
Suen-lo (Siamese) began their yearly inroads in Kambodia, (regarding
which continual, but ineffectual complaints, were sent up to the court
of China), the name, in the course of events, passed over to them.
The Chinese travellers [of the 12th century and earlier] describe
in many places, the vastness of the Kambodian capitals, the splend-
our of temples and palaces and the abundance with which gold was
lavished on ornaments. In the latter must have consisted the richness
of the country. Old gold washings are met with everywhere, in
northern Kambodia, but seldom yield more than the necessaries of
life, either because they are exhausted or because they are not worked
properly by the indolent people, now inhabiting the country.
Competent Europeans have not yet examined them. The description
which the Chinese give of the towers, the bridges, the galleries, the
guardian lions, the ornamental dragons, can still be traced in every
particular amongst the ruins, now remaining.
Another interesting instance I found in the Mémoires Chinoises,
(chiefly founded on Amiot's Communications.) It is said there of
the king of Tchan-tcheng: Il porte sur la tête un bonnet d'orfin,
travaillé en filigrane, au-dessus du quel sout trais petites montagnes
du même métal". Now, one of the most peculiar features in the
sculptures of Nakhon Wat is the variety of head-dresses there
represented, but one which occurs the most frequently and always
marks the royal personages, as towering above their followers,
is a crown in filagree work with three elevations, as here described.
Another singular custom, mentioned in the same book, which served
to prepare virgins for marrying, is told by van Schouten (in the 17th
century,) as existing in Arrakan. The Swenlo (Siamese) were already
settled in Kambodia and had learned the cultivation of silk from the
Chinese. The Kambodians have an old tradition, that their ancestors
were fed and dressed by a plant, which furnished them both with
nourishment and garments; often have I listened to their tales about

120
THE REMAINS OF ANCIENT KAMBODIA.
Komaratta (the kingdom of the Lotus,) from where they trace the
first emigrations. This likewise is confirmed by the Chinese authors.
[who at another place remark, that all work in the kingdom of Tchen-
la is done by the Swen-lo] in saying; "Le pays produit de lui-même
une plante que suffirait seule pour nourrir les habitans. Cette plante
vient dans l'eau et à mesure que l'eau crait, la plante s'eleve de façon,
qu'elle surnage tout. Elle est très abondante et le fruit, qu'elle produit,
est une espèce de grain, fort bon au goût et très nourissant"-"a plant
is produced in this country which alone is sufficient to feed its popula-
tion. It grows in the water, and expands itself in proportion as the
water rises until it covers the whole surface. It is very abundant, and
its fruit is a sort of grain which has an excellent taste and is very
nourishing." Thus we have a repetition of classical Lotophagi. But
I must conclude. My chief aim, in referring so much to Chinese
authorities, is to draw the attention of this Society, which is more
favourably situated than any other, to the many interesting facts, which
might still be elicited from Chinese literature in illustration of the
history and ancient geography of India and the adjacent countries.
Many interesting works have been brought to light, but the immense
store-house of Chinese reading, may still contain many others, which
would amply repay the trouble of exploration.