ARTICLE VI.
A VISIT TO THE AGRICULTURAL MONGOLS.
BY THE REV. JOSEPH EDKINS.
Every winter in the streets of Peking are seen large numbers of
Mongols. They come partly to trade and partly on official business,
or to perform prostrations at celebrated Buddhist shrines. They
belong to various tribes of the wide spread Mongolian race. The
quiet farmer from the north-east who lives two or three hundred
miles from the Great Wall on some richly cultivated piece of land,
comes to visit his son, a Lama in a Peking monastery. A party of
men riding well fed mules, with the fresh complexion of the Mongols,
but dressed in a way scarcely distinguishable from the Chinese, are
the followers of some prince who has arrived on his biennial or
triennial visit to make acknowledgment of the faded supremacy of
the Son of Heaven. That group of wild but cheerful riders on
camels, attired in undressed sheepskins, are shepherds from the Khalka
tribes beyond Lama-miao. One of them who wears a red robe, woven
from the long hair of the Tibetan Yak, is a medical Lama who acts as
physician to the other seven occupants of the travelling tent. This
yellow robed Lama, who rides a strong and fast pony, speaks three
or four of the languages of Tartary and transacts business for some
Sunite chief who pastures numberless flocks and herds on the grassy
plateau from which the traveller descends at Kalgan. This party of
three in Peking carts, bent on a shopping expedition, are Ordoses who
have performed a journey of a month from the northern bend of the
Yellow River. Here in a large Lamasery, where there is a wooden
image seventy feet high of Maitreya Buddha, are seen worshipping a

92
A VISIT TO THE AGRICULTURAL MONGOLS.
company of Elut Mongols who have come a three months' journey
from the Kumboun monastery near the Kokonor. Such are a few
specimens of the Mongolian varieties met with in Peking, during the
cold season.
There are two principal markets for the Mongols in Peking.
Those who come from the north-west and west are provided with
lodging and market accommodation outside the An-ting gate at a
mile's distance from the walls. The Eastern Mongols, who are con-
sidered to be more nearly allied to the emperor by ties of kindred, are
received into the Tartar city in front of the palace. Buying and
selling is here carried on extensively through the winter. The produc-
tions of Mongolia brought to Peking for sale are principally cattle,
sheep, horses, camels and mules; cheap silk fabrics, skins and felt;
frozen game and sheep, with Mongolian butter and cheese; to these
should be added grain of all kinds, potatoes and opium.
In the after-
Their camels
was of black
Eight men,
On the fire, which
The first I saw of the Mongols was in the winter of 1861. The
moon, an orb of golden light, had just set behind a hill along whose
side ran the Great Wall. The purple dawn, which heralded the sun-
rise, was gleaming on the eastern mountains that contain in one of
their valleys the tombs of five of the Tartar emperors. We passed a
party of men on camels, who did not understand Chinese, but spoke
in a tone of friendliness and good nature, in what proved to be
Mongol; on the camels were placed their tents, cooking furniture,
provisions and the wares they had purchased at Peking.
noon we met them again encamped on the road side.
were grazing quietly on the pasture close by. The tent
sail cloth supported by two posts with a cross beam.
including two Lamas, were sitting round the fire.
was of charcoal in an open circular iron frame, was a deep pot of
food. Beside it was another charcoal stove with a common Chinese
cooking pan upon it. Our friends offered us mutton chops, recently
cooked and remaining from their dinner just terminated; a knife was
handed to cut the meat from the bones. They do not use chopsticks.
The fingers convey food to the mouth. Millet they eat with a spoon
from small round earthen dishes. The Lamas shewed us their beads
and an image of Buddha which they carry wrapped up with them.
This image was an inch and a half long, carved in a small oblong piece
of incense wood. We also saw their prayer books, these were long and
narrow, written in the Tibetan character and language on thick loose
strips of paper, imitated from the palm-leaf books of the Southern
Asiatic countries. None of the party knew Chinese. They sat on felt
See Mr. Lockhart's First Report of the London Missionary Society's Chinese
Hospital at Peking for 1863 pages 18 and 19. Mongol princes, and the settled farming
Mongols, use chopsticks.

A VISIT TO THE AGRICULTURAL MONGOLS.
93
mats in their tent, wore leather trousers, felt stockings, Chinese shaped
boots, and cloaks with small sleeves and Chinese buttons. The camels
travel thirty or forty miles a day. Encamping on a grassy spot they
need no inns and little corn. In the month of May of the present year
I had the opportunity of seeing the Mongols who are living in a settled
state and engaged in cultivating, in conjunction with many Chinese
emigrants, the rich arable plains and valleys of Eastern Mongolia.
The first day from Peking takes the traveller to a prettily situated
town called Nieu Lan Shan. Here the hills commence and the Great
Wall is seen at the back of the district city of Hwai-jeu pursuing its
serpentine course, sometimes over low hills, and then surmounting the
highest and most precipitous ranges. The Great Wall suggests that
an iron despotism has been a powerful element in Chinese history.
The will that could achieve this stupendous work with unhesitating
firmness, was the same will that destroyed the feudal system of the
days of Confucius, and replaced it by the centralization that despotic
government loves. The great book-burner and irresistible conqueror
said, that the Great Wall should be carried along the whole northern
barrier of China. The poor people were forced to do what the despot
willed. They went up into the mountains and constructed this wall,
25 feet high and 10 feet thick, partly of hewn granite and partly of
large bricks, with notched parapet and numerous square towers.
The wall is wonderful as an act of the human will and an achievement
of human labour, like the pyramids of Egypt and the walls of Babylon.
Yet the wall of T'sin Shi Hwang is scarcely so permanent as his
institutions. In parts it has become only a long heap of bricks. But
the Fu and the Hien cities, with their magistrates appointed direct
from the metropolis, still remain a vital part of the Chinese system of
government.
In the wall as seen at Ku-pei-k'eu, the pass through which lies the
road to Jehol, the watch towers are very numerous and originally of
great strength. Usually they have three windows on each side. The
top is an open terrace reached by a staircase inside. The centre floor
and terrace are supported on arched brick work and stone work. The
windows and passages are arched. The upper part of a window is
often made of a piece of granite out of which the curve of the arch is
cut. There is no trace of wood work in these towers. Staircases are
frequently found in the wall opening on the Chinese side near the
watch-towers. The lime used in the wall has become black on the
surface and is nearly as hard as the stones it cements. The towers
near Ku-pei-k'eu are 20 feet square and 40 feet high, but some
are smaller. In one part of the wall, high on the hills, there is at
the bottom a broad foundation of granite stones in four rows.
Above these, the base being a little narrower, there are ten more
courses of granite stones. Then come four layers of hewn granite

94
A VISIT TO THE AGRICULTURAL MONGOLS.
larger and more regular. Above these comes brickwork of 25 feet
in height, the courses lying in curved layers according to the curvature
of the mountain in that place. The width of the wall here is 15 feet.
When the Great Wall is carried up a steep hill, the parapet appears
to the eye as a gigantic staircase.
Passing the Wall we entered the territory of the Har-ch'in Wang
or Prince of the Harch'in Banner. He is the feudal baron to whom the
soil belongs from this point to a considerable distance beyoud Jehol.
The Chinese small farmers who cultivate plots of land in the valleys
here pay double taxes. One to the Harch'in Wang, and another to
the Emperor.
The Mongol princes are hereditary and are descended from
Ch'enggis (Genghis khan.) They are now the feudal inferiors of the
Chinese Emperor, who invests them with their rank. They present as
tribute a sheep and a measure of wine. They serve in war as Sen-go-
rin-ch'in has done, voluntarily. The Emperor cannot compel them
to serve him, nor can he exact any money from them. Seng-go-rin-
ch'in's army, which has been serving for several years against the
rebels in Ho-nan and Shan-tung, has been supported partly by money
from the Harch'ins and neighbouring banners 300 and 400 miles north-
east of Peking, and party by the Chinese Emperor. We met a party of
Chinese soldiers from the bank of the Songari and Amoor returning
home after three years' service. They were Mongol-speaking Chinese
colonists, who had joined the Mongolian troops under Seng-go-rin-
ch'in, but had left the army before his death in May of this year.
Near Ku-pei-k'eu we met two Lamas in yellow performing a
journey by prostrations from their home beyond Jehol to Wu-ta'i-
shan in the province of Shansi. One of them had commenced this.
painful pilgrimage in February, and would complete it next spring.
After each prostration he stood up and walked forward to the point
where his head had lain and here he prostrated himself again. By
ordinary walking he would perform the same journey within a month.
Such journeys are frequently undertaken by the Lamas of eastern
Mongolia for the acquirement of merit and the expiation of sin. The
religions which sprang into existence in India favour this sort of self-
sacrifice. It is melancholy to think that such a mode of bringing the
body into subjection to the religious principle is far more likely to
engender and foster an ambitious desire for distinction, and that so
far as it consists in religious veneration, it is homage rendered not to
God, but either to an idol, or to an abstract idea. This Lama lived
by begging, and slept in temples on the way. A woman was near him
performing the journey in the same manner.
This prince's death recently produced great commotion in the court. When a
young man, he became a Lama, and resided for two years in the Monastery Yung-ho
kung. On the Death of his father he succeeded him as prince and ceased to be a Lama.

A VISIT TO THE AGRICULTURAL MONGOLS.
95
Jehol is 140 English miles from Peking. The palace and park
here are called Pi-shu-shan-chwang, the "mountain lodge for avoiding
heat." The stones in front of the palace gate, ordering persons to dis-
mount from their horses while passing, are inscribed in four languages
viz. Chinese, Manchu, Mongol and Turkish. The last emperor
died here. The city of Jehol is beautifully situated between hills.
The inhabitants are Chinese emigrants from Shan-si and Shan-tung.
Elegant tables and boxes of inlaid wood are manufactured here, the
principal woods used look like box wood (ming-k'ai-ye-ho) and
walnut (hwa-yü.)
The Lama monasteries are in a beautiful valley in the vicinity of
the palace wall. The largest are the Budala (see note A) and the
Teshu Lhumbo (see note C) both built without wooden pillars in the
Tibetan style of architecture. In Macartney's Embassy the Budala is
described. In the centre is a large square building with eleven rows
of windows, principally false. Within this is the golden chamber,
containing the images of many Buddhas, in the centre of a quadrangle.
It is roofed with copper which is gilt. Among the offerings to Buddha
placed here is the armour worn by the Emperor Ch'ien Lung. In front
of the structure with many windows is the chanting hall, an upper and
a lower. Before this is a large monumental archway. There are
among the Jehol monasteries two where Manchu liturgical services
are read; Manchu Lamas reside in them. We were not allowed to
enter any of these structures.
The prince of the Naiman tribe came to our inn to pass a night.
He had been summoned home from Peking to the funeral of his mother.
He had with him his principal wife and about a hundred followers.
The prince and his wife were carried in blue sedan chairs. Some of
the retinue stated that in their tribe there are about 300,000 people
in all. They live in houses not in tents. Hada, a considerable trading
city, is in their territory. The prince was in great dejection of spirits
and scarcely attended to business. When Christian books in Mongol
and Chinese were shown him, he looked over them and declined them.
An almanac in Chinese however was retained, and one or two small
Mongol treatises by his attendants. These we understood to be for
himself.
On leaving Jehol we crossed a long and steep mountain pass
which led the way to the fertile valleys of Pa-keu (ping
tsiuen cheu). Here we overtook a party of Lamas on donkeys returning
from Jehol to Gegen sum. They were better scholars than many
Lamas we met, and willingly purchased some copies of the Mongol
New Testament. In their monastery, the Gegen sum, (Temple of
the Living Buddha) there reside 5000 Lamas. It belongs to the
Mongoljin tribe and lies near the Liau river about 200 miles north-east
of Jehol; a Gegen or living Buddha is the chief of this large establish-

96
A VISIT TO THE AGRICULTURAL MONGOLS.
ment. Prayers are read here in Mongol, Manchu and Tibetan. It is
a central point of Lama influence in this part of Mongolia.
At a distance of 70 or 80 English miles from Jehol there is a
smaller Lamasery, but also containing about 2000 Lamas. The reason
for these large establishments is found in the fact that Eastern
Mongolia is a fruitful country. The Mongol tribes located there, forty-
nine in number, from the Great Wall in the south, to the Amoor in
the north-east, have grown peaceable and wealthy. Agriculture and
a settled life, imitated from the Chinese, have led to increase in
population, and in material prosperity. This has resulted in the exten-
sion of Lamaism under the fostering hand of the Chinese Emperors.
Sometimes three out of four sons will become Lamas. There are
not many families in which some of the sons do not become Lamas.
The Mongols are deficient in skill to become either good artisans or
successful traders. Young lads have three courses open to them.
They may follow the pastoral or agricultural life. They may become
schoolmasters, secretaries or officials; or they may take the vow of
celibacy, be shorn, and enter the Lama priesthood. The avenues for
manual skill and commerical enterprise are occupied by Chinese
emigrants, who possess the necessary aptitude and sagacity for these
pursuits. In eastern Mongolia there are many more Lamas than there
are scholars. The Lamas absorb in their own body such learning as
exists. The scholars as a class, at least in that part of Mongolia which
borders on China, are students of Chinese works, and regard themselves
as disciples of Confucius. Their object in acquiring Manchu, Mongol,
and Chinese learning is to be able to perform the business of the
government in the service of Mongol princes, and of Chinese and
Manchu officers in various parts of Tartary. The lack of a commercial
class and of public examinations very much limits the field of the
schoolmaster as compared with his position in China. He has fewer
scholars and they do not aim high. The ultimate tendency of the
present state of eastern and southern Mongolia must be to spread the
Chinese language and literature with the Shantung and Shansi
colonists over the territory of the forty-nine banners. At present
however we find no Mongol villages where the Chinese language has
displaced the Mongol. On the other hand, some of the Chinese
colonists in the province of Hei-lung-kiang bordering on the Amoor
speak Mongol more fluently than they do Chinese.
After ascending a long and lofty pass the road east of Jehol
descends into a broad and fertile tract of country with a few hills,
partly isolated and partly in chains. For about 30 miles limestone
hills are passed shewing curious rain-worn shapes. (Note D). The rain
and snow of centuries have worn away the softer and more exposed
parts of the limestone. The hills appeared crowned with what
look like long walls of large round tower-like shapes; one hill had a

A VISIT TO THE AGRICULTURAL MONGOLS.
97
longitudinal opening through it, and is called in consequence the "hill
of the heavenly bridge." Some singular upright masses looking like
two old pagodas (see note B) appeared on one, and a standing club
on another. Twenty miles past Jehol I visited a cave near the summit
of one of these hills. It was a water-worn passage a hundred yards
in length from the east to the west side of the hill. The path to
reach it wound round the hill from a valley on the east side, and we
passed midway a temple partly built in the hollow of the limestone.
After walking for some distance along the wall-like cliff, the cavern
appeared at the back of the hill. It led to a temple facing the valley.
An old Tauist priest lived here who was glad to see us, but refused to
allow a Mongol of the party to sound his bell. He regaled us with
tea, and accompanied us with a long crook to the foot of the hill, a
walk he took daily. We passed shepherds on the way tending large
flocks of goats. They had long crooks which they used as slings.
The crook is bent into a round form suitable for holding a stone. By
a slight movement of the arm the stone is conveyed to a great distance
and is so aimed as to strike the hill in front of a wandering goat, and
drive it back to the flock.
Pa-keu, or as it is called, P'ing-ts'iuen-cheu, lies in a very fertile
country. This city is between six and seven miles in length. There
is a very busy population. The prosperous agriculture of the sur-
rounding valleys, joined with the silk manufacture, gives occupation to
a very large number of persons. Two kinds of silk fabric are made
here. The silk of the worm that feeds on the mulberry is used in
weaving mien-ch'eu, while that of the larger species, the wild silkworm,
feeding on the Polo leaf becomes kien-ch'eu. Silk thread was being
made in the court of the inn where we staid.
In the neighbourhood of this town were three Mongol villages all
belonging to the Har-ch'in banner; visiting one of them we found that
the people amounted to thirty families, and that the name of the place
was Go-ch'in gere, "the thirty families." It was much like a Chinese
farming village, only the women wore a peculiar net for the hair
which is knotted under it at the back of the head. This black open
net is also used among the Manchus in Peking. There was little
difference in the appearance of the men. It was necessary to hear a
man speak before it could be readily known that he was not a Chinese.
They speak the Mongol fluently, but they also know the Chinese
language. The houses are ornamented with red paper like those of
China. On the posts and lintels of doors there were pasted in red,
either the common Chinese sentences indicative of good fortune, or
the same translated into Mongol. The houses are roofed with thatch
or tiled.
Examples of Inscriptions. Boyint'o odon undur gelebibai, the star of
good fortune shines on high
Fuh-sing-kau-chau. T'engrin

98
A VISIT TO THE AGRICULTURAL MONGOLS.
t'usimel boiyini soyoranoi, the high officers of heaven confer happiness.
Tien-kwan-t'si-fu.
A few of the Mongols in the village could read and there was a
schoolmaster resident. A young Mongol farmer looked at our Mongol
Testaments and tracts and concluded to purchase two Testaments
through the persuasion of a friend who said they were of much more
value than the small sum to be paid for them. This friend was an
accomplished mandarin secretary who writes and explains dispatches
on official business. He happened to be in the circle of listeners, and
knowing as most to his class do, the three languages Manchu, Mongol
and Chinese, he was looked up to by the simple villager as an oracle.
The women came forward to converse as readily as the men. They
have the open, frank expression of the Mongols generally. They
possess a fresher and more blooming complexion than is common
among Chinese women. They wear precious stones and other
ornaments in their ears, and place artificial flowers in the hair. The
dress for men and women is very like the Chinese, but the sleeves are
very wide. The Mongols are like the Manchus in this particular and
also in shaving the head. The court in the time of the Mongol dynasty
was more tolerant in regard to the hair than the present Manchu
family has been. Under the Mongols each nation followed its customs.
Marco Polo when in Khanbalik, the city of the Khan, (the modern
Peking) saw the Chinese with their unshaven black hair tied at the
back or on the crown. The Mongols at the same epoch wore, as now,
the queue and shaved the head. From them the Manchus probably
borrowed the fashion.
We passed a Sunday in one of the Mongol villages where 50
families resided with a few Chinese, and went by invitation to call on
one of the resident-chiefs, who wore a white button. The house was
arranged in Chinese fashion as regards the brick couch, and the
furniture. The couch was covered with white felt. The wife, aged
52, wore earrings of jay feather and silver work. She caused two very
shy grand-children to be brought in. They were fatherless. Their
mother was busy in the house at the time kindling a fire to boil the
kettle to make tea, while a crowd of neighbours filled the court and
house. She was either very much disposed to active employment or
it was her custom to do the hard work of the house. When the kettle
however had boiled she appeared beside her children and shewed the
same curiosity as the rest at the novel spectacle of European visitors.
The boy was reading Chinese, but would be taught when a little older
to read and write Mongol. The household shrine of Buddha which
stood in a corner had in it a Tibetan picture of that personage, painted
in dark colours, and blackened by smoke. Before it were set nine
small wine cups filled with fresh water which was changed daily. The
picture had been brought from Peking where these and other wares

A VISIT TO THE AGRICULTURAL MONGOLS.
99
from Tibet are conveyed with the embassy from that country for the
use of Lamas in the great Peking temples. The shrine had doors which
are usually kept shut.
Some Lamas from Wu-t'ai in Shansi were staying in the village
on their way home. They purchased some Mongol New Testaments.
They had come to Wu-t'ai from the Kumbun monastery, near the
Kukunor, beyond the western frontier of China. They wished to
return to this distant and celebrated seat of Lamaism as soon as a
favourable juncture occurred. I asked why they should perform this
long journey, and their reply was that it was better to be in Buddha's
land. There was a small Lama temple in the village, where Tibetan and
Mongol books were read. The name of the temple was inscribed on a
tablet in Peking fashion in four languages
Kwang-ch'an-si,
"monastery for the extension of the contemplative life." In Mongol
this is Diani delegeregok ch'i sum. The word Diani contemplation is
Sanscrit, from which language a large proportion of Buddhists words
have been transferred into Mongol. An extensive vocabulary of
philosophical as well as religious words has thus found entrance among
the Mongols.
The language reminds the inquirer by many peculiarities that he
is among an inland, pastoral people, whose life is spent usually
in tents and surrounded by flocks and herds. On asking the name
of a large stone trough lying by a well on the road side, I was
told that it was called onggach'i. But this word is used for boats
and ships. The children of the desert, unaccustomed to life on the
waters, called a boat a trough. They have never seen a ship and
to their minds it represents itself as a trough of large dimensions.
The word onggach'i is the same with the Chinese Ung or Weng,
trough. The two last syllables are derivative suffixes, the word being
formed as lightener from light and darkener, darkness, from dark.
The words for the human relations bear some of them a remark-
able resemblance to those of the Chinese language. For older and
younger brother different words are used. Aha corresponds to the
Chinese hiung or ko elder-brother, and degu or du younger-brother. The
word for uncle on the father's side differs from uncle on the mother's
side.
This connection in language points to a connection in race, a
theory which there are many other considerations to support. For
example, Mongols cannot marry a woman of their own family name.
A man of one clan invariably marries a woman of another clan.
Marriages are fixed by the parents as in China, and the time at
which they are determined on is usually when the future bride and
bridegroom are children. At marriages heaven is worshipped in the
court of the house. Earth is not worshipped. The parents are knelt

100
A VISIT TO THE AGRICULTURAL MONGOLS.
to in the house. These customs at marriage are identical with the
Chinese, except that the latter also worship Earth on these occasions.
At death the agricultural Mongols follow the Chinese custom in
using coffins and placing a mound of earth over them. They have
long given up the revolting practice still prevailing among the tribes.
more distant from China and still pursuing a nomade life. It is
customary, on the great grassy plateau among the pastoral Mongols, to
expose the dead on the open plain. No coffin encloses their remains.
Birds and beasts of prey soon devour them.
The population of Mongolia has been variously estimated. The
natives say that the average number of men, women, and children
in a banner is 200,000 or more. There are forty-nine banners in Inner
Mongolia. According to this estimate the whole number of southern
and eastern Mongols must be about ten millions. De Castren mentions
that the Buriats in Siberia number 180,000. This being based on
Russian statistics must be accepted. Should the number of the eastern
Mongols not be so great, the other branches of the race, including the
the Chahars, the Kalmucks, the Kalkas and other western and northern
banners, will together raise the sum of individuals to a very large
amount.
Chinese authorities say that the Mongol tribes occupying eastern
and southern Mongolia came in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries
from their original seats to the north of the desert of Gobi. Their
territory was laid waste by the Emperor of the period Yung Lo.
Into the country which he devastated the new colonies pressed.
The forty-nine banners have had between three and four centuries
of peace in a good climate, a period amply sufficient to account for
their present condition in regard to numbers and prosperity.
NOTE A.
Budala is the name of a mountain and temple near Lassa in Tibet. The temple is
on the summit of the mountain and is the residence of the Dalai Lama. In Buddhis
legends there is located in the Southern Sea, an island called Budaloka. In imitation
of this the island of P'u-to, near Chusan in China, was set apart as a seat of the worship
of the Bodhesattwa Kwan-yin, and named accordingly. There is a story that the
mother of Chien-lung, the Emperor who built the Budala temple, wished to go on
pilgrimage to P'u-to, and that, to render the long journey unnecessary, her son erected
the temple at Jehol. In form however it is like the Dalai Lama's palace.
NOTE B.
There is a sketch in Macartney's Embassy of a pagoda-like mass seen on a hill
before entering Jehol. An account of it is annexed [vol. II. p. 204.] which says, "About
midway between the upper ridge and the bottom of the valley was a perpendicular rock
or antique ruin. Its height exceeded 200 feet. It was sensibly wider at the top than at
the base. Its form was irregular. Tall shrubs were growing from its upper surface.
One gentleman of the Embassy sketched it. From this sketch was taken the engraving
in the opposite page. Another gentleman went to examine it. It was not the remains
of any building. It was not one entire rock; but consisted of indurated clay inclosing
gravel in large masses. It was no doubt of a more compact nature than the soil which

A VISIT TO THE AGRICULTURAL MONGOLS.
ΙΟΙ
had surrounded it, and which yielded to the violence of the torrents, sweeping every-
thing else away, and leaving this inverted pyramid as a monument of the height of the
ancient surface of the globe in this particular part of it. The light and soft particles of
the earth which had been washed away formed the smooth and fertile plain of Pechili,
while the harder and heavier parts, soon arrested in their progress, constitute the
rough surface of the glens of Tartary. The removal of a layer of soil two hundred feet
in depth, from the upper to the lower grounds for such a vast extent is a greater change
upon the globe than any mentioned in the annals of mankind."
NOTE C.
Teshu Lhumbo twenty-six miles south-west of Lassa, is the residence of the Teshu
Lama, or Banchan erdeni. It is second in rank in Tibet to the Budala. When visited
in 1789 by a British envoy from Bengal, there were 3700 Lamas resident in this
establishment.
NOTE D.
On the east of Peking coal is found in the mountains near the Great Wall 30 or 40
miles to the south-east of Jehol. The coal district to the west of Peking extends over
great part of the mass of hills there located. The line of the coal strata lies north-east
and west-south-west of Peking, proceeds all along the north parts of Chili and is
continued into Shansi; at the back of the coal is the limestone formation which has
yielded the marble profusely used centuries back in the construction of Peking
palaces and temples. The marble quarries are about 30 miles south-west of Peking
The hills east of Jehol I suppose to be a continuation of these limestone strata.