ARTICLE IV
SEI YO KI-BUN, OR ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. R. BROWN.
PART I.
In the fifth year of Hó-ei, twenty-fifth of the cycle, (A. D. 1708)
and on the 6th day of the 20th moon, while at my western
residence, I heard officially, that on the 8th moon of the previous
year, a foreigner had landed and stopped on one of the islands
belonging to Ooszmi (a part of Satszma's territory, Tr.) I was in-
formed by the Government, that beyond the words Yedo, Nippon,
Nagasaki, etc. his language was unintelligible. The man himself
drew several maps on paper, on which he wrote, Namban, Rok'son,
Casteira, Kiristan, etc. which words he pronounced as he pointed to
them. At the word Roma, he pointed to himself.
These facts were officially reported to Nagasaki, and the govern-
ment there made inquiries of the Hollanders. They said that Roma
was the name of the place in Italy where the head of the religion of
the Lord of Heaven, resided, but that they did not understand the
meaning of Rok'son and Casteira. When the authorities inquired of
the Chinese from Nanking, Amoy, Taiwan (Formosa, Tr.) and Canton,
and also of the Tungkingese, and Siamese, they said they had heard
that Kiristan (Christian, Tr.) was the designation of a corrupt religion.
Further than this, they could give no information.
INTRODUCTORY NOTE BY THE TRANSLATOR :-
The following paper is a translation of an old Japanese manuscript found in a book-
store at Yeddo. The volume is divided into three parts, the 1st of which contains an
account of the arrest of a Roman Catholic priest upon the Island called Yaku-shirna,
off the southern coast of the territory of the Prince of Satszuma, in the year 1708;

52
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
On hearing these things, I told the government, it appeared.
certain that the foreigner was from some country in the Western
Ocean (Atlantic Tr.) but I could not see why the Dutch and others
at Nagasaki should say they could not understand the words in
question. The government again did me the honour to consult me
on the subject, and my reply was, as follows:
"I remember having heard an old man say, that the people of the
Western countries, are very ready at acquiring all languages, and
that when the Namban (A general name for the nations of Europe, Tr.)
formerly came to this country they were able in a very short time to
speak Japanese, and then they began to propagate their religion."
"That religion prevailed here many years, and foreigners were
continually going and coming. When this religion was prohibited,
great numbers of Japanese proselytes were banished. Europeans
must therefore in all probability be able to understand the Japanese
language. If those who come to this country, with some end to
attain, did not understand Japanese, how could they accomplish their
object? But the language is not the same in all parts of this country,
and besides there are ancient and modern words. If then we discover
what dialect this man speaks, among those that have been handed
down from generation to generation, it should seem that we might
understand what he says. If we question him through some one who
is familiar with his dialect, we shall certainly be able to understand
him. I am still more at a loss to understand what the Hollanders
say. From the time of the So and Ngen dynasties [The Chinese
dynasties Sung and Yuen A. D. 1100 to 1366, Tr.] to the present day,
Rok'son, some times called Roson [Luzon, Tr.] has been the well
known country, whence a kind of jar considered valuable for pack-
ing tea, has been imported into this country. Who has not known
them by the name of "genuine Rosson jars."
Again Casteira [Castilia in Spain. Sponge cakes were first brought
to Japan in Spanish ships, and are now commonly known there under the
name Casteira, Tr.] is a country not far from far famed Italy, and
thence a kind of cakes were imported into Japan. We have the same
kind at this day. It certainly is inexplicable that such persons as
his removal to Nagasaki, and examination there; and his subsequent arrival at Yeddo,
imprisonment, trial and death. The writer was a learned man, whom the government
employed to assist the officers in the examination of the prisoner. The name of the
latter, as given in Japanese syllables, was Jean Baptista Shirotte. It is believed that
he was the last Roman Catholic missionary, who landed on these shores, previous to
the year 1859, and that he is referred to in the "Lettres Edificantes," as having landed
there and having never been heard of afterwards.
The 2nd part contains the report of the prisoner's examination sent up from
Nagasaki, and the information obtained from him at Yeddo, respecting the military
and naval power, the wars and conquests of the Western Nations.

818
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
53
myself should have heard and remembered these things, whilst the
men from those foreign countries know nothing about them."
Such was my report to the government.
The government replied that my suggestions were very reason-
able. So I heard that the foreigner was to be punished capitally,
according to the laws of the land.
Thus passed this year and the next came, viz. the 6th of Ho-ei,
(1709); and from the 10th of the Ist moon, the country being in
mourning, (On account of the Taikun's death, Tr.) I heard no more of
this matter. As the year drew to a close, at the beginning of the IIth
moon, the government informed me that the foreigner who had come
and stopped at Ooszmi the last winter, would shortly arrive at Yeddo,
and that my services would be required in investigating the case.
They also said that they had not been able clearly to ascertain the
circumstances of his case from the copy of the testimony taken last
winter by the governor of Nagasaki. I also learned that the order for
me to assist at the examination was occasioned by my former remarks
to the government on the subject.
It then occurred to me, that were it only the language of my own
country with which I should have to deal, I should have no difficulty
in understanding it, but, I supposed that when it came to interpreting
the names of places and men, and still more when it came to matters
of religion, the foreign words would be numerous. I had heard that
in consequence of the severe prohibition put upon this religion, the so-
called Dutch interpreters, had met with things unintelligible to them.
I therefore thought that when I came to the same things there would
be difficulties again. Thinking there was a work in the governor's
office, wherein words of this sort were explained, I begged the govern-
ment to favour me with the loan of it. My request was made known to
the gorojiu, and three volumes were handed to me from the governor's
office. On looking at these volumes, I found they contained the
substance of the religion referred to, but there was no explanation of
terms, yet there were some passages relating to one or two foreign
countries.
So when I heard that the foreigner had arrived, as I was to be
called to the governor's office on the 22nd day of the same moon, I met
the governors the day before and made arrangements.
The 3rd part comprises the missionary's answers to the questions put to him, about
himself and his family connections, his reasons for coming to Japan, and his religious
Creed. The volume is interesting as showing how the Japanese Government have felt
towards, and treated Roman Catholic missionaries since they were expelled from the
country. It shows also with what eager curiosity they pried into the minutest matters,
and made note of the results.

54
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
On the appointed day a little after noon, I went there to meet them.
The governors* came there and on looking at the articles which the
man brought with him, I saw some newly made gold and silver coins
of our own country. Again, when examining his religious vestments,
I found them made of white cotton cloth, with a lining of cotton,
bearing the vermilion stamp of its manufacture at Nara [the name of a
former capital, south of Miako, Tr. ] I also showed them to the governors.
When they saw them and the rest of the things, they said, they could
have no doubt about them. After reflecting upon the matters not yet
understood, and having finished their inspection of the articles belong-
ing to the foreigner they called for the interpreters sent up from
Nagasaki. The author here inserts the names of the three interpreters.]
To them I said, "In ancient times, when there were southern
barbarians at Nagasaki, there were interpreters for their respective
nationalities. When first their religion was prohibited, such inter-
preters still existed, but after they died, there could be none to keep
up their knowledge. Moreover, as soon as that prohibitory law was
enacted, even those who uttered the words of those foreign countries
by mistake could not escape the punishment of death. Though one
might have heard such words by tradition, yet he would not have
dared to utter them. Now as this was 70 or 80 years ago, there is no
possibility that any one should understand those languages. The
speech also of different parts of our country differs. For instance, if
a Nagasaki man is made to listen to the dialect of Mutsz he will find
many things hard to understand.
But inasmuch as it is the language of his own country, when the
man supposes that such and such an expression means so and so,
although he does not exactly hit the mark, he does not come far from
it. Now when we look at a map of the world, we find that Italy like
Holland is in Europe, and their distance apart is not so great as that
of Nagasaki from Mutsz. By the help of the Dutch language, there-
fore, you certainly will be able to interpret seven or eight out of every
ten of this man's words. Still in addressing the government, it would
be wrong to represent conjectures as ascertained facts. The business
of to-day then is different from that of former days. You are not
making statements to the government at present. You are interpret
this man's language for me, and should you not thoroughly com-
prehend what he says, give me the interpretation to the best of your
ability. I shall not think of making use of your communications to
me, as though I believed them to correspond exactly with his meaning.
*Note by the author. The names of the governors were, Yokota Bitchiu no Kami,
and Yanangisawa Hachi Ro-e-mon.
The place referred to was the so-called Christian Zash'ki (or Hall) at I-shi kawa (or
stone brook) north of the Taikun's castle in Yeddo.

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
55
If you do as I have desired, although there may be mistakes in your
best conjectures, it will not be your fault. I will then say to the
governors, that you are not to be blamed should there be many
ina ccuracies in your interpretations, because the language is one that
you have never learned."
They answered that they would do as I had requested. So some
time after midday, the prisoner was brought out for examination on
this wise. He entered the courtyard supported by two men, one on
the right and the other on the left, and bowing to the officers present,
he took his seat, as ordered, on a bench placed there for the purpose.
The court house had a wooden verandah on the south side. The
prisoner's bench was set about three feet from it. The governors sat
within the building near the verandah. I sat a little farther back
from it. The chief interpreter was seated in the verandah, and the
two under interpreters at his left. The prisoner had made all the
long journey from Nagasaki to Yeddo in a norimon and therefore could
not walk. He was brought from the prison in the same article. For
this reason he was supported as above mentioned by the two men. A
trooper, and two foot soldiers sat down on either side and behind him
on straw mats, all these arrangements were the same at the subsequent
examinations.
The prisoner must have been somewhat above six feet in height.
An ordinary man would not have been as high as his shoulders.
His head was covered with black hair; his eyes deep set, his nose
prominent, and his complexion sallow. His sleeves were narrow and
wadded with cotton. His dress was of Japanese pongee, and he said
it had been given him by the prince of Satszma. He wore a single
thickness of white cotton cloth next to his skin. When, through the
interpreters, he was addressed by the governors, he bowed politely
and then answered. Though the weather was cold, and his garments
thin, he refused to accept any more clothing. This, he said, was
because he was prohibited by the laws of his religion, from receiving
articles from persons who did not embrace his faith, and although he
was greatly indebted in the matter of food and drink, to the favour of
the government for the chestnuts he consumed day by day, in order to
support life whilst he was propagating his religion, yet how could he
transgress by receiving the further favour of clothing at their hands?
He said that when he wrapped the garments given him by the Prince
of Satszma about his person, they were sufficient to protect him from
the cold and he, therefore, earnestly begged the governors not to be
troubled about him.
When the prisoner took his seat he had a fashion of making a sign
with his right hand upon his forehead. It was so afterwards on all
occasions of this kind. The explanation will appear in the end.

56
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
The above conversation with the prisoner being ended, the
Governors politely bowed and requested me to be seated near them. On
this day I did nothing but put questions to the prisoner through the
interpreters, and hear his answers about matters relating to his own
country. A map of the world had been brought to elicit informa-
tion about his country; but owing to its having been drawn in Japan
it was not sufficiently minute in its deliniations, and the Governors
therefore promised to bring another old one which was in their
possession. By repeatedly listening to the prisoner's replies to the
questions put by the interpreters, I found, as I had supposed, no
trouble in understanding him. His words were a mixture of the
dialects of Ki-mai. (Five Departments of the country round Miako, Tr.)
Sa-kai-do (The province of the western sea in five departments, Tr.) and
To-kai-do, (The maritime province of the east in fifteen departments,
Tr.) These he pronounced with his native accent, which made it
doubtful whether we understood his exact meaning. Moreover, as
he supposed it might be difficult for us to understand him, he always
repeated his words over and over again, and besides, he was not un-
frequently wrong in the pronunciation he had learned. Farthermore
as to names of men and places alone, it was only by the most careful
and patient listening that I understood them.
The interpreters, being moreover conversant with the Dutch
language, were hampered by their accustomed pronunciation, and he
instructed them how to pronounce words like himself.
In this manner after listening attentively to him for about two
hours, (one in Japanese, Tr.) I then questioned him myself, and
received his answers. As the sun was now low in the West, I said
that we should have to come here again on this business, and begged
for an adjournment. Thereupon the prisoner addressing himself to
the interpreters, said, "I came to this country to relieve the world,
and to benefit this people, by every means in my power. It certainly
was not my intention to distress men as soon as I arrived. The year
was then almost at its close, the weather was cold, and the snow
would soon fall. These gentlemen here, have guarded me night and
day without intermission, and I cannot bear to see it. They have
watched me as though I were disposed to escape. I braved the winds
and waves of many a league, to come here. By much endurance, I
reached Japan, and have come to this city in accordance with my own
earnest entreaty. Whither then should I flee were I to leave it? I
do not resemble the native of this country in personal appearance, and
where could I lodge myself for a single day? Yet, if these persons,
have been charged by the government to guard me so strictly, it is not
right for them to be remiss about it. Let it be so in the day time, by
all means, but every night, let them put me in handcuffs and fetters,

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
57
and confine me in the prison. I shall be greatly obliged, if haply you
can induce the governors to permit these guards-men to rest at
night."
The governors heard his remarks, and seemed to feel pity for the
man, but I said that it seemed to me that he was telling a falsehood;
whereupon, he replied with a very angry look. "My sense of shame
for a falsehood is not that of men in general, more especially because
lying is stringently prohibited by my religion, and since I have been
able to discern the character of actions, I have never uttered a false-
hood. How could you say what you did to the governors?"
I then asked him, if he did not just now say that he could not bear
to see the guards watching him day and night incessantly. He assent-
ed, I replied, that if so, his words were false. The vigilance of the
guards was in obedience to the strict orders of the governors. They
also gave these orders, to keep him under a close watch, because they
had been so instructed and because they wished him to be free from
all danger. But commiserating him on account of the thinness of
his clothing, and apprehending he might suffer from the cold, they had
again and again asked him to accept a present of clothes. "Now,"
said I, "if what you say of your feelings for these guards is true, why
are you unwilling to put to rest the anxieties of the governors? If,
too, your religious principles do not make you regard their anxieties,
why need you pay any heed to the discomforts of those who watch
you in obedience to their orders. If, then, what you first said was
true, what you now say is false, and if what you now say is true, what
you said before was false. You will be under the necessity of explain-
ing and defending your position somehow."
Thereupon, with a look of extreme mortification, he replied, "Since
I have heard your remarks, I see that in what I said to the inter-
preters, I was certainly at fault, and that I ought by all means to quiet
the minds of the governors, by receiving the clothes they offer."
The governors congratulated each other, and told me I had truly
spoken well on their behalf. The prisoner than addressed the inter-
preters, saying "I beg you to intercede with the governors for me,
telling them that although they have shown such favour to me, yet my
mind would not be at peace, if they were to give me silk clothes, and
therefore I prefer to receive only such as are made of cotton."
It was now near sunset, the prisoner was remanded to his place
of confinement, and I went home. The next night, that of the 23rd,
I invited the interpreters to my house, where we talked over such
of yesterday's matters as I did not understand. On the 25th I
went again to the examination, where I met the governors, and
they had the prisoner brought before them. On that day I had a

58
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
map of the world, which the governors had brought from their office,
and by inquiring of the prisoner about the affairs of his part of the
world, many things were made clear, and many new facts elicited.
The prisoner observed that, as the map had been made more than 70
years before it would now be difficult to get a copy of it in his own
country; that it was to be regretted that it had been torn here and there,
and if it were repaired, it might be handed down to posterity. This
day also, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. was spent in asking questions and
receiving answers, and then the prisoner was sent back to his cell.
Wishing to see the prison, I went there with the governors as my
guides. On the north side of the prison, there was a small house.
They told me that a long time ago a native priest of the Roman
religion, who had recanted, and returned to the true faith, had been put
into that house. Two old people in that house, a man and his wife, rose
and bowed to the governors as they approached. Being the servants
of the son of a criminal, they were given to the priest who was
confined here, as his slaves, but they were allowed by the government
to become man and wife. Although they never become proselytes to
the priest's religion, still as from childhood they had been servants to
some one, they were not allowed to go out of the prison gate, and
receiving their clothing and food from the governor's offices, they had
to spend their old age here.
Afterwards I looked at the prison and found it to be a large one,
divided by thick plank partitions into three compartments. In the
western of these was the prisoner. He had made a cross, cutting it
out of red paper, and pasted it on the west wall of his cell, and beneath
it he was repeating his liturgy, and reciting passages memoriter from
his sacred books. South of his cell, there was a shabby building
which was occupied by his guard. When I had looked at all these
places, I returned home.
On the last day of the moon, I went to examine the prisoner, but as I
had told the governors it would not be necessary for them to meet me
there that day, they did not come. I spent the day in asking questions
on subjects that had come up on former occasions, and on which it
was requisite to make further inquiries. All our inquiries, hitherto,
had reference to the part of the world to which the prisoner belonged,
and I had not asked him anything about the nature of his religion.
Whenever he had introduced that subject, by turning aside from the
topic under discussion, I had put him off, by making no reply.
The next day I made an official statement to the governors, to the
effect, that up to yesterday, I had seen the man in all, about three days,
and now there was no need of misunderstanding what he said, and that
he probably well understood what I said to him.

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
59
I furthermore, stated, that we had fully investigated the facts
which related to his coming here, and that if his examination should
be carried further, his disclosures must necessarily relate to his religion.
Hence I thought it advisable that the governors should be present to
hear what he had to say.
The Gorojiu replied that they had ordered the examination to be
continued, and directed the governors to be present. On the 4th of
the 12th moon, I went to the court room and there met the governors.
The prisoner was brought in, and I asked him, why he come here, and
what sort of religion he intended to propagate in this country? Unable
to contain himself for joy, he answered. "Six years ago I learned that
I was to be sent to Japan, and after braving winds and waves, for
thousands of leagues, I reached this country, and at length have arrived
at its capital, as you see. Were I in my native land to day, it would be
new-year's-day, and while all there are congratulating each other on
the occasion, I am for the first time commanded by their excellencies,
to gave an account of my religion. Better fortune than this, I could
not have."
I then questioned him to the fullest extent about his religion. His
statements did not differ from the account of it given in the three
volumes brought from the governor's office. His language being
different, there were, however, differences in the names of men and
places, though these arose merely from mistakes in rendering the
sounds. He was a well informed and thoroughly educated man, and
to all appearence a savant in his own country, and I felt that I could
not cope with him in geography and astronomy.
The answers which he gave to questions about his country are
recorded further on. He said that there were many branches of science
in his country, and that he was familiar with sixteen of them, of his
acquaintance with astronomy there was an illustration on the first day
of his examination. The day was declining when I asked the governors
what o'clock it was. They replied that they had no clock by them.
The prisoner thereupon turned his head, looked at the position of the
sun, and then at his shadow upon the ground. Afterwards, counting
upon his fingers, he said, "By my country's method of calculation
it is so and so, naming the part of the hour, the hour, the day, the
month, and the year. Now though it may seem easy to make the
calculation by means of one's shadow it could not be expected that
he should so readily tell the time.
Again taking a Dutch map of the world, I asked the interpreters
to find Europe, and tell me where Rome was, but the printed letters
being very small they could not find it. The prisoner said have you a
"chiruchinus"? They answered No. I asked him what he mean? He
said that in the Dutch language it was called a "passer", and in Italian

60
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
a "compass." I told him that I had one and taking it from my pocket
gave it to him. He said it was loose in the joint and therefore difficult
to use, but it was better than none. Then seeing that the place to be
determined was minutely delineated on the map he took a pencil and
wrote off the name, and having with the compass calculated the degrees,
although he sat on a bench up the court yard he extended his hand to
the map upon the floor, and finding the lines of latitude and longitude,
which were drawn as fine as a spiders web, he touched a point as far as
it was possible for him to reach, and said please see if it is here. On
looking in the direction to which the foot of the compass pointed, it
rested on a small circle as large as the eye of a needle, and the
interpreters said that the foreign word Roma was by the side of it.
Besides this, when beginning with Holland, I questioned him about
the places in all the countries of Europe, he adopted the same method,
and never made a mistake as to a single place. On the map of Japan
I asked him, "What place is this"? Using the compasses as before, he
said, "It is Yeddo, is it not?" and as in the former case, the word
"Yeddo" was written there. Although it was seen that there were
rules for determining these localities, yet, in as much as they were so
minute, it was not so easy a matter to be done. I asked him if I could
learn these things. "It is very easy," said he. I told him that I had
always been dull in figures, and I feared it would be impossible for me
to do it, he replied, that it was not necessary to be particularly familiar
with figures, in order to do it, and I could very easily learn it.
He was a serious, and candid man, and one who was scrupulous
about being right in small matters. When he took his seat in the
courtyard on the bench, he first put his hands together, and bowed,
and after being seated, made a sign upon his forehead with the thumb
of his right hand, and closed his eyes. Though he sat a long time, he
was as motionless as a statue. When the governors rose from their
seats, he was sure to rise, and bow and then resume his seat, so it was
every day, once when he saw the governors sneeze, he uttered some
charm addressed to them, and said to the interpreters, "The weather
is cold, and they should put on more clothes. In my country we
pay great attention to sneezing, because once it became epidemic,
throughout the country." When the interpreters made mistakes in the
sounds of his Latin words, he told them again and again, how to
pronounce them. On hearing me speak the Latin words, he laughingly
said. "The interpreters, unfortunately in consequence of having
learned the Dutch language, find it difficult to get rid of their Dutch
pronunciation, and do not speak like you; perhaps it is because you
once learned our language."
At another time, when he could not orally explain, nor was it easy
to represent by signs the various articles ranged along the sides of a
Dutch man-of-war, such as the three decks, and the great gun at every

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
61
part, I held up my left hand vertically, on one side, and thrust three
fingers of my right hand, into the spaces between the fingers and
showed them to him. "That's it?" he exclaimed, and turning to the
interpreters observed, "It was quickly and clearly said."
Again when I asked him how far it was to New Holland, he made
no answer. I repeated the question and he said to the interpreters,
"Nothing is more stringently prohibited by my religion than to kill
men and can I in any way teach men to spy out other people's
countries?" I heard but did not understand this remark, and asked him.
why he said thus. He replied, "Although I know what you asked
through the interpreters, yet it is not proper for me to answer such
questions about other countries."
I again enquired what he meant? He replied. "When I met
this gentleman (the questioner, Tr.) a short time ago, I knew nothing
of his office in this country. If he were in mine, he would not be
without some important official post. New Holland is not far
from this country, and if he is thinking of taking that country, he
can very easily do so. Should I then minutely explain the way
to New Holland, I should verily be showing him the way to invade
another people's country." At this, although I was painfully sensitive
lest the governors should hear me, I answered with a laugh, "Even
had I such an intention as you allude to, I could not move a single
soldier, because of the strict laws of my country." His excessive
caution generally showed itself in matters of this kind.
When he was questioned about his religion, there was not one
word near the truth in what he said. All his good sense forsook him
immediately, and we seemed to be hearing two men speak. Hereby
it is evident that the learning of his country is merely a knowledge of
the particulars of form, and of those things which are said to be below
form, but of things above form they absolutely know nothing at all.
Hence I was amazed at what the prisoner said about the existence of
a Being who created heaven and earth.
I respectfully presented to the government the two volumes in
which I have noted down the substance of the questions put to the
prisoner and his answers.
The official reply received, was as follows: "Whereas it has
been definitely determined, years ago, that the religion of Jesus is
prohibited in Japan, this disciple of that faith comes here, professedly
to defend the missionaries from aspersions cast upon them. If he is a
missionary, why did he not bring with him the proper credentials,
instead of coming falsely pretending to be a native of this country?
Even if his statement be true, his subsequent acts must be considered
as doubtful and suspicious. He is nevertheless a missionary of his
country. According to law, let him suffer capital punishment. When

62
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
sufficient time has been allowed to collect the testimony, let this just
verdict be executed."
Understanding this affair, and that hereafter there would be no
end of such men's coming to Japan, I presented a full account of
what had occurred on this case to the government, for their future
guidance in similar investigations.
Not long after, at the time that the Taikun retired from this life,
(died, Tr.) in the 4th year of Shio-toku, (1714. Tr.) The old man and
his wife, who had been the servants of the recanting priest of former
times made a confession. They said, that although their master in his
life time, secretly instructed them in the tenets of his religion, yet,
they did not wish to violate the laws of their country. Now, however,
they were advanced in years, and when lately they saw this man
disregarding himself, and traversing 10,000 leagues in order to come
here, and when here, arrested and imprisoned, out of concern for
themselves, because they could not live long, and from fear of the
pains of hell, they had embraced his tenets and become his proselytes.
They begged also that they might by all means be punished according
to law.
These old people were, in the first place, put into separate confine-
ment. In the 3rd moon of the next year, (1715) the Dutch brought
tribute to Yeddo, and the Roman prisoner, having contrary to what he
at first asserted, been guilty of communicating his religion to these
persons, was put chains. Thereupon his passions burst forth in a
violent manner; he railed and shouted. He called out the names of
the two old people, incessantly, day and night, exhorting them to be
firm in the faith, and not to change their purpose so long as they lived.
The Dutch who came to Yeddo this year, said they had heard that
the so-called Thomas Toterunon [?] who went to Peking, soon re-
turned to his own country; that the Chinese were so supicious of him
that he could not remain among them.
When asked what they thought of the prisoner's coming here, they
said their countrymen did not understand the season of it. He might
be one who had committed some crime, and who, when at the point of
being put to death, had begged to be allowed to come here, and so his
countrymen. thinking, as he says, that it would be great good fortune
if this country were opened, and moreover, that if a priest were put to
death, it would be without precedent, consented to grant his request.
It may have been as the Dutch suggested but I do not think so. It
was because his countrymen thought the time had come when their
religion should be propagated in this country. This is my deliberate
conclusion. The prisoner brought with him, some of our newly made
gold coins, and zeni. When I first asked him why he had brought
here 3 sorts of gold coins, his answer was. "My country, by means

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
63
of the charitable contributions of all Europe, has wealth, without the
necessity of labouring to procure it. Besides much silver is produced
at Rome, and further, the Spaniards get large quantities of silver and
gold, from the islands of the sea, south-east of our country. Without
waiting for these things to be sent from Rome, I have only to write
a letter, and send it to Roson, (Luconia Tr.) and they will come
speedily."
Remembering the above saying of his, I have come to a conclu-
sion respecting the reason why he come here. He saw from time to
time the changes in the country's coinage of gold and copper, and
supposed that the wealth of the country was greatly exhausted, and
therefore the people were distressed, and the time of this popular
distress, was that in which his religion was not prevalent here, and
although it was still prohibited, he thought that if he should use the
inducement of gold and silver, that prohibition might be removed.
Hence after this I never spoke to him again about the gold and silver
coins.
So in the winter of this year, on the 7th of the 10th moon the two
old servants died of disease. They were said to be 55 years old. After
the middle of this month, the prisoner also was taken sick, and died
on the 21st at midnight. He must have been 47 years old.
The notes which I have made of what I had to say on this case,
under the reign of the late Taikun, as now written out, make in all
three volumes. In the first I have recorded a succinct account of the
whole affair, and appended to this a supplement containing a copy
of the substance of the report sent up from the Nagasaki governor.
In this is included a statement of what the prisoner said about the
affairs of all countries beyond the seas. I have also recorded his
answers to my questions, at least the most important parts of them.
As months and years have elapsed since the man came here, there
are many things which I have forgotten, and even in respect to his
language, and the matters referred to, there must be many mistakes,
in what I have written. Should any one want to give currency to the
novel things herein contained, in relation to countries, there is nothing
that need be kept secret.
If any one should be inquired of by the government he need not
tell them that there is anything more than this first part.
PART II.
The earth with its land and water is spherical like a pearl and
situated in the concave of heaven like the yolk of an egg within the
white. The circumference of the earth is 90,000 Ri, (!) men live
above, below, on all sides of it. The whole is divided into five con-
tinents, viz: Europe, Africa, Asia, and North and South America.

64
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
South of Europe is the Mediterranean Sea. On the north is the
Northern Ocean and Greenland. It is bounded on the east by the
Danais (Don) and the Euxine Sea, and on the west by the Atlantic
Ocean, called by the Chinese Tai-sai-yoo ().
In the South of Africa is Kabote bonius Fransqa. (The spelling
here is very difficult to decipher, but the Cape of Good Hope is plainly meant,
Tr.) On the east is the Red Sea. The island of Madagascar lies in
the ocean south-east of Africa. On the west is the Atlantic. In the
north-eastern part, Africa is connected with Asia by a very narrow
isthmus.
Asia is bounded on the east by the China Sea, called by the
Chinese, the Lesser Eastern Ocean, () which includes many
Islands, as Nippon, Loo-choo, Yezo &c. On the west it is bounded by
the Danais, (Don), the Euxine Sea, the Red Sea, and the Mediter-
ranean. The Mare Austrum, embraces many islands, as Sumatra,
and Roson (Luzon) &c. Northward it extends to the Sea of Tartary.
North America is hemmed in on all sides by oceans, but at the
south-western extremity it is joined to South America by a narrow
isthmus. South America is connected with North America; at its
southern extremity it reaches the Southern Ocean. On the north-east,
this two-fold continent joins Greenland. With what country it is
connected on the north-west, I know not. (The author observes in a
note that it extends to Yezo, Nippon &c. Tr.) The author here adds some
remarks of his own, the foregoing being the items of geographical information
obtained from the Roman priest (Tr.)
I cannot understand how the maps and globes of the West were
produced. On a map of the world made by Go-chiu-mei, (+)
in the time of the Ming dynasty, it is said in a marginal note, that
"there are all engraved maps in Europe. The Europeans and
Franks are all fond of travelling afar, and wandering from home,
and they put their discoveries on record, so that after many years
they have been able finally to ascertain the form of the whole
earth." When I met this Roman priest, I brought out a engraved
map of Europe, and asked him to explain it to me. When he
had looked at it, he said, "This was printed in Holland seventy
years ago, and is remarkably well done. It would be difficult to
get it in the West at the present time. The Holland of which he
spoke, is the same that sends tribute here every year. It consists
of two most remarkables, which are described in the Sei-yoö-fu-chi
[i]viz: Holland and Zealand. By inquiry of the Hollanders,
I have learned that a countrymen theirs, Macorans, (?) by name, who
was well versed in geography and astronomy and skilled in navigation,
once loaded six vessels with provisions, clothing and other necessaries,
and set sail upon the Atlantic on a voyage of discovery. His own

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
65
ship founderd at sea, and he distributed her crew and cargo among
the other vessels. After six years absence, three of these vessels all
that remained, returned to Holland. Then the Hollanders obtained a
minute acquaintance with the globe, its seas and mountains in many
parts, but they say that little is known of the south-western part of
South America. [Now by comparing the work entitled:-"The Three
Powers, illustrated with plates." (E) "The Philosophy of the
Seasons" (A) and "Questions on Astronomy, with illustra-
tions," Bal) with the Wan kwo ken koo dz.()
(or Map of world) I find that they all contain but an epitome and
outline of things.]
On the above named Map, besides Europe, Lybia (Africa) Asia
and North and South America, there is Magellanica, a continent in
itself, making six in all.
A marginal note states that "Magellan is the name of a Frank,
who sixty years ago first passed through this strait, and come to this
country, and hence the scholars of Europe name the strait, sea and
land, after him. Magellan is an erroneous spelling of Macorans, and
therefore the Hollanders are mistaken in calling him a Frank. On
the Dutch map all that Southern region is as yet unexplored, and no
names of places are inserted. Again, in a note on the map of the
world, North and South America are drawn as though entirely
surrounded by sea, and the Northern continent is joined to the
Southern. Now, on the Dutch map North America is not yet explored
in the north-west part of it. I cannot explain these discrepancies.
The countries of Europe are as follows:-
Ist. Italy on the Mediterranean Sea in the South of Europe. Its
chief city is Rome, which the Pope has made his capital. It is scarcely
18 ri circuit. Its inhabitants, according to the statement of the
Roman priest, number 700,000. They are largely engaged in manufac-
tures and are skilful in making various articles for household use.
The Pope alone holds jurisdiction in religious matters. Every place
has its officers for the management of civil and military affairs.
Red coral is found in the Mediterranean around the shores of Italy.
2nd. Sicily. It is the most southern island of Europe in the
Mediterranean Sea. There are two mountains in it, one of which
constantly emits fire, and the other smoke, by day and night. I believe
the disciple of Jesus, called Campana Josephu who came here in 1624,
was a native of Sicily. He was afterwards converted to the orthodox
faith (heathenism, Tr.) and received the name of Oka moto Sanyemon.
3rd. Portugal. Its capital is Lisbon. It borders on the ocean
in the S. W. part of Europe. Among us it is also called Namban.
In their commerce with various countries the Portuguese finally
settled at Goa, Malacca, Macao and other places in Asia, to carry on

65
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
trade between them. Commerce with Japan was commenced in
Portuguese ships, and the Roman religion gradually spreading east-
ward, reached this country by the same means.
The Portuguese first came to Burgo in 1543, and between 1596
and 1623, Portuguese envoys came here from year to year as to their
Suzerain. The Goa and Macao men were all Portuguese, sent by the
chiefs of the trade. In the winter of 1613 they were forbidden to bring
the disciples of Jesus here in their merchant ships. Subsequently in
1609 three hundred Japanese who had gone to Macao, were killed by
the Portuguese and the following year the Portuguese were forbidden
to come here on pain of death. Foreign ships ceased to come here
till 1639. In the 5th month of 1640 a Protuguese ship arrived, and all
her crew were burned to death. In 1647, the 6th month one of their
ships come bringing tribute, but was driven away, and obliged to
return in the 8th month.
According to Josepheu,* the first Portuguese queen was a
daughter of the king of Spain. The king of Portugal having died
without issue, his wife returned to the country of her parents. The
Portuguese ministers and people, hearing that the queen was
enceinte, urged her to come back again and she did so, and having
given birth to a son, the royal succession was renewed. This heir
to the throne, died at twenty one years of age, and left no issue,
having never married. The brother of the former king being an
ecclesiastic, they brought him from Rome, and made him king
but as he never married he left no heir. The ministers and people
therefore held a council and begged the king of Spain to grant
them as a successor to the Portuguese throne, the niece of their
former king. Subsequently this queen gave birth to a son. When
he grew up to manhood he became a religionist, and wished to have
nothing to do with the government of the country. His son likewise,
following the example of his father, retired from the world, and
though his people and ministers repeatedly tried to dissuade him from
this step, he would not listen to them, finally he was persuaded by the
priests of Rome, who said to him, "God gave your kingdom to your
father, and it is not right for you to abandon it." Convinced by their
advice, he could not abdicate his throne, and therefore interested
himself in the affairs of government. (This was 60 years after the
first Spanish sovereign reigned in Portugal.) He kept up the
succession of Portuguese kings. Hence he continued to feel the same
good will towards Japan that had been exhibited by former sovereigns
and again sent tribute to this country. This was in 1647. The name
of this king was Don Juan Guaru [?].
Campane Josephu (Tr.)

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
67
Portuguese merchant ships came here in 1685, but they were
again sent away, and came no more after this. I have also inquired
into the history of the propagation of the Roman religion, and find
that when commerce first commenced here, a priest called Franciscus
Xavier came in a Portuguese ship, and first landed in Beergo. This
was between 1532 and 1555. This religion first entered China in the
29th year of Wan leih 1601. This being the case, there was
an interval of 60 years between the introduction of that religion into
Japan, and its introduction into China.
Spain is geographically connected with Portugal and France, and
includes 18 provinces. A part of South America has also been
annexed to it and settled under the name of New Spain, parts of
Asia likewise and Roson (Luzon) have been taken and united with
Spain. Between 1596 and 1615 envoys from Spain first came here,
and vessels from Roson were constantly arriving. Their crews were
all Spanish subjects. When trade was forbidden, they ceased to come.
In 1624 Spanish envoys came again and were summarily dismissed.
Castile touching upon the south-western part of Spain, forms with it
one kingdom. I never heard that Castile had any commerce with
Japan, but it is said that Franciscus Xavier who first propagated the
Roman religion here, came from Castile.
France upon the sea west of Europe, is geographically joined to
Holland and Italy, and the part of South America newly annexed
to it is called New France. It is said that French merchantmen have
traded with Japan, but it is not certain. Some one says, that the
French country spoken of in a book of the times of the Ming dynasty
is Portugal, but I do not so understand it. The intercourse of
Europeans with China commenced under the Ming dynasty in 1567.
The Franks were the first to bring tribute to China, and according to
this, they went to China 24 years before foreign ships came to Japan.
Germany is a large country of Europe, whose capital is called
Vienna. By way of distinction, the sovereign is called the Emperor
in all parts of Germany, and he has seven feudal princes under him.
The Hollanders call the emperor Keizer, and say that there are nine
feudal princes; which is correct I cannot say. Though Germany is
rich in men and material, yet it is not easy to move an army there,
for should one of the princes disagree with the rest in council, the
project must be abandoned. Moreover the northern part of Germany
is cold, and as gunpowder is not abundant, they obtain it from the
Dutch.*
The author here proceeds to name the following countries of Europe, merely
giving their positions, viz. Brandenburg, Pomerania, Poland, Saxony, and Muscovy.
Of the last, he says that the cold there is extreme, and that in winter the ice freezes to
the depth of 10 feet, so that men and horses travel on it. He also mentions Sweden as
lying side by side with Norwegia and looking towards the Frozen Ocean.

68
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
The Germans, in pursuit of their fisheries on the sea coast, came
to some small islands, where they finally settled; forming a union of
seven provinces. After these were annexed to Spain the oppressions
of the Spanish became intolerable, and they separated from Spain.
Finally they raised an army, each of the contiguous provinces lending
their aid, and there was war for eighty years. Holland finally invaded
and took ten provinces from Spain. When they all had become
weary of war, the two countries made peace, and Holland having
restored the conquered provinces to Spain, was at rest. The
Hollanders were without a rival in naval warfare, but were not
equally skilled in fighting on land. Nevertheless they invaded and
took several parts of Africa and Asia, and their own country was
enriched, and their troops brave. At the present time, Holland is one
of the strong countries of Europe.
The seven provinces above alluded to are Overyssel, Friesland
Holland, Zealand, Groningen, Guelderland and Utrecht. The places
beyond the seas which they took, are the Cape of Good Hope,
Kotororiru (?) Malacca, Batavia, New Holland and New Zealand, etc.
What the Roman priest said of Holland will be seen hereafter. The
statements of the Hollanders differ in some respects from his. As
the affairs of this country will be elsewhere spoken of, I do not enter
into particulars here. The intercourse of Holland with this country
commenced in the year 1600, and that is the only country that has
continued to bring tribute to Japan.
England is in the ocean north-west of Europe, and consists of
two large islands. One of them is divided into two parts, Scotia on
the north and England on the south. The other island is called
Hibernia. This country being in the midst of the sea, its inhabitants
have became expert at navigation, and have learned naval warfare.
The Hollanders, following their example, entered upon foreign com-
merce and finally became familiar with the ocean highways. All our
(European) merchantmen fear the naval power of England and call
its inhabitants pirates. The king of England, mortified at this, has
forbidden his people to go abroad to foreign countries at their own
pleasure. This country originally respected and believed in the
Roman religion, but lately the king put away his lawful wife, and
took a favourite concubine in her stead. The religion of the Lord of
heaven treats adultery as a great crime. The Pope, in consequence
of that breach of the commandments, fell out with England; all
Catholic countries did likewise. Holland was excommunicated at
the same time.
I find that the English and Dutch began to hold commercial
relations with Japan in 1600. In the autumn of 1613, the English
brought tribute here. In the following year they came again. I am

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
69
not aware of their coming here after that, till the 5th month of 1673
when they brought home some ship-wrecked Japanese, the 7th moon
they returned to their own country.
Scotia in the ocean northwest of Europe forms with England one
island, and is north of the latter. Hibernia in the same ocean, is close
by England and Scotia.
The extreme southern part of Greenland extends to the Ocean
which is north of Europe. In its northern part it. is connected with
North America. That region is so cold that it produces neither men
nor anything else. They say that the Dutch in their whaling voyages,
take great numbers of whales there. They have a story that some of
them once formed a company, and provided food clothing and other
necessaries to protect themselves against cold and want, and stopped
in those parts. Consequently, the next year some of their countrymen
went to look after them and found them all in a sitting posture, but
they were all dead, not one was alive. Their flesh was like dried fish,
and not at all putrified. So extreme is the cold in that region.
[In the countries of Europe, generally, the question of the suc-
cession to the throne being already settled there is no occasion to
discuss it. In case it has not been determined, the ministers and
people cast their votes for a successor and he who receives the largest
numbers of votes is elected and made the ruler. So also when a ruler
confers office upon a minister, the person who is most recommended
by ministers and people receives it. The sovereign does not dare to
confer a single office upon his own responsibility.]
The Dutch say that they have no hereditary monarch in their own
country. As in the Chow dynasty, each of the Six Boards of govern-
ment officers appointed its own chief for the direction of business, so
in that country the people choose their own officers of government.
[The titles of European sovereigns are various. The highest is
called Pontifex Maximus which means Supreme or without a superior.
Only one man bears this title, viz: the Pope of Rome. The people of
European countries address him with this title, because they believe
in the Roman religion.
The next in rank is an Emperor, the next a Rex and the next a
Prince. From what the Roman priest said, a Rex seems to be
similar to a Chinese commander-in-chief, (). Next to the
prince is the First (?) He too is like a Chinese commander-in-chief.
The next is the Dux. This officer is in command of whatever troops
are raised in each district, and must be the head officer at the capital.
The officers attached to each of the above, are so numerous that it is
impossible to designate them all.

70
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
When Holland and Spain were at war, the Rex of England went
over with his own troops and became the Prince (general-in-chief,) of
Holland in the conduct of the war.
On the map of the world, I find it stated that the Pope of Rome,
controls affairs in all those countries where his religion prevails.
Those who next to him have the control of political affairs are the
Emperor and the Rex, and those in charge of military affairs are the
Princes, or Firsts. [The two last may be different designations for the
same rank in different parts of Europe.] Manners and customs are
generally the same throughout Europe, yet there must be diversities
in minor matters. The Germans, Swedes, and Hollanders are curly-
headed, yellow haired people, and the pupils of their eyes are white.
The Muscovites resemble the Mongolians.
The scope of the learning cultivated among them is very broad,
the most remarkable in the world in this respect. Their grammar is
like the Sih-tan () in the Pali language. Their rhetoric is like
the Wan-chang (X) of the Chinese. By rhetoric is meant the
science of composition. Besides these, it is said that they learn all the
minutiæ of astronomy, geography, the arts, and mechanical trades.
OF AFRICA.
Torka (Turkey?) in the Italian language is called Torka; else where
it is called Tsuruka. This country is very extensive, and geographic-
ally connected with Africa, Europe and Asia. Its capital is old Con-
stantinople. In ancient times it threw off the Roman yoke, (Africa
and Barbary are on the Mediterranean sea.) The manners of the
Turks are like those of the Tartars; they are unequalled in bravery
and cruelty. They have so many soldiers and horses, that they can
bring into the field 200,000 in a day, so many indeed, that they could
not be counted in a whole day. The Europeans are constantly making
incursions upon them, and therefore the Turks combine their forces
for mutual protection.
From what the Roman priest says, I should conclude that the
whole of Africa belongs to Turkey, and beside that on the north-east
it extends to Germany, and on the south-east to Sumatra. According
> Joseph's statements it is near to Portugal. When I enquired of the
utch, they said that it joined Tartary on the north-east. So contrary
re the statements made about it. If Joseph's statement is correct,
Curkey must be contiguous to Portugal in the north-west, and in the
north-east must extend to the eastward of Muscovia for Muscovia is
north-east of Germany, and side by side with Tartary. But I cannot
understand how it is that this country embraces all that lies in the
Indian ocean, as far east as Sumatra, nor can I understand why, if
Turkey is so large, it does not appear so on the map of the world, and
the Chinese copy of this map should give no explanation of it. I think
that Africa may be the Lybia of the map, and the confusion has

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
71
arisen from a mistake in transferring the name into Chinese. We
ought to have a good map to ascertain the facts of the case.
The Cape of Good Hope is in the extreme south of Africa; tigers,
leopards, lions, and other wild beasts and birds abound there. The
prisoner says that the Dutch have taken possession of the Cape, and
annexed it to Holland. The Dutch denied this, when I inquired of them
about it, but said that their ships, bound to Indian ocean, were obliged
to pass the Cape, and therefore it was their usual stopping place.
Madagascar is a large island in the Indian ocean, south-east of
Africa. In the barbarians language it is called San Lorenzo. On the
map of the world it is stated that there are 700 districts in Africa.
The map gives an epitome of the principal mountains and rivers, of
that quarter of the globe. The information derived from the Roman
priest and the Hollanders respecting the soil, people, customs and
productions of this part the world is not intelligible. As Africa is
connected with Turkey, probably Europeans seldom go there, and for
that reason little is hitherto known of it. The Dutch however say that
the inhabitants of the Cape and Madagascar are savages, that when
the Dutch go to Madagascar to get the products of that country, the
natives are frightened and do not come near them, and that when they
see the remnants of food left by the Dutch, they are so stupid that they
slily creep up and eat them.
OF ASIA.
Persia is west of India, and joins the east part of Africa, and
belongs to Mogul. Its productions are numerous. The Dutch say
that Japan and Persia are the only countries in the world that produce
fine horses; that no other countries equal them in this respect.
In 1556, Siam and Cambodia sent tribute to Japan and begged
continually that horses might be given to them. What therefore the
Dutch say must be true.
Mogul is an ancient country of India, of great extent, population
and wealth-the great country of that part of the world, but yet the
people of different parts of it are incessantly engaged in wars with
each other. Bengal, Sarata (Surat or Guzerat perhaps) and Indostan
belong to Mogul. Coromandel-coast, is the name of the seaport, the
prisoner says, but it means land bordering on the sea, and is the name
of a part of the country, where many foreign ships congregate. I find,
from the Roman priest's statements, that there are three religions
in the world, viz: the Christian, the Heathen, or Gentile, and the
Mohammedan. The last is the religion of Mogul, and Africa and
Turkey also have embraced it. What is called the Hwuy-hwuy
religion in China is probably the same.
Bengal is an ancient division of eastern India and produces
quicksilver, cotton cloths, silks and medicines. The cotton cloths

72
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
which the Hollanders now bring to this country are marked with the
name of Bengal.
India is the western part of Indo. I think the so-called ancient
Indo is the general designation of Goten (), and what is now
called India, is the western part Tenchiku (Hindostan).
Goa is a great seaport on the western coast, from which the
Portuguese commerce is carried on. Malabar, Chau (?) and San-
tomei (?) are names of places belonging to Goa. The last two places
produce silks, hence at the present Santomei is the name of a certain
kind of cotton cloth, and Chau of a kind of silk fabric, because
originally they came from thence.
I find, that the Portuguese who had settled at Goa, at first hired
a sea-port of Canton province, and appointed men to manage their
commerce at that port, who styled themselves managers of the
commerce of Western countries, or governors of the Western city
and commissioners of the port of Macao. They who brought tribute
from year to year to Japan, were Portuguese who came from Goa
and Macao. Macao is the name of a bay in Canton province.
Ceylon is in the Indian ocean south of India. On the side of a
mountain near the sea, there is a footprint of Buddha still preserved;
some say this is the spot where Buddha died. The people are like the
Moguls, and their country produces pearls, precious stones, cinnamon,
betelnut, and cocoa-nuts. There is a place on the southern side of the
island called Colombo whose inhabitants are black and probably they
are what the Chinese call Corombo. The Dutch say that the inhabi-
tants of countries near the equator are all Corombos, and are not
naturally intelligent. From this place black people among us are
called Corombo.
Siam in Chinese is called Shamuro. In ancient times it consisted
of two separate countries, Sha and Ra. In 1341, the people of Ra,
annexed the Sha country to it, and the two became one. Being a
southern land, its climate is very hot, though in the winter months
the air gradually becomes cool. The Siamese have curly hair, and are
naked, except that they wear a silken sash around their loins. The
productions of the country are medicines. hides, horns &c. Between
1596 and 1615, Siam began to carry on commerce with Japan.
From 1615 to 1644, the kings of Siam continually sent tribute here,
and wrote their letters on gilt paper. At the present time, only
Siamese merchant ships come here from year to year. In 1596, some
of our own people went there and after a while became the king's
ministers. They also wrote letters and sent presents, to our govern-
ment, and it is said their decendants are still in Siam. Champa (?)
and Cambodia are south of Siam. In 1596 they both had commerce

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
73
with this country. I never heard of any tribute sent here by the
kings of Champa. There was a yearly tribute from the kings of
Cambodia up to the year 1624, but at present none but merchant
vessels come here from Cambodia.
As the prisoner had never visited these countries, I did not enquire
of him about them, but, since they had formerly had commercial
intercourse with Japan I added these remarks myself.
Malacca, south-west of Siam is a peninsular country. The
Portuguese formerly held Malacca, but it now belongs to the Dutch. It
is recorded in a book presented by the Dutch to our government, that
in 1612 the Spaniards made war upon Malacca. In that case it must
have previously belonged to the Castilians, and the Dutch must have
taken it by conquest, and finally made a settlement there. (By
Castilians, I mean both Castilians and Portuguese.)
Sumatra is in the ocean south of Asia, and in its northern part is
but little separated from Malacca. This country is directly under the
equator and twice a year, i.e. in the spring and autumn, the sun casts
no shadow there. From spring to autumn, the sun's shade is on the
south side of objects, and from autumn to spring, on the north side.
The climate is extremely hot, though it moderates in the spring and
winter. The inhabitants are all naked and black. Their manners are
like those of the Siamese. The country produces gold which the
Dutch get. Jacatara* (Jacatra) is south-east of Sumatra. The whole
island is called Java. Jacatra is the name of the province colonized
by the Dutch and Batavia is its capital city.
About 14 or 15 days southward of Jacatra, we come to Java
(proper) where the native prince resides, who is called Nusznamu. It
is the custom of the people to wear their hair long and encircle the
head with a thin cotton cloth stiffly starched. Their sleeves are
narrow, their upper garment short, and they wear trowsers. The
country is so warm that grain ripens twice in the year, and all sorts of
vegetables abound. Hence the people never suffer from cold and are
very indolent. Jacatra was first taken by the Portuguese. Ninety
years ago, i.e. in 1623, the Dutch were at war with them, and took it
from them. Thirty or forty thousand Chinese have emigrated to that
part of Java governed by the Dutch. The celebrated Bantam, to and
from which the Dutch were constantly going and coming between
1596 and 1615, is a place in Java. The so-called Jacatara men, who
now come here year after year are not the people of Bantam.
The Chinese also emigrate to Bantam.
Irish potatoes are now called by the Japanese Jacatara or Jangatara imo,
because first brought here from Java. Tr.

74
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
Borneo is an island lying east of Sumatra, and north-east of
Java. The manners and customs of the inhabitants are like those of
Sumatra people. The island abounds in quartz, crystals and camphor.
Macassar is the name of a places south-east of Borneo and in the south
part of Celebes. The native manners and customs are the same as those
of Sumatra, and the island produces gold and sandal-wood. North-
east of Macassar is Mindanao. Besides these there are numerous
islands, about which I did not make inquiries of the prisoner, and
therefore do not record here that which I do not understand.
Rokson is in the ocean south east of Canton, and is also called
Roson (Luzon) by the Chinese. We usually called it Rusun. The
Dutch call it Luconia. A place in the south-east of Rusun is called
Manila. In modern times the Spaniards took possession of it, and by
means of the natives carry on its government. In the south-west part
of the island, there is a mountain which produces a large amount of
silver. More than 3000 descendants of Japanese emigrants live there
together and do not depart from the customs of their father-land.
When their officers make their appearance abroad, they wear two
swords and are accompanied by spear-bearers. The rest of these
Japanese, wear one sword. The Spaniards have laws for the govern-
ment of this colony of Japanese, and do not let them wander about in
the country indiscriminately. Four years ago 12 Japanese who had
been driven off from our coast by a storm, arrived at Rusun, and the
Spaniards assigned them a place with the rest of their countrymen.
Formosa is north of Rusun, it was first taken by the Dutch, but
now belongs to China. I find that the Luconians who always brought
tribute to Japan, from 1596 to 1615, were sent by the Spaniards at
Manila.
New Holland is in the southern ocean and its territory is very
large. It has been taken by the Dutch, and hence is called New
Holland.
I learn from the Dutch, in respect to that country, it is 400
Japanese ri south of Jacatra, and that their countrymen were the first
to visit it. They say that it is a very large country; that the inhabitants
were like brutes and could not speak; that the country is very hot, and
those who go there sicken and die, that, indeed, few survive the effects
of the climate.
The Tartary of which the prisoner spoke, is the Chinese Tattan;
and his Japan, is our Nippon. His remarks on Tartary were so con-
fused as to be unintelligible. According to the map of the world;
Tartary is upon the eastern sea coast, and it appears to be a country
abounding in dogs and tents made of skins like Yezo. I asked the
Hollanders whether on their maps, the northern part of Yezo is con-
nected with Tartary or not, but they did not know. Upon their map

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
75
of the world, only the south-eastern part of Yezo is delineated, and
they said that it was remarked in a marginal note, that in those waters
a fish, that we call a masz (species of salmon) abounds and is much
eaten by the natives. The Dutch told me that when they come to
Japan, they leave the northern ocean, pass along the coast of Africa
and come to the Cape of Good Hope, then turning to the eastward,
cross the Indian ocean, and arrive at the north-east part of Java.
Thence turning northward they pass Sumatra, Java, Borneo and other
islands, in a north-easterly direction, and arrive here. The whole
voyage they estimate to be about 12,900 Japanese ri. But were they
to go northward from Holland, and cross the northern ocean in an
easterly direction, and then turn southward and come to Japan the
distance traversed would scarcely be 3,000 or 4,000 ri.
When I asked why they did not take that course, they replied that
three years before, an Englishman by the name of William Dampier,
of his own accord, crossed the Northern Ocean and came into the
Pacific. But the Dutch thinking it impossible to do this, because
the sun's light does not reach those nothern regions, and therefore
the sea is always dark, and the tides swift, could not believe
Dampier's account of his voyage.' Indignant at this distrust of his
varacity, he was about they said to publish a book on the subject, and
if when the book made its appearance, its statements could be credited,
the Dutch would be very glad of it. (This voyage of Dampier's was
made in 1711.) Two years later I asked the Dutch about the matter,
and they informed me that Dampier had died the year before, and
that his book was not finished. According to their account, the
delineations on the map of the world are not to be relied upon.
New Spain is in the southern part of North America; crossing
this country in a southernly direction we come to South America,
a country newly settled by the Spaniards. Acapulco situated on a
bay in New Spain is a populous and wealthy port, a place of great
resort for merchantmen. In 1619, a vessel from Acapulco, was
driven off by adverse winds and drifted to Japan; here she was
repaired and refitted by our government, and sent home. Two years
after they sent presents to our government as tokens of their gratitude.
The same year, Japanese merchantman went to Acapulco. This is
no longer done.
New France is in the north-eastern part of North America. This
was first settled by the French. In appears to be a very extensive
country. Its inhabitants live among the trees and rocks, and herd
with wild animals, many countries have been usurped and settled by
Europeans. Besides New Spain (Mexico) and New France (Canada)
there are New Granada, and New Andalusia in the same category.

76
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
Brazil is in the eastern part of South America. It is a vast
wilderness, whose northern, eastern, and southern boundaries touch
the Atlantic Ocean. The natives of Brazil lodge in trees or live in
caves, and eat human flesh. On the map of the world there is a small
island north of South America, called St. Vincent whence tobacco
first came, it is said in a marginal note.
In the "Treasury of Secrets," (a book so-called) I find that the
Dutch made war upon this island and took it. A note on the map,
also states, that Patagonia is a country of South America, inhabited
by a race of tall man. The Dutch replied to my inquiries about it,
that a good while ago they passed by sea to the southern part of South
America, as far as Patagonia. They sent some of their men in a small
boat, who pulled against the tide running out of a strait, and went to
see the country. As the boat did not return to the ship, others went
ashore, and looking far away upon the land saw nothing but a vast
desert, except, that upon a sandy hill there were traces of a fire having
been kindled in a large hut. By the side of it there were tracks of
human footsteps, twice as large as those of an ordinary man, and the
distance between the foot-prints proportionally great. They therefore
inferred that the inhabitants of the country were men of large stature.
The small boat never got back, and they saw nothing more of the
inhabitants.
On the map of the world, it is stated that in Peru a substance
called balsam exudes from a tree in which an incision has first been
made, and that a dead body smeared with it, is preserved from
putrefaction.
The prisoner gave an account of the state of the nations of
Europe.
The Emperor of Germany went to war with France and Spain.
The Dutch and English joined him. The Spaniards raised 30,000
troops, and the king of France 40,000, and in all there were 70,000
men in their fleets, with which to resist the Emperor of Germany.
The Dutch and English raised forces to assist. Against Germany,
France and Spain helped each other. On both sides by land and sea,
there has been incessant fighting, and the number of the slain already
has amounted to 180,000.
Again at the death of the king of Poland, Brandenburg and
Lithuania became involved in war with Germany. In this war 7,000
Poles lost their lives and 3,000 Germans were slain in the battle. (The
author remarks that he does not know the causes of this war, nor where
Lithuania is.-Tr.)
Again Muscovy and Sakmenia (?) combined to make war upon
Sweden. Muscovy has also been at war with Turkey for about 10 years

ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
77
All these countries are in great confusion, and the people have no
peace of their lives.
The prisoner said, "When I came here, I sailed in a ship from
France for the Canary Islands. But English and Dutch ships of war,
carrying 200,000 men, blocked up the straits of Gibraltar and we
could not pass, but by making the case known to the Germans I got
through at great risk." The Canary Islands are in the Atlantic ocean
and belong to France. The strait of Gibraltar is between Portugal,
(i.e. Portugal and Spain,) and, Morocco or Torka. The foregoing
statements by the prisoner, about the wars in Europe relate to the
years, between 1700 and 1709.
I conclude this part of my book, with some information obtained
from the Dutch.
In the fourth month of 1709 Holland in the war with France and
Spain, killed over 10,000 of the enemy and lost more than 10,000 and
took three French towns, viz. Lille, Berguess and Tournay, (as nearly
as I can make out the spelling in katakana characters.-Tr.) In one month.
in 1710, the Dutch slew over 5,000 Spaniards in battle and took 2,000
prisoners. Two months afterwards they invaded France, killed 13,000
men, and took more than 4,000 prisoners. They also lost over 11,000
men, and finally gave up four towns which they had taken, viz. Douay,
St. Amant, Bethune and Mons. In 1711, in the 7th month, the Dutch
again entered France, and seized the department of Somme [?] forty
leagues from Paris the capital. Finally they fought with both Spain
and Germany
On the eighth month of that year, Turkey and Tartary were at
war with Muscovy, and the latter restored to Turkey the places she
had taken from her. The same year also in the autumn, a war broke
out between Sweden and Denmark. In this contest Denmark gained
nothing by fighting, but lost territory here and there. Holland came to
the assistance of Denmark, and finally by her intervention, restored
peace between the two countries. The same year Denmark sent
troops to occupy the places that were restored to her.
In the spring of 1712, England and Holland intervened and made
peace between Turkey and Muscovy.
In the fourth month of the same year, Holland and Germany went
to war with France and Spain. In this war there were 100,000 on
each side. The number of the enemy [Spaniards or French] slain was
about 10,000, and the Dutch lost 9,570. Seven months after the war
opened the Dutch took possession of Kuino (?) and finally entered
Marusene (?) But the enemy defended it so well that the Dutch did not
succeed, but drew off their troops and returned.

78
ANNALS OF THE WESTERN OCEAN.
Thus for years, the Germans and French have hated each other,
and each country has wearied itself with war, until they began to
wish for peace, but they could not agree upon the terms.
In 1713, the ninth month, they finally made a treaty of peace
(Treaty of Utrecht.-Tr.) and each returned to the other the places
and prisoners they had taken.
The war between Germany and France, I find commenced in 1700
and lasted till the year 1713 (IE 14)