ARTICLE IX.
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
DURING THE YEAR 1865.
BY THOS. W. KINGSMILL, Treasurer.
The year just passed through has been a remarkably uneventful
one, and offers few salient points for the reviewer; the events of the
last eight years have however commenced to bear fruit; changes,
none the less important that their growth has been slow and almost
unobserved, have obtruded themselves into notice, and a general
feeling that reform, radical and complete, is required, has penetrated
to all classes native as well as foreign. Many of the old landmarks
of party have been swept away, and instead new associations, new
interests are being created to bear fruit good or evil in their season.
The year opened so far as the political relations of China were
concerned satisfactorily. By degrees the connections of the Court of
Peking with foreign powers were being extended, while the country
as far as the external world was concerned was in a state of profound
peace.
Internally the remains of the T'ai-ping Rebels, after the loss of
Nan-king and Hu-chow had retreated along the Mountain ranges
forming the frontiers of Cheh-kiang, Kiang-si, and Fuh-kien, during
their march threatening many cities, the most important of which
was Kwang-sin-fu in Kiang-si, where they were defeated with severe
loss, and causing much suffering amongst the inhabitants of these
districts. They finally captured the city of Chang-chau-fu in Fuh-
kien where at the beginning of the year we find them nominally
besieged by the Imperial troops.

122
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
In the North-west the Mahomedan Rebels were steadily advancing
towards the sea-board, laying waste the country and cities along their
route, their track, even more than that of the T'ai-ping insurgents,
being marked by blackened ruins and utter devastation.
In Hu-nan a military Mandarin had stirred up a local rebellion.
In Man-chouria the Tartar troops in the service of the Emperor had
mutinied under the shadow of the very palace, and had given much
trouble to the authorities. In Hu-peh local banditti at intervals
descended into the plains carrying off the standing crops, burning
villages, and encouraged by the inertness of the native officials had
more than once threatened the open port of Han-kow.
In addition to these the Imperial government, never fully esta-1
blished, was openly set at naught in the Southern and Western
provinces. The incessant feuds between the Hakkas and Puntis
in Quang-tung assumed a graver aspect; armed bands advanced as
far as Kow-kong on the main embouchure of the Canton River.
Quang-si scarce owned allegiance. In Yunnan the Miautze, en-
couraged by the weakness of the government, boldly attacked towns
and walled cities. In Sze-chuen the embers of rebellion under the
followers of the soi disant E-wang E still smouldered.
The internal affairs of the Empire were thus in the last stage of
disorder, scarcely one province out of the entire eighteen could be
depended on; everywhere the seeds of disaffection, sprung from the
misgovernment of the later monarchs of the Tsing Dynasty, were
scattered broadcast over the land, so much so that even the best
friends of order had almost given up the cause as hopeless, and were
ready to hail any change as for the better.
Commercially the year opened with prospects almost as dark,
heavy losses continued for two successive years had affected many
even of the old established houses. The export of the Cotton, from
which large profits had been anticipated, had ended in entailing
heavy losses on exporters. The other staples of the country had
arrived at home to a market continually depressed owing to the
uncertainty prevailing respecting the issue of the American war.
In Japan our relations with the government still remained un-
satisfactory. The murder of two British officers on the 21st Nov.,
Major Baldwin and Lieut. Bird, had cast a gloom over all, and though
the native author ities had exerted themselves to bring the perpetrators
of this outrage to justice, a feeling of uncertainty as to the motives
that prompted their action was all but universal.
The unexpected recall of Sir Rutherford Alcock at this time
still further tended to darken this gloom, as it was generally looked
upon as an indication of the repugnance of the British Government

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
123
towards an officer who had once, in the affair at Kagosima, taken
active measure to repress Japanese arrogance and exclusiveness. The
defeat of the Prince of Choshiu by the allied squadrons at Simoonisaki*
had not yet borne full fruit, and foreign trade was considered to be in
a very precarious condition.
Few subjects of domestic interest were mooted at the time; the
great destitution prevailing amongst the lower classes of foreigners
however, attracted considerable attention. During the continuance
of the Taiping rebellion in the provinces adjoining the sea and the
river Yang-tze, large numbers of foreigners were attracted by the
opportunities held out of joining one or the other side in the contest,
as well as by the precarious profits to be obtained by illicit trade in
the disturbed districts. Many of these men were of the very lowest
class, and the almost perfect impunity with which they could commit
crimes of the gravest kind naturally reacted on their character; driven
out of the country by the cessation of the rebellion and the returning
activity of the native government, they settled in the open ports, and
leagued with the scum of the Chinese population lived by robbery, or
in default of opportunity on what chance employment they could pick
up.
The Chinese Authorities, aggrieved at these outrages committed.
often with impunity, and generally, from the want of power entrusted
to the Consuls, punished inadequately, pressed the matter on the
attention of the foreign ministers, as being in contravention of the
spirit of the treaties made with the several powers. At Shanghai the
Tao-tai Ting distinguished himself by the energy with which he
endeavoured to put an end to these outrages amongst the native
population, he also urged on the Consuls the advisability of closing the
gambling houses in the Foreign settlements which had become haunts
of vice of every description.
Under such circumstances the year 1865 opened in China and
Japan. Much of the exclusive policy of the former government had
become a thing of the past, and already the nations of Western Europe
sought to introduce the modern appliances of railways and telegraphs,
and much unmerited obloquy was thrown on the Chinese authorities
for their refusal to introduce at once these innovations. At a meeting
of this Society held in the month of April, a report of which will be
found in this volume, Mr. Hart, Inspector-General of Foreign Customs,
drew attention to the difficulties under which they laboured in respect
of these matters; but we may express a hope that further knowledge
and extended intercourse will remove these prejudices, and that in a
few years we may look forward to a still further opening up of this
country beneficial to its government and people alike.
On the 5th, 6th and 7th September, 1864.

124
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
Following out the ideas expressed by Sir Macdonald Stevenson,
who visited the country in 1864 with a view to these matters, meetings
were held in Hongkong in the Spring, and a Company denominated
the "Chinese Railways Co., Ltd." was set on foot and a preliminary
prospectus issued. The step was probably premature, and since that
time the persistent opposition of the Chinese Government and the
depressed state of trade has caused the scheme, for the present at least,
to remain in abeyance.
Within the year 1865 the completion of the Persian Gulf Telegraph
has brought us nearer to Europe, though the continual irregularities
of that line have as yet prevented it being of much service.
Telegraphic communication has also within the current year been
established between Europe and Kiachta on the northern frontiers of
the Chinese Empire, and a proposal to connect the latter place with
Peking by a line of couriers has been under the consideration of the
mercantile houses of Shanghai. A project for the construction of a
railway to connect the seaboard of British Burmah with the South-
western frontier of China has been brought under the notice of the
Indian government and although at present in abeyance, the day
seems not far distant when we may expect a new opening for foreign
enterprise.
On the establishment of the present Tartar dynasty, though the
forms of government prevailing in China for nearly two thousand
years were preserved, the first conquerors found it necessary to
overawe the subject race. Manchus were placed in all appointments
of trust, and the ancient dress of the Chinese was prescribed. To
keep up the prestige of the Manchu name garrisons of Tartar
soldiers were placed in the principal cities of the Empire, with here-
ditary duties and privileges. Little by little the peculiar privileges of
the conquering race were set aside, the posts of honour and profit
gradually fell into the hands of the Chinese; many of the garrisons cut
to pieces during the late T'ai-ping rebellion were not resuscitated,
whilst the two races became gradually more assimilated. The funds
set apart for the support of the hereditary troops in these towns were
found in the depressed state of the country to be insufficient, and
much destitution in consequence prevailed; an Imperial edict therefore
of the 26th July abolishing the hereditary duties and peculiar courts
of these troops, permitting individuals to pursue any calling at their
pleasure, and subjecting them in all matters to the ordinary tribunals
of the country, thus abolishing the last distinctive mark between con-
querors and conquered, excited but little interest, and is merely worthy.
of a passing remark as showing how completely the assimilation of the
two races has been effected.-

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
PEKING GAZETTE (July 26th, 1865).
125
The memorial (some time since) presented by Shên Kuei-fên (Futai of Shan-hsi)
has been reported upon by the Tu-t'ungs of the eight banners, the Boards and the
officials (appointed to the task). The memorial in question treated of the pecuniary
state of (the Manchu-bannermen) and proposed that they should be distributed through-
out the country. It represented that the bannermen are sunk in the depths of poverty,
and that it would therefore be most advantageous to distribute them among the provinces.
In the reign of Tao Kuang this project was discussed, but nothing came of it. Now,
however, affairs have arrived at such a pass that if some means of the kind be not
adopted there is danger of disturbances amongst the sufferers, while, on the other hand,
if the Imperial bounty be extended to them, and they be allowed to settle in the pro-
vinces their wants will be provided for. The throne was therefore conjured to permit
for the future any Manchus who might desire to do so, to wander forth for the purpose
of pursuing trade. This indulgence should be extended to all whether they be degraded.
officials or are too old to take office in either the civil or military departments, to those
not supported by Government as well as to those who are, no matter whether they be
Chu-jen, Kung-sheng, Hsiu-tsai, Hsiu-tsai by purchase, soldiers or unemployed. It was
suggested that the T'u-tungs should provide applicants with passes to enable them to
disperse over the empire. The districts and prefectures selected by those who may take
up their abode in the provinces should [in the periodical returns] be noted, as also the
banner to which each man belongs. This would also apply to all [Manchu] mandarins in
the provinces who have been removed from civil or military offices, and to such children,
and blood relations of those who have died at their posts, as have not the means of
returning to Peking. Moreover, should disputes arise [amongst the Manchus so located]
necessitating the interference of the tribunals, the local [Chinese] magistrates in each
place should take cognisance of the matter. Should, moreover, any [Manchus] be found
guilty of crimes against the laws, they should be punished by the local mandarins as
though they belonged to the general population. Should any Manchu wish to enter the
ranks of the people, he will be regularly registered as an ordinary citizen. When
examinations for civil or military degrees are held those who desire to compete should
report the same to the Governor-General and Futai [of their respective provinces], or
submit their qualifications to them, who in turn should report the request to the Boards.
Lastly, bannermen in the provinces should be permitted, if they so desire, to enter the
Chinese cavalry or infantry.
Such are the measures recommended by Shên Kuei-fên.
The idea seems to Us excellent, and WE therefore command the T'u-t'ungs of the
eight banners to act in accordance with the above suggestions, and issue Notifications
informing the Manchus residing in Peking that from an earnest wish to relieve their
necessities, WE permit them henceforth to apply themselves to trade.
Shên Kuei-fên in his memorial further represents that the same favour should be
extended to those Manchus who are stationed at Hung-ch'êng-tzu and K'ai-ping outside
the T'u-shi pass, and at Hsing-ho and Hsin-ping outside the Chang-chia pass.
How is it that destitution prevails in these localities? Are there not extensive fields
to be cultivated? Let the T'u-t'ungs, Governors-General and Futais examine carefully
and thoroughly into the question of the fittest residence for these men, and let them
neither be discouraged by difficulty nor induced by a love of ease to be careless. They
must not think that it is none of their business for WE shall await their reports on the
[agricultural] capabilities of the region beyond the passes. As soon as the nccessary
information is collected let it be at once communicated to Us, that the above sugges-
tions may be carried out.
Respect this."
Within the year the settlement of the districts lately disturbed by
the rebellion has proceeded. Accounts from Soochow and Hang-
chow as also from the provinces of Cheh-kiang, An-whei, and Kiang-si
speak of returning prosperity, a prosperity which would have been

126
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
greater, had not the unusually severe rains of the Spring and Summer
almost entirely destroyed the first crop of rice in the lower grounds,
and seriously damaged the second crop.
In the prefecture of Chang-chow in the province of Kiang-su
which suffered severely during the rebellion the distress was fear-
ful, more especially in the district of Wusie near the head of the
Tai-hu lake. In the lower portions of the province the Cotton
crops turned out a failure, the yield being calculated at less than
one third of that of 1864. From the prefecture of Shau-hing in Cheh-
kiang the accounts were also disastrous and many lives were lost in
consequence of the inundations.
The valley of the Yang-tze was also deeply flooded; during the
month of July a great portion of the British settlement at Hankow
was under water, the river having risen 44 feet over its winter level,
many buildings were injured, and much damage done to shipping while
an unusually large extent of country was thrown out of cultivation.
In Sze-chuen the two large cities of Chi-chi-hien, and Chên-hien were
swept away by the flood. The city of Nan-king was also inundated,
and much difficulty was experienced in the navigation of the river.
Severe floods attended with disastrous results were also reported as
having been experienced along the banks of the Yellow River.
While such was the state of affairs in the central provinces, a
drought almost equally destructive prevailed in the North, and we
find taking place at the same time, in the North, processions headed
by members of the Imperial family to pray for rain, and in Shanghai
a general fast ordered, and prayers offered up to the Rain-god [Lung
wang] for a cessation of the severe rains which had rendered fruitless
the labours of the husbandman.
At the Fung-wang-shan the Camps established by the Chinese
government for the purposes of instructing the native troops in
European discipline were carried on with some degree of success, in
the early portion of the year under Major Jebb of the 67th. Regiment,
and on his departure under Mr. Winstanley formerly of the English
Army. The Arsenal established at Soo-chow under the direction of
Dr. MacCartney has also been carried on with energy, and a
considerable quantity of new machinery has arrived. It is intended to
remove this Arsenal in a short time to Nanking, which city is supposed
to offer greater facilities for its permanent establishment.
A Chinese officer was despatched to America, it is said, for the
purpose of purchasing steamers to form the nucleus of a Chinese
navy, and generally speaking more activity has been displayed by the
Chinese government in taking advantage of foreign arts and appliances.
As already mentioned at the beginning of this retrospect the
remains of the T'ai-ping insurgents had made a stand at Chang-
chow-fu in Fuh-kien; here, opposed at first only by the undrilled

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
127
and ill officered militia of the province, they laid waste the country and
levied contributions from the inhabitants. The promises held
out by the insurgent chief Li-Shi-yin the soi disant Tse-wang E
were but ill carried out by his followers, who appear to have acted
here as elsewhere. The insurgent leader at the beginning of the year
issued a manifesto addressed to the repesentatives of England, France,
and America, asking assistance, and offering a partition of the Empire;
this document expressed the usual dogmas of the peculiar system of
Christianity professed by the followers of the late Tien-wang.
"If on the other hand your various nations relying on the
omnipotence of our Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ, and acting
upon the Doctrine of Christianity, will come to terms with us for
destroying the Tsing Dynasty; if you command your naval armies and
attack those places near the water, whatever cities, districts, ports, and
passes you will have taken and conquered by your force, you will be
at liberty without the least opposition on my part to keep; and whatever
treasures and food found therein you will be at liberty to appropriate;
and so I will attack on land, and whatever cities districts and passes
I conquer, and whatever treasures and ports, and food I find, I will
divide, giving one half to you; and all the distant cities, and marts
will be surrendered to you."
Such was the last manifesto issued by the representative of a
faction which had sought to overturn the Imperial government, and
had boasted of its intention to renew the ancient glories of the
Ming dynasty.
The insurgents had meanwhile availed themselves of what foreign
assistance they could obtain, and had established an arsenal in the
city; amongst others they were joined by a foreigner named Rohde
formerly an officer in the Anglo-Chinese force under Lieut.-Colonel
Gordon; under his direction their movements appear to have
assumed a more regular character, till towards the end of March the
government, aroused by the state of affairs, sent down some 8000
troops, disciplined at the Fung-wang-shan camps, under the command
of Kwo-sung-ling a
native officer who had attained distinction
in the campaign of 1863 in Kiang-su; these troops were accompanied
by Colonel Kirkham also an officer of Lieutenant-Colonel Gordon's
force. Before their departure mutual visits of friendship were
interchanged between them and the Shanghai Volunteers, then under
command of Sir Harry S. Parkes: arrived at Amoy from want of
artillery or on account of the paucity of his troops, K'wo-sung-ling
appears to have confined himself to investing the city, and gradually
driving in the rebel outposts, till on the 16th April the rebels find-
ing the town untenable suddenly withdrew under cover of night,
retreating towards the town of Tung-shan.
Thus ended as a political movement the once great T'ai-ping
Rebellion, after, devastating utterly some of the finest provinces in

128
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
the Empire. Its hordes had entered fifteen provinces; had at one
time approached within one hundred miles of Peking; had captured
seven provincial capitals, and numberless smaller cities; had even
altered the face of the country; destroyed its communications; deflected
its rivers; broken down its sea defences. During its continuance
smiling fields were turned into desolate wildernesses; "fenced cities
into ruinous heaps." The plains of Kiang-nan, Kiang-si, and Cheh-
kiang, were strewn with human skeletons; their rivers polluted with
floating carcases; wild beasts descending from their fastnesses in
the mountains roamed at large over the land, and made their dens
in the ruins of deserted towns; the cry of the pheasant usurped the
place of the hum of busy populations; no hands were left to till the
soil, and noxious weeds covered the ground once tilled with patient
industry. Its head a religious fanatic, afterwards a debauched
imbecile, despised by his own officers, and shut up in a palace built
from the ruins of the once celebrated Porcelain tower, died an
inglorious death in the midst of his women; his best officers, suspected,
and surrounded with spies, were thwarted in their endeavours, while
a licentious soldiery was left unchecked to commit crimes of the most
atrocious character. Under pretence of a mock Christianity their
chief assumed divine honours and sought to palliate the crimes of his
followers by the open exhibition of blasphemy and profanity of the
most startling character. In war a wild impulse of destructiveness
appears to have been the ruling motive; cities were suddenly captured
and as suddenly evacuated, when the means of sustenance had been
as ruthlessly as senselessly destroyed; for bare sustenance continued
successes were necessary; like the fire raging in the prairie, its hordes
rushed ever on; before lay smiling plains, behind blackened ruins;
new fuel was everywhere necessary, found only too abundantly
amongst those dangerous classes, which over-population and an effete
civilisation combined had given birth to. The movement bore within
itself the seeds of its own destruction, and its knell was sounded
when the first check was given to its onward progress; thenceforth
the flames indeed flickered up here and there amidst the universal
destruction, but deprived of fuel from without, they one by one
collapsed; till the fall of Nan-king, followed by that of Hu-chow,
deprived the movement of its head, and though as above related a
feeble stand was made at Chang-chow, the movement had already
become contemptible.
After leaving Chang-chow the insurgents, opposed on all sides by
Imperialist troops, and in the midst of a population who had shown
themselves constantly hostile, appear to have broken up into two or
more bodies, we hear of one investing the city of Kia-ying-chow in
Kwei-lin, Nan-chang, Wu-chang, Nan-king, An-king, Hang-chow, Soochow.

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
129
the North-eastern portion of Quang-tung province, but apparently
without success, as no further notice is taken of the fact, while in
October news arrived of the capture of Kan-chow-fu in Kiang-si
which had been occupied by a body of insurgents, thus clearing
Kiang-si of their presence. These troops probably retreated to the
nucleus of mountains which near this separates the three provinces of
Fu-kien, Quang-tung, and Kiang-si.
The last news we have heard of this body is derived from a
statement made at the British Consulate, at Canton by an American
named Baffey, one of those foreigners who were spoken of above as
having joined the rebels at Chang-chow; he describes the cause of
his desire to desert to have been the sight of two Chinese mandarins
burnt alive in Chang-chow.
"When the rebels evacuated Chang-chow, I came with them into this province,
and stayed with them until the 14th July when I deserted them in disgust. The name of
the Chief I joined at Chang-chow was the Tze Wang, and it was with his party to the
number of 20,000 that I left Chang-chow. There were 13 Europeans with them at
that time. Eleven days after leaving Chang-chow the Tze Wang's division became
disorganised near Ying-ting on a branch of the Han River, and I joined the Kan Wang.
It was with the latter that I entered this province. The Kan Wang numbers his force
at 100,000, but he has not more than 15,000 fighting men, who, however, are well armed.
I got disgusted with them at last, the slaughter was dreadful; at the city of Chên-ping,
they took 1,600 Imperial braves prisoners, who surrendered on the promise of their lives;
but the same night they beheaded the whole number, and I saw the creek run with blood
for four hours. On the night of the 14th July I took advantage of my being with a party
at a point some 60 li in advance of the city of Chên-ping, to desert by floating down the
river on a plank, and the next day I took to the mountains. I wished to avoid the troops,
as I knew I should be put to death if taken prisoner by them, so I made enquiries
previously to my flight from the country people within the rebel lines respecting the
direction of Kia-ying-chow, and at length I gave myself up to a village mandarin. Pre-
viously to this I was seized by some boatmen belonging to the village, who bound me
hands and feet, and were about to behead me, when a respectable old man induced them
to desist and led me to the mandarin. The latter sent me to Kia-ying-chow, were I was
confined in an office belonging to the Magistrate, and treated well by the officials, but
very badly by the people. I only had rice and water. I was then sent down to Canton
by boat in charge of a small mandarin, who treated me kindly. I arrived at Canton the
night before last, and was taken in a chair into the city, where I was lodged in a yamên,
and last night was examined before two magistrates. It was at a Chinese prison;
a linguist interpreted, but so badly that I could understand nothing."
"The greatest number of Europeans ever at Chang-chow was sixteen. I attempted
to escape out of Chang-chow, but was prevented by information given against me by a
German. The cause of my wishing to desert was seeing two Chinese mandarins burnt
alive by the rebels in the city of Chang-chow. For every tail of a mandarin soldier
produced the Kan Wang gives $6 reward. The Kan Wang is about 35 years of age.
He is the principal rebel chief at the present moment. I have never heard the rebels
speak of coming near Canton, but they are very auxious to get to the coast so as to
obtain arms. There is very little money among the rebels, and this province is not pro-
ductive enough to support them. They threw up fourteen fine stockades around the
city of Chên-ping, very different from the wretched ones erected by the Imperial troops.
The country people are very hostile. They had cut down the unripe paddy around
Chênping to prevent its falling into the hands of the Kan-wang. The latter, unlike the
Tze-wang, does not allow useless devastation among the villages."

130
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
The remains of the Rebel troops amongst these almost inacce-
sible districts will probably exist as banditti for some time to come;
the central power at present having little authority beyond the walls
of the cities.
The record of events at Chang-chow carries us incidentally to a
subject which at one time threatened to produce a misunderstanding
between China and the United States of America, I allude to the Bur-
gevine affair. The history of this man's career in China is well known
to most of the members of this Society; second to Ward he succeeded
him in command; failing to give satisfaction, and displaying infirmities
of temper unsuited to his position, he was summarily dismissed by the
Fu-tai, who refused to reinstate him on a request from Peking. Feel-
ing himself aggrieved he went over to the Rebels, taking with him
the steamer Kao-chiau piratically captured at Sung-kiang: again
betraying the cause of his new friends he capitulated to Lieut.-Colonel
Gordon; notified to leave China by the American Consul, he was
discovered by Li Fu-tai's officers on board the Fei-lung steamer then
about to start for the disturbed districts, and was taken prisoner.
The Fu-tai at once delivered him up to the American Consul
General, after which Burgevine was permitted to pass over to Japan;
the United States Consul General waiving the criminal prosecution to
which he had rendered himself obnoxions, in consideration of the
assurances given by Lieut.-Colonel Gordon, who however looked upon
him as too erratic to be allowed to remain so near the scene of new
temptations. It was however understood that the criminal prosecu-
tion was simply held in abeyance, in consideration of his at once
leaving and remaining away from the country.
So much of his history belongs to the past, a friendly pen thus
describes the events which led to his reappearance in China against
his promise given, and in face of his deportation by his Consul.
"To him, tired of the quiet of existence at Yokohama, and anxious to behold other
scenes, the offer of a passage from Kanagawa to Shimonosaki was most welcome. The
Fei-pang, a steamer held for speculation by her owners, was going down to Shimonosaki
to pick up any engagement likely to prove profitable, or to be sold. Report states that
on her arrival there Choshiu, who had heard of the extremely ill-grounded terror
wherewith Burgevine's name was greeted in China, offered him an important post in the
army he was then engaged in levying against the Tycoon. This proposition was not
finally accepted as Burgevine wished to return to Yokohama before deciding on so im-
portant a step. But the owners of the Fei-pang had meanwhile altered their plans and
resolved to bring the steamer to Shanghai, and thence start for Hongkong, returning
direct to Shimonosaki. As there were no means available for returning to Yokohama
direct, Burgevine at length made up his mind to accept the offer of his fellow-passengers
and enjoy the round trip by Shanghai and Hongkong. So far this visit to China was
purely accidental, and we have, moreover, reason to believe that on the passage, when
spoken to on the subject of joining the rebels, he expressed his conviction that the game
had been played out, and that neither honour nor profit was to be derived from that
quarter. Arrived in Shanghai, he met, we presume, some ardent sympathisers in the
rebel cause. At any rate he resolved to leave the Fei-pang and take a passag ein the

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
131
General Sherman which at the time was loading a miscellaneous cargo for Amoy. His
design in visiting Amoy seems to have been to find out the chances in his favour were
he again to join the rebels, but from his conversation it was evident that he had adopted
no resolution on the subject. On arriving at Amoy, by the ill-judged indulgence to use no
harsher epithet, displayed by Mr. Irwin and the exertions of some few Anglo-Taiping
residents, Burgevine, while in a state of intoxication, was induced to pledge himself to
visit Chang-chow, and if need be give all the assistance in his power to the rebel
cause."*
It appears that the presence of Burgevine at Amoy was known to
the American Consul who in contravention of his duty took no steps
to arrest him; afterwards betrayed by a servant he was arrested on or
about the 15th May, when on his way, with two companions, armed to
the teeth, to the Rebellines, and was taken to the Chi-hien's Yamên
where he was confined. The American Consul hearing of his imprison-
ment demanded his rendition which it appears was promised, but
fearing non-compliance he is stated to have broken into the Yamên
and found that the night before, Burgevine with his companions, one
of whom was an Englishman named Crane, the other a Portuguese
servant, had been despatched to Foo-chow.
At Foo-chow the British and American Consuls demanded that
the men should be delivered up, or that at least they should have
access to the prison; both these requests however were refused the
chief magistrate stating that the men should be sent on to Li Fu-tai of
Kiang-su under whose orders Burgevine had as above stated formerly
acted.
From this time nothing further was heard of the men, till in the
beginning of August a report seems to have come to the Fu-tai's ears,
that they had been drowned at Lan-chi-hien in Cheh-kiang, which
was subsequently confirmed by a despatch on the 20th August sent to
the British and American Consuls at Shanghai, stating that the boat
conveying the three foreigners had been capsized owing to a sudden
flood in the river, and that they and 10 Chinese had been drowned.
Mr. Lewis United States Deputy Consul General proceeded afterwards
to the spot to investigate the circumstances.
Nothing appears to have been discovered to disprove the asser-
tions of the Chinese, though rumours of foul play were prevalent. The
fact of heavy flood was proved, but the bodies were too much decom-
posed to throw light on the manner of death: Burgevine's body was
clearly identified by a fracture which had occurred during his service
in the Imperialist army, but no injuries incompatible with the native
account of his death so far as known were found out.†
North-China Herald, September 14th, 1865.
† It seems but right to add, that some of the circumstances attending Burgevine's
death, though capable of explanation seem to throw some'suspicions on the entire truth
of the Chinese narrative. The time which elapsed from the date of his death (June 26,)

132
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
Such was the last of Burgevine, whose career has so frequently
been before the public; insignificant in himself, circumstances forced
him forward; unsteady and unprincipled, his conduct twice threatened
to interrupt the friendly relations of China and the United States; and
at one time appeared likely to cause a dispute between the Court at
Peking and the Fu-tai of Kiang-su. Of his death nothing more will
probably ever be learned, and it will perhaps be best for the interests
of all to let the cloud of obscurity remain over it.
Foreigners of other nationalities within the year were held as
prisoners by the Chinese for political crimes. At Amoy were found
an American and two Frenchman; one of those who were drowned
with Burgevine was an Englishman. After the evacuation of Chang-
chow, Rohde and a man named Mansfield, an Englishman, gave them-
selves up to the Imperial authorities; they were sent into Kiang-si to
Kan-chow, before which they were detained some time. Rohde was
said to have been drowned by the upsetting of a boat, while the other
was in October delivered up to the British Consul at Kiu-kiang.
These cases demand some investigation, as while it is impolitic to
undertake the office of executioners for the Chinese government in
the case of political offences, there is manifestly an opening afforded
for serious abuses, in committing unquestioned to Chinese officials the
power of life and death over the subjects of foreign states.
Meanwhile the so-called Mahomedan rebellion in the North-
western provinces bid fair to destroy what the T'ai-ping insurrection
had hitherto spared. The followers of the late Shih-t'a-kai the soi
disant E-wang mentioned above, as troublesome at the beginning of
the year in Sze-chuen seem to have effected a junction with the discon-
tented Mahomedans, who for the last two years had been in rebellion
in Kan-su and Shen-si; marching Eastward along the banks of the
Yellow river they captured the city of Kai-fung-fu, the provincial
capital of Ho-nan, formerly a place of much note, but latterly fallen
into decadence from the constant fluctuations of the course of the
Yellow river. In this district they are said to have been joined by
numbers of men, who formerly had been engaged under a high officer
in the repairs of the dykes of the river, but who had been thrown
out of employment from the failure of funds consequent on the
exhausted finances of the Empire during the T'ai-ping insurrection. It
is also believed that the bands of Nien-fei spoken of above as
periodically ravaging the plains of Hu-peh, here joined the movement.
Their number thus swollen, they advanced towards the sea-board,
to the first unofficial announcement (August 2nd,) followed by a further delay of 18
days before the arrival of official despatches, seems difficult to account for; while some
minor details noted by Mr. Lewis are reported to be difficult to reconcile with the native
statements; the results of the inquest have not been made public as yet, but it is under-
stood that an enormous amount of evidence bearing on the case has been collected.

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
133
causing consternation along their route, burning, ravaging, and
pillaging, towns, villages and the open country. The Governor-
General of Nan-king, Tseng-kwo-fan, despatched a body of his picked
troops to the North-western portion of An-hwei, to protect that
province and Hu-peh from invasion, while San-ko-lin-sin the Sêng
Wang made every exertion to collect troops in front. The insurgents
pushing on captured Lo-yang-hien, entered Shan-tung and took Tung-
chang-fu, an important city on the Grand Canal, the Fu-tai of the
province retiring to Tsi-nan-fu the provincial capital; thence they
advanced to Lai-chau-fu on the sea coast within a few days' march of
the open port of Che-foo; several cities east of the Grand Canal fell
into their hands, and San-ko-lin-sin endeavouring to convey assistance
to Tsi-nan-fu met with a severe defeat. A body of insurgents marched
down to Hwei-an-fu in Kiang-su, an important town commanding the
entrance to the southern portion of the Grand Canal from the Yellow
River, which they attacked without success. In this serious state of
affairs, the province of Kiang-su being open to invasion in the event
of the fall of Hwei-an, Tseng-kwo-fan, Viceroy at Nan-king, and
Li-hung-chang, Fu-tai of Kiang-su, were ordered with all their avail-
able forces to the front. Meanwhile, the movement appears to have
lost entirely its religious character, owing to the comparatively small
numbers of Mahomedans, compared with the other discontents who
had joined, and the following leaders (whose antecedents well show
the nature of the insurrection) were placed in command: Miao, a
nephew of the notorious Miao-pei-ling; Chang, a son of the equally
notorious Chang-lo-hing who was long the terror of the North-western
provinces; and Shên a son of the late Shên-pao strangled the year
before for corruption in Shan-si.*
Before the departure of Tseng-kwo-fan from Nan-king a change
had come over the scene. San-ko-lin-sin, surrounded by rebellion,
carried on the Imperial cause with varied success, till defeated in an
attack on Tsi-ning-chow on the Grand Canal on the 16th May, he fled
with a few followers and was treacherously murdered the following
night by some villagers with whom he had taken refuge, outside the
city of Tsu-chow-fu. † The insurgents taking advantage of the panic
pushed rapidly on. In Shan-tung they took Kian-chow on the sea-
coast. In Chih-li they advanced to within ten miles of Pao-ting-fu,
the extreme northern point before reached by the T'ai-pings, and here
by a curious coincidence their progress was stayed and their retreat
commenced.
North-China Daily News.
† Another account states that San-ko-lin-sin met his death at the hands of some of
his own troops, who had deserted to his side from the insurgents, and who felt aggrieved
at his having restrained them from plundering the defenceless inhabitants.

134
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
But before proceeding further, we may at this time well pause to
utter a few words of regret over the memory of a departed foe. One
motive appears to have actuated San-ko-lin-sin in his public career,
and that was a firm attachment to the Throne; whether in favour or
lying under the cold shade of neglect, consequent on his defeat at the
Taku forts, he never wavered; for four years left in command of an
inadequate force to protect the North-western provinces, he did what
he could with the troops at his command. When the T'ai-ping cause
became hopeless in the South, and the malcontents in Sze-chuen and
Hu-peh, who had looked rather towards Nan-king than to the Maho-
medans in the North-west, had thrown their forces into the latter
movement, and were marching though Ho-nan, San-ko-lin-sin was
ever in the front attacking with varied success, and ever urging forward
fresh reinforcements: that he was not more successful rested with the
government at Peking, who were ever chary of aid in men or money;
still at the time of his death, he had so far disposed his forces and
filled them with his own spirit, that their panic was only temporary
and that shortly under another leader they recovered their lost ground
and by this time have driven back the insurgents to their old haunts.
Strange to say, San-ko-lin-sin was succeeded in command by
that man of whose aggrandizement he had ever been jealous; he
could not brook to see the rising influence of the Tsêng and Li
families; looked at from his point of view it boded no good to
the reigning house, and he was ever in public and private the open
and avowed enemy of the Chinese Viceroy at Nan-king. That Tseng
and his lieutenant Li had more than once treated with contempt the
orders of the Court at Peking was not forgotton by him, and he could
see no escape for the ruling house other than through the degradation
of these men. Through his influence Tseng-kwo-tsueh the military
commandant at Nan-king was degraded, and even the Viceroy ordered
to explain his own conduct at Peking, an order however openly set at
naught by him. Through him Tseng-kwo-fan, who had of his own
motion given charge of his government to his inferior, and had taken
the lead of an army, which advancing beyond his own jurisdiction,
had entered Hu-peh to attack the Nien-fei, then threatening a descent
on An-hwei, was sent back to his own capital. And through him at a
later date was Tseng ordered to advance at the head of his own troops
to the borders of Shan-tung and give an account of his conduct in
disbanding without orders those troops, which might have been made
use of to check the rapid advance of the rebels towards the coast.
After the death of San-ko-lin-sin the command devolved on
Tseng-kwo-fan, who although Chinese, was placed at the head of the
Imperial army both Tartar and Chinese. The Po-wang
San-ko-lin-sin's son, moved with 23,000 Mongols to the .relief of Tsi-
nan-fu then threatened by the insurgents; where he awaited the arrival

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
135
of Tsêng's troops; meanwhile the city of Ch'iu-fu-hien, said to have
been the birth-place of Confucius, had fallen into the hands of the
rebels, who destroyed there the temple of the Sage, reckoned as one
of the most magnificent in China. Here the tide of success appears to
have commenced to ebb, the Nien-fei shortly afterwards finding Shan-
tung untenable evacuated it; being mostly cavalry they inflicted much
damage in their retreat, being able to make sudden raids on distant
towns, and retire before met by the slower movements of the regular
troops. About the same time their troops in Shen-si also retired
within the province of Kan-su, having literally eaten up the country.
Retreating along the banks of the Yellow river their entire main body
is said to have been swept away by a sudden inundation, which also
inflicted severe loss on the Imperial troops. Their présent position is
not certainly known but their retreat has probably been continued
towards the provinces of Kan-su and Shen-si, where we found them at
the beginning of the year."
The position of the government at Peking has thus been much
strengthened within the past year, the T'ai-ping Rebellion crushed,
and that of the Mahommedans and Nien-fei forced within bounds.
One other trouble however arose during the year which at one time
assumed a threatening aspect: a number of troops, who had been
disbanded at Nan-king were on their way home by Kiu-kiang, and
Han-kow, they had complaints against the government for withholding
their arrears of pay, some of them while at Kiu-kiang became
mutinous and caused much trouble both to foreigners and natives,
announcing openly their intention of sacking the place and joining the
Rebels in Kiang-si. At Han-kow matters assumed a more serious
aspect. In the beginning of May a body of 8000 men arrived at
Kin-k'ow, a town about 17 miles above Han-kow, on the Yang-tze,
mutinied and sacked the place, seizing what treasure they could lay
hands on; they threatened in case their demands were not complied
with, to return and take the undefended town of Han-kow, a threat
which brought the English and French gunboats to the front; seeing
these preparations made to receive them they left the river, and
marched on a marauding expedition back to Kiang-si, murdering on
their route the Chi-hien of Nin-kow. The movement spread amongst
the troops stationed at Han-kow and a body some 1,500 strong
Since this retrospect was in print news has arrived of the unexpected advance of
the Nien-fei, who have again appeared along the North bank of the Yellow River near
the boundaries of Shan-tung. The European drilled artillery forming a portion of the
garrison at Nan-king has been ordered to the front, and energetic measures appear to
have been taken by the acting viceroy: Shên, mentioned above, is said to be at the head
of the movement, and native reports [which must be received with caution] have it,
that Hung-fu-tien son of the Tien-wang, said to have been taken prisoner after the
capture of Nan-king, having escaped, has joined the movement.

136
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
encamped on some foreign owned ground opposite the foreign Club-
house, where they occasioned much alarm to the residents. Fortunately
these fears were not realized; by threats and cajoleries the authorities
got rid of their troublesome visitors who marched off to join their
confreres. As the movement bore no political aspect and had no
settled object, the men appear in the end to have quietly dispersed,
probably finding it more profitable to return to their homes, than to
wander over an almost deserted country.
In Quang-tung there seems no cessation of the feuds between the
Hak-ka and Punti factions which rage as fiercely as ever; this pro-
vince has ever been a thorn in the side of the central government;
here are head-quarters of piracy; here rebellion has ever been hatched
and in this province now are the remains of the T'ai-ping bands,
driven South by the advance of the Imperial cause. The weakness of
the central power, established as it is in the extreme North of China
proper, nowhere produces such evil results, and it seems that unless
some more energetic measures be taken to repress these excesses, no
government can consider itself secure.
Piracy has this year been rife along the coasts of Fuh-kien and
Quang-tung, and has assumed a new aspect from the greater daring
displayed by the pirates, seconded often, to their disgrace be it said,
by Europeans. Many of these men native as well as foreign had been
previously engaged in the T'ai-ping movement, and took to the sea as
the only course open to them on the suppression of the Rebellion.
An incident which occurred this year at Peking has given rise to
much comment.
Prince Kung was on the 7th November, 1861, in conjunction with
the two Empresses Dowager, appointed to the Regency, during the
minority of the present Emperor Tung-chi, which office he held for
more than three years; his conduct in the Tsêng-li Yamên during this
period giving general satisfaction to the Ministers of the several
foreign powers at Peking. Towards the Emperor and the Empresses
Dowager however he seems to have acted in an overbearing and
arrogant manner, which culminated at a review of the Tartar life
guards held in Peking on the 8th and 9th of March, where his Imperial
Majesty was present. The result is best given in the words of the
Official Gazette.
EDICT DEGRADING THE PRINCE OF KUNG.
April 2nd, 1865.
"WE command the Princes and Ministers having the entrée to the palace to read
together the following decree :-
"WE have received the commands of their Majesties, the Empresses Dowager to
the following effect:
"On the fifth of this moon (March 31st) a memorial was presented by Ts'ai Shou-
ch'i, representing that in his conduct of business the Prince of Kung had caused great

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
137
scandal by his favouritism, his cupidity, his inordinate pretensions and undue arrogation
of authority. If guilty of charges so grave how is it possible that he should properly
administer public affairs? Though there may not be evidence to convict, there must
be some reason for such statements. The truth, however, is so far obscure that it is
scarcely possible to divine it.
"When the Prince of Kung first entered on his duties as Chief Minister, he was
diligent and circumspect, but in course of time he began seriously to overrate his own
importance, and shewed his pride on numerous occasions, presuming on his high rank
and large powers. In his eyes the sovereign ceased to exist; because WE are of tender
years he has on numerous occasions coerced Us, and his attempts again and again
to produce dissension (in OUR family) are more than it would be well to give in detail.
At the daily audiences his bearing has been very pretentious, and in his language there
has been much that was extravagant and designing.
"Were WE to lose time in giving publicity to his misdoings, when WE came to
assume charge of the government in person, would the right men be in office, or would
the administration of the state be what it ought to be? That WE forbear to enquire
deeply into a case so serious is an evidence of great grace and liberality. Let the
Prince of Kung act no more as Chief Minister in the Council of the Empire. Let him
be deprived of all his appointments, and let him have nothing further to say to public
affairs. Thus do WE manifest OUR sincere desire to bring OURSELVES to make a way
of escape for him.
"The Affairs of the Council are numerous and troublesome. Let the members of
it, acting together in a spirit of justice and fidelity, give their entire attention to the
consideration of such measures (as may be needful). Let Wên-siang and his colleagues
in the Yamên for the General Administration of Foreign Commerce be united, and in
disposing of the business of the Yamên proceed securely and satisfactorily.
"At the audiences, from this time forth let the presentations and other like duties be
performed by the Prince of Tun, the Prince of Chun, the Prince of Chung and the
Prince of Fou +
"A special decree."
"Memorial:-
(April 18th, 1865)
"I, Yi-tsung,
respectfully memorialise the Empresses Dowager. On the 2nd
instant I received a decree announcing the degradation of Kung Ching Wang, and
Emperor's statement that a severe punishment was nct inflicted, only because of His
Majesty's clemency.
The extraordinary indulgence thus shewn seems to deprive me of the power of
speech, yet the Emperors of former times when they dismissed or degraded their
ministers were influenced by public considerations only. Each man stood on his own
merits. Now when Kung Ching Wang was the Regent I heard of no act of his which
told against him, yet I am informed that he was in the habit of speaking disrespectfully
even in YOUR presence. This was known to none but YOURSELVES, and those outside
heard nothing of it. Those who accuse him of extortion offer no proof, so that I fear
the populace will be disposed to blame YOUR MAJESTIES rather than the Prince. The
affairs confided to the Regent are so weighty that it would be impossible to entrust them
to any one else. I humbly beg that these few lines, which of my own accord I have
written, may by YOUR MAJESTIES and the Emperor be submitted to the Princes, Dukes,
Privy Council, the Nine Boards of the Han-lin-yuan, the Imperial Instructors and the
Censors, that they my judge as to the truth of my statements."
Imperial Note.
"It has been read."
"As Premier, he was the I-chêng wang the prime adviser on administration. He
is to be I-chêng, to advise or to belong to the great council."
The four princes named are the four surviving brothers of the Prince of Kung."
The younger brother of the Kung Wang.

138
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
IMPERIAL EDICT REGARDING PRINCE KUNG.
"WE have had the honour to receive the commands of Their Majesties the Empress of
Ngan and the Empress of Hsi to the following effect:-.
"The Prince of Tun, the Prince of Chun Wang-chih. recently degraded from the
Presidentship of the Court of Transmission, and the Censor Sun Yi-mow, having. one
after another, presented memorials representing that, offender though he be, the name
of the Prince of Kung might still be returned for employment, WE delivered these
memorials to the Princes and Nobles [of the Imperial family], the Grand Secretaries,
the Presidents of the Nine Chief Departments of the Hanlin College and of the Court
of Banqueting, the Censors corresponding to the Six Departments of state and the
Members of the Censorate, that having maturely considered them, they might report
thereon.
And now Shih-to, the Prince of Li, and others of the nobles, the Grand Secretary
Wojen and his colleagues. have respectively presented reports containing the result of
their deliberations; while Yin Chuo-jung, an under Secretary of the Grand Secretariat,
P'an Tsu Yin, a Senior Member of the Censorate, Wang Wei-chen, an under Secretary
of the Grand Secretariat, Kuang-cheng, a Censor and other officers being censors, have
presented a memorial signed by all-all representing that the Prince of Kung although
he had doubtless subjected himself to OUR censure, was still a minister filling important
posts and OUR near connection, and submitting to us as a question which they must
leave to US to decide-the expediency of employing him and thereby affording him
the means of reforming himself.
"The views of the above memorialists coincide in the main. But in the memorial
of the Censor Kuang-cheng and his colleagues, it is remarked that if the Imperial house-
hold be the first to begin misunderstandings; if there be discord in [the place which is]
the very foundation [of the state], the result will be an excitement of the public mind
both in the capital and the provinces, and a consequent increase of anxiety to the
Sovereign.
"Most important indeed is the point here considered, but, in one word, the pain
which OUR proceedings in this matter have occasioned US, has not been appreciated by
the Memorialists in question. And although the other day WE did, verbally, command
the members of the Council to proceed with the Prince of Fou to the Grand Secretariat,
and to summon thither and declare OUR pleasure to the ministers convened, it would be
impossible for US, after what has been stated by the Censors above cited, to abstain from
repeating some portion [of what has fallen from US already].
"The Prince of Kung was nearly allied to [the Throne]; in his person were concen-
trated all the functions of a whole Ministry as advisers of the Throne. He was, in the
trust reposed in him, above all the other princes of the first degree; he had been the
recipient of (lit, saturated with) all the imperial bounty possible; and it was only [for the
following reasons that we dealt thus with him.] He had not duly repressed his feeling
in favour of those connected with him, because they were so, he trusted them and
employed them; and when called before us in the Palace, he had very frequently been
unguarded in his language. As sovereign WE must stay an evil in its commencement:
WE give our heed forethoughtfully to trifling [evils.] Had WE remained silent there
might have resulted from this inattention to a small matter, the most serious injury to
great measures civil and military. The issued depending on OUR action was indeed not
insignificant. The study of the histories of past dynasties had, moreover, shewn US that
whenever a high officer, committing himself, is treated with indulgence and left
unreproved, he soon becomes haughty and overweening, and it is seldom that he is able
to die [in peace]; and when a few days ago, WE proclaimed in peremptory, language the
errors of which the Prince of Kung had been guilty, it was with the hope that he would
not fail after his correction to take such pains with himself as would prevent his again
offending. OUR high purpose in the effort WE made to find a way of safety was that, by
a slight penalty, a great warning might be given. Had WE entertained in the slightest
degree the misgiving or ill-will [imputed to Us] the memorials of the Prince of Tun and
the rest might have been left (unnoticed] in the palace. Why should WE have handed

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
139
them to the Ministers of OUR Court. And now the memorials of the princes, nobles,
grand secretaries and others submitted to Us, urge unanimously that, though an
offender, it is quite competent for the prince of Kung to be a candidate for employment
in the public service; this opinion is quite in accordance with OUR own, and having
declared it plainly, We command the prince of Kung of OUR favour to have admission
to the Palace as before, and as before to have direction of the Office for the administra-
tion of Foreign affairs. From this time forth it will be his simple duty to exert himself.
to shew his gratitude by an increase of attention and diligence: thus will he satisfy
OUR imperial desire that he should be perfected (or thoroughly reformed) by OUR
admonitions.
"As for the other members of the establishment who have access to the palace;
in general, all are the Office bearers of the state, and it is their simple duty to unite in
undeviating fidelity, and one and all to join in alleviating the difficulties of the present
time. This incident must not be the occasion of any misgiving or foreboding on their
part, of any shrinking from difficulty, or relapse into self indulgence. the issue of which
would be a vicious adherence to formality and routine.
"Let this be declared to all the officers who have access to the palace for
their information.
"Respect this."
DECREE RECALLING THE PRINCE OF KUNG TO THE GREAT COUNCIL.
"On the 14th of the 4th moon of the 4th year of T'ung Chi (8th May, 1865)
[the grand Secretariat] had the honour to receive the following Imperial Decree :-
"We have had the honour to receive the maternal commands of Their Majesties
the Empresses Dowager as follows:-
The prince of Kung was this day bidden to an audience to return thanks for favour
shewn him. Bowing himself to the ground, he wept sore; he was as one who could
not endure himself. WE addressed him [words of} instruction and admonition, and
the Prince aforesaid did so blame himself and shewed such signs of remorse and
contrition that WE were greatly moved.
When the hanging screen was let fall (sc. at the commencement of the regency)
the Prince of Kung was specially selected to act as [chief] adviser upon state affairs
in the Council. During the years that have since elapsed he has so acted, and while
himself largely the object of imperial favour, he had delegated to him an undivided
authority, [as the possessor of which] he was beyond comparison more than any other
minister at court of importance to the weal and woe of his sovereign. [He was
punished notwithstanding and punished severely,] but simply because being from his
great elevation easily assailable, [when he was assailed it was found that] from
unguardedness in certain particulars he had committed himself; and, in proportion
as OUR hopes of this Prince were high, so was it incumbent upon Us, when WE
chastened him, to chasten him with great severity.
The Prince of Kung has had the sense to perceive OUR meaning; he has amended
his errors and renewed himself. The sovereign in the employment or dismissal, the
advancement or degradation of public servants in the capital or in the provinces, acts
not otherwise than openly and on a principle of justice; He is never in the least
influenced by his prepossessions, still less, then, in the case of the Prince of Kung; who
is a minister of high consideration from his near relationship to the throne and for the
confidence [on that account reposed in him;] and who is possessed withal of abilities
which make him a competent adviser upon state affairs. How then could the sovereign
choose to leave him to the self-indulgence and idleness which would be his lot were he
to be treated now otherwise than he was at first?
"Let the Prince of Kung again become a member of the Council. He need not
reassume the designation of chief adviser. It will thence be seen [that his honours have
been] diminished [in order to his] correction.

140
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
"Prince! Forget not the remorse and contrition felt this day. Be more than ever set
upon sobriety and respectfulness. Strive earnestly to shew gratitude for OUR favour by
your services. Let no feeling of doubt or dread now, any more than in past times,
commit you, be it ever so little, to the delegation to others of your proper responsibilities.
Thus will you respond to OUR high hopes."
"Respect this."
It is difficult to divine the motives which led to this sudden
dismissal and as sudden recall of Prince Kung, which appears to have
sprung from some family quarrel; that it was not intended as an anti-
foreign demonstration is shown by the fact of the ad interim appointment
of Wên-siang, a man who had secured much of the confidence of the
foreign ministers, to the post of President of the Board of Foreign
Affairs.
It will be noticed that Prince Kung in resuming his seat in the
Regency was not reinstated in the Presidency. The following edict
however appeared in the Peking Gazette on the 15 July.
"Imperial Proclamation."
"Kung Ching Wang is hereby appointed to the inspector-generalship of all military
camps throughout the Empire."
"Respect this."
This appointment was made apparently as a counterpoise to that
of Tseng-kwo-fan to the supreme command of all Imperial troops in
the North.
On the 1st November the following edict, completely reinstating
the Prince in all his former offices, created as much astonishment as
the previous one of his degradation.
PEKING GAZETTE.
(November 15th, 1865.)
HIS MAJESTY has this day reverently received the commands of Their Majesties the
Empresses Dowager (Tzu-an and Tzu-hsi), to the following effect :-
For four years, since the death of the illustrious Sovereign Wên Tsung (Hsien Fêng).
Kung Ching Wang has been most faithful and diligent in the discharge of all the duties
of his station. With regard, further, to the funeral of the deceased Emperor, he some
time since received OUR commands to undertake the superintendence of the prescribed
rites, and to exercise a general supervision over those engaged in them. Every particular
of the management was most carefully attended to. On this day the coffins of the
Illustrious Sovereign, Wên Tsung, and the late Empress have been committed to the
tomb in due form. WE saw that the funeral palace was both lofty and spacious and that
all the necessary furniture was properly arranged. OUR deep grief was thus in some
slight measure assuaged, and the Heaven-enthroned spirits (of Their Majesties) were
also comforted.
Taking into consideration the affection felt by the Illustrious Sovereign Wen Tsung
(for the Prince of Kung) and the examples of what rewards have in former times been
conferred upon merit, WE are bound to distinguish him above his fellows, that all may
know in what high consideration he is held. On the other hand, the Prince says, 'I am
already overwhelmed, and I fear others may become jealous." WE have on several
occasions prayed him (to accept further honours) but the genuine expression of his
feelings was not to be changed. WE were therefore compelled to accede to his wishes,
but WE ordered the Tsung-jên-fu to prepare an account of his actions. Not only has his

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
141
position as a Prince of the Blood Royal raised him to the highest offices in the state, but
his conduct of affairs whether of greater or of less importance, has ever been marked by
the utmost care, humility and minute obedience to OUR instructions. With respect to
certain failures in trifling matters, WE promulgated an Edict on the 7th day of the 3rd
moon in order that he might notice and amend his errors. WE were most anxious that
he should attain the highest excellence, and, for this reason, we rebuked him somewhat
severely. Subsequently, on the 16th day of the 3rd moon and the 14th day of the 4th
moon, We fully detailed what his (good and evil) deeds had been, so that the whole world
might hear and know of them. But WE now fear that the men of future generations will
not understand what the real circumstances of the case were, and may form an incorrect
opinion of the Prince, just as a precious jewel is spoiled by the smallest flaw. Far be it
from US to give a false impressions to the men of future ages, or to hide the eminent
virtues of the Prince.
Wherefore, with regard to the Edict of the 7th day of the 3rd moon, WE order (the
Imperial Historiographers) to take no heed of it, and to omit it from the records. WE
thus display OUR high appreciation of the Prince's merits, and cause his reputation again
to shine.
Respect this.
With the exception of the Burgevine case alluded to above the
foreign relations of the Court at Peking with the great Western
powers have remained in a satisfactory condition. The preliminaries
of a treaty have been arranged with Belgium, founded on the same
general principles as the treaty of Tien-tsin. The final evacuation
of Chinese territory by the British and French forces was accom-
plished in July, by the withdrawal of the garrisons at Ta-ku and
Shanghai, the Ta-ku forts being now held by native troops with a
European instructor.
The Honourable Sir Fred. Bruce, K. C. B., having been appointed
British Minister at Washington, Sir Rutherford Alcock, K. C. B.,
formerly Her Britannic Majesty's Minister at Yeddo was appointed
to the vacant post. He arrived in Shanghai on the 2nd November
and immediately proceeded to Peking.
On the West however where Chinese territory stretches far into
Central Asia, events of some importance have occurred.
On the North-eastern frontier of British India flanking the
Eastern extremity of the Himalayas lies the territory of Bhootan; a
mountainous country intersected by deep valleys, where fever ever
rages, and where the only means of communication are by mountain
passes often reaching the limits of perpetual snow; the country has
been a feudatory of Thibet, itself subject to China, though the
allegiance has been little more than nominal, and the commands of
the Dalai Lama have carried small weight amongst the inhabitants
of Bhootan, a race of uncivilized mountaineers, given to rapine
and pillage, and notorious even amongst Asiatic races for falsehood
and dissimulation.
These tribes by constant raids into the British territory lying at
the foot of the mountains had caused much trouble to the Indian
government; the latter not desirous of extending their frontiers and

142
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
undertaking the conquest of these wild mountain regions, where
success was no glory, and where climate and soil alike were
unfavourable for military operations, sent an envoy to complain of
these inroads, and if possible to come to some terms. The envoy,
sent with unfortunately only a few attendants, was forcibly compelled
to sign a dishonourable treaty; a war was the consequence and troops
were sent, but from the nature of the country and insufficiency of
numbers they had to retire, and another expedition better fitted out
sent to replace them. So far the story is part of Indian rather than
Chinese history, but the conquest of these tribes will advance the
British boundry in India to the table-land of Thibet, and will give a
frontier conterminous for 200 miles with Chinese territory. Relations
will probably be open with the court of the Dalai Lama, and a
hitherto sealed country opened in some degree at least to foreign
intercourse.
Within the year Thibet itself has been disturbed by the flames
of revolution: the Regent forcibly appointed some years ago by the
Chinese Imperial commissioner in contravention of the usual customs
of the country appears to have given much trouble, the Dalai Lama
is reported to have fled, and the Chinese themselves to be now seeking
to depose the Regent of their own choice.
The Government of China has for the last three centuries been
in intimate connection with that of Thibet; while by her Imperial
Commissioners at Lhassa, she has always endeavoured to control
the course of events and have her own creatures elected, she has
outwardly assumed a show of submission to the Dalai Lama. The
unbounded reverence paid to the head of their religion, in matters
political as well as religious, by the Mongols has ever rendered it
an object of importance to China to secure his friendship, and
disturbances at Lhassa have ever given uneasiness at Peking.
Most important however of the movements along her western
frontier has been the occupation of Khokand by Russia and the
accompanying insurrection in Chinese Turkestan. Of these distant
territories, shut out by lofty mountain ranges from the surrounding
countries; whose rivers, born on their own mountain chains, never
reach the ocean; where fertile and smiling plains lie surrounded by
savage deserts, inhabited by nations proud of their isolation, and
bigoted to the last degree in their religion; and whence have sprung
those movements of warriors which have more than once turned the
stream of civilization; little more is known than the names. The
steady onward march of Russia now and then draws on them the
attention of Europe, only to permit them to fall into still darker
oblivion; now on the southern shores of the Caspian from her fort at
Ashourada she rules the navigation of that inland sea; now, while
western nations thunder and negotiate at Can-ton, and an allied fleet

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
143
enters the Gulf of Pe-chili, she seizes the sea-board of Man-churia, and
again stirring up dissension between Bokhara and Khokand she enters
the territories of the latter. This is not the place to discuss for what
end she desires to possess herself of these little known countries, it
remains only to give a summary of the facts so far as known.
The means of communication between India and these distant
countries are few and little to be depended on, some chance
Musselman trader now and then bears letters or news. With China
the disturbed state of the intervening provinces appears to have almost
put a stop to regular communication, nor does it appear to have ever
been the policy of the Court to publish what information it possessed
on these topics.
The published accounts of these events differ so considerably that
little reliance can be placed on them. It seems however that Russia,
taking advantage of dissensions in Khokand, in the month of May last
marched her troops into that country, the Khan of Bokhara according
to one account being a consenting party, while according to the other,
which seems more likely, he had designs on Khokand himself, and after
having captured the frontier town of Khojend had actually marched
an army for the attack of Tashkend, the second city in the Khanate.
It appears however that Russia arriving first in the field took
Tashkend by storm with considerable loss, and advanced her force
toward the frontiers of Chinese Turkestan. Khokand, the capital,
appears also to have fallen to her arms in or about the month of July.
The greater portion of Khokand seems now to have been added
to the new province of Turkestan, formed the year before by Russia
out of her late conquests between Lake Balkash and the Jaxartes.
This interference of Russia lead to difficulties with the Khan of
Bokhara and war has been the result; according to some accounts
Tashkend has been reconquered, while others affirm an arrangement
has been come to between the parties.
"The belief in Central Asia itself is, so far as we have information, that Russia and
Bokhara together will do their best to interfere in Affghanistan on behalf of Ufzul Khan
and against our ally the Ameer of Cabul. Meanwhile the Ameer is making great
preparations for his march on Candahar. He has avoided the mistake which led to the
massacre of our army and troops, by directing the Ghilzae chiefs to be paid all their
arrears and three months in advance. The Khans of the Kohistan, too, have received
notice to send forward their quota of mercenaries, since the roads are passable.".
The treaty of Peking between Russia and China gave the latter
power to establish a Consulate and Factory at Kashgar on the western
frontiers of Chinese Turkestan, this right has not as yet been exercised,
but there seems little doubt that her late conquests in Khokand have
been made with a view to opening up communication with this
territory, possibly to its eventual conquest.
Friend of India.

144
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
About 150 years ago the principal cities of this district having
been in continual feud, their chiefs to put an end to these disturbances,
called in the Chinese, who after some hesitation assumed the.
sovereignty; since then the country has been governed on a peculiar
system, the Chinese assuming command of the military and receiving
orders directly from Peking, but leaving the entire civil administration
in the hands of the Native authorities, with the right only of appeal to
the Amban, the Chief Chinese official.
The population consists of a mixed race of Kalmuks, Kirghis, and
Chinese, together with a large number of Tunganis, a race Chinese
in origin but in religion Musselmans, belonging to the Sunnite
persuasion. Although only converted in the time of Timour, they
are distinguished not only for their gross fanaticism but for their
hatred towards those of their country-men not Musselmans, and in
spite of their constituting the most advanced post of Islam towards
the east, they yearly send a number of pilgrims to Mecca.
Such is the account given of the inhabitants of Chinese Turkestan
by the last European who has travelled near these countries.* That
its separation from China was inevitable, when the latter power was
unable to control those feuds for the suppression of which its cities
voluntarily placed themselves under the yoke of a foreign country,
was no more than might have been anticipated, and accordingly we
find that within the last year these districts have revolted.
"An English traveller who, in the pursuits of science, has been exploring the
Himalayas and has had a desperate journey through the Para pass, and up and over the
lateral valleys which lead to Leh, thus writes from the northern border of Cashmere on
18th July last. "The whole of the Western Chinese Empire is in a state of disturbance
and rebellion, I believe fomented by Russian Agents. Yarkand has made itself
independent, the Chinese force of occupation burned itself with all its property in the fort.
The Kashgar people are fighting against the Chinese, of whom 1,500 have shut themselves
into the fort; and it is expected that they will follow the example of the Yarkand force.
Khokand is in terror of the Russians, who have taken Tashkend, and will probably give
in. Aksou and Ilchi are independent. Kotan is under a native prince who travelled
much in India, and wants a European ruler or minister. Rudokh is kept by the Chinese,
but all the country up to and beyond Lhassa is in rebellion. The Grand Lama of Lhassa
has run away. The Russians go very steadily but certainly onward. The (Cashmere)
Maharajah's sepoys, only a few men, have advanced three marches beyond the
Karakorum pass." t
This movement is said to have been headed by the son of a
Mahommedan rebel named Chang-kai-rh formerly celebrated in
Chinese history, who was subsequently beheaded in the second year of
the reign of Tao-kwang.
The country is described as very fertile, producing in abundance
the cereals and fruits of temperate climates. Mulberry trees are also
said to be very numerous and silk to be produced in great quantities.
Travels in Central Asia by Vambery.
+ Friend of India.

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
145
The trade with China has been always jealously guarded by the court
at Peking, who appear to have always placed obstacles in the way of
free intercommunication; these districts moreover have during the
present dynasty been made use of as a place of banishment for political
offenders.
It is probable that this movement in Turkestan has had an
intimate connection with the Mahommedan insurrection spoken of
above, which has for some years raged in the provinces of Kan-su
and Shen-si. The Mahommedans of the North-western provinces of
China are nearly related by blood to their co-religionists of Turkestan;
the movement appears to have begun with no tangible object in
Kan-su or Shen-si and to have spread East and West; having no settled
aim it developed no leader, in China Proper at least, and quickly
resolved itself into a band of freebooters, ravaging, burning and
destroying.
The loss of these Western provinces known to the Chinese as
the Kingdom of I-li will rather be a source of strength to the
Chinese government. Separated as China Proper is from these
dependencies by sandy deserts and rugged mountains covered with
perpetual snow, where the almost untrodden roads now cross at a
giddy height the torrents rushing wildly below, now ascend to the
limits of perpetual snow, and again advance slowly by steps laborious-
ly hewn out of the side of a precipice, where the slightest slip is
destruction, and along which at intervals, to secure the traveller from
starvation, have to be kept at public expense depots of provisions, but
little need she fear invasion on this side: -her best troops can be
stationed in these almost impassible defiles, while the energies of her
rulers may be turned to the improvement of her own territories, the
advancement of her own people and the consolidation of her central
government.
The impolicy of the establishment of the Capital at Peking has
been strongly displayed within the last twenty-five years. To retain
her hold over these wild tribes she allowed her own provinces to slip
out of her grasp: while she was spending her revenues in offerings at
Lhassa or subsidizing Mongolian chiefs in the North-west, her own
people discontented with bad government and oppressed by petty
satraps had risen in rebellion; each provincial Governor jealous of his
neighbour, and careless so long as he could carry on in his own province
to the limit of his short tenure, allowed rebellion to rage around him
and took no steps to prevent it, till he found his own province or often
his own capital a prey to the flames of revolution. The example set
by their superiors was only too closely followed by the inferior
officers; false reports were sent to headquarters; no official would
acknowledge disaffection in his own department; villages were sacked,
the open country laid waste, even cities taken, yet still the official

146
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
reports were ever the same; till at last governors, officials and people
were swept away in one wild burst, and the court at Peking woke up
to find one half of its territories in open revolt, a pretender in
possession of the second city in the Empire, and his commands obeyed.
almost through the entire of the country South of the Yang-tze.
So far I have endeavoured to sketch those important events which
make up the history of a state; it will now be a pleasing task to review
those few topics of domestic interest which the year has evoked.
Foremost amongst these has been the establishment by Great
Britain of a Supreme Court at Shanghai to take cognizance of all cases
in China and Japan in which British subjects appear as defendants.
The unsatisfactory state of the law as regarded the punishment of
serious offences against life and property has been pointed out in the
beginning of this retrospect; the monetary relations of British subjects,
more especially as regards Bankruptcy cases, had also become too
complicated for the powers of the existing courts, so that on all hands
a change was desired. Accordingly on the 4th September, the new
Court entitled HER BRITANNIC MAJESTY'S SUPREME COURT FOR
CHINA AND JAPAN, was inaugurated under the following officers:
Chief Judge Sir Edniund Hornby, Assistant Judge C. W. Goodwin Esq.,
Law Secretary J. Fraser Esq. A Special Order in Council issued on
the 9th March, 1865, laying down the jurisdiction and powers of the new
Court-which it is to be hoped will prove competent for the satis-
factory discharge of the important duties entrusted to it.
During the year crime both native and foreign has much decreased,
with the improved state of the country. Few crimes of importance
have been committed by the low class foreigners who last year caused
so much anxiety to the authorities, and in most cases the perpetrators
have met with prompt punishment. By the exertions of the native
authorities and the "MIXED COURT" composed of Officials both native
and foreign sitting together, native crime has been almost repressed
within the Foreign Settlements at Shanghai, and residents enjoy an
almost total exemption from serious offences against life or property.
The system of passports adopted for the protection of respectable
foreigners travelling in the interior, has also worked well, and there
are now few portions of China, where a passport from a foreign Consul
will not secure the bearer from insult and obtain him assistance when
required.
The system of Municipal government adopted at Shanghai has this
year caused much discussion; the right to enforce payment of land-
taxes sanctioned at a general meeting of Landrenters, has been
established so far as British subjects are concerned, by a recent decision
in the Supreme Court, and it is to be hoped that all other foreign courts
will follow its example, and so give a recognised legal standing to the
Municipal Council. The basis of representation is also about to be

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
147
extended to all foreigners renting houses of a certain valuation, a step
much required, as with the increasing growth of the settlement, while
the number of Landrenters resident on the spot has continually
decreased, and a dangerous importance was given to a few individuals
acting as agents for absentees, the householders on whom daily the
burden of taxation has more and more fallen, have found themselves
without a vote in these matters.
The new Council elected in April, has with diminished funds,
owing principally to the sudden depression in the value of land and
house property, set itself energetically to work to reform the Settle-
ments, and already signs of amendment are visible, while the
finances of the Council have been placed in a much more satisfactory
condition.
The state of the River Whang-pu, on the free navigation of which
the prosperity of Shanghai depends, has lately given cause for serious
anxiety, an action taken in the Supreme Court by Her Britannic Majesty's
Consul at the suit of the Chinese authorities resulted in a verdict in
favour of the rights of the latter over ground reclaimed from the river.
The evidence on both sides, though somewhat contradictory, appeared
to point to a rapid diminution in the quantity of water passing through
the river; within the last few years the banks at both sides of the river
have advanced from 100 to 180 feet on the stream, and threaten unless
some active measures are taken to reduce the anchorage to the
dimensions of a tidal creek. That this is no idle fear is proved by the
instances of other navigable rivers in the same district having been
silted up, and towns formerly of great importance being thereby
reduced to the level of wretched villages.
In Hong-kong no event of importance has occurred within the
year. The late Governor Sir Hercules Robinson having been
promoted to Ceylon, Sir Richard Macdonnell, formerly Governor of
Newfoundland, has accepted the appointment in his stead. A new
mint has been established in this colony, which under proper manage-
ment may be made of immense advantage not only to Hong-kong but
to China generally, where the currency has ever been unsatisfactory.
While the importance of Hong-kong has been steadily increasing
that of Can-ton has as steadily diminished; many causes, including the
transfer of the tea trade to Han-kow and Foo-chow, as well as the
unsettled state of the Southern provinces, have been at work to effect
this change. The former arrogant bearing of both people and officials
towards foreign nations has met with condign punishment, by the
transfer from the Provincial capital of the profits accruing from
foreign trade.
As regards trade both native and foreign, the year 1865 will long
be remembered as an unprecedentedly unfavourable one; the condition

148 RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
of business at the beginning of the year was pointed out above;
during the early summer the panic increased and business for a time
seemed almost suspended; already however signs of amendment are
manifest, and it is to be hoped that the coming year will in some
measure make amends for the continued losses which have marked
the last three.
In Japan the chief topic of interest has been the appointment of
Sir Harry S. Parkes as Her Britannic Majesty's Minister at the Court of
the Ty-coon. As a member of this Society I can pay him no better
compliment than quote the words of the address presented to him as
President on his departure from Shanghai.
"The duties of Her Britannic Majesty's Minister in Yeddo will tax
your resources yet more than your previous position has done, and
we can only earnestly hope that you will be blessed with health and
strength to fulfil the trying duties which lie before you in your new
scene of usefulness, and may you see the two great results you have
laboured throughout your public life to obtain, viz: the overthrow of
the policy of prejudice and exclusion, and the mutual understanding
of the Eastern and Western Nations."
Shortly after his arrival Sir Harry S. Parkes put himself in
communication with the high Japanese authorities on the subject of
re-establishing the British Legation in the city of Yeddo. In October
with the British, French, and Netherlands fleet he visited Osaka with
what effect the subjoined notification will show.
NOTIFICATION
H. M. S. PRINCESS ROYAL, OSAKA BAY, November 25th, 1865.
The undersigned, H. B. M's Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary,
has the satisfaction of making known for the information of all subjects of Her Majesty,
that the negotiations in which he has lately been engaged at Osaka, in concert with his
colleagues the Representatives of France, the United States of America and Holland,
have been attended with the following results.
Ist. The Mikado has given his formal sanction to the Treaties concluded by the
Tycoon with Foreign Powers.
2nd.-Negotiations for the revision of the Tariff on a basis agreed upon, will at once
be proceeded with at Yeddo.
3rd.-The opening of the Port of Hiogo and the City of Osaka is guaranteed at the
time mentioned in the London Convention of 1862, or at an earlier date, if circumstances
should permit.
(Sgd.) HARRY S. PARKES.
The difficulties arising from the informality of the Treaty con-
cluded with the Ty-coon, have thus been set aside and the consti-
tutional head of the state has ratified the acts of his Lieutenant.
It is a matter of unbounded congratulation that these results have
been obtained without the expenditure of a drop of blood, and that
the object which led to three prolonged wars in China, has in Japan
been obtained mainly by the energy and courage displayed by her

DURING THE YEAR 1865.
149
Britannic Majesty's Representatives Sir Rutherford Alcock, and Sir
Harry S. Parkes; for to the former must be allowed the credit of
having initiated the course of conduct honourable in itself and worthly
of the great nation he represents, which has been brought to so
successful a termination by his successor.
The Currency question in Japan still remains to be settled. At
the first opening of the ports to foreign trade the relative values of
the Gold, Silver, and Copper coinages were found fixed at arbitrary
rates differing widely from those obtaining in other countries. Inter-
communication with foreign countries had the effect of entirely
deranging this system, and after many attempts to rule the exchange
by arbitrary measures, a new coinage more nearly corresponding in
its relative values with those prevailing elsewhere was introduced..
The government have however all through seemed desirous of
forcing an artificial value on the silver current coins, with which alone
the internal trade of the country can be carried on, and supplied but
a limited amount for the use of the treaty ports, making however
of its own motion an exception in favour of officers of foreign
nations holding appointments on shore or serving in the military or
naval services.
The questions raised by this abnormal state of affairs remain still
to be solved.
In other respects the relations of the Court at Yeddo with foreign
powers have much improved within the year; crimes against the
persons of foreigners committed by bands of Ronins have gradually
become fewer in number, while the government of the Ty-coon
seems to have used every exertion to bring their perpetrators to
justice.
The question of opening up foreign trade with Corea, no
the only important country in the eastern coast of Asia closed t
foreign commerce, has this year been mooted in many quarters, and
some attempts to trade on private account have been made with
partial success, but the foreigners themselves do not appear to have
been allowed to land.
With these, my remarks must end. The year closes with improved
prospects, progress, slow indeed but none the less sure, has certainly
been made; the hopes of the friends of order have not been entirely
doomed to disappointment, and there seems some chance of China,
with her magnificent territory, and her industrious hordes playing that
part at no distant date in the world's history to which her position
entitles her.
Placed on the western extremity of the great Pacific Ocean she
can hardly fail to derive advantage from the increasing energy of
those new nations, which have within the last twenty-five years

150
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
sprung up on its shore; her future will doubtless be intimately
connected with that of Australia, New Zealand, California, and British
Columbia. Her stores of mineral fuel, her mines, the productions of
her teeming soil, all mark her out as destined for future greatness
and on herself and her rulers must fall the blame should she be left
behind in the race of civilization.
The coming year will probably see the Pacific Ocean crossed by
at least two lines of steamers; the terminus of one will be China,
opening a new line of communication with Japan, the rising kingdom
of Sandwich Isands, and the state of California. This last ocean, once
a solitude, will soon be furrowed by the keels of magnificent steamers:
new means of communication will develope new energy, and spots
lonely and savage will soon resound with the hum of population and
the clang of machinery.
In conclusion I have to express my obligations to Mr. R. A.
Jamieson late Secretary of this Society, who has kindly placed at my
disposal his translations from the Peking Gazette, and afforded me
the means of much information on other topics.