JOURNAL
OF
THE NORTH CHINA BRANCH
OF THE
ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.
ARTICLE I.
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE GREAT PLAIN.
BY DR. LAMPREY, Surgeon H.M's. 67th Regiment.
By drawing a line along the margin of the mountainous and
hilly portion of the continent of China, we find it separates an area
of considerable extent though somewhat irregular in outline, such
a line would run along the northern limit of the province of Chi-li
a little south of the great wall and north of Pekin, passing to the
westward it would skirt the western hills, and so turning almost
due south, pass through the province of Ho-nan, till guided to the
eastward by a spur of hills which separates the province of Ho-nan
from Hu-peh it would reach the valley of the Yang-tse, and turn east-
ward, passing along the northern portion of Hu-peh till it reached
Ho-nan again-then bending southward it would pass round the
Tong-ting lake, and so continue almost due east till it reached the
sea at Hang-chow, having made a detour in this part of its course
to include the area of the Po-yang lake. This would include a
great part of the continent of China, extending from Pekin to
Hang-chow, a distance of 10 degrees of Latitude, and reaching as
This outline was obtained from Danville's maps of the provinces of China,
compiled from the survey made by the Jesuits, whose accuracy is unquestioned, also
from the Admiralty charts of the Yang-tse, from the survey of the Su-chow district,
lately completed by Colonel Gordon and Major Edwards, and from my own exploration
of the north-western portion of Chi-li and the Su-chow district.

NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF
far westward as the west of the province of Hu-peh; including, in
short, nearly the whole of Pe-chi-li, a considerable portion of the
west of Shan-tung, half of Ho-nan and Hu-quang and nearly the
whole of Keang-nan, constituting the area of Great Plain, or that
level alluvial portion of the continent which is distinguished from the
hilly and mountainous country of the other provinces.
In this area are numerous lakes of considerable extent, many
rivers, including two of the first magnitude, the Yellow river and
the Yang-tse Keang, besides many artificial canals, and creeks made
for purposes of irrigation or drainage, and occasionally isolated hills
or groups of low mountains, as seen on the map of the recent survey
of the southern portion of the province of Keang-soo made by Colonel
Gordon and Major Edwards of the Royal Engineers.
A superficial view of the country around Shanghai, which con-
stitutes a portion of this area, cannot fail to impress us with its
character of extreme flatness, for with the exception of a small hill
or two, barely discernible, on a clear day, in the south western
horizon, (Tsing-poo hills) apparently no undulation of the surface
is any where visible. If we ascend a Pagoda or any other high
structure, we see a highly cultivated country, intersected in all
directions with canals and creeks communicating with the Whang-poo,
a wide and tortuous river wending its way to the Yang-tse. If we
travel up the Whang-poo to the southward we enter a series of wide
creeks and shallow lakes, which at length conduct us to a large
expanse of water called the Tai-hoo, estimated at 60 miles long by 30
miles wide. The Tai-hoo lake is very shallow, being generally about
5 feet in depth-Along its whole circumference there are but few
landing places, the margin of the lake being of a marshy character, so
that small boats cannot reach nearer than 300 yards of the land.
Here while the country passed over wears the common flatness, we
notice ranges and isolated groups of hills of no great elevation, which
are continuous with the mountainous districts running through the
south and far west of the continent.
It appears from the ancient records of the Chinese* that the
drainage of these lakes was formerly effected by a large river named
the Woo-sung whose course has been obliterated to a great extent,
though formerly, it is said to have been several miles wide, and to
have been, at one time, one of the channels by which the Yang-tse
reached the sea; the present Su-chow creek would indicate the former
course of this river, which appears to have bifurcated at some remote
period, one branch turning eastward and the other passing to the
See CHINESE MISCELLANY No. IV. p. 2 (Shanghai mission press 1850) and
Rev. J. Edkins' paper on the ancient mouths of the Yang-tze published in Transactions
Vol. II No. I p. 79.

THE GREAT PLAIN.
3
northward, where it entered the sea or rather estuary of the Yang-tse
at Woo-sung, in short the present river communication between the
entrance to the Su-chow creek and Woo-sung would be the direction
of one of its ancient beds. In the 14th century this portion of the
river became so shallow by the deposition of alluvial matter, that it
was necessary to deepen its bed, at the same time, a deep channel
was dug to connect the waters of the Woo-sung with the Whang-poo,
which previous to this period appears to have been more a series of
expanded sheets of water, (the Chinese word poo having this
signification) than a regular river course as it is at present. These
records also inform us that the channel of the Woo-sung has been
frequently choked up since then, by alluvial matter, and that it has
required a considerable amount of labour and expense to keep it
sufficiently open for traffic, and that previous to the union of the waters
of the Whang-poo with the Woo-sung (A. D. 1402) there was a small
creek running in the direction of the present river bed, which at one
time was only a bow shot in width.
Turning northward by the course of the Whang-poo for a distance
of about 12 miles from Shanghai, we are lead to the great Yang-tse-
keang which rises in the mountains of the far interior, and passing
through the middle of the continent divides it as it were into two great
portions, receiving in its course the waters of many tributaries, and at
length enters the sea not many miles distant from Shanghai.
It is stated in the Chinese records that the Yang-tse Keang,
formerly entered the sea by three channels, designated the northern,
southern, and middle Keang; the first took the course of the present
Yang-tse, the second entered the sea at Yu-yau, passing by
Hang-chow city, this was closed in the 3rd century, the middle mouth
was either at Can-pu or Woo-sung, in short, follwing the
course of the old Woo-sung river. The subject of the ancient mouths.
of the Yang-tse Keang, as described in old Chinese records, has
been ably treated by the Rev. Mr. Edkins in the published transac-
tions of the North China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, in the
Journal for 1850, in which he shows that there has been much
controversy among Chinese scholars, as to the course of the middle
keang and southern keang, the northern keang having maintained
its original position throughout.
An important feature of the character of the Yang-tse is that it
is subject to a tidal influence, for a considerable distance from its
mouth, the flood stream being felt as high as Nan-kin and a rise
and fall of a few inches being noticed at Kiu-hien a distance of 80
miles further up the river.
Rev. J. Edkins' ante p. 77.

NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF
At the entrance of the river from the sea, there appears to be little
periodical variation in the depth of the water, beyond what occurs
at spring and neap tides, though at Han-kow a distance of 604 miles
from the sea it rises in summer to a height of 34 feet above its lowest
level, at Kiu-kiang it rises to a height of 22 feet, and at Nan-kin
12 feet showing a gradual decline of the height of the annual rise
towards the mouth of the river.
The annual rise in the waters of the Yang-tse resembles the same
phenomenon as observed in the Nile, where the rise is only 4 feet
higher, and in the Ganges where it is 7 feet lower; in all these
rivers the inundation presents much the same appearance of a
broad expanse of water covering the surrounding country for miles,
with occasional island-like clusters of trees appearing here and
there on the surface. In the case of the Yang-tse these inundations
are said to attain a higher level, every fourth year, when the population
inhabiting the plains are obliged to remove to higher ground and
wait for the subsidence of the flood, which commences to descend
gradually in August, unless the occurrrence of rain would cause
some variation, till the river reaches it lowest level in winter. The
following observations were made on board the Algerine Gun-boat,
which was stationed at Han-kow, in 1863-4, when a daily record of
the level of the river was carefully kept.
After the weather had become sufficiently warm in February to
melt the snow of the lower ranges of hills and some rain had
fallen, a rise of 4 feet was observed, this again subsided to 2 feet in
March, and rose again to 9 feet in April, from this date it gradually
rose to its fullest height of 34 feet in July, and after the first week
of August, it as gradually descended to its lowest level in December.
The water of the river is of the same muddy colour noticed fur-
ther down its course, and .in addition to carrying a large proportion
of this material, in a mixed state, the water when at its highest
level, moves with such velocity that it carries with it 4 feet of the
mud of the bed of the river in a continuous stream.
The number and extent of the shoals and banks that are found
in the entrance of the river, and in many parts of its course, are
similar to what has been observed in other deltas of great rivers
and render the navigation an intricate matter. These shoals and
banks appear to be in a state of growth at the rate of about a foot
in height in 12 to 15 months, for instance the "Blonde shoal which
in 1842 had 24 fathoms of water on it has since grown up and now
shows in several places at lowiwater," (China Pilot).
The North Branch has been growing one foot per year since
1842 (China Pilot).

THE GREAT PLAIN.
5
Another instance of the rapid growth of these banks is the Beacon
about 15 miles below Woo-sung which was built in 1855, at that time
the water washed round it, it is now about 1200 yards distant from
the water's edge, 500 yards of which distance is now perfectly dry.
The Tsung-ming Island in the estuary of the Yang-tse is 32
miles long by 10 miles broad, it has been formed since the 14th
century; it would be a matter of some interest to examine a section
of it's soil.
The surface of the soil around Shanghai is but little elevated
above the water level, 4 to 5 feet being the general height of the
water side banks of the canals and creeks, and water is generally
reached at this depth from the surface, though during wet weather
and spring tides, the water in the wells of the city of Shanghai has
been frequently noticed to be on a level with the surface of the
ground. In many instances embankments are required to preserve
the fields from inundation, especially in the vicinity of the river
Whang-poo and the creeks subject to tidal influence.
One of these embankments (f tang as they are called in Chinese,)
may be seen on either side of the river in the vicinity of the settlement,
where it is 6 to 8 feet above the level of the cultivated fields in some
localities, and far above the level of the ground floors and store house
built on the river sides.
Another evidence of the low lying surface of the soil, is the
Hai-tang or bund found along the sea shore eastward of Shanghai;
it extends along the northern coast line of Hang-chow bay, commencing
at a short distance from Woo-sung and reaching to Hang-chow city;
it is an earthen mound 20 feet in height throughout the greatest part
of its course, and in some places is protected by an outer bund, while
between Hang-chow city and Can-pu it takes the form of a stone
embankment to resist the velocity of the tides, especially the flood,
which comes in, in the form of a bore several feet in height, the height
to which the tide rises being 40 feet. This portion of the embankment
has lately given way in several 'places and the country is now flooded
with sea water over an area of 60 square miles, and the water in the
principal canals in the vicinity has become brackish for some distance.
This work appears to have been commenced in the 7th Century
though it was not till after 1747, after the occurrence of a great flood
which devasted the country to a considerable extent along the coast,
that the work was completed by closing up several apertures, which
had been allowed to remain open to drain the surface after the higher
tides.
The formation of this bund finally closed the middle mouth of
the Yang-tse at Can-pu, which is believed to have been for a long

6
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF
period the principal entrance to the river and the one resorted to
by the Arab merchants.*
Without this bund the whole of Poo-tung to the northern coast
line of Hang-chow would be subject to inundations which might
reach, as far as, the Tai-hoo lake.--That the sea must have washed
a considerable portion of this area is proved by the fact that marine
species of shells are found in strata under the surface, which occa-
sionally form high ridges; one of these may be seen at a village called
Fa-Fa-Cheou,
and not more than a mile distant from the bund
where there is a remarkable rise in the level of the ground or ridge
extending for about 2 miles in a north and south direction, portion of
which is upwards of 30 feet above the level of the country; on
examination of its structure it is found to be composed of horizontal
layers of comminuted shells of marine species, some of these lamina
are loose and composed of tolerably perfect shells though somewhat
water worn, other layers are more compact, these shells belong to
Cerythium, (Fig. 3.) Buccinium, (Fig, 2.) Cardium, (Fig. 1.) and 2 Species
resembling Corbula, (Fig, 4.) and Grateloupia irregularis, (Fig. 5.) the
latter forming the bulk of the mass. There is no sand, or other
ingredient mixed with the shells. There are ample facilities for
examining the structure throughout its whole extent, as it is largely
quarried for making lime and in the course of time will no doubt
disappear.
Fig. I.
Fig. 2.
Fig. 3.
Fig. 4.
Fig. 4.
Fig. 5.
Note. The description" of the voyage to Can-pu given in the accounts of the
early voyages of the Arabs in China, would not be supported by the present Geography
of this locality. Mr. Wylie informs us that the Ancient City of Can-pu is washed away
or submerged by the encroachment of the tides, if so, probably, a great extent of dry
land, which formerly occupied the area of the present estuary of the Tsien-tang, and a
great portion of Hang-chow bay has shared the same fate.
..
Shells similar to 4 and 5 are now found in a recent state, where the shell bank
reaches the sea shore.

THE GREAT PLAIN.
7
This shell formation may be seen in the banks of the creeks in the
vicinity, where there appears to be a very shallow depth of soil.
Similar banks are found in other localities. Near Ca-jow ()
there is a quarry of similar kind, and I find, in the Chinese Miscellany
the following (page 36) "There are three ridges in the district
(Shanghai) called the So-kong, Chuk-kong on the south
side, near Sung-kiang, and the Tse-kong a little to the north of
these, these ridges are upwards of 30 miles in length. The tradition
is that they were thrown up by the waves of the sea, they are found
to be full of shells to an unknown depth. In the statistical account of
Su-chow it is said that near the sea there are long ridges of land joined
to one another, which form a natural barrier to keep out the sea
and thus preserve the people of Su-chow in safety."
In the Whang-poo the tidal influence becomes much modified by
distance from its confluence with the Yang-tse, the rise at Woo-sung
is 12 feet at spring tides, at Shanghai it is 10 feet and at Min-hong 30
miles further inland it is 5 feet and still further as at Tai-tsan it is
limited to a few inches. The velocity of the flood tide is much greater
than that of the ebb, the time from low to high water being some
hours shorter than from high to low water. We find also that the
tint of the water which is of a dirty brown colour opposite Shanghai,
gradually clears as we ascend the river and that where there is least
rise and fall of the tide the water is found quite transparent.
On analyzing some of the water drawn from the Whang-poo
opposite Shanghai, an hour before Spring tide in December last, I
found 27 grains of deposit which was equal to 59 minims in bulk
while moist, in a gallon of water; this deposit took about 6 hours to
form, and the first particles which settled to the bottom corresponded
with the gray sand to be noticed hereafter, while the bulk of the
deposit had the same appearance as the loam of the surface of the
soil. Underlying the loam which varies in thickness in different
localities, there is a stratum of grayish sand so deep that specimens
have been brought up from a depth of 248 feet from the surface, in
boring an Artesian well in Messrs. Russell & Co's. compound in the
Foreign Settlement, the same sand is found forming the vast shoals
that skirt the coast, the growing banks of the Yang-tse and the islands
of its estuary.
The difference of the loam and sand is at once seen on agitating
some of each with water in test tubes, the one containing the loam
remains turbid, for a considerable time, while the one containing the
sand becomes clear almost immediately, showing that the slightest
modification of the velocity of the water will cause a deposit of the
coarser particles of sand, and that it requires a period of complete
repose to deposit the loam, which forms the upper stratum.

8
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF
The loam contains a large proportion of alumina which can be
readily detected on breathing on a dry specimen. The sand has mixed
with it a large proportion of mica, the shining particles being easily
detected. It appears to be largely composed of calcareous matter, as
it effervesces strongly in contact with an acid.
The relative position of the loam and sand is seen in the
following section of the artesian boring just referred to (Fig. 6.)
The first ten feet of the boring passed through a stratum of
yellow Loam, beneath which was found a stratum of the gray
micaceous sand similar to that found in the mud flats of the river,
of an uniform character, and extending to a depth of 248 feet from
the surface, where a stratum of rounded pebbles was met with, which
was penetrated to the depth of 4 feet, when at this depth (252 feet)
from the surface, the instrument broke and the boring was dis-
continued.
From 45 feet below the surface to a depth of 60 feet, fragments
of shells were found; this would correspond to the present level of
the river bed, due east of the position of the Artesian well, where
probably the same shells may be found. At a depth of 140 feet from
the surface portions of plants were met with; they appeared on
examination with a microscope to be chips of Bamboo and Grass.
At a depth of 180 feet, portion of the bark of a tree, apparently of a
branch of fir, one inch in diameter was brought up, and a shell
resembling a Cyrena; this shell, was not water worn. At a depth of
240 feet, a fragment of lime stone rock was met with.
The accompanying diagram, (Fig. 6) which has been drawn to
scale, shows the relative bearings of the depth of the adjacent river
bed, and high and low water mark, to the position of the various
objects found at particular depths in boring the well.
Another instance may be seen about a mile distant from, and
north of the Su-chow Bridge, (Wills') on the Hong-que side of the
creek, where I observed the following stratification to exist in a
section of an Earth Pit (Fig. 7.)
Fig. 8.
Fig. 9.
The surface soil consisted of a stratum of yellow Loam 6 feet
in thickness, beneath this there appeared the same gray sand which

THE GREAT PLAIN.
9
was found in boring the Artesian well in the settlement, both these
strata were laminated and where the loam met the sand, there
were alternate layers of loam and sand for a distance of a few inches.
Fig. 6.
Section of the Artesian Well.
Fig. 7.
Section of an Earth Pit.
SURFACE.
SURFACE.
High water level
Low water level
--10 feet.
Bed of river
River Bed off
Pootung Point
Gray
Tillage
--18 inches.
Land shells,
-45 feet.
Fragments
of shells.
-60 feet.
°
High water level
at Spring tides B
Gray
Sand
Brown Clay
in fine lamina
perforated
by Roots of
Trees
and grass.
-6 feet.
Laminated
Gray
Sand
perforated
by
Stems of
Plants.
Sand
Lime stone
-140 feet.
Portions of
plants,
of bark
of a Tree
--180 feet.
Pebbles.
Boulder
-2:0 feet.
--248 feet.
252 feet.
ber

10
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF
The loam to a depth of 18 inches from the surface was not laminat-
ed, the soil being subjected to tillage, the lamina for that distance
were destroyed, beneath this the lamina were distinctly seen, also the
perforations made by roots of trees, reeds, &c., which were also
apparent in the stratum of sand beneath.
At about 2 feet from the surface there were fossil shells, of
Paludina, (Fig. 8, 9,) which were not met with lower down.
The diagram shows the high water level to be only 4 feet from
the surface. The same laminated appearance may be seen in the mud
of the bank in the process of formation near the British Consulate, it
has now attained that height corresponding with the union of the loam
with the sand, the alternate laminæ being easily distinguishable. In
this instance the laminæ are much broken and run into each other,
owing to the constant disturbance there are subject to, from people
walking on the mud bank.
Fig. 10.
Fig. II.
I found the same laminated appearance in the soil dug in making
a well near the Fu-tai's Camp, about a mile west of the South Gate of
the City of Shanghai. This locality was frequently subject to in-
undation until a bund was constructed along the north bank of the
Whang-poo south of the city. A similar structure of the soil was
observed at Tsing-poo about 25 miles S. W. of Shanghai.
The laminated appearance of the soil, in the foregoing instance
is the result of tidal deposition, as we can readily understand that the
slightest modification of the velocity of the water, charged with this

JJAR MA

October
November
от
December
January
February
March
September
THE DRISE AND FALL
HE TIDE
AT WOG FOR THE YEAR
1864
April
August
DO
July
June
May

THE GREAT PLAIN.
II
mud, will cause a deposit. The velocity of the flood tide being greater
than the ebb, the heavier particles carried with the rise of the water,
are deposited during the slower movement of the ebb, and hence every
tide must tend to fill up the river and creeks, which is precisely what
we find taking place around us.
Fig. 12.
Fig. 13.
The rapidity with which deposition takes place may most readily
be seen in the mud banks now in process of formation in the front of
the Consulate, and on the Poo-tung point, on the opposite side of the
river; six years ago, there was 6 feet of water found over these banks
which are now only covered at high tides, the banks having now
reached that stage of their growth where the clay and sand are in alter-
nate layers, as seen in the portion taken from the surface. In the
course of time, aided by the creeping rush, growing on the surface,
a further deposit of the finer particles suspended in the water will take
place, and being held together by the fibrous roots, will increase until
the surface is completely beyond the reach of all but the very highest
tides. The ordinary height of the Spring and Neap tides may be seen
in the accompanying diagram illustrative of the tides, as they occurred,
in the year 1864, at the place of observation at Woo-sung. The spaces
between the radii represent days, and the spaces between the con-
centric circles are intended to represent feet, commencing with the
innermost circle as II feet, which was the least depth of water at the
place of observation. In one instance, on the 15th of July, during the
prevalence of a cyclone, it will be observed that the tides reached the
height af 25 feet, whereas 23 feet was the average height of the spring
tides, and the average rise and fall, about 12 feet. By this diagram
the occurrence of Spring and Neap tides in relation to the phases of
the moon may also be seen. All who are connected with the trade of
the Port of Shanghai, must feel the deepest interest in this rapid
growth of these mud banks which in the course of time may seriously
impede the navigation of the river. I fear the remedy will not be
attained by projecting the bund further into the river, as it is proposed
but rather by removing the obstructions to the freer ingress and egress,

12
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF
Fig. 14.
Anodonta
Fig. 15.
Unio

THE GREAT PLAIN.
13
of the water of the Yang-tse, caused by the bars at the mouth of the
river, and by inducing a greater flow of water into the Whang-poo
from the lakes and tributary creeks, so as to give a greater velocity to
the ebb tide. The channels of all the tidal creeks in our vicinity are
being choked up to a great extent, and the soundings of the river are
much less in depth than they were a few years ago; in short, the
growth of the bank in front of the Consulate is a measure of the
general deposition of alluvial matter throughout the tidal area of
the Whang-poo.
That there is a less volume of water in the river than formerly, is
evidenced by the high bunds, it was found necessary to construct to
keep out the high water, which in former days overflowed the districts
east and west of the city; such floods apparently do not now occur.
It ought to be borne in mind too, that the river in front of the settle-
ments, from Su-chow creek to Tong-ka-du, is artificial and that it
would be as easy to obliterate its course by gradual encroachments on
its width, as it was to enlarge the shallow creek which previously
connected the Whang-poo with the Woo-sung.
Fig. 16.
Scattered over the surface of the soil both in Kiang-su and
Pe-chi-li, and buried in it at various depths, we find the remains of
shells belonging to Paludina, (Fig. 8, 9, 10, 11.) Planorbus, (Fig. 12,
13) Unio, (Fig. 14) Anodonta, (Fig. 15) and Cyrena fluminalis (Fig.
16, 17.) All these figures are of natural size. These shells are
still found in a living state, the Paludina, inhabiting the pools swamps
and reedy banks of rivers, the Planorbus the drier ground of mounds
&c., and the bivalves the mud of the creeks and streams, these species
whether collected in the vicinity of Peking or Shanghai being the
same. I have found in the vicinity of Tai-tsan, the shells of a larger
species of Anodonta and Unio than those met with in the smaller creeks
in our vicinity, and in the north, the dimensions of these shells are as
follows: Anodonta, 10 inches by 6 inches-Unio 8 inches by 51,
sufficiently large to be used as dishes or plates by the Chinese, who
commonly employ them for this purpose. I have met with Succinea
Amphibia (Fig. 18) and a Cerythium (Fig. 19) in the Shanghai district,
the latter are generally found with the extremity broken off, which is
Cyrena fluminalis though now found living throughout the Great plain is only
found in a fossil state in Europe, see Lyell's, "Antiquity of man." page 123.

14
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF
done, in order to get the animal out of the shell, being as highly
esteemed by the Chinese as periwinkles are by us. Paludina, Cyrena,
Unio and Anodonta are also used as food by the poorer people. Helix
plebeum is also found. Of marine species of bivalves 2 species of
Citherea, a Cardium and Solen are largely consumed. Cerythium
Cinctum and a Bulla, both marine species and obtained from the
neighbouring sea coast and estuary of the Yang-tse, are also found in
the market.
Fig. 17.
In the Shanghai district the remains of a Thelphusa are frequently
met with. These crabs abound in all directions especially in the
vicinity of water. They are a burrowing-crab, and show great agility
in reaching their burrows when in danger, they are also very active in
climbing rough walls, and occasionally, they may be seen ascending
the reeds on the river on the river bank. They hybernate in their
burrows during the cold season, and make their appearance after the
first few warm days of spring. They are eaten by the poorer
people.
Amongst the remains of bivalves found in the northern district,
I have met with a form (Fig. 20) which appears to be a marine species,
it is to be found in a fossil state in the low swampy ground at the
south side of Tien-tsin City, within the defence ditch. In the mud of
the embankment the same fossil shell is also to be found. The soil
hereabouts supports a scanty vegetation of which Salsola, forms the
chief portion, showing its marshy character. I have recently found on
the sea shore of Hang-chow Bay, not far from Cholim, the recent
shells of the same species of fossil, with which it corresponds in every
particular, showing that the sea at one time had access, to the walls of
Tien-tsin, or to the locality on which the city now stands.

THE GREAT PLAIN.
15
Natural Size.
Fig. 21.
Fig. 21 represents the interior of this bivalve.
Fig. 20.
The remains of a Solen so slender in structure that I could not
preserve it, was noticed in the mud thrown up from the bottom (15
feet deep) of the boundary ditch at the English Settlement at Tien-tsin,
this mud being similar in character to what we notice in the soil about
Shanghai.
Fig. 18.
Fig. 19.

16
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF
The aspect of the alluvial plain in Pe-chi-li gives one the idea of
an interminable level country, no hills or rising grounds are to be met
with for miles from the sea, a few sluggish streams and irregular
expanses of water, forming shallow lakes and marshes are met with
near Tien-tsin; passing further to the westward we find it slightly
undulating, here it is chiefly formed of sand, but it is not till a con-
siderable distance is passed that the outlines of hills become apparent.
Having had the opportunity of making an excursion in this direc-
tion I was able to notice the general features of the country in the north
western extremity and central portions of the province of Pe-chi-li, the
following extract from my journal will serve to give some idea of the
aspect of this portion of the plain-"Still the country continued flat,
further on however at a distance of about 30 miles from Tien-tsin the
surface became slightly undulating and at length our road passed on
to an embankment which one would suppose was originally constructed
for a railroad, further on, this embankment had more the appearance
of being at one time a sea cliff or deep river bank, having on the
southern aspect a declivity of about 60 feet, while on the northern side
a small bund separated the summit from the country which was on a
level with it, on leaving the road and turning to the north, to see
more of the upper plateau, I found at the distance of about a mile the
dry bed of a river 150 yards wide, which I learned was the When-ho
the waters of which had been turned into the Shang-shi-ho or upper
western river, by means of a dam built across it some distance off."
During the melting of the snow and ice in the hills of the north, at
the commencement of the warm weather, the water overflows this dam
and boats are able to sail up the river for a short time; there were
a few boats observed on the banks, but they had much the appearance
of being used in ferrying people across the river when full of water.
On looking over the lower plateau, I noticed several smaller bunds
extending some little distance from the embankment, and fancied they
had been constructed for the purpose of reclaiming land, the aspect
of the lower plateau had much the appearance of being the dry bed of
a great river, ten or twelve miles in width, the country for that distance
to the southward appearing to be arid sand with insular patches of
cultivation and willow plantations, it preserved this character for some
miles along the course of the embankment. Could this be the original
channel of the Yellow river which tradition and the topographical
records of the Chinese say, once flowed into the Gulph of Pe-chi-li?
On my return to Tien-tsin the road lead me further along the
course of this embankment, which I found gradually lessened in height,
till it approached within a few miles of Tien-tsin where it sloped off to
the level of the surrounding country. There was one part of its course
I observed to be recently constructed, it was in a place where the

THE GREAT PLAIN.
17
When-ho approached it and burst a way through to the country lying
south, doing considerable damage. About this part of its course, there
was no doubt that it was artificial, but in other places I could get no
information from the country people further than "it was always there."
On reaching the Western hills I was struck with the abrupt manner
they appeared to rise from the plain, and on passing through some of
the valleys I visited, the thought that at one time they formed bays
and inlets of the sea, immediately suggested itself.
In some of these valleys there was a great scarcity of water some
villages being dependant on wells 4 or 5 miles distant although the
dry beds of large rivers were met with Occasionally heavy torrents
flow down those river beds and the chief of the Buddhist Monastery
at Shan-fong-shan informed me that "formerly the rivers had plenty
of water but now there were rivers without water."
A view from the summit of those hills over the plain is very
striking: although containing no water the river beds could be traced
for a long distance flowing as it were to the eastward, and the great
plain itself looked not unlike the ocean, with island like patches of
trees and villages, whose outlines became less and less distinct in the
distant horizon.
A striking object on entering the valley leading to the Shan-
fong-shan monastery, was the appearance presented by a road side
cutting of a few feet in height; there was first a layer of clay about
2 feet in depth, and beneath this a stratum of large rounded stones
some of which were 6 to 8 lbs. in weight, in depth this stratum was
about 18 inches, underlying this there was a stratum of clay about
the same thickness, and beneath this another stratum of rounded
stones, beneath which there was another bed of clay. In the
further end of the valley about 8 miles off, I noticed people digging
for clay to fertilize their fields. The clay was underlying a stratum
of rounded stones which formed the dry bed of a river.
Within a short distance of Pou-ting-foo I crossed the dry bed
of a river about 2 miles in width, concerning which I could get no
information, though no doubt it lead from similar dry water courses
in the ranges of hills to the westward. All these rivers may have
been at one time full of water supplied by constant rain falls or
melting snow in the mountain ranges, while clothed with trees,
which was the case formerly, though they are now completely
destitute of timber.
Note. The Si-shan or Western hills belong to the carboniferous series, being
chiefly marble, they contain coal also,-and slate, the stratification of the mountains is
easily seen, the southern aspect being precipitous for a great portion of their extent.
This stratification is wonderfully horizontal, almost throughout its course, the road from
Shan-fung-san to Si-ling is bounded by a natural wall, as it were, upwards of 1,500 feet
high.

18
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE GREAT PLAIN
The houses and villages of the plain about Tien-tsin are all built
on ground raised 4 or 5 feet above the level of the plain, this is
owing to the inundations that are liable to occur, and though no
inundations occurred in 1860-61, while I was in the north of
China, I noticed the outlines of the fishing gins in different parts
of the plain outside the Treaty-joss house and other places. These
inundations carry with them the material of large deposits, and so
tend to raise the surface of the soil over which they spread, and
convey to the sea the materials with which the tides are continually
building up and extending the longitudinal width of the coast,
which like that of the coast in our vicinity is in a state of growth.
There are other sources however by which the soil is elevated
and marshy places made dry land, of these the dust storms are the
most active agents. Those who have passed a year in the north
of China can form some idea of the enormous amount of material
conveyed by these storms, from place to place and their capability of
choking up canals and rivers and filling up swamps and in time
altering the physical geography of the plain.
High winds produce almost similar results in localities where the
surface is loose and sandy. The dust storms depending on Electrical
phenomena appear to have a wide range, being noticed so far south as
Shanghai, and west, as far as Han-kow, in short extending over the
area of the Great Plain. These dust storms have much the character
of the "Tebbad" described by Vambery as occurring in the plains of
Central Asia. *
In conclusion, there can be no doubt, after a study of the geology
of those two portions, the northern and southern limits of the great
plain, that the remainder is similarly circumstanced as to its forma-
tion by alluvial deposition, and that there was a period, when the
whole of this great area was covered with water, a period when the
water of the Gulph of Pe-chi-li extended from the western hills of Chi-li
to its present eastern limit, and the Shan-tung promontory with the
contiguous mountainous portion of the province was an Island, and
the province of Keang-su had no existence.
To determine the precise time when this was the case would be a
difficult matter, but when the ancient writings of the Chinese speak
of floods and mention the name of an individual Ta-Yu who directed
the course of the rivers into permament beds, and reclaimed the land
from the inundations 4000 years ago, or that we are told that the
Yang-tse entered the sea at Quin-san 2000 years ago, when Shanghai
and the numerous cities and towns in the district had no existence
whatever, we should not discredit these records but should rather
examine with attention the matter they contain.
"Travels in Central Asia" p. 161.

Shen si
Zechuen
Kweichow
Wall
Great
Shansi
Honan
Area
44
Great
Plain
Yellow river
The
the
Kiangnan
Huquang
Kiangsi
Yunan
Quangsi
Quangtung
Chili
Gulph of
Pechili
Shantung
Yellow sea
Yangtse
kiang
Fokien
Chekiang
China
Sea
MAP OF CHINA
SHOWING AREA OF GREAT PLAIN