ARTICLE V.
SORGO, OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
BY VARNUM D. COLLINS ESQ.
The plant, which is the subject of my Paper, was called in France,
when first introduced there, "Northern Chinese Sugar Cane" to
distinguish it from that grown in the middle and southern parts of
the Empire. Its botanical, as now, its usual name, is Sorgo-
being a species of the genera Sorghum. By the Chinese, it is called
Loo-tsoh, and must not be confounded with Kau-leang-a species of
the same general plant, and which it resembles, though bearing no
saccharine juice; or with Kain-tso and other varieties of Southern
Chinese Sugar Cane.
According to the best authorities, the Sugar Cane, first cultivated
by Western Nations, came originally from China, where it has been
grown from remotest antiquity. Jewish, Greek and Roman writers
refer to it, only indefinitely, if at all, as something quite foreign to
their countries. It is true, some of them speak of sweet reeds and
canes, but a critical examination of the passages themselves which I
have made, as well as collateral statements by the same writers,
showing their utter ignorance of sugar or its mode of extraction, prove
that these writers referred to other plants (the sweet calamus probably)
than the Sugar Cane of China. I will quote, however, a few of these
passages, and leave others to decide for themselves. In the 43d chap.
and 24th verse of Isaiah-a book written about 1,000 years before
Christ, God, in reproving the Jews for lack of valuable offerings,
declares, "Thou hast bought me no sweet cane with money"; and in
Jeremiah, 6th chap. and 20th verse, God complains on the other hand
of their mere empty offerings by saying "To what purpose cometh

80
SORGO OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
there to me incense from Sheba, and the sweet cane from a far country."
Theophrastus, a profane writer, 320 years before Christ, speaks in one
place of "a sort of honey extracted from canes or reeds"; and Strabo,
on the authority of Nearchus, the commander of the fleet in the
expedition of Alexander the Great, says that "reeds in India, yield
honey without bees;" and finally, Lucan, a Roman poet, sings of those
"who drink sweet juices from the tender reed." For several centuries
after the birth of Christ, sugar was unknown in Europe, except as a
medicine, or a rare luxury. It was about the close of the 13th century
that the Sugar Cane of Southern China was carried by merchants,
colonists and others, from the East to Arabia, and thence, westward,
through Northern Africa, Sicily, Spain, and across the Atlantic, by
the way of the Canaries, Madeira, Brazil, and the West Indies. It was
not until 1751 that it was introduced by the Jesuit fathers, from San
Domingo into Louisiana. While the Southern Chinese Sugar Cane
has been thus early and widely spread abroad, for some unaccountable
reason, not only the Chinese, but Western Nations have not duly
appreciated the other-the Sorgo cane of the North.
It was reserved for the French, several centuries after the southern
cane had made its first appearance in Europe, to introduce the Sorgo
of the North of China-a plant which is destined to effect, greatly,
Western civilization. In France and the United States, this plant has
already attracted universal attention, and been long successfully and
extensively cultivated. What I shall state, therefore, respecting it,
will not be new, but old facts, confirmed by personal experiment and
observation, and the recorded experiments and observations of others,
especially those of Olcott, which are excellent. I propose to discuss
four points, viz: the botany, history, the culture, and uses of Sorgo.
The following, from a work on The Trees, Plants, and Flowers of
China, is the nearest approach to a Chinese botanical and historical notice
of the Plant by native writers; and this passage evidently refers to a
species of Sorghum called Kau-leang, though some of the characteristics
of Loo-tsoh, are mentioned viz., black seed and saccharine juice. The
translation is by the Rev. J. M. W. Farnham of Shanghai.
"Tsoh Soo,-This plant has received several names, all
referrable to the district where it was first produced. The seed was
brought from the province of Sze-chuen, whose ancient name, is
Se-tsoh. The names by which the plant has been called are Kau-leang,
高深 Tsok-tsach, 整租 Loo-tse, Loo-tsok, 蘆繫 Mo-tsih.
and Til-leang, e. The seed should be planted in good dry
soil, early in the season-say April, if you would reap a good crop of
seed. It ripens in autumn. The stalks are large and more than ten
feet high, in leaves and general appearance resembling the reeds,
though the stalks are not hollow. The top resembles a broom, and is

SORGO OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
81
thickly covered with little red, or black coloured seeds, resembling
kernels of pepper. This kernel is hard, and the heart of it is of a
yellowish colour. When the plant is ripe, the top is first taken off.
The stalks are then gathered, bound in bundles, and placed in shocks
to dry. There are two species of seed. The first is glutinous; and
with a kind of rice, is used in manufacturing alcoholic drinks-also
made into cakes. The other seed is not glutinous. It makes good
gruel, cakes, &c., and is useful to feed cattle.
The stalks are manufactured into matting, &c., and the tops into
brooms. The hulls of the seed contain a red colouring matter, used in
colouring red wines. The heart of the stalk is sweet, heating, slightly
glutinous, and useful as a medicine in cases of diarrhoea.
In Europe and America, there has been considerable difference of
opinion, among Botanists, as to the proper name of the plant under
consideration. One of them makes the remark that by Linnæus, it
I was called Holcus saccharatus; but when this genus underwent a
subdivision by subsequent botanists, it (Northern Chinese Sugar Cane,
or Tsoh-soo) was placed by some, in that of Andro pogon; by others, in
that of Sorghum. These two genera are closely allied, as any one can
see, by referring to any good work on botany. Some of the best
authorities consider the difference so slight as to warrant their union
into one.
In regard to the various species of Sorghum, grown in China,
the names being given in the passage translated, there is not much doubt
that they are identically the same plants, the difference between them
being due to the long cultivation which the plant has undergone in
different latitudes, soils, and other controlling circumstances, just as
some of the grasses have sprouted into numerous varieties. The true
Sugar Cane called by the Chinese, Kain-so-by botanists Saccharum
officinarum,-though it belongs to the same tribe of grasses as the Sorgo,
differs in some important particulars. The Sugar Cane of middle and
southern China grows from six to ten feet high, measuring from the
root to the tip of the leaves. It seldom produces seed, but is
propagated, either annually, or every few years, by cuttings. The
Sorgo, on the contrary, is an annual plant, springing from seeds, and
growing from 12 to 18 feet high, with an ample inflorescence, each
stalk heading out with about a gill of seeds. Few plants are more
beautiful and graceful, and in the driest season its greenness is very
refreshing to the eye.
It presents a tall straight stalk, marked at intervals with nodes,
and from these, on alternate sides of the plant, spring long spreading,
tapering and drooping leaves. The stalk very gradually decreases in
diameter, from the base to the top. Its outer coating is smooth and
silicious, [like the stalks of Indian corn] and becomes harder as the
water and starch of the plant become converted into woody fibre, and

82
SORGO OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
more silex is deposited on the outside. The seeds grow upon the
8 or 10 seperate stems which group together to form the tuft at the top
of the plant, and unlike the Indian corn, this seed is the only fruit
produced by the plant. When the tassel first emerges from its sheath,
the seeds are nothing but a soft green husk, until by degrees, and in
like manner to wheat, they become filled with farinaceous matter, and
the grains are plump and hard. As the plant approaches maturity,
the seeds undergo transitions in colour, changing to violet, brown, and
finally to a purple, almost black. When this latter colour appears, the
plant has reached its last stage of vegetation, and will then yield the
largest amount of saccharine matter.
The Kain-so, or real Sugar Cane, is seldom grown successfully
above 25° or 30° N. Latitude, or, when the mean temperature is less
than 66° or 68° Far. while Sorgo flourishes above 40° N. Latitude.
Indeed, wherever Indian corn will grow Sorgo flourishes, excelling
the former in greenness, grace and luxuriance.
Bryant, in one of his beautiful Poems describing the central
portion of America as it appeared 50 years ago-before the feet of
any but Indian and Pioneer had pressed its soil, thus pictures what to-
day are the great Sorgo fields of the world:-
"These are the gardens of the desert; these,
The unshorn fields, boundless and beautiful,
For which the speech of England hath no name,-
The Prairies. A fitting floor,
For this magnificent temple of the sky,
With flowers whose glory and whose multitude,
Rival the constellations."
And it would take a pen like Bryant's to paint the beauty and
even grandeur of the serried ranks of Cane, which, over tens of
thousands of prairie acres, stand nodding their golden plumes and
waving their green leafy banners, in the sunlight of summer-symbols
of peace and joyful harvests.
The history of the introduction of Sorgo among Western nations,
is as follows:-In the year 1851, Count de Montigny, at that time
French Consul at Shanghai, forwarded, at the request of his Govern-
ment, to the Geographical Society of Paris, a collection of such plants,
seeds, and cuttings, found in this part of China, as he thought might
grow in Europe. Among this collection, was a package of Sorgo
seeds. It has been quite a matter of friendly debate in France, as to
whom belongs the real honour of introducing this valuable plant to
Western nations, whether to the French Consul, who collected and
forwarded the seeds, or to M. Roberts, director of the Marine Gardens
at Toulon. While the name of the first gentleman is wedded to
fame, in that he found time, amid Consular duties, to devote attention
to science, that of the latter deserves especial honour, as to him were

SORGO OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
83
confided the seeds for propagation. M. Roberts planted them with
care, but was rewarded with but a single sprout, which, however,
under his fostering hand, grew and matured. The crop of seeds was
gathered, and wisely distributed in France and Algeria, and from
this, in due time, large harvests were gathered. During one season in
France, Sorgo seed sold at a franc per grain; but in two or three years,
they became abundant.
In 1854 W. J. Browne Esq., an agent of the United States Patent
Office, on his return from Europe to America, brought with him a
quantity of French seeds. These were gratuitously distributed by
the United States Government all over the country; but farmers
generally received them with much suspicion, or indifference, though
a few carefully planted the seed and cultivated the new plant.
Though a number of letters were received at the Patent Office
respecting the plant, no special attention, however, was attracted
towards it, until a report appeared from an ex-governor of South
Carolina to one of the farmers' clubs of that State, giving the results
of his experiments with the plant which at once attracted universal
attention.
For various reasons not necessary to state, since 1855 the area of
Sorgo cultivation in the United States has steadily increased until it
has now become one of the great crops of the country.
The same is true, to a limited extent, in France and Algeria; but,
these countries cultivate the plant, in the main, for different purposes
-chiefly for alcohol, while in America, it is raised for seed, forage,
and for the manufacture of sugar, syrup, alcohol, vinegar and beer.
It must be confessed, however, that in one important particular,
Sorgo has somewhat disappointed public expectation in America-in
that Sugar is with difficulty manufactured from its juice.
In looking over however, the agricultural Reports of the various
States, I notice that in 1863, considerable Sorgo sugar was, notwith-
standing, manufactured. Taking the state of Iowa--between 40° and
45° N. Lat. as the basis of an estimate-where, from 36,667 acres of
land, 21,469 lbs. of Sorgo sugar and 3,012,396 gallons of syrup were
manufactured in 1863, we have for ten of the north-western states
where the Sorgo flourishes, some 366,670 acres under cultivation,
yielding, besides seed, alcohol and forage, say 214,690 lbs. of Sugar,
and 30,123,960 gallons of syrup. And according to the monthly
Report of the U. S. Agricultural Department at Washington for
October 1864, just received in Shanghai, the area sown in Sorgo in
1864 greatly exceeded that of any previous year. Indeed, good
Sorgo sugar was selling at Chicago, Illinois, this winter at nine and
ten cents per pound.
And just here I beg to state that this Agricultural Department
of which I have spoken-so deeply interested in Sorgo culture and
2

84
SORGO OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
organized within the last four years, is doing a great work for
America. At its head, as commissioner is the Hon. Isaac Newton, a
plain, practical progressive farmer of the nobler sort, reminding one
of that class of men who were the associates or correspondents of
Sinclair in England and of Washington in America.
The main objects of this Department are to collect and scatter
among the farmers of America, agricultural information as well as
such seeds, plants, cuttings and breeds of animals, as will prove
valuable to a new and rapidly growing country. It invites from
abroad especially, and will reciprocate, agricultural information and
contributions in the way of documents, seeds, agricultural implements,
both for its Museum and for distribution among the people.
It was for the purpose of observing the Chinese method of cul-
tivating Sorgo, and especially their processes of manufacturing sugar
from its juice, that I was sent by this Department to China.
It is the impression in France and America, that the Chinese are
thoroughly acquainted with all plants indigenous to their country; and
that our chief difficulty in obtaining sugar from the juice of the Sorgo
was owing, either to some defect in cultivation; in the mode of treat-
ing the juice; or in not possessing that species of Sorghum which
yields the largest amount of crystallizable juice.
Strange as it may appear, I cannot find in their agricultural works
or in actual practice, the slightest evidence that the Chinese cultivate
Sorgo [Loo-tsohl for any other purpose whatever, than for chewing
and sucking the stalks. So far as I can learn, the plant is cultivated
in this Province only-chiefly on the island of Tsung-ming in the
Yang-tze just opposite Woo-sung; and from thence the Shanghai
market is supplied. And even on this island, only a few farmers
cultivate small patches of one third of a mow-about one eighteenth
of an acre each.
The plant is not considered a valuable product by the Chinese,
or it would be more extensively grown; for I do not believe there are
twenty acres sown on the whole island per annum.
One Chinese labourer can cultivate about two acres of Sorgo,
receiving about two hundred cash (20 cents) per day during the six
months of necessary tillage. In America, with a sub-soil plough, one
farmer can cultivate ten acres-indeed the entire expense of rent,
labour, seed &c., being about twenty (20) dollars per acre.
Tsung Ming is a flat island the cultivated surface being not more
than from two to ten feet above the spring tides. It is of compara-
tively recent formation; and like most of the soil in this part of China
is composed of alluvial clay. Numerous canals and natural creeks
improved, intersect the island in various directions, so that almost
every acre can be easily irrigated or approached by boats. The
Sorgo there, however, is cultivated on the highest soil, and not

SORGO OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
85
irrigated, except in its earlier growth, or when the season is excessive-
ly dry.
In the middle of April the seeds are planted broadcast, in a
piece of ground finely broken, warm and sunny; and lightly covered
with a harrow in order to avoid rotting.
The seeds are not soaked previous to planting, or cast into the
ground with any Manures. When the sprouts appear above the soil
they are watered with liquid night manure; and again, after three or
four days, if the weather be dry, the young plants are watered night
and morning. When the sprouts are some six inches high, the health-
iest are transplanted into ground which has been well broken up by
the hoe, leaving, however, the sub-soil undisturbed. The sprouts are
planted about six inches apart, (but not hilled) in rows about three
feet wide; and when the plants are about a foot high, they are
again watered with liquid manure. After this, the hoe is freely used
in keeping down the weeds until the cane matures, which is about the
first of November.
If for any reason the seeds are not sown until late in the spring,
the canes are topped before the seed-heads are formed, upon the
theory that the juices going to form the seeds are saved to the stalk.
The same diseases which attack the Sorgo in the United States
give trouble to the Chinese, but they know no remedies.
Though the soil is about the same on all parts of Tsung-ming,
yet the qualities of cane grown there are very different, owing to
seed, time of planting, culture, and other circumstances.
Although the cane is not fully ripe until November, yet it begins
to come into market early in September, or just as soon as the stalks
are sufficiently sweet.
The result is, but little, or no seed is or can be saved for sale-all
being needed that are allowed to ripen, for next year's planting. No
Sorgo seeds, therefore, ever come to market; and it was with
difficulty that I obtained even two or three bushels.
From all that I have seen and read, both here and in the United
States, I am well satisfied that foreigners have nothing to learn from,
but much to impart to the Chinese in respect to Sorgo, as well as
many other products of the Empire.
In regard to the cultivation of Sorgo, for extracting sugar, it
has been stated by an eminent agriculturist, as a settled fact-and
which is being verified every year in America, that sorgo may be
successfully grown upon all lands where a fair crop of Indian corn
can be cultivated. This simple statement covers the whole question
of latitude and soils, and shows what an advantage Sorgo
possesses over ordinary Sugar cane, flourishing, as it does, in torrid

86
SORGO OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
and temperate, zones alike. But as only certain soils and modes
of culture produce the best results, I propose to present some of
the facts collected from personal observation, and as stated by
agriculturists of reputation in America, bearing on these points.
It has been found in America, that deep and loose and warm soils
of even poor quality, so situated as to be irrigated in very dry
weather, during the earlier stages of growth, produce the sweetest
and most juicy stalks; but if the soils are largely composed of
vegetable detritus there is less chance of crystallization. Irrigation,
however, is seldom practised or needed in America. Land of medium
quality, and between a black loam and a pure gravel, are the best for
Sorgo: while in deep black loam it often grows from 16 to 18 feet
high, but suffers in the sweetness of the juice.
In regard to manures for Sorgo cultivation, the aim should be to
add to the soil those things in which it is deficient, at the right time,
in proper chemical conditions, and in the requisite proportions. In
the cultivation of beets in Europe for sugar making, it was found that
in boiling down the juice, some of the syrup refused to crystallize.
The reason of this was traced to the presence of saline matter in the
juice. This matter forms a compound with the sugar and prevents it
from crystallizing. So powerful is this influence, that one per cent. of
salt in the juice will render three per cent. of the sugar uncrystallizable.
This same difficulty has been experienced in regard to the juice of
Sorgo. All saline manures, then, should be avoided when sugar is to
be made. The best manures, of course, are those which give back to
the soil the elements which go to form the plant. An eminent
chemist states that the most important ingredients in the ash of the
Sorgo are the phosphates of lime and magnesia, acetate, muriate and
sulphate of potash, together with hydrated silica and oxides of iron
and manganese. Ordinary manures, yielding a large proportion of
ammonia, are far inferior to the plowing in of green crops, and
especially the crushed canes after having passed through the mill.
Gypsum, or sulphate of lime, is excellent manure for Sorgo.
In France and the United States, where the warm weather is of
comparatively brief duration, it is common to soak the seeds in tepid
water, to which has been added I oz. of saltpetre to 6 gallons of
water, for 24 hours, and just before planting, to roll the seed in
plaster. By this means, five or six days are gained. The Chinese
method of transplanting, to obtain the same result, is not much
practised in America, owing to the vast area cultivated; but un-
doubtedly the two plans combined, would give excellent results.
The ground, in the United States is prepared with a subsoil plough,
and drill planting is the usual method, about 25,000 canes being grown
to the acre. As soon as the sprout is above the ground (which is

SORGO OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
87
from 7 to 10 days after planting) a one-horse subsoil plough is put
twice between the rows, going up along the side of one row, and
down the other. This deep ploughing disturbs the relation of the
soils, and allows the dew, air, sunlight and warmth to act almost
directly upon the roots of the young plant, giving them vigour and
strength. After-cultivation is but a repetition of this. The plants
should not be hilled, as the cane needs the upper roots exposed,
commencing as they do, on the stalks above the surface of the ground.
"By the contact of the roots with the air they absorb carbonic acid,
and other nutritious gases, and the just starting sap, being thus early
acted upon by the gases and sunshine, is made more prone to
crystallize. In China and the United States it has been found that
Sorgo produces hybrids with plants of the same nature, thus loosing
the distinctive saccharine virtue. It should not, therefore, be planted
in the vicinity of Broom corn, Loo-tse, Kau-leang, or the various
millets of China. Some American farmers affirm that hybrids are
formed by even the presence of Indian corn.
In ripening, the Sorgo stalk assumes a yellowish tint, striped in
places with red; but the appearance of the seed is the best test. In
harvesting the Sorgo seed for next year's planting, the seed heads, with
about 2 feet of stalk attached, should be cut off, and made into small
bundles, and thus hung up to dry. This is the practice of the Chinese,
who assert that it is injurious to the seeds, for planting, to thrash
them from the seed heads, before the time of planting. Care should be
exercised in drying the bulk of the seed which may be thrashed out at
any time, by hand or machine.
In a number of trials, I have found that in China, as in the United
States, each stalk yields, on an average, a gill of seeds, weighing
about 36 lbs. to the bushel. Of course the yield per acre will depend
on circumstances. From 25 to 60 bushels per acre are raised in
France and the United States. It is the statement of eminent chemists
that Sorgo seed equals barley or oats in nutrition, and certain it is,
animals are very fond of it. The only objection to Sorgo seed is
that the colouring matter of the hulls, carried with the fluids of the
animal system, dyes the flesh of animals feeding upon the seed-
producing however no other injury to the flesh. And here, I would
state that the colouring matter of the hulls is now used by French
manufacturers in dying silks-producing some of the most beautiful
purple tints known in the arts. Sorgo seeds make very fair meal
and flour; and often have I eaten Sorgo cakes with Sorgo syrup.
In cultivating Sorgo for forage, the seed should be sown in drills
-say two feet apart and about 20 seed to the foot, as in sowing
broadcast no opportunity is afforded of keeping down the weeds, or

88
SORGO OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
of easily gathering the cane. Besides, more air and sunlight are
admitted to the roots and stubble, and the second crop of ratoons (or
new shoots) is more likely to be a full one. The crop, for green
fodder, should be cut as soon as it is large enough to be fed to stock;
and according to the length of the season, there may be two, three or
more crops obtained from the same shoots, the last one bearing seed.
The concurrent testimony of all experimentalists is that the leaves
and stalks of Sorgo, constitute excellent fodder; and that it is so, is
chemically explained by the presence of large quantities of carbon in
the form of saccharine juice; and sugar and fat, we know, are made up
of the same ingredients, viz. carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen.
Sorgo, to be cured as dry fodder, should be cut in the morning
after the dew is off the plant, and then suffered to lie on the ground
and become well dried, before it is bound up. The bundles should
be small; and before stacking in the barn or other shelter, should be
set up in shocks in the field, to cause as much water to be evaporated
as possible. The stack should be built on poles to allow a free
circulation of air beneath. Extra pains should be taken in order to
avoid heating.
In the United States as many as nine tons of fodder, after two
months' drying, have been gathered per acre in one season; and in
Algeria 84,000 lbs. of green forage. These figures of course are much
above the average yield; but they indicate the possibilities of climate
and good culture. The official Report of the United States Agricul-
tural Department or rather Bureau for 1855, declares that aside from
other economical uses, the value of Sorgo, for feeding stock alone, in
the parts of the country where it will thrive, cannot be surpassed by
any other crop, as a greater amount of nutritious fodder cannot be
obtained so cheaply in a given space within so short a time; and argues
that, if it is considered profitable to keep land in grass, which yields
a ton to a ton and a half of hay per acre, how much more profitable
to raise Sorgo, which gives, besides seed, from two to nine tons of
fodder, where the land is properly manured and irrigated-for irriga-
tion is only injurious to Sorgo for purposes of crystallization.
A good article of paper is now manufactured from the Sorgo
stalks, in the United States-two mills using no other material.
The manufacture of syrup and sugar by the introduction and
cultivation of Sorgo is now no longer a question of latitude and race,
but of price. It is not necessary or practicable, in a Paper like this,
to enter into a minute description of the processes of manufacturing
from the juice of Sorgo, syrup, sugar, alcohol, beer and vinegar, as
they are precisely those employed when working the juice of the
ordinary sugar-cane.

SORGO OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
89
For the economical manufacture of syrup &c., it is necessary to
express the juice of Sorgo in the most thorough manner, as that which
is last expressed is the richest. This of course can only be done, by
using mills with iron rollers, which express from 70 to 80 per cent. of
juice leaving 20 or 30 per cent. of woody fibre.
In repeated experiments last November with a mill expressing
only about 60 per cent. of juice, I found that the average yield was one
gallon of juice to every fifteen canes and one gallon of syrup, to every
five of juice; or about 333 gallons of good syrup per acre; though I
have known instances where over 400 gallons were obtained in the
United States. It must be confessed, however, that Sorgo is beginning
to deteriorate in that country. The juice comes from the mill opaque,
frothy, and of a yellowish green. The most approved method of
treating the juice-and the one followed by myself, is to add, as soon
as possible, after the juice is expressed, about a teaspoonful of the
cream of lime (thick lime water) to every four gallons of juice, and
mix thoroughly in order to neutralize the free acid (phosphoric) which
naturally exists in the cane. Add also at this stage the white of two
eggs, well beaten with a small quantity of juice. Heat being applied,
let the contents come to a boil, when the fire should be shut off, or the
kettle. removed from the fire to allow the scum to rise to the top,
which it will do in the course of 20 minutes, if the contents are not
disturbed. Removing the scum, or what is better, drawing off the
juice at the bottom, it comes out clear and sweet. This juice may
then be boiled down to syrup or sugar, removing, in the meantime,
any scum which may arise.
Nearly all the colour imparted to the juice (except what the lime
gives) is received after the fluid has become somewhat dense, retaining
but little water to carry off the heat. Of course, the syrup may be
made thick or thin, according to the amount of water evaporated; but
care must be taken in the last stages not to burn the contents. In
manufacturing the specimen of Sorgo sugar before me the syrup was
boiled until the steam escaped from it in little puffs, when it was
emptied into a shallow vessel, and exposed to the sun to hasten crystal-
lization. Several days elapsed before crystallization was complete,
leaving behind an exceedingly thick and gummy molasses, which was
separated by preasure. The chief difficulty in manufacturing sugar
from the juice of the Sorgo, is the gummy principle, which prevents
rapid and complete crystallization; and whosoever shall discover a
remedy for this, will contribute not only a practical benefit upon
society, but amass for himself a fortune. The sugar before me, which
represents about 14 per cent. of Sorgo juice, is positive proof that sugar
can be manufactured from the plant, but at the present state of our
knowledge of the treatment of the juice, I do not think it can be done
with profit in China, but that it will be shortly, I have no doubt.

90
SORGO OR NORTHERN CHINESE SUGAR CANE.
At the present time, about eleven-twelfths of all the Sugar extract-
ed for general use is obtained from the ordinary sugar cane; and some
of the countries where it is produced yield about the following gross
amounts per acre, according to the best authorities.-Mauritius 6,000;
Brazil 5,000; Cuba 4,000; Isle of Bourbon 3,300; Guadeloupe 2,000;
Bengal 1,600; and Louisiana 1,000. The amount per acre raised in China,
I have not been able to learn; but I have experimented with sugar cane
cultivated as far north as Hangchow, which yielded over 2,500 lbs.
and with Sorgo cane, from Tsung-ming, yielding 2,000 lbs. per acre.
As my paper has extended already too long, I will only add, that
from the juice of the Sorgo can be manufactured, economically, beer,
vinegar and alcohol of very superior qualities. The yield of beer and
vinegar is about equal to the amount of juice employed and that of
alcohol one gallon to every 23 gallons of juice; or, in other words, the
amount of absolute alcohol is a fraction over 6 per cent. The specimen
of alcohol before me is not equal to some manufactured by me, but
which I used up in making ether, and other articles. Gentlemen
present know that nearly, if not absolute alcohol, is necessary in
manufacturing ether and collodion; and Messrs Dinmore Bros.,
Photographers, pronounce my alcohol satisfactory in these respects.
In conclusion, I desire to say that for Sorgo cultivation in China
there offers a new, and I believe profitable, field of enterprise, because
it yields cheaply an abundance of saccharine matter for the manu-
facture of some of the chief articles of modern civilization, viz.
syrup, sugar, alcohol, vinegar and beer.