ARTICLE II.
A SKETCH OF THE GEOLOGY
OF A PORTION OF QUANG-TUNG PROVINCE.
BY THOS. W. KINGSMILL
In laying these rough notes before the "North China Branch of
the Royal Asiatic Society" the writer lays claim to no new dis-
coveries, few of the observations having been made by himself, and
his specimens having been mostly collected during short stays in
Can-ton and Hong-kong; his aim is rather to throw into some shape
the scattered notes of others, and to endeavour to form a connected
sequence, for comparison with the rock formations of China and
other parts of the world, and he will feel happy if these few
remarks should call the attention of others, with better means of
observation, and more time at their disposal, to this subject.
Lying as China does between the parallels of 20° and 40° North
Latitude, and between 100° and 120° East Longitude, considerable
diversity in its Geological structure and Physical Geography might
be expected. The general character of the whole, to the south at
least of the Yellow River, is however very persistent, consisting of
plains slightly elevated above the sea level, occasionally of large
extent, bounded by irregular ranges of mountains, seldom within
these limits much exceeding 3000 or 4000 feet in height. The usual
division of China into Hill Country and Plain, though partially true
is much exaggerated, few of the plains continuing uninterrupted
by eminences for any considerable distance, whilst in most instances
the ridges of the bounding hills can be seen from most intermediate
points, at one side or the other. The entire country is rather
divided into several isolated basins, any one of which can be
studied by itself, whilst in most instances the lines of demarcation
flow roughly the political divisions of the Empire.

20
A SKETCH OF THE GEOLOGY OF A PORTION
Amongst these natural divisions of the country we may adduce
the provinces of the Two Quangs, Kiang-si, Fuh-kien and Che-kiang,
Ngan-whui, Kwei-chau, Kiang-su, &c. all forming separate dis-
tricts divided by ranges of mountains, and distinguished each by
peculiar geological characteristics, as well as by a diversity of natural
productions, and a general aspect differing from its neighbours.
Of these districts the central and eastern portion of Quang-tung
is especially interesting, not only as being best known to us, but as
containing within a limited area a connected sequence of formations
ranging upwards from the early Paleozoic rocks of Hong-kong
and the adjacent coast and islands, to the New Red Sandstone of
Can-ton and the Delta of the Pearl river, intermixed with some
traces of still later formations, and being accompanied by masses
of rocks of igneous origin extending probably over a still more
prolonged epoch.
This portion of the province is intersected by ranges of moun-
tains running from about N. N. E. to S. S. W. paralled with the
coast chain, which commencing in the islands to the south of
Hong-kong runs with one or two breaks to the Chu-san Archipelago.
Almost at right angles with this, taking an approxinate E. and W.
direction runs another chain, forming, at the Northern extremity
of this district, the Mei-ling Mountains, parallel with which the
elevatory forces, having acted across the first system, have produced
a number of short ranges and secondary valleys and given a general
strike of E. and W. or thereabouts to the latest formations.
Through these valleys run three rivers which unite not far
from Can-ton city, their mingied waters flowing to the sea by
numerous branches, forming the Delta of the Can-ton river, the best
known branch of which, the Chu-kiang, after flowing past the City
of Can-ton enters the Bay of Lin-tin at the Bogue; their names are
respectively the Peh-kiang or North River, formed by the con-
fluence at Shau-chau of two streams flowing respectively east and
west from the flanks of the Mei-ling Mountains, and thence taking a
S. S. W. course to San-shui, where it meets with the Si-kiang or
West River, the most important of the three. This river rising in
the Mountains of Yun-nan flows in a general easterly direction
though a portion of that province, and thence though Quang-si to
Quang-tung which it enters at Wu-chau; continuing in a general
easterly course it flows past Shao-king to San-shui where as before
mentioned it joins the Peh-kiang; a portion of their united waters
flow thence to the S. S. E. entering the sea to the west of the Island
of Hiang-shan, whilst the remainder, passing by numerous channels
through the Delta, mix their waters with those of the Tung-kiang or
East River, which rising in the North East of the Province flows for
some distance nearly parallel with the North River, receiving the

OF QUANG-TUNG PROVINCE.
21
drainage of the western slopes of the Coast chain, and arrived at
Hwai-chau, takes a westerly course, joining the Chu-kiang by many
mouths some 30 miles below Can-ton.
As a convenient starting point and one where the lowest form-
ations can be studied with advantage, we will begin with the Island of
Hong-kong, which small as it is will well repay attentive examination.
Landing at the City of Victoria and observing the buildings, the
masses of rock lying about the exposed surfaces of the Mountain, as
well as casually looking at the quarries deeply sunk into the hill
a stranger would most likely conclude that the whole was one solid
mass of granite. A minute investigation in the water courses worn
into the sides of the hill, and a walk to Aberdeen and the other
districts at the south side of the Island, will however show that other
causes besides igneous have been at work, and that the igneous rocks
themselves are by no means confined to granite, slate and quartz as
well as trappean rocks presenting themselves in many localities.
Before passing on to describe the other rocks, the granites found
here will merit our attention for some little time, as stone of a similar
quality occurs along the coast line far into Fuh-kien province, and
differs much in composition from the granites of the inland ranges,
From the large amount of Mica they contain, as well as from the
excess of Alkaline materials in the Felspar, forming one of their com-
ponents, they are readily decomposed and have yielded to the disinte-
grating action of the atmosphere, in these regions impregnated with
water for a large portion of the year, to an enormous extent, leaving
behind a mass of soft unctuous clay surrounding the grains of unaltered
quartz. The granite is however very concretionary in its structure
and irregular in characters, and here and there are to be seen large
masses of solid stone which have resisted decomposition, and lie like
enormous boulders imbedded in the surrounding matrix; in places
exposed to the wear and tear of the tropical rains this matrix has been
washed away, and the undecomposed masses, left far and wide over
the surfaces of the hills, have more than once been referred to as the
results of glacial action corresponding with the boulder drift of more
northern latitudes. Along the coast this decomposed rock annually
washed by the rains assumes a most barren aspect, giving a bleak and
desolate appearance to the coasts of the Southern provinces of China
as approached from the sea, often hiding exceeding fertility within,
whilst the deep channels worn by the mountain torrents and the
detached masses of rock of every size and form scattered about, give
the whole an air of utter confusion, and render walking amongst these
ruins of nature's handiwork no easy task.
Elementary Course of Geology, Ansted. 2nd Edition p. 42.

22
A SKETCH OF THE GEOLOGY OF A PORTION
Associated with these granites in an inextricable tangle occur the
slate and quartz rocks mentioned above. In the island of Hong-kong
which we have taken as the type of these lower rocks, stretching from
the neighbourhood of West-point to a little to the north of Stanley,
parallel with the south coast of the island, and from three quarters
of a mile to a mile broad, may be noticed a band of highly altered
slate and quartz rocks; the line of demarcation between these and the
granite may be very well seen at Stanley, where the southern portion
of one of the hills jutting out into the sea consists of granite, covered
with numerous detached pseudo boulders, whilst the surface of the
slate rocks, disintegrated in a different manner by atmospheric
influence, assumes a rounded swelling outline. The numerous head-
lands on this coast are all composed of granite, whilst the sea has
intruded to a considerable extent on the softer clay rocks forming the
recesses of Deep Bay, Ti-tum Bay and others. These rocks are
however by no means confined to this district but occur in irregular
masses in several localities, more especially about the mountains to
the south of the Ly-ü-mun pass, where they form the characteristic
formation, they are throughout distinguished by a large admixture of
quartz rock, sometimes stratified, but more frequently massive, and
utterly broken up by joints and cleavage plains, the states vary in
composition from soft shales to hard purple slates and every where
present the same aspect as the quartz rocks, being subdivided by joints
into small fragments, and being utterly useless for any economic
purpose.
Intermingled with the granite and slate rocks occurs a third system;
masses of intrusive traps and trachytic Porphyries appearing in
many localities, occasionally in large masses. Near the reservoir for
the new water works and stretching some distance both sides, the
general direction being apparently W. S. W. crossing the shoulder of
the hill, and forming near Pak-foo-lum a promontory running out
some distance into the sea, occurs a mass of a porphyritic character,
consisting of a dark felspathic rock with crystals of quartz through the
mass. At Deep Bay another outburst of igneous rock may be noticed,
here it partakes of a prismatic structure, and at the side of the road
leading to Stanley may be noticed forming irregular cubic masses,
in some places much disintegrated; similar rocks appear to occur near
the Ly-ü-mun and in other localities.
Patches of an overlying stratified deposit formed from the debris
of these several rocks may be noticed at several places in the Island,
but as these appear to belong to a much more modern formation,
we shall leave them for the present, while we proceed to follow the
earlier formations along the coast and into the interior.
Proceeding from Hong-kong northerly, the mountains are found
to be mainly composed of the same formations as those already.

OF QUANG-TUNG PROVINCE.
23
described, the masses of granite however become less frequent, and
the slates and quartz rocks with enclosed igneous protrusions take
their place; travelling into the interior the associated granites die
gradually away, this rock being now found in large protrusive masses
as the Lo-fu-shan north of Hwai-chau-fu while its composition also
alters, its structure being much finer, the enclosed plates of mica
much smaller and less frequent, and the whole of a much more
durable character.
In the north of the province the traps of Hong-kong change to
green stones and porphyries, the former much preponderating, and
passing into Fuh-kien province, we meet with large masses of
hornblende rock of a greenish gray colour; as may be expected the
slate rocks accompanying these masses of igneous origin are much
altered and contorted and nowhere does the slightest trace of organic
life present itself. These formations extend from the east coast to
the dividing ridge between the East and North rivers, and probably
at intervals through the entire of the province, in the valley of the
East River however detached formations of a latter date occur,
corresponding with those hereafter described.
Next in antiquity to the Hong-kong series appear to come the
Shau-king slates and grits, a fine opportunity for studying which
is afforded at the pass locally called the Shu-hing-hap a few miles
below Shau-king-fu. These rocks consist of slates and grits of various
degrees of fineness, from the fine grained inkstone for which this
locality is famous throughout China, to grits sufficiently coarse to
form grind-stones. It is difficult to assign these rocks a true position
in the chronological scale but the internal evidence points them out
as subsequent to the coast series, and it would well repay the time
and trouble spent if some one resident at Can-ton would make an
investigation into these interesting formations on the spot.
These grits appear to occur in a range of hills which cross the
West river at Shau-king in a N. N. E. direction nearly parellel with
the North river, the banks of which they appear to strike not far from
Tsing-yuen. In close juxta-position to these slates and grits, if not
belonging to the same series, occur the well known Shau-king marbles.
It is difficult from descriptions to form a proper idea of these rocks,
but a group called the seven stars (Ts'ih-sing), rises abruptly in lofty
needles from the alluvial plain surrounding the city of Shau-king; at
intervals along the course of the West river similar rocks occur, as at
Cockscomb hill, near Yue-shing, and at other places; those near
Yue-shing, known locally as the Kai-yik-koon, contain an immense
cavern; similar caves occur in the neighbourhood of Shau-king and
would doubtless repay the trouble of investigation, at a time when
the latest geological deposits, connected as they are with the early

24
A SKETCH OF THE GEOLOGY OF A PORTION
history of man, are exciting so much interest. But to return to
our more immediate subject, ascending the East River above Ho-yuen
occur also these limestone rocks bearing the same character of
isolated fantastic masses, as for instance at Peh-mien-shih the "white
faced rock" and Peh-ma the "White horses." A rock apparently
similar is described as occurring near Wu-ma-t'au about 90 li below
Nan-hiung on the head waters of the North river. Mr. Ellis des-
cribes them as below." "We passed the rocks last mentioned
called by the boatmen Chen-tun or Lo-shu-shan, rising abruptly
to a height of 200 feet from the river, the base pudding stone with
lime-stone or rather marble resting on it." A similar description
is given of the rocks near Yue-shing which rest on a "yellow sand-
stone." From all these descriptions it will be seen how difficult it
is to assign a position to these rocks without further examination,
they are all highly crystalline, masses of igneous rocks in most
places being found in the immediate neighbourhood, granite occurr-
ing near Shau-king on the West river and also in the neighbourhood
of the Mei-ling pass, as well as in the hills of the East river, they
are also devoid of traces of stratification, and the Shau-king rocks,
at least, are marked with veins of graphite in zigzag lines, this
mineral itself being sometimes found in these veins, but more usually
visible only from the dark colour it gives to the stone, and being
probably derived from the carbonaceous matter of fossils, formerly
imbedded in the mass, but destroyed by the metamorphic action it
has undergone.
These rocks underlie the Limestone formation to be described
afterwards and appear to represent the lower limestone formations
of Kiang-su and Kiang-si; in both districts the limestone being
highly metamorphic and accompanied with quartzose and slatey
formations, in Kiang-si these formations, as at Kiu-kiang and the
Lu-shan appear to be unconformable with the succeeding upper
carboniferous series, near Hang-chow they appear to be fossiliferous,
the writer having found an Euomphalus and some remains of
brachiopodous shells; they probably therefore represent the lowest
beds of the Carboniferous Limestone; or possibly the Upper Old
Red Sandstone. A careful examination of the beds along the lower
portion of the north river would probably afford much light as
to their exact position.
Leaving these detached masses for future investigation, we come
to the proper limestone formations of the district, and here, for the
first time, we arrive at a series of rocks whose position in the
geological scale can be inferred with any attempt at accuracy. These
Ellis's account of Lord Amherst's Embassy Vol. II p. 158.

OF QUANG-TUNG PROVINCE.
25
limestone rocks, always preserving the same lithological character
and the same relative position, lying uniformally on the subjacent
rocks, are to be met with in very different localities in China, of their
positions in this province we shall defer for a while speaking,
whilst we notice their occurrence in other portions of China.
They are to be found in many of the provinces and occasionally
rise into mountains; hills of this description form the boundary
lines between the provinces of Hu-peh and Sze-chuen, where through
a mighty cleft-the gorge of I-ching-the Yang-tsze forces its way
from its upper to its lower course, and they also occur along the
boundary line between Kiang-si and Hu-peh abutting on the river
Yang-tsze between Kiu-kiang and Han-kow, where for a distance of
many miles, from the Pwan-pien-shan to Ke-t'ou, the river runs
between high limestone hills. The rocks here are stratified, dipping
at high angles, the beds vary from a few inches to 5 or 6 feet in
thickness, the thicker strata being much fractured, in some places
the rock becomes almost massive, but the colour is generally much
darker, the strata more marked, and the metamorphism less com-
plete than in the earlier rocks, as at Ke-t'ow, a description of which
from Oliphant's account of Lord Elgin's embassy is appended.*
"We ascended" he says, "the hill to an elevation of 700 or 800 feet
and revelled in the prospect spread out before us. The flourishing
town of Whang-shih-kang, presenting a favourable contrast to the
demolished cities in its neighbourhood, lay basking in the sun a
few miles distant.- Broad blue lakes and grassy plains extended
northward to a purple range in the dim distance; while behind us
were wooded valleys and wild rugged hills, with spars jutting into
the great river; and rising in abrupt crags from its yellow waters.
We descended into a valley where some excavations into the hill
sides with blackened edges gave promise of coal; none of the pits
into which we entered were deep, the people said they had not been
worked for fifty years, but that previous to that period coal had
been extracted from them."
But we are departing from this series which immediately
concerns us, this rock at Ke-tow immediately underlies the coal
formations, as may be seen from the description just given, the coal
formations here beginning at the village of Hwang-shih-kang or
"Yellow stone ridge," in this district the accompanying rock being
a hard quartzose grit interstratified with shales containing traces of
fossil plants corresponding with those of the Carboniferous era in
other parts of the world.
Lord Elgin's Mission to China and Japan, Oliphant, Vol. II. p. 438.

26
20
A SKETCH OF THE GEOLOGY OF A PORTION
These limestone rocks so clearly too, in composition and appear-
ance, resemble the Carboniferous limestone of Europe and America,
that on these grounds alone one might feel justified in looking upon
them as their representatives; fossils too though scarce do not appear
to be altogether absent, and the writer has seen some orthocerites, a
very common carboniferous form, in slabs of limestone said to have
come from the North river. In the province of Hu-nan similar
rock fossils are also said to occur, but their almost entire absence in
rocks of this and earlier ages, throughout a country so extensive
as China, is a most remarkable occurrence. The effect of metamor-
phic action is not a sufficient explanation for this, as we often meet
with slabs even in metamorphic districts where the slightest ripple
mark is distinctly visible, and where at least we might expect to meet
with the burrows of annelids or the tracks of mollusca.
That fossils are not altogether absent we may conclude from
remarks in Chinese writings, and it is worthy of note that Chu Fu-
tsze, a philosopher of note in the eleventh century, calls attention to
these remains of former existence, and reasons therefore that the
world must have undergone great changes in a geological point of
view, since the remains of fishes and shells are to be found even on
the summits of the highest mountains; a fact from which he advances,
that at some former period these hills must have been submerged
under the sea; a conclusion at which European philosophers with far
better opportunities were long in arriving. We may however assume
that fossils are rare in China generally from the high price set on the
fossil crustuceans of Hai-nan, to which wonderful medicinal effects
are popularly ascribed, which would scarcely be the case were similar
remains to be generally met with in other parts.
But to return from this digression to the province whence we
started; we find mountains composed of limestone of similar charac-
ter, rising from the plain of Wha-hien (or to use the local pronun-
cation Fa-yune) some 20 miles north of Can-ton, the stone here is
of a gray colour, compact and partially crystalline, the hills rise
abruptly from the plain, and their sky line is broken into fantastic
mas: es very different from that assumed by either slate or igneous
rocks. Limestone of similar nature but more highly crystalline occurs
in large masses also in the west of the province, especially to the
south of the West river; at Tung-an it becomes a fine white marble
exhibiting in its crystallization a peculiar flakey appearance, at
Lo-ting marble of many colours is to be obtained, while on the border
of Quang-si it in some places assumes a brecciated appearance. In
these western districts it appears to be associated with gneiss showing
that a large amount of metamorphic action has taken place since its
deposition.

OF QUANG-TUNG PROVINCE.
27
Limestone is also to be found in the Mei-ling Mountains, the
celebrated Mei-ling pass having been cut through this rock, associat-
ed here with granite, which appears too from the axis of the range,
the limestone being apparently much altered, as Ellis describes it as
resembling in the distance columnar basalt. Above Ying-tuh occurs
another mass of limestone, the Kwan-yin-shan, which is described as
being composed of dark coloured stone of vesicular surface. No
abservations of the dip or stratification of these masses appear to
have been made, but a probably favourable opportunity is afforded in
the Peh-shih-k'ow, a pass though the lofty range before described,
forming the main road between the cities of Wha and Tsung-wha
hiens, both being easily accessible from Can-ton.
The observer in this district would have also the opportunity of
studying the superincumbent coal measures, as well as on one side
the early grits and slates of the Peh-yun-shan, or White Cloud hill,
belonging to the coast series of rocks before described, and on the
other side of the north river, the probable prolongation of the
Shao-king series. In the bottom of the plain too be would find rocks
of still later formation, the New Red Sandstone, whilst not far off the
newer plutonic rocks of the province might be studied with advantage.
It would be difficult to name a portion of country of so small an area
affording so many opportunities to the geological explorer, and
nothing would conduce more to our knowledge of the structure of the
whole province, and reasoning from this to that of the whole of China
than a carefully executed geological map of the district, bounded on
the west by the North river, on the east by the White cloud hill, on
the north by the range of hills before described as lying north of
Fa-yune, and on the south by the Fuh-shan creek.
Overlying immediately these limestone formations we arrive at
the coal measures. Three coal fields are known to occur in Quang-
tung province. These coal fields respectively are those of Shau-chau,
of Fa-yune, and of the West Coast, of the two former neither is exten-
sive, nor is the quality of coal to be obtained good, to the geologist
however a formation of this nature is always interesting, often the
more so from its small size and isolated position.
The coal field of Fa-yune, as before described, is bounded on all
sides by hills of earlier formations, the measures themselves consist
of shaley rock rising in low hills associated apparently with bands of
limestone, the coal is found in the beds inclined at an angle to the
horizon, in some places so near the surface as to be worked from pits,
whilst in others spiral shafts have been sunk to enable the materials
to be carried to the surface, some of these beds are fossiliferous and
would probably afford many characteristic remains.
Leaving Can-ton by the North East Gate, thin beds of coal,
associated with a red shaley rock, are described as cropping out; about

28
A SKETCH OF THE GEOLOGY OF A PORTION
Kong-tsun, a village 12 miles distant, limestone shales appear to occur
and a few miles further at Le-shan the first coal workings are met
with; further on, at a low hill called Chang-shan, 5 miles S. S. E. of
Fa-yune, the mines are worked more extensively. To the westward
in Cum-shan hill coal is also worked, the beds here being inclined at a
rather steep angle; crossing a low range of hills into the valley of the
North river coal appears again but here the mines are not worked, or
at least not to any extent, probably on account of the want of water
communication.
All through this coal field the coal is of very inferior quality, it is
either soft and friable, or hard as a stone, and burns with difficulty,
leaving a large amount of ashes, the natives do not make any use of it
for domestic purposes, it however appears to form an important
article of export, boats loaded with coal being constantly found in the
Fa-ti creek, which appears to be the headquarters of the trade.
Similarly situated with regard to the underlying rocks, and
extending from the neighbourhood of the Kwan-yin-shan before
mentioned, to the foot of the Meiling Mountains, is the Shau-chau
coal field. This field differing in many respects from that before
described, is probably to be viewed rather as an outlier of the great
Hu-nan coal field, the superincumbent strata appearing to be connected
without a break.
The coal measures of this district may be seen on the eastern
branch of the North river a few miles above Shau-chau, they appear
to occur in nearly horizontal strata; the coal beds cropping out on the
river, and being worked by horizontal shafts driven in from the bank.
The coal here is soft and friable and is principally used in the manu-
facture of sulphate of iron. The accompanying rock is described as an
argillaceous schist, deeply coloured with oxide of iron, very soft and
much decomposed. Similar deposits are also spoken of in connection
with the coal field of the southern portion of Kiang-si.
To the west of Shau-chau for some distance coal is described as
occurring; the mines are situated some four miles from the bank of
the river, and shafts are sunk to a depth of 40 or 50 feet. No notice
of its quality has been given nor of the associated beds, it probably
is of a similar nature, as coal for ordinary purposes appears to come
from Hu-nan province or the head waters of the river.
None of these coal fields are likely to prove valuable in an
economic point of view, but being all more or less readily accessible,
they are well worthy of study as throwing some light on the larger
coal fields of China, which occupy no inconsiderable portion of its
surface, and will doubtless before long have an important effect on
the commerce of the country.

+C
MACAQ
Tanchau
IDEAL SECTION MACAO TO TSUNG WHA
00 2nd Bar Pagoda
Granite
Slates & Schists
Coal Measures
New Red Sand stone
Carboniferous Limestone
Volcanic Rocks
CANTON
The Heights
Kumshan
FAYUNE

OF QUANG-TUNG PROVINCE.
29
The last coal field (that of the West Coast) has not, so far as the
writer is aware, been visited by any Europeans, it is described as
covering a very considerable district to the South of the West River.
It stretches along the coast from Tien-peh to the western embouchure
of the Can-ton River, and thence to Sai-chu in the department of Nan-
hai, and includes the whole or portions of the departments of Kei-ping.
Yen-ping, Sin-ming, Sin-whei, Kau-ming, Hoh-shan, Tien-peh and
part of Nan-hai west of the Can-ton River.
The coal in this district is not much worked partly because
apposition is offered to its extraction by the officials, but principally
owing to the unsettled state of these districts, which are the scene
of a perpetual contest between the Pun-ti and Hak-ka factions;
mines however are said to be worked to a small extent near Saichu,
Shu-tung, Yang-chen, and Tien-peh.
The coast here is but imperfectly known, but contains many
safe harbours, and the existence of a coal field so near the colony of
Hong-kong may yet be found of considerable industrial importance.
The coal is described as of good quality, but its geological
position and stratigraphic relations remain still to be investigated;
dark sandstone rocks, probably of the coal measures, occur how-
ever in the district of Sin-whui, forming a chain of low hills
parallel with the western area of the Can-ton river.
Leaving the coal measures we arrive at a rock probably the
representation of the New Red Sandstone of England, from which
it does not differ much in lithological character.
Ascending the Can-ton river from the sea, we first meet with
this formation above the Bogue forts at Tiger Island; here it
dips at an angle of about 15 towards the N. N. W., lying uncon-
formably on the slate and grit rocks of which the hills to the south
of this are composed, the edges of the beds here and in other places
in the plain are much denuded, while the slopes parallel with the
bedding have suffered but little waste, giving these rocks much the
apppearance, when viewed from distance, of couchant wild beasts, the
probable origin of the name. The rock here is composed of a dark
coloured coarse red sandstone; at Tan-chau to the S. W. of Tiger
island this rock is largely quarried, the texture varies here from a
coarse dark red sandstone, to a coarse conglomerete containing frag-
ments of rocks of the coast chain, granite micaceous schist, quartz &c;
a white grit is also found here much used for the purpose of making mill
stones, for which from the tonghness of its texture it is well suited;
passing northwards it forms the basis of the greater portion of the
delta of the Can-ton river, still preserving its character and
of a lighter shade and finer texture; it underlies the alluvial plain
structure; at Tung-kwan to the east of the Chu-kiang it is found

30
A SKETCH OF THE GEOLOGY OF A PORTION
at the mouths of the East river, and is represented as being found in
the valley of the river as far as Ho-yuen, the mountains at each side
belonging to the earlier formations before described.
To the north of Can-ton it appears to thin out, leaving the coal
measures of the Fa-yune district exposed, entering the Tsing-yuen
district it is again found on the east side of the North river, here it
has suffered much denudation and rises from the plain in bold isolated
masses 100 or 200 feet in height, the stratification strongly marked and
forming as it were a number of islets. Throughout these districts it
preserves much the same character, consisting of sandstones finer or
coarser, mixed with beds of conglomerates and coarse white grits, in
no instance does it appear to have afforded fossils.
Sandstone rocks, of apparently the same age, are to be met with
on the banks of the upper branch of the North river westwards from
Shau-chau, forming precipitous crags overhanging the stream; on the
eastern branch of the same river, known locally as the Ts'ing-kiang.
sandstone apparently similar with beds of conglomerate interstratified
occurs, immediately succeeding the coal measures before described;
this formation occasionally rises into high crags overhanging the
water, and in some places the conglomerate is described as consisting
of fragments of limestone, similar to that at the Mei-ling pass, mixed
with the remains of other early formations, the edges of the enclosed
fragments in most places exhibiting few remains of of abrasion.
Sandstone is also described as occurring on the West river, near
the borders of Quang-si, but it most probably is to be referred to the
same age as that already described as underlying the limestone
masses at Yue-shing and other places.
Near the Mei-ling pass about the City of Nan-hiung a very
peculiar formation is represented as occurring, the following account
of it by Dr. Abel is copied from the Chinese Repository Vol. XX
"During our second day's progress the hills which formed the banks
of the river exhibited a breccial formation at their base, covered with
beds of ferruginous clay giving to the soil throughout a great extent
of country a remarkable redness, bricks were making of this in kilns
spread over the surface, which came from the furnace of a blueish
colour." "Towards evening we occasionally passed rocks in an unde-
composed state that exhibited the same colour as the beds of clay, their
strata were sometimes inclined and had beds of fine gravel interposed
between them. On anchoring in the evening and examining some
rocks similar to those we had passed over, we found they changed
their red colour below the surface and became of a blueish grey, when
decomposed we found the clay soil before mentioned. Those rocks
which near to the surface might be said to be composed of argillaceous

OF QUANG-TUNG PROVINCE.
31
sandstone of a coarse grain, passed lower down into pudding stone,
containing fragments of quartz and decomposed felspar."
It is very difficult from this description to arrive at any satisfac-
tory conclusion as to the age or position of this deposit, but crossing
the Mei-ling into Kiang-si we meet with a similar deposit in a like
position about 30 miles above Kih-ngan, for Ellis describes the hills
here as being "in a state of great disintegration," the soil of a deep
red colour, with granite in large blocks at the bottom, these formations
he appears erroneously to ascribe to decomposed sandstone, that rock
when disintegrated producing nothing but sand; he mentions near
Ngan-nan that the rocks were chiefly "red sandstone, with alternate
layers of clay slate in places that seemed to have either been situated
out of the reach of, or to have resisted the degrading process,"
probably again confusing two formations.
It is probable we may obtain a date to these deposits, from com-
paring these remarks with his description of a remarkable deposit
near Ta-tung in Ngan-whui province, on the river Yang-tsze,
"Pudding stone and Sandstone," he informs us, "composed the greater
part of the hills we crossed to-day, they are all in a rapid state of
disintegration." Passing up the river, near Ta-tung we find that the
country at the foot of the Wild-boar mountains assumes an undulating
character, low swelling hills stretching to the commencement of the
mountain ranges, which thence rise abruptly to a height of from 2000
to 3000 feet, a very fine section of this formation is exposed near the
entrance of the Ta-tung river, the beds here dip North at an inclination
of about 10°, and are composed of semi-indurated red clay in thick beds,
mixed with bands of coarse gravel, and alternating with strata of soft
fine sand. In the Province of Hu-peh immediately west of Hwang-
shih-kang a perfectly similar deposit is also found, which appears to
give a clue to its stratigraphical relations. At a place call Kai-shih-chow
the Coal measures are seen dipping at an angle of about 20° E; they
here consist of hard grit and quartzose rock interstratified with coarse
conglomerate; following the river we shortly arrive at these beds above
described, they are found dipping at a precisely similar angle towards
the same quarter, and appear as if removed from their original position
by a fault; following them up the Yang-tsze towards Han-kow, we
find them rising over the lower rocks at some places, forming hills,
and in one or two spots assuming the character of a nodular red sand-
stone, with traces of fossil stems.
From these observations the writer is disposed to refer them to
the Trias of Europe, as well from their position as from their composi-
tion, consisting as they do of alternating beds of gravel, ferruginous
clay and sandstone; their composition differs much from the Sandstone
of the Delta and neighbourhood of Can-ton, but they probably will be
found representatives of nearly the same epoch.

32
A SKETCH OF THE GEOLOGY OF A PORTION
Above the New Red Sandstone no sedimentary formation of any
great extent occurs in this district, instead we meet with an extensive
outburst of igneous rocks occupying a considerable portion of the
Delta of the Can-ton river; these rocks are readily distinguished from
the similar productions of the first epoch treated of, consisting
principally of basalts, generally columnar; whilst the former were
composed of green stones, porphyries, and other rocks, indicating a
more deeply seated agency.
The principal seat of these eruptions appears to have been the
Si-chu-shan, a range of hills to the S. W. of Fat-shan, running in a
direction from N.N.W., to S. S. E., the rocks at the western side of the
embouchure of the North and West rivers also appear to be of similar
composition; in the hills immediately to the westward of Can-ton
basaltic outbursts may also be noticed in many places, one mass at the
Second Bar pagoda is very conspicuous to the traveller proceeding up
the river; the rock here being exposed in cubical masses rising like
steps of stairs from the river's edge, the adjacent rocks at both sides
being red sandstone; mention is also made of basaltic rocks near where
the west river enters the province from Quang-si, and doutbless they
will be discovered in many other localities.
In the Si-chu-shan the rock rises into bold masses from a level
country, this district being celebrated for the beauty of its scenery, the
valleys being richly clothed with bamboos while a lofty water fall
issuing from the higher slopes tumbles into the valley below in a mass
of spray.
The composition of these basalts does not offer any peculiarity
very worthy of remark in this paper, and we shall therefore pass on to
the later sedimentary deposits.
Returning to our starting point in the Island of Hong-kong, we
may notice patches of a soft, light coloured, semi-indurated, deposit,
fringing the foot of the cliffs near the extremities of the larger valleys
in the island, and rising to a height of from 60 to 100 feet, this deposit
on examination we shall find composed of a fine clay half solidified,
and from its composition evidently derived from the ruin of the
igneous rocks of the neighbourhood. Mingled with this in varying
proportions according to the abundance of one or other rock in the
locality, we shall find beds of quartzose sand with a feldspathic matrix,
the debris of the disintegrated granite before described; the lines of
stratification are confused, but appear to be horizontal or nearly so,
while the masses are in many places much affected by cleavage planes.
One of these deposits we find at the extremity of the "Happy Valley,"
at one side forming a low range of hills stretching down to East-point
and at the other the projecting mass of "Morrison's Hill." Another
patch of the same description may be noticed at Aberdeen, exactly

OF QUANG-TUNG PROVINCE.
33
opposite the extremity of the new dock. A patch may also be noticed
near Little Hong-kong and probably in many other parts of the island.
The manner of formation of these fringing deposits is easily explained
by a partial submergence of the island: the fine sand and debris from
the disintegrating rocks were carried down and deposited in still
water at the extremities of the valleys, which latter on the elevation
of the land were again hollowed out leaving at their sides the remains.
Of their age we can only form an opinion from contained fossils
their complete insulation preventing a comparison from position; they
have yielded an echinoderm of the family Spatangidae and some
obscure bivalves apparently related to Pholadomya; from these we
may probably class them as Secondary, though it is possible they might
belong to an early Tertiary formation. Possibly other fossils may be
discovered which will throw light on this subject, the formation both
at Morrison's Hill and Aberdeen is easily accessible, and at both places
good sections have been exposed in forming the new roads.
With these our description of the geological formations of the
province must end, merely giving a passing glance at the modern
alluvial deposits of the plains, and the caverns in the numerous masses
of limestone, both objects attracting much interest at home, from their
bearing on the early history of the human species, the former deposits
having in other portions of China afforded remains of extinct
Mammalia.
Further observation will doubtless discover remains of many
other formations in this province, and fill up many of the breaks
already noticed, it will also doubtless be found that many of the
conclusions we have arrived at are altogether erroneous, and that the
sequence set forth above must be altered, possibly throughout. A few
facts with reference to the Geology of the district may here be
reviewed; one of these is the prominent position occupied by the early
igneous rocks, both along the coast chain and in the west of the pro-
vince, these occur in enormous masses, assuming the nature of granite
as along the sea coast, and in some island districts, trachytic as shown
all along the coast chain from Hong-kong to Chu-san, green stone as
in the north western districts and on the borders of Fuh-kien, and
porphyry as found in many districts associated with limestone.
Next in importance to these come the metamorphic rocks of
different composition, and probably also differing in age, the slate and
grits of the coast and allied formations and the limestones of the
central and northern districts. Thirdly we have the coal measures
forming three well marked fields of considerable geological interest,
even if not likely to prove economically valuable, and fourthly we have
the sandstones of the lower plains, and the Delta of the Canton river
associated with an accompanying outburst of igneous rocks. These

34 A SKETCH OF THE GEOLOGY OF A PORTION OF QUANG-TUNG.
form the most marked features of the district, and though difficult to
unravel, it may be hoped that the puzzle is not quite impracticable;
the subject for its own sake is an interesting one, but bearing as it
does immediately on the industrial resources of this great country, so
lately opened to European enterprise, it is scarcely presumptuous to
look forward to the date when these studies shall be pursued, with a
view to the profitable investment of capital, and when the mineral
resources of the country, worked in an enlightened manner, shall draw
wealth to her treasuries, and peace and prosperity to her teeming
millions.
Note:-Since the above was written the writer's attention has been drawn to the
similarity of the upper formations in the neighbourhood of Nan-hiung to the Laterite of
India these resemblances consist in its highly ferruginous nature, its cellular structure,
and its occurrence with beds of gravel. This formation is very characteristic in the
neighbourhood of Kiu-kiang where it forms the surface beds, being overlaid only by the
modern alluvial deposits of the Yang-tsze; on beds of lignite are however known to
accompany it.
In India it has been referred to an epoch varying from Miocene to Pliocene but
apparently without any very conclusive evidence. In China it appears to cover an
enormous extent of surface, being found in Quang-tung, Kiang-si, Cheh-kiang, Hu-peh,
Ngan-whui and probably other provinces; it is apparently succeeded by beds of gravel
and a red clay with calcareous nodules, the representative apparently of the Kun-kur of
South India, which may be seen forming low hills outside Chiu-kiang and in the City of
Nan-king.
Under the circumstances the text has been left as it originally stood till more
satisfactory data for judging of its age can be arrived at.

t
O
a
al
V
g
QUILIN
ae
of
e,
e
he
to
ut
an
h,
el
of
of
re
2
WUCHAU fu
112
MTS
Hwaileth
Quangnung
Yanwha
114
MEILING PASS
Nanhang
SHousehcaas
(Wu matou)
th
Coal mines
coal mines
OSHAUCHAU fu
Lienchou
Jnyuen
Fungchuen
Sivhei
od,
KWAN. Her 89
烏鸛 Won...
but
Loting
signify that is
Sin, without specifving any partie
Keiyikoon
RIVER
Tsih Sig
tehKing SIKIANG OF
Turis
SHAUKING SU
Shuh
JO KLOCHAU fu
Tinnpch
uchuen inp
。,,,
Yang Shun
Lienping chau
Kwangyin Shan
Chwangnung
Mangtsenap
Fakaug
Tsingynen
o Tsungwha
(15
116
Lungchuen
Whitehakses
Peh mal h
Kiaying
Lungmun
Hoyuon
CHAUCHAU fu
Yuenan
Kichyang
Kumbhan
Coannes
Fatend
Hwa
Payune)
CANTON
calab
Tsungshing
Tungkwan
Lo fu sho Pohlo
Shihlung
REAST RIVER
oqueishan
WHEICHAU fu
Chan yang
35
117
NAMBAI
Boul lel
The Lamecks
00
о
Sinhing
Hohsiar
Coalmines
Keiping
Sinnung
Yenping
Yangkiang
Tyvet.
。。Namping
Quang học
The Bouge
Toechau
Sirihway
Hiongshan
Komsing mun
Shangshuen
S.Juan 1.
°
Sinngan
الے
Ladner
leve
LemaTs
MAP OF PORTION OF
QUANG TUNG
S:
Faug Hd
Mus Bay
men
Bias Bay
%%
Fokai P.
o Whale R
Pedro Brance
Hmjung
Whoilai
Lurung
3
OD
3
Hai chi chin B.
Chelang P
Coast series Quartz Schist & Granite
Lower Limestone, Limestone & Slates &Grits
Upper Limestone,
Coal measures
New Red Sandstone & Trias Clays & Gravels
Igneous, Basalts Porphyries & Green Stones
The Geological Coloring ismostly hypothetical
Yangchun
113
112
Longitude East from Greenwich
117
116
North Latitude

A UAMAR
adsm Jod)
sim loo
loss
MOTHA
RO MORO9 30 AM
MUTONAUD
w
ABAHOU
fr
It
A