ARTICLE VII.
THE HIEROGLYPHIC CHARACTER OF THE
CHINESE WRITTEN LANGUAGE.
BY R. A. JAMIESON ESQ.
Read before the Society on November 13th, 1865.
In this paper I desire to propound no theory of the origin of the
Chinese character. As to that there can be no doubt; the testimony
of native philologists and the deductions of common sense, based on a
careful analysis of the peculiar picture writing of the Chinese, sets at
rest every question that could possibly arise as to the origin of the
written language. My design is merely to shew in what sense and to
what an extent Chinese writing is hieroglyphic, and in order to do this
I have availed of the means which lie open to every one of us-an
analysis or dissection of various classes of characters. It will there-
fore be understood that this paper is merely a summary of those facts
with regard to Chinese graphology, which, scattered through the
pages of every Chinese work and found upon the monuments in
existence, daily present themselves to the student of the language.
It will, I think, be allowed that every written language, when
taken as unconnected with the spoken language which it represents,
is more or less ideographic. The words, independent of their relation
to a particular dialect, represent ideas, and, were the construction of
all dialects or languages identical, there would be no need for more
than one system of writing throughout the world. Were words as
written at present by the English accepted as universal representatives
of ideas, the combination of strokes which stands for the idea of
"bread," for example, would by the English be read as bread, by the
the French as pain, by the Germans as brod, and so on ad infinitum.

104
THE HIEROGLYPHIC CHARACTER
Of this we possess an excellent illustration in the reading of Chinese
works by Japanese. The ideas conveyed by the characters are
identical, but the sounds affixed to each are perfectly distinct. To a
less extent the same may be noticed in the case of Chinese from
different provinces reading the same book or manuscript, and there-
fore I am inclined to believe that the expression "sound of a
character" is radically erroneous, and should be replaced by the
equally terse expression "name of a character." This flows directly
from the consideration that characters in the first instance represented
ideas and not sounds, and had no relation to a spoken language.
Indeed it is manifest that, did any one possess the requisite
perseverance and memory, he might learn the written language of any
country without the slightest acquaintance with the spoken tongue,
and without any attempt to analyse each concrete symbol into its
elements. It is in this manner to a very considerable extent that the
Chinese language is learned; indeed what saves the student from the
incalculable labour of such a process is the ideographic character of
several of the symbols. Were this fact fully recognised, and the
greatest possible advantage taken of it, many of the difficulties which
now surround the acquirement of a competent knowledge of Chinese
would disappear. The Abbé Huc, than whom few have possessed
more favourable opportunities for arriving at a correct judgment on
the subjects of Chinese language and literature, thus sums up his
sketch of the formation of the written characters:-
It would be impossible to calculate the traditions, the allusions, the unexpected
analogies, the picturesque and epigrammatic features which are thus enclosed in these
characters, and it is incredible what light would be thrown on the ancient moral and
philosophical opinions of the primitive nations of oriental Asia by studying carefully,
while guarding against too hasty theorizing, these symbolical expressions in which they
have painted unconciously themselves, their manners and the whole order of things
under which they have lived and with which history has made us so imperfectly
acquainted, since they date from a time when history was not.
In following out the plan of this paper I would desire to trace as
rapidly as possible the statements made by the Chinese with regard
to the formation of the written characters, and then to examine a
few of those characters themselves and endeavour to derive some
information from their analysis. But first it may not be out of place
to consider how little of an alphabetic nature there is in the Chinese
language. The symbols are to be taken in their entirety as repre-
sentatives of ideas, possessing sounds or names, but those names have
been affixed arbitrarily without an attempt to combine them out of
phonetic elements. That is to say, the name or sound of a complex
character is not the sum or approximate sum of the sounds of the
characters which combine to form it. In this it differs from every
Pictured idea.

OF THE CHINESE WRITTEN LANGUAGE.
105
other language, for we are informed that even the Egyptian
hieroglyphics have a phonetic power as combinable letters in addition
to their ideographic character. The alphabets of Europe and Asia
are directly traceable to a hieroglyphic origin, the Japanese alphabetic
signs, for example, being either Chinese simple characters or modifi-
cations of them.
The characters of the Chinese language may, on one principle of
division, be classed under three heads:-Radicals or Determinatives,
Phonetics, and combinations of these two. I will again refer to the
nature of the Radicals, for the present I wish to confine myself to the
consideration of the phonetic elements. Remusat enumerates six
hundred and fifty-nine characters (including many Radicals) which
give a clue to the sounds of combinations wherein they are found.
I say "a clue," because in the majority of instances characters of
different sounds will be found under the head of one phonetic. Thus
the character Kung which means to include, gives its own sound to
供 to offer. 供 horror stricken, 拱 to salute, a pillar. 琪 a certain
gem, and to present, while in combination with , I, k, k
with T, with, and it is named Hung, and the characters
mean respectively, to deceive, a banner, a torrent, a water pipe, a certain
plant, a valley and to fight. It also gives the sound chiung to the
compound to freeze. Instances of the same kind might be adduced
to illustrate the power of the other phonetics, but this will suffice. It
must however be carefully remembered that many characters do not
admit of this accurate analysis into radical and phonetic elements, and
it is this fact that renders such a dictionary as Callery's, in which the
phonetic classification is exclusively adopted, defective and indeed
almost useless.
To revert to the consideration of the original formation of
characters, native works throw comparatively little light on our
researches. The Yi King says:-
The ancients knotted cords to express their meaning, but in the next age the sages
renounced this custom, and adopted a system of written characters. Thus the officials
were able (to publish their) ordinances, and the people to understand them, the ideas
being clearly conveyed.
No doubt this Chinese chieh a knot, answered exactly to the
quipus wherewith the ancient Peruvians transmitted their ideas,
as well from one to the other as to succeeding generations. It may
also be inferred that by the knotted cords adopted by the Chinese,
abstract ideas as well as sensible objects were represented. Thus, in
the case of the Peruvians, to take Prescott's examples, while a white
knot denoted silver, and yellow gold, they respectively denoted in a
Compounded of the phonetic and lung a dragon.
†, t... DE, WA. D.

106
THE HIEROGLYPHIC CHARACTER
secondary sense, peace and war. In the early periods of the world's
history, when traditions were handed down orally, knotted cords were
perhaps more useful as aids to memory than as records in themselves,
yet it cannot be doubted that they were capable, in at least some
instances, of literal translation. Accepting the assertion that the
starting point of Chinese writing was a knotted cord, history informs
us that Fu-hi invented characters and made books. He is said to
have derived his inspiration from the appearance of the heavens, the
earth and the middle sphere. A subsequent labourer in the same field,
the philosopher Tsang Chiai, or as some say the Emperor Tsang, was
supplied with suggestions for the construction of characters by the
tracks of birds and beasts, but these traditions are evidently attempts
made in later ages to explain phenomena the origin of which is lost in
obscurity. The which is the oldest work extant on the history
of the written character, informs us that the characters were con-
structed on six plans according to the different classes of ideas to be
represented. These were Hsiang hsing or pure images, Huei yi or
combined ideas, Chi shi or indicative pictures, Chuan chu or reversible
images, Chia chié or borrowed images, and Hsing shêng or phonetics.
Of the first class or pure images are those ancient forms such as
OD which are preserved in the modern 子, 日, 月, 目 and
5. Of the second class which represent combined ideas, ming
bright, a union of the sun and moon, is a good example. ト pu
divination, is evidently derived from some instrument such as a
divining rod, and somewhat resembles the Egyptian a hand. It
may therefore be taken as an illustration of the Chi shi or indicative
pictures, as in it the idea of divination is symbolised by a divining rod.
The same may be said of . E and chên and fa, now written E
and, may be taken as examples of the Chuan chu or reversibles,
which however are very few in number. The fifth class or borrowed
images is illustrated by Remusat as follows:-
In order to express abstract ideas or acts of the understanding, a secondary
meaning is attached to simple or compound characters denoting material objects; or the
symbol of a substantive is made to denote the verb which expresses the corresponding
action. Thus the heart represents the mind or the understanding, a hand stands for a
workman, three pictures of men placed one behind the other signify to follow.
The latter example should probably be referred to the second
class, combined ideas. The Chia chié taken as a whole is a division of
words rather than of characters for, for example, while represents
pictorially or ideographically a hand, it is only in relation to the
arbitrary fashion of the language whereof it has been made a symbol
that it can be held to represent, as it occasionally does, an artisan or
worker, as in the phrase a water workman or sailor. Where
synecdoche (if I may use the term) has been applied to the form as
well as to the matter of a written language, ideographic characters

OF THE CHINESE WRITTEN LANGUAGE.
107
so treated may be traced through the history of their changes, but can
no longer be regarded as hieroglyphics. Lastly we have the Hsing-
shing or phonetics which, as I have already shown, play an important
part in the construction of each character. The first four classes
are apparently purely hieroglyphic in form or may be traced to
forms identical with true picture writing. Thus (M) hills,
(composed of trees and the eye) to examine,
() above,
and and E) right and left are either pure or more or less
modified hieroglyphics.
It will thus be seen that the inventors of the Chinese written
character, by combining certain hieroglyphic elements in accordance
with the principles which I have detailed, have succeeded in gaining
the power of representing sensible and ideal objects. The characters,
are the representatives of ideas and not of words, and hence the
judicious combination of characters in a Chinese written sentence
possesses a power on the imagination which the most effective colloca-
tion of words could not exert. Of this we have a notable example in
the description of the deluge of Yao given in the Shu-king or Historical
Classic, and cited by Abel Remusat as an example of the pictorial
nature of Chinese writing. The passage is as follows:-
帝日 咨 四岳湯湯洪水方割蕩蕩
Ti yue tsu SZU yo shan shan hung shui fang ke t'an t'an
懷山襄陵浩浩滔天
huai shan hsiang ling hao hao t'ao t'ien, which he translates:-
Imperator ait, Oh quatuor montium (profecti) inundantes inundationes diffluentes
aquæ passim vexant, diluvies diluvians operit montes, superat juga, torrentes torrentes-
que mergunt coelum.
It is evident from a mere inspection of the characters composing
the passage alluded to that any one who happened to know the Chinese
hieroglyphic for water 7 or i, would have at least an idea of what
the meaning to be conveyed is.
I have already stated the effect of the introduction of phonetics,
and I would now draw attention to the peculiar action of radicals
or determinatives. Probably the best examples of the mode in
which a radical determines the genus of the character in which
it is found are the and groups, although it is difficult to
establish a preference for these groups over those classed under
A,,, and one or two others. With very few excep
tions all the characters arranged under the and radicals
By the way I would remark that in Remusat's plate the characters are written
incorrectly.

108
THE HIEROGLYPHIC CHARACTER
refer to metals, minerals, metallic instruments or ornaments,
and to diseases and their effects, respectively. These groups are
the most favourable for examination with regard to the possibility of
dividing each character into two elements-a generic and a phonetic
element, and the results obtained from such examination are most
remarkable. I need not occupy your time by detailing at length what
may be seen from the simple study of a radical dictionary. It will
suffice for me to state that out of the 124 characters ranged in Kanghsi's
dictionary under the radical, embracing those containing in all from
ten to thirteen strokes, 94 are either identical in sound with the phonetic
element or possess very slight modifications of that sound. Of these 94
therefore the idea and the sound may by inspection be ascertained, the
latter exactly, the former approximately. How true this is, will be at
once evident to any one who will take the trouble of constructing
a table of characters under the following heads, which in some cases
are mutually inclusive:-
Ist. Characters possessing a radical and a phonetic well marked;
such as tung copper, and thousands of others. 2nd. Those which
are formed of one or more simple characters which do not include a
phonetic but include at least one determinant, such as,, and
others. 3rd. Those in which there is no simple element which can
justly be regarded as a determinant, for example a character. 4th.
Those in which neither element can be assigned as either a radical or
phonetic as in . 5th. Those in which both elements are phonetic,
and neither can claim rank as a determinant; for example chi wise,
composed of two identical characters possessing the sound chi, but
meaning fortunate or lucky; and 6th, those wherein neither element is
phonetic, but where the meaning of the complete character is a
combination of the meanings of its elements. Such are ming, bright,
composed of the sun and the moon †, chén a needle, composed of
metal and an ancient representation of a sword, hsiang to
examine, composed of m, the representation of a tree or trees, and
mu the eye. Of these many are to be found, indeed they form the
only important exception to the first class. This division is co-exten-
sive with the Huei yi or combined idea class which I illustrated above.
Such a table as this would prove clearly that the majority of
characters belong to the first class, that is, possess a well defined
generic element and an equally well defined phonetic element, while
an important section may be ranged under classes 2 and 6. To this
extent, therefore, the language, from what may be styled a mere
superficial examination, appears evidently to possess important
hieroglyphic characteristics which have not been lost since those early
"Jih, yue, chin, shi.

OF THE CHINESE WRITTEN LANGUAGE.
109
ages wherein Fu-hi studied "the heavens, the earth and the middle
sphere."
A question of considerable importance to this subject, is whether,
given the present 214 radicals, the characters were formed from them
by a process of word-building, whether, given the characters, the
radicals were produced by analysis, or lastly whether either of these
suppositions is correct. Although Fourmont expresses a distinct
opinion that the two hundred and fourteen acknowledged radicals
forma complete and methodical system of hieroglyphics, my impression
is that they are not co-extensive with the original picture characters,
but that these latter having been combined into complex characters
in accordance with the rules laid down by the F, the history of
such combinations not being well known, the radicals were
eventually derived from those complex characters themselves. This
will appear probable when we consider that many of the radicals
cannot by the utmost stretch of the imagination be brought to
represent ideographically the objects they are supposed to denote.
For example ku a drum, ancient form, and many others. But,
moreover, the 214 characters now acknowledged as radicals are of
recent adoption. In the , written B. C. 1000, the radicals or
are stated to be four hundred and seventy-nine in number. In
the Shuo wên (A.D. 100) the number of determinant forms is arbitrarily
extended to five hundred and forty, and in the Yu pien they are further
increased to five hundred and forty-two. Thus we must be careful
not to assume that the radicals represent the original picture forms
subsequently modified in accordance with fashion or necessity. It
may now be impossible for us to penetrate into that dim antiquity
wherein the original hieroglyphics of China lie shrouded. The
monuments which might have perpetuated them have been utterly
destroyed in the course of the countless revolutions and rebellions
which have devastated the Empire from time to time, and the mater-
ials wherewith we are provided to assist our investigation of the
mode in which characters were originally formed are simply the
characters themselves, and our own powers of analysis.
Starting then from the simplest forms, whether we call them
radicals or not, we find indubitable traces of a hieroglyphic origin.
The first and most noteworthy is the character yi "one." Passing
on we meet man, knife, a child, a hill, above, and
the heart, with several others gradually increasing in complexity.
From the entire number of so-called radicals or determinants we
may select at least seventy-four which carry their meaning more
or less legibly stamped upon them, and perhaps half a dozen more
which may be classed as doubtful. But it must ever be remembered.
that there is no fixed principle to guide us in the selection of
elementary characters, the classifications which have hitherto been

110
THE HIEROGLYPHIC CHARACTER
made being merely the result of an acknowledged want of some system
of division. In some cases the determinant under which a character
is placed in Kanghsi's dictionary, which we have learned to look on as
the standard, is not that element which predominates in the logical
analysis of the character, but generally the radical may be taken
as a guide to the sense. It is also worthy of remark that out of
the 214 radicals now acknowledged, twenty-six are unused except in
combination.
In order to illustrate the manner in which characters are formed,
Abbé Huc adduces the following examples, which serve to display
popularly the genius of the language:-u, "anger" is formed
from nu, "a slave" surmounting hsin, "the heart," in which
relation the combination may be compared with the English passion
as derived from the Latin patior. shi "a historian," composed of
shou "a hand" holding up "the middle," and setting forth that
undeviating line of justice and moderation which should distinguish
the historian from the partisan; and pêng "friend" formed of the
combined representations of two pearls. Remusat again takes a
group constructed from the 102nd radical, tien "a field," which by
its form evidently denotes the division of an expanse of land into
lots. Thus he shows that miao, "which is made up of a field
combined with the radical which signifies the growth of plants, means,
"the first fruits," and asserts that the latter in combination with
fang produces the character miao a temple, or place for offering the
"first fruits;" but in this he is mistaken. Again he adduces the
combination of 7k and to form the character hai "the sea,"
and lastly the combination of H and sau "a temple" to denote
a measure of time, the latter being compounded of and thus
offering a remarkable analogy to the Latin templum which was
probably derived from tempus.
Before closing this paper it may not prove uninteresting to give a
few examples of the peculiar combinations of elements in Chinese
characters. They will serve to illustrate what I have stated above,
and may lead to the discovery of some interesting analogies between
Chinese characters and the hieroglyphics of ancient Egypt. As the
Society is fortunate enough to count amongst its members an eminent
Egyptologist, we shall probably be indebted to him for some facts
showing how under different conditions the same problems have been
solved in China and in Egypt. And first I would notice a small class
of characters which do not readily come under any of the heads which
I have enumerated, in which the principle of combination may be
said to be mechanical. An example of this is the character chien "a
pyramid" composed of hsiao "small," above ta "great," which
Meaning every, often or frequently.

OF THE CHINESE WRITTEN LANGUAGE.
III
points out not only the different dimensions of the various parts, but
in so many distinct words states that the object of which it is the symbol
is large at the base and small at the apex. Of the same class is the
character chang "evening" formed () of H jih "the sun" below
shan "a hill;" the sun sinking below the hills, although this may with
propriety be referred to the ordinary Huci yi or "combined ideas."
уи
The language possesses very few characters which express abstract
relations. Thus for the idea of "being" in the abstract it has no
better expression than Eyu tsai "have get here," or shien t'i,
which may be translated "actually embodied." There is no simple
character to express the abstract idea of existence. In the same
manner it is in phrases alone that we must look for terms to express
such ideas as "a being" or "a substance." We must not lose sight of
the imaginative element in the language, whereby expression of a
single idea when condensed into a character reveals to us the thoughts
working in the inventor's mind at the time when he made the com-
bination, and enables us to follow out the train of reflection which led
to the adoption of such or such a form. Thus the character chiai "a
limit," formed () of the character for corpse and a lump of earth
seems to teach the important lesson of the frailty and uncertainty of
life. Another principle which may be styled the principle of intelligi-
bility has also not been without its influence. Traces of its power are
to be found in all languages, as for example in the word main de
gloire, which is a corruption of mandragore, and the more familiar
instance of sparrow grass as a vulgarism for asparagus. In Chinese,
instances of the effect of this principle are frequently to be found, but
one example will serve my purpose. The original form of the
character shai, to shoot with a bow, was a hieroglyphic representation
of a bow-thus -which was perfectly intelligible. Subsequently
modified, however, probably by fashion, it is subsequently found in
this form wherein almost all trace of its original pictorial character
is lost. As therefore the characters were gradually modified and
brought into their present sung pan and kai shu forms, the character
shai had a spurious derivation assigned to it, and is now written
being moreover derived by Morrison from the body and ja
measure, "to send from the body to a measured distance." One
further instance, and I have done. It will illustrate the difficulty
occasionally experienced in tracing characters to their original forms.
tui signifies to yield to an impulse, and according to Morrison is
derived from luxuriant growth of plants, the mouth speaking at
random and a measure. It is said that the emperor Wan of the Han
dynasty, anxious to teach his subjects, or, as many of them as could
read, a great moral lesson, directed that the character in the com-
pound should be replaced by t, to show that a man should be
influenced not by idle talk but by the deductions of reason. The

112 THE HIEROGLYPHIC CHARACTER OF THE CHINESE LANGUAGE.
emperor while desiring to perpetuate his fame as a moral philosopher
forgot perhaps the confusion into which arbitrary changes of this
kind must throw the etymography of the language. Thus, partly from
ignorant attempt to render the formation of the character intelligible,
partly from the varying taste of writers, and partly for the sake of ex-
pedition, the manner of writing the characters of the Chinese language
has from age to age undergone extraordinary changes which render
the investigations of the student who looks for original forms often
fruitless, and ever tedious. But even allowing for these difficulties,
the analysis of the written character if carefully carried out cannot
fail to reward the student, by throwing light on the original con-
struction of the language and teaching much of the history of
human thought as applied to the construction of a means of inter-
communication.