MISCELLANEOUS.
I. Respecting CHINA GRASS. By ROBERT JARVIE Esq, Shanghai.
Ist. In what Countries is the Grass produced and how large
are the quantities produced in each? India-The Bengal Presidency
produces a considerable quantity but I have no data as to quantity or
quality. There are three crops during the year. China-The Grass
is produced in quantity in the Oo-nam and Hoo-pack districts about 8
or 10 days' journey from Hankow; also on the borders of the Po-yang
Lake in the vicinity of Kiu-kiang. There are other districts in
China besides, where it is produced. There are two crops during the
year-The first crop comes into the Han-kow and Kiu-kiang markets
about the end of June, the second crop in August. Total export from
Han-kow and Kiu-kiang to this in 1863 was about 35,000 piculs, value
Tls 300,000. Contracts are easily made with Chinese dealers. We
had at one time a contract for 20,000 piculs in 1863 of the first crop
and a similar quantity for the second crop-the latter we cancelled, the
former was delivered, and I am aware of other houses having had
large contracts also. I cannot give any idea of the quantity of the
staple produced in each district but it must be very large. The Grass
is used extensively all over China for manufacturing into cloth for
clothing, and is used principally during the summer months. All
classes wear dresses made from it.
2nd. Is Shanghai a market for the Grass? Yes; all the Grass
exported must pass through Shanghai-it forms a common market
commodity here.
3rd. Where are the principal markets for the Grass? Han-kow,
Kiu-kiang and Shanghai. At the two former places contracts can be
made direct with farmers through native brokers, dealers, and traders
for delivery at Han-kow and Kiu-kiang.
4th. Is the Grass to be found in large quantities, and could
monthly orders of 10,000 to 20,000 piculs be executed without creating
a serious rise in the price? I should say so. There is a very large
native consumption of the staple and I scarcely think 10,000 piculs
per month for the 4 months of July, August, September, and
October, would influence prices at Hankow provided the quantity
were contracted for. The Grass has seldom been less than Tls. 8 per
picul or above Tls. 9 at Han-kow during the season when it comes
largely into market.

152
MISCELLANEOUS.
5th. What would be the cost of a cargo laid down at Havre
including commission, freight, insurance etc? You have herewith a
pro-forma Invoice. The Grass is dear just at this season and will
remain so until the new crop reaches market.
6th. What is China Grass employed for in the countries where it
is cultivated? For manufacturing into various fabrics, clothing etc.
The great place for manufacturing the fine descriptions of cloth and
mixed fabrics with silk is Can-ton, where a large portion of the Grass
is sent by the interior roads and water communications. The green
Grass is used largely at Ning-po. A considerable quantity of the fibre
is also used in making a coarse light cloth worn by the lower class of
natives during summer.
7th. Are there different qualities? There are 4 qualities usually
sold on this market.
Peu-szor best quality.
Tow-sz頭絲 or No. 2
Yu-szor No. 3
Sam-sz or No. 4
"
"
8th. What is the price of each quality?
Present value of No. I quality Tls. 15 @ 6s.3d. ex:-82d per Ib.
"
"
"
"
2 "
15
"
"
3
"
14
"
"
4
12
"
"
=8
7급
"
=7
"
9th. Is the China Grass employed raw or disaggregated and what
s it used for in both states? I am not aware that it is used in its raw
state but only when prepared for wearing.
10th. By what system is the China Grass disaggregated? Is it
through soaking or through chemical process? By soaking in a running
stream, beating it, and then bleaching. I am not aware of any
chemical agencies being used in its preparation.
IIth. What is the percentage of waste produced by the dis-
aggregation in each quality according to the process employed?
About this I cannot give any information, but it could be obtained
either at Han-kow or Can-ton I believe.
12th. Can seeds be procured and in what quantity? Yes; at
Han-kow, but if a large quantity were wanted, time would be required
to collect them. From what I can learn the plant is an annual raised
from seed-it exhausts the soil very much and requires large quantities
of manure.
I send you some cuttings of the cloths manufactured from Grass
with the retail prices here. The coarse blue dyed is in very large
native consumption. The fine clothes are principally manufactured
at Can-ton; the coarse in this and the neighbouring Provinces.

MISCELLANEOUS.
153
You have likewise samples of the four descriptions of China Grass
in the raw state. The length of the staple and colour appear to regulate
price more than the quality. The Grass is packed in bundles weighing
about picul each.
II. Notes on the FUNERAL RITES performed at the obsequies of
TAKEE. Contributed by REV. CHAR. H. BUTCHER, A. M., British
Consular Chaplain at Shanghai.
An unusually eligible opportunity for witnessing the curious
funeral rites of the natives was afforded to the inhabitants of Shanghai
by the death of Takee, the wealthy Chinese Banker and Mandarin,
whose obsequies were performed with unusual cost and splendour by
his sorrowing relatives.
We paid our visit seven days before the interment in the evening
at about 8 o'clock, and at the time the exterior of the house was
brilliantly illuminated. A large orchestra was erected, fronted with
small panes of glass bordered with cotton, pucked, twilled and twisted
into the most intricate lattice work. Here sat the minstrels looking-
down on the people and reposing after their exertions during the day.
On entering the first Hall, we found the ancestral tablets of the
deceased ranged in a long line to the right and to the left, and the
scarlet umbrella, the mark of his rank. This court and the rooms
through which we subsequently passed were lighted with various oil
lamps and chandeliers, as well as with innumerable paper lanterns of
very quaint pattern and device. Indeed, the general aspect of the
whole place resembled the transformation scene in an Easter
Extravaganza, rather than a mansion lately bereft of its master clad
in the solemn trappings of mourning. Passing through three of these
rooms, between walls covered with white and the blue hangings
emblazoned with inscriptions from the Classics, we approached a
shrine or inner chamber separated from us by a barred Portal, on
which were the two Chinese characters "Ling Mun" signifying
GATE OF THE SOUL. Into this we were courteously admitted and
found ourselves facing a rude picture of the defunct Mandarin
Before this was spread a table laden with fruit, sweet meats, and the
other mysterious delicacies of Chinese confectionary, and on the right
side of the board heaped with this veritable "feralis cana" stood one
of the wives (or widows?) of the departed, her forehead bound with
the white bandage or fillet, and her hands busily employed in keeping
alight the pipe of her deceased husband. On the left, stood another
and younger wife, like the elder, attired in mourning and with a face
marked by the deep drawn traces of tears and vigils. Immediately
beneath the Portrait lay the "Taou-tih-king"
(Bible of the

154
MISCELLANEOUS.
Taouists) and on the walls at the side hung girdles, robes, and caps
made of the coarsest grass cloth, the appropriate vesture of
mortification and mourning.
There remained one other sight. Behind the centre shrine on a
raised bier was deposited the coffin, covered with a rich crimson pall,
and upon this was laid a cap supposed to be that of the son of the
deceased, though in the present case this was a fiction of etiquette, as
there was no direct male heir but an adopted child, a boy of eleven
years old. A stream of people continued to pour through the house;
H. E. the Taotai of Shanghai being one of the visitors. Some few
sat at small tables and drank tea, but the majority moved sedately to
the SOUL GATE, and after looking around at the inscriptions, retired
with a grave salutation to their acquaintances and friends.
But the observances in the house were insignificant compared
with the out-door procession.
First came a huge paper figure resembling an elaborate scare-crow
or the Guy Fawkes of an English 5th of November. This was the
Kei-loo-shin
or literally, "opening the road spirit," the
Jursuivant and herald of the dead in the realms beyond the grave
called also "The devil seer." Next came a trophy of great value, the
Tsing or plumed standard granted to Takee by the Emperor. Then
followed a crowd, scattering lavishly to right and left the paper sycee
that diverts the malignity of evil spirits by exciting, and them
disappointing, their cupidity.
The long line of red ancestral tablets and the well known retinue
of the Taotai followed. Next, borne by four men came the
Tsi-ty-yung For Imperial Seals, another testimonial of the
favour of the Court of Peking. After a space or gap of some twenty
yards, the most sumptuous portion of the pageant followed. Two and
two came the Taouist priests gorgeously robed in amber satin vest-
ments, stiff with brocade and gold embroidery. We are certain that
no more costly sacerdotal robes excite the admiration of Medievalists
at home than those whose brilliant colours flashed through dull lines
of dirty coolies and reeking hawkers in the streets of Shanghai. To
find vestments of equal magnificence we must examine the relics of
the Episcopal Founders still treasured in our venerable Colleges, or
failing the reality, we may glean some idea of their "shape and sheen"
from the Pall of Ambrose of Milan in Vandyke's well known picture..
After this glittering group, a scarcely less conspicuous band than
their predecessors and rivals, came the Buddhist priests in vestments
of scarlet, then a band of children, neither dirtier nor cleaner than
those who usually beset our highways; next the chair of the deceased
containing the Shin-tsu-Ba
veiled with red crape. This
mysterious tablet is considered the seat of the human soul, now in

MISCELLANEOUS.
155
happiness, and is covered with a close drawn veil lest the departed
should be perturbed or vexel by beholding the sorrow of those he
loved.
More Buddhist priests of the 2nd Rank vested in green, profusely
embroidered, followed, and then the distinguishing mark of the
procession to out-si lers, namely, the close clustered mass of tall narrow
silk and satin banners inscribe I with sentences recommending the soul
of the departe to the genii, and enumerating the benevolent acts of
his life to insure him a kin I reception in Spiritland. Full of a curious.
symbolism was the next object that met the eye. In a basket-like
frame covered with white and blue was the mourning lantern Djur Lan
ER, hung before the dead man's face that he might recognize his
friends in the other world.
The group that followed accorded more closely with the customs
of the West, and inclu lel in feel almost all the funeral pomp we
generally regard as necessary. The friends of the dead man with his
little adopted son supported between two kinsmen and arrayed in the
grass cloth mour ting garments we had seen in the shrine. Then the
the massive Coffin fron LINTIN now covered with green instead of
crimson, and surrounded with a paper representation of the Seen
Hok
or Fairy White Stork that flies higher than any other bird
and has been compared by some to the classic Phoenix.
The long cortege was closed by thirty-nine chairs containing the
wives in mourning garments, and their female friends crowned with
chaplets of white China asters.
With such po np and circumstance was Takee borne to the Joss
Houses near the Maloo, then through the streets to the river side
where amidst salvoes of cannon his body was placed on board the
Steamer Kiangse, which was to convey it to the last resting place at
Ningpo.
The pageant will long be remembered by the natives with
admiration and pride, and from the strange picture of the unanimity of
two rival Priesthoods, as well as from the many quaint and mysterious
symbolical ites, these obsequies deserve the attention of every
thoughtful foreigner.
III. Traces of the Julicium Dei, or ORDEAL IN CHINESE LAW.
Contributed by W. T. STRONACH ESQ.
It is provided by law that an injured husband may at once put
to death his wife and her seducer, if he finds them flagrante delicto;-
but to prevent abuses, he must forthwith cut off the heads of the
delinquents and report the affair to the magistrate. The man is
examined, and his deposition taken. The two heads are then placed

156
MISCELLANEOUS.
in a large tub of water. The water is stirred round rapidly which as
a natural consequence brings the heads together in the middle. If
they meet mouth to mouth or cheek to cheek, the statement of the
husband is fully established;-if otherwise the husband will be suspected
of having killed his wife in a passion, and then waylaid some one
against whom he had a spite and murdered him, and will be punished
accordingly. If he is acquitted by the above process, twenty or thirty
lashes of the bamboo are administered, for not having taught
feu madame better morals, and he receives a small present to assist in
procuring a successor.
IV. Remarks on the WATER WE USE in Shanghai. By DR.
LAMPREY, Surgeon H. M's 67th Regiment.
The difficulties some portions of the population of China labour
under in regard to drinking water, and the necessity for boiling water
previous to use, render the practice of drinking water hot, general
throughout the country. The well water of the city and settlement
of Shanghai is, generally speaking, unfit for use. It contains a large
amount of impurities, consisting chiefly of nitrate of lime, derived from
sewers and surface drainage, the soil being found to contain a large
amount of lime. This nitrate of lime is found exuding above the
surface of the damp floors and of old buildings where it effloresces.
A small quantity put into good water gives it the unpleasant taste
noticed in the river water. The muddy water of the Wongpoo
contains from 25 to 29 grains per gallon of alluvial matter suspended
in it-it also contains much impurity and organic matter, but on being
filtered through animal charcoal it loses a large amount of impurity
and becomes sufficiently wholesome for use. It still retains a taste,
which most river waters have. The amount of the impurities of the
Wongpoo water was compared with those of the water supplied to
other large communities, and the advantages the rivers of China have
over those of Bengal and other places were pointed out, viz:-The
rivers of China are not made the receptacle of the dead and the sewage
of the towns, like the Ganges, &c. The chemical constituents of the
sewage of towns though largely thrown over the land in China are
immediately appropriated by the growing vegetation and otherwise
become modified by contact with the soil. The absence of waste
uncultivated jungles in China shews that the source of vegetable
organic matter is less than in India. The Lake water though shown to
be a bright sparkling water, contains a large amount of impurities,
which were greatly reduced by the filtering process. Compared with
the river water it has less organic matter in suspension, and was
found to keep better than it. The filtered Lake water has a decided
advantage over all the waters supplied to Shanghai. The important

MISCELLANEOUS.
157
results are shown by reference to the following table, exhibiting the
impurities of one gallon of the several waters treated of.
Lake water not filtered......
Lake water filtered through carbon cvlinders..28
River water filtered through filtering paper
Sld. mat.
grs.
Org. mat.
grs.
.40
4
2
10
.....88
4
16
by which 25 grains of alluvial matter 60
was taken from it.......
River water filtered through carbon cylinders..28
Well water not filtered.....
In a climate like this, where so many circumstances favour the
prevalence of illness, such as fever, dysentery and at times cholera, it
becomes a very important matter that this great necessary of life-
the water we use-should not be in any way injurious. A perusal of
sanitary reports shows how the health of a community depends on
good water, especially during the prevalence of any epidemic such as
cholera, consequently every effort should be made to deprive the
water of all impurities at the cost of whatever labour and expense.
Rain water is generally neglected at Shanghai. Were this water
collected, filtered, preserved in proper jars, and filtered again before
use, it would be far better than lake or river water. The living
animal and vegetable organisms found in the waters of Shanghai bear
a general resemblance to those found in Europe-and while the.
presence of the former indicated a very impure condition of the
water, the latter are generally admitted to possess a purifying effect.
Investigations with a microscope afford an interesting subject for
research. But the more important subject for investigation is the
nature of the chemical impurities of the water. Without being muc!
of a chemist a great deal of useful chemical facts may be ascertaineċ
by carefully evaporating a given quantity of water. Weighing the
residue and submitting this residue to greater heat and again weigh-
ing, it will show the amount of solid matter and of organic impurities.
This has been done and the result is that given in the foregoing table.
V. Remarks by R. A. JAMIESON ESQ., made upon exhibiting a
TO-LO PALL to the Society.
The pall was taken along with a quantity of other loot at Soo-
chow in December, 1863, and was accidentally picked up by Major-
General Cooke some months afterwards at Ningpo. Attempts had
been made to trace its history but without success. The nature of
the pall was sufficiently explained by an inscription, a translation of
which is submitted to the meeting, bu in addition the speaker would
observe that these to-lo palls are presented by the Emperor to Manchu
and Mongol Princes after death as an especial mark of favour. Thus
in a Peking Gazette of the 15th day of the 10th moon of last year a

158
MISCELLANEOUS.
pall of this kind is decreed to the junior Lui-chin-wang. But one
instance has occurred of a Chinaman having been presented with
this mark of Imperial favour. The case alluded to is that of Tsao
Cheng-yung, a native of Anhuei, who, after having filled the office
of Tsai-seang for several years, died in the second or third year of
Tao-kuang. Without the Emperor's permission, no official or other
person could be buried in a to-lo pall, but it might be mentioned
that the lamas in some lamaseries in Thibet are said to keep these
palls and let them out to families desirous of securing the happiness
of their deceased friends.
In China, however, the regulation before mentioned obtains and
the to-lo pall or shroud is buried with the corpse over which it is
placed. For this reason it seemed probable that the specimen on
the table had been taken, probably by the rebels, from the coffin of
some high provincial officer. On inspection it would be seen that
the upper surface was surrounded by a handsome woven border,
containing a number of Thibetan characters in circles formed by
other characters of the same language. Attempts had been made
to obtain a translation of these from the Buddhist priests in Shanghai,
and the environs, but no one could be found sufficiently acquainted
with the sacred language of Buddhism. It might be guessed that
the honourable and distinctive position accorded to the characters in
question pointed them out as names or titles of Buddha, but this of
course was a mere supposition. Within the border were several
circles and squares for the most part containing Thibetan characters,
but in a few instances devoted to Chinese. Thus the invocation to
Buddha, as also the to-lo-ching, or commemorative inscription, are in
Chinese, and occupy conspicuous positions at the right and left top.
corners respectively. The parts of the body to which different
portions of the pall are to be applied are also pointed out by
Chinese characters enclosed within right or circular lines. The parts
specified are:-
Yu chien and Tso chien, the right and left shoulders; Chi chien, the navel; Mi chu, the
organs of generation; Yu hsi and Tso hsi, the right and left knees; Yu chio chang, and
Tso chio chang, the right and left sole.
It is to be noticed that the Invocation and Commemorative
inscription are written in sentences of seven characters each, some-
what resembling the form of Chinese verse but wanting in the rhythm
which is observed by the poets. At the end of the fourteenth line
of the Invocation occurs the following, which is evidently a phonetic
translation of a Thibetan chaunt. Read as Chinese it is destitute of
meaning:-
An lo tê lei, lo tê lei' ma ho san pa, wa lo tê la,
Chi lo tê lei, lo tê lai, ma shu pi shu, ti piao ta ya,
Sa li wa pa' pan hung fa chi.

MISCELLANEOUS.
159
Then follow the four lines:-
In the three regions, &c.,
as given below, at the end of which there is another burst of a chaunt,
probably part of the foregoing:-
An pa tê mei, pa tê mei, san pa wa ma, ho su ko.
The following rough translations of the Chinese inscriptions were
then read:-
(Circle in the right top corner under five lines of Thibetan.)
The true words which purge away guilt.
(Circle in the left top corner under five lines of Thibetan.)
The true words of pure and clear light.
INVOCATION.
(Right top corner.)
O fortunate habitation of the supreme Buddha (lit., three precious ones.)
Buddha, not to be compared with the sons of men!
Supreme Buddha, dwelling in the clearness of light I
Yet has deigned to assume the precious tonsure.
Wherefore he is now highest among t the gods,
Having fulfilled the laws of his godlike being as above declared.
In this manner, little by little, he conveys instruction,
That perfection may be attained by the subjugation of the appetites.
Having learned this doctrine I am fully acquainted with it.
There is no doctrine to be compared with it for excellence.
If indeed it be studied but by fits and starts,
At dissolution, the soul will remain grovelling.
By accepting this creed the evils of life may be avoided,
And quickly will the fruition of the holy doctrine be enjoyed.
In the three regions (Heaven, Earth and Air) impurtity cannot rest on me.
Any more than it could rest on a pure lily.
In the three regions there are little bursting forth.
Swiftly shall I fly to the blissful fields.
COMMEMORATIVE INSCRIPTION.
At the time of my death.
I shall see the incomparable Julai;
(Left top corner.)
In the sea I shall behold the sacred ones entrusted with the care (of man.)
As I have with sincerity for ever adopted the pure belief,
Up will spring visible bolies which I shall then recognise,
Eight mighty pu sa will explain the pure doctrine;
Dying, I shall be born into the beauteous land, the country of delights,
Fu-li and So-po welcoming me,
Where Shi-cha pre-eminent occupies a dignified position,
This pall which I bear will then prove most requisite.
I shall reach the bright domains of purity, and learn the deep and excellent doctrine.
How wise then to leave the delights of home, and the attractions of the world.
To disregard all craft and cleverness,
And disdain affairs of seeming importance,
That thus may be obtained the incomparable wisdom-
That thus speedily may the individual be absorbed in the deity!

160
100
MISCELLANEOUS.
EXPLANATORY LEGEND.
(Between the feet.)
This to-lo pall was made by Su in accordance with the book
styled Mei-o-chu,the volume which dissipates evil influences). Su said
this (volume of) Mei-o-chü contained Woi-tê-wang's secret charm.
Incomparable is its excellence, its depth immeasurable. If for a
departing spirit's benefit it be transcribed in its exact words and style
of writing, and placed over the body of the dead, that is to say over
the forehead, the throat, the heart and the genitals, or if it be inscribed
on a cap or mantle, the soul will thereby learn to use the secret spell
of Julai Buddha. And the advantages of this are as follows:-Evils
have no more power over the soul, its grievous sins will be washed
away, and it will not be cast into hell nor will it fall into the region of
hungry ghosts, or of brute beasts. None of these calamities will
befall it, but, on the contrary, it, enfranchised, will be born into the
blissful regions of the west, the abode of the lily (or lotus). There at
the time of death will it appear before Amito-fu, and will receive at
his hands the histories of Pu-ti. If the sins of the soul have been so
grievous that it cannot hope to gain the western climes, the region of
purity, yet bearing this it may obtain a new birth, when amongst men
and in Heaven practising every virtue, it may eventually gain the land.
of the lily (lotus) and gather the fruits of Pu-ti's instruction.