ARTICLE III
NEAU-SHOW. BIRDS AND BEASTS (OF FORMOSA).
FROM THE 18th CHAPTER OF THE REVISED EDITION OF THE
Taiwan foo-che, STATISTICS OF TAIWAN.
TRANSLATED BY ROBERT SWINHOE, ESQ., H. B. M. CONSUL AT TAIWAN,
WITH CRITICAL NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.
YUEN. Kite. (Milvus melanotis, Schlegel. Found
from Canton to Amoorland, in Japan and in Formosa.
It is called at Amoy and Formosa Bah-heo or Nai-heo.)
LING. Wagtail and Lark group, Motacilline and
Alaudince. (Tsih-ling means Pied Wagtail, of which
there are three species found in China and Formosa,
Motacilla luzoniensis, M. japonica, and M. ocularis. Pih-
ling, is the Thick-billed Lark, Menalocorypha mongolica,
found in the Western hills near Peking, and kept
throughout China as a cage-bird for its song and mimic
powers. Koh-ling is the Sky-lark usually called
* Pwan-t'een-fei, or Flying in mid sky. The species
in Formosa, and from Foochow to Canton is the Alauda
calivor, called at Amoy Paw-tew-ah. In North China to
the Amoor the English Sky-lark, A. arvensis occurs. At
Shanghai the species is intermediate to these two, and
is identical with A. cantarella of South Europe. The
authors probably intend to signify that lark-like birds
are found in Formosa, without specifying any particular
kind.)
KWAN. Herons. (Ardeadoe, exclusive of species.
Woo-kwan is the common Heron of general distri-
bution, Ardea cinerea, called in Amoy Tche-si or

36
BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
Grey Egret. Pih-kwan is the Great White Heron or
Egret, Egretta alba. Europeans wrongly call these birds
Cranes. The character for crane is Ho.)
TSIH-KO. .Domestic Pigeon. (Tsih is also
the specific appellation for the Pied Wagtail, [see above.]
It means the bird of the roof or housetop.)
CHE. Pheasant, Phasianus torquatus; the common
Chinese species.
Woo. Crow. (The coast towns of Formosa are
singularly enough destitute of crows. In the Tammy
mountain range and at Sawo harbour I found a black
crow, which I have distinguished as the Corvus colonorum.
The Chinese there have a great respect for it and object
to its being shot, as they say the bird warns them
against the approach of the savage, and sympathizes
with them when any of their comrades are killed.)
YEN. Swallow. (Of this there are three species
in Formosa; the ordinary Hirundo rustica, or the Chimney
Swallow, the Daurian Swallow, Hirundo daurica, and the
Sand Martin, Cotyle sinensis.)
Pan-kew. It differs
J KEW. Dove:--that is
from those on the Chinese main. Those of a grey and
black colour are called Pan-kew. To this group belongs
a chestnut-coloured (chih) species called Ho-kew,
Fire-dove, Turtur humilis. There is another with green
body and entirely red (I hung) bill and legs, which
is called the Kin-kew, Golden dove, Chalchophaps
formosanus, but this species only occurs at Tanshuy.
[Lower Tamsuy in the Fung-shan district is here meant].
(Names for the Dove in the Amoy and Formosan dialect
are Pan-ka and Ka-isuy, the latter term being more
generally used.)
LOO. Egret, Herodias garzetta. (Commonly called
Pih-loo-see;-Amoy, Peh-hing-si. Choo-loo
is the Russet-headed small White-heron, Bubulcus russata.
Both these are called by Europeans Paddy Birds; the
former is the common White Egret which occurs in
South China throughout the year; the latter is the Egret
with reddish head and back, seen only in summer and
often about cattle.)

BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
37
HWA-MEI. Amoy, Hoe-bi; Painted Eye-brow;
same as the species of the Chinese main, but with no.
white on the eye-brow. (The Formosan Song thrush,
Leucodiopteron taiwanum, differing as observed by the
authors chiefly in the absence of the white eye-brow,
from the Song thrush of South China, L. sinense.)
brethren.
KEU-KUH. This is the
Pa-ko, Eight
The Mainah, Acridotheres cristatellus, a black bird
with a small frontal crest and a white wing spot).
iPOO-KUH. Cloth-grain. (The Crow Pheasant
or Larkheel Cuckoo, Centropus affinis, vulgarly called
Bangking. The large Crow Pheasant of South China,
Centropus sinensis, does not occur in Formosa. The
Cuckoo is called at Amoy the Kat-suy-ieng or Dove-
hawk).
Foo. Wild Ducks. (Of these many species
visit the Formosan shores and inner waters in winter.
No species of duck to my knowledge is a constant
resident in the island.)
NGAU Gulls and Terns, Larida. (A general
term, including the many species of Gulls and Terns
that occur.)
THAI-KE-MOO. Sea-fowl's dam,-of a black
colour with green legs, and larger than the domestic.
fowl. It dwells amidst the islands of the sea, whence
its name. The marrow of its bones has fine relish.
(This description answers to the Black Albatross of the
China seas, Diomedea nigripes, the younger birds of
which have greenish feet. The term Hai-koe-boo at
Amoy is usually applied to the large Grey Gull, Larus
occidentalis.)
YUEN-YANG. Mandarin Duck, Aix galeri-
culata. (I do not believe that this bird occurs in
Formosa in a wild state. It breeds in summer in
Amoorland and is found in winter as a visitant to
the lakes of Central China. I have never heard of its
appearing on the coast, and do not see how it could
well wander to Formosa. The Falcated Teal, Anas
falcata, has probably been mistaken by the authors for
it.)
FEI-TSUY. Vulgar name, 11'o-he-ang
Fishing reverence. It is accustomed to sit on banks by

38
BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
water and watch for fish, on which it feeds. (The
Fei-tsuy, whose feathers are used for embroidery and
ornament in China, are the Halcyon smyrnensis a beauti-
ful species with blue-green upper parts, and the H.
pileata with purple upper-parts, neither of which occurs
in Formosa. The Halcyon here is the H. coromanda, a
pink species. The small species called To-he-ang is the
King of the Shrimps of Europeans, Alcedo bengalensis,
closely allied to the English King-fisher, and found
throughout the greater part of Asia.)
PIH-HEEN. Silver Pheasant, Euplocamus
nycthemerus. (Not found wild in Formosa. Its position
is occupied by the handsome Pheasant E. swinhoii,
known to the colonists as Wa-koe, Flowered fowl.
CHANG-WEI-SAN-NEANG.
Long-tailed
third maiden, (or third daughter of a family)--allied to
the Heen, Silver Pheasant, of a bluish-grey colour,
reflecting a dazzling brilliancy. Another name for the
same is Leentcheo, Elegant Magpie. (This is the
Long-tailed Blue Jay of Formosa, Urocissa caerulea,
called in this dialect, Tàng-be-swa"-neuo". The allied.
form of China is the U. sinensis, called at Amoy, Tang-
bi-ke". Its stated affinity to the Silver Pheasant, to a
European naturalist would appear ridiculous.)
WOO-TSEW. Amoy, Aw-tsew; the Drongo,
Dicrurus macrocercus, with a black body and long tail,
is smaller than a Ying. Hawk, but is able to fight
with hawks, fowls, kites, and all evil-disposed birds.
PIH-LAOU. Amoy, Pe-lo; Shrike or Butcher-
bird, Lanius schach, which is the Keué.
HWANG-YING. Amoy, Ng-ying; the Oriole,
Oriolus chinensis.
YING. Hawk. (Usually applied to the short-
winged Hawks, Accipiter, but often to the Falcons as
well.)
LOO-TSZE. Amoy, Law-tche; Cormorant,
Phalacrocorax carbo.
HEW-LEW. Formosan Large Owl. Syrnium
caligatum; that is the Ch'e-hian, Eagle Owl, Bubo
maximus. (The authors are wrong in confounding these
two birds. The large owl of this island called by the
colonists Ham-hay, is quite distinct from the Horned

BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
39
Owl of China and of the greater part of the old
continent.)
TCHEO. Sparrow, Passer montanus, Amoy, Chek-
tcheaou-ah, or Paddy bird.
PEH-T'OW-UNG. White-headed reverence.
(The green Bulbul, Ixos sinensis, called in Amoy Peh-t'aou-
kok.)
HAI-GO. Sea Goose. Vulgar name,
Lam-hong-gong, South-wind Booby; also called i
Paw-tay-go, Cloth-bag Goose. It is commonly found on
the sea-shore, hunting fish. Its quills can be used for
feathering arrows. (This is the White Albatros of the
China seas, Diomedea brachyura, which usually comes
up with the south-west monsoon. It is often caught
in spring by fishermen, and brought into Amoy. In
captivity it looks very stupid. The Cloth bag refers
perhaps to the fact of small bags being made of its.
large webbed feet. I have never met the Yen, Wild
Goose, in its winter migration at Formosa.)
SEPE-TCHEO. Pencil sparrow. Like a sparrow
but smaller, of a (Tsze) clay colour. Their twittering
is pleasant to hear. Kept in a cage they will come
and go of their own accord. (This is the Munia, of which
there are three species in Formosa, the To-pe-la M. topela,
the Opela or Aw-tsew-pe-la, M. acuticauda, and the Ang-
pe-la. M. formosana of the mountains. These three are
all kept in cages by the Chinese.)
PEH-KEW. White Dove. It coos at the fifth.
watch, whence it is termed the bird that knows the
watches.
CHUH-KE. Amoy, Teek-koe; Bamboo fowl.
(The Formosan Bamboo fowl or Partridge, Bambusicola
sonorivox, is distinct from that found in South China,
B. thoracica. Their cries however are very similar. They
are caged by the Chinese, and prized for their noisy
song, and fighting propensities.)
YAU. Harrier, Circus sp. (Of this Hawk several
species occur.)
MTCHEAO-LEAO. The Grass-warblers; termed
in the Tunn-che, General Statistics, Tcheao-e.
Urh-ya calls it the
Taou-chung-tcheao,
Peach-insect Wren, and its female the E. Another

40
BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
name for this bird is the Wa-tcheo, Stockinged.
Magpie. Another, the 15 Keaou-foo, Skilful House-
wife. The native foreigners go out to cut grass, and on
hearing its voice go back. (There is much confusion.
of species here. These names are usually applied in
South China to the Little Tailor-bird, Orthotomus, called
at Amoy Mang-tang-ah, no species of which appears
to exist in Formosa. They may in Formosa imply
either the Prinia sonitans, the Drymoica extensicauda, the
D. flavirostris, or the Suya striata.)
KWEI-KEU. Demon's conveyance; vulgarly
called Kaou-t'aôu-aw, Nine-headed Crow. (This
is the Goat-sucker Caprimulgus stictomus. The other
bird of darkness that the Chinese have many fables
about is the Am-kong-tcheaou or Night Heron, Nycticorax
griseus.)
TSAI-NANG. Coloured purse, Gallicrex cristatus.
This and the five following species are not comprised
in the old Statistics. They are now introduced into
the present revised edition, in the Foo-kaou, or Appendix
of descriptive quotations.
Coturnix sp.
WOO-MING-KE. Fowl of five cries,
LUY-Woo. Thunder dancer, Ardetta cinna-
momea.
goisaki.
FAN-PE. Foreign pencil, Motacilla boarala.
CHIH-KWAN. Chestnut Heron, Gorsachius
TAOU-KWA. Topsy-turvy hanger, Loriculus
puniculus or Love bird. It is brought from the Chinese
main.
The above species are of the Feathered class.
附考 Foo-kaou. APPENDIX OF DESCRIPTIVE
QUOTATIONS.
RECHANG-WEI-SAN-NIANG has a vermilion
bill and halcyon wings. Its dorsal mantle is shot with
a lustrous tint. Its tail is long, surpassing one foot,
whence the Tai-wan men have derived its name. It is
found in the midst of the Cho-lo (Kia-e hien) hills, and
is seldom seen in the plains. [Extracted from the
3 pha TMA BA Tai-hai-tsai-fung-too

BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
41
PIH-KEW. White Dove, in blowy rainy
weather dances its wings and moves in circles. It is
clothed in a frost-like robe with snowy edgings. It may
be approached and played with. By some it is called.
the Yang-ko, Foreign pigeon, and is said to come
from Java. When Formosa was first opened (to emig-
rants), a pair were not purchaseable under $20, but now
the young being frequently produced and reared in
confinement, their valued does not exceed at most one
tenth of that sum. (She-chai-luh.]
ÉPIH-KEW. The white dove knows the times
and seasons; and marks the limit of each period of
time by several continuous coos. [Tai-wan-
che-leo.] (This bird is usually known in South China
among Europeans as the Pescadore Dove, people sup-
posing that it is found wild on those flat-topped treeless
islands. It is simply an albino of the Indian Dove, Turtur
risorius, which is not found wild in China. The Laughing
Dove is a common caged bird throughout Asia, and in
many parts of Europe, breeding readily in confinement.
In the wild state, it occurs throughout India and its
archipelago. It seems probable that this domestic
variety was originally introduced into Formosa as a
caged bird, by the Dutch from Java.)
LUH-KEW. Green Dove,-has a (lt kan) violet
bill, and (peih) turquoise plumage,,more brilliant than
that of the Ying-woo, Parrot; but possesses no fine
voice, yielding in this respect to the White Dove. (This
dove is not uncommon in the mountains of Fung-shan
hien and Tai-wan hien, occasionally visiting the plains.
It is a Treronine species, and has been named Spheno-
cercus formosa.)
HAI-PA-KO. Marine Eight brethren,-has
a black body, a red crown, and green feet. It is other-
wise called Tien-ke, Field fowl, Woo-seu,
Black-beard, and Che-woo, Falcon Crow. It
can attack and beat others of the feathered tribe.
Its tail is long and of a black colour. It may
be seen at times in flocks sitting on the backs of
cattle. [ She-chai-luh.] (Several birds are sadly.
confounded together in this extract. The bird first
meant is the Tian-koe or Field fowl, so-called at Amoy,
the generally distributed Moor-hen, Gallinula chloropus.
But this has a very short tail; and by the long black tail,

42
BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
a bird of like haunts, the Leaf-walker, Hydrophasianus
chirurgus is signified. The given habits of the species
of attacking birds of prey and sitting on the backs of
cattle, are not possessed by either of these water-birds.
The only two black-birds to which such characters can
be assigned are the true Pa-ko, Acridotheres cristatellus,
and the Woo-tsew, Dicrurus macrocercus, alluded to
above.)
WOO-TSEW. Drongo, Dicrurus macrocercus,
is like a Pa-ko, Mainah, but has the whole body entirely
black, the bill like an awl, and the tail long. It flies
impetuously, sings like the Hwang-ying, Oriole,
and is excellent at imitating the notes of other birds.
At night, according with the watches, it passes the cry
from one to another. It can attack the Ying,
sparrow-hawk, and the Chen, Kestrel. Meeting all
evil birds, it flies into the air, and darting at them,
pecks at their breasts and sides. Hawks and Kestrels
fly slower and cannot catch it with their claws to inflict
hurt. It flies away singing and returns to its perch.
The evil birds dare not approach. [
Tai-hai-sai-fung-too.
M
TSAI-NANG. Coloured purse, is like a fowl,
but smaller; on its crown it has a purse of five colours;
Gallicrex cristatus. [She-chai-luh.]
Woo0-MING-KE. Fowl of five songs, is as
large as a Yen-chun, Quail, with the nape white.
At every watch by the clepsydra it utters a song. (An
allusion to the ancient method of noting time by water
dropping in a vessel.) [Ibid.] (This small Quail I do not
know, but I suspect it to be either the Coturnix sinensis,
kept as a cage bird at Canton, or a local variety of the
same.)
LUY-Woo. Thunder dancer, is the name of a
bird of a (tsang) greenish-brown and chestnut colour.
On hearing thunder it dances; Ardetta cinnamomea. [Ibid.]
White Pa-ko, Mainahs, and White Hwa-mei, Thrushes,
we have never seen, but it is said that at
Keen-
shwuy-keang,
Kia-tung-
shuh, and
Tung-ling-pei,
Ta-soo-wei, every year white Pa-ko,
Mainahs occur. The people of the neighbourhood watch
them at breeding-time, and take and rear their young.
[She-chai-luh.]

BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
43
FAN-PE. Foreign Pencil, is in form like a
Swallow, with an ashy-black back, yellow-coloured
under-parts, and a long tail. It sings as it flies, and
shakes as it walks. It belongs to the Tsih-ling,
Pied Wagtail genus, Motacilla boarula. [Cho-lo
statistics.]
the Snake-
CHIH-KWAN is vulgarly called
eating bird. In appearance it is like the Ho, Crane,
but somewhat smaller. It has a short tail and bent body,
and its plumage and wings are of an ashy-red colour.
It feeds only on Shay-hwny, Snakes and Vipers.
It understands finding out the holes of snakes. With.
its bill it pecks about the cavern's mouth, and induces
the reptile to come out, when taking it with its bill, it
flies into the air with it, the snake continuing to wriggle
about its head and tail. [Tai-hai-tsai-
fung-too.] (I think the bird here meant is the Tiger-
bittern, Gorsachius goisaki: at least I know of no other to
which the description can apply.)
TAOU-KWA-NEAOU. Topsy-turvy-hanging
Bird, is like to Ying-woo, Parrot, but smaller. Its
plumes and quills are of a fresh clear red alternating
with green, and harmonize well with the green tree
branches. The tip of its bill is like a hook, its feet are
short, and its claws are long. It delights in hanging
head downwards, and at night sleeps in the same way.
This species comes from Japan and Luzon. [Ibid.]
(Love-birds, Loriculi, are here meant, which are brought
to Formosa in cages from the main by Chinese. No
species of Parrot appears to be found in Formosa.)
DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
NEW. Cattle. The 7k 4 Shwuy-new, Water-cow
or Buffalo comes from the Chinese main; and is used to
crush sugar-cane for the preparation of sugar. The
Hwang-new, Yellow cow, the neighbouring hills
have in abundance. They are caught and tamed, and
are trained for use in the ploughing of fields and
drawing of carts.
馬
MA. Horse, comes from the main. They have
also at hand mares with which the stock is kept up.

BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
44
Kow. Dog.
CHOO. Pig.
YANG. Goat.
MAOU. Cat.
KE. Fowl.
GO. Goose.
鴨 YA.
Duck.
FAN-YA. Foreign Duck (or Muscovy); like
the duck but larger; feathers with less gloss; bill and
legs vermilion colour; flesh coarse; taste inferior; comes
from abroad.
colour.
FAN-CHOO. Foreign pig. Hair of a yellow
The above are Domestic animals.
APPENDIX OF DESCRIPTIVE QUOTATIONS.
Formosa has an abundance of wild cattle, occurring
in herds of hundreds and thousands. When it is desired.
to capture some, a wooden stockade is erected with four
sides, in one of which is left a door. The cattle are
driven towards it till they all enter, when the gate is
shut on them and they are barred in and left to starve.
Afterwards they are by degrees haltered and bridled,
and treated to fodder and beans, until they become not
different from domestic cattle.
Tai-hai-
tsai-fund-too.] (In the Fung-shan district, the Chinese
farmers have many of them large herds of cattle, which
are driven out to feed on the hills every morning, and
driven back to pen in the evening. They are small,
extremely pretty animals, with short horns, and rather
a wild look. They are mostly of a yellowish-brown
colour, blackish-brown varieties also occur. They are
straighter-backed and somewhat different from the
Amoy cattle, and indeed look like miniatures of some
of the cattle at home. These cattle are for the most
part offspring of captured animals from the hilly interior,
which from isolation, might be expected to differ from
the wild stock of the ordinary yellow cow of South
China, if we knew of the existence of such an animal,
and had the opportunities of comparing the two together.
The Formosan wild cow is new to science.)

BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
45
The horses are small and weakly in strength,
different from those of the Chinese main. The inner
mountains have mountain horses. [Ibid.] (Horses, or
rather ponies are very scarce in Formosa. Those I have
seen may have been importations, but they did not
appear to me to differ particularly from the ponies.
procurable at Amoy. What the mountain horses are.
I cannot make out, unless they be offspring of animals
that the Dutch may have introduced.)
Shuy-sha, as also Hung-tow-sew (the
Red-head island or Botel Tobago), produce yellow
goats whose skins are sold for mattrasses. [Ibid.] (The
domestic goats of South China and Formosa are black,
small, short-haired, and bearded on the chin. Query?
Is the animal here spoken of, the Formosan mountain
goat antelope, Capricornis Swinhoii, in a state of domesti-
cation?)
The Foreign Duck is as big as a goose with small
and delicate feet, and has its cheeks red like a cock's
comb. The drake is a deep yellowish-brown colour.
When released they are accustomed to fly about..
People frequently take them to the Chinese main, but
they are unwieldy stupid birds, and have nothing in
them to afford amusement. [Ibid.] (The Muscovy Duck,
Cairina moschata, or as the Chinese sometimes call it
the Lung-tow-ya, Dragon-headed Duck is here
meant. It owes its introduction into Formosa as a
domestic bird probably to the Japanese, or perhaps to
the Dutch.)
WILD QUADRUPEDS.
E-YEH-PAOU. Mint (Artemisia) leaf
Leopard is a product of Formosa. It is somewhat larger
than a dog and harmless towards man. It is otherwise
called the Chang-hoo, Muntjak Tiger, (Leopardus
brachyurus, a species allied to the L. macroscelis or Tiger
Cat of the Straits, but remarkable for its short tail./
HEUNG, Bear.
康 ME. Elk or Plain Brown Deer, Rusa Swinhoii.
ELUH. Spotted Deer, Cervus taiwanus.
BEKE. (Not known to me. The dictionary defines
the animal "Stag-like, with feet resembling a dog has

46
BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
a long tusk on each side of its mouth, and is fond of
fighting.")
KEUN or Chang, Muntjak. (Same as the small
Chinese species Cervulus Reevesii.)
YEW. (This character does not occur in Kanghe's
Dictionary.) Like a Luh, Spotted Deer, but larger.
(Not known to me. The Elk, Spotted Deer, and the
Muntjak I have procured, and sent to England, but it is
hard to believe that there still remain two undiscovered
species. Surely a small island like Formosa cannot
contain five species of Deer!)
T'oo. Hare, Lepus sinensis.
HOW. Monkey, Macacus cyclopis. (Common on
Ape's Hill, Takow.)
SHAN-MAOU. Hill Cat, Felis viverrinus. (Found
throughout tropical Asia.)
T'A. Otter. (A variety of Lutra nair, with white
sides to under neck.)
SHAN-YANG. Hill goat,-can scale heights;
breeds far amongst the mountains; skin suitable for
making shoes. (Capricornis Swinhoii, allied to C. crispus
of Japan. Half goat, half antelope.)
SHOO. Rats and Squirrels.
FYEH-CHOO. Wild Boar, with tusks sharp as
a reaping-hook. (Sus taiwanus, allied to, if not identical
with, S. leucomystax of Japan.)
The above are of the Furred tribe.
APPENDIX OF DESCRIPTIVE QUOTATIONS.
The Formosan hills have no tigers, therefore deer
are very numerous. In former years the whole country
was given up to hunting-ground for deer by the
aborigines. Now the Chinese have ploughed and sown,
so that fair fields extend as far as the eye can reach,
and the deer have betaken themselves to the mountains.
They are there hunted and taken, but the horns of the
Formosan species are thin and soft in the butt; and not
equal to the sleek and plump branchers from Kwan-tung
(Leaoutung). A hundred pairs when roasted will only

BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
47
yield 20 or so pounds of hart-glue (used for medicine.)
Though deer abound, you may seek a piece of venison
in vain in the markets. At the winter and spring
festivities however, the aborigines cut venison up into
square blocks weighing over a pound each, and after
steeping them in salt, forward them to the departmental
and district cities. The colour of the venison so
preserved is black, and its taste changed. It is not fit
to pick up with chop-sticks, and yet its price is no trifle.
[She-chai-luh.]
Deer by their horns record their years, each fork on
the horn signifying one year, much as the age of horses
is recorded by their teeth. The aborigines are in the
constant habit of shooting deer with the bow for a
livelihood, but no one has ever met with a buck carrying
seven forks or more on the horn. It was formerly
declared that the deer were fairy animals of great
longevity; and it was stated that at the age of 500 they
were white, and at the age of 1000, black. But these
stories are fables; for the Chuhtsan [Teek-cham near
Tamsuy] aborigines shot with the bow a small deer with
its entire body pure white, its horns at the time having
only two forks each. This albinism cannot therefore
be otherwise than due to an accidental variation in the
colour of the hair. Books are by no means entirely to
be believed in. The deer three years after birth
commences to horn. The horns after the first year drop
away much in the manner of human milk-teeth. Other
horns appear in their place, which throughout its life-
time it does not again lose; but every year an extra
fork is added to them. [Pai-hai-ke-yu.]
The doe deer at the age of 4 months acquires teats.
Before they make their appearance she gets extremely
fat. When big with young, her skin is soft, smooth,
spotted, and glossy, and very lovely. As soon as the
doe that has finished suckling observes her roe getting
to maturity, she deserts it and repairs to other hills,
fearing that her own young might entertain an improper
affection for herself. Animals do not confuse the ties
of consanguinity, the horse excepted. The stallion
however when he does commit incest with his mother,
soon after dies. The doe deprives her offspring of such
an opportunity, by setting a distance between herself
and her young; for she deserts it and betakes herself
afar. [Ibid.]

48
BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
The Bear genus does not consist simply of one
species. There are the Pig-bear, the Dog-bear, the
Horse-bear, and the Man-bear, each differing in its
peculiar form. All the bears have hair stiff as bristles,
thick and shaggy. The arrow's head cannot enter their
coat. Their paws are strong, and with their claws they
can climb trees, on the summits of which they will sit
cross-legged, or they will burrow into the earth and
dwell there. People capture them by stratagem. Before
they have carried young, their bellies contain much
suet which is eatable; their paws however are the titbits.
(lit. the one of eight pearls.) Hashed and roasted they
afford a true relish, but it is no easy matter to cook them
properly. The cook extracts the juice from the paws, and
boiling it into a soup with other kitchen stuff, it lends
a delicious relish to the potage; one paw will serve for
several boilings. If you get a mouthful at the cook-shop,
it will induce a smile of appreciation to learn its taste.
[Ibid.] (I do not think that more than one species of
bear is found in Formosa; all the skins and paws that
I have seen are of this black bear, Helarctos formosanus. It
is black with a white crescent on the breast, and is allied
to the Sun-bear of Japan, H. japonicus, and that of the
Himalayas. H. thibetanus.)
The Hill Pig or Yay-che, Wild sow has the
ears and tail rather small, the hair bristly, of a (tsang).
greenish brown colour, and differs somewhat from the
domestic pig. The largest are as big as a cow, with
enormous tusks projecting beyond the lips. It gashes
trees and can break them down. Its strength, can
oppose the tiger. When enraged it will wound people.
with its tusks, abruptly breaking their ribs or goring
their bellies. It rushes on its object like the wind.
Hunters dare not shoot them. There is also the
Haou-choo, Porcupine Pig, which is another species. It
is covered with arrows, like the quills of the or
Wei, Hedgehog, which make a rustling noise when the
creature walks. These arrows it can dart at people, but
they do not carry to more than the length of a tsin, 8
feet, or a chang, 10 feet. [Ibid] (The Porcupine,
Hystrix sp. will be, when discovered, a new animal to the
Formosan list.)
Foochow Tung-taou, East Island is no great
distance from the Pescadores. It only produces deer,

BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
49
which occur in herds of from 100 to 1000. The islanders
catch them, and taking out their intestines and stomach
eat them mixed with the animal's ordure, as a great
dainty; but the carcase they sell. All the dried venison
and deer's sinews that the Foochow people now sell are
procured from East Island. [Yuh-tang-wai-ke.]
Shan-choo, Hill Rats are caught by the natives
who stuff the rats' bellies with bits of sugar-cane, clear
off the hair from the skin, and then roast lightly the
carcases. Thus prepared and boiled with pork they
make a palatable soup. [Ek She-chai-luo.]
Shan-maou, Hill Cat. Its hair is used for bind-
ing into tufts for writing pencils, and is short, delicate,
and pliant.
In the villages there are also those who catch
Chin, Cicadas, and rolling them up in paper roast them
brown, and eat them as an accompaniment to wine.
[Ibid.) (This last clause has without doubt been printed
out of place It should have been inserted by the
authors in the article on Insects and Fish that follows
the one we have been working on.)
I must offer a few words in conclusion as to the
intentions of this Paper. A friend a few weeks ago
observed to me that in the course of his Chinese reading,
he was constantly stumbling across Chinese names for
birds and quadrupeds which with the help of the exist-
ing dictionaries he was totally at a loss to identify. He
at the same time suggested, that if I translated the
chapter on the Zoology of Formosa in the Tai-wan-foo-
che, I might benefit both the students of Chinese and
myself. Thus stimulated I set to work, and now offer
the results of my labours to the Society at Shanghai.
As regards myself, I have found a certain benefit to
accrue, for I have learned that there are still several
animals in the island, with which I am unacquainted,
and I have been able to bring to light from this Chinese
work, several facts and remarks which will much interest
scientific men at home. Regarding however the Chinese
work from a scientific point of view, it will be found to
fall very far short of what might be expected in a book
comprising, as it pretends to do, the entire statistics of
Formosa. The notices of the animals are short and in-
complete, and sometimes so imperfect as to render it

50
BIRDS AND BEASTS OF FORMOSA.
almost impossible to detect what creatures are intended;
moreover only a very small proportion of the birds and
beasts actually known to exist in the country are treated
of. In fact it requires no great discernment to see that
the authors are no naturalists, and in most cases have
not seen themselves the animals that they describe, but
have simply accepted hearsay evidence as to the exist-
ence and habits of this or that species. This will
account in a measure for the confusion sometimes obser-
vable in their descriptions. I have done my best to
render the Chinese text as simply and as plainly as
possible, and have taken care not to swell the paper
with too many notes.