JOURNAL
OF
THE NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF
THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.
ARTICLE I.
SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW
THROUGH THE PROVINCES OF
KWANGTUNG, KWANGSI, AND HUNAN,
WITH GEOLOGICAL NOTES.
BY ALBERT S. BICKMORE, A.M.*
Ox the 7th of August 1866, I left Canton in company with Mr.
C. L. Weed, photographer at Hongkong, and Rev. Mr. Nevin of
Canton, on a journey into the interior.
Our
course, at first, was westward for about sixty miles through
the great delta of the Sikiang, whose low, fertile fields spread out
widely along the river banks and support a most dense population. "
Along the borders of these low lands, rise serrated mountains-
some peaks attaining an elevation of fifteen hundred to two thou-
sand feet, their sharp ridges and projecting spurs, coming out in
strong relief, on account of the scanty vegetation on their sides.
To one who has been journeying in tropical lands, and especially
among the dense forests of Sumatra, these mountains appear sur-
prisingly bare; and only the more so, when he considers he is
but on the verge of the temperate zone. This nakedness appears
to be a universal characteristic of mountain scenery in China, but
it is not the fault of the soil or the climate, for wherever the little
pines are suffered to rise they show a vigorous growth. The
cause of this universal deficiency in forests, seems to be the fre-
quency of rebellions that have swept to and fro over the whole
*Read before the Society February 17th, 1867.

2 SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC.
empire like a desolating scourge. In a few days, the Chinese
can rebuild their low, mud houses, but nature requires years of
continued peace to cover her mountains with forests, and rebellion
has followed rebellion too quickly for her to accomplish the ever
recurring task; and besides, the people do not care to labour
much where there is a probability that outlaws will profit by
their industry. Yet it is true they do raise some trees in a few
places; but over the wide area that I have travelled not a tenth
part of the soil is thus improved that might be, and then the trees
are generally cut down before they attain any size; and this in
districts whose population is numbered by the hundred thousand,
and nearly all living in houses whose walls are of mud, and their
rafters and floors the only wood they contain.
The old trees occasionally seen in groves around the Buddhist
temples that only owe their preservation to the superstitions of
the destroyers, show what splendid timber thousands of hill sides
in China might yield.
But in regard to the low lands, it hardly seems possible that they
could be made to produce more than is raised at present-two full
crops being obtained nearly everywhere throughout the empire.
The continued fertility of these lands is due, no doubt, chiefly
to two causes: first, the Chinese are careful to save everything
that can possibly serve for manure, in some places even to the hair
they shave from their heads; and secondly, these low lands are
all, or very nearly all, subject to floods, at least once a year, and
a deposit of fine mud is thus spread over them, just as in the
valley of the Nile.
Following up the Sikiang through a deep pass in the first
mountain range we came to the city of Shauking, where the
Viceroy of Kwangtung and Kwangsi resided when the Portuguese
first appeared off the Coast. At present it is mostly in ruins and
its population probably does not exceed 20,000.
About two miles behind it rise the famous Marble Rocks or
"Seven Stars," like dark, sharp needles out of the low green plain.
Mr. Nevin and I measured them with an Aneroid barometer, and
found them to range from one hundred to one hundred and fifty
feet above the plain, though they have been reported at nearly
twice that height. The rock is a highly crystalline limestone, of
a dark blue colour on the weathered surfaces, and of a rusty iron
tinge where large fragments have been lately detached; the whole
traversed in every direction with milk-white veins, and completely

SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC. 3
fissured by joints and seams. They form as striking objects in
the surrounding plain as the "Little Orphan" does in the waters
of the Yangtse, and also like it, contain groups of little temples
in the natural niches in their sides. Large temples are ranged
at their feet, and one which we entered contained in the principal
hall three images of bronze, six or seven feet high. In another
room I noticed an idol with six arms. The whole building was
going rapidly to decay, and it was only after much searching
that we succeeded in finding two poor monks preparing a scanty
meal in the refectory-the last place they were willing to desert
in the whole temple.
Climbing up a steep, narrow stairway that rises diagonally
across the face of the precipice, we reached a second temple,
perched high in a little nook. Along a part of this stairway, a
rude, heavy chain was fastened to the mountain side, that the
timid and weary might help themselves onward to the temples
above; and many must have been the pilgrims that ascended this
difficult way, if we are to judge from the depth of the places their
feet have worn in the solid rock.
The entrance to this temple was through a gateway or portal
of loosened bricks, that leans over the precipice and threatens to
fall with the first person who sets foot within it, and immolaté
him to its heathen God.
We
The priests informed us that this temple was built two cen-
turies ago, when Shauking was a great and flourishing city;
now, the monks can scarcely beg enough from their poor neigh-
bours to satisfy their immediate necessities and their once splendid
temples are rapidly becoming heaps of ruins. Here, as is fre-
quently found in masses of limestone, several caves occur.
entered one of a bell shape. Its floor was mostly covered with
water and a bridge led us to a platform at the farther end. A's
we were crossing this Stygian stream, we were saluted by a loud,
fierce barking; but no other charm was necessary for us to safely
pass the canine guardians than a show of our canes.
Many tablets have been cut in the rock and along a stairway
that brought us to a picturesque temple, where the cave opens to
the sky on the opposite side.
During the excursions in the vicinity of Shauking, both my
companions became quite ill from the excessive heat, and at my
urgent solicitation concluded to return and let me continue on
alone.

4
SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC.
In the second day from Shauking I came to "Cock's Comb
Rock," a huge wall or dyke of limestone, with a crest so jagged
that the name the Chinese have given it, accurately describes it.
Northeast from this in a small plain is a conical hill of the same
rock, whose whole interior has been washed away, forming a
much grander cave than the one previously visited in one of the
"Seven Stars." All these rocks have the same characters and
probably belong to the same geological period.
All the mountains in these regions are composed of fine, hard,
silicious grits, which in some places are compact and flinty, i. e.
quartz rock or quartzite, in others as soft as sandstone; and be-
sides these, of slates that are interstratified with these grits, and
in some places are soft clayslates, and in others as hard as shales.
Half a mile below the little village of Kok-han on the left bank
of the Sikiang, just before I reached the boundary of Kwangsi, I
found these grits and slates resting immediately upon granite in a
nearly horizontal position. The granite at this place was changed
to gneiss to the depth of a few inches beneath these overlying
sedimentary deposits.
Two miles below this village, rises "Ornamental Monumental
Rock." It belongs to the lower part of this series of grits and
shales, but is composed of a coarse conglomerate, and perhaps
represents the conglomerates observed near granite in other parts
of the empire.
Crossing the river at "Cock's Comb Rock" we came to a small
village and anchored for the night astern a little gunboat. On
consulting my map, I found, "A favourite resort for robbers" writ-
ten round the next bend about half a mile up the stream; but I
believed we must be safe with a gunboat so near, and taking care
that my revolver was in prime order and that a heavy sword was
within my grasp, I lay down determined to sleep, despite a con-
tinual din of tomtoms, and the most extravagant crying, and
shrieking, and groaning of some women near by, who were
lamenting the decease of a friend or relative. Late in the night,
the watch on the gunboat began calling out loudly, then my boy
and boatmen joined in, and though I could hear the noise of
approaching oars, there was no reply.
The next instant the gunner on the gunboat fired his cannon,
and at once the men in the strange boat all answered in the meek-
est and humblest manner. Our would-be robbers had that time
mistaken their prey. This is but an illustration of the noises and
alarms that occurred frequently, all the way to Hankow.

SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC. 5
As we slowly ascended the river by poling, tracking and sail-
ing, we stopped several times a day, that I might collect specimens
of the rocks, and ascertain the dip and strike of the strata. In a
week, we reached Wuchau, the last missionary station in this
direction. Here I met Rev. Mr. Graves of Canton and induced
him to accompany me up the Kweikiang or Cassia River as far as
Kweilin, the capital of Kwangsi.
It is so dangerous ascending this river on account of robbers,
that boats only leave Wuchau, when several are ready to go, and
can keep together and afford each other mutual assistance in case
of an attack. As an additional protection the mandarin offered
to send along with us a gunboat, but only one policeman appeared
and he carried no arms.
The boats used on this river are quite different from those seen.
at Canton. They have flat bottoms and curve up high at the
bow and the stern, that the helmsman and a man on the highest
part forward may see some distance ahead and avoid the rocks
when they come down with the rapid current.
The principal article carried up the river is salt, and notwith-
standing our boatmen all agreed not to bring a particle on board,
they did buy a considerable quantity and tried to secrete most of
it in one part of the boat. We very plainly informed them that if
they left it there, it would go overboard. They finally-as nearly
as I could ascertain-bought a permit for a part of it, and smuggled
through the rest. This smuggling is so common, and so little
regarded in the light of a crime, that I was repeatedly assured
that the mandarin boats, which are carrying officials and there-
fore not liable to be searched, never go up or down any of these
rivers, without improving every opportunity of evading the cus-
tom dues. Every day or two we came to a small house, with two
large poles in front bearing large triangular flags, and there we
were always obliged to stop and allow the boat to be searched by
fierce looking fellows, each armed with a long stick pointed with
iron.
Ascending this river is but little else than dragging a boat
up one continued series of rapids, and though ours drew but
five or six inches it sometimes seemed as if the boatmen would
not be able to get her along any farther. This shows well the
shallowness of the stream at this time of the year, and also the
unfavourable fact that steamers can never be used on the river.
The strength of the current is indicated by the fact that the

SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC. .7
as such a view as a lover of crayon sketches might well roam the
whole world over to enjoy.
As we approached Pingloh, a high range of needle shaped
peaks sketched across the river from east to west. They are
composed of the same dark blue, highly crystalline limestone
traversed with white veins, that had been previously noticed in
the Seven Stars at Shauking, and Cock's Comb Rock on the
Sikiang. Here a pass gave a section showing this limestone
apparently resting on the previously mentioned grits.
In the shady places were large quantities of a beautiful blue
Convolvulus in full bloom, of the same species as specimens
Mr. Graves had frequently found in the limestone caves near
Shauking.
Our daily routine was to walk in the forenoon till the sun was
high, and again in the afternoon till the boat had found a safe
anchorage, Mr. Graves collecting plants and sketching a map of
the river, and the writer collecting geological specimens, ascer-
taining the dip of the strata and the direction of the elevation-
details too numerous to be given in full in this sketch.
On the evening after leaving Pingloh as we were following the
river round a high bluff, we suddenly found ourselves on the edge
of a valley ten or twelve miles broad and extending farther than
we could see to the right and left. In every direction it was
perfectly bristling with sharp peaks of limestone. The strata of
this limestone were nearly horizontal, and once the whole valley
was filled with this deposit, which in the course of ages has been
worn into deep channels, that have kept widening until only
sharp peaks are left of what was originally a broad continuous
sheet of solid rock. From a single low position on the river bank
I counted one hundred and ninety two separate peaks. The
highest was, I judge, 1,200 feet above the plain, but even this
probably does not represent the original depth of the formation.
On the low, level plain the people were cultivating rice, indigo,
peanuts, sugar cane, millet and cotton; and the bright green
colour of these crops contrasted sharply with the dark rocks rising
abruptly up from the level lands; and made the whole view the
most striking and picturesque seen on the journey.
A similar view is to be enjoyed among the contorted and
fractured limestones, on the banks of the Tehussovaya, on the
western flanks of the Ural; and it is probably to this same
Devonian period, that these limestones and those previously

8
SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC.
mentioned belong. On passing out of the limestone region the
following section, No. 1, was obtained, a little above the market
place, Hingping.
Limestone b.
Silicious Grits a.
River.
The limestone here rests conformably, as near as I could judge,
on the grits that at Kokhan were found in turn resting on
granite.
Nearer Kweilin the country becomes somewhat more level and
better cultivated, and large water wheels twenty or thirty feet in
diameter are common along the river banks where the rapids are
strong enough to keep them moving. The water is raised by
pieces of bamboo that are fastened to the rim at a slight angle
and bring it up and pour it into a trough as they reach the
highest point and begin to descend on the revolving wheel.
A small pagoda perched on a high rock and a hill through
which there has been chiselled a huge hole, were pointed out by
our boatmen as indications that we were approaching the capital
of the province of Kwangsi.
Instead of being situated on the west side of a lake as repre-
sented on the best maps, it is on the west side of the Kweikiang,
which here is only a small stream but may overflow its banks
during the rainy season. The walls of the city are of blocks of
limestone with a parapet of bricks.
We carefully closed our boat, and in the evening rowed up to
the city. I at once, sent my boy to the Yamun to ask for chairs
and policemen to protect us to the next city, as it was necessary to
make a journey of fifty miles by land. All arrangements could not

SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC. 9
be made till the next day; meantime, we were careful not to let
any one see us, but in some way it oozed out we had come and
early in the morning all the streets and boats near us were packed
with people anxious to get a sight of the foreigners. At first we
tried to escape them by moving rapidly from place to place,
darting hither and thither like a bird trying to escape from a hawk;
but we met a crowd every where, and concluded the better way
was to go out on the front part of the boat and exhibit ourselves
by turns to the curious public. When one throng had satiated
their curiosity they generally left us, but they were immediately
replaced by one still larger, until it seemed as if all the chinamen
south of the Great Wall had come out to gaze at us. Meanwhile
my boy arrived from the Yamun stating that all was ready, and
the mandarin begged if I was going to Hankow I would proceed
at once, for the whole city was so much excited on account of a
proclamation that had been posted about, that he feared we might
be attacked by so many he could not defend us.
Mr. Graves kindly translated the proclamation for me, as
follows:
"It has already been determined by common consent, that if any
one has anything to do with the IMPS or rents them a house or
any other dwelling-place, his house and his family dwelling shall
be immediately burnt to the ground, and his whole family, male and
female, old and young, shall at once be put to death.
By Order of the Whole Provincial City."
Despite this formidable threat, I determined to continue to
push on my way to Hankow. A great crowd gathered on the
shore when I landed and the boys hooted and shouted, but I
could not understand what they said and only hurried on my
chair coolies through the suburbs, which were everywhere per-
fectly thronged. Two or three times I feared they would block
up the street in front of me, and thus stop me altogether, but
they seemed to have a suspicious respect for the barbarian and
allowed me to pass.
When we came to the chief gate and were entering the city,
some officials stopped my chair and drew me into their office from
the press of the crowd, while they were instructing my coolies to
go round the city and not through it. Here one of the coolies
took this opportunity to run away, and it was a long time before
another could be obtained, but I finally continued on between
the city wall and the river, until we came to a great rock round

10
SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC.
which we were ferried in a boat; and thus I was once more free
from my persecutors. I also had the pleasure there of being able
to walk myself, that I might hurry on my chair coolies at the
top of their speed, and thus with all possible haste distance this
city of Destruction.
Night however, overtook us when we were five miles away, and
the two policemen guarding us, selected an inn in a little village,
where we lodged for the night. After such a tumult it seemed
so quiet and safe that I was tempted out into a neighbouring field,
to note by the aid of an azimuth compass the direction of the
valley we were to travel in on the morrow, and also the form of
the mountains that bordered it. While I was absorbed in this
view a man from the village passed by me and noticed the com-
pass, so I shut it up and went back to rest, for fear he might
think I was a geomancer.
Late in the evening the whole neighbourhood began to resound
with a heavy beating of gongs and soon a large crowd, carrying
torches, gathered in front of the inn and began shouting "KILL
HIM! KILL HIM! KILL THE WHITE DEVIL!" I plainly saw
they had come to rob me and kill me and feared the worst, but
my policemen showed them my pass from their mandarin, and
assured them that if they did me any harm the mandarin would
behead them all and destroy the whole village. And after
much spiteful discussion they offered to leave me on the con-
dition that I should leave their village as soon as daylight
appeared. The only crime alleged against me was that one of
their number had seen me with a mysterious instrument observ-
ing the valleys and mountains, and they were all satisfied I had
come to carry away the hidden treasures, which they were sure
their land possessed.
Almost everywhere, when they saw me breaking the rocks,
they at once concluded I was looking for gold, or silver, or
precious stones. Another common belief is that a foreigner, who
has blue eyes has the clairvoyant power of seeing straight
through any quality of solid rock.
September 3rd.-At the earliest dawn, started up the valley
to the north east, the general direction of the Kweikiang above
Kweilin. The road or more properly path is only three or four
feet wide and paved with blocks of limestone or cobble stone
from the bed of the neighbouring river. Great numbers of coolies
were passing to and fro, this being one of the four great high-

SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC. 11
ways between the southern part of the empire and the valley of
the Yangtse. The others are; that, from Kwantung over the
"Meiling Pass" into the province of Kiangsi and down the
Kan river to Poyang Lake; that from Lohchang over the "Lesser
Meiling Pass" to Chinchau in Hunan; and one from Yunnan,
the capital of the province of that name to Kweiyang, the
capital of Kweichau, and thence down the Wu to the Yangtse.
At 10 A. M., the road came to a small tributary of the Kweikiang,
coming in from the north west. On each side of this stream
there had once been a large flight of marble steps nicely cut, and
carefully laid, but now they are all falling apart and the whole
work going to decay, the amount of traffic at present not being
sufficient even to keep them in repair. On one bank was a
small square pagoda-like tower, and near it two great iron
pillars surmounted by a large ornamental cap. Around each
pillar was an iron ring large enough for a sea junk. The people
said they were to fasten robbers to-probably the Miautse, who
live in the neighbouring mountains to the north and north west,
and are said to come down frequently and plunder the smaller
villages. Notwithstanding all such chains and iron pillars,
these Miautse have maintained an uninterrupted independence,
a proof of the continued weakness of the Chinese government in
every dynasty.
At 2 P. M., stopped to lunch at an inn. The policemen
insisted on my going into a small room and remaining there out
of sight, till we were ready to start again, and after that, all the
way to Hankow-a distance of eight hundred miles, I was so
closely attended and so strictly guarded, that I found myself
really a prisoner. I could make no detours to the right and left
as I pleased, when we were passing objects of special interest.
My compass I was obliged to carry under my vest, and only
dared to take it out when we were away from any village and
the road clear of coolies, but then my boy felt it his duty to
remind me of the serious trouble it had just caused us; and
besides whenever I looked at it often my policemen manifested a
decided suspicion that I was a spy. Of course such restrictions
narrowly limited my observations, yet I have no right to complain
for all these measures were necessary for my safety. Through
the province of Hunan I was constantly attended by one civil
mandarin, one policeman, one military mandarin, and two or
three soldiers.

12
SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC.
2 P. M. came to Ling-sun, a hien city, 60 li from Kweilin.
The Yamun was near the gate we entered, and the officials that
quickly gathered round all seemed to be in good temper and
regard me with pity rather than hate. I tried to give them
some idea of my route by naming the chief places and marking
out a rude map on the wall; but the policemen were afraid a mob
might gather and took me to an inn where every room was full
except one, and on one of the two beds in that, an old opium
smoker lay stretched out, half stupefied with the drug.
It was properly more of a dungeon than a guest chamber.
A single small piece of glass in the roof, which was little higher
than our heads, admitted all the light we were allowed to enjoy,
but my companion, at least, was blissfully indifferent to the
inconveniences of our prison. Several small boys climbed up
the partitions to steal a sight at their odd visitor, but I was
becoming accustomed to such rudeness. Meantime numbers of
the curious of both sexes, gathered in an outer room, and as a
cloud of dust rose from the kang whenever I moved, it soon
irritated my nostrils, and the whole party set up a loud laugh
to think such a strange animal as a foreigner could sneeze.
After three hours, we continued on and passed out at the
eastern gate. The whole city is a mere heap of ruins, and there
are scarcely houses enough left, to line the single main street, so
complete is the destruction made by the Taepings.
Surrounding the city is a small plain that appears very fertile
and perfectly dotted with stacks of rice which the people are just
now gathering.
A walk of thirty-five li brought us to Tai-ung-gong, a small
village on the Kweikiang or Cassia river, for the water still flows
towards Kweilin. Before we reached this place we crossed a
small stream flowing into the Kweikiang from the north. In its
bed I noticed pebbles of granite and porphyry, but all the rocks
seen in situ were the common grits and quartzites. It contained
many rafts of bamboos waiting to be floated down to Kweilin
and Wuchau.
The valley here is nearly filled with small hills, but in this
immediate vicinity only. Among them I gathered a beautiful
blue bell, quite like that found on our own hill sides in New
England. A kind of blackberry that grew in the old ruins by
the roadside was ripening, and the opening of the asters also
heralded the coming of autumn, as at home.

SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC. 13
The next day we travelled fifty-five li, to the hien city Hingan.
The water here flows to the north, and the water shed is a few
li to the south west of the city. It is not natural but artificial;
what were originally only small streams have been enlarged
and connected by canals, but it is only during the rainy season
that they can be used, and then not for boats drawing more
than two feet. The water is kept for a time in these canals by
building dams across them wherever a rapid would occur, and
allowing a stream to flow only through a gap in the dam deep
enough for a single boat to pass over.
Hingan is in the same ruinous condition as Lingsun. It is
one hundred and fifty li in a north-easterly direction from
Kweilin. The river there was still so low that I was obliged to
go seventeen li farther to the village of Tan-ka-tse, to take a boat
for Sinchau, one hundred and forty li down the Siang. Along
this route the water was so low that we were continually thump-
ing, bumping, and grating over the rocks and coarse shingle,
especially in the gaps in the dams.
These dams occured every one or two li. They are made with
a gap for boats to pass over by one bank, and by the other a
sluice way, where as many as ten water wheels were sometimes
seen one behind the other. It seemed as if there were more
rapids in the fourteen leagues from Tan-ka-tse to Sinchau, than
in the sixteen leagues from Kweilin to Wuchau on the other side
of the water shed.
Sinchau is the chief city in all this region, and appeared
nearly as large as Wuchau. It is not in Hunan but in the
province of Kwangsi. There my boatmen bought some fossil
Brachiopoda, which they all agreed in saying came from a
waterfall ninety-three li distant among the hills.
Small boys gather them at the foot of the fall and bring them
to the market to sell as curiosities. From the curved parts at
the hinge, the Chinese call them "Hawks." A mandarin also
gave me the same account of them. They probably come from
the limestone already mentioned as resting on grits, see section
No. 1.
The boundary between Kwangsi and Hunan is about one.
hundred li down the Siang from Sinchau. There, only low hills
border the river, and the valley of the Siang really begins. All
the way from Shauking near Canton to this point, the whole
country is one mass of hills. Dark shales appear here, probably

14 SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC.
belonging to the coal rocks and apparently resting on the lime-
stone over which we had been passing since leaving Hingan.
In eight days from Sinchau, we reached Kiyang, which is
situated on the left bank of the Siang, and not some distance
back from it, as placed on the maps. Below this city, the country
becomes thickly populated and well cultivated, and the temples
which were all destroyed by the Taeping rebels appear every-
where newly built, contrasting in a marked degree with the
dilapidated condition of the temples in every other part of the
empire, and indicating the high prosperity of the people by whose
contributions they are built. They are so numerous and form
so conspicuous a part of every river scene along the Siang, that
Hunan may properly be styled the province of temples and the
stronghold of Buddhism.
Eight or ten li below Kiyang on the right bank, strata of
limestone are seen resting on the ends of other limestone layers,
as if the upper series belong to a wholly different formation-
section thus:
b.
The lower limestone has the jointed and fissured appearance of
that represented by b. in section No. 1.
Eighty-four li below Kiyang, at the village of Pin-cha-pu, we
passed a hill of limestone interstratified with coal. They were
quarrying the limerock and using the coal obtained at the same
time to burn it to lime. Dip of these strata 40° to the north, and
a little further in that direction came red sandstone with a similar
dip of 15° to 20°.-Section No. 3.
Coal strata
interstratified
with limestone.
Village of
Pin-cha-pu.
Red sandstone.
c.

SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC. 15
September 16th.-Stopped for the night at a little village one
hundred and sixty-five li above Hangchau. As we arrived after
dark no one saw me and I was left unmolested. All the evening
there was even more loud talking and disputing, than I had been
accustomed to hear, as if most of the villagers had been indulging
freely in samshoo. Before we pushed off to anchor as usual in
the stream, my boy asked the mandarin if he would like to take
a walk along the front street, but he only shook his head in an
ominous manner and replied "they are all ruffians, there." About
ten o'clock very loud and excited talking began in a party on the
bank near us, and soon one of them began screaming and groan-
ing as if he had received his death blow.
Immediately his murderers brought him down the bank, put
him in a small boat and paddled out close by us to the middle of
the river, their victim all this time groaning more and more feebly
and evidently dying. My boy said this man belonged to some
other village and was carrying some money to Hangchau, and
when the thieves had robbed him and he cried out for help,
they wounded him and were then sinking him in the river.
By this time the officers at the Yamun commenced firing small
cannon every ten or fifteen minutes, and kept it up regularly for
some two hours.
I found we had thus unwittingly run directly into a nest of
assassins, but I trusted no one had seen me, for that was the only
way I could hope to escape alive. There was nothing for me to
do, but keep as quiet as possible so as not to attract their atten-
tion, and leave the place at the earliest dawn. Determined when
the event came to sell my life dearly, I threw open the lid of my
revolver box and listened for many long, lonely hours, but finally
fell asleep, and when I awoke again our boat was floating rapidly
down the stream and this village of robbers was far out of sight
behind us.
We soon passed the following section No. 4, and came to Li-
chang, where some fifty boats were loading with coal.
Red sandstone.
Limestone.
d.
Red sandstone.

16
SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC.
This is the principal coal mine on the Siang. It is situated on
the left bank, one hundred and forty-five li above Hangchau. As
shown in the section, the coal beds rest on limestone, and this is
also the case in Szechuen, in the coal regions near Peking, and
probably in every part of the empire wherever both occur.
On the coal strata rests red sandstone, which originally cov-
ered all the coal deposits in this vicinity; the coal only appearing
at the surface, where it has been thrust up through the overlying
strata of sandstone, as seen in the section or when the sandstone
has suffered very considerable denudation.
As we were but six miles from the village where the murder
just described occurred, the mandarin sent to protect me, declared
he would not allow me to land and travel through the mines; and
I was therefore able to note only what could be seen from the
river. All the "mines" that were thus observed, were merely
deep pits in the sides of the hills, and consequently only "sur-
face" coals are obtained. The engineers of steam boats on the
Yangtse inform me, that the coal from this and the neighbouring
mines has improved in quality considerably since the first was
brought to market. It should be noted here, that the best coal
usually occurs only below the water level, and the Chinese are
obliged to stop when they come to that, for want of proper
pumping apparatus.
The best coal in China therefore remains undisturbed, but
there is much reason to doubt whether it will ever equal the best
coals of England or America.
Hangchau is the great depot for coals in Hunan, and the mi-
litary mandarin who accompanied me from that city to Chang-
sha, the capital of the province, stated that, coal is mined
at Kweiyang and Laiyang (see Dr. William's map of China), and
also at Sinhwa on the Tsz'kiang. It probably occurs therefore
everywhere, beneath the red sandstone that covers the plains of
Hunan, though it is mined only when it outcrops on the borders
of these plains or when it has been brought to the surface by
elevations that have taken place since the deposition of the red
sandstone. When the present mines become exhausted, no doubt
an immense supply may be obtained by boring through the over-
lying red sandstone-see left-hand part of section No. 4.
The wide extent of the coal beds in China promises much for
the development of this land in the future. From Lichang to
Moukden, north of the Gulf of Liautung, there is an almost

SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC. 17
continued series of coal mines on the flanks of the elevations
that border the Great Plain.
The most important place for trade in Hunan, is Siangtan,
ninety li south of Changsha. All the boats that come down the
numerous branches of the Siang make this their point of rendes-
vous, and there is water enough for small steamers from Hankow,
unless a bar occurs where this river empties into Tungting Lake.
This place I crossed during the night and when there was a
flood; besides, we did not follow the proper channel. When
I reached this lake a heavy northerly wind had been blowing
for six or seven days, and few or no boats had had crossed it
during that time.
A southerly breeze then set in, and all the boats that had been
harbouring in the many creeks and bays, came out on the lake;
and at sunrise. I enjoyed a view only to be seen in this land
that numbers its population by the hundred million. As far as
the eye could see before us and behind us, and for several miles
on either side, the whole surface of the water was perfectly
feathered with white sails, some in sunshine, some in shadow,
and others in the dim distance apparenty gliding along on a
thin film of air. Twice I counted nearly four hundred and forty
in sight at one time, and with the aid of my field glass fully one
hundred more could be distinguished, all leaning over before the
same breeze and all bound in the same direction. Many were
loaded with tea, many with coals, and many were just swimming
along under huge deck loads of round timber.
This shows the amount of carrying trade between Siangtan
with Changsha, and Yohchau and Hankow and other cities
down the Yangtse. It also indicates that Siangtan is the most
important place up the Yangtse, that is not yet open to foreign
trade and suggests the question whether this city should not be
added to the list of open ports, when the treaty is revised in
1868.
Near Yohchau silicious grits and quartzites again appear,
where the elevation that forms the water shed between Hunan
and Kiangsi crosses the Yangtse.
October 9th. After sixty-three days of continued travelling,
reached Hankow, the distance from Canton by the route chosen
being about twelve hundred miles. This journey was undertaken
expressly to ascertain the kinds of rocks in southern China and
the order of their superposition. Full series of specimens were
2

18 SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC.
collected at every interesting point and the preceeding sections
and remarks show the succession of the rocks to be: First, and
lowest, Granite, on which rests the second formation composed of
Grits and Slates a., in section No. 1.
These are covered thirdly by old Limestones b., in section
No. 2. On these rest fourthly another series of Limestone
Strata c., in section No. 2, and c. c. c. in section No. 3 of the
same age as the Coal Beds d. d. section No. 3 and d. section
No. 4. These Coal Beds are covered fifthly by Red Sandstone
e., in section No. 3 and e. e., section No. 4.
The limestone in section No. 4 is probably that marked C., in
section No. 2, but may be that marked b. in section No. 2 and
section No. 1.
Fossil Brachiopoda were obtained at Sinchau probably from
the Limestone Strata marked b. sections No. 1 and 2, and
appear to belong to the Devonian period, but all further discus-
sion concerning them is deferred until they can be compared
side by side, with full series from large collections in Europe
and America.
A very rare and valuable collection of fossil plants was given
me by M. l'Abbe David of Peking, from the coal rocks near that
city. They probably belong to the same age as a series sent by
Prof. Pumpelly to Dr. Newberry, and which that palaeontologist
considers as later than the Carboniferous, and probably Triassic.
Besides the above questions in geology, it was a matter of some
interest in physical geography to learn whether there was a
water communication between the river system of the Sikiang and
that of the Yangtse. I ascertained that there was such a com-
munication, as already noticed, in some seasons of the year, but
the canals need much enlarging to be of any commercial value.
This communication is artificial and has been made in the follow-
ing manner. The east and west chain of mountains, in some
places called the "Meiling range," and in others the "Nanling
range" is here composed of separate ridges which instead of
extending east and west run parallel with each other in a direction
N. 60° E. and S. 60° W.
The Kweikiang takes its rise near the northern end of one valley,
while the source of the Siang it at the southern end of the next
valley, and for some distance these streams are nearly parallel to
each other but flow in opposite directions. It was only necessary
to make a canal between the two at right angles to their courses
and the communication was complete.

SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC. 19
This was done near the source of the Kweikiang where previously
only a very slight elevation prevented the water at that place
from flowing into the Siang.
If there were large reservoirs along this canal to receive the
surplus water during the rainy months, and pour it out during
the dry season, as there are along the higher parts of the Grand
Canal, boats could pass to and from Kweilin and Sinchau through-
out the year. But the chief difficulty is not here near the water-
shed, but in the many strong and dangerous rapids that occur all
the way down the Cassia River from Kweilin to Wuchau on the
one side, and from Hingan down the Siang to Yungchau on the
other. To improve the navigation of these rivers to a satisfactory
degree would, I believe, prove nearly as costly as building a
railroad, without offering all the advantages of the latter for the
development of the adjoining country.
Besides the water communication between the Sikiang and the
Yangtse described above, it has been supposed another might be
found by following up the Sikiang directly westward to Sz'ching,
thence north westerly to Hingi and Nganngan in Kweichau, and
thence northerly to some branch of the Wu River and so down
to the Yangtse.
At first I proposed taking this route but decided on the one
chosen on account of its being nearer the seaboard and therefore
more immediately interesting. The topography of Hunan and
the eastern part of Kwangsi being now sufficiently well known,
it remains for the next traveller to take the second route through
Kweichau and the central parts of Kwangsi and give definite
information concerning the geography and geology of that part
of the Empire. Such a journey will greatly increase our present
knowledge of the wide ramifications of the rivers and canals in
China-the completeness of her internal water communications
being as much a wonder as the immense numbers of her popula-
tion.
The route from Canton to Hankow, is the one proposed for a
railroad between those cities, and I am able to state that there
is no physical feature whatever that will render the work of any
greater difficulty than in any hilly country. The great obstacle
to carrying out such an undertaking will be the bitter hostility
of the people to all foreigners, and their superstitious fear that
any such work may affect the winds and rains, and deluge their
crops with floods or parch them with heat. Again there seemed

20 SKETCH OF A JOURNEY FROM CANTON TO HANKOW, ETC.
to be but little produce transported either way between Kweilin
and Sinchau.
From Sinchau and the other cities, Kiyang, Hangchow, &c.,
that we successively reached on our way down the Siang, many
boats go laden to Siangtan and thence to Hankow, but they
almost all return without any cargo. Along this part of the
route there is a plentiful supply of coals at a very cheap rate,
and wood enough for sleepers.
But I suggest that possibly a more desirable route might be:
from Canton up the North River to Shauchau, and thence up a
small stream in a northwesterly direction to Lohchang and over
the Lesser Meiling Pass to Chinchau and down a branch of the
Siang to Hangchau; provided this pass is not so high as to make
deep cuttings or tunnelling necessary. All such difficulties would
certainly be avoided by extending the line, as proposed, from
Hangchau southerly to Kweilin, the capital of Kwangsi, and
thence down the Kweikiang or Cassia River to Wuchau, but it is
very mountainous between Kweilin and Wuchau and but compa-
ratively little is transported either way.
The route over the Lesser Meiling Pass is the one by which
the teas raised in the provinces of Hunan and Kweichau were
transported to Canton when that city was the only open port;
and when I was at Hangchau, the mandarins and boatmen all
told me, that all their trade with the province of Kwangtung at
present, was carried on by that route; and repeatedly they asked
me why I did not come in this direct way, instead of selecting a
route that had taken me twice as long. They also affirmed that
there was no water communication between the source of the
branch of the Siang near Chinchau and the source of the branch
of the North River at Lohchang, on the south side of the water
shed.