[33]
ARTICLE III.
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA,
ITS PRODUCTIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
BY REV. A. WILLIAMSON, CHEFOO.*
In the course of duty having been engaged, less or more, for
three years in travelling over the north-eastern provinces of
China, it appears only right that I should give some account of
these districts so rarely visited by Europeans, especially in view
of the urgent demand from all quarters for trustworthy informa-
from the interior of the Empire. And I am the more disposed
to do so at present in as much as I have just completed a long
journey of 1750 miles going and returning in company with my
friend Mr. Lees of Tien-tsin, through the provinces of Chili,
Shan-si, Shen-si and part of Honan, and have observed several
things of some importance relating to the resources of the coun-
try, the river and road communication, and the internal state of
this quarter of China.
COAL. At different times and through diverse channels infor-
mation has reached foreigners residing on the coast, of coal in
the neighbourhood of Pekin, and on the east coast of Manchuria.
Not long after the war, Lieut. Howarth, then commanding H. M.'s
gunboat Weazel, and Mr. Brown, of the Legation at Pekin, were
deputed to examine the coal-fields near the capital. They visited
two districts-one lying on the north and the other on the west
and gave us a very favourable report. They affirmed that
there was coal of a very fair quality, and apparently unlimited
quantity; that one of the districts had water communication all
the way to the sea and the other two-thirds of the way; and that
coal could be laid down at Taku at a very moderate price. A
writer in the Quarterly Review for April, 1866, page 444, says,
"We may state that, having examined coal, including lignite,
*Read before the Society 13th March and 18th April, 1867.

34
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
from nearly every part of the world, we have seen no steam coal
superior to that from the neighbourhood of Pekin, where it is
reported that a magnificent coal-field exists, not less than three
hundred miles in extent. This report is founded on a personal
communication from a geologist who has spent three years in
the exploration of that coal-field." The geologist referred to is,
I presume, Mr. Pompelli, who explored the coal-field near Han-
kow, and that in the north and west of Chi-li, and went overland
through Siberia to Europe, and has lately published an account
of his researches. But be this as it may, the manifest attain-
ments of the writer of that article, and the character of the
periodical, are a sufficient guarantee for the veracity of the state-
ment, and hence it may appear an impertinence on my part to
add one word more in reference to that field. But as two wit-
nesses are better than one-no matter how intelligent and trust-
worthy the former may be-and as I have recently visited districts
from which I believe Mr. Pompelli had only reports, a few remarks
from me may not be deemed superfluous before proceeding to
other matters.
In the autumn of 1863, travelling from Dolonor in Mongolia,
I came upon coal at Kalgan, and found it at almost every place
from that frontier town on to Pekin. The coal came for the most
part from a fine hill called Ki-ming-shan, lat. 40 deg. 28 min. N.,
long. 115 deg. 20 min. E. I spent a day in the neighbourhood
of the place and made some enquiries regarding the matter, and
found the coal good, and plentiful, and cheap.
In the spring of the year 1866, journeying from Newchwang
in Manchuria, I met coal at King-chow, lat. 41 deg. 9 min. N.,
long. 121 deg. 21 min. E., and also found it in common use, at
almost every place between that city and the capital. The coal
in this quarter came from several places. Some came from near
King-chow, some came from the neighbourhood of the palisades,
about 40 deg. 45 min. N., long. 120 deg. E.; and some came
from Chang-li, lat. 39 deg. 48 min. N., and long. 119 deg. 12 min.
E. I know not from what points Mr. Pompelli took his esti-
mates, but if the reader will look at the map, he will find that
from Kingehow to Ki-ming-shan there are more than five and
a-half degrees of longitude, which shews that his statement is
correct. I brought some specimens of the coal of these eastern
parts home with me, some of which were pronounced most ex-
cellent coal.

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
35
In this connection I may also mention that capital coal is
found in Manchuria, 18 miles east from Liau-yang, lat. 41 deg.
18 min. N., long. 123 deg. 13 min. E.; at Foochow on the coast
quite close to the sea, lat. 39 deg. 42 min. N., long. 121 deg. 33
min. E., which coal is carried by junks to Shan-tung and distri-
buted all over the eastern part of the province; also that coal is
found at Poissiet; and here and there all up the sea-board of
Manchuria under Russian protection, and that very fine coal is
likewise to be had in the Island of Sagalien, from which the
Russians supply their steamers.
COAL IN SHAN-SI.-There is yet a still finer field of coal in the
north of China-mentioned in old Jesuit books, but apparently
quite forgotten in modern times; as I have never heard any
reference to it in my intercourse with foreigners, nor seen any
allusion to it in published reports: and it is this and the iron
found there which chiefly induces me to write at present. I
refer to Shan-si. I made a journey through that province and
part of Shan-si and Honan last autumn; and though prepared
from native sources to find coal there, I certainly did not expect
to find it in such abundance and of such magnificent quality.
As we approached this province, the first indication we met was
pack-horses, mules, and asses innumerable, no end of them,
laden with coal and iron coming eastward towards Chi-li. By-
and-bye we came upon inferior coal cropping out on the waysides,
and at last got into the very heart of the coal country. This
district may be said to begin at Tsing-king-hien, and to con-
tinue to Sey-lieh, a village 12 miles east of Tai-yuen-foo.
At this city, viz: Tai-yuen-foo, another coal district may be
said to begin, which reaches on to Ta-foong-foo in the north of
the province, yielding beautiful coal.
A third coal district lies in long. 110 deg. 45 min. and between
lat. 36 deg. 50 min. and lat. 37 deg. 30 min. N.
Another coal district may be said to lie towards the west in
the neighbourhood of Tai-ping-hien, lat. 35 deg. 52 min. N.,
and yet another in Shensi, contiguous to the north-west of Shan-si,
within that great bend of the Yellow River, in lat. 37 deg. 50
min. N., long. 110 deg. E., near the city of Mi-tze-hien. Here,
moreover, we are told petroleum is in common use among the
people. Thus coal is found nearly all over Shan-si, whose area is
miles.
55,268 square

36
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
To shew how plentiful it is, I may mention that travelling
through mountain-passes towards Tai-yuen-foo, at almost every
road falling into the Imperial highway from the north, we found
donkeys laden with coal, and also on our way through the Tai-
yuen plain, going southwards, on the right hand and on the left
we found coal pouring in, shewing that it literally abounded.
One district in particular struck us, namely, that in lat. 36 deg. 50
min. to 37 deg. 30 min. N., long., 111 deg. 45 min. E. Leaving
Chee-shui-hien a few miles brought us into a fine country watered
by the river Fuen, which extends for 130 li, or 38 English miles,
and appears to be full of this mineral. At first on the western
side we saw pit after pit, collier villages, and all the accessories
of coal mining on the hill sides; and having proceeded onwards
a little we found them also at the eastern side, on which our road
lay, and passed them at greater or lesser intervals till we came
to Ling-sz-hien. Three miles beyond this we had to cross the
famous Han-sing-ling Pass, and from the top of the mountains
we could descry coal cropping out on the hillsides all around,
just as if courting the hand of man to come and take it. This
place was particularly interesting-a very paradise for geologists.
Like another valley near Ping-ding-chow, there was a great
variety of coloured earths exposed to view, and as many of the
hills were cut through almost perpendicularly, and the strata
beautifully distinct, the various colours in the sunlight reflected
all the hues of the rainbow.
Of course we could not visit all the coal mines in the different
districts, but we constantly enquired of the muleteers where their
coal came from? the price of it? whether it was plentiful? &c.,
and generally got a sample of it from them to carry home. And
also when resting in the inns we made it a duty to examine the
nature of the coal used for cooking and other purposes, and to
ascertain all the particulars regarding it.
We visited several of the pits in the neighbourhood of Ping-
ding-chow, and also in the third district referred to.
As I said, I shall not enter into any details, but sum up.
Throughout Shan-si we found two distinct kinds of coal-one
of a dullish black colour, rough and emitting smoke, good bitu
minous coal; the other of a clear, shining black, light, easily
igniting, but emitting no smoke and leaving no ashes. It is not
coke, but a natural product, they called this coal charcoal; many
of the pits are ingoees entering the hills horizontally at a greater-

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
37
or lesser incline, but a large proportion are vertical pits substan-
tially faced with stone and wrought by strong windlasses; some
of the former were said to be one li or one third of an English
mile in length, and the latter sometimes as many as 200 feet deep.
Generally speaking, the seams of coal appeared to be of a
great thickness all over the country. The blocks piled up at the
mouths of the pits, the great pieces on the backs of the mules, in
many cases three pieces serving for a full load, and two pieces
for a donkey-and the huge lumps which we often met in the
plain, on the carts, which it would take two men to lift, are the
best proofs we could have of this. At one of the pits we visited
we were told that the seam was from three to four feet thick,
and this we believe to be about the average. We made enqui-
ries as to fire damp; they said it was unknown in the midland
districts, but there was fire in some of the pits in the north; that
the great enemy they had to contend with was water, for having
dug in a certain length or down a certain depth, water came up
and stopped all operations, and they had to open a new mine in
another locality.
But perhaps the most conclusive proof of the abundance and
easy accessibility of the coal in the price. This, of course, is
varied in proportion to the distance from the mines, but at the
pit's mouth we found the price in all the districts ranging from
50 to 70 cash per picul, or 2d to 3d per cwt. for the best coal. In
view of their rude way of working, this speaks volumes. In
addition to the black coal just described we found abundance of
brown coal both in Chili and Shan-si. This coal they burn with
the black, especially with the kind called coal-charcoal; this
latter prevents it burning away too rapidly and retains heat
after the former is all consumed. Several varieties are found,
some of a light brown, and others of a reddish brown, and it in
Imany places costs nothing but the carriage. There are great
quantities of this in the district of Ping-ding-chow, and also at
Ling-sz-hien.
Whether it be of any great use must be determined by practical
men.
IRON IN SHAN-SI.-Not only have we coal in Shan-si, but
abundance of iron, a fact likewise apparently quite unknown to
Europe. This mineral is found in many places throughout the
province, but there are four districts especially famed for it. The
first is the district of Ping-ding-chow, formerly referred to above

38
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
as producing coal, in which are the cities of Yu-hien, lat. 38 deg.
12 min., long. 113 deg. 15 min., and Lo-ping, lat. 37 deg. 39
min., long. 113 deg. 45 min., where iron-ore mines abound. The
next is the neighbourhood of Tai-yuen-foo. Here outside the east
gate and at the hills 13 miles to the N. W. are iron manu-
factories. Towards the west of the province in the district of
Tai-ping-hien, lat. 35 deg. 52 min., are also great quantities of
iron.
But the most famed district is that of Loo-ngan-foo, lat. 36 deg.
7 min. N. The mines here produce the iron of which the Chinese
make their razors, knives and cutlery: this iron is in request
all over the country, and it appears to be as plentiful as it is
famous, perhaps its fame is the cause of its abundance, inducing
the natives to mine it to a greater extent. An intelligent black-
smith whom we questioned on this point said that at Tai-ping-hien
and Yu-hien there was a good deal produced, but not to be com-
pared to Loo-ngan-foo; that at this city you could always get as
much as you wished, that it was "to to li hai," literally in
"frightful lots." But besides these districts and others mention-
ed in Chinese books I am persuaded that iron exists in many
quarters not yet known to the Chinese, or, if known, not deemed
by them worth working, owing to the abundance and cheapness
of that already in the market. We found iron-ore in several
places other than where it is manufactured. Leaving Ping-ding-
chow, and passing toward Tai-yuen-foo, we found black iron-ore
in the bed of the mountain-torrent. Travelling southward to-
ward Ling-sz-hien we found iron-ore among the stuff at a chemical
work on the way-side, and large lumps of rock full of sulphur,
&c. And yet more important, as we entered the city of Ling-sz-
hien from the east, we passed a walled enclosure provided with a
gateway, marking the place as of some notoriety. We entered,
and there we found a stone standing perpendicularly, carefully
set in a substantial socket, having a vase for incense before it and
a temple behind it. It was about 5 feet high, 3 feet wide, and
18 inches or so thick in the centre. To our surprise we found it
to be a huge block of iron-ore, in fact, nearly pure iron. We
examined it most carefully, we struck it with several articles, and
it rung out like bell metal. The tablet at the side of it said it
was found by the Emperor Sui-kai, in the 10th year of his reign,
in the bed of the river Fun, which flows through the valley; that
it was deemed such a curiosity by the great Emperor Kang-hi

40
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
There are also iron mines in Manchuria in juxtaposition with
the coal mines already referred to, 18 miles to the east of Liau-
yang, lat. 41 deg. 18 min. N., long. 123 deg. 13 min. E. They
supply all that district with iron utensils and are famous all over
the country.
GOLD. This is found in several places in the north of China,
Manchuria and Mongolia. Before the rebellion in Shen-si it was
obtained from the sand of the rivers and streams of that province,
especially in the neighbourhood of Lan-chow. The Jesuit fathers
tell us that an infinite number of persons made their livelihood
by searching the sands of these rivers. Gold is also procured in
considerable quantity in Mongolia and in the centre and on the
sea-board of Manchuria. We have seen a sample of several
ounces from the neighbourhood of Poissiet which very much
resembled Australian gold.
SILVER-We have been asked where does all the silver come
from which is shipped in such quantities from Tien-tsin. We have
not been able to arrive at a definite solution of the problem.
Doubtless a large portion of. it is due to the commerce and
Government of the country, but there must be important silver
mines some-where in the north. A passing traveller can see
coal and iron, and such bulky and cheap minerals, but it is some-
what difficult to discover the locality of the precious metals. We
have little doubt but that there is plenty in Shan-si, but while
there we could only hear of one place about 60 miles north of
Tai-yuen-foo which produced silver.
We believe that large quantities are being found just now by
the Russians in the Altai mountains.
TIN. This metal is said to be found in the country of the
Karchin tribes in Mongolia.
LIME. Several varieties of most excellent limestone abound
all over Shan-si, as well as though less plentifully in the other
provinces.
EARTHS AND CLAYS.-In the province of Shan-si near Ping-
ding-chow we found the people manufacturing porcelain and croc-
keryware of several descriptions. The porcelain was comparatively
coarse, but seemed capable of great improvement. Here also, as
well as at Po-shan-hien in Shan-tung, we found them making a
species of earthenware of a very strange description. It is very
thin and brittle, and looks in colour like a black-leaded but
is extremely light. Very little fuel and almost no time serves to
pot,

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
41
cause it to boil, and hence it is in great demand all over Chi-li,
where the poor have to depend upon straw and dried grass for
their fires. This ware is also made at Loo-ngan-foo. In the
neighbourhood as well as in many other places we found fullers
earth and clays in great variety used for all sorts of purposes.
MARBLE. In the north of Shan-si we have plenty of fine
marble of various colours, and also a variety beautifully veined
among the hills on the north-west of Chi-li. As well as in
Shan-si, we have white marble in great abundance. We were
told of some hills of solid marble.
BUILDING STONES.-Of this commodity in the hilly districts
there is literally no end.
PRECIOUS STONES.-In reference to these we can only speak
from report; but were assured that in Shan-si, and among the hills
in the south of Shen-si, precious stones, such as lapis lazuli, ruby,
&c., &c., abound, and we have every reason to believe the report
correct.
SULPHUR AND SALTPETRE.-There is plenty of Sulphur in
Shan-si and Saltpetre in Chi-li.
COTTON. In several districts in the north of China Cotton is
grown in considerable quantities, and could be produced much
more extensively. In reference to Chi-li it may be said to be raised
all over the province under the 39th degree of latitude. In the
southern half of Shan-si it abounds; after crossing the Han-sing-
ling Pass, lat. 36 deg. 30 min. N., we found it every where.
Having crossed the Yellow River at the Toong-kwan, lat. 34
deg. 49 min. N., long. 110 deg. 40 min. E., and having entered
Shen-si, we found this important staple growing all over the
country on to Si-ngan-foo, the capital of the province; return-
ing homewards through the north-west corner of Ho-nan we
travelled through field after field and in many places there was
nothing but Cotton as far as the eye could reach.
Nor is it a stranger in Manchuria, far north though this be.
Cotton grows on the slopes of the hills to the east of Moukden,
lat. 42 deg. 20 min., long. 123 deg. 30 min. E., and even further
to the north-east in the direction of Kirin. We also found the
farmers sowing it over a considerable area in the neighbourhood
of King-chow, lat. 41 deg. 10 min., long. 121 deg. 8 min., and
all along that belt of country which lies between the hills and
the sea from the above city to Shan-hai-kwan.

42
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
In these provinces there are several varieties. In Shansi there
are two distinct kinds-one with a reddish tinge and one pure
white. We brought samples home with us, and the white
Shan-si Cotton was pronounced much finer in colour and longer
in the staple than that commonly obtained at Tien-tsin or Chefoo.
The natives themselves remarked this-they said "your Cotton
in Chi-li is hair; our's is wool."
On our way home from Shen-si and through Ho-nan we met
literally tremendous quantities of cotton on its way to Si-ngan-
foo, there to be manufactured for the Shen-si and Kan-suh
people.
We tried what we could to obtain reliable information regard-
ing the cultivation of this plant, but were not quite satisfied with
the results of our enquiries. There was, as might be expected,
considerable diversity in the amount of seed sown and the yield.
In some places we were told that they used only four lbs. of
cotton-seed to a mow which is the sixth of an acre; and in
other places from five lbs. up to eight lbs. to the mow. In some
places we were also told that the yield was only about 100 lbs. of
cotton-tops per mow and from this they obtained 40 lbs. of good
cotton-wool and 60 lbs. of seeds, while in other places we were
assured that they obtained as many as 300 lbs. to 400 lbs. of
cotton-tops per mow in a good year, from which they obtained.
30 lbs. of clean cotton and 70 lbs. of seeds in every 100 lbs. of
tops.
One thing we are clear about and that is, that the quantity of
the yield, and the quality of the wool could be very much improv-
ed by greater care in the cultivation. They do not irrigate it,
very seldom water it, and sometimes even plant it without manure.
In many places the seed is put in after a spring crop has been
lifted. I have observed that the seed was in some cases buried
in manure before planting.
They use the seeds for oil, and the refuse, they employ as
food for cattle. The seeds sell for 30 cash or 40 cash per lb. or
from 1d. to 2d. per lb.
The soil is possessed, in general, by small proprietors who
cultivate from five to twenty acres. They pay a land-rent to the
government of 400 to 450 cash per acre, or 20d. to 22 d. in
English money for good ground. Large proprietors who let
their land either receive a certain rent, or a certain proportion of
the produce according to agreement. The usual wages paid to

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
43
farm servants in Chi-li is 15,000 cash per annum or about £3 108.
together with their food.
Another means of improving the crop would be the introduc-
tion of foreign seed from America or elsewhere. As far as I
know this has not been tried in the north of China, but I under-
stand that a small planter in the north-west of Shan-tung, has
sent for a quantity to be planted next spring. Let us hope this
is only the beginning of better things.
I am not sure but north China may be as a position to return
compliment by sending seed which may be of some value to
Europe. You will observe that Cotton is grown here in lati-
tudes 40°, 41°, 42°, and 43° north, of a very fair quality: for the
Manchurian cotton is all in these districts. I do not know of
it being grown in any other part of the world in such high
latitudes, and so it is very probable that seed from these places
might grow with success in many places in central Europe.
Though the staple be short we know it makes most excellent
strong cotton, and machinery could easily be adapted to meet
that difficulty.
SILK. This is cultivated in several districts in the north of
China; worms are reared in Manchuria on the hills to the north-
east of Newchwang, from which the strong Pongee is produced
(see Consul Meadow's able report.) They are also reared in the
neighbourhood of King-chow, long. 121 deg. 8 min., lat. 41 deg.
10 min. Many of the Shan-tung manufacturers go over to these
places and buy the raw silk exposed for sale in the fairs, and
take it home to be spun and woven.
Nor are they without the mulberry-tree in these regions. A
friend found orchards of them near the large town of Pa-kow,
outside the great wall, south-east of Ze-hol.
WOOL. Of wool and camels' hair there is an unlimited supply.
If you take a map and look over the north and north-west and
north-east you will find the country covered with such uncouth
names as these Tow-mets, Tsa-khars, Kor-chin Cha-lets, Tour-
betts, Omi-outs, Kar-chin, &c., &c. These are names of tribes which
are nomadic and pastoral. Their flocks of sheep, oxen, horses,
and camels are innumerable. They are now inclined to trade
with us, and no doubt would be much more desirous were they
better acquainted with the advantages of commerce. Here then
we have wool ad libitum, and camels' hair to any extent that can
be desired.

44
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
We know that the wool of this sheep is somewhat coarse, but
this could be remedied by the introduction of sheep from Europe
or Australia. We also know that the camels' hair which has up
to this time found its way into the European market has been
inferior; but this has resulted from the knavery of the Chinese,
who have as yet to be employed as middlemen. Were the Euro-
pean merchant to have access to the producing districts I have
no doubt excellent camels' hair could be procured in abundance.
The wool to be had in the west of Shen-si is very superior.
HEMP. This valuable plant is grown in almost all the places
I have visited in this quarter of China. Some of it is very valu-
able and may come to be an article of export.
CHINA-GRASS. This grass which has created some sensation
in France, is cultivated all over these provinces, and should it ever
come to be of value in the foreign market could be produced in
any quantity.
RICE. There are two kinds of rice grown in these districts.
One the "wet soil rice" such as is common in the south. It is
reared plentifully near Pau-ting-foo. The other kind is rather
peculiar. It is called "dry soil rice." It is sown in spring just
like wheat and never irrigated. It abounds all over the country,
and the rice is white and wholesome.
PULSE-Is grown every where and used for many purposes.
They mould it into cakes called beancakes which form the
principal article of export to the south, where it is used as manure
for the sugar cane. They also manufacture this species into a
bean-curd which is a favourite food, not only in the north but also
south of the Yang-tze-kiang. Of the various kinds of millet I
need
say nothing.
OATS. This grain is found in the north of Shan-si, in Mon-
golia, and also in the east of Manchuria.
VEGETABLES. Of vegetables there is no end. We have cab-
bage, turnip, carrot, vegetable marrow, melons, cucumbers, onions,
tomato, lettuce, celery, beetroot, spinach, &c., &c., and what will
please Europeans best, most excellent mealy potatoes; they are
grown in the eastern parts of Shan-tung, in Manchuria, and we
also found them to our delight in the northern half of Shan-si.
It may interest some to know that we found wild raspberries
and strawberries in Shan-si, and also a species of blaeberry on a
good sized bush, and not on a low shrub as in Scotland.

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
45
DYES.-We have a variety of good dyes. We have indigo,
madder and two kinds of yellow dyes. One produced from the
seeds of a tree called the Whyshoo very much resembling our
common ash. We have also a fine deep red, from the flowers of
a pretty annual, and other dyes of less importance.
The shrub which produces the famous green dye is found
plentifully in the centre of Shan-tung.
HERBS.-Manchuria and the north of Shan-si have long been
famous for medicinal herbs. Preeminently among them stands
that remarkable tonic Ginsing or jên-seng which is a native of
the hills on the east of Manchuria and Corea, and which is not
known as it should be.
Curiously enough we have in Shan-tung a shrub, not unlike
the privet, from the leaves of which they make tea; which is
exported to the south of China and also said to be in great
demand in the capital. It forms a very wholesome and not
unpleasant drink.
CLOVER. Clover is cultivated for fodder both in Chi-li and
Shan-si.
The whole of Chi-li, except a small strip on the north and west,
the eastern side of Ho-nan, the western part of Shan-tung, and
the southern border of Manchuria, all form portions of that great
alluvial plain which extends down to Hang-chow-foo. The as-
pect of this portion of China varies immensely with the season of
the year. In winter the country is bleak and barren, scoured by
cold winds carrying blasts of sand which penetrate everywhere,
and the eye is relieved by nothing more picturesque than crowds
of graves, and mud villages, and Chinamen hurrying hither and
thither with padded clothes, and their hands stuffed up their
sleeves. In spring the change is wounderful: the whole country
is covered with green fields of wheat, the canals and slow-flowing
streams, now relieved of their fetters, are enlivened with innu-
merable sails, and freedom, joy, and activity everywhere prevail.
But in autumn the change is most marked; you can hardly
believe it to be the same country; the luxuriant crops, the tall
millet far above your head, through which you travel as in a
young wood; the sturdy Indian corn, the cotton fields, the endless
varieties of vegetables, and the profuse richness of the earth form
a contrast almost too much for one's credulity. Yet so it is; the
fertility of the soil is extraordinary. The other portions of the
north of China are very different. The eastern portion of Shan-

46
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
tung, the western side of Ho-nan, the great part of Shan-si, the
whole of Shen-si except a plain about the centre, are varied by
mountains and valleys, hills and dales, rocks and streams, crystal
springs and bounding rivers. This is particularly true of Shan-si.
In this province the valleys are far more extensive, and far more
fertile, and the hills less bleak than in Ho-nan and Shan-tung.
Here they are generally terraced by regular walls up to the very
top, and the summits are often crowned by trees; the valleys are
full of flowers, among which we met the bluebells, pinks, &c., and
a variety of familiar plants, so that it was a perfect enjoyment to
travel in this quarter; excepting that the ravines were often so
appalling and the road on their edge so perilous that our thoughts
were often occupied attending to less pleasant matters. In the
north of China we have the extremes of temperature; and the
climate is not unhealthy. The best proof of this, though rather
a queer evidence, is the old Portuguese and Jesuit grave-yards
at Pekin. Here we find from the headstones that the fathers
have lived 30 and 40 years in this part, even in the case of some
who came to China comparatively late in life; and the next best
proof is the excellent health enjoyed by the foreign communities
in Pekin, Tien-tsin, New-chwang, and Che-foo, comprising peo-
ple of all nationalities. There is remarkably little disease among
them.
THE GREAT CITIES.-In this connection I shall only say a
very little in reference to the great cities, and nothing at all
about Pekin, Tien-tsin, and Tung-chow, &c., inasmuch as they
have been described sufficiently by others; nor shall I refer to
any but those visited by me. Pau-ting-foo, lat. 38 deg. 58 min.,
long. 115 deg. 26 min., the capital of Chi-li, next to Pekin in
importance in this quarter, is a compact and crowded city, the
streets all well laid out, full of good shops filled with valuables of
all descriptions, among which we saw a good proportion of book-
shops, which speaks well for the literary taste of that district.
It has its temples like others, and a bell and drum tower. It is
famous for the manufacture of carpets. Ching-ting-foo, lat. 38
deg. 14 min., long. 114 deg. 35 min., is a large city, but has
only one busy street, running from east to west, and rather dis-
appoints the traveller. It has some extraordinary bronze idols,
one about 60 feet and another about 72 feet high, which I shall
not attempt to describe in this connection. Tai-yuen-foo, lat. 37
deg. 58 min., long. 112 deg. 30 min., the capital of Shan-si, is a

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
47
very pleasant city. It stands at the north end of a most fertile
valley, and has hills on each side of it at the distance of a few
miles. It was formerly the residence of the Princes of the Ta-
ming dynasty, and is laid out after the fashion of Pekin. It has
its minature public offices and Mae-shan. The streets are regular,
wide, and full of good houses. Book-shops are less prominent
here than in Pau-ting-foo. There is an Imperial foundry for
artillery, match-locks, &c. The trade is comparatively extensive.
Many fine quasi-turkey carpets are also made here.
Ping-yang-foo, lat. 36 deg., long. 111 deg. 38 min. This was
the first capital of China, the seat of the old Emperor Yaou, who
began his reign B.C. 2356. It has continued a most important
city ever since, but has suffered greatly from the Tae-ping rebels.
It is reviving, though ruins even yet everywhere meet the eye.
There are large paper manufactories in the neighbourhood famed
all over the country. They are reported to supply Pekin with all
the fine paper.
Si-ngan-foo, lat. 34 deg. 26 min., long. 108 deg. 50 min. This
city is the capital of Shen-si and stands in a large plain or table-
land, with mountains in sight only on the south and north. It
was the capital of the Empire for many centuries both before and
since the Christian era, and possesses features of intense interest
to the Chinese scholar. Although the country all round has
been devastated by the recent Mahomedan rebels, this city still
stands intact, though shorn of its business and much of its glory.
Like the other large cities, its streets are regularly laid out, and
were once well paved. They are narrower than those of Tai-
yuen-foo, but the shops present evidences of having had even
greater trade than in the Shan-si capital. There are several
famous temples here: the site of the palace of the Tang dynasty is
still to be seen. There is also an extraordinary museum of tablets
of many eras, two old pagodas, &c. But the most interesting
thing to us was to find the old famous Nestorian tablet, telling
of the introduction of Christianity into China in the seventh
century, in a ruined temple outside the west gate. It is still
perfect, though all around is desolate, and let us hope will con-
tinue to be preserved.
Ze-hoh or Je-hoh, lat. 41 deg. 4 min., long. 117 deg. 50 min.
This is the summer residence of the present Tartar dynasty. Its
situation is certainly most beautiful! it lies in the midst of a
circle of high hills towering one above another, till ultimately

48
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
lost in the clouds. The palace is enclosed by a great wall, and
outside are the finest temples I have seen in China. There are
immense hunting-grounds in the neighbourhood, where tigers
and wild beast abound.
Siuen-wha-foo, lat. 40 deg. 38 min., long. 115. This large city
is now occupied in a great measure of trade. It was the summer
residence of the Yuen dynasty, and has fine parks full of grand
trees on the western side. It is now chiefly famous for the ma-
nufacture of excellent felt. They will make a felt hat of any
shape in a few minutes.
Kalgan, lat. 40 deg. 54 min., long. 114 deg. 50 min., or Chang-
kia-kow, as the Chinese call it. This city is one of the frontier
towns, through which the commerce of China passes to Mongolia,
Central Asia, and Europe, and the chief among them. It is
situated at the foot of the great incline which leads up to the
Mongolian plateau, is strongly fortified, and commands a great
amount of business. The place is famous for the manufacture
and export of native soda. It is a double city; the inner being
more retired, while the outer is filled from morning to night with
troops of Mongols. The Russians have several agencies here,
and from this point distribute their imports all over the country.
Dolondo or Lama Miau, lat. 42 deg. 40 min., long. 115 deg.
20 min. This city is situated on the plains of Mongolia, in the
neighbourhood of lakes, about 130 miles from Kalgan. It is a
large and busy place, surrounded by mud-walls; here Chinese
traders meet the Mongols and barter groceries and cloth for wool,
camel-hair, hides, tallow, &c. While there we found immense
native godowns full of the above commodities, indicating a most
extensive trade. Here also they purchase camels, oxen, and
horses, which they sell on their return home all over the North of
China. Two or three miles from the city are extensive Lama
temples, where there are several thousand priests and where the
rites of that system may be seen carried out daily in all their
details, and in all their pomp.
Shan-hai-kwan, lat. 40 deg., long. 119 deg. 50 min. This lies
at the extreme end of the Great Wall and only three or four miles
from the sea. It may be said to consist of three cities, a central
one, and one on the east and west, besides suburbs. It is the
great gate through which all merchandize for Manchuria and
Corea must pass. It stands in a good position and is naturally
strong.

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
49
King-chu, lat. 41 deg. 12 min., long. 121 deg. 10 min. This
lies not far from the sea, and is the seat of considerable distribut-
ing trade through the western portion of Manchuria. It is a
well-built city, and has carts for hire like Pekin.
Toong-kran, lat. 34 deg. 50 min., long. 110 deg. 5 min. This
important fortress stands at the southern bend of the Yellow
River on the Shen-si side. It lies on the slopes of the hills, has
the river on one side and mountains on the other two, and so
could be made almost impregnable. There is some business done,
but its chief importance lies in its military position. It is called
the Key of Shen-si.
THE RIVER AND ROAD COMMUNICATIONS.
We
THE YELLOW RIVER.-Next in importance to the resources
of a country are its facilities for the transportation of goods,
hence one of the first questions put to me on my return to Tien-
tsin was, "What about the Yellow River? is it eligible for the
conveyance of goods to and from Mongolia?" This question is
very difficult to answer, and could only be satisfactorily deter-
mined by a civil engineer investigating its whole course.
crossed it at two different places, one lat. 34 deg. 49 min., long.
110 deg. 40 min., the other lat. 34 deg. 51 min., long. 112 deg.
20 min. We travelled parallel to its banks for three successive
days, and made all the observations and inquiries we could. At
the first place it was comparatively narrow-not more than 400
yards across, and the current was very strong. The other place
was a sort of gorge, and the current still stronger. On our way
along its banks we observed it sometimes spreading out into a
broad stream, with currents here and there, as the case might be,
and at other times compressed into a fine majestic rapid-flowing
river. We saw a great many huge flat-bottomed boats laden with
coal, from the north of Shan-si-some from places about 200 miles
distant floating on its waters. They came down the stream
at the rate of 60 miles per diem, but only averaged 13 or 14 on
their upward course.
One Chinese traveller affirmed that it was
navigable all the way round to Ning-hai, lat. 39 deg. long. 106,
and even further, while others affirmed that it was navigable

50
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
with ease and safety only in certain parts of its course. My
own impression is that the latter statement is the correct one,
that it winds its way alternately in rapids and shallows, and
that there are several portions where navigation is difficult. As
far as relates to the rapidity of the current, I think a paddle-
wheel steamer or a steamer with a strong stern paddle could
easily make its way up. Surely there can be no shallows beyond
the reach of modern science and engineering. One of the Jesuits
speaks of a "cataract," but I am not sure what he means. I
could hear of none in the sense of a great fall over a precipice,
though there may be such. All the obstruction of this nature that
I could hear of was a gorge with three mouths between Ho-nan-
foo and Kai-fung-foo. The mouths were called respectively
"God's Mouth," "Man's Mouth," and the "Devil's Mouth;" and
we were informed that it was quite safe if you could guide your
boat through "God's Mouth;" that the passage through "Man's
Mouth" was somewhat doubtful; but if you were carried into
the "Devil's Mouth" it was certain destruction. Passing Kai-
fung-foo, the river flows a short distance eastward, then it leaves
its old bed, spreads out into a sort of lake, and takes a north-
ward course, flowing past Tsao-chow-foo on to the Grand Canal,
where it takes possession of the bed of the river called Ta-tsing-
ho, and through this channel pours itself into the sea. Perhaps
the introduction of railways may supersede any desire to place
steamers on this river. Certain it is, however, there would be no
great difficulty in steamers entering by its new mouth, coming
up past Tsi-nan-foo to Tong-ho, lat. 36 deg. 25 min., long. 116
deg. 23 min., on to Tung-chang-foo, and thence to the Grand
Canal.
THE HAN RIVER.-The river next in importance to the Yellow
River is the Han-kiang or the Han River, which flows into the
Yang-tsz-kiang at the city of Hankow, or the Mouth of the
Han. This river rises in the south-western portion of Shen-si,
and makes a zig-zag course through the south of that province
and the centre of Hu-peh. Is is wide and deep, a great broad.
river more like a principal than a tributary, and navigable for
good-sized boats as far as Hing-ngan-foo, lat. 32 deg. 30 min.,
and long. 110 deg., while junks can easily reach Yun-yang-foo,
lat. 33 deg., long. 111 deg. 20 min. It receives several important
tributaries, such as the river Tan-ho, which falls into it about lat.
32 deg. 30 min., long. 112 deg., and the Pih-ho river, both of which

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
51
are navigable for a long distance. From time immemorial it has
been one of the great water roads of China, and is repeatedly
referred to in their historical annals. In consequence of this
there are a number of famous cities and large distributing towns on
either bank, such as the cities of Fan-chung, Seang-yang, E-ching,
&c., besides those mentioned above. Through means of this
river and its affluents, Hankow supplies Hu-peh, Ho-nan and
Shen-si with foreign commodities and receives their produce. At
Si-ngan-foo we found goods from Hankow; and also met Chinese
travelling from Shanghai, who had come per steamer to Hankow,
thence per boat to a place called Loong-kui-tsai, from which there
is a mule-road of four or five days' journey to that city. This shows
that there is no hope of Tien-tsin competing with Hankow in
supplying this part of China. We fully intended to return to
Chefoo by this route, but circumstances led us to prefer the road
vid Ho-nan, in the hope of visiting Kai-fung-foo. See also Mr.
Wylie's notes in the Foochow Missionary Recorder.
RIVERS IN CHI-LI.-In the province of Chi-li there are three
rivers which demand some notice in this connection, besides the
Grand Canal, of which I spoke in a former paper. There are
the Pei-ho, the Shang-si-ho, and the Poo-too-ho (wrongly spelt
on the common maps Hoo-to-ho). Regarding the first I shall
say nothing, as it is well known as the river by which Pekin
receives a great proportion of its supplies. The Shang-si-ho
may be said to rise far west on the borders of Mongolia and on
the north of the Province of Shan-si (though there it has other
names), and only takes the name Shang-si-ho between the Lake
of Pau-ting-foo and Tien-tsin. It receives a great many tribu-
taries. Out of these the Wang-niu-ho or Lu-li-ho rises at the
hills west of Pekin, and becomes navigable for good-sized flat-
bottomed boats near the celebrated coal districts of Fang-shan-
hien. Passing through that place we found coals piled up in
yards on the banks of the river (just as at railway-stations at
home), and boats there to take them to Pau-ting-foo and Tien-
tsin. We found that were it not for exhorbitant export and
transit duties, coal could be laid down at Tien-tsin for about
Tls. 3 or 4 per ton. This river is a great means of transit between
Tien-tsin, Pau-ting-foo, and the west of Chi-li. The other river,
vix: the Poo-too-ho, rises at the north of Shan-si near the centre
of that province, and flows south, like the former receiving
many tributaries. We saw a good deal of this river. There

52
52
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
were a great many corn-mills on it in Shan-si, and we found
many places where huge reservoirs could be made with very little
expense. This river does not become navigable till it reaches
Ho-kien-foo, where it turns towards the north-east, and flows in
the direction of Tien-tsin, where it like the Shang-si-ho falls
into the Pei-ho. It aids in supplying the central districts of
Chi-li.
SHAN-SI AND SHEN-SI RIVERS.-There are several other rivers
in the north of China which have been an enigma to us for long,
as we never could obtain satisfactory information regarding them.
Judging from the maps, they look of some magnitude, and in
that case of great importance, as their courses lie through rich
and populous districts. We refer especially to the Fuen-ho or
Fun-ho in Shan-si, the Wei-ho in Shen-si, and the Lan-ho
in the east of Chi-li. The river Fuen-ho rises near Tai-yuen-foo,
and flowing southward falls into the Yellow River. We fully
expected this to be fit for boats, but, to our indignation shall I
say? we found it only a huge mountain torrent, in the greater
part of its course full of large stones and boulders, and utterly
impracticable for navigation. The other streams in Shan-si are
all similarly unnavigable. The Wei-ho in Shen-si has a course
of nearly 400 miles, passes Si-ngan-foo and like the other falls
the Yellow River. The country being flat here, we thought,
surely this river must be of some value for transit, but were sadly
disappointed; we found it a slow shallow stream flowing over a
sandy bottom, and fit only for flat-bottomed boats used by farmers
for the conveyance of grain. The Lan-ho, which rises in Mon-
golia, and at whose cradle we have been, is like the Wei-ho:
flowing southward not far from Ze-hol, and passing Yoong-
ping-foo, it spreads out lazily on its sandy bed, and slowly winds
onwards towards the Gulf of Pe-chi-li; it is quite unsuitable for
boats. The Leao-ho in Manchuria is not of any use for large
boats above Newchwang, though small boats can get up near to
Moukden, a distance of about 500 li or 130 miles by water.
THE IMPERIAL HIGHWAYS.-The northern provinces are well
provided with good roads; they were made by early Emperors
and have been kept in good or bad repair according to the vigour
or non-vigour of the Government. They radiate from the capital
in all directions, one goes eastward through Yoong-ping-foo,
Shan-hai-kwan, King-chow-foo, Moukden, Kirin, Ning-gu-ta,
and on to the very extremity of the continent, having a good

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
53
cart-road to Poissiet, the Russian port on the east coast of Asia.
Near Moukden this road branches off to the capital of Corea.
Another great road goes north-east through Ku-pi-kow, on to
Ze-hol, and thence to Parin-hotun and Poro-hotun, about lat. 45
deg., and I know not how much further northwards. A third
goes westward through the Nan-kow pass, Siuen-hwa-foo, and
Kal-gan or Chang-kia-kow, where it befurcates; one branch going
north by west to Dolonor, and the other going on to Urga,
and Europe. A fourth goes south-west through Pau-ting-foo,
Ching-ting-foo, to Tai-yuen-foo, thence south through Shan-si to
Toong-kwan, the fortress at the southerly bend of the Yellow
River. From this place it goes west past Si-ngan-foo, beyond
which city it divides into two branches, one going west by north
to Kan-suh and Thibet, and the other through Sz-chuen on to
Siam. Another road runs nearly due south through Pau-ting-
foo, Ho-kien-foo, Tuh-chow, Tung-chang-foo, Sien-chow, Hu-
chin, lat. 33 deg. 10 min., long. 117 deg. 16 min. E., where it
divides, one branch going to Nan-king and the other to Nan-
chang-foo, where passengers embark for Canton. A sixth leaves
the road to Shan-si at Ching-ting-foo, proceeds southwards vid
We-kyun-foo to Kai-foong-foo thence to the great distributing
city of Fan-chung on the Han River, where travellers can hire
boats which will take them by water all the way to Canton: this
is the western Canton route. And there is yet another great road
which leaves the southerly road at Tuh-chow, also spelt Ti-chow,
and leads south-east through Shan-tung, giving off a branch
which leads to Chefoo, now a good cart-road. These roads are
carried in as direct a line as possible to their respective destina-
tions. They are supplied with excellent bridges, some of them
really magnificent, having twenty, thirty, and forty arches, as
the case may be. Towards the west of Pekin and in Shan-si
they are often of marble, and the balustrades finely ornamented
by innumerable figures of animals, such as lions, tigers, dogs,
monkeys, &c., &c. When the rivers are very wide the roads are
well supplied with ferries, where huge boats are to be found capable
of taking three or four carts at one time. In the province of Chi-li
and parts of Ho-nan and Shan-tung the highways are perfectly
level, and you can travel at the rate of 35 to 40 miles per diem.
In Shan-si and the hilly districts progress is slower. Valleys
and ravines are generally chosen when these do not diverge too far
from the direct line; but where necessary roads are cut through

54
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
of
rocks, miles of the way are causewayed with huge blocks of
granite, and the road carried manfully right over huge ranges
mountains. In the Shan-si passes and several other places the
labour expended is something stupendous, quite in keeping with
the other huge undertakings in this Empire, such as the Grand
Canal and the Great Wall. These roads are usually from 70 to
80 feet broad in the plains, and are generally planted on each side
with rows of fine trees, so that they look like some of the fine
roads in England and on the continent, and in some places like
grand avenues. Every few li there are guard-houses where
soldiers used to be stationed, who were ready to accompany tra-
vellers during night to protect them from danger, and every 10
li or 3 miles there are huge well-built signal towers on which
fires were lit at night, and dense columns of smoke from wolf
dung raised in the day time when any intelligence of importance
had to be telegraphed. In addition to the numerous and well-
supplied inns for travellers, there are also large inns for the
Emperor or important officials, and places where post-horses are
kept always in readiness, and where couriers can obtain fresh
steeds to post along on their errands. In addition to the large
cities which appear on the maps, there are large villages every 10
li or 3 miles on the great highways; some of them very important
and the centres of much trade. Few things impress the traveller
more with the large-mindedness, ability, vigilance, and vigour of
the former Emperors and the greatness of the Empire than these
roads; and we do not wonder at the touches of exaggeration
which mark the pages of Marco Polo, and the Jesuit fathers:
for the bridges, cuttings, and the fine cities then in their glory
would form a powerful contrast to the roads and works which
existed in their native countries. And perhaps nothing so pain-
fully demonstrates the decadence and utter emasculation of the
present rulers than the wretched condition of many portions of
these fine roads, which could be repaired by the expenditure of a
little thought and a very little money.
CART ROADS-But besides these highways, there are innumer
able other roads intersecting the country in all directions, and
forming a perfect net work, and these not simply foot-pathis, but
good roads traversed by hundreds of vehicles every day; so that
wherever you wish to go you can have almost always a cart-road
direct to the place. Many of these minor roads are also supplied
with signal towers, inns, and every convenience for travelling.

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
55
PROPOSED RAILWAYS.-The country is admirably adapted for
railways. The greater part is a plain, and when mountains
branch inwards there are generally valleys, often very wide and
fertile, through which lines could be carried. The great high-
ways I have just been describing form the best guides both phy-
sically and economically, in reference to the most feasible lines.
They form the most direct routes to the great emporiums of trade
with the fewest possible natural obstructions. Their course lies
also through the most populous districts, either so originally, or
attracted by the facility of communication, so that lines of rail-
ways could be laid parallel to them all. But as such a net
work of railways is out of the question at present, I would.
venture to suggest two great trunk lines, one running from
Pekin south to Canton, with a branch to Shanghai; and another
running east and west from some harbour north of the Yang-
tsze-kiang, available for ships of large tonnage, and open all the
year round; and from this carried through Shan-tung, Chi-li,
Shan-si, and on to Shen-si with a view, ultimately, of being
carried through central Asia to Europe-an undertaking not.
much more formidable than the great Pacific line in America
now in process of completion. It would be well to begin with
the first for many reasons, but more especially because in this
case advantage could be taken of the banks of the Grand Canal
for a portion of the way, and as this lies nearly direct through a
country perfectly level, and is Government property, there would
be no bargaining with private individuals, no grave-yards to
upset, and, in short, the least violent change possible under the
circumstances. I have no fear of the junk men who still remain
on the canal rising against such an undertaking. Comparatively
few now, they would soon find employment in the construction
of the works needed for this enterprise, and they are not strang-
ers to the kind of labour which would be required. And in
reference to this and the muleteers and carriers of all descriptions,
I am confident that the lateral traffic which would immediately
spring up in connection with such lines would soon engage
their resources, and create a business which would astonish us.
And I base my belief upon personal observation of the spirit of
the people, confirmed by what has transpired in reference to
steamers. These have been rapidly taken advantage of not only
by the mercantile classes, but even by the literati, who are so
difficult to move: witness the loads of scholars which are brought
all

56
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
from the south to Tien-tsin for the examinations in Pekin;
also the numbers of mandarins, who now use them. The fame
of steam-ships has spread all over the country; their safety
and rapidity is in every man's mouth, so that railways would
soon also command their approbation. I see therefore no great
difficulty in the introduction of railways into China. The grave-
yard question has been exaggerated; they are formidable only
near large towns, and could easily be avoided; or where un-
avoidable a little extra money or an Imperial tablet would
soon allay the clamour. No one who has thought carefully
over the subject ever contemplates the multiplication of Treaty
ports and Consulates in China. The impracticability of this
has been clearly shown in an able article in the Consular
Gazette dated July 15th, and yet every one sees the impor-
tance of this vast country with great resources all but un-
touched being thoroughly opened up. How, then, can the
problem be solved? By the introduction of railways and the
adoption of a system of passports; this would secure all that was
necessary for the development of the country, obviate the neces-
sity of the creation of minor agencies by large firms, and entail
little or no expense on the part of foreign Governments. They
would of course require to be managed at first and for long by
fereigners, but this might be done by the creation of another
service, such as the Imperial Customs, and so in no way oppose,
but rather be subservient and a source of strength to the native
Government. I sympathize with the published opinions of H. E.
Sir Rutherford Alcock, H. M.'s Minister, that the Treaty should
be revised impartially, that we should hear what the Chinese
have to say as well as our own countrymen, but I humbly think
we ought never to lose sight of the speciality of the case as regards
the Chinese. They are in a state of transition, or rather differ-
entiation; new thoughts and new ideas, and new means of war-
fare have got abroad among them, fermenting and exciting their
minds. Year by year this is increasing, and it is as impossible
to arrest its course as it is undesirable. The old paths will not
now do; China can never again be governed in the old way.
The country is far too large. Foreign ideas have made far too
great progress for this. New channels must be provided for the
new thought. New means must be adopted to meet the emer-
gency which has arisen, else it will be confusion worse confound-
ed. China is like a man under a course of medicine, we have

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
57
put him in this position, we dare not leave him alone far less
trust him to his own ideas, for that would prove his ruin. We
must take him in hand, point out the proper methods; and, as
far as consistent, force him to follow them, until we have set him
on his feet again in new health and fresh vigour, qualified to
start on a new and glorious career. I do not despair of the
Chinese being able to rise again from their prostration, nor even
of the present Government being able to purify and re-organize
the country; but new means must be adopted. In the present.
position of China nothing is so likely to do her real and perma-
nent good as the introduction of railways. It would equalize the
administration of justice-modify the evils of famine, enrich her
people; it would provide means for the diffusion of knowledge,
break down her hoary prejudices, and bring her within the pale
of civilization. Moreover, it appears indispensible to the Gov-
ernment of the country. Four organized bodies of rebels at pre-
sent devastate the Empire-one in Yun-nan, another in Shen-si,
a third in Ho-nan-and a fourth in Shan-tung. They are des-
troying everything wherever they go. Unless there be some means
provided of rapidly concentrating troops at any given point, I do
not see how they can be put down, or peace and security intro-
duced into this unhappy country. Railways or anarchy appears
to me the only alternative now left to the Chinese people.
SHAN-TUNG CITIES.-Tsi-nan-foo, lat. 36 deg. 50 min., long.
117 deg. This city, the capital of Shan-tung, lies in a sort of
basin, the ground on all sides being higher than the city. It is
a much more important place than I expected to find it. There
are several long streets full of large shops and life and bustle.
The chief one is that which runs east and west, and including the
western suburbs is 8 li in length. Several of the streets which
run north and south are also crowded with excellent well-stocked
shops. I saw quantities of Russian cloth, as well as a proportion
of Bradford, Leeds, and Manchester goods. There were not a few
book-shops, full of books and native drawings and paintings, in-
dicating the presence of literary pursuits and tastes. We met
two immense funerals, and saw several processions during the
two days we were there quite equal to those I have seen in the
south, indicating riches and profuse expenditure. There were
several fine temples in the city, and two spacious examination
halls, one for Bachelors of Arts and the other for Doctors of Law.
There is also a Drum Tower, and all the furniture of a provincial

58
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
the
capital. There is one most interesting feature in connection with
this city, I refer to the three springs which bubble up in three
separate gushes of water about 2 feet high outside the western
gate, and which fill the moat all round the city, and form a fine
lake inside on the north. These springs are now enclosed by a
high wall, and in front of them and around them are temples and
gardens; the water is good tasted, somewhat tepid, but greatly
prized by the natives. The lake has several summer-houses in it,
aud must be very pretty in summer; we hired a boat among
many which ply on it for hire, and sailed over and visited the
famous places; we rather enjoyed our sail, though the morning
air was raw. Fish of many kinds literally abound, and form no
small proportion of the food of the people. There are about two
thousand Mahomedan families and two mosques. Our butcher
was of that persuasion; we found him a very decent man, and he
gave us many details in reference to them. These people all turn
to us, and claim kindred as worshipping the same God. There
are fine hills on the south of the city, on which are some famous
temples, much frequented in summer. Owing to these and the
low-lying position of the city, the houses are very damp (except
on the western suburbs, where the ground is higher), and fever
and ague is common. You have only to scrape a hole a few
inches deep, and you find water. This city is within 4 miles of
the New Yellow River, and would form an important market were
this river opened to steamers.
Tsing-chow-foo,, lat. 36 deg. 45 min., long. 118 deg. 35 min.,
approaching Tsing-chow-foo, the old capital of the Province, we
found the country fine, roads paved, and every thing indicating
former grandeur. We passed through the Tartar city which lies
on the north of the city proper, and passing over a plain entered
the suburbs and city. The walls of the Tartar city are high and
strong, but the people are not very numerous, and no business
is done save in huckster shops. The city of Thing-chow-foo lies in
a hollow like Tsi-nan-foo, and has fine hills behind it; it is very
large and has a great population. The shops have decreased in
splendour, and are now almost all second rate, but it continues
to be the centre of a great local trade.
Kyau-chow, lat. 36 deg. 16 min., long. 120 deg. 10 min. This
city was in former times the most important centre of trade in
the east of Shan-tung. It received its supplies from the south
by the sea, and distributed goods all over the country. Now,

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
59
owing to the rising of the coast or the filling up of the bay-for
it is difficult to determine which-and especially to the opening
of the port of Chefoo, business has greatly fallen off. What is
now the port of Kyau-chow is a small town called Ta-poh-tur,
five miles from the city, situated about thirteen miles by water
from the sea, on a creek which is as nearly as possible quite dry,
when the tide is out. The Ningpo and Fohkien junks anchor in
the roadstead and the cargo is brought up in flat-bottomed
lighters, fifty or sixty of which we saw lying high and dry on the
banks waiting the flow of the tide. The country all round as far
as the eye can see is a dead flat; seawards it was quite marshy,
and though we were only six miles from the shore as the crow
flies we could not descern it; all we could see was two or three
small islands a considerable distance away. The Chinese Gov-
ernment wished it to be made the port of Shan-tung rather than
Chefoo, but this would have been fatal, as the bay cannot be
deep, is either filling up with the monsoon or rising of itself,
and appears exposed to the wind from almost all directions. The
city of Kyau-chow bears unmistakeable evidence of its former
wealth and importance. The streets in all directions are bridged
over every few yards with Pai-lows of endless device; some are
made of granite; some of sandstone. The cross-beam is one
piece of stone reaching from one side of the street to the other;
and the upright pillars, also of one piece, rest on immense blocks,
giving a richness to the city which is stiking. These abound
also in the suburbs, as well as in the city proper. The site and
structure of the private houses also speak of the richness of the
place; many of these cover a large space of ground, having walls
often thirty feet high, if not more, carefully and strongly built.
Many houses had high poles before their front-door, indicating
that some member of the family had been a mandarin. The city
itself is not large, but the suburbs which are walled round are
extensive. The trade is carried on chiefly in the western suburbs.
The people appeared rather hostile to foreigners; they called us
all sorts of names; one man partially drunk was exceedingly
abusive. Quod est in corde sobri, est in ore ebrii.
Tung-chang-foo, lat. 36 deg. 38 min., long. 116 deg. 11 min.
This is a very important city situated in an excellent position.
It lies near the new course of the Yellow River, and on the banks
of the Grand Canal. The eastern suburbs are very extensive and
have warehouses rivalling many in Tien-tsin and Shanghai. It

60
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
might be made the terminus of a line of inland steamers, as there
is no doubt of the navigation up to that point.
The other foo cities, such as Yen-chow-foo, Yi-chow-foo, Lai-
chow-foo, Tung-chow-foo, and Tai-ngan-foo are quiet depart-
mental cities, important only as centres of rural trade. Besides
the cities above mentioned are several hien cities and towns worthy
of notice as the centres of considerable distributing trade. The
chief among these are Wei-hien and Whang-hien, Chu-ching,
and the great town of Tsu-chwen, near Chi-chow, and Tei-chow
and Lin-sing, near the western borders of the province.
But I shall not attempt to describe any more cities, but only
say in general that excepting in Shen-si and Honan and some
places in Shan-tung where scores of cities and hundreds of vil-
lages have been burned down by the rebels within these two
years, and are still lying in ruins all over the district, the country
appears prosperous and the people well fed and well clad. This
is eminently the case in the northern half of Shan-si. There the
cities are more numerous, and the cities themselves more populous
than anywhere else, many of the "hien" or 3rd rate cities being
more crowded than a "foo" or 1st class city of other provinces.
The villages of Shan-si, too, are very numerous, generally sur-
rounded with high mud-walls, full of goods of all descriptions,
and the people giving not a few indications of wealth and pros-
perity. I have found foreign goods of several kinds in every
province in all their busy cities and markets, such as Manchester
cottons, Russian woollen goods, matches, needles, &c., &c. I
was surprised to find everywhere such quantities of Russian cloth;
they evidently carry on a most extensive trade through Mongolia.
We met Russian-speaking Chinamen in several cities, rather an
ominous circumstance.
Recurring to Shan-si, I may mention that the architecture of
this province presents two notable features. In the mountain
districts we found whole villages living in houses scooped out of
the sides of the sandy hills-veritable troglodytes-and this not
from poverty, for the front of their caverns were faced often with
hewn stone and had finely-arched doors and windows. The peo-
ple evidently preferred it, for they had plenty of stone and plenty
of money to build houses in the usual style if they had wished.
Some of these villages were extremely picturesque; there were
sometimes three, four, five, and six stories rising one above an-
other at the front of a hill. The occupants often went up to them

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
61
by ladders. Here the peculiarity of Edinburgh was seen in its
rudimentary state. In the plains the houses had flat roofs on
which the people winnowed and thrashed their corn and the wo-
men sat at their various employments. Large houses had often
square towers, giving them the appearance of old English churches.
The people of the province appeared much more superstitious than
anywhere I have been. Every city and every village and even every
cluster of houses had a tower-sometimes a very tasteful one-
erected generally at the south-east angle, as a protection against
evil influences; and, worse them this, we found trees in many
parts covered with votive offerings, and before which stood altars
and pots of incense, indicating that they were worshipped; and,
in fact, we were left in no doubt on this head, for on many of
them we found inscriptions in large letters-"If you pray you
will certainly be heard." Better living trees than wooden blocks!
we thought, though both are bad.
We never were at any loss for food or necessaries on all our
journeys through these provinces; nor have we ever had the least
molestation from the people. They have evinced great curiosity
to see us, which has often taken disagreeable forms, depriving us
of rest and comfort, and on my last journey they actually took
out one of the windows to see us, because I had closed the shutters,
but nothing further, and even in the midst of the greatest excite-
ment to get a view of the foreign devils, as they called us, an
appeal to their sense of good breeding or a pleasant word would
allay a hub-bub, and permit us to go on with our work in peace.
This has convinced us that the opposition to foreigners so much
talked of must have existed with the officials, and not with the
people, for it seems impossible that virulent feeling against us
could have died out so soon.
Another most important matter should be mentioned. We
have found our passports omnipotent all over this country. When-
ever we were in any trouble with our carters or required assistance
of any kind, the presentation of our passports at the office of the
mandarin invariably procured the help we needed.
As a rule, the people in the northern provinces are larger and
stronger men than south of the Yang-tze-kiang, but they are
much less refined. There are fewer scholars, and these not so far
advanced in their literature as their brethren in the south; still
there is a large proportion devoted to letters, and the great mass
of the people understand a sufficient number of characters to be
able to read, especially books in the mandarin colloquial.

62
NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
All over these provinces they speak the same dialect with very
insignificant differences, and not only so, but this patois prevails
throughout Kan-su and Sze-chuen-in fact, over two-thirds of
China-a most important fact for those who seek to introduce new
truths and a new literature among this most interesting people.
I need hardly say that ignorance and superstition prevail
everywhere and among all classes; and if there be less of the
latter among the better educated, a species of atheism takes it
place, which is equally detrimental to the moral character. As
a consequence, the objects supremely sought by them are the
gratification of the lower appetites of their nature, and as money
secures that and whatever else they desire, it is grasped after by
every one with all the eagerness of men who have nothing better
to look for, and the deceit of those who have no high principles
to regulate them in their pursuit of wealth. Immorality abounds
and opium smoking is spreading like some terrible virus through
all branches of the people and laying thousands of strong men
low.
The Shan-tung men and the Shan-si men are famed as the
most enterprising in the north of China. The Shan-si men have
penetrated Mongolia, carrying with them a measure of civilization.
Numerous families from Shan-tung have colonised Manchuria,
and are rapidly assimilating that country in every respect to
China. But not only are they inclined to migrate, many are
also ready to adopt any measures which will afford scope for
their industry and ingenuity. Several have expressed a strong
desire to begin mining operations in places at present untouch-
ed; one has applied for foreign cotton seed, another has pur-
chased a spinning machine for the manufacture of cotton yarn,
and so on. But, alas! for their enterprize. An incubus rests
upon them paralyzing every effort. When a man attempts to
step out of the ordinary routine, an ill-disposed neighbour or a
petty bailiff comes in and threatens to inform against him unless
he gives him so much money. Suppose this rascal's demands are
met, the mandarin next appears with his exactions, and the man
is generally ruined.
"Little fleas have big fleas, upon their backs to bite'em
"These fleas have other fleas, and so on ad infinitum."
These lines of Swift's, thus altered, set the matter vividly enough
before our eyes; but they are too ludicrous for the gravity of the
subject. It is miserable to see such a people as this ground down

NOTES ON THE NORTH OF CHINA.
63
into fixed automata by such a system, and most lamentable of all
to find it pervading all classes and all departments of state up to
the very highest position.
And this extends to religious matters as well as secular. If a
man adopt Christianity he is often set upon by petty officials,
and it is this which renders it so indispensible that our treaties
should not only guarantee the missionary protection in his labours,
but that the converts be defended from obvious and illegal op-
pression.