[187]
ARTICLE IX.
THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN,
A REVIEW OF TAEPING BOOKS.
BY ROBERT JAMES FORREST, Esq.,
H. B. M.'s Acting Consul.
NINGPO.
IN considering the Taeping rebellion I conceive this to be the
time to store up materials for after use. Passions and prejudices
are too strong now on matters Chinese to hope for a true or
impartial history of this great omen, this wonderful rise and fall
of a power that swept through the fairest portion of the Empire
like a flight of locusts and cost twenty one millions of lives before
its downfall. As far as Shanghai is concerned the magnitude of
the great rebellion has been entirely lost sight of, and probably
all that interests, or has interested, residents here is the history
of Gordon's campaign. The fall and recapture of little towns
like Kading and Taitsan excited more attention among foreigners
than the fall of provincial cities, the subjugation of distant
provinces, and the fate of the southern capital itself. The me-
mory even of the Kiangsu campaign is fast dying out, and the
monument on the Bund will soon be the only sign left wherewithal
to call to mind the exciting times of the Taeping campaign.
Should some future diligent historian of China trouble himself
to wade through contemporaneous records in order to arrive at
the facts of the rebellion, especially as regards the ultimate
interference of foreign governments, he will not fail to be a little
amused at the alternate favour and hatred with which the Taeping
movement was regarded. While rebellion was confined to the
southern provinces of China and did not much interfere with
foreign trade, foreign sympathy, if I may judge from published
papers, was with the rebels. Our difficult position at Canton,
the obstinacy and corruption of the mandarins, and the fast
increasing belief that oppressed nationalities have a divine right
to rebel, all tended to a favourable view of the movement. Then
hatred of every thing connected with the existing government.
came our war, and with it many years of obstinate and senseless
Our difficulty became Taeping opportunity, and while we were

188
THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
marching against the Imps in the north, the half starved and
nearly conquered rebels made a grand dash for Chehkiang and
Kiangsu. With a stroke of military genius not sufficiently
known or appreciated, Chung Wang by threatening Hangchow
compelled his foe to raise the siege of Nanking, and the cities
along the Grand Canal soon changed masters. But about the
same time that the rebels came against Shanghai the Taku forts
were taken, and affairs in the north soon began to mend.
The defence of Shanghai by the allies was the death blow of the
kingdom of Great Peace. All former friendliness to the rebel
cause changed; the abuse so freely heaped on their adversaries fell
upon them, and the forces of England returning from the northern
campaign were set in motion against their late enemies' enemy.
Foreign residents, especially in Shanghai, were for putting to
the fire and sword every thing rebel, forgetting altogether that
in so doing they were killing the goose that laid the golden egg
-that the extraordinary prosperity of Shanghai at that time was
caused principally by the rebellion. In the pages of the local
press from 1860 until 1864 is to be found every epithet of abuse
known to a language, not at all poor in such expressions, all
directed against the rebels, and yet if it went to the vote
to-morrow how many foreigners would not wish them back
again?
So if I were to tell that order did really reign at Nanking,-
very like the Warsaw article it is true, but still order,—that there
were some uncommonly clever generals among Tien Wang's
officers, notably the Chung, Ying, and Mo Wangs-that in
places not actually the seat of war the ground was well cultivated
that the conduct of the Taeping troops was not one bit
worse than that of the imperialists, and that the inhabitants of
such towns as Shaoshing and Hangchow have asserted that their
fate when those cities were recovered and fell for a time into the
hands of barbarian officers;-if I stated these things, with every
proof, I should be reviled as a rebel and a speaker of blasphemy
against the brilliant political dawn now spreading
empire. I never saw a foreigner return from Soochow (his excel-
lent sport the result of the late troubles) who did not indulge in
strong invectives against the rebels for the destruction of the
And yet the rebels burnt
enormous suburbs of that city.
over the
neither Soochow nor its suburbs. The imperialist soldiery did it

THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
189
seven days before Chung Wang left Woosi! But facts, no matter
how recorded, never overthrow prejudice. The suburbs of Soo-
chow will always rise in judgment against the Ch'angmaos though
they were innocent of their destruction'; and my experiences
of Taeping rule, although the result of a long residence at the
Capital, will never be favourably regarded, if in any way opposed
to existing ideas. But there is one subject on which I can safely
speak, and that is the theology of T'ien Wang and his followers.
If any one disagrees with me I can refer him to my sources of
information-the books of the heavenly dynasty published by
authority at Nanking. These books were presented to me by
command of his Celestial Majesty through the agency of the well
known prince of Kan, who after teaching the Christian religion
in the interests of the Baptists or Independents at Shanghai,
became a prince of Taepingdom, and was shot the other day on
the walls of Changchow-foo.
The early theology of the Taepings, as far as limited sources of
information would admit, has already been excellently and ably
described by writers and sinologues. Their essays and transla-
tions might have convinced theologians that but little could be
hoped for from the so-called inspiration of T'ien Wang; and
missionaries might have been taught to despair of converting to
any known or rational sect of the Christian faith one who was
the uterine brother and equal of Christ, and to whom was
confided by the Almighty personally the interpretation and
establishment of the faith. Such however was not the result of
our earliest knowledge of the Taeping religious leanings: for I
call to mind (whatever may be their opinions now) that in 1859,
60, 61 and 62 there existed a large party who believed the rebel
movement to be essentially a Christian one, and one through the
agency of which, if successful, the darkness covering China was
to be changed into the light of true religion. And it is very cu-
rious that a movement which in this our revolutionizing nineteenth
century could most easily be defended on a dozen strong, almost
unanswerable, grounds, was defended only on its weakest and
most ludicrous point, its grotesque Christianity! On the capture
were well received by the chiefs, who listened with patience to
of the cities on the canal, missionaries proceeded to Soochow, and
their messages, gave them no unfavourable opinion of their
spiritual condition, and secretly looked on them as political
agents. The invitation sent by Hung-tsiu-tsuen to the Reve-

190
THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
rend Issachar Roberts, his old school master, to proceed to
Nanking, where he was made a Heaven's Righteousness (T'ien-i)
and had some temporal advantages thrust upon him, excited the
emulation, perhaps the envy, of other foreign religionists. The
new vineyard was tried by several excellent ministers, but found
to be barren. Tien Wang as well as his chiefs expected from
their foreign visitors temporal as well as spiritual advantages.
If the tracts and books bestowed on the celestial soldiery, after
yielding up the instruction contained in them, were converted
into cartridges, copper caps were still required to make them
ultimately useful, and these the foreign guests were unable and
unwilling to give. So the heavenly capital was soon deserted
by all missionaries except Roberts, whose gifts being purely
theological, and not calculated to instruct either soldiers or
people in their temporal avocations, were soon neglected. He
became a burden to his supporters, and his ultimate flight to a
British gun-boat, when supplies ceased, is a well known story.
Had a man of hard worldly talent occupied Roberts' place and
original influence at Nanking, the fate of the rebels might have
been other than it was. Had the chiefs been taught to avoid
foreigners and to keep their weapons in better order, to make
their soldiers drill and not devastate the country, T'ien Wang
might still be fulminating his doxologies from Nanking.
According to the official catalogue the books published by
authority at Nanking up to 1852 were twenty eight in number
and consist of forty eight volumes. I have the whole of them with
the exception of the Trimetrical classic, and one volume of the New
Testament. They are very badly printed on bad paper, but this
is hardly to be wondered at. The style is execrable, and in places
it is impossible to trace any meaning in the text. Characters are
falsely used, some only half cut, or plainly mark the southern
and lowly origin of T'ien Wang and the want of education in
his officers. The reading is dreary in the extreme.
and visits to heaven.
There is no
imagination, no imagery displayed, even in the record of visions
The rhythm sometimes attempted is
suggested by Gutzlaff's Translation of the Bible, and the poetry
is feeble beyond expression. It is nothing but a perpetual
ringing of changes on the Doxology, with Tung Wang for Holy
Ghost, and the assertion that the Heavenly Father has sent
over the earth! I became possessed while at Nanking of a
Hung to rule over the hills and streams, and spread Great Peace

THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
191
manuscript, in which was recorded day by day the edicts,
promotions, and visions, of the Heavenly King and his son the
Junior Lord. This book commences with the Chinese New Year
in 1861 and finishes with an ode about the end of May of the
same year. It is curious as probably the last work dictated by
the chief, for in May 1861 proclamations were issued in Nanking
informing the myriad places that God had appeared to His
Majesty's wife and informed her that her husband was to work
no more. This book from which I shall make extracts below is
more carelessly written than any work I have seen from Nanking,
in fact a considerable falling off is observable in the later Tae-
ping books from those first published, in which at all events
some little care is to be distinguished.
Tien Wang asserts that his heavenly father frequently
visited him on earth, and in the "T'ien fu hsia fan chao shu"-
the "book concerning the descent of the Heavenly Father," full
particulars are given of one of those divine visits, which will not
fail to amuse, if they do not edify, my readers. In December
1852, the northern prince and followers went to pay a visit of
congratulation to the eastern prince Tsêng, and after they had
retired God came down and spoke to Yang-shui-chao, Hu-chu-
mei and two other women apparently relations of T'ien Wang
and female ministers of state, desiring them through Tung
Wang to tell the chief that a little less severity ought to be
exercised with regard to the women in the great Dragon Palace.
So the gong was beaten, and Tung Wang having heard the
women's tale announced his intention of going to the celestial
court to tell the heavenly commands. I quote the result from
the published notes of a well-known sinologue. "The Eastern
Prince then commanded the Northern Prince and all the officers
to go first to court. The Northern Prince was about to proceed
thither accordingly, when he suddenly addressed Chin-teh-sung,
the chamberlain of the northern palace, saying: 'Do you go
quickly to the Eastern Princes' sedan, and request the favour of
his instructions as to whether we are first to go to the hall of
audience or to enter straight into the door of the palace.' The
chamberlain, receiving this charge, went at once to the sedan of
the Eastern Prince and requested one of his servants to obtain
and communicate to him the wishes of the Eastern Prince. The
servant said, "The Eastern Prince is enjoying repose in his sedan,
I dare not disturb him.' The chamberlain of the northern palace,

192
THE OHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
hearing that the Eastern Prince was enjoying repose, did not
presume to repeat the enquiry, but hastened back to inform the
Northern Prince, who thereupon hastily descended from his sedan
and proceeded on foot to the middle of the road, where he knelt
down and enquired saying.-Has the Heavenly Father troubled
himself to come down into the world again?' To which the
Heavenly Father replied in the affirmative, and told the Northern
King to convey the sedan into the hall of audience. The Northern
Prince replied 'I will obey the injunctions of the Heavenly
Father.' Whereupon he hastily ordered the female officers of the
celestial court to inform the Celestial King of the circumstance;
which done he together with the ministers of state conveyed the
sedan of the Eastern Prince within the gate of the palace. The
celestial king Hung having heard the message hastily went on
foot to the second gate of the palace to receive the Heavenly
Father. The Heavenly Father on his arrival was angry with
Hung saying, Tsiu-tsuen, you are very much in fault, are you
aware of it? The Celestial King kneeling down with the North-
ern Prince replied saying, 'Your unworthy son knows that he is
in fault and begs the Heavenly Father graciously to forgive
him.' The Heavenly Father then said with a loud voice. Since
you acknowledge your fault you must be beaten with forty blows.'
Then the Northern Prince and officers prostrated themselves on
the ground and weeping implored the Heavenly Father to
manifest his favour and remit the punishment which their master
had deserved, offering to receive the blows themselves. The
Celestial King replied, 'Your unworthy son will comply with
your requisition' and prostrated himself to receive the blows.
The Heavenly Father then said, "Since you have obeyed the
But the women Yang-
requisition I shall not inflict the blows.
chang-mei and Shih-luy-lang must be sent to the palace of the
Eastern Prince; with regard to other matters you must wait till
your brother Tsêng sends up his reports.
heaven,' and the Heavenly Father returned to heaven. The
Eastern Prince afterwards awoke from his trance and remarked
'Has he indeed, truly he gives himself a great deal of trouble on
on hearing that the Heavenly Father had again come down,
our account."" The machinery of these celestial visitations was
A western pretender would have scorned
simple in the extreme.
I shall now go back to
such a childish mode of deception. We may smile at the idea of
Ting, Prince of the East, speaking in the name of the Almighty,

THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
193
and telling his chief to wait until his brother Tsêng (himself)
sent up his reports; but the captains of the empire of Great
Peace knew that the inevitable sword was ready to cure all
doubters, and quietly accepted, if they did not believe, the
manifestations. The reports of Tsêng, given by him to the T'ien
Wang by divine direction, reveal an awful state of things in the
imperial palace. Here is a portion of the book concerning the
descent of the Heavenly Father, which I again take from the notes
before referred to: "through the grace of the Heavenly Father the
number of ladies at the court is very great......you should not
kill for every trifling offence. When the ladies wait upon you,
my elder brother, it is of course their duty, but sometimes they
may be apt to excite your righteous indignation, in which case
you must treat them gently, and not kick them with your boots on;
for if you kick them with your boots on it may be that some of
the ladies are in such a state as to call for the congratulations of
their friends, and then you will interfere with the kind inten-
tions of your Heavenly Father who loves to foster human life.
Further when any of the ladies are in the state above alluded to,
it would be as well to manifest a little gracious consideration and
allow them to rest from their labours. Such a treatment would
proper, and if still any of the ladies should commit any trifling
fault it would be as well to excuse them from being beaten with
the bamboo!," I was told by Chung Wang's brother in Nanking
that T'ien Wang murdered such wives as offended him, and this
extract places the matter beyond much doubt. Of a verity a
heavenly king ruling a heavenly dynasty and entitled to the
tender spiritual cares of foreign missionaries! Further on in the
same book Tung Wang gives some hints concerning the education
of the Junior Lord. He tells T'ien Wang that if not looked
after the boy will break some of the splendid toys given to him
by God the Father! that if he goes out in the rain he will get
wet. He also calls his Celestial Majesty's attention to the
dragons painted on the walls of the palace and engraved on the
utensils used therein, stating that they are precious dragons,
and not imps, which the chief is commissioned to destroy. The
Celestial King replied. "Your observation, brother Tsêng, is
correct. Formerly when our Celestial Brother came down upon
the Ping-tsai hill he commanded me saying dragons are fiends.
1 then asked my Celestial Brother. 'Is the dragon depicted on
the hall of the golden dragon also to be considered a fiend?' To
be
13

194
THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
which my brother replied. "The dragon depicted in the golden
dragon hall is a very precious emblem and not a fiend!"" Here is
a vision recorded by the king's brothers in "The book of the
evidence of what the prince's brothers saw with their eyes and
heard with their ears." "At 11 o'clock on 1st day of 3rd month
of T'ien-yiu year we (Jên-fah and Jên-tah) were thanking God
and the Heavenly Brother, who bestowing heavenly grace upon
us deputed heavenly officers and hosts to accompany our true
sacred lord the T'ien Wang to heaven, and our lord has
vouched for the facts. Musicians with harps, reeds, drums and
all manner of music accompanied him. The thunder went
before his face like a cock. The celestial host conveyed his
chariot by the great road in the east up to heaven. On each
side of the gates of heaven were innumerable beautiful damsels
to receive him. He dwelt there two days and then descended,
and informed us and the Junior Lord saying: 'I shall rule all
people in the myriad places. The bounty of the earth is for me
to eat. I am indeed the son of God the Heavenly Father!' A
few days afterwards he again went to heaven and did battle with
the imps and devils, and while slaying the imps and devils he
exclaimed, 'O my brother help me,' and by Ako* he meant the
Heavenly Brother. He again called out for the officers of Yang's
household and for Chao-yuen-lang, saying Chao was sent as an
example. God then gave him the seven characters REA
ET'ien Wang ta tao keuen wang chuen. He then went
up into the highest heaven and slew one by one the imps and cast
them into hell. Our lord has verified this and says: What time
I was slaying the imps God was behind my brother, who was
behind me. We three Lords led on the hosts and pursued the
imps and fiends, God then gave me a seal and I slew the imps
and stayed not my hand; my brother then took the seal and
shewed it to the imps who ran away, and the seal is that where-
with the Lord made heaven and earth. Sometimes God took
the seal, sometimes Christ, and sometimes I myself. So the seal
Wherever that seal was taken the imps fled
is common to us.
and our Lord looked and lo! eminent relations flocked and
congratulated him, and wicked men came who were envious of
him and abused him with a loud voice.........Then the Heavenly
King reviled the devils saying: 'I am truly the heavenly s
*In Cantonese the expression used when speaking to an e
son by
older brother.

THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
195
you look
heaven's command for the extirpation of evil and the exaltation
of the good. Dont you know it. Depart quickly! Dare
upon me.
I am king in heaven and earth and have caught you
imps and devils as in a net, you cannot escape my hands.'
Then he sang the ten odes of great luck." These odes follow but
I will not attempt them.
It was hardly to be supposed that Hung-tsiu-tsuen would
long tolerate the advice of the Eastern Prince when he began to
intrigue in the affairs of the palace, although such advice might
have been inspired by the Heavenly Father himself. So on a
certain night soldiers were ordered to Tung Wang's quarters,
his head was cut off, and his immediate followers slain. His
palace was razed to the ground, and his name was no longer to
be mentioned in the heavenly capital. By proclamation the
heavenly king announced that the unfortunate victim having
"Attained merit deep as the azure heaven had suffered for the sins
of the world and gone to the skies!" After Tung Wang's death
the king and his wives alone appear to have been recipients of
heavenly visits. Hung appears to have found too much danger
in the outspoken inspirations of the Eastern King to allow any
other follower to pretend to direct divine favour, and his chiefs,
mindful of the fate of him who stood second in the empire, did
not care to aspire to miraculous power.
For some years after this murder T'ien Wang was quiescent
and gradually lost ground. His grand northern campaign
against the imps' den as he called the province of Chili had
ended in disaster. The last man of the great army which had
marched full of hope from Nanking to take Peking, and utterly
exterminate the imps, had fallen by the Tartar sword. The
rowdies of Shanghai had guided square rigged ships against
Chinkeang and the imps themselves had cast a wall about the
heavenly capital.
Foreigners troubled themselves but little
about the heavenly doings, and affairs seemed hopeless. Yet
according to Chung Wang's account the chief was always cheerful
and confident that his Heavenly Father would vouchsafe ultimate
deliverance. The deliverance came and the Heavenly King's
success once more astonished China, and drew upon him the
wonder and attention of foreign nations. As city after city fell,
the cause carried with it belief. Missionaries explained to the
chiefs the sympathy of western nations, and plenty came simul-
taneously with foreigners to the half starved capital, where Hung

196
THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
amused himself with controversy with foreigners, and the gospel
according to Issachar Roberts. By degrees as the full religious
aspirations of the king were manifested his friends became
alarmed for his spiritual condition. Fearing that his ideas on the
subject of the Trinity and the procession of the Holy Ghost, were
a little misty, some well meaning foreign brethren prepared the
Athanasian creed for his instruction. His majesty acknowledged
with gratitude, and dollars, the tender pains of his brethren,
but told them that as he had been to heaven and they had not,
they could not possibly know as much as himself concerning the
Godhead. It must have amused the old heretic to see with what
reluctance his foreign brothers saw the reality of Taeping matters,
and how unwilling they were to leave the new field. I remember
one night near Soochow an earnest missionary talking to a real
Kwangsi rebel who had intruded into my boat, "You believe in
our Heavenly Father?" said the missionary. "Yes!" "And in
Christ?" "O yes!" replied the ruffian. "You must not murder."
"Oh we never do that!" "Nor abuse women! nor steal!" "Oh
never!" The man departed with much religious instruction
leaving a favourable impression on the mind of his instructor, but
not forgetting adroitly to steal my powder flask! Tsiu-tsuen too
must have had many a laugh at some of the idiosyncrasies of
those who would instruct him in religion. To one American
missionary he sent a crown made of gilt pasteboard and a
massive gold ring of considerable value. The recipient of these
favours telling me the story said. "I at once sent back the
paper crown to his majesty, saying that I lusted after a celestial
and not a terrestrial crown, and quoted some texts bearing on
the subject; but as I could recollect no text that had anything
to say about celestial or terrestrial rings, I kept the bauble, and
sold it at Shanghai for 70 taels!"
T'ien Wang's theology after Tung Wang's death underwent
some little change. He makes himself and son to all intents equal
with God. God, Christ, myself and son are Lords for ever was his
assertion on every proclamation. In fact be made a practical
sort of Godhead of which he and his son were the incarnate half
ti with him was always most honourable. He scouts the idea o
Yet in the books I hold in review he is very unitarian. Shang-
the equality of the Son. That a son could be equal with the
father was a dogma he would never believe. The celestia
insanity is painfully apparent in the king's last documents, bu

THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
197
it is always on the theological side. In the few secular des-
patches I have seen of his, he is sensible until the conclusion
when he always rushes into some tremendous dogma, and winds
up by asserting his equal kingship with God. Among his manu-
script gazettes I find the following for the 1st day of 1st moon of
1861.
"The edict of the Heavenly King. To my nephews Ho and
Sêng, to the princes of Kan, T'a, and all celestial captains,
commanders and guardians of the heavenly capital both within
and without.
"God and Christ have come down among men, and heaven and
earth are renewed.
"God and my Elder Brother ordain that I and my son should
rule, and my palace is established and renewed.
"The father and son, the grandfather and grandson are Lords
indeed, and the kingdom of heaven is renewed.
"God and Mama, the elder brother Christ and his wife came
down together, and heaven is renewed.
"The heavenly day of great peace is manifest in the myriad
places, and the bounds of the earth are made new.
"Heavenly captains and legions assist me in my work, and
rewards and distinctions are renewed.
"On earth as in heaven my sacred commands go forth, and the
mountains and seas are renewed.
"The snakes and beasts are slain, and mankind is satisfied and
tranquil. Officers and men are renovated.
"All is mine for ten thousand and a thousand times ten thou-
sand years, and the order of the world is renovated.
grace
"The winds and the rains are obedient unto me, and the
of heaven is spread out. Every thing is renovated."
This is the song he sang when Soochow and the Grand Canal
were his, and the imps no longer menaced his capital.
"God, the Elder Brother, myself and son, are the heavenly
dynasty. On earth is great peace and the omens of heaven are
manifest, old and young, males and females, behold the signs of the
heavens. The great brother commanded and lo! it has come to
pass. On the 7th of the 2nd moon my mother beheld the kings
of the east, west and south, commissioned to exterminate the
imps, come to my Golden Dragon palace to greet me Lord of a
Myriad Years; and they went forth with the utmost diligence to
the conquest of Soochow. Behold Soochow is now won,
and

198
THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
Chên-san-mei is thankful for the doctrine of heaven. In the
5th watch of the 6th day of the 9th moon I was thanking God
who vouchsafed an omen-a perfect dream. I beheld a countless
host of captains and celestial soldiers coming to offer me sacred
things and precious jewels, and respectfully arranging them in
the Presence. I laughed inwardly uttering no sound. This
morning early in the 5th watch I was praising God and dreamt
that I had obtained another city. Whereon I exclaimed 'On
earth no place is useless.' I told all this and commanded the
captains to hear me. In the eleventh year of my reign I as-
cended into heaven. God and Christ were with me to extermi-
nate the snakes and devils. On either side heaven's officers and
servants protected and aided me to battle and exterminate. I
fought until I could no longer move. Myriads of heaven's officers
and soldiers protected me and did my behests until I slept and
awakening renewed the fight. Time after time did this occur.
God and Christ were with me in the work of exterminating
snakes and devils with innumerable officers and soldiers. They
supported my body. Whatever I wished to do there were people
to do it. So I sang this song.
"In my dreams also am I king and in my sleep govern the
hills and the streams. In heaven is the Lord and my Elder
Brother dwells on high.
"Commanding that I should reign they encompass me as with
a cord.
"Below on the earth have I children and brothers and husbands
of sisters. (They with) the whole of the celestial servants aid
and assist me."
Again I find the following among the gazettes. "During the
5th watch of the 6th day of 9th month I beheld an innumerable
army coming with presents to God, the Elder Brother and myself.
I laughed and was rejoiced. I exclaimed.
"All the length and
breadth of the earth is God's, the Elder Brother's, and ours.' All
And the generals said 'Be it according
must be regained for us.
to your word.""
manuscript book of gazettes. It will serve to convince most
Here is a specimen of a vision which is recorded in the curious
"15 day, 1st month-1861. This morning during the 5th watch
tiger imps, those four damnable tigers and two black curs. The
people of the insanity of the celestial king.
I had a vision while praising God.
He ordered me to slay the

THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
199
whole heavens rejoiced to assist the heavenly dynasty; the snakes
and beasts fled before the presence of God and my brother. All
the great ones and people thanked Heaven for its pains, and
heaven and earth rested in peace on the advent of Taeping.
"God in his goodness gave me a sign in a vision. Two of my
wives were walking with me on the same road; in front they saw
four very large yellow tigers opposed to me. My wives were much
alarmed, and I feared that if I advanced the tigers would wound
the two women, so I took them back. To my astonishment I found
these were demon tigers which pursued us; on hitting one with
my hand they all changed into the form of men. Then I suddenly
awoke. Considering this prognostic important and being un-
certain as to its meaning, I besought God my father and Christ
my brother to send me another vision to instruct me... God in
his goodness sent another dream to direct me in the I was
seeking for the place where I had struck the tiger and at once
found it! Lo! there were four tigers and two black dogs lying
down together, and I saw that the tigers were all dead, as was
also one of the black dogs, but one was still alive. I caught him
way.
the throat and hit him again and again. The dog in the
voice of a man said 'I fear' I said 'I am going to kill you,' and I
beat him to death. Counting on my fingers I found I had slain
four tigers and two black dogs, altogether six beasts. On hearing
of this joyful omen my nephew and young brother went forth to
conquer and exterminate the imps, and the scribes were commanded
to inscribe this."
Probably the last gazette the king ever wrote is this:
space.
"God, my Brother, myself and son sit in the heavenly hall, the
fame of the celestial kingdom of great peace resounds through
In our heavenly kingdom God is chief in everything
and Great Peace is spread out upon the hills and streams. Hence-
forth let our style be 'the Heavenly Kingdom of God'
God is the universal father.
written.
"Let the signet and all the seals be at once changed, and the
proper inscription, ‘the Heavenly Kingdom of God' be thereon
Let the same be cut on the jewelled signet. So by all
the seals shall the protection of heaven be made manifest.
"Now I hereby declare to heaven, earth, and
Heavenly Father is alone most excellent, who was from the
spreading out of the heavens until now, the exceeding great
creator of all things. Bethinking me that God and my
men,
that God the
brother

200
THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
Christ had descended to lead me into the seat of kings, the style
of my empire was 'Heavenly Kingdom of Great Peace.' But
although God the heavenly ruler is my father, and Heaven's Lord,
Christ, my brother, none have the preeminence but God alone.
Completely fulfilling the commands of God let the style T'ai p'ing
t'ien kuoh be changed into Shang ti t'ien kuoh, 'the Heavenly
Kingdom of God.""
I could quote many more of these extraordinary documents,
but the similarity is tiresome. Of some I can make nothing.
In fact I may make the same apology as Jên-fah and Jên-tah
who inscribed the celestial visions: "We have written as com-
manded by our true sacred lord, but as the king speaks heavenly
language we can only comprehend two or three sentences out of
every ten." What I have given may help to convince investigators
that the so called visions of Hung were merely the ravings of a man
theologically insane. But lest any of the few remaining believers
in T'ien Wang as a Christian champion, should object to these
extracts as not fully developing the man's creed, I will give a
few translations of Hung-tsiu-tsuen's commentaries on the New
Testament which ought to place the matter finally at rest. Hung's
notes on the New and Old Testaments are written on the margin
of the books. He has but little to say on the Old Testament; at
which I wonder, as he was loud in his wish to imitate David in
the torture of the inhabitants of Rabbah during my stay in
Nanking.
On the 4th chap. Matthew the king says as follows. "God is
flame, the sun is also flame, therefore God came with the sun.
Respect this!"
"God is the holy spirit and came with the Holy Ghost (lêng);
after fifty days the Holy Ghost descended and there was a flame
and wind, the flame and wind both proceeded from God and
accorded with one another: God is flame, therefore a flaming
spirit; my brother is flame, therefore a great splendour. I am the
sun and, am therefore brilliant. Respect this." Further on he
when Christ says it was coming quickly, and behold it is now
upbraids people for saying the kingdom of heaven is in heaven,
The cleansing of the leper is thus explained. "God rested on
the head of my Elder Brother who, when he spoke, uttered the
Speaking of the pacification of the storm in 24 v. of 8th chap. the
words of God, and therefore cleansed the disease" (smallpox),
come!

THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
201
king says. "The wind employed by heaven was the Tung Wang,
so of course he was obedient. Respect this!" On Matth. 24 (The
sun shall be darkened) is remarked: "My Elder Brother when in
the world went about secretly because he feared the people. I
am the sun; I descended into the world and became man, when I
changed I became non-luminous. My wife is the moon. She
descended and was incarnate and no longer sheds light. The
heavenly captains and hosts, even the stars, became incarnate,
and fell from heaven upon the earth. My Elder Brother ascended
into heaven on the clouds and shall gather his people together from
the four quarters. All must confess this. Respect this." T'ien
Wang mystifies the faithful in his interpretation of the verse in
chap. 27 where Christ says Eli, Eli, lama sabacthani. Christ, he
says, in these words secretly confessed that Hung was to be lord
and rebuild the temple. No one in Nanking would care to con-
tradict this curious translation.
On Mark Chap. 1 v. 11 (And there came a voice from heaven)
he remarks with regard to the Holy Spirit, "It is God. He des-
cended upon my Elder Brother and led him away. How can it be
that one Holy Spirit became my brothers body? There is besides
another Holy Ghost which makes up the Trinity even Tung Wang.
This must be known. Christ plainly said there is only one very
God. How then did his disciples fall into the mistake of saying
that Christ is God. If theirs is the correct explanation why there
must be two Gods. It may wrongfully be explained by saying
that Christ is God and that on his ascent he was united with God.
How is it that before the time of David my Elder Brother saw God
and that God spoke to him; and how is it that when I went to
heaven I saw that there were in heaven, God the Father, and
the Mother of heaven his wife, and brother Christ, there was also
my heavenly sister in law, who is now descended. Truly the
Persons are the Heavenly Father, the Heavenly Mother, my
Heavenly Brother and his wife."
His remarks on Luke are few and consist of an untranslat-
able interpretation of the conception, and various warnings
against those who consider the Son equal with the Father. Hung
is not favourable to St. Paul. He says of Paul's command to
uncover the head while praying 1 Cor. 1, 4. "The covering of
the head has nothing to do with the desire of the heart, cover or
uncover as you like! Respect this!" And further on. "Every
one born first receives the soul, and afterwards the body of flesh.

202
THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU.TSUEN.
The Lord of souls creates a soul and then sends it into the mother
to get a body put to it. The body is begotten of the mother but
the soul is of the Lord of souls. The holy kingdom in heaven
is the great heavenly hall of God, there are thirty three heavens;
earth is the heavenly hall. The great heavenly hall is the place
of souls, earth of bodies."
On the third Epistle of John is the following startling an-
nouncement. "God is one and most honoured. Christ is his son.
The Son is born of the Father, originally one substance united.
The Father is alone the Father, the Son the Son; they are one
and yet two, two and yet one. As to the Shênglêng (Holy
Spirit) that is Tung Wang. By the will of God all plagues and
pestilences were upon the Lêng Tung Wang. He was also God's
beloved son and with the Elder Brother and myself born of one
mother, born before the heavens and earth. God the father is
the only true Shên, and only true Shêngshên; God says beside
me than shalt have none other Shên, none other Ti. The Sheng
shên is God, if there was another Shêngshen there would be
another God. The Shengfung is also the breath of the Holy
God Shangti. Not that this Fung is the Shêngshên, for the
fung is the Tung Wang who from heaven above sends down
wind. Respect this."
and
He has, as might be naturally expected, some curious notes on
the Revelations: On 3rd ch. 12, 13 (Him that overcometh will
I make a pillar in the temple of my God, &c.) Hung remarks.
"Now that the Elder Brother has descended, the Celestial dynasty
has a temple of the true God, the heavenly father Shang
a temple of the elder brother Christ, engraved with the names of
God and Christ. The kingdom of God the Father and the New
Jerusalem which came down from heaven is fulfilled in the present
celestial capital (Nanking). Respect this."
(the sun became black as sackcloth of hair and the moon became
as blood) is remarked. "I am the sun, my wife is the moon; to.
turn black like blood covertly signifies descent and incarnation.
The stars of heaven, are the celestial troops!
On 6th ch. 12, 13, 14
By falling to the
nate the imps. The passing away of the heavens as a scroll,
earth is covertly meant a descent into the world to extermi-
and the removal of every island and mountain from its place,
covertly reveals that in heaven and earth the old is to be ex-
made new under the T'aip'ings. The captains of the earth
changed for the new; and now the map of the empire had been

THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
203
hiding themselves in dens and rocks is a covert revelation that
the serpents and beasts were to be slain and the imps exter-
minated. All this is now fulfilled. Respect this."
11th chapter 15, 18 he says:-"Now the heavenly father Shang-
ti and the elder brother Christ have come down and taken
myself and the Son to be lords. All countries have already
submitted to God and Christ who have brought me to rule for all
generations. It is fulfilled. Respect this!" On 12th chapter
we are startled at finding that-"The Elder Brother, myself and
the Tung Wang, before the heavens and earth, were by the favour
of the Heavenly Father, born from the womb of his original wife
the Heavenly Mother. Afterwards the Father sent the Elder
Brother to be a redemption for sin, and to enter into Mary to be
incarnate. This is why the Elder Brother said-'Before Abraham
was I am!' When I was in heaven at the time of Abraham I
have some recollection of knowing that the father was about to
send the elder brother to be born of the seed of Abraham. I
therefore went down and blessed and saved Abraham. At that
time too, I knew that the Father was going to send me to rule
the world, therefore I had a desire to show myself below as Lord:
afterwards when I received the Father's commands to enter my
mother's womb and descend into the world, I knew that the imp
Yenlo (Abaddon) would raise a disturbance, so I besought the
father that no harm should arise through him. Afterwards the
father commanded me from heaven to be born from the womb
of another mother from heaven so that I might be incarnate. I
remember that I entered into the womb of this mother, and that
the father gave a sign, namely clothing her with the sun to make
manifest that that which she had conceived was the Son. I
knew that the serpent devil Yenlo also knew that in the womb of
this mother was I. Shangti especially sent me into the world to
exterminate this serpent. Therefore was it that he wished to
devour me and usurp God's heritage; but God is omnipotent and
the son born to him could not be injured by the serpent. Behold
I testify the truth of myself. In former times Melchisedec was I,
and after the Elder Brother had ascended, the child born of the
sunclad woman was myself also: now the Father and Elder
Brother have come down and brought me to be the lord espe-
cially to exterminate this serpent. Lo! the serpents and beasts
are slain and the empire enjoys Great Peace. It is fulfilled.
Respect this!" On the 14th ch. 15 v. (the angel with the sickle)

204
THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
is recorded-"Now is the time for the grain to be ripe; I am the
lord of the harvest and Tung Wang is the Ho-nai. 20th ch.10 v.
the king says,
"What John saw was the celestial hall in heaven
above. Heaven above and earth are alike. The New Jerusalem
is the present Nanking. God and Christ have descended to make
us lords and open the lower celestial hall, so the heavenly hall of
God is among men. The wife of the Lamb of God (Shêng kao),
is my heavenly sister in law. When I was in heaven how many
times did I not see her! Now this heavenly sister has also des-
cended and called me husband's brother (Shuh). Respect this!"
The last commentary is this. "Now since God and Christ have
both descended, what holy disciple does not rejoice, and since they
have verified the Gospel which has been delivered unto you why
you
dont
you believe? This is truly the prediction of my Elder Bro-
ther (with regard to me); I also will come like a thief when
dont expect me! Respect this." At all events no one will fail to
acknowledge the truth of the last assertion, and it affords a good
concluding point. It is Hung's last commentary and the only
true one! He did come as a thief; as the desolation of vast tracts
of country testifies to this day.
Considering the life of Hung-tsiu-tsuen, I am in no wise asto-
nished at the grotesque monstrosity of his belief. The very
slight knowledge six months in Robert's Canton school could
have given him of Christianity; his after poverty, troubles and
persecutions-all tended to confuse a mind already prone to
disease. Then came his regal success. To him, the poor peasant,
who had not cash enough wherewith to bribe the examiners at
Canton, or the runners of a country tribunal; to whom even the
purchase of his daily food was a difficulty; were suddenly given
provinces, cities and armies; and the persecuted became the
persecutor. His astounding success must have conveyed to his
mind, and to those of his followers, an idea that his former
ravings during his sickness were realities; that he was indeed
the Son of God going forth conquering and to conquer. So
neither Hung-tsiu-tsuen's belief, nor its acceptance by his fol-
foreigners, who with the evidence I have just given at their
lowers, surprises me; my astonishment is reserved for those
command, could for a moment believe in Taeping Christ-
ianity or the sanity of its chief.
Alas for defeat! Had the
his story would have been accepted by the whole country, and for-
Heavenly King subverted the empire and established his dynasty,

THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
205
eigners would have executed the celestial behests and accepted
the celestial gold, without any questioning. A few centuries
would have thrown a halo over Hung's works, especially those
regarding the unseen world, and have converted the monster
into a Saint and Sage. But he rose from the universal rottenness
for the bloody service given him to do, and his place knows him
no more. For him was ordained a career like that of those mons-
trous heroes of history, those demigods, who fulfilling some fixed
but unknown law, rise from the decay of dynasties and go forth to
chastise nations and afflict mankind. And as in the case of all
historic parallels the warning, loud and bloody as it was, has
been utterly unheeded; nothing has been changed, and nothing
will be changed. Read the history of Justinian in Gibbon's
Rome and you have an exact history of China at present. As
soon as the government here can no longer make play things
of foreign forces troubles will begin again. How true was the
remark of the old Swedish Chancellor, and how applicable now:
"My son! my son! you know not with how little wisdom the
world is governed."
LIST OF T'AI P'ING WORKS.
1. T'ien fu shang ti yen t'i hwang chao.
天父上帝言題皇詔
The Imperial proclamations dictated by God the Father.
(One volume).
2. T'ien fu hsia fan chao shoo.
天下凡詔書
The book of proclamations regarding the Heavenly Father's
visit to earth. (Two volumes).
3. T'ien ming chao chih shoo.
天命詔書
The book of proclamations and orders as commanded by heaven.
(One volume).

206
THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
4. Chiuichao.
The old Testament.
舊遺詔
(Six volumes.).
5. Tsienichao.
The new Testament.
前遺詔
(Eight volumes).
6. T'ien t'iao shoo.
天條書
Book of Heaven's commandments.
7. T'ai p'ing chao shoo.
太平詔書
Book of T'ai p'ing proclamations. (Two volumes).
8. T'ai p'ing li chi.
太平禮制
Rules and ceremonies of T'ai-p'ing-dom. (One volume).
9. T'ai p'ing chǎn muh.
太平軍目
T'ai p'ing army list of officers. (One volume).
10. T'ai p'ing t'iao kwei.
太平條規
The T'ai p'ing list of rules. (One volume).
11. Pan hsing chao shoo.
頒行詔書
Book of disseminated proclamations. (One volume).
12. Lieh.
曆
T'ai p'ing Almanac. (Two volumes).
13. San tzǔ ching.
三字經
T'ai p'ing Three character classic. (Two volumes).

THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
207
14. Yu hsio shih.
幼學詩
Poetry for children. (One volume).
15. T'ai p'ing chiu shih kao.
太平救世誥
T'ai p'ing prayers for the salvation of the world. (One volume).
16. Chien t'ien ching yu chin lin lun.
建天京於金陵論
Book regarding the establishment of a heavenly capital at
Nanking. (One volume).
17. Pien yao hsue wei tsuy li lun.
貶妖穴為罪隸論
Lit. Degrading the caves of the imps into the ti (messengers)
of sin.
Trans. Book regarding the changing of the name of the
province Chih li (directly attached) into Tsuy li (criminally
attached). (One volume).
18. Chao shoo kai hsi pan hsing lun.
詔書蓋璽頒行論
Regarding the sealing with the Imperial seal and dissiminating
proclamations. (One volume).
19. Tien chao tien mao chih tu.
天朝田畝制度
The heavenly dynasty's regulations with regard to agriculture.
(One volume).
20. T'ien ch'ing tao li shoo.
天情道理書
The heavenly book of Tao li (Eternal Fitness "TO KALON.")
(One volume).
21. Ch'ien tszŭ chao.
千字詔
The thousand character classic. (One volume).

208
THE CHRISTIANITY OF HUNG TSIU TSUEN.
22. Hsing chǎn tsung yao.
行軍總要
Elements of Military Tactics. (One volume).
23. T'ien fu shih.
天詩
Poetry of God the Father. (Five volumes).
24. Wu liu.
Strategics. (One volume).
25. Hsing shih wên.
武畧
醒世文
Book for awakening the world.
26. Wang ch'ang tzǔ hsiang chin muh chin urh kung chéng
fu yin shoo.
王長次兄親親耳共証福音書
The Gospel of the evidence of what the Prince's Brothers saw
with their eyes and heard with their ears. (One volume).
27. Yu chu chao.
幼主詔
The edicts of the young Lord.
28. Sze chieh t'iao leih.
士階條例
Regulations for literary advancement.