[251]
ARTICLE XIII.
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
DURING THE YEAR 1867.
BY THOS. W. KINGSMILL, Esq.,
Corresponding Secretary.
WHEN on a previous occasion it fell to the lot of the writer of
the following notes to compile for this society a retrospect of the
important events occurring in the year 1865, a hope was expressed
that the Chinese government had cordially, though slowly, entered
on the path of progress. In this hope the writer is now sorry to
express himself disappointed: on the contrary the year has to all
appearance been one of decided retrogression in all matters relat-
ing to the affairs of the empire, whether in its internal relations
with its own subjects, or its external intercourse with foreign
powers. During the year a general feeling of uneasiness has
been apparent, and neither amongst the Chinese nor with for-
eigners have feelings of cordial unanimity been displayed.
The approaching revision of the treaty of Tien-tsin, affecting
as it was felt it must the whole political and social relations of
China with foreign powers, was the main topic of interest; but
the year has been comparatively barren of events of political
importance. In the dearth of politics various economic topics of
importance were brought forward which have added much to our
knowledge on the subject of the working of the Chinese Guilds,
and the general system of co-operative trading adopted by the
native merchants.
During the year China was in that state of chronic rebellion
which has marked the misrule of her government for the last
twenty years. In the south-eastern provinces indeed, the seat of
the great Taiping insurrection, rebellion had so worn itself out
that profound peace may be said to have prevailed;-a peace
however which in many localities, and especially in the provinces
of Kiangsu, Anhwei and Kiangsi, might be attributed rather to
the depopulation of the country than to other causes. The most

252
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
notable instance of this depopulation was furnished by the country
lying south and east of Nanking, where thousands of square
miles of country were described as lying untilled and rapidly
returning to a state of nature; in fact as being to all intents and
purposes as much a new country as the prairie states of North
America. Other vast tracts were however known to have been
equally depopulated by the wretched system of fighting adopted
by both sides during the insurrection. Towards the great object
of resettling these districts, the government had made but slight
advance; the communications were notoriously bad, and no
security existed for the new inhabitants that their productions
could be conveyed to a fair market. The social relations of those
of the old inhabitants who had returned to their homes were
described by those most intimately acquainted with the people as
utterly uprooted; the ties of family, so powerful in China under
normal circumstances, were broken through with a naturally
deteriorating effect on the morality of the masses. In the larger
cities numbers of beggars, the offspring of the bands of thieves
and rebels who for thirteen years wandered unmolested over the
country, huddled under the ruins of devastated houses or in huts
of reeds scarcely more fit for human habitation; while in the
country the habits of unthrift engendered by the unsettled state of
existence during the rebellion still affected those few inhabitants
who had contrived to survive.
While such was the state of a great portion of those provinces
where government had been re-established, the districts which
had been spared the T'aiping scourge were for the most part
afflicted with new insurrections, scarcely less formidable from not
possessing a recognised head or object.
The Huquang provinces for some years notoriously the worst
governed in China were left completely at the mercy of bands
of marauders. From November 1866 till the following April the
neighbourhood of Hankow was more or less in the hands of
insurgents who wandered without molestation along the north
bank of the Yangtse from Hankow to the borders of Anhwei and
Honan, occupying at various times the entire of the prefectures of
Hanyang and Tehngan. In Honan disturbances
likewise occurred; in Kweichow and Sz'chuen the inhabitants were
in their usual state of insubordination. Yunnan however offered
the most curious instance of disaffection; in the south-western
portions of the province, where Mahommedans were in the as-

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
253
cendant, these restless subjects were said to have elected an
emperor of their own. In any case it was not denied by the
Chinese that their power had been reduced to a minimum; their
mandarins were indeed allowed to reside and exercise their
functions within their districts, but under the control of local com-
mittees who scrutinized their acts and dictated their despatches.
Fortunately for the inhabitants these local rebellions were not
marked with the same mad spirit of devastation which charac-
terized the T'aip'ing movement; there seems to have been little
loss of life, and except where resistance was offered no wholesale
destruction of property. Hence the curious result that in the
face of the unsettled state of the country foreign trade at Hankow
actually, though slightly, increased.
Such however was the weakness of the established government
that it is said the provincial authorities of the Huquang more
than once induced the withdrawal of the insurgents by bribes; a
curious instance of malversation of funds which had been placed
in their hands for the maintainance of an army sufficient to keep
order and induce respect.
Such misappropriations of funds raised for special purposes are
however the rule in China, and more especially are the sums
collected for military purposes diverted; the standing armies
supposed to exist in all the provinces are to be found only on
paper; the high officials draw the pay but refuse to disburse it,
till to prevent an open disclosure they find it often more profitable
to divide a portion with those enemies it was intended to repress,
than to keep their provinces in order and themselves in compara-
tive poverty.
In the northern provinces of China from the seaboard to the
extremity of Kansuh a more formidable rebellion raged. Honan
and Shantung were overrun by insurgents, with whom
Li Hung-chang, so well known from his connection as Futai with
the campaign of 1862-63 in lower Kiangsu, kept up an unequal
contest. His position was well chosen; with his force resting on
the line of the Imperial Canal between the old and new beds
of the Yellow River he was enabled to draw supplies from the new
arsenal at Nanking, as well as to divide the main body of the
insurgents into two separate portions, one in Honan and the other
in the eastern portion of Shantung. In the early part of the
Fear his troops met with little success, and it was at one time
fearod that he would probably have to capitulate, his communica-

254
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
tions with Nanking having been for some time intercepted. One
of his officers Kwo Seng-lin who formerly acted with
him in the Kiangsu campaign and who afterwards was in com-
mand at the final break up of the T'aiping rebellion at
Changchow, having led a body of troops into Shantung, met
with a severe defeat, his troops were dispersed and he himself
captured and by some accounts cruelly mutilated; subsequently
however he contrived to make good his escape.
Affairs seem to have continued in this state till the month of
July, the Nienfei swarming in the eastern portion of Shantung.
At one time they had surrounded if Tsi-nan foo, at
another they threatened Chefoo, while large bodies seem to have
crossed and recrossed the Imperial Canal without molestation.
Confining themselves principally to plunder in the open country
they do not seem to have taken any important towns, but the speed
at which they marched from one district to another always enabled
them to elude the pursuit of the heavily encumbered Imperial
troops. Under these circumstances Li, having received from
Peking a severe reprimand for his want of success, conceived the
singular expedient of surrounding the insurgents; for this purpose
he drew a double line of intrenchments across the peninsula from
Fuping to Laichow dividing his army into small
garrisons of 500 men at considerable distances, while he wrote
to Nanking for large reinforcements to be sent to act on
Shantung by sea. As might have been expected his scheme
proved abortive; the reinforcements never arrived, nor indeed as
Nanking was itself denuded of troops, could they have been sent;
a portion of the insurgents escaped by sea round the extreme
north of his lines, while the main body readily burst through his
weakened forces and passed into his rear. A portion however
under a leader by name Lai Wen-kwang, formerly a
chief in the T'aip'ing ranks, seems to have remained behind;
after varying success these were effectually dispersed, and Lai
himself who had crossed the old bed of the Yellow River with a
body of men and attempted to escape by outflanking Li's forces,
was captured with the greater portion of his band in the neigh-
bourhood of Yang-chow. This small success seems from subse-
quent events to have been the only one which awaited the Imperial
arms. The main body of the Nienfei having entered Honan,
effected there a junction with a portion of the Mahommedan
rebels marching from Shênsi, and at the end of the year their

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
255
united forces were before Paou-ting foo with complete
command of the communications of the province of Pechili.
In the northwest the rebellion of the Mahommedan subjects of
the empire was if possible more formidable: few reliable reports
come to foreign ears of the state of affairs in these regions, but
the constant appointment and degradation of officers noticed in
the Peking Gazettes point out the importance of the movement.
Tso Tsung-tang, Viceroy of Fuhkien was within the
year ordered to take charge of the Imperial troops, and
Tsiang Yih-li, Futai of Kwangtung was likewise directed to take
part in the campaign. It is not a little remarkable as indicative
of the feeling of uncertainty as to the future prevailing in China
that both these officers were reported to have joined the insurgents,
though the rumours proved to have had no other origin than the
fears of the government. The departure of Tsiang Yih-li from
his post at Canton was marked by a popular ovation, a most rare
thing in China, and all along his journey to the north of the
province he was met by deputations from the different towns
declaring their sorrow at his departure; in fact his removal to
the scene of war was attributed to jealousy of his popularity on
the part of the Peking government.
For the conduct of the campaign in the northwestern provinces
Wuchang in Hupeh was made the basis of operations, and
here large quantities of arms and munitions were collected.
Owing apparently to the bad order preserved, in the month of
November the powder magazines containing some hundreds of
tons of powder exploded, causing an enormous loss of life and
property. So great was the shock that at Kiukiang about 120
miles off in a direct line the explosion was felt like the shock of
an earthquake, the houses distinctly vibrating as if heavy articles
were being moved about. A mutiny was said in the following
month to have taken place amongst the Imperial troops at
Siangyang-fu from the usual cause, the soldiers having re-
ceived no pay, their wages having been appropriated by the high
officials at Wuchang.
But besides these more important movements the greater portion
of the north of China has been more or less disturbed by wander-
ing bands of brigands, and almost under the very walls of the
capital itself have they been permitted unmolested to carry on their
depredations. In July a small body sacked the town of Wang Kia
Kow 20 miles from Tien-tsin; in November Mr. Burlingame,

256
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
sometime United States Minister at Peking but then acting
as Chinese envoy to western powers, was detained on his way to
Tien-tsin from the capital at the town of Hoo-si-woo till foreign
succour arrived from Peking and Tien-tsin, while since the con-
clusion of the year armed bands have twice taken possession of
the communications between Peking and the sen.
The empire is in fact rapidly relapsing into the same state of
utter disorganization which marked the close of the Ming dynasty,
and there is every reason to believe that in many of the districts
to which foreigners do not usually have access the state of affairs
is, if possible, worse.
In the west affairs were equally gloomy, Ili and Turkestan
were de facto lost to Chinese rule; in Thibet difficulties had arisen
with the neighbouring state of Nepaul; to attempt to mend
matters Sir Jung Bahadoor, the Rajah, sent an embassy to the
court of Peking; with characteristic obstinacy and folly this
embassy was turned back on arriving at Chengtu in Sz'-
chuen. The cordon was in fact getting gradually tightened and
the influence of China over central Asia so perseveringly and
carefully built up by former sovereigns had entirely collapsed.
In the extreme west Russia had seized the greater portion of
Khokand, Samarkand and Bokhara were at her mercy; in the
southwest English influence was gradually spreading along the
eastern flank of the Himalayas; France in the extreme south had
succeeded in annexing the greater portion of Annam and was
endeavouring to advance along the line of the Meikong. On all
sides troubles were incident yet amid all a sullen and utter im-
practicability was the only sign of life displayed by the moribund
government of Peking.
The foreign relations of the court at Peking were as little
satisfactory; an increasing spirit of encroachment on the liberty
of trade and a dogged opposition to measures of progress marked
the course of the year. A curious case of direct interference
occurred in connection with an important case tried in the
Supreme Court at Shanghai, where the Taotai gave authority
to the silk guild to forbid their members to trade with certain
foreign houses, and actually allowed one man to be fined a con-
siderable amount for breaking through this arbitrary rule. Not
content with this the Taotai, whose name
Ying Paou-
shih deserves to be recorded, drew up a code of rules on his own
authority for the regulation of the silk trade of the port. These

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
257
rules were however properly quashed by the action of the English
and French Consuls and the Taotai forced to issue another edict
repealing the former. In several other cases the Chinese attempted
to issue similar regulations framed with the intention of interfering
with foreign trade; one of these laid down a code of rules for the
conduct of foreign ships in case of shipwreck; another attempted
to set up an obnoxious code of rules for the establishment of a
new "Mixed Court" in the foreign settlement at Shanghai; a
fourth issued by the Tsung-li Ya-mên at Peking for-
bid contrary to treaty the charter of foreign vessels by natives
unless under certain objectionable conditions. This latter was
the more remarkable as it was issued under the pretence of being
a progressive measure intended to confer on vessels of foreign
build owned by Chinese the same privileges as were enjoyed by
those sailing under foreign flags. It is a curious corollary to the
spirit which seems to have dictated these rules that no native
merchant was found to take advantage of the supposed conces-
sions. At Canton the spirit of the Chinese authorities was shown
in their interference with the cotton trade of Hongkong, and by
the attempt made to establish a blockade of the harbour, revenue
cruisers having been stationed at all its entrances to overhaul
native craft entering or leaving. At Hankow the circumstances
attending the failure of the English house of Mackellar & Co. led
the Taotai at that port to attempt interferences similar to those of
his colleague at Shanghai.
But of all these cases the most glaring was the continued
opposition offered to the importation into Shanghai in foreign
bottoms of beancake from Newchwang. This right though ex-
pressly withheld by the treaties of Tien-tsin was afterwards
granted in that made with Denmark; yet in face of this direct
legalization such measures were taken at Shanghai by working
on the fears of the native traders that the import dwindled away,
and finally in the year 1866 was altogether extinguished. Pro-
clamations were openly posted in the city and neighbourhood of
Shanghai threatening fines and confiscation against any native
who should presume to purchase the forbidden article; and so
thoroughly were the fears of the natives worked on that when in
August of that year two British vessels arrived with cargoes of
that commodity, they were forced, after in vain waiting for a market
to proceed to the south of China and sell their cargoes at a consi-
derable loss. Although repeated complaints had been made to
17

258
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
Peking on this subject so abjectly helpless was the government
there that no relief was effected, till in June 1867 the British
Minister had a personal interview with the Viceroy at Nanking
which resulted in the withdrawal of the illegal opposition. The
result proved how great was the burden laid on trade; from that
period to the closing of the season in November no less than
612,476 piculs of beancake and 102,610 piculs of Peas arrived
at the port in foreign craft.
Next to these direct interferences with trade the antipathy of
the government to make amends for old grievances was conspi-
cuous. Of these the two most important were the Sungyang claims
for damage done to foreign goods in transit through Hupeh by
disorderly Imperial troops, and the so called Nanzing duties, the
latter being duties over and above the legal rate levied on silk
passing that place in the years 1861 and 1862. After a long
correspondence and a personal interview with the Futai of Cheh-
kiang in his provincial capital, the latter have been settled
though not altogether satisfactorily to the parties interested; but
nothing is known to have been arranged with regard to the
former. There seems to be no doubt whatever that the system of
centralization attempted to be set up at Peking has worked most
unsatisfactorily for foreign interests, and it is to be remarked that
none of the complaints made have been settled through the
capital, but only by reference to the provincial authorities or by
bringing actual influence to bear upon the spot. In fact the
power of the central government has become reduced to a mini-
mum and its commands are only obeyed when they fall in with
the wishes of the more able provincial governors.
During the year the following changes amongst the Chinese
officials may be noticed; the most important being the resump-
tion of office by Tseng Kwo-fan as Viceroy of the Two
Kiang while Li Hung-chang was appointed in his place Com-
mander-in-chief in Honan and Shantung. Tso Tseng-
tang Viceroy of Mincheh was ordered to the north-west as
commander in those provinces, Ma Sin-yih, Futai of
Chehkiang being appointed acting Viceroy at Foochow in his
place. The acting Viceroyalty of Wuchang held titularly by
Li Hung-chang was conferred on Kuo Po-yin; while
Kwan wên, to whose incapacity much of the disaffection
which prevailed in the Huquang provinces was attributed by
many, was appointed Viceroy of Pecheli, which province he has

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
259
succeeded in reducing to the same state of disorganization which
marked his previous rule.
At Peking two events of interest to foreigners occurred, the
first the establishment of a college at Peking to teach the rudi-
ments of foreign science, the latter the appointment of the
Burlingame mission. Though scarcely more than tentative and
on a scale and system by no means such as to deserve the
encomiums passed on it, the college met with much opposition from
the representatives of the old school. Foremost amongst its oppo-
nents was Wo jên, a Tartar holding the office of Grand
Secretary and President of the Hanlin Yuen, as well as con-
nected with the present reigning family, who presented a
memorial to the Throne stating that there was a sufficient amount
of ability in the empire "and should persons skilled in astronomy
and arithmetic be wanted they would certainly be forthcoming."
On being requested to bring such forward when found he was
forced to confess his inability. Without entering on the ques-
tion of the status of the college it may however be remarked that
some of the appointments seem to have been very injudiciously
made, so that the scheme has hardly had a fair trial.
The Burlingame mission has given rise to considerable diversity
of opinion amongst those who take an interest in Chinese politics,
one party considering it an effort of the retrogressive party to get
rid of pressure from without, while others are well content to
await the result before pronouncing a final opinion.
The name of Mr. Hart, Inspector General of Customs, has been
mixed up more or less with the scheme. In the absence of
information as to the real objects of the mission it is remarkable
that it has already been made the excuse for delaying the devel-
opment of the coal mines in the neighbourhood of Nanking, while
the sums set aside to provide for the expenses of the mission are
understood to press so heavily on the impoverished exchequer at
the capital that monies raised and intended for other purposes
have been diverted from their proper channels. Whether this is
the case or not cannot be ascertained, but it has been a source
of complaint that the works promised to be executed for the
improvement of the harbour approaches at Shanghai have been
allowed to remain in abeyance, while the tonnage dues out of
which these expenses should be met have been regularly received
by the Chinese Government.
The mission is understood to consist of the following officers.
Foreigners Mr. Anson Burlingame, late U.S. Minister at

260
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
Peking, chief; Mr. J. McLeavy Brown, acting Chinese Secretary
to H. B. M. Legation at Peking, Secretary of Legation; Mr.
Deschamps acting Commissioner of H. I. M. Customs at Kiukiang,
second Secretary:
Of Chinese the following accompany the mission.
Chikanga Manchu who ranks as being on the list for
promotion to a Taotai-ship and has been for three or four years.
attached as a Secretary to the Tsungli Yamên; Shwan Kiaku
a Chinese borne on the staff of the Revenue Board as
an under Secretary, but who has recently been employed at the
Tsungli Yamên in a similar position with Chikang. Their
appointment to the mission has given each of them the button
of the second rank, and to the latter the decoration of the
Peacock's Feather; Chikang having had this conferred on him
for former services. They are styled "Ministers for the arrange-
ment of matters connected with the intercourse between China
and foreign powers." Besides these, six students from the Tung-
wenkwan have been sent as attachés; the Chinese por-
tion of the embassy consisting of about thirteen official members
in all.
The greatest element of weakness in this first attempt at an
embassy to western nations seems to be the position of the foreign-
ers attached to it; the two Chinese officials, men of respectable
abilities in a subordinate office, can scarcely be looked upon as the
representative of any large or important party; while it is doubtful
how far Mr. Burlingame's arrangements may be considered
as binding on themselves by his employers, or if accepted by
them, how far they will be carried out by the provincial govern-
ments. It is suggestive of the disorganization of the empire that
Mr. Burlingame and his party were arrested in their progress
from the capital to Tientsin by the proximity of a band of
brigands, and it was thought necessary by that gentleman to call
in foreign aid from Peking and Tientsin before continuing his
journey; while is the month of January, Mr. Brown in travelling
south found everywhere traces of rebel occupation, large bodies
having crossed his road a few days before his arrival; the
villages along the route in default of Imperial protection having
had to throw up earthworks for their own defence.
As stated in the beginning of this retrospect the subject of
greatest importance, as affecting foreign interests, discussed was
the approaching revision of the Treaty of Tientsin. The British

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
261
and French ministers both invited in this matter advice and sug-
gestions from the subjects of their respective nations. The
invitation of the British minister was cordially responded to on the
part of the merchants residing at the ports of Tientsin, Chefoo,
Shanghai, Chinkiang, Kiukiang, Hankow, Foochow and Amoy,
while at Hongkong a similar request from the Governor was
replied to on behalf of the Chamber of Commerce at that Colony.
A remarkable unanimity of feeling was the distinguishing feature
of these addresses; with one or two exceptions they were confined
to the detail of grievances caused through the bad faith of the
Chinese in the carrying out of the Treaty of Tientsin. It was
generally allowed that most of the privileges sought were really
contained in that instrument, which the experience of ten years
had proved to be wisely drawn up, and that had the plain
meaning been adhered to on one side or insisted on by the other
there would have been little cause of complaint.
Foremost among the alleged grievances was the levy of illegal
taxes on foreign merchandise in transit to or from the ports, and
in some instances complaints were made that even at the ports
themselves attempts were made to levy illegal exactions. Others
were the obstacles thrown in the way of foreigners travelling or
trading in the interior, and the prohibition to their boats carry-
ing cargo or passengers of penetrating the interior waters; the
prohibition to foreigners of the right of purchasing land or
erecting houses in the interior; and the continued misapplication
of the Tonnage dues. The failure of the Chinese Magistrates to
grant redress in cases where natives had been guilty of fraud,
which had resulted in severe losses to foreigners in several of the
open ports was likewise an almost universal subject of complaint;
as also the unequal manner in which the present Tariff affected
different articles of trade; as an instance coal was adduced, and
it was shown that in some cases the amount of duties levied on
Kelung coal, (the only mines available at present to foreign
vessels) amounted to no less a sum than twenty three per cent.
in the cost of the article. The addresses were likewise unanimous
in urging some arrangement whereby it might be possible to
open mines for coal and other minerals with which China is
known to be plentifully endowed, and for the introduction of
railways and generally improved methods of transit. They were
the more pressing in these topics as they felt that the most
immediate and direct benefit would accrue to the Chinese govern-

262
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
ment itself, enabling it first from the large sums accruing
from royalties to increase the effectiveness of its rule, and in
the second place from improved communications to be in a better
position to put down internal rebellion, from the ease with which
large masses of troops could be thrown upon any required spot.
The right to import salt in foreign vessels subject to the regula-
tions of the Chinese government was urged in many of the
memorials; while one of the ports petitioned that all Customs
dues should be repealed and the port made de facto free, leaving
it to the Chinese to make their own arrangements for the collec-
tion of duties outside its limits.
With these few exceptions the demands made were simply for
a better carrying out of the existing treaties, which it was felt
could be readily amended so as to suit the gradually altering
circumstances of trade.
Independently of these memorials the subject of opening the
coal and other mines of China was brought prominently forward.
Mr. Markham, H. B. M.'s Consul at Chinkiang, having learned
of the existence of valuable coal mines near Nanking, made them
the subject of a communication with the Viceroy; these mines
were examined by the writer of these notes and found to promise
a fair yield of coal; in addition his hasty survey of the country
led to the discovery of enormous masses of iron ore of the best
description and admirably situated for working. Reports on
both these subjects were forwarded in due course to Her Majesty's
government. Unfortunately as yet the Chinese authorities have
refused to act, the equivocal answer returned by Tseng, the
Viceroy (before alluded to), being that "all such questions had
been referred to Mr. Burlingame, who would make them the
subject of special communications with foreign courts."
In another instance, in the island of Hainan mines of carbonate
of copper of great purity were discovered in that portion of the
island inhabited by the native tribes, and arrangements were made
with the approbation of the Futai of Kwangtung to work them
and export the produce in foreign ships. It is much to be
regretted that in this instance the known jealousy of the foreign
Customs establishment at Canton obtained from the Viceroy the
withdrawal of this permission; the worn out excuse of disturb-
ance of the Fengshui was the pretended obstacle. The foreign
Customs have effected so much good in the proper regulation
and tabulation of foreign trade as well as in many other ways,

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
263
that it is with regret that attention is called to this case where
their interference has had a directly detrimental effect.
Mr. Swinhoe, H. B. M.'s Consul at Taku in Formosa, likewise
explored the Pescadore islands in which coal was reported to
occur; this was made the subject of a communication between
Sir Rutherford Alcock and the Viceroy of Fulkien with the usual
result, it being pleaded that the Fêngshui would be disturbed;
the deposits did not seem sufficiently rich to induce a further
discussion of the matter.
At Hongkong the action of the Chinese government led to
peculiar causes of complaint: the principal of these was the prac-
tice of charging double duty on goods in transit between Canton
and the northern ports transhipped in Hongkong harbour; as a
line of steamers runs regularly between the two places, this was
felt to be a hardship, compelling steamers from the northern ports
when carrying portions of their cargo for Canton to go up the
Canton river at considerable expense. Another cause of complaint
referred to before was the manner in which custom-house cruisers
watched the entrances of the harbour, preventing freedom of
trade in native vessels; while a third was the illegal manner in
which a monopoly had been made out of the camphor trade with
the island of Formosa. In the previous year a steamer belonging
to the colony, named the Prince Albert, had been seized by a
revenue cruiser under the orders of the foreign Customs at Canton
under peculiar circumstances; the colonial authorities took up
the matter warmly in behalf of the owner, and a long corres-
pondence ensued with the British Representative at Peking, who
seemed however to lean to the side of the Chinese, the matter was
at last compromised by the payment of a fine of $4,000, but the
conduct of the foreign Customs was generally believed on the
spot to have been unjust and vexatious.
The heavy expenses of the Hongkong Government were a
general subject of complaint and there was a marked decadence
in the commercial prosperity of the Colony. A severe Typhoon
during the year damaged the new Praya facing the harbour, which
led to a legal contest between the government and the owners
of the lots adjoining the harbour. An extensive fire on the
28th November which raged along a considerable portion of the
Queen's Road, likewise caused a considerable loss to the Colony.
At Shanghai matters were not much better, though commer-
cially the northern port had the advantage over its southern

264
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
rival; No great losses seem to have been made nor did any serious
accident disturb the even course of the year, but on the other
hand no new enterprise marked its progress. The status of the
Municipal Council remained still undetermined, no action having
been taken by the governments most interested.
The ports on the river Yang-tse and in the north were in a
state of gradual decadence, much of which however must be
attributed to the interferences with foreign trading noticed above.
One new enterprise was however successfully initiated during
the year; this was the establishment by the Pacific Mail Steam
Ship Company of a line of steamers under subsidy from the U. S.
Government between San Francisco and Hongkong, calling at
Yokohama and with a branch to Shanghai. The first ship of the
line the Colorado left San Francisco on the 1st January 1867,
arriving at Hongkong on the 31st of same month; at first the
line was worked only quarterly, but as new vessels are prepared
it is intended to be changed to a monthly service. On the whole
the line is stated to have been worked successfully, though com-
plaints as to the irregularity of the departures, have been made
in many quarters.
In Japan events of importance occurred during the year.
Arrangements were made for the opening of the port at Osaka
and Hiogo on the 1st January 1868, and the foreign Ministers
on their visit to settle preliminaries were gorgeously entertained
by the Tycoon generally known from the name of his former office
as Stotsbashi. Liberal arrangements were also made by the
Japanese government with reference to the rebuilding of the
foreign settlement at Yokohama almost entirely destroyed by fire
the previous autumn. Few of those political disturbances which
disgraced the intercourse of natives with foreigners in previous
years occurred in the present, though the murder of two sailors at
Nagasaki still unexplained, was nearly the occasion of a serious
misunderstanding with Great Britain. The power of certain
Daimios who were opposed to the Tycoonate was found so insup-
portable by the then occupant, that following Japanese custom he
resigned in favour of the next heir. As subsequent events have
entirely revolutionized the government it will suffice to say that
Stotsbashi or rather Yoshi Hisa as his real name is known to be,
proved himself during his short tenure of office an able and
enlightened prince, and earned the respect of most foreign powers.
With the Corea nothing seems to have been done to open an

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
265
intercourse; the United States are however understood to have
two vessels of war on the coast to seek for news of the fate of the
crew and passengers of the General Sherman reported to have
been brutally murdered by the Coreans in revenge for French
interference. An attempt by the U. S. Frigate Hartford to
punish the savages of Formosa for the unprovoked murder of the
crew of the Rover, a vessel sailing under American colours, which
was wrecked in the coast in the month of March, met with but
partial success and resulted in the further death of Lieut.
McKenzie an officer of much promise. Since then the action of
the United States Consul at Amoy has resulted in a compact with
the tribes, who have promised in similar cases to grant assistance
to shipwrecked crews.
On the 18th December a severe earthquake was felt in Formosa;
at Tamsui much damage was done and many lives lost, but
unfortunately no details are available as to the exact time, and
direction of the wave. The shock was felt at Shanghai at 9.57
A. M. and was also experienced at Ningpo and Kiukiang.
It would not be right to close this retrospect without allusion
to an adventurous journey undertaken by Mr. T. T. Cooper,
formerly an officer of this Society. This gentleman left Shanghai
alone in the month of September with the intention of penetrating
overland to India either by way of Sudya or the southern route
by Bhamo in Burmah. Owing to obstacles placed in his way
his actual departure was postponed till the 4th January 1868, at
which time he finally left Hankow; since that time news has
been received of his arrival at Hi yan ki on the extreme western
portion of Sz'chuen, a further point than has been hitherto
reached by any independent traveller. It is hoped that the
courage and good tempt which have hitherto marked his conduct
on the journey may enable him to penetrate through the hitherto
unknown districts which lie between the Ya-loong and the upper
waters of the Bramapootra.