[225]
ARTICLE XI.
CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
BY T. WATTERS, Esq.
M. REMUSAT, as quoted by Sir J. Davis' who agrees in the
opinion, gives the Chinese a moderate amount of praise for their
achievements in the field of Natural History; and he regards their
language as well adapted by its nature for being the record of
scientific classification. Others, however, have entered on the
study of Chinese works on Natural History and have found in
the little of scientific or social value. Even the particular work
which Remusat analysed and on which he based his statements
shows Dr. Williams how little the class of works to which it
belongs will reward the perusal. So also Mr. Swinhoe observes
with respect to the Zoological section of the official account of the
Prefecture of Taiwan, which he had translated and annotated.
"As regards myself, I have found a certain benefit to accrue, for
I have learned that there are still several animals in the island,
with which I am unacquainted, and I have been able to bring to
light from this Chinese work, several facts and remarks which will
much interest scientific men at home. Regarding, however, the
Chinese work from a scientific point of view, it will be found to
ing as it pretends to do the entire statistics of Formosa. The
y far short of what might be expected in a book compris-
notices of the animals are short and incomplete, and sometimes so
are intended," &c.3 In order to form an opinion for myself on
as to render it almost impossible to detect what creatures
this subject, I devoted a considerable amount of time to the study
of the teachings of the Chinese concerning one family of birds,
vix-the Columbide or pigeons. This study has been very
unsatisfactory, partly through want of opportunities, and partly
from apparently conflicting and meagre accounts of birds given
by Chinese writers, and the impossible nature of many of their
remarks. Such as it is, however, I now submit the result of my
investigations to the students of China and the Chinese.
fall
very
imperfect
15

226
CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
The word chiu corresponds loosely to the term Columbide,
including in its most general sense all doves and pigeons, though
Dr. Williams makes ko, a pigeon, the name of the family.
In his "English and Chinese Vocabulary" the same scholar gives
ko as the equivalent of dove, and pan-kiu (i. e. pan-chiu) E
as the equivalent of pigeon; while Chalmers in his Canton Voca-
bulary makes kop (i. e. ko) and pan-kiu the equivalents of dove.
In the Amoy dialect the dove is called ka-tsui and the
pigeon ching-ah, though pan-kap (i. e. pan-chiu) is also used.
The Shuo-wen and the Ko-wu-lun make the ho
a class under the chiu; but in other Chinese writings I do
not find either the chiu made subordinate to the ko or vice versa.
In these there are three great classes, the pan-chiu E, the
shi-chiu and the ko, that is, turtles, wood doves, and
pigeons. For convenience sake, however, I shall divide all the
birds included under the term chiu into 1st ko or pigeons, chiefly
domestic, and 2nd the chiu proper or doves.
I.
•
THE KO-TZU FOR PIGEONS.
The class Birds is divided by the Chinese into four great
departments, water birds, land birds, forest birds and hill birds.
The pigeons are included in the list of land birds along with
partridges, quails, bats, &c.
A synonym for ko-tzu is po-ko which is supposed to
imitate the cooing of the pigeons. The carriers are called fei-nu
X, flying slaves. This name is said to have originated with
the Emperor Ming of the Tang dynasty. Another account,
however, makes a Chang-chiu-ling to have been the
first to use this name." He lived during the reign of the above
Ming, the third of the dynasty, under whom he held a high office.
The pigeons which fly about with whistles attached to them are
called pan-tien-chiao-jen A, mid sky charming girls.8
The Pên-ts'ao or Chinese Herbal gives also the name used in the
Sanscrit writings for pigeon as chia-pu-te-chia (i. e. ka-pu-te-ka)
in old Chinese and intended for kapota ata.
Pigeons are said to be of various colours as azure, white, black,
green and mottled. The eyes are in some large, in others small,
and they are yellow, vermilion or green in colour. Though of

CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
227
general distribution neither these birds nor doves are to be found
in the capital of Kansuh. The existence of pigeons in a wild
state is also noticed, but I find little said about them distinctively.
The Chinese regard these birds as very libidinous, especially
hens, which they represent as acting towards the cocks in a very
unhenlike manner. They are supposed to breed every month,
but the number of eggs laid at a time is not stated. It is sup-
posed that the dove and the pigeon breed together, though, of
course, no evidence of the fact is adduced. Their amorous dispo-
sition accounts for this as also for the facility with which pigeons
themselves can be made to live together. They are also supposed
to remember for a long period their original home, and to be able
to return to it from a great distance." This fact is alluded to in
a beautiful little ode to the white pigeon by Hsü-yü of
Tah-chien, who represents the gull, unable to find her way
back to her home, think sadly of her clear native river, on seeing
the pigeon which she knows can fly back to her home. Another
writer alludes to the custom of persons going voyages in ships
and boats sending back pigeons for long distances to announce
to friends at home that all was well.
It is perhaps not unworthy of notice here that the pigeon was
one of the six sorts of wild birds which the emperor's butcher had
to furnish for the imperial table and for sacrifice, during the
Chow dynasty. The other five were the wild goose, the quail,
the patridge (or rail (?) Biot), the pheasant and the dove.
Among the various kinds of pigeon the white one seems to be
ravoure with the Chinese, and they regard it as the only one
having medicinal value. Its flesh is said to be saltish and with-
cat poison, and to neither heat nor cool the blood. This last
pecularity is expressed by the word p'ing i. e. evenly balanced
or in due proportions. It dispels the noxious effects of any drug
and summarily cures the itch even when of long duration. With
this one may compare what Bacon says in his "Historia Vitæ et
Mortis:" "It is a common practice in extreme and desperate
diseases to cut pigeons in two, and apply them one after another
to the soles of the feet of the sick man. This sometimes gives
wonderful relief, which is commonly imputed to their extracting
the malignity of the disease. But in some way or other this
treatment affects the head and comforts the animal spirits."
Pigeon's flesh is also useful in adjusting the seminal secretions,
increasing the animal spirits, and healing several cutaneous affec-

228
CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
tions, but, though thus beneficial to man, if taken in large
quantities there is danger of it losing its medicinal value. It is
also said to take away one's thirst for drinking water, and to dispel
the poison of the small-pox pustules. If one cook the flesh of the
white pigeon and give it to a child to eat, washing also his body
with a decoction of the bird's feathers, very few small-pox pustules
will come out on the child.
The blood of these birds dispels the poisonous influences of all
noxious worms.
The eggs are an antidote to the injurious effects of boils and
small-pox. If a person when young eat these eggs he will never
have small-pox, or, if he have, the pustules that will appear will
be few in number. The following is the course to pursue in order
to obtain this effect. Take two eggs of the white pigeon and her-
metically seal them in a bamboo tube, putting the whole in the
middle of the privy. Allow it to stay there for half-a-moon, then
take it out, mix the whites of the eggs with three ounces of
shen-sha, ether sand, a very fine red sand-like substance;
make this compound into pills of the size of a green pea, taking
30 of these for a dose, and repeating the dose three times. After
this delightful preparation has been thus taken by the patient,
he will find the poisonous matter escaping rapidly by stool and
urine.
The excrement of the white pigeon is also a medicine, its name
being tso-p'an-lung, left-coiling dragon, so called
because on falling it coils from right to left. That of the wild
pigeon is the more highly esteemed. It is pungent, warm, and
slightly poisonous. If roasted and pounded, and then applied to
ulcerous sores on men or horses it will effect a cure; and it may
also be mixed in the fodder for mules and horses to be taken
internally. It removes swellings, acts as an aperient, and is of
great service in uterine affections. When roast to a cinder and
soaked in wine, it forms a cure for cold in the breast, and there
are several other afflictions in which it is very useful. Now with
these remarks on the qualities of the white pigeon's excrement
we may compare what the Knight of Norwich has written on the
same subject: "The temper of their (i. e. pigeon's) dung and
intestinal excretions do also confirm, which topically applied
becomes a phænigmus or rubifying medicine, and are of such fiery
parts, that, as we read in Galen, they have of themselves
conceived fire, and burnt a house about them."13

CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
229
I do not know whether Chinese writers have ever questioned the
existence of gall in pigeons, but from the general silence of their
works on the matter I am induced to believe that they did not
consider these birds possess any gall. I cannot speak with any
degree of certainty, however, as I have not examined a sufficient
number of their writings.
II.
THE CHIU OR DOVES.
This is the first of the seventeen kinds of birds enumerated
under the category of forest birds in the Pên-ts'ao, crows, mag-
pies, jays, &c. coming under the same category. The generic
name there given is pan-chiu and this is the ordinary name
for a dove. But, indeed, the names which the Chinese have for
these birds are very numerous and not easy of distinction,
especially to one not versed in ornithology. I shall endeavour,
however, to give as many of them as are to be found in their
books together with notices of their habits and qualities.
1. The pan-chiu E. This is properly the Chinese turtle
dove, but the name is by no means strictly confined to this species.
The word pan means spotted or variegated, and a synonym for
pan-chiu in respect of plumage is chin-chiu or embroidered
dove. Other synonyms are pu-chiu or rather pu-kiu, the
old pronunciation of being kiu, and chou-chiu the prayer
dove, so called because in early times it was used in the Imperial
sacrifices.
2. The shi-chiu which Dr. Williams translates "the
wood pigeon. Other names for it are pu-ku, chia-ch'ü (i.e.
ka-h'),hu-ku po-ku, and huo-kung A
Li-shi-chên , the last editor of the Pên-ts'ao, under the
Ming dynasty says that these names are imitative of the note of
the bird; but other writers, as will be seen, give a different ac-
count of them. Hu-ku is a name used in Hunan; po-ku, in the
north; and in other places it is called sang-chiu or mulberry
dove. Another equivalent for shi-chiu is tai-sheng or sheng
wearer, the sheng being a pretty head ornament worn by females;
and similar to this last name is another tai-jen from a
similar reason. The last two names are, however, apparently
intended for the Hoopoe; and the picture of the tai-jen given in

230
CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
the illustrations of the Urh-ya is evidently intended for that bird
3. The pai-chiu or white dove.
Mr. Swinhoe in his comments on this name in the chapter of
the Official Account of the Prefecture of Taiwan, makes the bird
to be an albino of the Turtur risorius of India and other places
As such it is well known to foreigners as the Pescadore dove, most
of the specimens offered for sale having been brought from the
Pescadore Islands where they are kept in confinement by the
Chinese. In other books, however, the white dove usually appears
as in a free state.
4. The huo-chiu fire dove.
This bird Mr. Swinhoe calls the Turtur humilis. I have not
found it in any other work except this Formosan book.
5. The chin-chin, or as it is called in the Amoy dialect
kim-ka-tsiu gold dove.
According to Swinhoe this is the beautiful little gold-and-green
dove of south Formosa-the Chalcophaps formosana. The same
remark applies to this bird as to No. 4, as to places where it is
mentioned.
6. The li-chiu or green dove.
This is the name of a Treronine dove of Formosa, but I do not
know that it occurs on the mainland.
Ku-chiu is another name for a dove for which ku-chou
鵑鸼 2
A is also used. This bird is said to come in the spring and
go in the autumn, but I do not think it is a dove at all.
Those which are small and without spots or ornament are
called by various names such as kuci, a word which Kanghsi's
dictionary explains by "a dove" (chiu ): ching chiu and
tsu-chiu meaning thorn bush dove.
Special names are also set apart for the young ones-thus they
are called ju-chiu , suckling doves; k'ang-chiu, tiny
dove; lang-kao, ki-hao, &c.
In addition to the above there are several birds to which the
name chiu is applied, but apparently with less reason, if with
any reason whatever. 1st. There is the chi-chiu which is
said in one places to be of the duck family, and in another book is
referred to the sea eagles. It is mentioned in the beginning
of the Shi-ching, and the context shows that the bird mentioned
is a water bird. Another name for it is wang-chi E.
2nd. There is the meng-chiu or tiny dove. The phi-
losopher Seun-tze in the chapter of his work which is

CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
231
headed Chüan Hsiao or Exhortation to learn, says :-"In the
southern regions there is a bird named mêng-chiu, which uses
feathers to make its nest, binding them together by hairs, and
fastening the whole on reeds. When the wind blows, the reeds
are bent down, the eggs broken, and the young ones die." This
tiny dove is said by one author to be the same bird as the
ch'iao-liaos or t'ao-chung a grass warbler or a tailor
bird, while a second writer says that the chou-chiu is a ch'iao-liao,
and a third that the shi-chiu is one.
3rd. There is the shwang-chiu or fierce dove. This ex-
pression occurs in the Tso-chuan as the designation of the chief
criminal judge of the emperor Shao-hao who styled his mandarins
after the names of birds. The fierce dove is interpreted to mean
a hawk-a bird which, as will be seen, is in the minds of the
Chinese closely connected with the dove.
4th. There is the chi-ku. Dr. Williams says this bird
is a sort of grackle, or a singing thrush, perhaps the Turdus vio-
laceus, and Mr. Swinhoe makes it the mainah. It is also called
the pa-ko or eight brothers. The description given of it
in the Pên-ts'ao shows it to be the mainah, and gives one a toler-
ably good idea of its appearance and habits.
There are also several other names of birds containing the
character chiu, some of which will be found in the part of the
Urh-ya that treats of birds, but it would probably be useless to
enumerate them here. Those which have been given are suffi-
cient to indicate the laxity with which miscellaneous birds are
admitted into this family: and I may now proceed to the descrip-
tions which Chinese writers have given of the doves. These will
be found to be very vague and meagre, and in the case of the
white dove I have not found any description whatever given.
The pan-chiu E. These birds are either large or small.
The small pan-chiu are of an ashen colour, with short tails, and
without any spots or other ornament. The large birds have the
nape of the neck adorned with spots like the flowers of the pear
tree or like pearls.1 The Tai-wan-foo-chi says that those of For-
mosa are unlike those of the mainland, but it does not specify the
particulars in which they differ. This bird is identified by one
writer, Liu-chi-chi with the ku-chiu , but he is
contradicted by another who says that the ku-chiu resembles a
magpie but is smaller, has a short tail, is of a greenish black
colour, and is fond of perching on the ridge of a house early in

232
CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
the morning and cooing there for a considerable time." As this
bird is also called chi-chiu or stupid dove, and as this
quality is, as will be seen, ascribed to the pan-chiu, which latter
also cooes in the early morn on the house top, the identity is not
very improbable. The author who dissents from this view says,
however, that the one differs entirely from the other, as the pan-
chiu is variegated on the nape of the neck. Dr. Williams says
of the ku that it is "a sort of turtle or wild pigeon, having a
short tail; perhaps a francolin; also a kind of kite or glide,"-a
description from which one can scarcely form a clear conception
of the nature of the bird in question.
The shi-chiu . This bird is said to be like the yao
or harrier of the same size as the pan-chiu, but of a yellow
colour, and to have a long tail. It is also said to resemble a jay,
to have a long bill and a crest on its head. Its tail is short and
along with the crest is of various colours, thus evidently meaning
a hoopoe.
The kuo-chiu . This bird-the Turtur humilis-is accord-
ing to the Tai-wan-foo-chi chestnut colour on the breast.
The li-chiu, according to the Tai-wan-foo-chi (Swinhoe's
translation) "has a violet (kan) bill and (peih) turquoise
plumage, more brilliant than that of the ying-woo, parrot;
but possesses no fine voice, yielding in this respect to the white
dove." The la-chiu is mentioned also by Li-shi-chen, though the
bird to which he refers is probably not a treron.
The chin-chiu or gold dove. The Tai-wan-foo-chi des-
cribes this bird as having a green body, and both bill and legs of
a red colour. It is said to be found only in Tamsui or south
Formosa. In a passage, referred to above in the Pên-ts'ao mention
is made of a kind of small dove of a red colour and fond of con-
gregating in flocks, but I do not think that the writer alludes
to a genus similar to this gold-green dove of Formosa.
HABITS AND QUALITIES.
The Chinese regard doves as very stupid, 10 and one writer goes
so far as to say that they are the most stupid of all creatures.
Hence an individual wishing to speak very humbly of his own.
natural powers says he is "dove stupid"-chiu-ch'ü .
Chaucer, it will be remembered, in the "Assembly of Foules".
makes the dove speak of herself in a similar depreciating manner:

CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
233
"I am a sede foule, one the unworthiest,
That wote I well, and leest of conning."
In compensation for deficiency of ability nature is supposed to
have conferred upon the dove several moral excellences which
make her of better repute than the clever birds which are destitute
of any good moral qualities; thus some doves are remarkable for
filial piety, some for faithfulness, and some for impartiality.
The stupidity of the dove is said to be chiefly manifested in the
matter of nest building. The pan-chiu or turtle is supposed to
make a coarse nest for itself by forming a slight frame of a few
dry twigs loosely put together. The poet Han-shan11
also commenting on this fact makes it an evidence of ability-
"People say that the dove is stupid, but I say she is clever, for
with one or two branches only she makes a home for herself.
The shi-chiu, however, is worse than the above, for she cannot
construct a nest of any sort. She lays her eggs and hatches her
young either in the hollow of a tree or in the empty nest of a
magpie or jay. This notion is supported by the venerable au-
thority of the Shi-ching which says:-"The magpie has a nest-
the dove (chiu) occupies it." On these lines the commentator
remarks that the magpie is expert at nest building, making his
nest well formed and durable, but that the dove is so stupid that
it cannot build a nest for itself, but probably occupies the finish-
ed nest of the magpie. As to the white dove, instances are
repeatedly recorded of her having built her nest in the thatch of a
cottage, or above the door, or even in a temple, and of her having
retained the nest for a considerable period of time."
The number of young ones which the dove is supposed to hatch
at a time is seven, and this is thought by some to be the reason
that the numeral chiu JL, nine, appears as the phonetic element
of the character chiu , the seven young ones together with the
parents making up this number, and so the original idea implied
in the character is the family of nine birds. Other explanations,
however, have been given of the use of the character chiu as the
phonetic of this word; and it seems to me not improbable that
inasmuch as formerly over all China the word for nine was hau
or kiu, the character for nine was used as the phonetic of the
character for that bird to which the name kiu had been given,
perhaps as indicative of its call. The process described by the
Chinese may thus be the reverse of what actually occurred-the
notion of the family of nine having arisen from the independent

234
OHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
meaning of the character which was appended to the character
for bird merely to indicate the peculiar note of the dove. This,
however, is only speculation. The notion of the dove hatching
seven eggs at a time is alluded to in the Shi-ching. "The wood-
pigeon (ahi-chiu ) is on the mulberry tree. Her young ones
are seven" or "the wood pigeons are" &c. i. e. the parents
together with their brood seven are nestled in the mulberry or at
least all perched on its branches. Notwithstanding this high
authority, however, the Chinese have in some cases become scep-
tical about the truth of the assertion, and have even ventured on
a different statement. Thus according to the text-book of Orni-
thology (chin-ching ) the number of young ones which the
dove hatches at a time is only three, and of these one is "yoh
which Williams tells us is the osprey or fish eagle, thus reducing
the young doves to their normal number. Those who hold to the
old doctrine explain the fact of only two or three birds being
hatched by the badness of the nest which allows the eggs to fall
out from time to time; but as the context of the passage in the
shi-ching shows plainly that the young birds and not the eggs
are alluded to this excuse will scarcely suffice.
The existence of monogamy among doves was, of course,
observed by the Chinese long ago, yet the male is represented as
sending away his mate on the approach of rainy weather, recall-
ing her only when fine weather has returned. The virtue of
marital fidelity, however, is little insisted on, and seldom men-
tioned. Among doves as among featherless bipeds the paramount
duty of filial piety makes every other duty of little account, and
where we would talk of the dove flying or perching with his mate
near him, the Chinese talk of him as being with an aged parent.
The favourite haunt of the dove, but especially of the wood
pigeon, is the mulberry tree. The poem last quoted from the
Shi-ching represents the parent or parents as remaining on it
while the giddy young ones are changing from the mulberry
to the plum, and from that to a buckthorn, &c. The berries of
this tree also afford nourishment to the dove, and the ku-chiu
is represented as being so fond of them as to eat until she
becomes drunk, accordingly the Shi-ching contains this excellent
admonition. "Ah, my dove, do not eat of the fruit of the mul-
berry tree." It is because the eating of this fruit to intoxication
injures the moral nature of the bird that this advice is given. In
addition to mulberries the sprouting cereals of the fields afford

CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
235
nourishment to doves, but they are supposed to be almost omni-
vorous, having excellent powers of digestion.
A peculiar and purely Chinese idea about the dove is that it
collects and concentrates in itself yang-chi, that is the
purer and better part of the essence of things. This it does while
perched on the roof of a house or the top of a tree in the early
morning. The early and better part of the day is said to be yang,
and the later and worse part to be yin ; and the above idea if
translated from the language of mystic philosophy into that of
ordinary life, is perhaps equivalent to saying that the dove gets
the pure and fresh morning air, in short gets the proverbial
"worm." It is from this notion that the word chiu has come
to mean to amass or collect, mostly in a good sense, I think.
With this meaning it is used in the Yao-tien of the Shu-ching
where Medhurst translates it by "has consolidated," and Dr.
Legge does not know well what to make of it, but where the
Chinese commentator simply explains it by chi to collect
together..
It also is
Another extraordinary notion which the Chinese have about
the dove is that it undergoes periodic metamorphoses. The turtle
dove or pan-chiu is transformed in autumn into a bird called
kwang-ho-hou. One author says this bird is like a
dove but of a greenish colour. Another writer speaks of it as a
diminutive dove of a reddish colour," and he adds that when it is
said that the dove is transformed into a hang-ho-hou, allusion is
made to the appearance of this latter bird in summer.
fond of eating mulberries and sprouting grass. The Pên-ts'ao
makes this transformation to take place in the spring, but another
work makes it to occur in autumn. The bird recurs to its original
condition in the autumn according to the former work, and in the
spring according to the latter. If the hreang-ho-hou be conceived
as a dove of bright colour into which the turtle dove is transmuted
in spring, we may, perhaps, regard this as the Chinese way of
saying that
"In the spring a livelier iris changes on the burnished dove."
But there is another transformation which does not admit
of so easy an interpretation, viz: that of the shi-chiu into a
sparrow hawk. In the Yue-ling chapter of the Li-chi classic
it is written [In the middle moon of spring] the sparrow
hawk is transmuted into a dove," and in the Wang-chi E
chapter of the same book it is written "The dove is transmuted

236
CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
and becomes a hawk." The commentator observes on this that
the transformation must take place in the middle month of autumn
as the other transformation was said to take place in the middle
month of spring. Lee-tz says that the harrier becomes
a chan or falcon (?) which becomes a pu-ku ; and this
last finally returns to the harrier stage. Another writer says
that the hawk-existence of the bird is when it is carnivorous, and
its dove-existence is the period of its non-carnivorous state. The
word which I translate "transmute" or "transform" is hua 1,
and the commentator on the former passage quoted from the
li-chi is careful to explain that the term is used advisedly, as it
indicates a revolving transformation from hawk to dove and from
dove to hawk. The Pên-ts'ao gives an easy and satisfactory
explanation of the metamorphosis by stating that these two birds
are alike in their ch'i that is, the original essence of their being
-the material as opposed to the formal part of their constitution.
Another statement in the same book, the author of which seems
to have been bordering on a state of intelligence, is to the effect
that in the case of doves which are kept in confinement for some
years, no transformation is seen to take place, either in spring or
autumn. He might, however, have surmised that the absence of
these changes was due to the fact of domestication.
I shall now endeavour to give some account of the moral qualities
which Chinese authors and the Chinese generally ascribe to doves.
The first and greatest virtue is filial piety, and two doves are
particularly noted in this respect-the prayer (chou ) dove, and
the white dove. The latter bird is supposed to take great care
of its parents, and also to sympathise with human beings who
act in a similar manner. Stories are told of it building its nest
in the thatch of a cottage where a pious son was supporting an
aged mother, and of its continuance there during the years that
the son mourned for his mother on her decease. The virtue of
compassion is another attribute of the dove, especially of the
wood pigeon. Steadiness and orderly conduct are also attributed
to doves. In a poem in the Shi-ching already referred to, the
parent dove is represented as remaining stationary on the mul-
berry tree while her young ones are flying about. There is also
the common saying that the ch'iao-liao is clever but dan-
gerous-the dove stupid but steady. So too in the Tso-chuan
the name prayer dove (chou-chiu A) is that which is given to
the ssu-t'u E or officer charged with the general superin-

CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
237
tendence of the government and education of the people; that bird
being regarded as pious and well conducted, and education being
regarded as the great means of making a people orderly and
settled in their mode of life. From this notion about the dove
the word chiu came to mean to bring to and keep in a state
of order and peacefulness, thus chiu-min 13 is said to be
equivalent to an-min meaning to tranquilize the people.
Another attribute of these birds is impartiality, a virtue which is
assigned especially to the wood pigeon in the treatment of her
seven young ones. In the morning she feeds them, beginning at
the highest and going down to the lowest, and in the evening
when feeding them she reverses the order." While the Chinese
are aware that the mother feeds the little doves from her mouth,
they do not seem to know anything of the peculiar apparatus by
which the food is prepared; at least I have not found any trace
of such knowledge. They believe, however, that the powers of
swallowing which these birds possess are remarkable, and that
even up to the time of old age they never choke. It is from this
coupled with the idea of filial piety in the dove preserving its
parents to a ripe old age, that the staff which the emperor and the
great officers of the kingdom present to old men is called the
dove staff. About the middle of autumn the District Magistrates
and the Intendants of Circuit present the old men of 70 years of
age belonging to their jurisdiction with a jade staff and some rice
congee: to those of 80 or 90 years they present a jade staff of 9 feet
(chi R) long and surmounted by a dove." This is the prescribed
procedure, but I do not think that many of these jade sticks are
to be found, the less expensive article wood being much more
generally used. That which is symbolised by this act is a wish
that the life of the donée may be prolonged and that his power
of swallowing and digesting his food may not wane-long life
and good digestion being attributes of the dove.
I now pass to the consideration of the offices which these birds
are supposed to perform for the good of mankind. Several isolat-
ed instances of acts of kindness performed by doves to particular
individuals are recorded in Chinese history, and they are supposed
to have a considerable amount of tender feeling for suffering
mortals. A famous case is that of Han Kao-tsu . This
emperor had been defeated by the usurpur Hsiang-yü, and
was flying for his life with Yü in hot pursuit. Just as he was
almost getting up to Kao-tsu the latter jumped into a sort of pit,
and a dove immediately perched on the side and began to coo.

238
CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
Yü coming up and seeing the dove seated there, thought that it
was impossible his enemy could have concealed himself there, rushed
on, and allowed the unfortunate emperor to escape. There are
other good deeds, however, performed by the dove which are of
constant recurrence and of general utility. Of these one is the
informing husbandmen of the time for sowing their seed. This
office is assigned more especially to the shi-chiu or wood
pigeon, and nearly all the aliases of this bird are derived from the
above notion. Chang-hua says expressly-"At the com-
mencement of the agricultural labours this bird flies to the mulberry
tree where it coos, as if saying the five [kinds of] grain can be
sown abroad (pu-chung ), and therefore it is called grain
scatterer" (pu-ku ). What could have led a scholar like
Mr. Swinhoe to translate these two words as the name of a bird by
"cloth grain," as he has done in his translation of the Zoological
chapter of the Tai-wan-foo-chi quoted above? Now we have
seen that the Chinese mix up notions about several other birds in
their accounts of this family; and I fully believe that the cuckoo
is one of the birds which have been grouped under the term chiu
One of the names of the dove is ku-chiu or as it is
more generally pronounced ku-kiu, and this is no bad imitation
of the cuckoo's call. Besides the cuckoo does not usually build a
nest, and does call in the spring time, and neither of these things
can be said especially of any dove. Again one kind of dove is
called the fierce or cruel dove (shwang-chiu ), and the
young cuckoo is proverbial for its cruelty. Besides Mr. Swinhoe
says expressly that the pu-ku, which it will be remembered, is the
same as the shi-chiu or wood pigeon, is "the crow pheasant or
larkheel cuckoo, Centropus affinis," and in Amoy, as Mr. Swinhoe
says, the cuckoo is called the dove hawk. In the picture which
the Chinese give of the pu-ku also there is more resemblance to a
cuckoo than to a dove, though this is a matter of very little im-
portance as their representations of animals are generally very
bad indeed. Accordingly, I have arrived at the conclusion that
the shi-chiu is a wood pigeon or a dove of some sort, but
that the pu-ku though said to be the same as the former,
is really a cuckoo. And here it must be remarked that the dove
and the hawk are represented by the Chinese in intimate connex-
ion. Some suppose that the hawk does not kill the dove, just as
some old authors of the west have thought that the windhover is
a friend to the dove and never kills her. Other birds of prey,

CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
239
however, seem to be mixed up by the Chinese with the hawk in
this respect. One author says that the hsiao , which Dr.
Williams says is a sort of barn-owl, is produced by the dove;
and, as has been stated above, the text-book on Ornithology makes
one of the three young ones of the dove to be a bird of prey. There
is also the story of the owl meeting the dove, and on telling that
bird that he was about to go to the east, of the dove advising him
to change his note as it would be disliked by the people of the
east. With reference to the above matters, it is perhaps worthy
of notice that just as Chinese writers assert that the cuckoo
becomes changed into a hawk, so in parts of Germany and Eng-
land I up to the present time many persons believe that the cuckoo
is in summer changed into a sparrowhawk.14 I cannot say what
is the origin of this belief in Europe, but it is certain that the
cuckoo has in many places been regarded as a strange and mys-
terious bird.
"O Cuckoo! shall I call thee bird,
Or but a wandering voice?"
The ancient Greeks made it the sacred bird of Here, and, if I
remember aright, its figure adorned the top of her sceptre.
Why it should be confounded with a dove does not seem very
clear to me, though the idea is perhaps not stranger than many
popular ideas about birds among our ancestors or even among
ourselves.
Another kind service which the dove performs for man is to
announce the near approach of rain, and the return of fine
weather. When the sky becomes cloudy and rain is impending
the cock dove sends away his mate; she is distressed at this
temporary separation from her love and coos dolefully from the
ridge of a house, thus warning the husbandman to prepare for
the coming rain. The dove's coo has often been represented as
indicative of distress by others than Chinese. The Latin word
gemere means to lament or mourn, and it is the word which
expresses our word coo. So also Thomson makes the dove mourn
and lament though for a different reason, and in Spring he
represents the rest of the birds as singing merrily.
"While the stock dove
"Breathes a melancholy murmur through the whole."
When the rain has ceased and the sky has become clear the
cock then mounts the roof of a house or the top branch of a tree
and pleads with his mate to come back to his lonely nest. It is

240
CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
a sin to do it, but I cannot refrain from quoting a stanza of
Wordsworth which expresses in exquisite language what the
Chinese thus state in few and prosaic words.
"I heard a stock dove sing or say,
His homely tale this very day,
His voice was buried among trees,
Yet to be come at by the breeze;
He did not cease; but cooed-and coo'd;
And somewhat pensively he woo'd;
He sang of love with quiet blending,
Slow to begin, and never ending;
Of serious faith and inward glee:
That was the song-the song for me."
In England the owl, which the Chinese suppose to be hatched
by the dove, is popularly regarded as a foreteller of rain-so also
is the woodpecker. The white dove is said in the Tai-wan-foo-
chi to coo at the fifth watch-to know the times and seasons, and
to mark the limit of each period of time by several continuous
coos, it is also said that this bird "in blowy weather dances its
wings and moves in circles."
Regarded from a medical point of view also doves are of con-
siderable utility to man. Their flesh is said to be sweet, plain,
and free from poison. It makes the eye clear, and when taken
in large quantities it increases the essential elements of existence
aiding both the active and passive constituents thereof. When
taken by a man long enfeebled by disease it repairs his constitu-
tion, and delivers him from a liability to choke. The explanation
of this notion would be that doves never choke, but swallow and
digest their food well, and that from this fact and the general
steadiness of their lives they attain to a great age-accordingly
any person eating their flesh is supposed to receive some share of
the above qualities. As a doctrine nearly parallel to this may be
mentioned that of Bacon and others in the west, viz:--that the
flesh of long lived animals when eaten by any one tends to give
long life to the eater. Aristotle and Bacon both attribute long
life to doves, and the latter recommends (along with other long
lived birds) "wood pigeon (especially if the flesh be slightly salted)"
as an aliment likely to make the juices of the body less liable to
be preyed upon.16
The blood of doves when cooked and taken internally is an
antidote to the bites of poisonous insects, while its excrement

CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
241
In order to cure the ear
cures ear sores and running ulcers.
sores it must be mixed with another medicine named ye-ming-sha
and blown upon the sore. Ye-ming-sha, that is, night
clear sand-is the name of a dark brown powder, very coarse and
It is said to be made of the excrement of
not unlike tea dust.
bats and really contains a considerable admixture of Cantharides.
It is used by Chinese doctors at present as a cure for weak eyes,
and the reason is that as bats fly in the dark they must have excel-
lent powers of vision, and anything belonging to or proceeding
from them must share in this quality. Of the shi-chiu or wood
pigeon it is written that its flesh is sweet, delicate, and without
poison. It also gives one a composed mind and enables him to
do with little sleep. Its foot and leg bones have the very delight-
ful quality of exciting affection between husband and wife. If on
the fifth day of the fifth moon the husband take one of these bones
and the wife take one, each putting the bone into a basin of
water, one from the left and the other from the right side, the two
bones will come together, and float together, thus indicating a long
and happy union to the parties trying the experiment.
I have not found in my reading hitherto any notice of the
death of a dove recorded or described by a Chinese author, and
it is not easy to guess how and where he would suppose the bird
to die. Does the old cock die in the first nest he stole from the
magpie, with affectionate doves of the first and second generation
tending him assiduously until he ceases to exist? Or does he
never die at all but live on for ever with his mate, renewing his
age with every transformation? With this uncertainty as to the
fate of the dove ultimately I bring my remarks to a close.
The meagre and imperfect account which I now conclude of
the notions taught by the Chinese, and especially by Chinese
scholars, concerning the family of the pigeons will, I hope, give
at least a faint idea of the superficial and erroneous manner in
which they have studied nature. Taking the high a priori road
they have formed hypotheses about her and her working, and
have never tried to verify these hypotheses by actual experiments.
Errors of every kind, accordingly, disfigure their writings when-
ever they treat of the operations and agencies of Nature; and
by the great force of authority these errors are repeated from
book to book and from age to age.
16

242
CHINESE NOTIONS ABOUT PIGEONS AND DOVES.
REFERENCES AND NOTES.
PART I.
1. The Chinese. Vol. 3, ch. XX (Edition of 1846).
2. The Middle Kingdom. Vol. 1. page 249.
3. Journal of N. C. B. of Asiatic Society. New Series No. 2.
4. Tonic Dictionary, under the character.
5. Pên-ts'ao-kang-mu
. Part on Birds.
6. Medhurst's Fuhkeen Dictionary, character, also Kang-bai's Die-
tionary, same character.
7. Yuan-chien-lai-han A, under the word.
8.
Do.
9. Pên-ts'ao.
Article.
10. Kang-hsi's Dictionary, character
11.
.
Do. and Biot's Le Tcheou Li. Vol. 1. page 76.
12. Bacon's Works. Vol. 5, page 307 (Ellis, Spedding and Heath Edition).
13. Pseudodoxia Epidemica, Book 3. ch. 3.
PART II.
1. Pin-ts'ao. Article E
2. Urk-ya. Section on Birds.
3. Commentary on the Shi-ching Book 1. ch. 1.
4. Urh-ya, under
5. Seun-tz. Chapter 1.
6. Tso-chuan. Chao-kung, 17th year +.
7. Yuan-chien, fe.
8. Pin-ts'ao. Article
under the character.
9.
Do. Article 青
10. Commentary on the Shi-ching. Chao-nan, I.
11. Kwang-shi-lei. ch. 35. .
12. See Lee-tzu's notion as given in Kang-hsi under.
13. Kang-hsi's Dictionary, under the character.
14. Kelly's Indo-European Traditions and Folklore, ch. 3.
15. The word Ch'i I have found very hard to translate in many pas-
sages so as to convey the idea in the Chinese writer's mind. I
think the term "humour" as used by old writers is perhaps the
nearest approach to it. That portion of the constituents of man's
life which he shares with all other living creatures is perhaps what
is at least included in the word.
16. Historia Vitæ et Mortis.