[21]
ARTICLE II.
TRANSLATION OF INSCRIPTION ON TABLET AT HANG
CHOW, RECORDING THE CHANGING THE T'IEN
CHU TANG (ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH)
INTO THE T'IEN HAO KUNG.
BY CHRISTOPHER T. GARDNER, Esq.
H. B. M.'s Consular Service.
THE saints of old spoke of T'ien (Heaven) as being composed of
the two principles, Lan¹ and Measure; what they meant by Law
was the motive influence by which out of chaos were engendered
the double state of existence (male and female), the harmonious
action of the five elements (metal, wood, water, fire and earth)
and the succession of the four seasons. What they meant by
(Shu) Measure was the sun (day), moon (lunar month), signs of
the zodiac (solar time) and evolutions of the heavenly bodies.
With regard to Ts'ang Ts'ang T'ien³ (dark blue heaven) that
is only because of the deepness of the atmosphere, which being
above the earth is included in the term T'ien (heaven, firmament).
in
When the I-ching speaks of the clouds moving, the rain pour-
ing down and the universe in a state of transition, it simply
denotes that the meritorious (beneficent) operations of heaven are
all pervading. It does not state that above 4 Tien besides T'ien is
a being who directs the movements of the clouds and rains. In
fact the Shoo-ching says "Tien sees because we the people see,
"Tien hears because we the people hear." This means that heaven
ineither sees nor hears, but that men derive their distinction be-
itween right and wrong, good and evil, from their own conscious-
iness. It does not say in heaven there is a being with the organs
of ears and eyes, and who busies himself with what he sees and
Ihears.
T'ien

22 TRANSLATION OF AN INSCRIPTION ON TABLET RECORDING
discourse
talk
Even those wild men of Chi tunge, Chow yen and Mung
chwang, in their extraordinary and senseless! never went so
far as to say that Heaven had produced a being, who is able,
dwelling in Heaven, to bind and to loose it; and from the centre
of space's void to order heaven its place to recede to", and, without
authority become the Lord of Heaven.
In the time of Wan li of the Ming dynasty a Portuguese Matteo
Ricci came to China and invented the term T'ien chus, Lord
of Heaven; his doctrines gradually spread and were in the mouths
of ignorant men and women. Those of his disciples who came
to China undertook large building operations, dwelt in the vari-
ous markets and spread all over the Empire. After the present
dynasty had been established, the sacred ancestor, canonized
under the name of the benevolent Emperor, (Kang hi) recogniz
ing that these men were born beyond the long sea, and had come
far for civilization, that, though their discourse was senseless,
they were men of mind and intelligence, saw nothing to prevent
their being taught reason; and allowed them to dwell in the
capital (Peking), that by bathing in the fullness of the virtue of
the sacred court they might, after a long time, change and attain
knowledge, when they could return and teach their own country-
men the nature of Heaven and the bounties of earth. This
was benevolence as profound as nature's height and depth! a
beneficence which forgot nothing! Who would have thought that
the habits of falsehood and obduracy were so deeply implanted
(in them) that they could not be eradicated?
When the present Emperor (Yung chêng) came to the throne
he was from the first aware of the wickedness of these men, and
therefore, driving them south to Macao he did not permit them to
reside in the interior of the country. He also ordered that the
buildings they had erected as churches should be put to other
uses. As these are too gorgeous, grand, superb and magnificent
for people to dwell in with propriety, and as, if they are left
empty, they will fall into ruin, the plan has been determined on
of changing the church at Wu lin (Hang chow) into a temple to
Tien hao (Queen of Heaven). This plan will serve the double
purpose of extirpating a religion of false gossip and obduracy,
and of making an offering to a spirit who really has a beneficial
influence over human destinies; and (there is the extra satisfaction
of knowing) that this meritorious deed can be effected without
trouble, and the action completed without expense.

THE CHANGING OF T'IEN CHU TANG INTO T'IEN HAO KUNG. 23
The followers of Ricci have now been in China for two hundred
years, during which time their evil courses have been numerous
and long continued. As those who are affected by their doctrines
are not able at once to appreciate the worthlessness of them, when
they are duly appreciated they are regarded in the same light as
the teachings of Buddhists and Taouists are at the present day.
But (Christianity) has nothing in common with the doctrine of
the holy sages with regard to the inculcation of virtue. Yet to
manifest the greatness of the universe where everything exists,
it (Christianity) is allowed to be preserved 10 (in Macao) where it
will not be spoken of. 11
Tien 12
Heaven
These men (Roman Catholic Missionaries), who act criminally
towards and corrupt men's minds and morals, not having
as yet spread over the whole Empire, and I being well aware of
their evil mindedness, I have, after mature deliberation, determined
that unless I publish their wickedness I shall not be discouraging
the disposition (that exists) to associate with them; and that
unless I unveil their intentions I shall not be able to destroy their
in evil doing.
rashness
arrogance
Their doctrine teaches that T'ien chu has attained the Lord-
ship of and rules over all things-wind, rain, dew, thunder, the
female and male principles, cold and heat. One cannot tell
whether they mean to assert that before the existence of T'ien chu,
there was no female or male principle, no cold, heat, wind, rain
and dew; or whether there was then another Lord who ruled over
them, and that T'ien chu succeeding him obtained his powers.
This is the first error.
Again the converts have first to give up to be burned the
tablets of their ancestors and parents, in order to manifest the
sincerity of their conversion. Now as T'ien chu must either have
been produced from nothing or have been born from ancestors
and parents, even if T'ien chu were produced from nothing he has
space
void
no right to force men to burn and destroy the source of the
(family) spring and the root of the (ancestral) tree.
Again men in their veneration like to present an offering to
Heaven, but, since heaven created man and the universe, it was
he who created my parents and ancestors; then what pleasure
can the burning (the memory of parents and ancestors) afford to

24 TRANSLATION OF AN INSCRIPTION ON TABLET RECORDING
Heaven the creator of man and the universe. This is the second
error.
Those who destroy the records of their parents and ancestors
wish by so doing to demonstrate their reverence for T'ien chu.
But I have heard that foreigners in their customs also have
an Emperor and his Ministers. They have elder and younger
brothers and friends, nor do they wipe out the memory of their
generations; 13 why do not they thoroughly annihilate these ties to
do the will of T'ien chu and attain a still higher degree of
merit? Why only cast off parents and ancestors like worn out
shoes? This is the third error.
The foreigner's teach, that in science and art it is necessary
to put forth one's utmost mental strength to acquire such a
state of perfection that one may be satisfied to stand still; that
the space of a man's life is not sufficient to enable him to complete
half this labour, which he must hand over, in the stage to which he
has advanced it, to his sons; and that these who receive the work
in this incomplete condition must use their utmost endeavours to
carry out the designs of their parents, which if still unperfected
are handed over to the grandchildren to one or several generations,
until at last posterity has perfected them. They then are in the
condition to be humbly received. (They also teach) that those
who have attained this degree of knowledge are the fit propagators
of religion, and that the (Missionaries) who come to China are of
this class. To this it may be objected that art and science are in
no way connected with the daily moral exigencies of human beings,
but on the contrary when carried to excess lead to monstrous
arts and lewd craft, which are things not permitted by law.
Again as these persons do not recognize their duties to their
parents and ancestors, of course the parents and ancestors do not
acknowledge their children. In fact they teach that the only
motive that makes the parent acknowledge his offspring is the
hope of perfecting monstrous arts and lewd craft, and the only
tie the son acknowledges with his father is by his having
bequeathed to him designs, the construction of which he has to
complete. This is the fourth error.
Again they teach that having attained perfection a man
should go forth to establish his religion; disseminate his doctrine,
annihilating the memory of ancestors and parents for the benefit
of men with whom he has nothing in common; and, neglecting
his own kin, sacrifice the talent and labour of several centuries

THE CHANGING OF T'IEN CHU TANG INTO T'IEN HAO KUNG. 25
in order to profit the requirements of other people. This is
the fifth error.
From the above it is manifest that the (Christian religion) is
one which tends to corrupt men's minds and morals, yet, were
the evil confined to the converts, the crime (of the Missionaries)
would be but small. But the truth is that the dangerous nature
of their (secret) intentions is so great that it is unquestionable. 15
Portugal (Europe) is several thousands of myriads of li distant
from China, a whole year does not suffice for the journey; then
there are the dangers of the sea, the wind and the waves to be
encountered, the separation from the (native) villages, (home), the
leaving of wives and children and the fatigues of travel. If we
judge from human nature we must come to the conclusion that
all this is undertaken for the sake of profit.
The (foreigners) who bring their native products for the
manufacture of implements cheat the Chinese out of incalculable
sums of money; on the other hand one hears that those who
enter the faith have money given them for so doing, but then the
number (of converts to whom presents are to be given) is fixed,
as is also the time (during which these presents are to be made).
I do not think the foreigners are so stupid as to take an infinity
of trouble and mental labour merely to get the wealth of the
Chinese, in order that they may give it up for the benefit of the
people in China. Some say that every year foreign 16 vessels
arrive fully laden with the silver of their country for the purpose
of supporting persons to propagate their faith in China, and
that this money is contributed by persons dwelling in those
countries for the purpose of furthering the work, and not with
the object of profit. These Missionaries not only teach the
doctrine of T'ien chu but also the art of making gold; thus their
object is both to improve men's dispositions and to instruct those
now ignorant of the means of attaining wealth. This only shews
the dangerous tendency of their secret intentions. 17
Some people say that the object is simply the desire of
propagating their faith and attaining fame; and that in truth
there have been men who have sacrificed their lives for philan-
thropical motives. In answer to this it may be said, you may
perhaps find one who has so great a regard for fame, but it
is incredible that the whole population of a nation should be so
devoted to fame, that they should either give up their property and
assist (in works of philanthropy), or come in crowds, like those

26 TRANSLATION OF AN INSCRIPTION ON TABLET RECORDING
who reside in their churches, and be every where spread. That
those desirous of fame should be so numerous is impossible.
Alas in all probability they do this (the Missionary work) because
they have some (sinister) object. One has only to regard their
intrigues in Kao urh pa (perhaps Java) their tricks in the Philip-
pines, and the unveiling of their cunning in Japan to be convinced,
that in teaching their religion they do not confine themselves
to propagating their faith, and that (they only use their religion,
as they know) that among ignorant men and women are none
whose emotions are not stirred by the idea of (future) misery and
happiness.
At present in Japan at the straits where the port is situated
they have made a copper image of T'ien chu, and those who go to
that country without trampling on the image of T'ien chu are
deemed guilty of unpardonable crime. If then T'ien chu receives
such an insult and degradation as being trampled on, at the
hands of a petty foreign state, and has no means of (avenging it);
it is evident that it is because he has no power over human
happiness and misery. 18
20
Even if one discusses the implements which they (are said
to have) brought to perfection, the Hsien chi and Yu hêng
(Revolving spheres, these existed in the time of the Tang" and
and Jade tube);
Yew dynasties. As for their Sundial and Compass, Duke
Chow 21 had them in his time: with regard to the self striking
clocks and water time-piece, they already existed in the time
of the Han dynasty: and as to their astute contrivances for
startling people such as the wooden ox and automaton horse,
why Chu ko 22 Marquis of Wu in the time of the five dynasties
had them made by spirit workmanship. The tradition of them
has been handed down to the present times.
As the Missionaries teaching is untrue; as their instruments
have been invented by Chinese; and as their science cannot affect
the
(future?)
the happiness or misery of mankind, I cannot make out how it is
that any one has been duped by their discourse.
The sacred ancestor, canonized under the name of the bene-
volent Emperor, bestowed two hundred Taels of silver on the
foreigners resident at Hang chow. Now this was only an ac-
knowledgement of the fact that they had come from a distance,
and a mark of compassion. But these people went and set up a
temple in the north east corner of the Provincial city, and put up

THE CHANGING OF T'IEN CHU TANG INTO T'IEN HAO KUNG. 27
a tablet on which were the words "Built by Imperial Order." To
justify them in doing this they ought to have received an Impe-
rial Edict specially commanding the building; all that they did
receive was a gratuity of money, and they then falsely arrogated
the reputation of the exertion having been made by Imperial
Order. Now there are numerous officers, both in the capital and
the provinces, who have received gratuities of public money;
these men can (if they like) put up a board on which is written
"bestowed residence," but the fabrication of the jade decree 23 is a
crime of the greatest enormity, a crime with which other crimes
are not to be compared.
that which
those who
(the Church which)
spread these disorderly and
Let us do away with
unenlightened ideas, and present a temple to a being who has a
beneficial influence over humanity. Let the fabricated reputation
of the church having been built by Imperial Order be destroyed, and
let the building be presented to One, who though she appears by
right in the (sacred) records has not as yet a temple devoted to her.
The name, surname and generation of the spirit Tien hao are
written in the books, and though implicit belief cannot be placed
in these, yet there are traditions which have been handed down
by various Emperors of our dynasties; and even foreign nations
have shewn their respect for her by the frequency of their
offerings and by the numbers that have attended festivals in her
honour. Owing to her protection fishers and traders have travel-
led over the ocean billows and stormy surf with a fixed day for
going and returning, as safely as if they were navigating the
rivers creeks and bays. And the spirit of T'ien hao has watched
over them. Yea her spirit all pervading has been a beneficial
influence working vastly for humanity.
reward merit
Then let us do away with false doctrine and show our gratitude
by re-establishing the memory of virtue. Let us change the
abode (of the Christian religion) into a temple. Let us destroy
their execrable idols and images in order to make proper ones,
that hereafter the eyes of the Hang chow people may no longer
see the abode of 'T'ien chu and that their ears may no longer hear
the name of Tien chu. Then the abominable acts which the
Missionaries have practised for 200 years will no longer give
them a field for intrigue. Heretical doctrine and corrupt speaking
will then in course of time be done away with-and there will be
the great and lasting result-preservation of morals.

28
TRANSLATION OF AN INSCRIPTION ON TABLET RECORDING
Given this- -day 9th moon of the 8th year of Yung cheng,
(Oct. 1730) 47th year of Cycle, by Li wei (Titular) Guardian
to the heir apparent, (Titular) Chief Secretary of State for the
War Office, Assistant Inspector General of the Censorate, Viceroy
of the Che kiang Provinces, Commander of the Forces, and Pro-
vincial Chancellor of the Exchequer, Governor General and Salt
Commissioner, (Titular) Head of the police for the seven foo and
five chow in Kiang nan, viz., Chiang ning foo, Soo chow foo,
Sung chiang foo, Chang chow foo, Chêu chiang foo, Huei an foo
and Yang chow foo-Chang chow, Hai chow, Pi chow, Tung
chow and Chu chow, Six times honourably mentioned, Once
recorded for promotion, and Once for distinguished military ser-
vices retained in office though in mourning. 24

THE CHANGING OF T'IEN CHU TANG INTO T'IEN HAO KUNG. 29
Observations.
1. Another common definition of li law is T'ien li t'ung
ho, Universal Harmony is heaven's law.
2. Tai chi generally translated Final cause is represented by the
1st stage 2nd stage
following symbols
sented by the following symbol
Chaos is
Hun yuan and is repre-
It is on account of the symbols that I
have translated Tai chi by the "motive influence from which out of Chaos"
as it is the curved line in the first figure which represents the Tai chi. In
the second figure the light part represents heaven or the Yang (male) prin-
ciple and the dark part earth or the Yin (female principle.)
3. Ts'ang Ts'ang T'ien is a very common Chinese oath; the
I had always imagined to be an ellipsis for Tien yè when the
meaning of the oath would be, Oh Lord of the deep blue heaven or firmament.
It would not have suited the purpose for which this tablet was erected to
give this rendering, as here the personality of T'ien is denied, hence the
rather awkward explanation in the context.
4. Here a character is broken off the tablet. I do not know whether it was
Thea below
shang above or
li inside.
5. This is somewhat what Confucius says. I quote from memory. "Let
"the man who will be perfect attentively consider the causes and the effects
"of every action, let him do this with an earnest diligence to a hair breath,
"forgetting and leaving out nothing; then after a long time shall be have
"attained knowledge and be a fit ruler of hundreds." This and the context
would seem to denote that the Chinese had an idea of the utility theory in
ethics, or stated syllogistically,
Experience shews what is harmful and what is useful.
What is harmful is bad.
What is useful is good.
Experience then is the text of what is good and evil and forms the stand-
ard thereof.
Experience is gained from one's own consciousness.
Therefore the standard of good and evil comes (from within) from ones
own consciousness, and not from the commands of a Deity which is without.
6. Of the wild men of Chi tung the San kwo chi says,
偏足或愚人如若天已死黄天當立是己 The delusive doctrines
of Chi tung were sufficient to lead astray and excite foolish men, such as
"the azure heaven is dead and the Yellow heaven is already established."
7. Can this be an allusion to the passage in the psalms?

THE CHANGING OF T'IEN CHU TANG INTO T'IEN HAO KUNG. 31
principle that school room globes revolve; on the outside Globe of the
Hsien chi were depicted various constellations, some of which were recog-
nizable, on the inside globes were represented rivers, seas and mountains.
Yu hêng, I do not know what the Yu hêng is.
20. Tang Yew better known as Yao and Shun. Em-
perors who are highly praised by the Chinese classics. They are said to
have been the fourth and fifth rulers after the commencement of the world.
21. Duke Chow a minister in the Chow dynasty who invented the Abacus.
22. Chu ko. Liang called K'ung ming lived in the time of the three King-
doms he was the Tutor of LIU PEI.
23. Jade decree, no one but the Emperor is allowed to use a jade seal.
24. A mandarin is required to retire from office, for the space of three
years, after the death of a parent.

生物耳今以生
法之所不 ;既不知有祖宗父母則爲其
母之盡棄其他漠不相識之人復何關痛癢而必窮數
石尤專且篤而
其孫或一傳或三四
亦不復以子孫視之獨至
!精力以利他人之用此其謬五
ë風 濤 之險去故鄉離妻子跋涉而來以人情論必有所利而爲之携帶
是之拙也或云每年紅毛飢 到必廣載其國中之銀錢以濟"
不得達又
非利也彼.
名之
主之敎敎八而復儅黃白
身以狗人者然一人好名
矣爲行計耶抑不止
禍福人明矣所 精者儀器
聖祖仁
製造亦中國之所素有其
白金二百兩之賜此不過念其
特旨建造而後可今以會受賜金遂冒勅
國家白金之
矣以 之 築室遂可稱
天后之神姓氏顛末見之于書者雖亦
聖相傳海外諸國獻琛
天后之神實司其
沉詭秘之術將
其
雍正八年歲次庚戌九月
太子少保兵部
兼都察
院
副
端吸
久德魚可為建
收拾人心則以
「見之唐
·能禍福人
外臣工受
且功鹹盡賜:
其民出我干外撫不
熄及賈然乎內面
有何入朝國臣恤能
督 漸之商1
關其驚
于盛壽
風哉駭
化荒浪
豈誕之
淺不中
天主堂改 〈后宮碑記
古昔聖人之言天者理與敵二者而已大極
復有施行" 云雨者 書 曰天視自我民視天聽自
天之上挨之縱
朝定鼎以來
于清虛廣漠之中使天亦退處于1
于我儀
具 無民五
心 權聽氣
聖祖仁皇帝念其人生長海外遠就化雖爲說不經然皆具心思知識未必不可敎道居之
京師使沐浴
名具者
全辰經度次舍此言數也至于蒼
聽就羣黎百姓而寄此善惡是非之理非謂天之
上卽天一言盡之矣易
之主者自明季萬曆年間大西洋利瑪竇入中國造爲天主之名1
視聽者雖齊東之野人鄒衍蒙莊之怖爬不
逐蔓延於愚夫愚婦之口其徒之入中國
以
奉
得道有
而德功
遂之施
大興土
聖朝德化之盛久 然改悟以敎其國中之人咸知天經地義之正此乾坤覆載之
深恩不遺一物之
荒誕狂悖之見固結而不可解我
皇上御極之
事集此
而盡棄其
臣有兄:
所受之
源雨今燭之而
朋水風得余洞物久
日其義幡
1天改奸也然
思而言順
小諸事能柄下利省 義知為天布
黜其入皆歸南澳不得盤居內地而直省之所爲天主堂者將以次而改矣顧其制皆崇隆巍燠非編戶之所可居空之又日就傾圮去荒誕狂悖之而
武林天主堂爲天后宮之舉也雖然自利瑪竇之入中國迄今幾二百年浸淫沉溺惑其敢者未必一旦有豁然之悟卽悟矣視如今日二氏之說雖無當
未大白于天下也余既深知而熟悉焉不申其罪無以服附和之心不離其心無以破奸詭之胆敢稱天主是風雨露
抑別有主持人
之誼况人之所以敬
生而不絕則何不盡一
需接續以繼其惡猶有未達則復舉:
木經形
營亦言
建未来
室指功
居有之
通所
非謂天之 *
【以爲能踞乎
國之中我
偲于生之明神不勞力而功成不煩費
之旨不妨存而不論以見天地之大無所
得而主持
未有天主之前將竟無有
王桑亦不
|陰陽寒
;亦由祖宗
此其謬一也入其敢者必先將本人祖宗父母神牌送與燬棄以示歸敢之誠不知天主生于空
生物之天而敬之奉之此其謬二也棄絕父母祖
藝而後止設所得止一
此其謬三也西洋之敢一技一能務 1
而奉之以爲此可以行致之人矣今之入
而生也彼縱
亦有君
舉而
之重至
之承此:
之險則尤有大
俗之
!非經歲
圓地方之
國中居守之
其貲以佐之用所
國憲而冒王章至矣
於知所
省何重不
盡 城為者,
去而
而去
之而日
他
報而
功還
何
可
復
北之:
隅南
顏其車心
勝
其說周者也人行
之如
時典行
道
耶
額也公今且:
誣
罔
不
洋為本繹設
建人之于而心:
日西會日絡所
夫之矣海來殆
武奇收居在彼
日居所口其有
建林者
黃白之術以彼國之金
彼其志欲行敢开
所在而有
者之多也嗚
何難去故鄉離妻子蹈不測之大海以博
爲而為之者一見其技于噶爾 再見其技于
卯至不赦旣爲天之主而受海外一小國如此蹂
收港登陸之處鑄銅爲天主跪像抵其國
!自鳴鍾
武候行之鬼工之奇五代時有之至今猶有傳流之者
通德功
崇德報
!勅建夫曰
江河港又之間而
遲必奉
經者宜去則有功德于八者宜祠也冒窃勅建之名者宜毀則列在祀典向無專建之廟宇者宜也
【毀其居室之違制者改爲
;像塑之詭秘者設以莊嚴 而後武林之人目不見天主之居耳不聞天主之名二百年來深
副都御史總督浙江等處地方軍務兼理糧餉含巡撫鹽政節制江南江蘇松常鐵淮揚七府太倉海邳通徐五州督捕事務加六級紀錄一次又軍功紀錄一次在任守制李衛題
* See Note 4.

A
:
to