[159]
ARTICLE VIII.
CHINESE CHRONOLOGICAL TABLES.
BY W. FREDK. MAYERS, Esq.
In the historical tables appended below the simple aim of the
compiler has been to present in an accessible form, favourable
to easy reference, a view of the successive Chinese dynasties and
their individual reigns, such as is likely to prove useful in
historical researches. The practice in Chinese literature of
defining the dates of historical events either by reference to the
corresponding year of an Emperor's reign or by quoting the
cyclical character appertaining to the particular year, renders
the possession of such tables an absolute necessity; and the
present is by no means the first time that a record of the kind
has been projected. The earliest Chinese historical tables,
published in English are comprised in Morrison's "View of
China," where, however, the arrangement is both faulty and
defective. In Gutzlaff's "History of China" a more complete
system is followed, though here also precision in dates is wanting;
and in 1842 one of the writers in the "Chinese Repository"
prepared a table of the sovereigns distinguished by their posthu-
mous titles alone; but in none of these compilations are all the
requirements of Chinese Chronology satisfactorily met. For the
purpose of supplying a complete Chronological index, several
distinct conditions must needs be fulfilled. It is scarcely necessary
to point out that the Emperors of China themselves are known
in history by the posthumous title conferred upon them after
death, but that their reigns are designated by appellations* chosen
according to their own fancy whilst on the Throne, and frequently
changed during the period of their sway." What is required,
therefore, is a table which shall fix not only the date of accession
1., Miao Hao, lit. Temple-title, i.e. the title under which the
sovereign is canonized (shih ) in the ancestral Temple.
2. E, Nien Hao, lit. Annual-title, or epochal designation.
3. This was more particularly the case with the earlier dynasties. The
present dynasty has not employed more than one title for each reign.

160
CHINESE CHRONOLOGICAL TABLES.
of the Emperor known by his canonical title, but also of the
commencement of each period of his reign as distinguished by its
special appellation. The fulfilment of this object is attempted in
the annexed tables, which have been compiled from original
sources.
Still, however, something remains to be elucidated. The
Chinese employ an independent method of specifying a precise
period of time, viz: by means of the Cycle of sixty years, 5 of
which no comparative table has hitherto (so far as the present
writer's knowledge serves him) been constructed. The attempt is
now made, and its result is presented herewith, as a necessary
introduction to the historical tables. The two combined will be
found, the writer hopes, a complete index to Chinese Chronology.
A brief inquiry into the nature of the titles applied to Chinese
sovereigns must next be added. As regards the designations by
which history recognizes the successive sovereigns of the mytho-
logical dynasties, no satisfactory explanation can be arrived at,
and it does not appear worth while to occupy space and time in
retailing here the theories advanced by various Chinese writers
on this subject. As regards the line of doubtful sovereigns
antecedent to the Hia dynasty, the name of the individual is by
some authors declared to be that of his birth-place, and rice
versá; whilst in many of the titles of the sovereigns of Shang an
obvious but yet unexplainable connection exists between the
sovereign's appellation and the characters of the cyclical period.
4. As an example of their intended application, it may be assumed that in
the course of Chinese reading a reference is met with entailing the verifica-
tion of the "3rd year of Wu Ti of the Tsin dynasty." On turning to the
page of the Tables comprising the Tsin dynasty, A. D. 265 is found to be the
first year of Wu Ti's reign, and it becomes obvious that the 3rd year
corresponds to A.D. 267. If, however, in lieu of referring to this sovereign
by his miao hao or posthumous title the Chinese historian has spoken of the
"3rd year of T'ai Shih of the Tsin dynasty," it will be found on consulting
the Tables that T'ai Shih was the first of three successive nien hao or epochal
designations adopted during the course of Wu Ti's reign, and that the year
267 is still indicated.
5. The invention of the Cycle, commonly called Hwa Kia Tze,
or List of the Kia Tze characters, is a subject upon which great uncertainty
prevails, but which has been ably discussed by the Rev. J. Chalmers in his
chapter on the astronomy of the Chinese in Legge's Shoo King, Prolegomena,
p. 90. The use of the Kia tze characters for the designation of months is
undoubtedly of very high antiquity, but it was not until about the commen-
cement of our present era that the cyclical table was brought into use for the

CHINESE CHRONOLOGICAL TABLES.
161
In the succeeding dynasty of Chow, with which history begins
to dawn, we find the sovereigns designated by a series of
honorific titles such as "the Martial King," "the Glorious King,"
&c., corresponding to the miao hao of later times, of which,
indeed, they are the declared origin. The earlier examples
among them, however, must be considered as probably the
invention of later times, notwithstanding the fact that Chow
Kung, the great counsellor of the founder of the Chow dynasty,
B.C. 1122, is the reputed author of the practice of canonization.
purpose of distinguishing years. Later historians, however, have not hesitated
to carry back not only the chronological series of cycles to the earliest ages,
but also to attribute its invention to the mythical Emperor Hwang Ti. The
reign of this sovereign is stated to have commenced B. C. 2697, and the
invention of the cycle is credited to the 8th year of his reign, his sixty-first
year, or B. C. 2637, being usually considered the commencement of the first
of the cycles, though with some writers the cycle is made to commence with
the first year of Hwang Ti's reign, thus adding one to the total number of
cyclical periods recognized by the adverse party. The system most
commonly followed is that in which the cycles are made to commence with
the 61st year of Hwang Ti, and the present tables are drawn up in conformity
with it. The short columns at the head of the tables contain the date of
commencement of each cycle, in rotation, followed below by the years in
successive order. Thus, for instance, kia tze was the combination denoting
the years A. D, 4, 304, 604, &c., down to 1804, and the following combination,
yi ch'ow, corresponds to A.D. 5, 305, 665, &c., down to 1805. In the next
column a second period is commenced, comprising all the cycles beginning
with the years shown in the index-column at the top, E. G. (still to use the
date already referred to in note 4 for the purpose of exemplification) we
desire to ascertain the date according to our era of an event occurring "in
the year ting hai Tof Wu Ti of the Tsin Dynasty," we find on
consulting the historical tables that Wu Ti's reign commenced A. D. 265,
and turning to the table of cycles, it is found that a cyclical period
commenced in A. D. 244 and must therefore have embraced within its course
the reign of Wu Ti. Fixing A.D. 265, the first of his reign, as the year
yi yeo of the cycle, we follow the column of characters down until wo
reach ting hai, and at once identify this combination, on reference to the
column of years, as A. D. 267.
6. In the Shik Ki or Historical Records by Sz-ma Ts'ien, B. C. 104,
under the bending Shih Fa, the institution of posthumous titles is
attributed to Chow Kung. The character Shih is explained in the Shwo
Wen dictionary (A.D. 200) as
"the vestiges of action."
Commentators have further declared that, the conferring of titles after
death, is the means "by which virtue is exalted and vice receives its meed
of blame."
11

162
CHINESE CHRONOLOGICAL TABLES.
In the year B. C. 221 the ambitious Chêng Wang of Ts'in,
who extended the rule of a petty principality of the West over
the territories formerly divided among the feudatory States
constituting the Empire of Chow, declared himself the supreme
ruler of the Chinese; and as founder of a dynasty which he
trusted would endure for ever assumed for the first time the
designation Hwang Ti, sovereign ruler or Emperor, com-
bining in this term the titles ascribed to the three Hwang and
five T recognized by tradition as the earliest sovereigns. One
of his first decrees, as recorded in history, ordained the abolition
of the use of posthumous titles, declaring it his pleasure that he
should be known simply as Shih Hwang Ti , the "First
Emperor," and that all successive generations should be distin-
guished numerically as 二世,三世,至于萬世,“the second
generation, the third generation, and thus onward to the ten
thousandth." Alas for human ambition! The mighty inno-
vator's line was barely suffered to fulfil the commencement of its
second reign when its career was brought to a violent end, and
the dynasty of Han was founded on its ruins. With the
commencement of this dynasty we begin to tread on firm historical
ground; and with the consolidation of the Empire new customs
and ordinances are found to have been instituted, the rudiments
of most of those existing at the present day. The early
sovereigns of this house restored the practice of conferring
posthumous titles. Its founder, on declaring himself Emperor,
B. C. 202, assumed the title of Kao Hwang Ti *, "the
Exalted Emperor," under which title his memory was venerated
in the ancestral temple established B. C. 194 by his son and
successor Hwei Ti. It was not, however, until the reign of King
Ti, B. C. 156, that the posthumous titles for the preceding
sovereigns were formally determined. The first recorded action
of King Ti is set forth in history as follows: "In the 10th month
of the first year of his reign he canonized the Exalted Emperor
by the title T'ai Tsu K, [Grand Forefather], and the Emperor
Hao Wu by the title T'ai Tsung [Grand Ancestor.]
Since this period the rule of canonization has been uninterruptedly
followed, with but slight modifications in the style of nomen-
7. The weak boy-ruler Hwei Ti and his usurping mother, the consort of
Kao Ti, were omitted from canonization, as
ancestral line.
unworthy of a place in the

CHINESE CHRONOLOGICAL TABLES.
163
clature through all changes of dynasty; and its honours have as
a rule been extended by the founder of each new line to the last
sovereign of the dynasty he supplanted.
To come now to the customs of designating each reign by a
peculiar title, we find the first institution of this practice to have
originated with a decree by the Emperor Wên Ti, who ordained
in B. C. 1648 that the 17th year of his reign should be considered
the first of a new period. As yet, however, no special titles.
were invented to designate such portions of the reign, not was it
until the reign of Wu Ti, B. C. 140, that this system became
finally perfected. From that date until the present day the
series of epochal designations has been unbroken."
The scope of the present compilation being purely mechanical,
it would be foreign to its purpose to enter upon an investigation
of the credibility of the early Chinese annals, which, however, it
8. The Tung Kien Kang Mu records this event as follows:
"he decreed that the next year, [the 17th of his reign] should
be entitled Yüan Nien the First Year. From time immemorial, the first
year of each reign had been distinguished by the term JL, which combines
the meanings "highest" and "first"; and Wen Ti, moved by the flattery
of designing counsellors, was induced to arrogate this title to more than one
year of his reign, which thus became divided into two portions."
9. The existing fragments of a work entitled, a collection of
ancient documents originally forming 1,000 K'iñan, which was compiled
A.D. 658 by an official of the T'ang dynasty, comprise a decree by Ngai Ti
of the Han dynasty, (B. C. 5), which exhibits the course pursued in
ordaining a change of Nien Hoo. The Decree is as follows:
"The fortunes of Han have endured for two hundred years. Their
foundation was willed by destiny. Imperial Heaven hath sent down its
protection to the foolish, and a renewal of the talisman of Empire hath been
granted to the State of Han. Unrighteous as we know ourselves to be, how
shall We venture to ignore the high command by which Our Throne exists?
It behoves us that we aim at reformation in common with all Our subjects.
Let there be a Great Pardon throughout Our Empire. Let also the second
year of the period Kien P'ing be styled the first year of the era T'ai Ch'u
Yüan Tsiang [i.c. Grand Commencement, Great Beginning]."
The change decreed above is not recorded in history as an accomplished
fact. We read in the Tung Kien Kang Mu as follows, under date of the
6th month of the 2nd year of Kien P'ing: "A general pardon declared.
The nien-huo changed to Tai Ch's *. The Emperor's designation
changed to Ch'en Sheng Liu T'ai Ping Hwang Ti." Almost immediately
ensuing we find a farther record: "In the eighth month a decree was issued
abrogating the change of nien-hao and title."

164
CHINESE CHRONOLOGICAL TABLES.
may be added, the writer believes altogether incapable of standing
the test of criticism. Dr. Legge has gone far on the path of
destruction as regards the myths concerning Yao and Shun, the
Great Yu, and their successors, which are tranquilly received s
genuine history by the Chinese, but the sphere of incredulity
may, in the writer's opinion, be extended to the ages immediately
preceding the era of Confucius. He trusts on a future occasion
to justify this expression of lack of confidence in the Chinese
historical records.
***It will be observed that in all the early reigns, from Fu
Hi down to the founder of the Han dynasty, a difference of cas
year exists between the dates given in the following tables and
those found in other lists, and notably in the "Table of Ancient
Chinese Chronology" contained at p. p. 185 et seq. of the prole-
gomena to Dr. Legge's translation of the Shoo King. Owing to
Dr. Legge's absence from China, the writer has been unable to
fulfil his wish to consult the learned translator as to the cause of
this difference, which he can only account for to himself by the
surmise that for astronomical purposes Dr. Legge may have
reduced the calculations of the cycle to a different standard from
that usually followed. This is not, however, stated in his work,
and the writer confesses his failure to discover the principle upon
which the year, the first of the reign of Yao, calculated as
B. C. 2357 in the accompanying tables, has been placed by
Dr. Legge as B. C. 2356.

