[64]
ARTICLE IV.
NOTES ON THE PRODUCTIONS, CHIEFLY MINERAL
OF SHAN-TUNG.
BY THE REV. A. WILLIAMSON.
UNTIL recently very little was known of the minerals in Shan-
tung. Vague impressions regarding the existence of coal at
Po-shan-hien and Wei-hien constituted about the sum of our
knowledge, but now we can speak with some degree of precision.
Various places have been visited, and samples of coal, iron-ore,
galena, &c., &c., have been brought to Chefoo, and pronounced
excellent.
COAL. There are three great coal-producing districts in this
province in active operation; several minor ones, and other places
where coal is known to exist, but where mining is interdicted.
The chief among the great producing districts is the valley of the
Lau-fu-ho, long. 117 deg. 56 min. E., beginning about lat. 36
deg. 50 min. N., and extending south to lat. 36 deg. 30 min.,
including the cities Chi-chuen. Yen-shih-ching, and Po-shan-
hien. This valley runs north and south, and the hills on both
sides are perforated with coal pits. Several varieties are pro-
duced; some fine bituminous coal, some partly bituminous and
partly anthracite, and other kinds difficult to class. This district
is famous all over the country, and supplies all the neighbouring
towns and cities. Approaching this place, I met a very unex-
pected product on wheelbarrows, often bound for distant places.
I refer to coke; and on reaching Po-shan-hien, found it manu-
factured in immense quantities. I saw three different kinds of
coke; found it stored in large yards, just like those at railway
stations at home, and exported in large quantities. They use it
for smelting silver and for purposes where great heat is required.
This speaks volumes for the quality of the coal.
The second district next in importance lies a little to the south
of Yi-chow-foo, lat. 35 deg. 15 min. N., long. 118 deg. 24 min. E.
The country here is a plain and the coal is obtained by sinking

NOTES ON THE PRODUCTIONS OF SHAN-TUNG.
65
pits of greater or lesser depth. I found three kinds, viz., bitu-
minous, a species of lignite, and another very inferior quality.
The people assured me of its abundance; they said that they
found it wherever they chose to sink a pit. Here also I found
them manufacturing coke, although what I saw was much in-
ferior to the coke at Po-shan-hien. The proximity of the river
Yi-ho adds to the importance of this district. It flows past the
field, and, by means of flat-bottomed boats, coals could be con-
veyed to Tsing-kiang-pu on the Grand Canal, thence to Chin-
keang and on to Shanghai.
The third district lies twenty li or so to the south of Wei-hien,
lat. 36 deg. 40 min., long. 119 deg. 12 min. The coal here is
plentiful, and is of excellent quality. It is not very far from the
river Wei-ho, nor from the seaport, and, could very easily be
brought in junks to Chefoo. The places of minor importance are
Sin-tai lat. 36 deg. 7 min. N., long. 117 deg. 56 min. E.; Lai-
woo, lat. 36 deg. 24 min., long. 117 deg. 44 min.; and Chang-
kiu, lat. 36 deg. 57 min. N., long. 117 deg. 31 min. E. I met
coal from all three places, that from Sin-tai and Lai-woo was
capital, but the Chang-kiu coal inferior. At the latter place we
were told there were two seams. One near the surface and the
other some feet further down. The coal is mined at all these
places in the usual Chinese fashion. A pit is dug down, or a
hole is made, at a more or less acute angle in the side of a hill,
and the miners work on until water rises; they then leave that place
and open another pit. Thus they in all probability miss the finest
quality. Judging from the huge lumps which we often saw, it is
evident that the coal strata are of considerable thickness. Be-
sides these places where the coal is actually worked, it is reported.
to exist in several others, such as outside the east gate of the city
of Kyau-chow, long. 120 deg. 9 min., lat. 36 deg. 17 min., in the
neighbourhood of Kwan-sae, lat. 35 deg. 45 min., long 119 deg.
20 min., at Law-sze-shan, long. 121 deg. 10 min., lat. 37 deg. 30
min., and at Tung-chow-foo. Though we have thus gained
something like a definite idea of the quality and quantities of the
coal at present produced, yet it has only been to give us a still
more indefinite idea of the actual extent and value of the coal
fields in the province; for, judging from the direction of the pre-
vailing mountain, ranges, S., S.S.W. to N., and N.N.E. and
their geological features, there is reason to believe that it exists
throughout the whole of the centre and east of Shan-tung.

NOTES ON THE PRODUCTIONS OF SHAN-TUNG.
67
ture and geological formation as that near Tung-chow,-two
hundred miles apart, and this ore is the most valuable of all
iron-ores. Since then these hills have been visited by a geologist
and found to contain vast masses of this ore cropping up to the
surface. Iron-ore of a somewhat different description has also
been procured from the hill called King-kwo-shan, to which we
shall have immediately to refer, as producing galena and silver-ore.
This hill is about 50 li to the south by east of Tung-chow. And
yet a third description, very much like specular iron-ore, has
been found in the neighbourhood of Chefoo. Iron is also report-
ed to exist in the hills behind Foo-shan-hien, within ten miles of
the port, but this has not yet been verified.
GOLD. When I first began to make inquiries regarding the
minerals here, I was astonished at the universality of the know-
ledge of the existence of gold and the apathy regarding it. Every
one seemed to know of it. A native literary friend said that "it
was found in the sand of almost all the streams in the eastern
portion of the province after heavy rain." Another well-educated
man acquainted with the district reported the fact in nearly the
same words, and the other day a man, a scholar from Hai-yang
said that it was found in the rivulets in his neighbourhood. But
while it thus appears to be very widely distributed, there are
several places which stand out pre-eminent. The first is Kieu-
dien, 70 li S.E. from Lai-chow, lat. 37 deg. 12 min. N., long. 120
deg. E. and 95 li N.E. of Ping-tu. Marvellous stories relating to
the richness of the quartz, and the sand are current among the
people, which of course have to be taken cum grano salis. I was
told that a tea-cup full of the quartz, ground down, would some-
times yield two oz. of gold, and that 100 catties of the sand was
worth about 1,000 cash; I was also informed that many years
ago a man came from Shen-si with 300 followers, and in two
months cleared 50,000 oz. after paying all expenses and so on.
Two or three years ago, a company of respectable men belonging
to the neighbourhood made a proposal to the Chi-hien mandarin
to work the mine, but he demanded 10,000 taels in hand before
he would allow them to commence operations. They offered
3,000 taels, but did not venture a larger sum-more especially as
they could not tell how much more might be demanded after they
had commenced. The mandarin remained inexorable, and so the
project was given up. I mention this to shew why so few care
to engage in the mining of the precious metals. The jus metal-

68
NOTES ON THE PRODUCTIONS OF SHAN-TUNG.
lorum lies with the Emperor and Government, and they have no
scruples in the matter of squeezing. The mandarins also say
that they are afraid of disturbances among the workers of such
mines.
Another place, famed as a market for gold-dust is Ku-hien,
about 18 miles W. by S. from Chefoo. It is procured in the
streams which flow from the Lau-sze-shan. I have passed se-
veral old gold-washings on the banks of the river which flows
past the town.
In
A third place is Kow-tew near Ning-hai, 60 li S.E. of Chefoo.
my last journey having passed through a district 100 li to the
S. W. of Chu-ching, long. 119 deg. 45 min. E., lat. 36 deg. 1
min. N., apparently full of minerals, and having arrived at the
village of Kwun-sae and finished my work, I enquired of the
inn-keeper-as my custom was-about the products of the dis-
trict. He told me of a wonderful hill about 10 li south of where
we were, which he affirmed was full of metals. It was called the
hill of the "Seven precious things," and yielded gold, silver,
copper, lead, tin, iron, and coal. He further said that it had been
mined
up to the close of the Ming dynasty, but was now forbidden.
Deeming his story to be too good to be true, I sent out my as-
sistant to enquire quietly about it, and he returned affirming that
the matter was well known, and that two or three persons inde-
pendently confirmed the inn-keeper's report. Though no one cares
to engage in the regular operations of mining for the reasons
already stated, yet any one is at perfect liberty to search the
streams. Accordingly, every year a good many of the natives
engage in this employment. They often find nuggets of varying
size, which is a great temptation to persevere, in spite of failure.
And yet last year I have been told that the gold-washers made
on an average about one dollar per day in the district of Tsi-hya.
GALENA.-Lead-ore, containing lead and silver in varying
proportions, appears to be very widely distributed over the eastern
portion of the province. We hear of its existence in all quarters.
We are assured there is an interdicted mine in the hills close be-
hind Chefoo. We hear of it south towards Hai-yan, and west
towards Wei-hien. A mule-load of the ore has been brought
from King-kwo-shan, 13 miles E. by S. of Tung-chow, already
referred to, and two mule-loads have been got from another place
near Ning-hai. Both specimens were most excellent, containing
about 80 per cent. of lead; that from King-kwo-shan was parti-

NOTES ON THE PRODUCTIONS OF SHAN-TUNG.
69
cularly valuable, and contained a percentage of silver. In
reference to this latter place, I am told on good authority that
while on the south side of the hill lead prevails, on the north,
silver predominates, especially in one spot. In fact, I was told
that one catty of the ore sometimes yielded 8 ozs. of silver, but I
do not vouch for this. Again, about 2 or 3 miles south of the
city of Tung-chow-foo a tablet has been discovered relating to a
lead mine in that locality. It announces that the mine has been
closed owing to the representations of the elders of the surround-
ing villages, who affirm that the opening of the mine disturbs the
Fung-shui of the neighbourhood,-the old story,-which shall
hold its spell over the people till the truth enlighten them, and
the roar of the railway engine shall dissipate it for ever.
COPPER. Specimens of copper-ore have been brought from
the neighbourhood of Chang-kin-chwang, 110 li SW. of Chefoo,
and there is every reason to believe that it abounds there and
elsewhere in this part of the promontory.
PRECIOUS STONES.-Travelling round the promontory two
years ago, I found large numbers of pebbles among the people.
Some very fine ones, bearing a strong resemblance to the cairn-
gorms and stones got on the west coast of Scotland. There were
several varieties in structure, shade and colour, and many of
them were such as would take on a beautiful polish. The place
where they were procured in most abundance was to the east of
Yung-ching, on the sen const, at the extreme end of the promon-
tory. But the most famous place for precious stones is a hill
about 100 li south of the city of Tsi-mi, long. 120 deg. 32 min.,
lat. 36 deg. 22 min. This mountain forms one of the Ngan-shan
range, is crowned with temples, and belongs to a fraternity of
priests, who every year obtain a very large income from their sale.
The stones are of various kinds, the prevailing kind being rock
crystals of various shades, of which they make spectacles. There
are others of different species, which are used for ornaments of
various descriptions. Since my return I saw a large purple-
coloured stone from this hill exposed for sale in a native hong.
It had many features of a true amethyst, though one or two
things appeared to indicate otherwise. It was as large as a boy's
head, and weighed 12 lbs., and, if genuine, would be worth I
know not how much.
MARBLE AND GRANITE.-Of these we have many varieties,
but as they are of less importance, I need not trouble you with
an account of them here.

10
70
NOTES ON THE PRODUCTIONS OF SHAN-TUNG.
ASBESTOS.-This strange fossil mineral is found at King-kwo-
shan, and also at Law-sze-shan, both of which places have been
formerly noticed as producing other minerals. The natives use
it for making Fire-stoves, crucibles, and other fire-proof purposes.
The fibre is good and very feathery, and by the admixture of
cotton or hemp could be woven into articles of clothing. Such
articles being exposed to fire and having all the alloy consumed,
would afterwards form fire-proof garments, such as ancient his-
tory speaks of, and such as are used in Legerdemain. But the
mineral would make most excellent fire-brick, which would be
cheaper and more durable than any others. This is worthy of
the consideration of the masters of the steamers on the coast.
.
SULPHUR-Sulphur is procured in several parts of the pro-
vince. I found the natives making copperas (sulphate of iron)
at different places in the valley of Law-foo-ho.
60
SULPHUR BATHS.-Speaking of sulphur reminds me of the
hot sulphur baths which are found throughout the district, and
which deserve mention as an increasing resort for foreign inva-
lids. The baths in greatest favour with the Chefoo community
are those at Ngai-shan, about a day's ride from the port, a little
to the N. W. of Tsi-hya. But besides these there are others at
Loong-chwen, 60 li, east of Ning-hai, at Wun-shih-tun, 70 li,
south of Tung-chow, also near Yi-chow, and at Chau-yuen,
li, west of Hwang. At all these places there are regular bathing
establishments, a square tank with a pavilion over it for the
public, which is generally crowded from dawn to dusk by Chi-
namen, and a private bath for mandarins and wealthy persons.
The sulphurous water from these springs varies in temperature.
The baths at Chau-yuen are the most remarkable; there, at one
place, the water rises almost boiling hot and you can cook an
egg on the spot.
SALTPETRE.-This salt is found in several places. It is pro-
duced in considerable quantities in the neighbourhood of Kin-
chi, lat. 36 deg. 16 min., long. 119 deg. 34 min., and I found it
extremely good at Po-shan-hien.
GLASS. There is another article of manufacture at Po-shan-
hien which is little known to foreigners, but which proves a most
important article of internal commerce. Long ago the natives
discovered that the rocks in the neighbourhood, pulverized and
smelted with the nitrate of potassa, formed glass; and for many
years they have given themselves to the manufacture of this

NOTES ON THE PRODUCTIONS OF SHAN-TUNG.
71
article, I found them making excellent window-glass, blowing
bottles of all sizes, moulding cups of all descriptions, and making
lanterns, beads and ornaments of endless varieties. They also
run it into long rods-about 30 inches-which they tie up in
bundles and export to all parts of the country. The rods of pig-
glass cost 100 cash per catty at the manufactory. The glass is
extremely pure, they colour it most beautifully, and they have
attained cansiderable dexterity in manipulation. Many of the
articles were finely finished. To pass to other matters on which
it seems necessary to say a little:-
COTTON. This important staple is grown in great quantities
in the western and south-west portions of the province; and could
be raised in much greater quantities if necessary. There are two
kinds, viz., that commonly exported, which is familiar enough,
and another superior kind, which is very strong in the fibre, and
of which they make cash-bags, saddle-bags, and strong cloth.
SILK. There appears to be considerable mis-apprehension in
reference to the silk produced in Shan-tung. Many imagine
that there are no mulberry trees, and that all silk which can be
obtained must come from the worms which can live on the
oakshrub and such trees. Here they err. Mulberry trees are
very common in the plains throughout the province. During my
last journey I found them in all directions out of the reach of the
north wind, and passed through large orchards of them. The
truth is there are three kinds of silk worms and three kinds of
silk in common use among the people, viz., the brown common
silk, of which they make the well-known pongee; the second, a
beautiful white silk; and, again, a still more beautiful yellow
silk; the third, a blackish silk, made from worms which feed on
the pepper, tree. Of these three kinds there are various qualities
depending on the feed and care taken in the culture of the worm.
One quality of the second description is famous for producing a
texture almost impervious to stains. The third kind produces a
cloth exempt from the attacks of insect, and greatly prized. I
believe that when the matter is looked into Shan-tung silk must
rise into an important article in the foreign market.
HEMP, CHINA GRASS, &c.-These fibrous plants are well-
known, so I need say nothing save only to call attention to them,
and remark that they can be produced in any quantity to meet
the demand.

72
NOTES ON THE PRODUCTIONS OF SHAN-TUNG.
DYES. We have indigo, madder, a fine purple dye, a yellow
dye from the leaves of the why-shoo, the famous green dye, and
others of less importance.
I may add that, having travelled through the province in every
direction, and visited all their chief cities and almost all places
of any importance, save a corner toward the northwest, I have
found the people civil, inoffensive, only curious and greedy, with
a little spice of the anti-foreign element,-yet, like other China-
men, morally false and foul. Excepting towards the east, there
are cart-roads as good as anywhere else in China, and every
facility for travelling. The country is extremely fertile, produc-
ing great crops of cereals, from magnificent wheat down to rice,
esculents from good potatoes down to the egg plant. All sorts of
fruits, such as grapes, apples, pears, pomegranates, persimmons,
&c., &c.; also beef, mutton, game, &c., &c. Recent travels and
researches have revealed to us immense fields of coal and iron in
Shen-si; immense fields of coal in Chi-li; and also great fields
of coal and iron in Manchuria. Those taken in connection with
these open up a vast subject of speculation and foretel a great
future. Here we have every element necessary to progress and
dominion; we have coal, the source of steam power, and that
which makes every kind of mineral valuable, as it affords a cheap
means of smelting them. We have iron for machinery and raw
materials of the most important descriptions in profuse abundance;
we have excellent stones for building purposes; we have precious
metals for currency, and marble, and precious stones, for orna-
mentations; we have a most fertile and varied soil, grain to
nourish, and fruits of all kinds to please the appetite. We have
men in some degree educated, with clear heads and strong frames;
and we have one colloquial throughout the whole country, which
also has the advantage of being a written language. Providence
has not placed these elements of power here in vain, so that,
sooner or later, we may reasonably anticipate that China shall rise
from its decrepitude, and either of itself, or under the guidance
of western genius, with more than renewed youth, rule over this
part of the world. The north generally (all the world over)
dominates over the south, and China will not form an exception
to the rule; for here in addition to better brain and muscle and
climate, we have the advantage of immense and varied resources
in juxta position; and as Shan-tung has the pre-eminence in
geographical position, with safe and commodious harbours open

NOTES ON THE PRODUCTIONS OF SHAN-TUNG.
73
all, the year round on the south as well as on the north of the
promontory it is not unlikely that this province may be the seat
of power in the new order of things which is certain to arise.
And yet two things are clearly indispensible to any measure of
advancement on the part of the people, and they should go hand
in hand; first, the diffusion of knowledge, especially that truth
which alone can enlighten, purify, and strengthen, the moral
character of a people and, secondly, leaders to initiate them into
the arts,-guide them in the path of progress and able to defend
those who enter it, from the oppressions of their own countrymen.