[266]
MISCELLANEOUS.
THE following description of a flood in the Han whose influence
was experienced as far as Hankow, where the water after falling
some feet below its summit level again rose so high on the 22nd
September as to inundate the British settlement is extracted from
the Hankow Times of October 5th:-
"Such an event as this is evidently rare, and many speculations of a super-
stitious character have been put forth by the native mind, to account for the
flood. Dragons, each marching at the head of some nine boa-constrictor-
like creatures, and presiding over its particular stream, are confidently stated
to cause all this trouble. More reliable information received on Wednesday,
September 25th, conveyed the intelligence that in Shansi, in the prefecture
of Han-tsung-fu, there had burst forth from the ground, as from a natural
Artesian well, great torrents of water, which had to come down by way of
Shiang-yang-fu, Ngan-louh-fu, T'ien-men-Shien and Nien-yang-tsow, all
places in Hupeh. At T'ien-men-Shien, a low district, ordinarily preserved
from the usual effects of the annual freshets and inundations by embank-
ments on every hand, the flood seems to have wrought its worst consequences.
The dykes being soon over-topped, and the city-wall being either broken
down or over-passed, the whole town was submerged. Large numbers of
persons, who watched the approach of the waters, and compared it to a thick
cloud approaching, were drowned, with others of the inhabitants of the
district. The large mart of Fan-tseng is said to have suffered severely from
the sudden influx of water, which presently seems to have been contained in,
and confined to the river Han, on its nearer approach to Hankow. As it
neared this place, it was spread over such a large district of level country,
and was so much absorbed by the Han and Yang-tsze, that it made itself felt
only in the slight addition made to the retiring annual inundation, which we
have already described.
Had it come earlier, we should then have had fulfilled the prophecy of the
natives, who predicted that this year would witness such an inundation as
would put the last year's unusual rise far into the shade. As it is, the district
has been happily preserved from any great calamity, and we may hope to be
soon free from the inconveniences of our watery isolation.
The account of what has been witnessed at one point, is sure to be different
from that of others describing the state of things in their own locality. We
have purposely described the circumstances in general terms, and shall be
gratified if we have ultimately succeeded in eliciting more exact and exten-
sive information from more competent observers of such important phenomena.
Certain embankments, with floodgates, in the neighbourhood of Ngan-
louh-fu, called Sih-tax-k'ow, (+) which protect the district of
T'ien-men, having been broken by the unusual pressure upon them, added
greatly to the mischief. It would seem that there is room for still another
Yü, like the engineer monarch, founder of the Shia dynasty, who shall
deliver this part of the country from its annual calamities.
Whether this outburst of subterranean waters, through some fault in the
strata of the Han-tsung prefecture be the actual cause of this flood, we
cannot certainly affirm."