[74]
ARTICLE V.
ENTOMOLOGY OF SHANGHAI.
BY W. B. PRYER, Esq.
THE position of Shanghai, regarded from an Entomological
point of view, appears at first to be a very favourable one. Situated
in the temperate zone with however a tropical summer, it might
be supposed that insects requiring great heat, as well as those
to which a moderate temperature is most suitable, would both be
found here, the prevalence of water also would cause one to look
for large numbers of insects with water-inhabiting larvæ. These
expectations of a rich Entomological country are not very fully
realized. On a hot summer's day a fine handsome Papilio
(Papilio Pammon) may frequently be seen dashing through our
compounds, and from all the neighbouring trees the call of the
Cicada is heard only too plainly; a comparatively huge Dynastes
is occasionally met with, and large grasshoppers are common;
but the large sized insects. most common here, are Longicornes,
the larvae of which, being wood feeders, could hardly be expected
in any numbers in such an almost treeless country as this is;
the Mantis is of frequent occurrence; but, beyond these insects
the Entomological inhabitants of the surrounding district are
nearly all of a moderate size, and the fauna is very similar to
that of England. This is, I imagine, to be traced in great part,
to the severity of the winters we have here, cold is the enemy of
luxuriousness of growth in the Zoological world generally, and
the insects which the hot summer would attract, are not able to
stand the winter.
As I have said before, the insects we find most commonly, are
nearly all closely allied with those occurring in England; even
these are not abundant, and this I attribute to the sameness of
the vegetation. We have none of those pretty hedgerows, tree
shaded lanes, and frequent woods, which lend such a variety to a
country walk, and at the same time afford cover to so many
different descriptions of plants; here, a country walk generally

ENTOMOLOGY OF SHANGHAI.
75
ends in one having to pick one's way like a rope dancer, on a
narrow ledge of earth with a wet paddy field on each side. The
few miserable substitutes for roads are not bounded on either
hand by hedges; and bamboo copses, the nearest approach to
woods, are wanting in the fine thick undergrowth of a copse at
home, the ground being strewed with dead bamboo leaves and
twigs. The graves are certainly objects in the landscape which
we cannot boast of in England, and were it not for these, several
large sections of insects would be nearly unrepresented here.
The only aquatic insects we have are those that can live in
muddy water; the more interesting tribes Trichoptera, Sialides,
Ephemera, &c., are as far as my experience goes, never found
round Shanghai; I have given up some time to the search, but
have only succeeded in taking one small species of Trichoptera.
Of the species that can thrive in dirty water we have only too
many, the mosquito is a well known example. Libellulidæ swarm,
and sometimes appear in almost incredible numbers: I was once
witness to a flight of this kind, the air as far as the eye
could
see was thick with them, and in a walk of about a quarter of a
mile on each side from my house, they appeared in undiminished
numbers; so that the whole British settlement must have had a
tremendous cloud of them passing over it. Amongst foreign
residents here they are usually known as storm flies; a good
many of them are frequently to be seen flying about in the air
over the Bund: their appearance is generally supposed to foretell
high winds, but on the occasion of seeing the flight before
referred to I noted that nothing unusual in the atmosphere
followed.
These insects abounding in such numbers as they always do,
must put a great check upon mosquitoes; if by some calamity we
were deprived of them for one season, we should be almost
devoured by the mosquitoes, as the Libellulidae during their long
larval period of nearly a year, and afterwards as imagoes, must
consume an immense number of mosquitoes both in the larva
and imago states.
One other reason, besides the want of variety of vegetation, for
the scarcity of ordinary insect forms such as Lepidoptera, Cole-
optera, Trichoptera and Hemiptera, is found in the prevalence of
raptorial insects. One of the most ravenous of these, the Mantis,
is so common, that to an Entomological eye batches of its ove
appear on all sides, plastered to tree trunks or to walls, on dead

76
ENTOMOLOGY OF SHANGHAI.
leaves, stones, twigs, branches of trees, in fact everywhere. When
we consider that the mantis in all its stages is always ranging
about the low herbage and brushwood in search of its prey, and
that it has an insatiable appetite, the wonder is, that a single
Lepidopterous larva escapes it; a full grown mantis will eat any
living thing from a fly larva or a mosquito, to a large hawkmoth.
The mantis always keeps on the ground or on short shrubs.
Next to it, the spider claims our attention as a great insect
destroyer. Hunting spiders which use no web but run over the
ground, are common; the flat brindled spider frequently to be
seen on the ceilings of our rooms, comes under this head; but
the most formidable enemy to other insects, is a large and hand-
some species marked with red, gold, silver, and black. When full
grown, it makes a web that catches even the largest beetles in
full flight, and will frequently hold an ordinary cap when thrown
into it; in many places, it is very common, and destroys a great
quantity of insects. Round its web there is usually to be seen
a much smaller spider which does not make any web of its
own, but picks up the smaller insects that get caught in its
patron's. It is amusing to see the quickness with which they
run away when they see the rightful owner of the web coming
towards them, occasionally however they get caught, and then
they are wound up in their capturers silk, and carried off for
eating as though they had been ordinary game.
Libellulidae by day, and bats by night are the greatest foes of
air frequenting insects. I was at the Fung-whang hills in June
last summer and the Libellulidæ had then nearly cleared off the
rest of the insect world; all over the place they had taken up
their positions, each one cruising over a space about 10 feet long,
and whatever insect appeared in this space was immediately
pounced upon; should one of the dragonflies encroach upon its
neighbour's domain, a fight ensued directly. There were two or
three fine large species that took up regular positions in this
way; the smaller ones had to skirmish about all over the place,
and get whatever they could; and when I was there, so few other
insects were left that the large ones had been obliged to turn
their attention to these, their smaller brethren of the same tribe,
and seize and prey upon them; this I saw several times. In
consequence of the overwhelming numbers of the Libellulide this
was almost a blank day to me; though only a few weeks before,
when there were only a few of them about, the same ground was
rich with all sorts and tribes of insects.

ENTOMOLOGY OF SHANGHAI.
77
The quantity of bats to be seen flitting about on any mild
evening here, far exceeds the number of these animals, usually
to be seen at any place in England; and as they are entirely
insectivorous we may fairly suppose that a much greater destruc-
tion of insect life is caused by them than at home.
I think we are to conclude from these observations that it is
only those species of insects peculiarly favoured with means of
concealment or defence that have much chance of existing. I
have paid most attention to the Lepidopterous order of insects,
and here I have found this fully borne out; Papilio larvæ have a
process in their heads which unfolds itself like the horns of a
snail, and when developed, has a very powerful scent, a sort of
concentrated essence of the leaves of the tree upon which they
live; in the case of P. Pammon for instance, which feeds upon
the citron, a strong smell of lemon comes from the horns.
This singular apparatus would certainly drive off any less power-
ful foe than the Mantis, and might even discomfort that insect,
the great enemy of all Lepidopterous larvæ. Many Bombyx
larvæ are able to sting with great severity; in some cases a
blister is raised upon the hand if they are incautiously touched,
others make red marks only, but the smart is felt for two or three
days. The stinging power is contained in the fine hairs which
clothe the body of the caterpillar; they are so fine that the slight-
est contact is sufficient to make them pierce through the skin,
and in all probability they convey poison into the flesh. The
cocoons of a great many insects are so admirably contrived to
look like a piece of the substance upon which they are fixed, as
to defy the closest attempts at discovery; while others though in
rather conspicuous places and easily found, are of so hard a
texture that they are quite safe from the attacks of any other
insects. As an illustration of the latter description of cocoons,
may mention that of a species of Oiketicus, which, with a dead
leaf wrapped round it, may be seen dangling from nearly all the
trees in the settlement, in the winter time.
I
Up to the present time I have 21 different species of butterflies
taken round Shanghai, and 6 in addition at Fung-whang Shan.
Several of them are either identical or very closely allied to
indigenous British species, and amongst them we can boast of 4
species of Papilio, one of which, P. Machaon is the only species
of this genus to be found in England. One singular fact about
this butterfly is, that, contrary to its habits at home, where it is

78
ENTOMOLOGY OF SHANGHAI.
only to be found in low and fenny districts, it is here usually
seen at the extreme tops of hills; the only places I have noticed
it being the summits of the Fung-whang and Tung-ting hills.
We have a good many sphinx moths, some of them very com-
mon. The Acacia when in bloom attracts a great many; nearly
always just after dark, half a dozen fine large sphinxes are to be
seen at one time buzzing round its flowers; they are however
nearly always confined to 3 species. I have altogether in my
collection 23 species of Sphingidae, and am sure that a great
many remain to be taken."
Amongst our Bombyces we can boast of Saturnia Cynthia; the
Ailanthus silkworm, the cultivation of which, as a means of
growing silk in England, is attracting so much attention at home
just now; we also have Cynthia Mylitta, which is domesticated
in some parts of China, and produces the Tussel Silk; both of
these are fine looking insects.
The handsome Actins Luna is common both in its larva and
imago states; the former are to be found in every privet bush, and
the latter during the summer may be seen quietly gliding over
the ground, or hanging from the tips of the branches in the
hedges.
Noctuæ are not at all frequent; one or two species are tolerably
common both at sugar and on the wing, but the total number of
species is very small; at the present time I have exactly 62 different
ones in my cabinet. Two or three species of Geometræ are abun-
dant, but beyond these we do not find many: Tineina however
are pretty common, one or two only too much so as the holes in
our woollen clothes laid by for any time can testify. I attribute
the scarcity of Nocture and Geometræ to the ravages of the mantis,
which would always be ranging about places frequented by their
larvæ; but Pyrales owing to the secluded mode of live of their
larvæ which keeps them out of the way of predaceous insects, are
the most abundant of our moths; the general run of them are
larger in size than those common at home, and supply the places
occupied by the Geometre which are so abundant in our English
woods.
Dynastidæ and different sorts of Cerambyx and Lucanus with
a few Melolontha and Cetonia make up the bulk of the most
noticeable of our beetles; Staphylina are conspicuous by their
almost entire absence, and the ordinary run of small and minute
sized beetles so abundant at home are not at all common here.

ENTOMOLOGY OF SHANGHAI.
79
As might be expected from the nature of the country, Ortho-
ptera are plentiful enough, and some of there are very fine hand-
some insects: the queer looking long snouted Gryllus Nascatus
with wings about 6 inches wide, is common in the autumn, and
so is a large species of Gryllus, the larvæ of which the Chinese
keep in small wicker baskets on purpose to hear the continual
little chirrup they keep up. The paddy fields in the autumn
swarm with grasshoppers of all sorts and sizes. Locusts are
occasionally to be caught, but I can hear of no chronicles
amongst the Chinese of their appearance in any very great
numbers about here.
Hemiptera are not often met with, a few are seen now and
then. I have never heard of the occurrence of C. Lectularius.*
Its absence however is not in any way to be attributed to the
cleanliness of the Shanghai lower classes. I have a species of
Nepa which measures 24 inches from the head to the end of the
body. Sometimes on summer evenings large flights of a small
sort of Notonecta appear attracted by the light, in such numbers
as to completely cover the table in a very short time.
Bees are sometimes domesticated by the Chinese, a square
wooden box is made to serve as a hive. The bees are called Ne
foong, and honey Ne foong tah.
The common Bug.