[80]
ARTICLE VI.
NOTES ON A PORTION OF THE OLD BED
OF THE YELLOW RIVER AND THE WATER SUPPLY
OF THE GRAND CANAL.
BY NEY ELIAS, F. R. G. S.
THE following is a copy of a portion of the journal kept on a
journey from Shanghai to the Yellow River bed.
May 11th, 1867.-Leaving T'sing-kiang-pu, we proceeded
over a dry sandy country in a general direction N. by W. to Wang-
kia-yin-tszu, a village on the North bank of the Yellow River
bed and distant about 2 to 3 miles from T'sing-kiang. On
approaching the bed it has merely the appearance of an insig-
nificant depression in the otherwise flat and level country; and a
closer inspection shows that this is actually the case, as its depth
is very inconsiderable, even when taking into account the artifi-
cial banks which are 8 or 10 feet above the general level of the
country. Near the north bank and in the deepest portion of
the bed is a small creek partly artificial and containing small
quantities of water in places, and upon these small detached
pieces of water are a few boats. In summer when the floods
come down from the mountains of Shan-tung via the Grand
Canal, (Chun-ho) &c., this creek is said to flow to the sea for
about 10 days each year, having a depth of water, varying from
a few inches to about 3 feet; and this is all that is left of the
Yellow River.
At Wang-kia-yin-tszu the bed of the River at flood limit was
found by sextant measurement to be 551 yards, its greatest depth
(by estimation) probably never more than about 15 to 18 feet.
About 13 miles N. of Wang-kia-yin-tszu the Yeu-ho is reach
ed, a stream there about 30 to 40 yards wide with a slight cur-
rent towards the sea. This river though not navigable for large
vessels all the year round appears to supply the place, to a cer-
tain extent of the Yellow River in this district, inasmuch as it is

NOTES ON THE YELLOW RIVER.
81
high way to the
The distance to
the principal outlet to the same portion of the sea coast to which
the Yellow River formerly led. It is also the
important city of Hai-chow-foo distant 350 li.
the sea at its mouth being 220 li. The banks of the Yeu-ho at
this point (Yeu-ho village) indicate periodical floods; and indeed
these are said to take place every summer, and to come by way of
the Grand Canal (Chun-ho) and by other creeks from the north-
ward, Shan-tung, &c. Moderate sized junks were seen here, the
country everywhere flat and sandy and the dust intolerable.
One mile and a half S. W. of Yeu-ho village is Shi-ha, another
small village on the North bank of the Hwang-ho, and from this
place a road was followed, leaving S. W. along the bank, to
Yang-kia-chong distance (from Shi-há) about 3 miles.
Here the Grand Canal was cut, at the point where it flows
for a short distance in the Yellow River bed and before its waters
have reached the highest lock; all the locks being contained in a
long deep bend to the southward which the Canal makes between
this and T'sing-kiang-pu. The water here flows from the north-
ward, although only some 2 miles or so higher up it has parted
with the Yeu-ho.
The current at this time of year however is of course inconsi-
derable. From Yang-kia-chong we followed the old bed of the
Whai, with the Canal flowing on our right hand, for about 1
mile in a southerly direction to a place where the latter takes a
sharp bend East and apparently takes possession of a portion of
the Whai's old bed; the lower portion of this bed, viz: to the left
(E.) of our road being occupied by marshy backwaters, remains
of old locks, &c., &c.
It is at Yang-kia-chong that the small creek in the bed of the
Yellow River takes its supply from the Grand Canal for the few
days in summer as mentioned above. It is said that there were
formerly locks here made of earth or mud but that they were
removed some few years since as useless. From the appearance
of the banks, borne out by information from the people, the rise
of water about here in summer would be some 20 feet above its
present level, and considerably more than that above its lowest
winter level.
From the short easterly bend of Canal, we struck across to the
first, or lowest lock, and then up the Canal again to Ti-sze-za,
passing 4 locks in the space of about 2 miles. From here a mile
in a southerly direction brought us to the old bank of the Hung-

82
NOTES ON THE YELLOW RIVER.
tsze-hu which appeared, with some interruptions to be a conti-
nuation of the East bank of the Whai. From this we proceeded
N. E. to T'sing-kiang-pu, about 7 miles, passing through a flat
grain growing country.
Beyond the bank which is an immense structure, and extends as
far as can be seen S. and S. W., is a flat, sandy but cultivated
country on a rather higher level than the country outside the
bank, and this is the old bed of the Hung-tsze-hu which until
20 or 21 years ago is said to have risen yearly to this limit, and
since then only on one occasion, viz: in the summer of 1866.
The "locks" are properly speaking not locks at all, but only
large buttresses of earth, faced with masonry and built out in
pairs into the canal which there flows at a great velocity and is of
a good breadth. These buttresses confine the water (and at the
same time deepen it) to about the breadth of a large junk; by
means of windlasses fixed above each pair of buttresses, vessels
are hauled through them and proceed through eddies and counter-
currents under the banks to the next pair of buttresses where
they are again hauled through, and so on. By this means
vessels are enabled to pass what would otherwise be a rapid
The water however can be shut off or checked, by dropping
sluice gates between any two opposite buttresses and this is done,
it is said, in the flood season.
All about this part of the country there are roads, fairly broad,
though deep in sand and dust and containing large ruts.
The means of locomotion and transport are varied; besides
the somewhat precarious water communication large numbers of
donkeys, ponies and mules are used both for riding and carrying
packs and also for drawing carts. Wheel-barrows are common
and also a kind of cumbersome three-wheeled waggon of the
rudest construction, drawn by oxen, buffaloes, donkeys, &c.,
harnessed together promiscuously and generally four abreast,
these travel usually in trains.
May 12th, 1867.-Called on the literary Mandarin of T'sing-
kiang-pu, Tsing-Hu-tsing, a very polite old man, and having
explained as well as I was able, through an
interpreter, what
I wished to see in the district, he was good enough to direct s
"writer" to take us to any part of the country around and to
give any information about it we might require. After consider-
able talk with this "writer" the following, relating to the water
system was elicited; viz: that the Grand Canal (South of T'sing-

NOTES ON THE YELLOW RIVER.
83
kiang) is supplied from two sources; 1st and continually from
the Chun-ho, or (Grand Canal, northern sometimes called
Yeu-ho) which flows through the locks, and 2ndly, during the
summer months from the Hung-tsze lake and also through the
locks; this latter being the cause of the great rise in the Canal
in July and August and also of its strong current during those
months.
Although the supply from the Chun-ho is said to be continuous
throughout the year, it is by no means regular, as in winter the
Canal at Yang-kia-Chong is very low, only just navigable,
whilst in summer there are about 30 feet of water in it: this rise
is caused by the floods in Shantung and the North, by way
directly of the Chun-ho.
Troubles are said to exist at Hai-chow-foo and gunboats and
troops are arriving from the southward all day and are proceed-
ing North by way of the locks and the Yeu-ho.
Started in afternoon to verify the above information, more
especially that portion of it which referred to the Hung-tsze.
Walked to Yang-kia-chong and halted for the night. It was
here ascertained that the river from the Hung-tsze to the canal
was dry in parts; and not navigable; thus it became necessary
to reach Kaou-lien-ki (the first town on the lake, and distant 70
li) overland, and donkeys, &c., were hired for the purpose.
May 13th, 1867-From Yang-kia-chong and Kaou-lien-ki
Route S. by W. about 3 miles to Tau-pá, a village in the sharp
curve of Canal just above the highest lock, and opposite which the
creek from the Hung-tsze falls into the Canal. From here this
creek could be seen flowing from the S. S. W. making a sinuous
course, its breadth about 10 yards, and containing now a small
quantity of water from this point to a distance of about 2 miles
up: its banks point to a rise of about 6 or 8 feet in summer and
at its junction with the Canal it falls (at this season) over a ledge
of rocks about 1 feet high. The Canal too at this point flows
as a small rapid over rocks, &c., which in two months hence will
be covered with water some 15 feet deep. Ferried across Canal
and proceeded about 8 miles S. S. W. along the dry bed of the
Hung-tsze to a point where the creek and the bank, seen May 11th,
converge and beyond which point the Hung-tsze summer floods,
it is said, never extend under ordinary circumstances.
Took the road on top of the Flood-bank and marching S. by W.
6 miles, reached Kaou-lien-ki and stopped for the night.

84
NOTES ON THE YELLOW RIVER.
May 14th, 1867.-Kaou-lien-ki, a miserable mud built vil-
lage, stands on a portion of the bank jutting out into the lake
and forms for itself a kind of harbour. There are large numbers
of junks here, some of great size, trading between the lake ports
to the S. W. and the Grand Canal, &c., &c., but not with Kaou-
lien-ki which is merely the final port at this end of the lake and
no place of trade.
Many hills were seen to the S. S. W. and S. W. One, a
tolerably high one called Nor-jiu-san bearing S. 58° W. and
distant about 12 or 15 miles, said to be 60 li. The Island mark-
ed on Du Halde's chart is not visible from here, it is said to bear
about W. and is not high. The N. shore of the lake being per-
fectly flat and very low is soon lost to view as it stretches away
to the S. W., but a small portion of it, covered with trees, and
cropping up like an island, was seen bearing about W. N. W.
The bottom of this part of the lake is mud, and the water mud
colour and very shallow, about 3 feet off Kaou-lien-ki, though
further to the S. W. it is said to be much deeper.
The creek leading from the lake has been lately deepened and
reembanked towards the lake end, and its channel cut and em-
banked for some distance into the shallow lake itself; i.e. to
within about 1 mile of Kaou-lien-ki.
Marched at 3.30 P. M. and followed the bank about 11 miles
N. by E., and then struck off across the country about N. N. E.
reaching S. gate T'sing-kiang 1.30 A. M., 15th.
May 15th, 1867.-This morning procured a native chart of
this district from the "writer" which confirms the above obser-
vations and contains all the correct Chinese names of places,
rivers, &c. At 1 P. M. set out for Chin-kiang and the southwards.
The Hung-tsze bank is in most places about 120 feet broad at
the bottom, and at the highest point is about 30 feet, the lake
level being higher than the general level of the country on the
other side.
The "backwater" in the above sketch is a kind of marsh or
shallow ditch about 300 or 400 yards wide generally, and it is
probably formed by digging out earth for the construction of the
bank, as it is evidently artificial: there is water in it now only in
places, and wild fowl abound.
With regard to the date of the desiccation of the Yellow River,
it is sometimes said to have occurred 15 years ago, 1852; and
sometimes 14 years ago, 1858; it is generally stated however to

NOTES ON THE YELLOW RIVER.
85
have become shallower and shallower for some few years previous
to its actually leaving a dry bed, and from all I can hear it
appears that it was not till the autumn of 1853 that it ceased
to flow altogether.*
The Hung-tsze it will be seen from the foregoing notes is far
within its former boundary. So large a diminution has taken
place in the quantity of water in this lake as to leave a large
tract of its bed open to cultivation and habitation, and to render
many miles of the old Flood Bank useless. The present flood
limit does not reach within 5 or 6 miles of the northern part of
the bank save under exceptional circumstances such as in 1866+
when it attained its old limit, the wall. The depth of water on
the space now annually overflowed is at all times trifling, only
a few inches; but formerly, it is said, and indeed the bank with
its 15 feet of stone facing speaks for itself, the yearly rise was
something very considerable. The date of this diminution of
the lake's waters is equally uncertain to within a year or so, as
is the affair of the Yellow River, and probably from the same
cause; viz, its having occurred gradually. It is generally re-
ported however to have happened 21 or 20 years ago i.e. in 1846
or 1847.
in
South of T'sing-kiang-pu the Grand Canal is called the See-
min-ho and after receiving its double supply of water as above,
it rises, in summer, some 10 or 12 feet above winter level and
has a strong current. The current in May is very inconsiderable
any portion of the Canal between T'sing-kiang lock and Sau-
pá, the point where it meets the flood tide from the Yang-tsze,
I should say never more than about mile per hour; and this
only for about the 10 or 15 miles of its course immediately below
T'sing-kiang-pu. So much of the water however, is parted with
through sluices in the East bank, for purposes of irrigation, that
the current getting weaker and weaker on its way South becomes
almost nil at the point where the canal enters the lake about 6
miles North of Kaou-yeu. In the same way both the depth and
breadth decline towards this point, it being here scarcely 10
yards broad and very shallow, whilst between Paou-ying and
I am aware that this date is not considered correct; but it is derived
from the information of a number of different persons resident in the neigh-
bourhood, and as such only I give it, and do not vouch for its accuracy.
† In 1866 too the creek in the bed of the Yellow River (see May 11th) is
said to have contained 10 feet of water for a few days during the floods.

86
NOTES ON THE YELLOW RIVER.
T'sing-kiang it sometimes reaches a breadth of 150 yards and
has everywhere abundance of water. Below Kaou-yeu and after
communication with the Kaou-yang lake the Canal again becomes
broader and deeper, and the current somewhat stronger, although
here too the sluices are at work draining off the water.
Many of the gunboats mentioned May 12th were seen return-
ing on the 15th there not being enough water for them in the
Yeu-ho; thus practically illustrating the unimportant nature of
that river at this time of year, they would go to Hai-chow by
way of Sien-nu-miaou, &c.
Although on May 12th, I was informed that the summer rise
in the Canal was due to its Hung-tsze feeder it will have been
seen that from the subsequent examination of those parts, it was
found to be caused by floods from both the Hong-tsze and the
Chun-ho simultaneously.