JOURNAL
OF THE
NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF THE
ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.
ARTICLE I.
NOTES ON COL. YULE'S EDITION OF MARCO POLO'S
"QUINSAY.”*
I
BY THE REV. G. E. MOULE.
"N reading this admirable rendering of a gorgeous story, my
attention-after the Text-was divided between the Map and
the copious Notes.
(A) The Map, a beautiful clear lithograph, seems to have been
based upon the "General Map of the department" + in the Hang-
chow Foo-che; but with modifications, partly suggested by other
maps in the same work, partly by Europeans to whom Col. Yule
looked for translation of Chinese characters and other information.
The errors it contains are perhaps worth noting.
In the first place, the accomplished editor seems not to be aware
of the unscientific character of Chinese maps, even since the new
views of topography acquired from the Jesuits. Col. Yule, in one
of his notes, deplores his ignorance of the scale on which the
Chinese originals of his Map are framed. In fact, they are not at
all tied to scale. The "General Map," mentioned above, on a
sheet measuring 10 in. by 8 in. presents a view of an area, perhaps
fifty miles square, containing Hang-chow Foo and its six dependent
*Read before the Society on the 8th December, 1873.
+ Foo-king too () ff. 9 & 10 of Hang-chow Foo-che (HHS)
ed. temp. Kien-lung, about 1785.

2
NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
District cities. Hang-chow itself is, say, four miles from north to
south on the longest straight line. Foo-yang Heen is distant about
twenty miles as the crow flies. Yet the topographer who could
allow only 2 inches for this distance, allots 2 inches for the length
of the great city. The Map is in fact rather a topographical re-
pertory, with some lines also to indicate the contour of the land,
than a map in our sense of the word. It is better than the speci-
men of Sung map-making preserved in the same Chinese work;
but it is utterly without accuracy of any kind.
Judging from my own copy, it is possible that some additional
inaccuracies have been occasioned by the wearing out of the wood-
cut. For example, the plain between the River and the Hills south-
west of Hang-chow is altogether too large. The Hills having been
drawn in relief, and not projected on a plane surface, that plain
ought to disappear entirely, being hidden by the lofty Hills. It
varies in fact from about a mile in width (measured from the
Phoenix Hill Gate at right angles to the River), to zero at the foot
of the bluff on which stands the Pagoda of the Six Harmonies.
My original, in the present condition of the wood-cut, interposes
at the latter point, +-inch, equal to half a mile if the scale of the
city be observed. And here Col. Yule's artist, having no inde-
pendent knowledge of the ground, has expanded zero into a still
more considerable dimension. This circumstance has necessarily
vitiated the conjectural line drawn by Col. Yule, from the data in
Mr. Green's very interesting paper on Hang-chow, to represent
the figure of the walls in the T'ang and Sung periods.
The remaining topographical mistakes seem to be due to the
oversight of Col. Yule's contemporary informants. The principal
are these.
The Roman Catholic Church, placed in the north-east angle of
the city, is actually to the west of its long axis. It would not be
far out if transposed to a spot enclosed by a loop of canals, not far
from the Woo-lin Gate, where a small building, probably the Wan-
show Kung or "Imperial Temple," has been laid down. The
Church is slightly south of east from that Temple. The Chief
Street went wrong with the Church. It has for centuries-notably
in the Sung period-connected the Woo-lin Gate (anciently the
Yu-hang Gate) on the north, with the Fung-shan Gate on the south;
skirting the smaller canal, as it runs between it and the Church,
Vide "Chinese Recorder," November and December, 1869.

NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
3
and following the bend (really a rectangular bend) of that canal
as it merges in the great Middle Canal; which is the water tho-
roughfare for all traffic between the River on the south and the
Grand Canal on the north.
The transposition of the Church is so singular a mistake that I
venture to suggest an explanation of it. Outside the Church gate
is a stone Tablet erected in the eighth year of Yung-ching (about
A.D. 1730), to commemorate the expulsion of the Missionaries,
and the conversion of their Church into a Temple of the "Queen
of Heaven." The inscription charges the Missionaries with having
"got possession of land in the north-east angle of the city." The
land is undoubtedly the present site, and it is hardly probable that
a document, signed by a Viceroy, and carefully engraved on stone,
should contain a slip of the pen. The solution suggested to me,
by local tradition respecting the ancient form of the city, is that
at some former period the Lake actually was included within the
walls, whilst the eastern canal was (beyond a doubt) excluded.
Under these circumstances the spot in question would be east,
instead of west, of the greater axis of the city. It might retain a
local denomination, acquired at that time, down to a period when
everything was altered; and the pedantry of the Mandarin who
draughted the edict might choose to make use of this obsolete de-
nomination.
Whatever this solution may be worth, the "north-east angle"
of the inscription appears to have been relied upon by Col. Yule's
informant, as more trustworthy than the results of his personal
observation. I do not know what Mr. Gardner's authority is for
ascribing the present Church, or its "façade," to Nestorian times.
There is nothing to warrant it in the edict, in the topographies
so far as I can find, nor I should say in the architecture. The
front is a substantial erection of perhaps eighteen feet high, pierced
by three semicircular arches. The arrangement is Chinese; the
sculpture, in shallow relief, a cross between Chinese and romanesque.
I gathered from the Missionary+ who shewed me the place in 1864,
that he believed the whole to have been the work of the Kang-he
period (seventeenth century).
The portion of Wall marked a-b, shews no signs of having
been otherwise than erect, and in good repair for years past.
* Vide Paper by C. Gardner, Esq., in the "Journal of the North-China
Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society" for December, 1867, pp. 21-31.
†M. Montagneux.

4
NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
Neither is there any indication in maps, books, or tradition, of its
having been removed; although the gate at that point, like almost
every other gate, is said to have been at one time or another
blocked up.
The Palace of Kienlung must be transposed from the neigh-
bourhood of the wall, to the south shore of the island Koo-shan,
near the erection marked Wan-lan-ko.
This island should be connected at its western end with the shore
by a bridge. Possibly it and the Fang-Sang-Che are Marco's
"two islands;" though I think the little Hu-sin-ting island was also
famous in Sung times. The latter two islands have drifted consi-
derably from their true positions in the Map, Hu-sin-ting eastward
and Fang-Sang-Che northward.
The Ching-Hwang-Miao is placed where in fact the city wall
runs. It ought to be on the crest of the northernmost ridge of
the intramural hills.
The Palaces (Yamuns) of Viceroy (Tsung-tuh) and [Lieut.]
Governor (Foo-tae) are both east of the Central canal, south and
north respectively of the branch canal which runs south-east.
By Palace of Governor understand Tsung-tuh's Yamun, and place
the Foo-tae's Yaman on the other bank of the little canal, and the
thing required will be done. P. of Viceroy appears to stand for
the southern "Imperial Temple" (Wan-show Kung).
The gate at the south-east corner ought to be How-chaou (not
Houchao) M.+ and to be rendered "Tide-awaiting" (not Tide
Protecting) G.
There are a few minor inaccuracies; but none perhaps that affect
the practical value of the Map.
(B) To pass now to the wonderfully interesting Notes on Mar-
co's famous rhapsody of the Manzi capital. There seems to be
hardly anything here which one can venture to correct. But some
illustrations may be drawn from the topographies. Of these I
possess three, all of which were used by my lamented friend Mr.
Green in compiling his paper for the (Foochow) "Chinese Re-
corder" quoted by Col. Yule. They are the Jin-ho Heen-che (in
28 sections, ed. temp. Kang-he, anno 1688), the Se-hoo Che,
"Topography of the West Lake," a beautifully edited book (in 48
In the Yuen and Ming Topographies, quoted in contemporary Che.
+ 俠潮 not 護潮-

NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
5
sections ed. temp. Kien-lung, anno 1771), and the Hang-chow Foo-
che (also of Kien-lung, anno 1785, in 110 sections, of which
however, 35 sections are unhappily missing).
Before I transcribe a few extracts which seemed worth present-
ing, in illustration of the subject, it may be well to summarize the
testimony they offer in confirmation or otherwise of Marco Polo's
account.
The principal points I have had in view, in the very limited
reading of these voluminous works for which I have found leisure,
are the dimensions and comprehension of the Sung city, the bridges
and market squares, the palace and imperial residence, and the
luxury and pleasure-seeking of the inhabitants.
The old Sung map, and the extracts from earlier topographies,
which go to make up a great part of those of the present dynasty,
contain much that throws light upon these topics.
I. With regard to the size of the city, Col. Yule has already
gathered from the notes furnished by Mr. Green, that a wall of
70 le in circuit was built at the close of the Tang dynasty, about
the end of the ninth century of our era; and that it was added to
by the Sung Emperor, Kaou-tsoong, † who first made Hang-chow
the seat of empire. Thus a total not far short of 100 le would be
obtained, and Marco Polo's statement is confirmed; only substi-
tuting le for miles. With respect to its comprehension the great
difficulty is in fixing the eastern and western boundaries. The
extreme south or south-western point is clear enough, namely the
Luh-ho Ta, a fine pagoda, on a sharp bluff rising sheer out of
the river to a height of nearly a hundred feet, upwards of four miles
from the Fung-shan Gate. One point on the north is also ascer-
tained with tolerable certainty, namely the Ked-ching Heang,
"Lane of the Lining wall," at the mouth of which, the principal
north gate of the Sung days stood. This "Mouth of the Ked-ching
Heang" the intersection of the lane of that name with the great
northern street-is a point a mile and a half or two miles beyond
This is the only copy of the Foo-che I have been able to hear of in this
neighbourhood since the rebel troubles. I met with it at a book-stall in
Hang-chow soon after I arrived, in 1865 I think. The authorities are about
to reedit the Provincial Topography (Che-keang Tung-che); but not at present,
the minor topographies.
† Commencement of 12th century.
The building of the present Pagoda after repeated destructions by fire,
is recorded on a fine tablet of the Sung period still standing.

6
NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
the present north wall. The north-eastern point is laid at a bridge
outside the present Kang-shan Gate, which I cannot as yet iden-
tify. And the south-eastern angle is not further indicated than
by the vague straight line of the Sung map which runs south
beyond the How-chaou Gate far enough to include one dry gate
and two water gates. If the old How-chaou Gate stood on the
site of the present, and if the water-courses remain as they were
on that side, this would bring the south-east angle almost down
to the river's bank; and the Kea-hwuy Gate, the southern gate.
of the palace, would furnish the fugitive Emperor a convenient
exit to his ships, whilst Bayan was knocking at his northern gates
seven or eight miles off.
But the only data that seem at all fixed on the east and west
lines respectively, are, on the east a gateway at present insulated
but built like a city gate, which now spans one of the approaches
to the Foo-tae's Yamun. It is called the Chin-tung Low,t a name
analogous to Chin-hae Lowt applied to the "Drum towers" in
Chinese cities. But a lane which runs past it, and a bridge a little
south of it still go by the name of Paou-gan, the Sung name of
one of the east gates, in the same relative situation as the "Tower,"
with regard to the How-chaou Gate, and one or two other land-
marks,
This
Again the Paou-gan lane as it runs north, after deflecting a
little to the west, takes the name of Ching-t'ow Heang, "Lane of
the Head of the wall;" a designation explained in the books to
commemorate the fact, that it occupies the site of the old Sung
east wall, pulled down as it was gradually, under the Mongols,
when all city walls were of design allowed to fall into ruin.
line, I imagine, is a tolerably safe one, to indicate the general di-
rection of the east wall; and it excludes, as does also the Sung
map, the present eastern canal; and suggests that, whilst the
How-chaou Gate and those beyond it, on the south, and the Kang-
shan Gate, on the north, may have stood on a line as far east as
they do at present,-the waist of the city must at that period have
been bounded by a line lying between the central and eastern
canals, and for the most part parallel with both of them.
·嘉會門
t "Eastern-barrier Tower."
"Sea-barrier Tower."
§ "Peace-keeping,"

NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
7
On the west side the present Drum tower-a gateway which
springs from the north-eastern spur of the hill, and spans the
chief street-appeared to be at first a certain datum, indicating
that the wall which-after turning from the river at the Luh-ho
Ti, pierced the hills in a north and north-easterly line, and then
ran along the borders of the lake, past the great Luy-foong Tă,-
skirted the hill foot as far as this point, and thence (the old Chaou-
t'een Gate standing here) turned and ran north-west for the
angle at the Kea-ching Heang. This still seems to me most pro-
bable. But one passage from a Ming topography, certainly de-
scribes this Chaou-t'een Gate as a gate "in the midst of the city,"
in fact what the "Drum tower" now is, and what the Chaou-t'een
Gate too is represented to be in the Sung map. If this latter view
is correct, it seems to me just possible that the wall actually did run
west of the lake according to popular tradition; and presented the
square and capacious figure given by the Sung draughtsman.
Against this, however, is the absence of all mention of such an
extent in the books so far as I have read, and the repeated descrip-
tion of the contour of the city, as resembling a Dice-box + with a
small waist and expanded extremities.
II. The Bridges, neither of the Sung Map, nor of the existing
city, will justify Marco's number. Some of them, especially out-
side the present north wall, are lofty enough for large river junks
to carry their masts in passing them; but all told, they seem.
never to have numbered more than from one to two hundred.
III. I have found no certain account of market squares, though
the Fang, of which a few still exist, and a very large number
are laid down in the Sung Map, mainly grouped along the chief
street, may perhaps represent them.
The fact of the markets for different articles having formerly
been held in separate localities, is attested by tradition, and, e.g.,
by the following note (in the Se-hoo Che) on the Choo-tow Heang.
"It is said that in Sung times each market had its separate loca-
lity; but this lane was alone exempt from all restriction."
* 朝天門
+ Literally, I think, is a drum with a slender middle.
tj.
§ Vol. 20, § 47, fol. 3. Extr. from the "Se-hoo yew-lan Che," (qu?) of the
Ming period.

8
NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
Being upon the subject of markets, it may be well to remark
that the larger game, red deer and fallow deer, is now never seen
for sale. Hog-deer, wild swine, pheasants, water-fowl, and every
description of "vermin" and small birds are exposed for sale, not
now in markets, but at the retail wine shops. Wild cats, racoons,
otters, badgers, kites, owls, etc., etc., festoon the shop-front along
with "game," animals and birds. I have never seen any pears ap-
proaching to Marco Polo's description. A large coarse fruit about
the size and quality of an English baking pear is the chief des-
cription offered. Shan-tung "snow pears" are sold in the grocers'
and cook-shops, and there are one or two local varieties that are
eatable. The yellow peaches must be, I think, the hrang mei* or
"cling-stone" apricot, a fragrant but sour fruit common all over
this part of China, and which here gives the name to the "rainy
season"t of June. I never saw any but pink and white peaches;
some of the former with deep claret-coloured juice. Fair grapes
come from Soo-chow and from the north, and a good many are now
grown here.
IV. I come now to the Palace-the situation of which is ap-
proximately fixed both by the Sung map, and by the notices which
occur in the accounts of various monasteries, as also in miscella-
neous antiquarian remarks throughout the topographies. It was
south and south-east of the present city; and apparently included
a large portion, perhaps at one time the whole summit of the
massive hill, called the "Phoenix Hill" (Fung-hwang Shan).
The lower slopes of the hill were, excluded from the demesne, if
we may believe the Sung map, which places the "Monastery of
Brahma" (Fan-t'een Sze) on the line of the southern wall of
the city, at a considerable interval from the wall of the "Great
Interior" or Palace. Fan-t'een Sze is at present in a very much
reduced condition; and it has never, probably, enjoyed its original
prosperity since the Sung migration;-so at least say the books.
But in the early years of the Northern Sung, when Ts'een Shuh
ruled the united kingdoms of Hoo and Yueh, it was a splen-
did foundation; and two stone Chwang || covered with Buddhist
·黄梅
† 黄梅天
‡焚天寺
§大內
literally "state umbrellas," but applied to polygonal erections in
solid stone in front of Buddhist Convents.

NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
9
inscriptions, and bearing the date and the signature of Prince.
Ts'een, still stand as memorials of its best days. These are re-
ferred to in the topographies. Two similar Chwang stand in front
of the well-known Convent of Lin-yin, bearing date the second
year of K'ae-paou.*
Besides the Imperial Palace itself, other houses or monasteries
are more or less connected, in the books, with the Imperial sojourn
in Hang-chow. A garden, near the present Ts'ing-po Gate, is
the scene of one anecdote which may be worth transcribing; and
a monastery west of the lake, between it and the Lin-yin Sze,
is said to have been the residence of a favourite concubine, and
the scene of Imperial diversions. The tone in which the Imperial
personages are spoken of, and one or two express statements, agree
with what seems to be implied by Marco, namely that they lived
on much more affable terms with their faithful commons than sub-
sequent Chinese dynasties seem to have done.
V. Of the luxury of the period and its devotion to pleasure,
evidence occurs everywhere. Hang-chow went at the time by the
nickname of the melting-pot for money. The use, at houses of
entertainment, of linen and silver-plate appeared somewhat out of
keeping in a Chinese picture. I cannot vouch for the linen, but
here is the plate. "In the lane of the Eight Genii, there was in
the Sung period, a Tea-house called by the same name. The most
famous Tea-houses of the day were the Pa-seen (Eight Genii),
the Pure delight,' the 'Pearl,' the 'house of the Pwan family,'
and the Two and two,' and 'Three and three' houses. In these
places they always set out bouquets of fresh flowers according to
the season....At the counter were sold 'Precious thunder' Tea, §
Tea of fritters and onions, || or else Pickle broth; and in hot
weather, wine of snow bubbles and apricot blossom, or other kinds
of refrigerating liquor. T Saucers, ladles and bowls were all of
silver."**
Circa 972. Those at Fan-t'een Sze are somewhat earlier. The in-
scriptions are in beautiful style. The stone is the grey limestone or spurious
marble, called here () Tae-hoo shik after the T'ae-hoo.
†The Tseih-king Sze,
honours."
§NT*
E perhaps rather means-"Double honours" "Treble
Qu. Kettle broth?
Tlit. "stomach contracting liquor."
**Se-hoo Che, Vol. 20, fol. 4.

10
NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
A brief notice of the chief street, when it served as the avenue
to the Palace, occurs on the next page, and should have been
quoted in connexion with the remarks on the Palace above.
"The Chung-ching bridge is commonly called Seay bridge.
Hence southwards to the Meridian Gate, t was the Imperial road
of the Sung days, 13,500 feet: in length. In old times it was
paved with stone flags, 35,300 odd in number. In the seventh
year of Heen-shun (not long before Bayan came), the Governor
Tseen Shwoh-yew replaced all defective and broken flags to the
number of 20,000 slabs; after which nine cars might move abreast
over a way perfectly smooth and straight as an arrow.
Under
the Mongols the populace gradually encroached upon the roadway."
Before giving a few longer extracts from the topographies,
illustrative of the topics summarized above, I may observe here
that one of the difficulties attending the principal passage for tracing
the ancient wall, is the ambiguous use of the term Ked-ching,
(Lining, Inner, or Contiguous wall). In one of the early records
quoted, one of the Ming period,-it is stated, that under the last
of the Mongols, an insurgent Chinese|| had established himself
in Hang-chow, and begun to fortify it, when he was attacked by
Tache Timur, chief of the Hing-sing, and his able Chinese lieu-
tenant Yang Hwan-tsay. The interval between the besiegers'
lines and those of the besieged was hence called Kea-ching, and
still gives its name to the lane outside the present north wall.
Upon this the editor of the "Travelling companion for the Se-hoo"**
remarks, that this will not account for the use of the name
centuries before the Mongol domination. He seems to conclude
that it originated from the fact, that this wall served as a lining,
or inner work, to the great "Net wall "++ or enceinte.
The only objection to this is, that the lining appears to have
existed before the outer wall was built. On the whole it is
probable that the Suy wall is meant; but nothing seems to be
recorded of the position of this wall.
E. This is the first bridge inside the Woo-lin Gate.
E alias "Phoenix Hill Gate."
This gives only about 2 miles, a very low estimate.
互夾城
『張 alias 方士誠 pretender to the principality of Woo.
行省
廾羅城
Se-hoo-yeu-lan-che.

NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
On the ancient fortifi-
11
EXTRACT I. From the Jin-ho Heen-che, § 1, fol. 9. [This
passage, a quotation from much earlier records, is given with slight
differences, in each of the three topographies I have consulted.]
"Under the Suy dynasty* Yang-suh built the
cations of Hang-chow. Wall 36 le and 90 paces in circuit. Under the
Tangt it remained unchanged; but under Chaou-tsung in the
second year of the period King-fuh, I the dynastic Marquis Ts'een
Kew (sovereign prince of Woo and Yueh), &c., &c., called out
200,000 of the people, and the soldiery of thirteen fiefs, || and with
their labour built a new enceinte from the Tsin-wang Shan at the
"Lining wall,' eastward along the river's bank, and running to the
lake Ts'een-thang, by the hill Hoh, and the Fan creek, tt a
circuit of 70 le.
"There were ten gates,-1, the Chaou-t'een, now the Chin-hae
Low (Drum Tower), at the foot of the hill Woo. 2, the Lung-
shan, west of the present Luh-ho Ta (Six harmonies Pagoda).
3, the Chuh-chay (Bamboo cart), south-east of the present Wang-
seen Bridge. 4, New Gate, east of the present Tan Bridge.
5, the Nan-t'oo, outside what is now Ts'een Bridge Gate. 6, the
Pei-too, outside what is now old Ts'ae-sze Gate. 7, the Yen-
keaou Gate, west of what is now "Old Yen-keaou" (Salt Bridge).
8, the Se-hwan Gate, at the foot of the present Luy-fung Pagoda.
9, the Pil-kwan, within (v. 1. at the mouth of) the Keǎ-ching
Lane. 10, Paou-te Gate, outside the present Kang-shan Gate,
at Woo-sin Bridge." I
A.D. 589 to 618.
† 618 to 907.
Circa 893.
§ Kanghe seems to pronounce Ts'een Lew () or Leaou, which I see
Mr. Wylie reads it. My Hang-chow friends are obstinate for Kew.
|| 3.
This is called at present the EU "King Asoka's Hill." Its
old name is traced to a visit of the great Tsin Che-hwang-te, who came (down
the Yang-tsze?) to Hang-chow, and quitting his bark outside the Pei-kwan
Gate, ascended the hill to reconnoitre the ford.
**The Se-hoo.
tt The Hoh hill and Fan creek have escaped me.
Of these bridges, 1, 2, 3, 8 and 9 have tolerably good marks to identify
them withal; 2 and 8, the well-known pagodas, which certainly stood where
they now stand, at the time in question; 1, the drum tower, which also is
anchored to the primeval hill; 3, the solid archway called Chin-tung Low,
which has on either side of it the Paou-gan Bridge and Pao-gan Lane; Paou-
gan being the Sung name of the gate that stood thereabouts; and 9, the Keǎ-
ching Heang. The T'an Bridge of 4 is just without the southern wall, but
I know of nothing to define the nearness to it of gate 4. The Ts'een Bridge
Gate and Ts'ae-sze Gate of 5 and 6, are the most puzzling of all. There are
no such gates now; and how they stood with reference to the existing bridges
is quite uncertain to me. The Yen Bridge of 7 is probably Leen Bridge
(), still called Yen Bridge. Woo-sin Bridge of 10 I cannot find.

NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
13
Immediately after, follows an account of the enceinte of 70 le
nearly identical with that given above; and we read how Ts'een
got a Buddhist monk to survey for him the fung-shuy of his city,
and was told that it was impregnable, because like a Dice-box
() it was developed on the north and south, but had a slender
middle.
"The Sung walls were 20 feet high and 10 feet thick (Chinese
measure), and guarded with the utmost strictness. The record
proceeds: Travellers who arrived at the eastern gates found (out-
side) no population; nothing but market gardens as far as the eye
could reach. From the western gates, the water of the lake was
introduced into the city, and distributed in small boats to the squares
(h) and markets. Firewood from up the river was stored near
the south gates; and the fine rice of Keang-soo came in at the
northern Custom House. Hence the common saw; the East gates
for garden stuff; the West, for water; the South gates for fuel,
and the North for rice." "
Changes subsequent to
the Sung.
EXTRACT IV. "At the accession of the
Mongols, it was forbidden to repair fortifications
everywhere; and in consequence, the inner (qu? Palace) and
outer walls of this city were gradually demolished by the inha-
bitants. But under the last (Yuen) Emperor, in the period Che-
ching, Changt got possession of great part of Keang-nan and
Che-keang, and rebuilt the walls of Hang-chow. He threw out the
line of wall from the Kang-shan Gate to the Luh-sze (Ts'ing-t'ae)
Gate, some 3 le, so as to include the Luh-sze Canal, but contracted
the line from the How-chaou Gate running south-west some 2 le, so
us to shut out the Phenix hill."
Next the gates are accounted for. Chang closed the Peen and
Paou-gan Gates. I have referred more than once to the proba-
bility that the Chin-tung Low at the eastern entrance to the Foo-
tae's yamun, and having the name Paou-gan still lingering in its
neighbourhood, is actually the old Paou-gan Gateway. There
·禁天下修城
†The insurgent already referred to
alias.
This reduces the city to present dimensions apparently; except that we
have no intimation of the northern line having been retracted at the same
time. The Luh-sze Canal (i) must be, I think, the present Eastern
Canal with its affluent, running east and west between K'ing-ching and
Ts'ing-t'ae Gates.

NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
15
Perhaps I have given evidence enough-having the Sung Map
also in corroboration-to shew that the palace stood outside the
present southern wall, and included a large portion of the fine
hills, which rise to the height of 700 or 800 feet, and go by various
names-Phoenix Hill, pass (or col) of the Myriad Pine trees,
Dumpling Hill, King Asoka's Hill, being amongst the rest.
The Manchow walled Garrison which attracted Col. Yule's
attention, as a possible site of the Palace, offers nothing to support
the conjecture. The first Manchow camp was built, nearly, if not
exactly on its present lines, temp. Shun-che (1644-1662).
The Sung Map.
EXTRACT VI. From the Hang-chow Foo-che,
§ 1, fol. 46. On the Map of the old city of the Southern Sung.
Maps and documents for an investigation of Hangchow, when it
was the temporary Capital of the Southern Sung are mostly lost or
mutilated. Comparatively speaking the best of these records is
the Topography of Lin-gan of the period Heen-shun. Most of
the M.S. copies reject the Map, but the printed ones include it.
"Whilst the Southern Sung were basely enjoying their ill-gotten
repose, everything went by hap-hazard, and there are no data for
representing adequately the true position of things. I have care-
fully read the Imperial Edition of the Lin-gan Topography of
Keen-taou, and noted its particulars as to the Yamuns and the
Palace. In the edition of Heen-shun I find, in the map of the
capital, the several altars, temples, and offices of the civil and
military Mandarins laid down with sufficient clearness. These fur-
nish materials for the antiquary.
"There is a copy of the Map in the "Tourist's companion to the
Se-hoo' of Teen Shoo-ching, temp. Ming. But he has altered
the relative position, through entire neglect of his authority.
"Here you are presented with a reduced tracing from the Sung
prints, without the omission of a particular; restoring once more
the original arrangement.
"In those days the dynasty was holding on to a mere corner of
the realm, hardly able to defend even it; and nevertheless all,
high and low, devoted themselves to dress and ornament, to music
and dancing, on the lake and amongst the hills, with no idea of
sympathy for the country.
†
within the last sixteen years of the dynasty.
part of Heaou-tsung's reign,-second of the Hang-chow monarchs.
‡田汝成

18
NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
people. I am poor and have no means of support; so I have come
hither in attendance on a relative, to earn a morsel to protract a
wretched existence.' The monarch pitied him and said:-'We
must speak to the Emperor for you.' Some days later he went
thither again, and meeting the man still on the spot, he enquired
(how his case stood). He replied that nothing was yet done.
Next day Heaou-tsung* respectfully invited the senior Emperor
and the Empress Dowager to deign to visit the Tseu-king Garden. +
The Emperor neither smiled nor spoke. Heaou-tsung again pre-
sented his petition. Still no smile. The Empress Dowager then
said: Our boy's intention in inviting us old people is excellent
-what vexes you?' The Emperor still kept silence for a long
while, and then said:-'I am old, and they don't listen to what I
say. Heaou-tsung was more amazed than ever; and again asked
the Empress what could be the matter. The Emperor then said:
So and so,-I have spoken about him, and it has no result;
so that I am ashamed to see the man.' Heaou-tsung replied:-
"I received your sacred instructions yesterday-(this) the very next
day I have given orders to the Minister. The Minister tells me
the fellow is a most notorious and inveterate embezzler, who is for-
tunate in escaping with his life; and it is impossible to put him
again into office. But this is a trifle; we will decide it to-morrow.
For to-day, pray dismiss your displeasure for one drinking bout
at least.' Then at length the Emperor laughed, and said:
"To-morrow let Heaou-tsung give another order to the Minister,
and if the Minister sticks to his old tale, let Heaou-tsung say:-
Yesterday his High-mightiness was in a sacred rage, || and there
was hardly a crack in the ground for me to hide in. No matter
how villainons a traitor the fellow is, you must just put him back
in his old office, and give him a good large city.' A few days
later the monarch was again (at Lin-yin), and the person said to
him: Your slave has received your gracious commands. I am
only awaiting an opportunity of approaching your footstool with
my thanks before I depart.'
"
*Kaou-tsung's son and the reigning monarch. They call his father the
太皇帝,
"Garden of many Prospects." 10, fol. 17, says it was at
the foot of the wall near the Ts'ing-po Gute.
saunce, with gardens on the lake?
‡孩兒好意招老夫婦何為怒耶
§且開懷一醉可也
| 太上怒
Qu?-Was this Facfur's Plea-

NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
19
Amongst the points which caught my eye, in turning over the
leaves of the miscellany of Quotations, which make up the last two
volumes of the Se-hoo Che, were many of more or less interest in
connection with our subject; such as a Legend of the Tide wraith,
the apparent use of Man-tsze as a designation for South-China, a
description of the Audience Hall in the Palace, lantern races
and other sports on the lake and its shores, the latter including
some kind of football, the sumptuous barges and even paddle-wheel
vessels of the time, Heaou-tsung's military reviews, and so forth.
But I have protracted a dull paper too far already.
The splendid edition of Marco Polo which has given occasion
to it, stimulated a desire to illustrate at least one chapter of it with
some degree of care and thoroughness. But neither my leisure
nor skill have justified the attempt.

20
NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
Plan of the Metropolitan City of Hangchow
in the 13th century.
CO
COO
0000
00
СССО
000
DO
Пoo
□□□
COD
000
2019
h
16
C
CO
כם
34]
35
品
2

1
2
3
4
5
6 使門
7
8
9
NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
Metropolitan City.
Tsing po mun, Tsing-po Gate.
Ts'een hoo mun, Ts'een-hco Gate.
Kea huuy mun, Kea-hwuy Gate.
Nan shwuy mun, Southern Water Gate.
Peh shwuy mun, Northern Water Gate.
Peen mun, Peen Gate.
How chaou mun, Tide-awaiting Gate.
21
Paou gan shwuy mun, Paou-gan Water Gate.
Paou gan mun, Paou-gan Gate.
10 新開門 Sin lae тип, New Gate.
11
12 E Le ching mun, Le-ching Gate.
Tsung sin mun, Tsung-sin Gate.
13
14
15
16
17
18 大內
19 五府
20 太廟
21
22
23 焚天寺
24
25
26
27 餘航水門
28
29
Tung peen mun, East Peen Gate.
Tung hwa mun, Tung-hwa Gate.
Ho ning mun, Ho-ning Gate.
Chaou t'een mun, Chaou-t'een Gate.
Tung tsing mun, Tung-tsing Gate.
Ta nuy, Central Palace.
Woo foo, The Five Courts.
T'ae meaou, The Imperial Temple.
Fung hwang shan, Phoenix Hill.
Shih füh she, Monastery of the Stone Buddha.
Fan t'een she, Monastery of Brahma.
Koo shing kwo she, Monastery of the Sacred
Fruit.
Kan shan mun, Kan-shan Gate.
T'een tsung shwuy mun, T'een-tsung Water
Gate.
Yu hang shwuy mun, Yu-hang Water Gate.
Yu hang mun, Yu-hang Gate.
Ts'een t'ang mun, Ts'een-t'ang Gate.
30 豐豫門 Fung yummin, Fung-yu Gate.
31
32
33 張寺
34 府治
35 府學
T'een tsung yen tsang, T'een-tsung Salt Depot.
Teen tsung tsew koo, T'een-tsung Wine Store.
Chang she, The Chang Monastery.
Foo che, Prefecture
Foo heo, Prefectural Confucian Temple.

22
22
NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
Plan of the Imperial City of Hangchow
in the 13th century.
ㅁ
18
xp
6
KE
Го

24
NOTES ON MARCO POLO'S "QUINSAY."
The above two plans of the old city of Hangehow are reduced
from those in a new edition of the
Heen-chun
Ling-gan che, or "Topography of Hangehow during the Heen-
shun (1265-1274) period." Making due allowance for want of
proportion, these will probably give a tolerably accurate idea of
the relative position of the various parts of the city and palace,
at the time it was visited by Marco Polo. [Ed. Com.]