ARTICLE II.
LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS,
AND THE STORY OF ZOROASTER.*
TH
BY D. N. CAMAJEE.
HROUGH the researches of European, Mahommedan and
Parsee scholars, much has been done to clear away the ob-
scurity that veiled the history of the ancient kings of Iran
and the religion of Zoroaster. The progress that has been made
in deciphering cuneiform texts, ancient manuscripts and inscrip-
tions on stone tablets, has been rendered subservient to the same
end, and has gone far to restore the knowledge of the ancient
sacred language.
The following paper is an attempt to summarize some of the
results, as bearing on the history and religion of the Parsees,
which is thus characterized by Bleek:-
"A religion which is probably as ancient as Judaism, and which
certainly taught the immortality of the soul and a future state of
rewards and punishments for centuries before these doctrines were
prevalent among the Jews,-a religion which for ages prior to
Christianity announced that men must be pure in thought as well
as in word and deed, and that sins must be repented of before they
could be atoned for,-a religion whose followers were forbidden
to kill even animals wantonly, at a time when the ancestors of
the French and English nations were accustomed to sacrifice
human victims to their sanguinary Deities,-such a pure and
venerable religion is one which must always command the respect
of the civilized world, and of which a Parsee may well be proud."+
The oldest manuscripts of the Zend-Avesta and sacred books of
the Parsees seem to have disappeared in the time of the Turanian,
Grecian, Roman and Mahommedan monarchs, who successively
usurped the throne of the ancient kings of Persia. These several
invaders, in their zeal to establish their respective faiths, destroyed
to a great extent the archives of the nation, and thus entailed
upon posterity the loss of many venerable records, containing au-
thentic proof of the sublime Truth contained in the Sacred Law of
the Mazdayaçnian religion.
*Read before the Society on May 20th, 1874.
† Avesta, Introduction, pp. xviii, xix.

28 LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS.
to a prehistoric period, and to them are attributed reigns of im-
measurable length. By some they are even held to be merely the
representatives of so many creations in the unending revolutions
of the material universe. According to this system, 30 of our
years represent a day; 30 days make a month; 12 months make a
year or murtubé; 1,000,000 murtubé, one furud; 1,000 furud, one
vurud; 1,000 vurud, one murud; 1,000 murud, one jad; 3,000
jad, one vad; 2,000 vad, one jahad or cycle, which will thus be
equal to sixty-four quadrillions, eight hundred thousand trillions
of our years. This immense number is portioned off into periods
of one thousand years, which are governed respectively by the
several stars in rotation, including in the number the sun, moon,
and five planets; the moon being the last of the series. While
the first star governs as ruler, the second is his minister; on the
conclusion of the first term, the first star passes on to the end of
the series, the second becomes ruler, and the third is his minister;
in like manner, on the completion of the next term, the second passes
to the end, the third becomes ruler and the fourth star is minister;
and so on till the cycle is completed. At the end of each cycle,
all creation is reduced to chaos, and on the evolution of a new
universe, the human family recommences from a single pair. The
first four prophets, who are held to have ruled over four such
cycles, were thoroughly conversant with the laws of God, had a
perfect understanding of the movements of the glorious orbs that
people space, and observed how all these paid an unswerving obe-
dience to the will of their Creator; while man alone in his puny
insignificance, dared to raise the arm of rebellion against the fiat
of Omnipotence. The seed of evil deposited in the human heart.
bare abundant fruit in succeeding generations; and from bad they
proceeded to worse; till sunk in corruption, they received the due
recompense of their deeds from the Supreme, in the annihilation
of the race at the end of the cycle. Four successive cycles thus
passed away, during which these prophets raised their voices.
against the prevailing degradation, and sought to recall men to
their allegiance to the Supreme.
According to another tradition, the first prophet Mahabad is said
to have received from his Creator the Asmani Kitab or "Heavenly
Book," and was endowed with wisdom and probity to follow out
the Divine precepts. He instructed the people in the laws of God,
and while they listened to his teaching, for a long period they
enjoyed prosperity and happiness. At length when they gave way

LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS. 31
Taimuraçps is generally considered the son of Hoshung, though
by some he is reputed the grandson, and succeeded the latter after
an interregnum of three hundred years. He bears the epithet
Dev-binder signifying "conqueror of devs." Under the name of
Takhma-urupa he is spoken of in the Avesta. The 19th Yasht
contains an invocation to "The strong Kingly Majesty, etc. which
united itself to Takhma-urupa, the weaponless, when he ruled over
the seven-portioned earth; over Daevas and men, over sorcerers and
Pairikas, over Çáthras, Kabyas, and Karapanas; so that he was smiter
of all Daevas and men, all sorcerers and Pairikas, that he ruled
Anramainyus, tamed in the shape of a horse, thirty years long,
round both ends of the earth." He reigned thirty years during
which time the art of writing was invented.+
Jemshid succeeded his father Tamuraçps on the throne. His
name was originally Jem; and on account of the splendour of his
reign and his moral character, the syllable shid signifying "brilliant"
was superadded. Tradition reports that while travelling about from
place to place he arrived at Aderbedjan, where he was crowned
and mounted the throne. At that moment the sun shone on the
crown which gave a brilliant lustre, and all around him were
dazzled; an event which is still commemorated by the fête of
Jemshid-i-Noworoj.
In legends Jemshid has been identified with Jima or Yimaş
the king of Airyana-vaêja, the Iranian paradise. Referring to this
Bleek says: "This is not the place to enter into a lengthened
discussion, but we may observe that the Yima of the Vendidad is
identical with the Yama of the Vedas, only that in the latter Yama
is represented as the Ruler of departed souls, who live under his
sovereignty in another world in the enjoyment of all bliss and
happiness, whereas in the Persian mythology Yima's kingdom is
placed on this earth, in the fabulous region of Airyana-vaėja, and
*Khordah-Avesta, xxxv, vv. 27-29.
†There seems a discrepancy between this and the statement that his pre-
decessor left a book; but congruity is not to be looked for between miscella-
neous legends; or it may mean that the system of writing peculiar to the
Iranian nation originated during this reign.
The Majmil-al-Tawarikh makes Jemshid brother to Tamuraçps.
§ It has been thought by some, that Yima may be identified with the sage
Hebrew king Solomon; but there is a chronological difficulty in accepting
this, as there appears to be a period of 1682 years between the two, and that
Solomon was actually born 58 years later than Minochir the grandson of
Feridun. See Pud-nameh by Mulla Firuz bin Kawas, p. 155.

32 LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS.
its inhabitants consist of a limited number only, who dwell with
Yima in a state of felicity, exempted from all curses of Anramai-
nyus....It is a peculiar feature of this tradition that Yima refuses
to become a Lawgiver; but he willingly accepts from Ahura-
Mazda the commission to make the earth wide and happy."* Of
this paradise it is said, "Ten months of winter are there-two months
of summer." The historical truth contained in the myth is supposed
to point to the original seat of the Arian race, and this is thought
to be towards the sources of the Oxus and Jaxartes,
It is further described as good beyond other places, inasmuch
as there men lived to the age of 300, and cows and cattle to 150;
they had little pain or sickness; they lived under the law of Pao-
iryo-Tkaêsha, the faith of the former patriarchs, and when they
died they were canonized.
In Jemshid's time weapons of war were invented, the helmet
and the cuirass; weaving, sewing and embroidery were taught;
and the people were clothed in linen, woollen and silk garments.
Agriculture and house-building were also improved. When ar-
rayed in royal attire, he wore a crown adorned with pearls and
precious stones; and he kept his royal studs for travelling. The
length of human life in his days may be compared with the Hebrew
records, where we find that Adam lived to the age of 930 years,
Seth 912, Enos 905, etc. etc. In the Vendidad, Yima thus ad-
dresses Ahura-Mazda:-"During my rule there shall be no cold
wind, nor heat, no disease, no death." Again we find the same
potentate invoked as "the kingly majesty," which Bleek says,
"refers to a particular ray, or divine light, possessed by Yima, which
was afterwards taken away from him on account of his bad deeds,
and with it disappeared happiness and blessing." The character
of Yima is further described by the genius of the plant Haoma, in
answer to Zarathustra's question, as to who was the first to use that
plant in sacrifice, thus: "Vivanhao has first of men in the cor-
poral world prepared me. This holiness became thereby his por-
tion, this wish was granted to him: That a son was born to him, Yima,
the bright, possessing a good congregation; The most majestic of
beings, who most gazes at the sun among men; Since on account
of his rule men and cattle were immortal, water and trees not
⚫ Vendidad, Fargard ii, Introduction.
Ibid, Fargard i, v. 4.
Fargard ii, v. 16.
Yaçna i, v. 42.
Ibid, note.

LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS. 33
dried up, The eatable food inexhaustible. In the wide rule of
Yima there was no cold, no heat, No old age and death, no envy
created by the Daevas. Father and son walked along, fifteen years
old in countenance, each of the two, So long as Yima of the good
rule, the son of Vivanhao governed."* Bleek commenting on
this passage, remarks that the investigations of European scholars
"show that Yima was regarded as the bringer of the golden age
upon earth, and also as the founder of a place of delight (much
resembling the Grecian Elysium) known as the Vara of Yima,
which is more particularly described in Vendidad ii. According
to other accounts, Yima afterwards became a sinner on account
of pride and self-exultation, whereupon Ahura-Mazda abandoned
him, and he was slain."+ We observe a remarkable analogy be-
tween this golden age of the Persian legends, and the state of
Paradise as described in the Hebrew Scriptures. The same happy.
age is evidently described by the Greek poet Hesiod in these words:
"The race of men lived like gods in perfect happiness; exempt
from labour, from the decrepitude of elderhood, and from all evil,
the earth spontaneously supplied them with fruits in the greatest
abundance; dying at length without pain, they became happy and
beneficent spirits, appointed by the divine wisdom to the royal
function of superintending the future race of men, watching their
good and evil ways." The resemblance between what he calls.
the silver age, and the antediluvian world after the fall is no less
striking.
Such is said to have been the state of happiness under the rule
of Jemshid for three hundred years; but with the spread of luxury,
the human element began to usurp the supremacy in his heart,
till he became puffed up, rebelled against his Creator, and, after
a series of calamities, was captured and put to death by his enemy
Zohak, the prince of Turan. Others, however, assert that Zohak
maliciously spread these evil reports without foundation.
According to the Desâtir, Freemasonry would appear to have
originated during the reign of Jemshid.
The reign of Zohak was distinguished by the miseries he brought
upon the country. He reigned a thousand years with cruelty and
oppression, and was ultimately put to death by Feridun, the son
Yaçna ix, vv. 12-20.
† Ibid, vv. 12, 13, note.
Mitford's History of Greece, p. 92.

34 LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS.
of Atbin, the son of Humayun, the son of Jemshid. The murderers
of Feridun's father, his mother Fur Ja-nuck and all the rest of the
family, were among the black deeds of the tyrant Zohak. By the
Arabians Feridun is called Jolkurk-akhbur.
Descended from the ancient line of kings, the subject of an
ominous dream by Zohak, Feridun had been carried off by his
mother in infancy to the Albroz mountains, where he was brought
up by a recluse who lived on a mountain. On being made ac-
quainted with his origin at sixteen years of age, he left his hiding-
place, and formed his plans for vengeance, which were consum-
mated in the destruction of the tyrant.
The birthplace of Feridun, under the name of Thraêtaona, is
mentioned in the Avesta, thus:-"As the fourteenth best of re-
gions and countries, I Ahura-Muzda created Varena with the four
corners; to him was born Thraêtaona the slayer of the destructive
serpent. Thereupon Anramainyus, the death-dealing, created in
opposition to him irregularly recurring evils (sicknesses) and un-
Arian plagues of the country." The Varena of the text is sup-
posed by Haug to be Ghilan, a place on the south-west coast of
the Caspinn. The overthrow of Zohak is said to have taken place
on Demavend, a mountain to the south of the Caspian Sea. There
is an annual fête in commemoration of Feridun's victory over Zohak.
The legend of Feridun's victory is given in the Avesta, by the
genius Haoma in answer to Zarathustra's question, as to who was
the second man who had prepared the plant for sacrifice, thus:-
"Athwya has prepared me as the second man in the corporeal world;
this holiness became thereby his portion, this wish was granted to
him, That a son was born to him with valiant clan: Thraetaono,
who smote the serpent Dahaka, which had three jaws, three heads,
six eyes, a thousand strengths.": Bleek says on this passage, that
"Athwya, the name of the father, is the Indian Aptya. The epi-
thet, 'with bold clan,' applied to Thraetaonô, implies that he was
the progenitor of a warlike race of kings. In fact, he was the
ancestor of Manoscihr (Minochir) and the royal family of the Ka-
vyas. The story of the war of Thraetaono with the snake (aziz)
Dahaka is of extremely ancient origin, and is mentioned in the
Vedas, where Trita corresponds to the Thraetaonô of the Avesta."
*The chain of mountains extending from the Caspian to the Hindu-kush.
† Vendidad, Fargardi, v. 18.
Yaçna ix, vv. 23-25.
§ Ibid, note,

LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS. 35
Feridun had three sons, Sulim, Toor and Aruch. The two elder
were ambitious and restless in mind; but Aruch the younger was
of a mild and peaceful disposition. During his lifetime, Feridun
appointed Sulim king of Roum and Khawer, being the present
territories of Greece, Asia Minor and Egypt. To Toor he allotted
the turbulent provinces beyond the Oxus; while he set Aruch over
the empire of Persia proper. Sulim and Toor, however, were dis-
satisfied with their father's decision, against which they revolted,
and threatened the safety of Aruch. The latter was naturally
averse to contention, and willingly resigned the dignity in favour
of his seniors. The soldiers and people, however, had become at-
tached to Aruch, and wished him to retain the throne; and although
he declined to do so, that did not shield him from the jealousy and
suspicion of his brothers, and he was treacherously killed by Toor
at their first meeting. Aruch left a son named Minochir, who
revenged his father's death by killing his two uncles in battle.
On the death of Feridun after a reign of five hundred years, he
was succeeded by Minochir.
After a week's mourning for his grandfather Minochir (signi-
fying "heavenly face") ascended the throne, which he occupied
for twenty-six years, and died at the age of a hundred and twenty.
He
Nodar, the second son of Minochir, succeeded him on the throne,
but his rule was marked by injustice, tyranny and cruelty.
neither followed the laws of God nor the example of his father.
With much provocation his people were almost driven to revolt,
and it was not without encouragement from the subjects of Nodar,
that Pasung, the king of Turan or Turkistan undertook the inva-
sion of the empire. Afrasiab his son crossed the Jihon with an
army of four hundred thousand men, to which Nodar could only
oppose a hundred and forty thousand. After a sanguinary battle,
the latter fled with the remnant of his troops, but was ultimately
taken and put to death after a reign of seven years.
According to the Shah-nameh, the daughter of Aruch or Iredj was married
to a member of Feridun's family, of whom Minochir was the issue. Another
tradition quoted in the Majmil-al-Tawarikh says Feridun himself took the
daughter of Iredj to wife, of whom was born Minochir. The following is
the pedigree given in the Chronicle of Thabari: Minochir was the son of
Mefesjer, the son of Wetrek, the son of Sheruseng, the son of Irak, the grand-
son of Ferjung, the son of Ishek, the son of Furguzek, the son of Iredj, the
son of Feridun.

LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS. 37
sons, Kai Kous, Urus, Rum and Urmin.* Kai is an honourable
term meaning "founder," which was bestowed by Jal on Kobad,
and successively adopted by every monarch of the dynasty.
Kai Kous succeeded his father+ Kai Kobad on the throne.
Some of the first years of his reign were marked by an ill-judged
invasion of Mazanderan, contrary to the advice of his counsellors,
by which he involved himself in great difficulties. Getting extri-
cated from his impending peril, he returned to his capital at Ista-
khan or Persepolis. The remainder of his reign, if not altogether
peaceful, was at least prosperous, if we except a foolish enterprize,
by which he sought to ascend to heaven in a car drawn by eagles,
but was naturally precipitated to the earth, and expiated his presump-
tion by forty days penance. He had a son named Cyavakh, distin-
guished as well by his physical as his moral qualities. Through
the hatred of his step-mother a quarrel was engendered between
father and son, which resulted in the exile of the son to Turan.
There Cyavakh contracted a friendship with Afrasiab his father's
old enemy, and after a time married the king's daughter. Suc-
cessful in several battles, he increased in favour with his father-
in-law day by day, and was the recipient of many favours. The
important trust committed to his charge excited a spirit of jealousy
among the courtiers; and these by their slanders wrought up the
suspicions of A frasiab to that extent, that he caused him treacher-
ously to be killed. The widow of Cyavakh fled to Khotan, where
she was protected by the prince, and soon after gave birth to a son
who was named Kai Khosru.
Arrived at the age of manhood, and having distinguished him-
self in arms, Kai Khosru was proclaimed heir to the throne in
preference to Ferberz the son of Kai Kous. Kai Khosru subse-
quently took the command of the army, crossed the Jihon, and took
Afrasiab captive; but that monarch made his escape and lived for
several years in concealment, till he was eventually taken and put
to death by Kai Kous. The latter died at the age of a hundred
and fifty.
The Majmil-al-Tawarikh only gives him two sons Kai Kous and Kai
Peshin.
The same work quotes a tradition that Kai Kous was the son of Kai
Afreh and grandson of Kai Kobad, the Dejoces of Herodotus, and identifies
Kai Afreh with Phraortes, the son and successor of Dejoces, B.C. 657-635;
when the reign of Kai Kous would be equivalent to the combined reigns of
Cyaxares and Astvages, B.C. 635-560.
Cyavakh would seem to correspond to Cyaxares 2nd of Xenophon; and
we may possibly see in Afrasiab of the Persian, the Astyages of the Greeks.

38 LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS.
Kai Khosru, who succeeded his grandfather Kai Kous, reigned
for sixty years, during which time he gained many victories over
the neighbouring nations, and greatly enlarged the boundaries of
the Persian monarchy. He is said to have abdicated in favour of
his son-in-law, and spent the latter part of his life in retirement
and deeds of pious devotion. +
Lohorasp succeeded Kai Khosru on the throne, and reigned
with wisdom and justice over a prosperous and happy people. He
had four sons, Ardasir, Sidusp, Gustasp and Zerir; the two elder
of whom being of royal descent by the mother's side, shared more
of their father's favour. This led to an estrangement between the
king and Gustasp, who fled to Roum and lived in seclusion. It
happened at that time, that Kaytaoun one of the emperor's daught-
ers came of age, when according to ancient custom, a proclama-
tion was issued inviting all those of royal lineage to attend an im-
perial feast. Gustasp attended among the rest, and made such a
favourable impression on the lady, that he soon become son-in-law
to the emperor. From that time he rose in repute; commissions
of trust were placed in his hands; he became distinguished for his
deeds of arms, and eventually the fame of his doings reached his
father in Persia. The latter desiring a reconciliation, dispatched
his son Zerir to Gustasp to offer him the throne of Persia.
tasp accepted the offer and returned to his paternal home, where
he was received with great honour by his relatives and the nobles
of the state. The crown was placed on his head by Lohorasp,
who it is said retired to the solitude of a temple in Cabul.
Gus-
Gustasps ruled the empire through a period of war with much
success. He had by his wife Kaytaoun à son named Usfundiar,
who became greatly distinguished by his bravery and success in
war. So illustrious did he become by his achievements in battle,
that jealousy, as usual in such cases, began to manifest itself
among the courtiers. Accusations followed, and Usfundiar was im-
prisoned. About this time Gustasp was attacked by the Turanians
and defeated. Feeling then the need of his son's services, Us-
fundiar was released from prison, and a reconciliation ensued.
The son took the field against the enemy, and gained a signal
victory.
There is no doubt about the identity of Kai Khosru with Cyrus of the
Greek historians, B.C. 559-529.
According to Herodotus, Cyrus was slain in a battle with the Massaget.
The Majmil-al-Tawarikh makes Lohorasp the son of Kai Menisch, the
son of Peschin, the son of Kai Kobad. The Shah-nameh makes him son of
Peschin.
This is evidently Darius Hystaspes of the Greek historians, who reigned
B.C. 321-485.

40
LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS.
is brought near the throne of God.* By holiness of character,
the secret place of the Most High may be approached. The object
of the manifold prayers and ceremonies in the Zoroastrian ritual,
is to symbolize and strive after that purity, without which one
ought not to approach the sacred place of worship. Even before
the performance of any of the duties of ordinary ceremonial, im-
purity must be removed by ablutions and prayers.
When a child is seven or eight years old, the ceremony of in-
vestiture with the Sudra and Kusti takes place. He first recites
the following prayer from the Avesta three times :-"Broken,
broken be Satan Ahriman, whose deeds and works are accursed,
May his works and deeds not attain (to us). May the three and
thirty Amshaspands, and Ormazd be victorious and pure. Pu-
rity is the best good. Happiness, happiness is to him: namely,
to the best pure in purity." The child is then bathed in pure
well water, by which he is prepared to approach the Sacred Fire
Temple without pollution. After these rites the Sudra is put on.
This is made of muslin and somewhat resembles an English shirt,
with a bag attached to it, about seven inches below the throat.
This appendage symbolizes the gathering together of one's thoughts
words and actions during the day; which are taken out during
sleep and presented before the Supreme. The Kusti which is made
of wool is three several times tied round the waist; the novice re-
citing a prayer each time it is put on. At each end of the Kusti
are three tassels, each tassel containing twenty-four threads.
When these rites are concluded, the boy is then a member of the
Zoroastrian body.
The followers of Zoroaster marry among those of the same reli-
gion, and frequently prefer members of the same family. It was
customary in ancient times for a man, besides his wife to have
concubines. But now that practice is abandoned, and a man only
marries one wife. The ancient practice seems to have resembled
that of the Greeks, of which Mitford says:-"Marriage was held
highly sacred; virginity in mysterious respect; infidelity in a wife
deeply disgraceful; but concubinage for a husband as lawful as it
* Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God. Matthew, c. v, v. 8.
Khordah-Avesta, iii, Prayer on taking the cow-urine. The former portion
of this prayer is not in the Zend Text, but being in the Parsee, is supposed to
be the interpolation of a later period.

LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS. 41
was common; bastardy, little or no stain upon children; and po-
lygamy apparently, and divorces equally unknown."*
When a Zoroastrian dies, his body is washed, wrapped in clean
white linen, and put on an iron bier; the priest then recites prayers
for the deliverance of his soul; the body is shewn to a dog, and
afterwards carried to the Tower of Silence, followed by many
friends and relatives, with a priest reciting prayers. The dog also
follows in the procession; as, like Pope's Indian, the follower of
Zoroaster
"Thinks admitted to that equal sky,
His faithful dog shall bear him company."+
The efficacy of the dog in removing pollution is thus referred to
in the Avesta: "For thus, O holy Zarathustra, by leading about
a yellow dog with four eyes, or a white one with yellow ears, the
Drukhs Naçus runs to the Northern regions. A priest shall first
walk along this road, speaking the victorious words: Yatha ahû
vairyô." The translation of this invocation runs thus:-
"1.
As is the will of the Lord, so (is He) the Ruler out of purity.
2. From Vohu-manô (will one receive) gifts for the works
(which one does) in the world for Mazda.
3. And the kingdom (we give) to Ahura when we afford succour
to the poor."§
In a note to the previous quotation, Bleek says, "In this custom
of employing a dog as a purifying agent in funeral obsequies, there
is no doubt concealed some old Arian mythical idea. In the Vedas,
two dogs, Sarameyan (i.e., sons of Sarama, Indra's bitch), go as
the messengers of Yama to the dying, whom they accompany."||
When they arrive at the Tower of Silence, the bearers put the
body on a slab within the tower, to be devoured by the vultures;
meanwhile all the priests and friends pray to the Almighty, to
give him a clear way to the bridge Chinvate. Every soul must
come to this bridge. The good pass over it easily, but the wicked
fall off into hell. The tower is surrounded by a wall about thirty
or forty feet in height and two to three hundred feet in length.
*History of Greece, p. 51.
† Essay on Man, Epistle i, lines 111, 112.
Vendidad, Fargard viii, vv. 48, 49.
§ Khurdah-Avesta, ii.
|| Vendidad, Fargard viii, note 7.
6

LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS. 43
Dawn is the time to purify the soul;
Why waste it thus in idle sleep?
Ask thy heart's wish and t'will be granted.
Thy difficulties will be relieved by prayer.
By prayer to Alahi,* all evil will be shaken from thee;
And the darkness of thy soul be purified and cleansed.
Shake off infatuation and lethargy.
Rise! open thy soul's eye and behold the Creator's goodness.
Slay the evil genii by the fervency of thy prayers for heaven's
protection and blessings;
And thou, O Man! walk in the ways of God; as thou prayest,
follow his commandments in deed as well as in word.
MONAJAT BY MINOCHIR DUSTOOR ADULJEE DUSTOOR
JAMASPJEE ASAWALLA.
O Khodatala! grant me prosperity and success in all my under-
takings, and enable me to earn my daily bread.
Make me steadfast in the paths of purity, and keep me away from
all ungodliness.
O Thou Great Architect of architects, Benefactor of the universe,
Protector of the world, Dispenser of justice to the just, and
Giver of my daily food, Dadar Hormuzd!
Thou art the most far-seeing, without form, and canst fortell our
secret thoughts and actions, and all that is done in this world;
Thou art the bestower of fortune, forgiver of sin, and the
Supreme Ruler and keeper both of heaven and earth.
Thou, in the plenitude of Thy tender mercy, canst pardon all our
sins; and Thou observest everything done in this world from
first to last.
Thou art imperishable, formless, and invisible. Thou art the giver
of knowledge and Supreme Ruler of nature in its varied
beauties, and possessor of wisdom.
The Creator.

44
LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS.
Thou are enthroned in paradise, and Thou shed'st Thy glory and
light on sun and moon.
Thou canst bestow kingdoms on beggars, and reduce kings to
beggary.
Thou art glory and light itself, and by Thee out of darkness
cometh light.
Thou grantest riches to the poor, and Thou givest life to the most
insignificant objects of Thy creation.
By Thy almighty skill Thou madest the sky of ever-changing
hues, and gavest lustre to the glorious stars.
Thou hast created the ever-enduring earth on water, and out of
Thy four elements created man endowed with wisdom.
Thou hast filled that earth with verdant plants and trees, and
created singing birds to warble in their branches.
Moreover, Thou hast created the various kinds of animals, and
Thou hast plentifully supplied them with food by those grow-
ing trees.
Thou art the one Lord who created the numberless pleasant and
profitable objects in this world, and made this earth like a
garden of paradise, and by Thy will this world enjoys all
earthly blessings.
O Khodatala! hear my prayer, grant me my desire, and keep me
not under man's obligation.
I am helpless and powerless; grant me help and power.
I entreat Thee to bestow on me prosperity.
O Purvurdagar! open my budding hopes, that they may blossom
everlastingly.
Prosper me both in this world and in the next; and guard me from
difficulties and danger.
I am in a sea of troubles, difficulties, despair and darkness.
O Thou Dadna-lanar-Yujdatala!* grant my desires and gratify my
hopes.
Look with mercy on my wounded heart; for I suffer so, that one
day appeareth to me like one month.
O Purvurdagar! relieve me from all my difficulties; and open the
doors of prosperity and joy.
Increase Thou my worldly glory; and cause me to be respected
among my fellow men.
* "Merciful Father the Creator."

LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS. 47
By the Dai-pa-Adar* Izad, give me profit in all my undertakings
everywhere.
By the Adar+ Izad, grant me glory and health; destroy all evil
genii, and take away calamities from my house.
Do Thou by the mother Abân Ardvi-çûra, I purify my body and
grant me purity of heart.
Do Thou by the Qarshêts Izad, grant me splendour and better
knowledge than all human beings.
By the Mah-abuktar|| Izad, open the door of my daily earnings,
and cause me to be successful in all my undertakings.
O Khodatala! by the Star Tistar ¶ Izad, fix all profitable, pure and
fortunate stars for me.
Brighten my fortune with light, and take away all evil and ma-
lignant stars.
By Gosh** Izad, keep me under thy guidance; and open the doors.
of wisdom, skill and the secrets of my pure religion.
By the Dai-pa-mihr ++ Izad, grant me gladness, a generous nature,
and soften my heart with mercy.
By the Mihr Izad Saheb, increase Thy mercy, and when Mehr
Izad examines my account of the world at the bridge of Chin-
vate on my resurrection, do Thou pass me with credit.
O Khodatala! by the honor of Crosh § Izad, accept these entreaties;
and when my soul is taken away from my body, let Çrosh
Izad help me.
Do Thou send Rashnu Izad to my assistance near the judge; to
defend my honor at the time that I pass the Chinvate Bridge.
Do Thou by the help of Farvardin TT Izad, open the doors of heaven,
and receive me in that everlasting place of bliss.
"The Lord of shining, of majesty, of the good wise kings."
"The Fire, son of Ahura-Mazda, the Lord of fire, of majesty, of bright-
ness, of the kingly majesty, and of the navel of kings."
"The Lord of good translucent and pure water."
$"The Sun, the immortal shining with swift horses."
"The Moon, which contains the seed of cattle, and the Fravashi, or the
soul of the begotten bull and of many kinds of bulls."
"The Star of the East, brilliant, majestic;" it is the first star in heaven.
*"The body of the Bull, the soul of the Bull and protector of cattle."
tt "The Creator, Ahura-Mazda, the shining, the majestic, the Aměsha-
spentas."
"The Mithra Lord of wide pastures; having a thousand ears and ten
thousand eyes."
$ "The holy, beautiful and virtuous; furthering the world; the lord of
purity."
"The most just, increaser and furtherer of the world, whose language is
truth."
"The Lord of the good and strong, holy Fravashi or soul."

48
LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS.
O Farvardin Izad! be Thou my protector within this world and in
the next; protect those also of my faith.
Give Thou me by the help of Behrâm* Izad, success and bright-
ness, and relieve me from danger.
Bestow Thou by the Râm + Izad, happiness, victory and the fruit
of joy.
Drive Thou away from me by the help of Vât Izad, sinful
thoughts; and destroy them by the root.
Bestow on me by the help of Dai-pa-dîn§ Izad, justice and good-
ness, and take from me wickedness and crime.
Grant Thou me by the help of Dîn || Izad, devotion and my reli-
gious rites, endless, high and valuable learning.
Give Thou by the help of Asheshing Izad, riches and power like
Kyanian kings.
Increase Thou by the Açtât** Izad, my knowledge of the religious
rites of the Fire Temple.
Fulfil Thou by the Açmân tt Izad, my heart's desire, and receive
me at the foot of Thy glorious throne.
Give Thou me by the Zemyât! Izad, but one heart for and
earnestness.
prayer
Teach Thou me by the Mançerpant§§ Izad, the wisdom and learn-
ing of the Zend-Avesta; so that I may obey the command-
ment of the Sacred Law.
* "The Lord of strength, the well-created, the beautiful, the smiter of the
wicked."
† "The Lord of pure air which works on high, the endless time, the time
ruler of long periods."
"The Lord of the holy, life-giving wind."
§ "The Creator, Ahura-Mazda, the shining, majestic, the Aměsha-çpentas,
the good and wise king."
law."
"The Lord of wisdom, created by Mazda pure; the good and Mazdayaçnian
"The Lord of the shining, great, powerful, beautiful, enduring, majestic,
of the Arian majesty,-the mighty kingly majesty,-the imperishable ma-
jesty, the brightness of Zarathustra."
** "The Lord of capability of self-defence, which furthers the world of
pure brightness, worthy of honour."
tt "The Lord of heaven, the shining, the best place of the pure, very
brilliant."
"The Lord of the earth, of places, localities, all mountains with pure
brightness, the Lord of purity, the mighty kingly majesty, the mighty im-
perishable majesty."
§§ "The Lord of the Mánthra-çpenta with much brightness, the law given
against the Daevas, the Zarathustrian law."

LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS.
49
Shed Thou on me by the Anérân* Izad, the rays of Thy coun-
tenance, and increase my credit by piety.
Bestow Thou on me by the Burjo + Izad, ease and comfort; and
let my life be spent in holiness and prayer to Thee.
Grant Thou by the Hom Izad, fortune and beautiful children.
And grant Thou to them knowledge, wisdom, riches, victory,
gladness, and length of days.
Grant Thou me by the Dahum: Izad, knowledge to extol Thy
wondrous works; and bestow on me pure and holy under-
standing.
O Purvurdagar! accept these my entreaties, and crown them with
success.
Look Thou with tenderness on my poor self, my household and
all my kindred.
Have mercy on my mother, father, grandfather and all my old
relations.
Grant Thou me gladness and comfort in this world, and victory
in eternity.
O Khodatala! we give a thousand thousand thanks, for our deliver-
ance from hell, by this our holy religion.
And also for sending the holy and wise prophet Zoroaster into this
world with Thy Sacred Law, teaching us how to obtain
heaven.
May the holy Zoroaster's blessed soul have my thousand thousand
blessings, good wishes and thanks after reciting the prayer
Ashem Vohu: "Purity is the best good. Happiness, happi-
ness is to him: namely, to the best pure in purity."
O Omnipotent Creator of this world! Dadar Hormuzd, may Thy
blessings be with him who ever recites this prayer.
The sun being the most resplendent of all the objects of crea-
tion, after an invocation to the Creator, we next seek his aid.
Directions are given in various parts of the Desâtir for worship-
ping the great works of God. Thus,-"After invoking the name
"Lords of the light without a beginning, which follow their own law; the
shining Garo-nemâna (the abode of Ahura-Mazda); the everlasting profiting
house; the great Lord; the kingly brilliant; the navel of the waters with
swift horses; the Haŏmo; the Lord who furthers the world, who is free from
death; the mighty Yazatas; the good, strong, holy Fravashis of the pure."
"The Lord who presides over the increase of corn."
"Lord of wisdom, and who attends to the prosperity of families."
7

50
LEGENDS OF THE ANCIENT MAZDAYAÇNIAN PROPHETS.
of God, praise is to be offered to the seven stars. Erect statues
of these seven stars, and thus shew forth the glory of the Almighty
as the Great Architect."* The name of God is thus exalted
the consideration of his handiwork. Again the Almighty ad-
dressing Tamuraçps the prophet, says: "The Sun will assist you;
I command Khorshed to help you; therefore praise him as follows:
-"By the help of Yasda (God), Thou gladness, Thou pleasant one,
Thou brightness, Thou living wisdom and immortal brightness;
most prominent, universally known, asterism replete with rays,
luminary of majestic dimensions, enveloped in light. May the
blessings of God attend you with his mercy and favour, O Thou!
possessing great wisdom and brightness; the most to be lauded
of all luminaries, prosperous, productive, who shinest by the favour
of God, who first camest into being, before all creation, and who
art without beginning. Loved and cherished by the Creator, etc.
etc." Again: "Thou, O Moon! art the mirror of thy Creator
and his wondrous art."
The birthplace of Zoroaster has hitherto been a question with
archæologists; Ray, Media and Bactria having each had that
honour ascribed to them. On this point there is a passage in the
Avesta which must have referred to the native country of
the sage, thus: "Where Rulers, excellent, order round about
the lands, where mountains, great with much fodder, abounding
in water, afford wells for the cattle, where are canals deep full of
water, where flowing waters, broad with water, hurry to Iskata
and Pouruta, to Mouru and Haraeva, to Gau, Çughda, and Qairi-
zão." On this Bleek remarks:-"This verse is important in a
geographical point of view, and proves that the writer must have
lived in the north-east of Erân, otherwise he could scarcely have
represented all the rivers as flowing north and south. Pouruta
is probably the country of the Iapunrai, a people whom Ptolomy
places in the north of Arachosia. Qairizâo (in the Cun. inscriptions
Uvárazmi) is the modern Choaresm."
Zoroaster's father's name was Pourushâçpa, and his mother
Dogdo, was a descendant of Feridun. The parentage of the pro-
phet is once or twice referred to in the Avesta; thus the genius
* Page 56, vv. 162, 163.
† Page 163, v. 5.
Page 170, v. 38.
§ Khordah-Avesta, xxvi, Mihr-Yasht, v. 14.