184
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
point of leaving the Chinese Capital,-his suite had actually left
Peking, when the British Minister intervened and succeeded in
re-opening negotiations, which ended in a compromise. A Treaty
embodying the terms of the settlement was signed, on the 31st
of October, by the Japanese Ambassador and the Chiefs of the
Tsung-li yamen. It virtually admitted that Japan was justified
in sending the expedition to Formosa, and provided for the pay-
ment of Tls. 400,000 as indemnity for roads made and houses
erected by the Japanese during their occupation of the island, and
Tls. 100,000 as compensation to the families of the murdered Loo-
chooans. These sums were to be paid on the 20th of December,
the date appointed for the withdrawal of the troops by the Japanese.
The Chinese Government also bound itself for the future to control
the aborigines and to protect the Japanese from further wrong
at their hands. The indemnity was to be paid out of the revenues
of the Foochow and Tientsin Customs.
The year will happily be celebrated as that in which the dis-
graceful coolie trade of Macao was brought to an end. Early in
January the Viscount de San Januario issued an order that in
March all the so-called Chinese emigration should cease; and the
order was rigidly enforced on the day appointed. Consequent on
this a Treaty of Friendship and Commerce between China and
Peru was arranged, and signed at Tientsin on the 26th of June
by H. E. Li Hung-chang for the Government of China, and by
H. E. Captain Garcia y Garcia, Plenipotentiary for Peru. The
Convention attached to the Treaty, contained provision for the
appointment of a commission by the Peking Government to inves-
tigate the condition of Chinese labourers in Peru; it also stipulated
that those immigrants whose, contracts provide for their return
should be sent back at the expense of their employers, and that
all with whom no such agreement was made should be sent back
at the expense of the Peruvian Government, if the immigrants
desired to return; and further, the subjects of the Chinese Govern-
ment now in Peru, are to have the same rights, immunities and
privileges as those accorded to other foreigners resident there;
for the future also, in order to prevent abuses, the Chinese Govern-
ment has the power to appoint Consuls or other officers as well as
a resident Minister at Lima. The stipulations of the Treaty proper
are such as are common to other instruments of a similar kind.
The Commission referred to above has returned, having com-
pleted the enquiry desired by the Chinese Government. It is

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
185
generally known that they bring the gravest charges against the
Peruvian Government for the condition of the coolies on their soil.
In other respects the relations of China with foreign nations
during the year have been uneventful. The hopes of progress,
formed by the Representatives of the several Courts at Peking,
as the results of direct audience with the Emperor have proved to
have been most delusive. Mandarins of all grades were granted
audience almost daily throughout the year, whereas the Ambas-
sadors from foreign Courts have had to content themselves with
their first and only audience, granted in 1873. Not even at the
New Year were any congratulatory visits made by the foreign
Ministers. Those who have newly arrived, have been granted
their first audience, but the privilege or right has gone no further.
If any business of importance arose with which native high officials
had to deal, they were admitted to private audience, and each
foreign Minister should have insisted on his right to be similarly
received when matters of great interest were at stake. The only
opinion held by all outside the diplomatic circle is that the audience
ceremony was nothing but a farce.
In the month of December the Emperor was reported to be
dangerously ill, suffering from small-pox. Great fears were enter-
tained, towards the close of the year, lest the disease should prove
fatal, and these fears were only too well founded, for His Imperial
Majesty died on the 12th of January, 1875. He was born on the
27th of April, 1856, and was therefore eighteen years and nine
months old at the time of his decease. As this event with the
changes in the Government, etc. which it entailed belongs to the
record of 1875, we do no more now than simply chronicle the fact.
The internal affairs of China proper being in a state of compa-
rative peace, the attention of the Government has been in a measure
devoted to the recovery of the Imperial sway over the outlying
provinces which have been in revolt, and also Eastern Turkestan
which has become an independent kingdom under the Atalik Ghazee.
Early in the year a force of twenty thousand men was sent against
that powerful champion of the faith of Islam. In addition to these
troops, we learn that after suppressing the Mahommedan revolt in
Shensi and Kansu, the vanguard of the army was marched across
the desert of Gobi to Hami, intending to push on to occupy
Urumtsi, and thus be able to operate against the Ameer's forces;
but the cost of transporting provisions and supplies for the army
is so great, and the foe against which they march is so powerful,
that it is very doubtful whether the expedition will succeed.
24

186 RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
The rebellions in Kweichow and Yunnan have been subdued,
but both provinces are still uneasy, and large garrisons will be
needed to maintain peace.
The annals of the year have recorded more than the usual number
of riots, outbreaks of diaffected people, and outrages upon foreign-
ers in various parts of the country.
"A serious riot occurred in the French concession at Shanghai
on Sunday, May 3rd, through a dispute between the Ningpo Guild
and the French Municipal Council. The latter wished to lay out
and metal a road which had been traced on an old plan of the
Settlement, and which they contended had therefore been virtually
reserved as Municipal property. The Chinese urged that the road
would run through an old grave yard and offered to give some
adjacent land in lieu of it. The Council refused; much excitement
arose; large crowds collected on the day mentioned, and a colli-
sion with the police precipitated the riot. The mob burnt and
gutted a number of houses and maltreated several French residents,
and were proceeding wildly with the work of destruction, when
the Volunteers were called out, and sailors were landed from the
various men-of-war. At their approach the rioters scattered."
Fire-arms and swords were used freely by some of the rowdies and
"lower orders" of French residents; eight Chinese were killed on
the spot, three more died from wounds they received, while several
others were badly injured. Severe injuries were also inflicted by
the mob on several foreigners, but happily among them there was
no loss of life. "A proclamation issued the following day by the
French Consul-General, terminated the difficulty by yielding the
point at issue. M. Godeaux's action was severely criticised, and
time has not altered popular opinion. The great majority of for-
eign residents favoured the Chinese view of the question at issue
between the guild and the Council, but every one condemned M.
Godeaux's concession under mob pressure as politically bad, and
a dangerous precedent." The matter has been referred to the
French Minister at Peking, and the Council await his decision.
In May also, the details of an outrage against an American
missionary, the Rev. H. Corbett,-were brought to light by the
trial of the culprits at Chefoo, before the United States' Consul
and the Taotai. The offence was committed at Chimi, a district
city of Shantung, where Mr. Corbett was stoned, his house
plundered, and several of the native christians severely maltreated.

188
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
rioters should be punished and the property replaced, but the
officials were only desirous of evading the whole matter. After
four days of fruitless negotiations Messrs. Meadows and Douth-
waite, the missionaries in question, left for Shanghai and laid their
complaint before the British Consul, who succeeded in effecting a
satisfactory settlement.
Very shortly after this there was a disturbance at Soochow,
which grew into rather serious proportions, but was happily brought
to an end by the vigorous action of one of the Mandarins.
At Foochow, riots have occurred in connection with the erection
of a line of telegraph wires between that city and Amoy. When
war was imminent between China and Japan, the officials were
most desirous of being brought into immediate communication
with Amoy, the nearest port to Formosa; they therefore sanctioned
the erection of a telegrapli line by the Great Northern Telegraph
Company; but as soon as all danger of hostilities had passed, the
Chinese authorities were desirous of doing away with the proposed
line, and apparently provoked the opposition of the people to the
scheme. "Mobs, in the presence of the yamen runners, attacked
the workmen and destroyed the property of the Telegraph Company.
The neighbouring villagers subsequently disclaimed, to the foreign
superintendent, all personal hostility to the project. It remains
to be seen what action the Danish Government will take."
About the end of the year, there was a very serious uprising of
the people in the prefecture of T'ai-chow, in the province of Cheh-
kiang. For some time past there have been troubles of a grave
character, occasionally rising to the magnitude of insurrection on
the part of the people, but these assumed most serious dimensions
towards the close of the year. The taxes on land, which had been
most oppressive before, were increased by the new Magistrate.
The people and gentry remonstrated, but their remonstrance failed
to effect a withdrawal of the exaction. They then memorialized
the Prefect, but without avail; whereupon they rose en masse,
armed themselves for vengeance, and forced their way into the
yamen with a view to kill the Magistrate, but he escaped in disguise.
Shortly afterwards a detachment of soldiers was sent to subdue
the insurgents, but as these had become organized, and had in-
creased in numbers to about ten thousand, the soldiers were afraid.
On learning the vast dimensions of the insurrection the authorities
were appalled, and signified their desire to accede to the wishes
of the people. Such was the state of things in that district at the

190
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
placed on the market in the form of £100 bonds, issued at £95,
at an exchange of 5s. 7d. per tael, bearing interest at 8 per cent.
per annum. Immediately after it was issued it rose to a slight
premium.
At Hongkong, there has been considerable agitation on the part
of the merchants, because of a practical blockade of the port by
the cruisers of the Hoppo of Canton. For some time past, Chinese
gunboats have been cruising about the entrances to the harbour,
and overhauling all native craft entering or leaving. At first this
was done clandestinely, and repudiated by the authorities when
complaint was made, but during the last two or three years it has
grown into an organized system of blockade, a steam gunboat,
officered by Europeans, being added to the fleet of native gunboats,
so that without submitting to be overhauled and paying duties,
Chinese traders could not enter or leave the harbour of Hongkong.
A special meeting of the Chamber of Commerce was held on the
3rd of August, when it was decided to memorialize H. B. M.'s Gov-
ernment, praying that active measures may be taken to abolish
the iniquity.
The year will be marked as the one in which the first railway
in China was actively commenced. Sufficient land was bought by
foreigners, on which to construct a line from Shanghai to Woosung,
and the roadway has been prepared for the laying of the rails.
It was hoped to have completed the project by the end of the year,
but by some means delay has arisen. It is expected, however,
that before the close of 1875, the first railway in this country will
be in active operation.
Nothing has yet been done for the dredging of the Woosung
Bar, and it has transpired that the Inspector-General of Customs
has opposed the measure. In a memorandum to the Chinese
Government on the subject, which has found its way into the hands
of foreigners, he predicts the silting up of the river Hwang-poo,
despite any measures which may be taken to prevent it; conse-
quently the trade of Shanghai is doomed to extinction; Chin-
kiang is to be the port of distribution of imports; and therefore it
would only be a waste of money to dredge the bar, a hopeless
conflict with the silting process going on in the southern outlet of
the Yangtsze. Mr. Hart having confounded the names and posi-
tions of some of the channels and outlets of the Yangtsze, has
fallen into the grievous blunder of supposing that a certain navig-
able channel is in one position which is really in another; and he

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
193
Appalling as was the loss of life and property at Hongkong,
these were even greater at Macao. "At midnight the inner har-
bour began to be a scene of destruction, the junks losing their
moorings, striking each other, and being smashed to pieces. A
Chinese gunboat capsized on the occasion with three Englishmen
on board. In the town the roofs of the houses began to move and
tiles flew about like hail. Suddenly the wind veered to the East.
Then the sea which had been rising gradually, increased to an
enormous wave, overleaping its usual limits, and struck in a body
with tremendous force the whole course of the Praia Grande.
The water rushed into the houses, the quays were destroyed, the
large granite stones hurled about, the guns of the batteries dis-
mounted and borne like feathers on the infuriated waves, and junks
were smashed against the buildings. In less than an hour the
work of destruction was accomplished, every house was invaded
by the water and battered down; the spray flew over Government
house, and houses to the southern extremity of the Praia, which
were reduced to a shapeless heap of stone and brick. The deso-
lation of the town now reached its acmé. The crash of falling
houses, the screaming of the victims, people running to and fro in
the street pursued by the rushing water, the terrible roar of the
wind and of the sea, all this was something awful to hear or see.
Suddenly an ominous glare appeared in the heavens. Fires had
broken out in different parts of the town and the flames rushed
in horizontal streams over the largest squares, devouring the build-
ings that stood even at great distances in their direction. On this
occasion the loss of life was fearful. People had only to choose
their death by water, fire, or the shock of falling buildings, but
death was everywhere. Many persons who were hidden in the
furthest recesses of their houses found themselves suddenly in-
volved by the flames and perished miserably. At last daylight
dawned on this tremendous scene. Macao was not to be recognised;
the waves sprung like infuriated lions on the smashed buildings
and it seemed uncertain if the very ground had not gone down.
The man-of-war Principe Dom Carlos was carried twelve (?) miles
inland and stranded in a rice-field. The crew escaped by a miracle.
The gunboat Camoens was also carried inland to a great distance
and is believed to be a hopeless wreck. The new fort was washed
over by the sea and the new guns of 120 lbs. were carried to a
great distance. To give an idea of the extent of the loss in native
shipping; in the Typa harbour in the beginning of the typhoon
26

194
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
there were six hundred junks, after it only fourteen were found.
Corpses strewed the banks everywhere; wrecks were to be found
in the most extraordinary locations. The native villages near
Macao have been swept away. Typa and Colowan are no more.
The official Reports of the Government of Macao put the loss of
life in Heang-shan district alone at twenty thousand."
In addition to the great loss of shipping during this and other
typhoons on the coasts of China and Japan, the year has been
marked by the loss, in various ways, of many large steamers and
vessels connected with the China trade. The following are the
names of the principal steamers with the dates and locality of their
loss. The P. M. S. S. Relief struck on a rock in the Obree channel,
Inland Sea, Japan, January 19th; the Wan-loong overturned in
Hongkong harbour, February, 13th, when more than a hundred
Chinese were drowned; the Manchu, laden with coals, from Naga-
saki to Shanghai, foundered in a gale on the 17th March; fifty-
four of the crew and passengers were drowned. On the 20th of
the same month the magnificent steamer Nil, of the Messageries
Maritimes S.S. Company's line of mail steamers, struck on a rock
off Cape Idsu, Japan, and was lost, causing the death of one
hundred and forty-two of the passengers and crew. In March also,
the Sunfoo, of the New Australian Mail Line, struck on Gap Rock,
thirty-five miles from Hongkong, and sank. In June the Laptek
struck on a rock near Keelung, in Formosa, and became a total
wreck. The Canton, 1215 tons burden, laden with tea, from Foo-
chow to London, struck on the Min Reef, outside Foochow, July
7th, and could not be got off again. The Singapore, 1446 tons,
belonging to the same Company as the Canton, went ashore on
the coast of Cape Guardafui, on the 19th of July, when on a
voyage from Shanghai to London with a cargo of tea; sixteen lives
were lost with the ship. The Chusan, a new steamer for the
Shanghai Steam Navigation Co. was wrecked at Ardrossan during
a gale, on the 20th October; the Captain and seventeen of the
crew were drowned. The P. M. S. S. Japan, 4351 tons, with
mails, general cargo and $400,000 treasure, was burned off Breaker
Point on the 17th December; the loss of life is estimated to have
been four hundred. Two or three days later the Mongol of London,
1463 tons, struck on a rock near the Nine-pins, at the entrance
to Hongkong harbour, and sank; seventeen of the crew were
drowned.

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
195
Among the sailing ships lost during the year we find the names
of the following:-The British schooner City of Niagara, which
foundered near Nagasaki, March 20th; the German barque Chance
from Newcastle, N.s.w., to Hongkong with coals, which struck on
the Vele Rete rock, off Formosa; the British barque Caroline
Hutchings, wrecked just outside of Takao, Formosa, August 1st;
the British barque Argonaut, from Swansea to Yokohama with
patent-fuel, abandoned on 1st October, 50 miles E. of the South
end of Formosa; the Spanish ship Reima de los Angelis foundered
between Singapore and Hongkong; the St. François, sunk in
Shanghai harbour by the S. S. Cawdor Castle; the Lucerne, which
struck on the Ariadne rock, at the mouth of the Yangtze, was
stranded on the 27th October, and had to be abandoned; the British
barque Jane, capsized in a gale, November 13th, between the
Pratas and the S.W. end of Formosa; the barque George Wash-
ington was burned in Shanghai harbour, November 20th; the
Siamese barque Contest sank off the Shantung Promontory, No-
vember 23rd; and the Horatio was burned in Shanghai harbour
on the 16th December.
The only undertaking of geographical interest during the year
was the Burmo-Chinese exploring expedition, under the command
of Col. Horace Brown, which left Rangoon December 12th for the
purpose of exploring the Western Bhamo route to China. The
expedition was accompanied by Mr. C. F. R. Allen and Mr. Ney
Elias, the latter holds the gold medal of the Geographical Society
for his explorations in China. In pursuance of the same object
Mr. A. R. Margary, of the British Consular Service in China, left
Shanghai at an earlier date, to join the expedition on the Burman
frontier, travelling on the Yangtsze and across country to Momein,
where he hoped to meet Col. Brown, and conduct the expedition
to Shanghai. The Chinese Government has hitherto uniformly
obstructed the admission of Europeans into the empire from the
western frontier; and in this policy the king of Burmah has shared.
Sladen's expedition in 1869 was completely frustrated by the com-
bined efforts of these exclusive Governments. It remains to have
to record the success or failure of this new endeavour to open up
a trade route between India, Burmah and Western China.
The Transit of Venus across the Sun's disc on the 8th-9th of
December was an event long looked forward to by Astronomers.
Its great importance to the interests of science led the Russian
Government and the several Governments of the West, to co-

196
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN,
operate in sending expeditions to all the most desirable places for
observing the phenomenon. Japan, the North of China, and Si-
beria were among the favourable places for locating stations in the
northern hemisphere; and expeditions were sent to these countries
by the United States, Mexico, France, Germany and Russia.
Three parties were stationed in Japan, viz:-one at Yokohama,-a
Mexican; two at Nagasaki,-an American, under Professor David-
son, Superintendent of the Pacific section of the United States'
Coast Survey, and a French, under Professor Janssen, of the
Paris Observatory. The French expedition in Japan had also a
branch at Hiogo. In China, at Chefoo was a German party, under
Dr. Adolf, and Dr. Valentiner of the Leyden Observatory, whose
services were offered by the Dutch to the German Government;
at Peking two parties were located,-a French under Mons. G.
Fleuriais, Hydrographer to the French Navy, and an American,
under Professor James C. Watson, of the University of Michigan,
U.S. To the latter party was attached Professor Charles A. Young,
of Dartmouth College, U.S., the distinguished spectroscopist,
well known for his discoveries in relation to the physical constitu-
tion of the sun. At Vladivostock there was an American party,
under Professor Asaph Hall, of the Naval Observatory, Washington,
-as well as a Russian party. The Russian Government had a
series of stations stretching from Vladivostock right across Siberia.
It would have been very remarkable had the atmospheric con-
ditions at all these stations been wholly favourable, yet the success
has been fully as great as expected. At Yokohama the transit
was observed under the best possible conditions, so that the Mexi-
can expedition met with complete success. At Hiogo also the day
was bright and the sky clear, so that the observations were suc-
cessfully made at that station. At Nagasaki, the sky was overcast
with clouds, but these happily broke, affording a slight interval
of sunshine just at the time of the first and second contacts, which
were observed with all the precision expected. Professor Davidson
also was enabled to obtain excellent micrometric measurements of
cusp and distances of limbs, etc. Nothwithstanding the general
cloudiness of the day the intervals of brightness enabled the ob-
servers to take a number of very good photographs, and considering
the unpropitious weather both expeditions were fairly successful.
At Chefoo, the Astronomers were favoured with a beautiful day
for their observations, so that they met with complete success.
In connection with their observation of the transit, the party also

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
197
measured the difference of longitude between their station at
Chefoo and the station of the American party at Nagasaki, by
means of chronometric expeditions between the two places carried
on by a German man-of-war commissioned for the purpose. At
Peking, the observations were successfully made at the French and
American observatories, although the sun was at intervals obscured.
The four important periods of contact were accurately observed,
and a great many photographs were taken, but the spectroscopic
observations of Professor Young, from which much was hoped,
were so far interfered with by the clouds as to be useless. While
at Peking, Professor Watson discovered a new asteroid, making a
total of twenty discovered by himself. At Vladivostock, the day
was cloudy, but at the time of the first and second contacts the
field was clear and the results perfectly satisfactory. At the time
of the third contact a cloud intervened and the observation was
lost. Very complete arrangements had been made at Shanghai by
Dr. L. S. Little and E. C. Taintor, Esq. for observing the transit
and securing photographs of it, but unhappily the sky was obscured
by clouds which prevented the planet from being seen, except for
a very few seconds two or three times near noon.
In the autumn of the year an Observatory was added to the
Roman Catholic Institutions at Si-ka-wei, which promises to render
important contributions to Meteorological; and very soon to Astro-
nomical science.
Turning to Japan, we have to record, as the chief incident in
Japanese relations with other countries, the Formosan trouble,
which almost resulted in war with China. A sketch of this has
already been given so we need not here recapitulate the circum-
stances. There is very little doubt that the internal affairs of Japan
made it expedient for her to send an armed force to Formosa.
The country in the early part of the year was in a condition of the
greatest excitement. "When the great Daimios surrendered their
feudal power into the hands of the Mikado and retired to the posi-
tion of private nobles, the Government charged itself with annuities
'to them, and pensions to the Samourai, who had hitherto been
depending on their lords. The estimated amount of these pensions
for 1873 was $12,613,816, and the Government lately conceived
a scheme for ridding the State of this enormous liability by capi-
talising the annuities and by paying them off with money raised
by loan in Europe. The proposed terms were, that hereditary
incomes should be extinguished by the payment of six
years, and
life incomes by the payment of four years, of their annual amount."

198
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
It is no wonder that such a proposal should have aroused the
strongest feelings of antagonism to the Government, which found
expression in a most formidable rising in the provinces of Hizen
and Chikuzen. Besides, the people were enraged at the Govern-
ment on account of the attitude it assumed towards Corea. Sub-
sequent to the repulse of the French and Americans the Coreans
refused to acknowledge their tributariship to Japan, and expressed
their decision in insolent terms. This begat a strong desire for
war with Corea. The inhabitants of Kiushiu were foremost in the
desire to punish the Coreans for their insolence. Soyeshima, a
Samourai of Hizen, the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, resigned
because the Government would not declare war. Other officers
resigned important posts for the same reason. Added to these
grievances was the irritation consequent upon the great changes
which had everywhere been made, and the incessant interference
with the habits and customs of the people, so that it was no wonder
they rose in revolt. The insurrection was, however, very speedily
subdued. The tidings being at once conveyed to Yeddo by tele-
graph, troops were immediately dispatched to the disaffected pro-
vinces, and soon succeeded in restoring quietness and peace. It
is not surprising that the Government, knowing the warlike
feeling which existed, should have given way to the desire to
avenge the shipwrecked Loochooans, and entertained the project
of colonising the eastern half of Formosa. This afforded an outlet
for the general excitement; and the success which followed the firm-
ness of spirit displayed towards China did very much to elevate the
Government in the eyes of the people, and soften the feelings of
dislike cherished by the Samourai. Now that quietness has been
restored the Government is gaining strength and solidity. To
conclude in the words of the North- China Herald:-"There seems
no doubt that much of the disaffection which existed in the empire
at the time of the Saga outbreak, has since disappeared, and it
may be hoped that the existing uneasiness will gradually subside
as things shake into their new places. The changes which have
been effected in Japan in so short a time are sufficiently astounding.
To expect that all these should happen without causing uneasiness
and dissatisfaction would be to expect preternatural wisdom in
the rulers and preternatural resignation in the governed. There
is ample room for hope that with patience on both sides, existing
evils will be remedied, and scope given to the new institutions
which have been so suddenly adopted. That the changes have

館書圖學大京燕
Yenching University Library
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
199
been too rapid few will question. That many of the changes have
been unwise, savouring rather of imitation than emulation admits of
equally little doubt. What has surprised foreigners is, that those
changes have been so tacitly acquiesced in by the people. But
this very acquiescence gives assurance that a nation which had
worked out a high civilization of its own will eventually adapt itself
intelligently to the new order which it is now endeavouring to
copy. Progress has been made in the construction of railways
and in extending the means of education. A desire for repre-
sentative institutions seems to be gathering strength, and is likely
soon to find expression. The attempts which have been previously
made in this direction failed; and it was hardly likely that a Model
Parliamentary Government could be suddenly established in the
place of a strong feudal system. It took centuries in Europe to
effect the change; that Japan should experience difficulty in trying
to make the change in a decade is scarcely surprising."
Before concluding our review, it may not be out of place briefly
to refer to the great changes which have been made in the king-
dom of Corea. Sources of accurate information are very limited
and such information as is accessible, is of a hearsay rather than
documentary character. There is no doubt, however, that there
has been a revolution in the country, begun in November 1873,
which has resulted in the overthrow of the Regent, and the as-
sumption of power by the King-a young man about eighteen or
nineteen years of age, the son of a prince named Ni, and son only
by adoption of the widowed Queen, who was left childless. The
father of this young King elect, soon succeeded in wresting the
Regency from the Queen whose right it was, and from 1864 has
ruled over the country as he willed. His energy and tact in suc-
cessfully resisting the efforts of the French and American expedi-
tions only increased the fear with which the people regarded him,
and gave him occasion to tyrannize over them, which he did, mainly
by all kinds of oppressive taxation, the arbitrary appointment to
office and dignity, and the arrogation to himself of the power of
life and death. It was in the exercise of the last named that he
caused the Christian converts to be ruthlessly massacred. After
the oppression and tyranny of the Regent had become wholly un-
bearable a plan was devised, and successfully carried out, by which
he was deposed and the young king enthroned. It is stated, how-
ever, that a relation of his wife and also a nephew of his mother
have arrogated to themselves the Government; that they sell as

200
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
they please public offices and dignities; and distribute literary de-
grees as they think fit. All hopes of progress and of the opening
up of the country, as the outcome of the revolution have proved
futile, and the last state of the country is as bad as, if not worse
than the first..