174
NOTES ON CHINESE TOXICOLOGY.
minerals. It was indeed from these ancient searchers for an elixir
vita and for a process of transmuting the lower minerals into gold
that, as Mr. Edkins has shown, was derived the alchemy of the
Arabs, which formed the basis of European chemistry. If, how-
ever, we consult the writings of popular novelists, we shall dis-
cover that plots often turn on the crime of poisoning. It is note-
worthy that in every instance given, the poisoners are represented
as discontented wives, and the victims of disagreeable husbands.
Intelligent natives defend this representation of the novelists on
the Confucian apophthegm that, while men's hearts are benevo-
lent, women's hearts are poisonous; and they aver in confirmation
of this ancient view of the better sex, that at the present time,
in the cases of domestic strife that come before the yamens of
Shanghai, hardly one per cent. of the complainants are husbands.
Viewed from a philosophical standpoint, the state of things reflects
most unfavourably on the masculine sex, indicating, as it certainly
does, that the treatment to which the longsuffering and gentle
sex is subjected, is absolutely insupportable. When the poison
employed is named, it is always arsenic. In the attempt that was
made some years ago to poison the entire foreign community of
Hongkong, arsenic was the agent chosen for that object. It was
mixed in the bread at the general bakery.§
The Penal Code makes it a criminal offence to sell arsenic, even
when quite innocent of attempt to injure. Druggists generally
require a security from purchasers for their own protection.
The following is the only case of arsenic poisoning which is
contained in the Penal Code:-
"A case of poisoning, the victim being the mother of the pri-
soner's adopted mother."||
"The prisoner Wang Chin had been adopted by his uncle,
Wang Chao-sze (now deceased), and lived with the widow (his
adopted mother) and her mother (name). Wang Chin
was a worthless fellow, who did nothing but spend money. Pro-
§ Two of the twelve volumes of the Wo-pao (Sung period) relate to
a great poisoning case at Hangchow. A great personage was poisoned by his
wife, who put arsenic in his bread. In the legend of the White Lady, alias
White Snake, it is narrated that by her saliva she poisoned all the wells of
Hangchow, causing head-ache to the entire population, and that she made
money by selling an effective antidote-a powder composed of acorus calamus,
artemisia moxa and onion.
|| Translated by G. Jamieson, Esq., of H. B. M.'s Consular Service.

NOTES ON CHINESE TOXICOLOGY.
175
posals for a second marriage were made to the widow-a thing
which would have suited Wang Chin exactly, as it would have
left him in uncontrolled possession of the whole of the property-
but her mother (the woman Mino) interposed a veto, and the mar-
riage idea was abandoned. Wang Chin thereupon conceived a
violent animosity against the old lady as standing between him
and his wishes, and resolved to get her out of the way. Some
two months afterwards it happened that his adopted mother was
away in the fields, and the old woman, who was in bed sick, asked
him to bring her some congee. Wang Chin thereupon seized the
opportunity, when nobody was by, to fetch some arsenic which
had been left over from manuring the fields, and mix it with the
congee, which he thereupon gave to the invalid. She took it and
began eating, but when she had got about half way through, she
suddenly fell down on the bed and began vomiting. Seeing this,
Wang Chin took fright and bolted. His adopted mother coming
in soon after, found her mother in this state and learned from her
the circumstances. She also saw on investigation that there was
poison in the bowl. Thereupon she summoned the natural pa-
rents of the criminal, of whom no traces could be found anywhere,
to see what had been done and apply remedies. But the poison
had taken too deep a hold and the victim died the same evening.
The parents tried to hush the matter up, and went so far as to
use forcible means to prevent the deceased's daughter from laying
an information, while they had the lady buried in the usual way.
Grief and rage brought on an illness, and it was not till five
months afterwards that she was able to go and lay a complaint
before the magistrate. Ultimately, however, all the parties were
arrested, and the above facts were all confessed to without
reservation.
"The provincial courts assumed that there was no relationship
within the degrees of mourning between the deceased and the
criminal, and treated the case as one of ordinary homicide, sen-
tencing him to decapitation after the usual period of imprisonment.
"The appeal turns on that point as to whether there was mourn-
ing relationship between the parties or not, and ultimately it was
held that there was, and a general rule was laid down in all such
cases that adoption should constitute a bona fide relationship, and
that degrees of affinity should be calculated accordingly, while
the relationship constituted by his natural born position should
each be diminished one degree. It followed from this that the

NOTES ON CHINESE TOXICOLOGY.
179
presents and thanks from the grateful patient to the doctor were
at first regarded with great dismay, as that gentleman was in
hourly expectation of being tried for murder, and supposed that
they had come to arrest him.
Arsenic is, or at least once was, according to the books, believed
to possess talismanic properties in preventing the approach of wild.
animals, and is borne as an amulet by hunters and woodmen. It
keeps off snakes, and is carried where poisonous snakes abound as
an application when bitten. It is recommended in the Pun tsau
as a general insecticide, being particularly noxious to fleas.
Externally it is employed as a caustic, which is sometimes
introduced into tumors. A powder is largely manufactured for
this purpose, composed of about two drachms of the crude mineral,
the same quantity of muscia seeds, croton bean and sal-ammoniac,
each ten grains, with some muscia oil and bitumen. This com-
pound is buried in the gound forty-nine days and then becomes
fit for use.
Dentists employ arsenic in the extraction of teeth. It is in-
serted between the teeth and the gums, causing the latter to
loosen in their socket. The Pun tsau recommends the employment
of arsenic in this way to remove worms, which are supposed to be
found between the gums and the teeth. Another instance of the
low state of pharmacy is afforded by the mode in which arsenic is
prepared for dental purposes. It is sowed up in the abdomen of
a fish, which is suspended for twenty days in the air; it is then
scraped out and fit for use.
Whenever a Chinaman is seen using a water-pipe or hookah-
and this is to be seen in every house-one may be almost certain
that he is smoking arsenical tobacco. (The hookah of the Chinese
is a much more handy implement than that of India and Turkey.)
Arsenical tobacco is generally called green tobacco. Its com-
mercial designation is Lan or Lan-chau tobacco, being so named
from the prefecture in the province of Kansuh, where alone it is
prepared. The inner and tender leaves of the plant are selected
for this purpose. They are pressed and cut into shreds like ordi-.
nary tobacco, and then they are steeped and pounded in water.
When they are thus reduced to a mass, arsenic is added, the
quantity being something less than one fifth per cent.; that is to
say, to one hundred catties of the plant are added three taels of
the mineral. When the whole has been intimately mixed, the
mass is placed on wooden trays over a slow charcoal fire. Before

180
NOTES ON CHINESE TOXICOLOGY.
drying, however, the mass is cut into oblong blocks of about three
pounds weight. After being well dried, the blocks are packed in
boxes for transmission to all parts of the empire.
Arsenical tobacco is smoked by those who desire something more
pungent than the simple narcotic. When once the arsenico-tobacco
habit is formed, the desire to partake of it at regular intervals
becomes almost irresistible; there is a craving for the hookah to
relieve an indescribable lassitude. It appears to possess a slightly
stimulant property, so slight as to be scarcely appreciable. Its
excessive use is said to be debilitating. I cannot discover that the
specific action of the poison is ever manifested in those who smoke
arsenious acid; there is not even the appearance of sleekness in
them at any stage of its use, which is observed particularly in its
administration to animals. Opium-smokers often resort to the use
of arsenical tobacco after an indulgence in the more effective nar-
cotic. Suicide is sometimes committed by swallowing the water
of the hookah, through which the arsenic vapour has long passed.
Dr. Tschudi's statements respecting the effect of arsenic eating in
the Tyrol have been much questioned; to some extent, this dis-
covery of arsenic smoking in China is corroborative of his views.
The well-known legend of the White Lady, alias White Snake,
to which I referred above, takes its date from the period of
Kublai, the founder of the Mongol dynasty, in the latter part of
the thirteenth century. She was relegated to her former condi-
tion of a snake by the forcible administration of hiung-hwang
(native red sulphuret of arsenic-realgar-arsenic ter-sulphide).
That event is commemorated throughout the empire at noon on
the fifth day of the fifth month (early in June) by smearing
the faces of children with the pounded mineral, and by the drink-
ing, on the part of adults, of about five grains of the powder
mixed in distilled samshoo. At the same time, many spurt the
mixture on all sides of the house, while (the doors and windows
being closed) the house is filled with fumes from a mixture of
burning artemisia and calamus. A portion of the ceremony con-
sists in suspending over the doors some artemisia moxa, acorus
calamus and onion, the materials used by the mythical lady in
curing the poisoned denizens of Hangchow.
These ceremonies are designed to ward off evil influences in
general, and to be prophylactic against infectious diseases parti-
cularly. Arsenical amulets were once in vogue in Europe; during
the great plague in London, they were employed to avert conta-

NOTES ON CHINESE TOXICOLOGY.
181
gion. Dr. Porter Smith refers to the ceremonies, but erroneously
states that cinnabar is the prophylactic employed, the mistake
being due probably to the fact that formerly the Chinese con-
founded realgar and cinnabar.
The Japanese import the various arsenical minerals that are
employed by the Chinese. They are used in medicine and the
arts. But arsenious acid is not smoked by them; they do not
even use the hookah. The employment of realgar on the fifth
of the fifth month, as in China, is not unknown to the Buddhists
of Japan. Criminal poisoning in that empire is as rare as in China.
Arsenic is sometimes used for that purpose. Of their one hundred
and thirty-one Imperial Rulers, not one was secretly made away
with; two were publicly assassinated.
The economic tises of arsenic in China are noteworthy. A
minute quantity of the sublimate is sometimes employed in the
manufacture of fire-crackers to intensify their report.
Its fumes are employed by brewers and distillers to give a coat-
ing to jars, that liquor may keep better in them. The Pun tsau
strongly condemns this practice, particularly as liquors are found
to promote the poisonous action of arsenic.
In the foregoing extract from the Penal Code, reference is made
to the employment of arsenic as a manure. In the Port Catalogue
of the Chinese Collection for the Vienna Exhibition it is also
stated that arsenic is employed for that purpose. Confirmatory
statements are made by Mr. Macpherson, Commissioner of Customs
at Hankow, by Mr. Dick, Commissioner at Shanghai, and by Mr.
Brown, Commissioner at Canton. At Shanghai it is stated that
"red arsenic is applied to the roots of mulberry trees as manure;
rice when sown is often steeped in a solution of it to destroy
insects:" at Canton, that it is used "in rico cultivation and to
destroy insects;"-and at Hankow, that it is "used for manure."
Here we have Chinese Imperial authority corroborated by ripe
Sinological scholarship in opposition to the teaching of toxicology.
Dr. Jaeger's experiments of poisoning plants by arsenic are re-
ceived as conclusive. In his hands a solution of the white oxide
in water, in the proportion of one to sixteen acted as a general
and quick poison for plants at every period of their life, with the
exception perhaps of a few of the simplest forms of vegetable
existence. Their various parts died in succession as the particles
of the poison reached them. Perhaps an explanation of these
discordant views may be found in the fact that, when arsenic is

182
NOTES ON CHINESE TOXICOLOGY.
employed by farmers, it is mixed with ashes or other fertilizers
making a compost, the object of the arsenic being the destruction
of insects. In drouth it is in great demand; the dryness of rice
fields is fatal to frogs, and as these are the natural destroyers of
insects (being for that reason under the special protection of
magistrates), their absence requires other means of exterminating
parasitic pests. It is not employed as a preventive, but is scattered
over fields when insects make their appearance. About one pound
of the native mineral, a red sulphuret (Hung-in-Hung-
sin-shil) is used and found sufficient for an acre of
ground, a quantity too minute to injure the plant, but enough
for insecticide purposes.
Aphides that infest mulberry trees are destroyed sometimes by
scattering the powder on the leaves, at others by fumigation.
Before concluding this series of papers on poisons, I may be able
to procure further information on the agricultural uses of arsenic.+
*The Pun tsau describes the rich soil of the interior of the province of
Kiangsu as teeming with insect life, and there particularly is arsenic in
demand as an insecticide. Whether the amount scattered on the fields is
sufficient to render the streams deleterious is a question which merits con-
sideration, now that various schemes are proposed for supplying Shanghai
with water. The proposed sources of supply are two-the waters of this
plain and those of the Yangtsze. More than a thousand years ago the writer
of the
Lan essay on water for the infusion of tea (vide Wylie's
Notes) accords to the waters of the Yangtsze superiority over a large number
that he had tried, those of the Hwai being least fitted for that purpose.
Professor Frankland found in water taken from a few miles above the city
"numerous bacteria and vibrios, indicating previous contact with putrescent
organic matter, probably of animal origin." Professor Frankland failed to
detect organisms in water from the adjacent and inosculating creek, but from
the nature of the country, it may be assumed that they exist abundantly in
all its waters, hence the reluctance of natives to drink unboiled water. Ex-
amination of steam-boilers, the water of which comes from up-country, com-
pared with those that are filled with the water which twice a day is rolled up
from the Yangtsze, discloses the fact, that the former abounds in organic
matter, as the latter does almost exclusively of mineral matter in suspension.
Paradoxical as it may seem, our water when most muddy is, after filtering,
most palatable; when the Wangpu runs clear, it is due to a reduced flow
from the Yangtsze, and then it is less wholesome.
† It is stated that sulphur is employed as a fertilizer by the cultivators of
a variety of ginseng. It is affirmed by native writers that a species of palm,
sometimes called "iron tree," may be revived when decay commences, by the
use of iron, which is administered in the form of nails driven into the trunk.