ARTICLE V.
NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
BY HENRI CORDIER.
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.
I
PROPOSE to-night to give a history of the events, which led
to the conclusion of a treaty between France and Annam in
March of this year.
The acquaintance' I made of Lieutenant Francis Garnier when
he resided here, and the relation of his travels, induced me to
seek some information about Tong-king, a country of which every
one has heard, but concerning which only a few have taken the
trouble of learning anything reliable. My studies helped me to
comprehend better the events which took place subsequently in
the northern part of Tu-duc's empire, and having had the good
fortune to meet here, some of the more important actors in a drama
which, had it taken place on a more conspicuous stage than the
terra incognita of Annam, could not have failed to create a very
great sensation, I asked for notes and verbal accounts, and was
thus led to write, with the materials collected, a NARRATIVE OF
RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
Situation of
Tong-king.
TONG-KING is the northern part of Annam, the em-
pire occupying the eastern portion of the Indo-Chinese peninsula.
It extends from 103° 50' to 109° 36′ E. long. from Greenwich,
and from 17° 34' to 23° 15′ N. lat. It is bounded on the north
by the Chinese provinces of Kwang-tung, Kwang-si, and Yun-nan;
on the east by the China Sea, which there receives the name of
Gulf of Tong-king; on the south, by Annam proper; and on the
west by the ancient kingdom of Laos now divided up between
Cochin-china, Siam, and Burmah.
Name. Under the emperors Yao and Shun, this country was
called Nan-kiao and under the Tsin, Siang-kun; at the beginning
of the Han dynasty, it was named Nan-yuei; Ou-ti of the Han
gave it the name of Kiao-tchi.†
Read before the Society on December 14th, 1874.
† Histoire générale de la Chine, ou Annales de cet Empire; traduites du Tong-
kien-kang-mou, par le feu Père Joseph-Anne-Marie de Moyriac de Mailla,
Jésuite Français, Missionnaire à Pékin. Publiées par M. l'abbé Grosier, et
dirigées par M. Leroux Deshantesrayes. Paris, 1777-1785, tom. x, p. 103.

116
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
In A.D. 679, under the reign of the Tang emperor Kao-tsong
(Tiao-loo) the Chinese province composed of Tong-king and
Cochin-china received the name of Ngan-nan (Peaceful
south).*
Tong-king, which means "Court of the East," in the same
manner as Pe-king is the "Northern Court," and Nan-king the
"Southern Court," is in contradistinction to Si-king, § "Court of
the West," the name of Cochin-china. Tong-king, in Annamite
is called Dàng-ngoài (the rond without), Cochin-china being Dùng-
trong (the road within). The Annamites say that they are going
in when they travel to the south, and going out when they march
northwards,
Marco Polo. The celebrated traveller Marco Polo does not say much
if anything about Tong-king; for it is doubtful whether the coun-
try called by Yule, Anin, by Ramusio and others Amu, and by
Pauthier Aniu is really Northern Annam. The last-named savant
thinks that Awiu and Tong-king are but one country.
"Anin is a province towards the east, the people of which are
subject to the Great Kaan, and are Idolaters. They live by cattle
and tillage, and have a peculiar language. The women wear on
the legs and arms bracelets of gold and silver of great value, and
the men wear such as are even yet more costly. They have plenty
of horses which they sell in great numbers to the Indians, making
a great profit thereby. And they have also vast herds of buffaloes
and oxen, having excellent pastures for these. They have likewise
all the necessaries of life in abundance.
*Lettres édifiantes et curieuses, écrites des Missions étrangères, nouvelle
édition, à Paris, Mérigot, MDCCLXXXI, tom. xvi. Mémoires de la Chine.
Mémoire historique sur le Tong-king (par le Père Gaubil) p. 271.
† Pronounced in Annamite Đông-kinh.
Father Alexander de Rhodes explains the origin of the name in these
words: "Tunchinense regnum, vnam olim é maximis Cinensis imperii pro-
vinciis fuisse, argumento est, nomen ipsum quod adhuc retinet. Quippe sicut
Pechinum Cinae, regiam dicunt septentrionalem, australem verò Nanchinum,
sic Tun-chin Orientalis plagae regiam significat. Quod, Tun, Orientem, Chin,
recepto idiomate regiam nominent. Tametsi enim versus Meridiem, magis,
quam ad Orientem Cinensium terris Tunchin adjacet." Tunchinensis Histo-
riae. Authore P. Alexandro de Rhodes.
§ I give the name of Si-king, on the authority of Mr. F. Porter Smith,-
A Vocabulary of Proper names, in Chinese and English, of Places, Tribes and
Sects in China, Japan, Corea, Annam, Siam, Burmah, the Straits and adjacent
countries, Shanghai, 1870, p. 59. I have been unable to find it elsewhere.

118
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
When Mou-king (Mou or Mac family), the descendant of the
famous general Mou Ten-yong-who revolted against his lawful
sovereign, and conquered the northern part of Tong-king,-was
defeated in 1624 by Li-ouey Ki (Thang-To'ng, the great-grandson
of the founder of the second Li dynasty), he retired to the moun-
tains of Ké-băc and created there on the border of Kwang-si the
small kingdom of Cao-băng (evidently the Kao-ping of Father
Gaubil).*
In Bishop Taberd's Dictionary, † Tong-king is divided into
thirteen prefectures or Than
ii Ông Thanh-ni.
in Ấp Thanh-ngoai
Iift Hưng-hóa.
Vj E Nam-thương.
F Nam-ha.
V đi Hai-đông.
ig
IH
So'n-tai.
Cao-băng
Lăng bác or Lăng-son.
kết Thái nguyên.
i) Tuyên-quăng
Quing-yên.
# Kinh-bắc.
and Nghê-an
Quang-binh
Cochin-china.
are placed in northern
Government of In the historical sketch given hereafter, I mention
Tong-king.
that this kingdom was formerly governed by two sovereigns, the
Qua (vua là “king”) and the chúa (koua
“lord”); I will
not therefore say anything at present on this subject.
Since the conquest of Tong-king by Nguyên Ahn (Gia-long)
in 1802, the country is divided into provinces of different classes.
The provinces of the first class (Tinh-chink) are governed by
Viceroys or Tông-đôc; they are Nghê-an, Thanh-hóa, Nam-dinh,
Hai-duong, Sơn-tây, Băc-ninh and Ha-nôi.I
*Mémoire historique sur le Tong-king, p. 333.
† Dictionarium Anamitico Latinum, editum a J. L. Taberd, 1838, p. 537.
† Nghê-an, “Peaceful art.”
Thanh-hóa, “ Pure genesis.” Hóa, “formation.”
Nam-dinh, "Southern settlement."
Hai-du'o'ng, "Maritime country."
So'n-tay, "Mountainous west."
Bac-ninh, "Peace of the north."
Ha-ndi," Between rivers" (equivalent of the Greek pé008 and mórajos
=Mesopotamia).

120 A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
The provinces are subdivided into phu (fou ) and huyen
(hsien ). The equivalent for the Chinese chow does not
exist, except in the part of Hu'ng-hóa occupied by wild tribes
(known under the general name of Mư-ông) called Thập-le-châu,
the "Sixteen chows."
The finances in each province are managed by a Quan-bo who
ranks higher than a Tuan-phu. The Quan-bo has sometimes to
act as a Tuan-phu. In every province there is also a head police
magistrate called the Quan-an.
The savages
of Annam.
These Mu'-o'ng (savages) live not only in the territory
of the "sixteen chows," but also in the range of mountains which
extends from the north of Tong-king to the south of Cochin-china.
The lamented Mouhot says regarding them: "These [the
savages near Louang-Prabang, called the Fie] are no other than
the tribes called Penons by the Cambodians, Khu by the Siamese,
and Moi [evidently Mu'-o'ng] by the Annamites: names having
no other signification than that of savages. The whole chain of
mountains which extends from the north of Tonquin to the south
of Cochin China, 100 miles to the mouth of Saigon, is inhabited
by this primitive people, quite in a savage state, divided into tribes
speaking different dialects, but whose manners and customs are
the same. Their habitations are in the thickest parts of the forests,
where they only could make a passage, and where they do not
allow any path to be observed; their cultivated ground is to be
seen on the sides and on the summits of the mountain: in a word,
they employ the same means as animals to escape from their ene-
mies and to preserve their liberty and independence, which they
consider their supreme good."*
language.
The Annamite I shall not launch into a dissertation on this language,
which I can but consider as a dialect of the Chinese. The
written characters are everywhere the same,-with, occasion-
ally slight modifications, introduced to represent words borrowed
from surrounding countries, and especially from the Mu'-o'ng;-
but the pronunciation is different.
Ha-nol. Hà-nôi, the chief city of the province, and the capital of
Tong-king, is built on the right bank of the Song-koi. We have
seen that Hà-nôi means "Between rivers." This city is also
Mouhot's "Notes on Cambodia," in The Journal of the Royal Geogra-
phical Society, vol. xxxii (1862), p. 162.

122
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
great rivers which water eastern and south-eastern Asia is one of
the greatest geographical problems of the day;-ȧ problem which
has and will cost the lives of many bold explorers before it is solved.
There it is that the Brahmapoutra, the "Son of Brahma," the
Irrawaddy which leads to Bhâmo, the Salwen, a part of the
boundary between Burmah and Siam, and the Meikong now ce-
lebrated on account of the expedition of Captain Doudart de Lagrée,
begin their courses; to end,-the first three in the Indian Ocean
(Gulfs of Bengal and Martaban), the last one in the China sea.
There it is also that the Ta-kiang, the "Great River," known
to us as the stately Yang-tze, starts on that long career which
finishes only near Woo-sung,-crossing the whole of the Chinese
empire.
These are the longest streams which run from Thibet, but thence
also flow three smaller but hardly less interesting rivers: the
Canton river, the Mei-nam which runs into the Gulf of Siam near
Bangkok, and last, the most important to us to-day, the river of
Tong-king, the Ho-ti kiang, better known here since last year
under the name of Song-hoi.
ti klang.
The Ho- If you cast your eyes on an old map of Tong-king, you
will notice a large river named the Foo-liang kiang, which runs into
the sea through numerous branches. The Foo-liang kiang as it
nears the Chinese empire changes its name, and we find it called
in turn Li-hoa kiang, Lien-hoa tang and Ho-ti kiang. The Foo-
liang kiang receives several rivers, some of them large;-the Ly-
sien kiang (on the right near Hung-hoa), which changes its name
(He-ho, or Hac-ho, the "Black River") before reaching the main
stream; and the Tein-ho ("Clear River") on the left, which passes
through Ko-yang, the city inhabited by the Yellow-flag rebels.
The river of Tong-king is now known under the Chinese name
of Hoong kiang, the "Red River," on account of the colour of its
water, especially during the high tide; and the Annamite name
of Song-koi, Song-ha. In Yun-nan the name of Ho-ti kiang is
still retained.
Captain Doudart de Lagrée reached Yuen-kiang on the Ho-ti
kiang on the 20th of November 1867. His lieutenant Francis
Garnier wrote: "The Ho-ti kiang is,-near Yuen-kiang,*-one
hundred and fifty to two hundred metres wide; its water is calm
and shallow. We descended the river in boats on the 26th of
November.
Lat. 23° 17' 54" N; Long. 99° 10' E. Paris.

124
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
banks of the river, in Annamite territory, is situated the town of
Lao-kay, at two days' journey from the capital of Tong-king. Nu-
merous mines of gold, silver and copper are to be found in the Chi-
nese department of Kai-choa, which is crossed by the Nan-si ho,
which falls into the Song-kof, or river of Tong-king."
I think it will be interesting to recall the opinion of some of
our antecessors on the trade of Tong-king:-"If the French would
resolve to establish themselves far away in Tong-king, I do not see,
-Siam excepted, any place with which they could communicate
more easily, profitably and conveniently......+ It is evident that
the French could do in Tong-king, the trade which the companies
of Holland and England do....
Audite alteram partem. Barrow writes:-
"Had this event not taken place (a quarrel between the Bishop
of Adran and the French governor of Pondichéry in 1789), it is
difficult to say what the consequences of such a treaty (between
France and Cochin-china) might have been- to our possessions in
India, and to the trade of the East-India Company with China;
but it is sufficiently evident that it had for its object the destruction
of both."§
What do the traders of our day say?
The Hoong-kiang falls into the sea through a great many mouths,
the three southernmost being called Dai, Lak and Balat.
The two southern branches of the Song-kol meet above Hà-nôi;
on one of them is built Ninh-binh, on the other are Nam-dinh
and Hung-yen; these two rivers communicate by canals, on one.
of which is situated Fou-li. Another branch of the Song-kol is
the Thai-binh river, which passes by Hai-du'o'ng. Between it
and the Hà-nói branch of the Red River, runs the Song-chi canal.
A third and very important branch, to the north of those already
named is the river of Cam, which waters Hai-phang. The mouth
of the Cam river is called Cua-cam (Cua, B, means "harbour,
port," the "forbidden harbour"), or in Chinese Ninh-haï (the
peaceful sea).
Voyage d'exploration, tom. i, p. 447. That small river, the Nan-si ho, is
the limit between Annam and China; Lao-kay is situated at the place where
it falls into the Song-koi. Though the town is supposed to be under the
jurisdiction of the court of Hué, the authority of the Annamites over Lao-kay
is merely nominal, as it has been occupied for several years by rebels.
† Lettres édifiantes, tom. xvi. Extrait d'un Mémoire sur les différents
objets de commerce qui ont cours à la Cochin-chine et au Tong-king, p. 145.
Idem, p. 147.
Voyage to Cochin-china in the years 1792 and 1793, by John Barrow, Esq.,
p. 267.

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
125
Mr. Dupuis reckons :-From the mouth of the Thai-binh river
geographical miles 110
to Hà-nôi,
From Hà-nổi to Sơn-tây,
دو
Prom So'n-tây to the Annamite advanced posts,,
From the Annamite camp to Lao-kay,
From Lao-kay to Mang-hao,
From the Sea to Mang-hao,
Bourayne.
دو
د"
دو
32
87
115
70
414
Capt. Senez of the Capt. Senez who came with the Bourayne in Octo-
ber 1872, to help Dupuis at the beginning of his third expedition,
may be considered as the explorer of the Cam river. He took a
great many soundings on his way to Hà-nôi and determined also
the position of several cities:
Hà nội,
Hai-duong.
Câm,
Quang-yên,
N. latitude.
21°?
20° 55'
20° 50°
20° 54' 20"
E. longitude.
103° 31'
103° 59'
104° 25'
104° 32′ 30″
When Mr. Dupuis returned to Yun-nan after his exploration,
he obtained from the Chinese authorities large orders for arms
which were to be brought by the Song-koi. How the contracts
were carried out will be told in the second part of this paper.
officers.
I have now to say a few words about the religion and political
history of Tong-king. They are necessary to complete the sketch
. I have attempted to draw, and will be useful for the better under-
standing of the subsequent events. But I will first give the
designations of the officers in the army, and the degrees granted
to successful scholars, as they are sometimes used in the narrative.
Annamite army At the head of the Annamite troops, there is at
present a Tùng-thông, “field-marshal;” his name is Hoang Ke-
vien; he resides at So'n-tây and is the man who caused Garnier's
death. Below him is the Tong-che, "general commanding in
chief." Then the Dé-doc "lieutenant" or "major general." We
shall see that the capture of the Dê-doc led Ninh-binh to surrender
to Mr. Hautefeuille. There are also the Linh-binh, "brigadier-
general;" the Pho Link-binh, a sort of "adjutant" to the Linh-
binh; the Chanh-vé commands five thousand men; the Pho-vé;
the Quan-co', "colonel," has five hundred men under him; the
Pho Quan-co, “lieutenant colonel;” the Hiệp-quan who might
rank with the "major;" and the Dói, "captain," with fifty men.
Platoons of ten men are headed by "sergeants," called Cai.

126
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
degrees.
Literary In Tong-king we find the same honours bestowed
scholars as in China.
upon
The first degree, "Bachelor," is Tú-tài, the same as the Chinese
Siu-teai. The two graduates Cu'n and Mai, who were so eager
ngainst the Christians in 1868 and 1874, after Mr. Esmez's
command, were Ti-tài.
The second degree, "Master, Licentiate," is Cu-nhan, the Chí-
nese Keu-jin.
The third degree, "Doctor," is Tien-al, the Chinese Tsin-sze.
Hué, the capital of Tu-duc's dominions, is like Peking, the only
city where the examinations for this third degree can be passed.
In other cities there are Examination Halls similar to those
existing in China. At Hà-noi the Examination Hall is outside of
the citadel, and it was used by Garnier as his head-quarters before
he captured the fortress.
There are other degrees higher than the Tiên-si,-for instance
the Hoàng-giúp and the Trang-nguyên, but they are of such rare
occurrence that it is not worth mentioning them in these intro-
ductory remarks, as I do not aim at a complete description of
Tong-king and its customs.
The mandarin from Tam-dang (Nam-dinh) who was helping
Cu'u and Mai against the Christians, was a scholar of the high
degree of Hoàng-giáp. This led some writers to consider the name
of his degree and the name of his birthplace as one, and to call him
the mandarin Hoang Tam-dang!
Tong-king.
Religion In The perusal of the Lettres édifiantes had created in my
mind grave doubts as to the religion of the Tong-kingese.
I read that the Tong-kingese worship three chief idols: one
called the "Kitchen God" (Idole de la Cuisine); the second, the
"Master of Arts" (le Maitre-ès-Arts); and the third, the "Lord of
the Domicile" (le Seigneur du lieu où l'on demeure).
"L'Idole de la Cuisine tire son origine d'une histoire qu'on raconte ainsi:
une femme s'étant séparée de son mari pour quelques mécontentements, passa
à de secondes nôces, ce qui causa tant de douleur à son premier époux, que
cet infortuné se jetta dans un brasier ardent pour y terminer ses jours. Le
bruit ne s'en fut pas plutôt répandu, que l'épouse infidèle, touchée de repentir,
alla mourir dans le feu qui avait consumé son mari. Son second époux en
ayant été informé, y courut aussitôt: mais ayant trouvé sa femme réduite en
cendres, il en fut si pénétré de douleur qu'il se précipita dans le même brasier,
où il fut brûlé à l'instant. Telle est l'origine de l'Idôle de la Cuisine. L'es-
prit de cette Divinité anime trois pierres dont les Tong-kinois se servent pour
faire leur cuisine, et ce sont ces pierres qu'ils adorent le premier jour de l'an.

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING. 127
I saw also that the Tong-kingese divided the world into six
equal parts, the sixth one supposed to be in the middle of the
others; and that they dressed in differently-coloured garments
according to the part towards which they were to worship: to the
north, black; to the south, red; to the east, green; to the west,
white; to the centre, yellow.
Father de Rhodes in his History of Tong-king* gives also some
very interesting particulars about the Jewish impostor Xaca,
Xechia or Thicen.
Further inquiries showed me that these superstitions are shared
only by the lower classes of the population, and that most of the
natives are Buddhist; Buddha being called by them Phát. The
literati, in Tong-king as in China, follow the principles of Confucius.
Christians are pretty numerous. The first missionary to Tong-
king was the Italian Jesuit, Julian Baldinotti who arrived in 1626.
He was followed in 1627 by Alexandre de Rhodes (French) and
Antonio Marquez (Portuguese). These were expelled in May
"L'Idole Maître-ès-Arts, est l'image d'un Chinois que les Idolâtres du pays
croyent avoir été le plus ingénieux, le plus sage et le plus sçavant des hommes.
Les marchands l'invoquent avant de vendre & d'acheter; les pêcheurs, avant
de jetter leurs filets dans la mer; les courtisans, avant d'aller faire leur cour
au Prince; les artisans, avant de commencer leur ouvrage, etc.
"L'Idole le Seigneur du lieu où l'on demeure, n'est pas moins révéré que les
deux autres. Voici la manière dont on lui rend hommage. Quand quelqu'un
veut faire bâtir une maison, il commence par se bien persuader que le terrain
n'appartient pas tellement au Roi, qu'il n'ait quelqu'autre maître, lequel,
après sa mort, conserve le même droit dont il a joui pendant sa vie. Ensuite
il fait venir un Magicien, qui, au bruit du tambour, invite l'âme du maître dé-
funt à venir demeurer sous un petit toît qu'on lui prépare, & où on lui pré-
sente du papier doré, des odeurs & des petites tables couvertes de mets, le
tout pour l'engager à souffrir le nouvel hôte dans son champ."-Lettres édi-
fiantes et curieuses, tom. xvi, pp. 201-203. "Lettre d'un Missionnaire au
Royaume de Tong-king au Réverend Père Cibot, Missionnaire de la Compagnie
de Jésus à Pekin."
* Tunchinensis Historiae, lib. i, cap. xvii.
†The Chinese Fo, Făt
.
"Relation de la persécution élevée dans le Royaume de Tong-king, &
de la mort glorieuse de quatre Missionnaires Jésuites qui ont eu la tête tran-
chée en haine de la foi, le 12 Janvier de l'année 1737. Tirée de quelques
Mémoires Portugais."-Lettres édifiantes, tom. xvi, p. 71. It is therefore by
mistake that, on page 3 of the same volume of these Lettres,-Father Le
Royer says, that Alexandre de Rhodes and Antonio Marquez were the first
missionaries to Tong-king. Fathers de Montézon and Estéve name also
Alexandre de Rhodes as having been the first to enter Tong-king.

128
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
1630, but they soon found numerous successors. Persecutions
were as usual the reward of their labours, and we have here to
record the names of the early martyrs.
Messari, died in prison on the 15th of June, 1723. Buccharelli,
was beheaded with nine Tong-kingese, on the 11th of October,
1723. John Caspard Crats, born in Germany in 1608; Bartholo-
mew Alvarez, born at Parameo in Portugal in 1706; Emmanuel de
Abreu, born at Arouca in Portugal in 1706; and Vincent da Cunha,
born at Lisbon in 1708;-these last four were beheaded on the
12th of January, 1737.*
After the dreadful persecution of 1737 there was a period of
calm for the Christian Church. The king of Tong-king even sent
to Macao for some mathematicians. On the 6th of March 1751,
Father Simonelli, and four other Jesuits arrived from Macao; but
the prince had already altered his mind and did not want them.
The Jesuits were replaced in their field of labour by the envoys
of the Missions étrangères in 1650. In 1679 Tong-king was di-
vided into two religious provinces,-western and eastern. The Spa-
nish Dominicans took charge of astern Tong-king in 1693. The
two provinces were again subdivided, and the Roman Catholic
Missions in Tong-king are at present:-
I.-Western Tong-king (Missions étrangères); created in 1679.
Mgr. Puginier, at So-kiên (Hà-nôi).
II.-Eastern Tong-king (Spanish Dominicans); created in
1679. Mgr. Colomer, at Ké-nê (Băc-ninh).
III. Central Tong-king (Spanish Dominicans); created in
1848. Mgr. Cezon, at Bui-chu (Nam-dinh). Mgr. Riaño, Coad-
jutor, at Ngoc-duong (Hun-yên).
IV.-Southern Tong-king (Missions étrangères); created in
1846. Mgr. Gauthier, at Xa-doai. Mgr. Croc, Coadjutor, at
Huong-phuong, (Bo-chinh).†
Christians were not ill-treated under the reign of Gia-long, who
had come to power mainly through the exertions of the Bishop of
Adran, but the successors of that prince resumed persecutions.
However, as the history of the missions during the last forty years
is closely linked with the political events which took place in
Tong-king we shall not dwell upon it now.
*Not in 1736, as stated in one of the letters of Father de Mailla (vol. i of
his translation of the Tong-kien-kang-mou).
†This list is made up from the particulars contained in Les Missions catho-
liques, No. 268, p. 367.

130
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
I had at first purposed to write as complete a record of the early
history of Tong-king as documents at hand would allow; but after
laborious researches, I found that the Dissertation of Father Gaubil,
and the passages scattered through the volumes of the translation
of the Tong-kien-kang-mou by Father de Mailla, were about the
only sources available here; and as my work would have been
therefore but a mere compilation from these authors, I have pre-
ferred giving simply the landmarks of the history, and calling
attention to the more important points.
Li Tien-so was replaced successively by his son Li Long-han,
and grandson Li Hao-tsan, the latter was succeeded by his
daughter Tchao-hing. Having married a lord named Tchin
Pe-tchao, she handed over to him the government of the kingdom
(1230?).
The Tehin or
Tran Dynasty Tchin Pe-tchao, called also Tchin Ge-king, the foun-
till A.D. 1409. der of the Tchin dynasty, ascended the throne under
the name of Tchin Ge-hoan. An ambitious man, he tried to be-
come independent of China, and assumed the title of Yuei hoang-ti.
His reign was spent in wars with the Mongols. The history of
the princes of the dynasty of Tran is almost entirely a bare enu-
meration of massacres, treasons and bloody battles; and I hardly
think it desirable to expose these dark sides of history, as no pro-
fitable lesson can be derived from them.
The last kings of this dynasty were massacred by a chief named
Li Ki-mao, who expected to ascend the throne. His hopes were
frustrated, for he was defeated in 1407 by the Chinese general
Tchang-fou; the house of Tchin being extinct, Ngan-nan was then
made a Chinese province.
The sons of Li Ki-mao, the eldest of whom, Li Tsang had borne
the title of king of Ngan-nan, were released after a short captivity,
but Li Ki-mao himself was sent to Kwang-se to serve as a soldier.
nese province.
Ngan-nan a Chi- Peace was far from being restored, and a rebellion
quickly broke out. In 1409 a man called Kien-tung raised an
army, conquered the Chinese general Mou-ching, the colleague
of Tchang-fou, at Leng-kiuei kiang, and took the title of Taï-chang
hoang-ti (1410, 5th Moon). Tchang-fou having been recalled
from Peking, defeated the rebel chief, who was taken a prisoner
and decapitated; but the revolt was not quelled till all the chiefs.
were captured (1415).
A new rising, headed by Li Ly a military mandarin of the dis-
trict of Tchin-hoa, took place in 1420. Li Ly was entirely

132
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
south with his mother; he proclaimed himself king of Ngan-nan,
and marched against Mou Ten-yong, who was defeated, but with
the help of allies soon regained all the advantages he had lost.
Henceforth we see Ngan-nan a prey to all the evils accompa-
nying civil war; one sovereign Mou Fan-ing, son of Mou Ten-
yong,-who had been entrusted with the government of the country
by his father, exercising his power on the provinces to the north
of the Foo-liang kiang; another sovereign, Li Ning, the legiti-
mate prince, unable to cope with the armies of his powerful rival,
residing at Tsiang-hoa.
Li Ning resolved to appeal to the emperor for help, and in 1536
despatched to China by sea Tchin Ouei-liao, to ask for succour.
The journey of this envoy lasted two years, and it was not until
the 4th moon of the year 1538 (Kia-tsin), that he reached Peking,
whither Mou Fan-ing had also sent an ambassador. Both pre-
tenders had influential friends at court, and both pleaded their
causes equally well; the emperor sent high commissioners in 1540
to investigate the matter. The result of their mission was an
arrangement à la manière chinoise, by which Mou Fan-ing and
Li Ning should keep their respective possessions: the former,
with the title of hereditary great general, was to pay a tribute to the
emperor of China every three years; the latter was authorized to
take the name of king of Ngan-nan (1541), recognized as the true
heir to the Li family, and in consequence allowed to sacrifice in
the ancestral hall of the family.
We then see for a time two families reigning over Tong-king;
but while the successors of the usurper were yearly losing some
of their influence, the princes of the house of Li were gaining the
ascendency.
Mou Ten-yong, who had survived his son Mou Fan-ing, died in
1542, and was succeeded by his grandson Mou Fou-hai. The
latter, unable to resist Li Ning's attacks, gradually gave up some.
of his territory to the invader. He was replaced successively by
his son Mou Hong-ye, and his grandson Mou Meou-ho (1581).
We now find recorded, a series of struggles between the sove-
reigns of the Li family and the degenerate successors of Mou.
In 1591 Li-ouey Tan won a great battle, which gave him back
the capital of Tong-king. The Mou were obliged to fly for refuge
to the north, where they created the small kingdom of Kao-bang
(Kao-ping). After the death of Li-ouey Tan in 1597, the kings
Li-ouey Sin, and especially Li-ouey Ki continued the war against

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
133
the Mou family; a decisive victory won over Mou King in 1624,
destroyed what little power had been left to him by his ancestors;
and towards the close of the seventeenth century the remaining
members of that once powerful family retired to Peking. In 1683
Li-ouey Tching was officially recognized as king of Ngan-nan by
the great emperor Kang-hi; since which time, Tong-king and its
powerful neighbour, the Middle kingdom,-have kept on good
terms.
Thanks to the labours of Father Gaubil, and to some translations
from Chinese histories, we have been able to follow the Chinese
account of the kingdom of Tong-king, but the Annamite version
which gives to countries and to persons very dissimilar names,
adds to the obscurity and confusion already existing in the narra-
tive of the vicissitudes of that often-disturbed part of Annam.
The founder of the second Li dynasty, Li Ki-mao or Li Ly is
called Thai-to. The revolt of the Mou family (Mac) under Li
Hoey (Cung-hoang) was crushed by the exertions of another ge-
neral called by the Tong-kingese Nguyên Do, who began that
strange mode of government thus described by Father Alexander
de Rhodes:-
"This country is a real monarchy, and there are nevertheless
two kings; but one who is called Bua, has only the title; the
other called Chua, has all the authority and the entire manage-
ment of the provinces, with the exception of the degree of Doctor,
which the Bua grants at certain times, and of some apparent
homage rendered to him at a ceremony which takes place at the
beginning of the year; save that time he is not seen, and lives
confined in an old palace, where he spends his life in idleness,
while the Chua manages all business relating to war or finance."*
The similarity between the government of Tong-king and that
of France during the seventh and the eighth centuries is striking.
The weak successors of Li Ki-mao receive orders from the sons
of Nguyên Do, in the same manner the incapable descendants of
Merowig are guided by those strong men, Pepin de Heristall,
Karle Martel, etc. The Chua, like a Maire du Palais, is at the
helm, piloting the state, while the Bua, a true Roi fainéant, re-
mains locked in his palace, appearing in public only once a year.
Li-ouey Tan, who died in 1597, was succeeded by Li-ouey Sin,
who is probably the same as Kin-tong, (1600-1609). The son of
Divers Voyages et Missions du P. Alexandre de Rhodes en la Chine, &
autres Royaumes de l'Orient, p. 83.

138 A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
the Son of Heaven. The Chinese decline to give him the titles he
has a right to in official correspondence; his subjects dislike him as
a despot; and his mandarins, who treat his orders with contempt
(witness Nguyên Tri-phuong), plot daily against his life.
We have seen a fertile country, watered by a stream which af
fords an easy way of utilizing, not only its products, but also those
of the neighbouring provinces of China; we have seen that Tong-
king is a nation conquered by despots, who have tried and are
trying to force upon its inhabitants unpopular and antinational
habits and customs; we have seen that that portion of the native
population so little mixed with popular risings, when itself is not
interfered with,-the Christians and the ministers of their religion,
persecuted in a barbarous manner; we have seen in short a
country oppressed, and ready to accept a new master who will free
it from the tyranny of an old one.
How the third expedition of Mr. Dupuis was conducted; what
share in it the French government had; how from a private enter-
prise, the Tong-king expedition rose to the importance of a national
question; how the conquest of the country was undertaken, made
and lost, we have now to show; which is the object of the chief
part of this paper.
negotiations.
NARRATIVE.
Adiniral Dupré's In the Treaty signed at Saigon on the 5th of June
1862, by the representatives of the French empire, Spain, and the
king of Annam, it had been especially mentioned that three ports,
Tourane, Balat and Quang-an were to be opened up to foreign
trade, and that the Christian religion was to be tolerated through-
out Tu-duc's empire. The intrigues and the bad faith of the An-
namites led, in June 1867, Vice-Admiral De la Grandière to annex
to the other French possessions in Lower Cochin-china+ the three
western provinces of Vinh-long, Chau-doc and Ha-tien.
The Treaty of Saigon was signed on behalf of France by Rear-Admiral
Louis Adolphe Bonard, of Spain by Colonel Carlos Palanca Gutierrez, of
Annam by Phan Tanh-gian, Vice-Great-Censor and President of the Board
of Rites, and Lam Gien-thiep, President of the Board of War.
+ The provinces of Gia-dinh (Saigon), Dình-tuong (My-tho) and Bion
hoa, and the island Pulo-Condor.

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
139
Tu-due had not profited in the least by this harsh lesson; in-
trigues continued, Christians were persecuted as heretofore, no
ports were opened up, and the court of Hué, like the court of
Peking, seemed to forget entirely the articles of a treaty exacted
by the ultima ratio regum.
Early in 1872, Rear-Admiral Dupré, the then governor of
French Cochin-china, asked the Annamite authorities to send am-
bassadors to Saigon, to give explanations regarding the ill-treat-
ment of Christians; and he threatened that, if refused he would
himself enforce the execution of the treaty. He was told that two
ambassadors would be soon appointed; but three months later,
Tu-duc's ministers announced to the Admiral that the Superin-
tendent of trade, one of the chosen envoys, was very ill, and that
the embassy was postponed on account of this mishap. Pressed
again by Admiral Dupré, the Annamite government finally replied
that, it had selected as its representative to Saigon, a man who
could not fail to be agreeable to the governor, as he was no other
than the high royal commissioner Li of Quang-yen, who had already
had relations with the French officials. As a matter of course the
departure of Li was also delayed.
in Paris.
We have seen that Dupuis had come back from his
second journey to Yun-nan, as the agent of Ma,t the titu or
"general commanding in chief" in the province, bringing with
him large contracts for arms and an order to recruit drill instructors
for the imperial troops.
In February, 1872, Dupuis' representative Mr. E. Millot (of the
firm of Millot & Co., Shanghai) had an opportunity of explaining
his plans to Rear-Admiral Krantz, chef du cabinet of the Navy
department, who obtained for him an audience from the minister
Vice Admiral Pothunu. Dupuis asked that, as there was no re-
gular communication with Annam, a passage should be granted to
him on board a gun-boat, to go to Hué and obtain from the An-
namite government, permission to cross Tong-king with the arms
and ammunition that he had been instructed by the Chinese to
purchase; Annam, a country tributary to the Middle kingdom,
could not refuse, the request.
He was appointed governor on the 15th of January, 1871, and took
charge on the 1st of April, 1871.
† Ma is a Mohammedan.
At present acting as Governor of Cochin-china, vice Admiral Dupré, but
officially commanding the China station.

140
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
Perceiving a favourable opportunity to increase French influence
in Tong-king, but hampered by home affairs, and fearing that
unexpected difficulties might create bad feelings between France
and the court of Hué, the minister could not assist Dupuis to the
extent he wished; however, under date of April 9th, 1872, the
Directeur des Colonies wrote to the bold trader: "J'ai l'honneur
de vous informer, que j'écris au gouverneur p. i. de la Cochin-chine
Française, en l'invitant à vous prêter le concours que vous réclamez,
s'il ne doit résulter aucun inconvénient pour les intérêts dont il a
la sauvegarde."
Mr. Dupuis
third voyage
to Yun-nan
Messrs. Dupuis and Millot having returned to Saigon,
it was arranged that the dispatch-boat (aviso à va-
peur) Bourayne, Capt. Senez, should go to Tong-king to afford
them protection in case of need. They however started alone from
Hongkong, as it was thought that by going to Hué under the
French flag, they might be considered less as representatives of
the Chinese authorities than as French political agents.
The Bourayne left Saigon on the 5th of October, 1872.
Two British gun-boats, the Firm and the Cockchafer were pur-
chased in Shanghai, and transferred to the French flag under the
names of Hoong-kiang and Lao-kay.
After everything had been prepared, Dupuis left Hongkong on
the 26th of October, 1872, at 6 o'clock a.m., his fleet being com-
posed of, the Lao-hay, Capt. D'Argence (formerly an officer in
the service of the Messageries Maritimes Co.), towing a steam
launch, and the Hoong-kiang, Capt. Vlavianos (formerly under
Messrs. Giquel and D'Aiguebelle), towing a Chinese junk (400
tons) with coal and artillery. Including Messrs. Dupuis and Millot,
the expedition numbered twenty-three Europeans and ninety-six
Asiatics-Malays, Chinese and Japanese.
They called at several places, notably the island of San-cian
the burial-place of St. Francis Xavier, and at Hai-nan. There
they were very well received by the Chinese mandarins,-to whom
they exhibited the official documents showing the object of their
mission, and were allowed to store their coal in the citadel at
Hoi-chow.
After a pretty long trip, Dupuis reached the Bourayne at Cua-
cam on the 9th of November. The Bourayne had arrived on the
30th of October, but Capt. Senez had gone to Hà-nôi to examine
some of the branches through which the Song-koï falls into the

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
141
sea. We have elsewhere mentioned this exploring tour.* On the
way from Saigon, the Bourayne had been attacked by pirates in
the China sea; and from the 21st to the 28th of October took place
the fights which resulted in the destruction of an immense number
of piratical junks and the subsequent promotion of Capt. Senez to
higher rank.+
When Capt. Senez came back to his vessel, he sent a message
to Dupuis on November 16th, who had gone to the southernmost
mouth of the Song-koï, inviting him to return as soon as possible,
to be introduced to the high royal commissioner Li, who had the
military command of the provinces of Quang-yen, Haï-dzong and
Hung-yen.
Dupuis reached the Bourayne on the 18th. On the 19th Li
came from Quang-yen, and the object of the expedition was ex-
plained to him; the official Chinese documents belonging to Dupuis
were shown to him, but though he acknowledged that everything
was in order, he said he preferred referring the matter to Hué for
instructions.
On the 4th of December no answer had been received from Hué;
in fact a delay of several months was hinted by Li as likely to
occur before any reply would be sent. Dupuis then decided to
continue his journey without waiting any longer. He therefore.
wrote to commissioner Li, that as the water at Cua-cam was very
bad (saumâtre), he would go up the river.
After vainly attempting to discover a channel, the water being
very low, Dupuis finally found the way to the Red river, which
the expedition entered on the 18th of December at 11. 45 a.m.,
with a salute of five guns; and the boats stopped at Hung-yen at
1. 20. They left on the following day at 11 a.m., and finally arrived
at Hà-nôi on the 22nd of December at 3. 30 p.m.
There the mandarins assured the travellers that they would do
everything in their power to help them up the river; but under-
hand they were doing their utmost to prevent the hiring of the
boats required.
There also the Bishop of Western Tong-king, Mgr. Puginier,
proved very useful as an adviser to Dupuis.
On the 14th of January, 1873, Dupuis perceiving that through
the bad faith of the mandarins, he was wasting a great deal of
*See Introductory Remarks, supra.
† Capitaine de Vaisseau.

142 A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
time; and that on account of their duplicity he would be unable
to get small craft at Hà-nôi, made up his mind to continue the
journey; but the water being very shallow he was obliged to put
back. At last on the 15th he found the four boats he required,
and started on the 18th taking three of them with him, the steam
launch, and a Chinese interpreter picked up at Haï-dzong, leaving
the remainder of the expedition at Hà-nói under the command of
Mr. Millot. Altogether Dupuis had with him twelve Europeans
and twenty natives.
On the 20th of January Dupuis arrived at Son-tay; which is
the military city of Tong-king, though its citadel is smaller than
the one defending Hà-nôi. The "commander-in-chief," the Tong-
thong, prince Hoang Ke-vien resides there now. There also, was
living Nguyên Tri-phuong, some seventy-two or three years old,
who formerly fought the French at Ki-hoa, surely the most influ-
ential man in Tong-king, surely also the greatest enemy of
foreigners.
Mohammedan
rebellion.
Dupuis passed the last Annamite camp on the 1st of February,
and entered a deserted and mountainous country; reaching the
rebel head-quarters on the 10th of February. The rebels (Yellow
Flags) commanded by a Kwang-se chief named Hoang Tsong-yn
entertained Dupuis till he left their territory on the 14th. Beyond
Hoang Tsong-yn's dominions are those of another chief, Luu Vinh-
phuc (Black Flags), who lives in the city of Lao-kai which was
reached by Dupuis on the 20th of February. At 8 a.m., on the
25th, Dupuis departed from this city, the last in Tong-king.
The end of the Dupuis finally arrived at the great mart of Mang-
hao on the 4th of March. Leaving behind him all
his material, Dupuis started on the 6th of March for the capital,
and he was at Yun-nan fou on the 16th. But there he learned
bad news for his expedition: his arms had arrived rather late,
for the great Mohammedan stronghold, Ta-li, had surrendered on
January 8th, 1873! The capture of the salt-pits, the main source
of the revenue of the rebels, had disheartened them, and was cer-
tainly the chief cause of the fall of the city. Seeing that further
resistance was hopeless, thinking that by his death he would save
his subjects from the horrors of a massacre, the sultan Too Wen-
sio died nobly, poisoning himself and his wives. The gates were
then opened to the Chinese general Yang Hu-kai, and in spite of
the pledge given to the dead sovereign, a dreadful massacre of the
inhabitants took place on the 12th of January. Of their former

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING. 143
possessions, the Mohammedans retained but three cities on the
Burmese frontier, Yun chow, Shuen-ning fou and Ten-yue chom
(ef. with Major Sladen's expedition), which have since also fallen
into the hands of the Chinese.
Dupuis.
Return of Ma, the titų received Dupuis well and gave him an
escort of fifty-five men to accompany him back. He did not how-
ever get all the tin he expected in exchange for his arms, and his
expedition was on that account far from being so great a success
as he had reckoned upon. On the 29th of March Dupuis left
Yun-nan fou with his escort and a hundred and twenty bontmen;
on the 15th of April he reached Mang-hao. He started on his way
back on the 21st of April and arrived at Lao-kai during the evening
of the 26th. The rebel chiefs received him well when he once
more crossed their territory; and at last he was back again at
Hà-nội on the 30th of April.
Hả-nôi
Dupuis at During the absence of Dupuis, Mr. Millot had a great
deal of trouble with the mandarins, who repeatedly tried but in
vain, to frighten him away. Mr. Millot left for Hongkong, where
he arrived on the 26th of June, 1873, with the Lao-kay and a
junk laden with rice.
The old marshal Nguyên Tri-phuong, who had left Son-tay to
reside at Hà-nôi, as soon as he heard that Frenchmen were in
Tong-king, thought the time had come to attack Dupuis. To pre-
vent Dupuis from running away, and to stop any succour that
might come to him, Nguyên Tri-phuong closed the two branches
of the Red river which lead to the sea, and had the river barricaded
above Hà-nôi. Considering his prey secured, he threatened to
burn Dupuis' boats. He had however made the mistake of leaving
open the Song-chi channel,-thinking it too shallow for boats,-
which begins a little above Hà-noi and runs into the Thai-binh
river. Neither did he know that on that Thai-binh river, at Taï-
nguyen, Dupuis had a hundred Chinese soldiers, whom he had en-
listed when they were thrown out of employment and were about
to return to peasant life. Called by their master, these soldiers
soon descended the Thai-binh river, crossed the Song-chi channel
and joined Dupuis' boatmen and escort; the whole of the troops
of the daring merchant making so formidable an array, that the
old warrior dared not attack them openly, though occasional skir-
mishes took place.
* A hundred and twenty from Yun-nan.

144
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
the Annamites and Dupuis.
Admiral Dupré's negotiations with At that time Tu-due's ministers despair-
ing of ever getting rid of Dupuis, wrote a letter about him to
Admiral Dupré. The governor of Saigon then sent through the
Annamite authorities, an order to Dupuis to leave Tong-king forth-
with; telling him that his presence in the country was a great
source of annoyance, and that if the command was not obeyed he
would not consider himself responsible for the consequences.
Dupuis however did not obey the order, and answered, that as he
had neither coal not funds he could not possibly leave the country.
Luckily for him Mr. Millot arrived at Saigon on the 13th of July,
1873. He called on the admiral with a relation of the titu of
Yun-nan and a Chinese mandarin Li, who had accompanied Dupuis
during his third journey. He was warmly received, and was able
to produce such an impression by his arguments, that the governor
suggested a delay of three months in the operations, and assisted
Mr. Millot in obtaining a loan from a bank under the guarantee
of the Colonial Secretary.
Mr. Millot returned to Hongkong and having there purchased
of Messrs. Carlowitz & Co. a small paddle steamer, he named her
the Mang-hao, and dispatched her to Tong-king together with the
Lao-kay, a junk, and ten men from Hupeh on September 5th, 1873.
Soon after the departure of Millot from Saigon, Tu-due sent
two envoys to Admiral Dupré (August, 1873), to tell him that
Dupuis had declined to obey his order. On the admiral telling
them that they ought to have expelled him themselves, they an-
swered that the Annamites were not powerful enough to fight
Dupuis, and concluded by requesting the governor to send a man-
of-war to Tong-king to assist them.
It is evident that then the first idea of the expedition directed
afterwards to Tong-king was suggested to Admiral Dupré, and that
he sent for Garnier. Whatever might have been then the real
object of the governor of Cochin-china, the effect seems to have
been that, by the Annamites the expedition contemplated by the
Admiral might have been considered as sent at their request to
expel Dupuis; by Dupuis, it might have been regarded as a tardy
help to himself.
Lieutenant
François Garnier.
We have elsewhere given a sketch of the career of
this brilliant naval officer.* At the time he was telegraphed for
In the Journal of the North-China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society,
New Series, No. viii, p. 185-7. Marie Joseph François Garnier, alias Francis
Garnier, was born at St. Etienne on the 25th of July, 1839.

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
145
by Admiral Dupré, he had just returned from the journey he had
made to the interior of China to settle some commercial transactions
formerly entered into, and to prepare himself for the exploration
of the sources of the great rivers which flow from Thibet. He did
not go any further than Chung-king in Sze-tchuan, where he
arrived on the 30th of June, 1873, and was back again in Shang-
hai in August. The account of this journey will be found in the
Bulletin de la Société de Géographie of Paris (January, 1874).
Garnier left Shanghai for Saigon on the 16th of August, and having
concerted with Admiral Dupré as to the best way of carrying out
the intended plans, he returned to Shanghai on September 15th to
arrange his private affairs. He departed again by the Messageries
steamer Iraonaddy, twelve days after on Saturday, September
27th, 1873. Little did I think when I gave him a parting grasp,
that I was bidding him farewell for ever, and that four months
later I should have to read an "In memoriam" notice of him.*
Departure of
D'Estries.
Depth The expedition was intended to restore order in
Tong-king, but in what manner nobody knew. Was Dupuis to
be expelled like a. malefactor? Were the Annamites to be sup-
ported? Were they on the contrary to be dispossessed of part of
their country? Nobody knew. Order was to be restored! On
the 10th of October, the Annamite envoys were taken by Admiral
Dupré on board of the D'Estrées, the man-of-war that was to
carry the men sent to accomplish whatever was meant by that
high-sounding but very vague sentence. It was certain that
Garnier had not been selected for an ordinary work; evidently he
was not being employed as a mere lieutenant in the navy: he was
the chief of an army and a diplomatic agent, and called Comman-
dant en chef des forces de terre et de mer des côtes du Tung-king,
Encoyé extraordinaire de la Cochin-chine. This is the man who,
when his lips are closed by death, is to be called an adventurer!
The D'Estrées left Saigon on the 11th of October, towing a
small gun-vessel the Are, with two or three small craft, and a
steam launch. Garnier's small force was composed of thirty men.
belonging to the Are under the command of an ensign Mr. Esmez,
of thirty marines with Mr. De Trentinian as their officer, and of a
medical officer Dr. Chedan. Three days after the departure of the
D'Estrées, the sea being heavy, the Arc which was an old boat,
sunk, fortunately without any loss of life on October 14th.
*Read before this Society on the 13th of February, 1874.
19

146 A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
From the Bay of Turon, Garnier having advised the court of Hué
on October 15th, of his arrival, two mandarins were sent to ac-
company him, and introduce him to the Tong-kingese officials.
The weather being unfavourable, it was not till the 24th of Oc-
tober that the D'Estrées reached Cua-cam. A junk was purchased
to replace the Are, and on the 30th of October at 7. 15 a.m. Gar-
nier left the D'Estrées, with two junks carrying his private se-
cretary Mr. Lasserre, the two mandarins from Hué, an interpreter,
the marines, a gun and provisions. An hour later, Mr. Esmez
started off with Dr. Chedan, the sailors of the Arc, a gun and
provisions.
the Decrès.
Departure of A week before, on the 23rd of October, another man-
of-war, the Deerès had been dispatched from Saigon; she was
towing a gun-vessel the Espingole, originally intended for scientific
explorations. The Decrès arrived near Cua-cam on the 7th of
November; the Espingole left at once with a crew of about twenty-
eight men, a medical attendant Dr. Harmand, and a hydrographer
Mr. Bouillet, under command of an ensign Mr. Balny.
at Ha-nol.
Mr. Garnier Garnier had reached Hà-nôi on the 5th of November.
Dupuis and his Chinese soldiers received Garnier with military
honours when the landing took place: the merchant and the soldier
met for the first time. Without wasting any time Garnier at once
penetrated into the citadel through one of the gates, obliged the
sentries to show him the house of Nguyên Tri-phuong, and an-
nounced himself to the old man as the French governor. Nguyên
Tri-phuong concealed his anger, and offered Garnier quarters in
the native city, which were declined. Garnier,-frustrated in his
hope of being given a house in the citadel, accepted as a residence
the building outside the city, near the south-eastern bastion, used
as the Examination Hall, and known in French official documents.
as the Camp des Lettrés. As soon as Garnier left the citadel, the
gates were closed and the officers who had allowed him to enter
were severely punished.
Garnier at once began to negotiate; he had come at the request
of Tu-due's ministers; he had with him two mandarins sent by the
court of Hué; he had even been told that he should meet at Hà-noi
a minister plenipotentiary with whom he could treat. The mi-
nister plenipotentiary had arrived, but the omnipotent Nguyên
Tri-phuong had entirely ignored him. The old man said that Gar-
nier had been sent, not to make a commercial treaty, but merely
to expel Dupuis.

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
147
On the day of his arrival, Garnier issued his first proclamation:
-He is, he says, sent by France-at the request of the Annamites,
who have been asking at Saigon for help,-and his mission is to
destroy the pirates who attack vessels on the coast, to facilitate
commerce with Tong-king. The following is the translation:-
proclamation.
Garnier's first "Le représentant du noble royaume de France,
Garnier, fait savoir à tous les habitants que, les mandarins du noble
royaume Annamite étant venus à Saigon demander assistance,
l'amiral nous a envoyés au Tong-king pour voir comment les choses
s'y passaient. De plus ici, au Tong-king, les côtes sont désolées
par de nombreux pirates qui font beaucoup de ravages; nous avons
l'intention de pourchasser ces bandits, afin que tous les habitants
de ces lieux puissent en paix vaquer à leurs affaires.
"Quant à nos soldats, si quelqu'un d'entre eux commet quelque
acte repréhensible, que l'on vienne porter plainte, et nous ne man-
querons pas de faire justice.
"Tout peuple se laisse facilement entrainer par les exemples de
vertu; pour nous, en parlant au peuple, nous n'avons en vue que
la vertu. Populations du Tong-king, il faut bien vous convaincre
d'une chose, c'est que les mandarins et soldats Français sont unis
avec les mandarins et soldats Annamites comme des frères entre
eux. En conséquence, nous désirons procurer au Tong-king la
facilité de faire le commerce, et par là lui apporter la richesse et
la paix. Telles sont nos intentions; nous les faisons connaitre à
vous tous, mandarins, soldats et populations du Tong-king."
Scorpion.
Departure of the In the mean time, Admiral Dupré apprised of the
loss of the Are, sent the gun-boat Scorpion to replace her, com-
manded by lieutenant Pougin de Maisonneuve, who arrived at
Cua-cam on the 8th of November.
Two days later (10th November) Mr. Dupuis' steamer Mang-hao
brought a letter from Mr. Garnier to the Captain of the Decrès,
Mr. Testard du Cosquer, in which reinforcements were asked.
On the following day (11th November) the Scorpion, followed
some hours later by the Mang-hao went up the Cam river. The
Mang-hao carried a medical man Dr. Dubut, sixty men commanded
by an ensign Mr. Bain, and three midshipmen Messrs. Haute-
feuille, Perrin and Bouxin. On the same day also the D'Estrées
left for Hongkong.
The Espingole and Mang-hao reached Hà-nôi on the 12th of
November, and the Scorpion on the following day. On the 14th
*She had run aground; hence the delay.

148
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
lieutenant Pougin de Maisonneuve, and his two officers Messrs.
Payen and Ratomski,-their time of service having expired,-left
for the Decrès in Dupuis' steam launch, the Sox-tay, Messrs.
Garnier, Esmez and Bouxin replacing them.
army.
Garnier's Thus the whole of the forces of the French on the 14th
of November, 1873, not including Dupuis' were:-the Espingole:
MM. Balny, Harmand and Bouillet, with twenty-eight men; the
Scorpion: MM. Garnier, Esmez and Bouxin, with fifty men; the
detachment from the Decrès, MM. Bain, Hautefeuille, Perrin and
Dubut, with sixty men; the thirty marines of Mr. De Trentinian;
Dr. Chedan and Mr. Lasserre, private secretary to Garnier;
altogether a hundred and eighty-one men to pacify Tong-king!
On the 19th of November, Garnier published a second procla-
mation, to make known the conditions of the intended treaty of
commerce under French protection; the time he had given Ngu-
yên Tri-phuong to communicate with the court of Hué had expired;
he resolved upon attacking the citadel on the following day.
of Hà-nol.
The citadel It would require the knowledge of an engineer officer
to describe accurately the citadel of Hà-noi,-for it is the work of
foreign engineers, the French officers brought by the Bishop of
Adran to Cochin-china to help Gia-long,-and the skill of a colonel
Hamley to render attractive the dry and technical terms used in
fortification.
The part of Hà-nôi where the citadel is built is somewhat higher
than the other quarters of the city, the ground rising gently from
the bank of the Song-koï to a height of about a hundred and eighty
feet above the level of the sea. A brick wall about three feet
thick and twelve feet high, comprising twelve bastions connected
by curtains, surround the citadel, which forms a perfect quadrila-
teral, of some three thousand six hundred feet on each side.
This wall is supported by a terre-plein, which at places rises gra-
dually from the interior of the citadel, while at others its inner
side falls perpendicularly; the height of the terre-plein varies also
a great deal, for in some places the besieged can be hidden entirely
behind the upper part of the wall, while in others they are half
seen from outside. Inside the citadel the houses of the governor,
the quan-bo, the quan-an and other high officials have been.
built; there also are situated the Hall of Ceremonies, which
Garnier used for his abode afterwards, the gaol and the powder-
magazine; several extensive ponds are also seen.

150
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
defenders of the place, contributed to a great extent to the success
of the day. Dupuis himself,-though Garnier had declined his
offer of services, was taking a share in the fight, and his soldiers
having managed (with one killed) to scale the eastern gate, the
nearest to the city, they entered the citadel first and dispersed for
pillage. Garnier, however gave strict orders to stop all disorder,
and by seven o'clock the citadel being entirely in his hands, he sent
back all the troops to the Camp des Lettrés except the marines.
Some two hundred natives had been killed or wounded, while
Garnier had not a single casualty to report. A great number of
officials were made prisoners; including the envoy from the court
of Hué, who had been overruled by the great marshal, the governor
of Hà-nôi, the two sons of Phan Tanh-gian,* who had not fol-
lowed the example of their father, a minister most friendly to
France, and Nguyen Tri-phuong himself.
The great marshal was found, by Dr. Harmand it is said, con-
cealed in a house where he had taken refuge after receiving a
wound in the thigh while he was running to the defence of the
south-eastern gate. The wound was not dangerous, but Nguyen
Tri-phuong had lost his son during the attack, his old foes had once
more vanquished him, and with hopes frustrated, disgusted with
life, he declined to be attended to, lingered for a month, and finally
died of starvation on the 20th of December, the day before his
victor.
Garnier's
proclamation.
On the same day Garnier wrote to Saigon, to announce the capture
of the citadel and to ask for reinforcements. In order to quiet the
population, already surprised that no massacre had taken place
after the fight, Garnier also issued the following proclamation:-
"Le représentant du noble royaume de France, com-
mandant l'expédition, le grand mandarin Garnier, fait savoir à tous
les habitants que, envoyés au Tong-king par l'amiral, pour ouvrir
une voie au commerce, dans l'intérêt et pour la richesse des habi-
tants de ce pays, nous n'avions nullement l'intention de nous em-
parer du pays et de le soumettre à notre domination, ce qui ferait
peser de graves soupçons sur nous. Mais les mandarins de Hà-nôi,
sans nul souci de l'intérêt des populations, n'ayant cessé de nous
tendre des embûches et des piéges, et ayant agi à notre égard avec
déloyauté sur une foule de points, nous n'avons pu tolérer plus
longtemps leur conduite. Après mûr examen, et après avoir épuisé
* He signed the treaty of 1862 on behalf of Anuam.

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
151
tous les autres moyens, nous nous sommes donc emparés de la ci-
tadelle et en avons chassé tous ces mandarins qui n'ont aucun
amour du peuple et n'ont d'autre souci que de s'emparer de ses
biens en le saignant jusqu'à la moelle des os; le châtiment que
nous leur avons infligé est encore bien au-dessous de leurs crimes.
Nous sommes donc venus par ordre de l'amiral, pour vous tirer de
l'état d'isolement où vous végêtiez; nous n'avons pas l'intention de
changer vos usages ou de nous emparer de vos biens, nous vous
considérons comme des frères, et nous appliquerons toutes nos
forces à faire votre bonheur.
"Pour ce qui concerne les commerçants, soit dans l'intérieur du
royaume, soit à l'étranger, ils pourront être tranquilles et n'auront
plus à craindre d'être molestés, car il y aura un traité de paix qui
nous engagera réciproquement. En disposant les choses de la
sorte nous avons en vue vos intérêts, car jusqu'ici vous étiez asservis
sous un joug tyrannique, et nous vous en avons délivrés.
"Maintenant, que les gens capables de gouverner le peuple
viennent nous offrir leurs services, et nous les accepterons et leur
donnerons des postes à occuper. Pour la manière de gouverner,
nous la règlerons de concert; de pareilles fonctions sont impor-
tantes, mais faciles à remplir, alors la paix la plus parfaite règnera
parmi vous.
"Nous laisserons en place tous les mandarins des sous-pré-
fecture (phu) et des bailliages (huyên) qui nous feront leur soumis-
sion. Pour ceux qui ne voudraient pas nous reconnaître et se
retireraient, nous les remplacerons par des hommes prudents et
sachant prendre les intérêts du peuple.
"Nous n'avons aucunement l'intention de nous emparer du
Tong-king et de chasser les mandarins; nous choisirons seulement
des hommes du pays pour mettre à la tête du peuple, puis nous
recommanderons au roi et aux mandarins de traiter le peuple comme
un père traite ses enfants. Nous récompenserons dignement tous
ceux qui nous auront rendu quelque service. Tous les mandarins
que nous aurons nommés seront maintenus en place et ne seront
inquiétés en nulle façon.
"Que tous les sous-préfets et baillis veillent à ce que rien ne
trouble la tranquillité publique. Quant aux villages qui seraient
incendiés, ou auraient subi quelque dommage, qu'ils attendent l'ar-
rivée des nouveaux mandarins, qui rendront les chefs de canton
responsables de ces désastres.

152
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
"Que les lettrés restent tranquilles chacun dans son village, et
qu'ils ne s'avisent pas de se révolter. Que dans les marchés on
continue à commercer comme auparavant et qu'il n'y ait de trouble
nulle part.
"Après la publication de cet édit si quelque bande ose encore
inquiéter et piller le peuple, nous en tirerons un châtiment exem-
plaire.
"Telle est notre volonté.
"Le deuxième jour du dixième mois de l'année Qui-dau."
Hai-dzong.
Many of the mandarins had declined Garnier's offer to
keep them in office provided they would recognize his authority.
As they might have created disturbances in the places where they
were retiring, it was necessary to occupy the chief cities of the
country.
The very day after the capture of Hà-nôi, the detachment of
the Decrès occupied a small village situated at a distance of five
miles westward, named Phu-hoai, which was garrisoned two days
later with two hundred Annamites recruited by Garnier.
On the 23rd of November, Mr. Balny left with the Espingole
and fifteen marines. He had to carry Garnier's instructions to the
mandarins of Fou-li; these officers were to accept the new order
of things and to protect commerce. At the request of Mgr. Pugi-
nier no mention was made of Christians. There were also rumours
that Annamite troops were marching from the south and Balny was
to occupy Fou-li.
As he went down the river, the mandarins of Hung-yen came
to him to make their submission (25th November). After passing
Fou-li, Balny went to Hal-dzong, a very important citadel on the
Thai-binh river, which, with the help of his brave officers Mr. De
Trentinian and Dr. Harmand, he carried by a bold coup de main
on the 4th of December.
Ninh-binh.
Capture of On the 1st of December, Garnier despatched a steam
launch under command of Mr. Hautefeuille, with instruction to
Mr. Balny, who had not been heard of for several days and was
supposed to be at Fou-li, and to ask the submission of the governors
of Nam-dinh and Ninh-binh.
Near Ninh-binh the boiler of the steam launch became unser-
viceable, and Hautefeuille was obliged to run the small craft ashore.
Unable to come back, he made the de-doc (general) a prisoner,
attacked the citadel of Ninh-binh with his seven men, and,-
incredible to say,-took the place on December 5th.

Capture of
Nam-dinh.
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
153
Garnier himself left Hà-ndi on the 4th of December
on board the Scorpion, with Mr. Esmez and about seventy men
in addition to the crew. At a distance of a few miles he took the
ground in the river, and it was not till the 6th that he could re-
sume his expedition. During the evening of the Sth he arrived
at Ninh-binh, where having found Hautefeuille in possession of
the citadel, he left on the 9th, and continued to descend the Song-
kol towards Nam-dinh.
At about three miles from Nam-dinh the progress of his vessel
was stopped by some mud forts. For several minutes Garnier
stood on the bridge of the Scorpion, coolly waiting till the fire had
abated, but soon seizing his opportunity he landed his men and
shortly after the forts were in his power.
On the following day (10th of December), Garnier reached
Nam-dinh. The governor, well aware of the fate of Hà-nói and
Hai-dzong, had walled the gates and placed guns on the ramparts.
But the dashing ardour of men hitherto successful could not easily
be checked, and Nam-dinh, attacked at 10 a.m. on three different
sides, fell into the hands of Garnier, two of his men being slightly
wounded during the fight.
After the taking of Nam-dinh, another proclamation was circu-
lated by Garnier, and as the document throws some light on the
events, I also reproduce it here:-
Proclamation
of Garnier.
"Le grand mandarin Français, envoyé plénipoten-
tiaire, Garnier, fait savoir à tous ce qui suit:
"Il y a déjà longtemps que la France et l'Annam sont unis par
un traité de paix, et que des relations commerciales existent entre
les deux royaumes. Le mois dernier, je fus envoyé par l'amiral,
ici au Tong-king, pour me concerter avec les mandarins, et ouvrir
un débouché au commerce de ce pays; c'était d'ailleurs l'intention
du roi lui-même. Notre unique but en nous rendant à Hà-nôi,
était done de nous entendre avec les mandarins et de prendre soin
des intérêts du peuple. Mais le grand mandarin Nguyên Tri-
phuong et les autres mandarins de la province firent traîner les
choses en longueur, et nous tendirent toutes sortes d'embûches et
de piéges pour amener notre ruine. Poussés à tout, nous fumes
obligés de nous emparer de la citadelle. Après que la tranquillité
eut été rétablie, j'avais l'intention de me rendre ici, à Nam-dinh,
pour voir les mandarins de la province et m'entendre avec eux au
sujet de la liberté du commerce, et de l'extermination des pirates
et bandits de toute sorte; alors les populations auraient pu jouir
20

154 A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
de la paix. Mais lorsque nous sommes passés devant les forts de
Phu-sa, de Thuy et de Than-thuong, les soldats de ces forts ont,
je ne sais pour quel motif, tenté de nous arrêter, ce qui nous a
forcés à nous battre. Le désastre qui a suivi retombe donc tout
entier sur les mandarins de Nam-dinh, qui ont été cause que nous
nous sommes emparés de la citadelle. Nous vous l'expliquons pour
vous tranquilliser.
"Nous ordonnons à tous les notables Annamites et commerçants
Chinois qui sont dans la ville, d'avoir à se rendre à la citadelle
aujourd'hui à midi, pour recevoir nos ordres: nous leur assurons
qu'ils n'ont rien à craindre. Nous donnons trois jours à tous les
sous-préfets (quan-phu) et baillis (quan-huyên) de la province pour
faire leur soumission, ou pour donner leur démission par la livrai-
son de leur sceau; sinon nous les considérerons comme ennemis et
les traiterons comme tels. Les chefs et sous-chefs de canton
(caï-tong, pho'-tong) et les maires (ly-truong) continueront à ad-
ministrer en paix, jusqu'à ce que nous leur ayons distribué de nou-
veaux cachets (sceaux); mais, si quelqu'un d'entre eux se permet
de vexer le peuple comme autrefois, nous le jugerons en conseil
de guerre.
"Que chacun reste tranquille chez soi; s'il y a des rassemble-
ments, si des malfaiteurs troublent la paix publique, soit sur terre
soit sur eau, nous les ferons saisir et fusiller sur-le-champ.
"Nous donnons trois jours aux bandes armées pour venir livrer
leurs armes; ceux qui ne l'auront pas fait passeront en conseil de
guerre. Que chacun attache la plus grande importance à nos or-
dres et observe nos prescriptions; car nous punirons les coupables
d'une manière exemplaire, et personne ne pourra se plaindre de
n'avoir pas été averti.
"Telle est notre proclamation."
Troubles at
HA-nol.
medies Hà-nổi, Hung-yen, Hai-dzong, Ninh-binh and Nam-
dinh, in short all the important cities which command the delta
of the Song-koï had been captured within a month by some nine
score men, and a country numbering millions of inhabitants was
quietly submitting to a handful of plucky soldiers. Seldom has
such a rapid conquest been made,-never has such a fine oppor-
tunity been wasted.
By occupying the fortresses situated on the delta of the Song-
kol, Garnier had evidently in view to keep free communication
with the sea-board; but during his absence, the storm that was to
cut short his triumphant career was gathering. He had not

156 A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
at Hué sent onward the troops available. Indeed these orders were
partly executed, for some bodies of soldiers went as far as the pro-
vince of Thanh-hoa. Tu-duc's wrath was, however, soon succeeded
by fear. He wrote to Saigon giving full powers to his ambassadors to
sign a treaty of commerce; and to be safer still, he sent two envoys
to Garnier, also invested with full powers, with Mgr. Sohier as an
interpreter. The bishop hnd preceded the ambassador and having
met Garnier arrived with him, as we have said in the Espingole.
Hoang Ke-vien (of Son-tay) always plotting against the French,
had increased his army with troops recalled from the north where
they were fighting with the rebels. At the same time an inter-
necine war raging between the rebels, gave him also unexpected
auxiliaries.
thern Tong-king.
The rebels of nor- It will be remembered that when Dupuis went to
Yun-nan, he crossed the territories occupied by two rebel chiefs,
and it is important now that I should explain exactly who they
were.
Some years ago, in 1864, one of the lieutenants of the celebrated
chief of the Kwang-si rebellion, Tien-te, was driven from China
to Tong-king by the imperial troops. His name was Ou Tsong;
he pillaged the country and came down as far as Song-koï, stop-
ping on the banh opposite to Hà-nôi.
He was pursued by the Chinese general Fung, obliged to beat
a hasty retreat to the mountains near Yun-nan, and dying there,
he left his troops under the command of Luu Vinh-phuc and
Hoang Anh (Hoang Tsong-yn). They attacked together Lao-
kay, and took it after a siege that lasted two years.
Luu Vinh-phuc remained at Lao-kay, but having tried to ap-
propriate to himself the whole of the revenue derived from the
conquest, Hoang Tsong-yn established himself lower down on the
Red river, fixing his head-quarters at Ko-yang in the north, on
the watercourse called by Dupuis Rivière claire, to prevent his
former friend, now his deadly enemy, from having any intercourse
with Tong-king. His troops were known as the Hoang-ky (the
Yellow Flags), in contradistinction to the followers of Luu Vinh-
phuc, called the Hac-ky (He-ky, "Black flags)," though they in-
cluded also soldiers carrying white banners.
It happened that while Garnier was conquering Tong-king the
Hoang-ky inflicted a severe defeat upon their adversaries; and
having surrounded their camps, obliged part of them to escape to
Lao-kay, and others to descend the Song-kot and take refuge in

158
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
some six or seven hundred feet from the fortress is seen a narrow
path, higher than the adjoining fields, known as the city enceinte;
into this path, almost opposite the west gate, but more to the south
runs a small road which leads to Phu-hoai, and at a distance of
about eighteen hundred feet from its beginning crosses a thicket,
the importance of which will be known better hereafter. About
three miles further another road traverses the Phu-hoai road; it
is also an offshoot of the city path and might be considered the
are of a circle; the Phu-hoaï road being the cliord limiting the
segment. On this road or path, which for the better understanding"
of the narrative, I will henceforth call the circular road, there is
also a grove of bamboos enclosing some cottages; and this was the
spot attacked by Garnier himself,-the very spot where the unfor-
tunate commander fell to rise no more. In the absence of pencil
or chalk, it is difficult to bring forcibly before one's listeners the
topography of a country, but I hope that the main features of the
environs of the citadel of Hà-nôi will have been indicated clearly
enough by the description I have attempted to give, for the com-
prehension of the eventful 21st of December.
The 21st of De
cember, 1873,
The day which was to mark the beginning of a new
period in the history of the occupation of Tong-king,-a period of
decline after one of success,-a period of humiliation after one of
glory, the day during which the chief of the expedition was to
fall a victim to treason and to his own temerity, was Sunday, the
21st of December, 1873, the most memorable date in the short
space of time, so crowded with events,-which extends from
October, 1873 to January, 1874.
After hearing divine service at 8 o'clock, the officers were talking
of the cessation of arms and of the early settlement of affairs, and
Mr. Garnier had gone to see the ambassador, when at 10 o'clock,
the interpreters came in great haste to announce that Hoang Ke-
vien's troops (Annamites and Hac-ky) were attacking the citadel.
While Mr. Garnier was being informed of the attack, Mr. Perrin
repaired with two men to the western bastions, whence he saw
numerous bodies of Chinese and Annamites, who under the shelter
of houses and bamboo groves, were firing at the gate from a dis-
tance of about six hundred feet. Mr. Garnier, who,-thinking
that the attack was from several sides,-had in the mean time or-
dered Mr. Bain to go with some men to the north, arrived some
time after with a dozen men at the same spot, and sent Mr. Perrin
for a gun. Ten minutes after the gun was placed on the south-

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
159
western gate, and Mr. Perrin, left in charge of it, received orders.
to fire on the enemy, while Garnier himself went to prepare a
sortie.
The commander of the Espingole, ensign Balny, who at the time
of the alarm was in the citadel with his brother officers, had rushed
to his vessel to obtain reinforcements, and soon after he was seen
with his small troop of twelve men following the southern wall
and passing the ditch of the fortress.
Before the well-directed fire from the south-western gate, the An-
namites had gradually fallen back to the high path which serves
as the boundary of the city to the westward, and there dividing
themselves in two lines, some continued to fire in retreating on
the Phu-hoaï road, while others turning to the right took the city
road.
Balny began at once to pursue the enemy, while the shells of
the fortress passing over his troop, were scattering the Annamites
with great havoc. During the same time Garnier had organized
his party, and sallied out from the south-eastern gate with eighteen
men and a gun.
Balny pursued the enemy to a small grove on the Phu-hoaï road,
some two thousand five hundred feet from the citadel, and was
there lost sight of, on account of a depression of the road; the fire
of the south-western gun was then directed to the first wood, si-
tuated on the road which leads from the city path to the Phu-hoal
road, after describing a sort of semicircle.
Towards that spot Garnier was bending his course; he was
marching at the head of his men, in a careless and excited manner;
before reaching the city path he left behind him the gun with two
men and the master-at-arms of the Decrès,-a great mistake, since
the gun was rendered useless while Garnier's men were in front
of it.
The gun of the south-western gate was firing all the time on
the wood of the circular road, and had Garnier used his own gun,
the place would have been entirely cleared of the enemy; but his
march onward again prevented the citadel gun from continuing
to fire. It was also unfortunate, that the men were allowed to
stray among the bushes and behind the houses in search of the
Annamites. As the event proved, this mistake was fatal to the
commander himself. Garnier could be seen leading the skirmish
with his men armed with bayonets. Luckily and contrary to Gar-
nier's supposition the citadel had been attacked only on one side,

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING. 161
might be his reward, marching by their side was danger,-and
that danger might assume in this case the awful form of death.
On the day before he sallied forth to meet his fate, when he heard
of the death of the great marshal, he ordered that the body of that
official be put into a coffin, and that the imposing ceremonies,-
the inseparable accompaniment of the funeral of a high Asiatic
official, be postponed till the negotiations had been finished and
tranquillity restored, adding mournfully: "Wait to see if I am not
the one who is to be buried first." The south-eastern gate through
which Garnier entered triumphantly, hardly a month before, was
also the gate he passed to encounter death,-was also the gate
through which his headless body was carried to its resting-place.
All was not lost yet for Balny was ahead,-Balny was evidently
dispersing the enemy; vain hopes! Balny had been running after
the Annamites on the Phu-hoai road as far as a temple built at
the junction of that path and of the circular road, about three miles
from the citadel. When he reached the temple, the fate of the
commander of the expedition was certainly known; his head had
perhaps already reached the adversaries of Balny; for when the
young ensign, like Garnier, marching at the head of his troop,
followed a long way off by the Annamite contingent, reached the
temple, he met some thirty or forty Chinamen, who, far from re-
treating, came boldly to him. Balny was heard to fire the six
shots of his revolver; he then drew his sword but at that time he
was seen to fall backwards while a shot killed a quartermaster at
his side named Sorre. The rest of the troop, took refuge behind
the temple. The Chinese having retired, Dr. Chedan led his com-
panions (two of them wounded) back to the citadel, picking up on
the way, near the grove, the body of Bonifay also headless.
By two o'clock everybody had returned to the fortress, but the
little army had been fearfully decimated: Garnier, Balny, Dagorne,
Sorre and Bonifay had lost their lives; six others had been
wounded, including the head gunner of the south-western battery,
who received a shot but was not seriously injured.
The three bishops, Mgr. Puginier of Western Tong-king, Mgr.
Sohier of Hué, and Mgr. Colomer (Spanish) of Eastern Tong-king,
were present. The news of the death of Garnier was carefully
concealed from the natives, and in anticipation of a new attack,
* It is probable that Garnier was killed between 11.30 a.m. and noon,
Balny between noon and 12.50 p.m.
21

m
A. NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
163
6th of that month that the five heads, after being carried in
triumph through all the cities of Tong-king, were restored.
The Scorpion* finally arrived at noon on the 25th, with the
troops brought to Cua-cam from Saigon by the Decrès (Captain
Testard du Cosquer).
command.
Mr. Esmez in On the day after his arrival Mr. Esmez set hard at
work. He sent the Espingole to Nam-dinh to help Dr. Harmand
in case of need, and began negotiating with the ambassadors. By
his energy he had obtained very favourable terms, and the follow-
ing convention was about to be signed, when on the 31st Decem-
ber the news came that Mr. Philastre, Inspecteur des affaires
indigènes, and two Annamite envoys had arrived at Cua-cam from
Saigon, with orders that all negotiations should be suspended, and
that the cities of Nam-dinh and Ninh-binh were to be immediately
evacuated. Mr. Esmez did not obey the last part of the order,
rightly thinking that it was decidedly against the interest of the
expedition. What had happened?
The following is the document referred to:-
Mr. Esmez'
Convention. "Convention passée entre les ambassadeurs de la noble
cour, Tran Dinh-tue, Nguyên Trong-hiep;
"Et M. Esmez (Charles-Adalbert), enseigne de vaisseau, com-
mandant politique au Tong-king:
"L'Amiral gouverneur, en nous envoyant au Tong-king, était
animé des intentions les plus pacifiques. Il n'avait d'autre but
que de conclure, à l'avantage des deux gouvernements, un traité
de commerce devant ouvrir aux richesses des provinces Chinoises
un débouché accessible à tous.
"La marche des évènements a pris malheureusement, sous l'ins-
piration de Nguyên Tri-phuong, dont les vieilles haines égarèrent
la haute raison, une tournure telle qu'il est à craindre que les
bonnes intentions du gouverneur vis-à-vis de la noble cour ne
soient modifiées.
"Des troupes Chinoises, à la solde du corps expéditionnaire de
Son-tây, sont venues nous attaquer dans la citadelle de Hà-nôi,
et aujourd'hui nous apprenons que des troupes viennent d'arriver,
ce qui semblerait indiquer que l'on veut encore combattre.
"La juste colère du governeur serait grande si, en apprenant
ces choses, il n'apprenait en même temps que les envoyés ont
secondé nos tentatives pour rétablir la tranquilité du pays un
*The Scorpion which left Hà-nôi on the 14th December, did not reach
Cua-cam till the 20th, having taken ground several times.

164
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
instant troublée, et donner autant que possible satisfaction aux
justes réclamations que nous élevions depuis si longtemps.
"Plus fortes que jamais, nous vous offrons encore aujourd'hui
de tout traiter à l'amiable, comme il convient à deux gouverne-
ments voisins qui s'estiment et veulent s'entr'aider. Mais il faut
que tout se fasse sincèrement et le plus vite possible. Nos reven-
dications sont dictées par la justice et la plus simple raison. Il ne
peut y avoir là rien qui arrête un esprit droit et sûr.
"Nous demandons et, si l'on nous y force, nous exigerons:
"Article 1.-Le Tong-king est ouvert au commerce Français,
Espagnol, Chinois et Annamite, comme il a déjà été dit dans les
précedentes proclamations.
"Article 2.-Les bateaux circuleront tranquillement, sans avoir
à redouter aucune entrave de la part des mandarins.
"Article 3.-Toute troupe, quelle qu'elle soit, se retirera de
l'autre côté du Hat-giang.
"Article 4.-Toute troupe de la capitale sera retirée entre le
Hat-giang et la mer, et il ne sera conservé que les milices indi-
gènes nécessaires aux différents services administratifs.
"Article 5.-Les têtes et les corps des cinq Français morts lors
de l'attaque de la citadelle de Hà-nôi, seront rapportées dans le
plus bref délai.
"Article 6.-Un mandarin dûment accrédité sera envoyé dans
chacune des citadelles occupées par les Français, auprès de l'officier
commandant, qui lui rendra le service administratif.
"Article 7.-Il sera pourvu aussitôt par le mandarin aux va-
cances laissées parmi les fonctionnaires du pays, afin que la tran-
quillité lui soit immédiatement rendue.
"Article 8.-Aucun des fonctionnaires nommés depuis les der-
niers évènements, à cause de la fuite des anciens mandarins inu-
tilement invités à rester, ne sera changé sans une enquête faite de
concert avec les officiers Français et les mandarins de Hà-nôi.
"Article 9.-Les populations requises par les Français ne seront
pour ce fait nullement inquiétées.
"Article 10.-Les garnisons Françaises seront maintenues dans
les citadelles jusqu'à la ratification du traité définitif par la noble
cour et l'amiral gouverneur.
"Les Français promettent en retour:-
"1° De secourir de leurs armes les provinces ravagées par les
pirates et les rebelles, chaque fois que cela sera nécessaire à la
sécurité du commerce.

166
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
On the 22nd of December the D'Estrées left Turon with Mr.
Philastre and the Saigon ambassador, and reached Cua-cam on
the 23rd.
Decrès.
tain of the Decree During the night of the 24th and 25th of De-
cember, the news of Garnier's death was received. The captains
of the Decrès, Mr. Testard du Cosquer, of the D'Estrées, Mr.
Didot, Mr. Philastre and the envoy at once held a council.
None of them had any authority to act. The captains were
simply commanding vessels employed to carry troops to the expe-
dition and had nothing whatever to do with Tong-king; Mr.
Philastre was not sent to Tong-king to act with Garnier; Garnier
being dead it was very natural and logical that the man second
in command, Mr. Esmez, should replace him. Still the captain
of the Decrès, as the senior officer on the station, took the respon-
sibility of placing Mr. Philastre at the head of affairs.
The news received at Hà-nôi on the 31st of December was but
too true; Mr. Philastre had at once ordered that negotiations
should be suspended, and-considering the expedition of Garnier
an unjustifiable one-that Nam-dinh and Ninh-binh should be
restored at once to the Annamites.
at Ha-nol.
Mr. Philastro On the 27th of December the D'Estrées ascended
the Cam river as far as Hai-phang, a place ten miles from the sea;
and thence Mr. Philastre, the new diplomatic agent, Mr. Balé-
zeaux, the first officer of the Decrès, who was to act as military
commander in the place of Esmez, and the Annamite ambassador
proceeded up the river; at Haï-dzong on the 28th of December,
they took with them the brave De Trentinian and his fifteen men,
and surrendered the citadel to the native authorities. They ar-
rived at Hà-nôi on the 23rd of January, 1874.
If we had not ourselves oftentimes seen in these countries the
influence that the close contact with crafty natives, the combined
action of climate and of mental torpor, and the lack of intercourse
with foreigners, may have on the conduct and the judgment of
high officials, we should find here a sad example of it.
As soon as he arrived at Hà-nôi, Mr. Philastre changed every-
thing that had been done. Mr. Esmez' Convention was not res-
pectful enough for the Annamites; Mr. Esmez' prudence in not
recalling the garrisons of Ninh-binh and Nam-dinh was severely
blamed; the whole of the French forces scattered over the delta
were to be concentrated at Hà-nôi; and Garnier, who was con-
sidered almost like a demi-god by the natives-Garnier, who, like

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
167
Philastre, had been sent by admiral Dupré-was nothing, his
successor said, but an adventurer.
Surrender of the
conquered cities.
On the 6th of January the Scorpion left Ke-cho,
took on board Mr. Hautefeuille at Ninh-binh on the 8th and Dr.
Harmand at Nam-dinh on the 10th. Thus the delta was entirely
evacuated, and the Espingole was sent back to Hà-noi* with the
remainder of the conquerors of Tong-king. Fourteen Christian
villages (I have it from an eye-witness) were in flames during the
night that followed the surrender of Nam-dinh, and the massacre
spreading throughout the country, the victims soon amounted to
several thousands.
the Sarthe.
Arrival of At the news of the death of Garnier, admiral Dupré
despatched the troop-ship Sarthe with two hundred and fifty men
commanded by Mr. Dujardin. They arrived at Cua-cam on the
10th of January, and were conveyed to Hà-nôi by the Scorpion-
which had descended the river after the surrender of Nam-dinh
-the Mang-hao and the E-pingole, which had been turned back
after taking to the capital Messrs. De Trentinian and Harmand.
Convention of
Mr. Philastre. The massacres continued; the missionaries were
everywhere threatened; the French flag had been pulled down
during the night of the 12th and 13th of January, from the citadel
and torn to pieces; still Mr. Philastre continued his suicidal po-
licy. On two or three occasions, feeble attempts were made to
protect the Christians; on the 18th of January the Mang-hao was
sent.to Ke-cho, near Ninh-binh with twenty-five marines.
Now that all the troops had assembled at Hà-nôi they were to
leave Tong-king. On the 20th of January, Mgr. Sohier, Messrs.
Dupuis, Motty, and the detachment of the Decrès, left Hà-nôi in
the Mang-hao. On the 24th the D'Estrées carried Messrs. Dupuis
and Motty to Saigon, and having again left this city on the 1st of
February, anchored at Cua-cam on the 8th.
On the 6th of February Mr. Philastre signed that famous con-
vention which was to replace the one made by Mr. Esmez, in
which the terms were, so to speak, dictated to the victor by the
vanquished:-
"Le grand mandarin du noble royaume d'Annam, assesseur du
ministre des cultes, Nguyên Van-tuong, second ambassadeur plé-
nipotentiaire, délégué spécialement pour terminer les affaires du
Tong-king au nom de l'Annam, d'une part: et le grand mandarin
*Arrived on the 12th of January..

168
A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
du noble royaume de France, Philastre, inspecteur des affaires in-
digènes en Cochin-chine Française, envoyé par le gouverneur, avec
pleins pouvoir pour arranger les affaires au Tong-king au nom de
son gouvernement, d'autre part:
"Après s'être communiqué leurs pouvoirs et en avoir constaté
la valour, ont arrêté les articles suivants :-
"1° Il n'existe plus de sujet de discussion entre les deux roy-
aumes, qui se sont réconciliés; c'est pourquoi les grands mandarins
susnommés s'engagent à observer ce qui suit:-
"2° Les soldats Français évacueront la citadelle de Hà-nôi, la
remettront au pouvoir des mandarins Annamites, et se retireront à
Cua-cam, dans le fort de Haï-phong. Les mandarins Annamites
prépareront donc de suite un local pour que la garnison Française
puisse s'y établir provisoirement, jusqu'à ce que l'on ait signé le
traité definitif. Les Français s'établissent à Haï-phong afin de
protéger le royaume Annamite contre ceux qui voudraient pénétrer
dans l'intérieur du pays contrairement aux lois du royaume, et pour
forcer les navires du certain Dupuis à demeurer au port, jusqu'à
la conclusion du traité, au cas qu'il y ait une stipulation autorisant
les Européens à venir faire le commerce au Tong-king.
"3° Le jour où les soldats Français évacueront la citadelle,
celle-ci sera livrée avec tous les effets et munitions qui s'y trouve-
ront à cette époque; en outre, tout l'argent que l'on s'est procuré
dans les provinces de Haï-dzong, Nam-dinh, Ninh-binh et Hà-
nôi sera rendu aux mandarins Annamites, qui en donneront reçu.
"4° La garnison Française évacuera la citadelle et la remettra
aux autorités Annamites, dès que le local de Haï-phong sera prêt.
Lorsque les mandarins auront donné avis officiellement que tout
est prêt, on ne pourra différer l'évacuation au-delà de six jours.
"5° Le 29 de la 11° lune (17 janvier), le noble souverain du
royaume d'Annam à publié un édit accordant grâce à tous ceux
qui ont pris le parti de la France. C'est pourquoi les mandarins
ne devront pas poursuivre, mais les protéger contre ceux qui vou-
draient les nuire. Quant aux mandarins nommés par les Français,
ils seront maintenus en place s'ils sont reconnus capables, sinon ils
seront renvoyés chez eux; car s'ils remplissaient mal leur charge,
ce serait au détriment du royaume; car les officiers Français ont
plusieurs fois repété dans leurs proclamations, que s'ils adminis-
traient les provinces c'était seulement en l'absence des mandarins
légitimes, et dans l'intérêt du gouvernement Annamite. Quand
nous aurons fait savoir partout que les deux royaumes ont conclu

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING. 169
la paix et qu'il faut cesser toute hostilité, si quelqu'un ne se soumet
pas, et commet des injustices, par exemple en incendiant de villages,
le gouvernement Annamite devra réprimer et punir les coupables;
de plus, ceux qui auront souffert des dommages pourront porter
plainte, et s'ils ont des preuves, les mandarins devront leur faire
rendre justice.
"6° En attendant que les ambassadeurs de la noble cour d'An-
nam et l'amiral gouverneur de la Cochin-chine se soient entendus
ensembles pour la conclusion du traité, le gouvernement Annamite
ne laissera dans la citadelle de Hà-nôi qu'une garnison suffisante
pour la garde et le service militaire; il ne devra pas entasser des
troupes dans le territoire limitrophe de la province de Son-tay.
Au cas où il y aurait des rebelles, alors seulement on pourrait faire
venir à Hà-noi les troupes des provinces voisines.
"7°
Le gouvernement Annamite doit laisser libres les fleuves
et les rivières, surtout à leurs confluentes et à leurs embouchures,
pour que les troupes Françaises qui sont temporairement au Tong-
king puissent circuler sans difficulté.
"80 Personne ne violera la sépulture des Français et des volon-
taires Annamites mortes en combatant ou de maladie, et encore
enterrés dans l'intérieur de la citadelle de Hà-nòi. Quand le rési-
dent Français à Hà-nôi voudra visiter ces sépultures, ou enverra
quelqu'un à sa place, il devra en informer auparavant les manda-
rins, qui donneront l'autorisation. Ces mandarins laisseront les
corps au même endroit jusqu'à ce qu'ils se soient entendus avec le
résident pour trouver un autre lieu en dehors de la citadelle, ce qui
aura lieu dans le courant d'un mois; ils permettront alors d'enlever
les corps, et le résident, ou celui qu'il aura désigné, se rendra à la
citadelle pour les faire exhumer et transporter au lieu convenu.
"90 Le gouvernement Annamite concédera un terrain, sur le
bord du fleuve, pour construire une habitation au résident Français
et aux soldats de son escorte; ce terrain sera près du lieu où, après
la conclusion du traité, on permettra aux commerçants Français de
s'établir. La désignation de ce terrain et la construction définitive
de l'habitation du résident sont réservées à la décision du gouver-
neur de la Cochinchine, qui s'entendra par la suite à ce sujet avec
les ambassadeurs Annamites.
"10° En attendant que l'on ait construit une maison pour le
résident et son escorte en dehors de la citadelle, sur le bord du
fleuve, et parcequ'il n'y a pas d'autre endroit, le gouvernement
Annamite permettra au résident d'habiter temporairement avec une
22

A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
171
fixée par le résident, de concert avec les mandarins de Hà-nôi.
Une fois au Yun-nan, Dupuis ne reviendra plus au Tong-king
avant l'ouverture du fleuve au commerce.
"Si au lieu d'aller au Yun-nan il se fixait en quelque endroit
appartenant au royaume Annamite sans en avoir l'autorisation, les
Français s'engagent à aller l'en chasser; et si c'est nécessaire, ils
requerront le gouvernement Annamite, qui de son côté enverra
aussi des soldats.
"26° année de Tu-duc, 21° jour de la 12 lune (6 février 1874)."
On the 21st of February Mr. Philastre was at Cua-cam; on the
22nd, the D'Estrées landed him at Turon, as the convention was
to be signed at Hué.
Conclusion. Dupuis had been expelled, Hà-nôi was of course sur-
rendered (sic), and the only souvenir left of the labours of
Garnier and Dupuis were burning villages, Christians tortured, and
forty men, hardly safe from an attack, garrisoned at Hal-phong
with Mr. Rheinart, the successor of Mr. Philastre.
The wholesale murders of Christians, which had subsided to-
wards the end of January, had begun again under the leadership
of two tú-tài (Bachelors) Cu'u aud Mai, and a scholar of the
high degree of hoàng-giáp, from the village of Tam-dang in the
province of Nam-dinh, the author of a pamphlet somewhat in the
style of the Death-blow to Corrupt Doctrines.
Every one knows the treaty concluded at Saigon this year, on-
the 15th of March, between the President of the French Republic
and the King of Annam. The treaty seems fair and advantageous,
and it is said that Admiral Duperré, the new Governor of Cochin-
china, who left France on the 25th of October, has received in-
structions to have it strictly executed.
It is, however, unfortunate that the man who pointed out this
new field for French enterprise, and who did so much to assist the
expedition, should to-day be forgotten by his government, and be
left at Canton neglected and impoverished.
Here my narrative must cease. I have related events; others
will draw the conclusion. There are three kinds of historians;
the chronicler who relates what he has seen or heard, making a
more or less discriminate selection of facts; the true historian who
They had been sentenced to death in 1868 for burning several Christian
villages.

172 A NARRATIVE OF RECENT EVENTS IN TONG-KING.
marshals these facts to present them to the public at large, and
the philosopher whose noble duty it is to deduce from them the
laws which govern, or ought to govern, the world.
Happy shall I be if I may be considered as one of the chroni-
clers of the Conquest of Tong-king.