ARTICLE III.
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA."
THE
BY E. C. TAINTOR, A. M., F. R. G.S.
THE eastern portion of Formosa, it is scarcely necessary to
remark, is in the possession of aboriginal savages. The part
occupied by them, which comprises at least two-thirds of the
area of the island, is mostly mountainous and densely wooded.
The Chinese settlements lie along the comparatively level tracts
which extend from the base of the central range of mountains
westward, to the western coast, and continue across the northern
end of the island and a short distance down the eastern coast. I
cannot better introduce the whole subject than by quoting a few
paragraphs from a Trade Report written by me five years since.
"The rugged character of the eastern portion of Formosa has
been alluded to above. The proportion of level or valley land to
be found is exceedingly small, precipitous and densely wooded
mountains occupying by far the greater portion of its extent. The
Chinese settlers, in gradually pushing their way into the interior,
denude these mountains of their forest coverings; and the dividing
line between the territory reclaimed by them and that still in
possession of the aborigines, is distinctly marked by the boundary
of the wooded tracts. The watercourses are merely mountain
torrents, dashing down through the rough rocky gorges, and
affording no facilities for navigation. The ability of this part of
the island to support a population is thus naturally very limited.
The savages who at present occupy it are thinly scattered through-
out the few level tracts to be met with, and maintain a precarious
existence by hunting, and the cultivation in small quantities of
beans, millet and bananas. These supplies often fail them, and
with their natural aversion to labor, they will go for several days
without food, until pressing hunger prompts them to organize
hunting parties for deer, wild pigs or bears, which latter animal
is occasionally to be met with. These people stand at the very
lowest point in the scale of civilization, and in physique those of
the northern portion of the island at least are generally puny and
insignificant. Long limbs and short trunks indicate a degenerate
* Read before the Society on June 18th, 1874.

54
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
type of body, and their habits and mode of life are such as are
found only among the most degraded savages. Like most of their
class, they have a fatal fondness for ardent spirits, and the use of
these has frequently endangered the friendly relations which the
Chinese have in some few instances endeavored to establish with
them, and has led to conflict, loss of property, and sometimes of
life. Few in numbers, and weak in combination, they are inca-
pable of offering very serious resistance to the encroachments of
the Chinese upon their territories, and are doubtless destined to
disappear before the slow but steady advance of their more enter-
prising neighbors."-(Customs Trade Reports for 1868, p. 170.)
"Upon the eastern coast, commencing about twenty-five miles
south of Kelung, and extending some fourteen miles farther, to
Suao Bay, lies a fertile and beautiful plain or valley. Its popular
name is Kap-su-lan (17), and the official Ko-ma-lan
(It is bounded inland by a semicircle of mountains,
its greatest breadth being six or seven miles. The valley is one
vast rice field, and much of its produce is carried to Kelung. Se-
veral thriving towns lie within its borders. The chief of these,
Lo-tong (), is a clean, well-built town, with a considerable
population and an active trade. The valley has been almost
entirely settled within the present century. It became, soon after
its discovery, and while still occupied by savages, the resort of
bands of outlaws; but during the closing years of the last century
parties of Chinese settlers were attracted thither by the richness
of its soil, and as the immigrants increased and pressed upon each
other, feuds arose, which led to a memorial to the Emperor from
the provincial authorities in 1810, and to its erection into a t'ing
() district by Imperial edict in 1812.
"The original inhabitants of the plain, a fine-looking race of
people calling themselves Kabaran, have been gradually driven
by the Chinese farther and farther towards the mountains, or
altogether out of the valley. They have become to a great extent
civilized, and adopt many Chinese customs. They are called in
the local Chinese Pepo hran (F) or savages of the plain,
in distinction from those dwelling in the mountains. Driven from
.their original seats, they have themselves pushed their way in
some places into territory in possession of the still untamed sa-
vages. An attempt in this direction on a considerable scale has
been made during the past year by a colony of Pepos, under the
leadership of a foreigner, at a place called Ta-lam-o (),

56
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
a short distance from the sea. At both places we found large
parties of the savages who had come down from the interior to see
the foreigners, the report of our intended visit having been spread
among them by the Pepos.
Our stay here, of eleven days, was passed in making short ex-
cursions into the interior, and in getting vocabularies of the savage
language and making notes on their habits and characteristics.
The longest of our excursions, some seven or eight miles, was up
the valley of the small river which flows into the sea at Talamo.
The valley, perhaps a mile and a half wide at the sea, rapidly
narrowed, until soon it was a mere mountain gorge, and the river
a mountain torrent. Enormous boulders blocked the way, and
over these the narrow and not easily distinguishable savage trail
led; and our scrambles over them were often attended with con-
siderable risk to neck and limb. In such places as these a few
determined men might hold their own against hundreds of in-
vaders.
Our embarkation at Lamo on our return was delayed by a N.E.
wind, which rendered the surf so great that it was impossible to
get the boats afloat. While here one of the straw huts took fire
in the night, through the carelessness of one of the Pepos, and
caused some excitement, as it was mistaken by some for a night
attack by the savages. We finally left Lamo on February 3rd,
had a quick run to Suao, and left there the same day on our return
to Tamsui. We had determined to follow the land route, through
the Kapsulan valley. A walk of four or five hours brought us to
Kilokan, on the Ka-lee-wan (1) river, and the principal
town at the southern end of the valley. Here we obtained a boat,
and after visiting a Pepo village on the western confines of the
valley, followed a canal which runs parallel with the sea-coast, to
the large town of Tow-sia* (), at its northern end. Trans-
ferring ourselves here to chairs, we followed the steep and wind-
ing road over the mountains to the town of Nwan-nwan (),
at the head of the boat navigation on the Tamsui river. A north-
east gale, with drizzling rain, detracted much from the enjoyment
of what would otherwise have been a very interesting part of the
journey. Reaching Nwan-nwan on the 6th, we found our boats
in waiting, and after shooting the rapids which occur in several
*I give the corrupt pronunciation which has come into use among
foreigners.

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
57
places in the upper course of the river, and which were now
swollen and turbulent from the rains, we arrived at Tamsui early
on the morning of February 7th; the only incident of the home-
ward journey having been a summons to stop, during the night,
from a party of river pirates, who quickly retreated into the dark-
ness, however, at the cry of hwanna! (foreigners) raised by our
boatmen.
I proceed now to give a brief sketch of Suao Bay and vicinity.
The harbor of Suao is nearly landlocked, and affords good shelter
to small vessels. The bay is almost entirely surrounded by steep
hills, green and wooded. On the north side of the bay is the
small Chinese fishing village of Pak-hong-o (t), and on
south side lies a Pepo village, Lam-hong-o (), containing
perhaps one hundred souls. On the western side of the bay, on
a small stream, lies the Chinese town of Su-ao (), or Saw-o,
in the local pronunciation. It is a wretched town of about fifty
houses. I had hitherto always held Kelung to be the filthiest
town in the universe, not deeming it within the bounds of possi-
bility that a place could be worse than it; but a visit to Suao
forced me to confess my mistake. Suao thus far, in my experience,
bears the palm, with little danger of losing it. The valley of the
Suao river extends towards the south-west for a few miles, to the
base of the wooded hills. It is now largely occupied by charcoal
burners from the Kapsulan valley, but the ground is gradually
being cleared, and will make very rich rice-fields. A few tea
plantations had already been made upon some of the hills just
back of the town, and five or six years previously a seam of coal
was discovered by the Pepos, only a few hundred yards from the
beach; but the pit was abandoned when it became filled with
water. Besides, the abundance of wood for fuel prevented any
inducement to keep it open. At the time of our visit the pit had
become so filled with débris that no traces of coal were discernible.
About five miles below Suao, in a small bay called Tang-o
(), an enterprising Chinaman had erected a saw-mill, where
he was cutting timber for the Kelung market, and he was about
to set up some camphor stills, the locality being very favorable
from the abundance of camphor trees in the vicinity. He had
succeeded in making friendly arrangements with the savages, but
these had been seriously endangered by occasional brawls, in
which the quarrelsome and treacherous savages were only too
ready to engage. Talamo, or rather its landing place, Lamo, is

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
rope
59
The
shore end of the rope was held by twenty or thirty men.
swimmer was hauled into the boat, and the end of his made
fast to the bow. Watching then for some minutes, for a favorable
wave, when one came the crew, raising a loud shout, began to
pull with all their might, and the men on shore ran rapidly up the
beach, towing the boat. We thus followed in on the very crest
of a wave, and just as it was about to break, our boat jumped
from its crest to the beach. All hands sprang quickly out and
ran up the beach, to escape being caught by the next wave, while
the boat was prevented by the long rope from bring carried away.
Only the day before our arrival, a junk which attempted to land
without the aid of the landing rope was capsized, and eight of her
crew drowned. It will easily be understood therefore, that putting
to sea is even more dangerous than landing. In fact we awaited
our chance for about an hour, before a sufficiently moderate wave
came in to allow of the boat being launched; one half of the crew
pulling in the boat, and one half running out with it into the surf
until it was well afloat, and then scrambling in.
The Pepos of northern Formosa, who, as already remarked, call
themselves Kabaran, are generally called by the Chinese shek fan
(in mandarin shu fan), and stand in much the same position
vis-à-vis the sheng fan () or savages, and the Chinese, as do
the shu Li of Hainan. Like the latter, they act as go-betweens
with the Chinese and the savages; but they seemed to me to
be relatively fewer in numbers, and restricted to a smaller area,
than were the shu Li in Hainan. Their settlements are scattered
along the north-east coast, and about 4,000 of them inhabit the
Kapsulan valley. They are divided into different clans, and these
are frequently divided amongst themselves. Were they to com-
bine, they might often offer successful resistance to the Chinese
encroachments, which are gradually pushing them from their
original seats. The unprincipled and lawless Chinese who abound
along the borders lose no opportunity of oppressing them.
the very time of our visit, an illustrative case came to our notice,
and enlisted our sympathies. A well-to-do farmer had died,
leaving a widow with three children. The Chinese had dispos-
sessed them of their fields, driven them from their home, and we
found them wanting for food. On another occasion we met an
old Pepo chief, of an energetic, resolute mien, and who had been
a great traveller, having been in all parts of Formosa.
had formerly been a farmer in comfortable circumstances in the
At
He too

60
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
Kapsulan valley, with fields and herds of cattle; but three or four
years previous to our visit, the Chinese attacked his village and
stole his cattle. In attempting to defend them his son killed a
Chinaman, and he and his villagers thereupon retreated farther
into the mountains.
The Pepos present a great variety of face, especially among the
women. Many of the men-perhaps the greater number-are
tall and straight, and much superior in physique to the Chinese.
They have a much more frank, open, manly expression of counte-
nance than the latter, and this is greatly heightened by their
eyes. The women are small and slender, and although marrying
young, do not appear so prematurely faded as the Chinese women.
Some of them have really handsome, regular features; others are
extremely ugly. Some of them are of a clear olive color,-others
as dark and coarse as Malays. Their finest features are their
eyes, which are uncommonly large, round, and full, with an iris
of a deep, rich black, and languid as a Spanish belle's. The cheek-
bones are all high; in some thick lips, in others very thin ones,
are seen. In other features they do not differ greatly from the
Chinese; but they can generally be readily distinguished from
them by their eyes. Traces of aboriginal blood are constantly to
be met with among the Chinese in northern Formosa, in these
characteristic eyes. The women are simple, naice, and curious,
and have none of the affected prudery of the Chinese women.
The Pepos have long, straight, jet-black hair. The men, when
among the Chinese, commonly shave the head and wear the queue
in the Chinese fashion, but at home generally allow it to grow.
The hair of the women is sometimes braided into a queue, but is
more frequently gathered into a long tress and wound round the
head, being held in this position by a long cord wound over it.
The ears of the women are pierced with no less than five holes,
for as many rings, which are inserted, in some of their ceremonies.
Both men and women wear the tunic and short loose trousers of
the Chinese, and over them frequently wear a large square piece.
of cloth, two adjacent corners of which are tied in a knot over the
shoulder, or at the back of the neck, or sometimes under the arm,
thus greatly impeding the use of the arms. They eat in a simple
fashion. A large wooden tray of boiled rice is placed in the
middle of the floor, and a few bowls of vegetables are arranged
around it. The whole family seat themselves around on the
ground, and making up little balls of rice with their fingers, con-

62
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
five or six feet in length when cut open. When used for men's
coats, two strips are sewed together through half their length, so
as to form a seam down the back, and the sides are sewed up,
with the exception of a space for the armhole, thus forming a
sleeveless coat open down the front. A border, a foot or more in
depth, is often worked around the bottom in neat and tasteful
patterns in red and blue. The red is procured by unravelling
scarlet long ells, and the blue is cotton or woollen and cotton
yarn, both obtained by barter with the Chinese. The savages.
make coats exactly similar to these.
I found it extremely difficult to get any satisfactory ideas re-
garding the religious beliefs and superstitions of the Pepos, during
our short stay among them. I was simply told that "they had
no religion like the Chinese." We were entertained, however, by
a number of curious and interesting performances, in which singing
and dancing were blended. Men and women, joining hands, and
keeping time with their feet, and occasionally giving emphasis to
appropriate passages by a stamping of the foot or a bending of the
knee, and sometimes swaying their bodies slowly back and forth,
chanted in a slow, simple, and not at all unmelodious strain, their
popular ballads. As the song proceeded, they became more
animated, the air became more lively, and the motions of the body
more marked and frequent. The last note of each stanza is pro-
longed ad libitum. The airs are all very simple, seldom ranging
over more than two or three notes. In one song, after a semi-
chorus sung by the men, the whole body of about thirty men
and women, joined in a chorus, which was unique and effective.
In another, and perhaps the most pleasing song, they chanted in
a low plaintive voice, the story of the wrongs they have suffered
at the hands of the Chinese, who have driven them from their
homes, seized their lands, and killed their people.
After one of the songs, a curious ceremony, apparently of a
religious character, was performed by several women. One seated
herself on the ground, and took in her lap the head of another,
who lay feigning death. Two others held the hands, in each of
which was placed a small green branch. The three then began
a slow, mournful chant, and one of them waved a cup before the
face of the sleeper. After a few strains one of them arose, waved
the branch towards heaven, and uttered a loud cry in her ears.
She at once awoke and arose, and all joined in a lively dance and
song, going round in a circle, or winding in a snake-like maze.

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
63
In still another dance, after a brisk solo from one of the women,
the rest joined in, and broke out suddenly with the cry he! he! he!
accompanying each cry with a low bow. In many of these songs,
which varied in style and gestures, some of the singers bore green
branches in their hands.
his
Another curious ceremony, which may be called the ladder of
knives, which I did not witness, was thus described to me. Two
stout poles are fixed firmly in the ground, projecting some ten or
twelve feet. To these is fastened a ladder, formed by lashing
their long knives, edge upwards, to two bamboos about thirty feet
in length. The priest, or whoever it is who officiates, burns some
paper, and dances around until he works himself into a great ex-
citement. He then draws his knife and feigns to rip open
bowels, a delusion which he supports by cutting open a bladder
filled with blood, and placed under his clothes. He then begins
to ascend the ladder of knives, holding on by his hands to the
upright bamboos, but still stepping on the knives. Under his
feet are bound small pieces of leather, which afford a partial pro-
tection. The more daring and ambitious of the men then en-
deavor to emulate his dangerous feat.
The Pepos have among them a tradition that they came by sea
from the southern end of the island, during the time of the Dutch
occupation. While on our return journey I was told that in a
Pepo village in a remote part of the Kapsulan valley there still
existed some earthen jars, with foreign characters upon them,
which had been handed down for many generations as mementoes
of the former masters of Formosa; and I regretted exceedingly
that want of time prevented me from tracing them up, and veri-
fying or disproving the existence of such interesting relics of the
Hollanders. Having regard to similarity in physique and in
language, as judged by descriptions and vocabularies of the Pepos
of southern Formosa, I am inclined to accept the tradition of the
immigration of the northern Pepos from the south, as true.
The shêng fan or savages proper, of whom a brief description
has been given in the paragraphs quoted above, are much smaller
in stature than the Pepos, and far inferior in general aspect. It
was stated that they intermarry very closely. Their skulls are
not so large and full as those of the Pepos, nor yet so almond-
shaped and oblique as the Chinese. The hair is coarse, straight,
and black, uncut and unshaven, but carefully gathered into a
bunch at the back of the head, where a band of cloth holds it in

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
65
cloth worn on the chest, worked in colors, and sometimes adorned
with discs of bone and tassels of blue, white, or brass beads. The
chiefs also often wear two or three of the sleeveless embroidered
couts, and in addition the large square piece of cloth as worn over
the shoulders by the Pepos. The savage women also wear a small
piece of cloth tied around the leg just below the knee. This in-
deed is the last garment which they would be willing to dispense
with. Head coverings were very rare. Some of the men wore
skull caps of deer skin, or plaited of fine strips of bamboo or some
hard wood. These were water-tight, quite heavy, and capable of
resisting a very hard blow. The fingers of many of them were
adorned with a profusion of brass wire rings, and the arms of some
bore bracelets of the same material, often triangular in shape.
Bead bracelets, generally blue, were also common. One of their
most singular customs is that of knocking out the eye teeth of all
the children when they reach the age of six or eight years, in the
belief that it strengthens their speed and wind in hunting. The
effect of seeing a whole tribe destitute of these teeth was peculiar,
and not particularly agreeable.
The savages live chiefly by hunting the small mouse deer, which
abound in the forests. Their weapons are spears, bows with
arrows of reeds tipped with iron, and occasionally matchlocks,
which they obtain from the Chinese in barter for deer-skins, etc.
Besides these each man carries in a sheath at his side, a long
heavy knife, which is an indispensable companion, and which
serves for every use, from cutting up food and cutting a path
through the bush, to chopping off Chinese heads. The spears
have bamboo shafts, with iron heads obtained from the Chinese,
and which when not in use are covered with a leather sheath.
These, as well as their knife sheaths, are ornamented with tassels
of hair obtained from the heads of Chinese whom they have killed.
One handsome, active, athletic young man, the son of a chief of
the Yukan tribe, and a very beau ideal of the "noble savage,"
had dangling at the end of his knife sheath no less than twenty-
three of these tassels, formed from the queues of five Chinese
who had lost their heads by his hand.
On their hunting expeditions they bivouac at night around a fire,
lying head to head and feet to feet in a circle, on bundles of ; grass,
sometimes building rude huts as a shelter. They use two or three
kinds of traps for snaring deer, and occasionally meet with bears.
They sell the bear's feet and gall-bladder to the Chinese, who

66
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
esteem the latter very highly as medicine; it being worth four or
five dollars a tael weight. The rest of the bear is then roasted,
hair, skin and all. We met one savage whose nose had been
entirely torn away, and one of whose eyes had been injured, by a
blow from a bear's paw. Wild pigs are also found, and an animal
resembling the leopard, with a dark skin. Troops of monkeys
roam through the forests. Of birds there are very few.
Besides the articles of food mentioned in the extracts from the
Trade Report given above, the savages cultivate sweet potatoes,
the cocos, ground-nuts, and yams; and from the fresh shoots of
ferns they boil a soup which is said to be quite palatable. Bana-
nas are abundant, and also a wild orange, which is very bitter.
They also raise a few water-melons, from seed obtained from the
Chinese. They are particularly fond of Cayenne or chilli peppers,
to obtain which they make frequent raids upon Chinese gardens.
Tobacco is cultivated, and the women and children especially were
incessantly smoking their little bamboo pipes. The name, ta-ba-
ku, is sufficient evidence of its introduction among them by either
the Dutch or Spanish colonists. The savages weave very neat
elastic and durable mats from a long grass. They carry on a
little barter with the Chinese, exchanging their hemp, venison,
deer horns, skins, and sinews for knife-blades, matchlocks, rice,
powder and shot, copper pans for cooking, colored cloths for
working coats, and salt, of which they are very fond. They
themselves attach the handles to the knife-blades, often with
strong and neat rattan work.
The savage huts are simply constructed. Two upright poles
are fixed in the ground, and longer ones laid sloping from the tops
of these. Others are laid lengthwise over these, and the whole
is covered with coarse dry grass. The triangular ends and the
front are then filled in with grass or reeds. A few stones in the
middle of the hut form the fireplace, and the smoke finds its exit
as it can.
Grass spread on the ground serves as beds, and a few
rattan trays and baskets depending from the roof, and holding the
supplies of millet, beans and salt, complete the scanty domestic
furniture. In one village which I visited, in front of the huts
were small frameworks of poles, beneath which a few chilli peppers
were growing. They bury their dead standing upright, and their
weapons and utensils are buried with them.
Many dialects exist in Formosa, as in most of the islands of the
Indian Archipelago, and according to Crawfurd they are numerous

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
67
in proportion to the rudeness of the people. He states that there
are ten languages in Sumatra and its islands; more than fifty are
known in Borneo, and twenty in Luzon. The language of the
savages near Talamo is very harsh and guttural, and has many
difficult combinations of consonants. The following were given
me as the names of clans living in this vicinity: Yukan, Kowsia,
Tapihan, Sikilut, Laohin, Katasei, Bisut, Bina-watan, Gugut,
Matakan, Watan-kakai, Watan-bituk, Haoyit-aobin, Wang, Mu-
tat, Taosai, Vatu, Yao-ei, Piho, Vuta, Tsi-et, Yapu, Teimuk, and
Chiring. The word sia (written in Chinese she E), meaning clan
or tribe, is added to each of these names in speaking of them, as
Yukan-sia, Vatu-sia. Of the fourteen clans represented at the
feast presently to be described, the principal one was the Yukan,
whose chief seemed to be at the head of them all.
The savages have a singular way of pledging friendship, and
one not altogether agreeable to the other party to the pledging.
Each man puts his arm around the other's neck, and then, placing
their heads and mouths close together, they both drink wine at
the same time from one cup. This ceremony ensures eternal
friendship, and as there were about a dozen chiefs of tribes with
whom we had to take this pledge, we felt by the time we were
through that we had formed quite as many friendships as we cared
to maintain. Knowing, however, as we did, the treacherous and
quarrelsome nature of these savages, we deemed it expedient,
from prudential motives, to submit to the rather disagreeable
ordeal, upon the invitation of the chiefs. Another method of en-
suring friendship, although less formal and binding, is for both
persons to eat salt from the same dish.
The most acceptable present to make to the savages, and in fact
an indispensable one to gain their good-will, is a pig. We had
taken with us two or three for this purpose, and the day after our
arrival the savages were entertained at a great feast. The
method of cooking was altogether primitive. The pig was killed
by a stab in the breast, and the feet and the tip of the snout being
cut off, it was at once placed whole, bristles and all, upon a fire
of sticks, built on the ground. It was allowed to roast only ten
or fifteen minutes,-just long enough to singe off the bristles and
warm through the fat. Grass was spread on the ground, and the
chiefs then cut up the pig into long strips, and all hands were
set to work to cut these up into very small cubes. Nothing was
wasted; bones, entrails and all received the same attention.

68
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
When the cutting up was finished, the people formed circles
around the piles of meat, apparently arranged according to fami-
lies, and the chiefs distributed each portion equally among the
different groups. Some of the hungrier ones roasted a few pieces
in the embers and ate them; most of them carefully packed their
shares away. The chiefs insisted upon our accepting from them
some of the choicest titbits as marks of special honor, but fortu-
nately for us did not insist upon our eating them; but I grievously
offended a young chief who had selected for me a handful of the
most dainty bits, by watching my chance, and, slily as I hoped,
giving them to the first savage I met. I was observed, and the
heavy frown which passed over his face showed the affront I had
given. The whole scene was wild and lively. About sixty savages,
the men all nearly naked and the women variously clad, and all
excessively dirty, were squatting on the ground or running to and
fro, busily hacking away at the piles of raw pork, and all chatting
in the most animated style. The present of a pig is a great event
for them. In the evening the whole party, including the Pepos
with us, to the number of over a hundred, got partially intoxicated
over some samshu which had injudiciously been given them, and
for which they have a fatal fondness. With a hundred half-
drunken savages yelling and dancing around their camp fires, and
only needing the slightest provocation to engage in brawls and
fights, in which they freely use their knives, this night scene
before us seemed a veritable Pandemonium, and it was a grateful
relief when in the early hours of the morning fatigue drove them
to rest from their orgies. The Chinese frequently take advantage
of their fondness for liquor to get them intoxicated, when they
may extort from them anything.
Among the savages the principle of blood revenge holds with
full force. The murder of a man is bound to be avenged by
his kindred, and no rest is given until this is accomplished. I was
informed that a reward of twenty dollars was still offered by the
local Chinese authorities for every savage head, but that only a
few-perhaps not more than five-are got in the course of a year.
Some fifty or sixty Chinese heads, however, are annually lost to
the savages. This discrepancy is readily accounted for. The
Chinese have merely the stimulus of a small money prize in getting
savage heads, and this is rarely sufficient to induce them to risk
their own in the attempt. The savage, on the other hand, has
higher motives; his rank and character depend on his personal

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
69
prowess and valor; and a savage who has not killed and beheaded
a Chinaman is "of no use," as it was explained to me. His word
is not believed, he has no respectable standing in the community,
and in general terms it may be said of him that he has not won
his spurs. He rises in position and character according to the
number of heads he can count, and those who get the most heads
become, as it is in truth said, the head-men of the villages.
So far as my own observation extended, the principal wild ani-
mals of the country are small deer and large fleas. The former
are hunted by the savages for food; the latter hunt the savages
with the same object. I am inclined to think that the thinness
of the population, both in numbers and in flesh, is partially to be
attributed to these harpies; and reciprocally, it is but logical to
conclude that the natural ferocity of these latter is heightened by
the savage character of their prey. The crazy engraver-poet
William Blake, in one of the outgrowths of his wild, erratic ima-
gination, (I quote from a review of Swinburne's Critical Essay on
Blake,) "drew the portrait of the ghost of a flea....
He said that while he was making the drawing the flea told him
that all fleas were inhabited by the souls of such men as were by
nature blood-thirsty to excess, and were therefore providentially
confined to the size and form of insects; otherwise, were he him-
self, for instance, the size of a horse, he should depopulate a great
portion of the country." A bitter (or better, bitten) experience
convinced me that Blake must have been in one of his lucid mo-
ments when he conceived this grotesque fancy. It would be
necessary to increase the size of the Formosan fleas but a very
little, to ensure the result foreshadowed by Blake's informant;
and even under present conditions, were the hasty Japanese only
willing to abide the course of time, they might safely leave to the
operation of Natural Selection, or "the survival of the fittest,"
the extermination of the savages who seem to be giving them so
much trouble. Possibly, however, it might be found, for any
future shipwrecked mariners, that after Darwin's law had worked
its full effect in the annihilation of the human savages, the last
estate of that island would be found worse than the first. The
fleas who would remain the sole possessors of the soil might refuse
to recognize a red flag of certain dimensions as a signal of distress,"
"A consular notification has been issued, describing a flag to be shown
by vessels in distress off Formosa, to secure protection from the natives,
under the agreement lately concluded with the latter by the U. S. Consul at
Amoy [Mr. Le Gendre]. It is red, oblong in shape, 2 ft. 9 in. long and 1 ft.
7 in. broad."-(North-China Herald, Shanghai, February 29, 1868.)

70
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
Much of the pleasure of our trip was blasted by the constant tor-
ments inflicted by these monsters. Sleeping on piles of freshly
cut camphor-wood chips was of little or no avail; and I cannot
possibly better portray our plight than by a slight paraphrase of
the lines in which Pollok, in his poem "The Course of Time,"
describes the thirst for gold:-
"Fleas many hunted, sweat and bled for fleas;
Waked all the night and laboured all the day.
Ill guided wretch!
Thou mightst have seen me at the midnight hour,
When good men slept,
in flea-ful hall,"
With vigilance and chasing worn to skin
And bone."
The natural resources of Formosa are most varied and abundant
and as the principal source of the camphor supply of the world,
the island has an exceptional interest and importance. I may be
allowed to quote on this subject two paragraphs from the Trade
Report already cited.
"The camphor producing districts lie in that narrow belt of
debatable ground which separates the border Chinese settlements
from the territory still occupied by the savages. The manufacture
is attended with constant danger, from the quarrelsome disposition
of the savages, and their jealousy of Chinese encroachments.
Steps are sometimes made towards amicable arrangements for the
right of cutting the timber, but it more frequently results that the
Chinese, in their attempts to overreach their less crafty neighbors,
only excite their hostility, and incessant feuds are the consequence.
The Hakkas are extensive camphor manufacturers in many dis-
tricts. Like their kinsmen on the main-land, they are frugal and
industrious, and pursue many of the mechanic arts. Most of the
knives, matchlocks, and spear-heads furnished to the savages are
their workmanship. They have many thriving towns on the
border, and are to some extent, both from their position and cha-
racter, independent of the Chinese authorities."-(Customs Trade
Reports for 1868, p. 165.)
"As the suggestion has been made in some quarters, of the
possibility of a diminution in the production of camphor, or of the
exhaustion of the sources of its supply, it may be well to remark
that throughout the whole of the mountainous district comprising
the eastern part of Formosa, and which is densely wooded, the
camphor tree seems to abound and flourish; and judging by the

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
71
rate of progress towards the interior now made in procuring the
annual supply, it must require many years, even with the crude
and wasteful process at present followed, to exhaust the vast
forests of camphor trees as yet untouched, and inaccessible. At
the same time, in view of the comparatively limited extent of the
island, and the possibility of an increased consumption of camphor,
brought about by its greater cheapness and the discovery of new
applications of it in manufactures and the arts, it is much to be
regretted that no measures are being taken to replace the trees
destroyed, by the planting of young ones..
The tree is of rapid
growth, and the adoption of some such system as that pursued in
the chinchona cultivation in India would be a measure at once
wise and profitable. The declivities of the mountains of the inte-
rior and east coast, most of them too steep for almost any other
cultivation, are the natural home of the camphor tree, and by the
expenditure of a little labor in planting young trees now, new
forests of the valuable timber might be expected in a few decades
to cover the hills now being denuded of it. The lawless and
independent character of those engaged in the manufacture would,
however, be a serious obstacle to any attempted introduction of a
measure such as that suggested."-(Id., pp. 169-70.)
I need only mention the coal found in abundance near Kelung,
and the tea which has during the last few years so rapidly risen
in importance. Sulphur is even now, in defiance of prohibitions,
manufactured in large quantities at the solfataras in the vicinity
of Tamsui, and the legalizing of the trade might lead to its inde-
finite development. The forests furnish numerous varieties of
valuable timber; rattans impede locomotion through them from
their profusion, and the tree whence the pith paper is obtained is
common. In the waters on the east coast large turtles are nu-
merous in the spring, and fish of the most brilliant and varied
hues are caught by the Pepos. The portions of the island settled
by the Chinese have already, from the abundance of their rice
crops, earned the title of the "Granary of Southern China," and
the gradual reclamation from the savages of the soil now untilled,
is capable of affording a great extension in this direction.
I conclude this paper with a few notices of the savages of
Northern Formosa, condensed and translated from the Ko-ma-
lan-ting chih (), the geographical and statistical
description of the Komalan or Kapsulan valley.

72
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
"The savages are very expert in handling their bows, in the -
use of which they are practised from the age of ten years upwards.
In the spring they collect large hunting parties for deer, which
are driven within the enclosure of gradually narrowing circles, and
caught. They are killed by a stab in the throat, and the fresh
blood drunken. The flesh of hares caught is eaten raw, and their
entrails are salted down. When these have sufficiently putrefied
to generate maggots, they are considered excellent eating."
"The savages have no idea of the year, or of the four seasons.
The blossoming of the tz'e-t'ung hwa (E. a species of Panax,)
is with them the beginning of a fixed period. When vegetation
bursts forth the women array themselves in their best clothing,
and pay visits to their friends in the neighboring tribes."
"The savages of the plain do not differ greatly from the Chinese
in appearance, except in their eyes, which are fuller and more
expressive. They have no idea of the year or the seasons, and
cannot tell their own ages. If they ever get any money they
never lay it up; and when they have gathered in their crops they
set apart enough for a year's supply of food, and make the rest
into wine, of which they are very fond. Every one builds his own
house, and weaves the cloth for his own clothing, as there are no
artisans of any kind. The large knife which the men wear at
their sides serves them in all kinds of work. They make what
iron utensils they have from the crude metal, by hammering it
out with stones. In every clan or village there are one or two
men called kalo (1), who correspond to the village elders or
headmen of the Chinese."
"The savages of the Komalan district who dwell in the moun-
tains select elevated spots for their huts, to enable them to com-
mand a good lookout for defence. Those who dwell near the
sea-coast, and have become partially civilized, are called p'ing-p'u
fan, because they live on the level ground, or plains. They
sometimes build houses by excavating the trunk of a large tree
and inverting it, supporting it upon bamboo poles. There is a
tradition among them that some old Pepos having visited Kelung
and seen some Chinese boats turned bottom upwards on the shore,
adopted the idea for their houses."
"When the Komalan valley was first colonized, the Pepos living
there had no system of storing their grain. When this was
gathered it was hung up in the ear, unthreshed, in the houses,
The Pepos described above, pp. 54, and 59-63.

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
. 73
and was beaten out in a mortar daily, as it was wanted for food.
The people had no fixed seasons for planting their crops; they
were guided by the starting forth of vegetation in the spring.
They cultivate merely enough to supply themselves with food from
season to season, and hence there is no surplus grain, and much
uncultivated land."
"Their wine is made from glutinous rice. Each person takes
a handful of rice in his mouth, and masticates it until soft. It is
then put into an earthen jar, and by the next day it has fermented,
so that by adding water, wine is produced. They consider very
sour wines the best."
"The women do all the drudgery, such as tilling the ground.
They are often seen at hard work with their infants fastened upon
their backs. The men merely see that they get their food."
"The savages call a dead man matai, which means ruined,
destroyed. They bury their dead without coffins. Friends assist
in digging a pit, in which the corpse is placed. If a death hap-
pens in the busy season, while they are planting or gathering
their crops, they suspend the corpse from two poles, near the
water's edge, and leave it to decay there. Such a place is called
malin, which means unlucky, and they ever after avoid going
near it."
"The small boats which the savages use in crossing streams,
they call mangka.* A boat is made by hollowing out a log of
wood, and fastening a board upon each side of it, to prevent its
capsizing. They have no oil and chunam for filling the cracks or
seams, and hence have to bail constantly. A boat will carry only
two or three people."
[The following passage, quoted from a work entitled Tung-cheng
tsi (E), is noteworthy as a specimen of the peculiar anti-
thetical style which is so esteemed in Chinese literary productions,
as well as for the sentiments expressed as to the proper method of
dealing with the savages.]
"Murders by the savages of Formosa are of constant occurrence.
Although they have men's forms, they have not men's natures.
They find their way through the forests like birds and monkeys.
* The characters used here () are those of the name of the large
trading town of Banka, near Tamsui. The local pronunciation varies from
Mangka to Bangka. The town is said to derive its name from the fact that
its principal street resembles one of these boats in shape-broad in the middle
and narrow towards each end.
10

74
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
To govern them is impossible: to exterminate them not to be
thought of; and so nothing can be done with them. The only
thing left is to establish troops with cannon at all the passes
through which they issue on their raids, and so overawe them by
military display, from coming out of their fastnesses. The great
cause of this state of affairs is the extent of the country and the
scanty population; quarrels between the savages and the settlers
are not the sole cause. The savage tracks lie only through the
dense forests, thick with underbrush, where hiding is easy. When
they cut off a head, they boil it to separate the flesh, adorn the
skull with various ornaments, and hang it up in their huts as
evidence of their valor. Even if any attempt were made to keep
them within bounds, it must sooner or later end in failure. If it
is asked, then, what shall be done, the reply is, murders must be
punished in kind, and friendly aborigines must be used to gradu-
ally reclaim and civilize them. They must be conquered, to make
them fear, and then they can be controlled, to make them obedient.
Their country must be opened up and Chinese settlers introduced,
and then the harm done by them will gradually cease. Later
they will become tamed, and finally they may be enrolled as sub-
jects, and pay tribute."
"In the fifteenth year of Kiaking (1810), when the Governor
General of Fukien arrived at Banka on a tour of inspection
through the island, the headmen of the Pepos of the Komalan
valley made submission to him and requested to be enrolled as
subjects, in order to obtain protection against the oppression and
cruelty which they experienced. There are 36 tribes of tame
aborigines scattered over the Komalan district. They are simple
and dull by nature, and the Chinese, by giving them a measure
of wine or a foot of cloth, can induce them to sign the lease of
large tracts of land. As they cannot read, they cannot know the
contents of the lease, which they sign by impressing upon it a
finger wet with ink; and they are thus completely at the mercy
of the Chinese.
"The inhabitants of Formosa are of various origins. There are
aborigines proper (*), and people from other islands whose
boats have been driven ashore and wrecked, and who in conse-
quence have settled there. There are also the descendants of
fugitives from the last naval battle between the Mongols of the
Yuen dynasty and the forces of the Sung dynasty, near Lingting
[Lintin, at the mouth of the Canton River]. The latter were
entirely defeated, and a few refugees escaped to Formosa, where
they settled."

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
Comparative Vocabulary of the Kabaran (Pepo) and Yukan
(Savage) Dialects of North-Eastern Formosa.
75
The Kabaran and Yukan words in the following list were taken
down by me from the mouths of the Pepos and savages, during
the visit among them which served for the foundation of the
preceding paper. Like most vocabularies of its kind, it consists
chiefly of the names of such natural objects as can easily be
described or pointed out to a savage. It comprises 378 words of the
Kabaran dialect, and 135 words of the Yukan dialect. Mistakes,
both in correctly identifying objects, and in correctly representing
sounds, doubtless occur, and indeed are under such circumstances
scarcely avoidable; but care was taken to secure accuracy in both
respects, as far as possible, by asking the name of the same object
on different occasions, and from different individuals. With some
sounds, it was observed that the same individual would give dif-
ferent values to them on different days. Thus in the Kabaran
language and 2, when initial or medial, and sometimes when
final, are often interchangeable; and the word for water would
be given by one as ranum, by another as zanum. Final land z
are often confounded, as are also initial & and t.
Regarding the values of the letters used, the vowels generally
are to be sounded as in Italian, and the consonants as in English.
In an open syllable w has the long sound, like the oo in too, and
in a closed syllable the sound of oo in took; when marked й it has
the sound of u iu but. The diphthong ei has the sound of a ey in
they. The sounds of b and v often merge into one another, and
have nearly the value of the German w, or of bw in English, but
much lighter than the latter. The final ss common in Kabaran
has a strong hissing sound. A regular series of changes will be
observed between Kabaran, and Malay and other languages of the
family, by the addition of this as sound to the words of the latter.
Thus,
sugar-cane is in Malay
face
child
"Javanese
دو
"
tabu, in Kabaran tavuss
rahi,
sunu,
دو
"
ra-iss
suniss
An analogous change seems to be formed in the Yukan dialect by
the addition of the suffix nukh, nihh, ukh, or simply kh (the Ger-
man ch of buch). Thus,
stone is in Kabaran, Malay, }
batu or vatu, in Yukan vatunukh
wood " Tagalog and Bisaya cahoy,
دو
rattan"
red
Kabaran
» Bugis
"
u-ai or wai
khahunikh
hwaiukh
"
m'talakh or
machala
"
matalakh.

76
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
The columns of corresponding words in Malay and various other
languages of the Archipelago are far from being as full as I would
wish; but the want both of time and of the necessary vocabularies
has prevented me from giving more than the present imperfect
comparisons. The words given in these languages are merely
such as I have been able to gather, somewhat at random, from
Crawfurd's Descriptive Dictionary of the Indian Islands, Latham's
Comparative Philology, vocabularies found in the Journals of the
Royal Asiatic and Royal Geographical Societies, and in a few
works of travels in the Philippines and neighboring islands. It
will be seen that a close resemblace exists between many Kabaran
and Malay words. So far as the limited examples afford means
of comparison, the Kabaran will also be found to be closely allied
to the Tagalog and Bisaya dialects of the Philippines,-the
former in the north, the latter in the south,-and to the Bugis,
Macassar, Mandhar, Menadu, Buton and Sangir dialects of the
Celebes group. The Biajuk of Borneo, the Bima of Sumbawa,
the Sasak of Lombok, and the Javanese also furnish many analo-
gous words. The Yukan words indicate a connection with
several of the above, but more particularly with the Tagalog and
Bisaya, and the Bugis and Biajuk. The resemblances thus traced
are sufficient to establish the close relationship between the two
Formosan dialects now given, and the extensive family of lan-
guages known as the Malayo-Polynesian or Oceanic; but the
particular group of this great family to which these dialects belong,
can be determined only after the collection and study of fuller
materials than are now available.
The vast area over which this Oceanic family of languages is
spread will be best realized from the remark of Professor Whitney: †
"Those who speak its dialects fill nearly all the islands from the
coasts of Asia southward and eastward, from Madagascar to the
Sandwich group and Easter Island, from New Zealand to Formo-
sa." A few words from the Malagasi, the language of Madagascar,
are given here, in illustration of the statement just quoted, and
as a further proof, I may add that a number of the Yukan words
are to be found in a vocabulary, given in Cook's Voyages, of the
language of Atui, an island belonging to the group called Cook's
Islands, in the South Pacific. The Great Polynesian occasionally
* See also above, p. 61.
† Language and the Study of Language, pp. 337-8.

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
77
quoted is, according to Crawfurd, the common element which is
to be found throughout all these languages. It was first pointed
out by Marsden. It bears the same relation to the languages of
the Malayo-Polynesian family that the Aryan does to the Indo-
European languages; and although unwritten and extinct, its
former existence is inferred and established by the same arguments
and inductions which have demonstrated the former existence of
an Aryan parent of the family of languages which bears its name.
In the following vocabulary the numerals from one to ten are
first given, in the two Formosan and six cognate languages. The
remainder of the vocabulary consists of words classified in ten
sections or groups, and arranged alphabetically under each group.
Professor Max Müller quotes from Hale's Ethnology and Philo-
logy of the United States Exploring Expedition, vocabularies of
the ten numerals in ten different Polynesian dialects, including
those of Samoa, New Zealand, Rarotonga, Tahiti and Hawaii;
and a comparison of them with those now given will be found
interesting, showing as it does the very close resemblance which
exists between them, and which with the numerals 3, 5, 6, 7 and
8 amounts to almost absolute identity.
*Science of Language, sixth ed., vol. ii, p. 26.

78
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
I. NUMERALS.
Formosa.
Philippines.
English.
Kabaran.
Yukan.
Tagalog. Bisaya.
one
issa
utuk
isa
usa, isa
two
lusa
saleng
dalava
duha
three
tulu
turul
tatlo
tolo
four
supat
s'paint
apat
upat
five
lima
maral
lima
lima
six
nim, n'm
teiuk
anim
unum
seven
pitu
pitu
pito
pito
eight
nine
ten
waru, aru
muss'pat
valo
valo
siwa
meishu
siam
siam
trai
mapu
sampo
napulo
Sasak
Malagasi
English.
Malay.
Javanese.
(Lombok). (Madagascar).
one
sa, satu
sigi
satu
issa
two
dua
loro
dua
rue
three
tiga
t'lu
telu
telu
four
ampat
papat
mpat
effat
five
lima
limo
lima
lime
six
anam
nanam
nam
ene
seven
tudiu, tojiu
pita
pita
fitu
eight
d'lapan
wolu
balu
valu
nine
sambilam
sungo
siwa
siva
ten
s'pulo
s'pulo
sapulu
fulu
English.
Kabaran.
Yukan.
Malay.
Sundry.
eleven
trai-issa
sablas
duablas
twelve
trai-lusa
twenty
lusa-ptin
dua pulu
etc.
thirty
utulu-ptin
forty
mruspa-ptin
fifty
ulima-ptin
sixty
unim-ptin
seventy
upitu-ptin
eighty
mwaru-ptin.
IIIIII
1111111111
ninety
mrusiwa-ptin

80
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
III-PARTS OF THE BODY.
English.
Kabaran.
Yukan.
Malay.
Sundry.
back
doror
suru
beard
mumuss
nguruss
Tagalog gumi
body (life?)
izip
(life) idup
{
Javan.
urip
bones
tiran
tulang
Bisaya tulang
calf of leg
vatiss
Bali
batis
cheek
chin
11
ra-í-ass
abalit
ear
kaiar
papak
elbow
siku
haiku
Atui
papai
Bugis
oye
mata
ro-i, rao-i
mata
face
ra-iss, za-iss
-
fingers
nulir, nuzil
taluling
| |
fingernail
knukuss
kakámin
kuku
Gt.Polyn. mata
et passim
Javan. rahi
Bali
rai
Tagalog cuco
Bisaya cucu
foot
reikan
kakai
kaki
forehead
ngorll, woull
lihui
| |
hair
vukuss
yunakh
I I
hand
lima
keiman
I
{Benadu wnligh
Bima
Bugis
Bundhar} lima
Tagalog camay
Bisaya
head
uru, uvu
tuankh
-
-
Bisaya
ulu
Gt.Polyn.)
knee
dusur
tari
leg
rapan
mriu
lips
| | |
paráhum
mouth (teeth?) ngivir, nigiv
(tooth) gigi Bugis gigi
nates
punur, punuz
navel
neck, throat lulun
veiyukh
puga
oluk
III.
nose
unung
palm of hand
rukap
(ava)
shoulder
triar, kreiar
hanáli
stomach
tian
temples
pipiss
sasak
teeth
bangarno, vangrao gunukh
II I II
moru, norho idung
irung
Javan.
Gt.Polyn.
Malagasi orung
Tagalog
Bisaya
}
||~||
tian

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
81
English.
Kabaran.
Yukan.
Malay.
Sundry.
thigh
toe
pnaunian
kamuss
mu-i
uyu-kakai
=
Tagalog
dila
Bisaya
tongue
lilam
hamá-ui
lidah
Bugis
lila
Macassar
Lampung
ma
upper arm
b'lubuk
kiumin
English.
Kabaran.
English.
Kabaran.
ankle
vukul-a-rapan
heart
blood
rinang
heel
anum
rusil
brain
panal
nipple
sarang
breast
danga
nostrils
rasukh
flesh
bisor
queue (Chinese) napina
fore-finger
kaiwass
sinews
second finger
smut'van
skin
third finger
smulikur
thumb
urat
luvung, ruvung
moraia
little finger
smutki
wrist
vukul-a-rima
IV-DOMESTIC LIFE-CLOTHING, UTENSILS, ETC.
English.
Kabaran.
Yukan.
Malay. Sundry.
bed
pa
board, plank
bottle
sapar
papan
Javan. papan
prasku (derived
from Spanish.)
bowl, cup
kaising
paintu
breeches
kun
yupun
bucket
coat, tunic
kangkung
kuluss
iniv, ainiv
tamoss
v'lihun
p'kamui
avuvu
ngrasal
kulu
lukuss, ratang
door
finger-ring
hat
kuvu
house
rapao
jar
pulok
haláman
knife
raviss, habiss
b'litukh
karis
Javan. karis
large knife
matting
matting for bed
necklace of beads
sarekh, anir
intpan, slayu
lapítukh, lupi
smamao
imsing
||||
11

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
English.
Kabaran.
Yukan.
Malay.
wine, Chinese
rakh
u-o, u-ao
wood
barin
khahunikh} kayu
Sundry.
85
Tagalog parang
Bisaya cahoy
English.
Kabaran.
English.
Kabaran.
banana
bunina
persimmon
amuss
camphor
rakuss, rahüss plum
sinsuli
celery
rupůl
prune
chilli pepper
sili
pumelo
flower
murai
pumpkin
ginger
uzip
root
paosi
t'bahan mulu
saru
ravass
ground-nut
bukh
sweet potato
hopir, dari
guava
biabass
tree
si-p'ri
leaf
viri
vegetables in general
t'null
mango
peach
vatuna-vususs water-melon
plura
rupass
wine, Pepo
isi
VII. ANIMAL KINGDOM.
English.
Kabaran.
Yukan.
Malay.
Sundry.
Javan.
kabu
buffalo
k'ravao
kating
karbao
Gt.Polyn.
Macassar tedung
cat
saku
deer
bassan
niao
nánukh
deer-skin
ruvung-a-bassan hanukh-kwei
-
rusa
Bugis
Bugis
miao
jonga
Javan.
dog'
wasu
hu-il
duck
k'rava
rguru
fish
vaūt
siukh, kulikh
fowl
rakok, t'rahokh yaoal, inta, burung
Javan.
weilung
{Gt.Polyn.{
Gt.Polyn. iwak
Biajuk lauk
Gt.Polyn. manuk
Javan.
Gt.Polyn.
bawi
asu
hogt
vavui
vei-uakh
babi
Bugis babi,
Buton,
vavi
et passim
"The usual Javanese name [for dog] is asu; and it is remarkable, that this word is the
name for the dog in the languages of tribes remote from Java; being those too of countries
having themselves no wild dog, as Floris, Timur, and the Philippine Islands. This fact seems,
at least, to show that Java was the source from which these countries derived the domestic dog."
(CRAWFURD, 8. v. Dog.)
† See note t, p. 83.

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
86
English.
Kabaran.
ox, bullock
vaca
turtle, tortoise p'nu
Yukan.
Malay.
pannyu
Sundry.
{Tagalog } baca
Bisaya
Javan.
Gt.Polyn. pannyu
et passim
English.
Kabaran.
English.
Kabaran.
flea
horse
timora
kwaiu
venison
apun
VIII. MISCELLANEOUS NOUNS.
English.
boat
Kabaran.
Yukan. Malay.
Sundry.
broa
large boat, ship vawa
cannon
ku-ang
asu (?)
achuying
a-ungu
prau, prahu Javanese
prahu
copper cash,
karisiu
habángan wang
money
Javanese
Bugis
huwang
uwang
copper wire
anaoal
Javanese
field, country
zana
tana
gun
papilsá
gunpowder
kuti
patuss
avuli
milk
sisu
susu
road
zaran, rathan
jalan
tattoo
patass
-
village, town rahit
dukuh
Gt. Polyn.
Bugis
Javanese
Malagasi
}
tana
-
susu
dalan
vohitra
English.
anger
barber
Kabaran.
English.
hunut
fishing net
sazan
pakiss-kiss'n flag
sulan, sulal garden
food in general
bridge
Chinese written
characters
herdsman
compass, watch, etc.
pannwan
mast
disease
tarao
oar
farmer
fisherman
sarunna pirate (sea-thief)
para-vaut-un
Kabaran.
tabukūn
vakhwi
han, hanpaita
vaovi
pakrama
ereran, ireran
p'luna, p'runa
haisan-a-zarin

THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
87
Kabaran.
English.
Kabaran.
English.
rogue, rascal supa
sail
raiar
salt
z'mian
spear
sedan chair nungan
sword
silversmith passangin-du-pila
slow-match
rizuss, ziruss
snuvungan
kwisuisan
bearer panungan
tears
t'miliss, (rusi)
smith, wright passangin
thief
haisan
blacksmith
passangin-du-namat
trade
sianům
goldsmith
passangin-du-braoan whip
passpass
shipwright
passangin-du-vawa
ian
niana
English.
Kabaran.
I
aiku
that
wanistaoan, wiyu
this
Jizistaoan, witao- (hani) ini
what
IX-PRONOUNS, ADJECTIVES, ADVERBS.
Yukan. Malay. Sundry.
aku
Javan. aku
Gt.Polyn.
Biajuk yaku
nini
}-wanai (?)
-
yang
Bali
nyang
bad (spoiled) masukao
m'huti
lakhan
nakhal
m'kálukh
-
S (Javan. ala, olo)
Bali jaleh
Bugis
buta
bad (wicked)
lalass
black
tungun
blind
blue*
b'nuran
clean
bukhit, m'barnar
pull, mrapuli,
blamuss, dangimo
buta
lasu
bira
cold
durpuss
muakh
maskinuss
I II
Javan.
tuli
deaf
turuss
tuli
Sunda
torek
dirty
drunk
matar
vusuk, busuk
m'k'púta
m'vusuk
Bali
good
malaka
b'lakh
baik
malak
Biajuk bahalak
hot
maramuk
makilukh
-
lame
piruss
Bali
large
raia
n'huyal
Madura
perot
raja
long
marung, mahung
nduyukh
many
nangei
valei banyak
Madura
banyak
Bali
bara
red*
t'barei
m'talakh mira
Bugis machala
short
k'zu
small
kia
zatung
tikai
kutu Bisaya
kutu
white
vussar, bussar
m'lávu
Both Pepos and savages have very crude and indistinct ideas of color, and the terms given
here are subject to some uncertainty.

88
English.
Kabaran.
he (?)
aisu haia
thon, (you)
aisu
who
all
tiani-wanai (?) stupid, foolish
hanizka, maniz
broad
tabai
English.
silly, garrulous
smooth, level
.
yellow
far
cooked
mammin
near
dumb
murar, muzar
no, not
fragrant
vangsiss
very
green*
bruviru
honest
parakun
"can do"
narrow
basil
"
offensive (odor)
vangt'o
no fear"
THE ABORIGINES OF NORTHERN FORMOSA.
Kabaran.
mutamut
lasilass
mrimarukh
palao, mrapala
ma-ra-ul, ma-za-ul
m'taha
palamsu, maluna, (tiku?)
aska-meikiss
ma-ra-ki
wanai
meiku
perspiring
satihuss
X.-VERBS.
English.
Kabaran. Yukan.
Malay.
Sundry.
to come
naori, akwa
mari
Bisaya
mari
to eat
k'man, han mani
Tagalog
comain
Bisaya
cumaon
to sleep
meinup
mavi
Bisaya
modap
English.
Kabaran.
English.
Kabaran.
to arise, get up
kasswat, hasswat to labor
saharun, sahalun
to awake
mainar
to love, desire
mangil
come (imperative)
akwasi
to quarrel
to cry
muring
to rejoice
to dream
braputui
to see, look
to eat with the hand
h'mapu
to eat with chopsticks
ipita-k'man
to smell
saku-saran
sarumakun
maita
to shave the head musskiss
smanuk, smingut
to fight
to go
mabul
wiati (sing.)
to smoke
to sneeze
han tabaku
vassing
wista (plural)
to talk
to be about to go (?) havitiku
to taste
to hear
to kill (an animal)
to kill, slay (a man)
See note, p. 87.
darav
to wish
s'marira
to write
mutung
sikaoma
smilam
pali
sulal, smulan