ARTICLE IV.
NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING,
(妙法蓮華經)
A BUDDHIST SUTRA IN CHINESE.*
I
BY T. WATTERS, H.B.M. C.S.
PROPOSE to give in the following pages, some account of a
well-known Chinese Buddhist work,-of its history and nature,
and of a few other subjects connected with it which seem to
be of importance. These notes embody a portion of the results
of a careful study of the book, first begun several years ago, and
undertaken with the view simply of acquiring information about
the religion of which it is to a certain extent an exponent. Very
many difficulties beset the student of such a work as this, and
several of these are, under present circumstances, almost or alto-
gether insurmountable. They arise on the one hand from the
nature of the subject, and on the other hand from the character
of the language. To these must be added the fact, that many of
the distinctive terms or phrases employed, are translations of ex-
pressions which in their original language often have for Buddhist
writings peculiar meanings, very unlike their common acceptations;
and that the Chinese equivalents not seldom are either anomalous
phrases, or regular phrases in ordinary use, but in the Buddhist
writings invested with peculiar significations. So far as regards
the work now about to be considered, the student's difficulties are
greatly lessened by the excellent translation which has been made,
of what is at least to some extent the original treatise; and here
in the very forefront of my notes, I wish to express my deep
obligation to Burnouf's works on Buddhism, not only for the facts.
which they contain, but also for the valuable guidance which they
afford. The wide and deep learning, the illuminating genius,
the cautious judgment, and the liberal heart which this scholar
possessed, have made his name revered and his loss deplored, by
all who take an interest in Buddhism. His mantle has not fallen.
on another, though many have entered into the fruits of his
labours.
Read before the Society on November 23rd, 1874.
12

90
NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
The name of the treatise concerning which these notes are
written is Miao-fa-lien-hua-ching (), or as it is more
frequently styled simply Fa-hua-ching. The work is very highly
esteemed by the professed followers of Buddhism in this country,
though I cannot from personal observation endorse the statement
of Wassiljew, that it is always found in Chinese temples on the
altar in front of the images. On the contrary, the monks gene-
rally declare that it is a Great Sutra (ta ching),-one only
to be brought out and used on special occasions. Sometimes in a
large monastery, one of the brethren will devote himself exclu-
sively to its study, living apart in a small room or cell, and trying
to understand its dark allegories and realize its grand visions.
By none, however, is it so devotedly studied and so profoundly
venerated, as by the adherents of the T'ien-t'ai sect, which has its
chief seat in those mountains of Chekiang from which the name
is derived. The person who became the illustrious founder of this
sect, and who is generally known as Chih-chê () or Chih-chi
(the latter character being also read k'ai), heard when only
seven years of age, the 25th or Kwan-yin chapter read by a monk,
and he suddenly obtained an intuitive knowledge of the whole
work. So great an impression did the scenes and dialogues which
it records make on his mind, that while still a youth, he saw as
in a trance by the means of magic power, the Great Assembly still
convened on the Vulture-peak hill, and Sakyamuni continuing his
discourse. Many anecdotes also are related to illustrate the
great and good effects which have resulted from the pious study,
or even only frequent repetition of the whole or a part of our
Sútra. Such a story is that of the unfortunate beauty, whose
breath had the sweet scent of the lotus flower. Countless ages
ago, in a former state of existence, she had been a devout nun,
and had in that capacity conned the Fa-hua-ching for thirty years
with holy fervour. The merit of this pious exercise prevailed,
even when on her subsequent re-birth into the world she had to
reap the bitter fruit of that root of sin in connection with the same
planted then, before the "long night" of those vanished ages.
Der Buddhismus, p. 163..
See the Chih-yue-lu () ch. 2, p. 21; and Edkins in the Shanghai
Almanac and Miscellany for 1855-6,-Notices of Buddhism in China.
This story is told in the Lung-shu-ch'ing-t'u-wên (1X),
ch. 7, p. 15.

NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
91
At the present day we often see, at the beginning of a copy of
this work, or of the Knan-yin chapter, a statement to the effect
that it is printed and circulated by so-and-so, as a vow-offering,
-or a thanksgiving for the life of a father, or mother, or husband,
or occasionally simply as a good act towards the individual's sal-
vation. This is done not only by the common Chinese, who own
a mixed religion, but by many who pass as pure Confucianists.
This Sutra, however, has never attained the wide-spread popularity
and reputation of the Chin-kang, Hua-yen, and some other Sutras.
By the ordinary Buddhists it is generally considered deep and
hard to be understood, many regarding it as being throughout a
dark allegory. The strict Confucianists again often condemn it,
as well on account of the rudeness of its style, as on account of
the wild and extravagant fictions which it contains. Yet many
of these study it, and some, like the famous Chên Hsi-shan
() of the Sung dynasty, elaborate a reasonable meaning
out of its wayward parables."
*
As is well known, the Fa-hua-ching professes to be a transla-
tion, and it is now quite established, that its original was a copy
of the Saddharma pundarika. Burnouf's translation of the latter
work, under the title "Le Lotus de la bonne Loi," from a ma-
nuscript sent to Paris by Mr. Hodgson, is of inestimable value, as
well to the student of Chinese Buddhism as of Indian. His com-
parison of the other accessible manuscripts with the Paris one was
of great importance, affording corrections on the one hand of
mistakes which had got into the text of the latter, and on the
other hand of Burnouf's occasional errors of interpretation. His
Notes and Appendices also are a perfect store-house of Buddhistic
lore, and they, taken together with his "Introduction à l'histoire
du Buddhisme Indien" give us a mass of important information,
while at the same time they make us regret the unfinished state
of the great work which he had proposed to himself. M. B. Saint-
Hilaire has to a certain extent popularised the "Lotus de la bonne
Loi" among western readers, and all good writers on Buddhism
since Burnouf's time have drawn largely from his treatises. The
Chinese translation, however, differs considerably from the French,
and this fact has been already noticed and commented on by
Julien, Beal, and others; but no one apparently has taken the
trouble to ascertain the extent of the agreement and difference.
Sco the Win-hsien-t'ung-k'ao of Ma Tuan-lin, ch. 226.

92
NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
between the two versions. In order to learn which is the more
correct, or whether they are not each a faithful translation of its
original, we should have the Sanskrit texts at hand, and this is at
present quite impossible for students in China. Nor indeed would.
it be practicable even at home, for any one who devoted his
energies to the study of Chinese, to decipher, compare, and
translate Sanskrit manuscripts. The work should be divided, and
carefully edited copies of at least the most important of the Ne-
palese manuscripts ought to be printed and published, under the
supervision of Sanskrit scholars. Up to the present moment the
only works of the kind accessible to us here, so far as I know,
are the Lalita-vistara, edited by Bábu Rájendralál Mittra, in
the series of the Bibliotheca Indica;* the Fourth chapter of the
Saddharma pundarika edited by M. P. E. Foucaux, and an
Avadana of 15 pages, edited by M. Léon Feer. As M. Foucaux
complains, during the thirty-six years that England and France
have possessed the precious manuscripts sent by Mr. Hodgson.
from Nepal, not a single one of them has been published, whilst
in the same period an enormous number of works relating to
Brahmanism have been printed from manuscripts in India or
elsewhere. Yet these Buddhist treatises are of considerable
importance for the study of the language, literature, and religion
of India. On the first of these subjects it is probable that
they would throw some valuable light, by the indications which
they afford of the extent to which the literary language was
broken up and otherwise altered, and of the changed meanings
which many terms had received on their adoption by Buddhism.
For the Chinese student, however, still greater advantage would
be gained by the discovery and deciphering of the actual originals
from which the existing translations were made. We know that
in this country there were formerly palm-leaf manuscripts of
Buddhist works, and it is not unlikely that some of these still
survive. Mr. Edkins tells us of one Sanskrit manuscript which
he saw in the Kao-ming-ssä (BJ), one of the Tien-t'ai tem-
ples in Chekiang; and though he does not state distinctly what
*There is also an independent edition with an English translation of the
first and second chapters and a portion of the third. M. Foucaux has also
published a portion of the seventh chapter in his edition of the Tibetan
translation of this work.
† Etude sur le Lalita Vistara, p. 6.
Trip to Ningpo and T'heen-t'hae, in Shanghai Almanac &c.

NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
93
is the nature of this highly-prized curiosity, yet we may perhaps
infer that it is Buddhistic, and as such the manuscript should be
turned to some account.
I now proceed to consider the meaning of the title of our treatise,
which is in full Ta-sheng-miao-fa-lien-hua-ching (
). Of this the first two characters mean "Great Vehicle,"
and are the Chinese rendering of Mahayana; though they also
correspond to Vaipulya or Mahdavaipulya, which Burnouf renders
"developpé;" and "Great Development" is the expression often
used as the English equivalent for these two characters. Miao-
fa-lien-hua corresponds to Saddharma pundarika, which Burnouf
translates, as has been seen, "Le Lotus de la bonne Loi." As he
shows, however, the former of these two words is susceptible of
other renderings. The word dharma certainly means "the Law,"
that is, "Buddhism," but it also means a great many other things.
Some idea of its wide and vague application will be obtained, by
consulting such works as Burnouf's Introduction to the History
of Indian Buddhism, and Childers' Pâli Dictionary.* The Chinese
character fa () also has many and different meanings, and its
use in Buddhist literature is to a certain extent peculiar. The
lien-hua is the pundarika or "white lotus," a plant much used in
the figurative teaching of Buddhism. To the whole expression
Miao (or Cheng IE which is also used)-fa-lien-hua various inter-
pretations may be given. The two former words may denote "the
excellent religion," that is, "Buddhism." In this case the lotus will
be used figuratively to denote the processes of unfolding, blooming,
decaying, and being renewed, through which the religion passes.
As the lotus buds, blooms, dies, and comes forth again after the
dark winter is over to bud and bloom again, so is it with Buddhism.
Ever when the world deems it dead and lost, it is only waiting its
due time when it will burst into life again and flourish with all its
wonted beauty and richness. Or fa may represent "the sacred
canon" or "revealed scriptures," and the lien-hua or "lotus" may
denote "the flower or chief," and the whole expression will then
signify "the flower of the excellent scriptures." This interpreta-
tion is sanctioned by many passages in the work itself, where such
terms as King of the Law, Most excellent of Sutras, &c., are applied
to the Fa-hua-ching; though it must be remembered that similar
terms are applied to other sacred books, as, for example, to the
* Introduction à l'histoire &c. p. 42. Pali Dictionary, s. v. Dhammo.

94
NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
Lalita-cistara. Mr. Beal has a different explanation; for according
to him fa (or dharma) here means "matter itself." He says:-
"The expression 'Fa-kai' is a well-known one to signify the
limits or elements of Dharma (dharma dhatu), where Dharma is
the same as Prakriti, or Matter itself. Much confusion would
have been avoided if this sense of Dharma, when used by writers
of the Swabhavika school, had been properly observed." As an
instance of this, we may remark that the title of the work trans-
lated by Burnouf, The Lotus of the Good Law, has no reference
whatever to the moral law, or any law considered as a code of
instruction. The object of the Sûtra is to exhibit the infinite
extent of the Lotus creation, in every part of which innumerable
Buddhas reside, attended by their retinue of Bodhisatwas; and
the appearance of these Buddhas and Bodhisatwas in the world.
or system over which Sakya Tathagata is supposed to preside, is
designed to signify the vast honour paid to our Buddha by the
countless others who are manifested throughout the field of space."
This interpretation of dharma, however, is not well supported.
No doubt in a philosophical and transcendental sense it stands for
"matter" with the writers of the Swabhavika school, as Mr.
Hodgson has stated, but the Fa-hua-ching is a narrative, not a
philosophical treatise. It no doubt contains metaphysical teachings,
sometimes even of a very abstruse and dogmatic nature; but
these appear only occasionally, its moral and other lessons being
usually taught by story or parable. And in his criticism of M. Saint-
Hilaire's observation,-"Voilà déjà bien des détails extravagants
et tout à fait inutiles, puisque l'exposition de la Loi promise par
le Lotus n'est pas donnée,"-Mr. Beal apparently forgets that the
Sutra is represented not only as having been expounded long ago,
but also as still to be expounded. The writers of the Tien-t'ai
sect sometimes explain the title in a manner resembling that
adopted by Mr. Beal. They take fa to denote the spiritual system
of Buddhism; and this regarded in its eternal unchanging essence
is the lotus, while the flower represents the ever-changing acci-
dents. The miao-fa is the incomprehensible universe of self and
space, and the lien-hua figures this as budding into life, blooming
and decaying. But Mr. Edkins gives the following as Chih-k'ai's
own explanation of the name "As the lotus grows out of mire
and yet preserves its freshness and purity, so the doctrines of this
* A Catena of Buddhist Scriptures from the Chinese, p. 12.

NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
95
book, the good law, assist men to retain their original nature
unsullied and undisturbed amidst the misery and corruption around
them." The title of the book after all seems to me to have little
to do with the contents, and it may have been arbitrarily imposed.
or adopted from an earlier Sútra. In any case Burnouf's render-
ing of it may at least for the present be retained.
From the consideration of the name, we now proceed to the
make up of our book. It consists of seven chüan (or "volumes"
originally), and is divided into twenty-eight chapters. This di-
vision does not correspond exactly with that of the Sanskrit text,
from which the French version was made. The eleventh chapter in
the latter forms two in the Chinese, making this have one chapter
more than the French; and the order of succession is also different
in the two versions. It is of much more importance, however, to
note that the chapter headed "Le Dépôt," which is last in the
French, is only the twenty-second in the Chinese edition. It was
probably with this chapter that the earlier forms of the Fa-hua-
ching concluded; the amplifiers and developers who added to the
original work afterwards transposing and inserting occasional
passages in it, in order to give the appearance of a connected
whole to the book as it left their hands. The chapters concerning
the Medicine P'usas, Kwan-yin P'usa, P'u-hsien P'usa, and the
Magic formulæ seem to me in the main later additions; they
having little relation either to each other or to the former portion
of the book. The Chinese text also differs frequently from the
Sanskrit, in being rather an epitome or abstract of the latter, than
an actual and literal translation. Vain repititions are omitted,
long wearisome sentences are condensed into a few words, and
the style is generally much less diffuse and extravagant. Some-
times indeed whole sentences and passages are left out, and these
not always unimportant. Take as an example, the fifth chapter of
Burnouf's version. Here the portion from the paragraph begin-
ning, "Encore un autre développement, 6 Kacyapa,"-at page 81,
down to the end of the chapter, is wanting in all my copies of the
Chinese text. In this passage Sakyamuni expounds the doctrine
of the one Vehicle and the one Nirvana, using the remarkable
illustration of the man born blind, to whom sight is afterwards
* See the Meanings of Words at the end of vol. i of the Fa-hua-ching.
T'ien-t'ai-ss-hsiao-yi-chi-chu (KE), vol. i, &c. Shang-
hai Almanac, 1856.

96
NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
given. Buddha is the good and skilful physician, who leads ulti-
mately to one and the same Nirvâna those who have been trying
to reach that by good works, by aiming at self-perfection, or by
doing both of these and also seeking to save others. It seems
strange that this interesting section should have been left out from
the Chinese translation; and from a passage in the Notes to Re-
musat's Foč-houě-ki we may infer, that it either exists in some
copies or did exist formerly.* Remusat gives an extract from
this chapter closely resembling a sentence in the above-mentioned
section, but not to be found in the present Chinese version.
But here the questions naturally arise,-when, where, and by
whom was the Saddharma pundarika itself composed? To none
of these has a satisfactory and complete answer hitherto been
given, nor can such be expected at least from the material now at
our disposal. All that I propose to do on the present occasion, is
to bring a few stray gleams of light chiefly from Chinese sources,
to bear on the subjects of these questions. As to the date, the
work itself presents abundant evidence to convince us that this
must be placed long after Sakyamuni's death. Accordingly the
Chinese theory which represents it as the chung-ching (*)
or "last Sûtra" which he delivered, must be abandoned. It refers
to discussions among the believers themselves, to their persecu-
tions at the hands of others, to the divisions into sects and schools,
and to other matters which we know to be of late origin. It had
plainly a pacifying and harmonizing mission among the contending
parties of the faithful. It was an Eirenikon attempting to bring
together a disruptured church. Further, Manjusri, Kwan-yin,
and other P'usas who play an important part in our Sutra are
either quite unknown to early Buddhism or at least are in it very
subordinate characters. Burnouf's opinion is probably the correct
one, viz:-that it was imposed on the church in something like
its present form, at the council held under the King Kanishka
about the beginning of our era. He also regards the poetical
portions as of later origin than the prose, though, I think, not
always with good reason. Tao-hstan (), a Buddhist monk,
writing in the early part of the T'ang dynasty or the beginning
of the seventh century of our era, makes it to have been published
about a thousand years before his time, or about the third century
B.C. and to have reached China about three hundred years before
* Fot-kouč-ki, p. 166.

NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
97
his time, or towards the beginning of the fourth century A. D. An
earlier writer Sêng-jui (f), also a Buddhist monk, a contem-
porary and fellow-labourer with Kumarajiva states that at his time,
about A. D. 380, it had been in China nearly a hundred years,
but he gives us no hint about the date of its composition.*
As we have no certainty respecting the date, so also we have
none respecting the place at which the Fa-hua-ching's original
first appeared. There is a certain amount of evidence, however,
in favour of referring it either to the extreme north of India or
to a country not far beyond that region. We may almost decide
with certainty that its author or authors were not natives of Ra-
jagriha or its neighbourhood; but that as they lived far from the
Buddha's time, so also they lived at a great distance from the scene
of his labours. Burnouf and others regard it as having been
produced in Kashmir, and they are perhaps correct. Tao-hsüan,
the Buddhist writer quoted above, refers to it as having been
compiled or brought together and arranged in Ta-hsia or Bactria
in the south-east of Turkestan. The expression which he uses is
yun-chie-ta-hsia (), and I take the characters yun-
chie to mean "to compile and arrange," though they may also mean
"to exist in a crude and confused condition." The author, however,
regards Ta-hsia as the country from which the work came to
China; and the writer of the imperial preface to the Yung-lo edi-
tion, also refers it to the north-west of India (Chu-chien
).
Still greater uncertainty prevails as to the authorship of the
work. Sometimes all the treatises of the Great Vehicle school,
including our Sutra, are loosely ascribed to Nagarjuna or Nagasena,
in Chinese Lung-shu () or "Dragon-tree." This man, who
was the fourteenth of the original Buddhist patriarchs, was a native
of northern India and lived in the first century B. C. In early life
he had been a diligent student of the Four Vedas, but he after-
wards became an enthusiastic Buddhist. Several Shastras or
metaphysico-religious works, are ascribed to him, and his name is
inseparably associated with the Great Vehicle school, of which he
was perhaps the founder. + It is not impossible that he had some
share in the composition of the Saddharma pundarika; but it seems
* Introduction à l'histoire &c. p. 574 &c. Preface to Fa-hua-ching. Vol.
iii of the Yung-lo edition of the Fa-hua-ching.
† Chih-yue-lu (A) ch. 3. Edkins in Shanghai Almanac and Mis-
cellany, 1855 and 1856. Eitel's Hand-book of Chinese Buddhism, p. 79.
13

98
NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
as we have it now to bear marks of having been the work of seve-
ral authors. One part of it occasionally forgets another, as when
Manjusri, who at the beginning is present on the mountain before
Sakyamuni's discourse commences, is elsewhere represented as
coming from the realms of the Sea-god. So also in reference to
Nirvana and other subjects, considerable disparity is to be found
in the statements occurring at different places, as will be seen
below. Thus to the three questions, when, where, and by whom
was this Sutra first composed? the only answer is, that the evidence
accessible tends in favour of the conclusion that it was written
about the end of the first century B. c. or the beginning of our era,
in a country to the north-west of India proper, and by various
authors, but edited by one man of the Great Vehicle school. On
account of the scanty mention made of it in other books, and for
several other reasons, I think it not unlikely that this Sutra may
have remained for some time almost unknown to the general
Buddhist world.
Coming now to the Chinese translations, we find respecting them
information of a more precise and satisfactory nature, though not
quite such as we desire. For this information we are indebted
chiefly to the Buddhist writer Tao-hsüan of the T'ang dynasty
referred to above. He enumerates three translations which had
been made before his time, and I do not know of any others that
had then appeared.* The first was made by the Tun-hwang
P'usa Chu-fa-hu (*), who is said to have been
a native of Yue-chih () in Tartary. Chu-fa-hu, or Defender
of the Law (that is, religion) of India, was perhaps only a title
of this man who may be the "Chi-kung-ming" of whom Mr.
Edkins writes, "About A. D. 300 Chi-kung-ming a foreign
priest translated the Wei-ma and Fa-hwa (Lotus of the
Good law) Sutras." He travelled over a large portion of India,
and afterwards came to China, bringing with him a collection of
Sanskrit Buddhist works. His chief and last place of residence
was Ch'ang-an, the modern Si-an-fu in Shen-si, and here in the
year A. D. 300 he completed his translation, giving it the title
Cheng (E)-fa-hua-ching. This is said to have been inaccurate
Preface to Fa-hua-ching. See also note by M. Julien in Burnouf's In-
troduction &c. p. 8.
† His native name was Dharmaraksha of which Fa-hu is a translation.
See the Tung-wen-yun-t'ung (), ch. 5. This work speaks very
highly of him and fixes his final residence on the right side of the Yellow
River, in Honan apparently.

館書關學大京燕
Yenching University Library
NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
99
and in general badly executed, the author not being well skilled
in Chinese. Accordingly, some time after its publication, Tao-an
(), a native monk, applied himself to the task of revising
and correcting it, and spent ten years in this labour. We read
also of a high official under the Ch'in () dynasty, named Yao
Sung (), who lived in the second half of the fourth century
of our era, devoting himself with great zeal to the study of the
same treatise. He had the advantage of receiving oral instruction
from Kumarajiva, and was thus enabled to render the work to-
lerably faithful and accurate. The next translation was made by
the man last named with the help of native monks. Kumarajiva
(or Ku-ma-la-shih) was of Indian parentage by the
father's side, although born in Ku-tsu () near Tibet. He
travelled through Kashmir and perhaps North India, and was
brought to China in the last part of the fourth century. Here his
chief place of residence was Chang-an, and he had as disciples and
fellow-labourers eight hundred of the very flower of genius and
learning from all parts of the land. With their help he translated
about three hundred volumes, including the present work, to which
he gave the title Miao-fa-lien-hua-ching. As to his translations,
he confessed that while the sense of the original was usually given,
all the grace and beauty of style were lost. Kumarajiva was a man
of great parts, a zealous apostle, and an enthusiastic student. It
was for his translation I believe, that his disciple Jui (x) wrote
the preface which is now to be found in the Yung-lo edition, and
which gives an interesting spiritual interpretation of several mi-
racles and parables occurring in the Sûtra. The third and last
translation mentioned by Tao-hsüan, was that made by a monk
of North India named Janakát? (), about A. D. 602,
and to which also the name Miao-fa-lien-hua-ching was given.
These three are said to be much the same in style and matter;
but they must differ in some not quite unimportant respects, for
I have often seen phrases and sentences purporting to come from
the Fa-hua-ching, and which do not occur in any of my copies of
Kumarajiva's version. The only translation made since Tao-hsüan's
time, so far as I know, is that by Yuen-chwang or Hiouen-thsang
(), which also bore the title Miao-fa fe. This great and
pious scholar had studied the book in his childhood; in after years
he visited the very hill on which, as he believed, Ju-lai had ex-
pounded it, and when he returned to his native place he translated
it anew. I have not seen this work, but from the references to it

100
NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
which are to be found, it is plain that Yuen-chuang had a peculiar
arrangement of the chapters, and an original different from that
of the others.* His transliterations of the Sanskrit words also are
often very unlike those adopted by his predecessors. In the course
of time these various editions became corrupted through misprints
and other faults, and great uncertainty and confusion existed as
to the proper readings. With a view of correcting these abuses
the Emperor during the Yung-lo period had the translations
all compared, and a new edition produced based on Kumarajiva's
version, but tolerably free from errors. This was honoured with
an imperial preface, and it was reprinted in 1735 by order of the
Yung-chêng Emperor of the present dynasty.
Using the text of this last-mentioned edition, I shall now give
a short and rough outline of the course of action in the Fa-kua-
ching. An analysis of Burnouf's translation from the Sanskrit
will be found in M. B. Saint-Hilaire's work, Le Bouddha et sa Re-
ligion; but it cannot be recommended to any one desirous of
knowing the contents of the Sûtra thoroughly. It is impossible,
indeed, to give a brief and at the same time useful summary of
these, and all that is now attempted is to sketch in as few words
as practicable, the principal topics of which the work treats. The
scene, then, opens near Rajagriha, on the Vulture-peak hill. Sa-
kyamuni is seated on his sacred throne, surrounded by disciples
male and female, P'usas and supernatural beings of all manners
in numbers numberless, waiting and watching with profound
reverence. For the P'usas, beings of high spititual attainments
and next below the Buddha himself, he expounds a Sutra of the
Great Vehicle and then goes into an ecstatic meditation. Divine
flowers are rained on him; the worlds suffer earthquake, and all
the assembly experience unwonted delight. From between his
eyebrows a stream of brilliant light shoots through the air, away
into the farthest regions of space, and renders plainly visible all
their undreamt of occupants. "What means this wondrous omen?"
asks Maitreya of Manjusri, and the latter answers that it indicates
an approaching exposition of the Fa-hua-ching by Sakyamuni.
This last now emerges from his reverie, and proceeds to address
Sariputra on the extraordinary powers of the Buddhas, and on
what he had himself done in former kalpas and other worlds. Så-
See e. g. the Yi-chic-ching-yin-yi (-), ch. 6. I do not
find any mention of this translation in Julien's Hiouen-thsang.

NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
103
children are saved, so the father of the world reappears from
time to time on the earth, after having apparently gone into
Nirvana. Then we have an account of all the benefits which
accrue from the hearing and believing the above account of the
duration of Sakyamuni's existence. To this succeeds a tedious
statement of the extraordinary merit attached to the act of de-
lighting in this Satra, and of all the bodily and intellectual per-
fections to which believers in it will attain. After this comes an
account of a previous existence of Sakyamuni, in which he was a
saint bearing the nickname "Never-despising," given to him on
account of his saying to every one he met, "I dare not despise
you. Hereafter you will become a Buddha." As an exhibition
of their supernatural power, Sakyamuni and Prabhutaratna now
put out their tongues as they smile;-and such tongues! They
go on curling and twisting through space, until they reach the
highest heaven, all the time emitting from every pore a bright
and glowing light. The example is catching, and all the Buddhas
on their seats beneath the trees do likewise. This unseemly
procedure is kept up for a hundred thousand years, and then they
shut up their tongues with an explosion. Here the Sutra should
end. Sakyamuni strokes the heads of his P'usas and other hearers,
and gives them his parting injunction, which is principally to teach
the Law to all creatures in wisdom and charity. The recital of
the history and merits of the Medicine P'usas, of Mino-yin and
Kwan-yin P'usas, and of, Miao-chang-yen-wang occupies four
chapters. The twenty-sixth consists of magic formula of great
efficacy, contributed by various beings, but all in Sanskrit. Chapter
twenty-eight closes the book with the promise of the P'u-hsien
P'usa, to protect through all time those who read and reverence
the Fa-hua-ching, and Sakyamuni's renewed declaration of the
blessings for all who treat it well, and the misfortunes for all who
treat it badly. Then the P'usas, disciples, Devas, Nâgas, and all
the rest of the audience go away delighted.
Now even from this scanty outline it may be seen, that the parts
of the Fa-hua-ching do not cohere to any great extent; and, as
has been already observed, the arrangement of the chapters in
the French version is different from that in the Chinese. As we
have it now, it seems to be the result of a welding together of
several Sutras. Thus in the early part, we may have chiefly the
original Fa-kwa-ching; the first chapter being of course excepted
as of late origin; then another part may have been a Sutra of

NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
105
guardian P'usa appears visibly to the saintly hermit in his cell on
the lonely hill side, or to the pious monk in his cloister absorbed
in meditation. For these, accordingly, all the strange manifes-
tations and wonderful narratives represent at least possibilities.
Why, however, do the Buddhas resort to the expedient of putting
out their tongues to such an enormous length in order to show
their miraculous power? Saint-Hilaire says the account of this
"dépasse en sottise et en grossière stupidité tout ce qu'on peut
trouver dans les soûtras bouddhiques," + and I am afraid we must
bow to the judgment. Possibly it has some figurative meaning,
but the action certainly seems to our ideas an absurd and rather
undignified procedure. Just fancy even the Upper House of
Convocation sitting gravely each member with his tongue out at
full length! But perhaps it is wrong to make light of the story,
which may have some deep meaning, and accordingly we go on
to Sanskrit words and other subjects.
It has been already stated that the Chinese differs considerably
from the French version, in being briefer and more condensed
than the latter. But there are also other points in which the two
texts disagree, and sometimes to an important extent; one of
these being the interpretation given to certain Sanskrit words.
A detailed account of the variations of interpretation would be
very interesting, but would occupy too much space; and in the
present notes I confine myself chiefly to a few of the cases,-
mostly proper names,-in which the translation into Chinese does
not reproduce the original. Even the most superficial examination
of the subject will show, that the Chinese text is very frequently
not a transcript of the Sanskrit, with respect to the rendering of
technical terms and names of persons and places. On some oc-
casions this discrepancy is seen to result from the use of a wrong
character by the former; at other times it follows from an im-
proper dismembering of a long Sanskrit compound; and not
unfrequently it follows from this, that the Chinese gives us the
purely Buddhist meaning of a word, and not the signification
which it has in ordinary Sanskrit literature. An instance of the
wrong use of a character occurs at the beginning of the seventh
chapter. Here the name of the country in which Buddha Ta-
t'ung-chih-sheng (i) appeared, is in Burnouf's version
This opinion finds support in several passages of the Fa-hua-ching itself,
and many examples are given of these manifestations.
† Le Bouddha &c. p. 71.
24

110
NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
will hereafter become Buddhas. These have already in several
stages of existence done the works of the righteous, and so have
in some degree prepared the way for the attainment of this far-off
preeminence. They have still, however, to pass through many
varieties of untried being," and after countless acts of worship
and service they will finally attain supreme intelligence.
"
Another class of Buddhas may be described as geographical.
It comprises the sixteen who preside over the eight divisions of
the universe, two in the East, two in the South-east, etc. Ami-
tabha, or Omito Fo, who becomes so celebrated in subsequent
Buddhism, is here simply mentioned as one of the two presiding
over the West. Sakyamuni himself is represented as one of these
sixteen and as administering our world.* But there are also
numberless other Buddhas coexisting with him, and by his mira-
culous power they can be made visible to men, and the discourses
which they deliver to their disciples can be heard.
There is still another class, for the Sakyamuni miraculously
creates from his own body countless Buddhas, who come with
their attendants to hear him expound the Fa-hua-ching and to
adore the wonderful Pagoda. They are rendered visible by the
ray of light which he emits from between his eyebrows; but, as
being apparently created for the occasion, they are not supposed
to have a permanent existence, and are to be distinguished from
those of the previous class. This Sútra indeed seems to regard all
space and time as containing Buddhas, and we may perhaps adopt
Wassiljew's short statement of what it teaches us on this subject,
viz. that all become Buddhas. They are like the sands of the
Ganges in number; they teach the Law to conduct other beings
to Nirvâna; and they pass an existence chiefly made up of
.negations.
The only other subject connected with the Fa-hua-ching on
which I make any observations at present, is its representation of
Nirvana. As is well known, this word has given rise to much.
controversy, not only among Buddhists themselves, but also among
their western critics and expounders. Has it a spiritual or a ma-
terial reference?-does it denote total or only partial extinction?
To these and similar questions respecting it, the most varied and
contradictory answers have been given. Nor is this very strange,
when we consider that the word is used in different senses by one
Le Lotus &c. p. 113. Fa-hua-ching, ch. 7.

NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
111
and the same author and in the same book. Often indeed the
writer or speaker has no fixed and precise meaning attached to it,
but applies it in a vague and misty manner. So when we study
his words and think to find a fact, we merely fare like Ixion. In
the present Sûtra we sometimes find the term thus loosely em-
ployed, and one cannot read the work without remarking, how
very frequently Nirvana or the corresponding Chinese expression
occurs, and at the same time how different are its applications.
The subject is beset with doubts and difficulties, and it is almost
certain that even the meagre outline here given is not quite correct.
Firstly, the term is used to denote that degree of comparative
moral perfection, to which an arhat attains while still living in
this world, when he has gained complete control over his bodily
powers and passions, and acquired a knowledge of the Law. Thus,
for example, Ajnatakaundinya and other disciples are represented
as saying to themselves, that they had already arrived at Nirvana,*
and Sakyamuni also speaks of disciples whom he had caused to
attain to this.
Secondly, it is sometimes used as a synonym for death. Thus
Sakyamuni relates how the Buddha Jih-yue-ch'ing-ming-té (
f), or "Sun-and-moon's-pure-brightness'-virtue," when
a P'usa asked him about his continuance in the world, replied that
his time for Nirvana had come,-his time for extinction had arrived.
He then ordered his couch to be prepared, gave his final commands,
and late in the night he entered Nirvâna, that is, died. The
context shows clearly that such is the meaning, and a funeral pyre
is subsequently erected on which his body is burnt. Burnouf's
version is here very explicit and makes the Buddha say,-"Le
temps où je dois entrer dans le Nirvâna complet est arrivé, ô fils
de famille; le temps de la fin de ma vie est arrivé." So also
Sakyamuni's death is on several occasions spoken of as his Nirvana,
as well by himself as by others.
Thirdly, it denotes, and this is the common acceptation of the
term, the extinction of birth, death, and all the miseries of mortal
existence, the annihilation of all troubles. This, however, like
the first, is distinctly said not to be the true Nirvâna, but only a
temporary relief or resting-place. It is the magic city produced
Le Lotus &c. p. 22.
Fa-hua-ching, ch. 3.
† Le Lotus &c. p. 245.
Fa-hua-ching, ch. 2; and Le Lotus &c. pp. 39, 40.
Fa-hua-ching, ch. 23.

114
NOTES ON THE MIAO-FA-LIEN-HUA-CHING.
Nirvana, may be regarded as receiving here a harmonious adjust-
ment. It is death, and the extinction of all passion and desire,
and emancipation from all the bonds of existence; but it is further
eternal duration, perfect wisdom, and absolute quietude.
Here I bring these rambling notes to a close. They have only
touched on a few of the more salient points connected with the
Fa-hua-ching, and have not attempted to decide any vexed ques-
tion. Some would perhaps be inclined to regard the time and
labour employed on this subject as to a great extent misspent, but
a more liberal view would show that such is not the case. Few
of us in China care to know much about its religions and their
literatures, but there is always a represented minority which does
care for these things. To such I hope that these notes will not
be quite devoid of interest.