RECENT BOOKS BY A CHINESE
SCHOLAR
JOHN C. FERGUSON.
It is often said that scholarship in China is at a very low
ebb at the present time. While this is true to a certain
extent, there are many circumstances which explain the
paucity of new books. The abolition of the civil service
examinations-k'o chü-put an end to the steady publication
of books giving examples of well-written essays and explain-
ing earlier literary writings from the standpoint of their use
in essay writing. This is also true of books relating to poetry
and to historical references both of which subjects were of
vital importance to the candidate for official preferment in
the examination. To take the place of these books, with a
public which had been accustomed to reading, there came
from the presses a steady flow of translated and compiled
books. These treated of all branches of modern knowledge:
scientific, economic, governmental, and philosophic. In-
numerable books of fiction have also been translated and, it
must be said, these have formed by far the largest portion
of the examples of foreign thought that have been presented
to the Chinese public as representative of Western literature.
Such translated books, however, form no part of the per-
manent literature of a nation; their influence is evanescent.
Another class of books such as the Encyclopaedia,
Tz'ü Yuan published by the Commercial Press, shows the in-
fluence of Western methods of learning. It is an example of
the systematized and condensing process so common in our
Western book making. There is nothing new in this En-
cyclopaedia, but the arrangement of its contents makes all
the knowledge it contains readily valuable to a student.
In addition to this, it adds a large mass of information on
scientific subjects: foreign geography and names of historical
personages important in Western literature. As a whole,
it is much more useful to the student of Chinese literature.
at the present time than the P'ei Wên Yün Fu. This
Encyclopaedia was compiled by a body of scholars well
versed in the ancient literature of their own country and

RECENT BOOKS BY A CHINESE SCHOLAR
123
with training sufficient to enable them to tabulate their work
according to modern methods. Along with this Encyclopaedia
have been published a new dictionary, Hsin Tzu-tien,¹ and a
new Chinese-English dictionary, both of which are useful
and valuable. The former contains in a small space the
gist of Kang Hsi's large dictionary and the latter provides in
a succinct form the latest usages of Chinese characters.
Other publishing houses such as the Chung Hwa³ have
contributed their share to the enrichment of modern Chinese-
literature for which they deserve credit.
In one branch of scholarship a new impetus has been
given by the impact of Western civilization. This is the
investigation of antiquarian subjects. Stein's "Expedition
into Central Asia," the "Archaeological Mission to China"
of Chavannes, have not only brought to light many interest-
ing facts which explain existing literary records, but also have
helped to call attention to a method which has been too often
overlooked by Chinese writers, viz., the confirmation of
literary records by extant monuments. This method has
been followed by a few students from the time of the Liang
Dynasty downwards, but as a general rule, it was entirely
superceded by the methods of higher and lower textual
criticism, which fattened upon the original investigation of
others but added nothing new to the stock of human know-
ledge.
Chinese scholarship had followed easily the line of least
resistance through long generations by devoting itself to a
class of studies which were purely linguistic. The great
scholar of the Second Century, A.D., Hsü Shen,' prepared
the Shuo Wen on an etymological basis, attempting to show
the development of the Chinese Chuan characters from their
earliest use. He was followed by a long list of writers whose
works were written from the same point of view. In the
preparation of the Yü Pien, Ku Yeh-wang of the Liang
Dynasty devoted his profound scholarship to the historical
development of the Li characters and his researches were
carried still further by such men as Sun Ch'iangs of the Tang
Dynasty and Ch'en P'eng-nien of the Sung Dynasty. With
the writers of Buddhistic influence in the Wei and Sui
Dynasties, and its cleverly devised Taoist imitation, there
emerged the type of scholarship which concerned itself en-
tirely with philosophic discussions. These works were de-
voted largely at first to religious philosophy, but soon branch-
ed off into the broader and more indefinite fields of politics
1新字典 2英新辭典
5說文
4 HFMC
6玉篇
3 Publishers of the 中華大字典
「顧野王
9陈彭年
8孫強

124
RECENT BOOKS BY A CHINESE SCHOLAR
and economics. Inseparably mixed with these philosophic
discussions was a medley of linguistic corroboration in which
attempts were made to bolster up philosophic opinions by
clever etymological distinctions. Out of the weary mass of
such inane literary production, there arose the poets of the
Tang Dynasty such as Li Po and his successors. There were
also brilliant essayists who did their part in creating an
elegant style of writing. But as a whole, the body of litera-
ture of China down to the end of the 17th and the beginning
of the 18th centuries is largely composed of unfruitful argu-
mentations.
All the greater credit, therefore, should be given to the
more solid type of scholarship which was introduced by the
Emperor Wu Ti of the Liang Dynasty in his preparation of
one-hundred twenty volumes recording for the first time the
inscriptions on ancient stone monuments. This was unfor-
tunately lost. In the Sung Dynasty, Ou-yang Hsiu compiled
a treatise on early inscriptions called Tsih Ku Lu. 10 During
the same dynasty, Nieh Ts'ung-yi¹¹ prepared the San Li T'u
and Wang Fu edited the Hsüan Ho po ku t'u. These two
works were prepared from drawings and rubbings which were
in the Imperial collection and must have been very valuable
at the time of production, although later editions of these
books have probably failed to retain the accuracy of the
originals. Another important book of the Sung Dynasty was
that of Hsieh Shan-kung13 entitled "Li tai chung ting k'uan
chih" in twenty volumes. Hsieh was a careful scholar and
a keen antiquarian. His work has formed the basis of all
later investigators. He described the shapes of early bronzes
and reproduced their inscriptions concerning which he added
valuable dissertations. In some of these there is an admix-
ture of pure linguistic discussions, but these do not mar the
great value of the other features of his work. No great
scholars or writers on antiquarian subjects were produced
during the Yuan and Ming Dynasties.
It remained for the scholars of the Kang Hsi-Chien
Lung periods to give a new bent to scholastic attainments
under the leadership of these two scholarly emperors. The
great dictionary of Kang Hsi united all the scholarship of the
preceding periods and gave it a new interpretation. Com-
pilation of the P'ei Wen Encyclopaedia had also a new
stimulating influence. The compilation of three volumes
concerning the Imperial collection of bronzes tended to
place scholarship upon the sound basis of recognizing existing
monuments rather than literary records as authoritative
10集古錄 張宗體著三禮圖 12王舖撰博古圖 13薛尙功歴代鐘鼎款識

RECENT BOOKS BY A CHINESE SCHOLAR
125
sources of information. These three volumes were: Hsi
Ch'ing ku chien,14 Hsi Ch'ing hsü chien, 15 and the Ning
Shou chien ku. 16 These were, indeed, mirrors of antiquity
as their names imply. The Imperial example was followed
by scholars such as Chang T'ing-chi and Chu Yi-tsun. 17 In
1804 Yuan Yuan published his "Inscriptions on Vessels"-
Chi Ku Chai chung ting i ch'i k'uan chih18 in which the
rubbings of 560 inscriptions are criticized and explained. He
was followed by the Fêng brothers, authors of the Chin
Shih So, 19 "Researches in Metal and Stone" and by a long
list of such men as Wu Ta-ch'êng, Wu Jung-kuan, Weng
Fang-kang, Wu Yün, Liu Tieh-yün, Wu Shih-fên, 20 and
others. A generation ago there was a group of men in
Peking, including such scholars as P'an Tsu-yin and Shen
Po-hsi, 21 who not only collected ancient objects, but added
to this careful scholarly research. To carry on the work of
this earlier generation, Tuan Fang22 made a noted collection
and published his "Records" of stones and metals, but un-
fortunately his life was cut off before his great work as an
antiquarian was completed. In many respects, it may be
said that his mantle has fallen upon the shoulders of Lo
Chên-yü.
Lo Chen-yü-Shu-yün, 23 is a native of Shang Yü near
Shao Hsing in the province of Chehkiang. He attained the
highest literary rank and under the Manchu Dynasty, he was
appointed Literary Chancellor of the province of Shantung.
After the abdication of the Manchus, he removed to Japan
where he still professes himself to be a subject of the Manchu
Dynasty. In several of his writings, he continues to use the
title of the reign of the abdicated emperor, Hsuan T'ung.
In no instance has he dated any of his books according to
the years of the Republic. Whenever he has not used the
Imperial title, he has used the name of the cyclical year.
In one of the volumes described below is a photograph of Lo
which shows him wearing the official garb of the Manchu
regime including the queue. His political predilections are
of little interest, but his work as an antiquarian is a distinct
contribution to the permanent scholarship of his nation.
His investigations have led him into many fields starting
with his comments upon the literary finds of Stein at
Tun-huang.24 A separate article even would be insufficient
to discuss each one of the separate books which Mr. Lo has
written in recent years, and it is proposed in this brief review
14 西淸古鑑 15 西淸緻鑑
10寧鑑古 17張廷濟、朱尊 18古齋
鐘鼎彝器款識 19金石渠 20吳大澂、吳榮光,翁方網,吳雲,劉鐡墨,吳式芬
21潘祖蔭,盛伯 22端方 23羅振玉叔 21敦煌

126
RECENT BOOKS BY A CHINESE SCHOLAR
to do no more than call attention to the names and leading
ideas of each one of these valuable contributions.
"CHARACTERS USED IN DIVINATION IN THE SHANG DYNASTY."
(**). Published in 1910.
Chapter I is devoted to an examination of history:
(1) as to the location of the capital of the Shang Dynasty,
(2) as to the names and posthumous titles of the emperors of
this dynasty. Chapter II is devoted to the rectifying of
the manner of writing names: (1) the author maintains that
the characters used by Shih Chou are the correct ancient
form, (2) that the ancient hieroglyphic characters suggested
their meaning by their form without any regard to a fixed
number of strokes composing them, (3) a discussion of the use
of these characters in determining character reading of the
inscriptions on ancient bronze vessels, (4) a correction of the
errors of Hsü Shen in the Shao Wen. Chapter III is
devoted to the methods of divination: as to (1) Chen 25 which
was the laying straight of divining rods, (2) Ch'i26 which was
evidently intended to mean the hollowing out of the shell
of the tortoise, (3) the application of fire27 in burning the tor-
toise shell, (4) production by heating of the dark crackled
lines, 28 (5) reading of these lines for the purposes of pro-
gnostication.29 This chapter also contains a discussion of the
books of the various dynasties on subjects connected with
divination and of the terms used in these books. It is a book
difficult to understand by any reader who has not a good
knowledge of the Book of Changes-I King.
"TALLIES AND BADGES OF VARIOUS DYNASTIES."
(歷代符牌圓錐)
In two volumes. The original volume is dated 1914;
the Supplement is dated 1916.
The Introduction is a discussion of the various books
which mention these objects, commencing with the Supple-
ment of the K'ao Ku T'u, and their use for identification
purposes or warrants of office. The earliest tally given is
one of two halves in the form of a tiger with inscriptions on
both parts. Later tallies are made in such a way that the
inscriptions on the two halves fit together when the tally is
closed. In all, fifty-two examples of tallies are given in the
original volume and eight in the Supplement; eighteen
examples of badges in the original and thirty-one in the
Supplement are mentioned. There is a lithographic illus-
29兆圻
25貞 202 27灼 28 致

RECENT BOOKS BY A CHINESE SCHOLAR
127
tration of each of these objects. The letter press of the
second volume is a lithographic reproduction of Mr. Lo's
handwriting which is not so clear for the general reader as
the type used in the first volume.
"TOMB RELICS" (I). Published in 1914.
Reproductions of five curious documents are given in
this volume with an appended explanation of them. The
first four objects are deeds of sale, the first being recorded
on jade, the second on pewter, and the third and fourth on
earthenware. The fourth document is called pich³ which
is an agreement referring to the use of wells and marts. The
fifth is a jade tablet belonging to the Tien Pao period
(A.D. 742-755). On the obverse side is a drawing of a goose.
All of the objects are of great antiquarian interest. The first
was previously mentioned in Tuan Fang's Record of Stones-
Ts ang Shih Ching, 31 the third is mentioned in Chün Ku Lu³2
by Wu Shih-fên, and the fourth is spoken of in Bronze and
Stone Inscriptions-Chin Shih Ch'i,33 but the other two are
recorded for the first time. The inscription on earthenware
is particularly important.
"INCISED INSCRIPTIONS ON STONES AND BRONZES OF THE
CH'IN DYNASTY." (i). Published in 1914.
The first section is entirely devoted to inscriptions on
forty-three bronzes of which one is a tally, fourteen are
counterpoising weights of steel-yards, nine are measures,
eighteen are imperial mandate tablets, and one is a spear.
These are from various collections, the most important of
which are those of Tuan Fang and Ch'ên Hsioh-ch'ing of
Wei-hsien. Section Two treats of three inscriptions on
stone, one of which is that of T'ai Shan, the second is that
of Lang Ya (modern Yü Tai, Shantung) and the third is the
Kuei Chi stone in eastern Chehkiang. The last section in-
cludes inscriptions in thirty-six fragments of earthenware
measures and six tile tubes (for palace use). The last
mentioned objects are not often referred to by other authors,
but are of great interest.
"AN EXAMINATION OF THE WRITINGS FOUND IN THE RUINS OF
THE SHANG DYNASTY." (****).
AN INQUIRY INTO THE WRITINGS FOUND IN THE RUINS OF THE
SHANG DYNASTY. (殷虛書契待問編).
Both published in 1914.
The first of these two volumes is a large book of
one-hundred and twenty pages devoted to a critical examina-
30
31 殘石經 32 推古錄 33 金石契 34味嵓鄉

128
RECENT BOOKS BY A CHINESE SCHOLAR
tion of the characters found in inscriptions on bones, and the
second volume is supplementary to the first. These bone
inscriptions are compared with statements in the earliest
historical writings, with inscriptions on bronzes, and with the
method of writing these characters adopted by Hsü Shen
in the Shuo Wen. The previous work on this subject of
Liu T'ieh-yun is carefully examined and corrections made
where necessary in the opinion of the author.
"PAPER MONEY OF FOUR DYNASTIES."
Published in 1914.
(四朝鈔幣錄).
The four dynasties referred to are the Yuan, Chin, Ming,
and Ch'ing. The author, however, carries the subject to
remote antiquity in his introduction by stating that the
commencement of a token currency was earlier than the
invention of paper and that cloth strips, li pu, 35 were used
in the Chow Dynasty for money. There are seventeen
lithographic illustrations and a full explanation at the end
of the book of each of these. Several illustrations are those
of the copper plates from which notes were printed and the
earliest of these belongs to the second year of Chêng Yuan,
A.D. 1154.
"OTHER BONE RELICS OF LIU T'IEH-YUN."
Published in 1915.
(鐵雲藏龜之餘).
This contains lithographic reproductions of forty inscrip-
tions on bones from the collection of Liu T'ieh-yün without
notes or discussion.
"INK SHADOWS (SILHOUETTES) OF STONE INSCRIPTIONS OF THE
HAN AND CH'IN DYNASTIES." (K).
Published in 1915.
This is a discussion of the inscriptions on several stones
discovered in recent years. One was found on a stone in
Shao-t'ung Fu, Yunnan province, another during mining
operations in Szechuan, a third was on a stone lion in front
of a Yamên (place not mentioned) in Shantung, and a fourth
was on a horse-trough in Lo-yang, Honan province. All of
the inscriptions mentioned were fragments and the author
speculates from them as to the age and identity of the
objects on which the writing is found.
35 里布

RECENT BOOKS BY A CHINESE SCHOLAR
"COLLECTION OF REPRINTS OF CHI SHIH AN."
Published in 1916.
129
(吉石盆叢書).
This is in six volumes. The texts are lithographed.
Volume One gives a reproduction of the explanatory text of
the Shang Shu which was found at Tun-huang and also a
fragmentary Taoist text from the same place. This is follow-
ed by the text of a book published first in 1029 on the
meaning of musical notations. The second volume contains
a reprint of a book published also during the reign of the
Emperor Jên Tsung treating of important methods used
during the Ch'i Dynasty. The methods referred to are those
employed in arboriculture. The third volume is devoted to
an album of paintings with descriptive text on the opposite
pages. The paintings are of various seashore scenes in the
lives of two brothers who were engaged in the manufac-
ture of salt. The album is called Ao P'o Tu,36 "The Raging
Waves. The copy described is a reproduction from the
Yung Lo Ta Tien of a painting made in 1334 during the last
days of the Yuan Dynasty.
The fourth volume reproduces a manuscript of the
K'ai Yüan period which is dated A.D. 718. It consists of
comments on the Materia Medica-pên ts' ao, which, it will
be remembered, was revised and enlarged during the T'ang
Dynasty. The fifth volume reproduces two manuscripts:
the first is on divination by stalks and by tortoise shell, the
second is a compendium by the Buddhist teacher San
Tsang. 37 The sixth and last volume contains two specimens
of Sung Dynasty block printing. The first is a guide to the
life of Mandjusri, and the second is a Buddhist fragmentary
manuscript recording the way in which the teacher San
Tsang obtained his copy of the law.
"EXPLANATION OF THE TEXT OF THE STONE DRUMS."
(**). Published in 1916.
The author in his introduction refers to frequent dis-
cussions as to this text which he had with Wang Wên-shao,
and Shên Po-hsi; and to his obtaining a copy of the Sung
Dynasty rubbing made by Chia Hsiu Tang () and
also of the work on the subject by Ku Yen-wu3s who wrote
at the close of the Ming Dynasty. The author compared
these two with the later work of Yüan Yüan and came to the
conclusion that the explanations of Yüan and his reproduc-
tion of the text were the most reliable. Even Yüan's text,
however, needs correction in some places and the purpose of
36熬波圖 37 三藏 38 顾炎武
9

130
RECENT BOOKS BY A CHINESE SCHOLAR
this book is to discuss these. It is wholly a discussion of
linguistics. It is fully illustrated with cuts of the drums
and the text.
"A FRAGMENT OF THE YU P'IEN." (✯).
Published in 1916.
This is a discussion of the fragment of the Yü P'ien
in the light of the discovery of a fragmentary copy by Li
Shu-ch'ang39 in Japan when he was Chinese Minister in
that country. The original book was written by Ku Yeh-
wang (A.D. 579-581) of the Liang Dynasty in thirty volumes.
It was a discussion of the origin of the Chinese characters as
given by the Shuo Wen. The original book was lost but it
was reproduced in amended editions by Hsiao K'ao of the
Liang Dynasty, by Sun Ch'iang of the Tang and by Chên
P'êng-nien of the Sung. The corrections in these editions
were so numerous that the original text was rendered
obscure. In this book the author reproduces the new dis-
covery and adds a short discussion of its importance.
"FRAGMENTS OF METAL, EARTHENWARE, AND STONE."
(). Published in 1916.
This volume is in two parts: the first treats of fragments
of gold, silver, bronze, pewter, and iron objects, while the
second treats of earthenware, pottery, jade, porcelain, and
stone fragments. It is fully illustrated and contains so many
objects of antiquarian and artistic interest that it is hopeless
to undertake a description of them. Only a careful exam-
ination of the book can give any adequate idea of the import-
ance of its contribution to the knowledge of ancient Chinese
Art.
"ILLUSTRATIONS OF ANCIENT OBJECTS FOUND IN THE RUINS
OF THE SHANG DYNASTY." (殷虛古器物圖錄).
Published in 1916.
In an introductory note the author tells of having sent
his brother on an expedition to An-yang Hsien, Honan, which
is the site of the ancient capital of the Shang Dynasty. This
is the place where the inscribed bone relics were found and
the author believed that an expedition to this place would
result in the securing of other valuable historic remains.
His belief was fully justified and the objects which were
obtained by his brother formed the subject of this book.
The objects are all presented in illustrations. These include
an elephant's tusk, a rhinoceros bone, jade and gem orna-
39 黎庶昌

RECENT BOOKS BY A CHINESE SCHOLAR
131
ments, the thigh bone and the shoulder blade of an animal,
the tooth of a large animal, a fragment of the handle of a
bronze vessel, and two carapaces. The author adds at the
end of the book notes explanatory of these objects.
"MOULDS OF ANCIENT OBJECTS." (M).
Published in 1916.
In the Introduction the author refers to his interest in
this subject having been aroused through the writings of
Chang Ting-chi of Chia-hsing who had collected several
specimens of molds for casting copper cash. This interest
was increased on finding molds of other objects in the posses-
sion of Wang I-jung10 of Fu-shan and of Shên Po-hsi in
Peking. This led him to further investigation out of which
grew this book.
It is in three chapters. The first treats
of moulds of various objects such as daggers, axes, mirrors, and
cross-bows; the second of moulds of exchange coins (),
such as knife money, etc.; and third of molds of round coins
(*). As there are only incidental references in other
books to moulds, this work is the first of its kind in Chinese
literature.
"OFFICIAL SEALS FROM THE TIME OF THE SUI AND TANG
DYNASTIES.”(隋唐以來官印集存)
Published in 1916.
Two-hundred and twenty-five seals are reproduced in
this book. Notwithstanding the title, the first seal men-
tioned belongs to the Ch'ên Dynasty and its earlier than Sui
of which period there are two seals given. Twenty are from
the T'ang and Five Dynasties; forty-eight from the Sung;
one from the Liao; seven from the Hsi Hsia; seventy from
the Chin (Nü Chên); thirty-five from the Yüan; and thirty-
one from the Ming. Many of these have impressions both
of the obverse and reverse sides which accounts for the
variance of the total number from that given in detail
under the various dynasties. Forty-three had already been
mentioned by Chü and Wêng in their books on this subject.
"ILLUSTRATIONS OF ANCIENT MIRRORS." (古鏡圖錄).
Published in 1916.
This book contains illustrations of one-hundred fifty-
seven mirrors, the oldest of which is one dated the first year
of Yüan Hsing, A.D. 105. The author claims that the illus-
trations are of specimens which cannot be found in the
40王懿榮

132
RECENT BOOKS BY A CHINESE SCHOLAR
Chin Shih So or in the Hsi Ching ku chien. Many of them
are from the original collections of Chow Hsing-i and Tuan
Fang, but are now found in Japan. The illustrations are
lithographed from rubbings and are not clear in many
instances. However, it is the best existing collection of
illustrations of mirrors.
The above works show the wide range of Mr. Lo's
scholarship. It is evident that his interest in antiquarian
subjects was first developed by his literary interest in the
inscriptions on bone relics. From this primary interest, he
extended his scholarship into the field of investigation of
inscriptions on ancient bronzes, and thus his vision was
widened to include all classes of ancient objects. His recent
life in Japan has given him access to the rich collection of
ancient Chinese objects which have been made in that
country. Mr. Lo has availed himself of his opportunties and
has been able to bring to the explanation of the new objects
which he has found the benefit of long years of association
with the leading literary men of his country and of his own
profound study of Chinese literature.