CHINESE METAPHORICAL
ZOOLOGY
C. A. S. WILLIAMS.
"Man, by nature, is never satisfied,
Like a snake swallowing an elephant;
In Life, when all is said and done,
The praying-mantis pounces upon the cicada."
(人心不足蛇吞象。世事到頭螳捕蟬)
From a poem by Lo Hung-hsien ().
Figurative description has been reduced to a fine art by
the Chinese, and owing to the almost total absence of
abstract nouns in their language, they have borrowed largely
from nature in order to give point to their written and spoken
ideas.
Animals and birds, both natural and mythical, are
perhaps more frequently utilised for this purpose than any
other objects of nature, and the different characteristics of
the denizens of the zoological kingdom have provided apposite
similies for almost every phase of the human emotions.
The dragon (6), according to the Chinese, has the head
of a camel, the horns of a deer, eyes of a rabbit, ears of a cow,
neck of a snake, belly of a frog, scales of a carp, claws of
a hawk, and palm of a tiger. It is the type par excellence
for the highest qualities of man, was emblematic of the
Emperor, and represents masculine beauty and boldness in
general.
The phoenix (AA) occupies an exalted place in the
national estimation, and is a fabulous bird of good omen,
said to resemble a wild swan before and a unicorn behind;
it has the throat of a swallow, the bill of a cock, the neck
of a snake, the tail of a fish, the forehead of a crane, the
crown of a mandarin drake, the stripes of a dragon, and the
vaulted back of a tortoise. The feathers have five colours,
which are named after the five cardinal virtues, and it is
Charity (i.c. natural goodness of heart), duty to one's neighbour,
propriety, wisdom, and truth (A).

CHINESE METAPHORICAL ZOOLOGY
27
five cubits in height; the tail is graduated like Pandean pipes,
and its song resembles the music of that instrument, having
five modulations. It is generally adopted as a simile for
feminine beauty and purity.
The dragon and the phoenix together are often sym-
bolical of the husband and wife.
The unicorn (), is a mythical creature which brings
good fortune, and holds an important place in the thoughts
of the Chinese. It is recorded to have the body of a deer,
the tail of an ox, the scales of a fish, and one horn covered
with flesh (denoting that though anxious for peace it is
ready for war). It is typical of general excellence, and is
often metaphorically applied to a filial son, or a distinguished
man.
The Chinese regard the tiger as the king of beasts, and
this animal, together with the fox, monkey, deer, tortoise,
crane, eagle, and parrot, are the possessors of many mythical
attributes, such as power to change their shape, etc. The
tiger typifies ferocity, the fox witchcraft and trickery, the
monkey cunning, the deer, crane, and tortoise longevity, the
eagle boldness, and the parrot wisdom.
When a man is said to be anxiously hoping for the
unicorn's appearance (), it is evident to the
Chinese mind that he wishes to be blest with a son of his
own, to carry on the line and worship him after death.
Should this son sent by the unicorn (F) turn out to
be a credit to his father, and become a great man, he will be
called a crane among the chickens (1), or, as we
should say, "a Triton among the minnows"; should he prove
to be a better man than his father, he is styled the calf of a
brindled ox (42), or a colt which passes beyond the
hoof-marks of its sire (2), and it is then his duty
to be a son who controls his father's weevil-like depredations
(7), and make up for his shortcomings by virtuous
conduct. Since even a lamb kneels to take its mother's milk
(L), so should a son be filial. If the father is
advanced in years at the time of his son's birth, he is said
to be an old oyster producing a pearl (), and if this
precious child carries out his filial obligations, his constant
care will be to ensure that his aged parents will live to see
as many springs as the tortoise and the crane (*);
as the tortoise, according to Chinese records, lives to be
1,000, and the crane to be 500 years old, the son will have
his work cut out to accomplish this happy result. The death
or departure of a brother is signified by the figurative break-
ing of a column in a flight of wild geese (EN).

28
CHINESE METAPHORICAL ZOOLOGY
A beautiful girl is often said to cause the fish to dive and
the geese to settle-from envy at her fairness (HE),
while if she is the proud possessor of a head like a cicada and
moth-like eyebrows (), together with a wasp-like
waist and the lissom back of a gibbon (#), she is
considered fully up to the standard necessary to take a prize
in a beauty show. It would not, however, be fully in
accordance with the Book of Etiquette to compare a strictly
virtuous lady to a pheasant, as this bird is apt to fly rather
wild! A young man fascinated by a charming woman is
certainly in the position of a moth caught by the lamp
(撲燈蛾子) Of a woman, who is trying in vain to get
married, it would be remarked that she was seeking for a
male phoenix without success (*). A widow is
described as a mateless goose flying alone (HER)
To have only one wife is generally advised-though the
Chinese are polygamous-on the principle that one saddle is
sufficient for each horse (-- -).
Birds in their little nests should agree, but unfortunately
they occasionally fall out! Family characteristics vary, or,
as the Chinese express it, the dragon has nine kinds of
offspring (J), and the members of a human family
cannot always be said to resemble the badgers of one mound
According to the Chien Ch'üch Lei Shu (i), by Ch'en
Jen-hsi (1), the dragon has nine kinds of offspring, which are
not regular dragons, and each has its peculiarities. They are res-
pectively :-
(1) The Pu-lao (2), carved on the tops of bells and
gongs, in token of its habit of crying out loudly when attacked
by its arch-enemy the whale;
(2) The Ch'iu-niu (4), carved on the screws of fiddles,
owing to its taste for music;
(3) The Pi-hsi (), carved on the top of stone tablets,
since it was fond of literature;
(4) The Pa-hsia (F), carved at the bottom of stone
monuments, as it was able to support heavy weights;
(5) The Ch'ao-fêng (), carved on the eaves of temples,
owing to its liking for danger;
(6) The Chih-wen ( ), carved on the beams of bridges,
because of its fondness for water, and also placed on the roofs of
buildings as a charm to keep off fire. Sometimes symbolised by
the figure of a fish with uplifted tail;
(7) The Suan-ni (). carved on Buddha's throne, on
account of its partiality for resting;
(8) The Yai-tzú (E), carved on sword-hilts, in memory
of its lust for slaughter;
(9) The Pi-han (F), carved on prison gates, as it was
addicted to litigation and quarrelling.
A slightly different collection of these nine monsters is given in the
Sheng An Wai Chi (E).

CHINESE METAPHORICAL ZOOLOGY
29
99
His
() in the similarity of their natures. When the
good wife is inclined to indulge in a little hen-pecking, or
when the hen crows at dawn-instead of the cock-(4 #
]), the peace of the family is apt to be somewhat dis-
turbed, and the downtrodden husband may be driven to
extremities, like the dog in danger, which jumps over the wall
(), and may possibly take refuge in companionship
with bad characters, forming one among a parcel of foxes and
a company of dogs (6), with many teeth and claws
() a decided case of going to the dogs!
better half will no doubt eventually think better of it, and,
for fear of pining away like the mandarin duck in the absence
of her beloved drake (3), it is more than likely that
the plaintive and bird-like tones of her voice-her oriole notes
and swallow-like twitterings (I)-may result in a
reconciliation, and the male and female phoenix will sing in
harmony (I), and the wedded pair will agree like
the fish with the water (I), and-perhaps-live
happily ever afterwards.
The government officials have frequently been a butt for
Chinese sarcasm. Thus a cruel and oppressive official will
be called a fierce beast of the hills (R), or a person
with a human face but a bestial nature (A), preying
on his district as on fish and flesh (3). An avari-
cious official is often called a wolf stopping the road (
), a man with a wolf's head and dog's lungs ()
or accused of gulping like a wolf and swallowing like a tiger
(狼吞虎咽). When very much occupied with official
business, it is said that affairs are as numerous as the prickles
of a hedgehog (如蝟集) In speaking of an honest and
illustrious official, he is said to have the gall of a dragon and
the marrow of a phoenix (F), i.e. rare ability, or to
have spread his wings like the great Roc (*) and
risen to a high and honourable position. When a virtuous
official is unjustly discharged, the ingratitude of the govern-
ment will be denounced in the words the fish is caught but
the fish-trap is forgotten (E), when the bird is killed
the bow is discarded (), or when the hare is caught
the dog goes into the cooking-pot (5).
The literati, or student classes, have always been highly
respected in China, and many fables are extant which illus-
trate the ultimate rise of the plodding scholar to a high official
position. A determined student is said to possess the merit
of the fire-flies and the snow ()-a reference to the
3 The Peng, or Rukh, is a fabulous bird of enormous size, capable
of flying 10,000 li at a stretch.

30
CHINESE METAPHORICAL ZOOLOGY
story of Chu Yin (L) of the Chin Dynasty, who studied at
night by the light of a bag full of fire-flies, as he could not
afford a lamp, and Sun K'ang ( ), who worked by light
reflected from snow. They both naturally rose to be em-
minent officials, and provided a stimulating example for
subsequent generations! A great scholar is compared to
a rising dragon and a soaring phoenix (A), and a
literary hack will humbly designate himself as one who
spends his time engraving worms with little skill ().
though the actual fact may be that his pen moves like the
dragon and the snake (E), and his literary efforts
are exceedingly brilliant. A literary style full of delicate
allusions and recondite obscurities is compared to a dragon-fly
sipping water (k), while a book-worm or pedantic
scholar may be said to love learning as a duck loves duck-weed
(1). The student who is successful in passing a
literary examination is referred to as the fish which has leapt
the Dragon Gate (9)-an allusion to the belief that
the carp of the Yellow River make an ascent of the stream
in the third moon of each year, and that those which succeed
in passing the rapids of Lung-mên (4) in Honan, become
changed into dragons.
As might be expected, ferocious creatures such as the
tiger, leopard, bear, etc., are generally emblematic of great
courage. One who is credited with a leopard's head and
tiger's eyes (R), a tiger's back and bear's loins
(7), or the gall of a soaring eagle (1)
is valiant beyond compare, while he who moves like a dragon
and paces like a tiger (f) has a brave and martial
bearing.
The poor and needy are decidedly in the majority in
China. In a lecture on "Chinese Customs," delivered at the
request of the Senate of University College, Liverpool,
Mr. E. H. Parker stated that "90 per cent. of the Chinese
families live on annual gross incomes of less than £10 in
cash and in produce combined. Most of the peasants, living
as they do upon the produce of their own labour, probably
turn over less than £2 a year in actual cash!"
It is no
exaggeration to compare a poor man to a fish out of water
(k), and, while he may be so fortunate as to be
suddenly enriched by an unexpected windfall, such as, figura-
tively speaking, a fat pig wriggling in at the door (19).
there is no doubt that, most men being greedy, like a snake
swallowing an elephant (), he would regard the
succulent porker as his rightful squeeze, especially in view
of its being as helpless as a sheep fallen into a tiger's mouth
(羊落虎口)

CHINESE METAPHORICAL ZOOLOGY
31
Bad characters abound in this world, just as a number
of mosquitoes make a noise like thunder (*), and
revolution breaks out in China like wasps rising in a swarm
(). Evil men become banded together for evil
purposes like the wolf and the Pei (F)-the latter
being a legendary animal with short forelegs and long hind
ones, supposed to ride on the back of the wolf, which, con-
versely, has long forelegs and short hind ones, so that each
profits by the advantages of the other. These kind of villains
are sometimes in league with the police, which is indeed a
case of the cat and rat sleeping together (). They
lay themselves out to deceive, and will even go so far as
to palm off fishes' eyes as pearls (), or to call a deer
a horse (1), if such curious proceedings could further
their wicked and malignant designs; this last metaphor is
derived from the story of Chao Kao (), a notorious
eunuch of the Ch'in dynasty, who presented the Emperor
Erh Shih Huang Ti () of the 3rd century B.C.
-with a stag, saying that it was a horse. Those among the
surrounding courtiers who were bold enough to contradict the
great man, and insist that it was a stag, were marked down
by Chao for destruction as his enemies. If a man is too
cunning, however, his friends desert him, for no fish can be
found in clear water (k). Specious and crafty
individuals with the head of a snake and the eyes of a rat
(E), speaking fair words with the benevolent mouth
of a Buddha, but having a serpentine nature (E),
full of trickery and deception, with the head and brain of a
monkey (), should be regarded with as much
aversion as snakes and scorpions (E), while the un-
settled and unreliable vagabond, with an ape-like disposition
and thoughts as restless as galloping steeds (),
or those happy-go-lucky rolling stones floating about in
an aimless manner like a duck on the water (*)
-a mixed metaphor, taking us rather out of our depth-
should always be avoided under any circumstances, as they
never come to any good. The only way to deal with all such
persons is to make examples of them as rogues and vaga-
bonds, and thereby kill a chicken to warn an ape (*);
a general feeling of security will then ensue, and the fowls
and dogs will not be alarmed in the villages and hamlets
(雞犬不驚).
The ways of the world are as tortuous as the guts of a
sheep (), and in making acquaintances due caution
should be observed; friends of foxy and canine natures
() should be given a wide berth, as they are merely
wine and flesh friends (3), who only show cupboard

32
CHINESE METAPHORICAL ZOOLOGY
love, and are mere sycophants who cleave to one only as
long as the money lasts, like ants which settle on the mutton
jat (); entertaining them is equivalent to letting
a tiger into the house (A), and rearing the brute to be
a source of trouble (), or, as we should say,
"nourishing a viper in the bosom. It is easy to mistake a
rogue for an honest man, or to take a wolf for a dog (
"
), yet many a harum-scarum fellow is but a wild horse
without a bridle (FF), and repentance in time, or
holding in the horse at the brink of the precipice ()
may have good results, since from being a menace to society,
like the horse which is a danger to the herd (15)
he may be brought to see the error of his ways; no longer
behaving in a mischievous manner like a devil or a water
kelpie (), he will regulate his behaviour, and take
thought for the morrow, like the clever hare with three holes
to its burrow () and leave a good reputation after
his death, so that instead of eliciting crocodile tears as when
the cat mourns for the rat (67), general sorrow will
be shown, in the same way as the fox grieves when the
hare dies (E), out of fellow-feeling.
He
The pusilanimous person, who can never make up his
mind about anything, like the rat with his head looking first
one way and then the other (), with a gall as small
as a rat's (), or a rat's stomach and chicken's
entrails (E), going about in a hang-dog manner
with the appearance of a dove and the face of a heron
(h), will always be at the mercy of the unscru-
pulous, like a sheep in a pack of wolves (AR).
who lives an honest and sober life, neither careless in his
work, never making, as it were an incomplete sketch of a
tiger(畫虎不成), drawing a tiger like a dog (畫虎類犬)
nor adding feet to a snake (E), but insisting on
perfection and demanding a horse in exact accordance with
the picture (), always aiming at accuracy, and
never missing the heron in the centre of the target (**
EC), will be a success in life, whereas the devil-may-care
person walking into any kind of danger, such as treading on
a tiger's tail (), or peering into its mouth (
), venturing unabashed into such fearsome spots as
the dragon's pool and the tiger's den (*), should
learn to restrict himself to his proper sphere, taking a lesson
from the dragon which never leaves its pool (),
The Yü (), or water-kelpie, is a mythical creature, which is
supposed to spirt sand from its mouth on a person's shadow, causing
him either to sicken or to die. From the Shih Shuo ().

CHINESE METAPHORICAL ZOOLOGY
33
and the tiger which remains in its den (***). By
tempting providence like rushing against a horse's head
(t), in the long run there is no possible doubt
whatever that he will find himself in serious difficulties, like
a sheep caught in a bamboo fence (), or a person
seated between a bullock's horns (14), or, like the
lady of Riga, in the unpleasant position of riding a tiger
(騎虎之勢).
By keeping a clear conscience, one may be free of
imaginary fears, such as were conjured up by the snake in
the cup and the tiger in the market (E)-a reference
to a man, who, seeing the reflection of a bow in a cup of
wine, imagined he was about to swallow a snake, and of
another who was afraid there was a tiger in the market-or
imagining that every sound of the wind and screech of the
passing cranes was an enemy (), or being the victim
of illusions like the Kiangsu buffaloes which pant at the moon
() in mistake for the hot sun-or resembling
the Szechuan dogs which bark in fear at the unexpected
appearance of the sun ().
There are many people of limited intelligence in this
world, like the frog in the well (#), which sits looking
at the sky (4%). Their ideas are as restricted as
the view of a weevil in a hollow bamboo (2), and so
narrow-minded that they would look at a leopard through a
tube () and thus only perceive one spot at a time.
They are certainly never likely to set the Yangtze on fire,
nor to catch the three-legged toad (), which only
exists in the moon.
A very talkative person is compared to a roaring lion
with open jaws (F), and while he holds the floor
there will certainly be dead silence, and no sound of sparrows
or crows (), yet he is better than the speechless
dummy, who has not acquired the art of conversation, and
merely resembles a wooden chicken in appearance (
*). However if he makes indirect insinuations and
curses a dog while pointing at a chicken (),
no doubt he will not find ready listeners on a second occasion,
for they will be like the bird which fears the bow (2),
or "once bit twice shy"; they will choose their associates
with better care in future as good birds choose their branches
to roost upon (*), and flee away from the scene as
if transformed into yellow cranes (1).
When the heavenly dog eats up the sun (B),
resulting in a total eclipse of that luminary, one would
hardly suppose that any amount of gong-beating would force
him to disgorge this somewhat indigestible pièce de resis-
3

34
CHINESE METAPHORICAL ZOOLOGY
tance, even in the year of the donkey and the month of
the horse (15), or, as we should express it, "when
pigs begin to fly." When the weather is rainy, the flying
dragons are said to be in the sky (E), and, under
similar meteorological conditions, the nine dragons are play-
ing in the water (uk). When the earth-ox shifts his
burden (the earth) to the other shoulder (4), what
could be a more natural result than an earthquake? This
bovine Atlas was referred to in the Chinese press at the time
of the Amoy earthquake.
It will now be evident that the Chinese are certainly
adepts in the application of the law of association of ideas,
and when they see the saddle they think of the horse (
E); even a nondescript article is immediately classified as
being neither donkey nor horse (5), or, in our
parlance, neither flesh, fowl, nor good red herring."
The earliest fable on record in Chinese history is probably
that of the oyster and the bird known as the oyster-catcher.
The politician Su Tai (f), of the 3rd century B.C., was
once advising the ruler of the State of Chao () to cease his
hostilities with the State of Yen (). He said, "this morn-
ing I was crossing the River I () when I saw an oyster
open its shell to sun itself. Immediately an oyster-catcher
thrust in its bill to eat the oyster, but the latter closed its
shell and held the bird fast. If it does not rain to-day or
to-morrow,' said the oyster-catcher, 'there will be a dead
oyster, and if you don't get out of this by to-day or
to-morrow,' retorted the oyster, 'there will be a dead oyster-
catcher.' In the meantime up came a fisherman and
carried off both of them. I fear lest the State of Ch'in (*)
should be our fisherman." Hence references to the
quarrelling of the oyster and the oyster-catcher (2)
are frequently made in the newspapers, implying that while
internal dissensions are rife in the country, it is possible that
outsiders may take the opportunity to walk in and seize any
available profits or advantages. The saying do not slaughter
the ploughing ox (4) and thereby destroy the liveli-
hood of the people, might also be applied at the present time.
The government of China may be compared to a whirlpool,
since the more, it changes, the more it is the same thing,
but it is to be hoped that all administrative difficulties will
eventually be solved, and the phoenix will roost upon the
wu-t'ung tree (A), and happiness and concord will
replace disorder and distress.
From the Chan Kuo Ts'é (F]).