FORMOSA
BY OLD CATHAY.
The island of Formosa, or Taiwan, originally the largest
insular possession of China, was formally ceded to Japan in
1895, and is now becoming so thoroughly surveyed and
developed by its new rulers that the following notes may
prove not uninteresting from a European point of view.
"
Perhaps it is unnecessary to remark that under the fierce
latter-day competition of the Japanese, the trading interests
of all European firms on the Island have steadily declined.
"Formosa," or "The beautiful Isle,' as the Portugese
first named it, extends between 22° and 26° N. Lat., and
120° to 122° E. Long. By the British Treaty signed in
Peking in 1858 three of its ports were thrown open to foreign
commerce; viz. Tamsui and Kelung on the North, and Takao
on the South. From thence an increasing trade has been
carried on by a few British firms; branches from the Main-
land ports of Amoy and Foochow; the principal exports being
Manchester goods, opium and a few sundries; the chief
exports are sugar and rice from the South; tea, sugar, hemp,
camphor, liquid indigo, rice and coal from the North.
A large traffic is also carried on by Chinese merchants in
junks; they, in exchange for export products supplying the
emigrants to the Island with clothing materials, agricultural
implements, raw cotton, crockery, and many other articles of
every-day use which are best obtained from the mainland
ports. The Island is rich in natural products and extremely
fertile. Its Northern coalfields are extensive and only await
the introduction of mining machinery to turn out large
supplies of coal for steam purposes; its mountain ranges
abound with valuable timbers-sixty different kinds have
been collected-some of very fine grain; two Solfataras are
known, from which the purest sulphur might be readily
procured; whilst the locale of petroleum oil springs has been
discovered, the natives in their vicinity employing the oil
in its crude state for lighting purposes.
The great drawbacks of the Island are, want of deep-
water harbours, that of Kelung on the North being the only
one suited to a deep-draught vessel,-and the excessive

FORMOSA
159
humidity of the climate during the greater portion of the
year.
What may be described as the native population of
Formosa consists of no fewer than four classes of people,
viz:-1st. the Aborigines of the Island who have been driven
inland by the emigrants from China, and who now occupy
the wooded hills and mountains of the interior, also the
Eastern seaboard. 2nd. Ping-poo-hwans, or savages, of the
plains, i.e. those Aborigines who originally occupied the
table-lands adjacent to the Coast, and who, by contact with
the Chinese, have now adopted to a more or less extent their
manners or customs, and who further owe allegiance to
China's Emperor. 3rd. Hakkas, a peculiar race of Chinese
emigrants, who were in their turn emigrants from the more
Northern to the Southern provinces of the Mainland. 4th.
Chinese from the opposite coast of China, and chiefly natives
of the Fuh-kien province.
As to the peculiarities of these four classes, it may be
noted, that the Aborigines in appearance resemble the natives
of the Malay Archipelago, and, like them, are inclined to
slothful and indifferent habits. They appear to be split up
into several tribes; feuds are common amongst them, and
one and all are bitter enemies to the Chinese emigrants,
whom they only tolerate because, by means of a barter trade
with them, they obtain articles of raiment, arms, ammuni-
tion, and that greatest of necessaries, salt. They pay but
little attention to agriculture, being content to subsist on
mountain rice, sweet potatoes, and the products of the chase.
The Ping-poo-hwans or tame savages, as they are now
called, are certainly improved by their inter-marriages and
intercourse with the Chinese, both as regards physique and
industrious habits. They still, however, retain their ab-
original simplicity of disposition, and on this account are
often the victims of Chinese duplicity.
The Hakkas I may style the Scotch of the Chinese-
emigrant element. Most industrious, keen in business,
daring in disposition, they are ever to the front when a new
tract of land is being colonised or where, by running more
than ordinary risk, they may succeed in establishing a new
border station.
The Chinese, amongst whom are included the mercantile
and manufacturing classes, are as industrious and as keenly
alive to their own interests as their brethren of the mainland.
The island and its people having now been roughly des-
cribed, I will give a short account of a journey, undertaken
during the dry weather of the Autumn of the year, 1873,
with a view of penetrating to the savage territory and seeing

160
FORMOSA
the savages on their native soil. My companion was a
worthy missionary, who had succeeded in establishing chapels
and gaining converts among the "tame" savages.
For the first three days after leaving the treaty-port, our
route lay in a generally South and westerly direction across
elevated table-land, with intervening valleys of some miles
in breadth, running parallel to the coast, and in a high state
of cultivation.
On the evening of the fourth day we found ourselves in
a village peopled by tame savages, amongst whom my com-
panion had laboured and who boast of a chapel of their own.
I was much struck with their kindly disposition, and parti-
cularly decorous and attentive behaviour at evening service.
They being in direct communication with the savages of the
woods, it was with some of their party that we expected to
resume our march on the morrow.
Soon after daylight, therefore, we started with two of
them as guides, and pursued a path running up a rugged-
looking valley, bestrewed with boulders, and trending East,
towards the hills. By noon we reached a low line of hills,
and after some three hours of up and down work, we came
upon the first party of savages, who were on duty at a small
clearing where bartering was carried on between their people
and the Hakkas, but beyond which point the latter would
not dare to be caught.
On seeing us, the savages, who had ugly-looking iron
knives in wooden sheaths hanging at their girdles, and who
were otherwise armed with long gingalls, jumped to their
feet. The men, small in stature, like the Malays, were
tattoed in one straight line, about half an inch in breadth,
right down the forehead to the bridge of the nose, and again
from the lower lip to the extremity of the chin; those who,
in raids against the Chinese, had been successful in bringing
home heads of any of their foes, were further tattooed in
parallel lines of the same breadth below the nipple of the
breast, each line representing a head brought home.
Their clothing consisted of a sleeveless jacket, cut from
coarse cloth of their own make, and of a strip of the same
material bound round their loins. Nether garments and
shoes they had none. Nearly all the group were ornamented
with strings of very common-looking beads, which they
nevertheless appeared to prize highly; and all were furnished
with short bamboo pipes, at which they sucked incessantly.
The women, some of whom had sharply cut features and
beautiful eyes, were tattooed in three lines from beneath the
lobes of each ear across the cheek-bones to the centre of the
chin, the spaces between the broad lines being filled in with

FORMOSA
161
ornamental work. In regular Malay style, they wore a loose
sort of petticoat twisted round their loins, and reaching to the
ankles, the rest of their dress consisting of the same sleeve-
less jacket as the men.
The women were somewhat timid, but not so the men,
who at once asked to be shown foreign guns and pistols, and
who evidently judge of a man by the style of his weapons.
Their houses, by the way, are miserable affairs, having roofs
formed of split bamboo and walls of mud or thatch. As to
their language we could learn but little. It would seem,
however, they employ but a limited vocabulary, and that
different dialects exist in the tribes occupying territory com-
paratively adjacent. The tame savages, who acted as inter-
preters, when asked what so-and-so was called would point
North, and say, "Up there they call it by such a name, and
down here by another."
The chief of the tribe we were visiting being absent in
the woods, we were disappointed in our plan for a further
advance into the hills, none of the savages being willing to
conduct us. After a short trip, therefore, on the second day
of our stay, to a spot where some natives were engaged in
cutting and splitting rattans ready to carry to market, we
decided to quit savage territory, and return to the Foreign
Settlement.
11