THE ATTRACTIONS OF
ENTOMOLOGY
ENHANCED BY A SIMPLE METHOD OF PRESERVING
INSECTS, ETC.
ALFRED MOORE, B.A.
Until very recent years the collection of insects was
regarded by most people as an employment suitable only for
children, whilst adults who devoted themselves to the study
of these creatures were looked upon as amiable simpletons
wasting their time in an utterly useless pursuit. There can
be no doubt, that the study of entomology forms a very
congenial and efficient, though greatly neglected, method of
training all the most important faculties of mind and body
in the young, and it likewise provides an extremely delightful
and instructive hobby which can be pursued with unfailing
lifelong interest by intelligent adults of all ages and widely
different tastes. Lovers of beauty, in colour, in form, and
in structure, are richly rewarded by observation of these
as displayed by insects, particularly in tropical or semi-
tropical countries. Those who are interested in mechanical
problems do well to study the infinite variety of strange
devices with which insects are endowed, for it is scarcely an
exaggeration to say that most human contrivances,―either
simple tools, such as hooks, knives, files, saws, drills, etc, or
complicated machine processes, like spinning, weaving, etc.,
or even such modern inventions as aeroplanes, submarines,
etc., are merely clumsy imitations of the wonderfully com-
pact instruments and efficient arrangements found even
To exemplify this statement; the finest surgical needle is a coarse
article compared with the proboscis of a mosquito, yet this latter is in
reality a complete surgical dressing case comprising a pair of lancets,
a delicate probe, a couple of fine saws, an only too efficient aspirating
needle, and a hypodermic syringe. We are dependent on an insigni-
ficant caterpillar for the delicate thread which forms our most beautiful
silken fabrics-the aeroplane is obviously modelled on the structure of
a dragonfly, whilst the submarine and its periscope find their living
likeness in a mosquito larva with its breathing tube.

THE ATTRACTIONS OF ENTOMOLOGY
163
amongst the simplest forms of insect life. Again, persons
attracted by biological questions connected with the origin
and development of life on the earth, find much food for
abstract thought in observing the springs of life actually at
work in the transparent tissues of some of these perfectly
constructed creatures; in following out their strangely com-
plicated metamorphosis; in noting their wonderful adaptation
to environment and fierce struggle for existence ensuring the
survival of the fittest; in the amazing intelligence revealed
by their social life, and in their altogether inexplicable powers
of instinct:-Surely then we should also obtain inspiration
in insects, if we can find
"Tongues in trees, books in the running brooks
Sermons in stones and good in everything."
More practical minds, however, care for none of these
things and demand impatiently whether the study of these
low forms of life has any direct bearing on human affairs, or
serves any directly useful purpose in every day life. The
astonishing and far reaching practical results obtained by the
study of entomology during the last quarter of a century
warrant a very decisive affirmative reply to these questions.
For a long time past it has been known that insects were
essential agents in the fertilization of plants, as well as in
scavenging all the dead, useless, putrefactive matter that
would otherwise render the earth unfit for habitation,-thus
playing a twofold beneficial role in the economy of Nature.
But, as so frequently happens in this world, evil is inextric-
ably associated with good in both these processes, and quite
recently, serious attention has been drawn to the ravages
committed by insects on the fruits, cereals and vegetables
that form such a large part of the world's food supply, and on
many other plants necessary for various industrial purposes.
So large have been the losses sustained from these causes
that many civilised countries find it advisable to maintain
experimental stations where the life histories of these pests
are carefully investigated with a view to preventing their
growth and development, for it is chiefly in the larval or
caterpillar stage that such insects exert their most injurious
effects on plants. But although vast quantities of valuable
food material are saved every year through the study of what
may be called agricultural entomology, yet this represents
only a small fraction of the total practical results obtained
from applying our knowledge of the life history of insects.
For whilst the larvæ are such potent factors in destroying
useful forms of vegetable life, the full-grown insects have
been found to be equally dangerous to animals, the human
race in particular suffering terribly from various diseases

164
THE ATTRACTIONS OF ENTOMOLOGY
propagated by these parasites; and it is only by carefully
working out all the different life stories and habits of these
deadly pests that we are gradually gaining knowledge which,
if systematically and intelligently applied, will enable us to
stamp out these fell scourges. As an illustration of these
statements may be mentioned the fact that the first attempt
to construct the Panama Canal failed, owing largely. to the
decimation by malaria and yellow fever, of those who were
engaged in the work. At that time it was not known that
these diseases were caused by the bite of two different kinds
of infected mosquito, but when this fact had been ascer-
tained, and the breeding habits of these special varieties had
been thorouhly investigated, it became possible to equip an
effective anti-mosquito brigade whose work enabled the
gigantic undertaking to be completed without further hind-
rance from this cause. Again, the simple fact that fleas
desert the corpses of plague-infected rats and carry the
disease to human beings, has enabled intelligent measures to
be adopted, whereby Europe has been protected from this
deadly scourage, although Asia has been terribly and ex-
tensively ravaged by it for the last quarter of a century, and
the two continents are closely associated both geographically
and commercially. Many other instances might be given of
the part played by insects in propagating human diseases,
and of the scientific triumphs achieved by the judicious
application of measures directed against these infection
carriers, but enough has been said to show how essential to
man's very existence is the study of this branch of natural
history.
How is it then that this subject is very generally
neglected notwithstanding that it is so attractive to every
healthy minded child, is inexhaustibly full of strange and
wonderful beauty, is replete with material for abstract
thought, and at the same time is of such immense practical
importance to man's welfare? There appear to be two rea-
sons for this regrettable lack of popular interest. In the first
place entomologists in the past have largely concentrated
their attention on the mere outward form and structure of
insects, and have constructed very elaborate and complicated
systems of classification based on the number of hairs, or
bristles, or scales possessed by closely related insects, the
slightest variation being deemed sufficient justification for
labelling a specimen with some distinctive, outlandish name.
Very often, further study shows the creature to possess an
overlooked hair or some undetected remnant of an organ
entitling it to be put into another class with a new name;
or two observers may have described the same insect in-

THE ATTRACTIONS OF ENTOMOLOGY
165
dependently and baptised it differently, or an old obsolete
account may be discovered giving it a long-forgotten title in
which case this supersedes the modern name. As a result,
the already innumerable species known bear in very many
cases half a dozen synonyms each, and every year this
confusion in regard to nomenclature is becoming worse con-
founded, so that the intelligent layman who desires to get
a good general idea of entomology is dismayed and repelled
by this formidable array of dry, uninteresting tables of
names.
Now a complete system of classification is indeed essent-
ial to accurate scientific knowledge, but the ordinary man
may very well leave these refinements to the specialist, and
simply confine himself to the characters of the chief sub-
divisions, referring to a good text-book for any further details
of structure and classification whenever he requires them.
This is all that is really necessary in order to give him an
adequate idea of the position occupied by whatever insects
engage his attention for the moment, and he is then
sufficiently prepared to take an intelligent pleasure in observ-
ing their life history and habits either under natural or arti-
ficial conditions. Such seems to have been the method
adopted by that "incomparable observer," J. H. Fabre,
whose fascinating memoirs reveal most clearly the charm of
this subject, and show what splendid results can be achieved.
by a self-trained student in his leisure hours.2
The other reason why so many people are discouraged
from the pursuit of entomology consists in the fact that, no
matter what may be the object in view, a collection of some.
sort is indispensable, and the methods adopted for preserving
these delicate creatures are very troublesome, mutilate the
specimens badly, and yield by no means satisfactory results.
Most people, at some time in their lives, have started such
collections, and after pinning the specimens in the usual way
and labelling them carefully, have been disheartened to find
in a few weeks that they were completely dried up, the
beautiful colours had faded, the shrivelled limbs became
detached with the slightest touch, and in utter disgust the
collection was relegated to the dust heap, with a muttered
This obscure country schoolmaster, born of peasant parents in
France, spent all his spare time during a very long life, in closely
observing and experimenting on the insects in his immediate neigh-
bourhood; the results he embodied in the ten volumes of his "Souvenirs
Entomologiques" which have provided material for several excellent
English extracts under the titles of "Social Life in the Insect World,"
"The Wonders of Instinct," etc., etc.

166
THE ATTRACTIONS OF ENTOMOLOGY
vow not to waste any more time on such things in the
future. In Museums, too, many valuable specimens are
ruined by ants, beetles, moths, or moulds, notwithstanding
all precautions in the shape of tightly fitting cases, applica-
tion of preservatives, etc.; moreover the extreme fragility of
pinned out insects makes it undesirable to handle them freely
and this interferes with their educational value. Such speci-
mens are indeed very awkward to examine satisfactorily even
with a simple lens, and are altogether unsuitable for adjust-
ment on a microscope stage. All these drawbacks can be
avoided by the following very simple method, which consists
merely in enclosing each insect in a separate flat transparent
little chamber, hermetically sealed so that destructive agents
of all kinds are completely excluded from gaining entrance,
and the specimen itself cannot give off its natural moisture
and so become dry and shrivelled up. This is very easily
effected by laying the insect in a suitable position on the
centre of a slip of clear glass;-a convenient size is 2 in. by
1 in., surrounding it with a somewhat thicker ring of the
modelling putty called "plasticene," covering it with another
glass slide of the same size, and pressing this down until it
first flattens out the plasticene ring evenly all round, and
then, with a little further pressure, comes to bear very lightly
on the enclosed insect, thus keeping it in position. The
opposite ends of the two superposed slides are next securely
bound together by passing half inch wide strips of gummed
paper round each in turn, taking care while doing so that
sufficient pressure is maintained to keep the slides in close
contact with the flattened plasticene ring without pressing
unduly on the enclosed insect. Finally full details concern-
ing the specimen should be written on the ample surface
provided by the paper binding.
In the case of very small insects ordinary microscope
slides, 3 in. by 1 in., should be used and a thin round cover
glass be placed directly on the plasticene ring and pressed
down on it by & second glass slide which is then removed
leaving the cover slip in position; any excess plasticene
which may have been pressed out beyond the end of the
cover slip should be trimmed off and the specimen completed
by affixing a paper label with the details on the end of the
slide; the cover slips being very thin, of course allow these
minute objects to be examined with high powers of the
microscope.
In order to afford protection against injurious agents of
various kinds, it is advisable to incorporate a preservative,
such as napthalene, with the plasticene; for this purpose
about an ounce of the former substance, finely powdered,

THE ATTRACTIONS OF ENTOMOLOGY
167
is sprinkled over a table, on which a pound of plasticene is
then rolled out with a rolling pin or bottle, and another
ounce of the napthalene having been sprinkled on the top
of this, is well rolled in and kneaded up. This will probably
make the plasticene dry and crumbly, in which case it must
be moistened with glycerine or liquid paraffin until it regains
its former sticky condition, suitable for modelling. This
matérial, which may be called "napthaplas," should be kept
in a covered tin, and not be exposed to strong sunlight or
other source of heat, as this makes it soft and messy.
The rings of "napthaplas" are best prepared by putting
a small piece,-about the size of a bean, but varying with
the size of the insect,-on a flat surface, and covering it with
a glass plate, or one of the above slides, which is then rolled
backwards and forwards a few times, under gentle pressure,
until the "napthaplas" takes the shape of an elongated roll
of the required thickness; viz., about once and a half the
thickness of the specimen. The two ends of this roll are
taken up between the finger and thumb and the loop so
formed is cast round the insect as it lies in position on the
slide, making a complete circle wide enough to allow for the
spreading of the insect's limbs, etc., under the pressure of
the upper slide; the superfluous stalk of the loop is then
detached, and at this point where the ends meet on the slide,
a secure joint is made by a few touches with a blunt stick
or pen handle, care being taken to make it the same thickness
as the rest of the ring; the specimen is then completed as
previously described. With a very little practice the whole
process can be neatly carried out in a few minutes, and when
complete, the little preparation permits the most fragile
insect to be handled with impunity, enables every part of it
to be readily examined with the naked eye, lens, or micro-
If the very poisonous substance, cyanide of potassium, be incor-
porated with the plasticene in an exactly similar manner to the above,
the resulting material, which may be called "cyanoplas," can be spread
out in a thick even layer on the bottom of a tin with a tightly fitting
lid, so as to form a very effective killing receptacle for freshly caught
insects. The layer of "cyanoplas" can with advantage be covered
over with a sheet of perforated tin so as to prevent the insects adhering
to its sticky surface, and a further improvement consists in dividing
the interior into four compartments by means of two thin plates at
right angles to each other, so that, say, moths, beetles, flies and spiders
may be kept separate from each other. This forms a very convenient
killing and collecting box combined, and inside it insects remain
perfectly fresh and supple for an indefinite period pending mounting.
A few little glass tubes, each fitted with a plug of cyanoplas"
(wrapped in muslin to facilitate removal) are very useful for tiny,
delicate specimens which would be lost or damaged in the large tin.

168
THE ATTRACTIONS OF ENTOMOLOGY
scope, and is so compact that two hundred such specimens
can be safely stowed away in a 100 cigar box; further it is
very easy at any time to reopen the preparation if it is desired
to remove excess of moisture, to readjust the specimen, or to
use it for dissection, the supple, pliant condition in which it
remains greatly facilitating these operations.
A very moderate amount of ingenuity will enable all
sorts of instructive preparations to be mounted in this
way, using larger glass plates if necessary. For example
when mating couples are captured they can be mounted
on the same slide so as to demonstrate the frequently
extraordinary difference in structure between the male and
female. Leaves, twigs, bits of tree bark, or small stones
on which insects have laid their eggs can be mounted
intact, and in some cases the mother may be shown with her
offspring; e.g. a queen ant in her cell surrounded by her eggs,
or a spider carrying her purse of eggs. Caterpillars should,
if possible, be displayed in their natural habitat (inside galls
or rolled up leaves, etc.), and cocoons be opened so as to
exhibit the pupa lying inside, whilst all the stages in
development: egg, larva, pupa, and mature insects-can
be advantageously arranged in one specimen. The mimicry
of insects may be illustrated by including the imitated
object, characteristic poses should be reproduced, and pre-
daceous creatures exhibited clutching their victims, etc., etc.
In this way the mounting of insects ceases to be a
stupid, mechanical process of empalement and becomes
a pleasing and instructive art. Nor need the method be
restricted to spiders and insects for it can obviously be
applied to all other small creatures and indeed to innumer-
able interesting objects presented by the hazard of the chase.
It will be seen from the above description that the only
materials requisite for this process are (1) the "napthaplas,
a pound of which suffices for several hundred specimens,
(2) the glass slides and cover glasses obtainable at small
cost from any dealer in microscope sundries, and (3)
half inch wide strips of strong white, gummed paper;
to these may be added a couple of needles, preferably
mounted in pen handles, scissors, forceps, and a large cigar
box for storage. For collecting purposes a little buttercloth
net (on a metal ring which can be screwed on to the end of
a walking stick) and the "cyanoplas" tin and tubes pre-
viously described are the only other items required to com-
plete the entomological outfit, which however ought to be
supplemented with a good lens and if possible a microscope.
With these simple and inexpensive requisites both children
and adults can add greatly to the enjoyment of their leisure

THE ATTRACTIONS OF ENTOMOLOGY
169
hours and holiday trips. Searching for specimens invests the
ordinary aimless walk with quite an absorbing interest;
mounting the preparations affords a pleasant occupation for
rainy weather, whilst the completed collection forms a most
delightful and instructive souvenir for subsequent reference
during long winter evenings, particularly if its examination
be aided by a microscope and well illustrated books on the
subject. But let it not be forgotten that collection, pre-
servation, and classification, are merely means to an end,
and form only an introduction to the study of entomology
proper. This really consists in investigating the living insect
during all phases of its existence; its birth, development and
education; its habits and mode of life; the nature of its
nourishment and methods of obtaining it; its courtship and
marriage; its relation to its fellow creatures; its character
and mental capacity; the wonderful powers and strange
limitations of its instinct; in short a complete investigation
of the niche each particular insect occupies in the great
scheme of Nature and the qualifications of mind and body it
possesses for fulfilling its "destined end and way."
Along such lines this most captivating subject furnishes
any intelligent observer with abundant opportunities for
adding to our stores of useful information, and at the same
time, like every other branch of Nature study, it brings the
thoughtful mind into close association with the hidden my-
steries of the Universe-for Nature is indeed the chief, if
not the only, infallible medium, through which we are able
to comprehend somewhat of the wonder workings of the
Infinite.
NOTE. By kind permission of the Curator, Dr. Stanley, a selection of
specimens mounted by the above process, will be kept on view
at the Royal Asiatic Society's Museum during the next few
months.