NOTES ON KANSU.
GEORGE E. KING, M.B.CH.B.
LANCHOWFU, KANSUH.
In the course of medical wanderings in the little-known
north-western corner of China, various peculiar and interest-
ing experiences are met with, and now not so much to impart
information but to invite explanation, I am putting on paper
a few details of things seen in Kansuh.
The province is most easily understood as consisting of
three tracts a central tract, made up of the basins of the
Yellow River and some of its great tributaries, and bounded
on north and south by two mountain-chains: the northern-
chain separating it from the Mongolian deserts, and the
narrow strip of watered land between the mountains and the
deserts that constitutes the northern tract of Kansuh.
And
a southern tract of land sloping southwards towards Szechuen
where the streams flow into the Yangtse. This southern
tract is mountainous and partakes of the characteristics of
western China. Indeed, the contrast between the north and
south parts of Kansuh is so great as to make it almost un-
believable that they belong to one province. Again, on the
west the province rises into the mountains of Tibet and the
steppes of Central Asia, so that for variety of scenery,
diversity of inhabitant, and glamour of novelty, the province
has hardly an equal throughout China.
The northly tract as I have described it is long-reaching
from Ningsiafu to Kanchowfu and Ansihchow. It thus
would take some 35 days to travel from one end of it to the
other, though its utmost width cannot be greater than 250 li
or 3 days journey. It is the product of the age-long war
between the desert and the mountains-the last stand as it
were of man on the encroaching desert edge, where faced
with the limitless expanse in front that would engulf him,
and with his back to the stable mountains behind that
nourish him with their streams of water, the race is fighting
still the battle against the unhasting, unstaying desert sands.
Each of the cities here might be the duplicate of the other

186
NOTES ON KANSU
in a general kind of a way, with the irrigated plain and
orchards, and desert to the north, and hills to the south in
each case. Some day if a strong government will set itself
in earnest to the irrigation of this area and conservation of
the waters that are so largely lost, this tract may support a
much larger population and be greatly widened in area at
the expense of the desert. Many of these cities have good
coal supplies, and the hills to the south are known also to
contain gold, tin, copper and iron. In one of these hills I
came across a volcano-as I suppose-at least the "crater"
has been smoking for some 600 years. The fumes given out
are very sulphurous, and the local people use them to make
alum by the conversion into that substance of some stone
they dig from the hills near by. It does not seem to be
widely known that there is more than one smouldering
volcano in that part of Kansuh bordering on the desert.
One original method of obtaining salt used not far away
from there is to pour the brine (taken from wells) upon the
soil, and let it dry. Then the soil is removed and packed
into large filters, more brine poured on, and the filtrate
subsequently boiled dry. In this way it is said that three
times as much salt is obtained as by boiling the brine in the
ordinary way. I do not know the explanation.
Historically this northern tract belongs to the Tangut
Kingdom which had its capital at Ningsia. Repeated en-
quiries in that district, however, elicited little information as
to the former Si-hsia Kingdom. The ground is so alkaline
that old monuments are few in the city or near it. But we
heard that in the hills 60 li to the west there was, or used to
be, a monument in that strange writing. Probably search
among these hills that run north as a spur from the main
East to West range, would be productive of interesting
results. The scene of some old Chinese plays is laid in the
same range and there are interesting temples and tombs of
an early age.
Let us now cross the mountains and enter the central
tract of Kansuh-the Yellow River system, with its shapely
loess hills, and alluvial plains and here and there the great
rock mountains that are hid from the traveller usually, as he
wanders along in the dusty loess cuttings of the hillsides.
This is the most characteristic part of all Kansuh, and here
both the most beautiful and least beautiful of scenery is to
be found; on the one hand, enchanting mountains, abundant
verdure, singing birds, and flowers everywhere; on the other,
bare dusty breathless hillsides brown in winter, and only
beautiful by the yellow wheat and pink buckwheat and brown
millet of autumn, or, the universal green of Spring. Here

NOTES ON KANSU
187
to cope with the scanty rainfall an ingenious method is in
use by the farmers. The surface of the soil is covered with
4 or 5 inches of gravel, and the crops come up through this.
The gravel prevents desiccations of the soil, and perhaps
helps the earlier ripening of the grain. It has to be renewed
every 30 or 40 years, and the effort is so beneficial that the
great labour involved is cheerfully undertaken, and newly
gravelled land will fetch almost as high a price as irrigated
land. The gravel is obtained from deposits mainly, and only
rarely from river beds. In some cases the deposit beds are
very deep and the gravel is brought up in buckets as out of
a well, but more often it is carried on men's shoulders. This
peculiar method is said to have been originated some
hundreds of years ago by a man who noticed how well the
grass grew in the gravel turned up with the roots of a fallen
tree. I wonder if there is any other part of the world where
this is done? Possibly the "dry farming" in America has
the same principle behind it.
Huge waterwheels are erected along the course of the
Yellow River to draw up water to a sufficient level to put it
upon the land. Some are 70 feet high, and consist of a hub
and spokes, at the outer of which there is a series of paddles
and buckets, all of which are of wood. As the wheel revolves
the buckets are carried up filled, and empty themselves into
a trough that leads into the fields. The mechanism is simple
but effective. Some of these erections are worth hundreds
of pounds.
Another interesting thing is the coal mine, and one who
has climbed down the miles of steps into the part where the
miners are working is not likely soon to forget the experience.
Each step is the lower side of a hexagonal frame that
supports the tunnel, and the deeper the mine goes the more
of course the steps. At the same time the main shaft is
being sunk a parallel air shaft is also being sunk, and there
are frequent passages connecting them. Notwithstanding
the air at the bottom is foul and almost intolerable, and the
weird sight of the naked figures of the long queue of carriers,
each with his basket on his back, crouching in the tunnel till
his turn comes-men from all parts of China, many blind,
some runaway rogues, others poor to a degree, leaves an
indelible impression on the mind.
Here
Another peculiar plant must be referred to, for the ex-
planation of which any book on bacteriology may be consulted.
The gardeners tend their pear trees with great care.
indeed are to be found perhaps the best pears in China-and
each year they scrape off the bark (doubtless to remove insects
and grubs) and then cover the bare underbark with a layer

188
NOTES ON KANSU
of mud. But first this earth is boiled in large cauldrons and
then applied. Here is antiseptic surgery for you, surely!
Did time permit I might go on to speak of many peculiar
medical points-of the incidence and prevalence of goitre, or
of leprosy or of elephantiasis, and of the popular Kansuh
explanation of the etiology of each of these or of Kansuh
local hospitals or medicinal hot springs-or of folklore in our
dear old queer old province. Some day there may be
opportunity of referring to these or to our rather peculiar
internal communication by road and water. But I trust I
have said enough to whet the appetite of some readers to care
more for the little-known and barely touched Kansuh.