REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS.
The New Atlas and Commercial Gazetteer of China. Compiled by
'the Far Eastern Geographical Establishment and Published by
the North China Daily News and Herald.
A work must not only be judged from its size but its utility.
Were size and weight the only criterion of value this Atlas would
indeed be valuable. It makes one pant to carry it from one room to
another. A motor car seems necessary to the owner of such a work.
That it requires a table or desk to itself is evident and that
business house that has the Atlas so placed is a business house of good
augury, for it implies that trade is good and that further developments
in trade and the capacities of the Country are being studied.
The work has been wholly produced at the Commercial Press :
European editors and Chinese skilled workmen collaborating. This
in itself was a difficulty. When the binding, the need of type, the
coloured maps and a 100 other things are considered it will be at once
evident that the art of printing and book-binding have made great
strides in China, during the last few decades. To see people ruddy of
countenances and still smiling after such operose labours implies also a
good moral basis.
That the work had to be bulky and heavy stands to reason. Such
a large volume demanded heavy binding: the fine maps demanded wide
spaces; and thick strong paper was necessary to give consistency and
strength to the whole work. So the demands of the mechanical parts
made it essential to have such a heavy volume. It is bulky and
weighty.
This quality however after all is secondary. The essential thing
is the utility of a work. At the outset it should be said that this is
great. It may be shown that this private enterprise will be for
merchants the first and essential step in the development of business.
Without a thorough knowledge of a country under every aspect it is
impossible to organize business in an adequate way. One of the
questions in Fawcet's 'Political Economy' is, 'What relation does a
cricketer's bat bear to political economy'? The answer shows that the
relation is very deep and comprehensive. A similar question might be
asked relative to a thousand things in China such as what relation does
a knowledge of the Climatology of China bear to the success of the
British merchant in the country. A little consideration will amply
Mr. Edwin J. Dingle is the Organizer and General Editor of the
Gazetteer. It will be known for short as "Dingle's Gazetteer."

192
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
demonstrate a wide connection. The reviewer once had occasion to
enquire into the work of the Japanese in Manchuria. Here, as every-
where, they are equipping their people most thoroughly in the com-
mercial knowledge of the country. If they are not doing much for
others they are missing no avenue in mastering the knowledge of that
country's resources for themselves. It was found that by commercial
day and night schools, Japanese boys and young men were taught most
carefully and thoroughly in everything pertaining to the commercial
possibilities of Manchuria. As the British merchant has not organized
any such training schools for his nationals it is hoped that this
Gazetteer will be the first step in such a direction. In itself it will
offer a liberal education to the commercial student, but we hope it will
also stimulate British merchants to develop their plans for a better
organization of business in China. Given a proper and suitable table
business people and commercial students could spend profitable hours
poring over the maps and letterpress of this volume and as the
panorama of people, sources of wealth, agriculture, industries and
communications of this great land began to unrol themselves before
the mind it would more and more offer unparalleled attractions to the
merchant, traveller, student, missionary. Recently a lady came to
enquire of the writer as to sources of information on the Canals of
China. Having exhausted one's knowledge easily the lady was recom-
mended to consult the Gazetteer to which she replied that it had already
been done, and that this work really had supplied the only information
that she had been able to get on the subject! Thus the help that the
Gazetteer had given to this lady over an out-of-the-way subject indicated
its scope and utility to the general public as well as the business people.
It is one of the most comprehensive works ever published in China.
It opens with a General Introduction full of valuable information on
commerce. It covers a wide field: geography, politics, engineering,
and so on a succinct conspectus is given of many fields. This is
followed by a section given to a Geographical and Economic survey of
China and then a section follows dealing with the Provinces of China,
giving a brief description of each of the 18 with a list of their pro-
ducts, agriculture, minerals, and so on. Then follows an index, giving
the place-name and province both in Chinese and English and its
position N.E. It would have been of great advantage if the map
number had been inserted. As it is, given only the name of the
province, the place is not easily found since the maps are not alph-
abetically arranged.
The Forest Conditions in China is written by Mr. Norman Shaw.
After his paper we have a list of the Changed Place-names, followed
by a summary of values of Latitudes and Longitudes.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
193
On page 36 begins a marked feature of the Gazetteer, the Pro-
duction maps of China. These must have entailed immense labour, and
should prove of great value. The graphs are really marvels of work.
The series opens with the New Productions map of China. In this small
compass we have a bird's-eye view of the mineral and other production
of the land. It may be said in passing that there is no indication of
the hill near Kuo Hsien where gold is supposed to exist. The Roths-
childs were interested in this once. The Index to this Map is also
full but it should be pointed out Arrow-root is not a speciality of
Yenchowfu Shantung. Hangchow is renowned for this both for quality
and quantity. Besides it is grown in almost every province. Vast
fields of it may be seen almost anywhere. The same may be said of
Indigo. Shensi is noted for it.
Half the contents of this monumental work has not been told. In
a work of such scope and great merit; and in view of the imperfect
statistics existing of the country it is not surprising that the work is
not entirely free from errors and omissions. Space will only permit us
to point out a few of these for instance Chiang Chou is one of the
leading towns of South Shansi and not of Shensi as given (p. 34).
San Yuan (in Shensi) and Chiao Ch'eng (in Shansi), one being the great
banking and piece goods centre of Shensi and Kansu, the other one
being the leading fur-curing centre in China are not mentioned.
South Shansi has the great and celebrated salt lakes in Yün Ch'eng,
but no mention is made of these whereas Shensi is said to have salt
as one of its great industries when as a matter of fact the salt of Shensi
is unimportant.
M.
Totemic Traces Among the Indo-Chinese"
(Reprinted from
"the Journal of American Folk-Lore," October-December, 1917).
Sous ce titre, M. Berthold Laufer a rassemblé plusieurs données de
grand intérêt pour l'ethnographie des peuples sino-tibétains. Ces
données se référent aux liens, attestés par le tabou, la tradition ou
l'onomastique, qui rattachent certaines tribus ou familles à telle ou
telle classe d'animaux, de végétaux ou d'objets. Les groupements
ethniques envisagés sont les Tai noirs du Haut Ton Kin, les Lolo du
Yunnan méridional, les Hei-miao du Kouei-tcheou, les Man aliàs Yao
de la frontière sino-annamite, les Sia du Fu-kien, les anciens Ai-lao du
Nan-tchao, les anciens K'iang occidentaux du Kan-su et les Tangut,
enfin les chinois eux-mêmes. La documentation utilisée comprend
d'une part, des sources chinoises, d'autre part, des travaux français
publiés tant à Hanoi qu'à Paris, et un article de M. A. Henry dans le
journal de "l'Anthropological Institute."
13

194
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Des précisions curieuses sont empruntées à une étude de M. Henri
Maspero sur quelques interdits existant chez les Tai noirs en fonction
des noms de famille. La tribu dont il s'agit habits à l'ouest du Fleuve
Rouge, dans la province tonkinoise de Yen-Bay. La plupart des tabou
cités dérivent de l'homonymie : ainsi, la famille Lau ne peut manger de
jeunes pousses de bambou (no-lau); la famille Vi ne peut user
d'éventails (vi) pendant le repas, au moment où l'on sert le riz; la
famille Tong ne peut porter de pointe de cuivre (tong) au chapeau.
Mais, à côté de tabou de cette sorte, en figurent d'autres plus énigmati-
ques, comme celui de la famille Luong vis-à-vis des champignons qui
poussent sur un arbre ébranché. Il est à noter qu'aucun rite expiatoire
n'est connu, qui puisse relever du tabou. Chez ces mêmes Tai noirs,
la principale famille est assignée à l'ascendance du tigre. Elle est
tenue au tabou alimentaire, lequel s'étend aussi à la chair de chat, et
au tabou de chasse. Elle doit, de plus, 1endre des honneurs au tigre
mort, lequel est salué du titre de grand père. Mais l'affinité de cette
famille avec le tigre la prive du droit de paraître dans les lieux de
culte et de contracter des alliances avec le prêtre héréditaire ou ses
frères.
Chez les Lolo de Tse-mao, étudiès par M. A. Henry, la façon
courante de s'enquérir du surnom de quelqu'un consiste à lui demander
à quoi il ne touche pas. Ainsi, celui qui est surnommé Bu-lu, ancien
mot pour Sa-lu, citron, répondra qu'il ne touche pas au citron.
Dans les indications fournies par M. Schetter sur les Hei-miao du
Kouei-tcheou, il n'y a rien de décisif pouvant faire conclure à
l'existence du totemisme.
Les Man aliàs Yao qui chevauchent sur le Haut Ton-kin et le sud de
la Chine reconnaissent, encore aujoud'hui, un chien pour ancêtre. Une
de leurs chartes, conservie à Hanoi à l'Ecole française d'Extrême
Orient, en porte l'image. Cette tradition se trouve déjà relatée aux
annales des Han. Certaines tribus Man s'abstiennent de manger du
chien; d'autres retiennent dans leur costume la forme d'une queue de
chien; enfins détail plus typique encore, des losanges brodés aux
épaules sur des robes de femme figurent la place où se posèrent les
griffes du chien ancêtre, aux épaules de la princesse épousée par lui.
Une petite tribu du Fu-kien appelée Sia se dit également issue d'un
ancêtre à tête du chien et possède un temple où elle en adore l'image.
Dans le même ordre d'idées, et au témoignage des annales des Han,
les anciens Ai-Lao du Nan-tchao se tatouaient de l'image d'un dragon
et partaient à leurs habits des queues de dragon, parce qu'ils avaient
un dragon pour ancêtre.
Selon les annales des Han et des Sui et selon le Wei-lio de Yu-
Huan, les anciens Si-K'iang du Kansou, appartênant au trone tibétain,

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
195
se dissocièrent en plusieurs clans sous des rubriques animales, tels
les clans du Yak, du cheval blanc du Loup, du Bœuf jaunes du chien
blanc. Il imparte de mentionner aussi un clan à nom végétal : le clan
de l'Ail.
Se rattachant à ces anciens K'iang, les fameux Tangut comportaient
eux-mêmes un clan du Singe. Ceci nous ramène à la légonde tibétaine
bien connue du couple ancestral formé d'un singe et d'une Râksasî.
M. Berthod Laufer parle enfin des chinois et remarque qu'en raison
du formalisme social, établi de longue date, il n'est guère facile de
discerner des éléments primitifs pouvant déceler le totemisme. Il cite
totifais de nombreux noms patronymiques qui sont des noms de plantes
au d'animaux et conclut à juste titre qu'il y a là tout un champ ouvert
à l'investigation.
J. Ch. T.
"Origin of Tibetan Writing"
(Reprinted from the Journal of
the American Oriental Society, Vol. 38).
Sur l'origine de l'écriture tibétaines qui a toujours été assignée à
l'Inde par les Tibétains eux-mêmes, M. Francke a avancé et M.
Hoernle épousé une théorie hasardeuse, dont M. Berthold Laufer fait,
sous le titre précité, une excellente réfutation.
Cette théorie consiste à regarder l'écriture tibétaines comme venant
non pas de l'Inde, mais de Khotan.
A la vérité, les alphabets usités au Turkestan étaient eux-mêmes
venus de l'Inde et l'origine de celui du Tibet demeurerait au fond la
mêmes puisque, en définitive, il est bien certain qu'il dérive d'une
écriture indienne du VIIe siècle, passée ou non dans la Sérinde. Je
pencherais, pour ma part, vers l'opinion du Dr. Cordier, le grande
tibétanisant français, mort en 1914 des suites d'une dure captivité en
Allemagne, et qui a insisté sur l'analogie avec l'écriture Gupta du
VIIe siècle.
Ce qui est le moins admissible, à mon sens, dans la théorie que
combat M. Laufer, c'est de nier le voyage jusqu' à l'Inde de Thon-mi,
l'énvoyé du roi Srong-btsan-Sgam-po.
M. Francke prétend que
Thon-mi s'est arrêté en route, au Kashmir, et que c'est là qu'il a reçu
de Li-byin l'alphabet de Khotan M. Francke avance cette négation du
voyage de l'Inde sur la foi d'un texte du Ladakh, qui apparaît des
plus douteux c'est vraiment insuffisant pour méconnaître la tradition
précise et constante du Tibet central, d'où venait Thon-mi.
Quant à Li-byin, il est tout ensemble improbable et que Thon-mi
l'ait rencontré au Kashmir et que son nom signifie "gloire de Khotan."
L'argument soi disant historique ne porte pas davantage : M. Laufer
observe avec raison que les Tibétains ne vinrent en contact avec Khotan

196
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
que vingt ans après la mort du roi Srong-btsan-Sgam-po: or le roi avait
reçu l'écriture dont son envoyé Thon-mi rapportait les éléments.
Dans une épigramme finale, M. Laufer dit: "Turkistanitis is a
new form of learned disease." Je suis pourtant d'avis que l'importance
de l'évolution du Buddhisme au Turkestan a réellement été considér.
able et que nous n'en connaissons pas encore toute l'étendue. Mais je
suis d'accord avec M. Laufer pour regarder comme inadmissible la
thèse de M. Francke et de M. Hoernle analysée ci-dessus.
J. Ch. T.
An English-Chinese Dictionary of Peking Colloquial. By Sir
W. HILLIER, C.B. New Edition enlarged by SIDNEY BARTON, C.M.G.
and EDMUND BACKHOUSE. Shanghai. Printed at the American
Presbyterian Mission Press. $7.00.
Of the making of dictionaries there is no end. This is a good
thing for students. Dictionaries are the most useful and fascinating of
all books; and the person who can use properly, and enjoy the treasures
of a dictionary has entered into great possessions. It is fortunate that
there are persons of ability and leisure to compile them. When Sir
W. Hillier published his work he became a public benefactor. And
Sir E. Backhouse and Mr. S. Barton share in this philanthropy. The
revision and additions of these two scholars must have involved great
drudgery. And the least the public can now do is to use the book that
has cost so much labour. It will not be a matter of hsing shan for
them to do so, they will have their money's worth. We cordially
commend this work to our readers. It will often help them in a
difficulty, and open up avenues of suggestion and lines of thought.
It is compact and handy and can be easily taken with one. The
revisers give the reason in the preface for this new undertaking. They
say, 'The eight years which have elapsed since the first edition of this
dictionary was published have witnessed the advent of a Republican
régime in China, followed by a development of parliamentary and
legal institutions and of the press, all of which events have had a
marked effect on the language. New terms have been found necessary
in order to enable public and private speakers and writers on the events
of the day to convey to their audiences the new ideas connoted by
revolution and progress. It was inevitable under the circumstances
that, in order to meet this need, recourse should be had in the first
instance to the kindred language of the neighbour Japan, where large
stocks of expressions coined in recent years to give currency in the
East to the ideas of the West were ready at hand. So marked has been
the Japanisation of the modern Chinese vocabulary as a result of this

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
197
borrowing that it is hardly too much to say that a Japanese dictionary
has become almost an essential in the study of the language in its
present form.'
There is truth and exaggeration in this language. It is true that
Japan has been a factor in the creation or rather the resurrection of
old words but it is an exaggeration to say that there has been a
Japanisation of the modern Chinese vocabulary. The influx of French
words during the Norman conquest was considerable but the language
was still Anglo-Saxon and maintained its identity. It was in no sense
Gallicized. It is a suitable parallel to the present tincture of words
from Japan. Chinese remains Chinese and the language is in no sense.
Japanised. Even most of the words that bear the Japanese complexion
are old Chinese terms. The purely new Japanese creation are very
few. Another apt illustration of the case may be found in the expres-
sive slang of America. These can be traced largely to old English, as
is pointed out by Lowell in that interesting disquisition that forms an
introduction to the Bigelow papers. Further it is questionable how
far this influx has affected the colloquial. It mostly affects literary
compositions.
Much of the difficulty of dictionary makers and translators is to
determine the exact value of a word or phrase etymologically. There
appears to be a certain inexactitude and indefiniteness attached to
Chinese phraseology that is confusing. In Wenli this may arise from
dissociation and until the word is seen in its connection it is hard to
define its value. Position and function govern the etymology. The
same word may have different values just as in Shakespeare we have,
'But me no buts, but,' etc. We shall find that the compilers of this
dictionary have experienced these difficulties, without surmounting
them in many instances. And students must be prepared to find a
good many errors, in this respect, in this dictionary of many excel-
lencies.
Some interesting study in words is suggested by this dictionary
as the value of in the phrase . This gives quite a new
view of ti to the beginner. It is clothed with substance and not a
mere ghost of a word. And the same may be noted of Fcp under
abandon p. 2, underneath p. 960: about p. 4 and so on. Students will
take note of some tricky expression and discern how a little word
makes a difference. Chu te hsia is sufficient accommodation: but Chu
pu hsia is not only the opposite, but may connote a moral idea as well:
but this is not noticed in the book.
There are some glaring omissions, as well as an insertion of
phrases we little expected to find. Jones has the entrée into the
legations-surely a new idea to the Chinese, is given; but older and

198
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
more popular ideas are absent. We have looked in vain for such words
as legate, cardinal, prelate. These are as old as Kang Hsi, at any rate,
and we should have expected an entrée for them into this work. Jones
it is true is more modern, but these venerable terms should not have
been forgotten.
The equivalents for the word condemn are very incomplete. There
are ecclesiastical, moral and legal condemnations. The last only is given.
It would be useful if the authors had given the noun condemnation.
Comparisons of such formations throw much light on the flexibility of
language.
The foreigner finds certain adverbial and other expressions difficult
The look of them startles him; such as As early as From time to
time: In the meantime: The secret of it was: The venture was
justified: Bring into contact with but unfortunately he will find no
relief here. Many acids are given but the most common and colloquial
carbolic is absent. Under secret there are many valuable phrases
entered, but a most puzzling one to the student, he made no secret of it
is omitted. Just what he wanted too! Also he took the risk.
On the other hand there are many happy phrases. Under triumph
we have a Pyrrhic victory: and those troublesome words object and
subject are found.
We have found that a few phrases lack correspondence, or may it
be said that they are complements such as absent-minded is given as
失神出神 but under Minded-absent we have 忘神慌心. It should
be pointed out that these terms do not quite imply the same state of
mind. Ch'u shen is not quite the same as shih shen and hardly means
absent-minded, but implies quite a different meaning. Wang shen is of
doubtful validity; huang hsin is flurried. The colloquial expressions
Hsin pu tsai, pu liu hsin are not given.
There are a few errors arising from an incomplete exposition, too,
to be pointed out. For example Ability,-a person of, is given as
Yu ts'ai kan. But this phrase equals He has ability. The noun
should be Yu ts'ai kan ti. Administrative ability is given as Yu
ching chi but this is a predicative form; and Ability,-great natural is
given as t'ien fen kao which is qualitative: a better phrase would be
We should also like to draw attention to the phrases given
for abstract, in the account,-advance on: Again under monopoly,
Monopolist is given as Chuan mai, but this is a descriptive 'verb.
Monopoly is given as Chuan mai ch'üan: it would have been better if
in the sense of a patent had been added. To monopolize is given as
pao lan the better term is ; lung tuan is given but the character
lung is not correct: Pao lan is in the sense of contracting and the idea
of monopoly can only be very indirect and the phrase pa ch'ih

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
199
should have further explanation. It conveys the idea of penalizing as
in the acts of Trades Union, etc. The phrase conveys a certain amount
of opprobrium and illegality.
A line of useful study is suggested by the reading of this
dictionary in this way that it greatly helps to an exact knowledge of
words, not only of Chinese but English words too and for the
English speaking person. It is marvellous how inexact we are as to
the shades of meaning.
It should be mentioned that phrases run away with their authors
occasionally and therefore there is much Wenli in the work. Collo-
quialism seems unequal to the occasion. Thus the student must by no
means try to speak all the phrases in this work.
The length of the review will show that we have found it most
interesting. It is a mine of information. We most heartily commend
this useful work.
M.
Indian Archaeology.
(1) A Guide to Sanchi, by SIR JOHN MARSHALL, Director General
of Archaeology in India, Government Printing Office.
Calcutta, 38/9d.
(2) A Guide to Taxila, Government Printing Office, Calcutta,
4s/6d.
(3) The Astronomical Observations of Jai Singh, by G. R. KAYE,
in India, Government Printing Office, Calcutta, 238/-
The Indian Râj has always shown an intelligent interest in the
antiquities of that great country, and these books are excellent ex-
amples of what can be done in the way of reserch. While they do not
bear to any extent on Chinese matters (except in so far as Taxila was
visited by both the famous pilgrims Fa Hsien and Hsuan Tsang) yet
they have a great indirect value to Sinologues.
The first two books relate to ancient Buddhist shrines and help to
support several hypotheses which are of great importance in regard to
the development of Asiatic culture, viz :-the predominance of the
Hinayana type of Buddhison in early days, the assimilation by Budd-
hism of the worship of death and the strong influence of Greece on
Indian art.
The third book relates to culmination of oriental science in India
under the enlightened Maharajah Jai Singh of Jaipur in the early
eighteenth century and although covering quite a different field from
the other two books also shows how much the Orient owes to the West.
It is of course an insoluble problem whether any real physical
knowledge of any value ever originated in India, but in any case it is

200
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
very unfavourable to the hypothesis of those who think that the Indian
sages penetrated the secrets of the cosmos to find that the wisest of the
Indian potentates was obliged to borrow extensively from Greece,
Arabia and even France and England.
Sanchi is the site of the most important of the Bhilsâ topes, or
Buddhist relic mounds, in the State of Bhopal. These remains date
from the third century B.C. to the eleventh century A.D. so covering
almost the whole period of Indian Buddhism. The oldest stupa dates
from the reign of the Buddhist Constantine, Asoka, but it was sub-
sequently enlarged and four decorative gateways were added to it in
the middle of the first century B.C. There gateways or toranas, seem
to be the direct prototypes of the Japanese torii and Chinese pai-lou.
They are elaborately carved with scenes from the life of Buddha and
the Jatakas or legends of Buddha's previous metempsychoses. Some-
what as with early Christian antiquities, Buddha himself is never
figured, being only indicated by a symbol.
The stupa itself was surmounted by a railing and an umbrella, the
latter indicating the presence of relics, and it was surrounded by a
processional path for the early circumambulatory ritual.
There are many other remains of a later date, stupas (in some
which relics have been found), pillars, temples and monasteries, and
are all well described and illustrated. The stupas show one more
example of the grave mound in all its variations from the simple earth
mound covering the coffin of primitive man in N. China to the
pyramids of Egypt or the hill of Chin Shih Huang Ti.
It was
Taxila is more elaborate and better known than Sanchi.
probably part of the Achaemenid Empire and was later occupied by a
Macedonian garrison. Being recaptured by Chandragupta it later
became the vice-regal seat of Asoka, was captured by the Graeco-
Bactrians and overrun successively by the Scythians and Kushans, and
was finally ruined by the White Huns in the 5th century. It was
visited by Apollonins of Tyana, St. Thomas, Fa Hsien, Sung Yün and
Hsüan Tsang. It naturally shows in its art the most varied influences,
but the most noticeable feature is the quickening effect of the Greek
spirit. The remains are similar to that of Sanchi but include palaces,
and also coins and inscriptions.
Jai Singh's astronomical instruments and buildings are very re-
markable and remind one of the Chinese instruments referred to in
the Shu Ching and the old equipment of the Peking observatory.
Mr. Kaye describes the astrolabes and other portable instruments and
the large masonry sundials and observation structures in great detail
with excellent diagrams and photographs. He gives Jai Singh's
literary sources and collates all the records, calibrations and memonics

on the instruments.
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
201
Ptolemy, Ulu Begh, De la Hire and Flamsteed all
contribute their quota of data but unfortunately the instruments were
put to but little use and in view of improvements which had already
been made at the time of their construction in Europe could not hope
to do much more than serve for demonstration purposes and relatively
simple observations.
HERBERT CHATLEY.
Berthold Laufer.-The Story of the "Pinna and the Syrian Lamb"
(the Journal of American Folk-Lore, vol. 28, No. 108, April-June
1915, pp. 103-128). "Optical Lenses, I. Burning-Lenses in China
and India" (Tung-pao, 2nd series, vol. 16, No. 2, May 1915).
"Cardan's Suspension in China" (Holmes Anniversary volume,
Washington, 1916).
Since the publication of Hirth's celebrated work "China and the
Roman Orient" much new information has come to hand which has
enlarged our knowledge of this interesting subject: the relations of the
realms of Ta Ts'in (the Roman or Greek near East) with China.
Mr. Berthold Laufer has recently-in a series of papers of different
sizes further contributed to this knowledge and it seems only fit that
mention should be made of this here. The papers referred to are
remarkable by their ingenuity, by the sagacity shewn by the author,
and by that considerable wealth of information of which he has already
given so many proofs.
I.-Pinna (or more correctly pina) is the generic name of a large
family of sea mussels (pinnidae) which inhabit the Mediterranean and
the Indian Ocean. One of these bivalves, the pinna nobilis or pinna
squamosa possesses this peculiarity that it fastens itself to the bottom
of the sea by the means of a bunch of fibres which, suitably spun, can
be made into a tissue of the colour of dark gold. Even in our days the
Italians of the gulf of Taranto manufacture this particular tissue. The
Annals of the later Han period (25-220), the Wei-lio (written between
239 and 265) mention this material as being used by the inhabitants of
Ta-Ts'in, but they ascribe its origin to a sea-sheep. Furthermore, the
narrations of travellers of the middle ages mention an agnus scythicus.
Yule has presumed a relation to. exist between the "sea-sheep" of the
Chinese and the "lamb" of Brother Odoric; Hirth, in his work on
the Roman Orient, has made certain reservations without, however,
elucidating the problem; Schlegel, on the other hand, has made the
matter even more obscure by many confused theories. It is Chavannes
who has been the first to point out that it is necessary to make a clear
distinction between the two notions: the sea-sheep and the Scythian

202
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
lamb, and this he has done justly although the 2 notions, in the
historical development of the legend, end by becoming partly united.
Chavannes while correctly connecting the origin of the material
referred to, with the filament of the pinna, only relies on the authority
of an Arab author of the tenth century, Istakhri, according to whom
he reconstructs the legend which may have given birth to the Chinese
idea of the shui-yang or sea-sheep. In fact, according to Mr. Laufer,
the Arab traditions as well as those of the Chinese are reducible to a
Hellenic tradition.
The first Greek author to mention materials made of the fibres of
the pinna is the sophist Alciphron who, in his letters, calls them
"woollen stuff out of the sea" Τὰ ἐκ τῆς θαλασσης ἐρία As the
sheep is the principal animal to furnish wool one is thus lead, so to
say, to the idea of a sea-sheep. Tertullian, in his treaty "De Pallio,"
written after 208, explains why he wears a pallium instead of a toga
and he there takes the opportunity of alluding to the fleece recovered
from the ocean where are to be found certain shells of rather large size
and furnished with mossy hair. Basile the Great (4th century), in
one of his homilies, expresses wonder at the golden fleece of the pinna
which no dye is able to imitate.
The Arabian authors also speak of this sea wool which is so
beautiful that a robe made of it is worth more than a thousand gold
pieces. The arabian idea undergoes a curious development: the tissue
which, at first, was thought to be a product of an aquatic animal
becomes finally that of the plumage of a bird. This transformation,
so Mr. Laufer says, may be explained by linguistic and commercial
reasons. Pinna in Latin meant also "feather" (the form penna is later)
and this ambiguity may have lead the Arabs to understand the fibres
of the pinna as being the plumage of a bird. The Chinese texts bear
witness to the existence in the Far East of such materials woven of
feather; the Arab word suf (wool or down) even passed during the
Mongol period into the Chinese language under the form of su-fu or
so-fu (Watters, Essays p. 355). According to Bretschneider (Mediae-
val Researches, pp. 258, 291, 308) so-fu (wool or down) was sent to
China from Samarkand in 1392, from Ispahan in 1483 and from Lu-mi
(Rum, Byzantium) in 1548 and 1554. The Chinese works which
mention these materials are rather numerous. They have also picked
up another tradition which, upon close examination, seems to be a
development of the history of the shui-yang, namely that of lambs born
of the womb of the earth and connected with the ground by the
umbilical cord. The annals of the Tang (618-906) mention that they
are to be found at Fu-lin (Syria, possibly including Byzantium) and an
earlier text, cited by Chavannes, determines their habitat as being the
country of Ta Ts'in (that is the Roman or Hellenic near East), the

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
203
same being the case of a later text quoted by Pelliot. This allows to
determine the date for the transmission of the legend to China as being
before the beginning of the sixth century, this being the period when
the name Fu-lin appears for the first time.
Mr. Laufer finally shows that the original pinna transformed into
a sheep, into a lamb, even into a bird ends by becoming a human being
in the Talmud. But Mr. Laufer goes further considering that Syria
when the legend came from there, was christian and further, that the
expression yang-kao used by the Chinese follows intentionally the
Syrian tradition and consecrates the substitution of the sheep by the
lamb, he finally arrives at the supposition that the old Hellenic story
of the sea-sheep has become modified under the influence of the
christian allegory of the divine lamb.
It is out of question here to follow the thought of the author in
all its developments as this would lead as out of the limits for this
review. Let it suffice to say that thanks to the author we are now able
to follow the history of the legend of the pinna-agnus which extends
over fifteen centuries and which, founded on a natural fact of trifling
importance, has developed into a marvellous and intricate story which
has interested Europe during centuries and kept the sagacity of in-
numerable scholars on the look-out for the lamb producing this wonder-
ful golden fleece. It is remarkable that the principal evidence which
enables us to follow step by step the development of the legend, is
furnished by the Chinese texts which reproduce the data of the western
folk-lore.
II. Mention will only be made here of that part of the paper
which deals with the knowledge which the Chinese have had of
burning-lenses, a question on which the current idea is totally wrong.
As the French saying goes: one lends only to the rich, so it has indeed
been the custom to attribute the invention of the lense to the Chinese.
Mr. Laufer mentions a Dr. E. Hill who in 1914 wrote: "it is said that
a Chinese Emperor used lenses as long ago as the year 2283 before
Christ to observe the stars"! Even professional sinologues as F. I. G.
Schlegel and, quite recently, Forke, have maintained that burning-
lenses were known to the Chinese long before they were known to the
Greeks and quite a long time before the Christian era.
Mr. Laufer applies himself to show that the conclusions of these
scholars are based on an illusion due to their not having understood
the texts. Referring to the remark of Th. W. Kingsmill concerning
the modern myths¹ he adds not without irony: "I apprehend that the
"Myths have been not inaptly described by Max Muller as a
disease of language; and to this category we may perhaps relegate the
group of modern myths which have grown up in and around our
description of China and its arts." Chinese Recorder, Vol. VII, 1876,
p. 43.

204
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
assigning to the ancient Chinese of burning-lenses belongs to this
category of modern myths based on misinterpretation of terms." He
shows without difficulty how Forke and Schlegel have been lead astray
in their common error.
Indeed, even if the Chinese have known the lenses and some of
their properties, they are nevertheless not their inventors; their
knowledge of them came from India. The first historical mention of
them is found in the T'ang shu in connection with a tribe called
Lo-cha () living on an island in the eastern P'o-li (FJ) archipel-
ago (Bali); according to the annals their country produces fire-pearls
(huo-chu); when held against the rays of the sun "mugwort²
and rushes will be ignited at once by fire springing from the pearl."
It is possible from this text and from another taken from Kiu T'ang shu
to conclude, that these fire-pearls were convex lenses of rock crystal
which were used to generate fire for cauterising purposes; to conclude:
they were used for the same purpose as the copper or bronze mirrors
of an earlier period (a text from the fourth century mentions this
practice).
It is furthermore known that in the second quarter of the seventh
century the Champa offered to China burning-lenses which he had
procured from the Lo-ch'as. But how had the Lo-ch'as, a savage tribe,
obtained them? Mr. Laufer says: from India, although unable to
show in what manner; more especially from Kahmir which, in the
T'ang shu, is indicated as producing fire-lenses; the Chinese term:
huo chu represents the translation of a corresponding sanskrit word.
China has received the fire-lenses from India as Europe of the
middle ages and the Arabs received them from Greece and from Rome.
The following problem then presents itself: "in what reciprocal
relation or obligation are India and Hellas? Mr. Laufer concludes
that the priority belongs to Hellas considering that in 423 Aristophanes
in "The Clouds" mentions burning-lenses and it is likely-for very
good reasons-that India at that time did not know them. The
Hellenic Near East should thus have made the lenses known to India
between the fourth and the sixth century and from there they have
passed into China at the beginning of the seventh century.
III. In this short article Mr. Laufer describes a brazier which he
has purchased in China for the Field Museum at Chicago and which
probably dates from the Ming dynasty. The peculiarity of this brazier
is that it is furnished with a Cardan suspension; filled with live coal
it may serve as a bed warmer as the vessel cannot be upset. Mr.
Artemisia vulgaris, a plant common in China and used for
cauterising the skin.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
205
Laufer cites a passage from Berthelot saying that "suspension à la
Cardan has been employed in eastern Asia probably from times
immemorial, as the Chinese do not change their processes." He adds,
however, that this point requires further elucidation.
Well, in accordance with Chinese tradition, this manner of sus-
pension is due to Ting Huan, a renowned mechanic of the Han period
(226 B.C.-A.D. 220); to him indeed is attributed the invention of
"the brazier in the bed-clothes." This tradition refers to an appliance
as the one described and it is quite possible that its origin goes back
to the time of the Han, "the period when mechanics and engineering
awoke in China" and because it is just during this epoch "when along
the trade-routes leading across Central Asia into the Roman Orient
Hellenistic ideas and inventions were conveyed to the Chinese."
The author terminates with an assertion which-generalised and
extended from the realm of the mechanical science-may serve as a
conclusion to this series of reviews: "A single case certainly lacks
convincing force, but the totality of coinciding phenomena with which
we are now confronted is so overwhelming that Hellenistic influence on
Ancient China can no longer be denied.
All that is recorded.
of mechanical innovations in the Han period is traceable to the writings
and models of the Alexandrian mechanicians."
C. B. M.
The Kan Ying Pien. With full Introduction, the Text.
Translation, and Notes. By Rev. JAMES WEBSTER. Price, $1.00.
For sale at the Mission Book Company, Shanghai.
Of this book Wylie in his Notes on Chinese Literature says:
"Among all the publications of the Taoists, there is none which has
attained a greater pupularity. The assumption that it is the work of
Laôu Keun is a fable, which few, if any believe. It appears to have
been written during the Sung, but the author is not known. This
treatise which is composed in a style easy of comprehension, has for
its object to elucidate the doctrine of future retribution. The various
editions are innumerable, it having appeared from time to time in
almost every conceivable size, shape, and style of execution. Many
commentaries have been written on it, and it is frequently published
with a collection of several hundred anecdotes of the marvelous, and
pictorial representations appended, to illustrate every paragraph seria-
tim. It is deemed a great act of merit to aid by voluntary contribu-
tion towards the gratuitous dissemination of this work."
Mr. Webster's edition is bound in cardboard. It is well printed.
It contains 14 pages of Introduction, 16 pages of Chinese text with

206
one.
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
translation and Notes and a vocabulary of ten pages. The Introduction
contains four sections, dealing with Tracts in Chinese Literature,
Popular Taoism. The authorship and date of the Kan Ying Pien,
Analysis of the Kan Ying Pien. The remarks on Chinese Tracts are
interesting and the account of Popular Taoism is on the whole a fair
But credit should have been given for the way in which Taoism
has peopled the minds of a quarter of the human race with a store of
imaginary persons, as well-known and popular in China as Robin Hood
or Jack the Giant Killer in England. Taoism is the Chinese fairyland.
In transliterating Chinese words Mr. Webster uses Wade's system
of spelling. He writes good English and his translation will be read
with pleasure by the general reader. "As shadow follows form, so are
good and evil requited"; "to murmur against Heaven and blame men;
to rave at the wind and curse at the rain"; are sentences from the
Kan Ying Pien that have become proverbial in China. The student of
Chinese will also welcome the translation, but it would be still more
welcome were it more literal. At times it is too diffuse. On page 21
(last line) it is hard to find any Chinese equivalent for "robbing them
for his own advantage," and many sentences might have been rendered
more accurately: e.g. on p. 28, line 17 = "not that these do
not fill you for the time being," instead of "these may, indeed, bring
temporary pleasure"; on p. 22, line 7, "he seeks success
by shaming others," not "triumphs over another's disgrace"; on p. 22,
line 9, "to escape dishonourably leaves him unashamed,"
not "shamelessly excuses himself for his crimes."
L. A. L.
Ancient Chinese Paper Money as Described in a Chinese Work
on Numismatics. PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF
ARTS AND SCIENCES-June 1918.
This is a translation of the Ch'üan Pu T'ung Chih by K. Tomito,
who writes a short Introduction dealing with the main principles he
has followed in turning the Chinese terms and words into English.
Mr. Andrew McF. Davis contributes the Foreword. In this we have
an account of the genesis of the book itself and a general survey of
Chinese paper notes. He treats the question historically and discusses
the sizes and designs on the face of the notes. Facsimiles of many
notes are given together with the seals attached to them. Except the
Seal characters these are plain enough. The illustrations have been
reproduced from the pages of the Ch'üan Pu T'ung Chih. The article
by Dr. S. W. Bushell in the Journal of the Peking Oriental Society
has been freely drawn upon and discussed. We do not notice any
reference to the compilation of Ma Tuan Lin on the question of

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
207
currency. He is an authority that should not be neglected or over-
looked.
The translator in his Introduction says, "In translating the inscrip-
tions on the various notes, the original wording has been followed as
closely as possible, with the purpose of bringing out such distinctions
as," etc.; "to translate the Chinese freely
would have been
simpler, but by this method the slight but important distinctions in
the text of each issue could not be brought out," (p. 477).
But this attempt at literalness has its dangers as we shall point out
later on.
What should be aimed at in translations is not a free trans-
lation, but rather an idiomatic rendering equivalent in meaning to the
original. It is here that the translator has failed badly. Let one term
be taken in confirmation of this criticism. Tien hsia occurs on
almost every note. This is translated, under the Heavens: 'To the
world' and so on. Neither of these translations is good, since they do
not convey to the English reader the idiomatic significance of the
original. Tien hsia is the idiomatic term for Empire or country.' So
in attempting to be too literal the translator has confused the meaning.
It must be owing to the same reason that other obscurities remain.
For instance I Kuan is gives as one Kuan. It would have been
more consistent to say 'One String' or simply i Kuan, and so on
throughout. Again Yin tsao Eis 'Coins' or 'fabricates' and not
prints and issues, (p. 480).
Fen hsing Tien hsia should be rendered for Circulation in the
Empire, rather than, distributed under the heavens (p. 488). Again,
Shou ts'ung is given by principal or conspirator but should be
principal and accomplice (p. 514, etc.). The 3rd line on plate 33 is
rendered by "authorization decree." A more correct rendering would
be The Imperial decree having been received by the Civil Board,
authorizing this script to bear the value of 30 taels. It is questionable
whether 'which value cannot be altered' is the correct rendering. The
word Ssû is rendered privately it would be better to use the
technical term of illegally or clandestinely. Pan pu seems to
have disappeared in the translation of plate 10, p. 490.
And on page 499 we have the phrase 'petitioned the Imperial
decree.' Now the Imperial decree cannot be petitioned-it is a dead
thing. Ch'ing chih is a phrase meaning, 'Having asked or
prayed for authority to do' (p. 501). One more the 2nd line on
plate 22 is given as prints and issues (p. 503). Should it not be 'com-
mands the printing of?" There are many such discrepancies and they
are pointed out partly to show that the translator in trying to be too
literal has often missed the meaning.
The Academy is to be congratulated on its enterprise and this new
production is most interesting and valuable.
M.

208
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
China and the World War.
The MacMillan Co., 1918.
By W. R. WHEELER. New York.
This is a lucidly articulated account of the foreign relations of
China, during the four years of the world war. Brief statements of
the events leading up to the beginning of the period are furnished, and
in a most valuable series of appendices appears the "Black-Dragon"
statement of Japanese policy in China as a result of the European war,
documents relating to the twenty-one demands made by Japan on
China, official statements in relation to the Lansing-Ishii agreement
between America and Japan concerning China, a summary of treaties
and agreements with reference to the integrity and sovereign rights of
China, and the "open door" policy and "equality of opportunities,"
and a summary of treaties and agreements with reference to Korea.
Finally there is an introductory bibliography on China, in which the
reviewer is happy to note that a suggested substitution in the list has
been adopted.
We reject a novel if it does not entertain us; a historical novel
must be even more careful to do so; and the demand for entertainment
has caused some modern writers of narrative history to be more
concerned about the entertainment than the facts; or at least they
weave about the facts a glowing and sumptuous garment of inter-
pretations. In the East, especially, there is so much behind the scenes
at which the historian can only guess; the observable facts often tell
little about their causes and their effects; and the temptation to fill out
the picture is most alluring, and has proved the call of Circe to more
than one writer. There may be a plot into which the events would fit,
if it were known, and there may not be. To confine one's self to the
more immediate construction which events will bear may not be
romantic, but it is satisfactory to the wayfaring reader, desirous to
know where events are leading, and it is the method adopted by
Mr. Wheeler. The result may be dry reading to one who is not able
from memory and experience to fill in the colours which the picture
suggests, but it is most useful. Mr. Wheeler is not without his own
opinions as to the meaning of the events he narrates, but he is not so
much in love with them as to brandish them in the reader's face, as
who would say, "Accept this or confess that you cannot read the signs
of the times." The tale is clear, consecutive and complete, and if the
reader is of the number of those who prefer making their own opinions
to having them made for him by a clever special pleader, he will be
correspondingly grateful.
The atrocious crime of being a young man is something which
Mr. Wheeler should not worry over as much as some of his critics.
It should be a cause for rejoicing that a young man should begin, as

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
209
soon as he arrives in China, to collect material bearing on current
history there, and that he should have the patience which was required
to work that material into a useful book. If every young missionary
and every young business man were to choose some field of study
outside the immediate requirements of the work he does, and try with
perseverance to make himself the master of it, the result would be most
useful to the individual, and would make fruitful some fields that now
are sadly barren. But then how soon should he publish? One would
suppose that the answer might be, "As soon as he has something
timely to say." At least the book should be judged on its actual
merits, and not be decried on the ground that its author has been only
a few years in China. Moreover, where is the line to be drawn? If
we are inclined to laugh at George Kennan, who steps ashore from his
travels in the midst of the Mixed Court riots, and promptly gets all the
facts and the meaning of them, and distributes praise and blame in
omniscient fashion for the numerous readers of The Outlook, yet we
remember that Professor Ross, who was in the country only six
months, gathered his material by the wise questioning and the wise
observing possible only to a trained mind, and produced a book worthy
to be included in Mr. Wheeler's prize list, and useful to beginners.
Time alone will tell whether Mr. Wheeler's opinions on the present
state of affairs in the East are sound judgments or not, but it would be
far from surprising if his temperate and carefully thought out book
should be considered an authority long after more pretentious works
were forgotten. In all books of the sort, there must be an ephemeral
element, and in some details this book is already out of date, so rapid
is the movement of events in Chinese politics. But the main effect is
quite otherwise, and the promise of the book is such as to make us
look forward to Mr. Wheeler's further work in this field.
H. K. W.
Greek-Chinese-English Dictionary of the New Testament. By
J. LEIGHTON STUART, D.D. Shanghai. Presbyterian Mission Press.
China is moving, or at any rate, the foreigner in China is making
her move. This volume is quite a new departure. It proposes to lead
China back to the antiquity of Europe, by offering the theological
student, of the Chinese church, an opportunity of studying for himself
an ancient vehicle of thought, and move in a sphere of speech that
was contemporaneous with their own Han period. It is a bold venture
and time alone will show the justification. But the publication of this
volume shows unmistakably the enterprise of the Church. Whether the
student will be able to cope with it in addition to his other studies
time alone will prove or whether he would not have been better
14

210
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
equipped if he had devoted his time to the study of English. Every-
thing that can be said for Greek is now to be found in English, thanks
to the abundant labours of all the scholars that have devoted their
time and talents to this field of learning. In any case Dr. Stuart is to
be highly congratulated on the end of this difficult task. He has
produced a substantial volume. The Greek words are arranged in
alphabetical order. Parts of Speech are indicated. The Chinese
equivalents are given followed by an English equivalent. References
are also given to where the words are found in the N. T.
The printing has been done in an excellent way. It must have been
very exacting work and the Printers are to be highly congratulated.
The whole cost of the work has been generously assumed by the Ginter
Park Presbyterian Church Richmond Virginia'; it is to be hoped that
this linking of China with ancient Greece by way of America will bear
happy fruit, for the good of the nations.
Index to the China Review. By JOHN C. FERGUSON. Kelly and
Walsh, Ltd., Shanghai, 1918.
This is an extremely useful subject index to an important publica-
tion. Mr. Ferguson disarms adverse criticism to some extent by saying
that the preparation of the Index has followed the lines of his reading,
and "the result will, therefore, not be wholly satisfactory to anybody
else." The chief fault observed is one that would have meant more
labor; for the Index is far from complete. There is no index of
authors. There is no gathering of titles into general classes of subjects,
and those who wish to look up what the volumes of the Review have
to offer, for example on Chinese Religions will have to run their eyes
over the whole work,-a matter of some two hours labor. The cross
references are not consistently planned. "Corvee Services," and
"Ningpo Dialect," for example are each found under both title words;
but whereas Eitel's articles, "Fragmentary Studies in Ancient Chinese
Philosophy," are found only under "Chinese Philosophy," the same
author's "Chinese Philosophy before Confucius" is to be found only
under "Philosophy." But all this is to look a gift horse in the mouth.
When Mr. Ferguson has already relieved us of much labor, it is un-
generous to reproach him for not relieving us from more. We join in
what will surely be a hearty chorus of thanks to him from all students
of things Chinese.
H. K. W.
The Mentor Department of Art. Serial Number 168.
This number is wholly composed of matter dealing with Chinese
Paintings written by our Hon. Librarian, Mrs. F. Ayscough. It is ap

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS,
211
instructive and artistic number. It is a volume to please the eye and
inform the mind. Mrs. Ayscough gives much out of the way informa-
tion on paintings and painters. She handles the subject in a most
sympathetic manner and endeavours to appreciate the spirit of these
ancient things.
It is by such methods as these that people generally will get a
knowledge of the treasures of art--and from the art itself it is not a
long step to the spirit and the ideas that pervaded these great men.
A service is thus rendered to the diffusion of culture, and fine feeling
becomes more liberally distributed. A spirit of this kind is much
needed in these practical and industral times. There is a tendency to
became hard and rough; art and religion should be more widely
diffused to give more lustre and spirituality to the web and woof of
life.
Mrs. Ayscough's remarks as to the intimate connection between
writing and painting suggest many thoughts. The Chinese hand is
fashioned for philosophy and penmanship. Look at the long tapering
fingers of the nation. Writing has to do with nerve and lines. It is
to a great extent a matter of the eye and hand, and, of course, infinite
effort. Again calligraphists are good and bad. The question is
whether painting and poetry are not more qualities of the mind. It
does not follow that all calligraphists are painters neither are all
painters poets. There have been many poets without the gift of
drawing and most excellent penmen have written no more than routine
verses. It would be illogical, and contrary to experience, to say that
all good penmen are painters. So may it not be said that it is an
accidental idea that there is this connection between calligraphists and
painters. Is there not something true in the saying that these men are
born not made. Nevertheless it has been noticed that those foreigners
who know something of drawing and painting have a greater capacity
to get hold of Chinese characters than others. But this may be a
superficial capacity only. The Chinese script lends itself to the art of
calligraphy their very form calls forth the best hand and all that
is in man that way.
M.
Timber Rafts on The Lower Yangtze. Shanghai.
Statistical
Department of the Inspectorate General of Customs.
This is one of the papers issued periodically by the Customs. The
compilation is by Mr. S. F. Wright. It is not a very long paper, but
it is a most important one. The Customs are doing most valuable work
besides levying dues and collecting money. The papers they issue from
time to time are most valuable historically and full of interesting

212
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
matters to the Sociologist. A very full and complete description of
timber rafts are given in this paper. A view of one of these rafts from
a steamer is a daily occurrence, and it would never enter the mind of
any one casually looking at them, that much art and mechanical
ingenuity have gone into the making of one of these. But so it is.
The construction and the voyage of one of these is fully described by
letterpress and diagrams. The largest raft on record of the past
15 years as reported was some 280 feet in length by 110 feet in width.
with a depth of 22 feet from deck to keel. The average size would
be about 180 feet and the timber composing this would be worth
about Hk. Tls. 20,500. About four months is taken to do the trip and
the wage bill would amount to $2,800. But the heaviest item of all is
inland taxation. Timber coming from Kan Chou to Nanking is obliged
to pay taxes ten times. So that a raft composed of 220,000 cubic feet
would have to pay between 5-7 thousand taels in dues or inland
taxation comes to about 25% of the capital value. No wonder things
are in a bad way in this country. We said this was not a very large
volume that is so but the amount of work in its compilation must
have been great.
M.
An Anglo-Chinese Glossary for Customs and Commercial Use.
By C. A. S. WILLIAMS. Shanghai. Commercial Press, Ltd.
Though printed and published privately and not by the Customs it
must be concluded that the volume was primarily intended for use by
the Customs staff. This can be the sole reason why the book has not
been reviewed before. We don't remember seeing a review of the
book anywhere. It certainly merited a review, so in a way the work
hasn't had its proper deserts. The learned author evidently didn't
push his wares. So far the public has been the loser. For this is a
work that deserves recognition. The compilation has involved much
labour. The subjects dealt with are Maritime and Native Customs:
Chinese and Foreign Trade: Postal, Political, Geographical and Mis-
cellaneous matters. It is rich in names of Goods, Business terms,
Shipping and such things: the Geographical terms are manifestly in-
complete. There is still room for additional phrases in postal matters;
for example insurance of letters is not given. Now that the study of
Chinese is on the flood, students and British merchants will consult
this Glossary. Here they will find names and expressions for anything
they may deal in now or hereafter.
We wonder why the author translated typhoon by ta feng? Did
he do so on the idea that typhoon is a transliteration of the sound
ta feng. This etymology is no longer held. It is now taken that the

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
213
word is derived from the Greek. Would not pao feng be a truer
rendering? This admirably prepared book is heartily commended to
the student of Commercial Chinese.
M.
The New China Review. Nos. 1 and 2. Edited by S. COULING, M.A.
We most heartily welcome a resuscitation of the China Review. It
was a happy thought of Mr. Couling to do this. There is not only
room for such a magazine, but surely a demand. In such a vast field
with so many workers there must be many students of Chinese things.
Speaking of the sinologues of the past, Legge, Kingsmill, Eitel,
Chalmers, Edkins, the Editor says, 'in the former Review these men
had room to express themselves': and he thinks that there must be
many "successors to these scholars who are equally keen to give
expression to themselves but who have lacked the medium so far."
The opportunity is now placed at the disposal of these 'expectants' so
we should have a general flowering of talent,-talent that has been
lying dormant, or ts'ang as Chinese philosophy has it, preparing
during a winter of obscurity for some spring and summer of oppor-
tunity. We hope so.
We should like to congratulate Mr. Couling on the get-up of
the magazine. There is something in dress after all: and commercially
it is always said that if you are not well dressed no business can be
done. Well this magazine is well dressed. Paper, type, and even
cover do much to commend this new venture. The appearance and
feel of it are all in its favour.
The Editor has succeeded in placing a great variety of subjects
before his readers. The 'few remarks' by Dr. Giles, Sen. are very
seasonable and refreshing. Dr. Giles very truly says that the British
are half asleep regarding Chinese Study. Still we must not be des-
pairing. We must remember the work of Legge, Giles, Chalmers,
Parker, Edkins and a host of others. These are all British and their
work has been unexcelled. And further we must not give undue
assent to the statement that the Germans have beaten the British
hollow in Latin and Greek. From Bentley downwards the British can
make a good show. There is no room for depression. It would be
very interesting to find out why Major Yetts took to Taoist tales.
This personal experience would be as interesting as the stories them-
selves. It is well to have a few of the hsiens activities and pro-
digies. But really many of them are wearisome. We wish he would
tackle the serious side of Taoism. We wonder if Major Yetts is
correct in saying that the Sou Shen Chi is a Taoist book. It

214
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
must not be assumed that all that is marvellous is the creation
of the Taoist: even the Confucianist is not altogether free from
that. And the first item in the Shou Shen Chi is a biography of
Confucius in which a vivid description is given of the personal
appearance of the sage. But he is hardly a hsien. We think that
Major Yetts' assumption is not correct. Dr. Chatley begins his studies
in Chinese Psychology. The whole question is treated from the modern
point of view. The author does not so much give a description of
Chinese thought on the subject as he attempts to account for certain
phenomena in China. The treatment is interesting, we should not like
to say it is inconclusive: but the student will not find much that is
Chinese as to fixation of Soul, Fate and so on. It is a modern dis-
quisition hung on to an old subject. It is none the less valuable for
that. Is it true that the Chinese literati have always opposed govern-
ment by women? Women from time immemorial have taken an active
part in ruling China: but the question of sex in Chinese philosophy is
an interesting subject.
Space and time forbid mention of all the articles, and a reference
to some does not imply that the others are less important. The Chinese
would say that Fate has something to do with the choice.
Some are
luckier than others. And so we will close with another touch of Fate-
that Mr. Morley's article begins well.
M.
By
"Sport and Science on the Sino-Mongolian Frontier."
Arthur de CARLE SOWERBY, F.Z.S., F.G.S. London: Andrew
Melrose, Ltd., 3 York St. Covent Garden, W.C., 1918.
To the sportsmen of the Far East no introduction of Mr. Sowerby
is needed. His ever-welcome books have made his name a houseboat,
as well as a household word. To the sportsmen of the wider world he
has appealed as one having that rare commodity-something new to tell
and sell. For if even the Far Eastern sportsman of the ordinary type
is yet in almost Cimmerian darkness regarding the possibilities and the
whereabouts of China's sport, how much denser is the gloom in which
the European and American must wander? Mr. Sowerby has done
much to lighten the darkness hitherto prevailing, and his present book
continues that most laudable work.
It takes us to and over the Ordos border: it explores for us the
forests and lakes of the Fên Ho basin it introduces us to sport round
Tai-yüan Fu: it takes us on a trip to Hsi-wan-tzû, to K'uei-hua-ch'êng,
and the T'ai Hai: it gives us a glimpse of argali and wapiti hunting:
and after showing us what life is like on the Mongolian plateau, it sets
seriously to work to collect for us all the scattered discoveries con-
nected with the Flora of the regions visited, their trees, fruits, flowers

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
215
and cryptogams. Lastly it does what nobody has done before over the
same ground and to the same extent, it provides an introduction to the
geology of the whole region, and goes into details regarding various
sections of it. The book is, therefore, at once a most interesting
record of sport, and a very valuable contribution to science, and the
two are so interwoven in the earlier sections of the volume as to appeal
specially to that ever increasing class, the sporting naturalists.
But there is adventure as well as sport and science in these pages,
and the episode at Ku-shan-pu, where the author and his companion
were compelled to extricate themselves from real danger by a vigorous
use of their natural weapons will give an idea of the possibilities
awaiting wanderers in these out-of-the-way places.
Travel over
trackless hills and mountains is full of risks and hardships. Mr.
Sowerby had his full share.
We refrain from reproducing any of the exciting episodes with
which the narrative teems, but one specimen of Mr. Sowerby's powers
of description will be welcomed. In the chapter, "After Argali and
Wapiti," p. 123, we read as follows:-
"We were now in the very heart of a region of high, rugged and
precipitous mountains, the deep gorges and ravines of which were filled
with small timber. This extended up the steep slopes in many places,
while away down in the shadowy ravine bottoms sparkling brooks, now
only partially ice-bound, gurgled and plashed over the rounded pebbles
and polished boulders. Here and there deep pools temptingly invited
a plunge, but the little fringe of ice acted as a gentle reminder of the
still frigid temperature. In these pools shoals of small fish might be
seen darting in and out of the dark caves beneath the overhanging
rocks. On the mountain sides the tender green of the sprouting
populars and hazels contrasted strangely with the deep colour of a few
scattered pines, while the mountain peach and wild apricot blossomed
pink and white, lending a soft beauty to the landscape. Above all the
jagged needle-like peaks of granite towered away into the azure blue
of the cloudless sky, like the enchanted castles of our childhood's fairy
tales."
But one thing more needs telling. We had read Mr. Sowerby's
book through from cover to cover, and then wishing to refresh our
memory on one or two points, turned to consult an index which
wasn't there!
G. L.
Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies. London Institution,
1918.
The School of Oriental Studies is to be heartily congratulated on
this its second (?) Bulletin. Like the School itself the Bulletin is

216
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Catholic. It reviews many languages and peoples: quoting from their
prose and poetry as well as dealing with linguistic matters. The
Philoligist will find much matter of interest here. Sinologues will also
find several topics dealing with China. Dr. Lionel Giles replies to
Dr. Steele's criticism of his notes on the Nestorian Monument in the
previous number.
Mr. A. Waley gives a rendering of more poems from Po Chu I.
Without wishing to be critical, as we have had no time to consult the
original, a few questions may be asked. (1) 'An early oriole sang on
the roof of my house.' Is the oriole such a bold bird as to stand
prominently on the roof? It is rather a shy bird, and eschews
publicity. (2) 'The tallest of them is six roods high': 'The lowest is
not more than ten feet.' Would it not be better to read, 'the lowest
is not less than 10 feet high.' (3) The character for Lü must be wrong.
It is repeated three times, thus it is hardly a printer's error. The
correct word may be. The word mei should be . These
errors easily slip in, and Mr. Waley's criticism of the transliterations
in Encyclopedia Sinica that they have been carelessly done will there-
fore be somewhat modified by a locus poenitentia. Of course two
blemishes is no justification. But the absence of aspirates and other
marks whilst a matter of regret is easily excused. This is a thorny
subject, but generally the criticism should be received in a spirit of
meekness. Mrs. Ayscough of course was using a translation of the
Canons which was already in existence, and the source of which she
gives in brochure of a lecture on Chinese Painting, and published
3rd April, 1917.
The Awakening of Asia. By H. M. HYNDMAN, Cassell & Co., 1919.
From his comfortable fireside within the peaceful purlieus of Well
Walk, Hampstead, old Mr. Hyndman discourses on the awakening of
Asia. The book is full of those half truths which are half lies. He
begins the section devoted to China with the entirely inaccurate state-
ment that 'practically all Chinaman can read, write and cast accounts.'
This is but an example of many inaccurate statements by which he
develops his theme of 'the blighting influence of the Occidental.'
The author seems to forget that trade is mutually beneficial. In the
case of China trade is in reality an exchange of piece goods of quality
for such raw materials as silk, oil seeds and hides. 'Asia for the
Asiatics' is Mr. Hyndman's war cry. And there seems no need for it.
Besides the merchants, there are as many engaged in teaching and
healing the sick, bringing the benefits of modern education and
scientific medicine to thousands of orientals. And these are mostly

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
217
temporary sojourners, who, after completing their work, return whence
they came. The greatest benefit the occident has conferred on the
Orient is the bringing to it of natural science, which has caused more
progress in civilisation during the last fifty years than during the
previous five thousand. In return for this, the East has given the
West one of its discarded religions. The progress of Japan has been
due to her application of Western science under the tutelage of
Europeans. A ferment of socialism pervades the book, of a kind that
is calculated to be entirely misunderstood by most oriental people.
The general tenour is such that one cannot but commend the censor
who held up the book for two years.
Chinese Pottery of the Han, Tang and Sung Dynasties. PARISH-
WATSON & Co., New York, 1917.
There is a suspicion that this volume is a glorified trade catalogue,
yet happily there is no mention of money, so it may be accepted as
untainted with commercialism. Suffice it to say that it is beautifully
printed and the seventeen coloured illustrations extraordinarily good,
notably Nos. 133, 61 and particularly 132. It is difficult to understand
why No. 30, a glazed earthenware dog of the Han dynasty period,
is included except that there is a demand for ugly quaintness; some of
these figures of distorted animals and mankind, by a sort of reversion
to totemism, commanding very high prices. Perhaps the explanation
may be found in the subtle distinction between artistic and intrinsic
value mentioned in the text. It is also hard to find sufficient reason
for perpetuating so promiently the pair of crudely designed and
coloured Sung jars, No. 109. There is a good summary of the chief
characteristics of the earthenware of the periods dealt with, derived
from well known authorities to whom due acknowledgement is made;
but the description of the actual exhibits is strangely crude and in-
consequential.
La Temperature en Chine et a Quelques Stations Voisines.
published by the MISSION CATHOLIQUE at T'ou-se-we, 1918.
This monumental work has been compiled by Père H. Gauthier,
S.J., director of the Zikawei Meteorological Observatory, from daily
observations made at 100 stations. The compilation was begun in 1913,
and shows the result of persevering work carried on for 50 years.
The book, which is in three volumes, is divided into two parts:
(1) an introduction, which is dealt with later; (2) the results of

218
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
thermometrical observations at 100 stations in Manchuria, Korea and
China Proper, extending from Aigun on the Amur to Lamko in the
extreme South. The observations give the mean daily temperature
obtained in three different ways; the mean of maximum and minimum
temperatures; the daily range-net and adjusted; and the extreme
maxima and minima observed at each station, with the year of
observation. The number of years since records were first taken is
recorded, Zikawei Observatory going back to 1873, followed by Hsien-
hsien (Shantung) in 1877. Finally, records are given for 1916-the
latest available year-showing the difference between the mean tem-
perature in that year and the normal previously registered, also the
maxima and minima and range. There are also notes on bird migra-
tion, phenological observations, and of the fall of snow. Each of these
observations is shown for every day of the year, and the collection of
this mass of material represents a vast amount of labour in the aggre-
gate, work voluntarily done to further the cause of science.
The first part of the book deals with the methods of taking
observations at Zikawei and elsewhere, and gives (1) the amount of
heat projected on the soil; (2) the mean temperature of the air, as
influenced by the absorption of the atmosphere. This is detected in
many ways by the Arago-Davy actinometer, by a heliograph register,
and by a thermometer placed below the soil. Atmospheric pressure is
also a factor, as well as absorption of heat by carbonic acid, ozone and
the vapour in the air.
The modification of the local conditions by those prevailing in
neighbouring regions has also been the subject of study, and tables are
given showing the influence of wind on temperature (its evaporative
force) and also the influence exerted by the sea, the latter calculated at
Shaweishan and at the Saddles.
The second article comprises a study of the daily variation of
temperature at Zikawei and Part II of this section with the other
stations from which records have been sent, monthly conditions being
shown in regard to atmospheric pressure, wind, mist, rain, and tem-
perature. This is a valuable statement of the normal atmospheric
situation throughout the year in a wide region extending from North
Siberia to the region where typhoons are born. Charts follow giving
the isotherms of China and-by way of comparison-of North America,
during each month.
The number of graphs is innumerable, a valuable aid to the layman
who wishes to learn something of the conditions under which he lives
in the Far East. It may be said in conclusion, that although the
erudition in this great work is above the head of the average man,
there is still much which will be of great help to him, and to the

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
219
expert in matters meteorological. "La Temperature En China" comes as
a work which has been long looked for, and all who are interested in
this most important branch of science will extend their gratitude to the
Zikawei Observatory for having filled the gap in knowledge.
Nantungchow, or South Tungchow, so named to distinguish it from
Tungchow on the Peiho, is a town situated near the mouth of the
Yangtze, a very suitable position for meteorological observations. The
whole region is highly developed industrially and agriculturally through
the initiative of Chang Chien, the scholar-statesman, to whose efforts
the inception of the Observatory of Chen-shan, whose first annual report
(for 1917) is the subject of this review.
Studies are undertaken of temperatures, pressure, dampness, winds,
and tides, rain-fall, thunderstorms, and there are besides tables show-
ing the temperatures when the various crops sprout and are harvested-
a very valuable record for the welfare of the farming community, as
Father Moidrey says in his foreword. He suggests also that statistics
should be kept concerning noxious insects and plants. The plagues of
locusts which from time to time visit Kiangsu could perhaps be anti-
cipated and dealt with in advance if knowledge about the conditions
favourable to their diffusion were obtained.
The aims of the Observatory, besides those directly connected with
meteorology, are stated in the preface to be investigations in aid of
commerce, sanitation, river conservancy and agriculture. Mr. Chang
Chien is to be congratulated on his latest work and Mr. W. C. Lew,
the principal observer, on the excellent turn-out of this book. The
work is purely Chinese, and appears to be one of the best efforts
controlled entirely by native skill and industry which has come under
our notice.
N. S.
Foreign Financial Control in China. By T. W. OVERLACH.
New York, The Macmillan Co., 1919.
If there is such a thing as making the science which is dismal in
theory interesting in practice, we have an example of it in this book.
To one on the spot, at least, the tale of the financial operations of
foreigners and particularly of foreign governments in China for the
past thirty and more years, related in a straightforward manner and
with a minimum of technical economic phraseology, is almost absorbing.
And yet so rapidly do events move in this part of the world that a
large part of the book must be classed as ancient history, while the
collapse of Russia and the twenty-one demands of Japan do not appear.
at all. It has the interest, therefore, and the instruction, of a past
that is very much past indeed. We must be grateful, however, for a

220
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
complete, and yet not prolix account of the course of the dealing of the
various important nations with China. After theoretical and historical
introductions, Great Britain, Russia, France, Germany, Japan and the
United States, are taken up in the order named, and there is a chapter
on International Control, and a final chapter in which the author's
conclusions are summed up. It is an evidence of the soundness of his
method that his conclusions will need very little revision in the light
of developments since the book was written. As this is the only book
we have on this subject, it offers the first chance to follow the tale of
foreign finance in China without distraction, and a sorry tale it is,
on the whole. The conclusion of the author on p. 272 is not too severe :
"This, then, is a point of supreme significance, namely that the
bottom idea of all the treaty stipulations and agreements as to inter-
course, customs, extraterritoriality, spheres of interest, railway con-
cessions and control was not the welfare of the people of China, but
the profit and ease of doing business by the people of the West. With
the exception of a few missionaries, and a few scholars, writers and
artists who admire Chinese civilisation, the interest of the world was
a money interest pure and simple."
We judge that the author's wide preparatory reading was done
away from China, and that he has never been there for any length of
time. Any disadvantage arising from that fact is more than com-
pensated by the greater impartiality of attitude which it has been as a
consequence possible for him to cultivate.
H. K. WRIGHT.
Lectures on Biology. By P. M. BAYNE, M.A.
the Canadian Methodist Mission Press.
Chengtu. Printed at
This work in Chinese contains lectures delivered to students by
Mr. Bayne at the West China Union University. The book is well-
arranged and in good, easily-understood style. The printing has been
well-done. We must add, however, that it would have increased the
value of the book if there had been a list of terms in English and
Chinese.
The History of China's Pictorial Art. An Introduction to the
History of Chinese Pictorial Art. By HERBERT GILES, LL.D.
Shanghai: Messrs. Kelly & Wash, Ltd.
Professor Giles did a great service by his first edition of History
of Chinese Pictorial Art. This has been much valued and lately

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
221
difficult to get. The issue, therefore, of a second edition is welcome.
"It has been carefully revised and considerably enlarged. New
biographical notices and other items have been inserted six beautiful
pictures, chosen by Mr. L. Binyon . . . have been added: a seventh
has been borrowed from an interesting article by Mr. A. D. Waley
an eighth
shows the passing of Shakyamuni Buddha.
Lastly an exhaustive General Index has been prepared, etc." These
are the additions in Dr. Giles' words. The letterpress of the old
edition was 171 pp., and the new 202 pp. This will show the quantity
of new matter. Apart from a remark here and there, this is composed
of more translation of the biographies of painters from Chinese sources.
This work for the most part is a translation of Chinese works.
So we have directly the mind of the Chinese on these matters.
Biography, criticism, anecdote, the art of painting-ink and colour
mixing are all judiciously placed together as in the Chinese authorities:
and make very interesting reading.
It is to be noticed that Dr. Giles has had no further light on that
very difficult sentence "never put pupils to the eyes even for several
years" (p. 18). It is possible the Journal of the North China Branch
of the Royal Asiatic Society will offer some help.
Sayings of the Mongols, Dictons et Proverbes des Chinois Habitant
la Mongolie Sud-Ouest. Par Le R. P. JOSEPH VAN OOST,
Imprimerie de l'Orphelinat de Tou-Se-Wei, Zi-Ka-Wei, près,
Chang-Hai.
It does one good to walk in the ways of the Gentiles now and
then by this we mean amongst people who are pagans to ourselves:
an inspection of their ways of thought, an acquaintance with their
common judgements of daily life, and the deeper intricacies of social
intercourse may do much to vary the stagnancy that results from
following the same grooves which most people have to do. This new
book opens up to us new avenues through whose long vistas we may
peer into the customs of alien peoples and gain acquaintance with their
daily thoughts. Much of a people's profoundest philosophy is im-
bedded in popular sayings, and a lot of the philosophy of life may be
gathered from proverbs. Père Van Oost has opened a new field for
us in these proverbs of the Chinese inhabiting the Ordos. It will be
interesting to learn how these wide and rolling plains have impressed
the emigrant inhabitants. What new tales have been whispered by
the winds that sweep over those steppes. For such may often be
reflected in the proverbs that the people use. Camels, horses, dogs,

222
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
cats recur frequently in these sayings indicative of the daily life of the
people.
But not only so, proverbs further become a powerful instrument
in speech.
Who learns the sayings of the wise
Will speak with ease without advice
is proverb No. 120 and heads the preface. And the author begins by
saying that "nowhere is the value of this proverb better illustrated
than in south-west Mongolia. Most of the natives are illiterate, a
proverb is an argument with them." The most natural way of entering
their intellects and hearts is through their own compressed thoughts
where a fund of ideas and experience live hid behind a telling couplet.
And he who is able to wield these aright has a powerful instrument.
The work contains exactly 1,000 proverbs or dictons, in two
languages French and Chinese. These are arranged alphabetically as
indicated by the author in his preface. But readers must not get
bewildered on seeing the sounds sha, shan coming first in the book.
For according to the continental sounds these characters are romanized
as cha chan, etc., so they are entitled to come first. In the arrange-
ment of these, the Chinese text is given first then come, line for line,
the romanized sounds, followed by a translation in French. Lest the
significance even now may not be quite clear, an amplification of the
meaning and the method of application are further given by the author.
So that when done with, the proverb, in all its bearings, should be
quite clear. Nevertheless some like No. 291 are even then somewhat
obscure.
Looking at this beautifully arranged volume one would not think
there is a war in the world or that paper and ink are scarce and have
soared in prices. There is an art in bookbinding with its beautiful
tooling and decoration: there is art also in the simpler dress of a
volume in paper covers. This book is artistically arranged on lovely
paper: there are generous spacings, giving the impression that you are
after all living in a liberal world: the type is clear and diversified :
different inkings making a distinction between the settings. Great
care has been used in the make up; proof reading has been done
carefully. A few errors exist, as chand for chaud (p. 284). In Proverb
No. 20 chieh is romanized as ti: this is repeated in the preface, where
the proverb is reproduced. Whether this represents local pronunciation
or is a mistake we are undecided. It looks like a misprint.
It is interesting to note that both in Vol. 50 and 49 of this series
the sound usually romanized as erh is spelt eul. This is interesting,
confirming a contention long held that in Chihli and certain parts of
North China the terminal is found.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
223
It is impossible or would be purposeless to quote any of these
"dictons." They do not seem to be generally current throughout
China but rather confined to the Mongolian steppes. They were born
and abide there though perhaps some may have leaked out into the
northern confines of China. But though differing in words they reveal
the great community of human beings and the unity of the human
temperament. They are full of the touches that show the kinship of
men marking their characteristics and idiosyncracies, their folk-lore,
and customs. One very useful one at the present time is No. 360.
"An official has ten ways open to him: but no one can ever guess which
one will be acted on." That is just what we are thinking of present
events in Peking. What decision will the authorities come to? It is
vain to guess.
It should be mentioned that there is a Table at the end, 'D'apres
l'ordre Alphabetique des Matieren'!
From the N. C. Daily News. By permission.
The International Relations of the Chinese Empire. By HOSEA
BALLOU MORSE, LL.D. 2 Volumes. Published by Messrs.
Kelly & Walsh, Ltd., 1918. Price Mex. $10.00 each Volume.
Mr. Morse has solved the problem which confronts so many of
those who, after spending the best years of their life in the Far East
find themselves for various reasons faced with an indefinite period of
enforced leisure, by devoting the years following his retirement from
the Chinese Customs Service to a close study of the records of China's
relations with foreign powers during the nineteenth century and after,
and in giving the results of his investigations to the world in the
form of a series of histories of which the volumes now under review
form the second and third instalments.
The first volume published in 1910 under the title "The Inter-
national Relations of the Chinese Empire" and the sub-title "The
Period of Conflct" (1834-1860) is well-known to all students of Chinese
history as one of the standard works on the subject of the reluctant
opening of the Chinese Empire to intercourse with the outer world,
a landmark in the history of China which was finally set up by the
treaties of 1858 and 1860. The second volume under the same title,
to which the author has given the sub-title of the "Period of Sub-
mission" (1861-1893), carries on the narrative down to the outbreak of
the war between China and Japan, and the third volume of the series,
to which he has assigned the sub-title of the "Period of Subjection"
(1894-1911), describes those troubled years before and after 1900 which

224
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
culminated in the downfall of the Manchu Dynasty and the uneasy
birth of the Chinese Republic.
We believe we are right in saying that one of the principal reasons
which prompted Mr. Morse to divide his history into sections was the
fact that on the completion of the first volume in 1910 his state of
health was such that he could not count with any degree of certainty
on being able to finish his task. The appearance of these volumes and
a consideration of the close and sustained effort which he must have
given to their production, may, we trust, be taken by Mr. Morse's
friends in China, among whom his many readers must be included, as
an indication that his health has happily improved and an encourage-
ment to hope that he may live to add yet another volume to his series,
for which one would fain wish that he might be able to allot the
sub-title "The Perigd of Reconstruction."
In the preface to the second volume the author mentions that his
first idea was to make Sir Robert Hart and the Customs Service his
central figures around which he would weave the threads of the story of
China's international relations in the nineteenth century. Circum-
stances prevented him from carrying out this intention, and while the
narrative may have lost somewhat in human interest in consequence, we
venture to think that the substitution of a history for a biography has
undoubtedly enhanced the educational value of the work for the
student of Chinese politics and its usefulness as a book of reference for
all who are interested in the welfare of China and her people. At the
same time the figure of Sir Robert Hart, the "Great I. G." still
looms large throughout the pages of this history and reading of
the part he played for so many years in trying to save China from
the consequences of the folly of her rulers and his untiring efforts
to place her finances on a firm foundation of honest and efficient
administration, one marvels at the persistent and almost inexplicable
failure of the Chinese Government, whether imperial or republican,
to follow the example of Japan and call to her aid in adapting the
fabric of China's medieval form of government to the exigencies of
modern fashions, the statesmen, scientists and teachers of Europe
and America who would so willingly have responded to the call.
For close on a century China has had regular intercourse with
foreign nations and has been gradually forced by irresistible pressure
to learn and adopt their ways of life and thought, yet during all these
years the few foreigners whose advice her rulers have sought and
followed may be counted on the fingers of one hand: Gordon, Hart,
and one or two others, among whom one may hope history will find a
place for Sir Richard Dane. And even Sir Robert Hart's sound and
loyal advice was, as these pages will show, more often neglected than

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
225
followed, so that by the irony fate he found himself at the end of a
long life devoted to the service of the Chinese Government and people
an unwilling spectator in that midsummer madness of 1900 in Peking
when the edifice he had toiled so hard to erect came crashing down, at
least so it must have seemed to him, in smoke and ruin. One would
gladly believe that the Republican leaders of to-day in China, profiting
by the mistakes and misfortunes of their predecessors had learnt the
hard lesson of accepting disinterested if often unpalatable foreign
advice and assistance and thereby saving their country from these
perpetual internal disorders and schisms which must inevitably tend
towards loss of independence and final disintegration. But recent
events force one reluctantly to the conclusion that this is not so and
the long looked for conclusion of a World Peace finds China divided
against herself, governed in name only by cabinets and parliaments
which are a travesty of democratic institutions, while the people are
robbed and oppressed by military despotisms, and we witness the
extraordinary spectacle of unpopular ministers being driven from office
by the shrill voices of school children and student and merchant
associations directing the policy of the country through the medium
of the telegraph and the public press. At the conclusion of his preface
Mr. Morse truly says that "this history demonstrates that advance,
progress and reform must proceed from the work of the Governments
which follow the Tsing Dynasty" and he adds that it is the fervent
wish of every friend of China that "reform and development may
bring an end to corruption, disorganization and weakness," a wish in
which we most heartily concur believing with Sir Robert Hart that the
country "will stagger onwards through all sorts of mistakes" and will
eventually extricate itself from the difficulties which now threaten from
within and without by reason of the innate industry, energy and good
sense of the Chinese people.
It would be impossible to attempt an analysis of the varied and
detailed contents of these two volumes which range from the T'ai-p'ing
Rebellion to the Boxer outbreak, from the Burlingham Mission to the
American boycott, from Factory days and the Canton Hoppo to the
abdication of the Manchu Emperor and the summoning of China's
first parliament. There are besides a series of illuminating and authori-
tative essays on such subjects of general interest but uncertain general
knowledge as the Customs Service, its origin, development and
functions, the attitude of the Chinese towards foreign missions; extra-
territoriality and foreign jurisdiction in China; the development of
China's foreign trade, her railways, posts and communications; and
last but not least a brief but clear account of the origin of the foreign
settlements at Shanghai, an area set apart, in the words of the author
15

226
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
as "a safe and agreeable place of residence for foreign merchants,"
which might be studied with advantage by some of the latter day
critics of the Shanghai Municipal Council.
The author's views and statements on all these complex and often
controversial questions are supported by copious notes and references,
and at the end of each volume are appendixes consisting of extracts
from state papers and statistics. It should be mentioned that the
volumes are, as is Mr. Morse's habit, well indexed, each chapter being
prefaced by a paged abstract of contents and an alphabetical index of
subjects, with a map of China, being placed at the end of the second
volume.
Some may consider the cost of these volumes, Ten Mexican Dollars
($10) each, as somewhat excessive at the present rates of exchange and
one could wish that it had been possible to produce a work of such
general interest to all foreign residents in China and to many English
speaking Chinese at something less than £2.0s.0d. a volume. There are
doubtless good reasons for the high price of these volumes, and as far
as the writer of this review is concerned he is free to confess that he
has since reading through their pages changed his original intention of
borrowing the volumes from time to time from the Club Library, and,
casting economy to the winds, become the proud possessor of all three
volumes!
K. H. F.
The Land Tax in China. By HAN LIANG HUANG, PH.D.
Columbia University.
Some Aspects of Japanese Feudal Institutions.
ASAKAWA.
New York.
By Prof. K.
.. and
"The purpose of Mr. Huang's book is twofold. It is intended first
to serve as a basis for the discussion of the land tax reform
secondly to form an introduction to a larger study of the early fiscal
system of the country. ." Thus the author. He has given Chapters
on the Land tax of Antiquity, continuing the narration down through
the Ch'in to the Sui Dynasty from the T'ang to the Ming. The bulk
of the book is concerned with the tax since the Ts'ing Dynasty. This
is viewed from many points of view and under different heads such as
the Land Policy, Holdings, the Acquirement and transferrence of
lands the Development of the tax Collection and administration,
analysis and criticism of the system: concluding with Land tax reform.
There are useful appendices giving Bibliography, Units of Measure,
Names and epochs of the Dynasties, etc. The Bibliography is by no
means complete. There is for instance not a single reference to articles
by French writers.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
227
The work gives an excellent review of land conditions in China
from Ancient to Present times. Students of economics and others will
find it most useful. The author has relied on the histories of China,
especially on the Wen Hsien T'ung K'ao for records up to the
thirteenth century. It would have been convenient if he had inserted
Chinese characters in addition to the romanized forms. Such works as
these are very welcome.
Prof. Asakawa's essays is a clear and concise account of Feudal
institutions. It is very well done.
M.
Gramatica Chino-Espanola. By Rev. Father P. A. GONZALEZ,
Agustinian Missionary of Southern Hunan (China). Quarto, 290
Pages. Printed by "The Central China Post," Hankow, 1917.
Those who have learned Chinese cannot help thinking that a
Chinese Grammar is not a very necessary part of one's equipment to
study the language, for as far as it is known, the Chinese have no idea
of grammatical distinctions, as we are accustomed to, indeed, we do
no know of any Chinese work on such a subject.
In China, a word may be used as a substantive, adjective or verb,
the user following his own judgment, and its position only serves as a
clue in what sense it should be understood.
Chinese, one of the most monosyllabic tongues known, is rich in
ideographic symbols. Hence, the vulgar saying that other languages
speak to the ear, while Chinese speaks to the eye.
Undoubtedly, to this fact is due that men like Giles, Wade, Parker
and other well-known sinologues, who have eliminated from their
work any serious mention of Chinese Grammar, although Abel-Remusat
(French), Morrison (English), Bazin (French), 1854, Philo-Sinensis
(Latin), 1842, Edkins (English), Rev. C. W. Mateer and some others,
have bequeathed to us more or less classical attempts which are more
confusing than practical, in our opinion.
It is, therefore, more to be admired, when we think of the en-
ormous love-labour it represents to compile a Chinese Grammar, in
Spanish, especially so. Unfortunately, must we confess regretfully,
that very few of our compatriots dedicate themselves to this language,
except in the case of a few Spanish Missionaries who reside in China,
principally in Hunan and Fokien.
However, it is with natural pride that we go through this work,
especially as it reminds us that it is not by any means the first attempt
at a Chinese Grammar in Spanish. In fact, one of the first works of
this kind ever written in any European language was "Arte de la
Lengua Chinica, que vulgarmente se llama Mandarina," composed by

228
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
the Rev. Father Fr. Juan Rodriguez, of the same order as the Author
of the book under review. This work does not seem to have ever been
printed, but numerous copies have been taken from it, the original
manuscript still existing in the Manila Agustinian Convent's Archives,
and is specially mentioned in the "Monitor de Paris" of 1794. Besides
this work, we know of one written in Spanish also, by the Rev. Father
Fr. Juan Masip, of the Dominican Order, published in the beginning
of the present century.
With Father Gonzalez's work, the Spanish Missionary possesses an
extremely important adjunct to his vocabularies, which necessarily
must help the student.
We regret though, that in our opinion, it would have been even
more useful to the cosmopolitan population in China, had the romanisa-
tion used therein been Wade's, which is generally adopted and found
the more easy to pronounce. Also we believe it would have improved
it, if it did not contain that interminable series of accounts, which
must necessarily puzzle the student. To demonstrate our opinion, we
have picked up half a dozen words from page 72 of the work, dealing
with adjectives:
GONZALEZ
ROMANIZES:
Thick leather
()
heóu-p'î
WADE:
hou p'i
Square table
() ta)
fâng chô
fang chuo
Cold water
(iên 7k)
lòng-suèi
leng shui
sêng-rên
New
新
sîn
sheng jen
hsin
Small
小
siào
hsiao
Unknown man (E)
As it can be seen, unless under the direct supervision of a native
teacher, no foreigner, not even a Spaniard, can correctly pronounce
these words, as given in the text.
Nevertheless, in Father Gonzalez's book, we can find many an
excellent point and can unreservedly commend his work to the student.
JUAN MENCARINI.
Poetry.
A Magazine of Verse. Chicago.
This number contains nine pages of translations of poems from
Chinese Written Wall Pictures. They are under the joint authorship
of Mrs. Florence Ayscough and Miss Amy Lowell.
We have often wondered whether it would ever be possible to
bring out the beauties of Chinese poetry which is often in 'feet' and
'allusions,' Chinese poetry when translated appears abrupt or insipid:
and one wonders whether a genius would ever arise to put things right.
We cannot say that it has yet come but it may be on the way. In
many ways Mrs. Ayscough is a pioneer, and this idea of hers to

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
229
extract all she can, and more than others thought they should, may be
justified in the end. The character invites such a method as the one
suggested they seem to command such an attempt. I believe theolo-
gical professors, men of a serious bent, often suggest to their students
the study of the suggestive pictures of Hebrew words. Fertile ideas
are wrapped within,-and sermons may be found in roots as well as
stones. Feeling some interest in the translation of Chinese poetry we
wish these authors well on the voyage they have embarked on; and
trust they will land somewhere with an argosy full of valuable
merchandise.
They hope that the verses libres will solve this difficulty of rendering
Chinese poetry. We have read a most illuminating defence of the
method by Miss Lowell. It is very suggestive and throws much light
on this theme. Still being inexperienced it would be difficult to
criticise it. And one of the chief mazes would come as to when it was
time to turn back. What is the end of one line, and where the
beginning of the next? The cadences arising from suitable and
harmonious combination of words are not always apparent. It
requires a strong hand and a firm mind to deal with such tempting mis-
adventures as might ensue in these circumstances. As Dr. Johnson says,
"he is too apt to lose his way in quest of mistaken beauties." Of course
the Chinese protests vigorously against such a treatment. Itself being
under rigid rules, and governed by inexorable laws it seems to object
at every pore at the idea of being carried too many feet, or, being left
as a short measure. At present we are neutral and stand by to wait
and see.
All neutrals are we confess, a bad lot, but for the time being
necessity is laid upon us.
M.
Letters to a Missionary. By R. F. JOHNSTON. (Watts & Co.).
The well-known author of "From Peking to Mandalay," and
"Buddhist China," in this book has entered on another field of
literature-controversial theology.
The occasion for this departure is explained in his introduction.
The author sympathized with the Rev. Stanley P. Smith in the dispute
with the directors of the China Inland Mission over the question of
the duration of future punishment, and entered upon a correspondence
with him in regard to that subject.
From the fact that only the author's letters are published and not
those of Mr. Stanley Smith, we surmise that Mr. Johnston's object was
to give us a clear statement of his own views on certain theological
questions connected with the Christian Religion.
The book is exceedingly interesting, and contains evidence of wide
reading and continuous thought on the subject of religion. As the

230
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
author himself says, he writes "With brutal frankness," but at the
same time he gives us a strong and lucid criticism of the Christian
Religion as it appears to him. We are reminded of a similar book
written by Mr. A. Michie, several years ago-"An Open Letter to
Missionaries by a Candid Friend." It would be interesting to compare
the two productions. Unless our memory is at fault Mr. Michie was
rather more sympathetic with the missionary movement in China than
Mr. Johnston appears to be.
The extended review which this book deserves would be more in
place in a theological or philosophical magazine than in the Journal of
the Royal Asiatic Society, and hence we feel obliged to curb our
inclination to deal with all the questions raised by Mr. Johnston, and
to confine ourselves to pointing out briefly some of the merits and
defects of his arguments. The author is much incensed by the fact
that the old fashioned view of a hell of endless duration is so widely
preached in China, and wants to put a stop to what he considers an
iniquitious propaganda.
He concludes his introduction with these words, "If the peoples
of the West value the souls of the 'heathen' as highly as they profess
to do they will surely prohibit a traffic which is just as morally inde-
fensible as the trade in opium or cocaine."
The use of the word traffic is unfortunate as the missionary
presents his teaching without charge and does not expect any monetary
compensation.
Although his language is somewhat strong we feel much sympathy
with the writer's moral indignation, but our regret is not caused so
much by the fact that harm is being done to the people of China as
by the fact that harm is being done to the cause of Christ. State-
ments of Christianity which are so much at variance with the spirit
of the Master Himself must injure His cause, and retard the
Christianization of the world.
It does not seem to us to be strictly in accord with facts to
claim as the author does that the motive of fear is largely absent from
the popular religion of China. In preaching hell, the missionary
brings nothing new to China. In fact in order to express himself,
and make his meaning intelligible to his hearers, he has to rely largely
upon the vocabulary of the Buddhist religion.
On page 26, he criticizes some statements made in "Heathenism
under the Searchlight," by W. Remfry Hunt, in regard to the
Buddhists terrifying little children with pictures of hell. The state-
ment may not be accurate, but surely the author must have seen the
representations of the halls of purgatory to be found in many temples.
It would be difficult to imagine anything more horribly cruel! Again

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
231
we repeat the pity of it is that instead of preaching the religion of
infinite love, some zealous and sincere, missionaries proclaim what
appears to us to be a sad caricature of Christianity.
We would condemn as strongly as the author does the doctrines of
a material hell and the eternal condemnation of those who die without
faith in Christ. At the same time we feel confident that such teaching
is on the wane and not on the increase. In general, theology on the
mission field lags behind theology in the homelands, and is more con-
servative. We have noticed, however, a great change between the
way Christianity is presented now and the way it was presented thirty
years ago.
The eternal duration of punishment, preached by some, does not
trouble the non-Christian world as much as the author supposes, for
the idea of eternity is inconceivable by the human mind.
Although the author commends Mr. Smith for holding more
moderate views in regard to future punishment, yet at the same time
he is dissatisfied. He criticizes Mr. Smith for basing the belief on the
teaching of Scripture. He would like his correspondent to agree to
reject the doctrine of eternal punishment no matter what the Bible
may have to say on the subject. In other words he is anxious to
persuade Mr. Smith to reject the doctrine of the verbal inspiration of
the Scriptures, and not to regard the Bible as an infallible authority.
The author claims that the final source of authority must be the
enlightened moral consciousness of the race (see page 63).
Here again we find much that we can endorse. According to our
way of thinking the doctrine of the verbal inspiration of Scripture is
responsible for much that has been a drag on the progress of human
thought, and the evolution of a higher type of religion.
In our impatience with the doctrine, however, we do well to
remember that man is mentally conservative by nature, and that when
Protestantism revolted against the authority of the Church, it realized
the danger of every one setting up his own creed, and of individualism
running mad, and sought a new source of authority in the Scriptures.
Modern cristicism has, however, won the victory. Calvinistic theology
based on the fall of man is doomed by the fact that we can no longer
regard the book of Genesis as history, and the substitutionary theory of
the atonement is shaken when we remember that the Priest Code of the
Old Testament dates back only to Post-exilic days.
The abandonment of the doctrine of the verbal inspiration of
Scriptures removes a great incubus from the Church, and as George
Adam Smith points out makes the belief in God as Christ revealed
Him free from many difficulties. We do not, however, quite see the
need of the insistence of the author that a belief in verbal inspiration

232
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
and a belief in eternal punishment are necessarily connected. There
are as many passages in Scripture looking forward to the final des-
truction of evil as there are to the eternal separation of the good and
the wicked.
In reading the first three letters of this volume one is led to
think that the author is championing the cause of a more liberal
theology, but he soon finds that such is not altogether the case.
After arraigning the old fashioned views of hell, the personal
devil, and future punishment, he begins a tilt with the liberal
theologians, the Broad Churchman, and the Modernist.
We regret that in his able satire upon his Satonic Majesty he
failed to remember that. ridicule is not argument. This is the only
section of the book (Letter IV) which is somewhat marred by lack of
reverence. We don't mean reverence for the devil, but reverence for
the idea of God.
In his criticism of liberal theology, the author comes close to con-
fusing Christianity and orthodoxy, or to put it in another way, he
appears to think that being a Christian is the same thing as holding
certain well defined theological propositions. This is a common
mistake, but we would not expect to find it cropping out in the book
of a man who is a close student of religion.
Jesus Christ undoubtedly taught certain great truths,-the Father-
hood of God, the value of the individual soul, free salvation for all,
the Kingdom of God on earth, love and service of our fellowmen, life
through death, and He claimed to speak with authority as Son of God
and Son of Man, but He did not formulate any extensive creed. The
test of discipleship which He gave was the following, "If any man
will be my disciple, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and
follow me." The human mind naturally tends to formulation, and
hence it was natural that creeds came into existence, but it still
remains true that Christianity is a life based on faith rather than an
intellectual apprehension of mysterious doctrines.
The author appears to be as much disturbed by the re-interpreta-
tion of Christian doctrines as he is by the preaching of the doctrine of
eternal hell.
Surely he must believe that truth is not static. It is something
that lives and grows. The glory of the Christian religion is that it is
capable of development and expansion. It does not like Mohammedan-
ism arrest all advance in thought.
He raises the question as to whether a clergyman of the Church
who feels bound to reinterpret old doctrines in the light of modern
knowledge should retain his office. He does not charge those who do
remain in the Church with dishonesty, but he appears to think that at
least they are in a false position. We agree with him that one who

REVIEW OF RECENT BOOKS
233
denies the fundamental verities of the Christian faith has no place in
the Christian Ministry, but at the same time we hold that a very
large amount of latitude should be allowed for the reinterpretation of
the old creeds.
In "Form and Content in the Christian Tradition" by Sanday
and Williams, Dr. Sanday makes the following statement:
"It is so with the Christian Faith. There are the great truths
about God and Christ, there are the great fundamental experiences of
the Christian life. These are permanent and unchangeable. And yet,
the form under which we conceive of them must of necessity change,
with the changing apparatus of thought through which they find
expression. Every age has its own intellectual outfit. It can but use
the tools that it has. When it is using the language of another age,
it is like David in Saul's armour it loses all its freedom and efficiency
of motion."
:
The author naïvely suggests that because there is much variation
in the interpretation of Christian doctrine, it would be a good thing
if all who call themselves Christians could get together and come to
some common agreement as to what Christianity really teaches before
the attempt to convert the world is carried on any further.
Does he really believe that such a thing is possible? Can we ever
think exactly alike in regard to religion? Having told us there is no
infallible authority on earth, would he advise our setting one up?
We can only have glimpses of truth. As Dr. Sanday tells us we
must leave room for an element of agnosticism. "Perhaps a better
name than agnoticism would be a sense-a devout sense-of mystery."
At times it would appear as if the principal object of the author
was to discredit Christianity, or at least to challenge its claim to
become a world religion. On the other hand he admires the teaching
of Christ, and we hardly feel justified in drawing this conclusion.
He evidently has a high esteem for Buddhism, but we take it that
the Buddhism which attracts him is not the superstitious cult of the
present day, but the teaching of Buddha himself. In passing a
judgment on Christianity, should he not go back of the popular mis-
representation, to the great underlying truths?
F. L. HAWKS POTT.
Recherches sur les Superstitions en Chine. Par le P. HENRI
DORÉ, S.J. IIIème Partie. Popularisation du Confucéisme, du
Bouddhisme et du Taoïsme en Chine. Tome XIII. Chang-hai,
1918.
This is one of the most important and useful works in this import-
ant series. The substantial volume in hand deals with Confucianism

234
REVIEW OF RECENT BOOKS
only, and as the title states, the attempt is not a critical study of the
subject, but an exhibition of the actual beliefs of the Chinese them-
selves, taken as a whole. As we know, there is little attempt of any
sort among the Chinese, with the exception of the school of Kang
Yu-wei, to make critical studies of the Chinese classics; still less to
judge on scientific principles what truth of history lies behind the
accounts in the fragmentary form in which they have reached us.
Foreign efforts in this direction have been usually governed by a
wise restraint; the student was not criticising Holy Writ,—that is,
not holy to him-in the interpretration of which there were vested
interests which had to be considered; interests whose injury or
destruction would bring sadness and despair to many hearts. But the
best of such studies has little more than an academic interest, unless
it becomes more than a fragment, and is integrated with later history
in such a fashion that some historial wisdom, some ethical value,
results for the reader. More useful for the student of national ethics
is a work of the kind before us, wherein we learn many facts, not
ordinarily accessible, about what living men are thinking and believ-
ing; the tales that move their hearts, the basis of their patriotism. As
one reads, one begins to look forward eagerly to the volumes on
Buddhism and Taoism. The work is also of greater probable value
than some of the earlier volumes, interesting as these were. For one
thing, it can have a kind of completeness not possible when one is
trying to illustrate the inumerable sorts of local animistic superstitions.
And whereas these vary with the region, and come and go with the
years, the central ganglion for them all is the Confucian system, with
its reverence for China's greatest man, and its memory of his disciples.
In detail, the work consists of an illustrated account, taken from
popular sources, of the life of Confucius and of the lives of his four
associates, his twelve disciples and his one hundred and twenty-eight
lesser disciples; these being the sages whose tablets are to be found in
the ordinary Confucian temple. The pictures are in the original
colors, and follow the tradition in their subjects; so bound is Chinese
art by the dead hand that present day pictures on these subjects
largely reproduce the coloring, grouping and landscapes of these
popular chromos. Other works furnish us with detailed descriptions
of the Confucian ritual; the present work confines itself to collecting
the biographical matter with which the average Chinese has acquain-
tance. The lack of an index makes the use of this work, and of the
others in the series, somewhat difficult; doubtless that lack will be
repaired in the last volume. We are glad to commend the work to the
student, and to the general reader as well; whoever reads it will find
the explanation of much that seems difficult to understand in the

REVIEW OF RECENT BOOKS
235
Chinese mind; and in particular the young student will find it a most
useful work.
H. K. W.
List of Chinese-Moslem Terms. By ISAAC MASON. Mission
Book Co. 10 cents.
This useful list of terms is an amplification of one which appeared
in the Recorder in 1892. A division is given of Miscellaneous: Trans-
literations Names of Places, Persons, etc.
As a first step this little vocabulary will be a help. It will
however bear addition and emendation. This will come in time. If a
few notes had been added to show the comparative values of terms in
Mohammedanism and other Chinese Religions it would have been
valuable. For Example is a Taoist term, and if the term had been
discussed from the Taoist and Mohammedan content it would have
been serviceable. Again if the and such like had been specified it
would have been better. There are some phrases so obscure that it
was essential to have supplied some explanation of their origin, but this
is lacking. The translation of some terms require confirmation as
which is translated "Confession of Faith." Should it not be
esoterism or some such word? Under "Forbidden Practices" it would
have been better to have inserted fellow before Moslem in each case.
Under N we have Nien Reflection which is unintelligible **
is supreme Ultimate. But this is Confucian: what is the Moham-
medan?
It would have been more methodical to have put all transliterations
together, as it is we have Talmud, Torah, Usurvy, Sura left under
Miscellaneous.
We have no doubt time will put these immaturities right.
The Chinese Isles of the Blest.
Reprinted from Folk-Lore.
By Major W. PERCEVAL YETTS.
Major Yetts is quite a dealer in Taoist folk-lore. In this paper
he takes us to the fairy land. He has made diligent search into all
Chinese books, even if he hasn't tried to explore the coasts for the
islands. He has also given a comparative study of the legends.
Indeed he has dealt very solidly with an airy thing.
M.

NOTES AND QUERIES.
The Honourable Mrs. Gordon writes to say "whole passages of
Amido-Kyo have just been found in the Nestorian Stone Inscriptions
writes Rev. A. Villion to me who (a fine Japanese scholar himself) with
other scholars and native pundits has been working at it."
It is hoped to have rubbings with the identical passages marked in
red ink in the course of time. Will any one interested in this com-
municate with the Editor?
The Editor is indebted to Prof. N. Gist Gee of Soochow for help
in reading the proofs of the article on "The Agriculture, Botany and
the Zoology of China."
The most interesting biography of Spencer F. Baird, by W. H.
Dall, published by J. B. Lippincott Co., has been given to the
Library. It does not concern China directly and we only mention it
that readers may know the work can be seen in the Library.
Can any one explain the origin of the practice of the crossed toes
of the Yunnanese? The country is still called the Chiao Chih Kuo
(交趾). The Li Wang Chih says: 一禮王制日東方日夷 交身
又日南方日巒雕交趾西方皮北方
Han Wa Tsung Shu 白虎通禮樂
衣羽毛穴居,
All communications and articles for the Journal should be
addressed to the Editor.
Publishers and Authors who desire a review of their books should
send them early. 2 copies of each work if possible: one for the Library;
one for review.
If any members have odd copies of Journals, Vols. III, IV, VI,
VII, XV, XV, XXIII, the Secretary would be glad to purchase the
same, as applications are occasionally made for whole sets for public
libraries, and the numbers mentioned are out of stock. Will anyone
who can put us in the way of securing copies of any or all of the
volumes mentioned please communicate with the Secretary?

ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY.
JULY 1918-JUNE 1919.
(P)-Indicates Book presented.
052-F 44
059 Ch 8.1
059-Ch 9
059-Ch 15
062 Ch 1
128-C 51
133.4-D 65
172.4 C 11
209-Ed 1
215-T 78
246-D 34
274.8-C 84
294.1-An 3
294.1-R 34
294.1-Si 6
294.1-St 1
297-M 11
297-T 34
321.3 As 1.1
326.951-An 1
336.2-H 86
338.6 M 84
341.2-C 95
398.3-L 11
400-M 91
495.1-G 59
495.1-M 13.11
495.1-St 3
495.11-H 52.1
495.11-H 52.11
524 N 11
526-Un 1
The eighteenth Financial and Economic
Annual of Japan, 1918.
Index to the China Review.
The New China Review.
The West China Missionary News.
The China Bookman. (Issued quarterly).
Animism, the seed of religion.
Recherches sur les Superstitions en Chine.
Tome XIII.
Carnegie Endowment
for International
Peace. Year Book for 1917.
The Religious Condition of the Chinese.
The Creation and Sundry Pamphlets.
Studies in East Christian and Roman Art.
The Religion of Ancient Scandinavia.
Buddhist Art in its relation to Buddhist
Ideals with Special reference to Buddhism
in Japan.
Studies in Japanese Buddhism.
Esoteric Buddhism.
Korean Buddhism.
List of Chinese-Moslem Terms.
Le Mahométisme en Chine et dans le Turk-
estan Oriental.
Some Aspects of Japanese Feudal Institu-
tion.
Slavery in China.
The Land Tax in China.
The Guilds of China.
Treaties, Regulations, etc., between Corea
and other Powers, 1876-1889.
Totemic Traces Among the Indo-Chinese.
La Science du Language.
Gramatica Chino-Espanola.
(P)
Ferguson, J. C. (P)
Couling, S. Editor'
(P)
Clodd, E.
(P)
Doré, H.
(P)
(P)
. Edkins, J.
Tse Tsan Tai (P)
Dennison, W. and
Handbook of New Terms and Newspaper
Chinese.
Greek-Chinese-English Dictionary of the
New Testament.
An English-Chinese Dictionary of Peking
Colloquial. (New Edition enlarged by
S. Barton and E. Backhouse).
The Chinese Language and How to learn it.
Chên-shan Meteorological Observatory of
Nantung, Summary Annual 1917
Annual Report of the Superintendent U.S.
Coast and Geodetic Survey to the
Secretary of Commerce for the Year
ended June 30, 1918.
Morey, C. R. (P)
Craigie, W. A. (P)
Anesaki, M.
Reischauer, A. K.
Sinnett, A. P. (P)
Starr, P.
Mason, I.
(P)
Thiersant, P. D. de
Asakawa, K.
(P)
Huang, H. L. (P)
Morse, H. B.
Laufer, B.
Muller, M.
(P)
Gonzalez, P. A. (P)
Mateer, A. H. (P)
Stuart, J. L.
(P)
Hillier, W.
Hillier, W.
(P)
(P)
Nantung,
(P)

238
551.52-G 11
553.8-P 11
589.2-G 27
591.9 An 1
591.9 So 9.1
ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY
La Temperature en Chine et á Quelques
Stations Voisines. 3 Vols.
An Imperial Necklace.
Some Interesting Chinese Fungi.
Camps and Trails in China.
Sport and Science on the Sino-Monogolian
Frontier.
Gauthier, H.
(P)
(P)
Gee, N. G. (P)
Andrews, R. C. and
Andrews, Y. B.
Sowerby, A. de Cal.
593.16-Sk 9
The Flagellata of Manchuria, Part I, (in
Russian).
610-R 53
622-C 63
622-J 11
Index to Dr. F. Porter Smith's Materia
Medica of China.
(P)
Skvortzow, B. W.
(P)
Rosenbaum, S. (P)
Collins, W. F.
(P)
(P)
Laufer, B.
(P)
622-J 11.1
652-L12
677-M 92
677-M 92.1
677-Od 2
691.3 En 3
737-D 11
738.51-L 36.1
738.51-P 11
759.9-An 1
759.9 Ay 3.11
759.9-G 37.1
759.9-H 42
890.521-65
895.1-00 1
895.11-Ay 3
895.11-G 38
895.11-J 87
895.11-W 12
895.18-T 32
895.18-W 38
913.51-J 11
913.54-F 82
913.54-In 1
Mineral Enterprise in China.
Jaarboek van het Mijnwezen in Ned.
Oost-Indie. Jaargang 1915, 1916, Ver-
handelingen.
Jaargang 1914, 1915, Algemeen Gedeelte,
and Atlas 1915.
Origin of Tibetan Writing.
Rugs and Rug Making.
Chinese Rugs.
Cotton Goods in China.
Engineering Society of China, Report of
the Special Committee on Reinforced
Concrete.
Ancient Chinese Paper Money as described
in a Chinese Work on Numismatics.
Catalogue of a Collection of Ancient Chinese
Snuff-Bottles.
Chinese Pottery of the Han, T'ang, and
Sung dynasties owned and exhibited by
Parish-Watson & Co.
Treatise on Bamboo-drawing, (in Chinese).
Chinese Painting.
History of Chinese Pictorial Art, Second
Edition, 1918.
Ajanta Frescoes being Reproductions in
Colour and Monochrome of Frescoes in
some of the Caves at Ajanta after copies
taken in the Years 1909-1911.
Roman Coréen.
Dictons et Proverbs des Chinois Habitant
la Mongolie Sud-ouest.
Poems from the Chinese.
Tiles from the Porcelain Tower.
Contes et Apologues Indiens inconnus
jusqu'a ce jour suivis de Fables et de
Poésies Chinoises.
A Hundred and Seventy Chinese Poems.
La Piété Filiaé en Chine.
The Kan Ying Pien or Book of Rewards
and Punishments.
The Chinese and Japanese Sculpture.
The Beginnings of Buddhist Art.
Archaeological Survey of India, Part I.
Annual Report of Director-General,
1916-17.
Mumford, J. K. (P)
Mumford, J. K. (P)
Odell, R. M.
(P)
Davis, A. McF. (P)
Laufer, B. (P)
(P)
Ayscough, F. (P)
Giles, H. A. (P)
Herringham, Lady
Hong-Tiyong-Ou
(P)
Oost, J. van
Ayscough, F. and
Lowell, A. (P)
Gilchrist, Ed. (P)
Julien, S.
Waley, A.
Thiersant, P. D. de
Webster, J. trans.
Foucher, A.
(P)
(P)

913.54 In 1.1
913.54 K 11
913.54 M 11
913.54 M 11.1
915.1-D 54
915.1-H 86.11
915.1-J 11
915.1 J 11.1
922.3-J 57
923-R 35
923-R 35.1
923.7-C 34
925-B 11
928-C 34
951-M 84.11
951-M 84.12
951-P 22.1
951.9 An 1.13
951.9 An 1.14
951.9-C 57
951.9-Ea 6
951.9-G 26
951.9-H 66
951.9-Or 2
951.9 Sm 1.12
951.9-W 56
952-W 12
957-G 56
959.7-G 36
991.4-St 9
ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY
Part II. Annual Report of Work in Pro-
gress, 1915-16.
The Astronomical Observatories of Jai
Singh.
A Guide to Sanchi.
A Guide to Taxila.
The New Atlas and Commercial Gazetteer
of China.
The Chinese Empire. 2 Vols.
An Official Guide to Eastern Asia.
Vol. I. Manchuria and Chosen.
Vol. IV.
China.
Griffith John the Story of Fifty Years in
China.
Rizal's own Story of His life. Edited by
La Religion de Rizal.
Edouard Chavannes.
Spencer Fullerton Baird. A Biography.
Edouard Chavannes.
The International Relations of the Chinese
Empire, Vol. II. The Period of Sub-
mission 1861-1893.
Vol. III. The Period of Subjection
1894-1911.
China Past and Present.
To Foreign Friends and Well Wishers of
China.
The Sino-Japanese Crisis, 1915.
The Far East Unveiled an inner history of
Events in Japan and China in the Year
1916.
The English in China.
La Mission en Chine.
Les Bases Conventionnelles des Relations
Modernes entre la Chines et la Russie.
Foreign Financial Control in China.
China in Convulsion.
2 vols.
China and the World War.
The Romance of A Nation, A History of
Japan.
Russian Expansion on the Pacific 1641-1850.
L'Empire d'Annam.
Relations of Philippine History of Times
Preceding the Spanish Conquest.
The Wilson Bulletin. Vol. XXX, Nos. 1-4.
Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences of the United States of America.
Vol. III, 1917.
International Trade Developer, July 1918.
The Nineteenth Century, (Bound) Vols.
I-XLIII, XLV-L, and (Unbound
Vols. LI-LXXVII)=Nos. 300, 303, 305,
309, 310, 312-322, 324, 326-334, 336,
338-351, 354, 357, 359-367, 369-374, 376-394
396-407, 410, 412-423, 425-431, 433-437.
439-442.
239
(P)
Kaye, G. R.
(P)
Marshall, J.
(P)
Marshall, J.
(P)
Dingle, E. J. Editor
Huc, M.
Thompson, R. W.
Craig, A.
(P)
Rizal, J.
(P)
Cordier, H.
(P)
Dall, W. H.
Laufer, B.
(P)
(P)
Morse, H. B. (P)
Morse, H. B. (P)
Parker, E. H.
Coleman, F.
Eames, J. B.
Gerard, A.
(P)
Hoo Chi Tsai.
Overlach, T. W. (P)
Smith, A. H.
Wheeler, W. R. (P)
Warner, H. D. and
Millard, F.
Golder, F. A.
Gosselin, Ch.
Stuard, Baron de
(P)
(P)
(P)
(P)
(P)

240
ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY
The Annals of the American Academy of
Political and Social Science, Vol. XXXIV,
No. 2, (1909), Vol. LIX, (1914), Vols.
LXI, LXII, (1915), Vols. LXIII-LXVI,
LXXVIII, (1916), Vols. LXIX-LXXIV,
(1917), Vols. LXXV-LXXX, (1918), and
Vols. LXXXI, LXXXII, (1919).
Supplement to the Annals of the American
Academy of Political and Social Science,
1916, 1917, and 1918.
Lectures in Biology (Chinese language).
The Chinese Isles of the Blest.
(P)
P. M. Bayne, M.A.
(P)
W. P. Yetts
(P)

Dbituary.
EDOUARD CHAVANNES.
Sinology has suffered a great loss by the death of Edouard
Chavannes. Our society, of which he was an honorary member for so
many years, has keenly felt this bereavement and mourn him together
with those who know to appreciate the very considerable work which
Chavannes has accomplished with regard to the development of sinolo-
gical studies during the last thirty years.
The ordinary reader is rather ignorant as regards this point and
this is hardly to be wondered at considering the fact that even the
most remarkable specialists rarely get into touch with the general
public. It is, on the other hand, to be regretted, that a far too large
proportion of those who write on things Chinese do not know all the
claims which Chavannes has on their gratitude. His modesty, his
horror of everything which resembled publicity and advertising have
certainly something to do with this, but is it not necessary also to
incriminate the indifference of some of those who make it a profession
to take an interest in things Chinese?
As regards the Sinologues they at least know what to think of
Chavannes. One of them, a worthy descendant of the Jesuit mission-
aries who in the 18th century laid the foundations of the sinological
science, has said: "Chavannes is at the very pinnacle of sinology."
Shortly before the war a German orientalist announced that "Chavannes
had made sinology a French science." It is furthermore known that
the famous explorer Sir Aurel Stein has chosen Chavannes, amongst all
sinologues, to translate the wood slates which he had excavated from
the sandy wastes of Turkestan-precious documents which date back
to the beginning of the Christian era.
Chavannes could have gloried in these, and so many other proofs
of admiration which he received in the course of a brilliant career.
Born in 1865 he entered when still quite young the "Ecole
Normale" so as to prepare himself for his examination for the fellow-
ship of philosophy. He had hardly left the school before he set out
for China.
Let us now give the word of one of those who have lived near him
and who have known him well-undoubtedly a pupil, certainly an
enlightened friend, who has published in the "Temps" the following
lines:
"His first works, published in 1890, announced the coming of a
master. He returned from Peking at the age of 28 (in 1893) to
occupy at the Collège de France the chair of Abel Rémusat and
16

242
OBITUARY
Stanislas Julien. His colleagues had elected him confident that he was
entitled to the position, without personally knowing him, even without
having seen him, an exceptional privilege, even more surprising in the
case of so young a man. Ten years later he entered the 'Institut de
France. In the interval the 'Société Asiatique' had invited him to
take the place of Darmesteter as its secretary, a position which
Darmesteter had himself occupied in succession to Renan. Loaded
with all the favours of fortune he possessed in addition to all these
honours the exquisite pleasures of the happiest of home-lives. Never-
theless, in 1907, at the age of 42 when his health had already suffered
a serious setback, he tore himself away from the delights of his fire-side
and of society to return to China; his voyage which had been carefully
prepared by long researches, was crowned with splendid results.
"It is difficult to form an adequate idea of the labour which under-
lies the rapid stage of this brilliant career. Chavannes had from the
beginning assigned himself as the maintask of his life to translate the
historical memoirs of Sseu-ma Ts'ien, written during the second
century before Christ, which contains in a brilliantly conceived monu-
mental work all the classics of China and which has served as a model
for all historians of later Periods. He has not been able to accomplish
this heavy task, interrupted at the publication of the fifth volume,
but it may be said, that all his other works, irrespective of their
varied nature, have Sseu-ma Ts'ien as their centre of gravity.
The classical education had taught him that the narrations of the
ancient historians, regardless of how scrupulous they may be, must be
accepted with great caution and that means for their control are within
reach of the conscientious scholar the sculptured monuments and the
inscriptions more especially furnish valuable evidence. The work
might seem easy; the Chinese do not possess the historical sense which
endeavours to establish positive connections between scattered facts
and between the order of happenings, but they possess, on the other
hand, a craving for historical knowledge which passionately attaches
them to the monuments of the past. They have compiled enormous
treaties on archeological and epigraphical subjects containing a wealth
of material; but the scrupulous conscientiousness of Chavannes refused
to rest satisfied with documents of doubtful authenticity; he would
only make use of originals. His first sojourn in China resulted in a
book which to-day is considered classical. Twenty years later, follow-
ing another voyage, he published his 'Archeological Mission to Western
China' which was hailed as a materpiece and which has caused a
renaissance of our knowledge of Chinese art.
"Buddhism occupies an important place among the factors of
Chinese art. Introduced in China during the first century of the

OBITUARY
243
Christian era, Buddhism brought in its wake the traditions and the
sciences of its Indian cradle, augmented by contributions.
from
Greece
and Iran which it had absorbed during its passage west and east of
Pamir. It is by Buddhism that China definitely enters the history of
the world; hazardous speculations have tried to connect her much
earlier with the civilizations of the Near East, but it is only in
connection with Buddhism that facts become obvious, numerous, con-
tinuous. Chavannes applied his diligent patience to map out the stages
of this so fertile movement; he studied the biographies of the pilgrims
who went from China to India and from India to China to seek or to
propagate the divine revelation, defying all obstacles, braving the
dangers of the mountain, the desert, the ocean.
In a collection of
three volumes he gathered together 500 tales and moral fables of Indian
origin which the preaching of buddhists had made popular in the
Middle Kingdom. He gathered in a volume which the Academy of
Petrograd esteemed it an honour to publish, all the texts which throw
light on the history of the western Tou Kieue's, that Turkish people
which was on equally good terms with Byzantium and Persia, the
Indian Rajahs and the Son of Heaven, open to every influence, wel-
coming every creed, bonzes as well as monks, Nestorians as well as
Manicheans. Gradually, almost without being aware of it, Chavannes
had annexed Central Asia."
It is to this great savant that Sir Aurel Stein rendered hommage
by handing him for publication his documents on Central Asia.
"It is impossible to pretend to mention here, even summarily, all
the varied activities of this indefatigable worker. The savant who has
the courage to consecrate himself to special studies too far removed
from the public, must before entering his career, abandon all hope of
becoming popular; a too great want of knowledge separates him from
the ordinary reader. Nevertheless Chavannes had a right to aspire
after social success, had he desired to do so; an article on Confucius in
the 'Revue de Paris,' a lecture at the Academy on the rewards of
virtue in China show what he would have been able to accomplish. An
elegant teacher, a harmonious speaker, rich in broad vistas and ideas he
could attract and fascinate vast audiences. He preferred to continue
his daily task in solitude, supported by the estime of his peers and the
respectful affection of his pupils.
"The explanation is this, that in Chavannes the man and the scholar
were inseparable; the intelligence blended with the character. The
blue limpidity of the eyes, the graveness, so easily unbent, of the
handsome face revealed the perfect balance of a delicate sensibility and
listened
him
a vigorous rationality. Arrogance was unknown to him; he
with a respectful attention to opinions which might save
from

244
OBITUARY
errors or enable him to rectify them. Truth, truth alone mattered to
him; no effort seemed too great to him to attain it.
"Chavannes was not only the first sinologue of our days; by his
powers of lucidity, order and simplicity, by the perspicacity of in-
tuition combined with the stubborn researches of erudition he continued
the lineage of savants as Abel Rémusat and Eugène Burnouf."
IN MEMORY OF ARTHUR EVANS MOULE.
Many of our readers will have heard with sincere sorrow of the
death of Archdeacon A. E. Moule, who was for many years a well
known, loved, and respected figure both at Shanghai and at Ningpo.
Arthur Moule, sixth son of the late Henry Moule, was born at
Fordington Vicarage near Dorchester on 10th April, 1836, and like his
brothers, of whom the two survivors are Charles, President of Corpus
Christi College, Cambridge, and Handley, Bishop of Durham, was
educated at first at home. Unlike his brothers he did not go to
Cambridge, but continued his education at a College in Malta and
then at the Church Missionary Society's College at Islington. In
later life however the Archbishop of Canterbury conferred on him the
degrees of B.D. (1881) and D.D. (1912) in recognition of his very
distinguished missionary and literary work. In 1861 he married Agnes
the daughter of J. H. Bernau, one of the noble band of pioneer
missionaries who worked under the C. M. S. in its early years, and
himself joined the C. M. S., reaching Ningpo in August 1861 when the
T'ai-p'ing rebellion was at its height. He was in the city of Ningpo
on the eve of its capture (8th December, 1861) and in the Settlement
during its occupation by the rebels till May the next year. This excit-
ing beginning to his life in China made a lasting impression on his
mind, and to the end he delighted to tell the story of those far off
days. He stayed at Ningpo, with one furlough (1869 1871) until 1876,
when for about two years he was put in charge of the mission work at
Hangchow. During those two years he made the acquaintance of a
man named Chou, and through him began the mission work in the
District of Chu-chi, one of the most interesting and successful fields in
the Chekiang mission. While at home in 1879 he was offered the new
bishopric of Mid-China, formed out of the vast diocese then vacant by
the death of Bishop Russell. With a fine sense of propriety which was
at once characteristically Christian, Chinese, and his own, he refused
to be Bishop of a diocese in which his elder brother would be a simple

OBITUARY
245
priest; and in 1882 he followed that brother, made Bishop in his place,
to China as Archdeacon.
The next thirteen years, broken by a short furlough, were spent at
Shanghai, where the Archdeacon won for himself a position among
both English and Chinese which will not soon be forgotten. A serious
break-down of health compelled him to return to England in 1894, and
it was not until 1902 that he was able to come back to China. He
then settled again at Ningpo, and pursued his beloved work of preach-
ing the Gospel with a zeal and physical energy which many younger
man might envy. In 1908, however, he accepted the living of Burwar-
ton in Shropshire; though still to pay one last visit to China in
1909-10; and indeed he was ready to go back there if necessary until
the return of his illness in 1917. Old age had compelled him to resign
his living in 1915, and the last years were spent with his youngest son
at Weymouth, with many journeys at first to speak and preach for the
missionary cause, and long visits to another son at Damerham Vicarage
in Wilts. It was in this latter house that he peacefully passed away
at noon on 26th August, 1918; and on the 29th he was laid to rest in
the churchyard there within sight of the woods of his loved Dorset
and of Wiltshire Downs.
No account of Arthur Moule would be at all just which did not
praise his wife, his absolutely inseparable companion and never-failing
helper in his work and in his home, in sickness and in health, through
fifty-seven years, and his children too, of whom six sons and three
daughters survive him,-Walter, principal of Ningpo College and
Archdeacon in his Father's room, Arthur (the eldest son) and Willie,
famous at Shanghai as missionaries and cricketers, Horace in the
translating and editorial department of the Bible Society's House in
London, Herbert, Vicar of Damerham, and Ernest at Weymouth
College, the two last formerly in Japan, and their sisters well-remem-
bered in Shanghai. For those who knew him no words are needed and
for those who did not know him no words are really able to describe
his eager manner, his kindliness and humour, his way with little
children, his look, his walk, his smile.
The Archdeacon was for some years a member of our Society, but
did not contribute to the Journal. Though a fluent and able speaker
of Chinese and a contributor of many hymns as well as commentaries
and other books to Chinese Christian literature, he never did very much
in the way of technical or antiquarian Chinese study. In English he
was a most eloquent and persuasive preacher and speaker, and a
prolific writer both of verses, of which he published several small
volumes, and of the most readable and valuable books on China of
which several are quite certain long to survive their author.

246
OBITUARY
The following is a complete list of his published works in
English-
Four Hundred Millions. London, 1871 [1870]
The Service of Song. Dorchester, 1871.
The Joyful Sound. Dorchester, 1871.
The Opium Question. London, 1877.
The Use of Opium. Shanghai, 1877.
The Story of the Che-kiang Mission. London, 1878, 1879, 1885, 1891.
Songs of Heaven and Home. London, 1879, 1890, 1905.
Chinese Stories. London, 1880.
'Ask, and it shall be given you'; a sermon preached in Lincoln
Cathedral. London, 1881.
China as a Mission Field. London, 1881, 1891.
The Responsibility of the Church as regards the Opium Traffic with
China. London, 1881.
Personal Recollections of the T'ai-p'ing Rebellion. Shanghai, 1884.
Reasons for the Hope that is in us. Shanghai, 1884; London, 1891.
The Credibility of the Miraculous. Shanghai, 1885.
Twenty-five years in East and West.
Shanghai, 1885.
Fear God and honour the King'; a sermon preached in Holy
Trinity Cathedral, Shanghai, at the Jubilee Thanksgiving Service.
Shanghai, 1887.
Reminiscences of Mission Life in China. Shanghai, 1890.
The Glorious Land. London, 1891,
New China and Old. London, 1891, 1902.
The Value of Attention to Chinese Etiquette. Shanghai, 1892.
Looking Backwards. Shanghai, 1902.
The World's Famine; a sermon preached before the University.
Cambridge, 1893.
Medical Missions in China. London, 1894.
The China Mission. London, 1902.
Tufts and Tails. London, 1903.
The Story of the Mid-China Mission. London, 1904.
Verses. Tokyo, 1907.
Young China. London, 1908.
Ningpo (Ancient and Modern; under the T'ai-p'ings); Confucius.
Shanghai, 1909.
Half a Century in China. London, 1911.
The Splendour of a Great Hope. London, 1911.
Poems 1907-1913. Dorchester, 1913.
The Chinese People. London, 1914.
City Hill and Plain, 1917.
And many articles in books, magazines, and journals.

OBITUARY
TIMOTHY RICHARD.
247
A familiar figure has disappeared from our meetings; and a
representative man from foreign life in China. Dr. Timothy Richard
died suddenly in London on April 17th after an operation, in the
74th year of his age. He spent much time on his father's farm in his
youth, gaining such education as the state of the country then offered,
which was very different from the opportunities of the present day.
Later he entered the Baptist College at Haverfordwest to prepare for
the ministry. This somewhat incomplete scholastic preparation was
compensated for by native genuis, and by the romantic impressions of
the Tao stamped on his mind by nature as he communed with the hills
and valleys of his native place. Whether it arose from this harmony
and peace of nature or was a development of his religious training
there appeared early in his career the desire of the immediate applica-
tion of the Kingdom of Heaven to earthly needs. The grinding at the
dead languages was not long persevered in. They seemed purposeless
to an eager spirit. This showed that Dr. Richard had the poineer
spirit. This compelled him, as it did John the Baptist, to go forth
into the Wastes of the world. When he arrived in China the same
spirit led him to abandon the rendezvous of missionary societies, who
located themselves in the Treaty Ports, and to enter the Interior, and
get to the people. When he did get there he again departed from the
usual custom and went out of the beaten track-he sought the Worthy,
the spiritually elect of the people and once more he broke away from
routine and custom by appealing to leaders in authority. In all this
he was following apostolic injunctions and historical examples as he
thought. Another new idea took possession of his mind, arising from
the premises offered by the foregoing, and that was Conversion by
the Million. It was not quite easy to say what this really meant,
except that if the Chief is induced to accept the Gospel, he would see to
the rest. This did not necessarily abandon the individualistic idea of
evangelicalism. These departures are mentioned to show Dr. Richard's
trend of mind. The same tendency is seen, although it appears from
a different point of view, in his Catholic spirit. He would include all.
Possibly in this he was different from the disciples that penetrated and
captured the Roman Empire. They were intolerant of anything else
because of a great purpose and love in their own message. Dr. Richard
was most tolerant of all religions that had tried to comfort humanity.
They were exclusive in face of the immorality of the Roman religions,
he was inclusive because he saw a benevolence and morality in the great
religion of the East. His last booklet was an appeal to Buddhists on
common grounds. His final article was a League of Religions. He

248
OBITUARY
saw the good in all; there was no incongruity in flowers of different
hues growing together in the garden of God. His understanding was
nature trained and lacked the strict logic of the human mind.
This general attitude of mind made him a worthy Representative
man. The approach was easy for him, the reception sincere from them.
A broad sympathy broke down barriers. The difficulties of colour,
language, custom, civilization vanished. There remained the cardinal
virtues and common sentiments. These were enough to begin and end
with. There was a great deal of the Tao idea in Dr. Richard's mind
and manner. Without pinning him to that sect in any way, there was
something of the true Taoist about him. Yet whilst he believed that
truth would spread by inaction nevertheless he was a man of im-
mediate action. The Kingdom of God therefore was for immediate
possession. He was not concerned with theology as such but the
immediate possession of the benefits of the Kingdom was an urgent
necessity. Let it be planted at once. Other great ideas followed, one of
which was International Peace. War was of the savage age. A United
States of the World and the Parliament of man was a favourite idea.
The savage state of the world was fed by ignorance. Therefore
education should be encouraged. That was the great panacea. There-
fore such an institution as ours would appeal to him. It was a link
between East and West: it was a centre of information and enlighten-
ment. It cherished the past and sought guidance for the future from
it. Possessing this temperament it is easy to see that he was also an
International man. This he was in feeling, in purpose, and knowledge.
He knew the leading men of Japan, and other countries. He was a strong
link in this human brotherhood. An official is an official, a merchant
a merchant, and the missionary is concerned with a propaganda; all
these are hampered by their professions. Dr. Richard without losing
his missionary identity in any way, yet soared beyond-the Taoist
Spirit again taking possession, and thus he became a valuable inter-
national asset. The Chinese appreciated Britain all the more through
knowing him. He was an ornament to his nation; he was a com-
mender of the Christian faith. Thus without possessing dogma he
became a valuable factor in the work of mediation.
He was a lover of Books. They were his friends. This arose
from his catholic spirit, I imagine. He liked to hear other opinions.
Books spoke to him. They supplied him with fertile ideas. He had
always new ideas on hand. This catholicity and receptivity helped
to increase the comprehensiveness of his mind without anchoring him
EVAN MORGAN.
to any fixed dogma.

NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY
LIST OF MEMBERS 1919
Members changing address are earnestly requested to inform
the Secretary at once.
Name
Address
Honorary Members.
Cordier, Prof. Henri
Couling, S., M.A.
De Groote, Dr. J. J. M.
Ferguson, Dr. John C.
Giles, Prof. Herbert Allen
Hirth, Prof. F.
Hosie, Sir Alexander, K.C.M. G.
Lanman, Prof. Charles B.
Lockhart, Sir J. H. Stewart,
Morse, H. B., LL.D.
Parker, Prof. E. H.
Putnam, Herbert
Sampatrao, H. H. the Prince
Satow, Rt. Hon. Sir E., G.C.M.G.
Warren, Sir Pelham, K.C.M.G.
Year of
Election
Ecole speciale des Langues orien-
tales vivantes, Paris
1886
Medhurst College, Shanghai
1894
Leyden, Holland'
1887
91 Arlington St. Newton, Mass.
U.S.A.
1896
Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge
Columbia University, New York
1880
1877
City
Foreign Office, London
1877
Harvard University, Cambridge,
1908
Massachusetts
Weihaiwei
1885
K.C.M.G.
Arden, Camberly, England
1888
14 Gambier Terrace, Liverpool
1877
Library of Congress, Washington
Gaekwar of Baroda, India
1908
1898
Beaumont, Ottery St. Mary,
1906
Devon
...
Woodhead & Co., 44 Charing
1904
Cross, London

250
Name
Fryer, Prof. John....
Gardner, C. T., C.M.G....
Jamieson, George, C.M. G.
Little, Mrs. Archibald ...
Volpicelli, Z. H.
Williams, E. T.
Williams, Prof. F. W.
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Corresponding Members.
University of California, Berkely,
California
1886
Foreign Office, London
1900
110 Cannon Street, London
1868
150 St. Jame's Court, Bucking-
1906
ham-gate, London
Italian Consulate, Hongkong
1886
Washington
1889
135 Whitney Avenue, New Haven,
Connecticut
1895
Members.
(The asterisk denotes Life Membership)
*Abraham, R. D.
Acheson, Guy ...
Adamson, Mrs. A. Q.
Adolph, W. H., PH.D.
Alway, Mrs. C.
Ancell, Rev. B. L.
Archer, Allan...
Arlington, L. C.
Arnold, Julean H.
Ayscough, Mrs. F.
Bahnson, J. J.
Bahr, P. J.
Bahr, A. W....
Barrow, E. P. Graham
Barton, S., C.M.G....
Bateman, Rev. T. W.
Bates, J. A. E.
"Bayne, Parker M.
Bazin, J. Hervé
*Beauvais, J.
Beebe, Dr. R. C.
Belcher, H. B.
Beltchenko, A. T..
3G Peking Road, Shanghai
Inspectorate General of Customs,
1914
1908
Peking
8 Jessfield Road, Shanghai
1919
Shantung Christian University,
1917
Tsinan Fu
c/o Butterfield & Swire, Tsingtao
Am. Church Mission, Yangchow
1917
1911
British Consulate, Tsinanfu, Shan-
1915
tung
Chinese Post Office, Hangchow
1917
American Legation, Peking
1904
20 Gordon Road, Shanghai
1906
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
165A N. Szechuen Road, Shanghai
Montross Gallery, 550
Avenue, New York
1909
1909
Fifth
1909
Cathedral School, Shanghai ...
1915
British Legation, Peking
1906
C. M. M. Chungking, Sze.
1916
3A Yü Yuen Road, Shanghai...
1919
West China Union University,
1911
Chengtu
Aurora University, 55 Avenue
1917
1900
5 Quinsan Gardens, Shanghai
Foochow
1889
1917
Russian Consulate, Hankow
1918
Dubail, Shanghai
Consul de France, Canton

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
251
Year of
Election
Bendixsen, N. P.
Bennett, E. S.
Benjamin, Mrs. M.
*Bessell, F. L....
Beytagh, L. M.
Billinghurst, Dr. W. B.
Bishop, C. W.
Black, S....
Blackburn, A. D.
Blake, C. H.
Blickle, K.
A⠀⠀
Bois-Reymond, Prof. Dr. C. du
Bondfield, Rev. Dr. G. H....
Bosworth, Miss S. M.
Bowra, C. A. V. ..
Bowser, Miss H. C.
*Box, Rev. Ernest...
Bradley, H. W.
Brandt, Carl T.
Bremner, Mrs. A. S.
Bristow, H. B.
G. N. Telegraph Co., Peking
4 Devonshire Villas, North Parade,
Belfast
1913
1918
25 Avenue Edward VII, Shanghai
Customs, Tientsin
1919
1905
Ilbert & Co., Shanghai...
1910
8B Peking Road, Shanghai
1908
University Museum, Phila. Pa.
1919
U.S.A.
G. N. Telegraph Co., Peking
1910
H.B.M.'s Consulate-Gen., S'hai
1917
3 Route Ghisi, Shanghai
1914
Slevogt & Co., 11 Soochow Road,
1911
Shanghai
41 Seymour Road, Shanghai
1907
...
B. and F. Bible Society, Shanghai
18 Peking Road, Shanghai
1900
1919
Chinese Maritime Customs, Peking
143 N. Szechuen Road, Shanghai...
Medhurst College, Shanghai
Chinese Maritime Customs, Hankow
c/o Sweetmeat Castle, Shanghai
c/o The Chartered Bank, Shanghai
H. H. Bristow, British Consulate-
1897
1914
1897
1912
1896
1909
1897
Gen., Hangchow
Bristow, H. H.
Bristow, J. A.
Brooke, C.
British Consulate, Hangchow
Standard Oil Co., Shanghai...
1909
1914
Nestle's Milk Co., 8 Nanking
1918
Road, Shanghai
Brooke, J. T. W.
Browett, Harold
Davies & Brooke, Shanghai...
1915
22 Yuenmingyuen Road, Shanghai
1891
*Brown, Sir J. McLeavy, C.M.G.
Chinese Legation, 59 Portland
1865
Place, London, W.
Brown, Thomas
Bruce, Col. C. D.
*Bruce, Edward B.
Bruce, Rev. J. P.
Brune, H. Prideaux
Bryant, P. L.
*Buckens, Dr. F.
Burdick, Miss S. M.
Burkill, A. W.
Burkill, Mrs. A. W.
Burns, Mrs.
Cambiagi, Miss Y. G.....
Carl, Francis A.
Carter, J. C.
Cassat, Rev. Paul C.
Chatley, Herbert...
6 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
21 Minami Yamato, Nagasaki
Baptist Mission, West Gate, S'hai
2 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai ...
2 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
c/o Am. Trading Co., 319 Avenue
Joffre, Shanghai
c/o Mrs. Levy, 16 Route des
Soeurs, Shanghai
1918
C. M. Customs, Canton ...
Mactavish & Co., Shanghai...
Shantung Christian University,
1906
1912
1916
Tsinan
450G Avenue Joffre, Shanghai
1916
La Roque, Sutton, Surrey
1885
1900
80 Wall St., New York, U.S.A....
1918
Shantung Christian University,
1916
Tsinan
British Legation, Peking
1914
1917
1915
1909
1912
1912
...
1916

252
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Chatley, Herbert, D.Sc.
Ch'ên Kuo-ch'uan
Christiansen, J. P.
Claiborne, Miss Elizabeth
Clark, J. D.
*Clementi, C.
Coales, O. R.
Cockell, Capt.
Cole, Rev. W. B.
Commys, A. J.
Couling, Mrs. S.
Coursier, Mme
*Cousland, Dr. P. B.
Craig, A.
Crow, C....
Cunningham, Rev. R.
Cupelli, M.
Cushnie, G. S. B.
...
20 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
M. E. M. Hinghwa
Custom House, Shanghai
Medhurst College, Shanghai
54 Route Doumer, Shanghai
450c Avenue Joffre, Shanghai
1916
403 Hardoon Road, Shanghai
1913
G. N. Telegraph Co., Nagasaki,
Japan
1913
4 Thibet Road, Shanghai
1908
Shanghai Mercury, Shanghai
1895
Govt. Secretary's Office, George
1905
Town, British Guiana
British Consulate-Gen., Chengtu
1906
1919
1917
1919
1916
1915
16 Bluff, Yokohama, Japan
1908
The University, Manila
1914
17 Museum Road, Shanghai
1913
C.I.M., Takutang, Kiangsi
1913
Maritime Customs, Shanghai
1918
North China Insurance Co., S'hai
1916
Danton, G. H.
Tsing Hua College, Peking
1918
*D'Anty, Pierre Bons
French Consulate, Chungking
1889
:
Dent, V. ...
*Drake, F. E.
*Davidson, R.
Davis, Dr. Noel
*Deas, W. S. P.
Denham, Mrs. J. E.
Dingle, Edwin J.
Dingle, Lilian M....
Dodson, Miss S. L.
Donald, William H.
Dorsey, W. Roderick
Dovey, J. W....
Dowie, Robert G.
Drago, G. D.
*Drake, Noah F.
*Drew, E. B.
Du Monceau, Comte L.
Duyvendak, J. J. L.
Edgar, Rev. J. H.
Edmondston, David C.
Edmunds, Dr. C. K.
Eliot, Sir Charles, K.C.M.G.
Ely, John A....
Ely, Mrs. J. A.
⠀ ⠀
....
c/o China Inland Mission
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank,
Harbin
Canton Christian College, Canton
Hongkong University, Hongkong
St. John's University, Shanghai
St. John's University, Shanghai
c/o Mrs. Frew, 66 Leamington
Terr., Edinburgh
1914
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1910
203 Avenue de Roi Albert, S'hai
Butterfield & Swire, Shanghai
1912
1919
30 Connaught Road, Shanghai
1919
Far Eastern Geographical Estab-
lishment, Shanghai
1917
Box 323, B. P. O., Shanghai
1917
St. Mary's Hall, Jessfield
1917
Far Eastern Review, Shanghai
1911
U.S.A. Consular Service, Rangoon,
1911
India
Mission Book Co., Shanghai
1918
Ellis Kadoorie School, Shanghai
350 Park Avenue, New York
Peiyang University, Tientsin
Fayetteville, Arkansas
1906
1918
1911
1905
Cambridge, Massachusetts
1882
Russo-Asiatic Bank, Yokohama
Leiden University, Holland
1909
1915
1910
...
1917
1916
1913
1917
1917

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
253
Year of
Election
Engel, Max. M.
*Eriksen, A. H.
Essex Institute, Librarian
Evans, Edward
Evans, Joseph J.
Exter, Bertus van
Fardel, H. L....
Fearn, Mrs. J. B.
Ferguson, J. W. H.
Ferguson, T. T. H.
Fergusson, W. N., F.R.G.S.
Fischer, Emil, S.
Fisk, G. W....
Fitch, Robert F., D.D.
Flemons, Sidney
Fletcher, W. J. B.
Fowler, J. A....
Fox, Harry H., C.M.G.
Fraser, Sir Everard, K.C.M.G.
Fraser, Miss Jean
Freer, Charles L.
Fryer, George B.
105 Avenue Road, Shanghai
Statistical Department
1911
Telegraph Dept., Ministry of Com-
munications, Peking
1915
Salem, Massachusetts
1906
...
Missionary Home, 38 Quinsan
1917
Road, Shanghai
Evans & Sons, 30 North Szechuen
1916
Road, Shanghai
Netherlands
Harbour Works,
1916
Chefoo
Municipal School for Boys, S'hai
30 Route Pichon, Shanghai
Inspectorate General of Customs,
1918
1911
1910
1900
1916
1894
British Emigration Bureau, Wei-
1919
hsien
1918
1917
1916
c/o Wagons Lits Hotel, Peking...
1913
British
Consulate-General, S'hai
1907
British Consul-General, Shanghai
1907
1 Yates Road, Shanghai
1912
Detroit, Michigan
4 Edinburgh Road, Shanghai
Changsha
Chinese Salt Rev. Administration,
1910
1901
C. M. Customs, Peking
B. & F. B. S., Chengtu
Tientsin
Hangchow
4 Monkham's Terrace, Shanghai
British Consulate, Hoihow
Gage, Rev. Brownell
Gale, Esson M.
Gardner, H. G.
Garner, Dr. Emily
1915
⠀ ⠀
1911
Hankow
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank,
1906
Hankow
Margaret Williamson Hospital,
1911
West Gate, Shanghai
*Garritt, Rev. J. C.
Nanking
1907
Ghiselin, Rev. C....
A. P. Mission, Taichow
1918
Ghisi, E.
Via Kuintino, Salla No. 4, Milano,
1893
Italy
Gibson, H. E.
Gilchrist, Edward
Gilliam, J.
12 Weihaiwei Road, Shanghai
1915
C. M. Customs, Ningpo....
1918
22 Museum Road, Shanghai
1915
Gillis, Captain J. H.
American Legation, Peking
1911
Gimbel, C., M.Sc.
Gish, Rev. E. P.
Gladki, P. M.
Godfrey, C. H.
Grant, J. B.
Hailar, (Mixed Court Assessor)
1914
Nanking
1919
C. E. Railway, Control Dept.,
New Town, Harbin
1915
Municipal Offices, Shanghai...
1909
11 Wayside Road, Shanghai.
1916
Graves, Bp. F. R., D.D.
Grierson, R. C.
St. John's University, Shanghai
1918
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1918

254
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
*Grodtmann, Johans
Green, J. R.
Grosse, V.
Grove, F...
Gull, E. Manico
*Gunsberg, Baron G. de
Gwynne, T. H.
*Hackmann, H.
*Hall, J. C.
⠀ ⠀
Hamilton, A. de C.
Hammond, Miss Louisa
Hancock, H. T.
Handley-Derry, H. F.
Harding, H. I
Hardstaff, Dr. R. J.
Hardy, Dr. W. M.
Harpur, C.
Hays, Mrs. John
Healey, Leonard C.
Heeren, Rev. J. J., PH.D.
Heidenstam, H. von
Henke, Frederick G., PH.D.
Hers, Joseph
*Hildebrandt, Adolf
Hinckley, F. E., PH.D.
Hindson, A. E. C.
Hippisley, A. E.
Hobson, H. E.
Hodges, Mrs. F. E.
*Hodous, Rev. L.
Hoettler, A.
Hogg, E. Jenner
Hogg, J. D.
Houghton, Charles
Howell, E. B.
Howells, W.
Hudson, Mrs. Alfred
Hughes, A. J.
Hughes, E. R.
Hummel, A. W.
Hummel, R. Ure
::
London
Box 884, Cincinnati, O., U.S.A.
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
125 Route Prosper Paris, Shanghai
Public School for Chinese, S'hai
Shantung Christian University,
Tsinan
10 Kiangse Road, Shanghai
c/o Mustard & Co., Shanghai
Russian Consul-General, Shanghai
1898
1918
1912
Nanking-Hunan Railway, Nanking
British Chamber of Commerce,
1915
1915
Shanghai
9 Rue Pommera (XVI), Paris
1908
Directorate General of
Posts,
1913
Peking
1903
49 Broadhurst Gardens, Hamp-
stead, N.W.
1888
Andersen, Meyer & Co., Tientsin
1918
A.C.M., Wusih...
1917
Standard Oil Co., Shanghai
1914
British Consulate, Tientsin
1903
British Legation, Peking
1914
C.A.M.C. c/o Army Post Office,
1918
1912
1901
1911
1913
1915
1916
747 Baldwin St., Meadville, Penn-
sylvania, U.S.A.
1912
Lunghai Railway, Peking
1907
1907
Merchants Exchange Building, San
1907
Francisco
20 Foochow Road, Shanghai
1914
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank,
1876
London
St. Michaels, Glastonbury, England
1868
16 Ford Lane, Shanghai...
1915
1913
111 Avenue Road, Shanghai
1910
1908
British Legation, Bangkok
1917
3 Peitaiho Lane, Shanghai
1908
693 Great Western Road, Shanghai
N. Szechuen Road Police Station,
1909
1917
Shanghai
Ningpo
1909
China United Assurance Society,
1909
Shanghai
London Mission, Tingchow, via
1918
Amoy
Fenchow, Shansi
1919
Bisset & Co., Shanghai...
1911
6 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
Foochow
4 Jinkee Road, Shanghai

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
255
Year of
Election
Huston, J. C. ...
Hutchison, J. L.
Huston, Rev. J.
Hynd, R. R.
Hynes, A. C....
Ironside, William
American Legation, Hankow
c/o China Inland Mission
1917
1916
1914
Hongkong & Shanghai Bank, S'hai
1913
Hongkong & Shanghai Bank, S'hai
1919
Butterfield & Swire, Hankow
1919
Irvine, Miss Elizabeth
39 Arsenal Road, St. Catherine's
Bridge, Shanghai
1910
Irvine, D. A.
Islef, J. P.
Jamieson, J. W.
Jenks, Prof. J. W.
Jensen, C. A....
Jernigan, T. R.
Jessel, W.
Jesus, C. Montalto de
Johnson, N. T.
Johnston, R. F.
Joly, P. B.
Jones, J. Frank
Jong, Th. de J. de
Jorgensen, O....
3 Hongkong Road, Shanghai
Giesel & Co., Shanghai
c/o Department of State, Washing-
ton, D. C.
Weihaiwei
66, Szechuen Road, Shanghai
Netherlands Legation, Peking
Chungking
1913
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
1917
British Consul-General, Shanghai
1888
13 Astor Place, New York
1903
G. N. Telegraph Co., Peking
1918
1906
1912
1902
1912
1907
C. M. Customs, Moukden
1913
1916
1914
G. N. Telegraph Co., Copenhagen,
1913
Denmark
*Jost, A.
Sulzer, Rudolf & Co., Shanghai...
1912
Justesen, M. L.
c/o R. Martens & Co., 1 The Bund
Shanghai
1913
Kahn, Gaston
Kano, Dr. N.
Kanzaki, S.
Karlbeck, O.
Kashiwada, T.
Keeler, Henry B.
Kellogg, W. R.
Kemp, G. S. Foster
Kennet, W. B.
Kent, A. S.
*Kern, D. S.
Kilner, E.
King, G. W. P.
King, Louis M.
King, Paul H.
King, Dr. G. E.
Kinnear, Henry R.
Klein, Darré
*Kliene, Charles, F.R.G.S.
: :
Public School for Chinese, S'hai
British Cigarette Co., Shanghai
c/o Chinese Post Office, Moukden
C.M.M. Chengtu, Szechuen ...
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1913
Kyoto University, Kyoto
1902
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, Shanghai
1906
Chuchow, Anhui
1914
1 Balfour Road, Shanghai
1918
Standard Oil Co., Soochow
1916
Foochow
1919
1908
1918
1913
1912
1909
4 Monkham's Terrace Wayside,
Shanghai
1917
British Consulate, Chungking, Sze
26 Old Queen St., Westminster,
1911
1886
London, S. W.
Lanchow, Kansu
1919
c/o Gibb, Livingston & Co., S'hai
1907
20 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1917
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1916

256
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Klubiem, J.
Klubiem, S. A.
Kopp, E. C.
Krapf, Dr.
*Krebs, E.
C. M. Customs, Wuhu
1913
C. M. Customs, Swatow
1917
6 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1919
*Kranz, Rev. Paul
Grünenwald Str., 6 Steglitz, Berlin
119 Avenue Road, Shanghai
1897
1912
1895
Krill, Joseph
Krisel, A.
1912
17 Yuenmingyuen Road, Shanghai
1914
Krumling, Dr. F.
Kulp, D. H....
*Kunisawa Shimbei
Lacy, Rev. Dr. W. H.
Laforest, L.
Lake, Capt., P. M. B.
Lambertz, H.
Landesen, Arthur C. von
Lanning, George
Lanning, V. H.
*Latourette, K. S.
*Laufer, Berthold, Dr.
*Laver, Capt. H. E.
Tungjen, Kweichow
1912
Shanghai College
1915
270 Hyakunin-cho, Ohkubo, Tokyo
1917
10 Woosung Road, Shanghai
1909
C. F. Tramways, Shanghai
1917
c/o Jardine, Matheson & Co.,
Shanghai
1916
1915
H.I.R.M.'s Vice-Consul, Kobe
14 Medhurst Road, Shanghai
1909
1908
1916
Denison University, Gronville, Ohio
Field Museum of Natural History,
1912
1901
Chicago
c/o Messrs. W. Stupledon & Sons,
Portsaid, Egypt.
1912
Lay, W. G.
Commissioner of Customs, Swatow
1902
Leach, W. A. B.
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1914
*Leavenworth, Chas. S.
Leslie, T....
Leavens, D. H.
Leete, W. Rockwell,
Lester, Miss E. S..
Leveson, W., E.
Liddell, C. Oswald
*Lindsay, Dr. A. W.
*Little, Edward S.
Lobenstine, Rev. E. C.
Loehr, A. G.
Lockwood, W. W.
Lord, Rev. R. D.
Yale College, Changsha ...
1917
313 Norton St., Newhaven, Conn.,
U.S.A.
1901
Fenchu, Shansi...
1918
445c Honan Road, Shanghai
1914
McTyeire School, Hankow Road,
1919
Shanghai
1905
Shirenewton Hall, near Chepstow,
1908
Monmouthshire
Chengtu, Szechuen...
1910
12 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1910
5 Quinsan Gardens, Shanghai
1916
American Consulate, Shanghai
1916
Lucas, S. E.
2 Barchet Road, Shanghai
Tsinan Fu, Shantung
Chartered Bank, Peking
1913
1918
1906
Lütgens, Alfred
Luthy, Charles
*Luthy, Emil
1913
7 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
1910
17 Yuen Ming Yuen Road, S'hai
1917
*Lyall, Leonard A.
Lyon, Dr. D. W.
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1892
4 Quinsan Gardens, Shanghai
1919
Mabee, Fred C.
Macbeth, Miss A.
Baptist College, Shanghai
1912
9 Wong Ka Shaw Gardens, S'hai
1915

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
257
Year of
Election
MacDonell
MacGillivray, Rev. Dr. Donald
Macleod, Dr. N.
McNulty, Rev. Henry A.
Matzokin, N. P.
Macoun, J. H.
McRae, J. D....
MaGrath, C. D.
MaGrath, Mrs. C. D.
Main, Dr. Duncan
*Marsh, Dr. E. L....
Marshall, R. Calder
Marsoulies, A. du Pac de
Martin, C. H.
Martin, Mrs. W. A.
*Mason, Isaac
Mather, B.
Mathieson, N.
Maxwell, Dr. J. Preston
Maybon, Charles B.
*Mayers, Frederick J. F.R.G.S.
Mayers, Sydney F.
McEuen, K. J.
McFarlane, Rev. A. J.
McInnes, Miss G....
McNeill, Mrs. Duncan
Mead, E. W.
Mell, Rudolf...
Mencarini, J.
Mengel, E.
Mennie, D.
Menzies, Rev. J. M.
Merriman, Mrs. W. L.
Merrins, Dr. E. M.
Mesny, H. P....
c/o John A. Lane, Esq., 46 Maiden
Lane, New York City, U.S.A.
Hangchow
32A Nanking Road, Shanghai
6 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1918
143 N. Szechuen Road, Shanghai
1908
8B Peking Road, Shanghai
1915
A. C. Mission, Soochow
Russian Orientalists' Society,
1918
1917
Harbin
C. M. Customs, Nanking
Changte fu, Honan
1894
1910
1910
1900
8B Peking Road, Shanghai
1908
1908
67 Route Vallon, Shanghai
1917
Russia-Asiatic Bank, Shanghai
1918
Bridge House, Nanking...
1916
143 N. Szechuen Road, Shanghai
1916
Yung Ching, Peking
1918
Butterfield & Swire, Shanghai
1915
31 Hammelton Road, Bromley,
1917
Kent, England
247 Avenue Joffre, Shanghai
1911
C. M. Customs, Chinkiang
1917
The British and Chinese Corpora-
1907
tion, Ltd., Peking
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1908
London Mission, Hanyang
1915
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1913
The Chestnut, Tangbourne, England
1915
British Legation, Peking
1916
1911
1B Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1884
Supt. Chinese Telegraphs, Yun-
1913
nanfu
A. S. Watson & Co.
1916
1914
15 Ferry Road, Shanghai
1910
St. John's University, Shanghai
1916
c/o H. & W. Greer, Ltd., 20 Kiu-
kiang Road
1911
Mesny, General W.
Milhorat, A. T.
Hankow
1914
508, 2nd St. Carlstadt, New Jersey,
U.S.A.
1919
Morrison, Dr. G. E.
Millard, T. F.
Miskin, Stanley C.
Moninger, Miss M. M.
*Moore, Dr. A.
*Morgan, Rev. Evan
Morris, Dr. H. H.
Morriss, H. E.
*Morse, C. J....
Moule, Rev. A. C.
Münter, L. S....
The China Press, Shanghai...
1911
Asiatic Petroleum Co., Hankow...
A.P.M. Kachek, Hoihow, Hainan
1913
1916
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1913
143 N. Szechuen Road, Shanghai
St. Luke's Hospital, Shanghai
1909
1914
118 Route Pêre Robert, Shanghai
1919
Peking
1917
1825 Asbury Avenue, Evanston,
Illinois
1901
Littlebredy, Dorchester
1902
G. N. Telegraph Co., Peking
1910

258
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Petersen, A.
Petersen, V.
Petersen, V. A.
Pettus, W. B.
Pfeffer, Nathaniel
Phillips, H.
Phillips, Rev. L. Gordon
*Plancey, C. Colin de
Platt, Robert...
Polevoy, S. A.
Polk, Dr. Marget. H.
Pott. Rev. Dr. F. L. Hawks.
Pott, W. S. A.
Pousty, F. E.
Powell, J. B.
110 Range Road, Shanghai
St. John's University, Shanghai
St. John's University, Shanghai
Ningpo
Millard's Review, 113
Neild, Dr. F. M.
Newbery, Miss E. E.
Newcomb, Capt. Frank
Nicholson, J. B. ...
Nicholson, William
*Nielsen, Albert
Norman, H. C.
Oakes, W. L....
*O'Brien-Butler, P. E.
Ogilvie, Rev. C. L.
*Ohlmer, E.
Ottewill, H. A.
Ouskouli, M. H. A.
Paddock, Rev. B. H.
Pagh, E. K.
*Palmer, W. M.
Papini, E.
Parker, Rev. Dr. A. P.
Parsons, E. E.
Partington, T. Bowen
Patrick, Dr. H. C.
Pearson, C. Dearne
Peet, Alice L.
Peet, Gilbert E.
*Peiyang University Librarian
Penfold, F. G.
Perkins, M. F.
Perntzsch, Dr. Gerhard
Perry, E. W.
3A Peking Road, Shanghai
Cathedral School, Shanghai
c/o Butterfield & Swire, S'hai
American Consulate, Changsha
Butterfield & Swire, Hongkong
C. M. Customs, Kashing
The China Press, Shanghai
W. M. S., Changsha
1919
British Consulate, Moukden
1886
American Pres. Mission, Peking...
1913
1885
H.B.M. Consulate, Chinkiang
1913
126 Szechuen Road, Shanghai
1917
Yen Ping Fu, Foochow ...
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
Changchun, Manchuria
6 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
Tientsin
A.P.M. South Gate, Shanghai
East Asiatic Co., Hankow
Chinese Telegraphs, Peking
1916
1918
1917
1919
1919
1894
1912
1916
1908
1914
52 Boone Road, Shanghai
1916
Anglo Chinese College, 19 Quinsan
1901
Road, Shanghai
12 Hankow Road, Shanghai...
1916
Kingsclere Private Hotel, H'kong
1917
22 Whangpoo Road, Shanghai
1912
69 Kiangse Road, Shanghai
1908
6 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
1918
1918
1911
32A Nanking Road, Shanghai
American Consulate, Shanghai
1916
1914
1910
1919
1913
1906
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
Y.M.C.A., Peking
1915
1915
China Press, Shanghai
1918
British Consulate-Gen., Shanghai
1912
London Mission, Amoy
1917
12 me de Varize, Paris XVIC
1877
Chicago University, Chicago, Ill.
1917
38 Davenport Road, Tientsin
1917
1915
1913
1914
1915
Avenue
1918
Pratt, J. T.
Prentice, John
Price, Mrs. Maurice
"Pye, Rev. Watts O.
Edward VII
British Consulate, Tsinanfu
30 Szechuen Road, Shanghai
Oberlin, Ohio, U.S.A.
1909
47 Yangtszepoo Road, Shanghai
1885
1919
1917

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
259
Year of
Election
Quien, F. C.
Quin, Mrs. J.
Netherlands Harbor Works, Peking
77 Avenue de Roi Albert, S'hai
1913
1916
Raaschou, T.
Raeburn, P. D.
Rankin, C. W.
Rees, A. H. Hopkyn...
Rees, Rev. Dr. W. Hopkyn
Reid, Rev. Dr. Gilbert
Reinsch, Dr. Paul
Richert, G.
Ritchie, W. W.
Roberts, D.
Robinson, F. Alan
Robinson, Mrs. F. A.
Rogers, J. M....
Roots, Rt. Rev. L. H.
Ros, G.
Rose, Archibald, C.I.E.
Rowe, E. S. B.
*Sahara, T.
Sammons, Hon, T.
Sanders, Arthur H.
Sargent, G. T.
*Sarkar, Prof. B. K.
Sawdon, E. W.
Schab, Dr. von
Schmidt, K.
Schröder, H.
*Segalen, Dr. Victor
*Shaw, Norman
Sheartone, T. W.
*Shelton, Dr. A. L.
Shengle, J. C.
Shipley, J. A. G.
Silsby, Rev. J. A.
Simpson, B. Lenox
Sites, F. R.
Skinner, Dr. A. H.
Skvortzow
Smallbones, J. A.
Smith, J. Langford
Sophoxloff, G. A....
U. E. Mission, Chaling, Hunan
c/o Ningpo Hotel, Ningpo
Friends' High School, Chungking,
Sze.
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
8 Museum Road, Shanghai
Batang, via Tachienlu, Sze.
Danish Consul-General, Shanghai
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
18 Quinsan Road, Shanghai
Asiatic Petroleum Co., Shanghai
143 North Szechuen Road, S'hai
1912
1916
1915
1917
1914
1907
United States Minister, Peking
Whangpoo Conservancy Board,
Shanghai
1916
1919
Postal Commissioner, Shanghai...
St. John's University, Shanghai...
British Supreme Court for China,
Shanghai
1907
1916
1914
1918
179 North Szechuen Rd., Shanghai
American Church Mission, Hankow
Italian Consulate-Gen., Hankow...
1918
1916
1908
British Legation, Peking
1901
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1907
Shanghai Mercury, Shanghai
American Consul-Gen., Shanghai
1908
1915
1917
1917
1915
1916
20 Whangpoo Road, Shanghai
28 The Bund, Shanghai
1901
1888
Chee Hsin Cement Works, Tang-
1916
shan
5 Cite d'Antin, Brest, France
1917
1912
1918
1918
23 Ferry Road, Shanghai
Bedford City, Va. U.S.A.
1905
1911
Presbyterian Mission, South Gate,
1911
Shanghai
Peking...
1916
U.S. Steel Product Co., Shanghai
1916
Hankow
1919
c/o C. M. Customs, Foochow
1918
M. C. Electricity Department, 66
1913
Szechuen Road, Shanghai
British Consulate, Ichang
1908
Chinese Eastern Railway, Chiao-
she-chü, Harbin
1915
Sowerby, A. de C.
Spiker, Clarence J.
8 Gordon Road, Tientsin
1893
*Stanley, Dr. A.
U. S. Consulate-Gen., Shanghai
Municipal Offices, Shanghai...
1918
1905

260
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Turner, Skinner, Judge
St. Croix, F. A. de
Stapleton-Cotton, W. V.
Stedeford, E. T. A.
Stephen, Alex. G.
Stevenson, Spencer B.
Stewart, Rev. J. L.
Stewart, K. D.
Stockton, G. C.
Strehlneek, E. A.
Streib, U.
Stursberg, W. A.
*South Manchuria Railway Co.
Library
Sykes, E. A.
Tachibana, M.
Talbot, R. M.
Tanner, Paul von
Tayler, A. Ll.
*Taylor, C. H. Brewitt
Teesdale, J. H.
Tenney, Dr. C. D.
Thellefsen, E. S.
Thomas, J. A. T.
Throop, M. H.
Ting 1-hsien
Toller, W. Stark
*Tochtermann, Karl
Touche, J. D. la
Toussaint, G. C.
*Trollope, Rt. Rev. Bishop M.N.
Tucker, G. E.
Tucker, Mrs. G. E.
Turner, R. C.
Twentyman, J. R.
The Gables, East Blatchington,
Seaford, Sussex, England
c/o J. H. & C. K. Eagle, Shanghai
Union University, Chengtu
Maitland & Co., Shanghai
American School, Shanghai
45 Haskell Road, Shanghai
Rohde & Co., Shanghai
17 Hart Road, Shanghai
Dairen
1912
Directorate General of Posts, Peking
1916
Blyth Hospital, Wenchow
1919
Hongkong & Shanghai Bank, S'hai
1911
1917
1916
1912
1914
1909
1919
1910
Reiss & Co., Shanghai
1909
Kiaochow Customs House, Tsing-
1881
tau
1915
C. M. Customs, Kiukiang
1885
Arts and Crafts, Ltd., Shanghai
Commissioner of Customs, Mukden
3A Peking Road, Shanghai
American Legation, Peking
1885
1885
1916
1913
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
Mustard & Co., Shanghai
1913
1890
St. John's University, Shanghai
1912
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1902
British Consulate, Chungking
1907
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1900
C. M. Customs, Shasi
1911
Consulate Général de France, S'hai
Seoul, Korea
1917
1911
5 Peking Road, Shanghai
1915
5 Peking Road, Shanghai
1915
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1915
British Supreme Court for China,
1916
Shanghai
Tyler, W. F.
Unwin, F. S.
24 Yuenmingyuen Road, Shanghai
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1894
1915
The Angela, Victoria B. C. Canada
1914
Upham, F. S....
Van Corback, T. B.
Van der Woude, R.
Van Norden, Warner M.
Verbert, L.
Veryard, Robert K.
Vizenzinovitch, Mrs. V.
S.M.C., P.W.D., Shanghai
1919
c/o A. E. Algar, Shanghai
1913
8 Nanyang Road, Shanghai
1915
Lotos Tea Concern, Wall & South
1910
Street
20 The Bund, Shanghai
1913
Y.M.C.A., Changsha
1917
1 Kiangwan Road, Shanghai
1914
Wade, R. H. R.
Waller, A. J....
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1918
Kelly & Walsh, Ltd., Shanghai
1916

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
261
Year of
Election
Wang Chung-hui, Dr.
Ward, F. Kingdon
Warren, Rev. G. G.
Washbrook, H. G.
Watkins, Miss J.
Weatherall, M. E.
Webb, Mrs. C. H.
Webster, Rev. James
Werner, E. T. C....
Westbrook, E. J. ...
Wheeler, Rev. W. R.
Wheelock, T. R.
White, Rev. H. W.
White, Miss Laura M.
White, Rt. Rev. Wm. C.
Wilde, Mrs. H. R.
Wilden, H. A.
Wilhelm, Rev. Dr. Richard
Wilkinson, E. S.
Wilkinson, F. E.
142B North Szechuen Road, S'hai
116th Mahrattas, Z. E. F. D.
c/o Postmaster, Bombay
Wesleyan Mission, Changsha
6 Shih Ta Jen Hu t'ung, Peking...
Soochow
52 Ta Fang-chia Hu t'ung, Peking
Astor House, Shanghai
c/o Wesleyan Missionary Society,
Tsingtau
P.O. Box. No. 41, Yokohama
British Consulate, Foochow
1913
1910
1909
1908
1914
1919
1919
1911
24 Bishopsgate, London, E.C. 2
Liang Kuo Ch'ang, Peking
Asiatic Petroleum C6., Shanghai
A.P.M., Hangchow...
1915
1916
1919
Wheelock & Co., Shanghai
1914
Yencheng, Kiangsu
1915
30 Kinnear Road, Shanghai
1916
Anglican Bishop of Honan, Kai-
1913
fengfu
15 Ferry Road, Shanghai
1915
French Consulate, Rue du Con-
1917
sulate, Shanghai
1910
1911
1909
Wilkinson, H. P.
Williams, C. A. S.
Williams, Capt. C. C.
Wilson, R. E....
Wilton, E. C.
Witt, Miss E. N.
Woets, J....
Wood, A. G.
Wood, Dr. Julia N.
Wright, Rev. H. K.
*Wright, S. F.
*Wu Lien-teh, Dr....
Wu Ting-fang, Dr.
Yetts, Dr. W. Perceval
3 Balfour Buildings, Shanghai
Inspectorate General of Customs,
Peking
1909
1919
c/o Butterfield & Swire, Shanghai
6 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
1918
1918
British Legation, Peking
1900
16 Queensborough Terr., Hyde
Park, London, W.
1912
Credit foncier d'Extreme Orient,
1919
Shanghai
Gibb, Livingston & Co., Shanghai
1879
c/o H. P. Mohnk, West Falls,
Eric Country, New York
1914
143 North Szechuen Rd., Shanghai
1919
29 Medhurst Road, Shanghai
Customs Buildings, Harbin
1916
1913
3 Gordon Road, Shanghai
1913
Junior United Service Club,
1909
London
Yokoyama, R.
Young, R. C....
Tokyo Mercantile Agency, S'hai
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1918
1912
Zwemer, Rev. Samuel M., D.D., 5 Imad id din, Cairo
1917
F.R.G.S.
TOTALS:
CLASSIFIELD AS :-
Honorary Members
15
Corresponding Members
7
Life Members
'64
Ordinary Members
437
523

THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.
22, ALBEMARLE STREET, W.
1. The Royal Asiatic Society has its headquarters at 22,
Albemarle Street, London, W., where it has a large library of books
and MSS. relating to Oriental subjects, and holds monthly Meetings
from November to June (inclusive) at which papers on such
subjects are read and discussed.
2. By Rule 105 of this Society all the Members of Branch
Societies are entitled while on furlough or otherwise temporarily
resident within the limits of Great Britain and Ireland, to the use
of the Library as Non-Resident Members, and to attend the
ordinary monthly meetings of this Society. This Society accordingly
invites Members of Branch Societies temporarily resident in this
country to avail themselves of these facilities and to make their
home addresses known to the Secretary so that notice of the
meetings may be sent to them.
3. Under Rule 84, the Council of the Society is able to
accept contributions to its Journal from Members of Branch
Societies, and other persons interested in Oriental research of
original articles, short notes, etc., on matters connected with the
languages, archaeology, history, beliefs and customs of any part
of Asia.
4. By virtue of the afore-mentioned Rule 105, all Members
of Branch Societies are entitled to apply for election to the Society
without the formality of nomination. They should apply in
writing to the Secretary, stating their names and addresses, and
mentioning the Branch Society to which they belong. Election is
by the Society upon the recommendation of the Council.
5. The subscription for Non-Resident Members of the Society
is 30/- per annum. They receive the quarterly Journal post free.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE SOCIETY
THE JOURNAL.
Old Series.
Vol. I
Part 1, (1858)
Mex. $2.00 Vol. I Part 3, (Dec. 1859) Mex. $2.00
دو
I
Part 2, (1859)
دو
"
2.50 II Part 1, (Sept. 1860)
1.50
دو
New Series.
Vol. I
(1864)
$3.00 Vol. XXV
(1890-91) Part 1
$ +
II
رو
(1865)
3.00
XXV
III
"
(1866)
33
+
IV
"
(1867)
XXV
+
د,
(1890-91) Part 2
(1890-91) Complete 4.50
0.30
V
دو
دو
دو
رو
(1868)
2.00
XXVI
33
(1891-92) Part 1
2.00
VI
(1869-70)
+
"3
XXVI
(1891-92) Part 2
2.00
VII
(1871-72)
+
XXVI
VIII
(1873)
1.50
IX
دو
دو
(1891-92) Part 3
2.50
XXVI
"
(1874)
1.50
(1891-92) Complete 4.50
X
دو
(1875)
3.00
XXVII
دو
(1892-93) Part 1
2.00
ΧΙ
"
(1876)
1.50
XXVII
"
(1892 93) Part 2
XII
دو
(1877)
1.50
XXVII
"3
XIII
"
2.50
(1892-93) Complete 4.00
(1878)
XIV
"
(1879)
1.50
1.00
XV
دو
دو
دو
(1880)
+
XVI
(1881) Part 1
+
XVI
(1881) Part 2
0.30
دو
دو
دو
دو
XXVIII
(1893-94) Part 1 十十
XXVIII
(1893-94) Part 2 2.50
XXVIII
(1893-94) Complete 4.50
XXIX
(1894-95)
4.00
XVII (1882) Part 1
1.50
"
XVII
دو
دو
(1882) Part 2
0.30
"3
XVIII (1883)
XXX
XXX
2.00 ,, XXX
(1895-96) Part 1
2.00
(1895-96) Parts 2 & 32.00
XIX
(1884) Part 1
1.00
23
XIX
"
(1884) Part 2
0.75
33
XX
(1885) Part 1
tt
33
XX
دو
(1885) Part 2
0.50
"
XX
"
(1885) Part 3 ...
0.50
XXXI
XXXI
XXXI
XXXII
XXXIII
(1895-96) Complete 4.50
(1896-97) Part 1 2.00
(1896-97) Part 2 2.00
(1896-97) Complete 4.00
(1897-98)
1.50
(1899-1900) Part 1 2.00
"
XX
(1885) Part 4...
0.50
23
XXXIII
(1899-1900) Part 2 2.00
XX
"
(1885) Parts 5 & 6...
0.50
دو
XX
(1885) Complete
3.00
"
XXI
(1886) Parts 1 & 2...
1.25
33
XXXIII (1899-1900) Part 3 2.00
XXXIII (1899-1900) Complete 4.50
XXXIV (1901-02)
2.00
XXI
(1886) Parts 3 & 4...
1.75
د,
XXXV
(1903-04)
2.00
د"
XXI
(1886) Parts 5 & 6...
1.00
"
XXXVI (1905)
3.00
"
XXII
(1887) Parts 1 & 2...
1.50
"
XXXVII (1906)
4.00
دو
XXII
(1887) Parts 3 & 4...
1.50
"
XXXVIII (1907)
4.00
"
XXII
(1887) Part 5
十十
XXXIX
د,
(1908)
4.00
د"
XXII
(1887) Part 6
1.00
XL
"
(1909)
4.00
"
XXII (1887) Complete
4.00
XLI
"
(1910)
4.00
"
XXIII (1888) Part 1
2.00
XLII
33
(1911)
4.00
دو
دو
XXIII (1888) Part 2...
+
XLIII
"
(1912)
4.00
XXIII (1888) Part 3
++
XLIV
"
(1913)
4.00
,, XXIII (1888) Complete
+
XLV
"
(1914)
4.00
"
د"
دو
XXIV
XXIV (1889-90) Part 1
XXIV (1889-90) Part 2
(1889-90) Part 3
+
XLVI
"
(1915)
4.00
十七
XLVII
(1916)
4.00
"
2.00
XLVIII
"
(1917)
4.50
"
XXIV (1889-90) Parts 2 & 3
"
XXIV (1889-90) Complete
3.00
4.00
XLIX
(1918)
5.00
"
L
"
(1919)
5.00
+ out of print.
++ prices on application.
A discount of 10 per cent. is allowed to the public on a single
purchase totalling $50 or upwards; and 20 per cent. if a complete
set of the Journal, as far as can be supplied, is purchased. Members
of the Society are entitled to purchase back numbers of the Journal
for personal use, at a reduction of 30 per cent. on the above prices,
IF ORDERED THROUGH THE SECRETARY.
The Stewart-Lockhart Collection of Chinese Coins. Price $8 Net.
To Members, $5 Net.
Published by KELLY & WALSH, LIMITED, Shanghai.

北平南池子民胡同一號

TWO WEEKS BOOK
TO BE RETURNED ON OR BEFORE
For every day beyond this there shall be a fine of 10 cents
L-2000-1-38

18079
E@ 30 9 4
Call No. PC 052/R81
Accession No.18079
03094
Title Journal of the North-
China branch of the R.A.S.
Vol.N.S. 50.
E® 3094
THE LIBRARY
OF THE
CHINESE SOCIAL AND
POLITICAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION
1 MIN SHENG HUTUNG.
NAN CHIH TZU, PEIPING, CHINA.
(TEL. NO. E.O. 736)
北平南池子民謡胡同一號
中國政治學會圖書館(電話東局七三六號)
Accession No.
Call No.
18079
PC
052
R81
N.S.50.
30.iv-39-L-2000