AN EXHIBITION OF PICTURES
BY A RUSSIAN ARTIST.
E. B. HOWELL.
The Society was fortunate at the end of last year to have
an opportunity of inspecting a series of water-colour and
crayon pictures of Chinese and Mongolian life which broke
entirely new ground in the pictorial representation of the
peoples of this portion of the Far East. Many European
artists have visited China but their work has hitherto been
confined to scenery, architecture, and human types which,
while interesting enough, were so mainly for reasons of
picturesqueness that would have justified their portrayal in
any part of the globe.
The work in China of Mr. Alexander Iacovleff, however,
stands alone. He is a young Russian, who, having won by
his art in Petrograd before the war a scholarship that enabled
him to pursue his studies in any part of the world he fancied,
selected the Far East as the scene of his labours. He lived
for eighteen months in China and is now working in Japan.
Mr. Iacovleff has approached his immense subject from a
point of view which has either not appealed to or has
appalled all previous workers. He has chosen as the subjects
of his pictures in China not the curling roofs and temple
walls, the pagodas and the sunsets, that have so engrossed,
and with reason enough, other artists, but the human beings
that he saw around him-the ragged beggar, the petty shop-
keeper, the obese compradore, the bawling virago, and, in
Mongolia, scenes of religious celebration and of tent and
pastoral life-uniting the touch of the artists with the keen
vision of the student of anthropology to an extent which
entitles his work to be called unique.
To produce satisfactory photographs of human subjects
in China is rendered a difficult enough task by reason of the
curiosity and the superstitious fears of the lower classes, to
say nothing of the reluctance felt by most Europeans to
coming into close contact with a Chinese crowd. But to be
able to show such careful and accurate human documents as
Mr. Iacovleff has produced, under circumstances which those
who live in China can well imagine, places his work well-nigh

190
AN EXHIBITION OF PICTURES BY A RUSSIAN ARTIST
hors concours, and argues a wonderful quickness of touch
and memory combined with rare personal qualities.
Two exhibitions of his pictures were held in the Society's
library, the first on 12th December and the second on 8th
January. The former consisted of pictures produced for the
most part in Peking and comprised a large number of
portraits in sepia and sanguine, the latter representing his
work during a summer stay in and around Dolonor and
Lamamiao in Inner Mongolia.
It is not possible within the scope of this short notice to
attempt any detailed description of Mr. Iacovleff's work.
Photographs of two of his pictures are reproduced here-the
one representing a Lama wearing the curious head-dress used
by Mongolian Buddhist dignitaries, the other of a Chinese
actress, who wears in the original a brilliant scarlet robe..
Among the pictures in the first series exhibited were many
of actors and actresses in the old-fashioned costume which
now shows sign of being improved off the stage of New China,
and it is understood that Mr. Iacovleff made a special study
of the theatrical world in Peking.
The Mongolian pictures which were exhibited on the
12th of January consisted of about seventy water-colour
sketches and fifty crayon drawings; and some idea of the
rapidity of Mr. Iacovleff's work and his devotion to his art
may be gained when it is stated that this whole series was the
result of only forty days stay in Mongolia. Some of his
sketches were but lightning indications, though not one but
was instinct with life and feeling: others were careful studies
which must have taken considerable time to elaborate.
Living and working all day in the open air, in the wonderful
weather of the Mongolian summer, Mr. Iacovleff slept in one
of the round felt tents which were represented in so many of
his pictures. The daily occupations of the people round him
formed the subjects of most of his sketches but there were
also exhibited careful studies of the interiors of tents and
temples and detailed drawings of head-dresses, garments and
utensils.
Mr. Jacovleff intends to publish reproductions of his
work in an album illustrative of his tour and work in the
Far East.

A Lama wearing the curious head-dress used by Mongolian Buddhist Dignitaries.
[see page 190]

A Chinese Actress.
[see page 190]