THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM*
CHARLES KLIENE, F.R.G.S.
INTRODUCTION.-The story itself is told in true Confucian
style, and the "Land of Peach Bloom" is just such a land
as the Confucian poets and scholars would make it. The
scenes follow in easy succession and the contrasts are very
striking. But the land as a place, like the fabulous island of
Utopia described by Sir Thomas More, is only to be found in
dreams. Taking the story as an allegory, pointing to a
condition of society in which men can dwell in peace and
concord by co-operating with each other for the common
weal, and upholding the principles of liberty, equality and
fraternity, it presents an ideal perfectly legitimate to aspire
to; at the same time it teaches some important lessons. In
the "Land of Peach Bloom," however, we are told there are
no evil-doers, and unrighteousness has no place. That is a
state of perfection which mortals can never hope to attain to.
To exclude evil altogether from our midst is more than we
can do; and since perfection is beyond the limit of the round
of mortal things, the utmost we can strive for is to reach the
stage of the least imperfect. A Chinese thinker with a
metaphysical mind once said to me "we are here not so
much to suppress that which is evil as to practice that which
is good; let us not concern ourselves with the evil, for if all
be good there can be no evil." That seems to me to be only
suggesting another road to the "Land of Peach Bloom."
Chinese ontology is founded on the philosophy of the
Yin and Yang, or the Dual Principles of Nature; the same
inevitable dualism which Emerson says "bisects" nature,
and which is very tersely illustrated by the Chinese proverb
which asserts that every stick has two ends. Good and evil
are like the opposite ends of the stick; with our limited vision
it is impossible for us to see how the one shall be cut off while
the other alone shall remain.
In the end the fisherman loses his abode of perfection,
his paradise nevermore to be regained. This shows how vain
*Read before the Society, 17th January, 1919.

THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
109-
and futile it is to seek for that which is not, and to aspire to
that which is not attainable.
Those who have taken an interest in the study of com-
parative folklore have doubtless found among the ancient
traditions of most nations legends and allegories bearing on.
this same question, told in more or less the same strain, and
sounding the same keynote, the keynote in man's yearnings
to reach a state of perfect bliss. It is the high unremitting
pulse of the soul beating for perfection and immortality.
The story under review was written by T'ao Ch'ien
(A.D. 365-427) known in early life as T'ao Yuan Ming. What
is here given is from a popular dramatized version. The
title, T'ao Yuan means a source or spring of water in the
midst of a grove of Peach trees. The character Yuan for
garden is sometimes misused for Yuan, spring. For a fuller
account of T'ao see Giles's Biographical Dictionary, p. 717.
THE STORY.
"Hsün tê T'ao Yüan hao pi Ch'in,
T'ao hung yu chien i nien ch'un;
Hua fei mo ch'ien sui liu shui,
P'a yu yü lang lai wên ching.
(TRANSLATION).
"Having found the home of Peach Blossoms, we are safe from
the tyranny of Ch'in.
When Peach Blossoms appear, they mark the springtime of
another year.
But let not the petals float down on the stream, lest some fisher-
man seeing them be guided here."
Just as the sun was setting one calm spring evening in
the T'ai-ho year of the Ch'in dynasty, a stalwart young
fisherman was seen paddling his little skiff up a narrow
stream near Wuling,³ a thriving centre in the Prefecture of
Ch'ang-tê, in the Province of Hunan.
It had been a long, sultry day, one of those dazzling
harbingers of an early eastern summer; not a ripple stirred
the water. A square net, used chiefly to catch small fish in
shallow water, hung extended in front of the boat, gently
bobbing and swaying as the slender bamboos, which held it
out by the four corners, bent with each stroke of the paddles.
For a hundred times at least, since dawn, the net had been
dipped and lifted with small success, and now, the day's toil
being ended, it was allowed to hang and dry.
From the Chien Chia Shih, by Hsieh Fang-tê, a poet of the Sung
dynasty, and a native of Kiangsi. He died in Peking in A.D. 1289.
A.D. 366.
3 Wuling is also the ancient name of Hangchow, the famous old
capital of the present province of Chekiang.

110
THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
The scene, as usual at this season, was one of nature's
very daintiest. Peach trees grew in profusion on either
bank; they were in full bloom, and the ground was carpeted
with a layer of the delicate pink and white petals fallen from
the thick masses of blossom. Overhead, rainbow tints slowly
stole across the evening sky and tinged every cloud, now
crimson, now pink, now vaporous amethyst, down to the
far horizon. The fisherman, tired after his hard but honest
labour, which rarely brought him in more than just enough
for the bare needs of the next day, stood in the stern of his
boat languidly urging the lazy craft homeward; he had
pushed back the heavy bamboo hat that sheltered his head
from the sun on hot days and the rain in wet weather, to give
the soft evening breezes that came and went, laden with the
scent of peach flowers, full play upon his sunburnt face.
In a little while the west began to glow with the radiance of
sunset, and as the golden orb sank behind the hilltops a
delightful charm fell upon the land. Gradually the shadows
grew longer and longer till they melted away in the evening
mist, and save for the regular and alternate creak and plash
of the paddles, all was quiet and still.
All at once the fisherman, who seemed to be in a reverie,
fixed his eyes intently on a curious patch of white light which
appeared at the foot of a hill not far distant. He had never
seen it before, and wondering what it might possibly be,
he resolved to go as near as he could to the spot and find
-out.
The boat had been gliding along without a sound; but
now, as though it had a purpose in view, it surged forward
clumsily under the quick and vigorous strokes of the paddles,
rocking the while like some animated thing, and throwing
up a wash on either side of the stream as it plunged ahead.
Presently the fisherman came to a break in the line of
the peach orchards, and after rounding a bend he found
himself almost opposite the strange, weird light. It looked
like an opening in the hillside through which daylight from
another world had found an outlet. Never having heard of
any openings, or caves, in his native hills, the fisherman
became more puzzled than ever. With a few extra strong
strokes of his paddles he finally ran the broad bow of the
boat on to the bank; then quickly drawing in the paddles,
jumped ashore; and, after hauling the boat well up the
slope so that it should not drift away, he dashed across the
strip of country before him and made straight for the my-
sterious luminous patch not more than a few hundred paces
away. As he drew nearer he could distinctly see that there
really was an opening in the hillside through which the light
issued, and the light grew brighter as he approached it.

THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
At last he stood before the opening; it was the mouth of a
tunnel, lit up by sunshine that entered from the far end.
"This surely is very strange," thought the fisherman;
I'll go in and see where it leads to."
Accordingly, he entered the tunnel and walked boldly
forward, wondering all the while where the light could come
from, now that behind him the sun had set and night was
creeping on.
The tunnel was not big, though sufficiently high to
enable him to walk erect without touching the top; the sides
were rough, and rugged rock protruded everywhere; under
foot it was very uneven and strewn with loose sharp stones of
all shapes and sizes which made progress extremely difficult.
Had it not been for the daylight that lit up the whole length
of the tunnel, the fisherman would indeed have found it no
simple matter to make his way through; but, he deftly
avoided every obstacle barring his way, and safely came to
the far end.
Emerging from the tunnel he was astonished to behold
a beautiful undulating country stretching far away for miles
before him. Billowy, fleecy clouds flecked the sky above,
and the sun, set in the purest azure, beamed upon a land
such as he had never dreamed of. There were fields upon
fields of golden corn, and fruit orchards with abundance of
luscious fruit, such as he had never seen before; and peach
trees bearing peaches of astounding size, all covered with
that wondrous bloom that the art of man can never reproduce
in paintings or on porcelain vases. Lofty palm trees in
clumps stood here and there waving their feathery heads in
the breeze, and there were weeping willows, majestic oaks,
and shady trees he could not name. Flowers grew every-
where in all their resplendent colours, and filled the air with
exquisite fragrance. Monster butterflies with irridescent
wings flitted hither and thither; birds of gorgeous plumage
sang on every bough, and a crystal brook rippled and gurgled
in the distance. It was a new world, infinite, magical,
supernatural; a veritable paradise, fairer by far than the
fairest land in China. Wonder-stricken, and utterly be-
wildered, the fisherman stood rooted to the ground before
the enchanting landscape, unable to explain how he had
never heard of this wonderful place before, and baffled to tell
where he was.
When he had sufficiently recovered from his amazement,
he noticed in front of him a narrow path leading to the stream.
Following this path he crossed the stream over a pretty
willow pattern bridge and found quite an extensive village
hidden behind a bamboo grove close by. To this village he

112
THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
turned his steps. He soon came upon a group of people
busily engaged in agricultural pursuits. To all appearances
they were Chinese like himself; but they were clad in the
quaint costume of a bygone age. Their language, though
strange to his ear, was quite intelligible.
"A stranger, a stranger!" suddenly exclaimed a boy
who first perceived him; "look, he is coming towards us!"
Instantly, all turned in the direction the lad indicated.
"Run for the Elder," said an old man to the boy, "and tell
him to come at once."
The boy took to his heels and disappeared among the
houses. By this time the fisherman had come up to the
group, and the old man courteously asked him to be seated
on a bamboo stool.
"We have sent for the Elder," said the old man, "he
will be here presently, and doubtless will be pleased to render
you any service you may require. In the meantime we
regret we cannot do more than receive you kindly, for we
acknowledge that within the Four Seas all are brethren.
"
"Yes, indeed," added the rest of the group with nods of
approval, "all are brethren.
"I thank you from my heart," replied the fisherman,
"for your greeting. I am tired, and will gladly rest awhile.
Your kindness to a stranger is only in keeping with the
incomparable beauty of this wonderland; I am deeply
touched by your cordial welcome and your benevolence."
"That is not worth mentioning," said the old man.
"Benevolence is a duty that we owe to all our fellow-men.
It is written that we must not do to others what we would
not have others do to us.
"A sublime precept indeed," observed the fisherman,
who, though his literary attainments were by no means of a
high order, was nevertheless acquainted with some of the
fundamental teachings of the Chinese Classics. "But,'
added he, "it is also written, I am told, that we should
have no friends not equal to ourselves. How do you know
that I am worthy of your goodwill?"
"True, answered the old man. "But here all are
worthy; and the fact that you have come is sufficient
assurance to us of your worthiness."
At this juncture the boy returned with the Elder of the
village, a hardy patriarch of noble mien, with the kindliest
of eyes and a flowing white beard. "Friend, said he.
bowing low to the fisherman, "you are indeed welcome.
It is laid down in our books that when a stranger comes to
us from afar, we shall receive him kindly, and treat him in
a befitting manner. We cannot, therefore, do less than offer

THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
113
you our humble hospitality; we beg of you that you will
deign to accept such entertainment as we can command
during your sojourn in our midst. If you will follow us, it
will be a privilege to conduct you to the Hall of Harmony
where you may rest and refresh yourself in comfort." Then
turning to the group, he added, "Is it not delightful to
have friends coming from distant quarters?"
They all bowed respectfully, and acquiesced in this
further quotation from the Analects of the great Sage
Confucius.
The fisherman, only too pleased to have a place where
he might rest and refresh himself, eagerly accepted the
invitation so generously and spontaneously proffered, and
they all repaired in a body to the Hall of Harmony.
On the way it became evident that the village was well
populated and in the highest state of prosperity. In fact, it
was more than a village, for it had wide and well-kept
thoroughfares and public squares, and the houses were all
in excellent condition. There were shops innumerable that
dealt in all manner of things which the people bought and
sold by barter. There were agricultural implements all made
of bronze; clothing made of curious stuffs; mats, rugs, and
carpets in antique designs; household furniture of choice
woods, and household utensils of pottery, bronze and gold;
but all were quaint in shape, quite different from anything the
puzzled fisherman had ever seen in his life. The shop-signs
and notices were written in Chinese characters; but charac-
ters of a very ancient type and not easy to decipher. The
people, both old and young, seemed perfectly happy; not an
angry word nor a harsh sound was to be heard; everybody
pursued his vocation in the best of humour. The men were
courtly, the children clean, and the women unobtrusive,
refined, as well as comely.
It soon transpired, however, that a stranger from distant
parts had arrived, and before long a crowd accompanied the
fisherman to the Hall of Harmony. Everybody was
intensively interested, and eager to catch a glimpse of the
newcomer.
On arrival at the Hall of Harmony, a magnificent and
stately structure in the temple style, the fisherman was led
to the grand reception room which was paved with marble
and decorated with elaborately carved wood panels and scrolls.
Here the Elder performed a low obeisance in a reverential
manner before a tablet of Confucius which stood in the
centre of a long altar against the back wall. On the altar
were also ranged, on either hand of the tablet, grotesque
sacrificial vessels, tripods, urns, and libation cups, wrought
8

114
THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
in pure gold and precious jadestone; right in front of all
was a splendid bronze censer containing smouldering sandal-
wood, from which a thin wreath of fragrant blue smcke
ascended to the rafters of the vast apartment. The fisher-
man was then conducted to the seat of honour on a dais, and
the Elder, having installed himself on his right, for the
left is the place of honour, commanded that a feast be
prepared, and that the notables of the place be invited to
attend, so that the stranger might be entertained in a
manner worthy of the traditions of the people. Never in
all his life had the poor fisherman received so much attention.
Remonstrances on his part were all of no avail; he simply
had to submit to what was being done in his honour.
As soon as he was seated an attendant brought flowing
robes for him to wear, lest he should feel embarrassed at
being differently clad to his hosts; others presented refresh-
ments, consisting of fruit, cakes, and wine. It was while
partaking of these good things that the Elder imparted to
him the following information.
"There is no need," began the Elder, "for you to tell
us from whence you hail, or how you came; we are aware
of that already. But since you do not know where you are,
let me inform you at once that this is the land of Peach
Bloom, the land of sunshine and perfection, where nothing
ever goes wrong, where the voice of strife and discord is not
heard, and where we are far from the noise and wrangling
of the outer world to which you belong. Men have long.
sought this happy land; but they have sought in vain because
they know not the approach. There is only one road to it,
a road that is beset with hardships and difficulties, and only
those who are worthy may tread it. He who finds the road,
and comes to us, shares in all our joys; he who leaves us to
return once more to the dusty world of confusion may carry
back with him nothing beyond the memory of what he has
seen and the experience he has gained, which he is free to
use for the good of mankind at large, if he knows how.
We detain no one against his will. We have no evil-doers
in our midst, and so need no laws to safeguard our peace;
we have no battles to fight, and so need no implements of
war. No ailments or wasting disease afflict us; no remedies
or cures are therefore needed. There are no crimes here
because there are no evil-doers; for that reason we know no
remorse, no anguish of. heart, no sorrow. Envy, spite,
hatred, selfishness, deceit, cunning, malice,-these, and all
unrighteousness,-have no place here. Our wealth is un-
limited, surpassing by a myriadfold the wealth of all your
earthly kings. Gold and silver and precious stones abound,

THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
115
but we seek them not. Happiness is our inheritance;
happiness born of goodwill and contentment, which naught
can mar, as naught can dim the brightness of the sun, the
eye of the universe which seeth all things. You must not
imagine, however, that we claim any credit for this perfect
state of affairs. We came here as mere mortals from your
benighted world, destitute and in dire distress, fugitives from
the tyranny of one who would fain have taken our lives.
It must be many years since we arrived; we cannot say how
long it is, for we keep no account of time. In those days
there ruled over the newly consolidated Empire of China one
who assumed the proud title of Shih Huang Ti, or First
Emperor. After subduing all the feudal states, this cruel
and relentless monarch waged a ruthless war against us,
the literati of the land. The writings of our ancient Sages
he tore from us and cast into the flames; those of us who
resisted, he destroyed, or sent north to build the Great Wall.
Many perished ignominiously, and there was danger of our
complete extermination as well as the irretrievable loss of
our literature. In the the hour of our affliction we lifted our
voices and cried to the spirit of the Great Master Confucius
to deliver us from the evil days that had fallen upon us, and
to rescue his teachings from the impious hands of our enemy.
Our cry was heard. At a secret conference, an inspiration
came to us; we resolved to fly. In the hush of night we
fled from the diabolical sway of that accursed despot, bring-
ing away with us our written tablets, our sacrificial vessels,
our ceremonial robes, and such of our goods and chattels as
we could carry. We knew not whither we should go; but
we turned our steps towards the mountains, and trusted in
the spirit of the Master to guide us to a safe retreat.
Hampered as we were by the aged and the young of our
band, our pace was necessarily slow, and we were in terror
of being overtaken by the soldiers of the Emperor and led
back as captives to certain death, if not slaughtered by them
on the spot. When day dawned, we hid ourselves in the
crevices of the mountains, and there anxiously awaited
nightfall to resume our flight. It was a day of terrible
suspense; we dared not issue from our hiding places for fear
of being seen; the hours of waiting seemed interminable.
At last the sun sank in the west; twilight passed, and a
dense darkness shrouded the land. We were all ready and
eager to move on; we sallied forth and silently groped our way
along the mountainside. We had not proceeded far when a
strange light appeared ahead of us; a light not dazzling,
yet of pure whiteness, and it came from the bowels of the
mountain. The appearance of this inexplicable light caused

116
THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
us no little apprehension for we knew not what evil it
betokened. To retrace our steps was impossible; rather than
return to the perils left behind, we determined to go forward
and meet what new dangers Fate had in store for us. There-
upon, the younger men of our party bravely led the way,
and by midnight we reached the mouth of a tunnel from
which the light streamed. The tunnel was flooded with
daylight which entered through the opening at the opposite
end; we could see that beyond the opening there was a land
brighter and fairer than the one we were in. We paused to
deliberate as to whether we should pass on, or enter. It
seemed that we had come to the threshold of a land of pro-
mise, and that its portals were thrown open to admit us.
Behind us was darkness, danger and death; before us sun-
shine, hope and promise. We did not hesitate for long; we
entered the tunnel, hastened onward, and soon found our-
selves here, where we have lived in peace and plenty ever
since. Verily, our deliverance was a miracle wrought by our
Master. His spirit had heard our cry of anguish in the night,
and had risen to guide us to this land of perpetual day. We
have placed the token of our gratitude upon yonder altar.
There are no idlers among us; we all toil for the common
weal; we sow and reap; we spin and weave; we cultivate the
gentle arts, and study the Classics. In time we reared this
village as you see it. We are all abundantly provided for,
and there is ample to spare. What say you, friend, do you
care to be one of our number?"
The fisherman had listened to this recital with abated
breath, and when the Elder came to the end of it, he ex-
claimed, "Truly, you have told me a marvellous tale. I do
not doubt a single word; but you must pardon me if I say
there are things in what you relate that I fail to understand.
You tell me that you came here when Shih Huang Ti ruled
the Empire of China. He mounted the throne of Ch'in at
the age of thirteen, over six hundred years ago, and there
have been many rulers since then. Do you mean to say that
you have lived through all those years?"
"I do," replied the Elder. "I also told you that we
keep no account of time. Death does not enter here; we
know neither death nor decay."
"Then this must be the abode of Immortals," observed
the fisherman in a tone of unbelief.
"I assure you this is one of the many spheres wherein
the Immortals reside. The peach of immortality grows in
our gardens."
"In that case, can you tell me how I found my way
here, and by what merit I am entitled to be among you?"

THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
117
"Your merit is recorded in the Book of Fate; it was
Fate that directed your footsteps. Perhaps you are the
re-incarnation of one of the Master's disciples; we cannot
say; that question can only be answered by the Divinity
who shapes the destinies of men.'
While they were thus coversing the guests began to
assemble, and each in turn was formally introduced to the
fisherman, who was greeted by all in the kindest possible
way.
Meanwhile, in the adjoining banquet hall preparations
were proceeding apace on a sumptuous scale. Already
musicians, and singers, and pretty dancing girls had taken
up their proper places on a raised platform to enliven the
feast with their entertainment; the tuning of queer stringed-
instruments, the sound of pipes, and the tinkling of bells
and musical stones, could now be heard. Soon an attendant
announced that the banquet was ready, and to the accom-
paniment of music appropriate to such festive occasions, the
company repaired to the feast. As guest of honour the
fisherman was again assigned his seat on the left-hand side
of the Elder; the rest sat where they pleased. The repast
was fit for the Gods; an interminable number of courses of
fruits and choice viands were served, and great cheer pre-
vailed.
When the feasting was over and all the guests had
departed for their respective homes, the fisherman was
conducted to an elegantly appointed suite of apartments
specially prepared for his occupation.
The next day the fisherman informed the Elder that he
was deeply sensible of the extremely kind treatment he had
received, and had decided to stay; but it was necessary for
for him to return to the world for a little while in order to
settle some urgent affairs. For instance, he had a boat and
various fishing tackle to dispose of, besides other matters
to attend to. He was therefore not quite prepared to quit
the world and all his belongings at such short notice; these
and a hundred and one other similar reasons he urged in
justification of his desire to leave them for a few days.
Alas! 'tis ever thus that mortals plead. How few are
prepared to answer the call from a better land without hesita-
tion or reluctance! The poor creatures of the earth cling
with tenacity to their paltry mundane affairs; they all have
excuses. They have accounts to settle, debts to collect,
lands to dispose of, houses to sell, and a balance sheet to
draw up.
The rich man must see that he is not robbed of
his gold; the miser must count his hoard once more. All
must tarry yet a little longer, and all plead pitifully for a

118
THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
little more time. But the stern Messenger who brings the
summons is inexorable; he heeds no entreaties and brooks
no delay. His call is imperative and must be obeyed at once.
He does not appear before his time; but when that time is
at hand, not an instant's grace is vouchsafed. If the
balance sheet is not ready, and a proper statement of
accounts is not rendered, so much the worse; the forfeit
must be paid.
In answer to the fisherman the Elder replied, "I have
told you that we do not detain anyone here against his wish;
whoever is desirous of returning to the world is at liberty to
do so.
We will escort you to the road by which you came
whenever you are ready to start.'
"
"I will start at once," said the fisherman; for the sooner
I depart, the sooner shall I return.
"We hope to see you again soon," said the Elder; "but
be sure that on your return you do not miss the way," he
added significantly.
"I shall not miss the way," rejoined the fisherman con-
fidently; "there is only one road, and I am sure I shall I find
it again without trouble."
The people who had received the fisherman so cordially
on his arrival now accompanied him back to the mountain.
They left the village, crossed the limpid stream over the
same little willow pattern bridge and halted at the identical
spot where the fisherman first stood as one entranced at sight
of this beautiful land; but lo! there was no tunnel. The
opening he had come through was hermetically closed with a
huge stone. At a given word from the Elder, however, the
immense stone slowly rolled aside of its own accord and dis-
closed the passage by which the fisherman had gained his
entrance to the land of Peach Bloom on the previous day.
"This is the way to your world," said the Elder; "but
before you leave us to return to it, we pray you to restore
to us the garments of this country. I have told you that
he who returns once more to the dusty world of confusion
may carry back with him nothing beyond the memory of
what he has seen, and the experience he has gained, which
he is free to use for the good of mankind, if he knows how."
In response to this, the fisherman quickly divested him-
self of the flowing robes of curious fabrics that had been given
him in the Hall of Harmony, remarking, as he did so, that
he hoped they would be given back to him when he returned.
"Certainly, when you return we shall most assuredly
give them back to you," said the Elder.
Now standing in the common garb of his class, the
fisherman bade farewell to the Elder and the rest of the

THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
119
party, and once more thanked them profusely for the great
kindness they had shown him. "Our parting will only be
for a little while," said he, "for I shall return as soon as
my affairs are put in order.
With these words he stepped into the tunnel and walked
forward as fast as the uneven ground permitted.
When he came out into the open air again at the other
end, it happened to be a raw, cold day, with a dull leaden
sky overhead. A bleak wind blew from the north and chilled
him to the bone. The peach blossoms had gone, all the
trees were bare, and not a trace of springtime was to be seen
anywhere, for it was winter. In his scant clothing he stood
shivering with cold in the biting blast, mystified and startled
beyond measure at the complete change that had taken
place in his brief absence. He did not realize that he had
been to a land where time has no significance, where moments
do not fly and years never roll by. To him his absence
seemed but only a day and a night; in reality two seasons had
passed. Little wonder then that he could not account for
the desolate sight that met his eyes, nor the piercing cold that
almost paralysed his limbs. Remembering that his home
was not far off, he drew his thin jacket tightly about him,
and with shoulders bent, ran with all his might to the edge
of the stream where he had left his boat. The boat was
there, though in a very dilapidated condition; every article
in it had been removed, except a rotten remnant of the net
which hung over the side and draggled in the icy water. It
was useless to bother about the boat under the circum-
stances, so he quickly made his way home on foot.
On arrival at his hut he met with another unpleasant
surprise; his neighbours had taken full possession of all his
property. These good people never expected him to return
after the unsuccessful search made at the time of his myster-
ious disappearance; they thought he was dead. When he
suddenly burst in upon them in his out-of-season garments,
shivering with cold, panting for breadth, his teeth chattering,
his eyes starting from their sockets, and a wild expression of
amazement in his face, they were alarmed, and took him for
the incarnation of an evil spirit. But when he began to
expostulate and insisted that he had only been absent one
day, they all agreed that he had lost his senses, and that
the proper thing to do was to march him off to the Magis-
trate's Yamên at Wuling before he committed any violence
upon them; so closing round him in a ring, they seized him
by the arms and led him off.
At the yamên the hapless fisherman was consigned to
the not very tender mercies of the chief gaoler, a slouching,

120
THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
arrogant fellow of savage countenance and devoid of com-
passion. This important personage, whose rapacity for gain
never allowed a prisoner to pass without the closest scrutiny
of his practised eyes, soon perceived that the fisherman was
not a promising sort of subject for the extraction of pecuniary
benefits, and accordingly loaded him with chains, and un-
ceremonicusly bundled him into a filthy, reeking cell, there
to be kept under observation as a dangerous character, and
held in durance vile until such time as it would suit the
Magistrate to enquire into his case. Here the fisherman,
left to himself and his thoughts, had ample leisure to medi-
tate on the instability of human affairs, the vicissitudes of
life, and the fickleness of fortune. In a strange land he had
been received with open arms and generously treated by
strangers; but when he returned to his own kin, to claim his
own, he was abused, roughly handled, taken for an evil
incarnation and cast into prison. All these reflections so
embittered his soul that he resolved, should he ever escape
alive from his miserable predicament, to abandon all and
return at once to the land of sunshine beyond the hills. After
spending several unenviable days, and worse nights, in con-
finement with vermin for company, one frosty grey morning
he was roughly dragged out to appear before the Magistrate.
Now it happened that the Magistrate of the important
City of Wuling was a man of vast experience, keen intellect,
and sound judgment. When the fisherman knelt before him
in open court and told his simple tale, the Magistrate decided
at once that he was not a madman, and that the words he
spoke bore the impress of truth. He therefore ordered the
prisoner to be released forthwith, and he further gave judg-
ment for the immediate restoration to him of all his belong.
ings. The fisherman bowed his head to the ground as an
expression of his gratitude, and was about to rise and depart
when the Magistrate again addressed him.
"You have told us," said the Magistrate, "of a wonder-
ful passage in the hills that leads to a wonderful land of never
fading verdure. I have never before heard of any such
passage, nor of any such land in this neighbourhood; but as
I firmly believe there is something supernatural at the bottom
of this very extraordinary adventure of yours, I desire you
to conduct one of my officers to the spot and show him the
tunnel so that we may gather some further particulars re-
garding a subject which is not only of paramount importance
to this District, but which, I opine, must be of peculiar
interest to the lettered classes throughout the realm. It is
my duty, therefore, to investigate the matter as far as I can.'
The fisherman said he would gladly show the way to the

THE LAND OF PEACH BLOOM
121
tunnel, and left the Yamên with an officer and a train of
Yamên-runners who followed out of mere curiosity.
When they came to the bank of the stream where the
boat had been left, the fisherman said the opening was at the
foot of the hill directly opposite to where they stood, though,
strange to relate, no light could be seen. The party then
advanced to the place indicated, but in spite of a most care-
ful search, no opening of any sort could be found. They
scoured the hillside for miles in both directions without
discovering as much as a rabbit hole. The tunnel had dis-
appeared completely and mysteriously, without leaving the
least trace anywhere of its former existence. Then they climb-
ed the hills to look over the other side; they saw nothing but
a vast barren waste stretching its dreary expanse as far away
as the eye could see. The land of Peach Bloom had
vanished, vanished forever like a vision in a golden dream
to nobody knows where.
The fisherman now saw how foolish he had been not to
remain with the Immortals when he had the chance to. He
also now understood the full meaning of the Elder's caution
about not missing the way when he was ready to return.
It was his desire to return to his petty earthly affairs that
lost him paradise.
Some years later, a distinguished scholar and Con-
fucianist named Li Tzu-chi went to the hills of Ch'ang-tê Fu
hoping to find the way to the wonderful land of Peach Bloom.
He lived in their vicinity for many years till he died; but he
never found the tunnel, and never once did he see the light
on the hillside. Since his death the search has been aban-
doned. Wise men say to-day that the land of Peach Bloom
lies in another sphere far beyond this world, and surely they
are right.