NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE,
BOTANY AND THE ZOOLOGY
OF CHINA.
B. W. SKVORTZOW.
I. DYE-PLANTS AND DYE-STUFFS OF MANCHURIA.'
Manchuria is a country extremely rich in agricultural
products. It is not only famous for its cereals, but also in
technical plants, especially the soja beans, flax and dye
plants. At the present time the production of beans in-
creases with each year, as also does the sowing and export
from the country of materials for weaving. With regard to
dye plants each year sees a decrease in the production of this
economic product. Its decline arises from the appearance
in the market of the cheaper and more abundant foreign
aniline dyes. It is disappearing in spite of the fact that
formerly Manchuria was celebrated for its production of a
blue dye, closely resembling the true indigo (Indigofera
tinctoria L.). This cultivation of dye plants in Manchuria
has followed the fate of all similar productions when the
cheap chemically manufactured article appeared on the
market. The same took place in the West of Europe, where
the cultivation of madder (Rubia tinctoria L.), a former very
important commercial industry has also died out. The de-
cline in the industry of organic dye is to be observed now in
China, where in ancient times one madder was cultivated for
red dye and another-Isatis tinctoria L. for its blue, a third
for saffron (Carthamus tinctoria L.) red, and finally, in South
China the true indigo, from which is got the best blue dye.
One cannot depict too vividly the unfortunate effect
which the war in Europe, which has already been raging for
several years, has had on the dye industry in North China,
where, before the war, the culture of dye plants fell off
largely in some places and in others owing to the great import
of cheap aniline dyes completely disappeared. Now when
See "The dye plants in Manchuria," by B. W. Skvortzow (in
the Mag. "Rural Economy in North Manchuria," No. 7-8, 1918,
Harbin).
4

50
50
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
the chemical dyes have increased in price and have ceased
to come from foreign countries a change has been observed.
Besides, during the last three years the sowing of dye plants
has been revived in Manchuria and in China but it is un-
certain how long this will last. In like manner the dis-
appearing in the Far East of the Chinese dye stuffs industry
again becomes of interest to the local trade. In Manchuria
in the present time only the dye knot-weed is of industrial
use, the other kinds are not much known on the markets.
Certainly amongst the dye-plants we found some not worthy
of attention, but others are of much interest and must be
specially studied. The following is the list of these plants:-
1.-Dye knot-weed. (Polygonum tinctorium Lour.)
(Liao-lan). It is an annual plant with a straight
branchy stalk, two feet in height. The leaves are dark green,
cordiform and of a whole piece. Flowers, being small and of
red colour, are collected in wrists on the end of the stalks.
The plant is cut down to make dye when the flowers present
a violet shade. It is cultivated in great quantities by
Chinese to make the blue dye. They detain this dye after
the fermenting of the leaves. The dye of the dye knot-weed
resembles true indigo very much, which grows only in
tropical regions and in South China. It has ovalshaped
leaves, with reddish flowers.
2.-Rose-mallow or holly-hock (Althaea rosea Cav.)-
(Shu-k'uei), (Jung-k'uei). It is a biennial or
perennial plant with branchy root, and a straight stalk from
1 to 2 meters in height. Leaves are alternant, stalkly,
roundish cordiform and wrinkled. Flowers are 5 to 7 cm.
in diameter and of rose colour. It is cultivated in Kirin and
Fengtien provinces, where the Chinese make rose dye of the
flower leaves.
3.-Saffron (Carthamus tinctorius L.)-E (Hung-
lan-hua), 紅花 (Hung-hua),黃藍(Huang-lan),菜花
(Yao-hua). It is an annual plant with prickly, ovalshaped
leaves and large yellow flowers. This plant is rarely culti-
vated in South Manchuria to make a red dye.
4.-Commelina (Commelina communis L.) An annual
plant with a straight, juicy, green stalk and small sharp
leaves. Flowers somewhat small, clear-blue. Commelina
is not often cultivated by Chinese, Coreans, in the Far East
for the sky-blue-dye.
5.-Spiked-millet (Setaria italica Beauv.)-(Liang),
(Ku-tzu), (Hsiao-mi). It is the common annual
graminaceous plant cultivated in China. Spiked-millet is
used also by Chinese to prepare a dye. The dried, yellowish
straw of Setaria must be burnt, the ashes are boiled in water

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
51
and in such a solution the linen is dyed to a grey colour.
Such dye is not lasting and is employed mostly in villages
for its cheapness.
6.-Dahurian larch-tree. (Larix dahurica Turcz). This
is a compact high tree originally growing in the mountainous
districts of the Far East generally. From the rose-red bark
of this tree the natives of the Amur river basin prepare a
dirty rose dye.
7. Acer or maple-tree. (Acer Ginnala Maxim). It is
grown in all parts of the country mostly in the vicinity of
little mountain rivers. It is a shrub which grows to the
height of 5 or 6 meters, with a light-brown bark full of
wrinkles, trilobate dark green leaves. It is employed by the
Chinese to make a black dye.
8.-Buck-thorn (Rhamnus globosus Bunge and R.
dahurica Pall).一李(Shu-li), 牛李(Niu-li),由李 (Shan-li).
These two shrubs or trees are found on all mountainous
districts in the Far East. The leaves of these plants, when
dried become a bluish or rather dark blue tint and from them
the Chinese get a special green dye, resembling true indigo.
9.-Alder-tree (Alnus fruticosa Rupr). This is a large
shrub or tree with ovalshaped leaves. From the dark bark
of this alder the natives of the Amur river prepare a brown
dye.
10. Sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.)-(Hsiang-
jih-kuei), H. It is extensively cultivated through out
the Far East and a variety of the plant with black seeds is
used by Chinese to dye the cloth a black-grey colour. By
boiling the seeds in water a black liquid is got and the cloth
is dyed.
11.-Berberry (Berberis amurensis Rupr. and B. sinensis
Desp.) The Chinese and the Amur berberry are very com-
mon in Manchuria and Russian Far East. The bark of these
shrubs contains an alkaloid-berberin which is employed by
the local Chinese to make a yellow dye.
12. Velvet or velvet-tree (Phellodendron Amurense
Rupr.)-(Po-mu), (Huang-po). It is a common
tree in all parts of the Far East with a velvety soft bark and
a yellow-liber. The Russian the Chinese and the natives
employ this liber to dye linen and silk in a yellowish brown
colour by boiling the liber and the cloth together.
13. Bud marigold. (Bidens tripartita L.)-
An annual plant with trilobate leaves and big yellowish
flowers. It grows in all parts of the district in marshy
places. The local Chinese get a black dye from this plant.
14.-White birch. (Betula platyphylla Suc.)-**
. A very common tree in mountains of the Far East.

52
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
Many years ago the bark of this birch was used by Chinese
to dye the mustache and hair, but now they have lost this
art.
15.-Manchurian nut-tree (Juglans mandshurica Maxim).
The nuts of this tree common in the country are used by
Chinese to prepare a black dye, when they are not perfectly
ripe.
16. Sumach (Rhus semialata Murr)-(Yen-
fu-tzu), (Fu-mu), (Fu-yang). It is found on the
frontiers of Manchuria and Corea. On the shrub a certain
insect produces the "nut galls" which are used to dye the
cloth a black colour and to make many kinds of inks.
17. Balsam. (Impatiens Balsamina L.)-1
This is the common garden plant in China.
The flowers of balsam in combination with alum are em-
ployed by the Chinese to prepare a finger-nail dye which is
used by women in the villages.
18.-Oak-tree. (Qercus sp.)-Li. The bark of
several kinds of oaks with sulphate of iron is used by Chinese
in South Manchuria to dye silk in yellow and black colours.
II. ON THE FOSSIL ANIMALS OF NORTH MANCHURIA.
The geological investigations made by E. Anert² in
Manchuria are the most serious and scientific of all the
works on this question. In Anert's book and other geological
articles nothing is indicated about the paleontological find-
ings.
Generally at the present time many persons have an
impression, that in North Manchuria there are no fossils.
True, they are very rare, but they exist. Here mostly are
met the ammonites of the Jurassic period in the dolomitic
aggregates. The North Manchuria ammonites are small and
have been seen in a stone-pit near the railway station
Inmienpo and on mountain-rocks round the Maoershan
station. Here the Jurassical fossils are not so richly re-
presented as in the case of extremely crystallized limestone.
Not far from Harbin at the beginning of the Ch'eng-kuan-
ts'ai-ling mountains, at the railway station, Erh-cheng-
chiang-tze, there is a hill composed of devonian limestone,
which is extremely rich in fossil shells (Spirifer moskowensis).
The paleontological findings of the tertiary time in
Manchuria are little known. So, the unique vertebra of
mammoth (Elephas primigenius) was found at Harbin in the
sand of the Sungari valley, but it is probable, that the bone
Anert, E. The Travels in Manchuria. S. Petersburg, 1907.

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
53
was brought to this place by the river from the North, the
Nonni river and Hingan mountains. At the present time on
the West of North Manchuria there are discovered some
tertiary and post-tertiary remains. In the Chalanor coal-
mines, which are of the post-tertiary period the horns and
bones of the primitive oxen (Bos primigenius) and jaw-bone
teeth and skulls of rhinoceros (Rhinoceros tichorhinus) are
often found. It is very remarkable also to find at the source
of the Nonni river a whole cemetery of rhinoceros, which
calls for attention and careful study.
Some fossils collected in North Manchuria are now at
Harbin in the "Mountain" department of the Chinese East
Railway Administration, in the museum of the Commercial
School, in the museum of the Petrograd Mountain Institute,
and also in private hands.
It is probable that in the future the remains of rhino-
ceros and mammoth will also be found in other parts of
the Manchuria districts, seeing that already there have been
similar discoveries in Japan and in North China.
It is very difficult to get the fossil bones here and to
register the findings is almost impossible, since the local
Chinese grind the bones of primitive animals to a powder,
which is used in native medicine. For this reason we can
often see in some Chinese medicine shops in Manchuria the
horns of the primitive boxes and these curious goods indicate
that here they are not a great rarity.
III. THE FRESH-WATER ALGAE FROM THE PONDS
OF SOUTH CHINA.
The present note represents the results of the investiga-
tion of a small collection, kindly gathered for me by Mrs.
W. R. Myers in the environs of Foochow, and the material
was examined in the Petrograd Academy of Science in 1917.
The algae sent were collected in different ponds situated not
far from the Chinese and foreign buildings. These were
covered with the very small tropical water plants-Wolffia
arrhiza Wimm. and Spirodela polyrhiza Schleid, Salvinia
natans L., Marsilia quadrifolia L.
Other samples were gathered on the shore of larger and
deeper ponds overgrown with lotus plants (Nelumbium
speciosum Willd.) Salvinia natans L. and water-chestnuts
(Trapa nutans L.).
The basin wholly covered with Wolffia was very dirty.
Here the most noticeable algae were-Pandorina morum,
Eudorina elegans, Nitzschia stagnorum, Hantzschia amph-
ioxys, Scenedesmus obliquus and Crucigenia triangularis, as
well as a number of bacteria and infusoria.

54
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
Another picture represents the ponds overgrown with
water-chestnuts and lotus. There were discovered a great
quantity of the inferior vegetable organisms. Such species
as-Achnanthes lanceolata, A. hungarica, Navicula cuspidata,
Amphora ovalis, Trachelomonas volvocina, Phacus pyrum,
Polyedrium minimum, Dictyosphaerium Ehrenbergianum,
were more often observed, than-Scenedesmus bijugatus S.
quadricauda, Lepocinclis Bütschii, Phacus caudata, Ph. long-
icauda, Ph. Myersii, etc.
The mud of this pond was of a greenish-yellow color for
the reason that it contains clay. Here we meet many
Diatomaceae the list of which is given below.
Several kinds of Nitzschia, and the variety of Surirella
ovalis, Navicula cuspidata, Oscillaria princeps, O. tenerrima,
Spirulina gomontii and Arthrospira jenneri, which were
found in the mire, show the dirty state of the ground.
The systematical composition of algae discovered in the
collection was interesting. Altogether there were defined
125 forms. The most remarkable were the various
Euglenaceae among which has been discovered 6 new forms.
The list of all the organisms is as follows:-
Melosira varians Agardh.
M. granulata Ehrenb.
M. islandica O. Müll. subsp.
helvetica O. Müll.
Cyclotella comta (Ehrenb.) Kütz.
Flagilaria construens (Ehrenb.)
Grunow var. pusilla Grunow.
F. Crotonensis Kitton.
Synedra Ulna var. splendens
Kutz.
Eunotia pectinalis Kutz. var..
curta V. Heurck.
E. diodon Ehrenb.
E. lunaris Ehrenb.
E. flexuosa Kutz.
Achnanthes lanceolata Breb.
A. hungarica Grunow.
Cocconeis placentula Ehrenb.
Diploneis ovalis Hilze.
Navicula cuspidata Kutz.
N. ambigua Ehrenb.
Pinnularia gentilis Donkin.
P. mesolepta Ehrenb.
Stauroneis anceps Ehrenb.
Gyrosigma acuminatum Kutz.
var. curta Grunow.
G. scalproides Roebenh.
Gomphonema gracile (Ehrenb.)
Grunow var. pusilla Grunow.
G. parvulum Kutz.
G. lanceolata Ehrenb.
G. augur Ehrenb.
G. constrictum Ehrenb var. curta
Ehrenb.
Cymbella cuspidata Kutz.
C. tumida Breb.
Amphora ovalis Kutz.
A. perpusilla Grunow.
Rhopalodia ventricosa (Grunow)
0. Müll.
Rh. zibberula (Kutz) O. Müll
var. producta Grunow.
Rh. giba (Ehrenb) O. Mull.
Nitzschia sigma W. Sm. var.
sigmatella Grunow.
N. obtusa W. Sm. var. brevis-
sima Grunow.
N. Palea Kutz.
N. acicularis Kutz f. t.
N. stagnorum Rabenh.
N. acicularis Kutz var. closter-
oides Grunow.
N. vermicularis (Kutz) hantzsed.
Hantzschia amphioxys (Kutz.)
Grun. var. pusilla Dippel.
H. amphioxys (Kutz)Grunow f.t.
Cimotopleura solea Breb.
Surirella ovalis Breb. var. minuta
Breb.
S. ovalis var. pinnata (W. S.)
V. Heurck.
S. ovalis var. ovata Kutz.
S. elegans Ehrenb.
S. linearis W. Sm.

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
Pandorina morum Bory.
Eudorina elegans Ehrenb.
Dictyosphaerium Ehrenbergian-
um Naeg.
Trochiscia sporoides (Reinsch)
Hansg.
Polyedrium reticulatum Reinsch.
P. trigonum Naeg. f. crassum
Reinsch.
P. minimum A. Br.
Rhaphidium
fasciculatum kg.
var. spirale Turn.
Schroederia setigera (Schroed)
Lemm.
Scenedesmus quadricauda (Turp.)
Breb.
S. hystrix Lagerh. var. acutifor-
mis (Schroed.) Chod.
S. bigugatus (Turp.) Kg.
S. obliguus (Turp.) Kg.
Crucigenia rectangularis (A. Br.)
Schmidle.
C. Tetrapedia (Kirch) W. et G.
S. West.
Actinastrum Hantzschii Largerh.
Pediastrum Boryanum (Turp.)
Menegh.
P. tricornutum Borge.
P. duplex Meyen.
Ophiocytium capitatum Wolle.
var. longispinum (Moeb.) Lemm.
Ulothrix tenuis Kg.
Oedogonium eardiacum (Hass.)
Wittr carbonicum Wittr.
Roya obtusa (Breb.) W. and G.
West.
Closterium Venus Kutz.
C. moniliferum (Bory) Ehrenb.
C. gracile Breb.
C. exiguum W. and G. West.
Pleurotaenium Ehrenbergii.
(Breb) De Bary.
Cosmarium Hammeri Reinsch.
C. granatum Breb.
C. granatum var. subgranatum
Nordst.
C. angulosum Breb. var. con-
cinuum (Rabench) W. and G.
West.
C. humile (Gay) Nordst. var.
glabrum Gr.
C. punctulatum Breb. var. sub-
punctulatum (Nordst.) Borg.
C. reniforme (Ralfs) Arch.
Staurastrum muticum Breb.
S. subcruciatum Cooke et Wills.
S. punctulatum Breb.
Oscillaria princeps Nauch.
0. tenerrima Kg.
O. Mougeotii Kg.
55
Arthrospira jenneri (Hass.) Stit.
Spirulina gomontii Gutw.
Lyngbya contorta Lemm.
Petalonema velutinum (Rabenh.)
Migula.
Euglena viridis Ehrenb.
E. sanguinea Ehrenb.
E. acus Ehrenb.
E. acus var. minor Hansg.
Lepocinclis Butschlii Lemm.
Phachs longicauda (Ehrenb.)Duj.
Ph. longicauda var. torta Lemm.
Ph. acuminata Stokes.
Ph. caudata Hubner.
Ph. orbicularis var. undulata
Skvortzow.
Ph. pyrum (Ehrenb.) Stein.
Ph. Myersii nov. sp.
Diagnosis Cellula ovalis
32-34 microns longa, 30 microns
lata. Membrana striata et un-
dulata granulis paramilaceus 3,
anuliformibus Chlorophoris viri-
dibus, numerosis.
Trachelomonas volvocina Ehrenb.
T. volvocina var. subglobosa
Lemm.
T. verrucosa Stokes var. minor
Skvortzow.
T. granulata Swir. var. elegans
Skvortzow.
T. rotunda Swir.
T. similis Stokes.
T. crebra Kell var. dentata
Lemm.
T. fluviatilis Lemm. var. curvata
Lemm.
T. fluviatilis var. granulata nov.
var.
Diagnosis Testa hyalina,
ovata 57 microns longa, 22
microns lata, parte pasteriore
cauda apicalis praedita. Polo
flagelli 5, 7 microns lato. Mem-
brana Omni granulis robustis
ornata. Chlorophoris viridi bus,
numerosis discoideis. Stigmo
rubro. (micron = 1/1000 mm.)
granulis paramylaceis parvis.
T. Swirenko Skvortzow.
T. volgensis Lemm. var. javanica
(Woloszynska) Lemm.
T. volgensis Lemm. var. chin-
ensis nov. var.
Diagnosis "Testa brunnea,
fere globosa, 38-70 microns longa,
21-23 microns lata. Poro flagelli
27.3 microns lato, parte poste-

56
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
rior cauda praedita. Cauda 10
microns longa. Membrana gra-
nulata. Chlorophoris discoideis,
5-5.5 microns latis, pyrenoidibus
null's. Stigmate rubro. Granu-
lis paramylaceis numerosis, dis-
coideis."
T. Schanislandii Lemm.
T. piscatoris (Fischer) Stokes
var. granulata nov. var.
Diagnosis "Testa abrupta
ovali aut subglobosa, 29.7-30
microns longa, 16.2-18 microns
lata. Membrana brunnea, regu-
lariter, granulata. Collare recto,
5.7 microns lato. Chlorophoris
numerosis, discoideis."
T. ovalis Daday.
T. ovalis Daday var. chinensis
nov. var.
Diagnosis "Testa ovalis,
brunnea, 28 microns longa, 16
microns lata. Poro flagelli recto,
5.6 microns latus, valls circum-
dato. Parte posteriore granula
praedita."
T. Silvatica Swir.
T. hispida (Perty) Stein var.
rugosus nov. var.
Diagnosis "Testa ovali,
brunnea, 20 microns longa, 16
microns lata. Porus flagelli col-
lare nullus. Membrana aspera.
Chlorophoris discoideis."
T. chinensis Skvortzow.
IV. ON THE STUDY OF THE MANCHURIAN WHEAT.
Who does not know that Manchuria is the richest wheat
country in China? At the present time in the Northern part
of it the culture of this cereal takes more than two millions
of acres and the total yield every year comes to 20 millions
of piculs. The sowing of wheat yearly increases as well as
the export to the Russian Far East. Manchuria grows in
commercial importance from year to year.
The local wheat is composed not only of one botanical
form, but contains a combination of different kinds and
varieties. The botanical composition of the Manchurian
wheat is very irregular and the following list will show
this:-
SMOOTH WHEAT. (Triticum vulgare Vill).
1.-White bearded wheat. (T. vulgare var. erythros-
permum Keke.) There are bearded white spikes, with reddish
grain, the weight of which is more than the grains of white
unbearded wheat.
2.-White unbearded wheat. (T. vulgare var. lutescens
Al.). The form without beards with white spikes and red
grains. These grains are better than the grains of the white
bearded wheat.
3.-Red bearded wheat. (T. vulgare var. ferrugineum.
Al.). The spikes are bearded, with reddish grains. The
second and the third forms are not very different from each
other and their grains are of the same quality as the white
bearded wheat.
4.-T. vulgare var. coesium Al. This variety has gray-
blue bearded spikes.
5.-Red unbearded wheat. The spikes are red without
beards and have reddish grains.

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
HARD WHEAT. (Triticum durum Dest).
57
6.-T. durum var. affinae Keke. It is a bearded form,
with white spikes and red grains.
7.-T. durum var. Herdeiforme Host. The variety with
bearded reddish spikes and white grains.
DWARF WHEAT. (Triticum compactum Host.)
8.-T. compactum var. icterinum Al. This is the most
extensive form among the dwarf varieties of wheats. It has
bearded white spikes, red grains, short thick, quadratic stalk,
and a very good quality of seed.
9.-T. compactum var. Wernerianum Keke. The form
with unbearded white spikes and reddish grains.
10.-T. compactum var. creticum Mazzucato.
wheat with red unbearded spikes and reddish grains.
11. T. compactum var. crinaceum Keke.
with red, bearded spikes and reddish grains.
The
The form
12.-T. compactum var. atriceps Keke. The wheat with
the black bearded spikes.
The most common forms of all the twelve wheats,
indicated just now will be-the, white bearded, white un-
bearded, red bearded, red unbearded and one variety of the
dwarf wheat (var. icterinum.) Manchurian wheat pre-
eminently consists of smooth wheat and among the latter the
white bearded predominates, which at times amounts to as
much as 50% of the grains. In North Manchuria the Chinese
distinguish two sorts of wheat, not from a botanical point of
view, but rather by weight or proportion of the grains and by
the locality of production.
The first is with the oblong, big and heavy grains and
this kind is considered to be the best one. The second sort
is smaller and has light grains and belongs to the inferior
kind. The lightest wheat is from the environs of the
Bodune, from the Sungari valley; but as regards the grains
growing on the west and north of Harbin it is a still worse
quality.
The origin of the Manchurian wheat is very complex.
It is formed by means of a mixture of different kinds coming
from Middle and North China, European Russia, West
Siberia and America. Here these wheats were affected by
the local climate and thus formed the Manchurian wheat-
remarkable for its rapid maturity.
V. ON THE BEETLES AND BUTTERFLIES OF THE FAR EAST.
For a long time the insects of Manchuria and Russian
Far East have presented a great interest to zoologists, but
they have not been fully studied, though much has been

58
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
written about them. Several hundred kinds of beetles are
known, but most of them are described as being in the
Ussuri and Amur provinces. Collections of beetles from
these places can be seen in many European museums. It is
interesting to note that while on the beetles of the Far East
there are more than twenty scientifice articles, on the beetles
of Manchuria only three brief remarks exist giving a descrip-
tion of not more than 100 kinds. The beetles of the Far East
belong to the paleonarctic districts (Japan, Corea, Man-
churia, Ussuri province and North China) and they are
composed of elements common to Central America, (as
Callipogon, Phellopsis, Plectrura, Cupes, Lavguria, Ceph-
alcon), India (Ithone, Dorysthenes, Colasposoma, Nodas-
toma, Typerodes), endemical elements (Captolabrus, Eucy-
alestes, Pseudopidonia, Sieversia) and specially of paleonar-
tical errasical species.3 The fauna of the beetles of the
Manchuria district is richly represented, here we meet the
beautiful tiger-beetles (Cicindela); among the different Cara-
bus the Amurian kind-Captolabrus smargdinus is remark-
able for its brightly metallic green wing-shells and gold
front-back. In the mountainous part of Manchuria no less
beautiful is a separate variety of this beetle, also of a green
colour, but with black spots more strongly marked. To these
forms belong the Stark Carabus (Acaptolabrus Starkii) and it
is interesting to note also the Carabus elegans with brightly
metallic-green wing-shells with a red rim on the border.
Here we meet also various casside-insects pre-eminently
living in subtropical parts of the world. They are very pretty
insects with transparent wing-shells and in size remind one
of lady-birds. Beside the arctic representatives in all parts
of the country reside the tropical species and some of them
may have the forms of the ancient tetrial nature. From the
capricorn-beetles it is not impossible to mention a beautiful
kind-Aromia Sieversi, with brightly-green wing-shells and red
front back. The largest beetle in this district is an enormous
capricorn-Callipogon relictus from the family of Ceram-
bycidae (see fig. 1). Outwardly it resembles the European
capricorn or goatchafer-beetles, but he surpasses them by
2-2 times in size and reaches 8 cm. in length. His head
is well adapted to get food and is decorated by antennae, and
the wing-shells are of a dark-brown colour. Besides his size
Callipogon is also remarkable for his relatives numbering
See the article of Semenow-Tienshansky in the works of the
Russian Entomol. Soc. Vol. XXXII, 1899, p. 562-580 (Supplementary
information see Russian Entomol. Review II, 1902, p. 321-324 and
IV, 1907, p. 220-227.

Fig. 1. Callipogon relictus
[see page 58]
Fig. 2. Papilio bianor var. Maakii.
[see page 59]

пепел
Fig. 1. Trachelomonas Wislouchii Skvortz.
[see page 62]
Fig. 2. Trachelomonas peridiniformis Skvort.
[see page 62]

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
59
3 species and found in Central America. This giant was
found first in the Ussuri province near the villages of Petro-
palovka and Anuchin, then near the station Viazemskaia, and
finally in North Manchuria and the railway station Inmienpo.
In Manchurian districts this beetle is rare and in Europe only
8-10 specimens are known. It has a great commercial value.
Then not less curious are the stag-beetles, ground and water
beetles; the least known of them are the small ones.
The butterflies of the Far East have been explored by a
number of naturalists and are well known. The collection.
of these beautiful insects can be seen in Paris, in London, in
Petrograd Academy of Science, in the museum in Harbin,
Vladivostock, Habarovsk and in many other places. Beside
the arctic forms of butterflies, we find in Manchuria some big
representatives related to or identical with the kinds of
Southern Asia. For the most part these are Japanese,
Corean and Chinese forms. One of the biggest but common
kind of swallow-tails in that district is the Papilio bianor
var. Maakii (see fig. 2).
With the open wings it is 12 cm. in width. The wings
are blue-black colour with a bluish-greenish reflex, single red
eyes and long tails on lower wings. Ordinarily this variety
occurs in Corea, Japan, Manchuria, North China and in the
maritime provinces. Here are also other and different
swallow-tails; the member of the genus Thecla, Lycana, is
very interesting-Colias aurora, for its two forms-white and
orange coloured. More than 200 kinds of butterflies are
found in Manchuria not counting the moths, which are little
known, but which are very numerous. One of the most
beautiful kinds of this last tribe is the Astias mandschurica
of the family Saturnidae, with light greenish large wings,
and extremely long lower-tails. This remarkable beauty flies
at night and is very common in mountain forests. The Man-
churian form has some near relatives in Japan, in Spain, and in
North America; other kinds of this species occur in Japan,
China, India and in the Himalaya mountains. Besides the
Astias some other kinds have a wonderful distribution. First
we must mention-Erastria distinguenda of the Noctuidae
family. It inhabits the Manchurian districts, Japan, Corea
and after an enormous interval in space, again appears in
North-West Caucasus. Zethes musculus has the same
distribution. Here we find one form, namely Brachmaea
certhia of subtropical family Brahmalidae. The proximate
kinds to this are living in Asia Minor, others in Caucasus and
the remaining forms are known in Japan, India and Africa.
It is possible to show many such facts, but it is necessary
to be careful since the butterflies of Siberia and border

60
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
countries have been little studied but it is probable that the
indicated forms would be found there. Certainly a further
exploration will show a clearer picture of the origin and
composition of these insects.
VI. OBSERVATIONS ON THE RIVER SOFT TORTOISE
IN NORTH MANCHURIA.
In the Far East in the Amur basin and other rivers in
this district is often seen a particular tortoise-Amyda Maackii
Brandt. It belongs to the family of soft river tortoises
(Trionychidae), which is now confined only to the warmer
regions of South and East Asia, North America and Africa.
During the middle portion of the Tertiary period they were
extremely abundant in all parts of Asia and Europe, but at
the present time are extinct in Europe and in North Asia.
It is specially interesting to find that of the 25 existing kinds
of soft tortoises, 15 are in the South and East of Asia, 7 in
North America and 6 in Africa. The Amyda Maackii
resembles the American form-T. ferox-and also at times
reaches the same size. This tortoise is characterised by
having its shells covered with a thin greenish-olive skin and
by a long snake-like neck, which together with the head can
be completely withdrawn. The young specimens have a
back of a light colour and are covered with longitudinal lines.
of small knobs which disappear when they are full grown.
Sometimes this tortoise grows to the weight of 60 pounds in
North Manchuria, and once in 1917 such a tortoise was
caught at Harbin. The Amyda appears at the end of March
and in April, lays its eggs on the sandy shore of islands and
sand banks, buries its eggs in the sand to a depth of ten
inches; when the small tortoises are hatched, they strive to
swim from the river into the water courses and ancient beds
of rivers covered with stagnent water, where they feel them-
selves safe, and stay a long time. The tortoises are about
10 to 20 cm. in size and are usualy found in rivers, they are
very timid. During the day they are rarely seen on the
shore but commonly on the surface of the water especially
towards evening and in calm weather: when they hear a
noise they put their heads and long necks out of the water.
In some places in North Manchuria the Chinese soft tortoise
is so abundant that their eggs are eaten and serve as an
article in the local Chinese trade. The Chinese adroitly seek
their nests by following the tracks of the tortoise.
The
Chinese do not much use it as food on account of popular
superstition. The larger specimens are dangerous; their bite
is very severe and the local Chinese are not infrequently

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
61
The Amyda
bitten by them whilst bathing in rivers.
Maackii can be seen not only in the Amur and Sungari rivers,
but also in the Nonni, Choal and the northern affluents of
the Amur. This tortoise is extremely abundant in Northern
parts of China and represents a characteristic reptile of
East Asia.
VII. ON THE
THE FRESH WATER SHRIMPS IN MANCHURIA
AND CHINA.
China and Manchuria, remarkable for their native fishes,
can pride themselves on their fresh water shrimps, which
occur in many places of this vast region. At the present
time for some reason or another no attention has been paid
to these crustaceans, though they are very commonly ob-
served in fresh water: they are known in tropical Africa,
Italy, Greenland and in some other places. It appears that
in Manchuria there are 5 kinds of these shrimps. One form
inhabits the water of the Amur river, while the other two-
the one in the Sungari and the other in the Choal (affluents
of the Nonni river near the Hingan mountains). The size of
the Manchurian shrimp varies from 2 to 6 cm. in length; in
the Sungari river one form is very abundant and every
Spring the Chinese are engaged in catching them with the
aid of a particular large single-sided bag-nets and round
hand-nets. The shrimps are used as food and in favourable
years the catch amounts to hundreds of pounds, which dried
or otherwise provide food for the winter. In the Sungari the
shrimps are numerous from Spring to the middle of Summer,
and they are always seen near the shore. We meet also
shrimps in water courses and in lakes but in stagnant water
they are not common. They develop in Spring and Sum-
mer and as the observations of D. P. Keller show the
Manchurian shrimps can be reared in aquariums; one form
is herbivorous, another carnivorous.
Besides Manchuria the fresh water shrimps are very
common in North and South China. They are observed near
Tientsin at the junction of the Pai-ho river and the Grand
Canal; at Chen-ting on the Pu-to river in Chili province; at
Shanghai in ponds and canals; at Hankow and other places
in the middle and lower Yangtze and in the Han river, at
Focchow on the Min river and ponds; Hongkong and Canton
in the Pearl River.
In some of the above districts these shrimps are very
abundant: they are caught with special nets and baskets and
are dried and sent to the markets. The origin of these cru-
staceans must be full of interest. Undoubtedly they come
from the sea and gradually spread into fresh water.

62
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
VIII. ON THE EXPLORATION OF THE FRESH WATER
ALGAE IN MANCHURIA.
As is known the vegetation of Manchuria and the Far
East has been studied in detail, but up to the present
botanists have paid special attention to the higher plants,
which are to be found equally in other parts of Asia. The
investigations made during four years by the author of the
present notes show that the algae of this district have also
a large scientific use and are as well worth attention as the
higher group of plants. Altogether in Manchuria 800
different forms are found, among which 100 prove to be
new to science. Of the main characteristics of the separate
systematical groups of known algae it is necessary first to
mention the sufficiently studied flagellatae of the family
Euglenaceae, discovered here in 182 forms. It is a great
number when compared with only the 130 forms to be found
in all European Russia, up to the present. Among the 133
kinds of the genus Trachelomonas, observed in Manchuria,
18 are apportioned to new species and 62 new varieties. The
diversity of Trachelomonas is astonishing and these seem to
be peculiar to Manchuria.
The original aspect of some Manchurian types, merit a
great deal of attention; and it is possible that this datum
serves as a new fact to prove the common opinion as to their
original character which supposition is supported by the
existence of direct proof about the original character of the
fresh water fauna and flora of the Amur basin. Certainly
in comparison with European the Asiatic flagellatae have
been little studied and this may be the reason for the dis-
covery here of so many new types. The most interesting
among the Trachelomonas were the forms with a rim on the
upper part of the shells similar to-T. Wislouchii and T.
peridiniformis (see fig. Nos. 1 and 2). At the first glance
their original construction (for example T. Wislouchii), with
a rim like a parachute, reminds one of the pelagic planktonic
-Peredineae and has accordingly been named by me-
T. peridiniformis. As regards blue-green algae about 48
forms have been observed and most of them were cosmo-
politan. Among other interesting flagellatae in Manchuria
are-Cryptomonadaceae, but the last up to the present have
not been specially studied. Among the Conjugatae, of which
200 forms are found, the most interesting was the family
See article-"The algae from Manchuria and observations on the
water vegetation of the Sungari river valley," by B. W. Skvortzow
(Journal of Microbiology, Vol. III, 1916, Petrograd) and "The mater-
ials on the Flagellatae of Manchuria," Part I. (ibid, Vol.), 1917.

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
63
Zygnemaceae with a very rare and new kind of genus
Spirogyra. Among Volvocineae family only 12 forms were
defined, but there must be more. Of various Protococcales,
the majority of which it is necessary to consider as cosmo-
politans, more than 100 forms were found. Finally it should
be mentioned that among the remaining green-algae, there
are about 60 kinds and out of this number the following-
Protosiphon botryoides, Sphaeroplea annulina are worthy of
attention. The Characeae here are represented only by cne
-Chara fragilis and Diatomaceae in 161 forms, among which
are some interesting and rare kinds. One of these is-
Surirella Pantoschkii found in the Amur near Habarovsk.
This beautiful kind was first described in 1913 from a
Japanese collection by Meister. The diatomes plankton of
the Amur and Sungari rivers recall the plankton of the
European rivers and chiefly consist of-Melosira islandica
and subsp. halvetica, M. italica, Asterionella gracillima, etc.
The algae just described were studied from numerous
collections gathered near the railway line in North and
Middle Manchuria and mostly in the environs of Harbin:
and also from collections of the Amur river made by W. K.
Soldatow during his Ichthyological expeditions. The mater-
ials were examined in Petrograd and some at Harbin and the
above collections are now studied by zoologistes in the
zoologic museum of the Academy of Science in Petrograd.
IX. ON SOME CHINESE MEDICINAL PLANTS
OF THE FAR EAST.
Dr. G. A. Stuart's book on Chinese medicinal plants
which appeared eight years ago contains almost all known
plants existing on this question in China. But, as is well
known, in the Chinese special medical literature on which
Stuart principally relied, there are some plants whose botan-
ical properties are not always fully described. Beside the
medical plants mentioned in the Stuart bock from Manchuria
and North China it is necessary to indicate some other not
very well known plants not mentioned in these leading works,
such as:-
1.-Siberian acacia (Caragana chamlagu Lam.) This
caragana is very common in all the Far East on hillocks.
It is a dwarf shrub covered with spines, with plumose leaves
and large yellow flowers. It is used in Chinese medicine as
a tonic.
5 "Chinese Materia Medica (vegetable kingdom"), Rev. G. A.
Stuart, M.D., Shanghai, 1911.

64
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
2.-Caragana microphylla Lam. It grows on all Man-
churian mountainous districts, and also is a shrub with
plumose leaves and yellow flowers. It is used in medicine
like the first one.
3.-Funkia ovata Spreng. It is found wild in Kirin pro-
vince and is cultivated in the Far East and in North China.
Funkia is a perennial plant with broad oval shaped leaves and
blue flowers. The medicinal use of it is identical with the
Funkia subcordata (see Stuart page 180).
4.-White misletoe (Viscum album L.). It is a common
parasitic plant found upon the poplar, willow, aspen, linden,
birch, apple trees with white and red berries (Suhsp. cora-
latmu Komarow.) This plant is used in Chinese medicine
and by natives of Ussuri provinces. The entire plant is used
by them against rheumatism.
5.-Astragalus membranaceus Fischer. (see Stuart-
Astragalus Hoangtchy, page 57). This plant grows in all
parts of the country and represents a big perennial with a
branchy stalk and numerous pale-yellow flowers. This
common Chinese drug now is collected in great quantity and
exported to China.
6.-Velvet or velvet-tree (Phellodendron amurense
Rupr. (see Stuart page 316). This tree, common in all
districts, is not very often employed here and is not well
known.
7.-Amurian grape (Vitis amurensis Rupr.) It is found
in great quantities in mountainous districts of the Far East
and its fruit is used in local Chinese and native medicines.
8.-Lithrospermum erythrorhizon S. et Z. It is a com-
mon perennial plant growing in all parts of Manchuria with
a stalk 1 meter high, with sharp lancet leaves and white
flowers collected in wrists. The thick, straight or branchy
roots are used in Chinese medicine.
X.-SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE GROWTH OF WEEDS
AND ALGAE IN RICE FIELDS AT FOOCHOW.
Rice fields are favourable places for observing the con-
ditions of life of many plants. The biological analysis of
the water in the rice fields undoubtedly can be of large
practical utility in explaining many questions connected with
the manure in the ground of the rice fields and condition of
the water. As would be expected the life in rice fields
resembles very much the life in the grass marshes of Western
"The Amurian velvet-tree in Chinese medicine," by B. W.
Skvortzow (in the Mag. "Rural economy in the North Manchuria,"
No. 7-8, 1918, Harbin).

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
65
and Eastern Europe. Here also two periods are observed.
The first in the beginning of the summer, when the surface
water of the rice fields are free, under the sun's rays and the
water is not overshaded by rice stalks and manure ashes and
other things, which contribute to the growth in such water
of weeds and still more of algae. The second period comes
with the shading of the surface of the water by the rice stalks,
with chemical impoverishment of the water, and by a
gradual change of weeds and algae from one kind to another.
As observation shows, the life of the rice fields does not
always have its origin in the some manner, depending on the
quality and quantity of the manure, the age of the standing
water, the nearness of the fields to very dirty water, and
other causes. This can be seen when crossing the wide
river valley near villages or at some distance away. In the
cleanest water of rice fields more frequently were observed
-Salvinia natans L., Myriophyllum spicata L., Utricularia
vulgaris L., U. minor (?), Polygonum sp., Monochoria
vaginalis Presl., Isoetes sp., while in dirty fields were seen-
Wollfia arrhiza Wimm. Spirodela polyrrhiza Schleid., Lemna
minor L., Marsilia quadrifolia L. and Azolla sp., growing in
infinite numbers. Not less worthy of attention is the growth
of algae which play a great part in the life of these waters.
After an inundation in 1918 and the destruction of the young
rice plant the surface of the water became covered with an
alga-named "water-net" (Hydrodictyon utriculatum Roth.)
This delicate alga has a bag-like form and consists of many
cells, forming a net with regular hexagonal cells. Firstly
the above mentioned cells were very small, but they quickly
increase in size and eventually all the algae get to the size
of the palm of the hand. It multiplies very quickly by the
moving zoospores in a sexless way. In the beginning the
alga was seen only on the surface of the slime under the
water, but in a short time it moves upward in a thick mass
and by strong exposure to the sun turns a grey-brown and
dies. During this time the water was very poor in organisms.
Here were seen some Flagellata, small diatoms; but with
the destruction in mass of the water-net" and its settling on
the bottom of the fields there began to appear-Salvinia
natans L., Lemna minor L., Spirodela polyrrhiza Schleid.,
Marsilia quadripolia, Nitella sp., and on the bottom, first
dark-greenish filaments and shortly after whole accumula-
tions of Spirogyra neglecta var. ternata. At that time the
shoots of Nitella and other under water plants and algae were
covered with thick layers of mucilaginous algae as Ruvularia
sp.,
diatoms-Gomphonema, Melosira varians, Eunotia. Here
were examined-Pandorina morum, Eudorina elegans, various
5

66
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
Scenedesemus, Trachelomonas volvocina, and T. hispida.
But with the gradual growth of the rice plants and with the
shading of water and also by the frequently drying up of the
water in rice fields many plants and algae began to disappear,
others at first collect on the wet slime and after that on more
firm ground.
The flora of algae in rice fields, lying in the running
water is characterised by the presence of many attached dia-
toms, sometimes making a compact layer over the surface
of the plants. Other rice fields are very rich in different
conjugatae kinds of Oedogonium, and other forms-signs of
more clean stagnant water.
XI. THE PHYTOPLANKTON OF SOME TIBETAN LAKES.
The present small note represents the result of the
observation of a collection gathered by Mr. Ladigin during
the expedition in Tibet in 1901 and all the samples were
examined by me in the Petrograd Academy of Science.
The plankton taken from the freshwater lake Kurlyk-nor
(i, vi, 1901) in the Tsaidam district contains a rich zooplankton,
in which were seen Ceratium hirundinella (O. F. M). Schrank
and also non-planktonic algae as Pinnularia gentilio Donkin,
Epithemia turgida (Erenb.) Kutz. and Lyngbya aestuarii
(Mert.) Lieb.
In the bottle from the salt lake Toso-nor (3, vii, 1901),
which is not far from lake Kukunor, in a rich zooplankton,
were seen only few specimens of Oocystis lacustris and
Synedra acus Kutz.
The most interesting was the plankton from the lake
Khara-nor in which were found the following species:
Melosira islandica O. Müll.
subsp. helvetica O. Müll.
Fragilaria crotonensis Kutton.
Aphanothece stagnina (Spren.)
A. Br.
Chroococcus limneticus Lemm.
Microcystis flos aquae (Wittr.)
Kirch.
M. elabens (Menegh.) Kütz.
M. incerta. Lemm.
M. holsatika. Lemm.
Lyngbya limnetica. Lemm.
Pediastrum Boryanum (Turp.)
Menegh. var. granulatum
(Kütz) A. Br.
P. duplex Meyen. var. asperum
A. Br.
Botryococcus Braunii Kütz.
Cosmarium Botrytis Menegh.
Gloetila Scopulina (Haz.) Heer-
ing.
XII.-ON SOME FRESHWATER ALGAE COLLECTED
IN SHANGHAI.
Being in Shanghai in June 1918 a small collection of
Algae was gathered by me in a pond near the Public Gardens.

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
67
When examined in the laboratory of the Anglo-Chinese
College at Foochow this collection was found to contain the
following species:
Euglena viridis Ehrenb.
Trachelomonas volvocina.
Ehrenb.
Phacus caudata. Hüber.
Pandorina morum. Bory.
Spirulina major. Kütz.
Oscillaria princeps. Vauch.
Nitschia Palea Kütz. f. t. and
var. lanceolata.
N. acicularis. Kütz.
Gyrosigma acuminatus. Kütz.
Navicula ambigua. Ehrenb.
Surirella ovalis. Breb.
Cocconeis placentula. Ehrenb.
Amphora ovalis. Kütz.
Rhopalodia ventricosa. (Gr.) 0.
Müll.
Coelastrum microporum. Naeg.
Botryococcus Braunii Kütz.
Spirogyra varians (?).
XIII. THE USE OF NoSTOC AS FOOD IN N. CHINA.
In many school books of botany it is stated, that in
China the fresh water blue-green alga Nostoc is eaten by
people. This fact is regarded as remarkable, but it is re-
gretted that this is not sufficiently known. Nostoc is an alga
living in fresh stagnant water, it forms blue-green elastic,
semi-transparent globules or accumulations, attached to the
under-water plants and stones, but sometimes it is on humid
ground, forming original dark mucilaginous scums.
In China the forms living on the surface of the ground
are used as food, and they are related to the Nostoc communis
Kütz., N. edule (?) and probably to other kinds.
Nostoc in the Shantung province appears in summer
rainy time on the clayey ground and on humid soil, but when
the ground dries the alga contracts and begins to be im-
perceptible. The local population eat the Nostoc not for
lack of food, but simply for the same reason as mushrooms,
and wild vegetables are used.
Nostoc has no particular flavour. They eat it roasted
with different seasonings, which give it taste. Indubitably
Nostoc is used in other places in China, seeing that here on
account of a damp climate, this alga is very common.
In
masses it is found in June and in July near Shanghai and
in South China. Besides China Nostoc is used as food in
Northern Europe, particularly the variety which is found
near the shore of big and cold mountain lakes. It is the
plum shaped Nostoc (Nostoc pruniformis) with smooth,
elastic globules the size of a hen's egg of a dark blue-green
colour.
XIV. THE BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE ALGAE OF CHINA
AND NEIGHBOURING COUNTRIES.
The following is a list of all existing publications of the
scientific investigations mostly on freshwater algae of China.

68
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
It must be noted that the study of the inferior vegetable
organisms in China, and generally in Eastern Asia, has not
yet been specially made and on this question there exists
only meagre information. The scattering of such information
among many foreign scientific magazines will present
difficulties to the botanists in their study of this question.
The list of works is as follows:-
Borge, O. Uber tropische und subtropische susswasser-chlorophy-ceen.
(Bih. til. K. sven. vet. akad. Handl. 27, 1899).
Gutwinski, R. De Algis praecipue diatomacis a S. Holderen anno 1878
in Asia centrali atque in China collectus. (Bull. L'acad. Sc.
Cracovie, 1903).
Hirn, K. Algen aus Central Asien: (Ofn. of Jenska vet.-akad. Forh.
1900).
Jstvanffi, J. Algae nonnullae a cl. Przevalski in Mongolia lectae et a
cl. c. de Maxomorvicz communicate. (Notarisia, 1886).
Lütkemüller. Desmidiaceen aus der Ningpo Mountains in Central
China. (Ann. des K. K. Natur. Hofm. XV, 1900).
Lemmermann, E. Das Plankton des Yang-tse-kiang. (Arch f. flydrob.
u. Plank., 1907).
Kitton, F. W. List of Diatomaceae from China. (Quart. Jour. of
Micros. Sc. Vol. II, 1866).
Mereshkovski, K. The Diatomaceae of Tibet. (The works of the
expedotion of the Impet. Russion. Geograph., Sc. 1899-1901,
Vol. VIII, 1906).
Petit, P. Diatomes recolectees sur les huitres de Ningpo et Nimrod-
sound China. (Mem. Soc. Sc. Nat. et math. de Cherbourg.
Vol. XIII, 1882).
Oestrup, E. Beiträge zur kenntnis de Diatomeen flora des Kossogol-
beckens in der nordwestlishen Mongolei. (Hedwigia, 1908).
Ostenfeld, C. H. Beiträge zur Kenntnis der Algenflora der Kosogol-
beckens in der nordenstlischen Mongolei mit spezieller Berüchti-
gung der Phytoplankton. (Hedwigia, 1907).
Skvortzow, B. W. The Algae of Manchuria and the observations on
the water vegetation in the Sungari river valley. (Journal of
Microbiology. Vol. III, 1916. S. Petersburg).
Skvortzow, B. W. The Materials on Flagellata of Manchuria. 1 Part.
(ibid, Vol. IV, 1917).
Skvortzow, B. W. The freshwater algae from the ponds of South
China. (It is found in the present No. of Journal of N.C.B.
R.A.S.).
Skvortzow, B. W.
Manchuria.
Skvortzow, B. W.
algae in rice
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
(ibid.)
Skvortzow, B. W. The use of Nostoc as food in N. China. (ibid.)
Schmidle, W. Einige vor Dr. Holderer in zentral-asien gesammelte
Algen. (Hedivigia, 39, 1909).
On the exploration of the freshwater algae in
(ibid.)
Some observations on the growth of weeds and
fields at Foochow. (ibid.)
The Phytoplahkton of some Tibetan lakes. (ibid.)
On some freshwater algae collected in Shanghai.
Wille, N. Algen aus dem nordlichen Tibet von Dr. J. Sedin in
Jahre 1896 gessamelt. (Rerom. Mitteil. Erjasigschaft, 1900).
Anonymous. Freshwater Plankton. (Japanice). (Bot. Magaz. Tokio,
19, 1905).
Boldt, R. Ueber die Chlorophyllophyceen Sibiriens. (Bot. Centralb,
1885).

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
69
Boldt, R. Bedrag till kan. om Sibiriens Chlorophyl. (Ofver. of.
Kongl. vet. Akad. Horh. 2, 1885).
Borge, O. Et litet bidrag till sibiriens Chlorophyllophyceen-flora.
(Bih. t.k. sr. vet. akad. Handl. 17, 1891).
Borge, O. Chlorophyllophyceer from Japan. (Bot. Not. 1892).
Borchew. The algae of Aral-sea. (The work of the Aral-Kasfian
Afed. 1877).
Dorogostaisky, V. Materiaux pour servir a l'algologie du lac Baikal
et de son bassin. (Bull. S. Nat. Moscow, 1904).
Elenkin, A. A. The freshwater algae of Kamtchatka. 1914. S.
Petersburg.
Ehrenberg, C. Beiträge zur kenntniss der organisation der Infusorien
und ihrer geographyschen verbreitung, besonders in Sibirien.
(Phys. Abh. d. k. Akad. d. wiss. zu Berlin, 1830).
Gilzen, K. K. The materials on the investigation of the Baikal lake
ground. 1915. S. Petersburg.
Gutwinski, R. Algarum e lacu Bajcal et paenisula Camtschatka a
clariss prof. Dr. B. Dybowski anno 1877, reportatarum enumera-
tion et diatomacearum lacus Bajcal cum insdem tataricorum
comparatis. (Nuova Notorisia, 1901).
Gutwinski, R. O pionowen rozsiedlenim glonow jeziora Baical skiego
(Kosmos Rock. XI. Lwow, 1890).
Heydrich, F. Beiträge zur kenntnis der Algen flora von Ost-Asien
bessonders der Insel Formosa, Molukken-und Liu-kiu Inseln,
(Hodivigia, 1894).
Forti, A. Primi Studi per un'esplorazione limnobiologica dell'oriente.
(Nuova Notorisia, 1913).
Ivanow L. A. On algae of the salt lakes of the Omsk district.
Tshikawa C. Notes on the Japanese species of Volvox (Zool. Magazine,
Vol. VIII, N. 91, Tokyo).
Lemmermann, E. Des Phytoplankton des Menam. (Hedwigia, 1908).
Kozlowski, W. The materials on the flora of algae of Siberia. (Dialy
of the Kief Nat. Sc. Vol. IX, XI, 1888 and 1890).
Meister, F. Beitrage zur Bacillariaceen flora Japans 1-II. (Arch.
f Hydrob. u. Plank. 1913-17).
Prinz, H. Contributiones ad floram Asiae interioris pertinentes. I die
Chlorophyceen des sudlichen Sibiriens. (Det. Klg. norske
Videnskobers selskaby Skriften, 1915, XVIII, Trandjem, 1916,
52, p. 7 Staf.).
Roy, I. and Bissett, I. Notes on Japanese desmides. (Jour. of
Botany Vol. XXIV, 1887).
Ostenfeld, C. H. The Phytoplankton of the Aral sea and its affluents.
(Wissensch. Erg. d. Aralsee-Expedition. Sief. 8. St. Peters-
burg, 1908).
W. et J. West In Iohs Schmidt's flora of Koh-chang, gulf of Siam.
Algae. (Bot. Tidsskrift, 1901).
Zykoff, V. Bemercung uber des Plankton der Altwasser der oberen
Jenissei (Zool. Anz. 1903).
Zykoff, V. Plankton des Jrtisch. (ibid).
XV. ON THE STUDY OF THE WILD VEGETABLES
OF MANCHURIA.
The vegetable food of the Chinese, Coreans and other
natives of the Far East is characterised by its diversity.
See "On some wild Manchurian plants, used by Chinese and
natives, as vegetables," by B. W. Skvortzow (Mag. "Rural Economy
in N. Manchuria," N. 7-8, 1918; "On wild vegetables of the Far East."
(ibid, N. 9-10, 1918).

70
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
Besides the cereal plants and kitchen-garden vegetables they
use as food many wild plants, which replace the cultivated
vegetables. In this custom is recognised the adaptedness of
the population to the local conditions, where often un-
expected floods inundate the fields and vegetable gardens or
where the aborigines,-local hunters,-have not sufficient
time to cultivate vegetables, and not every spring in villages
we can find fresh greens preserved from the autumn. Here
early in spring and summer the people replace the cultivated
vegetables by young fern leaves, stalks of Caltha palustris,
stems of the white flowered peony, Chenopodium album, wild
sorrel, young stalks of worm-wood, spring leaves of dande-
lion, leaves of the sow-thistle and many other kinds of plants,
are used as food.
The population in the river valleys, living among mar-
shes, eat the young shoots of the reed-mace, the true-reed,
the rhizome of Sagittaria and the leaves of Limnanthemum.
Among all the known wild Manchurian vegetables the most
nourishing are the bulbs of the different kinds of lilies, the
wild garlic, the "Charemsha," the roots and the flowers of a
yellow lily (Hemerocallis), the bulbs of Fritillaria. Of the
above the dried flowers of the yellow lily, the bulbs of several
kinds of lilies and of "Charemsha" have a local trade import-
ance. The use by natives of wild vegetables is very common
and important in this district, not less than in China, and
some of them are valuable and can be recommended for
cultivation. Particularly worthy of attention, on account of
their edible quality are different forms of umbellar and
bulbous plants. The number of the wild vegetables em-
ployed in Manchuria is very large and this list is not com-
plete. They are as follows:
1.-Fern. (Aspidium Felix mas L.) Rich. It is grown
in all the districts. The Chinese and the natives use the
young spring leaves of this fern as food.
soft and delicate in taste.
They are very
2.-Charemsha (Allium Victorialis L.) It is found in
woods, and is eaten by the Russians and natives in Man-
churia and the Russian Maritime provinces.
3.-Wild garlic (Allium Schoenoprasum L.) A kind of
garlic, which is eaten by natives and by the Chinese.
4.-Yellow-lily (Hemerocallis Middendorfii Jr. et Mey.)
It is a very common plant in all parts of the district on
meadows and mountain sides. The flowers of these plants
are used by Chinese as food. They have an original, pleasant
savour and are nourishing for they contain starch.
flowers are mostly dried and sent to the local market.
rhizome is also eaten.
The
The

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
71
5.-Yellow-lily (H. minor Mill.) It grows mostly in the
river valleys and is not very different from the first lily.
6.-Fritillaria Kamtschatensis Gawl. The bulbs of this
plant are eaten by natives.
7.-Daurian lily (Lilium daurium Gawl). A very com-
mon plant in meadows. The bulbs of it are eaten by
the Chinese.
S.-One coloured lily (L. concolor Salisb.) It is very
extensively grown in the country. The flowers and the bulbs
are used by Chinese as food. The bulbs are of a sweetish
taste.
9.-Tiger lily (L. trigrinum Gawl.) It grows in almost
all districts and the bulbs are eaten by Chinese.
10. Caltha palustris L. It is found in marsh meadows
in all the Far East. The spring stalks of this plant are eaten
as a vegetable.
11.-Limnanthemum nymphoides Hoff. It grows on
the surface of the stagnant waters. The leaves of Limnan-
themum are seldom eaten by Chinese.
12. Elder (Sambucus racemosa L.) It is found in all
districts. The leaves of this shrub are used as food by the
local Chinese and the Coreans.
13. White flowered peony (Paeonia albiflora Pall). It
grows in every district and the spring stems are eaten by the
Chinese and Coreans.
14. Sorrel. (Rumex acetosella L. and R. acetosa L.)
It is found in all the Far East, and is eaten by the Russian,
Chinese, Coreans.
15. Phlomis tuberosa L. It grows in West Manchuria
and the shoots of this plant are eaten by the Chinese.
16. Ribwort riffle-grass (Plantago major L.) It grows
everywhere near buildings. The leaves and the seeds are
used as food by the Chinese.
17. Amurian berberry (Berberis amurensis Rupr.) A
very common shrub in mountains in the Far East. The
spring leaves of this plant are eaten by the Chinese in the
forests of Northern Manchuria.
18.-Elm-tree (Ulmus pumila L.) The young green
seeds of this tree are used by the Chinese as a vegetable, not
only in Manchuria, but also in North China. They are eaten
fresh, boiled and fried. In the time of hunger the bark of
the young branches of the elm-tree also is employed as food
and for this purpose the bark is dried, bruised and is boiled
as a kind of gruel.
19.-Chenopodium album L. It grows in all districts
and the leaves of the young stalks are eaten by the Chinese
and the Russians.

72
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
20.-Aralia cordata Thunb.
Middle and South Manchuria.
It is a common plant in the
The thick, aromatical roots
and the young stalks of this plant are eaten by the Chinese
and the Coreans.
21.-Lespedeza bicolor Turz. A common shrub, the
flowers of which are eaten by Chinese after they are boiled.
22.-Pleurospermum austriacum Hoff. It is grown in
all Manchuria in the shade under the trees. This plant is
valued by the Chinese and the Corean as a vegetable.
23.-Cacalia hastata L. It grows wild in all the district
and is used as food by the Chinese and the Coreans.
24.-Lucern. (Medicago sativa L.) It is cultivated in
Fengtien province and is used by the Chinese as a vegetable.
25-Garden borage (Borrago officinalis L.) This weed
grows in all the Far East and is used by the Chinese as a
vegetable.
26.-Shepherd purse. (Capsella Bursa pastoris Mnch.)
The young leaves of this plant are used by the Chinese as a
vegetable.
27.-Cynanchum sp. (several kinds). The young fruits
of these climbing plants are eaten by the Chinese.
28.-Cotyledon spinosa L. It grows throughout the dis-
trict, specially in the northern part on the rocks. The boiled
leaves of this plant are eaten by the local natives.
29.-Kochia scoparia Schrad. The young leaves of this
weed are employed as food by the Chinese.
30.-Xanthium strumarium L. The leaves of these
weeds are eaten by the Chinese when hungry.
31.-Reed. (Phragmites communis. Trim.) It is a very
common plant in river valleys. The young shoots are used
by the Chinese as a vegetable.
32.-Reed-mace (Typha orientalis Presl.) The shoots are
also employed as a vegetable.
33. Amarantus blitum L. It is either cultivated or
grows wild. The leaves are eaten as a vegetable.
34.-Polygonum Hydropiper L. It is found in all dis-
tricts and the leaves of this plant are used as a vegetable.
35.-Dandelion. (Taraxacum sp., several species). It is
found everywhere and the young spring leaves are eaten by
the Chinese.
36.-Sow-thistle (Sonchus arvensis L.) This grass is
also eaten as a vegetable.
37.-Amurian grape (Vitis amurensis Rupr.) It grows
in all mountainous districts and the leaf stalks are eaten by
the Chinese.
38.-Wild purslain (Portulaca oleracea L.) This com-
mon weed is eaten by Chinese.

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
73
39. Wormwood (Antemisia vulgaris L.) It grows
everywhere and the young stalks are eaten by the Chinese.
XVI. DIMENSIONS OF TREES IN THE MANCHURIAN FORESTS.
Those who have been in the Eastern part of mountainous
Manchuria are transported with delight at seeing the enor-
mous Manchurian forests and the diversity of the trees. At
present the woods are going through a period of exploitation
and are rapidly disappearing thanks to the old methods of
cutting, taxation and frequent fires.
These forests contain about fifty kinds of trees the
greater part of which are not known to the local population.
Those having a wide trade importance are-the Manchurian
cedar, ajanien fir, dahurian larch, poplar, birch, elm, lime,
ash, velvet, manchurian nut, maple. These are mostly used
as firewood, necessary to the Chinese on the Eastern railway
and for personal needs. At the present time in these forests
the yew-tree has disappeared; the cedar is disappearing gra-
dually as well as other valuable trees such as the Manchurian
apricot, Siberian apple-tree, Chinese pear-tree, Amurian
acacia, velvet, different maples are almost exclusive used as
fuel.
As will be seen in the list given below, the Manchurian
trees are of very solid dimension. Some little known kinds
are not too small to prevent their being used on valuable
works.
Manchurian cedar (Pinus manschurica Rupr.)
Common pine (Pinus silvestris L.)...
Height. Diam. Age.
130.5 ft. 84 in.
Sepulchral pine (Pinus funebris Kom.)
Dahurian larch (Larix dahurica Jurs.)
Ajanien fir (Picea ajanensis Fisch.)
Siberian fir (Picea abovata Linde)
Fir (Abies nephrolepis Maxim)...
Yew-tree (Taxus cuspidata S. et Z.)
Chinese poplar (Populus Simoni Carr.)
Fragrant poplar (Populus Suaveolens Fisch.)
Asper (Populus tremula L.)
Willow (Salix triandra L.).
400
81.5 ft.
35 in.
97.8 ft.
42 in.
105.8 ft
49 in.
400
83.8 ft.
38.5 in.
3001
69.9 ft.
81.5 ft.
17.5 in. 200
83.8 ft.
43.7 in.
116.5 ft.
43.7 in.
116.5 ft.
43.7 in.
69.9 ft.
32.6 ft.
Willow (Salix caprea L.)
23.3 ft.
Black birch (Betula dahurica Pall.)
Willow (Salix acutifolia Willd.)
Birch of Ermani (Betula Ermanni Cham.)
76.8 ft.
62.9 ft. 21 in.
69.9 ft. 45.5 in.
Yellow birch (Betula costata Troutv.)
81.5 ft.
19.2 in.
White birch (Betula platyphylla Suc.)
83.8 ft.
28 in. 250
Alder (Alaus fruticosa Rupr.)
46.6 ft.
17 in.
Carpinus cordata Blume
69.9 ft.
43.7 in.
Mongolian oak (QUERCUS MONGOLICA FISCH)
79.2 ft.
28 in.
Mountain elm (Ulmus montana Wither)
93.2 ft.
34.5 in.
Elm (Ulmus pumila L.)
68.2 ft.
43.7 in.
Elm (Ulmus campestris L.)
83.8 ft. 33.2 in. 250

74
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
Height.
Diam. Age.
Purple hawthorn (Cretaegus Sanguinea Pall.)
Common hawthorn (Crataegus pinnatifida Bunge)
Manchurian apricot (Prunus manschurica Kochne)
Common bird cherry (Prunus Padus L.)
Bird cherry of Maackii (Prunus Maackii Rupr.)
Siberian Apple (Pirus baccata L.)
Chinese pear (Pirus sinensis Lindl.)
23.3 ft. 10.5 in.
33.3 ft.
46.6 ft.
17.5 in.
46.6 ft.
17.5 in.
41.9 ft.
17.5 in.
41.9 ft.
48.9 ft. 17.5 in.
Mountain ash or sorb-apple (Sorbus aucuparia L.)
Amurian lilac (Syringa amurensis Rupr.)
Amurian acacia (Cladrastis amurensis Benth)
Manchurian lime (Tilia manschurica Rupr.etMex.)
Amurian lime (Tilia amurensis Kom.)
Ash (Fraxinus rhynchophylla Kance)
34.9 ft.
51.2 ft.
14 in.
51.2 ft.
14 in.
65 ft.
28 in.
104.8 ft.
34.5 in.
62.9 ft.
21 in.
Manchurian ash (Fraxinus manshurica Rupr.)
93.2 ft.
34.5 in. 350
Maple (Acer barbinerve Maxim)
41.9 ft.
White maple (Acer tegmentosum Maxim)
Yellow maple (Acer Ukurendense J. M.)
Manchurian maple (Acer manchuricum Maxim)
Maple mono (Acer Mono Maxim)
51.2 ft.
48.9 ft.
65.2 ft.
17.5 in.
65.2 ft.
17.5 in.
69.9 ft.
21 in.
250
79.8 ft. 42 in.
46.6 ft.
200
Velvet tree (Phellodendron amurensis Rupr.)
Manchurian nut (Juglans manchurica Max.)...
Zelkova (Zelkova Davidii B. et H.).
XVII. THE ORIGIN OF THE MANCHURIAN FISHES.
The fishes of Manchuria are of great interest and re-
present the group most investigated of all the animals.
Thanks to the works of Dybovskii, Hertzenstein, Proff. Berg,
Soldatow, and Schmidt here in the Amur basin are known 90
different forms. This quantity is very large and surpasses
in its diversity the fish fauna of any other river in Asia.
For the fishes of the Amur river and Manchuria Prof. L. C.
Berg arranges a particular Manchurian ichthyological district
and relegates to it all the basin of the Amur river, Suifun and
Tumen-ula draining into the Japanese sea. This district is
remarkable for the mixture of the northern and southern
forms. Here, similar to the species coming from the basins
of Siberian rivers, flowing into the frozen ocean, are found
southern fishes, as Ophiocephalus (see fig. 1), Hypoph-
thalmichthys, Elopichthys, etc. Besides that to this district
are peculiar some endemic genus and species as, Pseudaspius
leptocephalus; Mesocottus heity (see fig. 2),-one form of
bullock not commonly exceeding 20 cm. in length, with gray
coloured sides and back which is covered with small thickly-
laid prickles. The head is very wide and flattened, the
pectoral fin is fully developed; dahurian hausen (Husa
dahurica) a fish growing to an enormous length, weighing
about 280 pounds; the amurian sturgeon; Leptobotia mans-
churica discovered by Proff. Berg-a fish with one dorsal fin
with a stretched and pointed snout. Its mouth is surrounded
with fleshy lips and moustaches. It strikes ones eyes by the

Fig. 1. Ophiocephalus argus warpachowski. Berg.
[see page 74]
Fig. 2. Mesocottus heity. Dyb.
[see page 74]

Fig. 3. Siniperea chuatsi Basilewsky.
[see page 75]
Fig. 4. Acanthorhodeus asmussi Dyb.
[see page 76]

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
75
darkish spots disposed in form of transversed streaks. An-
other kind of Leptobotia inhabits the Yang-tse-kiang.
Finally here lives an Amurian pike (Esox reicherti)
which is but little distinguished from the European kind.
It is consequently more to be remarked, that in the Man-
churia district certain species, which widely extend in
Siberia, do not exist here, such as-the sterlet, Siberian
sturgeon, nelma, dace or bull-head, gremille; but on the
contrary there are many Siberian fishes. The most remark-
able in Manchuria are fishes of the South and Middle of
China and Japan-the forms of subtropical fauna. One of
this will be aucha or Chinese perch (Siniperca Chuatsi)
JE (see fig. N. 3). This genus has only two represen-
tatives one in Manchuria, the other in China. This fish
certainly has no connection with the true perch. It has a
body with pressed-in sides, unique dorsal fin, little scales,
a small head and mouth. The sides are of a greenish colour
with irregular black spots. Also remarkable is the fish-
Ophiocephalus argus warpachowski (see fig. 1), found
at Vladivostock, the typhical specimen of which is known in
the Amur basin and through all China.
The genus is peculiar to central Africa, South Persia,
Indo-Chine, Sunde islands where there are about 25 different
kinds. Ophiocephalus is a fish with a very stretched body,
long, and high dorsal fin the anal fin being a little shorter.
On its body above and below the side line are some irregular
brownish spots, bordered by black lines, on the back and
above the head also a double range of coarse spots. This
fish reaches in size to 68 cm. in length. As an interesting
fish here is a silvery kind Hypophthalmichthys molitrix
which attains a length of one meter and is 20 pounds in
weight.
It is characterized by the oblique mouth looking up, by
small scales and a keel shaped belly. It inhabits the Amur
basin in China as far South as Foochow. The remaining
kinds of this species are in China and Tonkin. The Amurian
sheat fish (Parasilurus asotus) must also be indicated with
the flat head and four moustaches. Besides the Amur basin
they inhabit China, Corea, Japan and Formosa. The other
5 kinds of this genus are in Himalaya, Indo-China, China,
Japan, Corea and Formosa. We meet here, Hemibarbus
labeo a fish with a stretched body, pressed-in sides and with
scales of middle size. Its head has a concave forehead, the
mouth is lower with fat lips and with single moustaches on the
edge. The dorsal fin is not big but sharp and has a gray
.colour. The back is dark, the lower part light. Its habitat is
the Ussuri river, Hanka lake and all the Amur basin.
The

76
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
genus Hemibarbus in the East is represented by 2 kinds-
one from the Amur basin, Japan, Corea, China and Formosa;
the other is known in China. The Amurian bream (Para-
bramis pekinensis) living in all the Amur basin and in China
down to Shanghai, is also worthy of attention. This bream
reaches 52 cm. in length, has a very high body, pressed-in
sides and is covered by sufficiently big scales. Its head is
small, the upper jaw is a little longer than the lower, the
mouth is not large, the dorsal fin is also small and has sharp
black ends. Here must be indicated also the hump-backed
bream (Parabramus terminalis) with a higher hump on the
back than the amurian kind and with a large, sharp dorsal
fin. His jaw juts only a little from the lower one. Here
was also found a small fish of the genus Pseudorasbora with
one kind P. parva peculiar to the Amur basin, Japan, Corea,
and China. It is a remarkably small fish-Pseudogobio
rivularis with a stretched body pressed-in sides, covered with
small scales, with fleshy lips and with small moustaches. It
inhabits the Amur basin and China; the remaining two kinds
of this species occur in Japan, Formosa, and in China.
species Culter is worthy of attention with 10 representatives
in the Amur basin, in China, and in Tonkin. Also the dis-
tribution of the bitter fish is interesting. It lives in Europe,
but is absent from all basins of rivers of the frozen ocean in
Northern Europe and Asia. It is not seen in Turkestan and
in Siberia, but again appears in the Amur basin. The general
distribution of all 5 kinds of bitter fishes extends through
Europe, Asia Minor, Caucasus, Amur basin, China and
Japan. The fish Acanthorhodeus asmussi (see fig. 4) with
a high body, as the crucian, pressed in sides, with a stretched
dorsal fin, small mouth and large scales of a light gold or
yellowish color. It reaches 15 cm. in length. Besides this
form, known in the Amur basin, 7 other kinds of the same
genus are found in China and in Tonking.
The
There is found in Hanka lake a small fish Acheilogna-
thus chankensis-the remaining 8 kinds of this genus are
peculiar to Corea, Japan, Formosa. It is necessary to men-
tion the genus Lepua. One kind of them (L. costata) in-
habits the Amur basin and North China, the remaining 2
Japan. This is a small fish with a stretched body, flat head,
armored with 2 pairs of moustaches. All along his body in
the middle of the sides passes a black-brown streak and on
the caudal fin are also black spots. The Amurian groundling
must be indicated as representing a special variety of the
European form.
In addition to the Amur it is found in Corea, Japan,
China down to Canton and in Formosa. The fishes of genus

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
77
Leiocassis are remarkable. Among the existing 30 kinds of
this genus 3 are found in the Amur basin, the remaining
27 in the Malay archipelago, Indo-China, and in China.
We can merely mention the brand fish. This genus is re-
presented by only one kind from the Amur basin and Scuth
Manchuria and its nearest relative-the genus Philypnus
inhabits the fresh waters of Central America. All the re-
maining kinds of the same genus are peculiar to Japan and
North America. Finally the tropical pimple caught at
Vladivostock is remarkable. It lives in the fresh waters of
India, Indo-China, China, Indo-Malay archipelago, Formosa,
Japan and Corea.
The fishes indicated here do not exhaust all the examples
which make the waters of the Amur basin so remarkable.
The predominance of Southern types is very characteristic
of the ichthyological fauna of this district. These fishes have
not come here from the South, but they are the remainders
of the Tetrain fauna, formerly extensive in all Asia and
Europe. Besides the indicated facts, the proof of the con-
clusion is served by many cases of the separate existence of
identical or proximate kinds, noticed by Prof. Berg from the
fish geography of Asia. So, the Manchurian district has a
wonderful relation to the Ponto-Caspian-Aral ichthyological
provinces, which embrace the basins of the Black, Caspian,
and Aral seas. In both districts are found many forms
which bear a great resemblance to each other, but which is
absent from Siberia, Mongolia and Middle Asia. In regard to
the paleontological information which serves powerfully as
an argument for the remaining character of the fish fauna
of Manchuria, we must note the finding in Siberia of the
genus Abramus, which is not known now in this district but
which inhabits Europe, the Aral basin and North America.
The remaining types of this genus, the fishes Parabramis,
are found now in the Amur basin and for this reason, in the
opinion of Prof. Berg, it is possible to suppose that up to the
end of the Tetrian period of fishes of Siberia resembled the
present Amurian fish fauna.
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
Berg, L. C. The fishes of the Amur basin. (Journal of Akad. Scien.
XXIV, No. 9, 1909, S. Petersburg).
Berg, L. C. The Collections of fresh water fishes, gathered by Mr.
A. I. Tcherski in environs of the Vladivostock and in Hanka lake
basin. (Journal of the Amur district Scientific Society, XIII,
1913.
Berg, L. C. The fresh water fishes of the Russian Empire. Moskow,
1916. Agriculture Department Publication.
Basilewsky, S. Ichthyographia Chinese borealis (Nouv. Nem. Soc.
Natural of Moscow, X, 1855).

78
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
Nikolsku, A. M. Reptiles and Fishes. S. Petersburg.
Dybowski, B. The fishes of the Amur system. (Journal of the
Siberian Branch of the Russian Imp. Geograph. Sc. VIII,
Nos. 1-2, 1877).
Dybowski, B. Zur Kenntniss der Fisch fauna des Amurgebietes.
(Verh. Zool. bot. Gesell. Wien, XXII, 1872).
Warpashovski, N. and Hertzenstern, C. Notes on the ichthyology of
the Amur basin and neighbouring countries. (The works of
S. Petersburg Natur. Sc. XIX, 1887).
Schmidt, P. S. The fishes of the Eastern sea of the Russian Empire.
S. Petersburg, 1904, Publication of the Russian Imp. Geo. Soc.
XVIII. THE LITTLE KNOWN AND NEW OIL PLANTS
IN MANCHURIA.
Manchuria, being rich in the production of soya beans,
linseed, hempseed, (Perilla ocymoides L.), sesame (Sesamun
indicum L.), is very well known as a district which produces
a great deal of vegetable oil. In addition to the oil-plants
indicated here, mention should be made of some little known
and new plants, found in a wild state throughout Manchuria.
The first in order is the Manchurian Cedar (Pinus mans-
churica Rupr.) This tree is very common in the mountain-
ous parts of the country and produces, fir cones 6 inches long
with about 100-150 nuts inside. These are of a dark-brown
colour, with a thick seed-coat of triangular shape. The
nuts are 2-3 times bigger than those of the Siberian cedar
(Pinus Cembra). In Siberia the nuts of the cedar are made
up of 50% of a fine, delicate, golden yellowish oil, which is
largely used by the local population as food. The nuts of
the Manchurian tree also have a fine oil, which, however,
is now only employed by natives and Chinese in the forest
districts. The gathering of Cedar nuts in Manchuria is
extensive and has a trade importance, but they are mostly
exported to China as much prized sweetmeats.
Vegetable oil can be produced from the Manchurian nut
tree (Juglans manschurica Maxim) which is also common all
over the country (see fig. 1). The nuts of the tree are
big and hard and the chemical analysis made in Harbin by
Mr. P. M. Karwowskii in the spring of 1918 shows that the
kernels of this Manchurian walnut contains 52% of a drying,
fine oil of yellowish colour. This product resembles the oil
of the cultivated walnut (Juglans regia L.-in Europe, and
J. regia var. sinensis D. C.-in China). Up to the present,
walnut oil in Manchuria is unknown and is produced only by
Russians in the Southern part of the Ussuri provinces. It is
interesting to note that the nuts of the Manchurian tree are
of a different shape. They are mostly very thick-skinned,
with an elongated sharp end and have small seeds, although
frequently they may be seen smaller, rounder, with a fine

00
Fig. 1.-Trachelomonas valgensis Lem. var. chinensis nov. var.;
Fig. 2. Tr. fluviatilis Lem. var. granulata nov. var.; Fig. 3-
Tr. piscatoris (Fisher) Stokes var. granulata nov. var.; Fig. 4.
-Tr. ovalis Daday var. chinensis nov. var.; Fig. 5-Tr. hispida
(Perty) Stein var. rugosus nov. var.; Fig. 6-Phacus Myersii
nov. Sp.
[see pages 55, 56]
4
23
9
B. Il and 2.-Trachelomonas planktonica var. asiatica nov. var.; Fig. 3.-Tr. fexis nov. sp.; Fig. 4.-Trachelo-
as: rhombica var. planktonica nov. var.; Fig. 5.-Tr. Raciborskii var. Swirenkiana nov. var.; Fig. 6.-7.
ogygii var. Limosa nov. var.; Fig. 7.-Tr. chinensis var. ovata nov. var.; Fig. 8.-Tr. Arnoldiana var.
uslata nov. var.; Fig. 9.-Tr. intermedra var. decorata nov. var.
[See XXI On new Flagellata from Manchuria pp. 96-102]

Fig. 1. Euryale ferox Salisb in stagnant water near Harbin.
[see page 81]
Fig. 1. Nut of Juglans manschurica Max.
[see page 78]

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
79
skin, and with seeds more developed; possessing this pro-
perty this species could be improved by experience and by
cultivation. Besides the walnut the hazel-nut (Corylus
manschurica Maxim and C. heterophylla Fischer) is very
common in Manchuria. Two kinds of hazel-nuts are much
valued by the Chinese and a great quantity is exported to
China. From these nuts is extracted a kind of oil, used in
drawing on glass. In Europe the nuts of Corylus avellena
contain 50-60% of valuable oil, which is used in soap-boiling
and in perfumery. The apricot tree (Prunus Armeniaca L.)
also must be mentioned: it is cultivated only in South
Manchuria and in North China in Mukden in the factory
of the Japanese Chemical Company. From the kernels.
apricot oil is extracted, and used for many purposes. This
oil is much valued in Europe. It is also interesting to re-
mark, that in the berries of the velvet tree (Phellodendron
amurensis Rupr.) was found by P. M. Karwowskii, 121%
of drying oil with a specific smell and bitter taste.
In conclusion there are the fir trees (Abies nephrolepis
Maxim and A. holophilla Maxim) from which in Europe an
ether fir-oil is produced. These trees are as plentiful as the
Manchurian Cedar.
XIX. THE PRINCIPAL TANNING PLANTS OF MANCHURIA.
Manchuria by its large number of tanning plants holds
an eminent place among the neighbouring districts, but no
profit is derived from these riches by the reason of the import
of tanning materials from America. Until lately the tanning
plants and their utilization were unknown to the local
Chinese and natives, but now, thanks to foreign influence
in Manchuria, we can see Chinese tanneries working on
willow bark, but no other tanning products from this district
are applied.
In Manchuria more than 30 plants valuable in their
tanning properties are found, but not all can be used com-
mercially.
The principal ones are the following:-
1.-Velvet-tree (Phellodendron amurensis Rupr.)-It is
a common Manchurian tree, the fiber of which is used for
dyeing purposes, and in Chinese medicines. The chemical
analysis made in Harbin by Mr. Gordeiew and Mr.
Karwowskii in 1917-1918, shows that the fiber of an old
velvet tree contains 18% of tannin, and the fiber of the
young branches 17%.
2.-Oak. (Quercus mongolica Fischer, Q. serrata
Thunb., Q. grosseserrata Blume, Q. aliena Blume, Q. Fabri
Hance and Q. dentata Thunb). These oaks are very exten-

80
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
sively grown in the country; the most common of them is the
Mongolian oak (Quercus mongolica). The bark contains
about 6-11% of tannin.
3.-Willow. (Salix Caprea L., S. viminalis L., S.
vagans Anderss., S. triandra L., S. Thunbergiana Blume,
S. purpurea L., S. pentandra L. and S. acutifolia Willd.) of
Salix Caprea L. and S. acutifolia Willd. are the most useful
for tanning. The bark of the willow contains about 11% of
tannin.
4.-Amurian acacia (Cladrastis amurensis Benth.) It
is a small tree or shrub very common in all districts. The
chemical analysis made in Harbin by Mr. Karwowskii in 1918
shows that the bark of this acacia contains 11% of tannin.
For this reason this plant is worthy of attention.
5.-Ajanien fir (Picea ajanensis Fisch.). It grows in
mountainous districts and its bark can be used in tanning.
Picea bark has 8-11% of tannin.
With regard to the other tanning plants, growing wild in
Manchuria, not one is of sufficient importance to occasion
remark.
XX. ON THE CULTIVATION OF WATER PLANTS IN CHINA.
Indubitably, on the surface of small ponds and in dirty
stagnant basins many persons have seen a mass of very
small, mostly round green leaves with roots under the water.
These plants are used to feed fowls in China. In Manchuria
and in North China they are represented by the small duck-
weed Lemna minor L., L. trisulca L., Spirodela polyrrhiza
Schleid; in middle and south part, except the indicated
forms, by Wollfia arrhiza Wimm., Salvinia natans L., Azolla
sp., Marsilia guardrifolia L. and other kinds. All these
plants show the dirtiness of the waters and are very often
seen near Chinese buildings, villages and towns in summer
and in winter time. In Manchuria a great quantity of Lemna
minor L. and L. trisulca L. is met with in marshes and ravines
lying near the houses and are mostly used in towns by poor
Chinese as food for ducks and geese. In Middle and South
China these plants are not only gathered in rice fields and in
ravines near the roads to feed fowls, but are also cultivated
in ponds. For this reason the surface of the ponds is divided
in parts by thick and long floating bamboo poles, that con-
tribute to the growth of these small water plants. Without
these, owing to the movement of the surface of the water,
these small water plants would not grow. Mostly as food for
ducks the duckweed Lemna minor and the Spirodela poly-
rrhiza is used and cultivated. The latter in South China has
the leaves twice bigger than that in Manchuria. At Foochow

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
81
ducks, geese and sometimes hens and chickens usually feed on
these plants and the birds eat these greens with pleasure,
finding among them many small water snails, beetles and
larvae of different insects.
The various kinds of duckweeds are also cultivated in
ponds as a nourishing food to fish.
XXI. ON THE GROWTH OF PANIC GRASS IN CHINA.
Everywhere in China among weeds is found the panic
grass (Panicum crus galli L.). It grows plentifully in wheat,
rice and millet fields in the Northern part, in Manchuria and
in the Southern rice districts. This plant has stalks of
.60-1 meter in height; the brush contains thick one-sided
spikes with dark-yellow, hard, brilliant seeds, cuspidated
from two sides, of 3-3.5 mm. in length. This grass much
resembles the Shan-tzu ()-Panicum frumentaceum
Tran. et Savant, cultivated in Manchuria and in North China
for its edible grains and its straw for cattle. The grass is found
in two forms-bearded and unbearded. As it was examined
near Foochow the bearded Panicum crus galli L. is very often
seen in rice fields, growing with rice stalks. The Chinese
never cut the ripe rice with this weed, which is separately
harvested and the grains of it are employed to make a kind
of glue, used to stick paper and card-board. Firstly the
hulled seeds are crushed and put in water in which all the
hulls rise to the surface and the heavy grains sink down.
After this the seeds are boiled and the glutinous mass is
ready for use. It is interesting to note, that the panic grass
in Chinese medicines is mentioned and the grains of it are
sometimes used in times of scarcety as a substitute for other
cereals. They have a taste something like the seeds of
Panicum frumentaceum.
XXII. THE WATER PLANT-EURYALE FEROX IN
NORTH MANCHURIA.
Euryale ferox Salisb (see fig. N. 1) is one of the known
water plants of China, which has been cultivated from remote
antiquity for its seeds used as food and medicine. This
subtropical plant is found in Japan, Formosa, near Peking,
Tientsin, Chefoo and in other places in China, but in Man-
churia Euryale was first seen at Harbin only fifteen years
ago. Now, as observations show, this plant is found in
Manchuria in all the Sungari basin and is seen in the Ussuri
provinces in the Russian Far East. Euryale in Manchuria
is counted as a plant surviving from the Tetrian period and
the fact of finding in European Russian in the Kaluski
6

82
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
provinces in the post-tetrian limnetical sediments the seeds of
Euryale ferox goes to prove this.
As this plant at Harbin was examined, Euryale grows
only in stagnant waters 2-5 feet deep; the seeds begin to shoot
only at the end of May; the first leaves are seen in June.
In July, August up to September the plant rapidly increases
in size and gives about 10-15 leaves and 5-10 flowers, which
are always under the water. The bright leaf is 1 meter
and 10 cm. in diameter. The ripe fruits are of different sizes
-the first are the biggest and sometimes are of 15 cm. in
length and 11-12 cm. in breadth; the smallest mostly are not
quite ripe. The big fruits contain about 30-60 white, round
seeds of 1-1.4 cm. in diameter, the small fruits only 5-10 big
seeds, the remaining are very small of 0.3-0.5 cm. in
diameter.
At the end of September the leaves disappear; the fruits
are immersed at the bottom of the basins; not before Spring
do they come asunder and the seeds are scattered on the
ground. During the winter the white autumn colour of the
seeds changes to dark black. The chemical analysis made
by Mr. P. M. Karwowski in Harbin, shows that the kernels
of Euryale contain more than 50% of starch and only 5% of
oil.
The growth of Euryale in North Manchuria-in a
country with such great winter cold is worthy of attention.
It shows that this subtropical plant is a native of Manchuria.
XXIII.-ON THE STUDY OF THE FLOWERS OF THE
MANCHURIAN WILD APRICOT.
The Manchurian apricot tree (Prunus manshurica
Kockne) represents one of the characteristic plants of the
Manchurian flora and is seen only in the mountains of the
south and middle parts, especially on the southern shores and
in places protected from the north winds. In botany nothing
much was known of this plant up to the present and only
specimens with the fruits have been described without
flowers. For this reason some observations were made by
me at Harbin in the spring of 1918. They are as follows:--
Buds.-The leaf buds of the apricot tree are collected
on the branches in threes of which only one is developed, the
remaining two die and fall.
Flowering. The buds' swelling begins in the middle of
April and already in the beginning of May the trees are in
flower and at this time they have no leaves. The flowers
are in bud altogether one week, depending on weather
conditions.

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
83
Disposition of flowers.-The flowers mostly are dis-
tributed in twos or in threes, but trees were observed with
the flowers collected in fascicles, in quantities of 6-12.
Flowers. The flowers are regular, hermaphrodite, are
resting or are on thin peduncles of 1 cm. in length. The
receptacular tube is campaniform a little distended at the
base covered with indistinct furrows on the foundation
green, from above red-brown, with 5-6 sepals. The sepals
are oblong-oval, pointed, from the outside red-brown, from
inside whitish-red-brown and during the flowering period
they are turned back.
The corolla contains 5 petals, more rarely 6 (only about
1-2%), attached to the border of the receptacular tube; the
petals of a backward-oval shape are three times longer than
the sepals; at the budding stage they are of dark pink colour,
but at the flowering pale pink, often of a whitish colour. On
some trees with the sitting flowers the corolla frequently is
not well developed and is sometimes smaller, than the
sepals. Normally the stamens are smaller than the petals
or of the same size and when the corolla is not unformed the
stamens only are seen. Every flower has 25-42 stamens,
which are placed in two rows on the inside border of the
receptacular tube. The interior stamens are smaller than
the exterior ones and are bent to the pistil. The pistil is
unique, sitting on the receptacle; the ovary is upper,
oblongly-oval, hairy on the exterior. The style is high,
always oblique, smooth with an emarginate stigma. The
length is a little smaller than the length of the stamens.
Among the flowering apricot trees, i.e., the forms with
normal developed flowers sitting on long peduncles, are also
met trees on which the normal developed flowers are without
peduncles, but among the latter, flowers which have not a
normal unformed pistil and ovary, undeveloped corolla and
with good formed stamens have been observed. Often whole
trees with abnormal developed flowers are seen though fre-
quently on these plants the flowers with normal corolla are
met, but the ovary and pistil on it is not well developed.
Insufficient development of the flowers is a mark that the
manchurian apricot is not constant in its appearance, though
specimens are seen with the tendency to form it.
XXIV. OBSERVATIONS ON BANANA TREES AT FOOCHOW.
The banana trees at Foochow and its environs are very
common and are grown almost entirely for decorative pur-
poses, but the plants bearing the fruits are not often seen.
Here some different forms of Musa sapientum L. and M.
paradisiaca L. are observed; besides these indubitably the

84
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
plants brought from Formosa, where several kinds of Musa
are widely found in mountains. The cultivated local forms
come from Amoy and other Southern parts of China, where
are banana plantations. Among all local forms the common
fruitful banana tree, which was observed in Chinese econo-
mies, was not of a large size. The grown up tree with the
fruits are of 12-16 feet in height and have the leaves of 2.3-3.2
feet in breadth and the leaves with petioles of 8-10 feet in
length. The first year the young sprouts grow to a man's
height with the stalks in the lower part, 3-4 inches in
breadth. At the end of the second year the plants are nearly
of the size of a full grown tree with a trunk of 5-6 mm.
in diameter already surrounded with young plants. The
banana tree blooms in March and April in the third year,
but sometimes later; during the flowering, excessive flowers
are cut out and only about one hundred fruits are left,
which begin to ripen in October and November, after which
the dead tree is thrown down. Most fruits of this banana
tree are smaller than those imported into Foochow from
South China and Formosa. The taste of local fruits is not
so delicate, more viscid and here they have no commercial
properties. This tree bears fruit yearly and it requires plant-
ing in lower places near the water and the cutting of the
excessive young plants, which are sometimes profuse.
Another kind of banana tree, which is rarely observed in
Chinese villages is smaller and its fruits are bigger and better
in taste, but this plant has not been examined by me. It
comes also from the South.
Among the non bearing fruit plantains, must be indi-
cated the forms of 15-18 feet in height but also there are
colossi of 7 inches in diameter and 27 feet in height.
The local climatic conditions for the banana trees are
not the most favourable, but nevertheless the warm and
long summer of this place is completely sufficient to the
maturation of the fruits.
These plants chiefly suffer in winter here, when often
they lose the leaves, and generally in places not protected
from the sea winds.
XXV. A STUDY OF THE RICE CULTIVATED AT FOOCHOW.
Foochow and its environs, being in south-east China,
has a population which is extensively a cultivator of
rice, which here represents the principal food. In the
report of Mr. G. Philipps published in 1888 are given the
conditions of agriculture near Foochow; as well as the
question of the quantity of land holdings by the farmers:

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
85
the working-class, land-tax, and the rice crops were also
touched upon, but up to the present we have not been
sufficiently informed as to what kinds of rice are cultivated
in this district.
This special question has a considerable interest, not
only from the scientific point of view, but principally on
account of rural economy and because only poor information on
this question exists in China, though more than half a hundred
kinds of rice are known to Chinese literature. The number
of the kinds of rice cultivated near Foochow is considerable
and the principal ones are-the common rice (the summer
and the winter rice), the glutinous, red rice and the upland
rice; and each one contains different forms, which are well
known to the Chinese farmer.
In the environs of Foochow in the Min River valley two
crops of rice are obtained annually; in the mountains only
one, but it is not necessary to conclude that in the valleys
the rice fields are ploughed twice a year, and after the first
crop the next rice is planted. By two crops it is necessary
to understand that two rice plants set in Spring in one place
do not ripen at one time-the first is gathered about the end of
June and the middle of July, the other one about the middle of
October; and for that reason one is called the summer, the
other the winter rice. The best and the most valuable of all
local rice grains are the upland and the winter rice. The
summer rice is counted inferior in quality to the winter
rice, and the red rice is considered the poorest kind. The
glutinous rice is much valued by Chinese and is planted
near the town in small quantities.
The poorest people of Foochow and neighbouring villages
feed chiefly on summer and winter rice, but on account of
the insufficient quantity of it the rice is cooked with the
dried sweet potatoes. The richer classes eat the winter and
the upland rice, and besides these the rice imported from other
parts of Fukien and Shanghai. The following 20 kinds are
the principal and the common kinds of rice cultivated near
Foochow.
COMMON RICE (ORYZA SATIVA L.)
Summer rice *.-Under this name the Chinese
understand several kinds of common rice, which are planted
in early spring and harvested in July. For its ripening it
takes 110 days,-30 days to raise seedlings, and 80 days in
the rice fields, but one kind of summer rice needs only 90
days for ripening, inclusive of the time of seedling. All the
existing sorts of summer rice are planted in April or in the
beginning of May, but always with the winter rice. They
are planted across the range in such a way, that one range

86
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
has summer rice, the other the winter rice. At first the
summer rice is planted and when it has grown to 30 cm.,
the winter rice is set between the ranges. The summer rice
ripens in July and after its harvest only the winter rice
remains, which is ready in October. By its rapid growth the
summer rice is much valued by the farmers, who sow it
calculating to receive a new crop quickly.
Every kind of summer rice is very cheap and is eaten
by the poorest class. This rice is characterised by not very
transparent grains, frequently of a whitish colour particularly
over the seed-bud. They are brittle, farinaceous and are boiled
soft. The hull of the grains is of an oblong shape, varying
in size, of a light yellow colour, hairy in the upper part and
with rubes not sharply expressed.
Near Foochow the following kinds of summer rice were
examined:-
1.-Big Summer Rice.-(see Fig. I. 1). This
kind has big, light yellow hulls very wide in the upper part.
The length of the hulls is 7-8 mm., the breadth up to 4 mm.
The grains are big, brittle, whitish, of 5-6 mm. in length and
2.5 mm. in breadth.
2.-Pear Summer Rice.- (see Fig. I. 2). The
hulls and grains resemble the big summer rice, but the hulls
of the pearl rice are not so wide in the upper part. Pearl
rice is considered to be one of the best sorts of summer rice.
3.White Eye Brow" or late summer rice.-
or
(see Figs. I. 3, 5). Among the summer rices the
late summer kind is the longest. The hulls are of a
light yellow colour, and sometimes have white beards of no
more than one cm. in length. The hulls are of 7-9 mm.
in length and 2.5-3 mm. in breadth. This rice is harvested
in July.
4.-Sixty Days Summer Rice.-+(see Fig. I. 8)
The seedling of this rice before being transplanted to the
rice fields grows for 3-4 weeks and it is called "60 days rice"
for the reason that after only 60 days the transplanted rice
is ripe. By its hulls this kind much resembles the hulled
pearl summer rice. The unhulled seeds are 6-8 mm. in length,
2.5-3.5 mm. in breadth. The grains are brittle, farinaceous
and are not much valued by Chinese.
Winter rice. The winter rice is also planted in
spring with the summer rice, but after the ripening of the
latter the winter rice stays in the fields 2-3 months longer,
so for its ripening it takes 4-6 months. After the inunda-
tions in May and June, which often destroy the fields with
summer and winter rice, the winter rice is planted for the
second time and it is harvested in the middle or end of

0·00·00
0·0'0·0 0·0·0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0·0001
Fig. I. 1-Big summer rice; 2-Pearl summer rice; 3-White eye
brow or late summer rice; 4-High winter rice; 5-Late summer
rice; 6, 7-Red rice; 8-Sixty days summer rice; 9-Big red rice;
10, 11-Small red rice; 12-Big red rice. (Except Figs. No. 11 and
12 all are twice enlarged).
[see pages 86-89]

0000000
0.000000
12
13
14
0
0-0
06600 0-0 0-0
0 0 0 0 0
18
Fig. II. 1, 2-White bearded upland rice; 3, 4, 5-Red bearded
upland rice; 6-Autumn white glutinous rice; 6, 7, 8, 9-Winter
glutinous rice or big glutinous rice or white and red hair glutinous
rice; 10, 11-Big winter glutinous rice; 12, 13, 14-Unbearded
upland rice; 15-Big winter glutinous rice; 16-Winter (rice) like
glutinous rice; 17-Lichee like glutinous rice; 18-Summer
glutinous rice. (Fig. No. 2, 4, 5, 8, 12 are of natural size, all
others twice enlarged).
[see pages 89-90]

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
87
October-after 4 months. Among the rice fields covered
with the winter rice were observed some places where the
rice stalks were attacked by the worms of small butterflies,-
Schaenobius incertellus W. L. K.s which sometimes destroys
more than 5% of all the crop. Some local Chinese know this
insect, but others explain the dried stalks by the strong
summer winds. This rice pest was examined in many places
of Fukien, Kiangsu, Kwangtung, Kwangsi, Hainan and is
worthy of attention.
Now in the Foochow Anglo-Chinese College a selection of
winter rice is produced by Mr. C. R. Kellogg and by Chinese
students and as Mr. C. R. Kellogg kindly informed me-
"The smallest number of kernels per head was 52 and
highest number 172, showing the amount of variation in
single heads, all of which were grown under the same con-
ditions. These heads have been saved and next year the
seeds be planted in an effort to improve the yield of rice."
The winter rice is well distinguished from the summer
rice by the hulls being of a dark yellow colour, with dark
brown-yellow or reddish-yellow streaks, between the faces,
mostly in the upper part of the hulls. Some hulls are of a dark
reddish-brown colour but were not often examined. The
bearded winter rice was not seen, and only once some
hulls with small beards of 1-1.5 mm. in length were noted.
The grains of the winter rice resemble the grains of the
summer rice but the first one is more transparent; the
whiteness, though observed being almost absent. The seeds
are hard, heavier than the grains of the summer rice. The
winter rice is much valued by Chinese, thanks to its pleasant
savour and nourishing properties. Only two kinds of winter
rice are distinguished by the Chinese.
1.-High Winter Rice.-See Fig. I. 4. This is
one of the common rice plants near Foochow. It is mostly
1 meter in height and prefers a rich ground. The unhulled
winter rice is 6.5-8.5 mm. in length and 2.5-3 mm. in
breadth. The grains are of 5-6.5 mm. in length and 2.2-2.5
mm. in breadth.
2. Sesame like winter rice.-This kind of rice
is not common near Foochow and is distinguished from the
above kind by its smaller height. The seeds have the same
shape as the big and high winter rice.
Upland rice (ORYZA SATIVA VAR. MONTANA = *). The
upland rice is only cultivated in mountains near Foochow
at the height of 500-1,000 feet. As in many places in China,
Un perforateur du riz. Schaenobius incertellus WLK. (Bul.
Econom. de L'Indochine, N. 131, 1918. Hanoi-Kaiphong.)

88
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
the upland rice is grown here on terraces specially made
near the water streams. The mountain rice is also grown
in water and the conditions of the growth here are very
different from the conditions of the valley rice life. The
hulled upland rice is well differentiated from the hulled
summer and winter rice. Their hulls are short, broad-sided
and very wide in the upper part, covered with hair and
mostly bearded. The grains of the upland rice are broad,
hard, transparent without white spots inside and for this the
upland rice is counted the best of all kinds. The follow-
ing kinds were observed near Foochow.
1.-Unbearded upland rice.-* See Figs. II. 12, 13
and 14. This common kind is the smallest of all upland rice.
The hulls are of a light yellow colour, without beards, but
sometimes they are seen on some spikes. The unhulled seeds
are of 6-7 mm. in length and 3 mm. in breadth.
The grains
of 4.5 mm. in length and 2.5 mm. in breadth.
seeds of 7.5 mm. in length are rarely observed.
The hulled
2.-White bearded upland rice.-* See Figs.
II. 1, 2. This kind has beards sometimes of 7 cm. in length.
The unhulled seeds of it are of a very light yellow colour, 6-7
mm. in length, 3 mm. in breadth. The grains are 5-5.5 mm.
in length and 2.5-3 mm. in breadth.
3.-Red bearded upland rice.-** See Figs.
II, 3, 4, 5. It is characterised by the oblong unhulled seeds
with beards of 2,3,7 cm. in length. The grains are of a long
stretch, of 5-6 mm. in length and 2.5-2.8 mm. in breadth.
The unhulled seeds are of 6-7 mm. in length and 3-3.5 mm.
in breadth.
Red rice is
Red Rice (ORYZA SATIVA VAR. PRAECOX **).
not common near Foochow and is only cultivated in villages
lying near the river. It is planted on the poorest ground
and is looked on as the cheapest kind of all local rice. It is
sowed and transplanted in the same manner as other kinds
and is gathered only in autumn.
The following forms of red rice were examined at Foo-
chow.
1.-Big red rice.-*** See Figs. I. 9, 12. The big
red rice has large, big, thick grains of a light red colour, but
sometimes the seeds are light whitish-brown-red. The unhulled
seeds are dark gray colour of 8-10 mm. in length, 3-3.5 mm.
in breadth and not seldom they contain beards of 5-2 cm. in
length. The grains are 6.8-7.5 mm. in length and 2.5-3 mm.
in breadth. This kind is planted in spring and harvested in
October.
2.-Small red rice.-*See Figs. I. 10, 11. This
kind is distinguished by Chinese from the former one in having

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
89
smaller hulled seeds. The colour of the hulls is much like
the colour of the winter hulled rice, but usually more dark
and the seeds are bigger. The colour of the seeds is very
varied, they are light red, sometimes of a white colour with
a reddish shade. The unhulled seeds sometimes have beards.
of 5-1.5 mm. in length; the hulls are of 6.5-9 mm. in length
and 2.5-3 mm. in breadth. The seeds of 5-7 mm. in length
and 2.5 mm. in breadth.
3. See Fig. I. 6. This kind has big, very long hulls of
a light yellow colour, covered with small hair. The unhulled
grains are of 7-9 mm. in length and 2.5-3 mm. in breadth.
The grains are long, covered with a dark red skin and are of
6.5 mm. in length and 2 mm. in breadth.
4. See Fig. I. 7. The second kind has hulls and seeds
less oblong in shape. The unhulled seeds are 8 mm. in
length and 2.5 mm. in breadth. The grains of 5-5.5 mm.
in length and 2.2 mm. in breadth of a dark red colour.
Glutinous rice (ORYZA GLUTINOSA RUMPH.) it -This
distinct species of rice gets its name from its sticky pro-
perties after being cooked. Besides this it is distinguished
from other forms of the common rice (oryza sativa) by its
higher stalks and bigger, untransparent, white grains. It is
used by Chinese to make many sorts of sweets and drinks
and for that reason it is more valued than the common rice.
Near Foochow the glutinous rice is not cultivated in great
quantities, but it is seen in every Chinese establishment,
grown for private needs. Mostly this rice is planted in
places near the river, canals or on the low islands; is sown
and transplanted in spring in the same way as other kinds.
of rice, and is harvested in September or in October, but also
there exist two kinds harvested in July with the summer rice.
It must be noted that the farmers during the harvest usually
cut the straw of glutinous rice about 1.5 feet above the ground.
This rice is cultivated in several forms, which are as follows:
1.-Winter glutinous rice, big glutinous rice, white hair
glutinous rice or red hair glutinous rice 冬朮米,大朮米,
*. See Figs. II. 6, 7, 8, 9. This kind
is cultivated on low places pre-eminently near the canals;
and their stalks grow about 1 meters in height. The spikes
are mostly white or red bearded and their beards have
different length or sometimes are unbearded. It ripens in
autumn with the winter rice. The unhulled seeds are of
8-9 mm. in length and 3 mm. in breadth. The grains are
6 mm. in length and 3 mm. in breadth. This kind is one of
the common glutinous rice grains.
2.-Big winter glutinous rice.-*t* See Figs. II.
10, 11, 15. This sort has seeds smaller than the seeds of

:90
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
the winter kind as may be seen in the Figs. II. 10, 11, 15.
Two different forms are found here.
A. See Fig. II. 10, 11. The hulls are without beards
and are 7-8 mm. in length and 3-3.5 mm. in breadth. The
grains are 5.5 mm. in length and 3 mm. in breadth.
B.-See Fig. II. 15. The hulls and seeds are rounder
and smaller. The unhulled seeds are of 6 mm. in length,
3.5 mm. in breadth. The grains are 4.5 mm. in length and
3 mm. in breadth.
3.-Autumn white glutinous rice.-
See Fig.
II. 6. It is the biggest of all local rice; is planted only near
the river and canals and reaches sometimes 2 meters in
height. The spikes of it are big, long, heavy; the hulled seeds
are usually with long white beards. The hulls are big and of
a light yellow colour.
The unhulled seeds are of 9 mm. in length and 3.5 mm.
in breadth. The grains are of 6 mm. in length and 3 mm.
in breadth. The breads are of a different length, small, or
of 5-10 cm. It ripens at the end of September and in the
beginning of October.
4.-Winter (rice) like glutinous rice.-* See Fig.
II 16. This is the smallest kind of all glutinous rice. The
hulled seeds are have the same colour and size as the hulled
winter rice, but the grains of this kind are white and not
transparent. The unhulled grains are of 6-8 mm. in length,
2.5-3 mm. in breadth. The grains of 4.5-6 mm. in length
and 2-2.5 mm. in breadth. Winter like glutinous rice ripens
only at the beginning of October with the other rice.
5.-Lichee like glutinous rice.
See Fig. II.
17. A kind of glutinous rice with sufficiently large seeds
and with pretty hulls of a light yellow or of brick-red colour.
The unhulled seeds are of 6-7 mm. in length, 2.5-3.5 mm. in
breadth. The grains of 5-6 mm. in length and 2.5-3 mm. in
breadth. If this kind is sowed with the summer rice it is
harvested in July; if with the winter rice, at the end of
September.
6.-Summer glutinous rice. See Fig. II. 18.
This kind has hulled flat seeds of different shape, inside are
small white grains. The unhulled seeds are of 6-8 mm. in
length, 3-3.5 mm. in breadth. The grains are of 5 mm. in
length and 2.2-2.5 mm. in breadth. The summer glutinous
rice ripes in July and is one meter in height.
XXVI. ON THE KAOLIANG AND BARLEY, CULTIVATED
IN MANCHURIA.
Among various gramineous plants cultivated in Man-
churia the local kaoliang and barley are of considerable

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
91
interest. The former one is the staple grain of this district
and is largely cultivated throughout Manchuria, the second
is not so common, and is seen both in the South and North
of the country. These plants are met with in several
varieties and local forms, some of which are of a rural
economic interest.
Great millet or kaoliang is found in the following
forms:-
I.-Andropogon Sorghum Brot. var. vulgaris subvar.
japonica. This is the principal kind which is grown in great
quantity everywhere. It is an annual of 5-12 feet in height;
with sufficiently wide linear leaves and thick, straight, stand-
ing, compact brush. The spikes on the sides of the branches
of the brush are disposed in pairs, but on the ends by threes.
The riped spikes are backward-oval, bright black or pale
yellow.
The following forms of this subvariety are found.
1.-Bearded red kaoliang. This kind has small beards
and reddish seeds. 2.-Unbearded red kaoliang. A form.
without beards. 3.-Unbearded white kaoliang. A un-
bearded kind with eight white yellow grains. 4.-Bearded
white kaoliang. A kind with small beards.
II. Glutinose kaoliang. Andropogon Sorghum Brot.
var. halepensis, subvar. leiostachys Hackel. This form is
not frequently observed and is remarkable for its long, large
very cernous branchy brushes, with bearded spikes. The
seeds are smooth, black in the upper part covered with bristly
hairs and glutinous when cooked. This plant is of 5-9 feet
in height and has the appearance of a gigantic millet.
Barley in Manchuria is found in three forms among
which the four rowed barley is the most common. In follow-
ing forms are represented here.
1.-Four-rowed barley. (Hordeum vulgare L.) It has
four rowed spikes and oblong grains. 2.-Six-rowed barley.
(Hordeum hexastichum L.) This kind was brought to Man-
churia from Europe. 3.-Manchurian six-rowed barley.
(Hordeum hexastichum L. var. mandshuricum Regel). This
local variety is distinguished from the former one by cylin-
dric, cernous spikes. In the opinion of Prof. Regel this
plant is very valuable for cultivation for its rich harvest and
rapid ripening. The Chinese barley in Manchuria is far
better than the barley cultivated in the Russian Far East,
but this is because of the method of cultivation.
XXVII. KAOLIANG AND MAIZE GROWING AT FOOCHOW.
At first sight it appears strange that there should be an
enormous difference in rural economic life between the North

22
92
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
and South of China. For instance in the North kaoliang
serves as one of the principal food stuffs: while in the South
at Foochow this cereal is but little used by the local farmers.
Kaoliang is not found here in grain and medicines shops, but
is sometimes observed in market-gardens as a plant forming
high hedges and the seeds are used to feed poultry and also
to prepare the kaoliang-groats. More frequently kaoliang is
planted in small groups of 10-20 specimens, but big planta-
tions of them are rarely seen. It is found here in the bearded
form with white and red seeds, it is sown in the third month
(lunar calendar) and ripens in the eighth.
Two harvests of kaoliang are obtained. The first crop
consists of the big brushes, growing directly on the stalks,
the second is obtained from the brushes, growing up from the
the lateral shoots appearing in the middle of the stems.
The second brushes are three times smaller than the first
one and have only 60-150 seeds. For this reason the local
Chinese have a habit, with the ripening of large brushes, not
to cut it near the roots, as is done in North China, but near
the top of the stalk. This fact shows that the local Chinese
are skilful in their economy of cultivated plants.
The second cereal is maize but not well known locally
which is also only seen in vegetable gardens with yellow
grains. Maize is planted here in the third month and then
the seedling will reach 5-7 inches, they are transplanted on
beds one foot from each other.
The local plants are low, feeble, with a very small cob.
The maize grains and maize flour are not common as food
stuffs here.
XXVIII.-LIST OF PLANTS GROWING IN FOOCHOW.
The following list of plants which is given in this note
represents my first short botanic report on Foochow. It
contains only a small portion of existing plants in this locality
and the remaining ones after being defined will be given
later on.
Aleurites cordata D. C.
Abutilon avicennae Gaertn.
Adiantum cuneatum Lgsd. and
Fish.
Agave americana L.
Albizzia Julibrissin Dur.
Alisma Plantago L.
Aralia sinensis L.
Areca Catechu L.
Asparagus lucidus L.
Azalea indica L.
Azalea sinensis Lodd.
Azolla sp.
Bambusa arundinacea Weed.
Bambusa vulgaris, Schrad.
Bombax malabaricum.
Biota orientalis Endl.
Bignonia grandiflora L.
Boemeria nivea. Hook and Arn.
Capsella Bursa pastoris Moench.
Coix lacryma L.
Calendula officinalis L.
Canarium album Raensch.
Camellia japonica Thub.
Camellia sasangua Thunb.
Canna indica L.
Carica Papaya L.
Caryota sp.
Catalpa Kaempferi S. and Z.
Celosia cristata L.

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
Chamaerops excelsa Thub.
Chrysanthemum sinensis Sab.
Chloranthus inconspicuus Sw.
Chlorophytum Sternbergianum
Staud.
Cinnamonum camphora.
Citrus auranticum L.
Citrus decumana Lour.
Citrus japonica Thunb.
Citrus media Riss.
Citrus triptera Desf. (?)
Commelina sp.
Cryptomeria sp.
Cunninghamia sinensis R. Br.
Cupressus funebris Endb.
Cycas revoluta Thunb.
Datura alba Nees.
Datura arborea.
Dianthus chinensis L.
Dioscorea quinquiloba Thunb.
Diospyros kaki L.
Eucalyptus globulus Lab.
Fatsia papyrifera Benth. and
Hook.
Ficus repens weed.
Ficus retusa L.
Fragaria indica Andr.
Funkia subcordata sprgl.
Gardenia florida L.
Gleditschia sinensis L.
Ginkgo biloba L.
Gomphrena globosa L.
Hedera helix L.
Helianthus annus L.
Hemerocallis flava L.
Hibiscus syriacus L.
Hibiscus rosa sinensis L.
Hibiscus mutabilis L.
Humulus japonicus S. and Z.
Hex latifolia Thunb.
Jasminum sambac Ait.
Jasminum nudiflorum Tdl.
Janiperus chinensis L.
Kochia scoparia Schr.
Kerria japonica Dc.
Lemna minor L.
Lespedeza sp.
Liquidambar formosana Hance.
Livistonia chinensis Br.
Magnolia grandiflora L.
Magnolia yulan Desp.
Marsilia quadrifolia L.
Matricaria chamomilla L.
Melia Azedarach L.
Mentha arvensis L.
Mespilus japonica Thab.
Morus alba L.
Monocharia vaginalis Sprg.
Murraya exotica L.
Musa sapientum L.
Myriophyllum spicatum L.
Narcissus tazetta L.
Nelumbirem speciosum L.
Nephelium lichi L.
Nephelium longana comb.
Nerium oleander L.
Nymphaca sp.
Olea aquifolia S. and Z.
Ophiopogon spicatus gawl.
Oryza sativa L.
Oryza glutinosa Rumph.
Poinciana pulcherrima L.
Populus alba L.
Populus balsaminifera L.
Portulaca oleracea L.
Prunus mume S. and Z.
Prunus persica S. and Z.
Pteris aquilina L.
Pteris serrulata L.
Punica granatum L.
Pirus sinensis Ldl
Pirus baccata L. (?)
Reineckia carnea Knth.
Rhapis humilis Bl.
Rhapis flagelliformis Ait.
Ricinus communis L.
Rhynchospermum jasminoides
Ldl.
Rosa indica L.
93
Saccharum officinalis var. sinen-
sis.
Saccharum officinalis var. rubri-
caule.
Rumex acetosa L.
Sagtittaria sagittaefolia L.
Salix babylonica L.
Salvinia natans L.
Sapindus mukorossi gaertn.
Scirpus tuberosus L.
Scolopendrium vulgare Swtz
Serissa foetida comm.
Sophora japonica L.
Spirodela polyrrhiza Schleid.
Stillingia sebifera Mich.
Taraxicum sp.
Taxodium heterophyllum.
Thea viridis L.
Thea Bohea L.
Trachycarpus excelsa Th.
Trapa natans L.
Tropaelum magus L.
Typha orientalis Presl.
Ulmus parvifolia (?)
Utricularia vulgaris L.
Wistaria chinensis Dc.
Wollfia arrhiza Wimm.
Woodwardia japonica Sw.
Yucca sp.
Zea may. L.

94
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
XXIX. THE INSECT TRADE IN SOUTH CHINA AND
SOME METHODS OF CATCHING INSECTS.
In the South part of China, generally, as well as in
subtropical and tropical regions the local insects attract
attention for their diversity and quantities. They are used
in native medicines, and as food. Lately they have been
collected for commercial purposes. In most Chinese medi-
cine shops in Foochow there are seen whole boxes full of
different insects, but principally the natives have been
collecting for sale to the foreigners. Before the last war
they were being exported specially to Germany; but owing
to the interruption of the export trade to Europe, this trade
here was reduced to a minimum, though some collections
are now sent to Shanghai to the Museum of the Asiatic
Society. The export of insects from Foochow to Germany
was so large that big reserves had to be made by local Chinese
for instance, still at the present time one can see pots of
15-20 pounds in weight full of bamboo beetles (calandra
longipes) and besides this hundreds of valuable kinds, bright-
coloured Chinese carnivorous beetles. The local climatic
conditions do not permit of ordinary preservation so the
Chinese preserve them in rolled capsules of thin cigarette
paper. For instance, for a beetle of one inch long it takes
a square piece of paper of 3 x 3 inches, the insect is rolled
to or three times in it and the ends are twisted.
This method saves each insect from moulds and from
the breakage of tender parts. The redressed insects are not
long preserved on pins, since after a certain time they are not
only covered with byssus (Penicillium crustaceum), but also
with larger Mucoraceae, and after few years they begin to
fall in pieces. To keep the butterflies here is difficult.
Owing to the local dampness the redressed butterflies drop
the wings, become spoiled and are quickly discoloured in the
day light.
To collect winged and water insects the Chinese use
bags, but the way of catching the cicada, dragonflies and
other fly insects is most original and interesting.
For
catching the tender dragon-flies they employ long bamboos
on the ends of which is tied a thin bamboo hoop of 30-50 cm.
in length and 20-30 cm. in breadth. On this hoop is wound
the spider web gathered on the walls, hedges and mostly
everywhere. The web is collected until the interstices of
the hoop are covered with a thin net of the web. To
The insects used in Chinese medicines are now studied by
C. R. Kellogg at Foochow.

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
95
96
catch an insect the net is brought near to it, which not
noticing the transparent texture during its flight, falls on
and sticks by the wings to the tenacious web. After this the
collector, holding the bamboo between the legs, takes off the
insect with his two hands, and thus the collector gets the
insect in an excellent state. To collect cicada seated high
on the trees the same hoop is also used; but more frequently
a long bamboo coated on the end with the white gluish sap
of the banyan tree or by a glue made from pine resin and of
a wood oil-Tung-yu (Aleurites cordata). By a cautious
approach of the bamboo end to the insect the latter sticks to
the bamboo by its large wings.
This method of catching insects has been known to the
Chinese for a long time.
XXX. THE USE OF THE HORSE-TAIL.
(Equisetum hyemale L.) IN CHINA.
Among the numerous interesting and useful Chinese
plants attention is drawn to the so called winter horse-tail
employed by Chinese in medicines, and polishing wood.
This horse-tail is very common in North China in the
provinces of Kiangsi and Shensi from whence a large quantity
is exported, chiefly to the South, pre-eminently as a medi-
cinal herb.
It is seen in other parts of North China and Manchuria,
where the horse-tail has a trade importance. Equisetum is
only found in marshes mostly among forests. It has a
compact root system and stalks without branches of 3-6 m.m.
in breadth and 1-1 meter in length placed very closely to
each other. The fructification bearing spores are seen on
the top of the green shoots. The stalks are round with
20-24 furrows, inside hollow, thanks to the aerial cavity.
The exterior coat is silicious; the surface of the stalks are
compact; the whole covered with silicious hard small knobs.
On account of the silex in the covering the stalks of
Equisetum (*) with its 24 furrows represents a wonder-
ful material for delicate polishing not only of wood, but of
brass, silver and other metals; and these stalks are, therefore,
used in large numbers by Chinese curio workshops in
Foochow and in many other places in South China to polish
all possible fine wood-work. As a general rule in Foochow
the wooden figures are cut out of lichee, lungan and
camphor woods (Nephelium litchi L., N. longana Coml. and
Cinnamomum camphora). Firstly they are polished with
shack skin (), but for the final polishing the stalks of
Equisetum are employed. A Chinese, holding in his hands
a piece of the horse-tail, 2-3 inches long, rubs the wood,

96
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
always across the furrows of the stalks. As a polishing
material the stalks of the Equisetum are very solid and more
durable and cheaper than sand-paper, giving the reason why
the foreign sand-paper is not used much by the Chinese. The
stalks of Equisetum are greatly valued by Foochow ivory-
turners and have an extensive application in the local pro-
duction of wooden articles.
XXXI. ON NEW FLAGELLATA FROM MANCHURIA.
In my first notes on Flagellata of Manchuria,10 127 forms
of inferior vegetable organisms have already been described,
including 40 new species and varieties, and many of them
were of scientific interest because of their peculiar con-
struction. The investigation of water basins in the environs
of Harbin, continued by me in the summer of 1917, has
convinced me of the original character of the Flagellata
observed.
At the second investigation 60 different forms were
found, 42 of which are placed as new in science. It is
specially interesting to indicate that of the 190 existing forms
of this genus 80 are now known only in Manchuria. It must
also be noted that the wealth of new forms. comes not as a
result of the investigation of materials from all-possible and
remote districts of Manchuria, similar to the investigations
of Mr. D. O. Swirenko made in European Russia, but is the
result of studying the samples of phytoplankton taken only at
Harbin from several marshes and ponds in the Sungari river
valley. Among the new species of Trachelomonas found here
the most interesting were the forms with a rim on the upper
part of the lorica, such as Tr. Wislouchii, Tr. Komarowii,
Tr. peridiniformis, Tr. marginellus and it is interesting to
remark that only in North America as described by Palmer,
was there found a kind of Trachelomonas named Tr. Spicu-
lifera with a very small rim around the flagella hole. In
Manchuria also are found Trachelomonas approximating to
an American kind Tr. Americana-this is Tr. Manchurica,
but the latter is without the long collar. It is also character-
istic that the new Manchurian forms have the lorica covered
with double net points, as seeen on Tr. Arnoldiana (Pl. II,
Fig. 10), Tr. hispida var. bipunctata (Pl. I, Fig. 11) and one
very interesting variety Tr. globularis var. punctata (Pl. II,
Fig. 32) with small thorns and small and large spots on the
surface of the lorica. Other species as-Tr. Komarowii var.
punctata (Pl. II, Fig. 21), Tr. hispida var. macropunctata
10 The materials on Flagellata of Manchuria, Part I; 2 plates
(Journal of Microbiology, Vol. IV, 1917, Petrograd).

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
97
(Pl. I, Fig. 24), Tr. cylindrica var. punctata (Pl. I, Fig. 29),
Tr. Kelloggi var. limosa (Fig. 6 in the text), Tr. Arnoldiana
var. formosa (Pl. II, fig. 15), Tr. sp. (Pl. I, Fig. 28)-have
only large points under the form of round pits on the surface
of the brown lorica.
A
From a study of much material on Trachelomonas from
Manchuria and from other places of Asia, I have come to the
conclusion that these organisms are very polymorphous and
often there are signs of one kind uniting with another.
large variation was observed, especially in Tr. volvocina, var.
cervicula (Pl. II, Fig. 9), Tr. verrucosa var. ornata (Pl. II,
Fig. 2), Tr. Kelloggi (Pl. I, Figs. 7 and 8), Tr. globulars,
Tr. Wislouchii, Tr. oblonga, Tr. hispida, Tr. armata,
Tr. paludosa, Tr. Raciborskii.
In the present notes I give the list of 48 Trachelomonas
among which 42 are described as new species and varieties,
two kinds of Trachelomonas are not defined and other three
forms with names are taken from my first work. At the same
time I have made some alterations in the classification and
all this new grouping comes from the study of all existing
species. During the summer of 1907 in the environs of
Harbin there were seen 13 kinds of Flagellata not observed
in Manchuria previously, and they are Euglena tripteris
(Duj.) Klebs, Phacus striata Fr., Lepocinclis fusiformis
(corda) Lemm., Lepocinclis sphagnophila Lemm., Lepocin-
clis texta (Duj.) Lemm., Trachelomonas pulchra Swir.,
Tr. incertra Lemm., Tr. reticulata var. punctata (Lemm.)
(=Tr. incerta var. punctata Lemm.), Tr. reticulata var.
amphora (Swir.) ( = Tr. amphora Swir.), Tr. Schaninslandii
Lemm., Tr. Rasiborskii Wolosz, Tr. piscatoris var. granulata
Skvortzow and Eutosiphon ovatum Stokes.
The list of new Trachelomonas is:-
Trachelomonas Manchurica nov. sp. (= Tr. globularis
(Awer.) Lemm.) var. longispina Skvortzow.
Var. Arnoldiana" nov. var. Pl. II, Fig. 24. Lorica
spherical, brown in colour, covered with dots and sharp-
pointed long spines 10-12 in number of 7-8 microns in length
and with 8 small rounded knobs around the flagella hole.
Diameter of the lorica is 18 microns.
Tr. poltavica (Swir.) nov. 12 var. atomaria nov. var. Pl. II,
Fig. 20. Lorica spherical, round, dotted, bright-yellow in
colour. The upper part is contracted and passes directly
to the neck. The diameter of the lorica is 14 to 16 microns.
11 Named in honour of Mr. Boris R. Arnold who has collected this
Trachelomonas at Harbin.
1 The present species is apportioned by me from Tr. granulata
Swir. var. poltavice Swir.
7

98
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
Tr. spiralis nov. sp. Pl. I, Fig. 1. Lorica oval, dark-
brown, the surface longitudinally striated. The upper part
is flattened, the lower is contracted and rounded. The lips
surrounding the flagella hole are thick, of 3.1 microns in
breadth. The length of lorica 27 microns, the breadth 23
microns.
Tr. Komarowii nov. 13 sp. ( = Tr. Wislouchu Skvortzow
var. Manchurica Skvortzow) var. punctata nov. var. Pl. II,
Fig. 21. This lorica has the same shape as the typical form,
but all the surface is covered with circular pits. Diameter
of the lorica is 21 to 23 microns. The breadth of the flagella
hole is 4 microns and of the rim 11 microns.
. Tr. Wislouchii Skvortzow var. punctulosus nov. var.
Pl. II, Fig. 8. Lorica has also the same shape as the typical
form, but is covered, except the round knobs, with dots.
The diameter of the lorica is 28 microns.
Tr. Planktonic Swir. var. ornata nov. var. Pl. I, Fig. 19.
Lorica is nearly spherical, brown, thickly covered with dots
and rounded knobs. The tube-like neck is serrated and of
4.3 microns in length. Lorica is of 23 microns in length and
17 microns in breadth.
Var. Gracilis nov. var. Pl. I, Fig. 21. Lorica nearly
spherical, brown, smooth. The tube-like neck is cut obli-
quely. Lorica is 18 microns in length and 16 microns in
breadth. The breadth of the neck is 2.5 microns.
chromatophores are numerous. Eye spot is distinct.
The
Var. Asiatica nov. var. Figs. 1 and 2 in the text. Lorica
broadly-oval, transparent or brown, dentated. The neck is
straight of 2.5 microns in length. Chrometophores are
numerous, eyes spot is distinct. Lorica is 17 microns in
length and 14 microns in breadth.
Tr. intermedia Dang. var. decorata nov. var. Fig. 9 in
the text. Lorica is nearly sperical, brown, covered with few
rounded knobs, disposed in small groups of 2 or 3. Lorica
is of 15 to 18 microns in length and of 11 to 13 microns in
breadth.
Var. Castaneus nov. var. Pl. II, Fig. 23. Lorica nearly
spherical dark brown, covered with mass of lines. Lorica
is of 15 microns in length and 12 microns in breadth.
Var. Hispida nov. var. Pl. I, Figs. 17 and 18. Lorica
broadly-oval, brown. Surface covered with minute sharp-
pointed spines. Lorica is of 16 microns in length and of
13.5 microns in breadth.
13 Named in honour of Mr. L. D. Komarow, a well known Russian
Botanist, investigator of the Manchurian flora.

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
99
Tr. Kelloggii nov. 14 sp. Pl. I, Figs. 7 and 8. Lorica is
broadly-oval, brown, dotted and with rounded knobs on the
upper and lower part of the lorica. The knobs on the lower
part are sometimes longer than the knobs of the upper part.
The flagella hole is of 4 to 4.7 microns in breadth and is very
thick. Lorica is of 35 microns in length and 31 microns in
breadth.
Var. Effigurata nov. var. Pl. I, Fig. 6. Lorica is brown,
dotted and covered with big round knobs. Lorica is of
35 microns in length and of 31.4 microns in breadth. The
flagella hole is of 4.7 microns in breadth.
Var. Limosa nov. var. Fig. 7 in the text. Lorica dark-
brown, covered with big circular pits. Lorica is of 30 microns
in length and of 27 microns in breadth.
Tr. Hsipida (Perty) Stein var. Bipunctata nov. var.
Pl. I, Fig. 11. Lorica brown, dotted and covered with
circular pits. Lorica is of 26 microns in length and 21 microns
in breadth. The flagella hole is of 3.5 microns in breadth.
Var. Macropunctata nov. var. Pl. I, Fig. 24. Lorica
dark-brown, covered only with small circular pits. The
neck is straight and serrated. Lorica is of 32 microns in
length and 25 microns in breadth. The flagella hole is of
5.8 microns in length.
Tr. Horrida Palmer var. moenacanthum nov. var. Pl. I,
Fig. 33. Lorica brown, dotted, covered with few small
knobs. The neck is long, serrated of 4.7 microns in length
and of 3.8 microns in breadth. Lorica is 28.3 microns in
length and 18 microns in breadth.
Tr. Armata (Ehrenb.) Stein. var. colorans nov. var.
Pl. I, Fig. 20. Lorica elongate-oval, brown, dotted, all
covered with small knobs and on the lower part with large
sharp-pointed spines. A short tube-like neck is serrated, of
5 microns in breadth. Lorica of 40 microns in length and
25 microns in breadth.
Tr. Raciborskii Wolosz. var. Swirenkiana15 nov. var.
Fig. 5 in the text. Lorica elongate-oval, brown, dotted and
covered with knobs and in the middle part of the lorica they
are smaller than on the upper and on lower part. Lorica
is of 32 microns in length and 21 microns in breadth.
Var. Punctata nov. var. Pl. I, Fig. 15. Lorica brown,
dotted. The tube-like neck is straight and serrated. Lorica
has 35 microns in length and 27 microns in breadth.
14 Named in honour of Mr. C. R. Kellogg, a zoologist working in
Foochow, China.
15 Named in honour of Mr. D. O. Swirenko, the specialist on
Flagellata in Harkow University, European Russia.

100
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
Tr. Teres Meskell var. ornata nov. var. Pl. I, Fig. 35.
Lorica elongate, brown, dotted and covered with minute
sharp-pointed spines. The tube-like neck is broad, short,
serrated of 5.5 microns in breadth. Lorica is 26 microns in
length and 16 microns in breadth.
Lorica oval,
Tr. Felix nov. sp. Fig. 3 in the text.
brown, dotted and covered with few elongate knobs. Lorica
is of 20 m in length and 15 m. in breadth.
Tr. Mirabilis Swir. var. orientalis nov. var. (= Trache-
lomonas sp. in the "Materials on Flagellata of Manchuria"
by B. W. Skvortzow, Pt. 1, Fig. E in the text). The
diagnosis of this variety can be seen in the indicated note.
==
Var. Affinis nov. var. ( = Trachelomonas sp. in "The
Materials of Flagellata of Manchuria," by B. W. Skvortzow,
Part I, Fig. D in the text). A variety covered with spines,
the diagnosis also can be seen in the indicated note.
Tr. piscatoris (Fischer) Stokes var. leavis nov. var. Pl. I,
Fig. 3. Lorica oval, brown, smooth. The upper part is con-
tracted and passes directly into the neck. Lorica is of
25 microns in length and 14 microns in breadth. The neck
if of 3.3 microns in breadth.
Var. granulata Skvortzow in the freshwater algae from
the ponds of South China (Journal of N.C.B.R.A.S., 1919).
The Manchurian form had the neck serrated of 3 microns
in breadth and the surface of the lorica covered with smaller
granules. Lorica was 22 microns in length and 16 microns
in breadth.
Tr. paludosa Skvortzow var. elongata nov. var. Pl. II,
Fig. 1. Lorica a little longer than the typical form, of
36 microns in length and 16 microns in breadth. The surface
is brown, dotted. The tube-like neck is of 4 microns in
length and of 3.2 microns in breadth.
Lorica oval,
Tr. Arnoldiana16 nov. sp. Pl. II, Fig. 10.
brown, contracted at the upper part and rounded at the
lower part. The surface is dotted and covered with circular
pits. The neck is straight, serrated of 5 microns in length
and of 4 microns in breadth. Lorica of 25 microns in length
and 20 microns in breadth.
Var. Formosa nov. var. Pl. II, Fig. 15. Lorica is oval,
brown, covered with small circular pits. The upper part
is contracted, the lower rounded. The neck is straight with
the upper part cut obliquely, of 4.7 microns in length and of
4 microns in breadth. Lorica is of 28 microns in length and
of 21 microns in breadth.
Var. Granulata nov. var. Fig. 8 in the text. Lorica
oval, brown, covered with round knobs. The upper part is
16 Named in honour of Mr. Borish Arnold who has collected this
form.

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
101
very contracted, the lower round. The neck is long, straight.
Lorica is of 23 microns in length and, of 18 microns in
breadth. Eye is distinct. Flagellum 2 times bigger than
the lorica.
Tr. Saccata Lemm. var. paludosa nov. var. Pl. II,
Fig. 18. Lorica brown, covered with knobs of 35 microns in
length and 23 microns in breadth. The neck is of 5.2 microns
in breadth. The Chromatopheres are elongate.
Tr. Rarus nov. sp. Pl. I. Fig. 10. Lorica oval, brown,
smooth. The upper part has a reclined neck and this is
seen only in the optical section. The neck is of 6 microns in
breadth. Lorica is of 18 microns in length and of 12 microns
in breadth.
Var. Puctata nov. var. Pl. I, Fig. 14. Lorica brown,
covered with circular pits and has 14 microns in length and
9.4 microns in breadth. The neck is of 4 microns in breadth.
Tr. Cylindrica Ehrenb. (=Tr. euchlora var. cylindrica
(Ehrenb.) Lemm. Var. punctata nov. var. Pl. I, Fig. 29.
Lorica is cylindrical, brown, covered with small circular pits.
Lorica is of 26 microns in length, 14 microns in breadth.
The neck is of 3.1 microns in breadth.
Tr. depressa Swir. var. punctata nov. var. Pl. I, Fig. 36.
Lorica is brown, dotted, of 25 microns in length and 30
microns in breadth. The flagella hole is of 3.3 microns in
breadth.
Tr. Borodiniana Swir. var. minima nov. var. Pl. II,
Fig. 22.
Lorica is brown, smooth, with a large neck of
6 microns in breadth. Lorica is of 15 microns in length and
breadth.
Tr. incerta Lemm. var. punctata nov. var. Pl. I, Fig. 4.
Lorica dotted of 18 microns in length and 12 microns in
breadth. The neck of 2.2 microns in breadth.
Tr. rhombica nov. sp. (=Tr. hispida var. rhombica
Skvortzow) var. planktonica nov. var. Fig. 4 in the text.
Lorica oval, contracted at both ends, brown. The neck is
long of 5.5 microns in length and 3.5 microns in breadth.
Lorica is of 30 microns in length and of 20 microns in
breadth.
Tr. tuberosus nov. sp. Pl. I, Fig. 12. Lorica elongate,
varied, in shape, contracted at both ends, brown, dotted.
Lorica is of 28 microns in length and 13 microns in breadth.
The neck is of 4.5 microns in breadth.
Tr. Chinensis Skvortzow var. ovata nov. var. Fig. 7
in the text. Lorica brown, broadly-oval, covered with knobs.
The neck is serrated of 4.5 microns in breadth. Lorica is
of 22 microns in length and 16 microns in breadth.

102
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
Tr. Fluviatilis Lemm. var. curta nov. var. Pl. I, Fig. 31.
Lorica light-brown, smooth with a very broad middle part.
The neck is serrated of 2.5 microns in breadth.
22 microns in length and 16 microns in breadth.
Lorica is of
Var. glabra nov. var. Pl. II, Fig. 11. Lorica light-brown
and roughened. The neck is sloped, of 5 microns in breadth.
Lorica of 26 microns in length and 14.1 microns in breadth.
Tr. Swirenko Skvortzow var. pulchra nov. var. Pl. II,
Fig. 17. Lorica brown, covered with knobs and dots. The
lower part is rounded with a spine on the end. Lorica of
40 microns in length and 23 microns in breadth. The neck
is of 6 microns in breadth.
Tr. inplatus nov. sp. ( = Trachelomonas sp. in "The
Materials on Flagellata of Manchuria," by B. W. Skvortzow,
Pl. I, Fig. 16. Lorica of the type of Trachelomonas Swir-
enko Skwertz, but is distinguished by a neck being distinct
from the lorica. The surface is brown, covered with dots.
Lorica is of 47 to 49 microns in length and 19 to 21 microns
in breadth. The neck is of 5.5 to 6 microns in length and of
4 to 4.5 microns in breadth.
Tr. Zmiewika Swir. var. hispida nov. var. Pl. II, Fig. 14.
Lorica is light brown, covered with very small spines.
Lorica is of 48 microns in length, 27 microns in breadth.
The neck is of 6 microns breadth.
Tr. tambowica Swir. var. granulata nov. var. Pl. I,
Fig. 30. Lorica light covered with rounded knobs. Lorica
is of 45 microns in length and of 20 microns in breadth. The
neck is of 5.4 microns in breadth.
Tr. sp. Pl. I, Fig. 28. Lorica oval, brown, covered with
small pits. The upper part passes directly to the neck.
Lorica is of 26 microns in length and of 19 microns in
breadth. The neck is of 3.9 to 41 microns in breadth.
Tr. sp. Pl. II, Fig. 12. Lorica is very elongate, brown,
dotted and covered with sharp-pointed spines. Lorica is
of 40 microns in length and of 27 microns in breadth. The
neck is of 4 microns in breadth. This type is related to the
Tr. horrida Palmer.
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.
PLATE I.
Fig. 1. Trachelomonas spiralis Skvortzow.
""""""""
2. Tr. sp. a type related to Tr. intermedia and Tr. Borodiana.
3. Tr. verrucosa var. ornata Skvortzow. A elongate form.
4. Tr. incerta var. punctata Skvortzow.
5. Tr. armata var. punctata Swir.
6. Tr. kelloggii var. effigurata Skvortzow.
7. Tr. kelloggii Skvortzow.
8.
9. Tr. reticulata var. amphora (Swir.) Skvortzow.

15
31
12
8
13
14
16
17
25
26
19
23
22
21
11
Plate I
20
24
29
27
30
28
32
33
34
36
[see pages 96-102]

8
10
20
14
10
800
16
22
15
18
19
6
Plate II.
ar
17
23
23
13
21
24
[see pages 96-102]

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
103
Fig. 10. Tr. rarus Skvortzow.
"
11. Tr. hispida var, bipunctata Skvortzow.
12. Tr. tuberosus Skvortzow.
13 Tr. piscatoris var. levis Skvortzow.
14. Tr. rarus var. punctata Skvortzow.
15. Tr. rasiborskii var. punctata Skvortzow.
16. Tr. piscatoris var. aspera Skvortzow.
17. Tr. intermedia var. hispida Skvortzow.
,, 18.
دو
"
"
"
19. Tr." planctonica var. ornata Skvortzow.
20. Tr. armata var. colorans Skvortzow.
21. Tr. planktonica var. gracilis Skvortzow.
22. Tr. reticulata var. punctata (Lemm.) Skvortzow.
23. Tr. volvocina var. punctata Skvortzow.
24. Tr. hispida var. macropunctata Skvortzow.
25. Tr. komarowii Skvortzow.
,, 26. Tr. incerta Lemm.
27.
Tr. cylindrica Ehrenb.
"
28. Tr. sp.
وو
29. Tr. cylindrica var. punctata Skvortzow.
,, 30. Tr. tambowika var. granulata Skvortzow.
31. Tr. fluviatilis var. curta Skvortzow.
32. Tr. globularis var. punctata Skvortzow (?)
33. Tr. horrida var. moenacanthum Skvortzow.
34. Tr. oblonga var. punctata Lemm.
35. Tr. teres var. ornata Skvortzow.
36. Tr. depressa var. punctata Skvortzow.
PLATE II.
Fig. 1. Trachelomonas paludosa var. elongata Skvortzow.
2. Tr. verrucosa var. ornata Skvortzow.
23
3. Tr. volvocina var. punctata Skvortzow.
4. Tr. horrida Palmer.
5.
Tr. pulchra Swir.
6. Tr. Schaninslandii Lemm.
7. Tr. globularis var. puctata Skvortzow.
A form with few knobs.
8. Tr. wislouchii var. punctata Skvortzow.
9.
10.
33
"
"
"
93
11.
Tr. volvocina var. cervicula (Stokes) Lemm.
Tr. arnoldiana Skvortzow.
Tr. fluviatilis var. grabra Skvortzow.
12. Tr. sp.
13. Tr. horrida Palmer.
14. Tr. zmie wika var. hispida Skvortzow.
15. Tr. arnoldiana var. formosa Skvortzow.
16. Tr. horrida Palmer.
17. Tr. Swirenko var. pulchra Skvortzow.
18. Tr. saccata var. paludosa Skvortzow.
19. Tr. horrida Palmer.
20.
21.
22.
Tr. poltawica var. atomaria Skvortzow.
Tr. komarowii var. punctata Skvortzow.
Tr. Borodoniana var, minima Skvortzow.
Tr. intermedia var. eastaneus Skvortzow.
27. Tr. manchurica var. arnoldiana Skvortzow.
25
23.
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
Dangeard, P. A. Recherches sur les Crytomonadineae et les Euglenae.
(Le Botaniste, 1889, 1902).
Lemmarmann, E. Beiträge zur kenhtnis der Planktonalgen N. 1-27.

104
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
Lemmarmann, E. Algen in Kryptogamlnflora des Mark Brandurburg,
Bd. III, 1907.
Lemmarmann, E. Das Phytoplankton des Menam.
(Hedwigia 1908).
Lemmarmann, E. Flagellate II, in Die Süsswasser Flora Deutsch.
Oster. U. Schweiz, Lena, 1913.
Swirenko, D. 0. Die Euglenacengattung Trachelomonas. (Arch. f.
hydrob. u. Plank, IX, 1914).
Swirenko, D. O. Some information on the classification and geography
of Euglenaceae. Harkow, 1915, (in Russian).
Skvortzow, B. W. The algae from Manchuria and the observations
on the water vegetation of the Sungari river valley (Journal of
Microbiology, Vol. III, 1916, S. Petersburg, (in Russian).
Skvortzow, B. W. The materials on the Flagellata of Manchuria
Part I, 2 plates, and a picture in the text. (ibid, Vol. IV, 1917,
Petrograd), in Russian).
Skvortzow, B. W. The fresh water algae from the ponds of South
China in "Notes on the agriculture and nature of China," N. III.
(Journal, N.C.B.R.A.S., 1919).
Skortzow, B. W. On the exploration of the freshwater algae in
Manchuria N. 8 of the notes, ibid).
Stein, F. R. Der Organism der Infusionsthiere, 1883.
Wolozzynska, J. Das Phytoplankton einiger javanischer seen, Beriirk-
sichtigung des Sawa-Planktons. (Bull. akad. Sc. Cracovi., 1912)
Etc.
XXXII. THE BIBLIOGRAPHY ON THE BOTANY, ZOOLOGY
AND THE RURAL ECONOMY OF MANCHURIA.
FIRST PART.
The following list of works on Manchuria is in the Russian
language:
Anfilow, W. K. The garden ginseng. (Journal of the Progres.
Horticul. and Gardening, N. 7, 1916. S. Petersburg).
Arsieniew, W. K. Chinese in Ussuri district. (Journal of the
American Branch of the Russian Imp. Geogr. Sc., Vol. X, 1917,
Habarowsk).
Boiko, W. The grafting of fruit-trees and roses in Manchuria.
(Journal of the Rural Econ. in North Manchuria, N. 5-8, 1918,
Harbin).
Boiko, W. The Chinese apple-tree and the method of its cultivation.
(ibid, N. 1-2, 1918).
Boloban. The North-Eastern Mongolia and its cereals.
Boloban. The future of Manchuria.
Boloban. The agriculture and corn-trade in N. Manchuria. Harbin,
1909.
Budistchew. The description of forests of Russian Maritime province.
(Journal of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Imp. Geog. Soc.,
part I-II, 1869).
Wasiliew, M. Our East and its trade. S. Petersburg, 1891.
Wradii, W. P. On plants and trees of the Far East. S. Petersburg,
1907. (A short note).
Wradii, W. P. The Corean and Chinese names of trees. S. Petersburg,
1909. (A short note).
Wradii, W. P. The food products of Chinese, Coreans and Japanese
and other natives of the Far East. S. Petersburg, 1904. (A short
note).
Dombrowskii, B. Aktinidia polygama.
and Gard., N. 1-8, 1908).
(Jour. of the Progres. Hort.

外交部藏書
AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
105
Dombrowskii, A. and Woroshilow, W. Manchuria. S. Petersburg, 1907.
Davidow, D. A. The colonization of Manchuria and of the North-
Eastern Mongolia. (Jour. of the Eastern Institute, Vol. 37,
part I. Vladivostock, 1911).
Geishtor, G. E. Report on the despatching in Manchuria. S. Peters-
burg, 1904.
Ivashkevitch, B. A. The trees of the forests of the North-Eastern
part of Manchuria. (Jour. of the Rur. Econ. of North Manch.,
Nov. 1-2, 1914).
Ivashkevitch, B. A. The Manchurian forest. Harbin, 1915.
Ivashkevitch, B. A. A short description of the forests of the Eastern
Manchuria. (Jour. of the Imp. Forest Institute, Vol. XXX,
part II, 1916. S. Petersburg).
Kavakami, T. The trade of North Manchuria. (The Materials on
Manchuria, Mongolia, China and Japan, Part 32-34. Harbin, 1909).
Kesselring, W. T. Aktinidias in our gardens. (Jour. of the Prog.
Hort. and Gard., N. 14, 15, 18, 1908).
Kesselring, W. T. The Cultivation of new and rare and little-known
berries and plants. S. Petersburg, 1916).
Kirillow, N. The garden cultivation of ginseng. (Jour. "Primorski-
hoziaen," N. 8, 1913. Vladivostock.
Kozlianinow, M. The agriculture in Manchuria and its products.
S. Petersburg, 1909. (A small pamphlet).
Komarov, V. L. The conditions of the future colonization of the
Amur. (Jour. of the Rus. Imp. Geog. Sc., Vol. 32, part 6, 1896).
Komarov, V. L. Species novae Florea Asiae orientalis (in Aeta Horti
Petropliteni, Vol. XVIII, in Latin).
Komarov, V. L. Botanico-geographical districts of the Amur basin.
Jour. of the Imp. S. Petersburg Natur. Sc., Vol. 28, part I, 1897).
Komarov, V. L. The South frontier of the Manchurian botanical
district (ibid, Vol. 29, part I).
Komarov, V. L. Flora of Manchuria. (Jour. of the Imp. S. Peters.
Botan. Garden, Part 1-4, 1902-1904).
Kohanowski, N. T. The landholding and the agriculture in China.
Vladivostock, 1909.
Krukowski, T. M. The pectinal culture of cereals (Chinese way of
planting). (Jour. "Primorski hoziaen," N. 1-2, 1916).
Ladigin, W. F. Corea. Harbin, 1915. (About Ginseng).
Landesen, A. The Girin exhibition. (Bul. of the Russian Orient.
Sc., N. 7, 1910).
Larin, T. The materials on study the native medicine plants of the
Irkutsk district. (Jour. of the East Siberian Branch of the Rus.
Imp. Geog. Sc., Vol. XLV, 1915. Irkutsk, 1917).
Lewenetz, M. On the cause of the loss of bees. (Jour. "Primorski
hoziaen," N. 5, 1917).
Lind, K. Manchuria. S. Petersburg, 1900.
Maak, R. The travelling on Amur. S. Petersburg, 1859.
Maak, R. The travelling on Ussuri river valley. S. Petersburg, 1861.
Marikowski, T. E. On the study of the flora of the Russian Maritime
provinces and on the composition of herberium. Harbin, 1916-17).
Menshkow, P. N., Smolnikow, P. N. and Chirkow, A. T. North
Manchuria, Vol. I and II, 1916 and 1918. Harbin. (Published by
the Railway Administration).
Nikiforow, M. G. The cultivation of plum-trees in Siberia. Jour. of
the Prog. Hort. and Gard., N. 1, 1912).
Palchewskii, N. A. The diseases of the cultivated gramineous plants
in the South Ussuri district. S. Petersburg, 1891.
Pozneiew, D. The description of Manchuria. S. Petersburg, 1897.

106
NOTES ON THE AGRICULTURE, BOTANY
Poliakow, T. Report on the investions in Sakalin I., in South Ussuri
district, and in Japan. (Supplement to the Vol. XLVIII of the
Jour. of the Imp. Acad. of Sc., 1884. S. Petersburg).
Pokotilow, D. D. The Chinese ports of trade importance for the
Russian trade in the Far East. Part I and II. S. Petersburg,
1895.
Pokrowski, S. The cereals, products and texnical plants cultivated in
Bodune district. (Jour. of the Rur. Econ. of N. Manchuria,
N. 6-7, 1913).
Radde, G. T. Travelling in South-eastern Siberian in 1855-59. (Jour.
of the Russian Imp. Geog. Soc., IV, 1861).
Regel, T. and Maak, R. On the vegetation of the Ussuri country.
S. Petersburg, 1861.
Semenow, T. L. The gathering of the sea-cabbage in the Japanese
sea, 1885, Vladivostock.
Sokownin, M. The timber
Orient. Sc., N. 2, 1909.
Soldatow, W. Manchuria.
Grant & Co., Vol. 18).
Soldatow, W. The Cultivation of Cotton in Manchuria. Is it possible
and advantageous? (Jour. of the Rur. Econ. in N. Manchuria,
N. 6-7, 1913).
trade of Girin. (Bul. of the Russian
Harbin).
(The Encyclop. Dictionary of H. M.
Soldatow, W. Chinese agriculture and weeds. (ibid, N. 10-11, 1917).
Soldatow, W. The rust on cereals and the measures of wrestling with
it. (ibid, N. 12, 1914).
Soldatow, W. On the cultivation of fruit trees in Harbin. (ibid,
N. 1, 1915).
Soldatow, W. The cultivation of wheat in Manchuria.
orski hoziaen," N. 1-2, 1918).
(Jour. "Prim
Soldatow, W. Weeds of the Manchurian flora. (ibid, N. 1-2, 1918).
Strogii, A. A. On Ussurian actinidias as fruit plants. (ibid, N. 12,
1916).
Suworow, N. T. Manchuria. S. Petersburg, 1907.
Skvortzow, B. W.
the Rur. Econ.
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
forest. (ibid).
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
(ibid).
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
and natives in
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
(ibid).
Chinese plagiosperma as a fruit shrub. (Jour. of
of the N. Manchuria, N. 5-6, 1918).
On the forest business in the Far East. (ibid).
Are there truffles in Manchuria? (ibid).
Chinese acacia-lespedeza bicolor. (ibid).
Dye-plants in Manchuria. (ibid, N. 7-8, 1918).
The use of different timber of the Manchurian
Amarant, as a compestrian plant. (ibid).
On little-known garden tuber plants in Manchuria.
On the cultivation of the Daurian plush. (ibid).
On some wild manchurian plants used by Chinese
food as vegetables. (ibid).
Chinese hemp, as a spinning plant. (ibid).
The duckweed, as a food product for poultry.
Skvortzow, B. W. The Amurian velvet in Chinese medicine. (ibid).
Skvortzow, B. W. On the chemical analysis of Manchurian soya beans.
(ibid, N. 9-10, 1918).
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
Manchurian actinidias as berries plants. (ibid).
On Manchurian wild apricot. (ibid).
On wild vegetables of the Far East. (ibid).
Skvortzow, B. W. On the cultivation of rice in the Middle and
South Manchuria. (ibid).

AND THE ZOOLOGY OF CHINA
107
Skvortzow, B. W. On garden cucumbriaceus plants of Manchuria and
the Russian Maritime provinces.
(ibid).
Skvortzow, B. W. On the cultivation of the hawthorn in North China.
(ibid).
Skvortzow, B. W.
(ibid, N. 11-12,
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
(ibid).
Skvortzow, B. W.
On the melliferous plants of the Manchurian forest.
1918).
Tanning plants of the Manchurian forest. (ibid).
On Chinese nutgalls. (ibid).
The nuts of the Manchurian nut tree
etc.
On cultivated cucumbriaceus plants of Manchuria.
(ibid).
Skvortzow, B. W. On trade importance of fishes of Manchuria and the
Amur Country. (ibid).
Skvortzow, B. W.
N. 153, 1918.
Skvortzow, B. W.
Skvortzow, B. W.
N. 217, 1918).
Skvortzow, B. W.
On Manchurian oil beans. ("Vestnik Manchurii,"
Harbin).
On fruit trees of the Far East. (ibid, N. 203).
On the berries economy in Manchuria. (ibid,
On Chinese medicine trade of the Far East..
(ibid, N. 212, 1918).
Turezaninow, N. Flora-Baikalensi-dahurica. 2 vols., 1842-1857.