THIRTY THOUSAND MILES
IN CHINA
CHARLES KEYSER EDMUNDS, PH.D.,
President of Canton Christian College and Observer-
in-Charge Magnetic Survey of China, Carnegie
Institution of Washington, 1906-1917
Coming to China fourteen years ago, after several years.
of experience as a physicist in the field as well as in the
laboratory and classroom in America, I naturally desired to
exercise the same dual functions in China. Urged by the
Editor, I presume to recite some aspects of such field work
as the interims in my increasing scholastic duties and
absences in America have allowed.
Among the many problems which China faces to-day,
some of the most pressing are of a physical nature, such as
reforestation, control of rivers and canals to prevent floods,
construction of railways, development of mines, and many
others of a similar sort. In connection with the surveys
which are necessary in any comprehensive or co-ordinated
development along these lines, it is highly desirable that the
magnetic field of the earth be known as accurately as possible
throughout the country. For it is with the aid of the
compass that the most rapid and economical surveys can be
made. Hence the proper corrections to apply to compass
and dip needle pointings on land are of value to surveyors
and railroad and mining engineers, just as they are to the
mariner for sea areas.
As the reputed inventors of the compass for use on both
land and sea, it is quite appropriate that the Chinese after
a long period of arrested development along such lines,
should have the assistance of scientists from the West in
securing as soon as possible an accurate knowledge of the
magnetic elements throughout their territory in which these
physical developments are being inaugurated and throughout
the adjacent seas on which so many Chinese risk their lives.
Besides these practical applications, a detailed know-
ledge of the earth's magnetic field is essential for any
adequate conception of the cause or causes of such magnet-
1

2
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
ism, and for the solution of this large problem data must be
had for all parts of the globe both on land and sea.
Therefore, when in 1904 "The Department of Research
in Terrestrial Magnetism" was created by the Carnegie
Institution of Washington with the special object of securing
magnetic data in the regions of the globe where most needed
and where no organizations are prepared to undertake this
work, I was glad to offer my services to the Director, Dr.
L. A. Bauer, for such work in China as he might authorize
and support.
Already some observations had been made by the Obser-
vatories at Hongkong and Zikawei, by various naval officers
at coast and river ports, and by an occasional party of travel-
lers from abroad; but nothing like an adequate or comprehen-
sive survey had been thought of.
Thanks to the liberal support accorded by the Carnegie
Institution of Washington, and to the aid given by the Hong-
kong and Zikawei Observatories in the loan of instruments
for the first few years, by the Chinese Government through
its customs and postal services and local civil officials
generally, and to the co-operation of consuls and missionaries
wherever encountered, as well as to the courtesy of the
Canton Christian College in granting furloughs, it has been
possible to carry to a successful conclusion not only the whole
programme for a preliminary reconnaissance of China proper
but to extend the survey into Manchuria, Mongolia, Chinese
Turkestan, French-Indo-China and Siam, and to do so
practically "on time," in spite of the fact that the period of
our work has been one of almost constant political unrest
in China.
From the first, care has been taken to avoid giving the
Chinese any impression that we are intending to invade their
field, but only to encourage and assist them in the accom-
plishment of the preliminary stages of a work which, when
their government is sufficiently organized to maintain a
scientific service on its own account, will properly fall under
their meteorological department. With this end in view
I have always included in my party a Chinese student to act
as recorder and assistant observer.
In French-Indo-China and Siam, the hearty co-operation
of the respective Governments was accorded and free trans-
portation provided for the expeditions.
The results secured in the period 1905-13 have been
published by the Carnegie Institution of Washington with
similar observations in other parts of Asia and of the globe
under the title "Land Magnetic Observations" in Volumes
I and II of Publication No. 175, by L. A. Bauer, Director

TEMPLE ANGKA VAT CAMBODGE.
INNER COURT, BATHING CAVE, STAIRWAY,
ANGKA VAT CAMBODGE.

A BRIDGE OF BOATS KUANGHSI.
ON THE YUNNAN RAILWAY: CENTRAL SECTION.

THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
3
of the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism. A third volume
is in course of preparation.
At each station astronomical observations of the sun,
usually by means of a theodolite, are made so as to determine
the latitude and longitude of the station, and the azimuth
or true bearing of some distant fixed mark as seen from the
station. Elevation above sea level is determined by hypso-
meter or aneroid barometers. Standard mean time is given
by a battery of watches and chronometers very carefully
carried. With a magnetometer the magnetic declination or
deviation of the compass from the true or astronomic north
is determined and also the intensity of the earth's magnetic
force at that place, while with a dipcircle the dip or inclin-
ation of the magnetic needle in the vertical plane is observed.
These three elements-declination, dip, and intensity-give
a full knowledge of the earth's magnetic force at that place
both as to its magnitude and its direction for the time when
the observations were made. But the case is greatly com-
plicated by the fact that both the direction and the magnitude
of the earth's force at a given place undergo cyclical changes
throughout the day, with monthly and secular variations
superposed. It becomes then a difficult task to ascertain
the precise correction to apply to any given compass reading in
order to ascertain the true bearing at the time of observation.
Continuous records of these changes in the earth's field must
be secured at as many permanent stations as possible while
at a large number of well distributed points throughout the
intervening territory detailed observations must be made and
repeated from time to time, so that both the absolute values
and the rate of change may be determined. The only station
in China where continuous records are being secured is at
Lukiapang, under the Zikawei Observatory, itself an integral
part of the missionary establishment of the French Catholic
Church.
The extensive observations already made throughout the
world, both on land and sea, under the auspices of the
Carnegie Institution of Washington will, when combined with
the results of surveys maintained by the various govern-
ments, give the first comprehensive magnetic survey of the
globe and thus afford the basis of a much more intelligent
solution of the problems of terrestrial magnetism than has
hitherto been possible. Any more detailed reference would
be out of place here; but it is a cause for congratulation that
China has been included in the areas studied even ahead of
the time when her own government will be able to undertake
such work and thus contribute her just share as a full-fledged
modern nation to the solution of a world problem.

4
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
In this magnetic survey of China and adjacent territories
some 65,300 miles have been travelled not counting trans-
oceanic voyages. Eliminating duplications, for some of the
routes have been traversed more than once, gives 43,240 miles
as the total of our lines, not counting 2,600 miles in India by
my colleagues D. C. Sowers and C. G. Fuson who journeyed
from Peking to Bombay by way of Kansu, Chinese Tur-
kestan, Kashgar and the Karakorum Pass. My assistant
Mr. Frederick Brown has traversed Mongolia in two direc-
tions and has done Kweichow besides filling gaps in other
provinces. The total number of stations where observations
have been made (not counting repeats) is 394 plus 63
occupied by Sowers and Fuson within Chinese Dominions.
The average interval between stations is about 60 miles,
varying from 15 to 150 miles according to circumstances.
Average cost per station has been about U.S. $50, not count-
ing observer's salary.
My own share of travel has been a total of 45,500 miles,
of which about 12,000 have been in repetition so that irres-
pective of duplication my single routes amount to about
33,500 of which 3,500 have been in Indo-China and 30,000
in China. In Siam I have gone only where railways could
carry me, but in French-Indo-China I have traversed every
province, while in China proper and Manchuria I have
traversed every province except Kansu (the S.E. corner of
which I have just entered) and Kweichow, and have skirted
the real physical boundary of Inner Mongolia and of the
Szechwan-Tibetan borderland.
Naturally a great mass of data has been collected,
especially with reference to the physical features of China,
and I cherish the hope that some day the pressure of my
college work will lessen sufficiently to permit the preparation
of a comprehensive volume. For the present I must content
myself with only a brief outline of the field that has been
covered, with some indication of the most striking features.
THE RULE OF FIVE.
According to ancient custom most ideas in China come
in fives. One might substitute "funf" for "drei" in the
German saying and apply it to Cathay. Life consists in the
five relationships: between sovereign and subject, husband
and wife, parent and child, brother and brother, friend and
friend. There are five classes of society, five orders of no-
bility, five rites, five degrees of mourning, the five-clawed
dragon (which doesn't exist) and the so-called five-coloured
porcelain (which isn't five-coloured!). There are the five

THIRTY THOUSAND MH
交部藏書
5
elements: metal, wood, water, fire, earth; though the all
surrounding air is omitted!There are the five senses, the
five virtues, the five planets, five colours, five musical notes
and the five classics, the learning of which by a cast-iron
method has in several hundred years wasted enough energy
for ten millenniums of true education. There are the five
races, the five cereals, the five seasons and of special value
to the traveller the five points of the compass: North, East,
South, West and Center; indicating that it is just as im-
portant to know where you are as it is to get your direction!
Hence even under the risk of being considered too artificial,
I shall present my subject according to the ancient rule of
five.
The five corners of my own area of travel are significant
in their contrast.
In the south-east Hainan, the Island of Palms; in the
north-east Dolonnor and the Salt Marshes of Inner Mon-
golia; in the north-west the Snow Mountains of Sungpan
Pass, the Switzerland of China; and in the south-west the
jungles of Laos and Siam, and in China proper, the elevated
lakes of Yunnan.
My separate expeditions might be characterized as
follows: (1) Along the China Coast from end to end; (2)
Overland from Peking to Canton via Hankow, Changsha,
Kweilin and Wuchow; (3) The Yangtsze Kiang from Tibetan
Borderland to the sea; (4) The Yellow River's Middle
Course; (5) Over the Meiling from Canton to Kiukiang;
(6) Across Shantung, China's Holy Land; (7) A Loop in
Inner Mongolia, via Hannor Pass, Dolonor, and Jehol; (8)
From Canton to Mandalay, but stopped half way by a
Revolution; (9) Partout en Indo-Chine; (10) China's Far
West, Shensi, Kansu and Szechwan.
These journeys have taken me to the five Sacred Moun-
tains of China:-Taishan in Shantung, Hengshan in Hunan,
Wutaishan in Shansi, Omeishan in Szechwan and Hwashan
in Shensi. Of these Omei is the highest (10,000 ft.) and
affords the greatest variety of scenery, Hwashan (6,000)
presents the most interesting ascent because of the steepness
of the artificial way prepared for devotees, while Tai Shan
(5,000) has the most valuable historical connection with
China's Chief Sage, Confucius, who ascended this mount
about 500 B.C. Each bears numerous temples and each is
visited annually by thousands of pilgrims from far and near.
The lastnamed is now very accessible even for the tourist
since the Pukow-Tientsin railway passes through Taian which
lies at its base.

6
seen.
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
The five great engineering feats of the Chinese have been
1.-The Great Wall, begun as early as 240 B.C. and
added to as late as A.D. 1547, to keep out invaders who never-
theless have made an effective entry, has been followed for
long distances in widely separated sections of its tortuous
course of 1,250 miles.
2.-The Grand Canal, the oldest and longest artificial
waterway in the world, built in three sections in three differ-
ent periods (from 550 B.C. to A.D. 1283) and finally completed
for the inland transport of grain from Hangchow in the South
to the Capital in the North, has been traversed practically
from end to end of its 1,000 miles, in spite of the dilapidated
condition of its northern section.
3.-The Hangchow Bore Wall, built about A.D. 915 and
still protecting millions from a twice-daily flood from the sea,
has, though less known impressed me as worthy of a greater
share of fame than the Grand Canal or the Great Wall,
because of the dynamic difficulties to be overcome in the
construction of 180 miles of a wall which so effectively shuts
out one of the most gigantic and powerful tidal bores in the
world.
4. The exceedingly clever and extensive irrigation system
of Kwanhsien inaugurated probably about 200 B.C. and still
responsible for so much of the prosperity of Szechwan has
been investigated from the headwaters of the Min that feeds
it to the by-canals of the Chengtu plain where it supports
millions on what would otherwise be barren land.
5.-The brine wells of Tzeliutsing also in Szechwan,
sunk by hand to a depth of 3,000 feet and operated by crude
machinery with water-buffalo as the motive power have been
seen and marvelled at. Dating, as some of the wells do,
from as early as A.D. 250 this region still supplies an enormous
quantity of that most essential commodity, which in China
is the Government's one monopoly, salt, which under the
recent administration of Sir Richard Dane has added so
greatly to the nation's revenue.
Note, please, three significant characteristics of these
engineering feats: Each is of fairly ancient origin; each is of
great magnitude; and each is a work of utility, all but one
(i.e. the Great Wall) being of important use to-day. Con-
trast these with the useless monuments which the ancient
Egyptians have left as marks of their former prowess and you
will readily admit the superiority of the Chinese. Remember
too that the Chinese are the only great nation to-day that has
survived from any remote past.

THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
7
Remember that before Abraham left Ur of the Chaldees,
China's system of education began, which with a revision in
A.D. 627 continued until 1905 to drill all the scholars and
statesmen of the realm in a system of ethics the cardinal
principle of which is filial piety, and then compare their
history with the promise contained in the Hebrew decalogue
which says "Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days
may be long in the land which the Lord thy God giveth
thee," and I, for one, believe that you have noted at least
one of the reasons for the survival of the Chinese people.
Five Imperial Burial Grounds have been visited. Near
Peking in three different directions are three such areas:
The Ming Tombs near Nankow, much visited by tourists and
possessing the finest setting of any of the imperial graves by
reason of a great ampitheatre of mountains; the Tungling
or Eastern tombs at Malanyu, east and slightly north of
Peking by cart, where the late Empress Dowager lies buried
behind a series of ornate buildings with most gorgeous roofs
of yellow glazed porcelain; and the Shihling or Western
Tombs to which one may journey practically all the way by
rail via Kaopeitien on the Peking-Hankow line. Here the
last Emperor lies buried. At both the Eastern and the
Western tombs there are immense graves of cypress in the
midst of which stand the shrines.
At Nanking are the tombs of the Southern Mings with a
mile of huge stone figures flanking the avenue of approach
just as at Nankow in the north.
In Southern Shensi and Western Honan are the enormous
but simple mounds of earth which mark the resting places of
the Hans and the Tangs. These and the two Ming burying
grounds are of Chinese kings, while the Eastern and the
Western tombs are of Manchu monarchs. All are truly
imperial in their conception and dimensions.
Nor can we forget our pilgrimage to the birth and burial-
place of Confucius, at Kufu, in the ancient Kingdom of Lu
(now the province of Shantung) where the 75th lineal des-
cendant of the Sage so worthily bears to-day the title of
Duke, and cares for the graves of his ancestor marked by a
stone bearing the simple yet majestic inscription "Most Holy
Ancient Teacher."
There are five principal kinds of highways in China, just
as elsewhere in the world; though up till now the relative
importance of certain ones is much greater in China than in
most other countries: Waterways, footpaths, pack trails,
cart roads, and railways. Roughly speaking China is a
country of no good roads. The chief reasons are not far to
seek. In the great delta regions of the West and Yangtze

8
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
Rivers, in the best sections of the Great Plain and in Sze-
chwan land is so valuable for cultivation that as little as
possible is spared for highways. Then, too, these are the
very regions where the population is so dense and labor so
cheap that most transport on land is by human bearers who
need only a footpath. And finally the frequency of water-
ways on which the cheapness of transport in boats of all sizes
controls the situation for both short and long hauls even up
stream.
THE FIVE RIVERS OF FIRST IMPORTANCE.
Waterways both natural and artificial are tremendously
used wherever available and China for the most part is well
supplied. Of rivers one thinks first of the mighty Yangtze,
a veritable aorta of trade that traverses the entire width of
China proper from Tibet to the sea, and is navigable for ocean
going vessels for 600 miles, by smaller steamers for 400 more
and by still smaller steamers for another stretch of 400 miles,
while junks of fair size can proceed still another 100 miles
or so.
The navigation beyond the first 1,000 miles is, however,
quite precarious. We think secondly of the Si Kiang or
West River and its tributaries in South China. Rising in
Yunnan this stream is a great river by the time it reaches the
Kwangsi-Kwangtung border. Marked in its upper and middle
courses by fine gorges and in its lower course by a magnifi-
ciently fertile delta, it is navigable for coasting vessels as far
as Canton and for smaller steamers as far as Wuchow while
launches ascend the higher courses of its tributaries as well
as of the main stream for another 150 miles or so and smaller
craft go clear to the Western boundary of Kwangsi and to the
Northern boundary of Kwangtung. This river system is
second in importance only to that of the Yangtze from an
economic point of view.
Next in importance is the Han, which joins the Yangtze
at Hankow. This rises on the Shensi-Szechwan boundary.
It is navigated by small steamers as far as Siangyang a
distance of 300 miles, and during summer by cargo boats and
houseboats and by smaller craft in all seasons up to Han-
chung 600 miles further. In its course across Shensi it
traverses abrupt gorges and its bed is rock-stream. It be
comes readily navigable only at Laohokow where it widens
rapidly to a width of 2,600 feet. Further down it again
narrows and at its mouth is but 200 feet wide in low-water
season. In this lower part of its course, it has the peculiar
feature enjoyed also by the Yellow River, of a bed higher than
the adjoining plain so that embankments are necessary.

THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
9
During the summer the water-level of the Han rises 20 feet,
sometimes more, above the adjacent plain.
Of the Yellow River one can hardly speak as of a high-
way; for the most part it is useless except as a means of
drainage and irrigation, and is one of the most unmanageable
rivers in the world. In length it is but little inferior to the
Yangtze, being 2,500 miles.
Rising in Tibet it is already a stream 200 yards wide
when it enters north-western Kansu where its bed is 8,000
feet above sea level from which it drops 5,000 feet in its
north-easterly passage across the province. From Kansu the
Yellow River runs north to the high land of Mongolia where
its course is changed to almost due east. At Hokow the
river turns sharply to the south and continues in that
direction for about 480 miles until it is joined near Tungkwan
by the River Wei and turns again sharply to the east.
The Wei rises in Eastern Kansu and flows south-eastly
to Shensi, and crosses that province in a nearly straight line
from west to east. Its well-watered valley was the birth-
place of Chinese civilization and is full of relics of the past.
It has also the reputation of being the most fertile land in
China. About nine miles from the river on its right bank,
and half-way across the province, stands the great city of
Sian.
At the Tungkwan bend the bed of the Yellow River is
still 1,300 feet above sea-level. At the Sanmen rapids, which
no boat can ascend, the river again enters the hills, to leave
them finally at Mengching, a place above Menghsien, in
Honan, about 200 miles below Tungkwan. Here the great
river, running from four to six miles an hour, finds itself on
the level plain, with still 400 miles to go before it can reach
the sea.
This is where it is most to be dreaded, because the mud
and sand carried down by its stream have actually raised the
bed of the river until it is several yards above the level of the
surrounding country. Consequently there are few important
towns on its banks. At its crossing with the Grand Canal,
its bed is 16 feet above the level of the Canal.
During the whole known historical period, this river has
frequently changed its course for the last 350 miles. These
changes have swept over a fan-shaped area of 60 degrees in
one of the most densely populated and highly cultivated
regions in all China, and have, consequently caused great loss
of life both directly by flood, and indirectly by consequent
famine through destruction of standing crops as well as of
stored food supplies. This has earned for it the title of
"China's Great Sorrow."

10
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
To hinder its overflowing, embankments hem it in, some
nearer, others farther, ranging one behind another at variable
distances. In this manner, if one gives way, another pre-
vents the inundation. In their present state, these works are
still very inefficient, the dikes being weak and constructed
with materials that offer insufficient resistance.
Nowhere throughout its length is the Yellow River navig-
able without difficulty. Its highest reaches are rock strewn
and only rafts can be used with any degree of safety. In
the long southward reach between Shansi and Shensi naviga-
tion in crude boats can be accomplished downstream but only
with considerable difficulty owing to the many rapids, and at
one point navigation is completely interrupted by the young
niagra of Lungwang or Dragon King, 250 miles below Paote.
Above the falls the river is about 200 yards wide, and the
channel is broken up by rocky ledges. The bulk of the
water, a tumbling mass of a coffee colour, flecked with foam,
plunges into a narrow crack in its bed near the Shensi shore.
The depth of the fall is about 60 feet, but the bottom is a
seething cauldron which cannot properly be seen owing to the
clouds of spray that rise from it. The remainder of the water
falls into the same fissure at right angles to the main fall in
a series of cascades 500 yards long. There is a spot some
distance below the fall where, standing on the roadway by
the river-bank and looking upstream, one sees a cloud of blue
mist rising from the middle of the water without apparent
cause, while at one's feet the whole volume of a great river
rushes for three miles down a narrow canyon in places not
more than 15 yards, and nowhere more than 40 yards wide.
A day's journey below the falls is the famous Lungmen
gorge, ending in the straits of Yumenkow.
This gorge is
about 10 miles long. The river is a deep, still stream 150
yards wide, and races between precipices of reddish-grey
sandstone 800 feet high. Above the precipices the cone-
shaped tops of the hills covered with green scrub rise for
another 800 feet. At Yumenkow the banks contract to 50.
yards, and upon each side of the strait there is a fine temple.
Coming down-stream, when one's boat rushes through this
strait there is a striking transformation, the river suddenly
leaving the hills and spreading out over a sandy flat to a
breadth of three miles.
At Yumenkow coal brought by mulepack from the mines.
of Southern Shansi is loaded on so-called "Honan" barges,
curiously bedecked with bells, which carry their cargoes to
Tungkwan and also up the Wei.

THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
1P
In its lower reaches the Yellow River is really navigable
only in two stretches: to the north of Honan and in the last
25 miles of its course. But even in these parts shoals pre-
vent boats except of very light draft from passing.
The control of the Yellow River is to-day one of the most
pressing of China's physical problems. Experience has shown
that the diking of such rivers is insufficient and almost futile.
Captain William Tyler, coast inspector of the Chinese light
house service, has presented a report on the Yellow River
published by the Inspectorate-General of Customs at Shang-
hai in 1906, in which he proposes to control the river's lower
reaches by providing for the depositing of the silt by de-
liberate flooding of large areas along the river, that is, to
regulate its floods.
Of the Grand Canal we have already spoken. In the
great delta regions natural and artificial waterways are as
frequent as the cross roads in an American country.
In the south the highways are mere "single-file" foot-
paths on the tops of low ridges between cultivated fields.
In some sections these are paved with stone slabs. The
only native carts I have seen south of the Yangtze are the
low slung ox-carts in the southern part of the Island of Hai-
nan and the high hung ox-carts of mid Hunan, and of these
the chief part is their "squeak." In the Yangtze basin,
Central China, and especially Shantung, wheelbarrows are
used both for passengers and for goods; and some of these
affairs are veritable "ships o' the land." In some sections.
of the Chengtu plain in Szechwan smaller one-passenger low
slung barrows were encountered and used, though the sedan-
chair is the palace car" here as in most parts of China.
In these regions the roads are generally wider than in the
south, but hardly any better.
In the north generally, both east and west, carts are
much used. Village and city streets as well as roads are
hence of a better width than in the south. Throughout
mountainous regions pack animals, usually mules or donkeys,
are used, though in some regions human carriers alone can
negotiate their way. While across the desert regions camels
are the monarchs of the road.
In some regions, as in the loess country, the roads have
become deep ruts worn below the general level of the
land to a depth of 10, 20, 30 and even 70 feet! And these in
the dry season are dusty beyond description and in rainy
weather are deep in mud of a peculiar stickiness.
Along with the development of railways China needs.
improved roads everywhere."

12
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
There are, as might be expected, five sorts of native
transport; some though few of them could be called trans-
ports of delight! which I have used extensively, as follows:
I.-Boats: junks, houseboats, triple-deck passage boats,
canoes, slipper boats, footpower boats (2 kinds: rotary and
direct), sampans, cargo boats and rafts, engine-driven, rowed,
towed, yulowed, sailed and poled. In many provinces.
II. Carts: closed and open, narrow (3 ft. 6 in.) and
wide (6 ft. 8 in.), drawn by one, two or three animals (not
counting the driver!) and always springless. In North China
especially.
III.-Wheelbarrows: single platform, double-sided, small
wheeled, large wheeled, pushed by man, pulled by man or
donkey or both, sometimes aided with a sail. In Central and
North China. Avoided by me as much as possible.
IV.-Bipeds: men and women, with loads carried on the
back, across the shoulder at the two ends of a balanced rod,
or between two carriers using one pole or two parallel poles.
Sedan chair, two, three or four bearers; mountain chair, two,
three or four. In every province.
V.-Quadrupeds: Horses, mules, donkeys, oxen, cows,
camels and yak; with or without pack saddles, but for riding
purposes always with a foreign saddle. Used for riding, pack
or draft or for carrying a chair or litter slung between two
animals. In Northern and Western China.
During the travel by cart, mulepack or carriers I have
for the most part gone myself on foot, partly from preference
and partly to insure a more gentle transport of the chrono-
meters in my belt or hand.
One of the most remarkable developments in the way of
more rapid transportation in China has been the installation
of so-called "launch trains," especially in the middle and
lower sections of the Grand Canal and throughout the Canton
delta. For instance, in the custom house at Canton hundreds
of steam launches are registered as towing between it and
neighbouring cities and villages, and anywhere distant from
10 to 100 miles. These launch-towed are exceedingly well
patronized both for passengers and for freight. Launch
building ship-yards have been rapidly developed in Shanghai,
Canton and elsewhere. But, for the more rapid and ade-
quate development of that class of communication upon which
so much depends for the binding together of China, we must
look to the railways.

THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
RAILWAYS IN CHINA.
13
Railroads and other ways of transportation of commod-
ities are related to the life of a nation in pretty much the
same fashion as the circulatory or blood system of the human
body is related to the life of the individual; and similarly the
lines of electric transmission of intelligence and the postal
lines correspond pretty closely to the nervous system whose
functioning is so intimately a part of our bodily life. Each
of these systems, the circulatory and the nervous, has a
dominating centre which has a relationship of mutual de-
pendence with all parts of the body and all functions of its
life. No part can live alone. So the development of a
national life in China depends necessarily largely upon the
development of these two systems within her borders, the
one for the easy, cheap and rapid distribution of commodities,
so that the people of one region may readily relieve the
hunger or want in another region, and the other for the quick
and effective transmission of intelligence which will cause the
thrill of the new national life to be felt in the remotest parts
and by every individual.
In a study of the present development of railways in
China several features at once impress themselves upon us.
First, most of the lines already in operation serve the north-
eastern quarter of China; the great trunk lines that will
connect the far west with the seaboard and the north with
the south have yet to be completed. Second, very little has
been accomplished or is even projected under purely native
auspices; and third in arranging for the financing and con-
struction of these arteries of trade on the basis of concessions
to foreign capitalists China has become involved in a com-
plicated five-fold international web which is without parallel
elsewhere in the world. In this allotment (present and
future) of so-called "spheres," or more correctly "strips" of"
influence, the associated French, Russian and Belgian in-
terests have a predominating share, followed by Japanese and
by British in close rivalry, while German interests are small.
American were almost nil until increased by concessions to
the American International Corporation through the Siems-
Carey Company to some of which considerable opposition has
been offered from other quarters. The lines to be built with
American capital and by American engineers are widely se-
parated and total about 1,600 miles supplemented by con-
cessions as to priority in certain other regions for which the
lines are, however, not yet defined.
For China's sake it is to be hoped that this co-operation
in railway building will be properly fostered.

14
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
The lines now in operation or contracted for will serve
to join the capital to at least nineteen out of the twenty-one
provincial capitals and to the great sea-ports of both the
Northern and the Southern coasts. At present nine of the
provincial capitals are connected with Peking by rail.
After the War in Europe ends there will surely be a
revival of activity in China on the part of the various con-
cessionaries, and a great development of trade.
FIVE EXPERIENCES ON THE ROAD IN CHINA.
One incident will illustrate the difficulty of getting in
China reliable information as to the nature of the road even
from those who live nearby. On the afternoon of September
22, 1915, we made an early halt for the night on account of
a heavy rain. We were told by the innkeeper that we were
within easy reach of Jehol, that the road was free from any
hills worth mentioning and that by starting at dawn we
should reach Jehol by sunset. Instead of this, however,
noon of September 23 found us on the ascent of a steep pass,
the road bed consisting of great slabs of smooth rock up which
it was impossible for the horses to pull the carts as they were.
After feeding both the animals and the men and emptying
the carts, we had to hitch the four horses to one empty cart
and with all hands pushing and all mouths yelling we man-
aged to get the carts over and then down on the other side of
the pass, and after carrying the equipment and stores, box
by box, over the pass and reloading the carts at the bottom
we were able to proceed after four hours of very hard work.
We then expected to make Jehol by 10 p.m.; instead, that
hour found us again on the slope of another such pass, only
steeper than before. Fortunately there was a good moon and
by repeating the process of the afternoon we at last got over
this barrier to easy travel and made Jehol at one on the
morning of September 24, having been 21 hours on the go,
and we had not been off the main highway, said to be a good
cart road!
On a certain day in Western Chihli two connected in-
cidents illustrating how wary the traveller must be in making
bargains for his transport would have greatly amused us if
they had not caused such delay in our progress. The first
was that although we had the day before bargained for an
open cart with three mules and a closed cart with two, and
had made the man state definitely that only big mules would
be supplied, when in the morning the vehicles arrived, the
first was drawn by two cows and the second by a single small-
sized mule, and yet the price agreed on was demanded!

THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
15
Evidently the carter did not realize that we were experienced
travellers in China and could not be thus played with. Still
it required more than an hour of argument and even threats
of official punishment before suitable animals were brought
and even then we had to be content with one less than the total
number bargained for, but we had the satisfaction of with-
holding a dollar at the end of the day's journey.
The second was that on reaching the small village at the
foot of the mountains where pack-mules were to be engaged
to carry our equipment to Yingchow in Shansi, the young
muleteer with whom our advance agent from the inn at
Liangkochwang had begun negotiations, shouted out in front
of a whole crowd of onlookers that the price would be seven
dollars (Chinese Currency) a day per mule! Now the ordinary
price for which a native could hire them would be about 70
cents. We therefore could only laugh at his offer, as did all the
bystanders. His ridiculous claim being thus publicly made
he could not accept any reasonable offer from us without
great loss of face. I had finally to seek out the headman of
the village, invite him to our inn to have tea, and get him to
talk the whole matter over with the muleteer who finally
under pressure accepted my original offer of one dollar per
mule per travelling day and 40 cents per mule per day of halt.
Having thus "overcome" him at the very start he and his
associate muleteers proved to be the best set we have ever
employed, in spite of their initial intention to swindle us. To
the headman of the village we presented a tin of salmon, with
great ceremony on our part and great appreciation on his!
Thus ended a half-day devoted to the "diplomacy" of the
road in China.
In 1907 before the building of the Tientsin-Pukow Rail-
way we journeyed by cart from Tsinan the capital of Shan-
tung to Tsining on the Great Canal and at Taian on the way
ascended the Sacred Tai Shan. Evidently the day of leisure
which our carters had enjoyed while we visited the Holy
Mountain had been too much for them and had spoiled their
sweet dispositions, for the next morning, when we expressed
our desire that they should proceed southward as agreed,
they refused unless they were paid more money. They had
already been paid a half of the full bargain and had not yet
proceeded half way on the journey. They would not listen to
reason and became violent, locking up the inn and attempt-
ing to prevent our exit. However, we produced our passport,
which we handed to the keeper of the inn and asked him to
convey our compliments to the nearest magistrate and re-
quest his presence to settle the dispute. We finally went to
the magistrate ourselves with the paper and after some parley

16
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
with the officials secured reprimand for the carters, but were
forced to agree to the payment of another allotment on the
contract. This was a mistake, as was afterward proved, for
it only made the carters that much worse.
The magistrate furnished us a supposed military guard
of two men to see that the carters behaved themselves during
the rest of the journey, but as a matter of fact, this guard
was of very little use and were nearly quite as bad as the
carters themselves. The carters would not start early in the
morning, sometimes not before 8 or 10 o'clock, and then
would wish to stop for the day at 4 or 5 p.m. and not proceed
any further, in spite of the fact that they were being paid
more than double the proper rate. Matters went from
bad to worse on this section of the trip, until finally when we
knew that we were within one day's march of another magis-
trate, we secured the soldiers' acknowledgement that they
were in charge of the expedition and charging them to take
care of our things, we hastened on on foot, covering some
25 miles by two in the afternoon.
We laid our complaint before the magistrate and were
very courteously received. We were utterly exhausted by
our rapid march and evidently our looks bore witness to this
fact. For without any preliminary enquiries or warning, the
servants began bringing in plateload after plateload of fried
eggs and bowl after bowl of tea. We did more than justice
to this simple but ample fare. I'm sure that I ate between
ten and twenty eggs and drank at least six bowls of tea!
Between bites and sips we explained our plight. A deputy
on horseback was sent to secure the carters and bring them in
and they were questioned separately and then severely re-
primanded and lightly beaten. They were not allowed any
further pay and we were advised to take carrying coolies from
this point on, which we did, and in a forced march of 24 hours
we reached Tsining on the Grand Canal. Here, through the
magistrate, we hired another team, this time of two mules in
tandem, which guaranteed to make the trip to Kufu, the birth
and burial place of Confucius, in three days for a price way
below what we had been paying the previous carters.
In February, 1916, we reached Lungan in Northern Sze-
chwan and desiring to cross the Snow Pass to Sungpan we
found that it would be impracticable to take our pack-mules
over this route because of its elevation and the narrowness of
the trail which in many places is cut out of the face of a
rock wall. So my student-assistant, Ip, and I accompanied
by one coolie to carry a minimum of cooking gear and food,
together with four others to carry the observing tent and
instruments and our two cots and blankets, proposed to nego-

THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
17
tiate the pass and from Sungpan to descend the Min to Mo-
chow where we would be joined by our mules which in the
charge of our cook would travel first south and then west
over easier roads while we went first west and then south.
All went well with us in spite of our ascent to 13,000 feet in
the middle of February. I had anticipated a trying time
because each of the two parties who to my knowledge had in
recent years traversed this route had reported that the wind
and cold and snow on the pass were quite severe in May and
in August when they had crossed. To our surprise we found
it much easier and whereas these narrators had said that a
few minutes on the pass "sufficed" for them (some members
of one party even succumbing and later dying from the effects
of their experience in this crossing to Sungpan) we spent a
half day and a night just a little way below the summit on the
Eastern slope to make magnetic observations and the next
morning stopped for half an hour on the actual summit to
determine its altitude. These more favourable conditions
were doubtless due to the fact that the precipitation and the
wind are both less in mid-winter than in summer at this
altitude.
But though we fared well in getting over the pass and in
descending the Min as far as Mochow, there our troubles
began; for there we had expected to meet our mules and also
to replenish our purse and our larder from a remittance
through the Chinese post, but on arrival we found no mules,
no money, no mail and no missionary, though one was
"stationed" there. He, we found, had left ten days before
on account of the disturbed state of the region. We had just
enough money to pay for transport to Weichow the next place
where a missionary was stationed, and stopping but one day
for observations we pressed on. Arriving at Weichow we
could get no word of our mules though they were now accord-
ing to original schedule some five days overdue. When we
were heartily welcomed by Rev. J. H. Edgar, the pioneer
missionary of Batang, we made bold to suggest that a little
loan would be a help as we had just paid out our last coin to
the coolies and didn't know where our mule-caravan was; he
said, curiously enough, that he was just on the point of asking
a loan of us! He and his colleague were anxious about the
state of the region and had been discussing which of them
should go to Chengtu and return with funds sufficient to
enable them to take their families to the capital for safety.
Having heard of my approach they had waited thinking that
I might have extra money and here I had arrived in distress
myself! It was very evident, however, that much less money
2

.
18
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
would be required to get me and my small party and light
equipment to Chengtu than to transport two whole families
and their gear. So they managed to put thirty dollars at my
disposal and I undertook on reaching Chengtu to send back
to them three hundred.
As
Mr. Edgar in his wholehearted manner accompanied us
some ten li on the road and directed us where to look for the
castles of the independent Tibetan lord high up on a bluff
on the opposite bank of the stream. We had journeyed only
an hour or two after he left us, when we met coming north-
ward our long-lost mules who should have been travelling
southward. The cook's arm was in a sling and with much
weeping he related how the caravan five days before had been
attacked by a large number of armed bandits (50 he said;
ex-soldiers of Szechwan, I suspect) at about nine in the
morning at a point some 15 li north of Mienchuhsien where
two small houses stood, one on either side of the road.
the caravan came opposite the farther end of these houses
the bandits without warning opened fire and began by killing
one of the military escort of eight who were accompanying our
train of mules, and who had no chance to put up a defence.
Two of them were taken prisoners and have never been heard
of since, while the other five with the cook and the four
muleteers made good their escape, the cook injuring his arm
badly in falling from his perch on top of a pack saddle. From
a safe distance our men watched the robbers and later re-
turned to gather up the fragments that remained! Every
box had been smashed in with stones and the contents of all
thrown out. All money, various small articles of value (such
as my safety razor, cuff-links, etc., and all Chinese clothing
were taken, but none of the foreign style clothes of Ip and
myself. All my records of observations for several months
back were thrown out, but thanks to the diligence of the
cook and the muleteers on their return to the scene of the
encounter every sheet was recovered though many were
crumpled and muddy. You can imagine how anxious and
even ill I felt until I reached Chengtu and had an opportunity
to go carefully over everything and how relieved I was to
find no essential sheet of observation missing! I did, how-
ever, lose the photographic negatives of a month's taking and
one of the chronometers, which since it needed repairing had
been discarded and was to be returned to Washington from
Chengtu. All the other instruments, fortunately, were with
me on the more western road. It has been suggested that if
I had been with my caravan probably it would not have been
attacked; as foreigners, in recent years at any rate; have
very rarely been subject to attack in Szechwan, and that my

THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
19
caravan was probably taken for that of a Chinese. I do not
know what credence to give to this idea.
After gathering up what the bandits had left, the cook
and muleteers reported the incident to the magistrate at
Mienchuhsien who immediately sent out a posse of two
hundred to hunt for the robbers. He also ordered the road-
side houses to be razed on the principle that their tenants
were responsible to know what sort of characters congregated
there, even if they were not actually in league with the band.
The magistrate made a complete inventory of all that was
left, forwarding one copy to the Commissioner of Foreign
Affairs at Chengtu and one to me. He also furnished suffi-
cient funds to feed the mules and men as far as the next
magistracy where again money to carry the caravan to the
next place on their way to join me was given.
We made an early halt for the night on the day that I
met the mules and on going hastily through the boxes I
found things in such a state that about two or three entire
boxloads had to be thrown away as debris, and the cook and
"crew" had to be supplied with an entire new outfit of
blankets and bed-skins and extra clothing as they had been
left only what was on their backs.
When we reached Kwanhsien in the late afternoon of
February 29, we found the city in a state of siege and it was
only after considerable difficulty and long waiting that we
managed the next morning to get to the China Inland Mission
in the suburb for assistance and advice. It was rumored
that a band of 1,800 ex-soldiers were threatening the
city for its loot. As soon as our observations were finished
and we had inspected the irrigation works at Kwanhsien
as the best we could under circumstances we hastened
on to Chengtu. Arriving there in the mid-afternoon we were
forced to wait hours at the city gate. Finally we were allowed'
to enter and found a hearty welcome from the foreigners
residing there, especially from Postal Commissioner Doodha
and his staff, the French and British Consul-Generals, and
the Faculty of the West China Union University.
All of these were exceedingly helpful in their respective
ways. The University folk made me feel entirely at home
and on their campus I established my observing station.
Mr. Doodha had heard of the attack through Chinese sources
and had at once sent word to the post-offices in that region
to render me every possible aid in case I turned up in their
district and had even on his own initiative sent fifty dollars in
notes to the office where I was most likely to apply, so that
I might have money to come on with. Mr. Smith, His
British Majesty's Consul-General, counselled me regarding

20
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
the representations to be made to the Chinese authorities,
not with any view of claiming indemnity but of spurring them
on to more active measures for the suppression of such bands
in the interests of all good citizens, foreigners and Chinese
alike. The Commissioner of Foreign Affairs, who by the way
had been educated in Berlin and spoke German but not
English, promised to take such steps as were possible to
capture the culprits and to recover the property, but I felt
that the proposition was hopeless and have not been surprised
that no result has followed.
Szechwan unfortunately has been in a very disturbed
state, even at the Capital itself, for the last year and a half
and still is in some respects in several districts. This is due
not only to the maraudings of discontented soldiers turned
bandits, but also to the conflicting political aims of several
military leaders within Szechwan itself and also from Yunnan
who have been attempting to gain supremacy in this fairest
of the provinces. Meanwhile the people suffer.
It would be very erroneous to infer, however, that there,
off the beaten track in China is entirely made up of incidents
like those just recorded. While many if not most innkeepers
and professional roadmen such as carters, muleteers, etc., are
ready to "do" the unwary traveller and to impose on him in
every way, still I have found many exceptions to this spirit
even among these classes, and from the peasant folk per se
I have never received any but the kindest and most helpful
treatment, being furnished food and shelter and guidance (for
raiment I always preferred to rely on my own "stock"-for
obvious reasons) not only on reasonable terms but often with
most positive refusal to accept any compensation. Off the
beaten track especially the native hospitality is most hearty
and sincere, tinged only with an element of curiosity concern-
ing the ways and things of the foreigner, which is only natural
under the circumstances.
My first real experience with this element of curiosity
was on the west coast of the Island of Hainan. When ob-
serving near Hiongpo, I had erected as is usual for magnetic
work a small tent to shield my instruments from the sun.
A great crowd gathered to watch and it proved utterly im-
possible to keep them from pressing as close to the tent on all
sides as they could. Careful inspection showed that none
carried any iron articles or implements and the only trouble
came from their constant chatter, because during part of the
observations I had to listen to the tick of the box chronometer
placed some feet away and carry the tick in my head while
my eye was at the telescope pointed on the oscillating magnet.
The unexpected and strident noises which proceed from a

THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
21
Some
Chinese crowd do not aid one in such observations!
idea of the numbers present and of their chief or at least
secondary occupation while watching me may be had from
the fact that next morning having need to return to the same
spot I had no difficulty whatever in locating my station for
in the midst of a great field all covered with the refuse of
chewed sugar-cane there was a bare spot eight feet square
that marked where my tent had stood.
For the most part we lived in the regular inns when on
the main roads, though when not on a trade route and inns
were not available we often spent the night in the open dur-
ing warm whether and during wet or cold weather sought
shelter in some lone hut or cave-dwelling or if in a village
applied to some friendly shop-keeper or house-holder for space
to spread our cots and cook our meals. While often we had
to search for such accommodation this was usually only
because anything like a suitable space was hard to find, not
that the people were unwilling to aid us. In most cases in
fact, where we had to rely on the goodwill of a householder
and not on that of a regular innkeeper our entrance neces-
sitated a shift of a considerable part of his household or of
his goods, and taking everything into consideration the hospi-
tality afforded us was more than could reasonably be ex-
pected.
But in some regions, especially in Northern Shansi and
Northern Shensi also, we encountered a peculiar and dis-
agreeable anti-foreign attitude on the part of many inn-
keepers even in the larger towns. Generally when approach-
ing a town or village in which we intended to stop for the
night I would let the cook go on so as to arrive well ahead of
us and have time to select and secure a proper place. Several
times it happened that even though his patronage had been
eagerly solicited by rival inn-keepers and there was evidently
no lack of room, and he had definitely engaged his choice,
when I appeared and the inn-keepers saw that I was a
foreigner, a fact which the cook had been careful not to
reveal, we were flatly refused admittance and often had the
outer doors locked against us with an utter refusal to treat
with us at all. In such cases we would seek out the Christ-
ian Chapel if there were one and hope for better treatment at
the hands of the caretaker or if a mission chapel were not
available which was more often the case, we would seek the
assistance of the highest official in the town or of the head-
man in a village. But even under official pressure it was
difficult to gain an entrance to an inn in some of the towns
of northern Shansi and Shensi and sometimes it was 10 p.m.
before we secured a resting place though our caravan had

22
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
arrived hours before. On the other hand in some places we
were readily accommodated even on arriving late in the night.
One difficulty encountered frequently throughout Shensi
and Szechwan during the winter of 1915 and the Spring of
1916 was the prevalence of large numbers of soldiers not only
along the main routes but often also in out of the way places.
Since they were not in camps, but were quartered on the
villages and towns inn-space and even house or shop-space
available for us was difficult to find and under such circum-
stances we secured accommodation only by applying to the
officer in command who always did what he could for us, even
moving a small company of soldiers to make room for us,
but as a rule the individuals so dislodged were not over
friendly. The ranks of the Chinese army as a rule are not
composed of the very best material.
THE OUTLOOK.
Doubtless there will be within a reasonably short period
tremendous development of railways in China and they in
turn will have a tremendous welding effect upon the country.
It is necessary that within her borders there should be devel-
oped well equipped technical schools in which the Chinese
may be taught the arts and sciences necessary for the con-
struction and maintenance of railways and other works.
There is hardly space to refer in detail to the develop-
ment of the postal system or telegraph lines in China,
except to point out the tremendous success with which the
postal system has been developed in that full-fledged post
offices with the various departments are in operation all over
the country and at lower rates than in Europe and America.
Telegraph lines connect all provincial capitals with
Peking and this system is being extended. It is not thorough-
ly understood as yet by all the people just how these things
work and I am reminded of two instances which have come
under my own observation to illustrate this.
An old man in Shantung hearing of the function of the
line of wire that ran across his fields declared that men who
could devise such a method for the transmission of intel-
ligence could do anything; whereupon one of his neighbours
remarked that he did not think much of it, for he himself
had sat for two weeks watching that line very closely and had
not yet seen anything go by.
The other instance was of Hunan carrying coolies tossing
their worn out straw sandals on the telegraph lines to secure
for themselves a fleetness of foot equal to the speed of the
electric message.

THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
23
The telegraph and the postal system have already, in
combination with the development of the public press in
China, done a great deal toward unifying the people and
may confidently be counted on for a much larger effect in
the future and this combined with more adequate railway
facilities will surely foster a greater feeling of nationhood and
of closeness of relationship between the various provinces.
We have seen something of the various physical pro-
blems which China faces. It is significant that the greatest
physical feat of the ancient Chinese, the Great Wall, which
was executed to shut out foreign intruders, has been broken
down in all essential respects, and China is to-day fairly ready
for foreign assistance in solving her problems, if it be friendly
and not predatory.
The solution of China's, physical problems largely de-
pends on education; the education of the people to furnish
the background of general enlightenment and the education
of the native leaders upon whom must rest the responsibility
for carrying out in detail such plans as may be formed for
the alleviation of the conditions I have referred to. In order
to determine just what remedial methods should be followed,
there should be first a thorough study of present conditions
by the best consulting engineers and scientists who can be
secured. There is at the present time, it seems to me, a
most important function for foreign experts to fill in con-
nection with the development of China, and their work is
a necessary preliminary and hence it is all important that
China seek and use the assistance of such men, although it is
also true that her need for such assistance will be temporary,
and the application of the remedies, which they in their
wisdom suggest after a study of the field, will still depend
upon native talent.
The new national flag of China embodies, I believe, some
significant lessons in the present connection. The sewing
together of five stripes of silk to form one flag is easy, but to
make, a united nation of five peoples so widely separated,
linguistically and geographically, in a country so greatly
accidented by mountains, and so harassed by flood and
famine, and so lacking the ways of quick transport and
general modern education which must precede the develop-
ment of resources and of ways of communication, requiring
native captains of industry and native leaders of all sorts-a
very much greater task. It is just here that one of the
functions of our mission colleges in China comes in-to train
these leaders in situ, without loss of connection with China;
for they need to know China as well as Western science and
institutions and methods. They need to be qualified and

24
THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
unselfish, then the five points of the compas assumed by the
Chinese may be rightly adopted-for the north, east, south
and west will then all be centered around the common pole
of service to China, and from the provinces to Peking and
from Peking to the most distant provinces, the people will
be united in an efficient, peaceful and helpful state, at least
within the boundaries left them by their at present more
powerful and predatory neighbours.
China is destined to become one of the foremost pro-
ducing nations of the world, a vast market, a huge stabilis-
ing, peaceful power if allowed to develop her great wealth.
in her own way. The problem of China is a world problem,
culturally as well as commercially.
The issue in the Orient is sharply drawn: Independent
national development for China, and continued progress of
the other free Asiatic states; or the subjection of China, and
the endangering of all free nationality in Asia.
The loss of free nationality in Asia would probably be a
calamity to mankind. However justly the occidental may
pride himself on his mastery of the art of living, however
truly he may rejoice in his achievement throughout the whole
reach of life, a sane modesty, taught him by his own science,
should keep him from regarding Western peoples as the whole
race of man, or from looking with scorn upon entire divisions
of the race, whom his training has not fitted him to appre-
ciate.
A proper reverence for humanity will not allow him to exalt his
own position at the expense of the entire East, or to attempt crudely
to force upon a whole continent external domination or those forms of
civilization which are the product in some part of himself.
From the higher level of human development, expansion
and domination we may well feel that the world is destined
to profit greatly by events in the Far East if they result in
restoring to humanity the whole Continent of Asia, free to
join in making the history of the next hundred years, free to
be itself and to supplement, with all of good there is manifest
or dormant in it, the strength and goodness of the West.
The shortest road to a partial success in this endeavour
to preserve free nationality in Asia is the development of
China's material resources, which will not only enrich China
and the world, but will help to arouse the people from their
age-long sleep; and it may be that military development
consequent upon this awakening will serve to maintain the
nation's independence.

KUEI LIN, CASSIA RIVER.
A LOCK IN THE GRAND CANAL.

THIRTY THOUSAND MILES IN CHINA
25
But China's independence should concern her friends in
the West chiefly because such independence is essential to
something far more important: true freedom for the Chinese
people.
The dormant powers now awakening in this race and promising
such a future for it in the commercial and political affairs of the world
demand imperatively that there be set in motion, side by side with
this material transformation, forces far more subtle that shall bring
about a true renaissance of the nation by influencing profoundly the
intellect and the soul of the race. Only so can the Chinese people be
speedily restored to the modern world."