CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IN KWANG-
TUNG PROVINCE
YAN TSZ CHIU.
An eminent authority says that the measure of a
country's appreciation of the value of chemistry in its mater-
ial development, and the extent to which it utilizes this
science in its industries, generally measures quite accurately
the industrial progress and prosperity of that country.
Chemical industry is one of the most important in-
dustries. No civilized country can get along without it.
The demand for it is so great that sooner or later it has
to be built up.
In some countries, the chemical industry is so extensive
that they not only manufacture their own chemical sub-
stances, but also make them for other countries.
In China, chemical industry has made little progress and
she has to depend upon other nations for her supply of
chemical products.
The province of Kwangtung sends more students, mer-
chants and laborers to other countries than any other pro-
vince in China. Seeing the excellent chemical products in
foreign countries, they feel the need of importing these
articles to Kwangtung. The following is a list of some of
the common things which are the products of foreign chem-
ical industry:
They are glass, pigments, paints and varnish, fertilizers,
dyes, alcohol, camphor, rubber, chloroform, drugs, soap.
perfumes, wines, paper, photographic supplies, leather, etc.
These were first imported into Kwangtung when people knew
their uses.
But before the introduction of foreign articles into this
country, some of the people here discovered certain crude
methods of making some chemical products. They found
these out by simple experiment. Soon a small chemical
industry was formed. It developed very slowly until recent
years when foreign methods of making these articles came
into use, and factories to manufacture the chemical products
which are new to our people were established. So we can
divide the chemical industry in Kwangtung into two classes.

134
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IN KWANGTUNG PROVINCE
(I). That which is typically Chinese, and uses old and
crude methods of making articles.
(II). That which is copied from foreign countries, and
uses foreign machinery and methods.
Owing to the difficulty of getting capital the foreign
chemical industry in Kwangtung is not very progressive. So
in Kwangtung we can only find factories which make cement,
glass, soap, matches, leather, paper, and perfumes.
In this paper I want to take up only the Chemical In-
dustry in this province which is typically Chinese. This
native industry includes the pottery industry of Shek Wan
, the manufacture of peanut oil, wine, vinegar, vermilion,
red lead, bricks, lime, Chinese wood oil, fire-crackers and
China ware.
The methods used are rather simple and crude which
have been handed down from one generation to another and
are used again and again with little improvement.
Manufacture of Rice Wine.-It is said that wine was
first used in China 2000 B.C. Rice wine is commonly used,
as it is the cheapest kind sold in the market. The chief con-
stituent of rice is starch, the fermentation of this gives
alcohol.
The process of making rice wine is rather simple. The
starch in rice is to be fermented, and the alcohol obtained by
fermentation is evaporated, and the vapors are passed to a
condenser in which they are cooled and condensed.
The rice has to be cooked in a large iron pan so that the
enzymes in the yeast can act more readily on it. After the
rice is cooked it is put on a large wooden table to cool to
room temperature, for the bacteria in yeast would be killed
at high temperature. Then the boiled rice is mixed with
powdered yeast and placed in large jars with water to cover
the rice. The jars are set aside in a dark cool place for 25 or
30 days, during this time the enzymes in the yeast slowly
change the starch to alcohol and carbon dioxide.
They use the cheapest kind of coarse rice and it is found
that for every 100 catties of rice they have to use 24 catties
of yeast, yielding about 4 jars of rice wine.
The maximum time allowed for fermentation is usually
four weeks or one month, and the wine makers find that the
longer they allow the fermentation to go on, the better will
the taste be. But if they allow the fermentation to go on
beyond 30 days they have to pay a tax to the government.
The time allowed for the fermentation of rice is too long, for
in America, only three days are allowed. When the fer-
mentation is complete, the alcohol in the fermented rice is
then distilled. Three jars of fermented rice are put in a large

CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IN KWANGTUNG PROVINCE
135
pan, water is added, and the condenser is put over the pan.
The diameter of the pan is about 4 feet, and the depth is
1-1 feet.
Here the condenser also acts as a cover of the
pan.
Between the pan and the condenser are three rings, the
purpose of which is to keep the still air tight, but as a matter
of fact, alcohol and steam can escape and are wasted.
Beneath the pan is the furnace in which fuel is used. The
fermented rice is heated to a temperature of about 70 deg. C.
which is near the boiling point of alcohol, and then the con-
denser which is usually made of metal is placed over the pan.
Inside of this condenser is a dome-shape wall which
divides the condenser into two parts. Cold water is poured
into the condenser so as to cool it, and beneath the dome
the vapors of alcohol are condensed, and run out through the
outlet into the jar. The water above the dome soon gets hot,
is then let out, and more cold water put in. Thus the con-
denser is not in a cool state all the time, so that the alcohol
does not distil over very rapidly. Thus much of the heat is
wasted.
Some of the wine manufacturers use a clay condenser
instead of metal, and find that the wine is of a better grade,
but as a clay condenser is easily broken and clay is not so
good a conductor of heat, it is not so advantageous.
It takes one hour to complete the distillation and in a
small store, like the one in Ng Chuen, only four jars
of wine are made in a day, each jar contains 25 catties and
costs $2.50 per jar. The wine-maker has to pay 40 cents to
the government as a tax per each jar of 25 catties, and for
better wines they have to pay more.
The first distillate contains more alcohol, so that the last
portions which distill over contain almost pure water. The
residue is used for feeding pigs.
The first distillate is
Liu Poon which has a specific gravity of .955, so that
it contains 25% of alcohol. When the Liu Poon is re-
distilled with more fermented rice put in, the Seung Jing
is obtained which is a stronger wine and contains 30%
alcohol. When the Seung Jing is distalled again with more
fermented rice for the third time, the Sam Jing
is obtained, which contains 45% alcohol.
As Sherry and Port wines contain 15-20% of alcohol and
the strongest whisky contains 50% of alcohol, Chinese rice
wine contains more alcohol on the average than foreign
wines, but as the Chinese people do not drink rice wine in
large quantities at one time, they seldom get intoxicated.
Vinegar. As rice wine is the product of alcoholic fer-
mentation so vinegar is the acetic fermentation of wine,

136
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IN KWANGTUNG PROVINCE
which is caused by a group of bacteria. These micro-
organisms cause the oxidation of the alcohol into acetic acid.
The wines to be used must not be too strong.
Three kinds of vinegar are made in Kwangtung:-the
white, black, red.
White vinegar is made by using the by-product of wine
distillation, that is 12 catties of this by-product are added to
440 catties of water and the mixture is boiled to 80 deg. C.,
and is placed in large containers, then 65 catties of rice wine
are added and the whole mixture is allowed to stand for
30 days during which time the bacteria change the wine into
vinegar.
Black vinegar is made from the white vinegar by adding
to the latter roasted red rice.
Red vinegar is made by using a special kind of rice the
fermentation of which gives (1) alcohol and (2) vinegar.
Peanut Oil.-Peanut oil is used for food by nearly all the
people in South China. In the North, bean oil is used. As
peanut oil is cheaper than lard, it is used in place of it.
Peanut oil is a light greenish yellow oil when it is pure.
It has a peculiar odor and taste, but when refined, the best
quality of oil is colorless and has a very faint nutty taste.
Its specific gravity is .916 to .922.
Peanut oil is made in Canton, but the largest peanut oil
factory is in Sin Toen fil. Here the peanuts are first
crushed by a machine which crushes 10,000 catties of peanut
a day. After the peanuts are crushed, they are steamed for
about 20 minutes, and then placed in rings and packed in the
form of round cakes. These rings are then placed in a press,
made of hard wood, the shape of which is like a Chinese
coffin. They are hammered with mallets weighing 25-50
catties until no oil runs out.
As pressure is applied, the oil runs out into a vessel.
Then the peanuts which have been crushed and pressed are
taken out from the rings, are powdered and steamed again,
and then replaced in the presses to be hammered again, until
practically all the oil runs out. The residue which contains
no oil is dried and sold as fertilizer. This is a tedious and
slow process, for the crushed peanuts have to be hammered
for a long time before the oil begins to run out.
The yield is 33%, that is out of 120 catties of peanuts
hammered in the presses, 40 catties of oil are obtained, and
as there are 24 presses, they can make 960 catties of oil per
day. About 30 men are employed so that each makes 30
catties of oil on the average a day.
There are two kinds of peanut oil. The better kind is
light greenish yellow and is sold for 24 cents per catty. The

CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IN KWANGTUNG PROVINCE
137
cheaper kind costs 20 cents per catty and is brownish in
colour. It is somewhat rancid in odor and taste, as it is
made from old rotten peanuts. The peanuts which grow in
Kwangtung produce the first grade of oil, but as the supply
of peanut in this province is limited, peanuts are imported
from Siam, and from other provinces in China.
The peanuts from Siam are not very good, and the oil
obtained from them does not sell at a good price.
-Shek-waan is
Pottery Industry in Shek-waan
the center of the pottery industry in Kwangtung. The in-
dustry is about 700 years old. Although it is so old, yet
there is little improvement, because the potters are un-
educated and conservative.
The industry was centered at Shek-waan, because at
first there used to be clay in Shekwaan available for use.
Later it was found that the clay in Tung Koon was
better, so they bought it from that district: they also use
clay from Fa-Yuen E. The Tung Koon clay is more
plastic, while the clay from Fa-Yuen is stiffer.
Before the clay can be used, it has to be mixed with
sand in the proportion of 20% sand and 80% clay. Then
water is added to make it soft and uniform in texture. The
clay and sand have to be thoroughly mixed.
From 12-13 piculs of clay and sand are mixed at one
time, and for a mixing machine they use the hands and feet
of a man, who mixes the clay and sand by raising and stamp-
ing his feet; and stirring with his hands. It takes four hours
to make a batch.
After the mixing is done, the potter attaches big lumps
to a wall to dry for 24 hours.
The clay for fine work such as dishes and plates is
mixed for 24 hours with a machine mixer and is then dried.
The clay which is to be moulded must be drier than the clay
to be made on the potter's wheel. Those to be moulded
must have a higher percentage of Fa-Yuen clay, being less
plastic.
When the clay is dry, the big lumps are cut into sheets
by means of a piece of wire tied to a bow, and drawn through
the pile of clay, the wire is raised through one notch and
drawn toward the man's body. Then the sheets of clay are
allowed to dry for an hour in the sun. There are three ways
by which the articles are formed:-
I. Some of the articles such as dishes are formed on the
potter's wheel which is made of wood. Two men are needed
to each wheel, and there are seven wheels in a factory. One
man puts some ash in the wheel so that the dish formed is
not so sticky, and then he turns the wheel with his hand. A

138
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IN KWANGTUNG PROVINCE
small dish is completed in 8 seconds, is taken by the other
man with a bamboo, and is placed on a piece of board and
taken to be dried. Sometimes the partly dried mud is
pressed in moulds to form one surface of the article, the other
being completed on the wheel as is the case with plates and
dishes.
The articles are very slowly dried at atmospheric tem-
perature, and then burned at a low red heat to give them
sufficient coherence to permit of glazing.
II. Some of the articles are made in the mould. At
first the mould is made of wood and then from the wooden
form a clay mould is made, which is burned in a less hot
fire, and using less time. The moulds are only burned in the
kilm for 4-6 hours, while the articles are burned for from
12 to 24 hours. The moulds are filled with a sheet of clay,
and the edges are cut off in order to make it smooth.
III. Figures of animals are made with small tools by
hand. These require more time and skill than those made
on the potter's wheel or in the moulds. Some of the articles
such as tiles are formed in the moulds and completed by
hand work. For instance, two pieces of tiles are joined
together, and a band is put around the joint and smoothed
out by the hands.
In making large jars like Kam Ta , five pieces of
clay are used, the pieces are made separately and are joined
together forming a truncated cylinder and are then worked
to the shape desired.
After the articles are formed they are piled in a kiln to be
burned. The kilns are long tunnels, about 200 feet in length.
The smaller end of the kiln is at the bottom which is 3 feet
in width and is 3 feet high. The wall of the kiln is 8 inches
thick, and they are built of vitrified bricks. The kiln is built
on the slope of the hill and inclines with an angle of 15 to
20 deg. It is not uniform, the higher up it goes the larger
it gets. Fire is started at the bottom of the kiln as in an
ordinary furnace. About 2,000 catties of wood are used for
one burning, depending on the length of kiln and the kinds of
things to be baked. Firing is begun at the bottom in the
morning and goes up to the top at night. On the top and
sides of the kiln are holes which are 32 inches apart. They
are for putting in fuel from time to time. There are five
holes in each row. These holes are not very large, but the
draft underneath is very strong.
The top of the kiln is covered with the dishes to dry.
The articles which require a stronger fire to burn are placed
near the upper end of the kiln. For instance, flower pots,
tiles and fancy things are burned at the upper end of the

CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IN KWANGTUNG PROVINCE
139
tunnel to get a higher temperature. For burning figures and
finer articles, they use a small kiln in the shop.
Then the articles have to be glazed. There are three
kinds of glazes. The green glaze consists of a mixture of
copper oxide, powdered glass, some ashes of rice and wood
and river mud which is used as a reducing agent. For the
blue glaze, they use English green, and for the yellow glaze,
lead oxide is used.
The finely powdered glazed mixture is tirred up with
water to form a cream, into which the articles are dipped
and at once withdrawn. A layer of the glaze adheres to the
surface, and after drying the articles are ready for the second
or glaze burning.
Common dishes are glazed from the inside. A little of
the liquid is put inside and turned. Then the unused liquid
is poured out. If any decoration is to be done, the design is
either painted or molded upon the surface of the article
before glazing.
Various kinds of articles are made in Shekwaan. The
most common ones are the glazed earthenware, jars of many
shapes, tiles (fancy and plain), roof tiles, green and blue tiles,
verticle or bamboo tiles, railing tiles, dishes, plates, teapots,
water pots, figures of animals, etc.
As these articles are easily broken if the burning is not
efficient, so 80% is considered a very good result.
It is strange to see that the potters in Shekwaan do not
own the kilns, but the kilns are rented, and $10 are charged
for each burning per kiln. There are about 70 kilns in
Shekwaan and several thousand laborers are employed.
Each laborer is paid by the number of pieces of work he does.
But the maximum amount they can earn a day is 80 cents
(Cantonese money): There are women laborers as well as
men and they do the simpler kind of work, but there is no
child labour.
The potters must go through an apprenticeship of six
years; during this time they receive no wages. They form
a number of guilds which are organized according to the kind
of pottery, as cach kind of pottery has one guild. In order
to join the guild, one must pay the sum of $150.
Porcelain or Chinaware is not made in Shekwaan but is
made in Ko Chow 高州. The best kind of porcelain work
is done in Kong Sai. The clay used to make Chinaware is
different from that used in the pottery.
While the processes used in the manufacture of the
articles in Shekwaan and Ko Chow differ in details, funda-
mentally they are the same and may be summed up under
three heads-namely (1) the preparation of the body of the
ware (2) the process of glazing and (3) the decoration.

140
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IN KWANGTUNG PROVINCE
The kilns in Ko Chow are not built on the sides of the
hill as those in Shek-waan, but are built like small towers.
The work done here is much finer than that in Shekwaan.
Building bricks are chiefly made in Nam Kong
Ching Yuen and Tung Koon
(green bricks) and
also at Im Bo (white bricks). For making bricks the
river mud and clay which contains no sand is the best. The
bricks are formed in moulds.
The simplest form of moulding consists in pressing the
soft clay into wooden frames which have been dusted with
sand to prevent sticking. The operation is done by hand.
Each man makes about 300 bricks a day.
After moulding, the bricks have to be dried before burn-
ing. This is done by spreading the bricks and allowing them
to dry in the sun. The bricks having been thoroughly dried
are placed in kilns and burned. The temperature and time
of burning depends upon the kind of clay employed and the
degree of hardness desired. Each kiln can hold 70,000
bricks, and usually the bricks are burned for 7 days, and
cooled for 2 days. In Nam Kong there are about 10 kilns.
Green bricks are made in Tsing Yuen and white bricks are
made in Im Bo.
Lime is burned in kilns dug out of the earth. You can
see this in Tung Shan (not far from Canton). Shells
which contain calcium carbonate are used and they are mixed
with fuel and burned until they are changed to lime and
carbon dioxide.
There are two kinds of lime kilns, namely continuous and
periodic. In the continuous kilns less fuel is used and much
time is saved. In Kwangtung, you can only find periodic
kilns. They are 12 feet in diameter and 3 feet deep.
In America, the kilns are built of bricks and are usually
from 40-45 feet high, by 7 feet in diameter.
The lime kilns in this province require much fuel and
time, but are probably preferred because of the simplicity
and cheapness of building. The lime obtained is not pure,
but is contaminated with ashes.
After burning, the kiln is allowed to cool. During the
time of cooling, discharging, and recharging, the kiln stands
idle, and thus much time is lost. Moreover, a large amount
of fuel is necessary to heat the walls of the kiln after each
recharging, so that the method is not an economical one.
No attempt is made in this province to save the carbonic
acid gas which escapes from the kiln. In Europe, the gas is
often collected and used for technical purposes.
In America and Europe lime is used for mortar and
cement mixing, bleaching powder, in the Leblanc soda

CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IN KWANGTUNG PROVINCE
141
process, in the preparation and purification of many chem-
icals such as acetic, citric, oxalic; and tartaric acids,
potassium chlorate, caustic soda and potash, etc., for purify-
ing illuminating gas and sugar solution; in bleaching and
dyeing cotton; in tanning; in glass making; in metallurgical
operations; for disinfecting, etc.
In Kwangtung lime is used only for mortar and cement
mixing, and in bleaching and dyeing work, in glass making
and for disinfecting.
Lime for mortar and many other purposes is always
slaked immediately before use.
As a rule 100 catties of good lime stone yield about 60
catties of lime.
Tung Oil. T'ung Oil which is generally known
as Chinese Wood Oil" is made in Canton. It has been
known in America since 1896. It cannot be used in its raw
state, but must always be heated to a temperature of over
500 deg. F. It makes a very water-proof material. It is
obtained from the seeds of aleurites cordata, a tree which
grows in South and North China and in Japan.
The seeds are usually roasted, broken into powder and
pressed as is the case with peanut oil. The cold pressed oil is
pale yellow, and is known in the trade as "White Tung Oil."
That resulting from hot pressing is dark in colour, and is
termed black tung cil.' The raw oil has a peculiar odor
suggestive of ham.
Tung Oil is used principally in the manufacture of
varnishes and linoleum. When it is made with ordinary
resin, and suitably thinned, a varnish is obtained which is
not affected readily by water, while varnish made with resin
and linseed oil alone is quickly turned white by contact with
water. In consequence of this behavior of tung oil, it has
become very popular with the varnish maker as a means of
producing cheap but good varnish.
Chinese Vermilion. - Chinese vermilion is made in
Wing Kat k in Canton. It is the finest quality of
vermilion, and its manufacture was long kept a secret. It is
known to be made by heating mercury and sulphur together
in shallow iron pans until they combine to form a black
mercuric sulphide. This is pulverized, and put into retorts
in small amounts at a time. The larger part of the black
sulphide sublimes into the upper part of the retort as a
bright red powder. This is ground, washed and dried.
Owing to the patience and care exercised by the Chinese
workmen, a very fine product is obtained.
Vermilion is very expensive and is a very heavy, opaque
and brilliant pigment. It is permanent, and not readily

142
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IN KWANGTUNG PROVINCE
affected by acids and alkalies. It is also used as Chinese
red ink and as a medicine.
Red Lead.-Lead is also made in Wing Kat in Canton.
It is made by the direct oxidation of metallic lead. The
process is carried on in two stages. In the first operation,
the lead is converted into lead monoxide by heating with
free access of air in a large iron pan which can hold 1,000
catties, to a temperature just above that of melted lead
(540 deg. C.). The temperature must be carefully regulated,
for if the lead monoxide melts, it passes into ordinary
litharge, from which red lead cannot be made. In order to
do this, it has to be stirred frequently. Finally the un-
oxidized lead is allowed to run off, and the lead monoxide is
taken out and cooled. It is pale yellow, of granular texture,
and contains pellets of unoxidized lead. It is then immersed
in water to separate the impurities and dirt from it, then it
is taken out of the water, dried and finely ground and then
transferred to the second process.
In the second process, it is heated to a dull red heat in
a larger pan. The mass is stirred frequently to assist the
absorption of oxygen, and to develop the color. It takes
several days to complete the process, and then the furnace
is allowed to cool. The product is ground and then sold as
a pigment and is also used for glass making.
Soap. The methods employed by the people in this
province for making soap are very crude. The art of soap
making is very old; only Chinese soap was used before
foreign soaps were introduced into Kwangtung.
Instead of treating lard or fatty material with a solution
of sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide, lime is used to
react with the oil. So instead of soda soap and potash soap,
we have lime soap which is made in the shape of a bowl and
is termed "bowl soap. It is hardly soluble in water, and
is used only for washing purposes.
"
Fire crackers and fireworks are made in Fa-Ti 71,
Tung Koon and Im Bo Nitre which is the chief
constituent of these minor explosives has been known in
this country for many centuries.
I have given you a brief outline of the chemical industry
of Kwangtung province. You see that owing to the lack of
machinery everything is done by hand-work, and owing to the
lack of scientific knowledge, there is little improvement in
methods and products. Furthermore, things are made on a
small scale as hand-power and foot-power cannot compete
with machinery; so there are no facilities for handling large
quantities on an industrial scale. As much time and energy
are wasted the manufacturers do not get much profit by the
industry.

CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IN KWANGTUNG PROVINCE
143
The factory is managed and the work is supervised by
men of practically no training and education. Unlike the
foreign factories where chemists and Chinese engineers are
employed, and the raw material is carefully analyzed before
use, the chemical factories in Kwangtung employ no chemists
or engineers. Their success depends entirely upon the ex-
perience of the foreman who is most secretive. The factories
are dark, dirty and poorly ventilated, so that the laborers
have, a very hard time and besides this their wages are low.
This is a great handicap to the chemical industry in this
country.
Again the apparatus and instruments used in chemical
industry are crude and inefficient. As science finds no place
in the curriculum of old schools and colleges, it is no wonder
that men of learning pursue no research work in chemistry.
This accounts for the fact that the chemical industry in
this country has made little or no progress. Although wine
has been made for 4,000 years, the methods which are now
used do not differ much from those used by people of the
early ages.
In America, the university and the chemical factory
have close relationship. The former sends out men to help
develop the chemical industry. The chemical factory is the
best place for a trained chemist and graduate of the colleges
of chemistry outside of the laboratory.