THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR
NEIGHBOURS*
A Brief Survey of Primitive Cultural Influences Affecting the
Filipinos.
(With an Incidental Review of the Philippine
Academy's Work).
CHARLES SUMNER LOBINGIER, D.C.L., PH.D.,
CHANCELLOR OF THE ACADEMY 1909-1914;
Now CHANCELLOR EMERITUS.
The Philippine Academy was organized in 1909 and
incorporated under the laws of the archipelago in 1910 for
"the promotion of advanced research in subjects pertaining
to Filipinology, to effect a union of scholars and investigators
interested therein, to aid in the establishment of a complete and
consolidated Library of 'Filipiniana,' to encourage the prepara-
tion and publication of scientific treatises thereon, to provide
uniform standards and devise improved methods in conducting
such investigations and to co-operate with scientific organizations
elsewhere."
From the first it was fortunate in attracting to its ranks
the leading investigators along the lines mentioned and their
work, now representing an accumulation of more than a
decade (for as individuals many of them had been working
before the Academy was formed), affords a valuable nucleus
of material relating to the ethnology and history of the
Philippines. This is especially true of the Pre-Spanish
period, for there the Philippine Academicians were among
the pioneers.
Beginning with the contributions of Dr. N. M. Saleeby2
on the history and culture of the Moros of the south, a
*Read before the Society.
Extract from the Articles of Incorporation.
2 Studies in Moro History, Law and Religion (Manila, 1905); The
History of Sulu (1905) Origin of the Malayan Filipinos, Philippine
Academy Publications, Vol. I, No. 1 (1912).

36
THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
collection of monographs has gradually appeared which con-
stitutes almost the first scientific attempt to penetrate
the mystery that shrouds the origin of the present inhabitants
of the Philippines and their cultural sources.
MALAY ORIGINS.
Among the most recent of these publications, though
relating to the earliest period, are those³ compiled by the in-
genious Professor of History in the University of the Philip-
pines, Austin Craig-who is also known for his painstaking
and authoritative life of Rizal, and other works. His
pamphlet on "Malays" is largely extracted from a works
by General Forlong which deals with the origin of the Malay
race and its primitive religious ideas. Like Dr. Saleeby,"
General Forlong believes that the Malays originated on the
Asiatic mainland (the latter holding that they entered India
from the north) and long remained under the influence of
Indian civilization. This general theory finds abundant
philological evidence in its favor and in addition to that
mentioned by General Forlong much more might be cited
from the Philippine languages.
The pioneer in this interesting field appears to have been
Dr. Kern, Professor of Sanscrit in the University of Leyden,
who, in 1881, published the results of his observations on the
presence of Sanscrit words in Bisaya and Tagalog. As re-
gards the latter, Dr. T. H. Pardo de Tavera, a member of
the Philippine Academy, took up the same line of investi-
gation a few years later. The presence of Sanscrit words in
other Philippine languages was noticed by still another and
charter member of the Academy and recently chosen as its
Chancellor-Dr. David P. Barrows. But it was reserved
for Dr. Saleeby to carry this fascinating investigation to the
farthest extent yet reached. Selecting as his particular
subject the Magindanaw language of the south Philippines
The Pre-Spanish Philippines, by Austin Craig, (Manila, 1914);
Particulars of the Philippines' Pre-Spanish Past, by the same author,
(Manila, 1916); Malays, by the same author, (Manila, 1916).
Manila (Philippine Education Company), 1913.
Short Studies in the Science of Comparative Religions.
Origin of the Malayan Filipinos, Academy Publications I, 1, 37.
See his monographs El Sanscrito en la lengua tagalog. (Paris,
1887, 55 pp.); Consideraciones sobre el origen del nombre de los
numeros en tagalog (Manila, 1889, 26 pp.).
History of the Philippines, 92, 93. Dr. Barrows also found "a
few Sanskrit or Indian words" in the Ilongot language of North Luzon.
See his "Ilongot or Ibilaw," Popular Science monthly, (December,
1910) LXXVII, 537.

THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
37
he has not only collected an extensive vocabulary of common
words therein, which are cognate with Sanscrit, but he
marshals other evidence in support of his conclusion that
Malay speech in general "is an Indian tongue closely allied
to, or originally derived from Sanscrit-the language of Vedic
worship and Vedic days." 10 And he sums up the results of
his researches in the following inquiry:
"What conclusion can we then at present draw, other than
that the ancient home of these peoples and the birth place of
their forefathers was in the land where the Vedic gods were
worshipped and an Indian language was spoken, which land can
be no other country than that extensive continent of India-
the cradle of the Malay race." "
Moreover, the term "Malay" itself, instead of being
derived, as General Forlong seems to think, from the Indian
mala (hill), is more probably connected with the Tagalog
malayo (far) with its allusion to the long wanderings of the
race which General Forlong emphasizes.
"They have" he says "thronged East Africa above 1,000
years, and have even a colony at the Cape of Good Hope. They
traded everywhere throughout Madagascar-their Malagasa, 13
and the Mala-dvipas or Maldives. They colonized 500 miles of
the West Coast of India, still known as Mala-bar; the great
islands of Sumatra and adjoining mainland known as the Malaka
Peninsula, extending over some 700 miles; all the large island
kingdoms of Java, Celebes and their dependencies and the epony-
mous extensive Molucca group.'
CONTACT WITH THE NEGRITOS.
When the Malays entered the archipelago now known as
the Philippines14 they found there an aboriginal race, dark
skinned, of short stature and curly hair, resembling, and
probably akin to, the Papuans of New Guinea, the aboriginal
Semang of the Malay peninsula, 15 the Mincopies of the
Andaman Islands" and perhaps to the blacks of Australia.
Origin of the Malayan Filipinos, Academy Publications, I, 22-35.
10 Id. 37.
11 Id. See also the "comparison of the Korean language with that
of Dravidian peoples of southern India" in Hulbert's Passing of Korea,
Chapter II.
12 Malays, 2.
13 The similarity between Tagalog and Malagassy was the subject
of a monograph by Renward Brandsteller, entitled "Tagalen und Mada-
gassen" (Luzern, 1902).
This name was not applied until long after Spanish occupation
when it was given in honor of the reigning monarch Felipe II. Magel-
lan, who discovered the group on San Lazaro's day, named it after
that saint.
15 Barrows, The Negrito and Allied Types in the Philippines,
American Anthropologist, (N. S.) XII, 375, citing Skeat and Blagden's
Pagan Races of the Malay Peninsula.
1 Reed, Negritos of Zambales (Philippine Ethnological Survey
Publications, Vol. II, pt. 1) 13 et seq.

38
THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
Long afterward this race received from the Spaniards the
name of Negritos (little blacks). 17 Once numerous and dis-
tributed throughout the islands¹s they are now confined to a
few provinces while their number is very small and believed
to be rapidly diminishing. Yet it is long since active warfare
between them and the Malay intruder has decimated the
former's ranks. Their present decline seems rather due to a
prolonged process of amalgamation, largely at their expense,
with the incoming race. Dr. Barrows long since expressed
his conviction that
"Much has been made of the 'Indonesian' theory and far too
much of Pre-Spanish Chinese influence, but the result to the
physical types found in the Philippines of the constant absorp-
tion of the Negrito race into the Malayan, and the wide prev.
alence of Negrito blood in all classes of islanders, has been
generally overlooked.
"I shall not attempt here" he adds "to estimate the pro-
portion of Negrito blood in the Christian peoples of the Philip-
pines Bisaya, Bikol, Tagalog, Ilokano, etc., further than to
express my conviction that in certain regions it is very large and
has greatly modified the primitive Malayan type." 20
This mixture of blood has produced in certain parts of
the Philippines, groups which, though not pure Negritos,
resemble them to a degree more or less considerable according
to the amount of Malay infusion. The Bataks 21 of Palawan
are practically Negritos while the Tagbanuas23 of the same
island are predominantly Malayan with a Negrito strain. 24
They are known among the other natives by various names, as
Baluga, Aeta, Dumagat. Id. 18.
Meyer, Distribution of Negritos (1899), 4.
19 Dr. H. Otley Beyer in his recent work on the "Population of the
Philippine Islands in 1916" estimates (p. 22) the Negritos at about
36,000 or less than of 1% of the total population.
20 The Negrito and Allied Types in the Philippines, American
Anthropologist (N. S.) XII, 358, 364.
31 On this small but interesting group see Venturello, Manners and
Customs of the Palawan Tribes, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
Vol. 48, pt. 4; Miller, The Bataks of Palawan, Philippine Ethnological
Survey Publications, Vol. II, pt. II.
Reed, Negritos of Zambales, 22; Barrows, The Negrito in the
Philippines, 363.
See Venturello (M. H.) Manners and Customs of the Tagbanuas
and other Palawan Tribes, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
Vol. 48, pt. 4. Judge Norberto Romualdez, a member of the Philip-
pine Academy, has written a monograph on the "Tagbanwa Alphabet"
which, he says, "bears such similarity to the ancient Filipino writing,
that no room for doubt exists of its community of origin with the
latter." He adds in a note:
"The Mangyans of Mindoro also still use their own alphabet,
which is substantially the same as the Tagbanwa. The Mangyan
characters, however, are more angular, probably due to the
material in which they write, chiefly bamboo."
24 Barrows, The Negrito in the Philippines, 363; Reed, Negritos of
Zambales, 22.

THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
39
Dr. Barrows has also made some valuable anthropological
researches among that most interesting group the Igorot25
mountaineers of North Luzon who, he believes, constitute
"an old, thoroughly fused mixture of the aboriginal Ne-
gritos, who still survive in a few spots of the cordillera, and an
25 An extensive literature relative to this group has now appeared,
including:
GENERAL.
Meyer (Hans) Die Igorroten (in Appendix to "Eine Welt-
reise," 2nd ed., Leipzig und Wien, 1890).
Perez (Angel) Igorrotes: estudio geografico y etnografico
sobre algunos distritos del norte de Luzon (Manila, 1902).
Worcester (Dean C.) The Non-Christian Tribes of Northern
Luzon; reprinted from Philippine Journal of Science, Vol. I,
(Manila, 1906).
Beyer (H. Otley) Origin Myths among the Mountain Peoples
of the Philippines; reprinted from the Philippine Journal of
Science, VIII, sec. D. (Manila, 1913).
IFUGAO.
Villaverde (Juan Fernandez) The Ifugaos of Qiangan and
Vicinity. (Written in Spanish many years ago but translated by
Dean C. Worcester and published in 1909 and reprinted from
Philippine Journal of Science, Vol. IV).
Supersticiones de los Igorrotes Ifugaos, published
in 1912 in El Correo Sino-Annamita, Vol. 38,
pp. 281-455.
Campa (Buenaventura) Los Mayoyaos y la raza Ifugao
(Madrid, 1895); also in El Correo Annamita (1892-3) and La
Politica de España en Filipinas (1894).
Barton (Roy F.) The Harvest Feast of the Kiangan Ifugao;
reprinted from the Philippine Journal of Science, VI, sec. D.
(Manila, 1911).
Beyer (H. Otley) and Barton (Roy F.) An Ifugao Burial
Ceremony; reprinted from the Philippine Journal of Science, VI,
sec. D. (Manila, 1911).
BONTOK.
Jenks (Albert E.) The Bontoc Igorot (Manila, 1905).
Clapp (Rev. Walter Clayton) A Vocabulary of the Bontok
Igorot Language, (Division of Ethnology Publications, Vol. V,
pt. III), Manila, 1908.
Seidenadel (Carl W.) Bontoc Grammar and Vocabulary
(Chicago, 1909).
BENGUET.
Scheerer (Otto) The Nabaloi Dialect, Philippine Ethnological
Survey Publications, Vol. II (Manila, 1905).
LEPANTO.
Robertson (James A.) The Igorots of Lepanto, reprinted
from Philippine Journal of Science, IX, sec. D.
Vanoverbergh (Morice) A Grammar of Lepanto Igorot
spoken at Bauko (Manila, 1916).
KALINGAS.
Blumentritt (Ferdinand) Die Calingas; Ausland, Vol. 64,
pp. 328-331 (Stuttgart, 1891).
Wilcox (Cornelis D.) The Headhunters of Northern Luzon
from Ifugao to Kalinga (Kansas City, 1912).

40
THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
intrusive, Malayan race, who, by preference or by press of foes
behind them, scaled the high mountains and on their bleak and
cold summits and canyon slopes laboriously built themselves
rock-walled fields and homes, in which they have long been
acclimated. The culture of the Igorot," he adds, "has been
greatly modified and advanced by the rigors of his habitat, but
it is Malayan at base, as are the languages which he speaks." 26
The Negrito infusion seems to have advanced even farther
in the case of another interesting tribe of the same general
region the Ilongots or Ibilaos. Dr. Barrows has pursued
his investigations among these as well and has given us the
benefit thereof in two suggestive monographs. 27
"In these peoples we have, I am quite sure," he says, "a
mixture of primitive Malayan and Negrito, with more Negrito
than in the case of the Igorot. Stature, curly hair, short head,
and broad, flat nose-these are all negritic characters, as is also
the hairiness of the face and body. In fact there can be no
doubt of the presence of Negrito blood in the Ilongot, for the
process of assimilation can be seen going on. The Negrito of a
comparatively pure type is a neighbor of the Ilongot on both the
south and the north. Usually they are at enmity, but this does
not, and certainly has not in the past, prevented commingling.
The culture of the Ilongot is intermediate, or a composite of
Malayan and Negrito elements. He uses the bow and arrow of
the Negrito and the spear of the Malayan as well. There are
few things in the ethnography of the Ilongot that seem unusual
and for which the culture of neither Malay nor Negrito does not
provide an explanation." 25
Here then we have revealed before our eyes what is
probably the closing chapter in the silent though pregnant
process, now centuries old, of blending two distinct and even
hostile races and eliminating the weaker through absorption
by the stronger. Truly this is a rare opportunity for the
26 The Negrito and Allied Types, American Anthropologist (N. S.)
XII, 372.
The Ilongot or Ibilaw of Luzon, Popular Science Monthly,
LXXVII, 36 (1910); The Negrito in the Philippines, American Anthro-
poligist (N. S.) XII, 358 et seq. (1910).
Besides these contributions of Dr. Barrows the following have been
written on the Ilongots:
Blumentritt (Ferdinand) Gaddanen, Ilongoten Ibilaos und
Negritos (Wien, 1884).
Katechismus der katholischen Glaubenslehre in der Ilongoten
Sprache (translated from the Spanish of Padre Fray Francisco
de la Zarza (Wien, 1893).
Campa (Buenventura) Una Visita a los Rancherias de
Ilongotes, El Correo Sino-Annamita, Vol. 25, pp. 561-646
(Manila, 1891).
Scheerer (Otto) On a Quinary Notation Among the Ilongots;
reprinted from the Philippine Journal of Science (Manila, 1911).
Jones (William) Letters, reports, etc., re Italon Ilongots, in
Rideout (Manila, 1912).
28 American Anthropologist (N. S.) XII, 375.

THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
41
anthropologist and the historian and one which throws a flood
of light upon the entire life and development of the Filipino
people.
NORTHWARD MIGRATION.
The less familiar, but (in its results) more important,
migration of the Malays northward is developed by Professor
Craig in his two other pamphlets, especially the first. 29 The
strong Malay influence in Formosa is noted and, what is more
interesting, the extension of the Malayan wave to Japan.
To quote from one of his authorities: 30
"The Japanese people are a mixture of several distinct
stocks. Negrito, Mongolian, Palasiatic and Caucasian features
more or less blended, sometimes nearly isolated, are met with
everywhere. The Negrito is the least prevalent. Prof. Baelz,
who has drawn attention to this type along with the Malayan
physiognomy, found it comparatively more pronounced in Kyu-
shu (island of which Nagasaki is the port), where a Malayan
immigration is believed to have taken place.'
Apparently this author confuses Negrito with Malay but
any one familiar with certain racial types in southern Japan
and their resemblance to Filipinos may well believe that a
"Malayan immigration" reached there. An author31 not re-
ferred to in the pamphlet says:
"The first immigrants landed in Izumo (southwest coast of
Hondo) having come by way of Korea from the central plateau of
Siberia. The second, who arrived long after the first, came (to
Hiuga on the east coast of Kiyushu) from a more southern part
of the continent by way of Formosa, whence with the help of the
Kuro Siwo (Japan current) they could easily reach Japan. Some
authorities have endeavoured to show that these immigrants were
of Malay origin, and have found marked similarities in both the
physical and mental characteristics of the modern Malays and
Japanese to support their theories. While, however, they un-
doubtedly acquired a strong Malay element in their southern
wanderings the fact that, when the two colonies at last met, their
languages and customs were so similar that no difficulty was
experienced in the amalgamation of the two, shows(?) that the
origin of the preponderating elements of the second must be
found in the same race as that of the first."
29 The Pre-Spanish Philippines.
30 Munro, Prehistoric Japan. The "Caucasian features" mentioned
in this excerpt refer to the Ainu who once "occupied the greater part
of the main island of Japan and probably overflowed into Shikoku
and Kyushu" but later "retreated before this new invasion" from the
south (auch as did the Negritos before the Malay invasion of the
Philippines) "until at the beginning of the nineteenth century they
were practically confined to Yezo (where, 'years ago' it was 'estimated
that only 17,000 of them remained') and the islands farther north."
Starr, (Frederick), The Ainu of Japan, Asia, XIX, 381-387.
ai Longford, The Story of Old Japan (1910) 5, 6.

42
THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
But it does not seem to have occurred to this author that
the "immigrants from the central plateau of Siberia"
might also have been Malays, at least in part, nor that
"physical and mental characteristics" which are so apparent
to the observer of Malays and southern Japanese could hardly
have been acquired from mere wanderings among the former.
But the northward movement of the Malays appears not
to have stopped even in Japan. To quote further:
"Oppert was the first to note that in Korea are two types of
faces, the one distinctly Monogolian, and the other lacking many
of the Monogolian features and tending rather to the Malay
type.
32
Following the Malay migration the same author says:
"From the Malay Peninsula we may imagine them spreading
in various directions. Some went north along the coast, others
into the Philippine Islands, then to Formosa, where Mr.
Davidson, the best authority, declares that the Malay type
prevails. The powerful Black Current, the Gulf Stream of the
Pacific, naturally swept northward those who were shipwrecked.
The Liu-Kiu Islands were occupied, and the last wave of this
great dispersion broke on the southern shore of Japan and Korea,
leaving there the nucleus of those peoples who resemble each
other so that if dressed alike they cannot be distinguished as
Japanese or Korean even by an expert. The small amount of
work that has been so far done indicates a striking resemblance
between these southern Koreans and the natives of Formosa, and
the careful comparison of Korean language with that of Dravid-
ian peoples of southern India reveals such a remarkable similar-
ity, phonetic, stymologic and synthetic, that one is forced to
recognize in it something more than mere coincidence."
Thus the diffusion of Malays appears to have skirted
practically the entire inhabited coasts of Asia and to have
left a trail stretching from South Africa to Korea.
Of the cultural influences affecting this widely scattered
race the Indian, as has been mentioned, was the first and
most powerful. But in spreading northward the Malays
naturally encountered the civilization which was then dom-
inant in eastern Asia-the Chinese.
CHINESE INFLUENCE.
Professor Craig shows how, as early as the third century
of our era, Chinese writers mention what we know as the
Philippines, grouping them with Formosa, and his chrono-
logical leaflet, 33 issued separately from the other pamphlets,
indicates that there has hardly been a century since in which
reference to the Philippines fails to appear in some Chinese
work.
32 Hulbert, The Passing of Korea, Chapter II.
33 Pre-Spanish Philippine Chronology.

THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
43
Meanwhile communication between the two countries
appears to have continued, persistently even, if intermittent-
ly, until checked by unwise and ill-adapted immigration re-
strictions; and one begins to understand from the antiquity of
this contact how it is that the Chinese people and their
civilization have come to exert such an extensive and per-
manent, though withal unobtrusive, influence upon the
Philippines. The motive of this contact seems to have been
primarily commercial. The New History of the T'ang
Dynasty, dealing with the period from the seventh to the
tenth centuries of our era, states that:
"When Chinese merchants arrive there, they are entertained
as guests in a public building and the eatables and drinkables are
abundant and clean." 34
This takes as a matter of course the presence of Chinese
merchants in the Philippines and points to long established
custom. Incidentally it affords an early instance of the pro-
verbial Malay hospitality. A later work describes in greater
detail the manner in which this trade was conducted, relating
how the traders,
"live on board ship before venturing to go on shore, their
ship being moored in midstream, announcing their presence to
the natives by beating drums. Upon this the savage traders
race for the ship in small boats, carrying cotton, yellow wax,
native cloth, cocoanut-heart mats, which they offer for barter.
If the price (of goods they may wish to purchase) cannot be
agreed upon, the chief of the (local) traders () must go in
person, in order to come to an understanding, which being
reached the natives are offered presents of silk umbrellas, por-
celain, and rattan baskets; but the foreigners still retain on
board one or two (natives) as hostages. After that they go on
shore to traffic, which being ended they return the hostages.
A ship will not remain at anchor longer than three or four days,
after which it proceeds to another place; for the savage settle-
ments along the coast of San-su are not connected by a common
jurisdiction." 35
One need not wonder, after tracing this phase of the
subject, that the retail trade of the Philippines remains
to-day in the hands of Chinese merchants.
But these old writers whose work is here made accessible
have something more to record than commerce. Social
customs, religious beliefs and practices and even juridical
34 Particulars of the Philippines' Pre-Spanish Past, 10.
35 The Pre-Spanish Philippines, 4, reproducing extracts from the
work of Chao Ju-kua on the Chinese and Arab Trade (in the 12th and
13th centuries). See a translation of part of this work in Blair and
Robertson's Philippine Islands, XXXIV, 183-191. The book was also
translated and Annotated by Friedrich Hirth and W. W. Rockhill,
(St. Petersburg, Printing Office of the Imperial Academy of Sciences,
Vass. Ostr., Ninth Line, 12, 1911). Mr. Rockhill's last appearance
before the Royal Asiatic Society was to deliver an address on the
theme of that work.

44
THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
conceptions find a place in their narratives. Thus the
historian of the Tang Dynasty above quoted informs us that
these primitive inhabitants of the Philippines
"have no corporal punishments, all transgressions being
penalized with fines in gold which vary according to the nature
of the offence. Only robbers and thieves are made to suffer
death." 36
secure.
It is the agreement of all this with what we know from
other sources that stamps the descriptions as accurate and
genuine and it is just here that the work of Dr. Robertson
connects with that of Professor Craig. Formerly Chancellor
of the Philippine Academy and Insular Librarian the former
is too well known to need extended mention here. As co-
editor of the most voluminous publication³ yet issued relat-
ing to the archipelago, and as an explorer in other depart-
ments of Far Eastern history his place in that field is amply
His latest work 39 appears to be a contribution to a
comprehensive treatise covering the Far East and much
more. Dr. Robertson's portion is devoted to "the social
structure of, and ideas of law among, early Philippine
peoples" and embodies the text and translation of "a recently
discovered Pre-Hispanic criminal code of the Philippine
Islands" which, he says "is really the excuse for this paper"
and "forms part of a manuscript written during the years
1837 and 1838 by a Spanish friar, José Maria Pavon, who
was stationed for some years in the town of Himamaylan in
the province of Occidental Negros." 41
Like Professor Craig, Dr. Robertson recognizes the re-
sults of "contact with the Chinese, with whom they had
carried on an intermittent trade for centuries", 42 and like
Dr. Saleeby and General Forlong he sees also the possibilities
of "contact with the peoples of Asia to the West of China".4
Of Chinese influence the monograph contains not a few in-
43
56 Particulars of the Philippines' Pre-Spanish Past, 10.
37 Blair and Robertson, The Philippine Islands, 1493-1898 (Cleve-
land, 1903-1909) 55 vols.
38 Magellan's Journey around the World, (Cleveland, 1906);
Bibliography of Early Spanish-Japanese Relations, Transactions.
Asiatic Society of Japan, Vol. XLIII, Pt. I (1915).
39 Early Philippine Law and Custom (1917).
49 The Pacific Ocean in History, (The MacMillan Company, 1917\
Edited by H. Morse Stevens and Herbert E. Bolton.
P. 160. The author adds: "It was sent to the Philippine
Library at Manila by Mr. José E. Marco, whose zeal and enthusiasm
in the preservation of historical materials relating to the Philippine
Islands is most commendable, and alas, only too rare."
42 Id. 161. 43 Id.

THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
45
stances. Thus, referring to the translator of the primitive
code,
"
"Pavon says that those of the early Bisaya who knew how to
write and possessed documents were those who overtopped their
fellows by their might and ability, and who were generally of
Chinese ancestry; the priests; the rowers; and the chief men.
As in China "the political structure (among these prim-
itive Malays) rested on the family as a unit" 15 The very
first "order" or article of the code in question thus provides
for enforcing that peculiarly Chinese virtue-veneration for
age:
"Ye shall not kill; neither shall ye steal; neither shall ye do
hurt to the aged: lest ye incur the danger of death. All those
who infringe this (order shall be condemned) to death by being
drowned with stones in the river, or in boiling water." 46
Again more specifically in the seventh "order" death is
prescribed for one "who shoots arrows at night at old men
and women".47 As in China, moreover, a peculiar sanctity
attaches to burial places. Thus the fourth "order" enjoins:
"Observe and obey ye: let no one disturb the quiet of
graves. When passing by the caves and trees where they are,
give respect to them."s
This code then is a most interesting document and leads
up to various topics of archaic and comparative jurispru-
dence, like tabu, the ordeal and primitive marriage.
The last named has been treated elsewhere by the
present writer but it will hardly be irrelevant to point out
here that while the early Malays had not passed out of the
stage of marriage by purchase 50 and while as viewed by the
Chinese writers the former lacked one familiar factor-the
matchmaker51-in other respects their marital customs dis-
44 Id. 188. 45 Id. 164. 46 Id. 186.
48 Id. 186. Dr. Robertson adds in a note:
47 Id. 187.
"Burial in caves, at least for the chief men, was common
among the early Bisaya, a fact that is well attested by the many
burial caves that have been, and are being, discovered. In some
of these caves well preserved coffins and bones have been found.
Quite recently, Mr. Luther Parker, of the Bureau of Education
of the Philippines, found a number of skulls and other bones in
several of these caves, and he has written a very illuminating
paper concerning them, which it is hoped will be published."
"See his "Primitive Malay Marriage Law" American Anthropol
ogist, XII, 250-256
50 Id. p. 250.
51 It is not the custom to use go-between, or match-makers, in
contracting a marriage. Some gold is paid to the relations of the girl
and then she is married." Particulars of the Philippines' Pre-Spanish
Past, 10.

46
THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
close a resemblance to those of China. Thus, as stated by
Dr. Robertson: 52
"Among most Philippine peoples, the union was decided on
between the parents of the contracting couple. It might even be
arranged between the parents before the birth of the children, its
consummation being dependent upon the right accident of birth,
the payment of a dowry by the man or his parents, and, in many
instances, on the fertility of the woman.'
Dr. Saleeby likewise notices the work of Chao Ju-kua53
and the early contact between Chinese and Malays though
like Dr. Barrows 55 he ascribes to it less importance than to
other influences. But Dr. Robertson appears to be, though
perhaps unconsciously, in substantial agreement with Pro-
fessor Craig as to the extent of Chinese influence on the
Malays.
The date assigned by Pavon to the manuscript which he
discovered and translated is 1433 and while as our author
says, he "gives no clue as to his method of fixing this date", 56
it would appear to be at least that early.57
ARAB INFLUENCE.
The materials collected by these two-Professor Craig
and Dr. Robertson-furnish us glimpses of the relations
between Chinese and Malays down to the time when the
latter first came under the influence of the Arab missionaries
of Islam. At this point the notable and illuminating work58
of Dr. Saleeby commences; for while this was the first to
appear, it covers the latest period of Pre-Spanish Philippine
history.
Dr. Saleeby is of the opinion that the Malays left the
Asiatic mainland at least as early as 1000 B.C. As the first
Mohammedans did not enter India much if any before A.D. 600
they could hardly have influenced the Malays there. The
Moslem conquest of India began in 1024 and Moslem in-
fluence was extended to Malaysia about 1300. Leaving the
mainland the emissaries of Islam seem to have proceeded
first to Sumatra and thence to the other islands of the Malay
archipelago whose inhabitants are now so largely of their
faith. They entered the Philippines by two routes, the first
32 An Old Philippine Criminal Code, 170.
53 Origin of the Malayan Filipinos, Philippine Academy Publica-
tions, I, 5.
34 Id. 9.
55 American Anthropologist (N. S.) XII, 358.
56 An Old Philippine Criminal Code, 191, note.
57 Id. 161.
5 See note 2, supra.

THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
47
via Balabac and Palawan to Manila Bay and the second by
way of Tawi-Tawi and Sulu to Magindanaw (now Cottabato).
They appear to have reached Sulu before 1380 and when the
Spaniards arrived at the Pasig river, less than two centuries
later, they found a Mohammedan prince-Rajah Soliman-
reigning in Tondo, now a part of Manila, and Islam quite
extensively established there. To the Spaniards who had
just succeeded in expelling the Moors from their home
peninsula it seemed a religious duty to repeat the process as
regards these coreligionists in the Philippines to whom they
applied the same term "Moros." The process was com-
pleted in the northern and central Philippines where, except
in the mountain regions of Luzon, most of the inhabitants
came under the influence of the Spanish Friar Missionaries.
But the Malays of the southern Philippines have remained
Mohammedan to this day. And the new influence which
thus affected them came directly and not indirectly from
Arabia. Abu Bekr who introduced Islam into Sulu was
a real Arab and so late as 1911 when I visited the Lake Lanao-
region of central Mindanao the military commandant there
(Colonel Beecham) told me that the leading Moro of that
locality was a man from Mecca. On the other hand among
the Moros of to-day are not a few "hadjis" who proudly wear
the green turban in token of a pilgrimage to the Holy Land
of Islam.
Among the most interesting monuments of this long
domination of Islam in the southern Philippines are the
series of legal compilations, often called codes, which Dr.
Saleeby discovered and translated. 59 A detailed examina-
tion of them would lead us too far afield and besides would
require a separate monograph for adequate treatment.
Suffice it here to say that they constitute a curious blending
of Moslem law with Malay custom and that, while crude and
unsystematic in arrangement, they contain some rather
advanced provisions. They were mainly intended for the
Moro panditas (judges) who were unfamiliar with Arabic and
therefore unable to read the real Mohammedan law books.
But they have introduced not a little of the law of Islam
which the American government in the Philippines has re-
cognized by authorizing the Moro Provincial Council "to
modify the substantive civil and criminal law
to suit
local conditions among the Moros," etc., "to conform
to the local customs and usages.
"60
59 Studies in Moro History, Law and Religion, Philippine Ethno-
logical Survey Publications, IV, pt. I (1905).
Go Compilation, Acts of the Philippine Commission p. 251.

48
THE EARLY MALAYS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
Here then we have a concrete and striking example of an
external influence which has profoundly affected Malayan
culture in two vital features-religion and law-just as it had
been previously affected by Indian influence as regards
language and Chinese influence respecting commerce and
social customs. Thus we discover that the external in-
fluences which affected successively the Malayan Filipino
were the three most potential civilizations of Asia-the
Indian, the Chinese and the Arabic. And operating con-
comitantly with these was an internal influence which, if
less obtrusive, was even more effective and real-the local
contact and amalgamation with the Negrito.
These profoundly interesting generalizations we owe
largely to the members of the Philippine Academy, an
organization whose achievements deserve a wider recognition
than has yet been accorded them. And surely a society like
this which bears the name of "Asiatic" should be interested
in a group of colaborers which has contributed so much to
scientific knowledge of a nearby, yet hitherto little known,
corner of Asia. I plead for a closer acquaintance between
these two bodies-a more intimate knowledge of each other's
work-a plan of co-operation as to future undertakings. For
if there is one outstanding lesson to be drawn from a study
of the Malay race it is the unity and continuity of history in
the Far East and the solidarity of its culture. For it shows
that the native races of this region are not isolated units,
having no relation to each other, but sharers in a common
civilization whose influence has been age long and far reach-
ing. Surely, therefore, none of the laborers in such a
common, though extensive, field can afford to be ignorant of,
or isolated from, their fellows.