REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS.
British Jurisdiction in China. (Orders in Council, 1904 to 1915; Rules
of Court, 1905 to 1916; edited by Mr. W. B. Kennett.)
It is probable that every reader of the Journal knows that, by
"Treaty, grant, usage, sufferance and other lawful means," His
Britannic Majesty has jurisdiction in China over British subjects and
their property, and that this jurisdiction is exercised through Orders
in Council. It may not be equally well-known that the principal Order
in Council now in force was made in 1904, and that since that date
numerous amending and supplementary Orders have been made.
Article 119 of the principal Order confers upon the Judge of the
supreme Court power to make rules of Court, for regulating certain
matters of practice and detail, subject to the approval of the Secretary
of State, and under this article a collection of 320 rules were made in
1905, which have since been frequently amended.
The principal Order of 1904 and the rules of 1905 are bound
together in a volume which is sold officially. The volume includes a
separate index to the Order and a separate index to the rules. The
amending and supplementary Orders are all separately printed, and
are not indexed: The rules are bound with annual volumes of King's
Regulations, which are not indexed; all of which, Orders and annual
volumes, are sold officially.
The subjects dealt with in the Orders and in the rules are much
the same subjects, and it is often not easy to say whether any particular
provision can be found in an Order or in a rule. Unless one has a
good historical knowledge of the subject, extending over the last 15
years, it is not easy to say on what date any particular provision was
made. What was sadly wanted was an index, covering all the Orders
and rules; a bound volume containing them all would also be a con-
venience, particularly to those who have frequent occasion to refer to
them.
Mr. Kennett has supplied, not precisely what was wanted, but a
substantial advance towards it. The Orders are all bound together,
up to the year 1915, and are covered by a single index. A separate
volume contains all the rules, up to 1916, with a single index covering
them. An improvement has been made on the official indexes, in that
the sub-headings are arranged alphabetically, instead of the official
plan of arranging them according to the number of the article or rule.
72

182
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
It is, perhaps, to be regretted, that a selection from the numerous
King's Regulations was not included in the volume of rules. These
Regulations are made under the authority of the principal Order, and
deal generally with minor criminal offences. Harbour and pilotage
regulations are not of much general interest, but the regulations in-
clude provision, for example, against selling liquors and firearms
without a licence from the Consular authorities, provision against
travelling without passports, and provision for the registration of land,
provisions, one would think, of considerable interest, both to lawyers
and the general public.
The two volumes under review can be heartily recommended to
lawyers, consuls, and readers with technical knowledge. For anyone
who has to make frequent reference to the Orders and rules, the
possession of these volumes would save time of much greater value
than their cost. The books are not calculated, and not intended, to
appeal to the general public.
Outlines of Chinese Art. John C. Ferguson. Being the Scammon
Lectures for 1918. Published for the Art Institute of Chicago
by the University of Chicago Press, 1919.
These six impressive lectures begin with a general introduction to
the study of Chinese Art and deal with bronzes and jades, stones and
ceramics, calligraphy and painting. As recent study of Chinese Art
has been directed largely toward painting, which has opened up a
wonderland hitherto unknown to the occidental; so Dr. Ferguson
devotes greater space to painting and its interesting derivation from
literary art. The book is beautifully printed and profusely illustrated
not only by reproductions in black and white but also by "rubbings"
from actual specimens.
The chief characteristic of the work is that the subject is
approached mainly from the Chinese point of view through detailed
knowledge of the Chinese records which are extraordinarily extensive.
This aspect has been hitherto largely hidden and Dr. Ferguson has
rendered a service to foreign students of Chinese Art, especially to
those who have not lived among the Chinese. The author holds that
Chinese art should be studied from the point of view of its own
standards which differ markedly from those of the occident. Yet Art
must be founded on truth and not on conventions discordant with the
truth. Imaginative painting must not be so fantastic and grotesque
that it cannot reasonably be founded on truth. Artists do not see
nature in precisely the same way; there is a wide personal equation

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
183
depending on differences in intellectuality. Nature herself is more
beautiful than anything within the imagination of man. The grotesque
both in figure work and in landscape is a fault which is more apparent
to the foreigner than to the Chinese. Enthusiasts are apt to excuse
the gaucheries of Chinese art and it becomes necessary to impress the
fact that the main canons of art apply the world over, differences being
explained by evolution of style and interpretation. The oft quoted six
canons of Hsieh Ho (A.D. 475), in four characters each, are probably
too brief and too variously interpreted to be accepted as a real guide
to the aims of Chinese art.
Dr. Ferguson holds that Chinese art is largely indigenous, an
opinion which is confirmed by extensive observation and comparison
of Chinese with the art of other countries. The author traces in a
very interesting way how "ceremonies and portents represent the
essential spirit of the culture of the Chinese people out of which
their Art first developed." Though handicapped by divination, omens,
astrology and other superstition, a truly great national art did indeed
evolve far beyond the totem poles and other barbarities of the Pacific
litoral.
The Author states that "there are no authentic stone tablets
earlier than the Han dynasty." The curious division of art is made
by the Chinese into Chin Shih, which includes work in metals, stone
and ceramics, or archeological art, and Shu hua, which comprises
calligraphy and painting, or fine art; a division which was apparently
made by the literati. In speaking of the connoisseurship of the
educated Chinese, especially as regards the points of jade, Dr.
Ferguson makes the statement that "there has not been enough
subtlety or elusiveness in pottery and porcelain to attract the Chinese
artistic fancy." An unusually pleasing account is given of the appeal
to the sense of touch of which the Chinese make so much in regard
to jade. An interesting development is recorded of the origin of the
Lung-men rock sculptures indirectly from Gandhara through the Yün-
kang grottoes near Tatungfu, the superiority of the Lung-men work
being attributed to the Indo-buddhistic work of Yün-kiang modified
by following Chinese classical types.
Notwithstanding Dr. Ferguson's unique knowledge of the records
of Chinese art he admits that no Chinese has written as "comprehen-
sive and informative" a book as Hobson's on Chinese pottery and
porcelain.
The lecture on the relationship between calligraphy and painting
is perhaps the most original section of the work. The wide influence
of calligraphy and its great importance in the development of Chinese
painting is very thoroughly worked out and made interesting by

184
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
numerous illustrations. The beautiful idea, whether expressed by the
brush as literature, or by the same brush in painting, or combined on
the same sheet, is the cynosure of Chinese art, and places Chinese
painting in a class by itself, which almost excuses the comparative
absence of direct nature study. The synthetic nature of Chinese paint-
ing and, its dependence on imaginative thought is interestingly deve-
loped.
A dissertation is given of the papers and silks used in writing and
painting in the different dynasties; and one can only express a wish
that in a subsequent edition photomicrographs may be given which
would undoubtedly prove valuable for identification purposes.
Altogether a most interesting and valuable contribution to the
study of Chinese art by one who has the Chinese records at his fingers'.
ends; treated in an original manner; and should call forth the gratitude
of all students of that fascinating and elusive subject Chinese art.
ARTHUR STANLEY.
Modern China. A Political Study. By Sih-Gung Cheng, M.A. Oxford:
At The Clarendon Press.
This is an admirable bock both in style and substance. It gives a
comprehensive survey of the political economy of China. Mr. Cheng
discusses current Chinese political and economic problems. It is
judicial in its judgments and just in its estimate of conditions, as they
relate both to Chinese parties and foreigners. In his introductory
chapter the author treats of the historical ideals of government in
China, that is to say the ideal founded on Confucian tradition. The
conception is lofty depending on men rather than method in its
operations; as the Chinese say a bad ruler will make a mess even of
good principles, but the right man will make a good government with
poor materials. This of course has its dangers since it offers great
opportunities to tyranny and opens the way for the Autocrat. Mr. Cheng
presents the historical march of events that resulted in a republic
without many republicans. He dispassionately discusses the present
impassé and the seizure of power by the militarists. So that he is
doubtful whether the revolution has finished its work. Constitution
making, as every one knows, is a difficult job on pages 126-128 Mr.
Cheng offers a solution to the problem of China.
old idea that men are more important than forms.
to quarrel with him. And the pity is that there are so few men in this
most populous of countries. He has much to say, and his judgements
are very sane, on Exterritoriality: the discussion on the fiscal depen-
He still clings to the
Few will be ready

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
185
dency of China must have been a cause of much poignancy to the
Author. He offers much wise criticism of the relation between the
Provinces and the Central Government but whether his scheme of
federal authority would terminate in peace and prosperity of the nation
as a whole is doubtful. China has few men of the quality of a sage.
For the most part the men that seek authority are corrupt, un-
principled, arrogant and ambitious, and inefficient.
To foreigners in particular this work should be very welcome. For
here we have a Chinese writer dealing with the thorny history of
foreign and Chinese intercourse in a perspicuous and moderate manner.
There is no trace of bias even in the discussions that deal with episodes
that show injustice towards his own country. Everything is stated
historically, reasonably and philosophically. Nevertheless the reader's
mind carries away a strong impression that the rights of this country
must be maintained and, in future, international justice must be
applied to it. The legitimate interests of foreigners are great, and the
nation that acts justly, and helps this country in the path of moral and
material expansion will reap the rich rewards of legitimate profits. By
doing what is politically right more rewards will come than by hunting
for concessions and pursuing the ways of force and such like.
Post-war problems are discussed. Mr. Cheng feels the danger of
Japanese control. Should such eventuate the door would be closed to
the West. Japanese dominance would be morally indefensible. The
Author looks to Great Britain and America to prevent such an outcome.
All students of Chinese things must get this book: they can't do
without it. It would be well if every business house recommended
their staffs to study it. It would be profitable to the mind and for
trade.
M.
Old Tartar Trails. By A. S. Kent. Shanghai: North China Daily
News and Herald.
There is nothing startling in this narrative but the interest of the
reader is well sustained throughout. There are no thrilling experien-
cies of travel, no encounters with bandits or wild beasts: there isn't
even much beauty of road or country in the description. Nevertheless
Mr. Kent manages to keep the reader's attention. In easy style, clear
English, and, seizing the salient facts of the journey the narrative
never wearies the reader it proceeds smoothly, with enough reality
for others to share the travels of Mr. Kent.
A book like this will be welcome. Mongolia is a vast territory,
poor and desolate in many parts, sparsely populated and withdrawn

186
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
from the currents of modern life. There was considerable risk, there
were hardships and inconveniences: there were a few surprises, which
Mr. Kent shares with the reader. In so doing he will spend a very
pleasant hour or two and will experience in imagination the wide and
arid deserts-houses reeking with foul smells, and other varieties in-
cident on travel.
Tartary has always had a fascination for men. It was once very
great. Its past splendours still cast a glamour over men. Readers of
Coleridge will remember how his imagination was touched.
Actually there is nothing left of this ancient grandeur not even a
vestige-except it be some skulls and bricks and desolation. The
student of history ought to be able to draw some very interesting
lessons from all this. Mr. Kent gives us a short historical introduction
and then proceeds to tell us of his plans and difficulties and how he
went on his way. He gives us a racy description of the journey and
tells us a good deal of the social life of the Mongols :-the people,
their habits and manners: the dress they wear their aversion to
water prevalence of rheumatism. Education is very backward. Few
can read and write. There are no facilities. With the remarks on the
language and the script (page 38) the reader should consult H. H.
Howorth's "History of the Mongols."
The climate of course is cold and rigorous; but it isn't quite so
obvious why "the Mongols have neither trained nor aggressive minds."
Slackness marks the whole race. Morality is loose and indifferent.
The people's mode of life encourage a bad condition of things. Their
weddings are ordinary, the treatment of the dead atrocious. The
prisons are in an awful state. Where is the reformer? There is an
. urgent call for a drastic betterment of the prisoner. The very fact that
the country is so sparsely populated and that they have so much room
to move in is one of the causes of their present backward state. We
cordially commend this excellent book. The illustrations are good.
The price is $6.00.
Recherches sur les Superstitions en Chine. III. Partie, Tome XIV.
Le Confucéisme. Le P. Henri Dore, S.J. Imprimerie de la
Mission Catholique, Shanghai, 1919. $5.00. 605 pages, 70 plates.
This volume is fully worthy of its predecessors, although it comes
rather as a shock to find "The Doctrine of Confucianism" ranked as a
sub-heading for work on Superstition. Surely a superstition is a
belief which has survived only in uncritical minds, or by mere inertia?
Can this really be said of Confucianism save from a partizan stand-

188
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
met with on the coast of China. The drawings are printed on Japanese
handmade vellum and bound in quaint and artistic paper boards.
It was a happy thought of Mr. Donnelly to share his interest in Junks
with the public. He has offered a view of these under various aspects
and in different conditions. It is doubtful whether a steamer with its
tall and massive strength adds beauty to the scenery: but there is no
more beautiful sight than to see a long string of Chinese boats sailing
before the wind. They add much to the beauty of the scenery. All
the junks drawn for us belong to the trading or fisheries class, some of
the latter being deep sea, some longshore fishers. They also represent
somewhat different types of construction. It would be interesting to
find out the reasons for the varieties of style, whether they come from:
climatic and other conditions or whether they owe their idiosyncracies
to regional taste.
Here we may study junks to our heart's content. We have them
in full dress or mere barebones: sails furled and unfurled. Some of
these sails are represented as entire, others as ragged-as the picture
should be. In the sails of the Santuao Trader the rents have very
systematic and symmetrical lines. Mr. Donnelly must have sketched
some from the deck of a steamer: others in port. He has been very
successful not only with the junks but also with his seas.
The Isle of Palms. Sketches of Hainan. M. M. M. Editor.
A reader of this bock will know something of Hainan. It is not a
large book, and it only wears paper covers, but it is a book full of
information. The ethnologist, anthropologist, historian, and the more
general student will here find a fund of information. It is most
interestingly written and everything pertaining to the small island is
given without waste of words. Written primarily to give an account
of the work of the A. P. Mission it has developed into a succinct
account of the island and the people. The small island has mountains
rising 6,000 feet high. The climate is peculiar. "It does not rain,
for it cannot; the air is so saturated with moisture that no rain could
come through it." "You find the clothes divested in the evening very
clammy in the morning." In March and April the monsoons begin to
blow and give great dryness." The island is a place "of magnificent
trees, dainty ferns, fragrant flowers, and delicious fruits." "Foxes are
common visitors to the basket coops, so the natives hang them under
the eaves of the houses and the hens sedately climb up portable ladders
to their refuge at night." "A small animal like the armadillo is con-
sidered to be a very wicked creature because it burrows holes into

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS.
189
graves." "The praying mantis performs his devotions on our writing
desks." And so we might go on quoting from this fascinating little
book.
M.
Examples of the Various Turki dialects with Turki text and English
translation. Mohammedan narratives of the Prophets. Turki
text with English translation. By G. W. Hunter.
These books should be classed amongst the curiosities of literature.
The Author, the Rev. G. W. Hunter, is a missionary of the China
Inland Mission who came to China in 1897 and has spent his life
itinerating from his headquarters at Tih-hwa-fu in Sin-kiang through
the vast stretches of the "new territory" to the borders of Thibet,
Mongolia and India.
The text from which these translations are made is Qazaq Turki.
The Qazaks, we learn from the preface, are a branch of the Turcoman
family and the Author studied their language that he might be able to
preach the gospel to them in their own tongue.
He
says "The translator having used 'A narrative of the
Prophets' as one of his text books in studying Turki, he translated a
large part of it into English thinking it might be of interest to students
of Turki and to those engaged in work among Mohammedans." The
Author being in a place where there are no printers he had perforce to
be his own publisher. He wrote his translations and mimeographed
them on native paper. Then bound them in a strong brown paper
cover so that they look like the account books a Chinese storekeeper
uses in his trade.
Purchasers should address their letters and orders to the Author,
Rev. G. W. Hunter, China Inland Mission, Tih-hwa fu, Sinkiang
Melanges sur la Chronologie Chinoise. Shanghai: Imprimérie de la
Mission Catholique à l'Orphelinat de T'ou-Sé-Wé.
This is the 52nd number of Variétés Sinologiques. Two works have
been brought together under this one cover. They are: I. Notes Con-
cernant la Chronologie Chinoise; and, II. Prolégomènes à la Con-
cordance Neoménique. The one by P. P. Havret et Chambeau, S.J.;
the other by P. Hoang.
This is a work of patient research and a compilation likely to be
of great service. It will of course take some time to get used to it,
but once there is freedom in this respect there will be boundless help
found. It is a very complete work and Students of Chinese will be very
grateful for this valuable work.

190
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Reply Letters. By S. P. Smith to R. F. Johnston's "Letters to a
Missionary."
"These letters are a reply to Mr. Johnston's attack on Christianity in
general, and his attack on Christian Missions in particular." "The
personal questions raised are answered in a separate letter." In this
reply Mr. Smith also takes into account Mr. Johnston's articles in
various periodicals.
The Reply, for financial reasons, is in pamphlet form; and dis-
tributed gratis. We think Mr. Smith was not well advised. There is
a reading public that would buy such a book as this, if it had been
presented in an attractive form. The public will now pass it by, and
in that way it will miss the other side of the case presented by Dr.
Johnston, which is unfortunate. For Mr. Smith has an effective reply,
and he can write with spirit.
Mr. Smith joins issue at once with Dr. Johnston and has no
difficulty in disposing of his satirical representation of the nature of the
gospel. "Hell fire" is not the glad news. He also defines his own
view of the Bible and the seat of authority in religion. This is at
neither extreme, but a very sane and therefore sound position. The
Scriptures contain a progressive revelation. They were not written by
automata--and they require discernment in their interpretation. Whilst
they are not an infallible authority, they reveal the work of the Spirit.
He quotes weighty authorities in support of his position. What Mr.
Smith says about heathen religions is correct as far as it goes---but the
arguments of neither controversialist take us far. Dr. Johnston
glorifies Buddhism and detracts from Christianity-Mr. Smith has no
difficulty in showing that his opponent has been too free with the
whitewash and also blackwash. But we should like something more
constructive than even what Mr. Smith gives us. It is true he hasn't
the same prejudices and animus as Dr. Johnston: nevertheless there
is needed a more comprehensive doctrine of reconciliation in these
things.
The standpoint of the two writers are far apart and very different.
The one is the supercilious critic the other the earnest evangelist.
Can they ever meet?
More Gems of Chinese Poetry. By W. J. B. Fletcher. Shanghai.
The Commercial Press.
Much of the criticism offered in the review of the first volume that
appeared in Vol. XLIX, p. 195 of the Journal will equally apply to this
and we would refer readers to that review. Students will derive much
profit and advantage from these works both in a negative and positive
way. The perusal of these poems with the help of text and translation

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
191
will give an insight into Chinese thought. They will find that the
work of translation is difficult, if not often impossible. It is therefore
the easiest thing in the world to show the translator's shortcomings
and failures and if one or two things are mentioned that seem hostile,
it is not so in fact but rather offered in the spirit of sympathy with the
translator's difficulties. For instance take in the second line of the
first poem, which Mr. Fletcher translates "sit apart." Whilst in a way
that is quite true yet really the meaning, the force is lost. Does not
Shen tso rather suggest Browning's description of David groping in the
dark to find Saul in the tent? That is to say, the lady sits deep-
within: "Sits apart" suggests the presence of others. But the very idea
is that she is solitary. Again "Wet traces of tears, can be seen as they
curl." The original is much stronger "The cheeks wet with the traces
⚫ of scalding tears," and Chu lien doesn't necessarily mean a "curtain of
pearl" but is the common name of a screen. Now this much is got
from "Grief" a four line poem on page 1.
We do not propose to say any more in the way of criticism. Mr.
Fletcher is an industrious student of Chinese. His notes are often
useful, and the presentation of both the Chinese and English texts
will offer the student a good opportunity of comparing the ideas of
the one and the other. Those who are not particularly interested in
the Chinese will find in these translations much of the beauty of the
Chinese.
Modern Japan-Social, Industrial, Political. By Amos S. and S. W.
Hershey. (The Bobbs-Merrill Co., Indianapolis.)
This book is packed with useful information, set forth in a clear and
attractive manner, and it is decidedly a book for the times. Much of
its contents will be already familiar to residents of the Far East, but
there is also a great deal which will be new, and very much which is of
vital importance to those who desire to form a correct estimate of
modern Japan, and to understand the mutual relations of the countries
touching the Pacific ocean.
The Japanese themselves will be quick to appreciate and profit by a
work written with such evident friendliness, and yet with a fairness
which does not hesitate to point out some weaknesses. When the range
of subjects dealt with is so extensive, there would be little satisfaction
in quoting scrappy extracts; the book should be read in its entirety.
The chapter on "Japanese aims and policy in China" is one of special
interest to residents in China, and we heartily commend it to all who
wish to understand the points at issue between the two nations. Refer-
ring to Japan's early promises, and her subsequent action re Kiao Chou,
the authors say that it is to them "a very painful duty to have to

192
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
record their impression that the Japanese Government must experience
a considerable change of heart and method before implicit confidence
can be placed in its pledges and assurances." It is pointed out clearly
that "In their conduct of operations against Tsing-tau, Japan, on the
plea of military necessity, committed a violation of Chinese neutrality
and international law for which, from a purely military point of
view, there was even less justification than for Germany's outrageous
violation of Belgian neutrality."
-
The shameful story of the "twenty-one demands" is faithfully
told and it is to be hoped that the calm repeating of it by an impartial
authority after the lapse of even these few years, will have a good effect
upon the more thoughtful and solid section of the Japanese people, and
lead to better relations between the two nations. It is good to see
that quite recently Prof. Yoshino of Tokyo Imperial University said
in a speech that "If the question was put to the students, 'Shall we
withdraw from Shantung and give it back to China?' ninety in one
hundred would say 'Yes.'"
So much of real progress and creditable action of Japan is told in
this book that it is all the more unfortunate that the record of dealings
with China should be so deplorable. Nor has the whole been told, for
our authors make no mention of the illicit traffic in opium and
morphia with which certain Japanese are only too well known to be
associated.
Modern Japan is a book to be kept at hand for ready reference
by those so near to the conditions it describes as are most of our
members.
I. M.
By Rev.
The History, Customs and Religion of the Ch'iang.
Thos. Torrance. ("The Shanghai Mercury," Shanghai.)
Mr. Torrance says "It is well known that in West China there is
a wonderful variety of tribesmen and remnants of aboriginal races.
In the province of Szechuan there are the Ch'iang (), Nosu
or Lolo (), Rong (), Polotsze (F) and Sifan ().
Of all these the Ch'iang are undoubtedly the most interesting
though among the least known." They are known also as the Ch'ing
I Ch'iang (*). This booklet of 36 pages will be found interest-
ing and informing, especially to ethnologists and students of primitive
religions. The Ch'iang maintained some form of independence for 2000
years, and though now nominally under Chinese rule, they have kept
their individuality in speech and mode of life, in customs and religion.
Their dwellings are of stone, well-built and several stories high; their
square stone towers, over 100 feet high, have been mentioned by many

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
193
travellers. The social customs described indicate a charming simplicity
and freedom. In religion the Ch'iang are monotheists and their
emblem of the Deity is a white stone. The account of their worship,
their sacrificial rites and religious ritual, is interesting reading.
A few printer's errors have been noticed, which should be corrected.
in a future edition.
I. M.
Vues du Honan
Chemain de fer Lung-hai.
This is a volume or portfolio of 52 photographs with letterpress.
dealing with views in Honan. These are beautifully executed and
handsomely mounted. They are interesting historically, geographically
as well as from a scenic standpoint. The letterpress is full of
information. This enterprise is sure to attract travellers.
Educational Directory and Year Book of China, 1920. Shanghai:
Edward Evans and Sons.
When we get to the substance of this book, it is good,-but it takes.
some time to get there, through pages of advertisements. It consists
of three parts: I. General Information. II. A Directory of University
Professors, Lecturers, etc. III. List of Universities, Colleges, Schools.
These have been brought up to date, and in doing this "the Editor has
been impressed by the cheerful help afforded him" by all concerned.
It is dedicated to those members of the fraternity, "Not only teachers,
but many who have been educated in China, who have given their lives
in the great war." In the review of the Year important comparisons
are made for one in the pupils in Schools. In 1910 the Government
Schools contained only 1,625,534 pupils with an appropriation of
$33,000,000. To-day there are 4 million students, but the appro-
priation was only $40,000,000. School accommodation is totally in-
adequate and institutions are poorly furnished. We cordially commend
this useful work.
Sino-Iranica. By Berthold Laufer, Chicago, 1919.
Dr. Laufer's object in this volume is a worthy one: it "is to
represent Chinese contributions to the history of civilization in Iran,
which aptly fill a lacuna in our knowledge of Iranian tradition"-
"From this our notions of cultural developments in Asia would
probably be widely different from what they are." He pays a tribute
13

194
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
.
to the memory of R. Gauthiot, the great Iranian scholar, though we
fail to see how or why he should deserve the title of 'Chun tzû' on
this account. Part of Dr. Laufer's purpose is, "The accurate
restoration of the Chinese form in accordance with rigid phonetic
principles is the essential point
Thus Mu-lu, *, name of a
city on the eastern frontier of An-si, has been identified with Mouru,
(Muru), of the Avesta . . . but from a phonetic view point this is
not acceptable, for Mu-lu corresponds to ancient Muk-luk, Bug-luk,
Bug-rug, to be restored to "Bux-rux." " That is the proposition-with
an example. It doesn't look promising, we confess. We leave it at
that, and Dr. Laufer proposes to do so too. "The linguistic pheno-
mena," he says, "important as they may be, form merely a side issue
of this investigation. My main task is to trace the history of all
objects of material culture, pre-eminently cultivated plants, drugs,
products, minerals, metals, precious stones, and textiles in that migra-
tion from Persia to China (Sino-Iranic), and others transmitted from
China to Persia (Irano-Sinica)." This of course means some work, and
perhaps here it would not be out of place to express our astonishment
at the facility with which Dr. Laufer issues numerous pamphlets and
ponderous books. This volume for example begins with p. 185 and
ends with 630, about pp. 430. The type is small, the page fairly large
containing about 200,000 words. The mechanical work alone of
writing so much in addition to the work of consultation, apart from
original investigation, must be stupendous. Students will feel under
great obligation to the learned author for collecting so much material
from various fields and bringing them into one compact volume, thus
making accessible much valuable information, scattered and dispersed
over so many books and in diverse languages. Ability to do so is only
given to a few. Dr. Laufer's method may be gathered from the
following example:
"It is well known that attempts have been made to derive the
Chinese word from Greek Sorpus ("a bunch of grapes"). Tomaschek
was the first to offer this suggestion; T. Kingsmill followed
in 1879, and Hirth endorsed Kingsmill.
No one gave a real
demonstration of the case. Tomaschek argued that the dissemination
of the vine in Central Asia is connected with Macedonian-Greek rule
and Hellenic influence. This is decidedly wrong, for the vine grows
spontaneously in all northern Iranian regions; and its cultivation in
Iran is traceable to a great antiquity, and is certainly older there than
in Greece. The Greeks received the vine and wine from Western Asia.
Greek Porpus in all likelihood, is a Semitic loan-word. It is highly
improbable that the people of Fergana would have employed a Greek

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
195
word for the designation of a plant which had been cultivated in their
dominion for ages, nor is there any evidence for the silent admission
that Greek was ever known or spoken in Fergana at the time of Can
K'ien's travels. The influence of Greek in the Iranian domain is
extremely slight: nothing Greek has as yet been found in any ancient
manuscripts from Turkistan. In my opinion, there is no connection
between p'u-t'ao and Sorpus, nor between the latter and Iranian
budawa" (pp. 225-206). In a note he says, "Only a sinologue could
assert that the grape was 'originally introduced from Greece, via.
Bactria about 130 B.C.'" quoting from Giles's Dictionary.
The subject in this volume as stated consists of cultivated plants:
.so we have alfalfa, the walnut, the cucumber, the coriander, the Henna,
pepper, the nutmeg and many other such.
Dr. Laufer's linguistic attainments must be high,-it is pentecostal.
The ordinary man is appalled. He must be surrounded by encyclo-
pedias, and grammars, and even then his industry must be immer.se.
Quotations flow in uninterrupted streams. We thank him for this
collection.
absurd.
Dr. Laufer has seen it good to invent another system of phonetics.
How could he think of doing such a thing! Of course it can't be
denied that the old style is only conventional, and it is possible that
some improvements could be made here and there. But it is at once
evident that Dr. Laufer is not the person to undertake this, for in the
examples he has made none. In fact his system almost borders on the
He says "forsooth the backwardness of Chinese research is
illustrated by the fact that we slavishly adhere to a clumsy and
antiquated system of romanization in which two and even three letters
are wasted for the expression of a single sound." A more amazing
statement has never been made by a scholar. "My system of trans-
literation," he says, "will be easily grasped from the following com-
parative table."-Let us take the first item on it. Old style ng
is turned into n in "my system." How he can claim that n is phonetic
at all is strange. A dot is only a dot after all-and has no phonetic
significance. Now ng is a phonetic sound and is in the Alphabet of
some languages. It is a very distinct sound in Chinese. One really
wonders whether Dr. Laufer is capable of dealing with the sounds of
Chinese, evidently being ignorant of them. So to climinate an old
alphabetical letter that admirably fills a function in Chinese and replace
it by a mongrel is the height of presumption. The same may be said
of ch turned into : sh to 8. The old had a significance phonetically,
the new has none. And then to do this on the ground of "wasted
letters" is still worse. For Dr. Laufer manifestly condemns himself.

196
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Take the first line on p. 254 where we have "fan yi ming yi tsi." Now
if Giles's dictionary had been consulted the letter y could have been
eliminated twice. Yet the critic who accused the old system of being
wasteful in letters in a glaring way, sticks to this system of waste of
two or three letters. It is so throughout. So we strongly advise.
Dr. Laufer to destroy "my system" and have nothing more to do
with it.
M.O.
Peking. By Juliet Bredon. Shanghai: Kelly and Walsh, Ltd.
We wonder that we have not heard before of Miss Juliet Bredon.
Possibly this is her work of budding talents-her 'hsiu ts'ai' work.
It is to be hoped that we shall hear of her again and again in the
coming years. She has a command of words, fertility of expression,
a rich imagination, and vivid sympathy,-qualities sufficient to give
distinction to a book. This work is worthy of Peking, and, Peking is
worthy of it. The authoress enters into the spirit of her subject. She
moves through the past with imagination and tries to understand and
expound the present. She becomes an excellent guide, conducting the
traveller over much unfamiliar ground: directing his thoughts to
unobserved objects of art and historic interest, and, as the process.
proceeds a canvas of a vast and beautiful panorama is unfolded before-
the reader, leaving an impression of splendid creations. At the same
time, unfortunately, there is created the feeling of the evanescence of all
beauty and the decay of all creations, and even in those things, where
time does not destroy but adds its lustre and depth of mellowness to
works of art and beauty, man the destroyer, must come in with his
ruthlessness. Readers have almost reconciled themselves to the fact
that those barbarians Timur and Tamerlane, were conquering vandals,
but they do receive a shock in reading the account of the shocking sack
of the Summer Palaces deliberately planned by wise and enlightened.
men. When it is remembered what thought, what wealth had been
bestowed to perfect these mansions and pleasure gardens; how the
wealth of Empire, the genius of man had gone into their production;
how the Emperor Chien Lung, thrilled by the pictures and descriptions.
of Versailles brought by the Jesuit priests, went and planned gardens
and buildings on a superb scale that were veritably an "earthly
paradise," it is amazing that Lord Elgin and the British Commander-
in-Chief, in their eager desire to make a fitting example and some great.
reprisal for the violation of a flag of truce, should determine to destroy
these. And "they took the soul out of the palace." They found a monu-
ment of human genius, they left it a monument of human folly. It
would have been no loss to have taken instead one of the arrogant.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
197
princes and preserved those priceless works of human genius and
memorials of a nation's culture.
This is no ordinary guide to Peking, it is that and much more. It
is an elaborate and highly descriptive account. Miss Bredon has
gathered up the information of others to some point and worked them
into a fine story of the great city of Peking. She starts with a
historical record and in this way links up the successive eras and
epochs of the city,-gradually unfolding the expansions that have
taken place. She does this by fixing on some particular buildings and
in describing them brings out the accumulated history connected with
them, both of persons and events. We enter through the wonderful
walls that shut Peking in,-having passed within, we dwell by the
Sea palaces and lakes and hear the echoes of the footsteps of those
historic personages that have passed by, and who have wrought good
or evil in the land from those secluded retreats. Throughout these
pages therefore we hear the tramp of the soldier and the din of war
as well as the more peaceful avocations of peace and industry, resulting
in great constructive works typifing the nation's ideals. The descrip-
tions are vivid and graphic making it a truly illuminating book.
The visit to the temples is an education in itself and the account
of the Museum with its wealth of precious things helps as "to feel"
porcelain and to give us a training in history, mythology and art.
There are a few misprints: p. 45 bughed should be bulged: p. 49
whereever should be wherever, and all through Seu should have a
modifying accent.
The work is well executed: the printing, paper, binding are a
great credit to Messrs. Kelly and Walsh, Ltd., the publishers. There are
7 maps and 87 illustrations. The reader should know something about
Peking when he lays down this fascinating volume.
M.
English-Chinese Dictionary of the Standard Chinese Spoken Language,
and Handbook for Translators, including scientific, technical,
modern and documentary terms. By K. Hemeling, Ph.D.,
Commissioner of Chinese Maritime Customs. Based on the
Dictionary of the late G. C. Stent, published 1905 by the
Maritime Customs. Shanghai: Statistical Department of the
Inspectorate General of Customs, 1916.
An adequate review of such a work as this can be obtained in either
of two ways. A masterly scholarship in the Chinese language would
enable one in two hours to search out the faults and the virtues in

198
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
fairly satisfactory fashion. Failing that, a long daily use of the work
in the business of translation would test it suitably and fit one to
pronounce as to its place in the world of Chinese dictionaries. It is
the second qualification only which the present reviewer possesses; for
several months he has made almost daily use of the work considered, as
an assistant in translation; and his general judgment is decidedly
favorable.
In the first place, the format of the work is very suitable for this
purpose. What one wants is a book that will contain all the material
desired and will have it in such a fashion that the book can rest at
one's left and be readily turned over and thumbed by the left hand.
A long experience with the dictionaries of several languages has taught
the reviewer to beware of those with large pages. He does not re-
member to have met a volume that gave him more comfort than this,
and has been not a little astonished to read criticisms of its format
from other reviewers, who have called for a larger page or for different
type. The smooth paper slips on itself readily, and it is probable that
any attempt to better things in one direction would make so much
trouble in another that it would be a step backward. Some day a
kind Edison will turn his attention to that class of slaves whose
occupation obliges them to make constant use of dictionaries and will
produce a method of lexicographizing that will be cheap in its ex-
emplars and will be so arranged that little more than a wish will turn
up the desired word. Till that millenium (for in this regard we may
be classed as premillenarians) we must do the best we can with the
old method, and we have not often met a dictionary better adapted to
use according to that method than is the one considered.
In the second place, the desired word or phrase is to be found in
most cases. Sometimes it has been necessary to consult a larger work,
but for a single volume work, there is no better than this. A very
few words are missing entirely,-"pre-eminence," "prognathous", and
"totem" are examples. Other words are incompletely defined;
"romance" is given of books only and not the thing, "fertilize" in the
biological sense is missing, "aristocracy" if defined for the body, not
the form of government, and in "scholasticism" the fault of another
dictionary has been copied. "Arbitrary" and "munificent" might be
added to this list. These are faults of detail that are almost certain
to come into such a work, and when one considers the vast and pains-
taking labors that are recorded in the volume, it seems almost un-
gracious to mention them. The work professes to deal with the
spoken language only and that it should be found so useful for purely
literary labors gives some indication of the greatness of its scope and

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
199
the success with which the problem of presenting the language in
tabular form has been solved. We join in the praises of the author's.
zeal, patience and scholarship.
H.K.W.
The China Review. Edited by S. Couling, M.A.
This Journal runs its race successfully. It is full of good things.
The writers, it is evident, have put time and thought into their articles,
and undoubtedly derived much pleasure and satisfaction from their
work. There is quite a variety of articles suiting many tastes and
emanating from many minds. We wish it further prosperity, as it.
goes on its way opening up avenues of study and clearing paths full of
difficulties and obscurity.
The Foreign Trade of China. By Chong Su See, PH.D. New York:
Columbia University.
This substantial volume is No. 199 in the series of studies in
History, Economics and Public Law edited by the Faculty of Political
Science of Columbia University. It is duly provided with useful
appendices, a detailed bibliography and an index, and the first question
that arises in the reader's mind will probably be, "When the rest of
the apparatus is so complete, why are not bilingual facilities pro-
vided?" This volume like many others on China published in America
suffers seriously from the failure to write the Chinese names, and give
the Chinese versions of some of the documents in the Chinese character.
The day when a work on China appears from an American publisher
with the Chinese characters in their places will be hailed with joy by
students of things Chinese.
We are becoming familiar with the sort of work which the Chinese
student publishes abroad. It is distinctly ad hominem, and seems to
be intended for propaganda purposes chiefly. The work we are con-
sidering is not free from this fault, but we are glad to say that it
appears to mark a distinct advance. That a young student should be
patriotic is to his credit, and if he has a clear eye for faults where
they exist even in his beloved fatherland, we can pardon his zeal in
defending its virtues.
The largest part of Dr. See's work is historical. Beginning with
the dawn of commercial intercourse, he traces in his first chapter the
course of foreign trade down to about 1500 A.D. Then come chapters
on "Early Trade Relations with Europeans (1500-1833)," "The 'Closed-
Door' Policy," "The Turning Point of the Foreign Trade of China

SLER
RIAL
念紀氏蒯
館書團
LIBRARY
200
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
(1834-1860)," and "The Period of Foreign Domination." Then one
chapter is given to an analysis of the development of the foreign trade,
and a final chapter gives the author's summary and conclusion. Much
of the historical sections will be unpleasant reading, especially to
Britishers, for they are not spared, and the motives which they have
had for their eagerness in advancing trade are imputed with much
freedom. Japan naturally comes in for her share in the closing
sections. The book is not free from sneers at the missionary, not as a
missionary, but as the agent, conscious or otherwise, of cynical govern-
ments pursuing their evil courses. Yet it must be said that these
faults are not as blatant as in many other works from the pen of
Young China, and there is some care taken to state the facts on the
other side of the shield. There is for example a careful statement of
the state of likin, showing that inter-provincial trade is in a bad way
from the exactions of the present laws. The whole is written in
excellent English, a smoothly flowing narrative which bespeaks the
natural linguist, or else unusually intelligent assistance from a foreign
friend, in much contrast again to many efforts of the young Chinese
writers, who irritate or amuse by their palpable effort to deal with a
medium which they have not really mastered. The whole narrative
is attractive in style, and makes very interesting reading, redeemed
from the dry-as-dust limbo by that feeling for the personal and human
element in history that many a learned man seems to have lost. The
whole work is a notable and worthy contribution to the literature which
seeks to make the East articulate to the West.
H.K.W.
Etudes sur la Phonologie Chinoise. Par Bernhard Karlgren. Upsala:
K. W. Appelberg.
The first part of this work was issued in 1915, the second in 1916,
and the third, completing the work, last year.
Sweden has paid great attention to phonology for the last twenty
years and that one of her people should have written this work on
Chinese phonology is becoming. The Author has produced a very
imposing work. He has consulted the authorities that have been
engaged as the subject in the past, and made investigations into
affiliated branches of the subject, in such a way, as to give his work
considerable value. Students of Chinese phonologies must in future
consult this comprehensive work. It contains all the essentials that
have been written on the subject and the original contributions are
not a few. The Author says that three problems confront Chinese
phonology which may be stated thus (a) Parentage and origin of the

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
201
language; (b) The unravelling of the history of the language and
(c) The elucidation of modern Chinese in every respect and from every
point of view. In examining authorities he attributes certain merits
to Dr. Edkins, but for the most part he criticizes him as being too
arbitrary and "his methods are not permissible." Dr. E. H. Parker's
dilettantism in his treatment of the subject in the Introduction to
Giles's Dictionary wholly fails. M. G. Schlegel is "without the
critical faculty and without method." M. Volpecelli, however, is better,
but even he shows lack of true principles. M. M. Kuhnert et Schaank
have contributed solidly-but they are still full of faults. Others are
mentioned and their work critically examined. After the very severe
criticism of Dr. Parker's essay some people may be led in consequence
to read it.
The ordinary student of Chinese will never look into these parts.
They are only for the phonologist. These will find much to occupy
their attention. For our own part we frankly question the utility of
all this phoneticism. There are very few phonetic languages really.
The Welsh possibly comes nearest. Chinese is far from being so.
It is only necessary to glance at the artificiality that has been found
necessary to create a system of symbols to represent sounds to justify
this statement. The system lacks, however, the happy mean for which
philosophies have pleaded. It is really of little practical value. It
would be too much to impose this system, made up of mongrel letters
with a lot of tattooing and plaisters, on the ordinary student. Those
who have been brought up on Wade or some such system are aware of
deficiencies which they recognize. These systems are only con-
ventional and are looked on as such. With the help of these, results
could be attained and ruling sounds found. For this is a business
which does not admit of strict mathematical laws, and scientific
steps. Climate, food idiosyncracies have played too much part in
human sounds for these strict rules. And without these, leading
kinships, predominant affiliations can be discovered and recorded.
China of the Chinese. By E. T. C. Werner, H.B.M. Consul, Foochow,
(Retired) Barrister-at-law, Middle Temple.
Mr. Werner made his fame by publishing his Descriptive Sociology-
Chinese, a book of immense research, although we will admit the form
of it is sufficiently appalling to the reader. Sir Isaac Pitman has a
series of popular books on the various peoples of Europe and Asia, and
this book is one of the series-as to whether it is popular or not, that

202
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
remains to be seen. There are many books on China, but we fear
that Mr. Werner's learning has drawn him aside from the popular
aim, and his book will not compare with Doolittle, or even Douglas.
The author says "I have endeavoured, first, to describe the
national Chinese life in its earlier phase-its birth, childhood, adole-
scence and coming of age-and then to indicate the changes which that
life underwent during the second phase-its full-grown and fully
expanded manhood which continued until the nation decided to reform
its life as hitherto lived." Mr. Werner criticizes previous histories
with discretion, but it is well-known that a proper history of China is
practically now impossible. The acreage to be covered is so immense,
that the ordinary reader would weary of any proportionate history,
even though it should be written by John Richard Green. Our author
well points out that most Chinese Histories have invariably been
treated from the point of view of foreign relations, and the consequence
is that the previous millenniums receive scanty attention. But, what
more would you have?
The contents of the work are as follows:-
1. Environment and character.
2. Political History.
3. Domestic Institutions, marital-filial.
4.
5.
6.
Ceremonial Institutions.
Political Institutions.
Ecclesiastical Institutions.
7.-Sentiments, aesthetic and moral.
8.-Ideas of religion.
9.-Language.
10. Products.
The Author claims that he has treated his subject in a more
scientific manner than any hitherto attempted, which indeed may be
at once granted, although we are not quite sure that the result is a
readable book. The Author also frequently introduces peculiar parti-
cular views of his own on various points, and then argues in favour of
these views, a course of treatment which is hardly in keeping with a
popular series of books. Thus he deals with infanticide at great
length--also with foot binding. The chapter on the aesthetical side
of Chinese nature, will be a surprise to some, and is well wrought out.
As to religious ideas, the author contends that the original religion
of China, was purely ancestral worship.
He gives one more guess as to the origin of Chinese tones, a subject
which we fear is wrapt in the mists of antiquity, never more to be
revealed to human ken. He claims that Chinese was originally poly-
syllabic, in this, going contrary to other great authorities, such as

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
203
Dr. Legge. Then, as to the origin of tones, our Author says, "The
natural difficulty arising out of the comparatively limited play of the
organs of speech of the Chinese race, is one cause of these." After
seeing how well the Chinese master foreign languages of all kinds, it
seems difficult to believe that the paucity of sounds and more especially
the tones, are due to lack of ability to pronounce other sounds.
There are some chapters of course, which the ordinary reader will
undoubtedly skip, but on the whole, he will find that this book is
up-to-date, and based on a thorough study of all the facts that are
available, though one would wish there were more of these than there
are in some departments of research. Our Author says that his work
includes the present day changes in China, although on this head, the
materials at his disposal are not so copious. However, our Author
warns us in a note at the end of his preface, that he does not profess
to take account of the very latest developments, which it is felt, are
still in such a state of uncertainty, as that it would be premature to
pronounce any definite judgement on them at the present stage. All of
which is indeed quite true, though not very satisfying. However, we
are thankful to the Author for what he has given us, and we should not
complain if we have not received something different. He has given us
his best, for which we all thank him.
D. MACG.
Kiangsi Native Trade and Its Taxation. By Stanley Wright.
Shanghai, 1920.
Correct statistics and a full knowledge of revenue are the essential
elements of an honest public service. China has been lacking in these
and hence the prevalence of general corruption in the finances of the
empire. Mr. Wright has supplied an exhaustive account of the
taxation of the province of Kiangsi, and if every province had a
similar record to the one under review it would be the greatest boon
to China.
We venture to say that this is one of the most remarkable books
ever issued in China on provincial finances, local trade, and products.
The Author has given us a work full of information, every fact has
been collected; all details of administration of the revenue, as well as
every kind of likin together with the amount of duty due on every
article are explicitly given. There is no branch left untouched. Not
only is there a description of the sumptuary enactments of the past,
but present administrative practices are recorded. The book is
crammed full of information. It is well illustrated; above all it is
well written. Mr. Gladstone had the art of giving a fascination to the
enumeration of dry figures, and Mr. Wright has come very near it.
Further there is a Bibliography to every chapter.
Mr. Wright deserves the highest thanks for this splendid and
remarkable work.
M.

NOTES AND QUERIES.
Dr. Moore sends the following addendum to his paper in last year's
Journal on the Attractions of Entomology.
Further experience shows that the softening effect of heat makes
"napthaplas" difficult to work with during the summer months when
insect life is most abundant. To overcome this defect the excellent
preservative, thymol, should be substituted for the napthalene, being
added to the plasticene in the proportion of 1½ drams (90 grains)
thymol to 1 lb. plasticene. The resulting substance, which may be
called "thymoplas," retains the firm consistence of ordinary plasticene
even when the temperature rises above 90° F. in the shade.
Mr. Ernest E. Gomersall, University College of Wales, Aberystwyth,
(Wales), is collecting data on racial characteristics; and in a letter to a
member of the Society says:-
"My aim is to collect as much information as possible regarding
the racial characteristics and differences in the various districts or
provinces of China (particularly China Proper, at first), e.g. differences
in physique, height, build, features, shape of head, eye, nose, com-
plexion, colour of hair and eyes, manners, customs, dress, intelligence
and mode of life; from which I wish to work out, if possible, where
distinct groups possessing special racial characteristics are located, and
to state in what ways one group is different from another.
I should like much more definite information than I have already
gathered about the tribes of the west and south-west, e.g.:
1. The distinction between the Lisus proper and the Black
Lisus, if any.
2. The differences between the Black-boned or Liang Shan
Lolos and the Lolos to the south of the Yangtze, of whom one
writer says "they are considered to be serious rivals of the
Chinese in the struggle for the lands of Western China."
3. Whether the independent Lolos of the left bank of the
upper Yangtze are the same people as the Liang Shan Lolos?
4. Whether the Yunnan Lolos are descended from the same
branch as the Liang Shan Lolos, and where is their original
nidus, in N.E. Yunnan or S.E. Tibet, or both?

NOTES AND QUERIES
205
5.
The distinction between the Miaos proper and the Black
Miao of Hunan.
6. The differences between the Shan tribes, e.g. the Nung
or Lung Jen, the Sha Jen and Tu Lao.
7. Information regarding groups of Kachins, the Was, the
Lahu or Lohei, the Palaungs and the Akkas (not Hakkas).
8. Whether the Ku-tsung are related to the Kiu-tzu or
Khunnongs of N.E. Burma?
9. Is there any distinction between Sifans and Tibetans so
far as race is concerned?
10. Information regarding the Mosso tribes, the Hunza
Nagars, the people of the Chia Rung States, the Horba States
(including the Chantui and Chagla), the Darge, Chamdo, Draya,
Litang and Mili, the Lutzu and the Yu-Yang.
11. Whether the Yaos proper differ from the Lau Tien
Yaos, if at all?
12. Whether groups of the Mon Khmer (the probable people
of Yunnan before the Shans, Miaos, and Yolos) still exist and
their description.
13. Information regarding the T'u Yen and the Dzorgue
Confederation of Nomad tribes.
14. Which of the tribes quoted could be considered of the
same stock and grouped together?
15. The characteristics and descent of the Hakkas.
16.
Whether there is any reason, except religious, why some
groups are spoken of as Mohammedans in the S.W. and N.W.,
and whether Mainthas is merely another term for the same class
in the south-west?
Coming to the mass of the Chinese (so-called) in the east, S.E.
Centre, N.E.N. and N.W., and considering that the area of the
country approaches half the size of Europe, one cannot help thinking
that there must be many different and distinctive groups. Northern
and Southern Chinese certainly present many points of contrast and
those towards the south appear to be the typical Chinese. Could we
not try to get at the basis of some of these group distinctions? In
the north there are points of contrast between the Mongol and Manchu
elements, each with its Chinese veneer in varying degrees. There are
also other Tartar peoples worthy of differentiation, e.g. the Sunites, the
Chakars, with their 8 banners, the Khalkas and the Celets, also the
Solons and the Si Po, though these are found on or beyond the borders,
in Mongolia and Manchuria.
One might also ask whether the Hakkas are the only group dis-
tinctive from the Chinese proper in the Highlands of the south-east

206
NOTES AND QUERIES
and whether there is not also a distinct group in the Highlands of the
Shantung Peninsula, and what are their characteristics?
It would be interesting too, to know the extent to which the
Japanese, the Malay and the Hindu elements have entered into the
Eastern and Southern parts of China and the Turki into the north-west.
As regards the several provinces, since the conditions of life vary, and
the people of one province consider those of another province as
strangers, how far may it be due to some difference of race or
.descent?"
If any of our readers can assist Mr. Gomersall in any way,
perhaps they will kindly write to him.

ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY.
JULY 1919-JUNE 1920.
(P) Indicates Books presented.
059-Ch 9
059-Ch 15
133.4-D 65
150-C 34
275.1-G 75.1
275.1-J 34
275.1-Sm 4
290.1-B 11
336.51-H 86
380.51-R 53.1
494.4 H 92
495.1-K 12
495.1-W 67.1
495.11-H 34
495.12-Ei 9
526-Un 1
529.3-H 29
The New China Review.
The West China Missionary News.
Recherches sur les Superstitions en Chine,
Tome XIV.
Studies in Chinese Psychology.
St. John's 1879-1919.
Letters to a Missionary.
Reply Letters to R. F. Johnston's Letters
to a Missionary.
The Celestial and his Religions or the
Religious Aspect in China.
Public Debts in China.
China's Intercourse with Korea from the
15th Century to 1895.
Examples of the Various Turki Dialects,
Turki Text with English Translation.
Etudes sur la Phonologie Chinoise.
An Anglo-Chinese Glossary for Customs
and Commercial Use.
English-Chinese Dictionary of the Standard
Chinese Spoken Language.
A Chinese Dictionary in the Cantonese
Dialect.
Annual Report of the Superintendent,
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey,
to the Secretary of Commerce for the
Fiscal Year ended June 30, 1919.
Mélanges sur la Chronologie Chinoise.
I. Notes Concernant la Chronologie
Chinoise par les PP. Havret et
Chambeau, S.J.
II. Prolégomènes à la Concordance
Néomènique par le P. Hoang.
Authors, etc.
(P)
Doré, H.
(P)
Chatley, H.
(P)
Graves, F. R.
and Others
(P)
Johnston, R. F. (P)
Smith, S. P. (P)
Ball, J. D.
Huang, F. H. (P)
Rockhill, W. W. (P)
Hunter, G. W. (P)
Karlgron, B. (P)
Williams, C. A. S.
(P)
Hemeling, K. (P)
(P)
Eitel, E. J.
(P)
22
552.52-C 34
580-B 63
Some Problems on Silt.
Notes Ptéridologiques.
Fascicule, V, VII, VIII.
581.951-G 27.1
A Beginning of the Study of the Flora and
Fauna of Soochow and Vicinity.
581.951-G 79
581.954-01 4
Lawn Grasses for South China.
First Book of Indian Botany.
598.2-G 75
599-L 57
A Fasciculus of the Birds of China.
Notes on Farm Animals and Animal In-
dustries in China.
(P)
Chatley, H.
(P)
Bonaparte, Prince
(P)
Gee, N. G.
(P)
Graybill, H. B. (P
Oliver, D.
Gray, G. R.
(P)
Levine, C. O.
(P)

208
622-J 11
622 J 11.1
709.51-F 32
720.951-D 71
722.4-C 83
895.11-F 59.11
895.11-W12.1
912.51-D 61
913.54-B 11
913.54-B 47
913.54 K 11.1
913.54 R 11
915.1-C 77
915.1-G 28
915.11-An 1
ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY
Jaarboek van set Mijnwezen in Ned. Oost-
Indie Jaargang 1917, Verhandelingen,
and Atlas 1916-17.
Jaargang 1916, 1917, Algemeen Gedeelte.
Outlines of Chinese Art.
(P)
(P)
Ferguson, J. C.
(P)
Chinese Junks, a Book of Drawings in
Donnelly, I. A.
(P)
Bijapur and its Architectural Remains.
More Gems of Chinese Poetry.
Cousens, H.
(P)
Fletcher, J. B.
(P)
Waley, A.
Black and White.
More translations from the Chinese.
The New Map of China.
The Archaeological Remains and Excava-
tions at Nagari.
Varieties of the Vishnu Image.
A Guide to the Old Observatories at Delhi;
Jaipur; Uijain; Benares.
A Topographical List of the Inscriptions of
the Madras Presidency.
Travels of a Pioneer of Commerce in Pigtail
and Petticoats or an Overland Journey
from China Towards India.
Eighteen Capitals of China.
Vues du Honan.
Peking.
The Imperial City of Peking.
Dingle, E. J.,
Editor
Bhandarkar,
Prof. D. R.
Bidyabindo, B. B.
(P)
(P)
Kaye, G. R.
Rangacharya, V. (P)
Cooper, T. T.
Geil, W. E.
(P)
(P)
915.11-B 74
915.11-0g 1
Bredon, J.
(P)
Ogawa, K.
(P)
915.11--Og 1.1
The Decorations of the Palace Buildings
in Peking.
Ogawa, K.
(P)
915.12-M 73
The Isle of Palms.
Moninger, M. M.,
Editor
(P)
915.13-C 63
Across Chrysê.
Colquhoun, A. R.
(P)
915.13-T 55.1
Torrance, T.
(P)
Kent, A. S.
(P)
Brinkley, F. and
915.17-K 34
915.2-B 77
915.2-St 4
915.21-P 34
931-L 34
934-B 46
951-D 75.1
951.9-C 41
951.9 H 87
951.9-Sc 5
951.9 Se 3
952-H 43
The History, Customs and Religion of the
Ch'iang.
Old Tartar Trails.
A History of the Japanese People.
Japan by the Japanese.
The Truth about Korea.
Sino-Iranica.
Lectures on the Ancient History of India
on the period from 650 to 325 B.C.
Kikuchi, D.
Stead, A., Editor.
Peffer, N.
Laufer, B.
(P)
Bhandarkar, D. R.
(P)
Society in China.
Douglas, R. K.
Modern China.
Cheng, S. G.
(P)
The Awakening of Asia.
Hyndman, H. M.
(P)
Narrative of a Recent Imprisonment
China after the Wreck of the Kite.
in
Scott, J. L.
The Foreign Trade of China.
See, C. S.
(P)
Modern Japan.
Hershey, A. S. and
Hershey, S. W. (P)
Electric Franchises in New York City.
Autografos de Morelos.
Sumangalavilásiní or The Commentary of
the Dighanikáya, Part I.
Arent, L.
(P)
(P)
(P)

ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY
Paramattha Dipání or The Commentary of
the Theri-Gáthá. 2 Vols.
The Wilson Bulletin, Vol. XXXI (Nos. 1-4).
The Annals of the American Academy of
Political and Social Science, Vol. LXXXVI
(1919) and Vol. LXXXVII (1920).
Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies,
(Vol. I, Part III).
The Construction (in Chinese) Vol. I.
British Jurisdiction in China:
Rules of Court.
Orders in Council.
14
209
(P)
(P)
(P)
J OS

NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY
LIST OF MEMBERS, 1920
Members changing address are earnestly requested to inform
the Secretary at once.
Name
Cordier, Prof. Henri
Couling, S., M.A.
De Groote, Dr. J. J. M.
Ferguson, Dr. John C....
Giles, Prof. Herbert Allen
Hirth, Prof. F.
Hosie, Sir Alexander, K.C.M.G.
Lanman, Prof. Charles B.
Lockhart, Sir J. H. Stewart,
Morse, H. B., LL.D.
Parker, Prof. E. H.
Address
Year of
Election
HONORARY MEMBERS.
Ecole speciale des Languages orien-
tales vivantes, Paris
1886
73 Chaoufoong Road, Shanghai
Leyden, Holland
1894
1887
...
Peking
1896
Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge
1880
Columbia University, New York
1877
City
Foreign Office, London ...
1877
Harvard University, Cambridge,
1908
Massachusetts
Weihaiwei...
1885
K.C.M.G.
Arden, Camberly, England
1888
14 Gambier Terrace, Liverpool
1877
Library of Congress, Washington
Gaekwar of Baroda, India
1908
1898
Beaumont, Ottery St. Mary,
1905
Devon
...
Woodhead & Co., 44 Charing
1904
Putnam, Herbert
Sampatrao, H. H. the Prince
Satow, Rt. Hon., Sir E., G.c.M.G.
Warren, Sir Pelham, K.C.M.G.
Cross, London

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
211
Address
Year of
Election
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
Fryer, Prof. John ...
University of California, Berkely,
California
1886
Gardner, C. T., C.M.G....
Jamieson, George, C.M.G.
Little, Mrs. Archibald
Volpicelli, Z. H.
Williams, E. T.
Williams, Prof. F. W.
Foreign Office, London
150 St. James' Court, London
Italian Consulate, Hongkong
Washington
135 Whitney Avenue, New Haven,
Connecticut
1900
110 Cannon Street, London
1868
1906
1886
1889
1895
MEMBERS.
(The asterisk denotes Life Membership)
Abraham, R. D.
Acheson, Guy
Adamson, Mrs. A. Q..
Adlam, Miss Edith M.
Adolph, W. H., PH.D....
Albertsen, K.
Alway, Mrs. C.
Ancell, Rev. B. L.
Andersson, Dr. J. G.
Archer, Allan
Arlington, L. C.
Arnold, Julean H.
Ayscough, Mrs. F.
Bahnson, J. J.
Bahr, P. J.
Bahr, A. W.
Baillie, Thos. G. B.SC.
Baldwin, Mrs. J. W.
Barff, Richard
Barrie, Dr. Howard
Barton, S., c.M.G.
Bateman, Rev. T. W.
Bates, J. A. E.
3G Peking Road, Shanghai
Inspectorate General of Customs,
Peking
1914
1908
8 Jessfield Road, Shanghai
1919
31 Wong Ka Shaw Gardens, S'hai
Shantung Christian
1920
University,
1917
Tsinan Fu
Telegraph Administration, Peking
c/o Butterfield & Swire, Tsingtao
Am. Church Mission, Yangchow...
Ta Tsao Chang, Peking
1920
1917
1911
1919
British Consulate, Tsingtao, Shan-
1915
tung
Chinese Post Office, Hangchow
1917
American Legation, Peking
1904
1906
20 Gordon Road, Shanghai
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
165A N. Szechuan Road, Shanghai
Montross Gallery, 550 Fifth
Avenue, New York
1909
1909
1909
Elgin Road Public School, Shanghai
1920
4 Ezra Road, Shanghai
1920
S. M. C., Shanghai...
1920
1920
1906
1916
1919
3 Nanking Road, Shanghai
British Legation, Peking
C. M. M. Chungking, Sze.
3A Yü Yuen Road, Shanghai.

212
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
*Bayne, Parker M. ...
*Beauvais, J.
Beebe, Dr. R. C.
Belcher, H. B.
Beltchenko, A. T.
Bendixsen, N. P.
Bennett, E. S.
Benjamin, Mrs. M.
Bessell, F. L. ...
Beytagh, L. M.
Billinghurst, Dr. W. B.
Black, S....
Blackburn, A. D....
Blake, C. H.
Boezi, Dr. Guido
Bondfield, Rev. Dr. G. H.
Boode, E. P.
Bosworth, Miss S. M.
Bowra, C. A. V.
Bowser, Miss H. C.
Box, Rev. Ernest
Bradley, H. W.
Brandt, Carl T.
Brazier, H. W.
West China Union University,
Chengtu
1911
Consul de France, Canton
1900
5 Quinsan Gardens, Shanghai
1889
Foochow
1917
Russian Consulate, Hankow
1918
G. N. Telegraph Co., Peking
1913
4 Devonshire Villas, North Parade,
1918
Belfast
52 Avenue du Roi Albert
1919
Customs, Tientsin
1905
Ilbert & Co., Shanghai
1910
8B Peking Road, Shanghai
1908
G. N. Telegraph Co., Peking
1910
H.B.M.'s Consulate-Gen., S'hai
1917
3 Route Ghisi, Shanghai
1914
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1920
B. and F. Bible Society, Shanghai
1900
17 Museum Road, Shanghai
1920
18 Peking Road, Shanghai
1919
Chinese Maritime Customs, Peking
1897
3 Cleveland Gardens, Ealing,
London W.
1914
Medhurst College, Shanghai...
1897
Chinese Maritime Customs, Hankow
1912
c/o Sweetmeat Castle, Shanghai...
1896
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank,
London
1905
Bremner, Mrs. A. S.
Shanghai
1900
Brett, Mrs. J. H.
Bristow, H. B.
Int. Banking Co., Shanghai
1920
H. H. Bristow, British Consulate-
1897
Gen., Hangchow
Bristow, H. H.
Bristow, J. A.
British Consulate, Hangchow
1909
Standard Oil Co., Shanghai
1914
Brooke, C.
Brooke, J. T. W. ...
Browett, Harold
Nestle's Milk Co., 8 Nanking
1918
Road, Shanghai
Davies & Brooke, Shanghai
1915
22 Yuenmingyuen Road, Shanghai
1891
*Brown, Sir J. McLeavy, C.M. G.
Chinese Legation, 59 Portland
1855
Place, London, W.
*Bruce, Edward B.
Bruce, Rev. J. P.
Brune, H. Prideaux
Bryant, P. L.
Buckens, Dr. F...
Burdick, Miss S. M.
Burkill, A. W.
Burkill, Mrs. A. W.
Burns, Mrs.
Butland, C. A.
...
80 Wall St., New York, U.S.A....
Shantung Christian University,
1918
1916
Tsinan
British Legation, Peking
1914
40 Avenue Dubail, Shanghai
21 Minami Yamato, Nagasaki
1917
1915
Baptist Mission, West Gate, S'hai
1909
2 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai...
1912
2 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1912
c/o Am. Trading Co., 319 Avenue
Joffre, Shanghai
1916
Asiatic Petroleum Co., Ningpo
1920

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
213
Year of
Election
Caldwell, Rev. H. R.
Cambiagi, Miss Y. G.
Yenping Fu, Fukien
1920
c/o Mrs. Levy, 16 Route des
Soeurs, Shanghai
1918
Cardeillac, P.
Carl, Francis A.
*Carpenter, G. B.
Carter, J. C.
Cassat, Rev. Paul C.
Caudron, R. M.
Chatley, Herbert
Chatley, Herbert, D.Sc.
Ch'ên Kuo-ch'uan
Christiansen, J. P.
Claiborne, Miss Elizabeth
Clark, J. D.
*Clementi, C. ...
Coales, O. R....
Cockell, Capt.
Cole, Rev. W.-B.
Commys, A. J.
Couling, Mrs. S.
4 Thibet Road, Shanghai
Shanghai Mercury, Shanghai
House, Rochester, England
Russo-Asiatic Bank, Shanghai
1920
C. M. Customs, Canton...
1906
Shewan Tomes & Co., Yunnan Fu
Mactavish & Co., Shanghai...
Shantung Christian University,
1920
1912
1916
Tsinan
C. P. O., Nanchang, Kiangsi
450c Avenue Joffre, Shanghai
450G Avenue Joffre, Shanghai
c/o Wan Chu Garden, Nanking...
1920
1916
1916
1913
G. N. Telegraph Co., Nagasaki,
1913
Japan
1908
1895
c/o Mrs. C. J. Eyres, Denmark
1905
British Consulate-Gen., Chengtu
20 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1906
1919
M. E. M. Hinghwa ....
1917
Custom House, Shanghai
1919
73 Chaoufoon Road, Shanghai
1916
*Cousland, Dr. P. B.
16 Bluff, Yokohama, Japan
1908
Craig, A.
Crow, C.
The University, Manila
1914
20 Whangpoo Road, Shanghai
1913
Cunningham, Rev. R.
C.I.M. Takutang, Kiangsi
1913
Cupeli, M.
Maritime Customs, Shanghai
1918
Danner, Mrs.
Kalee Hotel, Shanghai
1920
Danton, G. H.
Davey, W. J.
New York University, New York
1918
Shanghai Mercury, Shanghai
1920
Dent, V.
*Davidson, R.
Davis, Dr. Noel
*Deas, Stuart
Denham, Mrs. J. E.
Dick, L. S.
Dingle, Edwin J.
Dingle, Lilian M...
Dodson, Miss S. L.
Dome, Earl
Donald, William H.
Dorsey, W. Roderick
Dovey, J. W. ...
Drago, G. D.
*Drake, Noah F.
*Drew, E. B.
Du Monceau, Comte L.
Duyvendak, J. J. L.
c/o Mrs. Frew, 66 Leamington
1914
Terrace, Edinburgh
Municipal Offices, Shanghai...
203 Avenue de Roi Albert, S'hai
Butterfield & Swire, Hankow
1910
...
1912
1919
30 Connaught Road, Shanghai
1919
Collins & Co., Canton Road, S'hai
1920
Far Eastern Geographical Estab-
1917
lishment, Shanghai
Box 323, B. P. O., Shanghai
1917
St. Mary's Hall, Jessfield
1917
Y.M.C.A., Chengtu
1920
Far Eastern Review, Shanghai
1911
U.S.A. Consular Service, Shanghai
Mission Book Co., Shanghai
1911
1918
350 Park Avenue, New York
Fayetteville, Arkansas
Cambridge, Massachusetts
Russo-Asiatic Bank, Yokohama
1918
1911
1882
1909
Leiden University, Holland ...
1915

214
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Edgar, Rev. J. H.
Edmondston, David C.
Edmunds, Dr. C. K. ...
Eliot, Sir Charles, K.C.M.G.
Ely, John A....
Ely, Mrs. J. A.
Engel, Max. M.
*Eriksen, A. H.
Essex Institute, Librarian
Evans, Edward
Evans, Joseph J.
Exter, Bertus van ...
c/o China Inland Mission, Chengtu
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank,
Harbin
Canton Christian College, Canton
British Embassy, Tokyo
St. John's University, Shanghai
St. John's University, Shanghai
105 Avenue Road, Shanghai
1910
1917
- 1916
1913
1917
1917
1911
Telegraph Dept., Ministry of Com-
munications, Peking
1915
Salem, Massachusetts
1906
2 Quinsan Road, Shanghai
1917
Evans & Sons, 30 North Szechuen
1916
Road, Shanghai
Harbour
Works,
1916
Netherlands
Fardel, H. L....
Fearn, Mrs. J. B....
Ferguson, J. W. H.
Ferguson, T. T. H.
Ferguson, W. N., F.R.G.S.
Ferrajoh, Capt. R.
Firth, Miss M.
Fischer, Emil, S.
Fisk, G. W.
Fitch, Robert F., D.D.
Flemons, Sidney
Fletcher, W. J. B.
Fox, Harry H., C.M. G.
:
Fraser, Sir Everard, к.C.M.G.
Fryer, George B.
Gage, Rev. Brownell
Gale, Esson M.
Gardner, H. G.
Garner, Dr. Emily
*Garritt. Rev. J. C.
Ghisi, E.
Gibson, H. E.
Gilchrist, Edward
Gilliam, J.
Gillis, Captain J. H.
Gimbel, C., M.Sc.
Gish, Rev. E. P..
:
Chefoo
Municipal School for Boys, S'hai
30 Route Pichon, Shanghai
1918
1911
Inspectorate General of Customs,
Statistical Department
1910
C. M. Customs, Peking
1900
...
Yünnan Fu
1916
Italian Consulate, Shanghai
1920
Boone Road Public School, S'hai
Tientsin
1920
1894
British Emigration Bureau, Wei-
1919
hsien
Hangchow
1918
4 Monkham's Terrace, Shanghai
Nam Wu College, Canton
British Consulate-General, S'hai
British Consul-General, Shanghai
1917
1916
1907
1907
4 Edinburgh Road, Shanghai
1901
Changsha
1915
Chinese Salt Rev. Administration,
1911
Hankow
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank,
1906
Hankow
Margaret Williamson Hospital,
1911
West Gate, Shanghai
Nanking
1907
Via Kuintino, Salla No. 4, Milano,
1893
Italy
12 Weihaiwei Road, Shanghai
1915
C. M. Customs, Ningpo....
1918
c/o British Cigarette Co., Hankow
American Legation, Peking
1915
1911
Hailar, (Mixed Court Assessor)
Nanking
1914
1919

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
:
Address
215
Year of
Election
C. E. Railway, Control Dept.,
New Town, Harbin
1915
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1909
21 Yuen Ming Yuen Road, S'hai
231 Palace Hotel, Shanghai.
1919
1920
11 Wayside Road, Shanghai
1916
St. John's University, Shanghai.
1918
20 Nanking Road, Shanghai
1919
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1918
10 Kiangse Road, Shanghai
1898
c/o Mustard & Co., Shanghai
1918
Russian Consul-General, Shanghai
1912
c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co.,
65 Cornhill, London, E.C.
British Chamber of Commerce,
1915
1915
Shanghai
9 Rue Pommera (XVI), Paris
1908
Directorate General of Posts,
1913
Peking
26 The Bund, Shanghai...
1919
Gladki, P. M.
Godfrey, C. H.
Goldring, P. W.
Goldring, Mrs. P. W.
Grant, J. B.
Graves, Bp. F. R., D.D.
Gray, C. Norman
Grierson, R. C.
*Grodtmann, Johans
Green, I. R.
Grosse, V.
Grove, F....
Gull, E. Manico
*Gunsberg, Baron G. de
Gwynne, T. H.
Gyles, H....
*Hackmann, H.
*Hall, J. C.
Hamilton, A. de C.
Hammond, Miss Louisa
Hancock, H. T.
Handley-Derry, H. F.
Harding, H. I.
Hardstaff, Dr. R. J.
Hardy, Dr. W. M.
Harpur, C.
Healey, Leonard C.
:
Heeren, Rev. J. J., PH.D.
Heidenstam, H. von
Henke, Frederick G., PH.D.
...
Hers, Joseph
*Hildebrandt, Adolf
Hiltner, Mrs. W. G.
Himus, Godfrey W.
Hinckley, F. E., PH.D.
"Hippisley, A. E.
Hobson, H. E.
Hodges, Mrs. F. E.
*Hodous, Rev. L.
Hoettler, A.
8 B
1903
49 Broadhurst Gardens, Hamp-
stead, N.W.
1888
c/o American Consul, Harbin
1918
A.C.M., Wusih
1917
Standard Oil Co., Shanghai
1914
British Consulate, Tientsin
1903
British Legation, Peking
1914
C.A.M.C. c/o Army Post Office,
1918
London
Batang, West China
1912
Municipal Offices, Shanghai...
1901
Public School for Chinese, S'hai
1913
Shantung Christian University,
1915
Tsinan
6 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1916
747 Baldwin St., Meadville, Penn-
sylvania, U.S.A.
1912
Lunghai Railway, Peking
1907
1907
125 Dixwell Road, Shanghai
1920
...
7 Wayside Road, Shanghai
1920
Merchants Exchange Building, San
Francisco
1907
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank,
1876
London
Marnwood Hall, Iron Bridge,
1868
Shropshire, England
16 Ford Lane, Shanghai
1915
Foochow
1913
111 Avenue Road, Shanghai
1910

216
Name
Hogg, J. D.
Houghton, Charles
Howell, E. B.
Hudson, Mrs. Alfred
Hughes, A. J.
Hughes, E. R.
Hummel, A. W.
Hunter, Miss
Huston, J. C.
Hutson, Rev. J.
Hynd, R. R.
Hynes, A. C....
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
British Legation, Bangkok
1917
3 Peitaiho Lane, Shanghai
1908
693 Great Western Road, Shanghai
1909
Ningpo
1909
China United Assurance Society,
1909
Shanghai
London Mission, Tingchow, via
1918
Amoy
Fenchow, Shansi
1919
Shanghai
American Legation, Hankow
1920
1917
c/o China Inland Mission, Chengtu
1914
Hongkong & Shanghai Bank, S'hai
Hongkong & Shanghai Bank, S'hai
1913
1919
Ironside, William
Irvine, Miss Elizabeth
Irving, D. A....
Irwine, Mrs. H. G.
Islef, J. P.
Jamieson, J. W.
Jenks, Prof. J. W.
Jensen, C. A....
Jernigan, T. R.
Johnson, N. T.
Butterfield & Swire, Hankow
39 Arsenal Road, St. Catherine's
Bridge, Shanghai
Asiatic Petroleum Co., Shanghai...
85 Yu Yuen Road, Shanghai...
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
Consul-General, Canton
1919
1910
1913
1920
1917
1888
13 Astor Place, New York
1903
G. N. Telegraph Co., Peking
1918
3 Hongkong Road, Shanghai
1906
c/o Department of State, Washing-
1912
ton, D.C.
Johnston, R. F.
Peking
1907
Joly, P. B.
Jones, G. S.
Jones, J. Frank
Jong, Th. de J. de
Jorgensen, O....
Joseph, S. M.
*Jost, A.
Justesen, M. L.
c/o Mrs. H. B. Joly, Legation
Street, Seoul
1913
Brumner Mond & Co., Shanghai
66 Szechuen Road, Shanghai
Netherlands Legation, Peking
1920
1916
1914
G. N. Telegraph Co., Copenhagen,
1913
Denmark
Palace Hotel, Shanghai
1920
Sulzer, Rudolf & Co., Shanghai
1912
c/o R. Martens & Co., 1 The Bund
Shanghai
1913
Kano, Dr. N.
Karlbeck, O.
Kashiwada, T.
Kellogg, C. R.
Kemp, G. S. Foster
Kennett, W. B.
Kent, A. S.
Kyoto University, Kyoto
1902
Chuchow, Anhui
1914
1 Balfour Road, Shanghai
1918
Foochow
1919
Public School for Chinese, S'hai
British Cigarette Co., Shanghai
1908
1918
c/o Chinese Post Office, Moukden
1913

21
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
217
Year of
Election
*Kern, D. S.
Kilner, E.
C.M.M. Chengtu, Szechuen ...
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1912
1909
King, G. W. P.
4 Monkham's Terrace Wayside,
1917
Shanghai
Lay, W. G.
*Leavenworth, Chas. S.
King, Paul H.
King, Dr. G. E.
*Kliene, Charles, F.R.G.S.
Klubiem, J.
Klubiem, S. A.
Kopp, E. C.
*Kranz, Rev. Paul
*Krebs, E.
Krisel, A.
Kulp, D. H.
*Kunisawa Shimbei
Lacy, Rev. Dr. W. H.
Laforest, L.
Lake, Capt., P. M. B.
Landesen, Arthur C. von
Lanning, V. H.
*Latourette, K. S.
*Laufer, Berthold, Dr.
*Laver, Capt. H. E.
Leach, W. A. B.
Leavens, D. H.
Leete, W. Rockwell,
Leslie, T....
Lester, Miss E. S.
Lewis, D. J.
Lewis, Mrs. D. J. ...
Liddell, C. Oswald
*Lindsay, Dr. A. W.
*Little, Edward S.
Lobenstine, Rev. E. C.
Loehr, A. G.
Lockwood, W. W.
Lord, Rev. R. D..
Lucas, S. E.
Luthy, Charles
*Luthy, Emil
*Lyall, Leonard A.
Lyon, Dr. D. W.
25 Old Queen St., Westminster,
London, S.W.
1886
Lanchow, Kansu
1919
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1916
C. M. Customs, Wuhu
1913
C. M. Customs, Swatow
1917
6 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1919
Grünenwald Str., 6 Steglitz, Berlin
1897
1895
17 Yuenmingyuen Road, Shanghai
Shanghai College
1914
1915
270 Hyakunin-cho, Ohkubo, Tokyo
1917
10 Woosung Road, Shanghai
C. F. Tramways, Shanghai
c/o Jardine, Matheson & Co.,
Shanghai
1909
1917
...
1916
H.I.R.M.'s Vice-Consul, Kobe
1909
c/o Jardine, Matheson & Co., S'hai
1916
Denison University, Gronville, Ohio
Field Museum of National History,
1912
1901
Chicago
c/o Messrs. W. Stupledon & Sons,
Portsaid, Egypt
1912
Lappa, Macao
1902
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1914
Yale College, Changsha ...
1917
313 Norton St., Newhaven, Conn.,
U.S.A.
1901
Fenchu, Shansi ...
1918
445c Honan Road, Shanghai
1914
McTyeire School, Hankow Road,
1919
Shanghai
14 Studley Avenue, Shanghai
1920
14 Studley Avenue, Shanghai
1920
Shirenewton Hall, near Chepstow,
Mommouthshire
1908
Chengtu, Szechuen ...
1910
30 Gordon Road, Shanghai
1910
5 Quinsan Gardens, Shanghai
Shanghai
1916
1916
2 Barchet Road, Shanghai
1913
Tsinan Fu, Shantung
1918
Chartered Bank, Peking
1906
7 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
1910
17 Yuen Ming Yuen Road, S'hai
1917
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1892
347 Madison Avenue, New York ...
1919

218
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Mabee, Fred C.
Macbeth, Miss A.
MacDonell, James
MacGillivray, Rev. Dr. Donald
Macleod, Dr. N.
MacNair, H. F., M.A.
McNulty, Rev. Henry A.
Matzokin, N. P.
Baptist College, Shanghai
1912
9 Wong Ka Shaw Gardens, S'hai
6 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1915
1918
143 N. Szechuen Road, Shanghai
453 Great Western Road, Shanghai
St. John's University, Shanghai...
1908
1915
1920
A. C. Mission, Soochow
1918
Russian Orientalists' Society,
1917
Harbin
Macoun, J. H.
C. M. Customs, Nanking
1894
Merriman, Mrs. W. L.
McRae, J. D....
MaGrath, C. D.
Main, Dr. Duncan
*Marsh, Dr. E. L....
Marshall, R. Calder
Marsoulies, A. du Pac de
Martin, C. H.
Martin, Mrs. W. A.
*Mason, Isaac
Mather, B.
Mathieson, N.
Maxwell, Dr. J. Preston
Maybon, Charles B.
*Mayers, Frederick J., F.R.G.S.
Mayers, Sidney F.
McEuen, K. J.
McFarlane, Rev. A. J.
McInnes, Miss G....
McNeill, Mrs. Duncan
Mead, E. W.
Mell, Rudolf
*Melnikoff, D. M.
Mencarini, J.
Mengel, E.
Mennie, D.
Menzies, Rev. J. M.
Merrins, Dr. E. M.
Mesny, H. P....
Milhorat, A. T.
Mills, Edwin W....
Miskin, Stanley C.
Moninger, Miss M. M.
*Moore, Dr. A.
*Morgan, Rev. Evan
Changte fu, Honan
1910
c/o John A. Lane, Esq., 46 Maiden
Lane, New York City, U.S.A.
Hangchow
1910
1900
8B Peking Road, Shanghai
1908
67 Route Vallon, Shanghai
32A Nanking Road, Shanghai
Russia-Asiatic Bank, Dairen
Bridge House, Nanking
1908
1917
1918
1916
143 N. Szechuen Road, Shanghai
1916
Yung Ching, Peking
1918
Butterfield & Swire, Shanghai
1915
E.P.M., Yungchun Fu
1917
247 Avenue Joffre, Shanghai
1911
C. M. Customs, Chinkiang
1917
The British and Chinese Corpora-
1907
tion, Ltd., Peking
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1908
London Mission, Hanyang
1915
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1913
The Chestnut, Tangbourne, England
1915
British Legation, Peking
1916
Canton
1911
Litvinoff & Co., Hankow
1919
1B Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1884
Supt. Chinese Telegraphs, Yun-
1913
nanfu
A. S. Watson & Co.
1916
Changte, Ho.
1914
15 Ferry Road, Shanghai
1910
St. John's University, Shanghai
1916
c/o H. & W. Greer, Ltd., 20 Kiu-
kiang Road
1911
508, 2nd St. Carlstadt, New Jersey,
1919
U.S.A.
Legation Quarter, Peking
1920
Asiatic Petroleum Co., Hankow
1913
A.P.M., Kiung Chow, Hainan
1916
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1913
143 N. Szechuen Road, Shanghai
1909
Morris, Dr. H. H.
Morriss, H. E.
*Morse, C. J.
St. Luke's Hospital, Shanghai
118 Route Pêre Robert, Shanghai
1825 Asbury Avenue, Evanston,
Illinois
1914
1919
1901

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
219
Address
Year of
Election
Mortensen, Rev. Ralph
Kuei Teh, Honan
1920
Moule, Rev. A. C.
Littlebredy, Dorchester
1902
Norman, H. C.
Powell, J. B....
Münter, L. S....
Mysore University
Neild, Dr. F. M. ...
Newcomb, Capt. Frank
Nicholson, William
*Nielsen, Albert
Nordquist, O.
Nystrom, E. T.
Oakes, W. L.
*O'Brien-Butler, P. E.
*Ohlmer, E.
Ollerton, J. E.
Ottewill, H. A.
Ouskouli, M. H. A.
Paddock, Rev. B. H.
Pagh, E. K...
*Palmer, W. M.
Papini, E.
Parker, Rev. Dr. A. P.
Parsons, E. E.
Patrick, Dr. H. C.
Pearson, C. Dearne
Peet, Alice L.
Peet, Gilbert E.
Peffer, Nathaniel
*Peiyang University Librarian
Penfold, F. G.
Perkins, M. F.
Perry, E. W.
Petersen, V.
*Pettus, W. B.
Phillips, H.
Phillips, Rev. L. Gordon
*Plancy, V. Collin de
Platt, Robert...
Polevoy, S. A.
Polk, Dr. Marget. H.
Porterfield, W. M.
Pott, Rev. Dr. F. L. Hawks
Pott, W. S. A.
Pousty, F. E.
6 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
China Press, Peking
Tientsin
32A Nanking Road, Shanghai
American Consulate, Shanghai
A.P.M., Hangchow.
10 Square du Croisic, Paris XVc.
Chicago University, Chicago, Ill.
38 Davenport Road, Tientsin
110 Range Road, Shanghai
St. John's University, Shanghai
St. John's University, Shanghai
St. John's University, Shanghai
Ningpo
Millard's Review, 113 Avenue
Edward VII
G. N. Telegraph Co., Peking
Mysore, India'
1910
1920
3A Peking Road, Shanghai
1916
c/o Butterfield & Swire, S'hai
1917
Butterfield & Swire, Hongkong
1919
60 Tifeng Road, Shanghai
1894
C. P. O., Nanking
1920
The China Press, Shanghai
1912
Shantung University, Taiyuenfu
1920
W. M. S. Changsha ...
1919
British Consulate, Moukden
1886
1885
60A Tifeng Road, Shanghai
H.B.M. Consulate, Chinkiang
126 Szechuen Road, Shanghai
1916
1913
1917
Yen Ping Fu, Foochow ....
1916
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
Changchun, Manchuria
1908
1914
52 Boone Road, Shanghai
1916
Anglo-Chinese College, 19 Quinsan
1901
Road, Shanghai
12 Hankow Road, Shanghai
1916
22 Whangpoo Road, Shanghai
1912
69 Kiangse Road, Shanghai
1908
6 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
1918
1918
1918
1911
1916
1914
1919
2 Hsi Tang Tse Hu Tung, Peking
Y.M.C.A., Peking
1906
1915
British Consulate-Gen., Shanghai
London Mission, Amoy
1912
1917
1877
1917
1917
1915
1920
1913
1914
1915
1918

220
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Pratt, J. T....
Prentice, John
Price, Mrs. Maurice
*Pye, Rev. Watts O.
Quien, F. C.
Quin, Mrs. J..
Raaschou, T...
Raeburn, P. D.
Rankin, C. W.
Rees, A. H. Hopkyn
Rees, Rev. Dr. W. Hopkyn
Reinsch, Dr. Paul...
Richert, G.
Ritchie, W. W.
Roberts, D.
Rogers, J. M.
Roots, Rt. Rev. L. H.
Ros, G.
Roso, Archibald, C.I.E.
Rossi, Chev. G. de
Rowbotham, A. H.
Rowe, E. S. B.
*Sahara, T.
Sammons, Hon. T.
Sanders, Arthur H.
Sargent, G. T.
*Sarkar, Prof. B. K.
Sawdon, E. W.
Sawyer, J. B....
Schab, Dr. von
Schröder, H.
*Segalen, Dr. Victor
*Shaw, Norman
Sheartone, T. W.
*Shelton, Dr. A. L.
Shengle, J. C.
Shipley, J. A. G.
Silsby, Rev. J. A.
Simpson, B. Lenox
Sites, F. R.
Skvortzow, B. W.
Smallbones, J. A.
Smith, J. Langford
British Consulate, Tsinanfu
1909
47 Yangtszepoo Road, Shanghai
30 Szechuen Road, Shanghai
Fenchow, Shansi
1885
1919
1917
Netherlands Harbor Works, Peking
77 Avenue de Roi Albert, S'hai
Whangpoo Conservancy Board,
Shanghai
1913
1916
Danish Consul-General, Shanghai
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
18 Quinsan Road, Shanghai
1912
1916
1915
Asiatic Petroleum Co., Tsingtao...
143 North Szechuen Road, S'hai
1917
1914
1916
1920
1907
1916
1918
1916
1908
1901
1920
1920.
1907
Postal Commissioner, Shanghai
St. John's University, Shanghai
179 North Szechuen Rd., Shanghai
American Church Mission, Hankow
Italian Consulate-Gen., Hankow...
British Legation, Peking
Italian Consulate, Shanghai
Tsing Hua College, Peking
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
Shanghai Mercury, Shanghai
American Consul-Gen., Shanghai
1908
1915
U. E. Mission, Chaling, Hunan
1917
c/o Ningpo Hotel, Ningpo
1917
1915
Friends' High School, Chungking,
Sze.
1916
U.S. Consulate, Shanghai
1920
20 Whangpoo Road, Shanghai
1901
Chee Hsin Cement Works, Tang-
1916
shan
5 Cite d'Antin, Brest, France
1917
1912
8 Museum Road, Shanghai
1918
Batang, via Tachienlu, Sze.
1918
23 Ferry Road, Shanghai
Bedford City, Va. U.S.A.
Presbyterian Mission, South Gate,
1905
1911
1911
Shanghai
Peking...
1916
U.S. Steel Product Co., Shanghai
1916
67 Poshtovaya St., Harbin
1918
66 Szechuen Road, Shanghai
1913
1908
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
British Consulate, Ichang

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
221
Year of
Election
Sophoxloff, G. A....
Southcott, Mrs.
Spiker, Clarence J.
*Stanley, Dr. A.
St. Croix, F. A. de
Stapleton-Cotton, W. V.
Stedeford, E. T. A.
Steptoe, H. N.
...
Stevenson, Spencer B.
Stewart, Rev. J. L.
Stewart, K. D.
:
Stockton, G. C.
Strehlneek, E. A.
Streib, U.
Stursberg, W. A.
*South Manchuria Railway Co.
Library
*Suga, Capt. T.
Sykes, E. A. ...
Tachibana, M.
Talbot, R. M.
B
Tanner, Paul von ...
*Taylor, C. H. Brewitt
Teesdale, J. H.
Tenney, Dr. C. D.
Thellefsen, E. S.
Thomas, J. A. T.
Throop, M. H.
Ting I-hsien
Toller, W. Stark
*Tochtermann, Karl
Touche, J. D. la
Toussaint, G. C.
Shanghai
45 Haskell Road, Shanghai
Rohde & Co., Shanghai
17 Hart Road, Shanghai
Dairen...
N. K. K., Shanghai
Reiss & Co., Shanghai
Chinese Eastern Railway, Chiao-
she-chü, Harbin
1915
Wei-hai-wei
1919
U.S. Consulate-Gen., Shanghai
Municipal Offices, Shanghai...
1918
1905
The Gables, East Blatchington,
1912
Seaford, Sussex, England
Directorate General of Posts, Peking
1916
Blyth Hospital, Wenchow
1919
British Legation, Peking
1920
c/o J. H. & C. K. Eagle, Shanghai
1917
Union University, Chengtu
1916
Maitland & Co., Shanghai
1912
1914
1909
...
1919
1910
1919
1909
Kiaochow Customs House, Tsing-
1881
tau
1915
C. M. Customs, Kiukiang
1885
Commissioner of Customs, Mukden
1885
3A Peking Road, Shanghai
American Legation, Peking
1916
1913
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
Shanghai
1913
1890
St. John's University, Shanghai
1912
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1902
British Consulate, Chungkiang
1907
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1900
C. M. Customs, Mêng Tze, Yunnan
1911
French Legation, Peking
1917
Trollope, Rt. Rev. Bishop M.N.
Tucker, G. E.
Seoul, Korea
1911
5 Peking Road, Shanghai
1915
Tucker, Mrs. G. E.
Turner, Skinner, Judge
Twentyman, J. R.
Tyler, W. F.
Unwin, F. S.
Upham, F. S.
Van Corback, T. B.
Van der Woude, R.
5 Peking Road, Shanghai
1915
British Supreme Court for China,
1916
Shanghai
24 Yuenmingyuen Road, Shanghai
1894
⠀ ⠀
⠀ ⠀
8 B
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1915
The Angela, Victoria B. C. Canada
1914
S.M.C., P.W.D., Shanghai
1919
c/o A. E. Algar, Shanghai
1913
8 Nanyang Road, Shanghai
1915

222
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Verbert, L.
Veryard, Robert K.
20 The Bund, Shanghai
1913
Y.M.C.A., Changsha
1917
Vizenzinovitch, Mrs. V.
1 Kiangwan Road, Shanghai
1914
:
Wade, R. H. R.
Waller, A. J....
Wang Chung-hui, Dr.
Ward, F. Kingdon
Ward, Mrs. Lipsom
Ware, Miss Alice
Warren, Rev. G. G.
Washbrook, H. G.
Watkins, Miss J.
Weatherall, M. E.
Webb, Mrs. C. H.
Webster, Rev. James
Werner, E. T. C. ...
Westbrook, E. J. ...
Wheeler, Rev. W. R.
White, Rev. H. W.
White, Miss Laura M.
White, Rt. Rev. Wm. C.
Wilde, Mrs. H. R.
Wilden, H. A.
Wilhelm, Rev. Dr. Richard
Wilkinson, E. S.
Wilkinson, F. E.
Wilkinson, H. P.
Williams, C. A. S.
Williams, Capt. C. C.
Williams, S. J.
Wilbur, Mrs. H. A.
Wilson, R. E.
Witt, Miss E. N. .
Woets, J. ...
Wood, A. G.
Wright, Rev. H. K.
*Wright, S. F....
*Wu Lien-teh, Dr.
Wu Ting-fang, Dr.
Yates, Smith ...
c/o Postmaster, Bombay
3c Peking Road, Shanghai
20 Kwen Ming Road, Shanghai
Wesleyan Mission, Changsha
6 Shih Ta Jen Hu t'ung, Peking
Soochow
52 Ta Fang-chia Hu t'ung, Peking
21 Studley Avenue, Shanghai
17 Brompton Lane, Strood,
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1918
Kelly & Walsh, Ltd., Shanghai
Peking
1916
1913
116th Mahrattas,
Z. E. F. D.
1910
1920
1918
1909
1908
1914
1919
1919
1911
Rochester, England
5 Kuai Pang Hu Tung, North City,
Peking
1915
Asiatic Petroleum Co., Shanghai
1916
A.P.M., Hangchow
1920
Yencheng, Kiangsu
1915
30 Kinnear Road, Shanghai
1916
Anglican Bishop of Honan, Kai-
1913
fengfu
15 Ferry Road, Shanghai
1915
French Consulate, Rue du Con-
1917
sulate, Shanghai
Tsingtau
1910
P.O. Box, No. 41, Yokohama
British Consulate, Foochow
3 Balfour Buildings, Shanghai
Inspectorate General of Customs,
Peking
1911
1909
1909
1919
c/o Butterfield & Swire, Shanghai
S.M.C. Finance Dept., Shanghai
124 Dixwell Road, Shanghai
1918
1920
1920
...
6 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
1918
16 Queensborough Terr., Hyde
Park, London, W.
1912
Credit foncier d'Extreme Orient,
1919
Shanghai
Gibb, Livingston & Co., Shanghai
1879
143 North Szechuan Rd., Shanghai
c/o C. M. Customs, Shanghai
Customs Buildings, Harbin
1919
1916
1913
3 Gordon Road, Shanghai
1913
Yard, Rev. J. M.
8 Nanking Road, Shanghai
M.E.M., Chengtu
1920
1920

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
223
Year of
Election
Yetts, Dr. W. Perceval
Junior United Service Club,
1909
London
Yokoyama, R.
Tokyo Mercantle Agency, S'hai
1918
Young, R. C.
Municipal Offices, Shanghai...
1912
Zwemer, Rev. Samuel M., D.D,
5 Imad id din, Cairo.
1917
F.R.G.S.
TOTALS:
CLASSIFIELD AS -
Honorary Members ...
Corresponding Members
Life Members
Ordinary Members
430
37555
15
65
Total
517
Residing at Shanghai
Residing elsewhere in China
:.. 255
181
81
Total
517
Residing in other countries
ER
CRISL
MEMORIA
念紀氏蒯
館書圖
LIBRARY
"

This book is to be returned to the
Library on the date indicated.