CHINESE POETRY AND ITS
CONNOTATIONS¹
FLORENCE AYSCOUGH
"
One of the most important elements of poetry is its
"connotation"; that is, to quote Webster, "the implication
of something besides itself. If this be true of all poetry
how much more so is it of the Chinese which, by reason of
its extreme terseness, reduces the art of connotation to the
very last degree. The difference between connotation, which
is suggestion, and allusion which is reference, must be clearly
defined and perhaps the following extract from Wells
Williams "Middle Kingdom" will make this distinction
apparent: Vol. II, Chap. XIII.
"It is a sensible remark of de Guignes, that 'the habit we fall into
of conceiving things according to the words which express them, often
leads us into error when reading the relations of travellers. Such
writers have seen objects altogether new, but they are compelled when
describing them, to employ equivalent terms in their own language in
order to be understood; while these terms deceive the reader who
imagines that he sees such palaces, colonnades, peristyles, etc., under
these designations as he has been used to, when in fact, they are quite
another thing.' The same observation is true of other things than
architecture.
If for example the utensils used by the Chinese
to shave with were picked up in Portsmouth by some English navvy who
had never seen or heard of it, he would be more likely to call it an
oyster-knife, or a wedge than a razor; while the use to which it is
applied must of course give it that name, and would if it were still
more unlike the Western article.
'Read before the Society, March 26th, 1920.

LEA
MEMORIA
金紀氏腳
館書圖
LIBRARY
100
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
It is not here that the merits and demerits of the now
well established "Imagist" movement in modern poetry can
be discussed, but the similarity between the methods of
the Chinese poets and that of their descendants, the
"Imagists" of to-day, is interesting to note. Miss Lowell,
one of the leaders of the modern movement in poetry
writes:-
"If I were obliged to define the dominant characteristic of this
idiom (that of the poetry of to-day) in a word I should say it was
'suggestion.' The invoking of a place or character rather than des-
cribing it."
And further:-
"In short poems, suggestion can be carried to the extreme, as there
is no danger of the reader losing the thread; in longer poems definite
statement has to be more frequently employed, so as to keep the current
of the poem constantly before the reader; but even here, attentive
students will find a very different attitude from that of the older poets
-they told stories-we do not tell stories, we throw pictures on a
screen, but we ourselves remain in the dark."
No words could describe more exactly Chinese poetry,
while the following poem, by Miss Lowell, is an excellent
example of the similarity of method referred to:-
NOSTALGIA
"Through pleasures and palaces" -
Through hotels and Pullman cars, and steamships
Pink and white camellias floating in a crystal bowl,
The sharp smell of firewood,
The scrape and rustle of a dog stretching himself on a
hardwood floor,
And your voice, reading-
of an old brass clock
"Tickets please!"
-reading-
-to the slow ticking
And I watch the man in front of me
Fumbling in fourteen pockets,
While the conductor balances his ticket-punch
Between his fingers.
Can the art of connotation be more perfectly applied?
There is not one of us to whom "Home Sweet Home" is
unfamiliar, in a mental flash we conclude the stanza suggest-
ed by the first line, while the second brings vivid pictures of
all the experiences of American travel,-of rushing trains,
plush covered seats, negro porters in blue-grey suits-of
marble-floored hotel entrances, weary "clerks" and hurrying
"bell-boys"; and who, that knows America, can fail to
recognize the room which floats before the eyes of the writer?

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
101
Imagine for a moment, however, the feelings of a
Chinese scholar in his grass hut, buried among the mountains
of Ssû Ch'üan to whom a translation of such a poem were
read!!! His attitude of mind would be very much that of
the Western reader to whom translations of Chinese poetry
are presented to-day, and to whom the connotations of
Chinese poetry, arising as they do from a perfectly alien
civilization, mean-nothing.
Much has already been written describing the technique
of Chinese poetry, (a technique bye the bye which cannot be
rendered in translation on account of the fundamental
differences in the genius of the Chinese and other languages)
but as yet little has appeared in regard to the background
against which that poetry stands in its marvellous vividness.
It is with the object of calling attention to a few of the
elements which compose that background that this paper
has been written.
Before, however, proceeding to study the backgrounds
under their various heads, there is the method of translation
to be considered. Chinese poems are written in an extremly
terse style and in a very carefully chosen and highly
specialized language in which the composition of the charac-
ter is carefully considered and it is often impossible to seize
a poet's complete meaning unless the characters are broken
into their component parts. As the aim of the translator
should be to reproduce as vividly as possible the picture
painted by the Chinese poet, it is very important that shades
of meaning should be as far as possible conveyed. Thus in
speaking of sunrise or sunset the English language gives very
little scope for finesse of description, whereas the Chinese poet
has at his disposal a variety of characters which he uses most
carefully to give the exact meaning he wishes. (See plate).
(See Plate overleaf.)

102
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
GILES.
Dawn, Light.
Hsiao.
Dawn, Morning.
Chao.
LITERAL.
Pictograms from Shuo Wên.
“The first dim light of morn.
ing," Analysis: The Sun and
R raised mounds of Earth.
"The light before Sunrise,"
Analysis: The Sunrise light
seen from a boat, though a
mist.
Dawn, Day,
Morning.
Tan.
Dawn, Morning,
Sun shines out.
Chiên.
曉朝旦晨早晝旭
Early in the
Morning.
Tsao.
The actual moment Sunrise.
Analysis: The Sun on the
horizon.
The early morning after the
Sun has risen. Analysis: A
period of time, and the figure
of a mortar, the idea being
"in the early morning the
labourers work."
Period till about ten in the
morning. Analysis: The Sun
at the height of a helmeted
man.
旦层昂書加
Daylight,
Daytime.
Chou.
Dawn, the rising
Sun.
Hsü.
明
Dawn, Daylight,
Brightness.
Ming.
Sun, Day.
Jih.
日午
Mid-day, Period
11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Wu.
Daylight. Analysis: The
period of time between two
nights when it is light enough
to hold a writing brush.
The Shuo Wên gives no
explanation nor does Kang
Hsi, except that the character
means "light." Williams says
that it was originally written
“Sun”and “to excite,”because
"at dawn all nature is excited"
Daylight brightness. Analy-
sis: The Sun and the Moon,
the "two great lights."
Daylight-simply a pictogram.
A primitive.

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
GILES.
Dusk, Twilight.
Hun.
Evening, Sunset.
Mu.
昏
LITERAL.
103
Pictograms from Shuo Wên.
The dim light of failing day.
Analysis: The Sun and
figure of a floating plant
which throws its roots to the
buttom of the water-hence
meaning of “ to sink.”
Analysis: The Sun disap-
pearing in grass on the
horizon.
昏莫
夕
Evening, Dusk.
Hsi.
Late Evening.
晚
Wan.
(Not in Giles
or Williams in
this form) Dark.
Hsiao.
タ
曖
Pictogram of moon crossing
the horizon. The bottom of
the planet cannot be seen.
Evening later than "Hsi."
The Sun and figure for "to
avoid." A man struggling
against evil.
Dark, night, "
"K'ang Hsi"
explains the character
thus: "The breath of light
is consumed.
Night, Darkness.
Yeh.
Ancient Pictogram of a man
lying on his right side at
night. Night represented
by the figure for the rising
moon.
Dark, Obscure.
Ming.
Dark, Obscure.
Mei.
鼏
沓
The black colour of night.
Analysis: The six divisions
of time (2 hours each) when
the Sun is hidden.
The colour of night-and
also of early dawn. Analy-
sis: The Sun and figure for
“not.” The idea being;
"when there is no Sun.
哨夜冥昧

104
兼
訴愬
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
GILES.
Both, Together,
Unite in one.
Chien.
I. Giles 10,357.
To tell, to inform,
to accuse, lay a
plaint.
Su.*
II. Giles 10,365.
(only entry)
"Same as10,357."
Su."
$$
LITERAL.
Pictograms from Shuo Wên.
To unite closely, fuse to-
gether. Much used in poetry
in connection with matri-
mony. Analysis: A hand
binding into sheaves small
bundles of corn which have
been left to dry.
"
Words and figure for "a
staff" doubled, or "to attack,"
under a corn or "shelter."
The idea is "to attack a per-
son in their house."
66 To attack."
"The moon.'
"The heart."
The first two combined
give "Shuo," i.e. the
first day of the Moon
when it refuses the
light of the Sun-un-
der this "the heart."
The meaning is that
one reveals the deepest
secrets which are
hidden in the darknese
of the heart. That ons
utters thoughts which
a wife would tell her
husband at night.
Another good example of the importance of dissecting
the character appears in the character "su", used by
Pan Chieh-yu in her reply to the Emperor (see below). A
conversation with a Chinese lover of poetry will soon betray
the fact that to the Chinese the composition of the character
-although it may be quite subconsciously-does largely
influence his interpretation of a poem. It may be argued
that many Chinese are ignorant of this composition and
therefore, miss the fine point-that may be so, but to those
who have studied the Shuo Wên X, etc., the character
is there to be analysed or not according to their scholarly
ability and knowledge; the Western reader is not in the same
position; unless the translator assists him, he cannot know
what the beautiful little picture used by the Chinese poet is,
a little picture which undoubtedly does convey many of the
"overtones of Chinese poetry."
BACKGROUNDS.
Topography.-Firstly, what were the natural scenes
which came before the mental eye of the T'ang poet and
which he attempted to picture to his readers?
Ch'ang An, city of "Eternal Peace," was then
the Capital of the Empire, the seat of learning, and the home
of the arts. It stood to the south of the Wei Waters, *
and within a stone's throw of Hsien Yang
"Complete Brilliance" the more ancient capital, founded by
the ancestors of the great Shih Huang Ti and created first
city of

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
105.
capital of United China by him; so near do the two sites
lie, in fact, that the poets seem to use the names almost
interchangeably.
To the south of Ch'ang An, (the present Hsi An-fu in
Shensi) lay Ssû Ch'üan that province of marvellous scenery,
where the mountains, which are really the foot-hills of
Tibet, pile themselves up tier upon tier. One range known
as the Mountains of the Two-edged Sword was, and is,
especially famous; it formed an almost impassable barrier
between the provinces, the great Chu Ko-liang, therefore,
ordered that a road-way of the kind generally known as.
Chan Tao (that is one made of logs laid on piers
which are driven into the face of a cliff and kept secure by
mortar) be built, so that travellers from Shensi might be able
to penetrate the heart of Ssû Ch'üan. This roadway is des-
cribed by Li T'ai-po in a very beautiful Tzu". "The
Roadway of the Two-Edged Sword." In Ssû Ch'üan, too,
lay the district of Pa where the "Serpent River" wound
its way through deep ravines; to the south again rolled the
great Yang Tzu, Son of the Sea, with its famous Gorges,
among others the San Hsia, Three Chasms, which the
poets never tire of referring to, they "press green Heaven"
to use the words of Li Po.
"
Among these scenes the poets lived and sang and it is
not strange that a very special phraseology with very definite
connotations should have grown up. The picture of a
cavalcade of travellers crossing a mountain pass will, if com-
pared with the key, give an idea of what was in the poet's
mind, when for instance he spoke of a "flying spring" R
or a "suspended precipice" . If these, however, were
the scenes in the poet's mind when he wrote of Ssû Ch'üan
how very different were those which flashed before his mental
eyes when his thoughts followed the soldiers to the far north-
west!!-to the country where the Hsiung Nu and other
Mongol tribes lived-those Barbarians, as the Chinese called
them, who perpetually desired that their horses should "drink
of the streams of the South"-who have harrassed the
Chinese Empire since its earliest days. As a defence against
them the "First Emperor" erected the Wall which runs for
10,000 li, which, however, could only palliate, not cure the
evil; only constant effort, constant fighting, could prevent
the Mongol hordes from over-running the country.
Beyond the "Jade Pass" in Kansu, through which
the soldiers marched, lay the desert and the steppes stretch-
ing to the very edge of Heaven, and on the "Edge of
Heaven" stood the "Heaven-high Hills," while on the way
surrounded by miles of sand, lay the Ching Hai the
Green Sea. A dreary region at best, and peopled by the
ghosts of countless soldiers who had fallen in battle.

106
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
Besides these backgrounds of actuality, that of the
Fertile Empire, and that of the Barren Waste, there was
another-that of the Western Paradise" peopled by the
Hsi Wang Mu
and those numberless beings who,
538
AN ATTENDANT OF THE HSI WANG MU.
after a life in this world had attained Immortality, and lived
among the "hsien" 14. This blessed region of perfect
happiness was supposed to lie among the K'un Lun
Mountains in Central Asia, and from the spontaneous manner
LUNG YU-A HSIEN.

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
107
in which they continually refer to it, and from the vivid
pictures suggested in reference to it, one can almost question
whether this Fairy World, the World of Imagination with its
MA KU OF THE WESTERN PARADISE.
inhabitants, was not as real to the writers of those early days
as was the World of Sense. Thus the "Topography" of
Chinese poetry may be said to fall into three main divisions
and the connotations are:
1. To the beautiful scenes in what are now the
"Eighteen provinces of China.'
2. To the desolate region which lies beyond
the "Jade Pass."
3. To the glorious "Western Paradise."
Natural History. In addition to the topographical
there were also the Zoological and Botanical backgrounds,
if they may be so described, which play a most important
part in both Chinese poetry and in the twin art of painting.
It is almost a truism to remark that these manifestations of
art, poetry and painting, these mediums of spiritual expres-
sion should, in China, be studied together. "A picture is a
painted poem-a poem is a written picture." This thought
is uppermost in the mind of every Chinese scholar-and
scholar, poet, and painter are practically synonymous terms.
Zoology.-Broadly speaking the dragon may be said to
symbolize the forces of Heaven, the tiger those of earth.
The philosopher who by living a life of contemplation among
the mountains attains to Hsien-ship, that is to immortality,
mounts a "white dragon" and ascends to the Western Para-

108
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
dise, there to "pick the fairy grasses" and to partake of the
various growing things which ensure longevity. As far as the
"connotations" of Chinese poetry are concerned, however,
more important than either of these creatures are the birds;
firstly the Feng Huang, which as the symbol of the
Empress is associated with the Dragon symbol of the Em-
peror. Someone, probably in desperation once translated the
"Fêng" as "Phoenix" and this name has been used ever
since; it seems, however quite wrong-to students of western
literature the word "phoenix" suggests a bird which, being
consumed by fire, rises from its ashes. The Fêng has no
such power, the description of this lovely creature reads:-
The Chinese "Fêng Huang" or Phoenix, is probably based on the
Argus pheasant. It is described as adorned with every colour, and
combines in its form and motions whatever is elegant and graceful,
while it possesses such a benevolent disposition that it will not peck or
injure living insects, nor tread on growing herbs. Like the kylin it has
not been seen since the halcyon days of Confucius, and from the account
given of it seems to have been entirely fabulous. The etymology of
the characters implies that it is the emperor of all birds. One Chinese
author describes it as "resembling a wild swan before and a unicorn
behind; it has the throat of a swallow, the bill of a cock, the neck of a
snake, the tail of a fish, the forehead of a crane, the crown of a
mandarin drake, the stripes of a dragon, and the vaulted back of a
tortoise. The feathers have five colours, which are named after the
five cardinal virtues and it is five cubits in height; the tail is graduated
like Pandean pipes and its song resembles the music of the instrument,
having five modulations.".
THE EI-LIN AND YUNG-WANG.
343
disposition toward other living animals, and appears only when
wise and just kings, like Yau and Shun, or sages like Confucius,
are born, to govern and teach mankind. The Chinese descrip.
tion presents many resemblances to the popular notices of the
unicorn, and the independent origin of their account adds some-
thing to the probability that a single-horned equine or cervine
animal has once existed.'
Cuvier expresses the opinion that Pliny's description of the
The Fungwarg, & Pranis,
Ambian phoenix was derived from the golden pheasant, though
others think the Egyptian plover is the original type. From hi
likening it to an eagle for size, having a yellow neck with purple
A blue tail varied with red feathers, and a richly feathered tuftel
liead, it is more probable that the Impeyan pheasant was Pliny's
FENG HUANG.

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
109
The female is the "Fêng," the male the "Huang," and
the two words are used together or alone as the case may be.
It is not the symbol of "hope" or of eternal resurrection but
of love, friendship and affection of various kinds. It is also the
bird of good omen, and as it will only perch upon a Wu T'ung
, a specimen of this tree should be planted before the
house, if one hopes for a visit from the Fêng Huang and the
resulting happiness. After the Fêng Huang, and sometimes
confused with it, comes the Luan a sacred bird connected
with fire and an emblem of love such as exists between
young men and women. Thus in an exquisite "Tz'û" by
Li Tai Po a young wife in writing to her absent husband
describes how "nightly, nightly, she drowses alone under
the quilt of the "Luan". on the bed of the "Huang."
The references to these birds-the Fêng Huang, and the
Luan-are endless and always suggest affection of various
kinds. The Yüan Yang, that is the male and female of
the mandarin ducks, have, on the contrary, but one connota-
tion. A reference to these birds is invariably a reference to
conjugal fidelity. To quote Li T'ai Po again, rather than be
separated these birds would find it "better by far to die ten
thousand deaths and to have their wings, which are like
coloured gauze, torn into fragments."
It is impossible to speak of all the birds which are men-
tioned as connoting various virtues or characteristics, but
one cannot omit a reference to the wild geese who follow the
course of the sun, who fly in a perfectly straight line towards
the objective they wish to attain. Their arrival suggests the
autumn-their departure the spring.
Supernatural Beings.-These can, perhaps, be classified
as well under "Natural History" as under any other term,
and of these, besides the "Hsien" already referred to, there
are the "Shên", the "Kuei", and the "Yao
Kuai'' .
1674
4451
合
KUEI ON FLOOR BELOW-SHEN ABOVE.

110
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
The "Kuei" inhabit the grave which connects with the
"World of Shades" and are a portion of the souls of the
departed; and although there are kindly Kuei the influence
suggested is generally an evil one; the Shên on the contrary
are beneficent personages who inhabit the higher regions and
who, in addition to their other duties (which are many as the
Shên are the tutelary deities of the roads, hills, rivers, etc.,
and are very busy) they intervene to rescue people from any
attacks from questionable sources.
The Yao Kuai are a class of fierce creatures who live in
the wild regions of the south-west, and who delight in the
arrival of travellers because they like to eat the flesh of
human beings, and in the sparsely populated districts which
they inhabit are often denied their favorite food. Exiled
officials whose road carried them through these fearsome
portions of the Empire thought of the Yao Kuai with terror.
Botany. The flowers, plants and trees which have their
definite connotations make an almost endless list. A few of
the more important are:-
Paeony
Flowers and Plants.
Riches and prosperity.
Lotus Purity. Although it rises from the mud it is pure and spotless
Plum-blossom = "The First." It is the first of the 100 flowers to open,
and therefore suggests the beginnings of things.
Lan hua Noble men and beautiful refined women. Confucius com-
pared the "Chun Tzu" to this little orchid with its exquisite scent,
and in poetry it is also used in constant reference to the women's
apartments and everything connected with them. Refinement is its
chief characteristic.
Crysanthemum Fidelity and constancy. In spite of the frost the
flowers continue to bloom.
Ling Chih Longevity. This fungus, which grows at the roots of
trees, is very durable when dried.
Trees.
Pine Longevity, immutability, steadfastness.
Bamboo 1. Modesty; 2. Protection from defilement; 3. Inalterability.
These are the chief three of its seven virtues.
Wu Tung Integrity; High-principles; Great sensibility, as when
"autumn stands," August 7, although it is still hot the Wu T'ung
"drops one leaf." Only its wood can be used for the Ch'in, or
"table-lute," on an extremely intimate instrument which betrays
the feelings of the person who is playing it.
Willow A prostitute, or any very frivolous person.
It also conveys
because of its lightness and pliability the idea of extreme vitality.
Peach Beautiful women, because of its exquisite colour; also ill-
success in life, as one shower of rain destroys its beauty.
Mulberry Utility: also suggests a peaceful hamlet. Its wood is used
for the making of bows, and of the wooden drums known as
"mo yu" wood fish used in temples. Its leaves feed the silk-worms.

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
111
Plaintain Grief and sadness. It is symbolical of a heart that is not
"flat" or "level" as the Chinese say, not open and carefree, but
one that is "tightly rolled" that is which hides its care. The
sound of rain on the leaves is very mournful, therefore an allusion
to a plaintain is sad. It is planted outside windows which are
glazed with silk in order to soften the light of the sun, its heavy
green leaves being very useful for this purpose.
To a Chinese reader all these connotations are instantly
comprehensible and of course make a poem extremely vivid,
and suggestive.
Architecture. In the translation of Chinese poetry there
is perhaps no point which should more constantly be kept in
mind than the fact that the architectural background of
China is utterly different to that of any other country, and that
unless a vivid picture of the various buildings and appart-
ments referred to exists in the mind of the reader, it is quite
impossible to grasp the connotations of Chinese poetry.
Another point, and one which seems to be, generally speak-
ing, ignored by those who have already made translations, is
that our language does not possess terms which adequately
describe the homes and buildings of the Chinese. Phrases
must therefore be used which will make clear to the Western
reader the kind of building referred to.
Dwelling Houses.-Apart from the humble cottages of
the very poor, the dwelling houses are built on the same
general plan-that is they consist of a series of buildings
divided by court-yards, which, in the case of the wealthy are
connected by covered passages. Each building is divided
into "chien" or "divisions," the number varying according
to the official position of the owners; thus the homes of the
people both rich and poor, consist of buildings containing three
or five "chien"-official residences are of seven chien, while
Imperial palaces are of nine. The number of buildings varies
considerably and is constantly being added to as the sons
bring home their wives and as the family outgrows the
original "chia" *.
A study of the attached plan will reward the reader with
a clear idea of the general arrangement of the numerous
edifices which constitute a "chia" and of the uses to which
they are put.
Many of the references in poetry to the "Kuei"
or women's apartments which open on to the "Hou Ting"
or back court are in most picturesque terms. Thus the
windows are spoken of as "gold" or "jade" windows, while
the door is called the "Lan" Kuei the orchid door;
indeed the "Lan" that sweet scented little epidendrum is,

112
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
as has been noted, constantly used to suggest the "Kuei"
and its inmates.'
Besides the actual residential quarters there are numer-
ous structures which are erected in gardens, where the
Chinese of refined taste spend so much of their time. These
are the Ting or Pavilions; the Hsien F long, narrow,
covered and enclosed passages where guests might sit and
write poems, play chess or make music; and the Shu Chai
the study where "the heart could be regulated to
receive the communications from Heaven."
A class of building most difficult to describe is that called
a Lou, the term designates a structure of more than one
storey; the women's apartments, for instance, are known as
the Tsou Ma Lou E, the Running Horse Lou because
the rooms run round a court-yard and are all connected by
an inside passage or verandah; the Fo Lou is an upper
room where the Buddhist images are kept, which is locked
and which can only be entered after a general lustration and
change of clothing. The "Lou" most frequently referred to,
however, are the "pleasure houses in the air" if one may so
describe them, that is, an upper storey of one of the side
buildings which are used as the Italians use their belvederes.
Here the inmates of the house may sit and look down upon
the garden and upon the surrounding country and from here
they may watch the sun "disappearing in the long grass at
the edge of the horizon," or the moon "rise like a golden
hook.'
DIVISIONS OF A CHINESE HOUSE..
1.-Chao Pi = "spirit wall," placed in front of doors to
avert evil influences.
2.-Ta Men M.
3.-Men Fang
4.-Ting Tzu Lang T
watchman's room.
5.-Lang = covered passage.
6.-Ting reception hall, great hall, a building of five divisions,
offices at the side.
7.-Lang = covered way.
8.-Ting
five divisions, libraries on either side.
9.-Chih = a stone-paved court-yard, no roof, raised in center.
On great occasions, such as weddings, birthdays, etc., it can be roofed
and floored and made part of the house. No trees or flowers are
planted here. They are set about in pots.
Kuei was originally the name of the smaller doors of the Palace,
which were made in the shape of the sceptre used by High Officials,
the tops were round-the shape of Heaven, the bottoms square-the
shape of Earth. Later the name was adopted for the entrance to the
women's quarters and the composition of the character suggests that
the door is that "guarded by those who hold the sceptre of authority."

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
113
10. Ting
court-yard. Trees and flowers are planted here.
Steps come down to it.
DIVISIONS OF A CHINESE HOUSE.
11.-Tsou Ma Lou - Running Horse Apartments- a two-
storied structure of four sides, front 5 chien, back 5 chien, sides
4 chien. Eighteen rooms up-stairs and eighteen down-stairs. (This is
the "kuci," the women's apartments. The wife will use the front
rooms, the daughters the back). The center court is known as #
Heaven's Well.
8

114
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
12.-Hou Ting. At the back is the "Flower Wall" a wall
with apertures through which flowers can make their way. The Hou
T'ing is much used by the women.
13.-Nu Hsia Fang = room for women servants.
14. Fo Lou
where images of "Fo,"
locked, people cannot go
clothes.
15.-Tse Shih
Buddha Apartments, a two-storied structure,
Kuanyin, etc., are kept. Ordinarily it is
up unless they have washed and put on clean
a side house, where poor relations can live,
and which is generally used by concubines (the latter may not enter
the "kuei")-a wall is to the south of it and guests may not penetrate
further than this wall.
16.-Tung Hua T'ing the eastern flower hall.
=
17.-Tui Ting the "Opposite" Hall. These two t'ing are
used for theatricals, a cloth covering is stretched over the court where
the guests sit, facing south, while the stage faces north from 17. A
wall divides the t'ing from the rest of the house.
18.-Nan Hsia Fang FB house for the men servants, divided
as far as possible from the quarters of the women servants. It is also
convenient to the great gate where guests enter.
19.-Ta Shu Fang the great study, where the teacher
instructs the sons.
20.-Hsi Hua T'ing where guests are entertained at
meals, flower garden on either side, also walls which prevent either
study or women's apartments from being seen.
21.-Tse Shih can be used by the ladies of the house as a
study, or a place to embroider or write-the light is very good, whereas
in the "kuei" it is not so good.
22.-Ch'u Fang
21, where the ladies dine.
23.-Ch'ü Lang
24.-Shu Chai
kitchen, near 20, where the men dine, and
crooked passage.
a study.
25.-Hsien F = a long, low, covered, out-door passage, or gallery.
26.-Ma Fang = stables, far from the house, near the garden,
for manure. Being rather far from the house, the houses are kept
ready during the day by the great gate.
27.-Hua Yuen E = garden, arranged according to taste, with
pavilions, and so forth-must be water.
23.-Ssu So= Privy.
The garden is reached by doors leading from the study
and guest room, and from the women's apartments. The
doors are of various shapes, that leading into the Tung Hua
T'ing is round, so that many people can pass through easily,
while those leading from the study, women's rooms, and so
forth, are "leaf,' "fan,'
"flower vase" doors, and other
shapes.
T'ai or terraces were very varied and ranged from the
small square stage still used in private gardens and known
as a "yueh t'ai" where one may sit and enjoy the moon-light,
to the famous structures like very high, long platforms, built
by the Emperors and Officials of old days for various reasons.
Of these a certain number are constantly referred to by the
poets, the most famous being in Shansi.

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
115
1.-Ch'iung Tai the Terrace of Red-veined Marble, built
1786 B.C. by Chieh Kuei of the Hsia dynasty for the very beautiful
and very wicked Mo Hsi, his concubine.
2.-Yao Tai
the Terrace of Green-Jasper; built in Honan
1142 B.C. by Chou Hsin of the Shang dynasty for the infamous T'a Chi
who is regarded as perhaps the most depraved woman in history.
3.-Feng Nu Tai built in Shensi 645 B.C. by Ch'in
Mo Kung one of the ancestors of Shih Huang Ti to celebrate the
flageolet playing of his daughter Lung Yu who, having learnt her art from
the divine youth Hsiao Se, (whom she eventually married), was able to
attract the Fêng Huang to the Terrace where she and Hsiao Se lived
for a year before they became immortals.
4-Ku Su Tai
Terrace of the Ku Su Hill, built in
Kiangsu (Soochou) 493 B.C. by Fu Cha King of Wu for the lovely
Hsi Shih, who had been sent to him by the King of Yueh and who
eventually caused his downfall.
5.-Ching Ling Tai Terrace of the Green Sepulchre,
built at K'ai Feng-fu, Honan 321 B.C. by Kang Wang of Sung, (the
Six Dynasties "Sung"). It has a most romantic history. It was not
large but was very high and was built so that Kang Wang could look
down into the home of his Official Han Peng who had a most lovely
wife.
6.-Po Liang T'ai : The Cedar Beam Terrace, built
108 B.C. by Han Wu Ti. When it was finished the great men of the
Empire were invited to a feast. This was the occasion upon which the
first 7 character "lu" was written, the Emperor himself giving the first
line, which was then capped by various officials in turn.
7.-Tung Tso Tai
: Bronze Wood-pecker Terrace, built
in Honan A.D. 217 by Ts'ao Ts'ao, for the use of his concubines.
8.-Chin Hu Tai
Ts'ao for use of his concubines.
9.-Ping Ching Tai
Ts'ao Ts'ao for same use.
10.-Ling Hsiao Tai
Gold Tiger Terrace, built by Ts'ao
: Ice Well Terrace also built by
Rising Mists Terrace, built on the
Huang Shan Yellow Mountains, Anhui, A.D. 420 by Wu Ti of
Sung (Six Dynasties) as a summer residence for his best loved con-
cubine whom he took there to avoid the heat.
11.-Feng Huang Tai built in Nanking A.D. 439 by
Wên Ti of Sung (Six Dynasties) to celebrate the appearance of these
fabulous birds which were supposed to have been seen near the South
Gate of the City.
12.-Yu Hua Tai TE Rain Flowers Terrace, built in
Nanking A.D. 543 by Wu Ti of Liang to celebrate an occasion when
a Buddhist priest chanted a sutra and "Heaven rained flowers."
There are perhaps no people in the world who are more
passionately fond of nature than are the Chinese, and in
addition to their large homes, the rich often indulged in
Pieh Shu or country villas set in most beautiful and
peaceful surroundings; scholars who were unable to afford
such luxuries contented themselves with tiny dwellings
among the hills to which they retired and lived a life of con-
templation.
SOCIOLOGY.
Home Life.-Having seen the manner of house in which
the people of China lived let us consider for a moment the

116
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
life they led, the clothes they wore, and the occupations in
which they took pleasure.
Deep respect was of course paid to the elders of the
family who were dutifully attended on all occasions by their
sons, daughters, daughters-in-law, and grand-children.
The men of a wealthy family were as a rule of official
rank, they led, therefore, a life in touch with the outer world,
a life of social intercourse with other men in which friendship
played an all engrossing part. This characteristic of Chinese
life, this intimate friendship between men is one of the most
striking features of the poetic background. Love poems
from men to women are so rare as to be almost non-existent,
but poems of grief written by men at parting from the "man
one loves" are innumerable. Li Tai Po in writing to the
famous courtesan Hsieh Tao addresses her as though she
were a fellow man, and a friend. To sit with ones friends
sipping wine and humming verses, making music or playing
chess, were the favorite pastimes in the glorious days of
T'ang, while to retire from the world completely and live
in communion with Nature was the ideal which every scholar
hoped, in time, to realize.
The use of wine was general and although it was un-
doubtedly often mis-used, it is probable that this misuse has
been exaggerated.
"
The Chinese word "tsui," which is, as a rule, translated
in the colloquial as "drunk," as used in Chinese poetry, desig-
nates a state of "stimulation" produced by the controlled use of
wine. Ta tsui" (big tsui) means drunk, no longer natural; con-
trol is lost. "Chên tsui" means drunk, unable to move; still
conscious and able to talk, but talking nonsense; the "Chên"
means "sunk like a stone. "Lan tsui" (rotten tsui) is
stronger than "Chên tsui;" a person does not know where
they are, they cannot speak; they are not conscious, but
"dead drunk," like a dead person. "Ku' ang tsui" (mad dog
tsui) means crazy with drink; violent and disorderly. These
states, however, the poets seldom reach as, of course, did
they do so, their object in drinking wine would not be
attained.
What is the object? It is to key the sense to that pitch
when all the sights and sounds of nature are most keenly
appreciated, when the poet feels a veritable ecstasy at the
sight of flowers and birds, moonlight and the setting or rising
sun. Li T'ai-po's exquisite little poem, which follows, per-
fectly describes the state. It has been translated more than
once, but one can perhaps appreciate more exactly what the
poet means if one studies the text with a Chinese scholar
who loves poetry.

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
117
青
LI T'AI-PO.
The words in parenthesis are those of the scholar who is
explaining the poem.
UNDER THE MOON, SIPPING WINE ALONE.
Among flowers-a jug of wine.
Alone, sipping wine with no intimate companion.
I lift my cup and invite the bright moon to be my guest.
My shadow is opposite to me, thus making us three.
The moon is already unable to drink
(Being inanimate how can it?)
My shadow follows my body in vain
(It is of no practical use as a companion, as it also cannot drink
wine).
For a very short time, the moon and my shadow are my companions,
(Li T'ai-po is thinking of the speed with which time passes).
Be joyful!!! It is necessary in the spring.
In that the poet
(This 8th line connects as it were, with the first.
spoke of flowers, and brought spring to mind. This line makes
the picture more vivid. Li T'ai-po thinks that man should enjoy
his spring time--his youth, to the very utmost-that it is his duty
to make the most of every gift of beauty that has been given him,
in order that he may not reach a "futile" old age having missed
many opportunities).
I sing the moon moves gradually on its way.
(The 'sing' connects this line with the last, it springs, as it were,
from the joyful'; the image of the moving moon gives life to the
poem, and that is the most important feature a poem should have,
the poet's idea is that the moon seems to be moving rythmically in
time to his song).
I dance, my shadow takes strange shapes on the ground.
(The 'dance' follows of course on the 'sing' and 'be joyful,' the
posturing dance of the Chinese is an expression of joy, and as
Li T'ai-po gracefully moves, his shadow seems no longer that of a
person but is confused on the ground).

118
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
In my waking moments we are interlocked in happiness.
After the drowsiness, which follows the sipping of wine, overcomes me
we are separated, our union no longer exists.
(As he lies asleep on the ground he is of course unconscious of the
moon and how has he any shadow? He, his shadow, and the moon
are no longer one, but three entities).
For endless time I am bound up in and find my joy in those things
which have no human passions.
(Li T'ai-po feels that because he is capable of emotions and sensa-
tions, he can find ecstasy in communion with the manifestations of
Nature, which have none).
We will meet then together in the vast, boundless, Cloudy River.
(When he sleeps he will dream of the moon in the "Cloudy River,"
which is our "Milky Way," and will believe that he and his
shadow are there also).
It is hardly too much to say that the Western conception
of the Chinese poet (which is that in many cases he is a
"drunken reveller") is entirely wrong. It is due to an
absolute misunderstanding of the word "tsui"-used as it
is used in poetry. The accounts most often quoted of Li
T'ai-po show that he himself unquestionably did upon
occasion reach a state which would be called "ta tsui," but
even then his control was such that he could write marvellous
verse.
GENTLEMAN IN HIS TRAVELLING CARRIAGE.
Travel was extremely popular, (though only the rich
could travel in comfort) and the poets especially wandered
far and wide throughout the Empire. The life of the women
was very different to that of the men, if the latter could
travel and enjoy the beauties of natural scenes, the gaities
of the Court, and the pleasures of social intercourse, the

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
119
former were obliged to find their occupations and pleasures
within the women's apartments-the "Kuei," already re-
ferred to.
TRAVELLERS IN SSUCH'UAN.
The ruling spirit of the Kuei was of course the wife of
the master of the house, the mother of his sons, the
"director" of his daughters-in-law. (It must be understood
that concubines did not live in the Kuei but in a side house
and could only enter the women's apartments upon express
invitation). A short sketch of a young wife's day will perhaps
make the life then led in a large "chia" more vivid.
The old-fashioned bed was like a small ante-room, it had
an infinite number of drawers and receptacles, and also a
division which held tables and chairs; a door ensured privacy
which was made doubly secure by two sets of curtains, one
within and one without. With the first grey streak of morn-
ing a daughter-in-law would rise and after removing her
sleeping clothes and adjusting her skirt, (before this she was
not visible to even her most devoted maid-servant)-would
step out into her room where the less intimate part of the
toilet, such as hair-dressing, etc., was performed. This
accomplished, and accompanied by a servant who carried tea,
she would go to the room of her mother-in-law and herself place
the tea upon a table outside the old ladies bed which was
built upon
the same pattern as her own, with door curtains,
etc. Upon hearing the word of dismissal she could return to
her apartment where light refreshment had already been
prepared by the maid who had followed her from her fathers
house, of this she and her husband partook and then waited

120
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
the summons to the old ladies toilet-when this important
function and the breakfast which followed it was over, the
young wife's duties for the day were more or less accomplish-
EMBROIDERY.
ed she might eat her own breakfast and then amuse herself in
whatever manner she pleased; all the direction of the house-
hold was left to the "man servant's head" and the "woman
servant's head," the ladies of the house were often expert
calligraphists, or painters, while many of course spent hours
at the embroidery frame or in making music.
In poetry references to the toilet, which was of course
very elaborate as it comprised intricate hair dressing, paint-
"LOOKING DOWN UPON MY MIRROR."

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
121
ing of the eye-brows, making up of the face, etc., all com-
prised in the word "chuang" is very frequent. In writing to
her absent husband a lady repeatedly mourns that she has
no heart to make the "cloud" head-dress, and that "looking
down upon my mirror" (the mirror being of course a round
metal disc set upon a stand upon her toilet table) "in
order to apply the powder and paint, I desire to keep back
the tears! I fear that the people in the home will know my
grief-I am ashamed! Again I use the puff, which lies in
the powder, to press back the tears which I cannot permit
to fall!" Often, too, will the pining wife declare that "because
my waist is so shrunken my girdle falls," indeed these lonely
women shut in a great house among people strange to them
seem to have depended upon the compainship of their hus-
bands in a most devoted manner. Although the occupations
of the day were of course pursued in the women's apartments
or in one of the side houses, the evenings were spent by wife
and husband together in reading and in intellectual enjoy-
ment which is beautifully expressed in the phrase "The red
sleeve replenishes the incense-at night, studying books"
紅袖添香夜讀書,
香
THE RED SLEEVE REPLENISHES THE INCENSE, ETC.
Red was the colour worn by very young women, married
or not, who as the years advanced chose dresses of soft blues
and lavenders, and later still those of dark grey or black.
Therefore a line that reads "my tears soak my dress of
coarse, red silk," instantly suggests a young creature grieving
at her loneliness.
The children, both boys and girls, studied daily under
the direction of teachers and the children of servants who

122
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
had become, as it were, a part of the household by taking
the family surname were given the same advantages as were
those of the master; the only distinction being that while the
sons and daughters of the house sat "above the table, i.c.
facing south, the children of the servants sat "below," that
is facing north, and that the sons of the latter could not
attend the Official Examinations unless they left the house-
hold and altered their surname.
Palace Life. As the houses of the great and small were
built on the same general lines, so the lives of the great and
small were on the same general lines-the Court was simply
the chia" of a member of the Official Class on a very
grand scale.
The Emperor's intelligence was supposed to be as pene-
trating, as brilliant as the light of the Sun, that of the
Empress as the Moon; the Emperor's mercy was as all em-
bracing as Heaven, that of the Empress as all-supporting as
Earth, thus there is nothing which Heaven and Earth do
not cover or support-equally with the rest"
"Floating Clouds" often suggest evil courtiers who
attempt to prevent the rays of the great luminaries from
reaching those whom they dislike. This symbolism is con-
stantly used in poetry-the line "In short, the drifting
clouds are able to conceal the sun' from Li T'a Po's
"Ascending the Fêng Huang Terrace at Nanking" means that
18
"
PALACE LADIES.
the machinations of his enemies had succeeded in preventing
the poet from enjoying the light of the sun and moon-the
desire of every poet was to bask in these lights at the Court,

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
123
and the desire of every family was that its daughters should
come before the Emperor's notice, therefore the most beauti-
ful and talented young girls from throughout the Empire
were sent to the Imperial Palace where, however, they often
lived and died without once appearing before the Son of
Heaven.
Many tragic poems have been written by these sad ladies
who dragged out a long life of uselessness and idleness amid
luxurious surroundings, and many charming romances in
connection with the Palace women have taken place; the
romances being made possible by the custom of periodically
dispersing and marrying to commoners, those Palace women
who had not been brought before the Emperor. Two of the
most famous cases are those of Han Ts'ai Pin and
Shih Shih . The former in despair at the emptiness of
her life threw a red leaf upon which she had written some
lines of poetry into the Palace Canal, this was picked up by
a noted scholar who wrote a reply upon another leaf,-this
was found by Han Ts'ai Pin. As good fortune would have
it when the Palace ladies were dispersed some ten years
later the lady was married to the scholar, by that time a
Han Lin, and found the leaf upon which she had written
carefully preserved among his books. From that day to this
the term Red Leaf" connotes a marriage go-between.
Shih Shih was also a Palace woman who lived in the
days of Li Shih-min when the number of such was very great.
During the times when the troops were fighting on the
northern borders and had need of wadded garments to protect
them from the rigours of winter, the women were employed
in making these. As she worked Shih Shih was overcome
with grief at the thought that the garment she was making
should really be for her husband-that the joys of married
life were never to be hers, so writing a sad little poem she
placed it in the pocket of the garment upon which she was
engaged. The soldier to whose lot the coat fell, found the
poem and carried it to the General in command who in turn
brought it to the notice of the Emperor. Li Shih-min #
immediately entered the women's apartments and asked
from whose hand it had come. Shih Shih tremblingly con-
fessed to being the author, adding that she quite realized
that she should "die ten thousand deaths" for such infidelity.
Imagine her joy when the great Emperor decreed that she
should suffer no penalty but should marry the soldier who
had found the poem.
In striking contrast to the unfortunates who lived thus
cloistered was the lot of the "beauty" who captured the
Imperial fancy, who through her influence over the Son of

124
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
Heaven virtually ruled the Empire. For these exquisite
creatures no extravagances were too great and various
dynasties have fallen through the popular revolt against the
excesses of an Imperial concubine. Many names occur in
history and in poetry. The most famous, and those to whom
allusion is most often made in suggesting attributes both
good and evil, are Imperial Favorites, to be noticed later on.
The inmates of the Palace amounted to thousands, and
besides the women,-the possible concubines-who lived in
retirement "deep in the Palace" there were a host of singing
and dancing girls, these being known as Kuan Chi
they were the most beautiful and talented inmates of brothels
whom Officials presented to the Emperor and who enter-
tained and charmed the Son of Heaven and his favorites,
(women and also the men who were commanded to attend)
with their exquisite songs and wonderful posturing.
The Emperor's life was not entirely given over to dis-
sipation and pleasures, it was not all passed in the beautiful
surroundings of the Imperial gardens, though the principal
allusions in poetry are to these moments; the cares of state
were many and at sunrise the Officials attended the Audience
Hall to make their reports and discuss Imperial matters,
while the Court ceremonials which were of the greatest im-
portance were extremely solemn affairs attended only by
men and carried out with the utmost dignity.
IMPERIAL FAVORITES.
Nu Ying the Concubine of the Emperor Shun. the younger
daughter of Yao ; her elder sister was Shun's Empress. Shun was
killed in battle and buried in Hunan, the two sisters came to his grave
and wept so bitterly that the bamboos all became spotted and remain
so to this day. They eventually threw themselves into the river
Hsiang and drowned themselves.
Mo Hsithe Concubine of Chieh of Hsia, she loved
to hear the tearing of silk, which was of course very difficult to procure
in those early days, however, to please her Chieh arranged that
people should hastily prepare it and others stood by to tear it in strips
to give her pleasure. For her gratification a great lake of wine was
made on which she and the Emperor floated in a boat, this was sur-
rounded with "hills of meat," and for her amusement three thousand
men were obliged to lie upon their faces at the edge of the lake and
lap up the wine as though they had been beasts.
T'a Chi Concubine of Chou Hsin of Shang, her
tastes were much the same as those of Mo Hsi but more depraved,
she may be said to be the most wicked woman in Chinese history!
For her pleasure Chou Hsin spent millions of the people's money in
building the Green-Jasper Terrace, he also prepared a lake of wine and
a forest in which the trees were of metal with leaves of meat. As there
was dissatisfaction and revolt abroad she expressed the opinion that
the punishments of the day were not sufficiently severe, and invented
the terrible torture of the metal pole; the culprit was obliged to clasp

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
125
this metal pole which was well greased so that it was impossible to
climb up, a fire was then lighted below, while T'a Chi and the Emperor
sat by and laughed heartily at the antics of the tortured wretch.
Chou Hsin was eventually over-thrown and Ta Chi perished with him
in the flames of the Palace which Chou Hsin had caused to be set
alight.
Ch'i Chi
Concubine of Kao Tsu of Han, who loved her
very dearly, and wished her son to be his heir. The Empress Dowager
who was the infamous Lü Hou was, however, unwilling that this
should be the case, and upon the death of Kao Tsu put the boy to
death and submitted his mother to terrible tortures. Her eyes were
torn out, her ears, hands and feet were cut off and she was thrown into
a filthy hole to die, in fact she was treated worse than one treats a dog.
Yu Chi E the much loved Concubine of the famous Hsiang Yü
who followed him everywhere. After the battle of Kai Hsia
when he was surrounded by the soldiers of his enemy Liu Pang he
appealed to her in the following words; "My strength is great enough
to tear up hills, Alas! alas! spirit could flow over the whole world. The
time is not propitious: Alas! Alas! my dappled horse cannot pass out.
My dappled horse cannot pass out Alas! Alas! what can be done?
Yu, Alas, Alas, Yü, my beloved, Alas what is it necessary for me to
do?" Then Yu, hearing the songs of the opposing soldiers on every
side replied. "The soldiers of Han have completely captured the place,
On the four sides the sounds of their songs ring out clearly. The
intentions of the great Prince (Hsiang Yü himself) are consumed, are
as the ashes in a furnace. What resource can your Unworthy One,
(herself) devise?" Hsiang Yü thereupon committed suicide by cutting
his throat, and the lovely Yü Chi followed suit.
Pan Chieh-yu Efthe very noble Concubine of Cheng Ti
of Han . Her talents were great, and the title "Chieh-yu," is equiva-
PAN CHIEH YU.
lent to that of a high literary degree. She is reported as having
reproved the Emperor when he suggested that she should drive beside

126
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
him in his chariot, that not being the function of a woman. She was
supplanted by the beautiful but unscrupulous "Flying Swallow," who
accused her to the Emperor of having denounced him to the Kuei
and Shên, that is, the beings of the other worlds. The Emperor
therefore sent for the Lady Pan, who kneeling before him answered
his questioning as follows:
"The unworthy one of the Emperor has heard that he who
cultivates virtue still has not attained happiness or favour. If
this be so, for him who does evil what hope is there? Supposing
the Demons and Spirits are aware of the affairs of this world,
they could not endure that one who was not faithful to the
Emperor should betray him-should utter the secret thoughts
hidden in the darkness of his heart! If they are not conscious-
of what benefit or advantage would the uttering of these dark
thoughts be?"
Then rising she left the Imperial presence. She realized, however,
that her day was over, and she could not bear to live on in the Palace.
She therefore begged that she might be allowed to attend the Empress.
Dowager to whom she was very devoted and so left the Imperial harem
in a most dignified manner. When in retirement she wrote the Emperor
a poem in which she likened herself to a fan put away in a box of split
bamboo as soon as the fierce gales of autumn dispersed the summer
heats; for this reason the term "autumn fan" bears the connotation
"a deserted wife."
Chao Fei Yen the "Flying Swallow," also the Concubine
of Chêng Ti of Han, and the very opposite to Pan Chieh-yu,
She was trained as a dancing girl, and her grace and lightness were
such that she received the name "Flying Swallow." She was seen
at the Capital by the Emperor when he was roaming the city in
disguise and she and her sister were at once placed in the Imperial
seraglio. She became the favorite concubine and in 16 B.C. was
raised to the rank of Empress consort, but on the death of the
Emperor she was driven by Palace intrigue to commit suicide.
T'ang Chi Concubine of Shao Ti of Han who
was most devoted to him and when the treacherous Tung Cho
insisted that his Emperor should commit suicide by drinking poison,
Shao Ti begged that if he must drain the cup, T'ang Chi might give
him pleasure by dancing before him. This, weeping bitterly, T'ang
Chi did, and the Emperor died in peace. As she was only
eighteen she was returned to her father's home, and he wished her to
marry, this, however, she refused to do but spent her time in tending a
spirit tablet of Shao Ti. Hsien Ti, the succeeding Emperor,
upon the restoration, hearing of her fidelity, commanded that she should
return to the Palace and sent an Official to meet and escort her, she
was given a dwelling in the Palace gardens, and always carried an
official tasselled staff in memory of Shao Ti .
P'an Yü-erh Concubine of Tung-hun Hou
of Southern Ch'i . In his infatuation for her he ordered that golden
lotus should be made upon the floor of the Palace, that "at every step
a lotus might bloom." Upon the overthrow of the Ch'i dynasty by
the Liang Wu Ti was much attracted by her beauty and
wished to add her to the ladies of his Palace, whereupon his official
Wang Mo saying indignantly, "What caused the overthrow of
Ch'i? It was that thing!" induced the Emperor to refrain from
keeping her. She was to be given to a minor Military Official but
rather than submit to such indignity the proud beauty hanged herself.
Hsü Niang Concubine of Yuan Ti of Liang, who
was "daft" about her, although outwardly she appeared to care for

CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
The paper was illustrated with the following slides:
133
TOPOGRAPHY.
1.-Chinese characters for sun-
40.
rise and sunset.
41.
HOME LIFE cont.
Pastimes of a scholar.
Friends reading at night,
2.-Map of China.
"snuffing the candle.'
3.-A "Chan Tao" or cliff road.
42.
Returning from the Ban-
4. A Peak.
quet.
5.-A Cliff.
43.
Official travelling carriage.
6.-Mountain scene by Hsia
Kuei.
44.
Toilet scene.
45.
Embroidery.
7.-Pine in the Mountains.
8.-Snow scene by Wang Wei.
9.-Mountain scene
46.
Painting.
47.
10.-Gorges of the Yang Tzû.
11.-Mountain scenery from
"Mustard Seed Garden."
12.-Great Wall.
13. Taoist Heaven.
14.-Ma Ku serving two scholars
with the foods of Para-
dise.
15.-Lung Yu calling the Fêng
Huang.
16.–Tung Shuang Chên.
NATURAL HISTORY.
17.-Dragon.
18.-Tiger.
19.-Dragon and Feng.
20.-Fêng Huang.
21.-Luan.
22.-Yuan Yang.
23.-Geese.
24. Kuei and Shen.
25.-Yao Kuai or Chih Mei.
26.-Paeony.
27.-Lotus.
28.-Plum-blossom and Moon.
29.-Bamboo.
ARCHITECTURE.
30. Plan of Chinese "chia" or
home.
31.-A "gold" or "jade"
window.
32.-A Ting or pavilion and en-
trance gate.
33.-A Hsien and a Lou.
34.-T'ai.
35.-Villa of Ma yuan.
36.-Villa of Wang Wei.
37.-Villa of to-day.
38.-Scholar's retreat in hills.
HOME LIFE.
39. "Congratulating the parents
on a festival day."
Writing, Wei Fu-jên the
famous lady calligraphist.
48. Dressing the hair "above
the mirror."
"
49.-Husband and wife studying.
"Red sleeves replenishes
incense, etc."
PALACE LIFE.
50. Palace ladies.
51.-Dancing dress.
52.-Ladies palace "push-
carriage."
53. Palace lady riding.
54. Han Ts'ui-pin, story of
"Red Leaf.
55.-Shih Shih story of "wadded
garment."
56. Pan Yü-erh, "at every step
a lotus bloomed."
57. Yao Liang dancing on a
golden lotus six feet high.
58.-Yang Kuei-fei teaching her
white parrot a Buddhist
sutra.
59. Pan Chieh-yu holding her
"autumn fan."
60.
61.
The character "su."
A Kuan Ch'i, or Official
Courtesan.
62. Imperial chariot.
63.-Officials in ceremonial dress.
HISTORY AND LITERATURE.
64.-Cho Wên-chun and Ssu Ma
Hsiang-ju in wine shop.
65. Cho Wên-chun when she
wrote the "song of White
Heads."
66. Li T'ai-po.
67.-Tu Fu.
68.-Tu Fu and his wife.
69.-A P'ieh shu or country
house painting by Li Ssu
Hsun.
Phraseology used in describing mountain scenery. Key
to accompany Plate A. Mountain scenery from "The
Mustard Seed Garden."

134
CHINESE POETRY AND ITS CONNOTATIONS
|司
*
1.-Tien
tain's head."
2.-Wei
"ghosts hill."
3a.-P'u
PLATE A.
The Topmost Peak of a mountain, literally "moun-
Approaching the peak, very high, not level, literally
A Water-fall, a cascade.
b.-Fei Chuan A Water-fall, literally "Flying Spring."
c.-P'u Pu = A Water-fall, literally a Cloth Cascade, that
is, water like a strip of cloth.
4.-Feng
Peaks.
5.-Hsuan Yai =Over-hanging precipice, literally a precipice
suspended like the head of a criminal.
6.-Luan
Peaks which are lower than Fêng, and sharper.
7.-Chuan = Spring.
8.-Shan Lin
Mountain forests.
9.-Shan Shih
Mountain temples.
The Roadway or thoroughfare on the side
10.-Yai Cliff, both its flat top and its sides.
11a.-Chan Tao
of a cliff.
11b.-Ko
= The Roadway or thoroughfare on the side of a cliff.
The "Ko of the Two-Edged Sword" is very famous.
12.-Shan Ting Mountain Pavilions.
13.-Tien
can be bought.
14.-Lien
15.-Lan
of hills.
16.-Kang
An Inn, also a little collection of houses where things
= A flag or sign which shows that wine is sold.
Mountain Mist or Vapour which shuts off bottoms
High level ground on a hill, or among hills.
The steep side of a hill-its "thigh.'
18.-Lu Ko. Travellers on a journey.
17.-Chia
19.-Ling
A Pass in a mountain range. The bottom of the
sketch is not at the foot of hills but well up in a range.
20.-Sun or Lan Yu, Bamboo chair made for use in the
Mountains.
21.-Chien
= The water in a ravine.
22.-Ku
Gully between hills.
23.-Ho
The pool at the foot of a water-fall.