GREEK AND CHINESE ART
IDEALS
ARTHUR STANLEY
Honorary Curator of the Shanghai Museum.
That the lives of Laotzû, Confucius and Mencius.
generally synchronised with those of Phidias, Aeschylus,
Sophocles, Pericles, Aristophanes, Plato, Aristotle and
Praxiteles, alone seems a sufficient reason for comparing the
art ideals of Greece and China. Sakyamuni, the founder of
Buddhism, also lived about the same time. That the
lives of the founders of Confucianism, Buddhism and Taoism
should have generally synchronised with the golden period
of Greek civilisation around the fifth century B.C., seems.
to show that at this early period of the world's known
human history was concentrated a dazzling manifestation
of original thought, or at least such as was able to make
itself articulate in a form available for posterity. It would
seem clear that no other period, except the recent period of
nature knowledge, has been productive of such massive effect
throughout the greater part of the civilised world.
THE HUMAN FIGURE THE CYNOSURE OF GREEK ART
The art of a country may be regarded as a good index
to its civilisation. The art instinct evolved early in Greece.
After the profession of arms had become predominant and
the people had won safety from outside marauders, the
Athenians devoted themselves to organised athletics. Much
as in the present day crowds gathered to watch the prowess
and beauty of their youth. The Olympic games of Greece
are precisely reflected in our own times. But there was no
false modesty in those early days. The competitors appeared
as nature made them, unencumbered with clothing. Among
the Spartans the maidens also pursued their rigid physical
training practically nude. As a result, the beauty of the
human figure was assessed at its true art value. That the
Greeks strove for strength and beauty is shown in many
Read before the Society, October 23rd, 1919.

14
GREEK AND CHINESE ART IDEALS
ways, but particularly by the figures in the frieze and
groups of the Parthenon, considered to be the finest example
of Greek decorative sculpture now existing; which is familiar
to all art students either in the original in the British
Museum or in reproduction. Eugenics as practised in
Sparta, and the theoretical requirements for improving the
race developed by Plato and Aristotle which formed so
interesting a feature of Athenian life, cannot but have led
for a time to the production of man in such physical
perfection as has, perhaps, never been attained either before
or since.
DECORATION OF DOMESTIC UTENSILS COMMON TO
GREECE AND CHINA
With such models it is not surprising that the Greek
sculptors created work which remains at the present day a
type of what is best within the field of the human figure.
China has nothing comparable with Greek sculpture.
Considering the early stage of the evolution of art it is
remarkable that the Greeks originated some twenty-four
centuries ago, in the days of Phidias and Praxiteles, work of
such permanent value as to serve as working models in our
own art schools. Moreover, the modelling of the jars and
domestic utensils, often decorated with figure drawings, show
that there was a popular and real feeling for beauty, com-
parable with present day China, and particularly Japan,
where the common objects of daily use in the household are
generally good to look upon. The glazing of pottery probably
originated in Greece, according to Laufer. This insistence
on form in the most lowly objects of domestic use may be
taken as the supreme test of an artistically cultured people.
How often does the Philistine declare himself by hanging
expensive oil paintings framed in opulent gilt in a room
which is rendered hideous by a crudely utilitarian table-cloth?
The door handle has, indeed, often greater possibilities of
producing artistic satisfaction than the picture on the wall.
If one can imagine a Greek mind within the brain pan of one
of our modern engineers, one would expect even iron bridges
to be conceived in a style which would combine strength with
beauty. The Greeks worshipped strength combined with
beauty in the human form, considering the male more perfect
than the female figure, and carried the same combination
into articles of common domestic use. A logical outcome of
this sentiment extended to the present day, would be a study
of the anatomical details of the human frame as a model for
getting beauty and strength into iron bridges. If, for

GREEK AND CHINESE ART IDEALS
15
example, the upper articulating surface of the thigh bone is
sawn in two, the cancellous tissue of the bone shows arches
of the utmost precision stronger weight for weight and more
beautiful than any as yet designed by man. This would be
a modern scientific development of the Greek spirit. It is
quite within the Greek spirit to accentuate the fact that in
the human frame however far one goes into detail, even to the
ultimate physical analysis afforded by the microscope, the
combination of strength and beauty is ever present. Nature
tends always towards form and precision. This is probably
what the great Rodin means when he says: 'All artists
ought to see and to reproduce faithfully what they see,
simply to follow nature, for she is always artistic, always
beautiful.'
THE ENVIRONMENT OF MAN PREDOMINATES OVER THE
FIGURE IN CHINESE ART.
Perhaps the main difference between the art ideals of
Greece and China is that the Greeks concentrated on the
human form as the essential type, while the Chinese have
little conception of the beauty of the human figure. Among
the Chinese there seems to be an irresistible tendency to
make a joke of it by distortion and exaggeration, or at best
to let it merely serve as a frame for displaying voluminous
garments which effectually conceal even the general shape
of the figure. But as regards the rest of nature the Chinese
excelled the Greeks in their appreciation of landscape, of the
animal kingdom other than man, and especially of the
natural beauty of mountains, rocks, trees and flowers.
Wherever the subject is man, whether man actual or man
imaginary as depicted in their varied mythology, the Greeks
And in so far
were incomparably in advance of the Chinese.
as man may be regarded as the greatest work of nature,
Greek art is greater than Chinese. But is man the greatest
work of nature? Is man greater than his environment in
regard to art ideals? Art may indeed be regarded as an
artificial human product. Landscape art is considered not
so much an imitation of nature as a representation of nature
which has the imprint of the artist's mind upon it.
THE ATHENIAN AND THE CONFUCIAN SCHOLAR ALIKE IN DESIRE
FOR HARMONY, BALANCE AND RETICENCE.
The Athenians were a race of artists who took a poetical
view of life. The typical Greek had something in common
with the Confucian scholar, whose restrained bearing and

16
GREEK AND CHINESE ART IDEALS
linking of literature with painting may be regarded as
Hellenistic. The 'Nothing in excess' motto of the ancient
Delphic temple, and the harmony and balance of the Greeks,
show the same general outlook as is developed in the third
of the books of the Confucian classics-the Doctrine of the
Mean. The Greeks regarded bravery, for example, as the
mean between rashness and cowardice. Harmony was the
essence of Greek civilization and based on rhythmic vitality.
Greek art reached the sublime through symmetry and
balance without elaboration of detail. The Greeks crystal-
lised the ideal in the representations of their mythological
figures. The absence of mystery connected with their
anthropomorphic pantheon, each deity having his allotted
function, attributes and shape, on the one hand was in
marked contrast with the somewhat flabby sentimentality of
Buddhism, but on the other, never reached the intellectual
standard of the essentially correct ethical teaching of
Confucius.
The Greek view is happily illustrated in the following
passage from Plato (Republic, III, 401, Jowett's translation)
Let our artists rather be those who are gifted to discern the
true nature of the beautiful and graceful: thus will our youth
dwell in a land of health and fair sights and sounds, and
receive the good in everything; and beauty, the effluence of
fair works, shall flow into the eye and ear, like a health
giving breeze from a fairer region, and insensibly draw the
soul from earliest years into likeness and sympathy with the
beauty of reason.
The Greek idea in art was lavished with sublime self
approbation on man as the highest creation of nature, the
remainder of the natural world being subsidiary. There is
no record of an art of landscape among them. Landscape
was evolved quite late in the history of European art, and
may be regarded as its highest development. By contrast
it is all the more remarkable to note how early the art of
landscape appeared in China. The warrior or athlete, strong
and beautiful, is the ideal of Greece. In China, the warrior
has generally been despised and the athlete is seldom
depicted. The Chinese ideal is the scholar contemplating
the beauty of the mountains. Their mountain philosophy
has a quite important bearing on the art of China. In Greek
poetry, nature is described as incidental to human action.
The choral odes in Greek drama supply the reference to
natural environment merely as an accessory to the main
theme, which concerns alone the heroic variations of man as
the glory of creation. Sculpture is the finest manifestation
of Greek art, the representation of the human figure, actual

GREEK AND CHINESE ART IDEALS
17
and ideal. Greek art is statuesque and heroic, the perfection
and apotheosis of the human. The architecture is funda-
mentally a larger form of sculpture-the shell of man. In
what manner the sculptured figures visualised the Gods of
Greece, so the form of their temples symbolised the attri-
butes of their powerful mythological conceptions. It puts
rather a strain on the imagination to bring the temples of
China into apposition with those of Greece except in their
mental aspect. The spirit of intellectual repose and space
in the Confucian mortuary temples, such as that of Wonglo
at the Ming tombs near Peking, is comparable with the
Greek idea; but the cruder symbolism of the Buddhist
temples seems distinctly inferior to the Greek conception;
except as regards the Chan or Contemplative school of
Buddhism, which has its precise parallel in some of the
temples and sacred groves of Greece.
As regards permanence the ancient art of Greece has the
advantage over China in the greater use of stone in sculp-
ture and architecture. But in bronze relics of the past,
China compares well with ancient Greece and differentiates
their art ideals. In Grecian bronze the human figure is
again the chosen model: in Chinese bronze the human figure
when chosen is usually debased, but the rest of nature is
drawn from for decorative modelling. This is shown in the
sacrificial vessels which were made at the very period of the
golden age of greek art in the fifth century B.C. It was only
in the degenerate period of Greek art that it became grotes-
que: but the depiction of the grotesque has ever been a
failing of the Chinese. Greek art may be said to be purer
but less imaginative and varied than that of China.
The figures depicted on the Greek vases tell the same
story as their sculpture-a pursuit of the human ideal in
actual life or in legend, mostly showing variations of the
stories of their heroes and their gods, as an inspiration to a
more perfect life. Aristotle said (Poet, XXV, 1461, 6.12)
Even if it is impossible that men should be such as Xeuxis
painted them, yet it is better that he should paint them so;
for the example ought to excel that for which it is an
example.'
THE EVOLUTION OF CHINESE ART.
Okakura in his "Ideals of the East" touches on the
existence of a common early Asiatic art the influence of
which may be traced in Hellas, the West of Ireland, Etruria,
Phoenicia, Egypt, India and China. Hellas may be regarded

18
GREEK AND CHINESE ART IDEALS
as a province of that ancient Asia which was probably the
place of origin of all purely intellectual effort.
One may regard the Chinese as originally nomadic
Mongols who settled down to an agricultural life in the
valley of the Yellow River and evolved a system of com-
munism which ultimately became the environment into which
Confucius was born. Confucius gathered together the
thoughts of previous teachers in China much in the same way
as Homer collected the earlier ballads of Hellas. Both were
transcendental editors who brought the scattered ideas of
others into a final form of genius which is immortal. Some
time before Plato created his Ideal Republic, Confucius had
formulated the germ of ordered communism which was to so
powerfully cement the Chinese nation together for some
twenty-five centuries. He described a system of mutual
responsibility which, from the most obscure unit to the
Emperor, bound the nation into a homogeneous whole, founded
on the sanctity of family life without degrading the intellect
by speculation into the unknowable. The best collective
attributes of man were inspiring enough to lead the people on
towards a good and noble life without pandering to the
ignorant by calling in ideals founded on untruth and not in
accordance with natural law. The first book put into the
hand of a Chinese boy for a thousand years was the "Three
Character Classic" which begins "Man's nature is originally
good." The millstone of original sin did not hang round the
neck of the Chinese child. Later, Mencius said "The
tendency of man's nature towards good works is like that of
water to flow downwards." The Chinese therefore began
life with liberal ideas which later gave them a tolerant out-
look in respect to exotic religions.
The head of the family was the source of good and evil
in the smallest unit of society, and responsible for those in
his charge; while he himself was responsible to the next
higher collective authority. The good deeds of the departed
were perpetuated by special regard for ancestors helped by
simple ceremonies. Such a social code seems to have been
freer from superstition than any up to quite recent times.
Confucius looked upon music and poetry as co-efficients of
political harmony. The ideals of Confucius like those of
Plato and Socrates tended towards the common good and
against the reduction of society to a horde of competing
individuals.
It is scarcely open to doubt that it is to the teachings of
Confucius, particularly to his development of the ethics of

GREEK AND CHINESE ART IDEALS
19
government and family life, that the incomparable continuity
of China's national life is due.
The sublime bronzes and carved jades of the Chou
dynasty which still exist, bring an aura of dignified restraint
from the time of Confucius and are worthy of being placed
with the marble sculptures of Ancient Greece.
During the Han dynasty the art of China developed
along Confucian lines as shown by the rock sculptures and
other stone carvings and the bronze. The paintings of that
time are not now extant, but a survival is found in the
frequent paintings during the Sung, Ming and modern period
of the palaces of the Han dynasty, which show a considerable
development of architecture and ornament.
The Chinese system of examinations, which early in the
Han dynasty made a knowledge of the Confucian classics
necessary for those seeking government appointments,
though restricted to a narrow literary scholarship, had a
refining influence and, when combined with painting, as by
the poet-painter officials, exercised a powerful influence on
the art of the country, especially on that of landscape
painting. The art ideals resulting from Confucian culture
tended towards restraint and harmony, while the literary
refinement and comparative absence of mysticism kept the
art pure and to a large extent decorative.
THE INFLUENCE OF TAOISM
The effect of Taoism towards natural phantasy and of
Buddhism towards grandiose and unnatural imaginative
work, may be regarded as retrograde.
Laotzû, the Old Philosopher, the founder of Taoism, a
contemporary of Plato, Socrates and Aristotle, was some
fifty years older than Confucius and, although their teachings
differed so markedly, they greatly respected each other. The
Tao Te Ching or Book of Virtue, which is attributed to
Laotzú, appears to be a groping towards nature knowledge
and individualism freed from conventions, as opposed to the
communism of Confucius. This love of nature and liberty
to roam over hill and dale lent itself to landscape painting
and especially imaginative landscape, which is most
characteristic of Chinese art.
The Tao Te Ching has been compared with the
Nec-Platonism of the third to fifth centuries A.D., wherein
pseudo-scientific philosophy was strangely united with
mystic religion. No one seems to know exactly what the
Tao really was, although Impersonal Nature has been given
as the equivalent; as also has the pursuit of the Elixir
of life.

20
GREEK AND CHINESE ART IDEALS
The conception of the Dragon as the power of water,
thunder, rain and wind and of the Tiger as the power of the
earth are probably Taoist in origin. But the Chinese cannot
claim originality in respect to the Dragon saga; which is
also commonly used in early and mediaeval European
mythology. Taoism degenerated into demonology and
magic, the quest for the Elixir of Life and immortality;
leaving in permanent form many quaint and diverting
motives for art workers in textiles, wood and porcelain.
The Taoist Heaven, which is a curious blending of
Taoist and Buddhist ideas, may be given as an instance of
an imaginative conception which has inspired an infinitude
of beautiful art work in China. The Taoist Heaven is
placed within the confines of the Buddhist Western Heaven
among the Kwen Lun mountains between the Jasper Lake
and the Waters of Immortality. On the slopes of Shou shan
lies the Palace of Si Wang Mu, the Fairy Queen of the
Western Heaven who, attended by the Phoenix and her
fairy handmaidens, awaits the wandering sages with the
mystic peaches in her hand, the taste of which gives
immortality.
THE INFLUENCE OF BUDDHISM
The influence of Buddhism on the art of China may be
described as profound but degrading, hieratic art invariably
resulting in the mechanical reproduction of formal types.
The grandeur of the imaginative conceptions of Buddhism
are often seen in Buddhist paintings and its symbolic
development in all the arts is extremely interesting. The
true note of Buddhist art is dignified serenity. In the words
of Sakyamuni "The wise having listened to the law become
serene like the waters of a deep still lake" The Chan or
Contemplative school of Buddhism seems to have had the
purest influence on Chinese art by its association with the
beauties of nature in the Meditation Groves where poetry
and the arts were cultivated. Saint Francis of Assisi who
preached to the birds and wrote the Canticle of the Sun
seems to have been a kindred spirit.
The Buddhist Trinity, composed of the Buddha, Omito,
supported by Tashichi Pusa, the Great One, and Kwanyin,
the all Compassionate Pusa (son of Omito in the mystic
sense), the Three Sages of the Western Heaven assiduously
worshipped by the Northern or Mahayana Buddhist, forms
the subject of innumerable pictures and carved figures of
infinite variety of treatment. The same Kwanyin in an
obscure way later changed sex and became the most popular

GREEK AND CHINESE ART IDEALS
21
121
deity of the Buddhist pantheon, the Goddess of Mercy and
Love, the giver of children, which has inspired some of the
most beautiful conceptions in Chinese Buddhist art.
Singularly enough this later Kwanyin in porcelain figures of
the Kanghsi and following periods closely resembles in
form the Christian virgin and child, probably as a result of
the influence of images brought from Europe by the early
catholic missionaries.
GRECO-BUDDHIST ART.
The so-called Græco-Buddhist art, which is best
exemplified in the rock sculptures of the first and second
centuries A.D. at Gandhara in the valley of the Kabul
river, North of India, may be regarded as a very interesting
indirect impingement of the two civilisations, but its effect
on Chinese art is very small indeed.
In the fourth century B.C., Alexander the Great, a
pupil of Aristotle, having cut the Gordian Knot, set out
on his amazing conquest of Asia, sweeping victoriously
through Syria, Palestine, Egypt, and Persia to India (Kabul)
and Turkestan (Khotan), leaving a fragment of the Grecian
Empire at Bactria (Bokhara), where a school of Greek
sculpture is said to have been founded. Alexander
accomplished all this by the age of 32, when he died of
fever in Babylon.
At Gandhara may be seen the transition of Apollo into
the Indian Buddha. The long thin legs, salient hips and
flexible figures of the Gandhara rock sculptures found their
way to Java, Cambodia, China and Japan. This influence,
carried by Indian Buddhist missionaries, may easily be
traced among the rock sculptures at Lung-men near
Honan-fu in China, dating from the sixth century A.D.
The frequent use of the lion as a model and the exaggerated
muscular development of the nude figures clearly show this
exotic Indian so-called Græco-Buddhist influence. This
Grecian touch seems to have come to India indirectly
through Persia.
That the Greek fret or key pattern is common to Greek
and Chinese art does not seem to be a matter of significance.
This simple border pattern is one, like the svastika, which
any schoolboy would be likely to happen upon. It is,
therefore, like the square and the circle, in practically
universal use and cannot be considered peculiar to any
country, although it comes more into prominence in China
because it is par excellence the country of fretted designs.

22
GREEK AND CHINESE ART IDEALS
THE ART OF BEAUTIFUL WRITING
The art of beautiful writing was a direct development
of literary scholarship in China and has had an important
bearing on all sections of its art. To be able to write
Chinese requires a rigid training in brush work drawing.
And this has led to the educated Chinese being born
draftsmen. The association of beautiful ideas expressed
in beautiful writing has been quite a special feature of
Chinese culture. The innumerable hand-written poems
mounted in the same way as pictures, and having an equal
artistic value in the Chinese eye, is peculiarly Chinese.
This
calligraphic art does not correspond to the illuminated
manuscript missals and other European religious text. The
Chinese characters, which may be regarded as the most
beautiful script in the world, lend themslves to decorative
variation; and this has furnished an infinite number of art
motives in the applied arts. Much of the extraordinary
fascination of decoration dependent on the use of the
Chinese written character is due to that subtle element of
symbolism which is ever present. This development of
Chinese writing has perhaps more than anything else given
Chinese art its very individual character.
MOUNTAIN PHILOSOPHY
The love of mountains may be regarded as universal.
Among the ancient Greeks Olympus was the home of the
gods and Parnassus sacred to Apollo and the muses. They
associated every striking piece of hill scenery with legend and
set up a shrine very much as the Chinese did and still do.
Taishan is the Chinese Olympus and, though mainly
associated with Confucius, embraces pre-confucian and
post-confucian ideas in the Chinese mind. The sacred hills
of Omeishan and the mountain islet of Putoshan are
associated with Buddhism. Almost any Chinese philosopher
might murmur with Plato Believing, therefore, the soul to be
immortal, and able to endure all extremes of good and ill,
let us ever hold fast the upward way.'
While Greek civilization resembled a comet in its
sudden burst from obscurity into brilliant incandescence,
during the century or two of its golden period, followed by
an equally sudden damping out, the civilization of China
since Confucius was lit with a lamp of pure practical reason
for over 2000 years. There is perhaps no other national
constructive political code which can compare with it in
massive effect. Whether it can bear the impact of modern
developments due to the vast and massive effect of the

GREEK AND CHINESE ART IDEALS
23
knowledge of natural processes during the last hundred years
is doubtful; especially if that knowledge continues to be
used to harness the forces of nature for mutual destruction.
There can be no doubt that a system of government founded
on the permanence of family life has in many respects advan-
tages over that whose slogan is "Every man for himself."
The pendulum will probably swing back to Confucius with
the new demand for team work and scientific grouping of
human labour towards the goal of universal mutual help and
respect which will be a realisation of the Chinese saying
"All under heaven one family.
In its effect on art, Confucian teaching carried the
Chinese through the mists of religious symbolism and
obscurantism to the interpretation of nature herself. Chinese
poetry, which shows the influence of the Confucian scholar
most is most true to nature. The poet painters of China
were perhaps the first painters of natural truth in landscape.
Nature and the sages were the inspiration of their work.
They sought the mountain solitudes, where they got into
touch with nature, freeing their minds from the cobwebs of
superstition, their souls from the petty tyrannies and narrow
conventions of too much human intercourse, and their bodies
from the fetor of the cities by the pure air of the mountains,
the fragrance of the flowers and the music of the birds.
This craving for the mountains was an essential part of their
philosophy, a desire for solitude and communion with the
great heart of nature. An act of worship at a great natural
altar, leading to tranquillity, giving the poise essential for
acquiring a due sense of proportion and balance, and leading
to that harmony which was also the essence of the Greek
spirit. The poet painter having found solace and obtained
a glimpse of heaven would return to his study and set down
the ideas of his mind activated by his communion with
nature and by means of his brush create a picture from the
inmost recesses of his soul.
We have now reached what may be regarded as the
highest development of Chinese art-that of landscape
painting. The assessment of the true position of Chinese
painting in the history of comparative art is not yet deter-
mined but the tendency is to place it very high. It has,
indeed, been considered by competent critics as the greatest
school of landscape the world has ever seen. This is
probably an exaggeration, considering that Chinese painting
has scarcely developed beyond that of Giotto in figure paint-
ing. Pure landscape painting evolved late in Europe, say,
in the seventeenth century. Previously it had been a mere
accompaniment of figure painting.

24
GREEK AND CHINESE ART IDEALS
The Post-impressionism originated by Cézanne is
perhaps the only European school of landscape at all com-
parable with the Chinese. This resembled Sung landscape
in that it was synthetic rather than imitative, aiming at
painting the spirit rather than the body. Chinese paintings
often seem to be just guide posts to the imagination. At
first sight they appear to be careless or trivial impressionistic
sketches, but in reality prove to be full of subtle intellec-
tuality.
Burne-Jones is unconsciously in touch with Chinese
painting when he says "I mean by a picture a beautiful
romantic dream of something that never was-in a better
light than ever shone."
Lawrence Binyon in his "Painting in the Far East" says
"The great original art tradition of Europe has its home in
Greece; and the great original art tradition of Asia has its
home in China. Each race is pre-eminent in its feeling for
harmony and rhythm, the foundation of all art.
"
Ruskin, while developing his moral philosophy of art in
his "Laws of Fésole," defines the art of man as "The expres-
sion of his rational and disciplined delight in the forms and laws
of creation of which he forms a part." In other words art
is science materialised and is bound up with nature study,
especially with the discovery of the beauties of form and
colour ever present but not often seen unless the mind is
properly instructed to discern that which is best worth seeing.
Nature has a strong bias toward the beautiful. A carcase or
a garbage heap within a comparatively short space of time
is entirely purified by natural processes and covered with
flowers. There is no real death or loss of energy. The
death of one organism gives life or sustenance to another.
Decomposition and decay is merely a process in the creation
of new life. Except in those parts of the world which are
devoid of water all places unspoiled by man tend towards
the beautiful.