A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED¹
ISAAC MASON
Although our Society has been in existence over 60 years
and has published more than 50 volumes of the Journal, I
have been unable to discover that any paper has been given
dealing with the Moslems of China. It is, of course, well
known that Mohammedans have for a very long time formed
an appreciable part of China's population; while estimates
as to numbers vary considerably, and I need not stop now to
discuss the question, it may well be assumed that about
eight millions, or one-fiftieth of China's inhabitants, are fol-
lowers of the Prophet of Islam.
It is claimed by Moslem historians that during the life-
time of Mohammed, messengers were sent to China to pro-
pagate the Faith, coming by sea as far as Canton and
building the first mosque there. Another account tells of
Moslem emissaries travelling overland and reaching Si An Fu
in the seventh century A.D. and planting the Faith which
grew all the faster because of the settling in China of several
thousands of Moslem soldiers who married Chinese wives,
this source probably accounting for most of the Moslems
found in China to-day. The historic accuracy or otherwise
of these stories, as well as some other interesting points and
particulars of Chinese Mohammedanism, may be considered
in a future paper; but for the present I propose to deal
mainly with the central figure of Islam-Mohammed-and
with the rise of the Faith, as these are known to Moslems in
China.
The story of Mohammed must have made a deep impres-
sion on the minds of his followers in order, not only to keep
alive the Faith for over 1000 years at this great distance
from the cradle of Islam and amidst surroundings so alien
from those in which the Faith arose, but also to actually
grow and increase to its present dimensions. Nestorianism
disappeared like water into the sand, leaving no known
adherents in the whole country; and the same is practically
true of the Jewish communities of the past. The obser-
vances of the Moslem religion are such as to be difficult to
practice fully in China; there is very little aggressive religious
'Read before the Society, April 29, 1919.

160
A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
propaganda to be seen; only a small proportion of the Chinese
Moslems can read Arabic, and still fewer have been able to
visit their holy land and shrines. What, then, is the dynamic
of this religion which steadfastly refuses to be absorbed by
its surroundings, and glories in its claim to superiority, and
affects to despise all other systems? The tenacity of its
adherence to the worship of one True God must be given full
credit, and next to that I believe the personality of the
Prophet as understood and believed in by his followers, has
been a powerful factor in maintaining the Moslem religion,
especially in these lands far removed from its origin. It
will therefore be of some interest for us to discover what
the Chinese Moslems know or believe about Mohammed:
this is absolutely necessary for the student of religions in
China, and for all who desire to understand, and have intelli-
gent intercourse with, our Moslem neighbours.
It is sometimes implied that the Moslems of China are
more illiterate than the rest of the people, an implication
which requires further proof before it can be accepted as fact.
Certain it is that among the Moslems there have been, and
are, some clever scholars, this being evidenced by the number
of books and writings, mostly in Wenli style, which are to be
found. Many of these authors are acquainted with Arabic,
and quite a number of books in Arabic, or on that language,
as well as some bi-lingual, and of course others in Chinese
only, are in existence in China. The Arabic sources of the
life of Mohammed have thus been available to some Chinese
Moslems who have written in Chinese for the benefit of their
co-religionists or for outsiders, the wonderful story of the
Prophet. Much that is written is similar to what is already
available to us in translations into European languages-the
sources being the same; but there is a special interest in
getting the Chinese viewpoint and occasional comment,
which makes it worth while to translate some of the accounts
of what is more generally known, as well as some portions
which are omitted or lightly touched in the standard lives of
Mohammed to be found in English.
Among the writers referred to, perhaps none is more
famous, or wrote more copiously, than Liu Chih (Chai
lien) of Nanking who, 200 years ago, after long preparation,
wrote "The True Annals of the Prophet of Arabia,"
This is
afterwards published in 20 small volumes.
apparently the standard "Life" of Mohammed in Chinese;
I am not aware of any other, though there are many shorter
accounts to be found, most of them probably relying upon
the "Annals" of Liu Chih. This author wrote many other
books on different aspects of Islam, such as the Rites and

A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
161
Ceremonies, the Meritorious Acts, Philosophy and Faith,
etc., about which we cannot concern ourselves now, as the
"Annals" themselves are more than sufficient for one paper.
There are many prefaces and commendations of the
"Annals," written by admirers of Liu Chih, but I will only
give a summary of the author's own preface, with the
account of how he undertook the work. Telling of his long
preparation for becoming an author, Liu Chih says that, begin-
ning at 15 years of age, he spent eight years in study of the
Confucian books, followed by six years at Arabic, three years
at Buddhist, and one year at Taoist books. He then gave
attention to 137 kinds of Western books, after which he
concentrated on Arabic studies. He wrote several hundreds
of manuscripts and printed about one-tenth of them, chiefly
on the lines of the Canons of the Rites and Ceremonies, and
of Philosophy; and now he rounds off his writings by these
annals of the life and times of Mohammed, the whole scheme
being thereby completed. He tells of the difficulties and
discouragements he had to face and overcome; his relatives
and friends disliked his being such a bookworm, and not
attending to the usual affairs of life. He moved from place
to place, visiting many famous. spots and getting such
material and help as he could. He pursued his reading
among the dust of travelling carts and even when riding on
his beast.
Having written his first manuscript, he tried to get
criticisms and suggestions, but found his friends unwilling to
do anything but give compliments, which did not satisfy him.
At last he heard of a library of one Hsü, of Ts'eng Liu, and
thither he went, and came across a book of records of the
Prophet in the Arabic, which was fuller than anything he had
seen before; he rejoiced at this find as a mark of God's
favour, and set to work to re-write the whole of his
manuscript. At this time there was famine and pestilence
at Ts'eng Liu so he returned to the Three Mountains and
steeped himself in the work. After one year he moved again
to several places, finally going to Ho Yang where he remain-
ed three months and finished the work in 1724, having been
engaged on it for three years and changed places ten times,
during which he had travelled thousands of li and written
the whole manuscript over three times. After some further
remarks about difficulties, and with apologies for short-
comings, the writer commits his work to the patience of
readers, only wishing that it had been more worthy. The
manuscript remained unpublished for over 50 years owing to
lack of funds, until one Yuen Kweh Tsu raised subscriptions
for the purpose, and the book was published in 1779.
11
With

162
A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
this introduction, we now proceed to the Annals themselves
for our view of Mohammed and his times.
Of all created things between heaven and earth, man is
the most noble. The saints and prophets are the most
honourable among men, and Mohammed is the most
eminent among the prophets. There are many proofs of this
pre-eminence of the Prophet, some of which may be men-
tioned. His nature and principles were pre-existent in the
empyrean above the ninth heaven, the holiest of all places,
where even angels may not go. When he came to earth he
appeared in Arabia, which is the most honourable of the
seven continents of the world. Arabia has two most sacred
cities, Mecca and Medina; Mohammed was born in one and
died in the other. Arabia is the country where man was
first created, and Mecca is the central spot of the whole
world; that the Prophet should have been born there is
another evidence of his superiority. Again, Mohammed was
a descendant of the most noble tribe of Arabia: the time of
his appearing was also exceptional, as there never was a
time when learning and religion had such great influence as at
that period; the ability of mankind also reached its acme at
that time.
Mohammed differed from other prophets in that while
they were restricted, each one to his own time and place, and
were subsequently abrogated or superseded, Mohammed
transcends them all; he gathered together into one all their
teachings, and his doctrines and influence being universal and
eternal, they could never be abrogated or superseded.
Again, in ancestry the Prophet was superior, as his line,
extending right back to Adam, were all worthy men,
prophets and kings; they never worshipped idols, nor was
there any unclean person among them. This accumulated
virtue culminated in the Prophet, who was thus superior to
all others. Other prophets and worthies may be likened to
the stars, and Mohammed to the sun. God said to Jesus.
that all things were created solely on account of Mohammed,
so there can be no doubt that his was a very special life.
The roof of heaven bore his name, and on the gates of
heaven it was inscribed; the ancient books recorded it, and
angels and devils extolled it. The Prophet's own body bore
the mark of his name: his endowments and gifts and his
aspirations were all of the most honourable kind; there was
not a single thing connected with him which was not
superior, which is the reason why he is called the Most Holy
Prophet. Who, or what, is there, in heaven above or on

A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
163.
earth beneath, which can surpass the Prophet? Everything
reverts to him like the streams return to the sea. Who,
then, is worthy to be compared to the Prophet?
The precious Light of Mohammed, brilliant as the sun
and like a rare gem, was transmitted from Adam through
the successive generations: it was seen in the forehead of
each male in the direct descent, passing to the bosom of each
wife before the next heir was born, and then resting in the
forehead of the child until the next generation was due,
Mohammed was born 6130 years after Adam; the line of
descent branched off at Ishmael, the 22nd from Adam, and
names unfamiliar to most of us occur, until Hashim, the
great-grandfather of the Prophet is reached. He is said to
have been a man of exceptional benevolence and virtue,
bestowing benefits on all people, near and distant. Among
other offers of marrige, this man had one from the king of
Rome, of his daughter, whom Hashim declined because she
was a Roman Catholic. He received special command to
marry Salmah, who was of humble birth yet chaste and
good, and from this marriage sprang Abd ul Muttalib, the
grandfather of the Prophet. This man became an ac-
knowledged head of the Koreish tribe, and he was also the
keeper of the Kaaba. He is reported to have re-discovered
the well of Zem-Zem which is so famous to all pilgrims to
Mecca, and is said to be the spring which relieved the thirst
of Hagar.
Abd ul Muttalib had six wives and 10 sons, the sacred
Light being transmitted through his youngest son, Abdullah.
This account differs from others which give a list of seven
sons, Abdullah being the youngest but one, the youngest
being Hamza. On the night when Abdullah was born, it is
said that away in Syria people were aware of the birth by
reason of a sign which had been given by a former prophet.
The Jews and Christians were alarmed, and plotted to kill
Abdullah, as they knew that he would be the father of the
Prophet, and was therefore prejudicial to them. It may
here be noted that throughout the "Annals" the Jews and
Christians are represented as being in opposition to Moham-
med and constantly plotting to injure him; the historian
either does not realize the division between Jews and Chris-
tians, or else he supposes that the hatred of them both was so
strong as to cause them to forget their own divisions in the
intensity of their desire to put down the new religion.
When the gentry of Mecca realized that Abdullah was to
be distinguished as the father of the coming Prophet, they
proffered their daughters in marriage. None of these was
accepted, but Amina, the daughter of Wahb, was selected as

164
A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
a wife; it was said by Abbas that over 200 of the women of
Mecca vowed that they would never marry because they
could not have Abdullah!
be
The father and mother of Mohammed were both 25 years
of age when they married, and after five years the Prophet
was conceived and the light was transmitted. The conception
was announced by all things in creation saying one to
another: "The greatest of prophets has received the begin-
ning of life; henceforth everywhere under heaven there will
peace and tranquillity, and the world will be illuminated.'
All the watery tribes lifted up their heads towards heaven in
an attitude of thanksgiving and said: "The time has come;
the world has now a lamp." On that memorable day, from
the thrones of all emperors and kings there went forth a
ray of light, making an arc from each throne toward Mecca,
signifying that the rulers were as ministers bowing towards
the capital of their emperor.
Amina was informed in a dream of her felicity in being
the mother of the one who is foremost among men and
spirits, and the most eminent among prophets and emperors.
The name "Mohammed" was conveyed to her through
dreams and by a supernatural voice which directed that this
was to be the child's name.
It
Abd ul Muttalib told his son Abdullah about some won-
derful dates which grew at Medina, known as the "myriad
year" dates, which were able to cure all diseases and pains;
in size this date was, when dried, as large as a hen's egg.
would be very beneficial to secure some of these dates in
readiness for the coming happy event when mother and child
would find them useful. Abdullah thereupon set forth on
the journey to Medina, but died on the way; so Mohammed
was a posthumous child.
The grandfather took great care of the widow who, in
due time, gave birth to her wonderful son, fairies assisting, and
7000 angels in the form of youths surrounding the house to
protect him from evil spirits; each angel held a golden vase,
and they all sang praises to the virtues of the Prophet.
Then appeared three companies of angels with golden vases
filled with precious unguents and perfumes with which they
bathed the child, and then put green embroidered clothing
on him. After the ceremony a white cloud floated into the
room and enveloped Mohammed who was then taken up to
the heavens; when passing through the lower heavens he saw
and exchanged greetings with the ancient prophets and
worthies; upward he passed right into the ninth heaven, and
was there initiated into the deepest mysteries and had im-
parted to him the best knowledge of every kind.

A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
165
Meanwhile Abd ul Muttalib had gone to the Kaaba to
pray that all might go well with the mother and child, and
while there he saw a priest who, in great alarm, foretold that.
all the world would come under the control of this infant,
and the religion of the priests would be destroyed. On his
way back to the house, Abd ul Muttalib saw two of the hills
near Mecca lifted up several feet from the earth, and he
heard a voice in space speaking to him saying that the rich
and noble of all the earth would come to him. On entering.
the room, the grandfather was about to embrace the child,
but a mysterious voice told him to desist until after the
spirits had paid their court. Then the spirits of the nine
heavens and the seven earths gathered together and paid
homage to the Prophet.
The mother and grandfather took the child to the Kaaba
and returned thanks to God for the Prophet's birth; the
whole city congratulated and a great feast was made. Sur-
prise was expressed at the name Mohammed, as such had
not previously been known among them. The Jews and
Christians were alarmed as they knew that this was the name
reserved for the final prophet; they also knew that all the
signs agreed in showing this to be the expected One, but they
would not confess.
In Syria some ministers of the king saw a strange star
and divined that the final prophet was about to appear; the
same occurred in Abyssinia, whose king sent an envoy to
congratulate and offer precious gifts. The fire-worshippers
of Persia were amazed on the day of Mohammed's birth, as
their fires would not burn; they did not know that the Light
of the Prophet obscured and quenched their lights.
The year in which Mohammed was born was known as
the Year of the Elephants, because in an attack made upon
Mecca that year, the enemy had used elephants. The
attackers were defeated on the very day of Mohammed's
birth, he appearing that day purposely to cause their defeat.
Our author identifies the Year of the Elephants with the Pin
Ying year of Chung Ta Tung of the Liang
dynasty, which would be A.D. 564. The correct year was
probably A.D. 570. Chronology is not our author's strong
point, but some allowance must be made for the difficulty of
harmonizing the several methods of time calculation with
which he had to deal, and to which we may refer later on.
Mohammed, having safely entered this world, was tem-
porarily nursed by a slave girl who had previously nursed his
young uncle Hamza. But he was soon given over to the
care of a country woman named Halima of the Bani Saad
tribe, who took him away from the city, as it was the custom.

166
A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
to do with the children of the richer people of Mecca. We
are told marvellous stories of the experiences of the child and
his foster-mother. Prosperity came to Halima's family and
to the whole tribe, and even to the animals, because of the
presence of the wonderful child. It may be mentioned in
passing that it is stated seriously that all children born in the
same year as Mohammed were males, and that the old
became young again, and white hair became black; it is
added that such wonders had never been known before!
There was always a white light protecting Mohammed,
and a strip of white cloud always floated over his head, so
whenever he was missed he could be easily traced. As an
infant, Mohammed did not cry nor show impatience; he did
not take things with his left hand; whenever he ate or drank,
he always repeated "Tasmiyah" = "In the name of God the
Compassionate." He would sometimes repeat this in his
sleep. He would not play with the other children, but he
went with them to tend the sheep, and when Halima re-
monstrated with him for this, he replied that he wanted to
learn how to shepherd, having already the idea of shepherd-
ing people.
At two years of age he was taken back to his mother, who
was so pleased with his appearance and manners that she
asked Halima to take him a little longer, which was done.
One day, when Mohammed was about three years of age, he
had an alarming experience which he described by saying
that two men clad in white raiment had descended from
heaven, bringing with them a golden dish full of snow water,
and after putting him on the ground they cut open his body
and cleansed his viscera, and extracted therefrom some par-
ticles of black blood, after which the men re-ascended to
heaven. Halima feared that he had a demon and might
develop some malady, so she took him first to a doctor, and
afterwards to a diviner who discerned that this was the child
who would become the great opposer of idolatry, so he called
out that the child should be put to death, and so much
trouble be spared to Arabia. Halima seized Mohammed and
carried him off out of harm's way as soon as possible.
Halima and her husband being in fear, decided to return
the child to his mother; so Halima set out with this inten-
tion, but on nearing Mecca, at one of the resting places
Mohammed suddenly disappeared, to the great distress of his
nurse whose grief moved the people; someone suggested
that she had better go and ask the High Priest of a temple
near by, to help her. Our author refers to this individual as
"Huo Fu," Living Buddha, which is a misnomer for
the priests of the religion found at Mecca prior to the adop-

A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
167
tion of Islam. This was some form of idolatry, but not Budd-
hism or Lamaism. Liu Chih knew the title "Huo Fu" as used
in Thibet, so he adopted the ready-made term, regardless of its
being misleading to the Chinese reader. When this priest was
approached he was very much excited, saying that the child
they spoke of would ultimately destroy the priests' religion.
He sent a message, however, that the child was safe and
would be found. When Mohammed's grandfather was told
that his grandson was lost he set people to join him in the
search, promising great reward when the child was found;
Mohammed was found under a grape vine, and Abd ul
Muttalib gave 1000 camels and 1000 ounces of pure gold to
be distributed among the poor as a thank-offering, and also
richly rewarded Halima and sent her back in peace to her
home.
For some time previous to this there had been famine
and distress around Mecca; when Mohammed returned, the
five kinds of grain were plentiful and all the animals were
prolific; the people did not know the cause of this. There
were some who feared Mohammed, and plotted to destroy
him, but the grandfather hid him from them. When
Mohammed was six years of age, his mother Amina took him
on a visit of several months to relatives at Medina. On the
way back she was taken ill and died at Abwa. The faithful
nurse Umm Ayman brought the child back safely to Mecca,
where he was now more that ever under the care of his grand-
father who was very fond of him.
On the day when Mohammed was seven years old, he
and his grandfather, having been entreated by the people
because of drought, led the people in prayer for rain, and the
rain came when the prayers were ended. In this year, king
Saifu ascended the throne of Abyssinia, and the neighbouring
princes and rulers went to offer congratulations; Abd ul
Muttalib also went, and the king claimed relationship with
him and entertained him lavishly; the king privately asked
about his family affairs and about Mohammed, inquiring if
anything unusual had been observed in connection with his
birth; on hearing of the wonders, he perceived that Moham-
med was really the one who was to be the final prophet who
would cast out idols and images and destroy the fire-worship-
pers. The lavishness of the presents reported to have been
given by this king to Abd ul Muttalib and those who were
with him is worth mentioning; to each man of the company
was given twenty youths and twenty maidens, 40 ounces of
pure gold, 80 ounces of silver, a box of incense, and 100
camels; Abd ul Muttalib received ten times as much as all
the others.

168
A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
Soon after his return to Mecca, Abd ul Muttalib was
taken ill, and knowing that his end was approaching, he call-
ed his sons together to give them his commands and to
admonish them to take good care of Mohammed. Abu Talib
was appointed guardian, this according also with the boy's
own wish. Abd ul Muttalib died at eighty years of age,
when Mohammed was eight, and the boy took full share in
the mourning rites as well as if he had been grown up.
Abu Talib was a man of benevolence, wisdom and
valour; he was very fond of Mohammed and could not
bear to have him out of his sight. Special attention was
given by the family to Mohammed, and the other children
liked to be near him so as to benefit by the privileges of the
favoured one. One day when Talib and Mohammed were
out walking, they were very thirsty and had no water;
Mohammed stamped with his foot upon the ground, and
suddenly a clear spring bubbled forth from which they drank.
It is said that Mohammed refused to go with the others to
worship the local idols, but ran away and hid; when he saw
the many people who joined in the idol festivals, including
his uncles and other relatives, he exclaimed: "So flourishes
the religion of false devils! I vow that I will put an end
to it." At ten years of age his heart and viscera were again
cleansed, in preparation for his great work.
Abu Talib used to go on trading trips to Bosra, and as
he did not like to leave Mohammed, he took him along at
least once, while still a boy. When Mohammed was 21, his
uncle was going on another trip, and thought to leave his
nephew behind as he was now able to take care of himself,
but Mohammed begged to be allowed to go again, and was
permitted to do so; on this occasion, Abu Bekr, who was
then 18 years of age, went with them. As they approached
Bosra, Mohammed rested in the shade of a tree while Abu
Bekr went to buy some cakes, and on the way met Bahira,
a monk of the Christian religion, who entered into conversa-
tion with him respecting the young man sitting under the
tree; the monk said that this tree had been planted by Jesus
who used to sit under it to expound his Gospel, and he had
declared that no one else would sit under it until the final
prophet came; for 600 years no one had sat under the tree,
and now the man sitting there must be the expected prophet.
Bahira urged that great care should be taken of him, and he
also gave some precious things as presents. When Abu Bekr
heard these things he hastened back to repeat them, on
which account the Prophet said that Bekr was really the
first believer.

A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
169
About this time Mohammed was not very popular with
some of his own kith and kin who delighted to humiliate and
insult him. His uncle Zubair approached several elders, and
a meeting was held and things talked over, after which a vow
was taken for future harmony and mutual deference. A
digression at this point lays the blame for the strained rela-
tions upon the priests who are said to have destroyed the
human relationships, and ruined filial piety and other right
things. People were so under the spell of the priests, and
so anxious to please them that they would attack their own
relatives and behave disorderly.
When Mohammed was 23 years of age he frequently
dreamed that a spirit spake to him; he reported this to his
uncle Abu Talib who took him to see a famous wizard, a
man of the "religion of the Cross." It was some time before-
the wizard could make his diagnosis, but at last he saw a
flesh mark on the Prophet's back, upon which he declared
that this was no ordinary man as he had the seal of heaven
on him and there could be no doubt he had been sent by God.
The wizard advised that the matter be kept quiet, lest the
Jews should hear about it and seek to kill the Prophet.
When Mohammed was about 25 years of age, his uncle's
capital had diminished and he was in somewhat straitened
circumstances, so he suggested to Mohammed that he should
try to do business for himself, a proposal to which
Mohammed agreed. A wealthy lady named Khadija of very
generous tendencies, used to lend capital in a public spirited
way, without seeking undue advantage, and many people
benefited by her favours. This lady had decided not to
marry, says our author, for three reasons; her rank, her
talent and beauty, and her wealth, were all such as found no
peer, so she refused all offers, and now she was forty years.
of age.
We must here note that our author differs from
some others who state that Khadija was a widow who had
been twice married and had borne two sons and a daughter.
She had heard the fame of the Prophet, so was glad of the
opportunity to befriend him and at the same time get to
know more about him; so she lent him ten times as much
as he asked for and also sent with him her relative
Hudsaimieh and her servant Meisara; these two were secret-
ly commissioned to observe the actions of Mohammed and
report to Khadija.
On arrival in Syria, another incident of meeting a Chris-
tian monk is reported to have taken place; on this occasion
a withered tree wonderfully revives as Mohammed sits under
it, upon which the monk says that the tree was planted by
Jesus who left command that no matter how dry the tree-

170
A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
should afterwards become, it must not be cut down, as it
would revive when visited by the final prophet. The monk
therefore knew that the expected one had arrived, and it is
added that in the eighth year of the Hegira this monk entered
the Moslem Faith. On entering the city to which the
travellers were going, a fortune-teller who saw the hand of
Mohammed, declared him to be the final prophet, and added
that he should take precautions and hide, as Jews and
Christians would seek to injure him.
Having disposed of their wares to great advantage, the
party returned, and according to their custom when three
night's journey from Mecca, they planned to send one ahead
with a letter announcing their approach; the lot fell upon
Mohammed, but some said he ought not to go as he could
not endure the hard ride on a fleet camel, and besides he
would not know the way. In the early morning, while some
were beginning to prepare the breakfast, Mohammed mount-
ed his camel, and was carried along miraculously, arriving at
Mecca almost immediately. Khadija was glad to have the
letter so soon, and by the hand of her favourite. She gave
him a letter in return to take to the party, and he arrived
while they were still at breakfast! they, supposing that he
had lost his way and had come back to ask, were much
annnoyed. When Mohammed gave them the reply letter they
were astounded and thought there was some sorcery in the
matter, as the whole six stages had been covered while they
were busy about their breakfast.
The report of the observers being favourable, Khadija
set about planning to marry Mohammed, who at first declined
the honour, but finally yielded. A great wedding ceremony
was arranged; drums and trumpets were used to meet the
bride, but since that occasion, Moslems have not used these
instruments at weddings. Several children were born of this
marriage, but only daughters survived, the most famous of
these being Fatima, who became the wife of Ali, the nephew
of Mohammed.
For some years Mohammed seems to have lived a quiet
life, on good terms with those around him and esteemed by
many for his probity, as may be judged by an incident which
cccurred during the rebuilding of the Kaaba, which had
become necessary because of damage done by floods. At that
time the Koreish clan consisted of ten great families, and
these all agreed to share in the work, lots being cast to see
what share each should have. Mohammed also lent a hand
in the work. When the building had progressed to a certain
point, it was necessary to place the sacred Black Stone in
position, and the families vied among themselves for the

A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
171
honour of adjusting the stone; none would yield, and it
looked likely that serious trouble would arise, when someone
suggested that they should let the question be decided by
whoever first entered a certain gate; this was agreed to, and
the first comer happened to be Mohammed, at which all were
pleased, as they said he was a man they could trust. Moham-
med took off his cloak and spread it on the ground and put
the stone on it, then directed a representative of each family
to take hold of a part of the garment and lift the stone, then
Mohammed with his own hands guided it into position. The
others all bowed to his wisdom and marvelled at his strength,
as the Black Stone is of considerable size and weighs over
1,000 catties, and that one man should move it as easily as
if it was a reed, and that a thin garment should hold it in
the lifting without being torn, these were things of wonder.
It is, however, necessary to say here that the size of the
Black Stone is greatly exaggerated in this account; the
weight given above is more than half a ton! Burkhart says:
"The stone is an irregular oval about seven inches in dia-
meter." Burton says: "I found the aperture in which the
stone is, one span and three fingers broad." Mohammed told
the people that from this time forth the Kaaba would never
need to be rebuilt again.
At 38 years of age, the Prophet sometimes heard voices
in space above him, as though they were asking and answer-
ing questions; when in bed he heard sounds of praise; these
sounds sometimes moved around, as if they were following a
leader. He also saw a bright light appear in space, and from
his own body there emanated a light so that when he got up
in the dark, without any lamp or candle, things would be
seen as if in daylight. Sometimes when a thing was lost in
the dark, if Mohammed came they could see, and the thing
was soon found.
At this point our author discusses the relations of
Mohammed to older religions; he says that some say he
followed the religion of Moses, others say of Jesus, and yet
others say that he followed only his own religion; none of
these sayings are quite correct, as both before and after
receiving his divine commission, he followed the religion of
Abraham. When an infant he repeated the Takbir = "God
is very great;" and on all occasions he used to repeat the
Tasmiyah, = "In the name of God the Compassionate."
At eight years of age he hid from the priests and idols; young
as he was he knew to worship the God who is without form
or likeness. At his marriage, and at funerals, he used the
ceremonies of Abraham.

172
A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
In proof of the divine commission being given about this
time, we are told many stories of Jews, Christians, and
priests of other religions who bore witness to the fact. I will,
only quote one, about a high-priest at a temple near Mecca,
who was moved to call out in a loud voice that the great-
grandson of Hashim was the most eminent in heaven and
earth, the foremost of men and angels, and the leader of all
the prophets; he would destroy the false and establish the
true, and bring eternal peace. Most of the people who heard
did not know what he had been speaking about, but there was
a man named Abu Hulailieh sitting there who thought the
matter over carefully, and when three days later he heard
that the Prophet had received his commission and the sayings
of the priest were true, he straightway followed the Prophet.
Some people asked him why he had changed his religion and
he replied: "At first I belonged to the Jewish religion in
which they perform the ceremonials but do not know the
principles; next I belonged to the Roman Catholic religion
where they talk about the principles, but again I failed to
reach the principles themselves: for example, they say that
the Lord of Heaven is without form or likeness, yet they also
say that he descended to the earth; when he descended to the
earth he had form. They teach people not to worship idols,
yet they themselves worship images. I then followed the
religion of the idols-which I found to be a religion of devils,
and so discarded it. Hearing the fame of this priest I came
desiring to learn from him, and when I heard these words of
his. I rejected all the rest and followed the Prophet. It is
only the religion of the Prophet which is genuine in the
utmost degree, and about which there can be no doubt.
I rejoice that I have escaped the pitfalls, and have entered
the boundary of Heaven.'
"
Mohammed used to reverently meditate upon the Way,
and daily went to Mount Hira and would there wander
thinking over deep things until gradually he began to under-
stand the beginnings of the transforming power of the Way.
Early in his forty-first year he was asleep one night when
suddenly he became conscious that a spirit spoke to him
saying: "Mohammed! thy Way is pure! thy virtue is chaste!
the purity, loyalty and love of the past generations reach
their full brilliance in thee; the Only True God now com-
mands thee to enter upon the Prophet's office in the interests
of all under heaven. There is no deity but the True God and
thou art His appointed Messenger. Cause everyone to know
that they should worship the Only True God; destroy all
heresies and false sayings; receive the command and be not.
remiss in attending to it.

A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
173
Mohammed told his wife of this experience and she
rejoiced at it as an evidence of what she had been expecting.
These manifestations continued, and on one special occasion
when Mohammed was on Mount Hira he heard a noise in
the air and looking up he saw a venerable man of graceful
countenance, with a beautiful beard, sitting upon a brilliant
throne coming down from heaven; alighting upon the top of
the mount, he came down from the throne and assisted
Mohammed to ascend it, and put upon him an immortal robe
and crown.
After recovering somewhat from his fear,
Mohammed asked the venerable man who he was, and was
told that he was Gabriel, the head of the hosts of heaven who
had been sent specially to confer the commission upon the
Prophet, and to begin delivering the True Classic-the
Koran of which the first Sura was now given. The
Prophet at first found it difficult to repeat the words after
the angel, but Gabriel covered his head with a cloth and
shook him by the shoulder a few times, after which there
was no difficulty in remembering and repeating. Our author
here adds that the Koran has 6,600 chapters or Sura, the
Fatiha being the first one. In reality it is verses or lines he
means, as the Sura are only 114, and to count the whole
Fatiha of seven verses as only one of 6,600 portions is another
exaggeration.
The Prophet suffered physical and mental distress when
the manifestations came, and these are described in some
detail. Khadija was soon convinced that the revelations were
genuine and that her husband was the Appointed Prophet,
so she believed on him and was his first adherent. Moham-
med's friend Abu Bekr was one of the earliest and most
devoted followers; others were Ali the youngest son of Abu
Talib, and Othman; these three all eventually succeeding to
the Caliphate. When first the Prophet began propagating
the Faith he did not dare to do so openly, but confined
himself to his near relatives and friends; after the third
year of the Prophetship he gradually entered upon more
open efforts. Many of the people of Mecca followed him,
which disturbed the Jews and Christians, who went to com-
plain to Abu Talib about his nephew, but the uncle, while
not himself following the faith, yet defended the Prophet.
Our author now, in a digression, tells us how the Faith
spread abroad, and the Moslem empire came into existence;
he says that of all the dependent countries of "Tien Fang"
by which he means Mecca as the centre of the sub-
sequent Moslem empire-the central one was Arabia, and
around were Persia and Hindustan, Egypt and Abyssinia,
Syria and Irak and the Roman territory. The people of all

174
A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
these countries, when they heard that the Prophet had
received his commission, sent messengers with congratula-
tions and presents. It is said that there were in all 94
countries in subjection to "Tien Fang," being four empires
and ninety kingdoms, not less than 10,000 cities and towns.
We may here note that "Tien Fang" = "Heavenly square"
or "cube," is one of the names used for the Kaaba; it is
commonly used by Moslems for Arabia, more especially the
part known as the Hejaz. Liu Chih says: "Tien Fang is the
kingdom of Mecca;" elsewhere he says: "Asia is a general
term for Tien Fang," which, taken with the preceeding
paragraph, would seem to imply that the term is also used
of the Moslem empire.
The story of the first entry of Moslems into China is
told as follows. In the Far Eastern empire was the country
named Ch'ih Ni E, which is one of the names for the
Middle Kingdom (China). In the sixth year of K'ai Hwang
of the Sui dynasty, (A.D. 586) which was also the
first year of the prophetship of Mohammed, there was seen
in the sky a strange star; the Chinese emperor Wen Ti **,
(the dynastic title, while K'ai Hwang was the title of the
reign), commanded the Chief Astronomer to divine its mean-
ing and he said that an extraordinary person was appearing
in the West. The emperor sent an envoy to investigate if
this was really so, and after about a year he arrived at
Mecca he desired the Prophet to proceed to the east, but
he declined. The envoy secretly had a portrait of the Prophet
made to take back with him. The Prophet sent his maternal
uncle Saad Wakkas, and three others, to go with the envoy
and enter Ch'ih Ni. The emperor Wen Ti hung up the
portrait of the Prophet and worshipped it, and when he arose,
the scroll was there but the picture had vanished, at which
he was alarmed and told Wakkas, who said to him that the
Prophet had forbidden the worship of images and of knocking
the head on the ground to other men. The disappearing of
the picture was due to the influence of the Prophet. The
emperor then said: "This must surely be the Pure Emperor
and the True Prince." Whereupon he built the "Prophet
Remembrance" mosque at Canton. Saad Wakkas returned
to the West.
Broomhall in his Islam in China quotes, that Moham-
med "sent his portrait to the Emperor, but so painted that
the colours faded." This differs from Liu Chih's version.
Broomhall says further, after carefully sifting the evidence
for this tradition of early entry into China, that he concludes
that "the story cannot be accepted as trustworthy;" a
conclusion in which I feel bound to concur. Liu Chih having

A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
175
dated the Prophet's birth 24 years before it occurred, con-
tinues in error by making the supposed entry into China to
be in A.D. 587, when Mohammed was a youth of 17. Later,
when referring to the Hegira which took place in A.D. 622,
our author confuses the dates hopelessly, for which he may
be excused in view of the difficulty of harmonizing so many
calculations.
However much the Moslems of China might like to
think of the rapid success of the new Faith and its spread to
distant countries at once, our "Annals" have to tell of slow
progress at Mecca, with some hardships and persecutions.
Time will not permit me to give more than a hasty mention
of the events leading up to the Hegira or migration to Medina.
There were always some opposers at Mecca, not only Jews
and Christians, but also among the Koreish and Mohammed's
own family. Things became so uncomfortable that some of
the first believers removed to Abyssinia where a Christian
king received and befriended them. They returned upon
hearing that there had been a further revelation of the Book,
and that the opposers had conformed to the Faith. The story
of the lapse of Mohammed into recognition of the local gods
is not given, but another story of the people urging the
Prophet to become king, and he steadfastly declining the
honour, is told. This is given as the cause of the tension
which followed, including the personal attacks on Moham-
med, on whom the Jews and Christians are said to have once
fastened a saddle from which his daughter had to release
him; they also derided the Faith as being "the religion of the
camel-driver. A second migration to Abyssinia took place,
and negotiations were opened with some residents of Medina
about a possible removal to that city.
In the twelfth year of the Prophetship, Mohammed is
said to have made another ascent into heaven, riding on an
immortal steed, and escorted by Gabriel as far as the seventh
heaven where the guide had to stay while the Prophet pro-
ceeded to the ninth heaven. This journey was accomplished
in one night, and it is stated that as a proof of it there still
remains a suspended stone from which the Prophet mounted
his horse for the journey.
Preparations were at last completed for a peaceful migra-
tion to Medina, which henceforth became the city of
residence of the Prophet, and from which his conquests
began. There are a few thrills of excitement in the Prophet's
escape from pursuers, and some marvellous occurrences
connected therewith. The limits of this paper will not permit
of my dwelling upon these, or of any detailed following of
the Prophet's career after he resided at Medina. The Chinese

176
A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
"Annals" agree in the main with the history which can be
read in Sir William Muir's "Life of Mohammed." The famous
battles are described at considerable length, also the sub-
mission or coercion of the surrounding tribes. The assassina-
tions and massacres receive no condemnation, but rather
approval. The final triumph over Mecca is naturally exulted
in. The last ten years of Mohammed's life, while showing
the success of a conqueror and the quick spread of a religion
backed by force, do not call forth our admiration of the
Prophet, so I am relieved that space limits prevent my
putting them before you. But I must refer to the domestic
affairs of the Prophet, as these are known casually to most
people, and it is interesting to see the Moslem comment on
them. There can be no doubt that Mohammed's first wife,
Khadija, was an excellent woman and was of very great help
to the Prophet. Her wealth enabled him to devote himself
to religious meditation and to good deeds, and her wisdom
and sympathy and encouragement were of incalculable help in
the earlier years. She is said to have been the first believer.
One would like to know more about her. For 25 years as
husband and wife they seem to have lived happily together,
and Mohammed was contented and showed none of the
uncontrolled passion which marked his later years. The
Moslem Faith owes very much to Khadija, without whom
Mohammed might have been a very different person.
Soon after Khadija's death, Mohammed married Sauda,"
and was betrothed to Ayesha. Our author says that the
believers pressed the Prophet to take a wife, lest he should
leave them and go away. They offered wealthy and honour-
able ladies, but Mohammed declined them saying that as he
had had a rich wife before, it would now conduce to his
virtue to have someone who was very poor, so he chose
Sauda.
Ayesha was the daughter of the Prophet's life-long friend
and stalwart disciple Abu Bekr; she was only six years old
at the time of her betrothal. It is said that both Abu Bekr
and the child urged the match, but it is also probable that
Mohammed adopted this means of binding to him the father,
though it must be acknowledged that he was devotedly
attached to Ayesha. The marriage took place when the girl
was nine years old, and she was the only virgin bride among
the eleven wives of Mohammed, the others all having been
married before. In the Chinese history most of the brides are
spoken of as virgins of special beauty and virtue, who had
refused all offers of marriage, being reserved for the Prophet.
Although the names of eleven wives are given, yet it is
repeatedly stated that the Prophet had nine wives, according

A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
177
to divine command; as Khadija died before the polygamy
commenced, and one other died after being married but a
short time, the Prophet did not actually have more than nine
wives at one time. Our history credits him with seven con-
cubines also. The subject is discussed in a note as follows.
"If anyone asks if it was really the case that the Prophet had
nine wives and seven concubines, we answer, certainly; and
if it be questioned why did he need so many, we reply, on
purpose to prove the completeness of his standing as the
highest Prophet and to demonstrate that the pure brightness
of the Prophet could stand searching examination, and
nothing could obscure it. Our Prophet, having been up to the
ninth heaven, did not regard even the heavens as wonderful,
and so to have nine wives and seven concubines and not have
his virtue interfered with by ordinary passion, was not re-
garded as extraordinary, seeing that he was the Prophet.
It may be said that as the Prophet was daily occupied with
exhorting men and at nights with exhorting spirits, he would
have no time to give to his wives or to domestic affairs, so
was it not useless to have so many wives? It may be
answered that the Prophet was a holy man, and the wives
and concubines were excellent women, and they all con-
sidered it their chief duty to assist virtue in bringing about
transformation; how then could they give much attention to
marital or domestic affairs? Moreover there is an important
principle contained in this matter which must not be over-
looked; the nine wives were a symbol of the nine heavens, and
the seven concubines were a symbol of the seven earths.
Ordinary men live between heaven and earth, and who is
there that is not allured by heaven and earth? The Prophet
was superior and could not be enticed by his nine wives and
seven concubines, which was a symbol that he could not
be allured by the nine heavens and the seven earths." In a
passage subsequent to the foregoing, we are told that
Mohammed declined the offer of another lady, on the plea
that he had been commanded that nine was the full comple-
ment allowed him!
The pathetic story of Mohammed's last days, the tender
care shown towards him in his last illness by his wives and
friends, his parting injunctions and his last prayers, these
would be of interest to tell of; but they must be passed over
at present. Suffice it to say that he died at Medina, in
A.D. 632, in the 63rd year of his age, and was buried under
the spot where he died.
As my object is largely to show the Mohammed believed
in by the Moslems of China, I must before closing, refer to
the miracles and wonders connected with Mohammed, as
12

178
A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
these have much to do with the exalted picture drawn of the
Prophet and with the assurance of the Moslems that theirs
is the Pure and True religion. Mohammed himself never
claimed the power to work miracles, but the traditions have
fully made up for this, and for hundreds of years these
traditions have passed current in China. Our learned author
says that the wonders connected with the Prophet were very
many, some of which have been given in the "Annals" with
the years and months, by which their genuineness can be
examined; many others of which the actual time is not to be
discovered, may yet be given in an appendix, among which
are the following:-
:—
On one occasion a battle had gone on so long that the
time for evening prayer passed without notice, but when
Mohammed prayed, the sun rose again three rods and gave
time to attend to the devotions before it went down. Some
scoffers challenged the Prophet to divide the moon, which,
by prayer, he did. The scoffers said it was done by sorcery,
but later when those who had been travelling came and told
of their observance of the wonder, the scoffers believed.
upon
One of Mohammed's followers was hunting a deer which
ran to the Prophet and told him that it had a fawn dependent
àit for nourishment and pleaded to be let off and it would
come later and give itself up; it took an oath to this effect,
and the Prophet had compassion on it and let it go; in due
time the deer came back, upon which the Prophet com-
mended its faithfulness, and again released it.
A revengeful woman made a present of a lamb which
had been steeped in poison. This was prepared for eating,
but when Mohammed partook the lamb spake and
warned him. One of the disciples who ate the flesh died of
poisoning.
A bird flying in the air let fall a golden slip on which
was written that Mohammed was the Apostle of God; trees
also repeated the Kalima as a witness. On one occasion when
someone asked for a proof, Mohammed told him to tell a
certain tree that the Apostle of God wanted it, and the tree
arose with all its roots and walked towards the Prophet, and
afterwards returned to its place.
It is said that stones on the hills, and the grasses and
trees, bore witness to the Prophet, and did obeisance to him.
Camels and sheep also bowed their heads to the ground before
him, but he would not permit any man to do so.
Many cases of healing of diseases are given; a man who
was born blind receives sight at the intercession of the
Prophet; others are healed by his blowing upon them, or
making spittle with which to anoint them. One man of 80,

A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
179
the pupils of whose eyes had become white, was cured so that
he could see to thread a needle. Once when the Prophet was
using spittle to cure a man, some bystanders ridiculed; the
sick man was cured, and before long the scoffers died of the
same disease. Wounds received in battle from swords and
poisoned arrows, were healed by Mohammed in miraculous
ways. Headaches were cured, and lunatics and lepers were
healed by having applied to them water in which Mohammed
had bathed.
Several cases of the dead being raised are given; a
woman who was drowned was called back to life by the
Prophet; a young man had died, and his elder brother who
was blind came to tell the Prophet that the deceased was just
about to embrace Islam when he was cut off, and now the
blind brother had nobody to depend upon; Mohammed
prayed and the dead revived, and both brothers followed the
Faith. Two brothers were playing and one accidentally killed
the other, and then in grief threw himself down from a high
place and was killed; Mohammed had pity on the parents,
and told the mother to call her children, and they both came
to life again. A man was killed in battle, whose mother was
old and had no one to depend upon; when the Prophet heard
of it he told them to seek for the body of the slain, and then
he placed his hand upon it and prayed, and the man revived
as if from a sleep.
During one of the battles it was desired to feed the
troops, and a pint of wheat and one sheep were made suffi-
cient for 1,000 men, and there was as much left in the
kettle at the end as at the beginning. On another occasion
there was a shortage of water, and the Prophet gave order
to gather together all the water vessels of the camp, and then
as he pointed his finger over them, they overflowed with water.
A single jug of water was all that could be found on one
occasion when it was time for the ceremonial bath; Mohammed
used it first; then handed the jug to another, and so it passed
on to 1,500 people, all having sufficient. Sometimes the
water of wells was found to be bitter or unpotable, and the
Prophet obligingly purified or made sweet the water by the
simple process of spitting into it. In the case of the Zem-Zem
well, it is said that after this operation the water was not
only sweet and fragrant but was also efficacious in healing all
manner of diseases!
After the Prophet's death people took the utensils which
had been used to cook his food, and filled them with water,
which, when drunk, healed all kinds of diseases. The
daughter of Abu Bekr retained a garment of the Prophet, and
sick people who could not be cured by medicines, if they put

180
A CHINESE LIFE OF MOHAMMED
on this garment, or even used the water in which the garment
had been dipped, were made whole again. Lastly we may
mention the man who had the good fortune to discover three
hairs which had fallen from the Prophet, and these he con-
cealed in his head-gear and he became a terror to the opposers.
and to the false demons, being ten times more valiant than
he was before the hairs came into his possession!
We now take leave of the Prophet of Arabia, hoping that
we have done him no injustice as we have spoken of him; and
we give a tribute of thanks and appreciation to our good
friend Liu Chih for any interest afforded by this brief review
of his work of long ago. He rests from his labours, and it is
certain he never dreamed that his "Annals of the Prophet"
would one day be discussed before such a Society as this, or
achieve such publicity before foreigners as we may yet be-
able to give it.