CHINA'S PETRIFIED
SUN-RAYS¹
HERBERT CHATLEY, D.Sc. (London)
The majority of people do not realize that the basis of
what is termed modern civilization is not so much Christianity
or the Reformation or Græco-Roman political ability or a
mysteriously omnipotent character in the European, but
simply and almost wholly the exploitation of coal or petro-
leum. England maintains effective union with a great
Empire because she has applied coal to navigation. (Nowa-
days one ton of coal will carry one ton of cargo 20,000 miles
in large ships). America, France, Japan (and until recently
Germany) owe their enormously rapid growth and world-wide
influence to the possession and use of large supplies of coal.
Japan, unless she can obtain Manchurian and Chinese coal,
will not rise greatly above her present degree of development,
and England herself is doomed to loss of preeminence as soon
as her coal supplies fail as they probably will do in the course
of very few centuries. This last pessimistic remark perhaps
needs a little explanation. The coal in England is already
difficult to get owing to depth and water, and the largest
estimates do not indicate that it will be worth while to mine-
the mineral after some three or four hundred years. The
efficient electrical transmission of energy may enable Eng-
land's water-power to maintain her industries at the present
status but other countries such as the U.S.A. will by that
time have grown enormously.
In order to explain very simply how this extraordinary
state of affairs comes about, perhaps you will allow the
speaker to state a few simple facts about coal. One pound
of coal used in a moderately efficient steam engine will pro-
duce about one-third of a horse-power for an hour, or since a
man working hard produces about one-tenth of a horse-power,
three pounds of coal are equivalent to the work of an un-
skilled labourer for a day. Taking Chinese conditions, it
follows that the real value of coal in terms of labour at even
as low a wage as $0.20 per man per day is at least one hundred
Read before the Society, February 26th, 1920.

-46
CHINA'S PETRIFIED SUN-RAYS
and fifty dollars per ton. Similarly in England where heavy
manual labour now gets some 10s. per day the real value of
a ton of coal properly used is at least £35 per ton. (In some
ways the value is even greater, because power plants enable
concentrations of energy to be obtained which are quite
impossible with men alone). Let us put it another way.
An unskilled labourer spends say 50 years of life (from 15
to 65) on repetition work, 10 hours a day for 300 days a year.
His whole life's work can be done by 20 tons of coal, which
consumes nothing! The coal output of the United Kingdom
is about 250 million tons or over six tons per head per annum.
Even if only one of these six tons per head is put into power,
it makes the mechanical energy of an Englishman over three
times that of the national of a non coal-owning country.
Without coal or oil, all the great carrying trade of the
world would vanish and leave transport conditions but little
better than they are in the interior of China. Oil and
elevated water can compare in some way with coal, but for
many years they themselves will depend on coal-made
machinery to use them. Oil is also probably so deficient in
quantity that its price will always be much greater than that
of coal, and at the best it can but be used as a convenient
substitute for coal. Oil will also probably be derived from or
used in combination with coal in the near future. The
utility of dust coal is also rapidly increasing. Water power is
localized and can only be transmitted with loss or stored for
transport in electro-chemical "accumulators" which are
really an expensive and very heavy kind of artificial fuel.
Water would have to be raised five hundred miles above the
earth to begin to compare weight for weight with coal in
potency.
China possesses great stores of coal. Even now her
output is almost equal to that of Japan, some thirty million
tons per annum. Most of this is, however, locally consumed
for heating. In North China where there is practically no
timber, coal is particularly in demand for this purpose. How
much coal is required to heat human beings up to a moderate
standard of comfort is a little uncertain, but almost certainly
one ton a year per head is not far from the figure. If you
consider that in a moderate sized foreign house in China
perhaps fifteen tons per annum is burnt providing heat for
say three individuals and four servants, it is quite obvious
that in smaller houses with many persons, one ton per head
per annum can provide enough heat. Obviously at present
nothing like so much is used in China. In Shanghai only about
two piculs of firewood or charcoal per head of the Chinese
population per annum are used in addition to a very small

CHINA'S PETRIFIED SUN-RAYS
47
Con-
quantity of coal. Even in the North, clothes are principally
relied on for conserving warmth, but much efficiency and
comfort is doubtless lost by undue loss of bodily heat.
sidering the great plain and its border ranges and including
the lower Yangtze Valley, we may say that China cannot go
ahead on Western lines until she produces and uses some
ten times as much coal as at present. Then things will begin
to happen. In the meantime, however, the Chinese author-
ities, gentry and merchants not unnaturally fear that the
admission of a preponderant share of foreign capital into coal
mining will also mean loss of political control. Already in
this way they have mortgaged the larger parts of their
interests in the principal developed collieries to foreigners
and, although the effective surplus value which can be
obtained by Chinese purchasers of the outport still remains
appreciable, there is an unavoidable tendency for much of the
real benefit of the enterprises to be reaped by the foreigner.
In addition to this opposition to foreign investment, however,
the Chinese are following a general policy which is, for the
time being, arresting development. First of all, there are
the taxes, $0.30 per mow of concession per annum plus ten
per cent. of the local value of the output (in actual fact
5% is supposed to be levied in Honan, and $0.05 per ton in
Chihli, and 15% in Kirin). Secondly, there are the likin
charges amounting, according to Mr. Liang Chi-chao, to
from 6-10%, but reputed to be much more in many cases,
as well as causing much extra expense by delaying the
transportation. Thirdly, there are irregular charges made
by officials at the mines and along the transport routes.
Fourthly, the methods of transport are inefficient and ex-
pensive. Lastly and by no means least the merchants
themselves, on the principle of maximum immediate profit,
hold the prices up to as near the standard set by foreign ccal
as possible. As a result the purely Chinese mines remain
in an undeveloped condition and cannot afford to get advice
and instal pumping plant and hoisting machinery which
would enable them to get the cumulative benefits which
accrue from large output.
Another factor in the situation is the fact that most of
the mines are situated away from the main traffic routes and
are therefore much affected by bad transport and also by
social disturbances, particularly when the coal is in transit.
To illustrate the actual state of affairs, it may be
remarked that while during the fourth year of the Great War,
Shanghai was paying over $20.00 per ton for coal, there were
many mines within 300 miles of Shanghai where the cost of
the coal at the pit's mouth was certainly well under $5.00

48
CHINA'S PETRIFIED SUN-RAYS
per ton and may even have been as low as $1.00 per ton.
Near to a line drawn from Huchow, a city 90 miles from
Shanghai just S. W. of the Tai Hu, almost due west to Tat' ung
on the Yangtze (250 miles from Shanghai by air line or about
320 miles by the river), there is a whole series of mines, of
which the following are actually known:-
Li Shan
Wu Tung Shan
Nan Kao and Wu Shan
Hsiao Niu Tou Shan
Shui Chang
Ta Wang Tsun
Chiu Li
Ku Lou Pu
Yao Tou Ling
Kao Tsun
Pei Ma Shan
near Ch'ang Hsing
near Kuangte Chow
near Shui Tung
near Ching Hsien
near Lu Kiang
The western part of this country is rather mountainous,
but none of the mines are very many miles from a river
navigable by cargo boats. $5.00 will certainly transport one
ton twenty miles over land or one hundred miles by water.
Still more important is the cost of landing and unlanding and
this especially should be tackled.
At the present time owing to the smallness of the pro-
duction, the output of these mines is entirely used locally for
heating, lime burning, etc.
In addition to these mines, there is coal in the Nanking
hills between Nanking and Chinkiang, particularly at Lung
Tan and Chi-Hsia Shan (Lone Tree Hill). The quality and
quantity are doubtless small, but it is very improbable that
these places are quite worthless. The writer is partially
indebted to Mr. V. K. Ting, the Government's geologist, and
also to Mr. Behrents for information as to some of these
mines. Mr. Ting, the Director of the Government Geological
Survey, has recently made a report for the Conservancy Board
which shows the geology of many of these mines.
The work of Pumpelly, David, Richthofen, Willis and
Blackwelder, Andersson and Ting have made the general
geology of China fairly clear. Speaking very roughly, it may
be said that the whole of China proper and Southern Man-
churia shows a tendency to parallel folding in a S. W.-N.E.
direction intersected (especially in the West) by a W.N.W.-
E.S.E. series of folds. As a result of this folding and sub-
sequent erosion, the strata recur periodically and the carboni-
ferous strata occur in a series of synclines or troughs exposed
by erosion almost all over the country. There is probably a
larger proportion of outcrop of the carboniferous series of

CHINA'S PETRIFIED SUN-RAYS
49
rocks in China than in any other country of its size. This
does not, of course, mean that actual coal is to be found in
absolute profusion since the carboniferous series is very thick
and the actually exposed surface may be below the coal or at
a prohibitive height above it. Furthermore, while coal seems
to have been found where the strata are accessible in some-
what similar thicknesses (perhaps aggregating to 20 ft. or
even more), in any one locality it may be in very thin beds,
have been destroyed by exposure or heat, or contain so much
inert matter as to render it of little value.
Nevertheless, it is quite certain that the actually work-
able deposits in China are such as to warrant the opinion that
the industrial importance of China or any adjacent country
which can command China's coal supply can become of the
very first order.
In spite of all common assertions and belief to the con-
trary, man is not really interested in events which may occur
at a distance in time not personally affecting grand children.
In the speaker's opinion this question of China's coal supply
is one which will actually develope within a short time.
The oldest men, whom middle aged men now clearly remem-
ber, saw the rise of the coal era in Europe and America.
The young men now living may actually see China, one of,
if not the first of, the leading industrial countries of the
world.
As you are probably aware there is a strong movement
afoot for making Shanghai an ocean terminal for first class
shipping. This will be very difficult, unless there are ample
supplies of cheap coal for bunkering. At present Shanghai
imports about a million and a quarter tons of coal per annum,
about half Japanese and half Chinese (mainly Kaiping coal)
of which one quarter of a million is used for bunkering.
With fully developed shipping, at least a million tons per
annum will be required for bunkering alone. Over two
hundred thousand tons of coal per annum are transformed
in the Shanghai power stations and this will easily increase to
half a million as industrial development continue. Further
population and the increased use of coal by the Chinese will
make further demands so that there is nothing unreasonable
in supposing that within a very few years Shanghai alone will
need some three million tons of coal per annum. Japanese
sources are limited, the price of Japanese coal is high and
will rise if exchange falls, and there is five hundred miles of
transport. Kaiping coal which now totals upwards of four
million tons per annum may, perhaps, meet the demand, but
it must be remembered that the distance is great and there
will be an increasing call for that coal elsewhere as well.
4

(
MORIAL
念紀氏蒯
館書同
LIBRARY
CHINA'S PETRIFIED SUN-RAYS
On the whole there seems a definite case for a stimulus to be
applied to the development of the local mines. Whether
this is to be done by loans on favourable conditions,
gratuitous technical advice, machinery at specially cut rates,
or government bounties, is open to question. Probably the
problem would partly solve itself, were the Nanking-Hunan
Railway to be constructed, but in the meantime, local
interests should become aware of the situation.
The romance of coal is one which well pays consider-
ation. All life owes its being to the sun and the Japanese
are not so far off the mark in regarding Amaterasu-Omi-Kami
as the supreme being. In those early days when the atmos-
phere was heavy with carbon dioxide, the sun produced a
profusion of vegetable life and separated the elements of that
gas, providing on the one hand, coal, and on the other the
indispensable oxygen. The two elements yearn to be recom-
bined and by harnessing part of the energy of their combina-
tion man has attained to powers which a very few centuries
since would have been termed magical. Coal is far more
valuable than gold since the latter's value is purely a social
convention whereas that of coal is a physical fact which
makes a certain quantity of it equal mechanically to man
himself. Petroleum is even more precious for similar reasons
but is less likely to serve permanently the demand, especially
in China. There are, moreover, other objections to petroleum.
Special vessels are required to carry it; it is very inflamm-
able; leakage and evaporation losses are serious; it is much
more localized than coal; expensive distillation is necessary to
purify it; delicate machinery is required to use it for power.
There is no immediate prospect of infra-atomic energy
becoming available and the direct use of sun-rays is not
financially practicable at present. Seeing that coal consists
of fixed sun-ray energy, which has taken many centuries to
accumulate, it is obviously more efficacious than direct sun-
light can be.