THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTA-
TIONS OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED
IN HISTORY
OR
THE TAO CONFIRMED BY
HISTORY*
12th Essay in Huai Nan Tzu
EVAN MORGAN
INTRODUCTION.
The paper this evening will introduce us to the twelfth
essay of Huai Nan Tzu-this term means The Philosopher
South of the Huai-Huai Nan is the name of a small
principality. The work was composed by its prince, hence
the name. The author's personal name was Liu An, a
nephew of the famous Liu Ch'ang, and grandson of the
founder of the Han Dynasty. He was born in 162(?) B.C.
and died 122 B.C. He was made Prince of Huai Nan, but,
accused of being involved in political intrigue by Wu Ti,
who esteemed him highly, he committed suicide before the
arrival of the commissioners sent to examine into the
accusation.
The times were out of joint and cursed and little con-
genial to a man of philosophic temperament. Liu An was
brought up in a court full of corruption and intrigue.
Empresses and concubines fomented trouble and promoted
murder and massacre to attain the fulfilment of selfish
schemes. Usurpation of powers however by unscrupulous
factions could only last for a time. The usurpers in turn
were driven from power by the assassin knife or some such
means. The ruthless extermination of rivals to benefit one's
own more immediate kin, placed helpless children in jeopardy
and made them the playthings of the whims of passing
factions. When force and ambition prevail, and wily machin-
ations and crafty schemes for power predominate in the
*Read before the Society.
1

2
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
counsels of state, the hapless condition of politics may be
imagined. The blood that flowed in decadent imperial
Rome was almost contemporaneous with similar play of
human passions in China. In both countries the times were
turbulent and the age was military. Where law and justice
fail to animate the mind of those in authority, "thieves and
bandits multiply."
It seems necessary to say that much at least on the
history of the period to enable us to create for ourselves the
conditions in which the young prince grew up to manhood.
The din of arms and the schemes of shifting policies were
the common events of life. To a humane and sensitive.
mind, to a keen student of human affairs, it must have been
a perplexing time. Political conditions led him probably to
test the validity of the foundations of society and the art of
government. The prevailing disorders, the inhumanity and
injustice of politics, must have suggested to his perplexed
mind whether there could be any real law in the universe,
and whether all did not fall out by the fortuity of chance
and human passions. Was the art of government as
preached by Confucius of any value to human institutions,
and were the multitude of prescriptions of outward deportment
of any practical service? The scums of evil seem to pre-
dominate and leave virtue out of account. Was it then that-
"The pillared firmament is rottenness
And earth's base built on stubble."
He turned to history and experience for an answer.
Experience must be the great teacher and the guide of the
philosopher. From an examination of this source he evidently
found that-
Evil on itself shall back recoil
And mix no more with goodness, when at last
Gather'd like scum, and settled to itself
It shall be in eternal restless change
Self-fed and self-consumed.
What scraps of history there were within his reach, in
that ancient time, proved this much to him, as is clear in
the essays he wrote. How then could misrule be explained
and the unruly condition of the age be accounted for? Simply
because men had a wrong view of life. They went astray
because they tried to exercise their own untutored fancies
and followed the lead of passions. What they should have
done was to listen to the spirit voice within, and follow that.
Thus there was the Non-action so often mentioned. Follow
the light and your energies will have full scope, in the right
way. By the adoption of written enactments and pre-
scribed formulae government of men must fail. Mere

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
3
The only
human wit and knowledge will fail of success.
sure way is to have the springs of action centred in the
inspiration of the eternal and inexhaustible Spirit. Let a
man draw on this inexhaustible and unfailing supply-and
he will have at command abundant powers. But this de-
mands a sense of poverty of spirit-the only condition
that will ensure the true riches of life.
The creations of the sages, the laws and ceremonial
prescriptions then, it may be assumed, were artificial and
harmful. Since they were an obstacle to these very con-
ditions; and at best the maxims and ceremonials were dead
and lifeless things, and incomparably inferior to the touch
of the human spirit by the spirit of the vital and ever
mobile Tao. Dead law and lifeless traditions wither all
progress in their icy hands. The Tao is clear, limpid, vital,
active, always operating and operative. Let men lean on
this, and cease from self-action. Thus their non-action
would be supremely efficient.
The philosophy of Confucius then was a failure: since
his method relied too much on human ingenuity. But there
was a more original mind at hand in the exposition of the
true art of life. Lao Tan had preached a more mobile truth.
His Tao was fundamentally more suited to the world. This Tao
was great: it filled Heaven and Earth; it was macrocosmos
and microsmos. It filled everywhere and everything and
pervaded even the non-spatial. Liu An then grasped a more
spiritual idea of the Universe and life than was outlined in
the minutiae of the sages. The guidance offered by the
maxims of books was unreliable and insufficient. The
necessary thing was to have the mind of the ruler under the
immediate and direct guidance of the Tao. Thus equipped,
the ruler would always be able to meet the varied events of
life, and he never need be nonplussed by the infinite flux
of circumstances.
Contemporary literature was not held in any high
esteem. Brute force was what the militarists of the day
extolled. Literature was decadent in ruling circles. The
land had been robbed of civil dignity by the burning of the
books. Scholars did not venture to pride themselves on their
art. Confucianism did not wield its later autocratic powers.
Therefore there was no predominant school of thought.
They were all equally looked on with contempt. In that
respect at any rate it was more easy to have a free dis-
cussion of ideas. Probably therefore it was not difficult to
examine and formulate independent systems of thought.
A man could belong to any school of thought without being
under the stigma of unorthodoxy.

THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
It is therefore likely that Liu An investigated the
writings and systems of past ages. Dr. E. H. Parker
concludes that the philosopher must have been a diligent
student of Kuan Tzu, and incorporated many of his ideas,
as is evident from an examination of the 21 essays. However
that may be, his mind was influenced mostly by the trite
and luminous maxims of Lao Tan. In the essay before us
he tests his "law" by historical examples, and in turn, each
historical example is illumined by a saying of Lao Tzu.
We are not told how he became so much under the
influence of this great sage. Possibly it might have been
through his wife. Incidentally we may have here a glimpse
into the home life of Liu An. His wife was evidently a
student. She was in possession of a very rare book. Shall
we call it her book of devotions? The author of this work
was reputed to be Lao Tan and its name was the Tao Tê
Ching. This evidently was the home classic. The lady and
her husband had possibly committed it to memory.
That
was the safest thing to do in those turbulent times. And
the frequent quotations in his writings lead us to think that
it was so. He and she knew it by heart. Its teaching at
any rate seem to have become the ideal of their life and
through them to have coloured the stream of Chinese
thought.
At one time it is known that to avoid the suspicions of
being a politician he had withdrawn into the seclusion of
the study. He gathered round him twenty or thirty cele-
brated scholars-all more or less imbued with the principles
of Taoism. It was during this time of seclusion that these
essays were composed. Whether they are actually the work
of the prince himself or the result of the collaborateurs is
uncertain; at any rate they went forth under his name, and
he became the philosopher of Huai Nan. In a way this
reminds us of King Alfred and the scholarly men he gathered
round him. He set them to make translation of history,
Bothius's Comforts of Philosophy, history, poetry and so on.
And Huai An Tzŭ and his scholars ransacked history and
philosophy creating the compendious collection of essays
before us to-day. He and Alfred attained some results
that were similar. Alfred made English the richest language
of Europe, and Huai Nan Tzu created a new style for China,
chaste and elevating: and if difficult to understand in some
parts, yet the style is excellent if not faultless, and the mass
of historical events has been of great profit. Possibly
Ssu Ma Ch'ien pored over these pages, and found in them
much material for his great history. The ideas of this
ancient writer have done much to form Chinese ethical and

外交部藏書
OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
5
political thought and to create those group thoughts" that
have done so much for the world.
His method and treatment will help all students to
understand the principles of Taoism. In the abstract these
are not easily understood as they are enshrined in the cryptic
sayings of Lao Tan. But here we have a practical com-
mentary on these sayings. The Tao is to be understood best
in its operations. There are intimations and hints of the
Tao in the abstract. But it is in concrete examples that it
may best be understood.
The Tao fills all space and impinges on everything. It
operates everywhere, and in everything, both great and small.
It has no visible body that one can see and touch, but its
impulsive force is manifest in all creation. It is very great
just because it is without form. It is absolutely just, im-
partial, unfailing. Whoever is in accord with it succeeds.
Its laws cannot be transgressed with impunity. The ancient
idea is in line with the modern interpretation as expressed by
Mathew Arnold, "The Eternal not ourselves that makes for
righteousness. The spirit of man has eternally followed
the quest.
What is it that is behind all phenomena? What
is it that creates the perfect harmony of the Universe?
What is that breath of life that operates without sound or
voice, so silently, mysteriously, harmoniously, and power-
fully? "There is no voice or sound, their language is not
heard."
"
This all powerful and all pervading essence, how far is it
applicable to human affairs? Let the study of history offer
its response.
Here it is well to remind ourselves that this conception
of the Tao held by the Taoists may help us to understand
much of their thought. The fundamental idea is that all
human enactments are artificial and harmful. Man has only
to live in harmony and in alliance with the Tao and all society
would get on well. So the sages with their laws and rules and
fine sayings are a nuisance. Destroy all human enactments:
break up the yard measure, your weights and scales and the
world would get on famously. It is a magnificent idea. But
you remember it stirred the wrath of the great essayist
Han Yü, who in his essay on YUAN TAO, poured his scorn
on the theory.
Again the Taoist terms are often hard to understand.
But some of the historical examples that we shall read this
evening may help us to put a meaning into some of their
phrases. The word Wu-wei often translated as Inaction or
Non-Action does not really imply that a person is a do-
nothing kind of fellow. No! the men of non-action were busy

6
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
men, carrying great responsibilities. They were men of
non-action because they did nothing by the effort of mere
artificial creations of knowledge, but in perfect harmony with
the Tao. The possession of the Tao is not an easy matter.
It is difficult. There must be great training of the heart,
the suppression of the senses, concentration of the spirit;
given these, "the Spirit will soon settle on your person, and
the Tao will dwell with you.
"
The method of this essay is a good example of the style
and treatment of all the others, and in fact, of much Chinese
composition and lines of thought. The general theme is
stated in recondite and sometimes allegorical language, then
follows the exposition and treatment which is generally
composed of short concrete examples. In this essay the
existence, nature, manifestation of the Tao is stated in two
or three pages, and the remainder, about 23 pages, is wholly
occupied with historical incidents showing how the Tao
operates, and confirming its existence and justice.
In our reading it is necessary to try and put ourselves
in the position of the author and consider the limitations of
his history and surroundings. Many of the examples seem
somewhat puerile to us, and the meaning is often elusive.
It should also be remembered that the paucity of the
materials may account for the tenuity of the evidence.
THE THEME STATED.
Great-Purity asked Exhaustless, "whether he knew
anything about the Tao.
Exhaustless replied, "No, nothing." Non-action being
asked the same question replied that he had some knowledge
Great-Purity is the Essence of the Primal Fluid
Exhaustless is the Formless or Idea
"
of it. "Is the knowledge you have finite?" "My knowledge
is finite, Non-action replied. "How much then do you
Non-action is Phenomena or Form without activities
Because it has form therefore it knows, i.c.
It is the result of Tao in operation
know of the Tao?" "I know such things as the following
are possible through the energies of the Tao, viz: yieldingness
and firmness, courtesy and severity, the negative and the
positive, the recondite and the clear. Thus it is possible for
the Tao to enwrap Heaven and Earth, and to operate with
perfect response in the whole Universe. This is the limit of
knowledge.'
Great-Purity also asked Without-Beginning, saying:
"Formerly I asked Exhaustless about the Tao who

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
7
replied he had no knowledge, and subsequently I asked
Non-action who on the contrary replied that he had know-
ledge. We have thus the knowledge of Non-action and the
non-knowledge of Exhaustless. Which of them is right and
which is wrong?" Without-Beginning replied, "The non-
knowledge of Exhaustless is the more profound; knowledge
is superficial, non-knowledge knows the intrinsic, but know-
ledge only the extrinsic, non-knowledge sees the essence,
knowledge the accident. Great-Purity was surprised, and,
sighing replied, "Thus then, is non-knowledge the same as
knowing? And is not knowing the same as non-knowing?
There is no difference, who knows that knowledge is non-
knowledge and non-knowledge is (really) knowledge. Isn't
that so?" Without-Beginning replied, "The Tao cannot be
understood, the Tao that can be understood is not the Tao.
The Tao cannot be seen, that which can be seen is not the
Tao. The Tao cannot be spoken, were it possible to express
it then it would not be the Tao. Who is it that can under-
stand the form of the formless?"
Thus Lao Tzu said:
THE GOODNESS THAT IS RECOGNIZED AT SUCH BY
ALL THE WORLD IS NOT THE GOODNESS: AND SO
IT MAY BE SAID, HE WHO KNOWS DOES NOT SPEAK,
AND HE WHO SPEAKS DOES NOT KNOW.
HISTORICAL VERIFICATIONS OF THE OPERATIONS
OF THE TAO.
(1) A case of conscience-Silence is golden.-Duke Pei
asked Confucius, "May men use an occulting way of speech?"
Confucius made no response. Duke Pei said, "What about
a stone thrown into the water; would it be found out?" The
reply was, "The expert swimmers of Wu and Yueh would
get to the bottom and feel it." He again enquired what
about the effect of throwing water into water, no trace of one
as distinct from the other would be found? Confucius
replied, "The two waters Chia and Sheng of Ch'i though
united would be detected as to the tastes of each by such
as I Shen." Duke Pei then said, "Such being the case, men
certainly cannot use occulting language." To which Con-
fucius replied, "What you say is not correct.' Who knows
the sense of words that are spoken? He who knows what
words signify does not express (his thought) in words.
"
"
"A fisherman must enter the deep water to catch his
fish, a hunter must brave the danger and enter the lair to
get his prey. Hence the most perfect language does away
with words, and the perfect action consists in non-action.
He who has but a superficial knowledge in a matter in
dispute is shallow and fails to go to the root."

8
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
Duke Pei failed to adopt this advice (of Confucius) and
died at Yu Shih. Lao Tzu says:
WORDS HAVE A SIGNIFICANCE
AFFAIRS HAVE A FOUNDATION
There is a phrase that fits the case of Duke Pei exactly:
"The man without understanding fails to understand my
words."
Duke Pei was son of Tai Tzu Chien, and grandson of Ping
Wang of Ts'u. Tai Tzu Chien was slain by Ping Wang, his
father and the grandson meditated the avengement of his
father's death. Hence the reason for his dark and obscure
parables in questioning Confucius.
Pei Lo Tien, the Tang poet has a little poem in criticism
of Lao Tzu, reminding us of some contradictions in Carlyle,
who preached in favour of silence in forty volumes. Pei's
words are:-
"Who speaks much little knowledge has indeed
The wise is silent, Thus is Lao Chun's creed.
If Lao Chun ranks among the men who know
Why does he make five thousand words to flow"
言者不智智者默
此語吾聞於老君
若道老君是智者
如何自五千言
Chai
(2) Theoretical laws are useless.-Hui Tzu created a
system of laws for King Hui for the government of the
Kingdom. When completed these were shown to all the
scholars, who without exception praised them. They were
then presented to King Hui, who was very pleased with
them, and showed them to Tsê Chien, who said they were
good. King Hui said, "Since they are good they should be
put into operation." But on (Tsê) Chai Chien objecting to
the suggestion, the King wanted to know his reason.
Chien replied that when men carried a heavy log of wood
they Ha'd and Ho'd, those behind responding to those
before. This is the song they have for carrying heavy loads.
They do not use the more classic songs of Cheng and Wei
with their high plaintive notes, simply because such are not
so fitting to the work. The rites for governing a country do
not consist of written enactments. Too much law is not
good. This is as Lao Tzu says:
WHEN LAWS AND COMMANDS APPEAR IN PROFUSION
BANDITS AND THIEVES ALSO ABOUND
(3) The ruler must be guided by First Principles.-The
art of education is to teach "How to see."-T'ien Pien was
expounding certain principles of the Tao to the King of Ch'i,
and the King in replying said, "What I am faced with
are the practical policies of the Kingdom of Ch'i; these

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
9
principles of yours are useless as means to abolish the dis-
tresses of the land. I want to hear something definite and
practical on the art of government,' Tien P'ien replied
that though his words contained nothing on government, yet
they could be made to apply. And he gave this illustration.
A forest is composed of raw timber, it has no ready made
material. Wood must be dressed accordingly to suit the
need. Would the king kindly examine the principles he had
stated and adopt them to the needs of the government of
Ch'i. The King would find them adaptable. Though they
may not abolish the embarrassments of the country, yet this
is the Tao that moves Heaven and changes the world in the
evolutionary flux. The affairs of Ch'i are small in com-
parison." This episode exemplifies Lao Tan's statement:
THE FORM THAT IS FORMLESS
THE PHENOMENA THAT HAS NO SUBSTANCE
The King wanted practical advice on the administration
of Ch'i, and T'ien P'ien gave him general principles. Now
the actual manufactured article is of less importance than
the trees of the forest since the one depends on the other.
The forest is nothing without rain; rain is nothing without
the operations of Yin and Yang; Yin and Yang are nothing
without the essential co-operating harmony; harmony is
nothing without the Tao.¹
(4) A word of advice to the avaricious profiteer. True
self-interest.-When Sheng, the Duke of Pei, gained the
kingdom of Ching, and on his failing to distribute the
contents of the Treasury between the people, members of his
party after the lapse of seven days came in and told him,
"If what is gained illicitly is not distributed to the public
distress is sure to come. It is better to burn the treasures
if they can't be distributed amongst the people so that
disaster may not fall on us." Duke Pei wouldn't listen to
the advice. In nine days Duke Shê attacked the place and
having gained entrance distributed the goods in the treasury
amongst the multitude: he also issued the munitions of
war, in the High Treasury, to the people. In consequence of
this he captured Duke Pei after investing his palace for
19 days. The Kingdom didn't really belong to Pei and his
desire for it may be said to be a piece of avarice. That he
failed to act generously towards the people and serve his
own true self-interest thereby showed that he was most
stupid as well as avaricious. The niggardliness of Duke Pei
Dr. N. D. Hillis has a very pertinent remark bearing on this.
He says, "Some of our schools are open to criticism, because the
teachers emphasize facts to be known instead of the vision that sees.
the fact. The teacher is the man who should teach how to see."

10
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
was in no way different from the love of the owl for its
young. This agrees with Lao Tzu's saying:
1
IT IS ENOUGH TO CARRY A FULL VESSEL, DON'T TRY
TO ADD TO IT AND MAKE IT TO OVERFLOW
TRYING TO SHARPEN A POINT ALREADY SHARP MAY
MAKE IT HARD TO KEEP AN EDGE AT ALL.
(5) Character is the essential thing in a ruler. Hereditary
power is useless.-Chao Chien Tzu adopted Hsiang Tzu as
his heir. Tung Ngo Yu objected on the grounds of Wu Hsü's
(Hsiang Tzu) obscurity, holding he was not fit to be a
successor. Chien Tzu replied, "that his character was such
as to ensure success. He would bear indignity for the sake
of the kingdom."
Some time after, Chih Pei when drinking with Hsiang
Tzů slapped his face. A minister suggested he should be
put to death for this, but Hsiang Tzu, the King, argued that
the deceased Prince had adopted him because he could bear
personal indignity for the throne. "Do you think," he said,
'that he put me in this place to slay people?" After the
passing of ten months Chih Pei invested Hsiang Tzu at
Ching Yang. Hsiang Tzu divided his army and attacked
him on either side and routing Chih Pei slew him and made
his skull into a drinking vessel. This confirms Lao Tzu's
saying:
HE WHO IS CONSCIOUS OF HIS PROWESS BUT AT THE
SAME TIME WHO MAINTAINS GENTLENESS AND
PATIENCE
IS HE TO WHOM WILL FLOW ALL THE STREAMS OF
EMPIRE.
(6) The inspired man is the discerning man.-Yeh Ch'üeh
sought to know the Tao from Pei I. Pei I replied, "If you
correct your deportment,, and guard your eyes from wander-
ing, the blessings of Heaven will come down on you." "If
you preserve your knowledge, and rectify your standards the
Spirit will soon settle on your person: and virtue will abide
with you. If you exercise the Tao it will make its abode
with you. Unsophisticated as a newly born calf never asking
the why or wherefore of its origin"-but before he had
finished this sentence, Yeh Ch'ueh seemed to have lost
interest in what Pei I was saying, so he got up and departed
singing this ditty as he was going, "His form and limbs
look withered and dried up: his mind looks dead like ashes.
Truly I don't know how to deal with such a show of stupidity.
I have no mind to talk to him. What kind of a man is he
really?" This just confirms Lao Tzu's saying:
"CAN HE WHO IS CLEAR ON EVERY MATTER BE
WITHOUT KNOWLEDGE IN DISCERNMENT?"
"The owl eats its young.

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
11
(7) The use of the mailed fist is not the way to maintain
the fruits of victory.-Chao Hsiang Tzu attacked Tsê and
overpowered him and took his two prefectures of Yu Jen
and Chung Jen. The messenger came to announce the
victory and to offer congratulations; and when Hsiang Tzu
was about to sup it was noticed that he was of a sad
countenance, which being noticed by those about him led
them to say, "People find it a matter of joy to become
possessors of two cities in a morning. So what may be the
cause of the present sadness of the Prince?" Hsiang Tzu
replied to them, "The floods of the rivers and streams last
only three days at most. Storms of winds and rain pass
over quickly. There is no accumulated merits in our family
Chao; how is it that now in one morning two cities have
fallen to me: is not this ominous of disaster." When
Confucius heard of this he said, "The good fortune of the
family of Chao must increase. Dejection, or moderation of
spirit, is the foundation of greatness, and hilarity is the root
of decay! It isn't victory that is difficult, but the main-
tenance of the fruits of victory: this is the difficulty. The
worthy kings of the past who maintained victory in this
spirit handed down their happiness to their successors. Ch'i,
Ts'u, Wu Yüeh gained victories in their time, but eventually
fell into decay, simply because they failed to apprehend how
to maintain victory. This can only be done by making the
Tao dominant." Similarly Confucius could manipulate the
ponderous gate of the Customs, but not by his physical
strength (for he never used force to compel men). It is
said that Mei-tzů (who knew no art of war) maintained the
defensive and offensive against Duke Yu P'an and brought
him to submission, but not by military force. They knew
that the effective way of maintaining victory was by looking
upon gentleness, Right not Might, as the strong power, just
as Lao Tzu says:
WHEN THE TAO IS FLUSH AND PUT INTO OPERATION
THE RECIPIENT IS UNCONSCIOUS OF ITS OVERFLOW.
(8) Not Might but Right.-Hui Meng had an interview
with King Sung K'ang. He bore his characteristic way of
restless feet, of humming, and coughing, and speaking with
rapidity. The King said, "What I admire is valour and
military conquest. I dislike the principles, 'humanity'
and justice. Have you, Sir, anything to instruct me?"
Hui Meng replied, "Your servant has a Way according to
which even the shafts of the valiant will do it no harm,
neither can force however cleverly used succeed against it.
Great Prince have you truly a mind to try it?" The King
replied, "Very excellent: Its just what I want to hear

12
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
about." Hui Meng continued, "But the shaft that will not
penetrate it: the attack that will not succeed against it,
but this does not seem after all the best. Your servant has
still a superior Way; such a way that a man with courage
will not dare to use force against it: though possess-
ing the power he will not venture to use it against this.
This lack of daring to thrust and attack will not be from want
of will. Your servant has a way still higher than this even.
This highest form will make men naturally lose the idea and
thought of the display of daring and courage. Still simple
absence of intention of using force does not produce love
and care for it. So I have something still better than even
this way, which will give unfailing delight to all. This
best way is of more worth than the valour of force: it is
superior to these four other ways. Is the Great King truly
desirous of it?" King Sung responded that he desired above
all things to get this. Hui Meng replied. "This way is
really no other than the doctrines of Confucius and Mei.
Kung Ch'iu and Mei Tse were princes though they had no
territory: they were leaders though without official status.
None in the country, be they men or women, but craned
their necks and stood on tip-toe that they might find and
win the help of their doctrines. You are a great King, ruling
a large empire: were you sincerely to have this ambition,
every part of your kingdom would benefit. This would be
infinitely superior to Confucius and Mei."
King Sung having nothing to say in reply, Hui Meng
departed. The King said to those about him, "What a
talker! My guest overcame me thoroughly in speaking."
This way agrees with what Lao Tzŭ says:
COURAGEOUS IN NOT USING FORCE
IS THE WAY OF LIFE.
Whence we may gather that the greatest courage lies
in not exercising the might that may be at command.
(9) The King is the conning man. Wisdom in selecting
Assistants. In ancient times Yao had nine assistants; Shun
seven; and Wu Wang five. Yao, Shun, and Wu Wang were
not experts in any one thing like their assistants. They sat
in their offices receiving the reports of successful operations.
They were however masters in their selection of men. Thus
men can never beat the great horse Chi in a race: but when
this horse is hitched to a carriage it is not able to beat a
man. In the north is a beast, which goes by the name of
Chueh, with front quarters like a rat, and hind quarters like
a hare. When it runs it stumbles (as it has short fore legs
and long hind legs) it falls when it walks. This animal

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
13
always picks out the fragrant grass for the Chiung Chiung
Chü Hsü and supplies it with this grass (another animal with.
long fore legs and short hind legs. It can't ascend hills).
The Chiung Chiung therefore always carries the Chüeh on
its back because of the infirmity of its legs.
Here we have a case of one ability throwing its disability
on another. This fits in with Lao Tzu's words:
FEW SUBSTITUTES FOR A WOOD CUTTER
CAN AVOID CUTTING THEIR HANDS.
(10) Everything is easy to him who has the Law.-Po I
counselled Wei Ssu Chün on the art of government. In
responding to him the Prince said, "The country of a thou-
sand Chariots under my charge would receive advice from
you. Po I replied that Wu Hu, the lifter of a thousand
catties, would think nothing of lifting one catty.
"
(11) Tu He counselled Chou Chao Wen, the prince,
on how to pacify the empire.-(This after the disruption
of Chou) Wen Chun said to Tu Hê, "I would earnestly
learn from you how to bring peace to Chou." Tu He replied,
"If you can't act on the words of your servant there is no
possibility of pacifying Chou. If you can put my words into
operation Chou will settle down of itself." This is the
meaning of the saying: Not pacified, yet at peace.
This is expressed by Lao Tzu thus:
THE GREAT LAW BRINGS NO HARM.
(12) Be guided by big and generous ideas. Avoid a
parsimonious spirit. It was a law in Luh that should any
of their people be taken prisoner by the Feudal Lords to pay
their ransom out of the treasury should an opportunity offer-
itself to liberate them. Tzu Kung ransomed one such
captive but declined the redemption money. Confucius told
him: "Tzu you haven't done quite right." Whenever the
sage takes any matter in hand (or acts) he supplies a
principle that affects the conventions of life and manners
of society, and the effect of the teaching is such as to be
handed down to succeeding generations. He never acts
with a view to his own individual case. The kingdom at
the present time has but few wealthy people, the majority
are poor. To receive the cost of a ransom from the Public
Treasury should not be looked on as avaricious: it would
be impossible to redeem many under present conditions if
help from the Treasury is not accepted. Under such circum-
stances no Luh prisoners in the hands of the Feudal Lords
could be ransomed after this!" This view of Confucius.
showed that he was profoundly versed in true policy and

14
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
principle of action, which is consonant with Lao Tzu's
dictum:
A SMALL EXPERIENCE IS CLEAR AND GOOD
(But not enough to form a comprehensive principle. Small
economies are not always wise).
(13) Militarism is baneful.-Wei Wu Hou enquired of
Li Ke the cause of the decay of the Wu nation: His reply
was "Wu often fought and often conquered," i.e., Wu was
too often victorious in war. Wu Hou, answered, that fre-
quent victories in war should lead to the greatness (and not
the fall) of a country, and he could not see how this could be
the cause of decay. Li Ke replied, "Frequent wars exhaust
the people frequent victories make the masters drunk with
pride. The more the pride the more is the vitality of the
people consumed in vainglorious wars. Few are the countries
that can stand such a strain and not decay. Pride and
arrogance lead to licence and anarchy, exhausting goods and
people. Thus there come hatred and dislike leading to
every kind of scheme and device (for amelioration of hard-
ships). The strange thing is that Wu did not succumb much
earlier. When it did fall Fu Ch'an (the minister) committed
suicide as Kan Chuh. Lao Tzu's words give the principle:
TO RETIRE AFTER SUCCESS IS WON AND NAME
ESTABLISHED
IS A GOOD PRINCIPLE OF ACTION AND IT IS
THE LAW OF HEAVEN.
(14) The Saviour of his Country-Ning Yueh desired
an official post from Duke Huan of Ch'i, but he had
no means of getting an interview with him. In the mean-
time he followed the work of a merchant, and was on his
way to Ch'i, driving his cart loaded with goods. Resting one
evening outside the city gate, Duke Huan came out to
receive a guest to whom the gates were opened. The carts
round the gate were ordered to move off. The lamps and
lights were many and the retainers were numerous. Ning
Yueh tapping the horns of his cow sang a ditty in high clear
notes. Duke Huan tapped the arm of his attendant, saying,
"How strange, the singer can be no ordinary person. Let
him come in the train of the carriages." When Duke Huan
had arrived his attendants waited his instructions regarding
the guest. The duke prepared court robes for him for the
interview. Duke Huan was delighted and was about to offer
him a post when the entourage remonstrated that the guest
was a man of Wei, and that Wei was not far away. "There
'The classic story for children.
Order one of the attending carriages, and tell them to carry me.
Odes Pt. II, Bk. 8, Ode 6, 1.

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY.
15
is no hurry. Let enquiries be made, and if we find that his
past record is good he can then be engaged." "Not so," replied
the Duke. If it be found that he has some minor defects
against him, we shall lose the excellent services of a man for
some slight error of his in the past. This is how governors
lose the scholars of the country. You can always judge from
what you hear and after hearing there is no need of enquiries
into the past. This man is quite agreeable to me.
To get
just the right men is a difficult matter. Men must be
estimated at their best."
Duke Huan acted quite correctly in this matter. Thus
Lao Tzu says:
HEAVEN IS GREAT, EARTH IS GREAT, THE TAO IS
GREAT, THE KING IS GREAT. WHEN THOSE FOUR
GREATNESSES EXIST WITHIN THE BORDERS THE
KING SHARES ONE OF THEM, BECAUSE EACH IS
ABLE TO BE SELF CONTAINED(?)
(15) The man worthy to rule and be King.-Shan Fu, the
great ancestor, lived in Pien. Being attacked by the Tartars.
he paid tribute of furs and cotton and silk fabrics of precious
stones, which being refused (wanting more) made him say,
"What Tartars want is my land: wealth and goods will not
do for them. T'ai Wang Shan Fu sermonised is this way.
To live with the people (elder brothers) and kill their
brothers to mingle with the fathers and slay their sons are
acts I will not be a party to: so rest you here in peace: to
serve the Tartars will not be different from serving me.
Moreover I have heard it said, "Don't hurt the people for
the sake of territory." So taking his staff he departed. The
people clung to him, and they went forth and founded a
kingdom in the Ch'i mountain. T'ai Wang Shan Fu may
be accredited with knowing how to preserve his kind.
Though rich and honourable he did not injure his person
by his mode of life: though poor and lowly he did not permit
the love of gain to entangle his person. Being in possession
of the honours and emoluments of State it was no little
matter to lose what his ancestors had bequeathed him, and
handed down through long ages. But he lightly abandons
these. Do you think he made a mistake? Listen to what
Lao Tzu says:
THE EMPIRE CAN BE ENTRUSTED TO HIM WHO
RECKONS IT HONOURABLE TO SPEND SELF FOR
COUNTRY. THE EMPIRE CAN BE COMMITTED TO
HIM WHO DELIGHTS TO SPEND HIS BODY FOR HIS
COUNTRY.'
'Cp. Analects 8, Chap. VI. Pro patria mori est dulce.

16
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
(16) Moral strength is gained by conquest of the desires
-True vision. Kung Tzu Mu of Chung Shan talking to
Shan Tzu said, "What is your opinion of the man whose
thought and will are always occupied in guarding his inner
life or personal nature?" Shan Tzu replied. "He has the
best view of life. Thinking thus of life he condemns the
sway of passion.'
,,,
Kung Tzu Mu said, "Though knowledge of the law may
exist, how if there is failure to subdue the desires?" To
which Shan Tzu replied, "Failure in self-conquest means
submission to desire: would you not grieve by acquiescence
in desire? On the other hand inability to win self-conquest
and a forced submission to the passions implies a double
loss. Persons who experience this double suffering belong
to a short-lived race." Lao Tzu speaks:
"THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE HARMONY' IS CALLED THE
CONSTANT LAW OR RULE OF LIFE,
THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE CONSTANT LAW GIVES
TRUE INTELLIGENCE,
THE WELL BEING OF LIFE IS CALLED HAPPINESS,
PASSIONS UNDER THE RULE OF THE REASON GIVES
STRENGTH."
So that when a person lives in the light of the law it is
like the blind finding vision.
(17) A mere knowledge of the art of government in-
sufficient for ruling.-Chuang Wang of Ts'u consulted Shan
Ho on how to govern a country. He replied, "Ho (I am) is
versed in the government of the person, but not in the
government of a country.' Ts'u Wang further said: "I have
come into possession of the Penâtês and Lârês and would
like to learn how to preserve them," Shan Ho replied, "Your
servant has never heard of any country being in disorder
when the person of the ruler is well-governed: nor, on the
other hand, have I ever heard that order can be had in a
nation where the personal life of the ruler is disordered.
So I place the whole responsibility (of government) on the
person personal renovation. I would not venture to attri-
bute it to the art of government itself (which should be an
attribute of the personal life)." This is confirmed by what
Lao Tzu says:
THE PERSON THAT IS UNDERGOING TRAINING
IN VIRTUE POSSESSES THE REAL VIRTUE.
(18) There is no bloom in any stereotyped law of life.-
Duke Huan was reading in his study when a wheelwright,
"When those feelings have been stirred and they act in their due
degree there ensues what may be called Harmony. Doctrine of Mean,
Chap. I, 4.

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
"
17
who was trimming wheels outside, leaving his adze and awl,
came near and asked the Duke what he was reading and the
Duke replied "The books of the Sages.' The wheel-wright
asked where these men were, to which the Duke responded
that they were all dead. The wheelwright said "these books
are but the dregs and lees of the Sages.' The Duke Huan
was angered and said, as the colour mounted his cheeks, "Do
you a workman venture to criticise my reading. If you can
justify yourself, well: otherwise you will be put to death."
The wheelwright replied, "Of course I can justify myself.
Permit your servant to explain himself from his own work
of wheelwright. If the wedges are driven in too fast they
will not enter (but break): if driven in too slowly they will
not be firm: neither too slow nor too fast is an art whereby
the hand and will wholly act in concert, and in this way
perfect workmanship is got. Your servant cannot transmit
this expertness to his son, nor can the son get it from him,
and so he is still working at wheels, though I am 70 years
old. It is so with the words of the sages, the real bloom of
them died with their authors and there is nothing but the
empty dead husks remaining." Lao Tzu's words supply the
principle:
THE TAO THAT CAN BE EXPRESSED IN WORDS IS NOT
THE REAL TAO.
THE NAME THAT CAN BE NAMED IS NOT THE REAL
NAME.
(You must have the daimonion in yourself).
(19) A wily old diplomat.-In ancient time Han Tzu,
the city-guardian, being Prime Minister of Sung, spoke to
the King, making the following suggestion: "The peace and
unrest of a nation, the government and the anarchy of the
people depend on the king's rewards and punishments. Re-
warding with titles and the giving of largess is what the
people like. Let the King himself exercise this power. But
the death penalty and punishment arouse the disgust of the
people. Let your servant therefore discharge this function."
The King of Sung replied, that it was a good suggestion,
since he would get the praise and his minister bear the brunt
of opprobrium, and he was sure that the Feudal Lords would
not scorn him for this. Nevertheless, continued the King,
when the people realized that the autocratic powers of death
were in the hands of the minister, the officers would pay
him respect and the people would fear him. In less than a
year, Tzů Han overshadowed the king and usurped the power
of government. Lao Tzu says:
THE FISH SHOULD NOT LEAVE HIS POOL.
THE SHARP TOOLS OF AUTHORITY SHOULD
NOT BE GIVEN INTO OTHER HANDS.
2

18
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
(20) Tradition is no law of life.-Wang Shou carried his
books and went to see Hsü P'ing at Chou. Hsü P'ing
observed that things should respond to change and circum-
stance. Change depended on times, so that a knowledge of
the times is not bound by an unchanging custom. Books
come from language: language comes from thought: thought
is imbedded in books. On hearing this Wang Shou burnt his
books and leapt for joy. Thus Lao Tzu says:
THE USE OF EVERY ART AND MANY WORDS IS NOT
EQUAL TO MAINTAINING THE DOCTRINE OF THE
MIDDLE COURSE. THAT IS HAVE THE TAO.
(21) Conserve and Concentrate the mind.-Tzu Pei,
Mayor of the Palace, invited Chwang Wang to a feast; which
he accepted. Tzu Pei was wanting in courtesy¹
and the king did not keep the appointment. One day the
Mayor was standing in the courtyard and looking north
(towards the King) Tzu Pei said, "Ancient kings kept their
appointments, do you not really mean to go? I fear your
servant has committed some fault." "I have been told," re-
plied the King, "that you prepared a feast for me in the
Ch'iang T'ai. This fairy edifice looks south on the Liao
mountain, at the foot of which are the waters of Fang Huang.
On the left is the Chiang, on the right is the Hui river. The
joy of such a scene would make one forget death itself.
Such joy is not for such an imperfect man as myself. I
would be afraid that I would never return were I to go."
As Lao Tzu says:
NOT TO LOOK ON WHAT STIRS THE DESIRES IS
THE WAY TO KEEP THE MIND FROM WANDERING.
(22) A discerning wife.-Chung Erh, the son of the Duke
of Tsin, in the course of his wandering life happened to pass
through Ts'ao, the prince of which country showed him no
courtesy. The wife of Hsi Fu Chi, the prince, however, said
to her husband: "You are not very attentive to the son of
the Duke of Tsin. I notice that all who accompany him are
able men. When they return into power they are certain to
come and attack Ts'ao. Why don't you pay some attention
to them."
Tsi Fu Chi in consequence presented them with
a costly feast and sent a present of jade. Chung Erh took
the food, but declined the jade. After returning to his coun-
try he organised an expedition against Ts' ao and got its sub-
mission. He commanded the three regiments not to enter
the domicile of the wife of Hsi Fu Chi: We find this principle
enunciated by Lao Tzŭ in the words:
IN HUMILITY YOU WILL FIND SALVATION
IN BENDING YOU WILL FIND FREEDOM
'Some 13 words wanting in the text.

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
19
(23) Another case of Alfred and the Cakes.-Chu Chien,
the King of Yüeh failed to win in the war with Wu. He
lost his country and was invested at K'uei Chi. His anger
blazed, his courage rose like the gushing waters of a fountain.
Marshalling a chosen company of his soldiers they dashed
into the centre of the firey foe and it looked as they would be
annihilated. Finally he capitulated and became a servant
of Wu: his wife became a concubine. He personally carried
the musket before the King like a common soldier. Notwith-
standing he eventually took his master Wu a prisoner at
Kan Sui. Thus we find Lao Tzu saying:
THE YIELDING SPIRIT WILL OVERCOME THE
FIRM SPIRIT:
THE GENTLE SPIRIT WILL TRIUMPH OVER
THE VIOLENT.
There is no one in the world but knows this truth: yet
no one puts it into practice. Yüeh Wang however put it
into action himself and rose to be the autocrat of China.
(24) The Sportsman-spirit is of the essence of the Tao.-
Chao Chien Tzů died, and before his burial the magistrate of
Chung Mu transferred his allegiance to, Ch'i. Five days
after the burial Hsiang Tzu took his troops to the attack of
Chung Mu: however, before his soldiers were even posted
round the place, 100 feet of the wall fell down, whereupon
Hsiang Tzu sounded the retreat and withdrew. The com-
manders remonstrated with the Prince, maintaining that
Heaven itself showed its approval of their cause in punish-
ing the crime of Chung Mu in that it had caused the wall to
crumble of itself before them, a sure indication that they
shouldn't retire. The prince replied in these words "I have
heard that Hsü Hsiang used to say, 'The Superior Man
doesn't take advantage of an enemy's difficulty, nor press
him when he is in danger.' Let them mend their breech and
we will renew the attack." The people of Mu on hearing of
this fine spirit begged that they be received back and
capitulated. This episode illustrates this saying of Lao Tzu:
YOU HAVE ONLY NOT TO STRIVE AND NO ONE IN THE
EMPIRE WILL BE ABLE TO CONTEND WITH YOU.
(25) A word to horse-buyers.-Duke Mu of Ts'in spoke
to the horse expert Pei Yoh asking him whether his son
Tzu Hsing, seeing he was old himself, could find a good
horse. His reply was that," a good horse may be judged from
its form, stand, muscles and bones: but a super-excellent
horse was not to be judged by these outward points. In
looking for such a horse, form should be lost sight of, the
stand of the horse may be indecisive or need not be parti-
cularly good, the texture may be indifferent. A unique horse

20
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
I
of this kind would not raise dust in galloping, nor leave a
trace of its steps behind it. My son's qualities are secondary.
He may recognise a good horse, but not the unique one.
have an assistant, however, who helps me in feeding and
grooming the horses, who is in no whit inferior to myself:
his name is Chiu Fang Yin. Please interview him."
The
Duke commissioned this person to buy a horse. He returned
in three months with the information, that he had got a
horse, in Sha Ch'iu. Duke Mu asked him what kind of a
horse it was and he replied that it was a stallion of yellow
colour. Men were sent for it and when it came it was found
to be a black mare. The Duke called Pei Yoh and said
what a mess the man whom he had recommended had made
of things. He neither knew the colour of the hair, nor the
quality of the animal: neither was he aware of whether
it was a stallion or a mare. "What kind of a horse fancier
could such an individual be!" Pei Yoh breathed deeply
and heaved a sigh saying, "Is it a bad as that!" This man
is a thousand times superior to me as a connoisseur of
horses. "What Yin sees in a horse is its natural endow-
ments and not merely the outward accidents. In seeking
its vitality he doesn't think of the flesh and bone (rough
elements): he looks for the intrinsic merits without regarding
the extrinsic form. He searches for the essentials and has
no eyes for the non-essentials. He sees what he wants to
see and pays no attention to what he doesn't want to see.
Such points as he observes are above the mere form of the
horse." When the horse was led in it proved to be truly
a horse of a thousand li. This illumines the saying of
Lao Tzu:
THE TRULY STRAIGHT LOOKS CROOKED THE
TRULY SKILFUL APPEARS UNSKILFUL.
(26) The maxim that necessity knows no law is alien
to the true art of government.-Wu Ch'i filled the office
of Prime Minister of Ts'u. Going to Wei he told Ch'u
I Jo that the King had overlooked his demerits and
made him Prime Minister, so he asked Ch'u to please
give an opinion on his qualities as a man. Ch'u Tzu
asked in turn what his real aims were, to which Wu
Ch'i replied that his policy was to lower the power
of the nobles, equalize the scale of salaries by lowering
some, and increasing that of those who had too little to
make the armaments of the nation perfect and by constant
struggle gain a dominant place in the empire. Ch'u Tzu
responding said, "the ancients governed best by not making
any changes in past methods, and not altering the usual
'A phrase for a super-excellent horse.

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
21
practices. But since you propose doing so let me tell you it
will not be good. I have also heard that enmity is but cruel
and savage energy: the military is an obnoxious and hurtful
instrument, on which people depend in settling their quarrels.
You now secretly plan this method of brute force, and
delight in the use of this hurtful instrument. If you were
to carry on those struggles you would be acting most bane-
fully. Further when you employed the Luh troops against
Ch'i you gained your purpose in spite of a bad cause: in
like manner you conquered Ts'in in the face of all right."
I have heard it said, "If you keep from bringing disaster and
miseries on men you will keep yourself from your own ruin.
By ruining others you complete your own ruin.' I firmly
believe that our country's King has transgressed the laws of
Heaven and wrecked human principles often, but no disaster
has hitherto overtaken him and it must be that you are the
man to bring this on.' Ch'i Wu became alarmed and asked
if there were a possibility of avoiding such a catastrophe?
Ch'u Tzu replied that as the catastrophe impending over all
had already taken form it would be impossible to avert it.
All that could be done was to alleviate the deleterious effects
by generous love and sincere actions. As Lao Tzu says:
"
"
BLUNT THE EDGE, DISPERSE ALL TEMPTATIONS
KEEP IN CHECK YOUR BRILLIANCY
MAKE YOURSELF ONE WITH THE PUBLIC.
(27) The quality of humility fits Kings.-When Tsin
was going to attack Ts'u and when the army was not more
than 105 li away, and still coming on, the ministers of Ts'u
asked authority to meet the enemy and strike him. Chuang
Wang responded that Ts' in did not attack Ts'u in the past,
so it must be that he was personally guilty of something to
bring on such shame. All the ministers replied that Ts'in
did not attack Ts'u during the regime of past ministers,
so it must be owing to their fault that Ts'in came to attack
the country now, they begged for an order to attack. The
King weeping bitterly, the tears falling down his garments,
rose up and made obeisance to all the ministers.
When the people of Ts' in heard of this they said, "King
and ministers are vying the one with the other each asking to
bear the responsibility of our agression, the King even doing
homage to his ministers," they said, "This expedition must
not be made." The army returned. Just as Lao Tzu says:
HE WHO CAN BEAR INDIGNITY FOR THE NATION
HE IS THE MAN TO BE ITS MASTER.
(28) The character of a man worthy to be King.-In the
time of Duke Ching of Sung the planet Mars was in the
Heart constellation, which so alarmed the Duke that he

22
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
called the the astronomer Tzu Wei for consultation on the
portent. He reported that the appearance of Mars signified
a judgment of Heaven, since the Heart constellation was
the celestial are that governed the territory of Sung.
Further the Prince would have to bear the calamity: never-
theless it would be possible to shift this on to the shoulders
of the ministers. But the Duke objected to this since these
were the agents of government and it would be unfortuitous
for them to die. "In that case," Tzu Wei said, "it could
be shifted on to the people." Again the Duke objected on
the plea that if the people were to die he would have no one
over whom to rule, and it would be preferable for him
alone to die. "Let it then be transferred on to the Seasons,'
said Tzu Wei. Once more the Duke expressed his unwilling-
ness to this proposal, since the livelihood of the people de-
pended on the Seasons, for should the people experience a
famine they would die. "And were I," he continued, "to
risk the life of the people to save my own, who would desire
to have me as their King! My days are finished so there's
an end of it." To these objections Tzu Wei made no further
response. He turned to the north and making his obeisance
said, "May I venture to congratulate your Majesty. Though
Heaven is placed high it yet hears those below. The Prince
has given expression to the thought of a good man in his
three objections. So Heaven will surely reward the Prince
threefold. To-night this planet will move 21 li and the Duke
will have 21 years lease of life." In response to the
question of what assurance there was of this, Tzu Wei replied,
"the Prince spoke three times the words of a wise man and
the star must remove the distance I indicated. May I ask
you to come outside and see. If it doesn't deviate the
distance mentioned you may take my life." The Duke
assented. That evening the star did move away 21 li.
Lao Tzu says:
HE WHO CAN TAKE ON HIMSELF THE ILL OMENS
OF A NATION SHALL BE THE KING.
(29) Room for all.-In olden times during the days of
Chao, Kung Sung Lung said to Ti Tzu, "I have no use
for men without talent." A guest came along, wearing rough
serge and a girdle of common hemp. He said, at an inter-
view, "Your servant has the talent of being able to shout."
Kung Sung looked him up and down and said to Ti Tzu,
"Have we any criers?" Ti Tzu replied that they had none.
So the King ordered this stranger to be entered on the
register. A few days later Ti Tzu went to call on Yen Wang
for consultation: on coming to a river the ferry boat was
found to be far away at the opposite bank. So the newly

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
23
enlisted crier was ordered to vociferate his loudest. The
boat came after he shouted a few times. It is written that
the Sage does not readily overlook the service of any man
with ability. Just as Lao Tzu expresses it:
THERE IS NO MAN QUITE USELESS: THERE IS NO
ARTICLE THAT IS WORTHLESS. THESE PRINCIPLES
ARE THE TWOFOLD ESSENTIALS OF A CIVILIZED
STATE.
(30) Who should get the decoration?-Tzu Fa attacked
and overcome Ts'ai. The (King) Hsuan Wang met him
on his return. He apportioned 100 ch'in of the best land
to him for the purposes of sacrifices. But Tzu Fa refused
this grant on the grounds that all government administration,
and tributes, and the visits of the Feudal Lords were 'the
result of the King's merits. The issue of commands, the
distribution of orders and the dispersion of the enemy even
before the army was engaged in battle were the result of
the awe inspired by the chief magistrate. The victory of the
army in battle was the result of the soldiers effort. To take
advantage of these successes to increase the emoluments of
the nobility would be neither humane nor just." Hence he
refused. This episode shows what Lao Tzu says:
HE HAS ACHIEVED SUCCESS BUT DOES NOT
THINK OF IT:
THE VERY FACT OF NOT DWELLING ON IT
ENSURES THAT THE RENOWN SHALL ABIDE
WITH HIM.
(31) A contract is more than a scrap of paper.-Wen
Kung of Tsin in going to attack the Yuan State assured his
ministers that the enemy would submit in three days and
converted them to his enterprise by this hope. But when
the three days had passed without the capitulation, Wen
Kung withdrew his troops. An officer said the place would
capitulate in a day or two therefore let them hold on.
The Prince replied that he was fully convinced that Yuan
could be taken in three days when he made the promise:
but as he failed to capture it within the prescribed time he
had given to his ministers, he had therefore broken faith
with them by such a promise of taking Yuan: so he would
not take it. When the people of Yuan heard this they said:
"Having such a Prince can we refrain from surrendering?"
Which they did forthwith. The people of Wen hearing
these things also begged to be received. Thus Lao Tzu says:
HOW DEEP AND ABSTRUSE! WITHIN THE
TAO THERE IS THE ESSENCE, THE ESSENCE
IS ABSOLUTELY TRUE: IN ITS VERY CENTRE
REPOSE SINCERITY AND GOOD FAITH.

24
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
(32) First things first.-When Duke Kung I became
Premier of Luh the whole country brought him presents of
fish, knowing he was fond of it, but which he refused to
accept. Ti Tzu remonstrated with him and wanted to know
why he refused every gift of fish seeing he was so fond of it?
He gave as his reason that he declined the presents for the
very reason that he was fond of it. Were he to accept such,
he said, it would involve his vacating the post of minister.
Though he liked fish yet he could not afford to buy it himself
(out of office). But his refusal to accept any presents of
fish did away with the necessity of retiring from office and
thus he could afford to supply himself with fish_always.
Thus he was clear on altruism and egotism. Just as Lao Tzu
says:
BY PUTTING HIS PERSON LAST IT BECAME FIRST
BY DENYING HIS BODY HE PRESERVED IT
IT WAS NOT WHOLLY A MATTER OF UNSELFISHNESS
THAT HE WAS ABLE TO GRATIFY HIS PRIVATE
DESIRES.
Another saying of his is:
SATISFIED WITH WHAT ONE HAS WILL
PRECLUDE THE SNEER OF OTHERS.
(33) An elderly man of Hu Ch'iu said to Sun Hsü Ao,
"People have three kinds of hatreds. Do you know them."'
Well they are, "The scholars envy a high noble: the king
dislikes a great officer: and all dislike those with big
salaries.' Sun Hsü Ao replied, "My nobility is the highest
and my ambitions are the lowest: my post is the highest
but my mind is the humblest; my salary is the biggest but
I lavishly distribute it hence I escape the three hatreds.'
As Lao Tzu says:
THE EXALTED MUST MAKE LOWLINESS THEIR ROOT.
THE HIGH MUST TAKE THE LOW AS A FOUNDATION.
(34) Concentration of purpose leads to perfection of
Action. The man who acted as smith for Ta Ssu Ma was
still beating swords at 80 years of age without ever making
a mistake in shaping even the finest edge. The minister
said to him: "Is it skill or is there some secret about it
that you can work thus." The smith replied, "It is practice
and attention. When your servant was twenty years old,
I liked to beat swords, and paid no attention to anything else.
I never examined an article that wasn't a sword. Therefore
in the use of this skill it came to be second nature to me,
and by this concentrated practice I became perfect." How
much more of that which is in constant use like the art of

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
25
government. No affair but can come to perfection, as the
saying is:
TO ACT ACCORDING TO THE TAO IS THE WAY THAT
MAKES A PERSON ONE WITH THE TAO ITSELF.
"
(35) Bear present indignity and wait for empire.-Wen
Wang sharpened his virtues and cultivated his government
so that in three years two-thirds of the country owned him
allegiance. Chou the emperor, was troubled when he heard it,
and said "Should I rise early and retire late and mend my
ways and cultivate virtue, belabouring my mind and wearing
my body with heavy toils: should I let him go and think
no more about him, I fear he would attack me. Ts'un Hou
Hu said to him, "Chou Pei Ch'ang' is a person of benevolence
and justice and of good judgment. His eldest son Fa is
a man of courage and determination. His second son Tan
is a person of pious and frugal habits, and possesses the
gift of reading the drift of the times. Should you give way
to him you cannot escape the danger of such a course; if
you take no notice of him, and let him go free, you are
bound to come to a bad end. Even an ugly cap must be
worn on the head." So before his schemes are matured I
counsel you to check him." Thereupon Ch'u Shang held
Wen Wang captive in Yu Li. Whereupon San I Sheng
having a thousand ingots of silver, sought for the most
curious and precious stones in the empire; he obtained a
tandem of the tiger-marked horses: 300 pieces of black jade:
500 cowries: the dusky leopard: the yellow p'i: the blue
kan: 2,000 pieces of the white tiger with the striped skin.
Having collected these he presented them to Chou by means
of an intermediary, the minister Fei Chung. When Chou
saw the gifts he was delighted with them and liberated
Wen Wang, killing an ox and offering it to him as a parting
gift. On his return home, Wen Wang simulated an in-
fatuation for building doors inlaid with jade, and lofty
towers played with girls and spent his time dilly dallying
with drums and music, but really he was waiting his chance
to fall on Chou. When Chou heard of these infatuations
it made him say: "Chou Pei Ch'ang has changed his way
and altered his course of life. There will be no more disquiet
for me." Chou however, did not mend his ways but
cast the iron man;3 he took out the heart of Pei Kan;
'Wen Wang is the posthumous title. Chou is the name of country.
Pei rank, Ch'ang is personal name.
If Ch'ang is allowed to go on in his way he will get power and
you must submit to him.
"Which the persecuted had to clasp as it was heated.

26
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
and ripped out the embryo of a pregnant woman; and
slew the minister who remonstrated with him. Wen Wang
at length arose at these enormities and put his plans into
execution. Lao Tzu says:
CONSCIOUS OF GLORY YET BEARING PRESENT SHAME,
SUCH A MAN IS AS A VALLEY TO WHICH ALL THE
CURRENTS OF EMPIRE SHALL CONVERGE.
(36) Kings should stand in awe of the people.-Ch'eng
Wang sought advice from Yen I on political matters, asking
how he should act so that the authorities might win the
affection of the people. The reply was "employ them at
suitable seasons," "be mindful of their interests, respect
their feelings." And in response to the King's further ques-
tion how this was to be done, replied "Act with circumspec-
tion as though you were approaching a deep pool or treading
on thin ice.' To which the king said, "Fearful for kings
then."
Yin I replied, "Within the whole empire if the king
acts well the people are his dependents: if he acts ill they
are his enemies. The servants of Hsia and Shang become
the enemies of the two Kings Chieh and Chou and transferred
their allegiance to Tang and Wu. The people of Hsu Sha
attacked their ruler and allied themselved to Shen Nung.2
All the world knows these things: Kings should stand in
awe." The words of Lao Tzu illustrate the principle:
WHAT MEN STAND IN AWE OF
IS TO BE FEARED BY ALL KINGS.
(37) The principles of the Sages should be abolished as
they are the maxims of robbers.-The followers of Chê asking
their chief if thieves had any principles, received the
reply that it was not possible for them to be without such.
The person who could guess where treasure was stored was a
"superior man:" he who entered first was a man of courage:
and he who was last to leave was the person of heroism or the
loyal person. In the average division of spoils there was
the element of justice. The member who knew when to act
or otherwise possessed knowledge and wisdom. Where one
of these five factors was lacking, no great act of plunder
could be successful. Nothing in the world could be done
without principles. From this it may be seen that the
'Confucius mentions this in the Analects Bk. I, Chap. XVI.
The people had to give free service to government: each person, in
good years, 3 days in medium years, 2 days; in bad years, 1 day.
They were not to be taken in busy seasons but only during times of
leisure.
In the interval between Fu Hsi and Shen Nung, Kung King, a
Feudal Lord, obtained power and was the autocrat of the empire.

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
27
mind of the brigand must needs borrow the teaching of the
sages for carrying on his trade. Lao Tzu says:
ABOLISH THE SAGES, ABANDON THE ART OF
SAGACITY AND THE WELFARE OF THE PEOPLE
WILL BE INCREASED A HUNDREDFOLD.
(38) Use for the rough diamonds of Society.-General
Tzu Fa of Ts'u liked to look out for men of skill. He
encouraged everyone who showed any talent. Now there was
a clever thief in Ts'u who heard of this, so he went to see the
general saying that he had heard he was on the look out
for men of skill; that his was in thieving: and as he would
like to try his skill so he offered himself as a soldier. Hear-
ing this the general was in such haste to see him that he
could hardly wait to put on his hat and robes to receive him
civilly. His attendants tried to dissuade him from showing
any civility to a thief. The general replied that this was
no business of theirs.
Not long after Ch'i marshalled its troops to attack Ts'u.
Tzu Fa, the commander of the Ts'u army, was pressed and
had to withdraw his forces three times. The best leaders
of Ts'u had exhausted their plans and used every device,
but the army of Ch'i still advanced and was stronger
than ever. Just then the quondam thief begged permission
of the general to use his little talent. Tzu Fa consented,
and without asking any particulars, sent him off. So the
thief entered the camp of the Ch'i commander and stole
the curtain of his bed, as he was sleeping, and brought it to
his general. The general thereupon sent it back by a mes-
senger with the words that one of his soldiers found the
commander's curtains when gathering fire sticks: so he was
returning it to the man in charge by a messenger. The
next day the thief soldier stole the pillow of the commander
as he was sleeping. This again Tzu Fa returned in the same
way. The next day he went and abstracted the commander's
hair fastening. Tzu Fa once more returned the article.
When the soldiers became aware of this they were greatly
alarmed, and the commander held a consultation with his
officers maintaining that if they didn't immediately return
home it was not impossible that the King of Ts'u would
get the commander's head next. He then withdrew the
troops and departed. This is as the common saying has it:
no gift is too little, no ability too slight for the king to use.
Just as Lao Tzu says:
THE ROUGH DIAMONDS OF SOCIETY ARE THE
MATERIAL FOR THE USE OF THE GOOD MAN.
(39) The true culture of the Tao and life.-Yen Hui told
Confucius, "I have made progress." "How so," asked

28
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
Confucius. He replied "Hui can forego Etiquette and Music."
Confucius said: "Good, but your progress is not yet complete."
THESE ARE THE FUNDAMENTALS OF THE SAGE'S
TEACHING. THE ABOLISHMENT OF THE SAGE THE
ELIMINATION OF SAGACITY IMPLIES ENTRANCE
INTO THE STATE OF NON-ACTION.
Another day Hui saw Confucius and said: "Hui has made pro-
gress. " "In what way," asked Confucius. "I have dispended
with Jen and I, Benevolence and Justice" answered Hui. Con-
fucius said "Very good," there is yet room to advance. Yet
another day on seeing Confucius, Hui said, "I can sit without
being conscious of my body. I have reached the abstraction
of the Tao." Confucius suddenly asked, "What do you mean
by sitting in a state of abstraction." Yen Hui replied: "Lose
all sense of the physical body: be detached from sentiency.
be separated from this outward form, abandon knowledge:
thus situated penetrate within the spiritual flux (or essence);
passivity is what I mean by sitting in a state of insensibility."
Chung Ni replied, "Penetration into these implies a state
without shan goodness, virtue: the state of spiritual pos-
sivitity or flux implies a state without the constant principles
and maxims of the Sages. You have entered sainthood be-
fore me." I must beg to follow after you. Lao Tzu says:
CLOTHED WITH THOUGHT AND ANIMAL SPIRITS:
EMBRACING UNITY OF THE TAO AND ABLE TO ABIDE.
IN IT WITHOUT INTERRUPTION, THE UNDIVIDED
VITAL BREATH ABSOLUTELY IN A STATE OF
FLUIDITY AND IN A PERFECT STATE OF YIELDING-
NESS SIMILAR TO THAT OF AN INFANT CHILD.
BEING IN SUCH A STATE IS TO BE IN THE TAO.
(40) A false move.-Duke Mu of Ts'u mobilised his
troops for a surprise attack on Cheng. Ch'ien Hsü disagreed.
with the proposal, on the grounds that to be successful, the
chariots must not be over 100 li away, and the infantry not
over 30 li from the objective; that the plans must be secret
and not divulged; the soldiers keenness must not have lost
its edge (as they would after long marches); the commissariat
must not be depleted: the people must not be exhausted;
but all by uniting their keen spirit and abounding strength
in the object, attack the enemy, and overawe him. "But in
the case before us," he said "the distance is several thousand
li: the territories of several Feudal Princes must be crossed
to make this surprise attack. Your servant wonders whether
the King would not reconsider the plan." But Duke Mu
refusing the advice, Ch'ien Hsu in sending forth the troops
wore mourning, hemp garments and wept.
The army on its march had to pass through Chou and
was met on the east of it by a trader from Cheng Hsuan,

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
29
Kao by name, who had come inspired by the command of
the Baron of Cheng to welcome the weary troops of Ts'in by an
offering of 12 oxen. The three commanders were alarmed
and deliberated saying they had marched several thousand
li to a surprise attack on a people, but before they had
reached their objective, people were aware of their purpose,
and so were prepared: the surprise therefore would be in-
possible. They withdrew the troops and departed.
Just then Duke Wen of Ts'in fell sick and died; but
before the burial had taken place, Hsien Chen spoke to the
young king, Hsiang Kung, saying, "My former Prince, in
days gone by, was friendly with Duke Mu, as is well known
to everybody and none of the Feudal Lords but was aware
of it. But here we find that even ere our dead King is
buried, he (Mu) does not offer his condolences nor ask permis-
sion to pass over our territory. This is because he sees our
King is dead and despises our new King, I beg for authority
to attack him." This being granted Hsien Chen called
up the
army and meeting the forces of Ts'in at Yao routed them.
He captured their three commanders and led them captive.
On hearing these tidings Duke Mu put on sack-cloth and
wailed in the temple as he related the events to the people.
Lao Tzu says:
TO HAVE KNOWLEDGE AND YET APPEAR NOT
TO KNOW IS THE SUPERIOR WAY. TO HAVE NO
KNOWLEDGE AND YET GIVE THE APPEARANCE
OF KNOWING IS AN INFERIOR ART.
(41) In the choice of a wife don't be led away by the
senses. After the death of the empress of Ch'i the King
desired to wed a new empress. The matter still pending he
took counsel with the ministerial body. Duke Hsüeh wish-
ing to fall in with the purpose of the King sent a present of
ten maidens to him, adorning one of them. One morning
enquiring where the beautiful maid was, and advising the
King to make her his consort, the king of Ch'i was greatly
delighted, and highly honoured the duke Hsüeh. Thus when
the master purpose and desires are given outward expression
to the servants they have a handle for controlling the master.
Just as Lao Tzu says:
PLUG UP THE SENSE AVENUES, CLOSE UP THE
DOOR OF DESIRES. DO NOT LET THE BODY
BELABOUR ITSELF WITH THESE.
(42) Another case of Newton and the sands. The world
is only at the threshold of knowledge (H. G. Wells).-Lu Ao,
a man haughty and proud, went touring towards the North

30
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
Sea. Having crossed through to the limit of the North he
entered the Hsuan Ch'üeh mountain and arrived at the top
of the Meng Ku range. Here he met with a person whose
eyes were deep set, his temples covered with jet black hair,
tears stood in his eyes: he had the shoulders of a kite: his
head was generous above and receding below. He seemed
full of merriment, as he danced in the breezes. He looked at
Lu Ao and appeared ill pleased to see him there: the arms,
that were swaying in his gyrations he let fall and he slipped
behind a stone column. Lu Ao came forward and looked at
him, just as he was seated on a tortoise shell and swallowing
oysters. Lu Ao addressed him thus, "I thought I was the
only individual who had turned his back on kith and kin to
get a thorough observation of the uttermost parts of the world.
As a young man I was fond of travel, nor have I changed
my habits in old age, so having traversed the four quarters
of the earth, I still had the extreme north unvisited. To-day
I find you, Sir, here! may it not be possible that we may
be friends?" The man smilingly replied: "Hsi! you are from
China and have chosen to come to this distant spot. But
you must'nt think this is very far. Here there are still the
sun and moon, the stars too are hung out here. Here the
Yin and Yang operate, and the four seasome come and go.
These parts compared with the unnameable places are still
central. But where I roam to the south there is the bound-
less waste to the north I stop in the profound gloom: to
the west there is an illimitable vista: on the east I gc
beyond the orient. In these distant regions there is no
firmament above, nor earth below: there is no sound to be
heard, nor vista on which to gaze: still further on there is
only the sound as of rolling waters. Thither it is I have not
been able to reach. Now Sir, having reached this place to
which you have voyaged for the first time, you musn't think
you have reached the end of the world: as matter of fact
you are far from that. Rest here, Sir: I must go to Han
Man, beyond the range of the nine Heavens. I musn't
abide here long." This strange man then lifted his arms
and pulling together his body forthwith disappeared in the
clouds. Lu Ao looking after him saw him not. He
stopped his chariot. Feeling annoyed with himself, and
with the turn things had taken, he said, "compared with
that person I am no more than a yellow heron or a worthless
worm of the earth: I can only crawl a few feet in a whole
'A sign of great intellectual powers.
A mythical name of some deity unknown.

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
31
day, he has already sped a long way. Isn't it grievous."
Thus Chuang Tzu says:
"THE CREATURES OF A SHORT YEAR ARE INFERIOR
TO THOSE OF A LONG YEAR. A LITTLE KNOWLEDGE
IS INFERIOR TO GREAT KNOWLEDGE.
THE MOTH THAT SEES THE MORNING LIGHT DIES
BEFORE A MONTH COMES ROUND. THE CICADA
KNOWS NEITHER AN AUTUMN NOR SPRING."
These words show clearly that there are many things.
we can never know.
(43) Let the King cultivate a conscience in the people.-
Chi Tzu ruled Shan Fu for three years. Wu Ma Chi,
making himself incognito, went about to see the effect of
his administration. Seeing a fisherman throw back into the
stream a fish he had taken, he asked the reason why he did
so, telling him that fishermen as a rule kept the fish they
had taken; what was the reason for his not doing so? The
fisherman replied that Chi Tzu didn't wish people to capture
small fishes. That was the reason. Wu returned to Con-
fucius and told him this, remarking that Chi Tzu's virtue was
perfect, in that he had induced men to act in their privacy
as though a monitor stood by their side with the admonitions
of severe punishment. How could he have attained to this
degree of excellence? Confucius replied, (Mu) I have seen
the statement that in government the experience of punish-
ment in one thing makes one careful in another thing. Chi
Tzu has exercised this art in his administration. Lao Tzu
puts it in this way:
KEEP CLEAR OF ONE BY ADOPTING ANOTHER.
(44) Follow the Spirit and cultivate the habit of Non-
action. The Spirit of the water said to the Shadow: "Is
Lunminosity a spirit?" The Shadow replied, "Nay." The
Spirit of the water said, "How do you know?" Shadow
replied, "The light passes Fu Sang, the orient, and daily
illumines the Universe. The brilliancy of the light tinging
the four seas and the world has no means of entering the
closed door and the stopped up window, but Spirit penetrates
everywhere and floods everything. Above, it spreads to the
very borders and limits of Heaven; below it covers the earth,
nourishing all creation. An image cannot be made of it.
Up and down even to the extremities of the world and
beyond the Spirit's energies operate. Luminosity cannot be
such as spirit.'" As Lao Tzu says:
THE MOST YIELDING THING IN THE WORLD
INTERPENETRATES THE FIRMEST.

32
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS.
Brilliancy asked Non-Being," "Have you really an exis-
tence or are you really non-existent" Non-Being made no
reply to this. Not able to see any objective form which he
Form is begotten of the formless.
How can matter be begotten is the question.
"He hangeth the world on nothing.'
could address he kept gazing on non-being's appearance, dim
and vague. He gazed but saw no manifest form: he listened
but discerned no sound; he clutched at it but failed to grasp
anything: he viewed it but could not fathom it." Brilliancy
exclaimed. "Wonderful. Who can attain to this? I can
apprehend the Invisible spirit, but I cannot differentiate his
qualities (cr better) I can get to be nothing, but I cannot
attain to the elimination of nothing itself. (Another transla-
tion) I can know that of which the form or idea exists; but
not the substance (Wu): but I cannot know that which is
not even the idea. The past though not in actual existence
can be known, but it is not possible to know that which has
not come, i.e., the future. As Lao Tzu says:
SINCE THE FORMLESS ENTERS INTO THE
NON-SPATIAL
I KNOW THEREFORE THAT NON-ACTION
IS PROFITABLE.
(45) The Supremacy of the Spirit.-Pei Kung Sheng
meditated a revolution. After the end of an audience he
stood in his home on his lance; the point pricked his jaw
and the blood flowed but without his being conscious of it.
When the people of Cheng heard of it they said "If he is
unconscious of this, what will he not be unconscious of."
This shows that when the spirit follows ideas beyond the
physical frame, and mind is flooded with thoughts and designs
there is no attention paid to wounds nearer home. Hence
when the mind is occupied with distant objects things nearer
are foregone. Just as Lao Tzu says:
WITHOUT GOING OUT OF YOUR DOOR YOU MAY
LEARN OF THE AFFAIRS OF THE COUNTRY. WITHOUT
LOOKING OUT OF YOUR WINDOW, THE HEAVENLY
DOCTRINE CAN BE KNOWN, THE FARTHER YOU
TRAVEL IN YOUR RESEARCHES, THE LESS YOU KNOW.
The saying is illustrated by the foregoing historical
episode.
(46) Forts are not the best guardians of the frontier.-
The emperor Ts' in anxious about maintaining the empire he
had won, assigned guardposts on the frontiers: built the
great wall: organized likin stations, and bridges: erected
fortifications: prepared express services: and appointed
'The one is visible the other invisible.

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
33
frontier officials. Nevertheless Liu Pang captured the em-
pire most easily.¹
When Wu Wang punished Chou and broke his power
at Mu Yeh he nevertheless sealed up the grave of Pi Kan
(Chou's founder): he exhibited notices of immunity and
protection over the shops of the merchants: he placed a
guard at the door of Ch'i Tzu. He offered his respects
at the temple of Ch'eng Ch'iao: he distributed the grain at
Chu Ch'iao: he disbursed the money hoards at Lu T'ai:
he broke his war drum and war staff: he unbent his bows
and broke their strings: he abandoned his palace and lived
in the suburbs to show the settlement of peace and the
change of régime. He laid by the sword and adopted the
ivory tablet to show that all emnity had been laid aside.
Whereupon the whole empire became jubilant and praised
him. The Feudal Lords brought their tributes (silk) and
paid court for 34 generations without a break. As Lao Tzu
says:
=
HE WHO KNOWS HOW TO CLOSE SECURELY WITHOUT
BARS AND BOLT WILL FIND THAT NO ONE WILL OPEN
THE DOOR. HE WHO SECURES WELL WITHOUT CORDS
WILL FIND THAT NO ONE WILL BREAK THE BOND.
(47) The mental condition that will lead to mastery.
Yin Hsü tried to learn driving for three years without
success. He was extremely troubled and thought hard on
the matter. One night in a dream Ch'ui Chia (the great
charioteer) appeared as his teacher in a dream. Going to call
the following day, on his usual instructor, he was greeted with
the remark, It isn't that I dislike instructing you, I fear it is
that you are incapable of instruction. To-day I am going to
tell you the art of Ch'ui Chia (I can't do more). Yin Hsü
turned to go, but did the usual courtesy saying: "Your
pupil has met with great good fortune. I truly received his
instruction in a dream last night." This is what Lao Tzü
says:
HE WHO HAS REACHED A PERFECT STATE OF EMPTI-
NESS AND IS CONSCIOUS OF PERSONAL FAILURE, AND
WHO ABIDES WHOLLY IN A STATE OF QUIESCENE
WILL FIND THAT NATURE WILL CO-OPERATE WITH
HIM.
(48) Superior Men. Formerly Sun Hsü Ao thrice-
gained the post of Prime Minister without showing any
special gratification. He also vacated the office thrice with-
【轉閉錘
"Who died in Korea.
3

34
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
out any compunction or manifestation of chagrin, Ch'i Tzu
of Yen Ling was pressed by the Wu people to become their
King but was unwilling. Hsü Yu declined the throne and
refused to accept it. An Tzů made an oath to Ts'ui Shu
that he would not serve him nor change his loyalty to the
old house, though he were to suffer death for it."
All these loyal men had a vision of something beyond
the present. Their spirits were indifferent to life and death,
and so they were not to be beguiled by any material condi-
tions or worldly goods.
(49) The spirit of Self-sacrifice.-The Ching nation had a
man named Tz'u Fei, who gained an excalibur in the Kan
army. On returning from the war he had to cross a river.
When midway a violent storm was raised by Yang Hou the
spirit of the water, and two scaly dragons clutched the sides
of the boat. Tz'u Fei asked the ferrymen whether they had
survived another such storm. They replied it was most
unusual. So Tzu Fei shutting his eyes, rolling up his
sleeves and drawing out his sword exclaimed, "A soldier may
be persuaded by the courteous way of kindness and justice,
but he refused to submit to intimidation. You rotten and
despicable creatures of the river, I wouldn't grieve if I
lost my precious sword in attacking you!" So jumping into
the river he slashed at the dragons and cut off their heads.
All the passengers were saved, and the wind and waves died
away. Tz'ŭ Fei was made a baron of Ching with territory.
Confucius hearing of it remarked, "Tz'ŭ Fei did well in
drawing his sword at the hideous monsters of the river."
Thus Lao Tzu says:
HE WHO SACRIFICES HIS LIFE IS SUPERIOR
TO HIM WHO WOULD SAVE IT.
(50) The man of fickle purpose is unfit to be a leader.-
Shun Yu K'un of Ch'i counselled King Wu to adopt the
principle of Federation. The King accepted the advice and
gave him ten fine chariots to go to Ching. When about to
depart, his men held that federation was not good enough.
so he offered the King the further advice of Imperialism.
Just as he was departing with this alternative idea,
the King stopped him, as he had lost confidence in a
man who had as suddenly abandoned the purpose of federa-
tion, holding such a person incompetent to work out the
principle of imperialism, as he was unstable. Words should
be based on conviction and business should be carried on on
fundamental principles. When these are both lost, devices
though many are useless. This is the significance of the
figure biting his finger cast on the Chou tripod. It showed

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
35
the mind of the ancient kings that they didn't care to use
mere cleverness and schemes. Hence Sheng Tzu says,
A WORKMAN KNOWS HOW TO MAKE A DOOR
BY HIS SKILL BUT IT REQUIRES AN
ARCHITECT TO PLAN THE DOOR.
(51) Personality must not be hampered.-Tien Chiu of
the sect of Mei Tzu followed the master's method. Desiring
to see Hui Wang of Ch'ing, he hung up the reins of his
fine carriage, vainly waiting. He remained a whole year at
the court without getting an interview. Some one advised
him to go and see the King of Ts'u. This king received him
gladly and gave him credentials to go as minister to Ch'ing.
On arriving Hui Wang finding that he was duly accredited
with a general's commission, received him willingly and gave
him an audience. In leaving the palace he sighed deeply
saying to those around him: "I stayed for three years at
Ch'ing without an audience; never did I imagine I could
get one via Ts'u." In business matters thus the near is
distant and the distant is near.' Hence the ways of the
great man may not be gauged by any ordinary standard.
He arrives at his object in his own way and that is all about
it; as Kuan Tzu remarks: "In flying an owl its wings must
not be tied by a string."
The great depths of the Feng waters do not keep any
dust and debris on their surface. Throw a needle in and
it is quite visible at the bottom. It isn't the depth, but
clearness that matters. Neither fish turtle nor dragon nor
snake care to appear within. For the same reason cereals
will not grow on a stone, nor do deers and stags roam on the
bare hills since there is no shade to give them hiding.
(52) Generosity of Spirit.-Once on a time Chao Wen
Tzu asked Shu Hsiang' which of the six generals of Tsin
would die first. He replied that it would be Chih of the
centre army: "because," he said, "this man in administer-
ing, carried on his examination with harshness; he informed
himself of vexatious details; he regarded loyalty to consist
in being stingy to his underlings and reckoned that merit lay
in gaining many good marks. Such a person may be likened
to one stretching leather. Pull it and it can be made larger.
Nevertheless this is the way to tear it.
Lao Tzu says:
HE WHO ADMINISTERS IN A GENEROUS SPIRIT WILL
HAVE A SINCERE AND SIMPLE PEOPLE, HE WHO IS
PETTY-FOGGING AND VEXATIOUS, WILL HAVE A
PEOPLE OF MANY IMPERFECTIONS.
'A clairvoyant.

36
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
(53) Strict justice and loyalty.-Duke Ching addressing
T'ai P'u asked him what his teaching could accomplish.
And the reply was "It can shake the Earth." An Tzu went
to interview the duke and the duke said to him, "Tai P'u
told me his teaching could shake the Earth. Now how can
he shake the earth?" An Tzu was silent and made no
reply. He went out and spoke to T'ai P'u saying, "I saw
formerly the planet Kou in the region of Fang Hsin (B).
Did it shake the earth?" T'ai P'u replied, "Naturally it did."
An Tzu returned and told the Duke, that P'u didn't mean to
say that he could shake earth, but that the earth was about
to shake from natural causes. Tien Tzu Yang hearing this
said, "The perplexing silence of An Tzu arose from his desire
to shield T'ai P'u from death." His interview with T'ai P'u
showed his desire to know the truth, fearing lest the king
should have deceived him in what he had said. It may be
truly said that An Tzu acted loyally to his superior and
thought fully towards those under him. As Lao Tzu says:
TO BE JUSTLY STRICT WITHOUT INJURING
OTHERS IS THE RIGHT WAY.
(54) A mistaken judgment.-Wei Wen Hou at a feast
he gave to his ministers at Yang Ch'ü (Tai Yuan) being
somewhat under the influence of liquor, sighed deeply, as
he said, "I alone have no minister like to Yu Jang."
Ch'un Chung poured out a large cupful of liquor and held
it up to the king saying, "May it please you to drink up
this as a fine." "Why so,' replied the king. "Your
servant has heard it said, that the carrying out of the
requests of parents is not thought of as filial piety. A just
prince does not think of the loyalty of ministers who carry
out their duties."
These are natural and not exceptional merits
Now what kind of man was Yu Jang's king? He was
a bad prince.
Wen Hou drank the cup at one gulp, saying: "The
deed of Yu Jang arose from the lack of loyal ministers of the
Who assassinated the murderer of his prince
"
type of Kuan Chung and Pao Hsu.' Hence Lao Tzu says:
THE ANARCHY OF A NATION
REVEALS LOYAL MINISTERS.
(55) Do not be puffed up by knowledge.-When Con-
fucius was viewing the fane of Duke Huan, in which was a
vessel called Yu Chih-or the leaning tube-he exclaimed.
"how splendid that we have seen this vessel." Turning to
his disciples, he said, "Boys bring some water." When the
vessel was half filled it stood: but when the water reached

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
37
the brim, the centre of gravity was lost and the vessel over-
turned. Suddenly Confucius changed countenance saying,
"Perfect is the lesson of him holding a full vessel! Tzů
Kung standing at his side said, "Please tell us more of this
grasping a full vessel.'" "Superfluity brings its penalty,"
said Confucius. What do you mean by this? Anything too
overflowing may be easily spoilt; a wild joy is followed by a
melancholiness: the sun goes down after its zenith; a full
moon wanes.
Hence cleverness and a boundless knowledge should be
preserved by simplicity: encyclopaedic information and wide
attainments by lowliness: martial strength and bold courage
by awe great wealth and position by economy: universal
power by reserve and modesty. It was by observing these
five qualities that the empire was not lost. History affirms
that the spirit of these five principles could not be con-
travened with impunity. As Lao Tzu says:
THEY WHO ADHERE TO THIS DOCTRINE HAVE
NO DESIRE FOR EXUBERANCE, BUT RATHER
THAT THEY BE WITHOUT EXCESSES AND THUS
BE ABLE TO KEEP A STATE OF MODESTY WITH-
OUT OUTWARD OSTENTATION.
(56) A criticism of current methods of government which
were based on opportunism and therefore a great contrast to
true government based on the Tao.-Wu Wang enquired of
T'ai Kung an opinion as to his action in punishing Chou
whether the world would not look on it as the murder of
a master by his servant, and whether his fears were not
groundless that the example might be followed by later ages
giving rise to constant employment of troops and the perpe-
tuation of strifes. T'ai Kung replied that the king's question
was most opportune, saying in illustration that sportsmen
were anxious lest the hit was too little before they had the
prey but once they had the bag the fear was lest the flesh
had been torn too much. Did the king therefore desire to
hold the nation securely for long he should satisfy the
appetites of the people in every way.
Occupy the attention of eye, ear, nose, mouth.
The Tao was useless for the people and education but
bother.1 When the people are all pleased with their
occupations and their desires all gratified, such is the plau-
sible way of carrying on government. It makes a good show.
The Tao is too profound for popular use. Give the people
'Cp. Confucius Analect 8 Chap. 9. The people should follow a
path, without understanding it.

38
THE OPERATIONS AND MANIFESTATIONS
a show of culture' and the cap of a scholar. Disarm their
wild proclivities and give them the ivory (the mark of
culture). Let the people be made to be in mourning for
three years so that the population be diminished. Let the
high refuse office and the masses yield their rights. To keep
them from strifes and struggles let them be saturated with
wine and flesh and amused with music and orchestras: let
them be awed by religion: multiply etiquettes and swell
ceremonies in profusion so that nature may be buried in
these artificialities: let burials be costly and mourning be
protracted in order to weaken the family power. Let them
spend freely on pearls and ornaments: on silk tassels
elaborately worked so that they may be impoverished. Let
them dig deep trenches and build high walls to exhaust their
energies. Impoverished in family wealth, diminished in
population their whole attention will be concerned with their
poverties. Let social reforms move on these lines and it
will be possible to keep the country without the fear of loss.
As Lao Tzu says:
I WILL GRATIFY THEIR SENSES FOR CULTURE
AND HOLD THEM IN RESTRAINT BY UNSPEAK-
ABLE JEJUNENESSE.
A COMPARISON.
In conclusion we may compare the Taoist view of life
in one respect with that of Socrates. Socrates maintained
that he was at his best when his daimonion was working;
and his thought clearest when he was most sure of divine
guidance. Prof. Bury says that "Socrates represents his
own life work as a sort of religious quest: he feels convinced
that in devoting himself to philosophic discussion he had
done the bidding of a superhuman guide and he goes to
death rather than be untrue to his personal conviction.
Because of this he became the champion of free discussion
and the supremacy of the individual conscience over human
law." And we have the Taoist view that human enactments
and the wisdom of Sages may be abolished. Tradition binds
man and therefore is inferior to "conscience." If men
followed the Tao they would never be opportunists, but
always act according to principle and right. Both had un-
bounded faith in spiritual law. Mere human knowledge is
of itself wholly inadequate and uncertain. But the Tao is
always full to those who have the mind for it. How then
is it that we have different qualities and characters in men?
'Cp. Confucius Analects XIV, Chap. 18, 2. Hair dishevelled
implies uncultured.

OF THE TAO EXEMPLIFIED IN HISTORY
39
The answer is because of the different response given by man
to the influence of the Tao. An illustration from natural
history will help us.
"The Praying Mantis goes in for battle and cannibalism:
the Empusa is peaceable and respects her kind. To what
causes are these profound moral differences due, when the
organic structure is the same? The mantis is the gorman-
dizer, gorged with meat and strong drink, a fruitful source
of savage outbursts; it could not possess the gentleness of the
ascetic who dipped his bread in milk. The Empusa is the
ascetic. But whence does the one derive her temperate
ways when it would seem identical structure ought to produce
identity of needs. Propensities and aptitudes do not depend
exclusively upon anatomy. High above the physical laws
that govern matter rise other laws that govern instincts."
(J. H. Fabre).