NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF
THE PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
Which stands within the District of
"Obedience to Heaven."
FLORENCE AYSCOUGH
"There is nothing which Heaven and Earth do not cover or
support equally with the rest."
E
"A Nation's ideals are scarcely ever the harbour-lights where
it casts anchor. They are the Beacons which flash a momentary
guidance across the dark paths of human wandering, the sparks
which reveal the quality of the fire from which the race derives
its dominant inspiration." (Pencil Speakings from Peking.
By A. E. Grantham, p. 18).
Since the days of Marco Polo descriptions of Peking
have frequently appeared; in these, however, one of the most
important and interesting features of the Imperial buildings-
that is their symbolic character-has so far as I know not
been mentioned. This symbolism is based on the same
foundations from which Chinese civilisation itself has risen.
An outstanding and peculiar characteristic of this civili-
sation and one in which it differs from all those extant, lies
in its conception of Leadership-Kingship, and to understand
this conception we must study the philosophy which is
expounded in the Classical Books of China. This philosophy
is discussed by Père Amiot in "Les Mémoires concernant les
Chinois," Vol. II and is made clear by means of a diagram.
The following very terse epitome is given by T. T. Meadows
in his "The Chinese and Their Rebellions.
All nature, animate and inanimate-the Universe in the
widest or proper sense of the word-is based on, and subsists
by an ultimate Entity, the specific or proper name of which
is T'ai Chi. This term rendered literally means the Grand
Extreme; and it is intended to express the extreme point to
which man's speculations on the nature of existence have
been able to reach. As this Grand Extreme, which I have
just called an Entity, is absolutely immaterial, and as it
operates in the process by which the material universe is
produced in an invariable way, yet without intelligence and
without will, it may be viewed as a Law-as the fixed Order

52
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
in which all the multifold and varied phenomena of the
Universe take place. I shall therefore call the T'AI CHI
*the ULTIMATE PRINCIPLE.
Bound
Memoir le Chine Tom. 11.
Tremayne
Chyby J.C.
La Tirre
"
The Ultimate Principle has operated from eternity, and
now ceaselessly works, by a dynamical process in virtue
of which animate and inanimate nature has existed from all
eternity. This process is represented as pulsative, as a
succession of active-expansive, and passive-intensive states;
which succession, as already indicated, never had a begin-
ning. The Ultimate Principle, in its active expansive opera-
tion, constitutes and produces the Yang or Positive
Essence, in its passive-intensive operation constitutes and
produces the Yin or Negative Essence.
The Positive Essence is said to transform, the Negative
Essence is said to unite. By the action thus indicated they
produce, the FIVE ELEMENTS OF THE MATERIAL
WORLD 五行: WATER, FIRE, WOOD, METAL,
EARTH. By which the reader must not understand the
visible palpable things so named, but five essences, one
possessed by each, and constituting it what it is, as dis-
tinguished from the others.
At the same time that the Five Elements are produced,
the Four Seasons 4, come into existence. By the Four

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
53.
Seasons must be understood not merely four divisions of
the time of the year, but four special though secondary
principles, or rather four specialized forms of the Ultimate
Principle each of which has a certain predominance in nature
during one of the periods called Spring, Summer, Autumn,
Winter.
A transcendental union and coagulation now takes place,
of the ULTIMATE PRINCIPLE, TWO ESSENCES, FIVE
ELEMENTS.
The Positive Essence becomes the Masculine Power,
The Negative Essence becomes the Feminine Power-con-
ceived in which character the former constitutes the
HEAVENLY MODE OR PRINCIPLE, the latter con-
stitutes the EARTHLY MODE OR PRINCIPLE.
By mutual reaction, the two produce all things in the
visible, palpable world; and the double work of evolution
and dissolution goes on without end.
In the course of the process of universal production, man
is constituted of the finer portions of the elements at work,
and is the most intelligent of all things; the unintelligent,
zoological world, being included in the term things. It is at
this stage that the mental, as different from the material
world manifests itself in the form of a distinct existence.
As we believe that mind and matter have the same common
origin in the incomprehensible workings of the Author of
existence, so the Chinese believe that mind and matter have
the same common origin in the transcendent operations of
the Ultimate Principle, the T'ai Chi.
Man's Hsing or Nature, as allotted to him in the course
of these operations, is perfectly good. Its qualities as ex-
hibited in active relation to the world are classified under
five heads, as the FIVE VIRTUES . These are
JEN仁, I義,LI禮,CHIH智,HSIN 信,
JEN (BENEVOLENCE). I (UPRIGHTNESS OF
MIND). LI (PROPRIETY IN DEMEANOUR). CHIH
(KNOWLEDGE OR ENLIGHTENMENT). HSIN (GOOD
FAITH, TRUTH).
As in the region of ontology and cosmogony the Two
Essences and the Five Elements are the sources of all things;
so, man having been constituted as a separate existence-in
the region of psychology and sociology, the Two Essences
and Five Virtues are the sources of all affairs. Mental and
material existences, originate in the Two Essences and the
Ultimate Principle their one root, in all things and in all
acts the Ultimate Principle operates as the Two Essences.

54
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
Having thus set forth the main principles he proceeds
to the "Theory of the basic idea of the Classics and hence of
Chinese Philosophy."
The key to the right understanding of the Chinese Sacred
Books with their established annotations, as comprehending
a theory of all mental and material existence, lies in the
perception of the fact that the fourteen following words or
terms, T'ai Chi; Hsing; Hsin; Tao; Tao Li; Li; Tê; Ti (or
Shang Ti); T'ien; Tien Li; Tien Tao; T'ien Ming; Ming
and Ch'eng, MEAN ONE AND THE SAME THING: the
Ultimate Principle of my exposition.
The differences among those words are purely of a
nominal kind: the words themselves are, all of them, names
for the Ultimate Principle as it is conceived either in opera-
tion at various stages of the evolution of the Universe; or
as more especially forming the root of, and working in some
division or sub-division of the Universe: or as considered
with more particular reference to some one feature of its
own action; in no case do they, as philosophical terms, mean
anything distinct from, or less than, or more than-the
Ultimate Principle.
T'AI CHI
DEFINITION OF TERMS.
Great, Extreme."
MORRISON: 5,914. That which existed previously to the division
of Heaven and Earth; or the present system of the Universe.
GILES: 859. The "Absolute" of Confucian cosmogony, as explained
by Chu Fu-tsu.
WIEGER: Analysis, 2 D. Man between Heaven and Earth striving
with all his faculties, mouth and hand in the struggle for
existence extreme.
MEADOWS T'ai Chi is the name used when the Ultimate Principle
is regarded with reference to its quality as the ultimate or
extreme originating point of the Universe.
HSING Nature."
MORRISON: 9,475. The nature, principles or properties communi-
cated by Heaven; innate qualities; what is born in man, or
with man; the nature or properties of the things. The natural
constitution, ability, disposition, or temper of man.
GILES: 4,600. Nature, natural disposition, temper, faculty.
WIEGER: Analysis, 79 F. Heart; a growing plant.
MEADOWS: In the process of universal production the Universal
Principle is often represented as a "Flowing forth" in order
to constitute men or things; as an influx into humanity it is
Jên Hsing, the nature of man. The nature of man is therefore
perfectly good, for it is identical with the will of Heaven,
that is to say, with the fixed course of the one ultimate
principle of the Universe.
Hsing being used of the nature of the things as well as that
of man, it follows that inanimate nature, is to the Chinese
mind, as perfect as it is considered by us when spoken of as,
fresh from the hands of its maker, etc.

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
HSIN "Heart."
55
MORRISON 9,453. The heart; the affections; the mind; the inten-
tions; the origin.
GILES 4,562. Physical heart, first among the five viscera, is seat
of the mind. Hence thought intelligence, etc. Also the moral
heart or nature.
WIEGER Analysis, 107. A picture of a heart.
MEADOWS: Man's hsin or mind is nothing but his hsing or
nature conceived as it exists in him at a somewhat later stage
of the evolutionary process.
TAO.
MORRISON: 9,945. A way, a principle. The principle from which
Heaven, Earth, Man and all nature emanates.
Principle in action (see Li). Correct virtuous principle and course
of action. Order and Good principle in a government and
country. To speak, to direct, etc.
GILES 10,760. Road, Path. Hence the road "par excellence,"
the right way, true path.
WIEGER Analysis, 160 A. Head; to walk.
MEADOWS: Ta is the term which marks the Ultimate Principle as
the fixed Way or course of the Universe.
LI理.
MORRISON 6,942. To rule; the principles in matter, in bodies,
in the universe and in man by which they are regulated;
right principles; reason in man; the principle of order by
which the Universe is regulated. Also denoted a "principle
of organization"; the internal and essential form of Europeans.
Sometimes spoken of as a kind of Soul of the Universe.
The heavens and earth and all animate and inanimate creatures.
are but one Li or principle; and as to human beings every
one has an individual and distinct Li. The universal Li is
compared to the water of the ocean out of which each person
takes a part, some more, some less still all belong to the
water of the ocean which is supreme.
GILES: 6,879. Abstract right; eternal fitness of things; principle.
MEADOWS Li is the Ultimate Principle as the rule or fixed order
of the Universe.
TAO LI道理.
MORRISON Right principles, a natural sense of fitness, reason,
reasonable.
GILES Right principle, doctrine, reason, argument.
MEADOWS One of the commonest, and probably the original
signification of Tao is path or way. Though it appears to
have been employed as our word "way" is employed when we
speak of the "ways," i.e., manner of acting of men, and after-
wards of heaven. It then began to be and is now used in
language still more philosophical, to denote the way of develop-
ment of the Universe-the manner of the action of the
Ultimate Principle in the evolutionary process. The transi-
tion from this to the meaning of absolute truth, is easily seen.
Hence Tao, especially in conjunction with Li, one of
the other names of the Ultimate Principle, as Tao Li means
Reason.

56
TE .
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
MORRISON: 10,202. Virtue commonly in a good sense. Power,
Force, Benevolence, Virtuous instructions.
GILES: 10,845. That which one does naturally, spontaneously,
without being able to help it, conduct, behaviour, principles
exemplified in action, energy, power, moral excellence, virtue,
kindness.
WIEGER: Analysis, 10 0. Heart direct (ten eyes which can see
the slightest deviation should such exist), also the figure
for a step.
MEADOWS Tê denotes the Ultimate Principle as an inherent
power or virtue of that Universe which, in reality, is produced
by it. Hence when Tê is used to express a quality of man,
it, as identical with the Ultimate Principle inherent in him,
necessarily means perfect goodness or virtue as opposed
to vice.
TI .
MORRISON: 9,992. The Appellation of one who judges the world
or of one who rules over Nations; celestial virtue. Shang-ti
the highest Sovereign, the Supreme Ruler; Heaven or the
God of Heaven.
GILES: 10,942. God; the Supreme Ruler of the Universe.
WIEGER: Analysis, 120 H. The one who governs; a figure re-
presenting a man in trailing robes of ceremonial.
MEADOWS: The name Ti or Shang Ti expresses still more strongly
(than T'ien Li; T'ien Ming; or T'ien Tao) the ruling, reward-
ing-harmony and punishing-violation characteristic of the
Ultimate Principle. Both Tien and Ti but more especially
Ti may be said to personify the fixed course of Nature.
TIEN 天.
MORRISON 10,095. The highest, that which is resident above.
To rule and keep in subjection the creatures below. Heaven
used for the material heavens, the sky and for a Supreme
and Intelligent Power which views human actions and thoughts,
and which rewards and punishes individuals or nations, but
which seems to want personality. There is a great variety of
expression and confusion of ideas with the word.
GILES 11,208. Material heavens; according to "Shuo Wên"
"the one great thing" now known to be anthropomorphic
picture of the Deity; the sky; Heaven, as a power which
unites with earth to produce all living things; the pateraether
of the Romans: nature the eternal principle of right. The
Supreme Ruler of the Universe; God as a personal omnipotent,
omniscient, and omnipresent Being, beyond the ken of man,
and ranked above Shang Ti in the Filial Piety Classic: etc., etc.
WIEGER: Analysis, 1 C. The One greatness over Man.
MEADOWS T'ien may be said to personify the fixed course of
Nature. When Tien is used in its sense of sky or visible
blue heavens the Ti is described as its Hsin or Mind.
MING命.
MORRISON: 7,732. Fate; The destiny of individuals in this life.
The life of human beings. A command.
GILES: 7,962. The Will of God; a decree; an order; Fate, Destiny.
WIEGER: Analysis, 14 I. A mouth and an order.
MEADOWS (see T'ien in conjunction).

TIEN LI 天理,
PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
57
MORRISON: Heavenly principles; the moral sense; Providence.
GILES (6,879). Eternal principles, Divine justice, Natural sense
of Justice.
MEADOWS T'ien Li means the rule or regulated order of Heaven.
TIEN TAO 天道.
MORRISON: The Ways of Heavens; Providence.
GILES 10,780. The Way of God.
MEADOWS The Way of Heaven.
TIEN MING .
MORRISON The Decree or Will of Heaven.
GILES: 7,962. The Will of God. The appointment of Heaven.
MEADOWS T'ien Li, and Tien Tao are both synonymous with
Tien Ming. That is the fixed order of action or course of
the Ultimate Principle.
CHENGR.
MORRISON 1,084. Without guile; sincerity; truth.
GILES 766. Guileless; sincere.
WIEGER Analysis, 71 M. Words; Perfect, complete.
MEADOWS Ch'êng is used of the Ultimate Principle when it
constitutes the nature or mind of the Holy Man: a superlative
being sometimes added to indicate unmistakeably its completest
realization. In the Imperial "Essence of Philosophy" where
Chu Hsi's annotations are found, we read the following:
"Ch'êng is the fundamental characteristic of the Holy Man.-
Ch'êng is the name of the perfectly real and naturally right:
it is the true, fixed order (Li) which nature received from
Heaven. All men get it; and that which makes the Holy Man
holy is nothing else but merely his complete personal realization.
of it.-Ch'êng is what is called T'ai Chi.-Holy is merely
Ch'êng. He who possesses Ch'eng entirely comprises within
himself the spontaneousness of all true principles; with perfect
sense without thought or effort-he keeps undeviatingly to the
Way of the Universe. That which makes the Holy Man holy
is nothing but his complete personal realization of the real
order of the universe; it is what is called T'ai Chi.
Ch'êng is the radical nature of the true order of Heaven.
The "human manifestation" of this philosophy, if he
can be so-called is-the Ruler; the man who as the character
Wang (by which name he was originally known) clearly
shows, unites in his person the San Tsai The Three
Powers, Heaven, Earth, Man (see Shuo Wen).
It is obvious that no ordinary being can fill this great
office, therefore the Rulers were originally chosen, by their
predecessor, for their outstanding integrity and intelligence
which showed the perfect working of the T'ai Chi or Ultimate
Principle within them.
A glance at Père Amiot's diagram shows that the T'ai
Chi is set in operation by the Ch'ior vital essence which
springs from the Creator, or as he is often referred to in
poetry "Builder of all Things"-Shang Ti-thus the "one-
man" who shows his fitness to rule is in intimate connection

-58
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
with the spirit of Heaven and is looked upon as the Son of
Heaven which has evidently called upon him to assume
office.
It was not until the Hsia Dynasty 2205-1766 B.C. that
the hereditary principle was introduced by the great Yû A
and even then no right of primogeniture existed nor has it
been introduced: the King chose from among his sons the
one best fitted to rule, often abdicating in his favour, and
this Rule only lasted while Peace and Tranquility reigned
in the Empire; famine, disorder and misery were taken as
evidence of the Ruler's incapacity-evidence of Heaven's
displeasure; and if the offending monarch did not abdicate
it was the duty of some public-spirited subject to raise the
Standard of Revolt and found a new Dynasty. From this it is
clearly seen that the "Divine Right of Kings" has no place
in the Chinese theory of Government but that the "People's
Right of Rebellion" is recognized.
A virtuous noble, T'ang of Shang was the leader
of the first successful rebellion in Chinese history 1766 B.C.
In the speech made after the campaign T'ang said that
Heaven, who favoured the common people, had chastized
the wicked government of the late Sovereign and had made
use of him, T'ang, as His instrument. It was with fear and
trembling that he had undertaken the great task, feeling as
though he were standing on the brink of a great abyss; but
that The Decree of Heaven was infallibly correct, he had
therefore appealed to the people to assist him in carrying
out the "punishment determined by Heaven." T'ang made
a great and wise Ruler and gave proof of his feeling of deep
responsibility when, during a period of dearth and famine,
he performed sacrifice to Heaven and prayed that, as he had
evidently failed in his duty, his life might be taken but that
the people might be spared further suffering. Before the
prayer was ended rain fell and the drought was over.
The following Hymn by King Hsüan of Chou
from the Shih Ching expresses the same feeling.
(Hsüan Wang-King Hsüan of the Chou Dynasty
reigned 826-781 B.C. Although it is not certain that the
King wrote it, it is phrased as though the words came from
his lips. He succeeded to the remnant of power left by Li,
and was bent on removing the causes of disorder and bringing
about peace. The translation is based on the Analysis of
the character).
STANZA I.
1.-Immense that Cloudy River;
2.-Revolving bright as sun and fire in the Heaven;
3.-The King, he who unites in his person Heaven, Earth and Man
spoke-Wu Hu (Alas!!)

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
4. What crime have the men of to-day committed?
59
5. Heaven sends down from above, death, disorder, confusion.
6. The grains and cereals, the vegetables and green foods are not
ripe-again and again, many times does this happen!
7.-There is no spirit to whom I have not lifted up sacrifice;
8. No victim I have treasured and so kept back;
9. My stone sceptres and round badges of rank have come to
an end;
10. How! Why! am I not heard?
STANZA II.
1.-The drought is already too extreme.
2. The heated air strikes man's body with over-powering con-
centrated fierceness.
3.
4.
I have not ceased to offer the pure sacrifices.
From the Border Altars back to the Ancestral Altars I have
advanced.
5. To Heaven to Earth I have lifted the sacrifices on stands, and
have after the ceremony, buried them in the Earth.
6. There is no spirit I have not honoured.
7. Even Hou Chi, Sovereign of Grain would not have been
competent.
8. Shang Ti does not send his spirit down upon us to listen to
our prayers.
9. This destruction and waste, this loathing for the Earth below
and all the people on it.
10.-I desire to bear this myself, on my own body-the result of
my fault!
STANZA III.
1. The drought is already too extreme.
2. For its serious consequences I cannot be excused.
3. Terrified terrified; I feel in peril-I feel in peril!
4. As when one hears the clap of thunder, and the roll of thunder.
5. That which will remain of the black-haired people of Chou,
6. There will not be so much as half a man.
7. Vast as Heaven the Above Ruler.
8. Even I will not be spared.
9. How should I not fear greatly!!
10. The sacrifices to our early Ancestors-will be extinguished.
STANZA IV.
1.-The drought is already too extreme.
2.Its serious consequences cannot be avoided;
3. Scorching, scorching; blazing hot-blazing hot.
4. No dwelling place is left to me.
5. The great Decree of Heaven, by which I live and reign, is
nearly at an end.
6.-There is none to look up to-there is none to regard.
7. The many great officials, the virtuous men of the past,
8.-In its serious consequences give me no help;
9.-Father, Mother, my Early Ancestors
10. How can your hearts be at peace-how are you willing to
endure my sufferings?

60
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
STANZA V.
1. The drought is already too extreme!
2.-Scoured, scoured the hills, dried the streams;
3.-The Demon of Drought exercises his ravages and his oppression.
4. Like fire burning in the heart-like fire burning in the hedges-
5.-My lonely heart is as dried by the heat of summer;
6.-Sorrow in my burning heart is like the clouds of steam rising
from fire;
7.-The many virtuous men of the past!!!
8.-Its serious consequences they do not hear or understand,
9.-Vast as Heaven the Above Ruler!
10. Be willing to enable me to retire!
STANZA VI.
1.-The drought is already too extreme.
2.-I strive in vain-I fear the passing days.
3.-How, why, should I endure this severe affliction?
4.-Unhappily I cannot learn its reason.
5.-I offered the early sacrifices for good crops, in good time, and
with deep respect and awe;
6. Not one of the earth spirits of the four quarters did I neglect.
7.-Vast as Heaven the Above Ruler.
8.-Does not even consider my behaviour.
9. I have been respectful and reverent to the spirits whose in-
telligence is brilliant as the sun and moon combined-
10. They ought not to visit on me their hate and fury.
STANZA VII.
1.-The drought is already too extreme!
2.-Order is dispersed, no laws remain in force.
3.-Reduced to extremities are the great officials.
4. As if smitten with a chronic illness and wounded with weapons
is my chief Minister,
5.-My Master of Horse-my Commander of the Guards,
6. He who superintends my food, my attendants both to the right
and to the left
7. Not one among them has failed to try and help the people.
8. Not one among them has ceased trying because of a feeling of
disability
9.-I throw back my head, I gaze at Vast Heaven with reverence-
10. I speak saying "Why must I bear such grief?"
STANZA VIII.
1.-I throw back my head-I gaze at Vast Heaven with reverence.
2.-The stars are sparking brightly.
3. My Officers, the great men of my country,
4.-You have reverently approached Heaven, and have kept nothing
back.
5. The great Decree of Heaven by which I live and reign, is
nearly at an end-Death is approaching!!
6.-Do you not abandon that which you have so far accomplished-
7.-Your prayers and sacrifices are not for me alone-
8.-But to keep calamity from all the people and those who rule
them.
9.-I throw back my head, I gaze at Vast Heaven with reverence-
10. When may I, of grace, be given Peace?

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
61
King Hsüan does not address Heaven as a petitioner,
but as a responsible official who makes report of his behaviour
to a superior. This intimate connection between the King
on Earth and the Sovereign of the Universe cannot be too
strongly insisted upon. As the Ruler above lives in a
circumpolar constellation composed of fifteen stars known
as the Tzu Wei Yüan Purple Protected Enclosure
so his son below lives in an enclosure known as the
Tzu Chin Ch'êng
Purple Forbidden City;' further-
more in the names of the 759 asterisms of the Chinese
celestial sphere one finds reproduced the names of various
officials and offices of the Terrestrial Court, headed by the
Polar Star itself which is known as Tien Huang Ta Ti
Heavens Emperor Great Ruler.
"
It is as though to quote the remark of the astronomer
J. B. Biot in the introduction to the translation of the
Tcheou-li by his son Ed. Biot; "Without doubt the creation
of these analogies sprang from superstitious ideas. In any
case can one not believe that the legislators, wishing to
give to their government the most efficacious conditions of
stability, strove to connect the rites with Heaven itself as
the most conspicuous example of immutability. Gustave
Schlegel in his delightful work "Uranographie Chinoise"
treats the whole subject at length, he further presents a
most interesting argument to prove that the much discussed
"flaming pearl" which appears in decoration in conjunction
with the dragon is in reality the sun, and that the dragon
after his winter's sleep belches it forth. The argument is
too long to quote within the limits of a paper but well repays
careful study. The Rev. Lewis Hodous in his article on
"The Dragon," Journal N.C.B.R.A.S., Vol. XLVIII, 1917,
expresses himself as in agreement with Dr. Schlegel on this
point while Vissière who has devoted an entire book to the
subject of the beneficent saurian, after a brave attempt to
prove that the pearl is the moon, ends his section "The
Dragons And The Ball" with the following words: "There-
fore after having given the above facts that the reader may
take them into consideration, I feel obliged to say 'non
liquet.'"'
Whether or not the dragon and the sum are thus
intimately connected, it is an indubitable fact that the
In his work on Peking Mons. Favier states that the Forbidden
City is called Purple because purple mortar was used in its construction,
this statement is often repeated but I am able to find no evidence that
it is correct. The Tzu Yüan states that in building the Great
Wall purple "earth" was used *(**)

62
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
Emperor is figuratively spoken of as the Sun, and that his
emblemn is the Dragon.
Besides the great variety of actual dragons it must not
be forgotten that the dragon had nine sons who did not
prefectly ressemble him, who each possessed some great
talent; these, which all appear in the decoration of the
Forbidden City are according to the reply given by the
official Li Tung Yang to the Emperor Hsiao Tsung
of the Ming dynasty, as follows:
Pei Hsi, a creature resembling a turtle, which is able to,
or likes to, bear great weights. It carries stone slabs
which bear inscriptions.
Chih Wen, a sort of dragon which likes to gaze and look
out, so it is placed on the ridges of roofs.
P'u Lao, a creature which loves to growl and make noise,
therefore it is put as a handle to great bells.
PF Pi An, a creature which likes to use his energy and active
strength. It is placed over prison doors, being very
fierce.
Tao Tich, a creature which is very gluttonous. It loves
food and therefore is put on various vessels, as cover,
handle, etc., as a warning against gluttony.
Pa Hsia, a creature which loves water. It is put on the
railing of bridges.
Et Yai Chai, a creature which likes to kill. It is therefore
used on sword handles and where blades join handles.
Suan Li, a creature which is fond of smoke and fire, and
is used on incense burners.
Chiao Tu, a creature which likes to close things, and is
therefore used on door handles.
Apart from all these appendages of picturesque romance
one feels indeed that the ancient Chinese system of govern-
ment, in its ideals, ressembles far more closely democratie
government, than it does any of our monarchial forms,
especially as, in addition to the points already mentioned,
the Emperor was regarded as the head of a clan and the
Father of his people. This fact was noticed by Van Braam,
who in 1794-1795 conducted an Embassy from the Dutch
East Co. to the court of Ch'ien Lung; the dedication to his
Journal which contains "an authentic account of the Em-
bassy," is to His Excellency George Washington, President
of the United States and reads as follows:
SIR, Travels among the most ancient people which now
inhabits this globe, and which owes its long existence to the
system which makes its Chief the Father of the National Family,
cannot appear under better auspices than those of the Great Man
who was elected, by the universal suffrage of a new nation, to
preside at the conquest of liberty, and in the establishment of a
government in which everything bespeaks the love of the
First Magistrate for the people.

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
63
Permit me then to address the homage of my veneration to
the virtues which in your Excellency_afford so striking a resem-
blance between Asia and America. I cannot shew myself more
worthy of the title of Citizen of the United States, which is
become my adopted Country, than by paying a just tribute to
the Chief, whose principles and sentiments are calculated to pro-
cure them a duration equal to that of the Chinese Empire. I am,
with respect, Sir, Your Excellency's most humble and obedient
Servant, A. E. Van Braam Houckgeest."
The one outstanding difference, of course, between the
Chinese ideal and that of the American Republic lies in the
fact that in China the Ruler was the choice of Heaven,
whereas in American he is the choice of the people. Van
Braam's experiences are most interesting, he was the last
European until after the Boxer Days of 1900 to have audience.
in one of the three great Halls. His descriptions are enter-
taining, and one of the features which struck him forcibly
was the entire absence of militarism about the Court or in the-
Empire. He says:
"Neither upon this occasion, nor during any of the other
ceremonies at which the Emperor was present, did I ever see a
military guard. There is not even a guard-house at the gates of
the Palace, which are entrusted to the sole care of a little
Mandarin and a few other individuals appointed for that
purpose. Any one would naturally expect to find a small army
in the Imperial residence, but he will see nothing like it. I can.
affirm that in all my walks through the city I never met with
anything military except a small guard-house, occupied by ten
soldiers, under the command of an officer, who falls into the
ranks himself as sergeants do in Holland. At the gates of the
city there are perhaps, thirty or forty men, commanded by an
officer of higher rank.
I was not a little surprised to see so few troops, after
having been assured last year, by one of the persons of the
English Embassy (Capt. Mackintosh) that the effective army of
the Chinese empire amounted to eighteen hundred thousand men.
Perhaps it is requisite to go into Tartary to see them; for I
sought in vain during my journey to discover a sufficient number
to justify my adopting any such estimate. In the cities of the
first and second order we found as many as two hundred and
fifty soldiers, and in those of the third order seldom more than
half the number. This calculation is founded upon the whole-
garrison turning out under arms in the cities we went through
we should hardly suppose at the outside more than eight
thousand men.
This court is then the only one even in Asia where the chief
of the nation is not surrounded and protected by a formidable
military guard."
With these facts in mind let us proceed in imagination,
through the various Gates, Halls, and Palaces of the Purple
City, which may indeed be called an apotheosis of, a

64
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
consecration to, that Ho or Harmony' that co-ordination of
thought and action which brings peace and happiness to the
world.
The gorgeous colouring of the buildings is symbolical.
The walls are red-symbol of the south, the Yang principle-
the sun-happiness; while the roofs which cover the resi-
dence of the Sovereigns on Earth are of the bright yellow
which is the symbol of "earth," the Yin principle.
The approach to the enclosure designated as "Forbidden"
is through the T'ien An Men Gate of Heaven's
Peace, this is flanked by two beautifully decorated marble
columns known as Hua P'iao Glory of Virtue Sign-
posts, to guide the Emperor upon the "Way" he should
tread. These are a survival of the Fei Pang Mu
Boards of Criticism and Detraction, instituted by Yao and
placed by him and his successors outside the Palace gates
in order that all who wished to do so might write upon them
their opinion as to the acts of the Ruler, and their sugges-
tions for improvment in the government. The Hua P'iao is
also a symbol of the glory which should shine from the
Emperor's virtue.
A paved road leads to the pink walls of the Purple
Forbidden City which are pierced by four gates, one facing
each of the cardinal points. Civil Officials enter by the Tung
Hua Men Eastern Glory of Virtue Gate, Millitary
Officials by the Hsi Hua Mên
Western Glory of
Virtue Gate (in all Court ceremonies and processions they
keep these positions, Civil to the east, Military to the west)
while the Emperor only is borne through the opening in the
southern face known as the Wu Mên 4 Gate of the "Sun
at Its Zenith." Upon the solemn occasions when it is
opened a bell is struck as the Son of Heaven passes under
「和諧也不刚不柔也(康熙字典)
Ho is to be in accord with, to harmonize together; it is not hard
not soft, not unyielding not yielding. (K'ang Hsi Dictionary).
Ho was originally written with the character for the flute or
"panpies" beside the figure for growing grain. It would be
hard to find figures which would better express perfect peace
and harmony. Full ears, promise of a plenteous harvest, and
sweet sound's perfectly blended floating through the air.
² 華表 我設誹謗之今之11木也大路交悉施焉
AB 或謂之表木(古今注)
The Ancient and Modern Commentary of the Chin dynasty
says Yao instituted the Fei Pan Mu, now Hua P'iao Mu.
They were placed at the crossings of the great roads, nay
be called sign-posts.
言君文德光輝
The light of the virtue and learning of the Superior Man.
t th
A Sign-post.

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
65
the central arch. It is flanked on the east by a Sun Dial,
Jih Kuei Bon the west by a "Good Measure" (of grain)
Chia Liang. As the sun dial is useless if the light of
the sun is obscured by clouds, so the light of the Emperor's
virtue does not shine if clouds (i.e. evil counsellors), interfere
between him and the people. It also suggests that the Ruler
is the Sun whose light shines on low and high alike, and is
a reminder to him to follow the immutable ways. The Grain
Measure is a symbol of the full measure of justice, mercy,
and virtue which should be meeted out to each being irres-
pective of his station, the measure should be "level"-
filled to over-flowing with benefits for the people. Being
four-sided it represents the whole Empire, it is in fact in
the form of the original character for "kingdom" which was
simple square.
In conjunction the two symbols form that
saying which is the basis of Chinese behaviour; the Jih Kuel
is the "Kuei" or "Circle within which is Right Conduct,"
the Measure is the Chü or "Square of Right Action,"
which among us has not appealed countless times to the
Kuei Chü of the country?
Passing under the Wu Mên one enters an immense
courtyard through which runs a stream, symbol of the Yin
or Negative and earthly influence in Nature, known as the
Golden Water River '; it is spanned by five white
marble bridges corresponding to the Five Virtues, the Five
Relationships, the Five Happiness, the Five Colours and so
【玉河源出玉泉山下流笃||匯僑昆明湖分流入西水關笃
積水潭入皇城太液池環機紫禁城正陽門東流至
東水溫下注大通河亦名御河元時易名 金水河
A paraphrase of the above runs; the Jade River has its
source in the Western Hills-arrived at the present
summer Palace it forms the Kun Ming Lake, it divides,
flows in at the west water gate of the City then into
the Forbidden City, before the T'ai Ho Gate and out
through the eastern water gate. It is also called the
Imperial Water, during Yuan Dynasty its name was
changed to Golden Water River.
Shou (Longevity).
Fu (Riches).
FIVE HAPPINESSES.
Kang Ning (Health).
Yu Kao Te (Love of virtue only; single-heartedness).
Kao Chung Ming (Natural Death).
FIVE RELATIONSHIPS.
Ruler and Official.
Father and Son.
Elder brother and Younger brother.
Husband and Wife.
Friend and Friend.
FIVE COLOURS.
Blue, Yellow, Red, White, Black.
5

66
99
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
on; these bridges can only be crossed by the Ruler himself
and his bearers; beyond stands the Gateway of Supreme
Harmony, the T'ai Ho Men and in front of this
the Son of Heaven was joined by the Officials of his Court
who, having entered the Forbidden City from the east and
west, have now penetrated to the inner precincts, Civil
Officials by the Hsieh Ho Mên
United in Harmony
Gate, Military Officials by the Hsi Ho Mên
Glorious
Harmony Gate, and stand ready to proceed with their Chief
to the great Halls of Ceremony.
As the Ruler alone can use the Wu Mên and the marble
bridges, so he alone can pass through the centre of the T'ai
Ho Gate. The Civil Officials use that of Chao Te
Luminous Virtue, the Military that of Chên Tu Correct
Conduct, which lead to the great open space before the first
and grandest of the San Ta Tien Three Great Halls
-the T'ai Ho Tien Supreme Harmony Hall. A
fine description in its physical aspect of the Hall and
courtyard which "as the official review and celebration of
the Allied Victory held more than 15,000 troops and guests
and could have still accommodated three times as many
people," is given by Juliet Bredon in her fine book "Peking,"
-we are more concerned with the symbolical character of
the Supreme Harmony Hall and its ornaments. It stands
upon the highest of three white marble terraces, these
correspond to the San Ts'ai, Heaven Earth and Man, which
acting in perfect union produce those greatest of blessings-
Peace and Plenty. On the terraces stand various figures,
the Ssů Tzu Protectors of Temples, Palaces and Homes;
the Cranes emblems of longevity; and the Pei Hsi
those sons of the dragon who resemble tortoises and who
carry slabs bearing inscriptions. Here also we find again the
Sun Dial, and the Good Measure, reminders to the Ruler
that he must follow the way of Kuei Chü.
Four flights of marble steps for the use of chair bearers
and Officials, and a central "path" of marble over which the
chair of the Son of Heaven passes, lead up the terraces to
the entrance of the Hall. This approach is decorated with
various dragon motives. The finials to the balustrades are
capped by Ying Lung and Ch'iao Shen
「應龍 龍之有者應龍(廣雅)
泥蛾而天飛者應龍之神也(王文)
The dragon which has fins is called Ying Lung.
while
(Kuang Yaoy
The Pan dragon which rises from the mud and flies to
Heaven is the spirit of the Ying Lung. (Wang Pan Wen).
2 難山之神狀皆為身而龍首(山海經)
The form of the spirit of the Ch'iao Mt (in Shantung)
has the body of a bird-the head of a dragon.
(Shan Hai Ching).

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
67
the Imperial pathway bears the five clawed dragon himself
rising from high waves which, in the words of the poet
Li T'ai-po, are 'connected like a mountain range."'
"
Within the Hall which has a double roof supported by
colossal pillars painted in rich colours, stands the Imperial
Dais; the horizontal board above the steps bears the inscrip-
tion Chien Chi Sui Yu By the Establishment of
High Ideals he (the Emperor) will adopt the best law for
tranquility (in the Empire). Five stairways lead to the
gilded throne before which stand incense burners and tall
perforated metal columns, these allow sweet scented fumes
to pervade the apartment. Van Braam in his description of
an Audience says:
"On the sides of the platform were several vases filled with
natural flowers, to the sweet emanations of which two other
vases of metal added the perfume of burning sandal wood and
other Asiatic substances."
This custom of scenting the air is often referred to in
poetry as 身染御香歸“Their bodies soaked in the Imperial
essences the Officials return" and as in the following poem
by Wang Wei', which may be paraphrased as follows:
Written by Wang Wei, after a poem by Chia the Secretary, on
Attending an Audience at Daybreak in the "Great Brilliance Palace."
1. When the Sun's light is just appearing the “Chicken-man," his
badge of Office a red head-cloth-proclaims aloud the hour.
2. At this exact moment the Keeper of the Robes sends in the
garment of eider-duck skin, its feathers-kingfisher green-
lying in cloud-like curves.
1
買
王維和賈舍人早朝大明宫,
释
帔
绛 幘雞人報曉 锌
進
潔
尙衣方遁翠
九天閶閣開宮殿
股
掛
萬國衣冠拜冕旒
日色耧臨仙
漿
動
香 煙欲傍袞龍浮
朝 罷須裁五色
珮愨歸到瓜池
頭 詔
The "Chicken Men" whose badge of office was a red head-cloth
were in charge of the water clock, and their business was to announce
the time of day. Beside the water clock were kept bamboo tallies one
for each of the twelve divisions of the twenty-four hours, and each
marked with the correct Tzû or hour name taken from the "Twelve
Branches." When the arrow of the water clock showed the hour the
Chicken Man seized the correct tally and struck a stone which stood
in front of the Palace Hall. At the division of Yin 3-5 a.m.or
Mao 5-7 a.m. during which the sun rose according to the season of the
year he uttered long cries in a loud voice so that the inmates of the
Palace might know that day was at hand.

68
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
3. In the Ninth Heaven, centre of all points of the compass, there
opens the Chang Ho Gate, first of all entrances to Heaven,
as do the gates of the Halls and Palaces here below.
4.--The Ten Thousand countries send representatives each in the
robe and head-dress of his rank, to raise their hands in
worship before that cap from which strings of pearls are
suspended.
5.-The sun colour has just arrived at the high bright "Immortals
Palm" which caps the metal column.
6. Sweet scented smoke envelopes the Emperor's robes of cere-
mony in the floating mist the dragons seem to write-
to live.
7.The Audience ended, I desire to cut the Five-coloured paper
upon which to inscribe the words of the Son of Heaven.
8.-I return to my study-my jade girdle ornaments giving out
clear sweet sounds-to write beside the Pool of the Crested
Love Pheasant.
The T'ai Ho Tien was regularly used three times in the
year; on the first day of the lunar year after the Emperor
had returned from the ceremonies at the Altar of Heaven
when he received his Court in great state, at the Winter
Solstice when he again gave audience here, and at the cele-
brations in honour of the Imperial birthday which also took
place within its walls; as did any extraordinary rejoicing
such as took place when the Son of Heaven assumed Office,
or upon the occasion of an Imperial wedding. It stands at
the southern extremity of the colossal elevation upon which
the San Ta Tien are placed, the second of these Three Great
Halls, the Chung Ho Tien Perfectly Balanced, Un-
deviating, Harmony Hall, being placed directly behind it.
This Hall which is very small was used at the Ch'ing Ming
when rites to the ancestors and various spirits were
performed; and in the autumn for the inspection of the
grain newly harvested, and also for the inspection of the
instruments of agriculture.
The allusion to the "Immortal's hand" is to a very high bronze
pillar which Han Wu Ti
built at the Chien Chang Kung
on the top of which was a large metal hand, placed to catch the dew-
the drinking water of the Immortals. The line gives the impression of
early dawn, when the sun's rays are just touching very high places.
SIX OFFICES INSTITUTED BY THE CH'IN DYNASTY.
255-209 B.C.
Keeper of the Head-dresses.
Keeper of the Robes.
Keeper of the Food-stuffs.
Keeper of the Washing utensils.
Keeper of the Sitting Mats.
Keeper of the Writing Materials. This officer also acted as
a sort of Secretary, composed the poems which the
Emperors enjoyed writing or did any clerical work.

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
69
The Imperial seat can hardly be called a throne, being
very small and but slightly raised. The horizental board
above it reads:
Yün Chih Chüeh Chung, Sincerely hold fast
the Perfect Mean, and the Tui Tzŭ which hang on either side
read:-
時乘六龍御天所其無逸
Always the Emperor mounts the chariot, drawn by six dragons,
in order to rise to Heaven; He shuns luxurious ease.
用五福而錫極彰所有常
Spreading abroad and bestowing the Five Happinesses-making
clear to the Four Quarters, that he is governed by Eternal
Principles.
The allusion to the chariot with six dragons is to the chariot
of the Sun which is supposed to proceed through the sky drawn
by six dragons and driven by a god Hsi Ho.
Beyond the Chung Ho Tien, on the northern extremity
of the immense platform stands the Pao Ho Tien
Protection of Harmony Hall. It had two uses; Here on the
last of the twelfth month the tributary Princes were feasted,
and here were received those scholars who had passed their
examinations successfully. The ceiling is coffered in the
deep squares known as Tsao Ching "Pondweed Wells"
and the colouring is very rich and beautiful. The throne is
less richly carved than is that of the Tai Ho Tien, and
the inscription hung over it reads:-
Huang Chien Yu Chi "In the Creations of
the Emperor are to be found the most Perfect Excellence."
Van Braam gives a very entertaining account of an
Audience in this Hall which he attended on January 20th,
1795, when Ch'ien Lung received Envoys from Korea and
Mongolia and the Dutch Embassy.
In the middle of the hall is the Imperial throne, upon a
platform six feet high. The approach to it is by three flights of
steps. The platform is covered with a carpet, and furnished
with a balustrade, which is ornamented with carved work, as
well as the Emperor's arm-chair, and the rails that accompany
each flight of steps. Behind the throne hung a yellow tapestry,
and on the sides of the platform were several vases filled with
natural flowers.
The two extremities of the gallery without the hall are
paved entirely with stones of a finely polished surface. There
were ranged the bulky instruments of music, such as that consist-
ing of sixteen little bells, that composed of sixteen pieces of
metal, the great drum and several other instruments of a similar
kind. They were all richly gilt, as well as the pedestals on
which they stood.
The outer court, in which most of the guests were obliged to
breakfast in the open air, was covered with thick carpets, on
which were laid the cushions that each guest had taken care to
make his servant bring, in order that he might sit down more
conveniently on the ground fronting the platform.

70
70
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
Opposite the throne was pitched a great tent of yellow cloth,
in which the side-board was arranged. Then in the court before
the pavilion were placed four rows of little and low tables,
covered with coarse linen, and so disposed that there was one
between every two persons, except opposite His Excellency and
me, where a separate table was placed for each of us.
This court was surrounded by persons of all ranks and
classes, not excepting stage-players and servants. The latter had
the impudence to come and stand before the great Mandarins, in
order to get a better view of us."
In the Pao Ho Tien were also received the candidates
who had successful passed the triennial Examinations for
the highest Degree, those of Chin Shih and Han Lin, held
in the Capital, who were thus about to step automatically
into the ranks of the Nation's governing body. Theoretically,
and as a rule practically, no favoritism affected the status
of these candidates, but as Heaven, so far, has not permitted
perfection to be attained in mortal affairs, it did sometimes
creep in-evidently Kao, the toad, who wrote the following
reproachful little poem felt that had he been able to blossom
among the Clouds (Court Officials) of Heaven (the Emperor)
he would have been able to enjoy the east wind of spring
which brings fertilizing rain, and would not have been nipped
in the bud, as is the rose mallow, by the early autumn
frosts.'
A Poem from One Below handed up to the Vice-
President Kao by Kao The Toad.
1.-In Heaven above the peach trees with double blossoms, are
planted in the dew,"
2.-Beside the Sun the pink apricots are rooted-supported by the
clouds-
3. The rose mallow springs beside the chill river of autumn.
4.-It does not feel the east wind of spring-in resentment, it does
not bloom.
Through the Northern Doorway of the Pao Ho Tien a
descent is made from the huge stage on which stand the
San Ta Tien to the causeway leading through a Gate to
A
SE
B
邊
E
!!!!!
高蟾下弟後上高侍
天 上碧桃和露 租
日递紅杏倚
芙蓉生在秋江上
不向東風怨宋開
栽
E
耶

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
71.
the personal Palace of the Emperor, the Ch'ien Ch'ing Kung
Palace of the Cloudless Heaven. This causeway,
raised high above the Courtyard is beautifully ornamented,
on either side rows of Pa Hsia the dragon sons who
love water, act as gargoyles to carry away any superfluous
moisture from the road used by the Son of Heaven in his
passage from the Halls of Ceremony to his private apart-
ments. Before the Ch'ien Ch'ing Kung appear not only the
Sun-dial and the Good Measure, but various other emblems
which are intended to act as reminders to the Ruler that he
should think only of his people's welfare.
The steps and Imperial pathway are exquisitely and de-
licately carved, with less boldness of relief than is found
elsewhere. In the middle of the centre panel is placed an
Imperial dragon rising from a background, decorated with the
flowers of the four seasons, with fungi of longevity and many
auspicious symbols; this is surrounded by a deep border on
which are carved Ying Lung, deers, symbols of longevity;
and Lung Ma a curious creature whose father was a
dragon, and mother a horse; he bears a resemblance to both
his parents; while in the four corners are placed Feng Huang.
The steps are most beautiful; Lung ma are carved below
them; on the first tread two Ssu Tzu "Protectors"
are flanked by two of those interesting creatures known as
Cha Yu which are placed in Palaces as warnings to the
Emperor; the second tread is decorated with Ch'i Lin M
one of the four fabulous animals, harbinger of Peace and
good fortune, it can walk on the water as well as on the
land and, sad to say, has not been seen since the days of
Confucius, it will be remembered that he found one which
some hunters had just killed, and that he wept bitterly
feeling that all chances of peace and harmony had gone;
the third bears Fêng Huang those "Crested Love
Pheasants" often referred to as "Phoenix," a translation
which carries a wrong connotation. The Fêng Huang do not
rise from their ashes, they are no symbol of renewed hope,
but of loving friendship and affection, they are the emblem
of the Empress, being the greatest of the bird family to whom
1
貔貅 龍首馬尾虎爪身長四尺性好食人君王有道則匯
無道則見(述異)
Cha Yü. Dragon's head, horse's tail, tiger's claws; its body is.
four chang (forty feet) long; it loves to eat men. If the
princely King has virtue (follows the Tao or Right Way
of life) it is in the Yin world (the world of shades below
this world which is that of the Yang of light) if he has
not virtue, then it is seen. (Shu I Chi).

72
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
all other birds pay homage. These four designs are re-
peated in the order cited on the upper steps and then the
Palace itself is entered.
This is where the Emperor received his Officials, for
daily Audience, etc., in the ordinary way, here the Empress
and Palace ladies could penetrate if the Ruler so desired.
The throne is most elaborate and very deeply carved. The
board above it reads; Chêng Ta Kuang Ming **
Upright, Noble, Honourable, Clear of Intellect (should be
the Ruler), while behind the Imperial seat is carved a
motto; Only the Perfect Ruler is at all times a Pattern;
惟惟惟惟
安知四愷民臣聖天萬首業功
國出廣崇
民人力悌
從時聰
則則爲君又若明咸庶惟惟
惠哲则子
密物勤志
The centre reads; Wei Tien Tsung Ming; Wei Sheng
Shih Hsien; Wei Chen Ch'ing Jo; Wei Min Tsung I. "Only
Heaven is All-hearing and All-seeing, is perfect in com-
prehension; Only the Perfect Ruler is at all times a Pattern;
Only the perfectly sincere Official reverently follows the
Ruler's example; Only the virtuous People are obedient and
allow their actions to be regulated." In a word, it may be
said that only by harmonious co-operation can good govern-
ment be arrived at. When the Emperor follows the Way of
Heaven then his Officials can and will take him as a pattern
and the people can and will acccrd with the regulations!
The precepts on either side run; Kung Ch'ung Wei Chih;
Yeh Kuang Wei Ch'in; Shou Ch'u Shu Wu; Wan Kuo Hsien
Ning and Kai Ti Chun Tzu; Ssu Fang Wei Tse; Chih Jen
Tse Che; An Min Tse Hui. "Achievement that is worthy of
admiration springs from Perseverance; Patrimony can be
widened only by Diligence; The Emperor is above all
creatures; The 10,000 Countries all enjoy Peace and The
Superior Man is kind and courteous; He is a model for
all the Four Quarters; His knowledge of men shows his
Discernment; He is able to conserve the people in peace-
this shows his kindness."
The furnishings are naturally most gorgeous and the
colonnades in front of the Palace very imposing.
As the centre of the ceremonial portion of the Forbidden
City consists of the three great Halls "Tien," so the centre
of the residential portion consists of three buildings arranged
on the same plan. Two large "Kung," that of the Emperor
-Palace of the Cloudless Heaven-to the south, that of
the Empress-K'un Ning Kung Palace of Earthly

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
73.
Tranquility to the north, and between them a small build-
ing known as the Chiao T'ai Tien Hall of Fusion
and Permeation. The name is very difficult to render in
English, the complete phrase should read "Tien Ti Chiao
T'ai translated by Williams as "Heaven and
Earth Vigorous and Productive." Juliet Bredon calls the
Chiao T'ai, Hall of Imperial Marriage Rites; this is far too
concrete and carries the wrong connotation, it suggests that
actual marriage rites take place in this Hall; this is not so.
The name is entirely figurative, and refers to the moment
when the descending C'hi Vital Force of Heaven meets
and is fused with the ascending Ch'i, Vital Force of Earth
-at which moment, on the fifteenth of the Fifth Month,
all things are completly permeated with life. The Tz'u Yüan
辭源reads泰者物火之時也 Tai expresses the moment
of great permeation.
In the Ch'iao T'ai Hall are kept the Imperial Seals of
past Dynasties of Emperors, placed in caskets which are
arranged behind the small and simple throne. The board
above bears but two characters, those two characters which
have caused such endless discussion "Wu Wei" .
Lun Yü says that King Shun instituted the rule of "Wu
Wei" which is explained as the use of virtue to obtain the
evolution of the people, not the use of force or punishment.
Rule by the Law of Nature. The characters were written
by Ch'ien Lung in the style of K'ang Hsi.
無為而治者其舜也與(論語)
無爲謂以德化民無事於刑政也
On the east side of the throne stands a magnificent
water-clock which dripped out the hours in the days of long
ago, and above the dais is a gorgeous and highly ornamented
ceiling.
K'un Ning Kung, the Palace used by the Empress,
directly to the north of the Chiao T'ai and has very
beautiful doors, carved with a design of Ju I heads,
and circles, these last are symbols of the perfection of the
full moon, the Moon being an emblem of the Empress.
To the North-east of the K'un Ning is placed the Chien
Chiu Ting Pavilion of a thousand autumns, which
phrase of course expresses the idea of longevity-an autumn
connotes a year completed, a harvest gathered! Inside the
Pavilion are kept utensils used in Buddhists Rites, while
directly to the north is the Ch'in An Hall, that of
Imperial Peace, it stands in a lovely garden and is the spot
where the Ruler may enjoy rest from the cares of his office.
The balustrade is carved with a design of "moving dragons"".

74
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
Hsing Lung 7 and is surmounted by marble vases hold-
ing paeonies; these suggest the phrase Fu Kuei Ping An
Happiness, Prosperity, and Peace; a very fine
Pa Hsia acts as a water spout at the corner of the terrace,
and below are lightly traced circles of "longevity."
The Imperial Study where the Emperor keeps his books is
called the Yang Hsin Tien Hall where the Heart or
Mind is Nourished (the heart of course is looked upon as the
seat of the intellect) and is placed to the west of the Palace
of Cloudless Heaven. Behind the throne is a screen upon
which is carved a seven character "Lu" by Ch'ien Lung,
and the book cases are ranged on either side. In an inner
apartment a beautifully painted frieze composed of emblems
of happiness and longevity runs round the wall. The red
sun, symbolical of the Emperor whose light illuminates the
kingdom, whose fortune rises higher and higher, as the sun
rises in the sky, shines from among pine branches, on the
west wall appear cranes of longevity and peaches of immorta-
lity, panels are carved in a design of bamboo and epiden-
drums also symbolical. The bamboo is used in only two of
its many meanings, these are
1. It does not alter its colour with the seasons, but is evergreen;
the Ruler likewise should not be vacillating, should be
uninfluenced by trivialites, as he is in the beginning so
should he be in the end, in a word he should be steadfast
and unalterable in his virtue.
2. It symbolizes the "empty heart," which is ready to receive all
goods and virtuous suggestions. So should the Emperor be
ready to listen to the advice of his ministers.
The Lan Hua E or epidendrum is the symbol of the
"Chun Tzu" or perfect man, Confucius explains its
characteristics at length and the Emperor is supposed to
possess all its virtues.
The Imperial bed-room is situated in the Yang Hsin
Tien, the yellow curtain of the bed itself is woven in a
design of the endless knot known as the Hui Lung Wan Tzu
A while the tops are embroidered with the character
Shou for longevity, which also appears written upon a
hanging scroll. The doors of the bed are carved with
bamboos and the Shou .
To the north of this private residence of the Ruler is
the I K'un Kung Assist the Earth Palace, residence
of the Empress; it posseses two marvellous screens of carved
wood, the first is carved in the design known as Hsi shang
mei shao
and shows the magpie, bird of joy
among plum blossoms.
The allusion lies in a play on words,
the idea is that when the eye-brows are lifted, are high, not

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
75
drawn together, one is happy and care free, the further
screen is composed of the pines of longevity; the frieze and
panels are decorated with a design of bamboo, thus the
'Three Friends" the pine, Bamboo, and Plum, "who do not
fear the winter's blast," are all represented. Panels and
window frets are ornamented with characters for longevity.
Beautiful lanterns screened in different shades of yellow,
hang from the ceiling while at the end of the room stands
a magnificent circular mirror, which conveys the following
meaning; Yung Yüan Chang Yüan
United in a
complete circle for eternity." A round mirror has several
connotations; it is symbol of conjugal happiness, the death
of a wife, the absence of a husband are referred to as "a
broken mirror;" it also suggests complete comprehension;
and is used as an allusion to that magic mirror in which the
nature of peoples hearts are reflected; these last were used by
the Great First Emperor of Chin to test the hearts of the
palace ladies.
Returning to the central line of buildings one passes
through the Tsun I Men
Comply with Excellence
Gate into the Yu Hua Ting
Rain Flowers Pavilion.
This name of a priest is supposed to deliver the sutra, that is
one of the Canons of Buddhism, and as the words of
enlightenment fall from his lips Heaven "rains flowers." In
Nanking there may be seen the famous Yü Hua T'ai where,
in the time of Liang Wu Ti A.D. 502, the great
patron of Buddhism, flowers rained as a priest was expound-
ing the doctrine, which flowers were turned into the brightly
coloured pebbles for which the hill is still famous, and which
the Chinese treasure to-day in little bowls of water so that
the colours may gleam the more brightly. Buddhist relics
are deposited in the Pavilion and in the centre of the
courtyard stands a fine incense burner upon which is carved
a Suan Li that son of the dragon who loves smoke and
sweet scents.
Beyond the Yü Hua Ting the northernmost gate of the
Purple Forbidden City is reached, the Gate through which
ironically enough the Court of Kuang Hsü fled in Boxer
Days, it is the Shên Wu Mên Spirit of Bravery Gate.
In addition to all attributes we have noticed the Emperor
should have one other-that of bravery-he is known as Chün
Chu Shên Wu . "The Emperor is majestic and
awe inspiring.
Standing to the north of the Purple City, on that hill
where the last of the Mings stood at the moment when he-
realizing that the Decree of Heaven, by which he lived and
reigned, had gone from him-decided to end his sojourn in

76
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
this world, one can look down upon the gleaming yellow
roofs, the soft rose red walls of that enclosure where dwelt
the Son of Heaven, who governed his Domain by a system
that glorified not the Strong Man-the Man of Force, but
the Strong Man-the Man of Virtue. A Ruler whose people
have made their National Hero, who have taken as their
pattern not the Man of War, but the Man of Peace
Confucius, the Sage Kung Fu Tzǔ孔夫子. Him they have
raised and made equal to Heaven and Earth, it was Con-
fucius who said: "
.
People despotically governed and kept in order by punish-
ments may avoid infraction of the law, but they will lose their
moral sense. People virtuously governed and kept in order by
the inner law of self-control will retain their moral sense, and
moreover become good. (See “Sayings of Confucius”. Wisdom
of the East series. Lionel Giles).
Another of whose Sages, Mencius, Mêng Tzu disci-
ple of the Master, when asked by Ching Ch'un for the defini-
tion of a great man replied:
To live in the wide dwelling-place of the World, to stand
in the correct rank of the World, to walk on the great highway of
the World; when he obtains his desire for office, to practice his
principles for the good of the people; and when that desire is
disappointed, to practice them alone; not to be dissipated by
riches and honours, not to be swerved from principle by poverty
and mean circumstances; not to cringe to power and force :-
these are the characteristics of the great man.
A people whose best-loved poet Li T'ai-po 李太白 in
describing War wrote:³
In savage attack they die-fighting without arms, in locked
embrace;
The riderless horses scream with terror, throwing their heads up
to the sky.
1
論語 為政第三節
3
齊之以禮,有聆且格
2
子曰,道之以政,齊之以刑,民免而無恥,道之以德
孟子滕文公下二章第三節
居天下之廣居,立天下之正位,行天下之大道,
得志,與民由之,不得志,獨行其道,富貴不能淫,
餐賤不能移,威武不能屈,此之謂大丈夫
天志賤 聖人不得已而用之
之民能 乃知兵者是凶器
旺之威將軍空爾
笃 莽
ㄓ
塗
草
*謂 烏恧啄人腸
啣飛上挂枯樹枝
股
敃 馬 號 嗚 向天悲
大能 野戰格死
戰
城南 李 白

PURPLE FORBIDDEN CITY
Vultures and kites tear the bowels of men with their beaks,
And fly to hang them on the branches of dead trees.
Soldiers lying in mud, in grass, in undergrowth;
Helpless the General-Yes, incapable before this!
We have learnt that soldiers are evil tools,
77
But wise men have not accomplished the ending of strife, and
still employ them.
(Translated by F. Ayscough, Rendering, Any Lowell).
Impractical, Utopian, as this system seems to us who
have lived in a different atmosphere, is it not well to reflect
that whereas, our forms have been ephemeral in the extreme,
this form, this conception of social relationships, has proved
as enduring as is its most popular emblem of longevity
the bamboo? China, ruled on the principles of
accord and harmony, has existed, in the realm of authentic
history since about the year 2000 B.C. Germany the most
perfect example of Rule by Force which the world has seen
has lasted-how long?
I cannot do better, in closing this paper, than to throw
on the screen a picture of the simple and appropriate monu-
ment which marks the resting place of "The Great and
Perfect One; The Holy One beyond Comparison;' The
King whose Virtue Diffuses Transforming Doctrines;" the
man whose ideals still inspire the people of "The Hundred
Surnames. Lionel Giles writes of him:
"
Throughout the anarchy of this terrible period, the light
kindled by Confucius burned steadily and prepared men's minds
for better things. His ideal of government was not forgotten,
his sayings were treasured like gold in the minds of the people.
Above all, his own example shone like a glorious beacon, darting
its rays through the night of misery and oppression and civil
strife which in his lifetime he had striven so earnestly to remove.
And so, it came about that his belief in the political value of
personal goodness, was in some sort justified after all; for the
great and inspiriting pattern which he sought in vain among the
princes of his time was to be afforded, in the end, by no other
than himself-the throneless king," who is for ever enshrined in
the hearts of his countrymen. It is absurd, then, to speak of
his life as a failure. Measured by results-the most incalculably
great and far-reaching consequences which followed tardily but
irresistibly after he was gone his life was one of the most
successful ever lived by man. Three others and only three, are
comparable to it in world-wide influence: Gautama's self-sacrific.
ing sojourn among men, the stormy career of the Arab Prophet,
and the" sinless years "which found their close on Golgotha."
'** Inscription on Confucius tomb-stone. The
Wen Hsuan Wang, was the title given during the T'ang Dynasty, the
Chih Sheng was added by the Sung Dynasty and the Ta Cheng by the
Yuan.

3 T'ang of Shang offering his
life as sacrifice.
78
NOTES ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
An Abstract of the above paper was given before the
Society on March twenty-fourth, this was illustrated with
the following coloured slides;
1 Diagram from Pere Amiot's
description of Chinese
Philosophy.
2 Fourteen terms which Mea-
dows considers as indentical.
26 North view of same showing
descent from great stage.
Ch'ien Ch'ing Kung.
nearer.
side view.
columns in front.
Centre panel of
27
28
do.
29
do.
30
do.
31
do.
4 The Dragon.
stairway.
5 Hua P'iao before T'ien An
Men.
32
do.
Steps.
33
do.
incense burner.
6 Shun Wang and his Fei Pan
do.
Chia Liang.
Mu.
35
do.
Throne.
7 Plan of Forbidden City.
36
do.
Throne nearer.
8 The Wu Men.
37
do.
Mirror.
9 Jih Kuei in front of Wu Men.
38
do.
Cupboard.
10 Chia Liang in front of Wu
39
do.
Doorway.
40 Ch'iao T'ai Tien.
41
do.
Throne.
42
do.
Ceiling.
43
do.
Water clock.
45
do.
Buddhist vessels.
Men.
11 Court before T'ai Ho Men.
12 Ceiling of T'ai Ho Men.
13 Tai Ho Tien.
14 Ssu Tzu in front of same.
15 Pei Hsi in front of same.
16 Ying Lung in front of same.
17 Ch'iao Shen in front of same.
18 Central Pathway in front of
Pao Ho Tien.
19 Pillars of T'ai Ho Tien.
20 Dais and throne of same.
21 Dais side view.
22 Officials in robes of ceremony.
23 Throne in Chung Ho Tien.
24 Ceiling of Pao Ho Tien.
25 Throne of Pao Ho Tien.
44 Chien Chiu Ting.
46 Chin An ceiling.
47 Chin An railing.
48 Yang Hsin Hall.
49
do.
50
do.
51
do.
inner room.
Emperor's bed-
room.
Door.
52 I K'un Kung.
53 Yu Hua Ting.
54 Shen Wu Men.
55 Bird's eye view.
56 Confucius' grave.
I desire to express my thanks to Mr. Evan Morgan for
the assistance which he has kindly given me in the transla-
tions of the precepts which surround the Imperial thrones,
and also to Mr. Nung Chu for his unending patience
in searching for the references in the Chinese books which
have been required in the preparation of the paper.
The translation of the "Cloudy River" is my own, and
is based on the analysis of the character, from which analysis
I have obtained the "overtones" of the poem.