THE MARRIAGE MAKER'
CHARLES KLIENE, F.R.G.S.
There's divinity that shapes our ends,
Rough-hew them how we will.
Hamlet, Act. V, Sc. 2.
Many, many years ago, in the distant days of the T'ang
Dynasty, there lived in the Prefecture of Sungkiang a
young man named Wei Ku. In his youth, Wei Ku had
received a liberal education, the best that his town could.
give; and as he grew up he became famed for his learning.
Sungkiang which the ancients called "Yün-chien," or
"Abode in the Clouds," has always been noted for its
literary men. At an early age Wei Ku had mastered the
Classics, and could quote from all the famous poets, and
they were numerous, for poetry was in its golden age in
the T'ang Dynasty. But as his people were in easy circum-
stances they looked upon his future as already provided for,
and so never troubled to prepare him for any special calling
in life.
One day Wei Ku left his native town to visit some friends
who lived in the ancient city of Hangchow, in the neighbour-
ing Province of Chekiang. Now, the city of Hangchow
stands in one of the prettiest spots in China; the beauty of
its surroundings is only rivalled, they say, by Soochow, in
Kiangsu. The Chinese speak of these two places as terres-
trial paradises, for they say: "Shang yu Tien-t'ang; hsia
yu Soo Hang," which means that while "those above have
Heaven, we below have Soo and Hang." Hangchow is
enclosed by a massive wall thirty-three li in circumference
with ten gates. It nestles in a natural garden where the
placid lake and verdant hills, from time immemorial, have
been the subject of many paintings and the theme of many
a poem.
It was while there that Wei Ku strolled out one fine-
moonlight evening, after the evening meal, to see the sights
in the principal streets. As he rambled along, passing from
Read before the Society on 23rd December, 1920.
2 T'ang dynasty A.D. 618-905.

140
THE MARRIAGE MAKER
one thoroughfare into another he crossed the bridge of the
South Star and strayed on to a road that led away from
the city.
It happened to be early spring. The peach orchards
in the neighbourhood were already in bloom, and the cool
evening breezes, coming in from the country over the
shimmering waters of the Hsi-hu, or West Lake, and laden
with the fragrance of peach blossoms, were so refreshing
that Wei Ku, forgetting the scencs of the busy streets he
had left behind, sallied forth at a swinging pace and with a
light heart. The moon was at its fullest and made the
night resplendent; the peach-tiees looked in the effulgent
light as though they were burdened with snow. Enchanted
by the loveliness of the effect in the distance, Wei Ku did
not notice that the houses on either hand were becoming
fewer and fewer, and that he had inadvertently wandered
into the region of paddy-fields and cemeteries.
Presently, he came to a lonely spot where, to his
surprise he perceived a strange looking old man, very old,
with hair that gleamed like polished silver, seated on a low
mound by the roadside, beneath a solitary peach tree,
poring, by the light of the moon, over the pages of a huge
book that he supported on his knees; beside him on the
ground was a bag containing red silk cord. Struck by the
weirdness of this singular apparition, and curious to know
what the quaint old fellow could be so intently absorbed in
at such a late hour and in such a deserted place, Wei Ku
stood still for a moment hoping to engage the stranger in
conversation.
Almost immediately the old man looked up and ad-
dressed him.
"Young man," said he, "you seem to take a great
interest in me to stop and stare like that. May be, you
will ask me next who I am, and what I am doing!"
"Indeed, Sir," answered Wei Ku apologetically, "I
was only thinking what a noble example you are to young
people who lack zeal in the pursuit of knowledge. If you
will condescend to impart to me some of the wisdom that
is contained in the bulky volume you were reading, I am
sure I shall profit by your teaching.
The old man replied, "the book I hold is not for mortal
eyes to scan, and its contents may not be disclosed."
"Dear me!" ejaculated Wei Ku, "what is it that it
should be so precious and forbidden to mortals?" "I beg
your pardon,' he added immediately in a softer tone, "I
am a student, and would be glad to know at least the title
of the book, if that is not too much to ask."

THE MARRIAGE MAKER
141
"It is the Register of Marriages," answered the old
man, "and I am its duly appointed custodian. I come from
the moon. You have heard that marriages are made in
the Moon, I suppose."'
"Yes," said Wei Ku, "but I always thought that was
a nursery tale,-a bit of moonshine, in short.
"It is no nursery tale, I assure you! not only do I
register all marriages in my book, but it is my duty to pair
off every couple within the Four Seas and the Nine Con-
tinents.i No marriage can take place till I have first tied
together, with red silken cord, the feet of those who are
destined to b. come man and wife; and when once they are
thus joined by me, no match can be broken except by death,
and then I alone sever the knot and release the one from
the other. It does not matter in the least what feuds may
exist between the families, nor what distance separates the
parties; most assuredly, and in spite of all obstacles, they
will meet at the appointed time to fulfil their destiny. No
living creature can escape its destiny," continued the old
man, "and my silken cords wind round and round the whole
world. To prevent confusion, however, for mankind is
verse and prone to subvert the plans of the Gods, I come
down when the moon is full, to dissolve entanglements not
ordained, and to verify the entries in my book, for I must
present accurate reports to the Jade Emperor, the Great
Ruler of the Universe."2
per-
Mystified by these words, and feeling convinced that
the speaker was no ordinary being, Wei Ku, who was
beginning to grow a trifle nervous, hesitated whether he
should hie from the spot, or wait for further information.
But he braced himself up and muttered meekly, "Excuse
me, Sir, for disturbing you and trespassing on your time;
but having learned so much, I feel reluctant to depart
without first craving a favour."
"What favour would you ask?" enquired the old man.
"I would ask whether you have as yet tied my ankles
to those of anyone or not; and if you have, who is the lady
I am fated to wed?"
"I thought that was coming. You are most inquisitive,"
rejoined the old man. "As a rule, it is not given to mortals
to pry into the future, for they invariably attempt to evade
the decrees of Fate. But seeing that your demeanour is
humble, I will make an exception in your case and comply
with your request."
A poetical expression for "the whole world."
Yu Huang Ta Ti, the Taoist Supreme Being, sometimes wrongly
rendered in English as the "Pearly Emperor."

142
THE MARRIAGE MAKER
Whereupon the old man turned over a few leaves in his
big book, and without even asking Wei Ku his name, ran
his finger slowly along the entries which were written in
strange letters that glowed like the light of fireflies.
Suddenly he stopped and exclaimed, "Ah, here it is,
Wei Ku, native of Sungkiang!" He read the entry to
himself and then said, "You are still young, and your
marriage will not take place for some years to come; your
mate is still an infant, not more than two years old. Near
the market-place in the north suburb of your native town,
is a small shop where an old woman sells tou-fu;¹ the old
woman has charge of that infant, and that infant will one
day become your wife."
On hearing this Wei Ku was sorely disappointed. He
had hoped that he might some day wed some immaculate
damsel with a huge fortune, or perhaps the beautiful daugh-
ter of some high and powerful mandarin; but to be told in
this blunt, off-hand way that his bride was still an infant,
and in the charge of a stupid old woman who kept a tou-fu
shop, was really most discomfiting.
"That's rough!" complained Wei Ku dejectedly. "Is
it not possible for you to arrange matters a little more to
my advantage? You give me indeed a long time to look
forward to; I cannot wait for an infant of two years;
wish to marry soon?"
I
The old man replied gravely. "There is no help for it.
What must be, must be; you cannot escape that which the
Gods have ordained for you!"
Just then a cloud passed over the face of the moon,
and in a moment all was veiled in darkness. When the
moonlight again fell upon the scene, the strange old man
had vanished.
An inexpressible sense of uneasiness now took possession
of Wei Ku. Those words "What must be, must be; you
cannot escape that which the Gods have ordained for you"
uttered by a mysterious stranger in the weird moonlight
seemed to carry a deep significance to his soul. He reflected
that perhaps it was useless to oppose the Gods, though he
would certainly do his utmost to see this infant; so rousing
himself, he briskly retraced his steps to the house of his
friends.
The next day he left the city and returned hurriedly to
his native town. On arrival there he at once went to the
north suburb where he had been told the humble shop of
'Beancurd.

THE MARRIAGE MAKER
143
the old woman was located. As soon as he approached the
neighbourhood a varied assortment of malodours assailed his
nostrils. It was undeniably a poor locality, where beggars
and the lowest coolie classes congregated and eked out a
miserable existence in all their poverty and putrescent
squalor. Ragged children, covered from head to foot with
the grime of many months, played in the perennial slime
of the narrow streets among pigs and starving dogs that
perform the functions of scavengers in such places. The
houses, or rather hovels, were all low and in the last stage
of dilapidation, and apparently had no doors. Wei Ku
peered into each doorway as he advanced, stepping warily
over puddles and heaps of decomposing refuse. At last he
came to the market-place, where the women, unkempt and
unwashed, wrangle daily over the few course articles of food
required to keep them alive in their wretchedness, and there,
at the corner of the street, was the dingy little shop with its
stand of tou-fu, already cut into two-inch squares, and partly
covered with a wet cloth, exposed for sale. Within the
shop, and occupying nearly the whole of one side, was a
brick stove with the large round iron boilers sunk into the
brickwork; their wooden lids were standing on edge against
the wall, while the water in the boilers, seething over a
crackling wood fire, sent up dense clouds of steam. There
was also a collection of other things in the shop, such as
strainers, sieves, and racks; in short, all the paraphernalia
required in the manufacture and sale of this very inexpensive
and common article of diet, as well as several wooden
buckets containing the greenish-white residue of the beans,
called tou-fu-cha, which is sold for next to nothing to feed
swine, and which, being in a state of fermentation, emitted
an offensive sour smell.
At first Wei Ku could not see into the dimly lighted
interior, filled as it was with smoke and the steam from the
boilers; but he soon heard the plaintive puling of an infant,
and this pierced him to the quick. Simultaneously, an old
woman with a child in her arms hobbled forward, and as
she emerged into the daylight she demanded of Wei Ku
what he wanted. Heedless of the enquiry, Wei Ku only
stared blankly at the apparition before him. The child,
poor thing, presented the appearance of nothing more than
a bundle of unwholesome rags. Wei Ku was filled with
abhorrence. The old woman, uncouth, hideous as well as
uncleanly, and never accustomed to speak with civility to
anyone, repeated her question with increased vehemence in
a rasping, raucous voice, which so startled Wei Ku that he
turned on his heels and fled. He had seen enough.

144
THE MARRIAGE MAKER
"To wait for that miserable, ill-starred brat to grow up
into a woman, and marry her, while so many charming and
rich girls want husbands, would surely be a piece of folly
that only a lunatic could be guilty of. "No thanks," he
thought, "I shall employ all the professional match-makers
in the town to toil in my behalf as soon as I reach home;
I shall see that things turn out in a rational common-sense
way, in spite of the Gods and their decrees.
"
No sooner had he formed this resolve, than those inexor-
able words of the old man in the moonlight recurred to him
with renewed force. "What must be, must be; you cannot
escape that which the Gods have ordained for you." The
more he tried to forget those haunting words, the more
they persisted to ring in his ears; and the more he pondered
over them, the more they irritated him. Disgusted, and full
of resentment, he determined to defy all the powers that be
and forthwith arrange his marriage to his own liking, cost
what it may.
While all this was passing through his troubled brain,
he was accosted by a ruffianly looking fellow who asked him
for money.
"Money, you misbegotten, good for nothing
egg of a turtle!" he exclaimed; "Yes, you shall have money
if you go down to yonder tou-fu shop and slay the infant in
the arms of the old hag; I promise you fifty taels, you object
of mean countenance !'
The fellow leered, and without a word, started off on
his dastardly errand. Wei Ku stood at the end of the strect
and watched the proceedings.
As soon as the ruffian came to the shop, he called to
the old woman; and just as she approached, he picked up
a heavy iron tou-fu. lifter, from the stand and dealt the
infant a tremendous blow on the head. The old woman
screamed for help, and in an instant there was a wild commo-
tion. People hurried to the shop from all directions, eager
to know what had happened. In the noise and confusion
the ruffian disappeared; but the excitement grew so intense,
when it was known a child had been killed, that in a few
seconds the narrow street was blocked by an angry mob,
yelling and gesticulating like demons let loose. Where all
the people came from in such a short space of time is a
mystery.
Wei Ku, half-stunned by the cowardly deed he had
prompted, and hearing that the child was dead, escaped
from the locality as fast as his trembling legs would carry
him. By the time he reached home he had become very
depressed; the thought of having instigated a murder
weighed heavily on his conscience. All his valiant designs

THE MARRIAGE MAKER
145
to set the Gods at naught and to commission the match-
makers to find him a rich and beautiful wife were scattered
to the winds; in truth, nothing was now farther from his
mind than marriage.
After listlessly spending several days doing nothing, he
came to the wise conclusion that he had better give up his
aimless life and seek some Government employment. He
heard of a suitable vacancy in a Mandarin's Yamên at a
place called Hsiang Chou, in another part of the country;
and this post he decided to apply for. With the help of
influential friends he obtained it, so accordingly packed up
his belongings and set out to take up the appointment.
At Hsiang Chou, Wei Ku plodded on diligently, and in
time gained the confidence of his superiors and the esteem
of his neighbours. Preferment came in due season, and
gradually he secured a fairly responsible position with a good
salary, a fact which did not fail to engross the attention of
a multitude of fond mothers who had the welfare of marriage-
able daughters at heart. So it came about that Wei Ku
who once had thought of employing match-makers in his
own behalf, now found himself sought after by a host of
these insinuating people delegated by the said fond mothers
to institute negotiations with the object of converting him
into a son-in-law.
The first step, as is always customary in such cases,
was a request, couched in the most courteous and formal
language, to Wei Ku for his Shih Ch'en Pa Tzu, or "Eight
horary characters," which, in pairs, indicate the year, the
month, the day, and the hour of his birth. This information,
indispensable at the outset and invariably written on a piece
of red paper, when obtained, is promptly submitted to an
astrologer for the purpose of ascertaining whether the in-
dividual concerned is born under a lucky or an unlucky star.
If it be found that the star is an unlucky one, the matter
falls through at once; but should the astrologer have no
fault to find with the star, a careful detailed comparison of
the horoscopes of both parties is then made to determine
whether the degree of pernicious influences, and the effect
of unfavourable forces exerted by the Five Elements, namely,
Metal, Wood, Water, Fire and Earth, on the one side, are
adequately counterbalanced or compensated for by the benign
influences and salutary forces of the same Elements on the
other side. If they are, the combination is said to be
harmonious, and negotiations are proceeded with. But if
evil predominates, then negotiations are broken off as grace-
fully and as speedily as possible.
10

146
THE MARRIAGE MAKER
Wei Ku did not object to the visits of the match-makers
nor to their overtures, and, while not himself seriously seeking
matrimony, had no special disinclination to handing over his
"Eight characters" whenever asked for them. Strange, to
relate, however, the red slips of paper were in every instance
politely returned to him because the astrologers to whom
they had been referred all affirmed that the "characters"
did not harmonize with those of the intended brides, and as
a union entered into when the astral and elemental condi-
tions are antagonistic, when the dragon and the phoenix do
not sing in concert, would be highly injudicious, the proposals
never went beyond the initial stage.
After Wei Ku had spent some fifteen years in Hsiang
Chou, the Prefect one day jocularly asked him why he was
still a bachelor. "Well," replied Wei Ku, "it's not that I
have ever objected to wed. The trouble is, I could never
find a lady whose horoscope harmonized with mine."
"That's very odd, to be sure!" observed the Prefect;
"you must have been born under chaotic conditions of the
heavens. Let me have your "eight characters," and I'll
see whether they don't accord with my daughter's. If they
do, and you agree, you shall have her with my full consent.
And so it happened that another match-maker was sent
to Wei Ku in the proper formal way, and Wei Ku produced
his red slip for the twentieth time with many misgivings.
"
Now, the Prefect's daughter, whose name was Ch'un
Lai, which means, "Came in the Springtime,' was renowned
throughout the land for her peerless beauty and many accom-
plishments. She sang exquisitely, and performed with great
skill on the Ch'in, an ancient stringed-instrument resembling
the zither, very fashionable in those days, and considered
classical at the present time. She could play all the five
kinds of music to suit the five kinds of etiquette; that
is to say, music for joyful occasions, for sad occasions, for
occasions when hosts welcome guests, for occasions when
martial music is appropriate, and for occasions when con-
gratulations are offered. None the less famed was she for
her literary attainments. She could hold her own with the
most learned in expounding the Classics; her diction in
poetry was elegant and refined, and as for antithetical
couplets, no one could match a sentence with its correlative
more promptly or with more aptness of expression than
Ch'un Lai. In short, she was as clever as she was beautiful.
There had been many aspirants for the hand of this
brilliant young lady; but, somehow, her "eight characters"
never compared favourably with those of any suitors, so

THE MARRIAGE MAKER
147
that at the age of "sweet seventeen" she was still not
affianced to anyone.
Wei Ku knew all this, and thought to himself "the
Prefect might spare himself the trouble; that girl is not for
me, no such luck! I quite believe that on the day the
child in the tou-fu shop was slain, that old fellow in the
moonlight, to pay me out, cut my silken cord and condemned
me to die without descendant to tend my tomb. Wei Ku
often realized how cruel it was to kill that helpless innocent
babe, and he never ceased to repent the guilty part he took
in that wicked episode. It was the one ugly blot in his
otherwise blameless life. After the many failures to match
his "eight characters, he had given up hope of ever
marrying.
The Prefect was far more sanguine. He knew his
daughter's "eight characters" by heart, and also remembered
in what respects they had been found wanting. When he
received Wei Ku's "characters" he saw at a glance that they
were just the reverse of his daughter's-deficient in those
very conditions in which that young lady's were excessive,
and vice versa.
Without saying a word, he nodded knowingly and sent
both sets of "characters" to a famous astrologer with the
request that the two horoscopes be cast with utmost care,
and that a chart be drawn up to show how each stood in
relation to the other.
The astrologer, after an exhaustive investigation,
declared that the conditions were strikingly abnormal in
both cases.
Such marked degrees of excessiveness in some
essentials and incompleteness in others, he said he had never
seen before in any two horoscopes during the whole of his
professional career. He showed that the serious shortcom-
ings in the one, were so nicely compensated for by the
extraordinary excessiveness in the other, that obviously the
two sets of characters were exact counterparts. The in-
equalities of the Yin and the Yang elements, or "Dual
Principles in Nature," as existing in both were so peculiar,
that they could not be adjusted except by combining and
dovetailing the two horoscopes. The match was perfect.
Conjointly the signs and symbols stood for perfect harmony
which could conduce to nothing but happiness and good luck
in the fullest measure for the parties concerned. In the
'An inevitable duallism bisects nature, so that each thing is a
half, and suggests another thing to make it whole; as, spirit, matter;
man, woman; odd, even; subjective, objective; in, out; upper, under;
mot on, rest; yea, nay.-"Compensation."-R. W. Emerson.

148
THE MARRIAGE MAKER
event of a marriage taking place, the astrologer declared that
the Three Stars of Fu, Lu and Shou, or Happiness, Emolu-
ments, and Longevity, would twinkle with unwonted bright-
ness on the pair, and that the beneficent effect of their
propitious light would descend on the posterity of the couple
for many many generations. The union, he went on to say,
was highly desirable, and he ventured to pledge his pro-
fessional reputation that should a marriage be consummated,
all the dragons and phoenixes in the universe would sing in
sweetest concord.
Flattered by this complete and unqualified confirmation
of his own convictions, and elated to think that at one single
stroke he had accomplished for these two young people what
so many matchmakers had repeatedly failed to do, the
Prefect naturally felt very proud of his own astuteness. He
lost no time to send the glad tidings to Wei Ku by letter
written on red paper, wherein he expatiated at length on
the many lucky omens he himself had foreseen, all of which
were confirmed by the astrologer, and all of which, he
contended, only went to prove that a union with his worth.
less and despicable Ch'un Lai would be extremely felicitous.
He concluded by hoping that under these very favourable
conditions, Wei Ku would not disdain to take his child,
mean as she was, and allow the glory of his exalted name to
shed its lustre upon his insignificant house forever.
Wei Ku was astounded at this unexpected announce-
ment. It seemed to him too good to be true. Remembering
how often he had met with disappointment on this very
question, he could not readily believe that there was not
some mistake, or that some evil sprite was not making
sport of both the Prefect and himself. He read the letter
over and over again, and became more and more puzzled.
"Surely," he thought, "the Prefect is under a spell, or he
must be out of his senses!" At last he questioned the
messenger. The faithful old servant who brought the letter
swore by the souls of all his departed forefathers that his
master, the Prefect, was quite sane and in excellent spirits.
"Miss Ch'un Lai," he added naively, "is also quite well.
The mention of the young lady's name pleased Wei Ku so
much that without further ado he handed the messenger a
present of two taels in silver, which the latter, after a feeble
refusal as a matter of form, and a little pressing on the part
of the donor, finally accepted with profuse thanks and a broad
grin. Wei Ku would have answered the letter there and then;
but not wishing to appear as though acting with unseemly
haste, he told the messenger to inform the Prefect that a
formal reply would be forthcoming the next day.
"

THE MARRIAGE MAKER
149
That night the Prefect's letter was placed under Wei
Ku's Ancestral Tablet, in front of which Wei Ku himself
lighted tapers and burned incense. He prostrated himself
three times before the tablet and then retired, congratulating
himself on his change of luck. In his sleep he dreamt that
Kwanyin, the Goddess of Mercy, promised him five sons, all
of whom were to serve the Government and rise to the rank
of Ministers of State. This in itself was a most favourable
omen and helped to put him in the best humour. Early in
the morning, after he had breakfasted on a bowl of sweet
birds'-nest soup with lotusnuts and lungngan pulp, he
proceeded to write his formal reply to the Prefect.
He said he was overjoyed to find that the oracle was
so favourable; he had not dared to hope for so satisfactory
a result. He was profoundly sensible of the high honour that
the Prefect proposed to bestow upon him, so high and so
great was this honour that in its magnitude it resembled
Mount T'ai; and his gratitude was deep and vast as the
boundless ocean. He was only too well aware of his own
utter worthlessness and stupendous ignorance. Being no-
thing but a vile crawling worm, how could he dare to do
otherwise than humbly obey the enlightened commands of
so noble and illustrious a person as the Prefect? He, there-
fore, while craving indulgence for his own contemptible
shortcomings, reverently besought the Prefect to be pleased
to speedily devise means for the wedding to take place in
due form with all possible despatch.
That settled matters. On receipt of this very proper
reply, written in approved epistolary style and worded accord-
ing to the rules of etiquette and propriety, the Prefect set
about at once to do the necessary with right goodwill.
Accordingly a lucky day was chosen for the happy
event to take place in the ninth moon, which is the moon
of Chrysanthemums, a favourite moon for marriages, and
great preparations were taken in hand; for the Prefect,
generous soul, spared neither pains nor expense to make the
occasion one of unprecedented splendour, as would befit the
rank, prestige, and social standing of the contracting parties.
After formal ratification of the betrothal, hundreds of in-
vitations on red paper, for red is the colour of joy, were
forthwith sent out; they were all stamped in gold with a
dragon and a phoenix, the former to represent the bride-
groom and the latter the bride.
A mountain in Shantung, said by the Chinese to be the highest
in China.

150
THE MARRIAGE MAKER
Little loaves of white bread (white being an unlucky
colour the loaves were on that account stamped with a red
patch) and jars of samshu, and vermicelli, and hard-boiled
eggs stained red with safflower, and fruits, both fresh and
preserved in honey, were distributed in lavish quantities to
all the relations and friends, who returned sums of money,
scrolls of red satin and silk, some inscribed with con-
gratulatory sentences, and some bearing a huge character
for "happiness" in gold.
Two days before the wedding, the bride's furniture and
outfit were sent to Wei Ku's residence with great pomp.
As Wei Ku resided quite near the Prefect's Yamên, the
bearers of the articles, numbering about a hundred coolies,
clad in red coats and headed by a band of musicians, took
a roundabout route to their destination in order that a
grand display might be made of everything by parading them
through the principal streets.
The articles consisted of household furniture, ornaments,
pewter candlesticks and incense-burners, wadded bed quilts,
trunks full of clothing, red lacquered tubs of various shapes
and sizes, sundry eatables, cooked and uncooked, several
pairs of live mandarin ducks (the emblems of conjugal
fidelity) which, however, being white must needs have their
wings stained red, whole pigs roasted, two goats dressed and
ready for the kitchen, and a large supply of the inevitable
vermicelli.1
The procession, after attracting as much notice as
possible, and gathering a big retinue of followers in the
persons of innumerable small boys, beggars and loafers,
finally halted at the gate of Wei Ku's house late in the
afternoon, having taken nearly the whole day to get there.
The gate was immediately thrown open and the same old
messenger that we have seen before, the most important
personage in these proceedings, stepped forward and handed
to Wei Ku the Prefect's card with a detailed catalogue of
all the articles he had convoyed. The things were carefully
tallied as they were taken in and placed in the apartments
prepared for the occupation of the Hsin Niang, as the bride
is called; the said apartments having all been previously
fumigated with incense and disinfected of evil spirits by the
chanting of priests, the ringing of bells, the firing of crackers,
and other Taoist rites.
'Vermicelli, being in long strings, is always regarded as a symbol
of "long life." For this reason it is never absent from weddings and
birthday festivities, and all guests are expected to partake of it to
intimate that they wish those in whose honour it is served a long life.

THE MARRIAGE MAKER
151
When everything was in order, the musicians, and coolies
who had enlivened the proceedings with a needless amount
of vociferation, were liberally paid off with packets of money
wrapped in red paper, and a particularly heavy packet fell
to the share of the faithful old servant who took back to his
master Wei Ku's card in acknowledgment of safe delivery.
On the day of the wedding there were great rejoicings at
Wei Ku's house. The gates which had been draped with red
hangings and decorated with red lanterns, were thrown wide
open, and from early dawn till night there flowed in a
constant stream of guests and visitors who came to tender
their congratulations; they did so by grasping their own
hands and shaking them vigorously at Wei Ku. Wei Ku,
who was dressed in his official robes and wore his insignia of
office, had enough to do to receive his numerous friends,
return their salutations, and with his own hands pass them
tea from trays brought in by the attendants.
During the whole day a band of musicians played wed-
ding music on the so-na¹ to the accompaniment of drums,
gongs and cymbals in the courtyard, which was also gaily
festooned in red, and hung with countless red lanterns. In
the reception hall, which opened on to the courtyard, all
the satin and silk scrolls with congratulatory sentences sent
by friends had been hung up, and a score of square tables
were laid out for a sumptuous banquet for the gentlemen;
the ladies being entertained separately in the inner apart-
ments. The chairs were all covered with rich embroideries
on red satin, and every post and pillar was adorned with red
placards on which were written in large characters of gold,
Fu, Lu, Shou and Hsi, or Happiness, Emoluments,
Longevity and Joy. The effect of the whole scene was
gorgeous and entrancing; nothing could have had a more
festive appearance.
Towards the ninth hour, or the hour of Shen, the shrill
strains of another band of so-na in the distance proclaimed
the approach of the bride in her bridal sedan chair. In a
little while the Prefect's trusty old servant who had run on
ahead, burst in upon the company in a breathless hurry to
announce that the procession would soon arrive. The old
fellow was attired in his best clothes in honour of the
occasion; he was proud of his young mistress, and could
not do enough to be useful on her wedding day.
A shrill brass wind instrument producing notes resembling those
of bagpipes.
From 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.

152
THE MARRIAGE MAKER
Presently the procession stopped at the gate, and the
gaudy bridal chair, elaborately decorated with carvings and
small paintings in panels, glittering with gold, and silver
ornamentations, and jingling with a hundred tiny bells, was
brought into the courtyard and deposited in front of the
main reception hall amid the vigorous playing of the two
bands; the drums, cymbals and gongs vying with each
other to make the most noise, which together with the
explosion of firecrackers created a deafening din. In all this
tumult the guests pressed forward with straining necks,
eager to catch a glimpse of the bride as she alighted from
the chair. All that could be seen of her, however, was a
graceful figure clad in superbly embroidered red satin, for
her head was hidden, according to custom, under a heavy
veil. The musicians now struck up the "Bridal Song," the
words of which are as follows:
"Ho, graceful little peach-tree,
Brightly thy blossoms bloom!
The bride goes to her husband;
Adorns his hall, his room.
"Ho, graceful little peach-tree,
Thy fruit abundant fall!
The bride goes to her husband;
Adorns his room, his hall.
"Ho, graceful little peach-tree,
With foliage far and wide!
The bride goes to her husband;
His household well to guide."
It the meantime, Wei Ku had betaken himself off to
the bridal chamber, where the first cermony is performed;
the ceremony of sitting on the bed. As soon as Ch'un Lai
was led into the room by her attendants, she took up her
position beside Wei Ku at the edge of the bed, and, at a
given signal, both sat down together. In doing this each
must endeavour to sit on a portion of the garments of the
other; whoever succeeds, prevents the other from rising again
unless released, and, it is said, the one whose garments are
sat upon will surely be held in subjection during the married
life. It seems that these two were reasonable beings, for
From the Shih Ching, or Book of Poetry, edited by Confucius.
The above versification is by Mr. William Jennings.
A similar curious custom prevails in Persia, where on the bride's
arrival at the house she takes off her outdoor dress and a little comedy
is enacted in the hall when the bride and bridegroom each try to be
the first to put their foot on the other's. Whichever succeeds, it is
believed, will rule the house in after life.
Tolstoi says that during the wedding ceremony in Russia the
officiating priest spreads a rose-coloured carpet in the church and
whichever one of the bridal pair first sets foot on this carpet becomes
the real head of the family. (Anna Karenina).

THE MARRIAGE MAKER
153
neither desired the upper hand which many fight for. After
this, the couple publicly worshipped "Heaven and Earth"
and the Ancestral Tablets. It was while worshipping
"Heaven and Earth" that the bride's attendants tied the
two together with a red silken cord, an act which is intended
to signify that the pair are joined together for life.
Wei Ku and Ch'un Lai were now man and wife. After
being relieved of her veil, it became the duty of Ch'un Lai
to present herself to the company and to hand tea to every
guest; thus giving everybody an opportunity to see the Hsin
Niang and to criticise her. Ch'un Lai bore herself with
becoming decorum throughout this ordeal; and the per-
sonal remarks openly indulged in about her were all most
eulogistic, for the accounts of her charms and wit had not
in the least been exaggerated. She moved about like a
fairy on her tiny feet that they called "golden lilies," and
she bowed to the assembly with dignity and ease, like the
pliant bamboo swayed by a gentle wind. Her voice was soft
as the cooing of the dove, and when she smiled, her mouth
which resembled a ripe cherry, disclosed two rows of dainty
teeth like the kernels of watermelon seeds. So refined, and
so graceful was she, that all eyes were rivetted upon her in
rapt admiration.
Wei Ku had cause to feel proud of his fascinating bride.
The congratulations of his friends filled him with a sense of
exultation such as he had never known before.
When the company had been presented with tea, and
all had seen the bride, Wei Ku and Ch'un Lai retired while
the banquet was served in the reception hall. All who sat
down at the twenty "eight-fairy" tables' were sumptuously
regaled. There were rare viands brought from every part of
the country; delicacies from the north and from the south,
and delicacies from out of the sea,-an interminable suc-
cession of savoury victuals served up in big bowls and little
bowls, in tiny saucers and big platters, each one a marvellous
revelation of culinary art; and the choicest wines of Shao-
hsing flowed abundantly. Feasting and drinking lasted till
a late hour, and everybody declared that Hsiang Chou had
never before seen such a magnificent wedding, nor had ever
been treated to such a grand bridal feast.
Once in the privacy of their own chamber, and away
from the excitement and bustle of the day, this happy couple
The ordinary square Chinese table called Pa-hsien Tai which
seats two persons on each side. Said to have been first used by the
"Eight fairies" of Taoism, viz., Chung-li Ch'üan, Chang Kuo-lao,
Lü Tung-pin, Ts'ao Kuo-chiu, Li T'ieh-kuai, Han Hsiang-tzu, Lan
Ts'ai-ho and Ho Hsien-ku; the last two are females.

154
THE MARRIAGE MAKER
at last could look at each other and speak without reserve.
Though there had been no previous love-making between
them, no courtship of any kind, they both realized that they
had been brought together in fulfilment of their destiny; and
they were glad of it, for each had long held the other in the
highest esteem. Love sprang up spontaneously in their
hearts on the foundation of this mutual esteem, and grew
into a superstructure fit to withstand the buffetings of the
roughest weather and the vicissitudes of fickle fortune; for
esteem is the most solid groundwork that love can rest upon.
"
Wei Ku took his wife fondly by the hand and drew her
gently towards him. "Does it not seem strange to you,'
he asked, that we two should have been reserved for each
other in this wonderful way?
"It does indeed," she replied. "It seems that we have
come together in obedience to the will of heaven. My uncle
always said that I should marry the right man in time."
he?"
"Your uncle!" exclaimed Wei Ku in surprise, "who is
"Well," said Ch'un Lai with a smile, "the Prefect
then, for he is not really my father. He is my uncle, my
father's brother, and he adopted me when I was quite a
little child, after an accident that nearly cost me my life."
"I never knew that," declared Wei Ku, more surprised
than ever.
"You must tell me all about it."
"Of course, you didn't know. It's such a long time
ago, and it didn't happen here."
Ch'un Lai then related her story in a touching manner.
"We were not always well off," she began, "indeed, they
tell me that once we were very poor. My father died before
my birth, and my mother followed him when I was about a
year old.
I was then left on the hands of my old nurse,
who took me away to her home. She lived in Sungkiang
where she kept a little tou-fu shop. The poor old soul did
her best, and was quite fond of me; she's dead now, alas!
how proud she would be to-day.
One day, when I was about two years old, a madman
rushed into the shop:-he must have been mad, for he
lifted a heavy iron scoop and struck me a furious blow on
the head for no reason whatever. Happily, the old woman
who held me in her arms drew back in time, and avoided
the full force of the blow which glanced off my forehead,
but left a nasty cut. I was stunned, and bled profusely.
My old nurse screamed; the neighbours ran about in great
excitement and everybody thought I was dead, but I re-
covered. It was after that that my dear old uncle came
and took me away. He has been wonderfully kind to me,

THE MARRIAGE MAKER
治療
155
and I have to thank him for everything. He has treated
me as his own daughter, and vows that I brought him good
luck, for things have prospered with him ever since. Look!
this is where I was struck," she exclaimed suddenly as she
pushed aside a pretty pearl ornament that dangled coquet-
tishly over her forehead to hide the scar. "I always cover
it with something because it's rather disfiguring."
Wei Ku stared in blank amazement. The emotions that
swept over him like a mountainous wave made him gasp for
breath. He knew he was responsible for that scar. The
scene in that dingy quarter at Sungkiang he had vainly tried
to forget; it now returned to him with startling vividness.
He had lived under the shadow of a crime; had played the part
of an honest man when the guilt of a cowardly murder was
ever before his eyes. But, after all these years, when it
was to be least expected, and on his wedding day too, his
supposed victim stands before him in the person of his wife,
and tells him there had been no murder. The guilt that had
haunted him like a spectre, and filled his conscience with
unrelenting remorse, was driven from him for ever by his
wife's simple story. What a load fell from his shoulders.
Ch'un Lai, not understanding her husband's silence,
asked him dejectedly, "Do you repent having married me,
Wei Ku?"
"No, my priceless jewel," he murmured, "no indeed!
You have crowned my life; you have changed me from a
miserable villain to the honest man that I have tried to be.
I am thankful, oh, so thankful, that you were spared!"
As he gave this gentle answer, and reflected how in-
scrutable are the ways of the Gods, he seemed to hear a
thousand spirit voices shouting in his ears those memorable
words of the old man in the moonlight: "What must be, must
be: you cannot escape that which the Gods have ordained
for you!" and simultaneously there rose up before him a
vision of a distant lonely scene where in the dazzling pal-
pitating moonlight, sat an old man with gleaming silvery
hair. And the face of the old man slowly turned towards
him, and as it did so, its solemn expression suddenly changed
to one of pleased recognition, for the old man's eyes sparkled
with merriment and he rubbed his hands and chuckled to
himself. Then he shook his head reprovingly, and Wei Ku
heard him say: "You foolish mortals, can you ever escape
the decrees of Fate!"
And ever since, the Chinese
have called their match-makers Yüch-hsia lao-jén, "old
people who appear in the moonlight."