LAMPAÇAO, A MYSTERY OF THE
FAR EAST
H. B. MORSE
Lampaçao, as it is called in English books (sometimes
Lampakaw) has never had its position identified. The name
was evidently taken in by English sailors, through the eye
and not the ear, from the Portuguese Lampaçao. The
Chinese name, according to J. R. Morrison's "Chinese Com-
mercial Guide," is Langpehtsao (). He says, 3rd
edition, 1848, p. 66-
"Between Ta Wongkum (Montanha) and Samtsaou is
the entrance to the Broadway. Here we look in vain for
the particular island which, under the name of Lampaçao
(Langpihtsaou) was once, for several years, the residence of
many Portuguese merchants. None of the islands lying
outside, between St. John's and Montanha, afford sufficient
shelter against all winds; and we must therefore seek for
it within the entrance of the Broadway. It is strange that
a place where, in 1560, there were said to have been 500 or
600 Portuguese constantly dwelling, should now be entirely
lost to the recollection of the living no further from it than
Macao. The island was occupied by the Portuguese in 1542;
in 1554 the trade was concentrated there; in 1557 Macao
began to rise into notice; and 1560 is the latest date at which
we find any mention made of Lampaçao; but it was then,
apparently, a flourishing place."
But inside the Broadway there is no trading mart to
which a deep ship could ascend. In 1664 the E. I. C. ship
Surat was expelled from Macao, and, after "riding between
Samtsaou and Montanha" for 14 days, she "sailed away for
the Lampakaw Islands," and tried to trade there.
In 1683 the E. I. C. ship Carolina went from Macao
"to Lantao," mooring very certainly in the Kapsingmun
anchorage, and, on leaving Lantao, she "sailed out from the
islands, and arrived the next day (September 18th), after
sailing probably 30 to 36 hours, and "came to anchor in the
harbour of Lampaçao.' There, according to the diary of
her supercargoes, they did some trading; but the existing
copy of the ship's log ends on September 3rd.
"

138
LAMPAÇAO, A MYSTERY OF THE FAR EAST
In 1684 the ship Loyal Adventure was despatched from
London under alternative orders, for Mindanao, or for "the
Nankeen and Lampaçao Islands." The word Islands was
apparently used very loosely. Sailing from Macao to "the
Nankeen Islands" she put in at Amoy, headed off by the
N.E. Monsoon.
These three are the sole references to Lampaçao in the
English Company's records. There is no trace of such a
port either in Dalrymple's charts (based on old charts of
dates from 1600 to 1800), or in Roxburgh's charts (about
1810).
Talking of the mystery with Captain T. J. Eldridge
recently, we lighted on Lampienchau on the western shore
of Bias Bay, and near it Outau. The latter place Captain
Eldridge remembered well, having often cruised in those
waters, and he reported it as a busy centre for smuggling
salt and opium in quite recent times; he also spoke of the
sea-faring people of those waters as being always prone to
smuggling and piracy. It was there that, in 1849 and 1850,
Commander Dalrymple Hay in three actions destroyed 94
pirate ships, mounting nearly 1,800 guns.
Captain Eldridge remembered also a broad highway,
"the widest and best kept in all South China," leading from
Outau to Tamshuihü, thronged with porters carrying goods.
From Tamshuihü the map shows a river flowing to Waichow-
fu, whence the North River provides an easy passage to
Whampoa, and so to Canton. Outau is, in fact, a smuggling
back door to Canton.
What Outau was in the reign of Kwanghsü, its neighbour
Lampienchau, only 2 miles away, may well have been in the
reign of Kanghi and under the Mings; and this seems to be
the Lampaçao to which the Portuguese traded in the six-
teenth century.