REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS.
A Tour in Mongolia. By Mrs. Beatrix Bulstrode. Methuen & Co.,
Ltd., London.
This lively account of two attempts to reach Urga made in 1913
should not suffer because of the over-emphasis laid on its importance
by the publishers' note and the "Times" correspondent's introduction.
The authoress endured the inevitable discomforts of her journeying
with sufficient courage and records its incidents, rarely serious as
these were, with cheery good nature. The photographs that illustrate
the volume are many and interesting, especially to the untravelled
public in China or elsewhere. It must be confessed that the former
half of this rather imposing volume proved somewhat trivial; but
from page 120 onward the reader becomes considerably interested.
The ceremonies and sports before the Hutukhtu are as worthy of
record as they are graphically recounted; the horrors of the Urga
prison in 1913 were indeed incredibly abominable. Mrs. Bulstrode
writes with vigour about the hats and clothes of the Mongols and their
dwellings and she was duly impressed by their famous fierce dogs.
She is to be congratulated on refraining from political dissertations
which would, owing to the belated publication of her work, have been
more than usually out of place in such a story.
A map of "Mongolia" graces the inner face of the cover.. The
fact that it includes the Yellow Sea and the Altai Mountains, Kokonor
and Krasnoyorsk, adds no doubt to its value to the general reader
who can with a little diligence trace Mrs. Bulstrode's course on her
two sallies from Peking.
The "Chinese proverbs" that head many of the chapters are mostly
unfamiliar to this reviewer, where they do recall genuine proverbs, and
in one case, a saying of the Sage's, the translator must have taken undue
liberties with the text.
Φ.
Commercial Handbook of China. Volume II. By Julean Arnold,
American Commercial Attaché in China. Published by the
Department of Commerce at Washington, 1920.
Notwithstanding the number and variety of books and reports that
have been written on "Things Chinese" in recent years the general
knowledge of the average British and American citizen concerning

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
195
present day conditions in China is of the most meagre description.
He thinks vaguely of China as a far off country that produces tea and
silk and pagodas, a land where devastating floods and famines alternate
with civil wars, brigandage on a large scale and the holding of mis-
sionaries to ransom.
To such as these and to all who are interested in this great and
unknown country the volume under review can be strongly recom-
mended as a concise and authoritative work of reference on all matters
on which they may require information, more especially if their interest
in China is of a business nature. Here they will find, conveniently
arranged, a digest of Chinese history, an outline of the Chinese
system of government, detailed information regarding the conditions
under which citizens of the United States reside and carry on their
business in China: notes on the Chinese postal system, railway,
shipping, currency and banking, an account of China's natural resources
and industries, her foreign trade and much valuable advice to those
who contemplate starting business in China. Nothing seems to have
been forgotten by the painstaking author and his contributors, whose
survey of China ranges from the Boxer Rebellion to the boy scout
movement, from Chambers of Commerce to chickens, and from Voca-
tional Education to vaccination. The volume is primarily intended for
the use of Americans but in accordance with the sound policy of the
American Department of Commerce of publishing information of
general interest concerning foreign countries, it may be consulted
with equal interest and profit by all English-speaking people. In this
connection, attention may be drawn to one small omission, doubtless
inadvertent on the part of the author. On page 405 when discussing
the desirability of providing business men with facilities for the study
of Chinese no mention is made of the excellent language school
maintained by the British Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, whose
classes are open to Americans as well as British.
The handbook contains a good map, some interesting illustrations
and detailed index which makes reference to its contents a simple
matter. It may be purchased for the ridiculously small sum of forty
gold cents.
H. H. F.
A Manual of Chinese Metaphor. Being a selection of typical Chinese
Metaphors, with explanatory Notes and Indices. By C. A. S.
Williams, Acting Assistant Chinese Secretary of the Inspectorate
General of Customs and Professor in Customs Practise, Samples,
and Treaties at the Customs College, Peking; Member of the
Royal Asiatic Society N.C.B. Published by Order of the

196
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Inspector General of Customs by the Statistical Department of
the Inspectorate General. Printed by the Commercial Press,
Limited, Shanghai. Price: $4.00
This volume is a welcome addition to the books of reference which
should find a place on the shelves of all those who aspire to a com-
prehension of Chinese mentality-those who know the language and
those who do not. As Mr. Williams, in his preface, truly remarks
"Figurative description has been reduced to a fine art by the Chinese,"
and further "The language is exceptionally rich in metaphor, which
is most commonly expressed in terms of four characters-and it is
by analysis of the metaphor that I have attempted to illustrate the
formation of Chinese ideas in ancient times, their evolution, and their
adaptation to modern use. I have accordingly divided a number of
typical metaphors, for purposes of examination, into classes repre-
senting the common objects of Chinese life, and I recommend their
careful study and comparison, as a means towards the attainment
of a more accurate appreciation of the spirit of the language, and
the mode of thought of the people-a decided advantage in official,
business, or friendly intercourse."
There can be no two opinions as to the value of such com-
prehension and Mr. Williams has certainly placed a valuable key in
the hands of the student. The arrangement, in Dictionary form, is
excellent and every possible assistance is given by means of various
indices as; a Classified Table of Subjects, a Chinese Bibliography
and "table showing the ratio in which the metaphors occur in the
various branches of literature, followed by a detailed list of the books
concerned, supported by references to the metaphors quoted"; a
Chinese Index; and an English Index.
More valuable still for the purposes of metaphorical analysis, is
the system of cross references adopted by Mr. Williams. It is possible
by aid of this to follow the evolution of an idea, and to realize the
logical sequence of Chinese thought, the manner in which natural
objects continually lend themselves to the expression of man's emotions
and affairs, vide "Cotton 1" cross reference to "Glue 2" and many
other examples.
It is more difficult to understand what purpose is served by the
mere entry of a phrase, with no translation, note, or explanation,
under different headings. This adds greatly to the bulk of the book,
is irritating to the reader, and, as the Manual only pretends to submit
a "typical selection of metaphors," seems superfluous. For instance
under "shadow" there are ten entries, in five of these the phrase and
transliteration only are given and for explanation the reader is
referred to other headings as "Sand 2, Pole 1, Wind 19, Footprint 3,

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
197
Wind 23," under these the phrase and transliteration appear again,
accompanied by translation, application, and note. If Mr. Williams
even suggested that the collection were complete there might be some
reason for such meticulous entry, but he expressly states; "I had
originally collected a larger number of aphorisms than those given
herein, but I eliminated a good many as being of insufficient im-
portance or lesser frequency of usage, and the reminder now published
may be considered to be a fairly representative collection, or at any
rate a good foundation for the average student to work upon"; while
many phrases in every day use as 4 Tsui Shêng Mêng Ssŭ,
with only as much sense as a drunken or dreaming man, said of a
very foolish person; and 4 Chu Shêng Ju Ssú, Go out from
life, enter death, are omitted therefore such double entries are un-
necessary. In any case as useful a purpose would be served and much
space saved, if instead of printing the Chinese phrase twice the cross
references were amalgamated and printed in one line, in English
only, as; "See, Sand 2, Pole 1, etc., etc."
The historical and explanatory notes are of exceptional interest
and value in showing the sources from which sayings have sprung,
and one could wish that in a second edition these should be added.
to. On the other hand there seems no reason for inserting the
analysis of a handful of characters, as ox, horse, various numerals,
rat, snake, etc., etc. No subject is more fascinating than the study
of the origin of characters but in a Manual of Metaphor, when only
two or three, as it were, can be touched upon, to do so gives the
book a haphazard air, one that it does not deserve.
An interesting amplification to the volume would be a short
table, or an addition to the existing "Classified Table of Subjects"
giving the number of entries under each class; this would be extremly
illuminating as it would show the main lines in which the imaginative
thought of the Chinese runs, and would show clearly the intense love
of Nature, and the acute powers of observation possessed by this least
understood of Nations. The greater number of metaphors have to do
with the emotions, and with the forces of Nature. Thus, under
Heart, we find thirty-seven entries, under Heaven thirty, Wind twenty-
seven, Moon fourteen, whereas in the majority of cases there are
but three to five.
No review would be complete which did not mention a few of
these sayings which make the Chinese language so picturesque, though
choice is difficult; "The heart of a rosy (naked) child," Childish
simplicity, Innocence, the explanatory note to these aphorism runs :-
The Chinese believe the heart is the seat of the intellect and the
emotions, and is pierced by a number of "eyes which pass right

198
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
through. In physical and mental health these passages are supposed
to be clear." "A heart like tangled hemp." Confused in mind. "To
long for the wind and pounce on the shadows." Unrealities, False
rumours. To speak at random. "To chat of Heaven and discuss
Earth." To speak of all manner of things, Loquacious. "To follow
the compass and tread in the square." To act strictly in accordance
with etiquette. Justness of life and actions. Well behaved,
etc., etc., etc.
The dedication of this delightful volume, which is strongly re-
commended to all interested in China, is to Sir Francis Aglen, K.B.E.,
Inspector General, Maritime Customs Service, China, and the apt
quotation, a Tui Tzu, which faces the Title page reads "If one would
understand the affairs of to-day and of the ancient times, one must
study five cart-loads of books!" As this piece of advice seems difficult
of accomplishment in these days of breathless living we must be grateful
to Mr. Williams for having himself applied the saying and for having
condensed for us, and presented in so attractive a form, the fruit
of his studies.
F. A.
The Trade and Administration of China. By H. B. Morse. 3rd and
Revised Edition. Kelly & Walsh, Limited, Shanghai.
The first edition was published in 1908 and reviewed in our 1909
Journal. Many changes have happened since then, some of which have
been noticed in this volume.
We should like to congratulate the author on the success of his
work. It deserved success, but things don't always get their deserts.
It is satisfactory to know that those who are interested in China
have recognised the merits of this valuable record. The call for a
third edition is the lot of only a few books. It shows that this
is a book which people must have. A look at the Contents will at
once show that the matters treated are of great interest to all who are
concerned with China. Here we have a Sketch of Chinese History;
The Imperial and Republican Governments; Revenue and Expendi-
ture; The Currency; Weights and Measures; Extraterritoriality;
The Provinces and Treaty Ports; Foreign and Internal Trade;
Opium Inspectorate of Customs; The Post Office; Railway; Ap-
pendices, etc.
These titles show at once that the book covers all the important
elements of a country's administration. Further each subject is so
amply and fully treated, and with facts forming the substance of the
treatment, the reader is not under the illusion of any meretricious
production nor regaled with showy generalities, but he is given

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
199
logical and detailed statements that will tax his brain and demand
real study. We cannot too highly praise the contents of each chapter.
The arrangement and expression are excellent and the language simple
and direct. There are no unnecessary words. Notwithstanding the
dryness of the subject it makes pleasant reading. Much of this
is due to treatment and style.
Dr. Morse must have kept careful note books and made many
investigations. We have the results of these studious explorations
placed before us in a clear and succinct form. It is a book that the
student of Chinese affairs must keep by him as a necessary instrument
of reference.
It is a volume for the general reader on Chinese things as well
as for the specialist on the subjects treated, the statistics of trade
and the method of administration in particular.
Here we have the perennial question of government presented to
us in a lucid way. It does us good to be reminded what a difficulty it
is to govern and be governed. We don't always realize this. The
successive chapters on Imperial and Republican governments show the
contrast in ideas and methods. It would be unfair to the new to
compare it in results with the old. The Imperial was settled
and fixed for centuries; apart from occasional devastating rebellions
it ran its course smoothly and on definite lines. Compromise was the
cardinal rule and we clearly see its working in the finances of old China
in the relationship between the Central and Provincial authorities.
The Central government had to be satisfied with an annual, com-
pounded sum from each province. Whether there ever existed another
method in China whereby the detailed receipts of the revenue were
transmitted to the Central government every year like the method in
vogue under the Inland Revenue in England is unknown. Though
we have the impression that Kang Hsi attempted to get some such
methods, and thereby increased the revenue considerably. But con-
sidering the state of the country, its wide extent, and the primitive
communications, as well as the corruptibility of the human heart, the
Imperial power has always compromised and accepted a lump sum.
Experience must have early taught them the advantage of this method.
Even a provincial governor found it almost impossible, as the
governor of Shansi once told the writer, to get a satisfactory itemised
return from the various departments. "There is ample revenue," he
said, "but where it goes to I failed to find out, clothed as I was
with authority." How much more difficult it would be for the
Central Authority to get such returns from 21 provinces is clear. And
this compromise, the Farming out of the Revenue, is treated by Dr.
Morse in a clear and concise manner. Even thus simplified, the

200
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
method is somewhat complicated, and in the words of Dr. Parker
it "would puzzle the shrewdest firm of chartered accountants."
It
The Republican government is in the throes of transition.
hasn't got as far as the Imperial power in its financial arrangements
yet, for the provincial authorities are inclined to pocket everything
and not even prepared to compromise by sending a lump sum to
Peking. And the poverty-stricken capital is forced to the method of
embarrassing loans which threaten to bring the country to the verge
of ruin.
Possibly the phase of government that most troubles the Re-
publicans is one involving order and freedom. Order if possible, but
freedom at any rate. Whether both can be won and maintained is a
question. For one thing the standard of the people must be fairly
high to gain such an end; and whilst the Chinese people have been
trained in the past in a certain amount of democratic government,―
yet it has been a self-control always under the overhanging sword of
a despotic authority. And it is doubtful whether the substitution of
such by ideals in the mind is yet strong enough to give them self
constituted order and the freedom so much desired.
Some other questions of finances is the one of exchange and the
standard of the tael. An English traveller once said that in travelling,
a hundred taels would soon disappear simply by loss of exchange.
These topics are luminously handled by Dr. Morse; and his description
of the different natures of the tael in Shanghai alone is appalling.
It makes one's head ache to try and understand it. It is a tale that
has no end apparently. The method of exchange works havoc and gives
endless opportunities for malpractices; and the system is undoubtedly
the cause of China's weakness.
This book is written in a judicial spirit. The subjects are treated
without bias and impartially. In this respect we think especially
of the chapters dealing with weights and measures, extraterritoriality,
and the opium question.
There is one thing about this book which we like very much.
It is its happy comparisons; such as the acute contrasts between the
democracy of the U. S. and China (pp. 36-37); that of the limitations
of monarchy with that of England (p. 16). These and other comparisons
throughout the book are stated with great perspicacity. And so is
the statement regarding the word taboo. We don't remember ever
seeing the matter so felicitously presented.
Dr. Morse shows how foreign intercourse has tended and helped
to centralize authority. He traces each event in its final result towards
this end. This is a very important point and often lost sight of. But
here we have a relation of these unseen and often imperceptible forces

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
201
issuing, in momentous results. How far such forces have worked in
the disruption of empire has not been touched upon so far as we
remember. This is left to the reader to gather.
The foregoing are a few of the things that have impressed us in
reading this valuable work.
It will not be out of place if a few points are mentioned in the
way of adverse criticism.
(a) In the account of trading between Hankow and the
Upper Yangtze the recent development of steam power should
have been mentioned in this edition.
(b) The account given in page 71 of the share of Yuan Shih
Kai in the revolution is very inadequate. We think that he
permitted the successes of the Republicans in order to further
his own deep laid schemes. This chapter has not yet been
written. Sir Robert Hart is reported to have said, many
years before this event, that Yuan would get the throne or
lose his head. He made for the throne, and though he didn't
lose his head, he yet lost his life.
(c) Sun Yat Sen did not resign the Presidency from any
patriotic motives, but under the compulsion of Yuan Shih Kai
and force majeure. This whole section of history is not satis-
factorily treated. No mention is made of Tuan Chi Jui and
the role he and his party played in the game.
(d) Nothing is said of the paper currency of private banks
and cash shops, especially in the interior of China. This branch
of business has figured largely in the finances of China.
(e) In the chapter dealing with numismatics no mention
is made of the coinage of the Republic. A very full account
with impressions of the tokens appeared in this Journal, the
1917 volume.
On page 2 it is said
Wang, the Duke of
There are a few mistakes to be mentioned.
that "This was overthrown B.C. 1122 by Wu
Chow." Wu Wang was never the Duke of Chow. Wu Wang's
brother, Tan, was the Duke of Chow, the celebrated statesman and
sage.
Page 239 Shantung is given as the "Mountains of the East"
and page 246 "Shansi Mountains of the West." A more correct
translation would be (the parts), "East of the Mountains" and "West
of the Mountains." Hunan (p. 250) and "Hupeh" (p. 253) are
correctly given in this sense.
Notable examples in recent years descriptive of the sentence
"During the whole of his life he is identified with his Hsien" (p. 56)
are Chang Chih Tung and Li Hung Chang who were often referred

202
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
to as Chang Nan Pi張皮,Li Ho Fei李合肥 and Tuan Chi Jui
.as Tuan Ho Fei段合肥.
And in conclusion the work of the Publishers, Messrs. Kelly and
Walsh, Ltd., must be given high praise. Binding, paper and type are all
excellent. We have only noticed one error, Hsiaot-sung instead of
Hsiao-tsung (p. 162).
M.
Who's Who in China.
Shanghai Millard's Review.
This is a timely book for those who are interested in the
politics and social life of the Chinese. It contains the portraits and
short biographies of those who are trying to help China in her hour
of need-and also of some who have helped themselves in the process.
Uniformly only the good is spoken of them the bad is allowed to
die in silence. All the faces look capable, some of them good and
humane. But we wonder when they were taken. Some of them
certainly not for the year of grace 1920.
The breasts of the majority are decked with many decorations
and we wonder what the services rendered were in the case of
many. Such a display reminds us of Oliver Twist-a bit more, Sir!
Many of these men are high-browed-but judging from the present
state of China these high-browed are wholly lacking in the peculiar
characteristic of that class-that of Power of organization. For China
is chaotic.
This is a book that will have a good circulation. It is well got
up. We have noticed a few mistakes and printer's errors. Page 188
Cadastral for Cadastral. Page 158 is wanting and there is a duplica-
tion of pp. 157, 159, 161. We have on page 261 Born 1819. This
must be 1879?
America's Aims and Asia's Aspirations.
New York: The Century Co.
By Patrick Gallagher.
The Author sets out on his work with great and generous ideas.
First of all he believes that "the will to be not merely just, but
generous is instinctive in Americans," "our intentions have ever been
honest" "we have neither selfish interest to serve nor any desire to
arouse suspicion in Asia." "All the Asiatic peoples are our friends."
"Friendship requires honorable concessions based upon justice and
prudence." He has equally broad ideas of others. "Life is a complex
thing. How difficult it is to understand others." "How vastly more
difficult is it to weigh and measure the varying and contradictory
moods and tenses of nations." "How dangerous to attempt snap
judgments even with the aid of an unbiased mind." It is with

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
203
an equally broad mind and generous sympathies that he approaches
Asia, "whose problems reach down to the roots and touch the
tenderest fibres of our physical, political and spiritual life. From our
belief in God to our facility in the manufacture of gunpowder Asia
has been the world's teacher." An author who cherishes such a spirit
as is expressed in these words must have a worthy contribution to
make in dealing with the profound questions that concern the continent
of Asia. The book itself fully justifies the statement.
Further in maintaining the rights of Asiatic countries he is not
forgetful of present political conditions and the benefits that other
countries have conferred on Asia. He says, "as to England's part in
Asia, he does not hesitate to say that
the firm hand of British
It would be
law and order has been an unquestionable boon
impossible to conceive of a greater tragedy for India, for Asia, or
for the world, than any present weakening or the withdrawal of
British restraint from that ancient empire, which well repays friendly
American interest and absolutely requires that stabilizing force of
British sovereignty."
With regard to the author's judgment on the action of Casement,
however, we think his view is biased-and may possibly have been
written as a sop to the Irish. He says "If Casement was a traitor,
why, so was Washington too." Most people regard Washington
as an honorable rebel but Casement struck below the fifth rib,
struck at England, at France, at the world, at the cause of right,
when these were in great peril. The comparison is derogatory to
Washington's honour.
This American seems to be on the most friendly feeling with
Japan. There is not a bitter word against that country in the whole
volume. Indeed it may be said that it contains a kind of apologia
for the people and their rulers. Whilst the iniquity of the 21
demands is not glossed over in any way, yet the Japanese cannot
be offended, since Japan has been her worst enemy in this diplomatic
blunder, and has given herself severe black eyes in the matter.
Possibly to others than Americans an alternative title, such as
the "Drama of the Paris Conference" would be more attractive, and
lead them to read the book all the more readily. Once the reader
has begun there is no laying it down. It is a most absorbing book,
as fascinating as any novel. How could it be otherwise, dealing as
it does, in a most vivid way with a great epoch in the world's history:
Europe lying exhausted after the great war; Monarchies in the dust;
empires torn and devastated; the hearts of most bereft of some kin
or dear friend. Hither to Paris came the reconstructors and healers
to make peace and to help Europe to start a new life. Great names

204
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
from great countries gathered round the Council Board whilst the
world looked on and waited. Great the expectations; vivid the hopes
that clustered round Paris. The multitudes depended on the jour-
nalists and writers to tell them how things were proceeding. Mr.
Gallagher's volume will not be the least worthy record of that historic
event. It was a thrilling time and this book helps us to catch some
of its spirit. In its description of places and palaces; in its por-
trayal of personalities; in its fastening on and describing critica!
moments the reader of the book is made a partaker of those stirring
scenes. We follow the narrative as it describes the leading person-
alities of the Conference, and carry away definite impressions of one
and another as they are revealed in the various phases of daily
experience. Here glows for us the great love of the "Tiger" for
France; the adroit diplomacy of Mr. Balfour; the personality of
Lloyd George. Mr. Wilson is the tragic figure in the volume. The
world expected so much from his exalted views and deep humanity.
But he tried to carry too great a burden; and in attempting to
reconcile conflicting opinions and attain ends that were impossible,
he failed to enforce any of his great ideals. The author puts it in
this way. "The English at no time tried to walk upstairs and
downstairs at one and the same moment. They left such feats,
impossible of performance, to Mr. Wilson." Whilst he was "un-
questionably the most remarkable thinking machine the world has
ever known" yet this very fact created a stubbornness, or as M.
Clemenceau said, "the wooden head" which was partly the cause of
his failure.
To refer to some of the details. The author has no high hopes
of the Treaty of Versailles. It smells of the old corrupt diplomacy.
M. Clemenceau is a celebrated cynic, and "he gave the world a cynical
peace." Moreover "he hurled a huge rock into the road of Philippine
independence." Mr. Gallagher looks on the Philippines as the key
of the world and he very much doubts whether they are fit for
independence. Indeed he thinks that the best thing is for America
to hold on in the interest of the islands themselves and for the peace
of the world.
The story of Shantung is fully told here. It is worth reading;
and those who have already an acquaintance with it will get fresh
light from these pages. Mr. Gallagher has much inside information
and presents the fluctuations of the controversy from many points
of view. The Appendices on this and other subjects are most valuable
and offer much historical information. The author thinks that there
is a peaceful solution to be found to this intricate subject. It is
given on page 407 and is worth quoting :-

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
205
"The solution of the Kiaochou Controversy is an honorable, open,
and above board rectification of China's frontiers. China to regain
complete possession of all leases, etc., hampering her sovereignty over
China proper, in return for which China shall recognize Japan's
sovereignty over those parts of Manchuria necessary for a true
frontier line, pay a fair price for the German public properties
captured by Japan, and co-operate with British plans for the develop-
ment of orderly modern government in Thibet."
That is Mr. Gallagher's solution. We wonder whether this is an
inspired suggestion. Would Japan clear out wholly from Shantung?
We do not think that she has any moral right whatever to the retention
of Shantung; and it is the greatest blot of the Paris Conference
for it to have acceded to the secret documents, wrung from China
in the hour of weakness and the perils of war.
This is to grant
as a right in the East what was wrong in the West, and to act
without a particle of principle. Documents are surely no more than
scraps of paper when they are not based on justice but on diplomatic
chicanery and the wielding of force over a prostrate body. There
is no law in the world that recognizes the right of bandits. Why
should it be introduced into politics! Mr. Lloyd George's position
is illogical and unworthy. Indeed the Japanese representatives could
well remain calm and smiling when they possessed such documents as
they did.
The fundamental question is whether the Paris Conference
should not have reconsidered the value of these. At any rate they
should not have bartered away the property and rights of another
in settling their own affairs.
Mr. Gallagher repeats the baseless and exploded charges against
missionaries in Korea, and shows an animus which is regrettable; the
statements and insinuations made can be shown to be incorrect, but
this review is not the place. In our opinion Chapters 5, 39 and 40 are
quite unworthy of such a brilliant writer; we do not see that they
can serve any good purpose, while they expose a superficiality and
a prejudice which mar the book. It is mere twaddle to talk about
"the rights of one nation to force its own religious beliefs down
the willing throat of another nation." We do not believe that any
nation is attempting to do any such thing, and it is absolutely
untrue to imply that Christian missionaries are doing so. The carica-
ture given of "Modern Christianity" will be accorded its real value
when it is remembered that the writer says that he has been taught
that "The Bible is the way and the life," and that he attributes
to Paul one of the most famous sayings of Jesus, thus showing
that he is by no means a safe guide when he ventures to express
himself on Christianity.

206
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
The book is well written in the lively style of American jour-
nalism. The vocabulary and illustrations are full and flowing, though
to a foreigner there are some phrases difficult to be understood. The
pictures add to its interest and value.
M.
The American Woman's Club Annual 1919-1920.
We are constantly reminded by the daily press that American
women are busy in their investigation of the culture of China. This
volume forms a permanent record of their activities. It is splendidly
got up and is really a worthy memorial of a good effort. It is
adorned with the pictures of all the officers for the year and with
a great number of the symbols in Chinese Art, which it is useful
to know. There are also collotypes of some famous paintings and
sculpture and pottery. And though some of these may not actually
belong to the periods they are claimed to represent, yet they are of
such quality as to give a good idea of the real articles of those times.
An imitation is often as good as an original. It only lacks the
reality of the name, that is all.
In a sense the same may be said of the volume itself. Whilst
none of the work can claim to original investigation, yet this volume
is of much value to the general reader. It represents much diligent
toil and investigation. The "brains of others have been well sucked"
and to good purpose. Here we have a mass of material, dispersed in
the original over a wide field, collected by diligent students and placed
before the general reader in a succinct and convenient form.
The volume is handsomely got up.
We may mention a few misprints, such as Legg for Legge; Mylie
for Wylie. A Yankee on the Yangtse is not by Giles, but Gyle.
M.
The Arabian Prophet-a life of Mohammed from Chinese Sources.
By Isaac Mason.
The reader of this book would do well to notice the translator's
remark in the preface, that he is "not responsible for the views
expressed therein, nor for the accuracy of the statements made."
The student of the history of Islam who wishes as accurate a life of
Mohammed as is now possible, is referred to such works as those men-
tioned in Dr. Zwemer's foreword. But to those who have already
some knowledge of this subject, and whose wish is rather to learn
something of the mental outlook of Chinese Moslems one has no
hesitation in recommending this translation of Liu Chih's great work

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
207
*k, as something that will be of interest and of
value in the study of Mohammedanism in China.
The first Chapter deals with the ancestry of the prophet and.
with various proofs of his vast superiority to all other prophets!
The reader will be interested to learn that Noah took no less than
70 persons into the Ark with him; he will also find some "quotations"
for which he will search the Old and New Testaments in vain-
which is a proof of the wicked unbelief and ungodly scheming of the
Jews and Christians, so frequently mentioned throughout the book!
8 There follow two Chapters dealing at some length with the cir-
cumstances attending the birth and childhood of Mohammed. There
is a distinct flavour of the "Arabian Nights" about these early
chapters, and indeed about several parts of the book. Nothing of
this is lost by the way in which the translator has succeeded in
transfusing the taste of the Chinese into the English version.
The remainder of the book gives the story of the marriage with
Khadija, the beginnings of the prophetic mission, the persecution, the
flight to Medina and so on to the end in much the same way as does
any life of Mohammed, the chief interest being in the Chinese-iness
of the whole. Notice, for example, how true are these sons of the
desert to Chinese etiquette.
The notes are instructive and necessary. As is pointed out
on pp. 42 and 219, the character is misused by Liu Chih. But
one has frequently heard Moslems use the expression to include
idolaters of all kinds. Attention is also drawn. (p. 196) to the fact
that "Rumi" (4) refers very often to the eastern part of the
Roman empire rather than (as has been stated by some writers) to
Rome itself. Rumi or Rumu Kuoh (8) often denotes what
was until recently "Turkey in Europe" unto this day. One would
venture to point out that in Moslem usage, denotes those strange-
beings known to the reader of "Arabian Nights" as Djinn rather than
"Spirits" or "Gods" generally.
Although some of the illustrations are reproduced from the
"Chinese Recorder" and from "Islam in China," there are also a
number of new ones, including five of pages from books or leaflets
by Chinese Moslems.
The life is followed by three Appendices.
The first gives a Moslem tradition of the first entry of Islam into
China. It is obviously largely mythical. But it is of value to the
English reader, for here he has Chinese Moslem history as it is
and not as it has been sifted by Western Students.
Appendix II is a new translation of the stele standing in the
courtyard of the old mosque at Sian.

208
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Appendix III will be found especially useful. It is a brief account
of the beliefs of Chinese Moslems. There is first an outline of the
history of the entrance of Islam into China. One would wish that
a paragraph had been added to combat the false idea held by some
that Mohammedanism was planted in China in the 6th, 7th and 8th
Centuries and since then has grown apart from the rest of the Moslem
world. There have undoubtedly been frequent additions to the
number of Moslems in this land throughout the Centuries, whether of
merchants, soldiers, captives or refugees, and it is probably as much
due to this fact as to any inherent power in the religion itself, that
Islam was not long ago swallowed up as was Nestorianism.
The remainder of this appendix consists chiefly of most useful
quotations from Chinese-Moslem books illustrating their beliefs con-
cerning God, angels, prophets, sacred books, Jesus Christ, sin, the
practice of Islam, etc.
The general reader can hardly fail to be interested by the book
and its quaint style. And it should certainly have a place in the
library of every student of Mohammedanism in China. Even those
who possess the original will find the translation useful. It gives a
number of names that are not easily guessed from the Chinese
Characters that represent them, notes that correct Liu Chih's
Chronology, and appendices that are of considerable value.
M. E. B.
The Educational Directory and Year Book of China, 1921.
Shanghai Edward Evans & Sons, Ltd.
This excellent handbook has made its annual appearance. It is
quite as good if not superior to its predecessors. It contains full
information on all matters pertaining to foreign education and to some
extent refers also to Chinese Education under the Chinese Government.
It opens with a review of the leading events in the year and affords a
conspectus of important matters. This is most informing and
valuable. It would have been still better if the subjects had been
more definitely grouped together. An example will show what is
meant by this. On one page the appointment of Mr. Scott to the
Shantung bishopric is given and the consecration of another bishop-
Bishop Mosher is given a few pages further on. It would have been
better if both were given consecutively. This criticism applies to
other subjects too. Nevertheless the narrative is very excellent even.
in its present form.
The section dealing with the Universities and their courses of
studies is excellent for reference. And the courses and staff of the

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
209
schools supply abundant information on the personnel and the work
done. It is also possible to compare relative fees and board, and get
a knowledge of the number of students in the various institutions.
As one turns over the pages of the book one is struck with the vast
amount of scholarship and learning in this land. For the most part
these men and women have come here on pilgrimages of good will.
The flower of culture is here in China doing good work-a sign of the
philanthropy of the world and the goodwill of man. We cannot but
look on this as a great stimulating power in China-and as we read
of the medical propaganda in its efforts to alleviate the burdens of
men the new colleges for women betokening their emancipation from
the yoke of illiteracy, the mind is filled with the possibilities of the
effects of these great factors on the future generations of China.
These betoken a new China and a new force in the world.
The long lists of schools and names are really not dry reading,
but each is a burning spot destined to awaken some sleeping force
and liberate it for the service of men.
The list of school and individuals is by no means complete. There
is room for emendation and addition. But it is good enough and correct
enough to be essential to all educators and many others.
M.
The Pageant of Peking. By Donald Mennie. With an Introduction
by Putnam Weale. A. S. Watson & Co., Shanghai.
In a brief history of Peking dating from the time of the Khitan
Tartars who more than a thousand years ago left their native
Manchuria to settle in Northern China, down to the present day,
Mr. Putnam Weale has traced step by step the romantic story of
this wonderful City.
Perhaps in his desire for accuracy the author has sacrificed some-
what of the glamour of his subject, yet in a pithy manner he has
laid before his readers a comprehensive survey of the history of Peking
and he is to be congratulated on the manner in which he has condensed
so vast a subject into so small a compass.
In quoting Marco Polo Mr. Putnam Weale has added greatly to
the interest of his narrative, though the old Venetian traveller is far
from accurate and occasionally borrows from Pliny, and paints a
vivid picture of the City's glorious past.
For Mr. Mennie's plates there can be nothing but praise, and
it is not too much to say that they are exquisite in conception and
perfect in execution.
14

210
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
The perspective in the pictures of Palaces, Tombs and Bridges
is excellent, every detail of carving has been brought out and given its
full value as is exemplified by the picture "Sculptured base of the
Stupa-Yellow Temple." Though in the architectural plates the beauty
of the curved roofs of the Summer Palace, the majesty of the Drum
Tower and the cold pure grandeur of the Temple of Heaven all
show the hand of an artist, perhaps Mr. Mennie is at his best in his
studies of nature and the natives. Very lovely in his sunlight and
mist effect in the Nankou pass, the light and shade mingling with the
steam of the "Midday Meal" and the atmospheric effect in the
beautiful little picture "By the North Wall the wind blows full of
sand." Very seductive also is the plate "When the evening shadows
fall" and that of the Camels, with weary dignity, making their
way to the Western Hills, but this is only to mention a few of the
many beautiful photographs in the "Pageant of Peking."
Attractively bound in blue Chinese silk and mounted on the
finest paper it is altogether a delightful book and should prove a
welcome gift at any time.
O. I.
Work in Tibet. By Theo. Sörensen, Tatsinlu, Ssuchuen.
In 1920 Mr. Sörensen gave a lecture to our Society. This is now
printed with collotypes of the pictures then shown, together with
inscriptions in Tibetan Script and translations. The first part too is
most interesting, containing an account of the area, topography, popula-
tion, government, language, religion of the country. There is also
a statement of the Mission Work begun and carried on in the
country or on the Border. Many will be glad to get this little book,
which may be had from the author.
Glimpses of the Yangtse Gorges. By Cornell Plant, The Pilot.
Shanghai Kelly & Walsh, Ltd.
Captain Plant devoted a great part of his life to studying and
overcoming the dangers and difficulties which attend the navigation of
the Upper Yangtse. It is fortunate that at last, just before his
death, he put his great experience into a book thus leaving to posterity
some of his knowledge. Mr. Plant has not only given a description
of the extreme difficulties of navigating this great river, but he
has also interwoven with this the legends and folklore of which there
is sure always to be a large store connected with such a river as the
Yangtse, with its gloomy gorges, dangerous rapids, and thrilling
adventures. Stories multiply fast under such mental pressures and
the daemonology of such loci tend to receive great attention.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
211
There is a great development of steam power in the Upper branches
now, but the best way still to see the glories and the dangers of this
mighty river is to travel in a native boat-and the descriptions in
this volume are seen as from the deck of a "Kwadza." This book
deals with the voyage up country with Ichang as the starting place,
just a 1,000 miles from the sea. Think of it! What distances!
Leaving Ichang the traveller soon enters a gorge 16 miles long, "full
of beautiful scenery and which will gladden the heart of a lover of
nature, he is alone with the glories of nature."
"The panorama that slowly unfolds itself as the traveller sails is
grand indeed. The river still and deep, flowing majestically between
precipitous cliffs of which the summits at every turn are crowned with
enormous and fantastic rocks or peaks, looking like the battlements of
mediaeval castles, etc., whose wall-like sides-in some places covered
with brushwood and vegetation-produce on a sunny day a veritable
coloured kaleidoscope of glorious scenery, and yet this grand gorge is
by no means the grandest of the gorges."
"At one place the river is flanked on either side by huge piles of
boulders, long jagged reefs, and intervening bays of sand and rubble
resembling the rugged shores of a sea coast. At the head is the
Niu kan mei fei hsih-the magnificent portals of which are called
Tung Ling Hsia. At their foot amidst scenery, grand, weird and
wild lie the much dreaded Kang Ling Rocks." This is a sample of
the fascinating things in this little volume. It is full of beautiful
descriptions of a famous district. It is much illustrated by Ivon
A. Donnelly, and the price is only four and a half dollars.
A Chinese Idol. By Carroll Lunt. London: John Lane.
This has nothing to do with sinology or theology. It is a novel
with a continuation. The continuation follows the disappearance of
the two leading characters, that is to say, Neville and a young Chinese
girl with whom he lived, and between whom there was such affection
that he decides to make her his legal wife and blight his career.
But before this comes to pass he is knocked senseless by a friend, and
she is fatally stabbed. How may be seen in the book itself. After
this dénouement the remaining characters continue the story.
The author may have certain ideas to present in this slightly
constructed plot but they are not very clear. We do not think it
is a very healthy story and it has no very great merits to atone for
the smell of liquor and the presentation of the seamy side of life.
M.

212
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
The Working Forces in Japanese Politics. By Uichi Iwasaki, Ph.D.
India's Demand for Transportation. By W. E. Weld, Ph.D.
New York, Columbia University.
The Faculty of Political Science of Columbia University is doing
excellent work by the publication of Studies in History. The volumes
under review are XCVII and XC and form a worthy contribution to
the series.
Dr. Iwasaki's book is most welcome to students of Japanese
history. The period covered by it, 1867-1920, is a most important
epoch. The author explains it in a most lucid way, and he lays us
under great obligation by such a presentation of the course of
politics in Japan. It is treated partly from the view point of
sociology. Japan has made phenomenal jumps and a study of the
cataclysmic forces that produced these changes should advance the
knowledge of political science. It is a matter of special importance,
to know how the flood of new ideas suit old institutions. It concerns
the whole of Asia directly and all nations indirectly. There have been
many misconceptions, such as that there was a complete revolution
with the Meiji Restoration. The facts are "As a matter of fact,
long established customs cannot be changed in a day. A new society
is not to be begotten by the word or act of a group of statesmen. It
can be won only after long and painful experience. When circum-
stances demand a change in the life of a people, as in the Meiji
period, they demanded a change in the life of Japan; the people,
following the line of least resistance, will alter their manners, but they
will make the smallest alteration that the exigencies of the moment
permit."
Thus, when the Japanese feudal system was destroyed in 1867
there was set up in its stead a bureaucracy that retained the spirit
of the shogunate. It is not too much to say that the political and
social institutions of the new Japan were only another expression of
the Tokugawa system. The rules in old Japan were as follows:
(1) The emperor, court and nobles who lived in seclusion, (2) The shôgun
or feudal overlord, who ruled the entire nation, (3) The daimyo or
feudal lords who ruled absolutely over parts of the country, (4) The
samurai or knights who formed the intellectual or fighting class. The
common people had no power and took no part in the revolution and
restoration. The samurai took the lead in playing the shôgun against
the lords-and themselves coming out top. This accounts for much
in the history of Japan and in the present troubles in China and
the East to-day. The common people then were out in all these.
But now they too are beginning to come in, and are making their
influence felt. In time a part of the governing power will be in their

hands.
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
213
How will this affect the course of events? It is an undoubted
fact that the commercial, the farming and the industrial classes are
wresting slowly some of the power. In time possibly the House of
Commons will more and more tend to imitate the British Institution.
Another suggestive question confronts the students of history. In
feudal times the shôgunate bore the brunt of popular movements;
and when the samurai began the agitation that ended in the great
cleaveage of 1867 the shôgunate's power was broken. The Emperor
was the only one to fill the gap produced by their downfall. It
is a principle in British Constitution that the monarchy should not
interfere in affairs and therefore be free from popular administration.
The responsibility of ministers is the cushion and buffer between
the throne and the nation. It works well in England. But in Japan
as long as the emperor was in seclusion the shôgunate carried the
brunt of politics but now the emperor himself is placed in the fore-
front. Whether it will render his position more insecure as democracy
advances is a matter of doubt.
The space at our disposal forbids further treatment of this
excellent work which gives a lucid account of the political conflicts
of 1867-1920. It is a most useful volume.
Volume XC of the same series deals with India's Demand for Trans-
portation. Demand is to be understood in the sense of need. The
chapters deal with: The Economics of Transportation: Historical
Sketch of the Means of Transportation: Some Effects of Past
Development upon the Economic Life of the People: India's Need:
Methods of Meeting the Need.
To sum up the conclusions we find that India's economic weakness
lies in the inadequacy of productive enterprise; progress cannot be
made without facilities of transport; in particular the needs of the
villages must be met. Therefore it is urgent that a special department
should be established to deal with the whole question. Motor
transport should simplify the whole problem.
This is a carefully prepared case, and if the University could
prepare a similar book on the needs of China it would be good. In
the meantime students of Chinese economics would do well to study
this work and apply it to the case of the country. The difficulties
of India are like those of China, particularly in the exploitation of
Native Capital. The author says, "The factories that have been
started by Indians with Indian Capital and under Indian Management
have usually failed. Some of them have been reorganized and have
failed a second time." True there are some conspicuous exceptions.
M.

214
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Chinese Heart Throbs. By Jennie V. Hughes. Introduction by Mary
Stone, M.D. New York: Fleming H. Revell Company. pp. 188.
This is a book of missionary stories, written for an audience already
in sympathy with missions, or at least with evangelical Christianity.
Miss Hughes has a considerable degree of literary skill, and she has
told her tales in a fashion that is sure to be interesting, and even
captivating to the audience for which they were evidently written. It
is no dispraise of the book to say that a casual reader of the stories in
it would say without looking at the title page, that it must have been
written by a woman and probably by a Methodist. The writer's
emotions have a strong effect upon her style, and one feels that she
wrote as though she were speaking aloud to a listening group of
friends. Her convictions, and the joyful proclamation of them,
speak out in nearly every sentence. She is a missionary, and is
proud to be so; proud, too, of the evidence she can bring that the
mystic element in her religious life finds so much assurance from
the facts of experience. Were the Bishop of Hippo to come alive
again, and to read this book, he would hail a kindred spirit; one
of the company of those whose hearts are restless, until they find
themselves in God.
After the excellent introduction by Dr. Stone, there are ten
stories of individual Chinese, who were known to the writer.
Each story would be interesting in itself, merely for the recital of
facts; but the noteworthy thing about each is the reflection of the
writer's faith. The meaning of experience will vary with personal
conviction; but there has rarely been a scoffer who made the test
of living in the company of one who was accustomed to see all
things in life sub specie aeternitatis, who has not at least been
moved to respect, and often to wonder whether the religious ex-
planation of life does not fit the facts better than any other. The
present work may not by itself accomplish such a miracle, for it is
not very long; but it may help to prepare the way. At the very
least, if the reader is one who counts nothing human as strange, he
will follow each tale with a feeling that the human interest in it is
quite enough to make it worth while. Finally there are a number
of half-tone illustrations, all well done, and all directly illustrating
the text.
H. K. W.
The History of Shanghai. By G. Lanning and S. Couling, M.A.
Published for the Shanghai Municipal Council by Kelly & Walsh,
Ltd., Shanghai.
This long expected work has at last begun to arrive. On the fly leaf
it is given as Part I. We think this should be Vol. I. as this

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
215
present volume contains three parts. Therefore it should either be
Vol. I. or Parts I-III.
Part I we do not propose to review or criticize, as it might be an
introduction to Foreign Relations with China or anything else. It
has no particular concern with Shanghai. A chapter on the moon
would have been more pertinent, as Shanghai does directly depend on
tidal influences. Owing to the lamented death of Mr. Lanning and
for the reason stated previously it would be unwise to deal with this
part as it should be dealt with.
The second part deals with the Cradle of Shanghai-and we
thought that things were getting hot, to use a children's play phrase.
We anticipated at least that we should be dealing with the baby of
the Settlement. But here again disappointment met us, for the first
eighteen chapters of Part II are as irrelevant to Shanghai as Part I.
It is only when we come to the chapter on the Gift of the Yangtze
that we begin to touch on matters that concern the history of
Shanghai proper.
In justice to the author it should be said that the foregoing
chapters contain a vast amount of information and in many respects
make very interesting reading; but they are alien to the subject.
With this chapter (28) then, the history of Shanghai begins.
It is a part and parcel of the Yangtze. We have to think then of
the location of this Settlement as being, once in the dim past, a
part of the sea, but in process of time the silt carried down by the
Yangtze gradually filled up the watery bed and formed dry land,
yet leaving abundant water courses to run through this newly formed
flat, such as the Soochow creek, and the Huangpu and many other
streams of smaller size all forming a complicated network of water-
ways.
The great historical thing is the emergence of solid land for a
standing ground for this cosmopolitan settlement of Shanghai-the
great emporium of China. Mr. Lanning traces the history of the
Chinese town from ancient times and its situation on the Huangpu.
In early days this river was far smaller than its neighbour, the
Soochow creek, which in the Tang time was 20 li wide. How the
great dimunition has come about is not stated. In the name of
Sung Chiang we have preserved the name Chiang, however it came
about, showing that this place, at one time, was near the Chiang-
and we venture to make a suggestion as a help to solve the difficulty.
This is without any data to go on, it must be confessed, and therefore
may be worthless. But may it not be possible that in antiquity the
waters of the Yangtze were in some way connected with the channel
of the Huangpu and Soochow creek thus forming a broad river of

216
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
20 li wide. Nothing else seems possible. In time, as the land was
built up, the broad sheet of water was narrowed down.
In dealing with ancient Shanghai it must be pointed out that
Mr. Lanning has omitted to mention the relations between countries
other than Japan. For instance the Jessfield Ferry is called the
Fan () tu, and near by is the. Does not this indicate
some close connection with classic India? There must be other traces.
about and we could wish a more thorough investigation had been
made. The author is incorrect in saying that Ricci was the only
foreigner named in Chinese Annals. Why! Verbiest is often mentioned
in the Tung Hua Lu-and his petitions to Kang Hsi are given in
that work, and it is related how he often went with Kang Hsi on
his expeditions. Others are mentioned too.
The first thing that strikes one in the making of the Settlement
is the difficulties that the organisers of early days encountered and
the way they surmounted them. One is especially struck with the
work of the British Consular Authorities. They were placed in tight
places in dealing with the Chinese authorities; and very often they
came into conflict with the British Superintendent of Trades, who
could write "No consul had ever before assumed," etc. Very often
too the Foreign Office was not altogether pliant. It didn't want to
be bothered with another country. It was even difficult to get some
stationery. They were economical in those days! Yet Captain Balfour
and Mr. Alcock went on in spite of these difficulties, even in face of
abusive letters from their own nationals. One of these wrote, "and
as besides being Consul you are a 'soldier,' I need say no more than
that I shall be at home this evening and have a friend in readiness."
When the writer was taken up and bound over to keep the peace it is
surprising to find that one of the sureties for Tls. 10,000, a big sum
in those days, was Dr. Lockhart. Who could the transgressor have
been? Those were strenuous days when Drs. Lockhart and Medhurst
and Muirhead got far afield and into serious troubles; and when
six young Englishmen who had gone out for a Sunday ramble near
Canton got done to death. The story of the Battle of Muddy Flat
too is well told. The foreign civilians had rough times with the
Imperial Soldiers in the open country somewhere between the Bund
and the top of Nanking Road. Shanghai it will be seen was a very
different place in those days.
The coming into existence of the Municipality on the 11th July,
1854, at a meeting over which Mr. Alcock presided, is graphically
told. But this Voluntary Association was in May 1855 dissolved by
the British Government. Contemporaneously the Maritime Customs
were organized. Growing trade and administrative difficulties made

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
217
the two necessary. The history is full of interest. It was not long.
however before the Council came into conflict with the Consular
Authorities over many matters in administration.
We hear much in these days of underpaid staffs on the Council.
The chapter on early finances will not create a desire in the employees
of the Council for the return of those days. The first Municipal
Secretary had a salary of $50 per mensem. The first Municipal
Accountant was appointed at the annual salary of $500 because the
auditors were unable to pass the first amateur accounts submitted to
them. So we have an expert accountant at $500 a year. The doors
were not crowded with applicants it may be opined. Mr. Brine the
first Secretary soon gave place to Mr. MacAndrew.
The first Budget had a total of $25,000. It was severely criticized
and in October 1854 a Land Renters Meeting was held and powers
given to the Council to borrow $12,500 "on the best terms they
can!" This was passed by 18 to 15. Evidently there was more public
spirit in those days than now. Over Police Matters arose most.
serious difficulties ending with the swearing in of Constables who
were to carry out their duty with temper and discretion. The
difficulties arose over the controlling authority, the Council or Consuls,
and as to the power of arming.
Shanghai seems to be notorious for smuggling now; it was
in the early days the paradise of smugglers. It was a duty laid
on British Consuls in those days of protecting the Chinese revenue.
to the best of their ability. They certainly tried to do so honestly,
but their powers were not enough to cope with the many ways of
illicit contraband. But they did impose heavy fines on their own
nationals. That is one thing about British rule that is admirable.
There is no favoritism. The Pecksniffian pharisaism of Woo Tao-
tai is amusing. Of a British merchant who proposed to trade, the
Taotai writes "The dishonesty of this merchant makes one's very
hair stand on end."
In this work we find Mr. Lanning very tolerant to the peccadilloes
of the Chinese. He is rather too much given that way. If it is
possible he always finds extenuating circumstances or he finds that
the Chinese are not so bad as other people. So with regard to
officials receiving bribes he brings forth in excuse that they were
not as bad as the British, and so he writes "it will be well for us
to remember such facts as these, that in the England of George II,
out of some £750,000 collected on wine and tobacco, only £160,000
found its way into the treasury." Consul Balfour was governed
truly by a public spirit for he acted with vigour and impartially.
Would that China had some such men. In this one cannot but.

218
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
recall a conversation between Lord Lawrance and one of the Native
Princes of India. Lord Lawrance expressed his concern over one
of his officers, a very capable but rather untrustworthy man; to which
the Native Prince replied, "my concern is that all mine except
possibly one or two are untrustworthy.'
The administration of justice was exceedingly chaotic at first.
Regulations had to be drawn up and precedents established. But
even these were not easily formulated as the place was without judges
and lawyers. So we read that the American Commissioner Davis in
1850 had drawn up certain regulations and forms, relying entirely
upon his own resources and his limited knowledge of law and forms.
Nowhere was there an American lawyer or an American law book,
with the exception of the statutes at (sic) Large and Rents Com-
mentaries. But he and his successors continued to make regulations.
It is not surprising that a jurist like Judge Thayer found many
of them gravely defective. But still we must not forget the patient
work of these pioneers and the way the constitution of the Settlement
was gradually built up.
The chapter on the Chambers of Commerce too is instructive.
Here necessity forced action. The example of the French who formed
in Marseilles the first Chamber that ever existed must have helped
the early merchants in their attempts in Shanghai. The present
chapter only takes us as far as about 1850. Later developments will
be noticed in the forthcoming volumes. The chapters on early ship-
ping, on Trade experiences are worth reading. A comparison of the
imports of 1844 and 1920 will show how trade has expanded and give
some indication of the tremendous growth of Shanghai in the inter-
vening years. It is also instructive to find how heavy were the
duties imposed by the Chinese on piece goods. It is not surprising
that foreign merchants are slow to allow them to have this power
put in Chinese hands again. The history of Banking is somewhat
rudimentary. Hongkong and Shanghai Bank had not yet come into
existence. The Shansi Bankers had transactions with the Roman
Empire and their bank orders, "Comparable with our cheques have
been known for centuries past."
The chapter on the social life should be read by all who are
inclined to grumble at life in Shanghai to-day. Those days in the
fifties were rude and hard on ladies; and when we are about to
instal a big organ in the Cathedral, the organ presented to Trinity
Church in 1855, we should remember that it was too powerful
for the building. They had shooting, riding, and fives in those
days, and the Race Club was well organized. They read too, and in
1857, the Public Library was formed with Dr. Bridgman as President

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
219
and Dr. Edkins as Hon. Secretary. It was in this year too that the
N.C.B.R.A.S. was inaugurated. Beef was 18 lbs. for a dollar and
mutton 12 lbs. So our forefathers made the best of their circumstances
and developed every side of their social life. Valuable records of
Religion and Education and the Historic Hongs make good reading.
The notes and appendices supply useful information and the
maps are invaluable.
The corrigenda is a long list. But some more might be added
in the next edition.
M.
My Orient Pearl. By Charles Cotton. London: John Lane,
Price 7/6 net.
This is a sweet story of an Englishman's triumph in winning the
heart of a beautiful Japanese orphan girl. She was the protege of
a rather wicked half brother who destined her for a bride to an old
voluptuary. By so doing he hoped for preferment in office and
material gain. Both the lover and the maid went through thrilling
dangers and had marvellous escapes. The amulet worked.
The Englishman spent some years in Shanghai, but has nothing
good to say for the place, and until he met with the Pearl the East
was an abomination to him. There is something unreal in the story
particularly in the impression created of the easy way difficulties of
language are overcome. Only an expert in either Chinese or Japanese
could deal with the rhapsodies of the book. And he was not versed
in either. But perhaps that should be forgiven in the thrilling episodes
that fill the book described in language, and the charming descriptions.
M.
Japan. By David Murray, Ph.D. Sixth Edition. Revised, with
Supplementary Chapters, etc., by Joseph H. Longford, D.Litt.
London T. Fisher Unwin, Ltd.
This is the sixth Edition of this well known book, one of the series
of The Story of the Nations. It gives an account of the Japanese
Archipelago; the original and surviving races; myths and legends;
the founding of the Empire; native culture; middle ages of Japan;
Christianity in the 17th century; Japan a great Power and many
other things. It is well illustrated and printed. It is certain to
gain the same favour as previous editions.

220
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
China The Mysterious and Marvellous. By Victor Murdock. New
York, Fleming H. Revell Co.
The desire of this visitor to China was to give a description of
the country to those at home, "No man can be sure that he has given
in print the impression he intended, but I have tried to get China
to you just as China came to me, through my eyes, ears and nose."
The reader will admit he has done this. It has many merits not the
least being vivid and realistic description. It has no permanent value
however, for there is no attempt to study the institutions of the
Chinese and probe into their peculiar qualities and the nature of their
civilization. It is simply a description of things he saw as he went
up the Yangtse into Ssů Chúan. And so far it will be read with
pleasure by those who desire to have an outside knowledge of China
and the Chinese. He only saw what every traveller sees. A difference
perhaps would lie in the manner of description. For here we are in
the choppy sea of American slang in an unusual degree. The language
too is much exaggerated, of which a good example may be had in
page 45 in the account of No. 1 Boy. Some incorrect statements
are made such as the age of the child ten years in page 58; and this
"The Chinese will not rescue drowning persons on the Yangtse" (page
65). What then about the red boats which save hundreds every year.
The author's opinion is that the doctrines of Jesus Christ and demo-
cracy are the foremost elements in the world. These must leaven
East and West. If not then there is coming an industrial war which
will shake the world.
It is a handsome volume well illustrated.
Democracy and the Eastern Question. The Problem of the Far East
as Demonstrated by The Great War, and Its Relation to the
United States of America. By Thomas F. Millard, New York,
The Century Company, 1919.
Mr. Millard in the first place is an American citizen, and in the
second place has lived for over twenty years as a newspaper man
in the Far East. He has put into this book his reasoned conclusions
on the various problems which may be summarily comprehended under
the name of "The Far Eastern Question." Others have made their
contribution to the subject, but Mr. Millard was fully justified in
setting forth at length his views and supporting them by such
documentary evidence as has been made public. We do not expect
him to be friendly towards the Japanese. He frankly admits in his
preface that he cannot claim his book to be an impartial discussion
of the subject. He openly takes sides against one country and for

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
221
another. You are never in doubt as to which side he espouses. Some
of the facts and much of the criticism presented in his work had
to be suppressed during the Great War for political and legal reasons.
That time of restricted publicity having passed, the author feels free
to withhold nothing that will go to prove his case. He claims also
that his views are those of an overwhelming majority of foreign
residents in the East.
His chapters are as follows:
1. The Issue.
2. The Real Character of Japan.
3. Japan's Policy in the Great War.
4, 5, 6, 7.—China and the War.
8. The Corruption of a Nation.
9, 10.-China and Economic Imperialism.
11. The Open Door Policy.
12, 13. The Siberian Question.
14. The Solution.
There are six valuable appendices, many Notes and Treaties,
Diplomatic Demands, Military Agreements, etc.
Being himself a newspaper man, he quotes Eastern journals such
as the "Japan Advertiser" and the "Japan Chronicle" quite as freely
as any other documentary evidence. In addition to these sources
which were open to everybody, he claims to have obtained secret
documents which were authentic. The result is, on the whole, a fair
view of Eastern opinion.
He claims that Japan at every step wishes to tighten her hold
upon China and her boundless material resources, and that the
so-called Liberal party of Japan will not for generations be able
to transform the militaristic enemy into a real friend of China. He
considers that America, as well as other nations, is vitally interested
in these questions, and that China undoubtedly has a strong case
before the bar of the world's public opinion. China's appeal to
the democratic nations ought to be heeded. He apparently thinks
that without outside assistance China is hopelessly in the grip of the
Eastern octopus.
Taking the case of China in toto it presents almost an ideal test
to apply the principles of the Great Powers in prosecuting the War
and in making the Peace. China in herself is not as difficult a
problem as Russia or the Balkans, but against her will she has become
the focus of an international struggle to control her or in some way
to get the lion's share of advantage out of her. We conclude Mr.
Millard has proved his case up to the hilt. May he not prove to be
a Cassandra! This book is not very easy reading, but all friends of

222
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
humanity would do well to gird up their loins and master the facts
here revealed. The use of propaganda and secret diplomacy will still
continue to becloud the issues, but the matter in a nut-shell is
whether might is right. We thank Mr. Millard for his able résumé
of much complicated history. The angels are on his side.
India in Transition.
A study in Political Evolution, by his Highness
Warner, London, 1918.
the Aga Khan.
The author of this book (Aga Sultan Sir Mahomed Shah, G.C.S.I.,
G.C.I.E., LL.D. Cantab.) is the leader of the Indian Mohammedan com-
munity and has given long and loyal assistance to the Indian Govern-
ment. Nevertheless he appears here as spokesman for a degree of
independence in Indian affairs which will undoubtedly seem excessive
to the more conservative student of political affairs.
It is quite impossible within the limits of a review to indicate all
the proposals made but the mere mention of the inclusion of the ex-
German Colony of West Africa in the Indian Empire, the federalization
of India itself, the formation of an Indian Navy, and social reforms
of many kinds will show how extensive a programme is put forth.
There is an impression among British people both within and
outside of India that the vast majority of the Indian peoples are so
unripe for self government that there is grave danger of anarchy if the
paternalism of the British Raj is too much diluted. While it may be
frankly admitted that it is very probable that the Briton is apt to
underrate the political ability of the Oriental and is given to confusing
the question of his own prestige with that of the expediency of main-
taining an "overlordship" in India, this problem of Indian autonomy
is one which must be dealt with very carefully. Nothing is more
certain than that just as a wilful child is capable of starving itself
to death, so a people swayed by mass-emotion may destroy the very
basis of its prosperity. The Aga Khan does not propose that
allegiance to Britain shall be given up but he certainly does con-
template an early development to a condition in which Britain is merely
the protector and adviser of India. Some critics of Britain's rule in
India are inclined to think that there is oppression in that country and
Bolsheviki, Sinn Feiners and Hearstites would gladly see a collapse
of the Indian Empire. It appears that among all these there is a gross
misapprehension of the great problem of government. Rapid changes
cannot be introduced without such a measure of anarchy that the
promised benefits are more than annulled by the miseries of disorder.
While the Aga Khan's suggestions are on the whole excellent, it is

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
223
to be feared that to develope them within a period of say less than
fifty years would probably do as great harm to India as Bolshevism
has done to Russia. If human foresight were capable enough, a
programme of gradual improvement might be laid out for a number
of years but it is doubtful whether this is really feasible.
This book will greatly interest many in China, as the problems of
the latter country are not altogether dissimilar from those of India.
There are a few interesting references to both China and Japan which
by no means reflect the doctrines of "Pan-Asia."
H. C.
Sva. By Sir George C. M. Birdwood, K.C.I.E., etc. Warner, London,
1915. 12/6 net.
This is a collection of essays by a veteran Anglo-Indian who is well-
known for his erudition and enthusiasm for Indian lore. The title of
the book "implies that these pages are, so far as they go, part and
parcel of myself." It is not, however, in any sense an autobiography
but a series of expressions of opinion on many subjects.
The book opens with a fine description of the South-West Monsoon.
Other essays deal with the Mahrattas, the Rajputs, Indian flora and
fauna, the Muharram festival, Leprosy, the Hittites, Oriental carpets,
Indian Unrest and some minor matters. Many of these are rather
unreadable on account of the author's somewhat diffuse style and the
encyclopaedic character of his comments, but all are valuable for
reference purposes.
The question of Indian unrest is treated in a rather attractive
manner. Sir George Birdwood considers that the unrest is due to bad
mannered Europeans and incorrect methods of education, especially the
neglect to provide a religious eirenicon between Christianity and
Hinduism. Probably most educated persons who have lived in the
East will agree with him but this does not really help very much.
It is practically impossible to train tourists, whether from England or
America, in manners; it is similarly almost impossible to provide an
adequate teaching staff which can handle the religious and racial
question with the sympathy and judgment that is needed. The very
putting into effect of the measures which he proposes would raise a
storm of criticism within and without India.
In very truth the problem of Asia's awakening is one which is
rather appalling since it is almost impossible to see how it will proceed.
The reaction between the East and the West will not fulfil the forecasts
of the devout missionary or of the internationalist or of the theoretical
sociologist or of the ardent orientalist of Sir George Birdwood's type.

pali
1 agition and Company
do plia ter die me
The Sa from die ori Batem
and is preparation of the grant
el
detalls
autor designed the
descriptions
The volume throws
as on the nature of the
These are very great and most
Americans to keep this in min
development of these wide territories.
These vast and undulating plains are
freedom and independency of spirit as well as great self-reliance.
Inevitably the hard conditions tend to breed a harshness of disposition
which is evident in the treatment of prisoners and in many elements
of social life. Most of all it is seen in the eruptions of conquering
armies such as those of Kublai Khan, whose force elty and
appalling devastation of flourishing communities are the flaming
fires of history. Mongolia is a place of arid deserts, undulating plains.
wide vistas. Its wealth of grass and luxuriance of variegated flowers.
its clear and stimulating air will attract the traveller. It is the
place of nomads to-day; will it ever become the place of settled homes.
The Sportsmen endured many hardships and faced some dangers.
They deserved the rich rewards they got in Specimens. The tale of
the hunt of the Wapiti, the Goral, the Roebuck; the encounters with
the wild boar of Shansi and the shooting of easier game is well told.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
225
The writer manages to convey a good deal of the excitement and
enthusiasm to the reader. Possibly the hunting of the antelope will
be best remembered. Many useful observations, regarding them, are
given, and the notes as to their swiftness are scientifically useful.
Their pace is astonishing and they have other habits well worth
the record. "There is another wonderful provision for their life in
the desert. The digestive fluids of the stomach act upon the
starch of the vegetation which they eat so that it forms sufficient
water for their needs. Therefore some species never drink." Our
sympathies are wholly with the baby antelope, an account of whose
chase is given on pp. 125-126, and it is a matter of delight that the
little chap eluded his pursuers.
Mr. Andrews is inclined to make too summary statements, such
as that Kublai Khan created the greatest Kingdom the world has ever
seen. He destroyed but never created. He is also inclined to
generalize too much. He concludes the Chinese do not understand
any sport which calls for violent exercise. He forgets that the
Chinese have always been hunters.
Mrs. Yvett Andrews's photographs and notes add much to the
value of this excellent work. The price is gold $5.00 net.
M.
The New China Review for 1920. Edited by Samuel Couling, M.A.
The second year of the revival of this important journal of sinology
marks a real advance in its capture of the favor of discerning critics,
and in the quality of the material which it is able to offer to those
who are interested in the study of things Chinese. It is inevitable
that in the history of a periodical publication the highest level
cannot be maintained continuously, and when the publication, as
well as the furnishing of the subject-matter, is wholly a labour of love,
then adverse criticism must almost wholly be directed against those
who fail to give the publication the support that the modest price
of subscription affords, and to those who might, but who fail to
provide matter for publication.
Certainly the company in which the young student, who may
be trying his wings in these regions for the first time, and whose
serious efforts will certainly be welcomed there, is enough and more
than enough to satisfy him. We note such names as Giles, Parker,
Laufer, Johnston, Moule, Doré, Werner, Cornaby, and others, among
the contributors; if such company does not satisfy, then the critic
will be hard to suit indeed. One question raises an insistent head
15

226
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
as we con over this list of notables; why is the proportion of mis-
sionaries so small? We have not made a comparison in detail, but
we are under the strong impression that it was not so 30 and 40
years ago. Has the missionary begun to cease studying the Chinese
humanities, to devote himself to the admittedly weightier matters of
the law? All work and no play make Jack a dull boy. We are
inclined to believe that the very end of mission work will be achieved
with less facility if the worker is too busy with preaching a Gospel
from the Western point of view to equip himself, by study and by
writing (which maketh an exact man), to enter into the Chinese
view of the world.
For interesting reading, the palm must be awarded to Mr.
Johnston's "Romance of an Emperor," and the same piece would
come near taking the prize for Chinese scholarship. Let it be
granted that much of the writing for the year is of the heavier
sort; yet it must in justice be added that the magazine never
professed to attempt to furnish delights for the tired business man,
and moreover, one such article as Mr. Johnston's, with its captivating
style, more than repays for many pages of heavy wading.
We trust that each year will see this excellent periodical making
forward strides. The editor should receive the heartiest of support,
and we hope that the end of the present year will not find him
obliged to make the kind of appeal which he appends to the
December number of 1920.
H. K. W.
Les Grottes de Touen-Houang. (Mission Pelliot en Asie Centrale,
série in-4), Peintures et Sculptures bouddhiques des époques de
Wei, des T'ang et des Song. Par Paul Pelliot. Tomes I, II,
III. Grottes 1 à 111. Paris, Librairie Paul Geuthner, 1914,
1920.
Some fifteen years ago, M. Pelliot led his expedition of discovery
into Central Asia. For three years they were engaged in the collection
of material which, when suitably arranged and described, was sure
to be of the greatest importance to students of religions, and of all
matters antiquarian pertaining to eastern and central Asia. The first
volume which embodied the results of their labors was ready for
publication when the war put a stop to such matters, and we have
had to wait six more years. But the delay serves to emphasize the
importance of the work of these French savants, and while regretting
delays, we may be thankful that it is possible to have these wonders
revealed to us at all.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
227
Touen-houang (named Tunhwang in the Postal Guide) is
a hsien city, in the extreme north-west of China proper. Kansu
province is, roughly speaking, bottle-shaped, with the neck pointing
north-west, and Touen-houang is not far from the cork. Situated on
a historic highway, it "put all the civilisations of inner Asia in
communication with the Far East." Fifteen kilometers to the south-
east of the town are found the Caves of the Thousand Buddhas.
Within these caves (which total 171 in number), are Buddhist
sanctuaries whose walls are covered with frescoes almost all of
which date from some time between the fifth and the eleventh
centuries A.D. The dryness of the climate and the forgetfulness
of man has preserved these records of a time long past, and the
evolution of Buddhist art during the period can be studied with the
exceptional facility which the completeness of the record affords.
The reproductions themselves are above praise; no one accustomed
to use a camera in China will fail to be moved by the statement that
it was necessary to make the original pictures with plates more than
two years old. Truly the results are superb, and are really worthy of
the importance for the student of the subjects involved. We shall await
with much impatience the later descriptive text which it is promised
will deal with dates, meanings, descriptive borders, inscriptions, etc.
The fact that the work is not complete makes impossible a review of
the half that is under our eye; that will come more suitably when the
whole is at hand. We must content ourselves with urging all who have
any interest in Buddhist Art to acquire these most recent spoils of
scholarly conquest.
H. K. W.
China, Japan and Korea. By J. O. P. Bland. Published by
Heinemann, London.
Is there any scientific explanation of the fact which we all recognize
that some people cannot live in China without an overwhelming impulse
to explain this conundrum of a country to the world in general, whilst
other persons eschew giving expression to their views more and more as
the tale of their years of residence mounts up? For our own part all
we are prepared to say on the subject is that to be as free from doubt
as Confucius or Mr. J. O. P. Bland should be an incentive to instruct-
ing one's fellows.
Mr. Bland has in addition an excellent style marred by a fondness
for repeating catchwords. His latest volume is lively reading and
contains much commonsense, very wholesome at this period of China's
history when on the solid mass of her peaceful and vast population
stolidly following the ways of its primeval fathers floats a froth of

228
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
"educated" persons of whom not a few have assimilated the pharisaism
which blights a nation.
With the author's scornful strictures on this froth and on the
administration of the Republic one must perforce agree, though we
doubt whether the trading classes have any desire to see the empire
restored. We must further insist that but for the absolute rottenness
of the government under Mr. Bland's idol, the Dowager, the revolution
would never have succeeded, and that Yüan Shih-kai failed because he
adopted the seclusion of the weakest emperors and so lost touch with
public opinion, becoming in effect the slave of his immediate entourage.
A government that pursues the phantom of recovering sovereign
rights while neglecting the fulfilment of obvious sovereign duties as
well to its people as to the foreigner within its gates "climbs a tree
to catch fish." This China would have learned by bitter experience
but for the persistent glamour that envelopes home views about her and
facilitates the bamboozling speeches of her envoys, Chinese and alien.
China is a land of promise and of paper reforms. Even our
author's shrewdness does not always detect the sham in certain projects.
What could sound more promising than a reformed currency issuing.
from a modern mint at Shanghai? and what more patriotic than the
provisions of the necessary funds by an association of Chinese banks
which thus obviates recourse to the Consortium which was to be the
foreign instrument of China's regeneration? But meanwhile Sun Yat-sen
and his general attack Kwangsi, though his own treasury is empty
and his province recently bled white, Hunan threatens Hupei, Chekiang
sets up for itself, famine has to be financed by extra duty sanctioned
through the rivalry of foreign states and Peking's authority is jeered
at as the servant of the northern militarists unpaid troops are a per-
petual, menace, and copper coins in excess, and debased at that, rob
the poorer classes.
Mr. Bland recognizes the plague of tuchün armies and is urgent for
a genuine disarmament. He omits, however, to indicate how the cat.
is to be belled-that is, where disarmament is to begin and what force
is to see that it is effectual. Disarmament has a soothing sound in the
world to-day, but in China it would mean a ticklish job. It could not
be left to each tuchun nor to any but an adequate military force that
must unfortunately be foreign and to be just it should be simultaneous !
In fact disarmament presents as many difficulties as morphia and opium,.
difficulties not lessened by a tendency to divert energies to loan con-
solidation, trademarks, the Anglo-Japanese alliance and the like showy
subjects.
And yet even such persistent good luck as events have given China
cannot last for ever. Mr. Bland boasts that all his surmises as to

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
229
China have been justified; but in this book he is chary of definite
prophecy and, if we remember aright, all he committed himself to was
the restoration of the Empire some day-a presage that every year
passed renders less likely of fulfilment. For ourselves we dread the
future into which this great country is heading since even alien
domination might be less harmful than domestic chaos which is surely
wearing out the sympathy of China's friends.
The latter part of this volume consists of newspaper articles on
Chinese, Japanese, and Korean subjects. Of these the best is on the
Japan theatre. The essay on Shanghai opens with a very forced
rhapsody on the superiority of the East over the West.
Despite our remarks above we hope that all will read this book
which is enlivened by that omniscient tone that flatters a reader by
crediting him with like knowledge. Should the reader suspect flattery,
he can acquire the knowledge from the author's other works.
The illustrations are good if not too apposite.
&

NOTES AND
QUERIES
Mr. Walter J. Clennell, H.M. Consul, Chinkiang, recently
delivered a most illuminating and lengthy lecture on Mr. H. G.
Wells' Outline of History at a Social gathering in Chinkiang. We
are permitted to quote those parts in the lecture that refer to China,
for insertion in the Journal.
Chapter 14. The Languages of Mankind.
Here section 6, on the Chinese language, though suggestive as far
as it goes, does not go nearly far enough, and might, in a later
edition, be re-written and considerably expanded, with illustrations.
But then, this might be said of other sections too, and, in that case,
the better place for a fuller treatment of the differences of language
would come later, in Chapter 18, which deals with writing.
Chapter 16. The First Civilization.
I have noted two points; one to the effect that the Chinese,
whom Wells places from the first in the two great river-valleys of
China, probably knew nothing of the Yangtze till 800 B.C. or there-
abouts, though there may have been a "Ch'u" state with Mantzu
or Tibetan affinities, in what is now Hupei, somewhat earlier.
Another is a warning to the reader to carefully distinguish Tsin
(Chin or Dzin, the leading northern power of the 6th century B.C.,
later split into Wei, Han and Chao) from Ts'in (Ch'in ) the
western power which overthrew the Chou dynasty, conquered the-
"warring states" and established a new, centralised Empire in the
3rd century B.C. Mr. Wells seems to be rather vague on this point.
Chapter 26. The Rise and Spread of Buddhism.
Here we are in a very different world; the world of Indian
meditation, poetry and art. It is very beautiful and very human
when we cut down to the real story of it through the overgrowth
of superstition and silly marvel tales with which credulity and

NOTES AND QUERIES
231
misplaced devotion have overladen it; "instead of which marvels,
we have only the figure of a lonely man walking towards Benares."
This chapter on the Gospel of Gautama Buddha, I must, however,
leave to you to discover, study and admire; as also its inset on the
two great Chinese teachers, Laotzu and Confucius. Mr. Wells observes
that all these teachings were personal and tolerant doctrines; doctrines
of a Way, of a Path, of a Nobility-not doctrines requiring the
segregation of their followers into a Church. To that extent they are
all flatly contradictory to the jealous exclusiveness of such a faith
as Judaism, with its God of Terrible Truth, who will brook no
lurking belief in any magic or witchcraft or old custom, or any sacrific-
ing to the God-King, or other trifling with the stern unity of things.
So Buddhism and the other Eastern faiths, for all their beauties,
had no self-cleansing power in them. They took over the idols and
temples and altars of the local gods, and every disease of the corrupt
religions that they sought to replace, and this, in spite of their wide
range, led them to stagnation and corruption.
Chapter 29. The Caesars between the Sea and the Great Plains.
So the great opportunity of the long peace was lost, and when the
evil days of the 3rd century came, and mutiny and murder replaced
adoption as the usual method of succeeding to the throne, no one
seemed to care very much if the barbarians from without were
getting the better of the equally ungovernable legions within the
empire. But all this time there was going on a stir of the Great
Plains. Under the Han dynasty, which had succeeded to and con-
solidated the Empire founded by Shih Huang-ti, China had grown
into a greater and more solid affair than Rome, and was driving the
Huns and nomads west before her expansion, and the Huns were
pushing the Slavs and the Germans back on to the Roman frontiers.
So Mr. Wells sees it. I think he is inclined to exaggerate the
greatness and solidity of that Han dynasty, China, perhaps not seeing
clearly enough how in those days there was no very clear demarcation
between a geographical exploration, a diplomatic embassy and a
military expedition, so that such travellers as Chang Ch'ien and
P'an Chao, when they visited the shores of the Caspian, even with
large and well armed retinues, by no means added all the intervening
stepes of Turkestan to the effective dominions of the Chinese throne.
The noteworthy fact, however, is that Mr. Wells has tried to co-relate
that Han History with the history of the western world; he does see
that little as either of them realised it at the time-they reacted
each on the other.

232
NOTES AND QUERIES
Chapter 31. Seven Centuries of Asia.
The Western world always enjoyed the advantage of a variety
of competing cultures. It consisted of separate geographical and
national areas, divided from and yet brought into touch with one
another by an inland sea. It progressed inland from the sea. China
had only one important centre of culture, and that inland, whence
civilisation spread by river valleys and found its limit at the sea coast.
This topic of the stunting of China really takes us beyond our Seven
Centuries, for, while it is true enough that art and poetry blossomed
most exuberantly under the T'ang-the intellectual maturity of
Chinese thought came later under the Sung, and the stiffening did
not seriously set in till Ming times. Mr. Wells complains of the
difficulty of getting adequate material for this Chinese part of his
history; the fact is we have no really good, modern, general history
of China in English-it is a want that badly needs supplying. We
have the beginning, and we have the end, and a good deal of dryasdust
"Sinology" for those who can dig it out, but very little history
with the breath of life in it. Then the Chapter ends with a quite
delightful excursus on the travels of Yuan Chuang the Buddhist
pilgrim who wandered from China to India and back in 629 to 645, in
the days of that great ruler, T'ang T'ai-tsung, who, as Mr. Wells
observes, tried to get Yuan Chuang to translate Laotzu into Sanscrit
for Indian readers, much as Constantine had tried to get Arius and
Athanasius to settle down amicably, and with as little success.
Chapter 34. The Great Empire of Jengis Khan and his Successors.
(The Age of the Land Ways) This begins with "Asia at the end
of the 12th Century," where I should have liked more emphasis laid
on the importance of the Confucian Renaissance of Sung times, as
being as great a movement of the human mind as the earlier phases
of that Renascence of Western Civilization that forms the subject
of the next Chapter. This section is followed by "The Rise and
Victories of the Mongols" how they swept over almost all Asia
and Eastern Europe, destroying indeed but bringing all peoples
together, effacing every distance and every distinction in the widest,
if one of the loosest, of all the Empires to which history introduces us.
Illustrative of its influence we have next "The Travels of Marco
Polo" with the re-awakening of western interest in geography, and
the introduction of many new and revolutionary ideas. Then, the
Ottoman Turks and Constantinople, where their presence was a side-
consequence of the Mongol conquests-showing how nearly they came
to pushing European civilization out into the Atlantic. Mr. Wells

NOTES AND QUERIES
233
then speculates on "Why the Mongols were not Christianized."
They were apparently not unwilling, but the Church was in a phase of
moral and intellectual insolvency. So the Mongols, though founding
the Yuan Dynasty in China, the Kipchak Empire in Southern Russia,
and the Ilkhan Empire in Persia, turned Buddhist, and ere long
reverted to tribalism, and all the structure that they had erected
perished. From its ruins rose the Tsardom of Moscow.

ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY.
JULY 1920-JUNE 1921.
(P) Indicates Books presented.
002-Am 3
C21.4 In 1
054.8-K 89
The American Woman's Club Annual,
1919-1920.
The Indian Museum, 1814-1914.
Beretning om Kristiania Kunst-Industri-
museums Virsomhet, 1919-1920.
059.22-J 32
Djawa Driemaandelyksch Tydschriff Orgaan
van het Java Instituut.
061-Ed 8
062-In 2
065.41-J 82
065.9 In 1
065.99 In 1
065.991-In 1
133.4 D 65.1
270.2-A1 5
275.1-H 86.1
275.15-So 6
294.1-D 53
Annual Report of the Director of the
Institute of International Education.
Report of the India Society, 1917-1918.
Journal of the Department of Letters
(University of Calcutta).
Records of the Indian Museum, 1909-1920,
incomplete.
First Annual Report on the Zoological
Survey of India, 1916-1917.
The Laboratory of the Zoological Survey
of India, 1920.
Researches into Chinese Superstitions,
Vol. I-V (English Edition, translated by
M. Kennelly).
Race and Religion.
Authors, etc.
(P)
(P)
(P)
(P)
(P)
(P)
(P)
(P)
(P)
(P)
(P)
Allin, T.
(P).
Sörensen, T.
(P)
Beal, S.
Part I.
(P)
(P)
(P)
(P)
Mason, I.
(P).
on Chinese Warren, G. G. (P)
Zwemer, S. M.
Ayusawa, I. F.
(P)
Kemp, E. G.
(P)
(P)
Arnold, J.
(P).
(P)
Christianity in China, Tartary, and Thibet. Huc, M.
Working in Thibet.
294.1-B 35.12
The Life of Hiuen-Tsiang.
Dhammapada Attha-Kathà.
294.1-P 44
294.1-Su 8
294.1-Ud 1
297-M 11.1
297-W 25
297-Z 9
338.9-Ay 3
378.51-K 32
Paramattha Dípaní or The Commentary
of the Péta-Vatthu.
Paramatthajótiká or Sutta-Nipáta Com-
mentary.
Paramattha Dípaní or The Commentary
to the Udana.
The Arabian Prophet.
D'Ollone's
Moslems.
Investigations
The Influence of Animism on Islam.
International Labor Legislation.
Handbook of Information for Chinese
Students proceeding to Great Britain
for Professional Study.
Post-Gratuate Teaching in the University
Commercial Handbook of China.
378.54-C 12
of Calcutta, 1919-1920.
380.51-Ar 6
380.51-B 23
(in Russian).
Organization of Internal Trade in China Baranoff

598.1-B 66
599-B 66
610.6-F 84
380.51-W 97
398.3-P 21
412-B 73
495.1-W 67.11
506-D 23
511.2-Kw 97
524 Z-1.117
573.6-An 7
581.951-B 15
594.3-An 7
595.76-G 12
595.78 An 1
597-An 7
597-Se 8
ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY
Kiangsi Native Trade and its Taxation.
Chinese Fairy Tales and Folk Lore Stories.
Architektonische Sprachverwandtschaft.
A Manual of Chinese Metaphor.
Videnskabelige
Meddelelser fra
Naturhistorisk Forening i Kobenhavn.
Bind 70.
How to use the Chinese Abacus or "Suan-
P'an."
Etudes sur le Magnetisme Terrestre (1874-
1908) Fascicule II (Album).
Opening Address in a Discussion on the
Value of Bodily Measurements in Dis-
tinguishing Human Races.
Gentes Herbarum I. A collection of Plants
in China.
The Gastropod Fauna of Old Lake-beds in
Upper Burma.
The Fauna of British India, Coleoptera,
Vol. I (Cerambycidoe).
Notes on Collecting and Preserving Butter-
flies and Moths, and other matters.
Some Recent Advances in our Knowledge
of the Fresh-water Fauna of India.
Indian Fish of proved Utility as Mosquito-
destroyers.
The Fauna of British India, Reptilia and
Batrachia.
235
Wright, S.
(P)
Park, M.
(P)
Brandstetter, R.
(P)
Williams, C. A. S.
(P)
Dansk
(P)
Kwauk, M. P.
(P)
Moidrey, J. de
(P)
Annandale, N.
(P)
Bailey, L. H.
(P)
Annandale, N.
(P)
Grahan, C. J.
(P)
(P)
Annandale, N.
(P)
Sewell, R. B. S.
and Chaudhuri,
B. L.
(P)
Boulenger, G. A.
(P)
The Fauna of British India, Mammalia.
Blanford, W. T.
(P)
Bulletin Medical Franco-chinois, Juil.-Oct.
1920.
(P)
615.03-Sk 7
On Chinese Medicine Trade in the Far East Skvortzow, B. W.
(in Russian).
(P)
630.6-N 15
Report of the College of Agriculture and
Forestry, 1919-1920, Nanking.
(P)
630.7-C 16
The Agricultural Work of Canton Christian
College.
(P)
631.1-R 27
632-R 51
Dangers and Control of Cotton Seed Im-
portation and Distribution in China.
The Control of Plant Diseases and Insects.
Reisner, J. H.
(P)
Ritchey, G. E.
(P)
633.1-G 87
Roguing of Cotton.
Griffing, J. B.
(P)
633.1-R 27
Cotton Seed and Cotton Improvement in
Reisner, J. H.
(P)
China.
633.11-G 87
Cotton Culture.
Griffing, J. B.
(P)
634.5-Sk 7
The Fruit trees of the Far East (in Skvortzow, B. W.
Russian).
(P)
School Nurseries.
Railroad Capitalization.
634.9-N 15
650-B 64
664.9 L 57
677.51-An 2
709.54 H 11
726.1--B 77
Butchering and curing Meats in China.
Ancient Chinese Figure Silks excavated by
Sir Aurel Stein at ruined Sites of Central
Asia.
A Handbook of Indian Art.
The Temples of a Typical Chinese City.
Havell, E. B.
Brinkley, S. G. (P)
(P)
Bonbright, J. C.
(P)
Levine, C. O.
(P)
Andrews, F. H. (P)

236
759.9-H 52.1
895.11-Ay 3.1
895.18-Sc 1
913.54 In 1
913.59-D 93
914.2-T 95
915-B 12
915-B 36
915-El 3
915-Y 99
ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY
Kingsmilliana.
Chinese Poetry and its Connotations.
A Collection of Chinese Proverbs.
Archaeological Survey of India, Pt. 1,
1917-1918.
Epigraphia Birmanica of Burma, Vol.
Pts. I & II.
I,
London through Chinese Eyes.
Russia, Mongolia, China, being some Record
of the Relations between them from the
beginning of the XVIIth Century to the
Death of the Tsar Alexei Mikhailovitch,
A.D. 1602-1676.
Buddhist Records of the Western World.
View in the East comprising India, Canton
and the Shores of the Red Sea with
Historical and Descriptive Illustrations.
Cathay and the Way Thither.
China the Mysterious and Marvellous.
China and the Chinese.
Hirth, F.
Ayscough, F. (P)
Scarborough, W.
(P)
(P)
(P)
Duroiselle, Ch.,
Editor
Tyau, M. T. Z.
Baddeley, J. F.
Beal, S.
Elliot, R.
Yule, H. and
Cordier, H.
Murdock, V.
Sirr, H. C.
(P)
Werner, E. T. C.
(P)
(P)
Hosie, H.
Plant, C.
(P)
Pollard, S.
Anon.
The Pageant of Peking, with an Introduc- Mennie, D.
tion by Putnam Weale.
915.13-P 69
915.13 P 76
915.15-An 1
915.17-An 2
915.17-B 87
923-P 87
923.5 W 85
Across Mongolian Plains-a Naturist's ac- Andrews, R. C. (P)
915.1-M 94
915.1-Si 7
915.1-W 49
China of the Chinese.
915.11-M 48
915.13-H 65
Three Years in Western China.
Glimpses of the Yangtze Gorges.
In Unknown China.
Tibet.
count of China's Great Northwest.
A Tour in Mongolia.
Bulstrode, B.
(P)
Who's Who in China.
Powell, M. C. and
Tong, H. K.,
Ed.
(P)
William Shirley, Governor of Massachu-
Wood, G. A.
(P)
setts, 1741-1756.
942.75-P 21
The English Reform Bill of 1867.
Park, J. H.
(P)
948.5-Su 1.1
Sweden Historical and Statistical Hand- Guinchard, J.
(P)
book.
951.99-M 61
952-Iw 1
952-M 96
951-C 63
951.2-L 28
951.9-C 12
951.9 G 11
951.9-G 35
951.9-H 88
951.93-M 61
954-W 45
China.
America's Aims and Asia's Aspirations.
The New Map of Asia (1900-1919).
Chinese Heart-Throbs.
Democracy and the Eastern Question."
China's Case at the Peace Conference.
The Working Forces in Japanese Politics,
a brief account of Political Conflicts.
Japan, Sixth Edition Revised by J. H.
Longford.
India's Demand for Transportation.
Sluyters' Monthly East Indian Magazine,
Vol. I, Pts. 1-6.
International Trade Developer 1920.
Histoire Generale de la Chine, 3 vols.
The History of Shanghai, Part I.
Cordier, H.
Lanning, G. and
Couling, S.
(P)
Campbell, C. W.
Gallagher, P.
(P)
Gibbons, H. A.
Hughes, J. V.
(P)
.
Millard, T. F.
(P)
Millard, T. F.
(P)
Iwasaki, U.
(P)
Murray, D.
Weld, W. E.
(P)
(P)
(P)

NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY
LIST OF MEMBERS, 1921
Members changing address are earnestly requested to inform
the Secretary at once.
Name
Address
Year of
Election
HONORARY MEMBERS.
Ayscough, Mrs. F.
Cordier, Prof. Henri
Couling, S., M.A.
De Groote, Dr. J. J. M.
Ferguson, Dr. John C.
Fryer, Prof. John ...
Giles, Prof. Herbert Allen
Hirth, Prof. F.
Hosie, Sir Alexander
Lanman, Prof. Charles B.
20 Gordon Road, Shanghai
Ecole speciale des Languages orien-
tales vivantes, Paris
1906
1886
73 Chaoufoong Road, Shanghai
Leyden, Holland
1894
1887
Peking
1896
University of California, Berkely,
1886
California
Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge
1880
Columbia University, New York
1877
City
Foreign Office, London...
1877
Harvard University, Cambridge,
1908
Massachusetts
Lockhart, Sir J. H. Stewart,
England
1885
...
K.C.M. G.
Morse, H. B., LL.D.
Arden, Camberly, England
1888
Parke, Prof. E. H.
Pelliot, Paul
14 Gambier Terrace, Liverpool
52 Boulevard Edgar-Quinet, XIV,
1877
1901
Paris
Putnam, Herbert
Sampatrao, H. H. the Prince
Library of Congress, Washington
Gaekwar of Baroda, India
1908
1898
Satow, Rt. Hon. Sir E., G.C.M. G.
Beaumont, Ottery St. Mary,
1906
Devon
Warren, Sir Pelham, K.C.M.G.
Woodhead & Co., 44 Charing
Cross, London
1904

238
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address.
Gardner, C. T., C.M.G.
Little, Mrs. Archibald
Williams, E. T.
Williams, Prof. F. W.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
Foreign Office, London
150 St. James' Court, London
Washington
135 Whitney Avenue, New Haven,
Connecticut
Year of
Election
1900
1906
1889
1895
MEMBERS.
(The asterisk denotes Life Membership).
*Abraham, R. D.
Adamson, Mrs. A. Q.
Adlam, Miss Edith M.
Adolph, W. H., PH.D.
Albertsen, K.
Alway, Mrs. C.
Ancell, Rev. B. L.
Andersson, Dr. J. G.
Archer, Allan...
Arlington, L. C.
Arnold, Julean H.
Bahnson, J. J.
Bahr, P. J.
Bahr, A. W.
Bailey, J. A.
Baillie, Thos. G. B.SC.
Baldwin, Mrs. J. W.
Barrie, Dr. Howard
Bartlett, W. W.
Barton, S., c.M. G.
Bates, J. A. E.
*Bayne,
Parker M.
Beaman, W. F.
*Beauvais, J.
Beebe, Dr. R. C.
Belcher, H. B.
Beltchenko, A. T.
Bendixsen, N. P.
*Bessell, F. L....
3G Peking Road, Shanghai
8 Jessfield Road, Shanghai
1914
1919
31 Wong Ka Shaw Gardens, S'hai
3408 Wallace St., Philadelphia, Pa.
U.S.A.
1920
1917
Telegraph Administration, Peking
c/o Butterfield & Swire, Tsingtao
Am. Church Mission, Yangchow
Ta Tsao Chang, Peking...
1920
1917
1911
1919
British Consulate, Tsingtao, Shan-
tung
1915
1917
1904
Chinese Post Office, Peking
American Legation, Peking
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
165A N. Szechuan Road, Shanghai
Montross Gallery, 559
Avenue, New York City
3G Peking Road, Shanghai
American School, Shanghai
British Legation, Peking
1909
1909
Fifth
1909
89 Range Road, Shanghai
1920
Elgin Road Public School, Shanghai
1920
4 Ezra Road, Shanghai
1920
1920
1921
1906
1919
1911
1921
1900
1889
1917
1918
1913
1905
3A Yü Yuen Road, Shanghai
West China Union
University,
Chengtu
172A North Szechuen Road, S'hai
Consul de France, Canton
5 Quinsan Gardens, Shanghai
Foochow
Russian Consulate, Hankow
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
c/o Dr. Alderson, 34 Knight's Park,
Kingston-on-Thames

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Beytagh, L. M.
Bierens de Haan, D....
::
Ilbert & Co., Shanghai
1910
c/o Holland-China Trading Co.,
1920
Hankow
Bondfield, Rev. Dr. G. H.
Bristow, J. A.
Binet, Marcel
Birdwood, Christopher
Billinghurst, Dr. W. B.
Black, S.
Blackburn, A. D.
Blume, W. W.
Boezi, Dr. Guido
Boode, E. P.
Borrett, Mrs.
Bosworth, Miss S. M.
Bournonville, C. de
Bowra, C. A. V.
Bowser, Miss H. C.
*Box, Rev. Ernest
Brace, Capt. A. J.
Brandt, Carl T.
Brett, Mrs. J. H.
Brisker, M. G.
Bristow, H. B.
Bristow, H. H.
Brooke, J. T. W.
Browett, Harold
*Brown, Sir J. McLeavy, C. M. G.
Brown, Thomas
*Bruce, Edward B..
Bruce, Rev. J. P.
Brune, H. Prideaux
Bryant, P. L.
*Buckens, Dr. F.
*Buma, C. W. A.
Burdick, Miss S. M.
Burkill, A. W.
Burkill, Mrs. A. W.
Burns, Mrs.
Butland, C. A.
20 The Bund, Shanghai
1920
Ilbert & Co., Shanghai
1921
14 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai...
G. N. Telegraph Co., Peking
H.B.M.'s Consulate-Gen., S'hai
18 Quinsan Road, Shanghai
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1908
1910
1917
1921
1920
B. and F. Bible Society, Shanghai
17 Museum Road, Shanghai
1900
1920
2 Avenue du Roi Albert, Shanghai
13 North Szechuen Road, Shanghai
20 The Bund, Shanghai...
1921
1919
1920
Chinese Maritime Customs, Peking
1897
3 Cleveland Gardens, Ealing,
1914
London W.
Medhurst College, Shanghai
1897
Y.M.C.A., Chengtu
1921
c/o Sweetmeat Castle, Shanghai
1896
Int. Banking Co., Shanghai
1920
Lever Bros., The Bund, Hankow
1921
H. H. Bristow, British Consulate
1897
Newchwang
British Consulate, Newchwang
Standard Oil Co., Shanghai
1909
1914
Davies & Brooke, Shanghai
1915
22 Yuenmingyuen Road, Shanghai
1891
Chinese Legation, 59 Portland
1865
Place, London, W.
La Roque, Sutton, Surrey
1885
80 Wall St., New York, U.S.A.
1918
Tsingchowfu, Shantung
1916
British Legation, Peking
1914
40 Avenue Dubail, Shanghai
1917
Musée du Cinquan tenaire,
1915
Bruscelles
28 Rue Galilée, Paris (16e)
1921
Baptist Mission, West Gate, S'hai
1909
2 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1912
2 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1912
c/o Am. Trading Co., 319 Avenue
Joffre, Shanghai
1916
Asiatic Petroleum Co., Chinkiang
1920
Caldwell, Rev. H. R.
Yenping Fu, Fukien
1920
Cardeillac, P.
Carl, Francis A.
*Carpenter, G. B.
Carter, J. C. ...
Russo-Asiatic Bank, Newchwang
1920
3103 Eads Avenue, St. Louis,
Missouri, U.S.A.
1906
Shewan Tomes & Co., Yunnan Fu
Mactavish & Co., Shanghai
1920
1912
239

240
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Casati, A....
Cassels, W. C.
Caudron, R. M.
Challoner, Mrs. G. F.
Chatley, Herbert
Chatley, Herbert, D.Sc.
Ch'ên Kuo-ch'uan
Christiansen, J. P.
...
Claiborne, Miss Elizabeth
Clark, J. D.
Clark, John W.
*Clementi, C.
Clennell, W. J.
Coales, O. R.
Cole, Rev. W. B.
Cooper, Miss A. B.
Commijs, A. J.
Couling, Mrs. S.
*Cousland, Dr. P. B.
Craig, A.
Crofts, Geo.
Crow, C..
Cupeli, M.
C. M. Customs, Szemao ...
British Legation, Peking
C. P. O., Nanchang, Kiangsi...
224 Avenue du Roi Albert, Shanghai
450G Avenue Joffre, Shanghai
450G Avenue Joffre, Shanghai
c/o Wan Chu Garden, Nanking
G. N. Telegraph Co., Peking...
4 Thibet Road, Shanghai
1919
1921
1920
1921
1916
1916
1913
1913
1908
Shanghai
1895
Shanghai
1921
4 Laurel Road, Wimbledon, London
British Consulate, Chinkiang
British Consulate, Teng Yueh,
1905
1921
1906
Yunnan
M. E. M. Hinghwa
1917
25 Nanking Road, Shanghai
Custom House, Shanghai
1921
1919
73 Chaoufoong Road, Shanghai
1916
16 Bluff, Yokohama, Japan
1908
The University, Manilia
1914
c/o Geo. Crofts & Co., Tientsin
21 Whangpoo Road, Shanghai
Shanghai
1921
1913
1918
Danner, Mrs.
Danton, G. H....
Davey, W. J.
*Davidson, R.
Davis, Dr. Noel
Dent, V.
*Deas, Stuart
Denham, Mrs. J. E.
Dick, L. S.
Dingle, Edwin J.
Dingle, Lilian M. ...
Dodson, Miss S. L.
Dome, Earl ...
Donald, William H.
Dorsey, W. Roderick
Douglas, Miss L.
Shanghai
1920
...
New York University, New York
Shanghai Mercury, Shanghai
1918
1920
c/o Mrs. Frew, 66 Leamington
1914
Terrace, Edinburgh
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1910
203 Avenue de Roi Albert, S'hai
1912
Butterfield & Swire, Hankow
1919
Shanghai
1919
Collins & Co., Canton Road, S'hai
1920
Far Eastern Geographical Estab-
1917
lishment, Shanghai
Box 323, B. P. O., Shanghai
1917
St. Mary's Hall, Jessfield, S'hai
Y.M.C.A., Chengtu...
1917
1920
23 Tsungpu Hutung: East, Peking
1911
U.S.A. Consular Service, Florence,
1911
Italy
4 Quinsan Gardens, Shanghai
1921.
Dovey, J. W.
Mission Book Co., Shanghai...
1918
Doyle, J. E.
China Press, Shanghai.
1921
Drago, G. D.
350 Park Avenue, New York
1918
*Drake, Noah F.
Fayetteville, Arkansas
1911
*Drew, E. B.
Cambridge, Massachusetts
1882
Du Monceau, Comte L....
123 Rue de Teuboch, Brussels,
1909
Belgium

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
241
Edgar, Rev. J. H.
Edmondston, David C.
Edmunds, Dr. C. K. ...
Eliot, Sir Charles, K.C.M. G.....
Ely, John A.
Ely, Mrs. J. A.
Engel, Max. M.
Eriksen, A. H.
Essex Institute, Librarian...
Evans, Edward'
Evans, Joseph J.
Exter, Bertus van...
c/o China Inland Mission, Chengtu
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank,
105 Avenue Road, Shanghai
1910
1917
Harbin
Canton ...
1916
British Embassy, Tokyo
1913
St. John's University, Shanghai
St. John's University, Shanghai
1917
1917
1911
1915
Salem, Massachusetts
1906
2 Quinsan Road, Shanghai
1917
Evans & Sons, 30 North Szechuen
1916
Road, Shanghai
Netherlands
Harbour Works,
1916
Chefoo
Telegraph Dept., Ministry of Com-
munications, Peking
Ferrajolo, Capt. R.
Firth, Miss M.
Fischer, Emil, S.
Fardel, H. L....
Fautereau-Vassel, Mme. P. de
*Fearn, Mrs. J. B....
Ferguson, J. W. H.
Municipal School for Boys, S'hai
1918
Ecole Franco-Chinois, Rue Lafayette,
1921
Shanghai
30 Route Pichon, Shanghai
1911
Inspectorate General of Customs,
1910
Statistical Department, S'hai
Ferguson, T. T. H.
C. M. Customs, Peking
1900
Italian Consulate, Shanghai
1920
Boone Road Public School, S'hai
1920
Tientsin
1894
Kailan Mining Co., Chingwantao...
1919
Y.M.C.A., Shanghai
Hangchow
1921
1918
1917
1916
1907
1907
1901
Fisk, G. W.
Fitch, George A.
Fitch, Robert F., D.D.
Flemons, Sidney
Fletcher, W. J. B....
Fox, Harry H., C.M.C.
Fraser, Sir Everard, K.C.M.G.
Fryer, George B.
Gage, Rev. Brownell
Gale, Esson M.
Gardner, H. G.
Garner, Dr. Emily
*Garritt, Rev. J. C.
Gaunt, Percy
Gaunt, Rev. T.
Getty, Miss Alice
Ghisi, E.
...
Gibson, H. E.
Gilchrist, Edward
16
48, Rue Amiral Bayle, Shanghai...
Nam Wu College, Canton
British Consulate-General. S'hai
British Consul-General, Shanghai
4 Edinburgh Road, Shanghai...
Changsha
Chinese Salt Rev. Administration,
Hankow
1915
1911
c/o Hongkong & Shanghai Bank,
1906
9 Gracechurch St., London, E.C.
1911
Nanking
1907
S.M.C., P.W.D., Shanghai...
1921
C.M.S., Ningpo
1921
73 Avenue des Champs Elysées,
1921
Paris
Via Kuintino, Salla No. 4, Milano,
1893
Italy
12 Weihaiwei Road, Shanghai
1915
C. M, Customs, Ningpo...
1918
ES 12

242
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Giles, W. R.
Gilliam, J.
Gillis, Captain J. H.
Gish, Rev. E. P.
Godfrey, C. H.
Goldring, P. W.
Goldring, Mrs. P. W.
Grant, J. B.
Graves, Bp. F. R., D.D.
Gray, C. Norman
Grierson, R. C.
*Grodtmann, Johans
Grosse, V.
Grove, F..
Gull, E. Manico
*Gunsberg, Baron G. de
Gwynne, T. H.
Gyles, H. A. D. J.
*Hackmann, H.
*Hall, J. C.
Hamilton, A. de C.
Hammond, Miss Louisa
Hampson, Cyril W.
Hancock, H. T.
Handley-Derry, H. F.
*Harding, H. I.
Hardy, Dr. W. M.
Harpur, C.
Hawkings, W. J.
BE
21 Yuen Ming Yuen Road, S'hai
231 Palace Hotel, Shanghai
11 Wayside Road, Shanghai...
St. John's University, Shanghai
20 Nanking Road, Shanghai
Shanghai
P. & T. Times, Peking
1920
...
c/o British Cigarette Co., Hankow
American Legation, Peking
1915
1911
Nanking
1919
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1909
1919
1920
1916
1918
1919
1918
.1898
1912
1915
1915
Shanghai
9 Rue Pommera (XVI), Paris
1908
Directorate General of Posts,
1913
Peking
26 The Bund, Shanghai
1919
Shanghai
Bureau of Russian Affairs, S'hai
c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co.,
65 Cornhill, London, E. C.
British Chamber of Commerce,
1903
49 Broadhurst Gardens, Hamp-
1888
stead, N.W.
c/o P. Heath & Co., 5 Peking
1918
Road, Shanghai
A.C.M., Wusih
1917
"Shipping and Engineering," S'hai
1920
Standard Oil Co., Shanghai
1914
British Consulate, Tientsin
1903
British Legation, Peking
1914
Batang, via Atentze, West China...
1912
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1901
30 Gordon Road, Shanghai
1920
Heacock, Mrs. H. E.
Healey, Leonard C.
Heeren, Rev. J. J., PH.D.
Heidenstam, H. von
Henke, Frederick G., PH.D.
Hers, Joseph
*Hildebrandt, Adolf
Hill, Dr. R. A. P.
Hiltner, Mrs. W. G.
Himus, Godfrey W.
Hinckley, F. E., PH.D.
*Hippisley, A. E.
Hobson, H. E.
:
Lunghai Railway, Peking
1 Honan Road, Shanghai
Shanghai
1921
S.M.C. Polytechnic School, S'hai
Shantung Christian University,
1913
1915
Tsinan
6 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai...
643 William Street, Meadville,
Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
1916
1912
1907
1907
1921
114 Dixwell Road, Shanghai
Riverside Power Station, Shanghai
1920
1920
Merchants Exchange Building, San
1907
Francisco
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank,
London
1876
Marnwood Hall, Iron Bridge,
Shropshire, England
1868

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Hughes, E. R.
Hummel, A. W.
Hunter, Miss
Huston, J. C.
Hynd, R. R.
Hynes, A. C.
Irvine, Miss Elizabeth
39 Arsenal Road, St. Catherine's
Bridge, Shanghai
Hodges, Mrs. F. E.
*Hodous, Rev. L.
Hoettler, A.
Houghton, Charles
Howell, E. B.
⠀ ⠀
118 Weihaiwei Road, Shanghai
Kennedy School, Hertford Conn.,
1915
1913
U.S.A.
113 Avenue Edward VII, Shanghai
S.M.C. Health Office, Shanghai
1910
1908
693 Great Western Road, Shanghai
1909
Hudson, Mrs. Alfred
Ningpo
1909
Hughes, A. J.
China United Assurance Society,
1909
Shanghai
London Mission, Tingchow, via
1918
Amoy
Fenchow, Shansi
1919
Hutson, Rev. J.
Public School for Girls, Shanghai
American Legation, Hankow
c/o China Inland Mission, Chengtu
Hongkong & Shanghai Bank, S'hai
Hongkong & Shanghai Bank, S'hai
1920
1917
1914
1913
1919
1910
Asiatic Petroleum Co., Shanghai...
85 Yü Yuen Road, Shanghai...
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
1913
1920
1917
H.B.M. Consul-General, Canton...
1888
13 Astor Place, New York
1903
G. N. Telegraph Co., Tientsin
1918
c/o Department of State, Washing-
ton, D.C.
1912
Peking
1907
c/o Mrs. H. B. Joly, Legation
Street, Seoul.
1913
Brunner Mond & Co., Shanghai...
1920
Netherlands Legation, Peking
1914
G. N. Telegraph Co., Copenhagen,
Denmark
1913
Palace Hotel, Shanghai...
1920
Sulzer, Rudolf & Co., Shanghai...
1912
1913
Irving, D. A.
Irwine, Mrs. H. G.
Islef, J. P.
Jamieson, J. W.
Jenks, Prof. J. W.
Jensen, C. A....
Johnson, N. T.
Johnston, R. F.
Joly, P. B.
Jones, G. S.
Jong, Th. de J.
Jorgensen, O.
Joseph, S. M.
*Jost, A.
Justesen, M. L.
Karlbeck, O.
Kashiwada, T.
Kellogg, C. R.
Kemp, G. S. Foster
Kennett, W. B.
Kent, A. S.
*Kern, D. S.
Kilner, E.
King, Dr. G. E.
King, Louis
c/o L. V. Lang, French Bund,
Shanghai
Peng Pu
1 Balfour Road, Shanghai
Foochow
Public School for Chinese, S'hai
British Cigarette Co., Shanghai ...
c/o Chinese Post Office, Moukden
C.M.M. Chengtu, Szechuen
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
Lanchow, Kansu
H.B.M's Consulate, Chengtu
...
1914
1918
1919
1908
1918
1913
1912
1909
1919
1911
243

244
Name
*Kliene, Charles, F.R.G.S.
Klubien, J.
Kopp, E. C.
*Krebs, E.
Krisel, A.
Kulp, D. H.
*Kunisawa Shimbei
: :
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
Inspectorate General of Customs.
Peking
1916
...
1913
Shanghai
1919
1895
17 Yuenmingyuen Road, Shanghai
Shanghai College, Shanghai
1914
1915
270 Hyakunin-cho, Ohkubo, Tokyo
1917
10 Woosung Road, Shanghai
C. F. Tramways, Shanghai
c/o Jardine, Matheson & Co.,
Shanghai
1909
...
1917
1916
H.I.R.M.'s Vice-Consul, Kobe
c/o Jardine, Matheson & Co., S'hai
Denison University, Gronville, Ohio
Field Museum of National History,
1909
1916
1912
1901
Chicago
Head Street, Colchester, Essex
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1912
1914
202 Broadway, Norwich, Conn.,
1917
U.S.A.
71 Howe St., New Haven, Conn.,
1901
U.S.A.
Fenchow, Shansi
1918
445c Honan Road, Shanghai
McTyeire School, Hankow Road,
1914
...
1919
Shanghai
6 Young Allen Terrace, Shanghai...
1920
6 Young Allen Terrace, Shanghai...
Secretariat, S.M.C....
Shirenewton Hall, near Chepstow,
1920
1921
1908
Monmouthshire
Chengtu, Szechuen
1910
30 Gordon Road, Shanghai
1910
6 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1916
2 Barchet Road, Shanghai
1913
Yenchowfu, Shantung
1918
23 Nanking Road, Shanghai
1921
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1921
107 Bubbling Well Road, Shanghai
1921
Chartered Bank, Peking
1906
7 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
1910
7 Jinkee Road, Shanghai.
1917
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1892
347 Madison Avenue, New York
1919
Shanghai College, Shanghai
1912
9 Wong Ka Shaw Gardens, S'hai
c/o P. O. Box 825, American Postal
Agency, Shanghai
143 N. Szechuen Road, Shanghai
1915
1918
1908
Lacy, Rev. Dr. W. H.
Laforest, L.
Lake, Capt., P. M. B.
Landesen, Arthur C. von
Lanning, V. H.
*Latourette, K. S.
*Laufer, Dr. Berthold.
*Laver, Capt. H. E.
Leach, W. A. B.
Leavens, D. H.
*Leavenworth, Chas. S.
Leete, W. Rockwell,
Leslie, T..
Lester, Miss E. S.
Lewis, D. J.
Lewis, Mrs. D. J..
Lewis, S. H.
Liddell, C. Oswald
*Lindsay, Dr. A. W.
*Little, Edward S. ...
Loehr, A. G.
Lockwood, W. W.
Lord, Rev. R. D.
Lord, Samuel ....
Lowder, E. G.
Lowder, Mrs. E. G.
Lucas, S. E.
Luthy, Charles
"Luthy, Emil
Lyall, Leonard A.
Lyon, Dr. D. W.
Mabee, Fred C.
Macbeth, Miss A.
MacDonell, A. M.
MacGillivray, Rev. Dr. Donald

Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Mackinlay, Miss M. F.
Macleod, Dr. N.
MacNair, H. F., M.A.
Maguire, Mrs. C. E.
McNulty, Rev. Henry A.
Macoun, J. H.
McRae, J. D....
Main, Dr. Duncan
*Marsh, Dr. E. L....
Marshall, R. Calder
Marsoulies, A. du Pac de
Martin, C. H.
Martin, Mrs. W. A.
"Mason, Isaac
Mather, B.
Mathieson, N.
Maxwell, Dr. J. Preston
Maybon, Charles B.
*Mayers, Frederick J., F.R.G.S.
Mayers, Sidney F.
McEuen, K. J.
...
McFarlane, Rev. A. J.
McInnes, Miss G..
McNeill, Mrs. Duncan
Mead, E. W.
Mell, Rudolf
*Melnikoff, D. M.
Mencarini, J.
Mengel, E.
Mennie, D.
Menzies, Rev. J. M.
Merian, J. R. A.
Merriman, Mrs. W. L.
Merrins, Dr. E. M.
Mesny, H. P. ...
6 Annam Road, Shanghai
1921
453 Great Western Road, Shanghai
1915
St. John's University, Shanghai
1920
413 Avenue Joffre, Shanghai...
1921
A. C. Mission, Soochow
1918
C. M. Customs, Nanking
1894
Shantung Christian University,
Tsinanfu, Shantung
1910
Hangchow
1900
14 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai..
32A Nanking Road, Shanghai
1908
1908
67 Route Vallon, Shanghai
1917
Russo-Asiatic Bank, Dairen ...
1918
Bridge House, Nanking
1916
143 N. Szechuen Road, Shanghai
1916
Yung Ching, Peking
1918
Butterfield & Swire, Shanghai
1915
E.P.M., Yungchun Fu
1917
...
1195 Rue Lafayette, Shanghai
1911
C. M. Customs, Chinkiang
1917
The British and Chinese Corpora-
1907
tion, Ltd., Peking
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1908
London Mission, Hanyang
1915
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1913
The Chestnut, Tangbourne, England
1915
British Legation, Peking
1916
Canton...
1911
Litvinoff & Co., Hankow
1919
1B Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1884
Supt. Chinese Telegraphs, Yun-
1913
nanfu
A. S. Watson & Co., Shanghai
1916
Changte, Ho
1914
4 Ezra Road, Shanghai
1921
15 Ferry Road, Shanghai
1910
St. John's University, Shanghai
1916
c/o H. & W. Greer, Ltd., 20 Kiu-
1911
kiang Road, Shanghai
Mever, H. Fuge
Mills, Edwin W.
Miskin, Stanley C.
Mitchell, Miss E. E.
Molines, Edouard
Moninger, Miss M. M.
*Moore, Dr. A.
*Morgan, Rev. Evan
Morris, Dr. H. H.
Morriss, H. E.
*Morse, C. J.
Mortensen, Rev. Ralph
Moule, Rev. A. C.
⠀ ⠀
Asiatic Petroleum Co., Hankow
50 Range Road, Shanghai
Credit Foncier d'Extreme-Orient,
Shanghai
A.P.M., Kiung Chow, Hainan
Municipal Offices, Shanghai....
143 N. Szechuen Road, Shanghai
St. Luke's Hospital, Shanghai
118 Route Père Robert, Shanghai
1825 Asbury Avenue, Evanston,
Illinois
Littlebredy, Dorchester ...
Whangpoo Conservancy, Shanghai
Legation Quarter, Peking
1920
1920
1913
1921
1920
1916
1913
1909
1914
1919
1901
Kikungshan, Honan....
1920
1902
245

246
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Mullett, Dr. H. J.....
Munro-Faure, P. H.
Münter, L. S....
Murphine, Shepley
Murphy, Henry K.
Murphy, Mrs. H. K.
Mysore University
Dental Hospital, Chengtu
c/o A. P. C., Hangchow
G. N. Telegraph Co., Peking
3E Peking Road, Shanghai
4 The Bund, Shanghai
4 The Bund, Shanghai
Mysore, India
Year of
Election
1921
1921
1910
1921
1921
1921
1920
*O'Brien-Butler, P. E.
Neild, Dr. F. M.
Newcomb, Capt. Frank
Newman, Kenneth
Nicholson, William
*Nielsen, Albert
Nordquist, O.
Norman, H. C.
Nystrom, E. T.
Oakes, W. L....
ཋ:::
"Ohlmer, E.
Ollerton, J. E.
Ottewill, H. A.
Ouskouli, M. H. A.
Paddock, Rev. B. H.
Pade, K. F.
Pagh, E. K.
*Palmer, W. M.
Papini, E.
Parker, Rev. Dr. A. P.
Parsons, E. E.
Passikides, C. J.
Patrick, Dr. H. C.
Pearson, C. Dearne
Peet, Alice L.
Peet, Gilbert E.
Peffer, Nathaniel
"Peiyang University Librarian
Penfold, F. G.
Perkins, M. F.
Petersen, I. C. V.
*Pettus, W. B.
Phillips, H., 0.B.E.
*Planey, V. Collin de
Platt, Robert
Polevoy, S. A.
Polk, Dr. Margaret. H.
Porterfield, W. M.
The Oriental Press, Shanghai
Anglo-Chinese College, 19 Quinsan
Road, Shanghai
12 Hankow Road, Shanghai....
S.M.C. Finance Dept., Shanghai
22 Whangpoo Road, Shanghai
69 Kiangse Road, Shanghai
3A Peking Road, Shanghai
1916
c/o Butterfield & Swire, S'hai
1917
3G Peking Road, Shanghai
1921
Butterfield & Swire, Hongkong
1919
c/o De-No-Fa, Christiania, Norway
1894
C. P. O., Nanking...
1920
The China Press, Shanghai
1912
Shansi University, Taiyuanfu
1920
W. M. S., Changsha
1919
c/o Foreign Office, London
1885
1885
217 Bubbling Well Road, Shanghai
1916
H.B.M. Consulate, Yunnanfu
Shanghai
1913
1917
Yen Ping Fu, Foochow
1916
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
Salt Gabelle, Peking
1920
1908
1914
1916
1901
1916
1921
1912
1908
6 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
1918
6 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
1918
c/o Pacific Bank, 57th St. and
Madison Avenue, New York
Tientsin
1918
1911
32A Nanking Road, Shanghai
American Consulate, Shanghai
1916
1914
2 Hsi Tang Tse Hu Tung, Peking
Y.M.C.A., Peking
1906
1915
British Consulate, Foochow
1912
10 Square du Croisic, Paris XVe
1877
Chicago University, Chicago, Ill.
1917
20 Wogack Road, Tientsin
1917
110 Range Road, Shanghai
1915
St. John's University, Shanghai
1920

Name
Pott, Rev. Dr. F. L. Hawks
Pott, W. S. A.
Pousty, F. E....
Powell, J. B.
Pratt, J. T., c.M. G.
Pratt, R. S.
Prentice, John
Price, Mrs. Maurice
*Pye, Rev. Watts O.
Quien, F. C.
Quin, Mrs. J.
Raaschou, T.
Raeburn, P. D.
Rankin, C. W.
⠀ ⠀
Rees, Rev. Dr. W. Hopkyn
Reinsch, Dr. Paul...
Reiss, Mrs. A.
Richert, G.
Ritchie, W. W.
Roberts, D.
Roots, Rt. Rev. L. H.
Ros, G.
Rossi, Chev. G. de
Rowbotham, A. H.
Rowe, E. S. B.
*Sahara, T.
Sammons, Hon. T.
Sanders, Arthur H.
Sargent, G. T.
*Sarkar, Prof. B. K.
Sawdon, E. W.
Sawyer, J. B....
*Segalen, Dr. Victor
*Shaw, Norman
Shearstone, T. W.
*Shelton, Dr. A. L.
Shengle, J. C.
Shipley, J. A. G.
Shu, Dr. H. J.
Silsby, Rev. J. A..
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
St. John's University, Shanghai
St. John's University, Shanghai
Ningpo
1913
1914
1915
Millard's Review, 113 Avenue
Edward VII, Shanghai
1918
c/o Foreign Office, London ...
H.B.M.'s Consulate, Chungking
1909
1921
47 Yangtszepoo Road, Shanghai
1885
c/o Prof. M. Price, University of
Chicago, Ill., U.S.A.
1919
Fenchow, Shansi
1917
Netherlands Harbor Works, Peking
3 Kiukiang Road, Shanghai
1913
1916
Danish Consul-General, Shanghai
1912
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1916
18 Quinsan Road, Shanghai...
1915
10 The Avenue, Barnet, Herts.
1914
1916
Shanghai
1921
c/o A. B. Vattenbyggnadsbyran,
Stockholm
1920
Postal Commissioner, Harbin
St. John's University, Shanghai
American Church Mission, Hankow
Italian Consulate-Gen., Hankow...
1907
1916
1916
1908
Italian Consulate-Gen., Shanghai...
1920
Tsing Hua College, Peking...
1920
Municipal Offices, Shanghai...
1907
Shanghai Mercury, Shanghai
1908
c/o American Consul-Gen., S'hai
1915
U. E. Mission, Chaling, Hunan
1917
Andersen, Meyer & Co....
1917
1915
Friends' High School, Chungking,
Szechuen
1916
U.S. Consulate-Gen., Shanghai
1920
5 Cite d'Antin, Brest, France
1917
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1912
8 Museum Road, Shanghai
Batang, via Tachienlu, Sze.
23 Ferry Road, Shanghai
1800
1918
1918
1905
Acklen Avenue, Nashville
Tennessee, U.S.A.
1911
Chinese Customs, Hankow...
1921
Presbyterian Mission, South Gate,
1911
Shanghai
247

248
Name
Simpson, B. Lenox
Sites, F. R.
Skinner, Dr. A. H.
Skvortzow, B. W.
Smallbones, J. A.
Smith, J. Langford
Southcott, Mrs.
Spiker, Clarence J.
Staheyeff, Miss T.
*Stanley, Dr. A.
Stapleton-Cotton, W. V.
Stedeford, E. T. A.
Steptoe, H. N.
Stewart, Rev. J. L.
Stocker, E. C.
Stockton, G. C.
Strehlneek, E. A.
Stursberg, W. A....
*South Manchuria Railway Co.
Library
*Suga, Capt. T.
Summerskill, Miss E. R.
Sykes, E. A.
Symons, C. J. F. Dean
LIST OF MEMBERS
Tachibana, M.
Talbot, R. M.
Tanner, Paul von
Tayler, A. Ll....
"Taylor, C. H. Brewitt
Teesdale, J. H.
Tenney, Dr. C. D.
Thellefsen, E. S. ...
Thomas, J. A. T.
Throop, M. H.
Ting I-hsien
Toller, W. Stark
*Tochtermann, Karl
Touche, J. D. la
Toussaint, G. C.
"Trollope, Rt. Rev. Bishop M.N.
Tucker, G. E.
Tucker, Mrs. G. E.
Turner, Skinner, Judge
Twentyman, J. R.
Tyler, W. F...
6 B
Unwin, F. S. ...
Address
Election
Year of
Peking
1907
U.S. Steel Product Co., Shanghai
1916
Hankow
1919
67 Poshtovaya St., Harbin
1918
S.M.C. Electricity Dept., S'hai
British Consulate, Ichang
1913
1908
Wei-hai-wei
1919
American Legation, Peking
1918
100 Route Ferguson, Shanghai
1921
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
Directorate General of Posts, Peking
1905
1916
Blyth Hospital, Wenchow
1919
H.B.M. Consulate-Gen., Chengtu...
1920
Union University, Chengtu
1916
64 Avenue Dubail, Shanghai
1921
155B Dixwell Road, Shanghai
1914
45 Haskell Road, Shanghai
1909
Chinese Postal Service, Kaifeng,
Honan
1919
Dairen
1910
N. K. K., Shanghai
1919
Victoria Nursing Home, Shanghai
1921
Reiss & Co., Shanghai
1909
The Deanery, Shanghai
1921
1062 Higashi-Nakano, Tokyo
1881
1915
C. M. Customs, Soochow
1885
Arts & Crafts, Shanghai...
Commissioner of Customs, Mukden
3G Peking Road, Shanghai
American Legation, Peking
G. N. Telegraph Co., Shanghai
Shanghai
1915
1885
1916
1913
1913
1890
St. John's University, Shanghai
1912
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1902
c/o Foreign Office, London
1907
C. M. Customs, Shanghai
1900
C. M. Customs, Ming Tze, Yunnan
1911
French Legation, Peking
1917
Seoul, Korea
1911
5 Peking Road, Shanghai
1915
5 Peking Road, Shanghai
1915
British Supreme Court for China,
1916
Shanghai
24 Yuenmingyuen Road, Shanghai
1894
Peking...
1915
The Angela, Victoria B. C. Canada
1914

Name
Van Corback, T. B.
Van der Woude, R.
Vauthier, Georges
Verbert, L.
Veryard, Robert K.
Vizenzinovitch, Mrs. V.
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
c/o A. E. Algar & Co., Shanghai...
1913
8 Nanyang Road, Shanghai...
1915
143 Avenue Dubail, Shanghai
20 The Bund, Shanghai
Y.M.C.A., Changsha
1921
1913
1917
1 Kiangwan Road, Shanghai
1914
Wade, R. H. R.
Waller, A. J....
Wang Chung-hui, Dr.
Ward, Mrs. Lipsom
Ware, Miss Alice
Warren, Rev. G. G.
Washbrook, H. G.
*Watson, Dr. P. T.
Weatherall, M. E.
Webb, Mrs. C. H.
Webster, Rev. James
Werner, E. T. C....
Westbrook, E. J.
Wheeler, Rev. W. R.
White, Rev. H. W.
White, Miss Laura M.
White, Rt. Rev. Wm. C.
Whitehead, Miss Edith
Wilde, Mrs. H. R.
Wilden, H. A.
Wilhelm, Rev. Dr. Richard
Wilkinson, E. S.
Wilkinson, F. E., C.M.G.
Wilkinson, H. P.
"Williams, C. A. S.
Williams, Capt. C. C.
Williams, S. J.
Wilbur, Mrs. H. A.
Wilson, Mrs. Geo. C.
Wilson, R. E....
Witt, Miss E. N.
Woets, J....
Wood, A. G....
Wood, Mrs. Edwin
Woodward, A. M. Tracy,
F.R.G.S., F.R.N.S.
3G Peking Road, Shanghai
C. M. Customs, Tientsin...
1918
Kelly & Walsh, Ltd., Shanghai
Peking
1916
1913
1920
20 Kwen Ming Road, Shanghai
Wesleyan Mission, Changsha
6 Shih Ta Jen Hu t'ung, Peking
Fenchow, Shansi
1918
1909
1908
1920
52 Ta Fang-chia Hu t'ung, Peking
21 Studley Avenue, Shanghai
1919
1919
17
Brompton Lane,
Strood,
1911
Rochester, England
3 Tung Huang Ch'eng Kên, Hou
1915
Men Wei, Peking
Asiatic Petroleum Co., Shanghai
1916
A.P.M., Hangchow
1920
...
Yencheng, Kiangsu
1915
30 Kinnear Road, Shanghai
1916
Anglican Bishop of Honan, Kai-
1913
fengfu
c/o A.P.C., Tsingtao
1921
15 Ferry Road, Shanghai
1915
French Consulate, Rue du Con-
sulat, Shanghai...
1917
Tsingtau
1910
P.O. Box, No. 41, Yokohama
1911
1909
1909
British Consulate-Gen., Mukden...
c/o Sir H. S. Wilkinson, Moneys-
banere, Tohermore Co., Derry,
Ireland
Inspectorate General of Customs,
Peking
1919
c/o Butterfield & Swire, Shanghai
S.M.C. Finance Dept., Shanghai
124 Dixwell Road, Shanghai
1918
1920
1920
c/o A.P.C., The Bund, Shanghai
6 Jinkee Road, Shanghai
1921
1918
....
16 Queensborough Terr., Hyde
Park, London, W.
1912
Credit foncier d'Extreme-Orient,
1919
Peking
Gibb, Livingston & Co., Shanghai
1879
19 Medhurst Road, Shanghai
1921
312 Avenue Joffre, Shanghai
1921
249

250
Name
LIST OF MEMBERS
Address
Year of
Election
Wright, Rev. H. K.
*Wright, S. F.
*Wu Lien-teh, Dr.
Wu Ting-fang, Dr.
Yamasaki, K....
Yard, Rev. J. M.
Yates, Smith
Yokoyama, R.
Young, R. C.
143 North Szechuan Rd., Shanghai
c/o C. M. Customs, Peking
Plague Prevention Service, Harbin
3 Gordon Road, Shanghai
1919
1916
1913
1913
Japanese Consulate-General, S'hai
M.E.M., Chengtu
1921
1920
8 Nanking Road, Shanghai
1920
Tokyo Mercantile Agency, S'hai
Municipal Offices, Shanghai
1918
1912
Zwemer, Rev. Samuel M., D.D.,
14 Sharia Abou el Sebaa, Cairo...
1917
F.R.G.S.
TOTALS:
CLASSIFIED AS :-
Honorary Members...
18
Corresponding Members
Life Members
4
69
Ordinary Members ...
440
Total 531
Residing at Shanghai
275
Residing elsewhere in China... 175
Residing in other countries
81
Total
531

THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY
74, Grosvenor Street, London, W. 1.
1. The Royal Asiatic Society has its headquarters at 74,
Grosvenor Street, London, W. 1., where it has a large library of
books and MSS. relating to Oriental subjects, and holds monthly
Meetings from November to June (inclusive) at which papers
on such subjects are read and discussed.
2. By Rule 105 of this Society all the Members of Branch
Societies are entitled while on furlough or otherwise temporarily
resident within the limits of Great Britain and Ireland, to the use
of the Library as Non-Resident Members, and to attend the
ordinary monthly meetings of this Society. This Society accordingly
invites Members of Branch Societies temporarily resident in this
country to avail themselves of these facilities and to make their
home addresses known to the Secretary so that notice of the
meetings may be sent to them.
3. Under Rule 84, the Council of the Society is able to
accept contributions to its Journal from Members of Branch
Societies, and other persons interested in Oriental research of
original articles, short notes, etc., on matters connected with the
languages, archaeology, history, beliefs and customs of any part
of Asia.
4. By virtue of the afore-mentioned Rule 105, all Members
of Branch Societies are entitled to apply for election to the Society
without the formality of nomination. They should apply in
writing to the Secretary, stating their names, and addresses, and
mentioning the Branch Society to which they belong. Election is
by the Society upon the recommendation of the Council.
5. The subscription for Non-Resident Members of the Society
is 30/- per annum. They receive the quarterly Journal post free.

TWO WEEKS BOOK
TO BE RETURNED ON OR BEFORE
For every day beyond this there shall be a fine of 10 cents
L-2000-I-38

18081
E03096
Call No.PC 052/R81
l
Accession No. 18081 20 30
Title Journal of the North-
China branch of the R.A.S.
VolN.S.52
Date 1921
E03096
THE LIBRARY
OF THE
CHINESE SOCIAL AND
POLITICAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION
1 MIN SHENG HUTUNG,
NAN CHIH TZU, PEIPING, CHINA.
(TEL. NO. E.O. 736)
北南池子民聲胡同一號
中國政治學會 圖書館 (電話東局七三六號)
Accession No.
Call No.
PC
052
R81
N.S.52.
30.iv-39-L-2000