[58]
ARTICLE IV.
SOME REMARKS ON RECENT ELEVATIONS IN
CHINA AND JAPAN.*
BY ALBERT S. BICKMORE, Esq.
Ix the old and accurate description of China, compiled by Du
Halde, about the year 1725, from the full diaries and journals
kept by the Jesuits, who between 1708 and 1717 travelled over
and mapped out all that vast empire, I find these note-worthy
and valuable remarks on the changes in the physical geography
of China, since the date of her earliest history.
"In the Abridgment of Chorography, entitled Quang yu ki, we
find the City of Chau teyen [the capital of Corea in 1694), where
Ki pe [the king of Coren at that time] resided, is in the Territory
of Yong ping fu, a City of the first Order in the Province of Peche li.
Now, supposing this to be true, one may reasonably conclude
that the antient Chau tayen and Korea were contiguous, and not
separated by a Gulph till many Ages after. For it is not to be
imagined that a Prince would fix his Residence out of his own
Dominions, especially if divided from them by a wide Sea. This
Conjecture will appear the more probable, if we carry our Specula-
tions a little higher [i. e. to a more ancient period]. When Yu
(whose Memory is justly honoured by the Chinese with the Title of
Great) undertook to drain the Waters, which under the Reigns of
Shun and Yau had overflowed the flat Country, he cut a Passage
for the River Whang ho thro' a Mountain on the Southern Bounda-
ries of Shan si and Shen si, which Provinces that River separates,
and makes a Cataract here not inferior to those of the Nile.
Thence he conducted it thro' the Province of Ho nan, and following
its Channel along the Province of Pe che li, he drained the Lake
Tu lu [ie. Lake Peh-lu] into which the Whang ho formerly
emptied itself. This Lake overflowed all that Country which now
includes the Districts of Shun te fu (a City of the first Order,)
Chau chew and Shing cher in the same Province. At last to
break its Rapidity, he divided it into niné Channels, which
Read before the Society on 5th November, 1867.

RECENT ELEVATIONS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
59
some imagine were again united before it disembogued itself
into the Sea. But whether they were joined, or if it was only
the main Channel that ran into the Sea at the Foot of the
Mountain Kye she shan, which then made a Promontory, this
is certain, that since Yu began that great Work about 3921 Years
ago, this River has stray'd far from its antient Course; for instead
of discharging itself into the Sea, as it did formerly in Lat. 40°,
it now falls into the River Whay ho, a little above Whay ngan,
a City of the first Rank in the Province Kyang ngan [i.e. Kiangsu)
about Lat. 34°. It is likewise observable, that the Mountain
Kye she shan, which was formerly united to the Territory of Yong
ping fu is now 500 Li [about one hundred and sixty miles] distant
in the Sea from this City [and is probably one of the islands
near the promontory north of the Maintan group]. So that the
Sea gaining on the Land by Degrees, hath at last overflowed all
this Tract of Ground. It is indeed true, that the Chinese History
makes no Mention of this extraordinary Change of the Course of
the Whang ho, nor of this Overflowing of the Sea. But when
Alterations on the Surface of the Globe are brought about
insensibly, and without alarming Nature, they easily escape the
Observation of History, the Difference that happens during the
Life of one Man being not at all perceptible."*
In October 1866, after a long journey through the central and
southern parts of China, I took passage from Shanghai for Tientsin,
through the kindness of Messrs. Trautmann & Co. on their good.
steamer, the Nanzing. From Tientsin I proceeded to Peking,
and thence to the mountains on the north, and along their flanks
to the Nankow Pass, and on to the coal mines, a day's journey
southward. And, in entire accordance with Du Halde's statements
and speculations, everywhere over this steppe-like plain of Pechili,
evidences appeared of its recent elevation above the sea, and,
farther, that its true eastern border is not the present sea shore,
but that this plain actually extends out under the Gulf of Pechili,
and under the Yellow sea, on the north of Shantung, to Corea,
and on the south, even to the Japanese Islands, the Lew Chews,
and Formosa! For the real eastern border of the continent of
Asia, as is well known, is not the present coast line, but including
Sumatra, Java, Borneo, and the Philippines, it extends along
the eastern shores of Formosa, the Lew Chew group, the Japanese
Islands, and the Kuriles to Kamtschatka. In other words the
* A description of the empire of China. 2 vols. London, 1741, vol. 2. p. 382.

60
RECENT ELEVATIONS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
eastern margin of this great continent has suffered a slight depres-
sion and is now partly covered by the waters of the Pacific Ocean.
Between the line indicated above and the present coast of China,
the waters are all comparatively shallow, but outside this line
the sounding lead runs down to great depths, and at once shows
us we have come to the true edge of the great Pacific basin.
If the north of China were to be raised but one hundred and
twenty feet the whole Gulf of Pechili would disappear; and if it
were elevated as much more, in place of the Yellow Sea we should
have a dry plain from Peking to Corea. And such a change is
actually taking place. At Chefoo, on the northern shore of the
promontory of Shantung, there is a long sand spit extending out
from the mainland to a high headland and forming the western
shore of the harbor. On this spit are seen two old sea beaches,
as perfect as the present one. The highest is but a few feet above
high water level, yet it shows what kind of a change the sur-
rounding area has recently undergone, and this assumption is
further strengthened by the testimony of the Chinese that the
harbor is "slowly filling up." It is seldom possible to obtain
data that will give us the rate of such changes, and the following
statements kindly furnished me by the Rev. Mr. Mateer, of
Tung-chau, are therefore the more valuable.
At a
"I have learned with some degree of probability, that in the
Ming Dynasty-some 250 years ago-the water from the ocean
came up the bed of what is now a small creek, past the city, and
extending as much as three li (one mile) from the present beach.
"I also learned that at that time the water in the basin of the
water city was at least fifteen Chinese feet deep, where it now is
not three feet deep. This difference of twelve Chinese féet (equal
to fourteen and one-tenth English feet) is the least that will account
for the water running up to where it is said to have done.
later date the water came up outside the water city to the bridge,
near a li (one third of a mile) from the present beach. The decline
has been so gradual that there is now no way of telling exactly
when the junks quit coming. It is said there was originally no
dry land in the water city save the very least close to the wall.
"It was built by a man named Chi, as a depot for the govern-
ment junks, and was not intended to include any place to build
upon, but to be a safe depot where pirates could not come."
This elevation of at least fourteen and one-tenth feet in two
hundred and fifty years gives us a mean rate of nearly six feet in

RECENT ELEVATIONS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
61
a century, but assuming that this elevating power acts uniformly,
to ascertain the rapid rate of the changes in the bed of the Gulf
of Pechili, we must add to this the quantity of sediment brought
down by the Yellow River, the Peiho, and the minor rivers.
About Peking the plain is composed of stratified clays that
form a fine light crust from two to five inches deep along all the
travelled roads, in dry weather. In many places I noticed
quantities of long claystones branching like corals, for which
indeed they have sometimes been mistaken. But instead of being
of marine origin, they have been formed by water flowing down
along grass roots, which in this way receive a series of concentric
layers from the surrounding clay. And as the water naturally
follows the branches of these roots the claystones necessarily take
a branching form. Frequently where the strata have not been
disturbed, the roots can still be seen within these concretions.
In the Nankow Pass and piled up for some distance from the
place where it opens out to the plain, appeared considerable
quantities of transported boulders. These were probably borne
near to the places they now occupy by an old glacier that once
filled this pass and brought them down from the neighbouring
mountains, or from the borders of the high plateau of Mongolia,
on which this river of ice probably took its rise. But a short
distance from the mouth of the pass in every direction over the
plain, these boulders quite disappear.
Many may have been gathered by the farmers for the walls of
their houses; but as few are to be seen in the clay banks, the
question occurs whether the materials that fill the Peking basin
have not been so completely sorted and resorted by the action
of the sea that the larger boulders are now mostly at some depth.
below the surface. The next day as we followed the flanks of the
mountains, we came to a remarkable depression in the plain,
evidently the bed of a lake that had been recently drained off, not
across the plain, but through some rent in the mountains on the
west, to the present channel of the 'Yangho,' and through it to
the sea. Farther down the Yangho a small stream comes in on
the southwest from the anthracite mine at Mun-to-kow. This
minor valley is bordered with a well-defined terrace, some forty
or fifty feet in height.
Besides these evidences of the former presence of the sea, several
shells of living species were given me from a clay bank not far
from Peking.

62
RECENT ELEVATIONS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
Though these great changes have taken place so slowly, as
mostly to have escaped the notice of man, it has been far otherwise
with the Yellow River, whose irregular wanderings and destructive.
floods have well gained for it the title of "China's Sorrow."
All rivers after wearing out their channels to a certain depth,
have a tendency to deposit in their own beds a part of the sand
and mud they are bearing along, and this tendency is greatly
increased by confining them with dams, and preventing them
from overflowing, when swollen by rains or melting snows, and
therefore more heavily laden with such materials. The Po, in this
way, has raised its bed until the surface of its waters is above the
houses of the peasants, and it has already once deserted its old
channel and formed a new one, and this is, in short, the whole
history of the Yellow River. When it had filled up its old channel
to the south of Shantung, and succeeded in making a breach
in its dams, it followed nearly its previous course north of Shan-
tung to the Gulf of Pechili.
The whole plain through which it flows being of alluvial origin
and completely intersected by canals or small streams, its waters
would readily find a lower channel, which their momentum in
coming down from the higher level of their old bed would enable
them to quickly enlarge. The elevation of the land along the sea
shore, at the rate of six feet in a century, would have a tendency
to keep the river in its old channel if there was an equal or greater
elevation along the upper part of its course, but if the interior
has subsided or remained at rest while the seaboard has been
rising, the strength of the current must have been diminished, a
greater quantity of sediment deposited in its bed, and therefore
the danger increased of its bursting its artificial banks. Perhaps
no data have yet been obtained to show whether or not the interior
of this continent has remained at rest during this time or whether
it has been raised or depressed, but it should be noted that where
it joins the continent of Europe, its latest movement has been
one of elevation and that the Aral sea and the salt lakes that lie
north and east of it are only remnants of an old arm of the Arctic
Ocean that once stretched down along the eastern flanks of the
Ural mountains. The last change in the course of the Yellow
River occurred when a strong detachment of the Taipings were
approaching and threatening Peking, and is supposed to have
been caused by a breach, made either by them, or by the Imperialists
to arrest their progress.

RECENT ELEVATIONS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
63
All accounts agree that this change is complete, and that its
old bed is now dry; and this is only another way of stating as a
fact what has just been assumed, namely that the river continued
in its old channel until its bed had become as high or higher than
the surrounding country.
Dr. Martin, of Peking, informs me it now leaves its old channel
a short distance below Ifung, and passing northerly near
Tsauchau and Poh to Fan (see Dr. Williams' map), it flows in a
northeasterly direction to Tungping, and thence to Tsinan for
the capital of Shantung, and down the channel of the Tatsing
river to the Gulf of Pechili. This course is just about at a right
angle with its old one to Hwaingan, and the distance from its
present mouth to where it emptied before in to the Yellow Sea is
over 380 miles in a straight line and nearly twice that along the
shore. Perhaps no other river, within historic time, has wandered
so frequently and so far away from its old channels, and also,
perhaps no other river flows out into a plain of such wide extent
at right angles to its course and at the same time of such a perfect
and continuous level. From Hangchau Bay on the south, to
where the Great Wall comes down to the shores of the Gulf of
Pechili on the north, there is one unbroken level for nearly six
hundred miles in a straight line. The Imperial or Grand Canal
indicates how remarkably low and even the surface of this plain
must be. No other country can boast of such an artificial water
communication; but what other country has such natural facilities
for making one of such length, and, like this, at right angles with
its two greatest rivers?
While the Mississippi, the Ganges, and the Nile flow out by
many channels through their low deltas, to the ocean, the Yellow
River confines itself to one; but a part of its waters may find an
exit to the south through the Grand Canal.
That the region about the mouths of the Yangtse has also been
lately raised, though it may now be in a state of rest, is shown
by the shell bunk near Hangchau, described by Dr. Lamprey in
his paper on the geology of the Great Plain. The mouths of the
Yangtse themselves have also changed, and Tsungming Island
(see China Pilot). which now has a population of half a million
did not exist in the fourteenth century.
The Tungting and Poyang lakes, which act as reservoirs for
this river, receiving a part of its surplus waters during the floods,
and pouring it out again when they subside, are now slowly

64
RECENT ELEVATIONS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
filling up, mostly with the sediment brought into them by their
own streams from the south. It has been noticed that near each
of these lakes high mountains appear. This fact probably indicates
the origin of their basins, for where the strata have so greatly
folded that the crest of the wave is unusually high, the depression
of the wave must be correspondingly low.
The basin of the Tungting lake is merely the lowest part in
the low area of the province of Hunan. Its waters are very
shallow, and during the floods spread out over the low shore on
the south. When I reached Siangyin on my way down the
Siang, I found we had already reached the margin of the lake,
though according to the map it ought to have been dry land for
twenty-five miles farther.
The Poyang lake, in like manner, is merely the lowest part of
the low lands in the province of Kiang-si. The basins of the
lakes in the Great Plain may be places of a slight local subsidence,
but are more probably small areas not yet filled up with the
alluvial deposit of which the whole plain is composed, and which
has been brought down from the mountains, mostly by the Yellow
River and the Yangtse.
At Foochow and about the mouth of the Min, I believe we come
to an area that has for some time been slowly subsiding. While
all the other rivers in China flow out to the ocean through low
deltas, that they have formed themselves, the Min at once empties
itself into the sea. No delta is seen, yet it has one, as much as the
Peiho, the Yellow River, the Yangtse, the Tsientang by Hangchau,
and the Sikiang at Canton. Its delta consists of the shallow
and dangerous banks about its mouth, and if the deltas of the
other rivers were to subside as fast or faster than they are built
up by deposits of sediment on their surfaces, each would present
a phenomenon strictly analogous to that of the Min.
Noticing this indication of a recent change when I was visiting
Foochow, I made inquiries; and Mr. Dunn, of Hedge & Co., kindly
gave the following corroborative data. In digging a well in
their compound, "at a depth of from twenty-five to thirty feet
below the surface of the ground, there were found two boards each
about four feet long and one wide, nailed at the ends to a post.
At the same depth was found a quantity of broken crockery, of
the same kind as that now used by the lower classes of Chinese, and
a number of pieces of half-decayed wood. The earth in which
these things were found was a rather loose mixture of mud and

RECENT ELEVATIONS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
65
sand, bearing a close resemblance to what is now seen along the
river banks at low water.
"The impression upon my mind at the time was, that we had
struck the remains of a Chinese house, and the workmen were of
this opinion. The tide here has a rise of about twelve feet at
high springs, which would place the post about twelve feet below
the present low water level.
"According to the Chinese, what is now the navigable branch
of the river-i.e. between the city and the foreign settlement-
was, some 900 years ago, too shallow for junks and large boats.
The south branch was then in general use. The long bridge at
the head of the island, and the remains of dikes and flood gates
in that vicinity, add probability to this statement."
In the plain about Foochow, the river Min, as indicated above,
frequently changes its bed by washing away one bank and building
up the opposite one. At the foreign settlement lines of stakes
are placed in edge of the stream to catch this changing sand and
gain land on that side. At first it might appear that this post with
its boards had simply sank on one side of the river bed, and been
covered by sand and mud from the opposite bank, but the fact
that it appeared to be part of a house and that it was found with
fragments of earthenware shows it had probably not floated to
the place were it was found.
The simple fact that twenty-five feet of sand and mud had
accumulated over these human relics, speaks in itself of their high
antiquity.
In the south of China, along the east river, Dr. Legge informs
me he has seen a large bank of shells, which he believes will all
prove of living species.
Passing from the continent to Formosa, Mr. Swinhoe informs
me that Castel Zelandia, a fort built by the Dutch in 1634, on
what was then an island, is now found some distance back from
the sea, in the vicinity of the city of Taiwanfu; and also that at
Takao recent corals and recent shells are found at a height of
1111 feet above the level of the sea.
When I was in the north of China I enjoyed the privilege of
going in the U. S. Ship Wachusett over to the mouth of the Tatung
river on the western coast of Corea. This river was found to
debouch into a large bay, and all along its northern shore there
is a continuous and gradually rising plain to the feet of a range
of quite high mountains that rise up abruptly from the low land.

66
RECENT ELEVATIONS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
A second indication that that area has been elevated at a very
recent period is seen in the streams from the little valleys among
the mountains having as yet only worn out for themselves narrow
and shallow channels. The height of this elevation I estimated
at from three hundred to five hundred feet.
Passing over to Nipon we find on the western side of the bay
of Yedo, as we approach Yokohama, a plateau of some two
hundred feet high, its top as level as if made by art. A short
journey back to Kanasawa, across to the bay of Kamakura and
thence up the Tocaido to Kanagawa, showed me that this whole
area was also of a recent marine origin. The highest place we
passed over that had lately been subjected to the action of the sea,
I judged to be from five hundred to six hundred feet above the
ocean level; but terraces of twice that height will no doubt be
found among the mountains. All the hills in this region have
been gradually formed by the streams washing out small valleys.
These are constantly widening and occasionally two have nearly
met, and in such places only long sharp ridges are left of the
original plateau.
In the bay of Kamakura lies the island of Enosima, connected
to the mainland by a sand spit about half a mile long and from
two to five feet above high water level. This seems to have
appeared since the year 1691; for Kæmpfer, who passed near by
in that year on his way to Yedo, thus minutely describes an
island, which in all other respects agrees with Enosima, excepting
alone the name which he seems to have given it from that of the
bay and a neighbouring city:
"Off the shore-in the outer bay of Yedo-was seen the island
Kamokura, with high rugged shores, but of which the surface
was flat and wooded. It was not above four miles circumference,
and was used like some other islands as a place of confinement
for disgraced noblemen. There being no landing-place, the boats
that bring prisoners or provisions must be hauled up and let down
by a crane."
North of Nipon, on Yesso, terraces line the northern shores of
Tsugar Strait and Volcano Bay, and what has been described in
Corea, is repeated there, but on a far grander scale. The greatest
height to which I have been able to trace the recent action of the
sea is 1,180 feet above the level of the ocean, four miles north of
Hakodadi; and most or all of this considerable height, I believe,
has been caused by a general and not a local elevation.