259]
ARTICLE IX.
REPORT OF AN EXPLORATION OF THE NEW COURSE
OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
BY N. ELIAS, JR., F. R. G. 8.
I.
THE new Yellow River having become a subject of interest to the
North-China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, it was decided
in the early part of last year to send an exploring party to
examine and lay down its course; all information upon it received
up to that time having been of a vague and unsatisfactory nature.
In accordance with this decision I had the honour of being
requested to undertake the task, and my plan for carrying it out
being approved by the Society's Council, a small party was
formed for the purpose, consisting of Mr. H. G. Hollingworth,
two Chinese and myself.
The plan of the journey was to go to Chinkiang by steamer;
from there to proceed up the Grand Canal until we reached the
Yellow River; to follow the river down to the neighbourhood of
its mouth in the Gulf of Petcheli, and up again as far as the
point where it diverges from its old course, (which was reported
to be near Ifung in Honan) returning by the river and the
Grand Canal to Chinkiang. This plan having afterwards been
found practicable, it was carried out.
As most of the rivers in China are known to be in flood during
the summer months and consequently in an unfavourable state
for exploring operations, and as those in the northern districts
are generally frozen over by about the middle of December, the
autumn was considered the most advantageous season for the
undertaking, and accordingly the party started from Shanghai
on the 24th September.
The Grand Canal between Chinkiang and Tsin-kiang-pu, or
in other words between the Yang-tsze and the old bed of the
Yellow River, has been visited and described so frequently of late
years by foreigners, that it is almost unnecessary to touch upon
it here. Suffice it to say that it is everywhere in good repair, and
the adjacent country well irrigated and apparently in a thriving

260 REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
state both as regards cultivation, and to judge by the aspect of
the towns on and near its banks, as regards trade also.
After crossing the old Yellow River however, a part of the
canal somewhat less known, is reached; and the flourishing
condition of the country is no longer noticeable: on the contrary,
for a distance of about one hundred and fifty miles, though the
canal itself is in tolerably good working order, the country in its
vicinity has an arid, sterile appearance, and is but thinly populated.
There are few towns or villages, and what there are seem neither
populous nor busy, though they are not in ruins and bear but few
traces of rebel devastation, general poverty being the prevailling
feature. Although the country bordering on this portion of the
canal is a part of the district lately infested by the Nienfei, yet these
would appear to be less the cause of this general poverty than
one of the effects of it; the source of both evils being more probably
the want of irrigation which has existed since the Yellow River
has flowed to the north of the Shantung ranges. The canal
which at one time was so deep that in many places the level of
the water was above that of the adjacent country, is now
everywhere considerably below it, rendering irrigation even at a
short distance from its banks without mechanical appliances
almost an impossibility. Even the dry bed of the Soma lake is
scarcely cultivated on account of its elevation above the level of
the canal, though it is only separated from it in some parts by a
bank of a few yards in width. It is true that this lake appears
never to have been more than a shallow flood lagoon; nevertheless
it was some feet below the general level of the country and was
connected with the canal by means of watercourses and sluice
gates, and if this is difficult to irregate how much more so must
be the country above and beyond it?
This one hundred and fifty miles being passed over, the Wei-
shan (sometimes called Yü-shan) lake is reached at a small village
called Han-chuang-cha. This is the most southern of a chain of
lakes or rather lagoons which stretch from far to the south of Han-
chuang-cha (I believe from near Su-chau-foo on the old Yellow
River) to within a few miles of Tsi-ning-chow which constitute
the only important feeder of the Grand Canal to the southward.
In the summer they merge one into the other and form a
continuous sheet of water, though very shallow in parts. In winter,
when the water is low, these shallow parts are mere morasses
which divide the sheet into three or four separate lagoons.

REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER. 261
In former days the canal ran in some places by the side of these
lagoons, and in others through portions of them, but being
every where embanked on both sides it was only dependent upon
them for its supply of water, the canal itself forming an unob-
structed means of communication throughout the year. Of late.
years however, this section of the canal has been allowed to go
to ruin, and those portions only are used which run through the
morasses existing in the dry season, the lagoons themselves
forming elsewhere the only channel for navigation.
Near the northern limit of these lagoons stands the city of
Tsi-ning-chow, the first place of any importance on the canal
north of Tsin-kiang-pu; it is said to be a place of considerable
trade in ordinary times, but for the greater part of last year it
was made one of the principal camps or Li Futai's soldiery, and
is consequently not in a very flourishing condition at present.
It has an inner and an outer wall, the former apparently new,
and on the plain outside the city are numbers of stockades of
different dimensions dotted about in every direction.
Still proceeding northward at a distance from Tsi-ning-chow
of about twenty-five miles, the summit level of the canal is reached
near a small town called Nan-wang. It is here that the river
Wen falls into the canal, a portion of its waters flowing to the
south, and the rest to the north, precisely as described by Staunton
and other writers. The Wen is a small stream, scarcely twenty
yards broad at the confluence, the canal at the same point being
even less than that. Its course is from the N. E., and it is said
to take its rise amongst some hills which are plainly visible in
that direction. The currents of both are very inconsiderable;
certainly under one mile an hour.
About thirty miles beyond Nan-wang we come to the new
Yellow River, the canal for that distance being extremely narrow
and shallow; a mere ditch in fact running between embankments
large enough to confine a stream of infinitely greater volume.
The banks along nearly the whole of the Grand Canal between
the old and new beds of the Yellow River, excepting those portions
bordering on, or traversing the lagoons, are surmounted by
earthen walls crenellated after the fashion of city walls, behind
which are stockades at intervals of every few miles. All this
work has the appearance of being recently constructed, though
in many places it is already being broken up by the country
people to make room for cultivation, for they can ill afford to lose

262 REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
the strip of land immediately adjacent to and irrigated by the canal.
The villages also show an attempt at fortification, most of them
being surrounded by earthen or mud walls and meats, and indeed
many solitary farms have some species of defensive work round
them, and in most cases a small square brick tower within.
These towers are rarely met with to the south of the province of
Shantung. They are probably the "Water Castles" mentioned by
the historian of the Dutch Embassy.
A journey of nearly four hundred miles on the Grand Canal,
such as I have here attempted in a few words to describe, brought
our party on the 17th of October to the southern bank or rather
"limit" of the new Yellow River, near a small but busy town
called Nan-shan.
The river at this point has no defined bed, but flows over a
belt of country some ten to twelve miles in width, having merely
the appearance of a flat, level district in a state of inundation;
patches of ground, trees and even villages cropping up here and
there; the Grand Canal traversing it in a general N.W. direction
until it reaches the northernmost channel of the river at Pa-li-
miau, some fifteen miles from Nan-shan. Along this fifteen miles
the canal banks have been carried away in a number of places
by the Yellow River breaking across them. The gaps are sometimes
half a mile or more wide, and the current rushing through these
almost obliterates the course of the canal and renders the navigation.
upon it difficult. For dreariness and desolation no scene can
exceed that which the Yellow River here presents. Everything
natural and artificial is at the mercy of the muddy dun-coloured
waters, as they sweep on their course towards the sea; a flood not
likely to subside, and a doubly mischievous one from the fact of
its ever moving onwards with a swift current.
The Grand Canal is now dry from the Yellow River northwards
as far as Lin-tsin-chow, or in other words it ends here, that
portion N. of the summit level being merely a tributary of the
Yellow River. During the two months of the year however,
when the river is in flood and at its highest level, enough water
it is said flows into the dry bed of the canal, to form a navigable
stream as far as Lin-tsin, where it connects with the Wai-ho.
Thus for some ten months in the year there is no water commu-
nication towards the north beyond the Yellow River.
Near the southern limit of the river is a channel running in a
general N.N.E. direction, down which junks of a considerable

REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER. 263
size were seen to be sailing. Being informed however that a more
important one existed on the northern limit, it was decided to
cross at once and commence the exploration by this latter channel,
leaving the southern one until a better opportunity should offer.
Having crossed accordingly to Pa-li-miau, (a small village eight
li from Chang-tseu-chin), that place was made the first station,
and the necessary observations for fixing its geographical position
being obtained, the journey down the river was commenced from
there on the 20th October, a date, by the way, so far advanced
in the season as to render the greatest expedition necessary in
order to complete the journey before the closing of the river by ice.
After sailing down the northern channel for about nineteen
miles, a point is reached where it is joined by the southern one,
and consequently also by all the water which higher up floods
the country lying between the two. This point is called Yü-
shan, and the deep, narrow, clean-cut river bed that receives the
converging waters and leads them to the sea is that which fifteen
years ago formed the course of the Ta-tsing. Although still
narrow, some two hundred and fifty yards hereabouts, there are
everywhere many indications of the river having been less than
this before the advent of the Yellow Waters, and to judge by the
velocity of the current and other circumstances, it has most pro-
bably become deeper also during the same period.
Proceeding down stream, we pass through an open well culti-
vated country with every here and there low dome shaped hills,
sometimes detached, sometimes in groups, and backed up by a
range some four hundred to six hundred feet high running about
E. and W. which abuts on the river at Yü-shan but diverges
from it gradually, the course of the stream being in general a
N.E. one.
The small hills near the river are of a limestone
formation; the strata perfectly horizontal. The main range was
not visited, but the hills composing it being similar in shape are
probably also of the same formation. The stone is quarried but
to a very limited extent, and villages within a few hundred yards
of a quarry are built almost entirely of mud and chopped up reeds.
Fifty-eight miles from Yü-shan by the windings of the river
bring us now to the town of Tsi-ho-hien, a small newly walled
unbusinesslike looking place, which except from the circumstance
of its being the site of a serious obstruction in the river, would
hardly call for a word of notice. This obstruction consists of the
ruins of a stone bridge of some seven arches which at one time

264 REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
spanned the Ta-tsing, but which now would reach only about
three quarters of the distance across the river. There is a space
between one extremity of it and the left bank of about a hundred
yards which is used by boats as the only navigable channel.
The deepest portion of this hundred yards is close under the left
bank where at the time our party passed down (October 21st)
there was a depth of five feet, and no stones to be felt with the
lead, the outer portion of the hundred yards channel however,
would probably not be practicable even at three feet. The bridge.
evidently stands in deep water, six fathoms having been found
immediately above it and five a few hundred feet below it. The
right bank is the steep one, and the left, near which is the channel,
the shelving one, and naturally the shallow side of the reach. Its
being now nothing but a wreck is of course due to the additional
force and volume of water in the river for the last fifteen years,
which it has been unable to withstand.
It is evident that the ruins of this bridge might be removed,
and if no other obstruction existed, the river rendered navigable
as far as Yu-shan or within nineteen miles of the Grand Canal,
Unfortunately however, about three miles below this one, there
occurs another, though a less formidable obstruction, in the shape
of a shoal extending right across the river. In this case too the
deepest side of the reach is the right, and here on the 21st of
October only eleven feet was found, the bottom rising gradually
towards the left bank. On the 6th November, when this spot
was passed a second time, there was but five feet of water in mid-
stream, and allowing for the fall since the 21st October we should
have only about six or seven feet in the deep passage near the
right bank. The length of the shoal would be about two to three
hundred yards, and is the only place above the bar where less
than two fathoms was found in the deep channel. The next
point of interest we arrive at is Lo-kau, the port of Tsi-nan-foo,
a long straggling unwalled town on the right bank. Tsi-nan-foo
itself stands twelve li from the river and not far from the foot of
the main range of hills which hereabouts average probably from
eight hundred to one thousand and two hundred feet, and form
a rather picturesque background to the low thickly wooded plain
upon which the city is built, and which extends for many miles
on both sides of the river, giving to the country its characteristic
feature of flat lowland. Although this plain is essentially alluvial,
yet there rise from it in this neighbourhood several small wedge-

REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER. 265
shaped jagged hills or rather masses of rocks, in some cases heaped
up into fantastic shapes, and the fragments near the bases worn.
into rounded boulders by the action of water. Their height is
inconsiderable, but being perfectly isolated, sometimes several
miles of plain intervening between two of them or between one
and the main range, stamps them at a glance as the direct result
of igneous action..
The trade of Tsi-nan-foo is said to be of great importance, but
as a large proportion of it is carried on by means of cart roads,
a traveller on the river has but little opportunity of forming an
opinion of its magnitude. The number of boats seen at Lo-kau
was not large, and many of them appeared to be merely passing
through towards the Grand Canal. The only article of commerce
noticed in any quantity was salt which had come up the river
from Tie-mên-quan. Coal is met with as an article of trade both
here and at other places on the Yellow River, and is used for
cooking and other purposes to, I believe, a considerable extent; it
is of a rather bituminous nature, and is sold at the rate of 1,200
cash per picul in Tsi-nan-foo. The principal mines are said to
be at Tsau-fan, a place in the hills ninety li to the eastward,
where the coal is sold at a very much lower price than at the city.
We pass on now through a thickly wooded well cultivated
country for about one hundred and fifty miles; flat but dry, and
the soil very light and friable. The river's banks are steep and
indicate a rise in summer above the present (October) level of
from eight to fourteen feet according to the distance from the sea.
The re-entering angles are everywhere much eaten into by the
current, and large masses of soil are continually falling away.
In many places the grain of this year having been sown up to
within a short distance of the water, the portions of the fields
supporting the crop already sprouting have been undermined
and fallen into the stream below, thus showing that the under-
mining process is a very rapid one, probably more rapid this year
than the experience of the inhabitants who sowed the grain led
them to anticipate. The graves near the river, or rather the coffins
from them, have generally been removed to some distance back,
and often to the opposite shore; the exhuming and removal being
sometimes attended with great ceremony.
Near the course of the river are extensive vegetable gardens
growing carrots, onions, celery, turnips, Shantung cabbages,
brinjalls, capsicums, &c., &c., also regular plantations of fruit

266 REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
trees such as the pear, the date and others of less importance,
and in some places many square miles of land are occupied by
the plant, the root of which is the ground nut. The date and the
ground nut are two of the staple products of the district. At
the time our party passed down, the former had already been
gathered and dried, but it was harvesting time for the latter, and
the inhabitants of nearly all the villages were at work in the
fields, digging them up and sifting them. A third staple product
is cotton which though of an inferior description is rather largely
cultivated; and lastly we have the Shantung silk. The mulberry
near the Yellow River appears principally, if not entirely, to be
cultivated on the left bank, and for a distance of scarcely a
hundred miles; the trees are standards and have much the
appearance of those grown in England, being larger and older
looking than those in Kiangsu. They are planted in lines at
regular intervals, some of the plantations covering a large area
of ground. Some specimens of the silk were obtained at a village
in the heart of the district, also some eggs and cocoons. The best
silk is yellow and very long reeled, much resembles the Szechuan,
and I believe is often sold at the treaty ports as the product of
that province. It is produced by worms fed indoors on the mulberry
as in Kiangsu, the wild or outdoor fed worm not being educated
in this district, but amongst the hills to the southward in the
neigbourhoods of Mêng-yin and I-shui, as I am informed, where
the food is not the mulberry leaf but that of a species of oak.
The principal towns situated on the river and within this one
hundred and fifty miles of gardenlike country are Tsi-yang,
Tsi-tung, Pau-tai and Li-tsin, all "hiens." The first is of no
importance whatever; the second is a large busy and apparently
thriving place, and would probably rank next to the capital in
the matter of trade, though it certainly surpasses Lo-kau in every
attribute of a "port;" the third is small and apparently but a
poor place of trade and were it not the site of the principal custom
house on the river, it would be scarcely more noticeable than
Tsi-yang. The fourth town Li-tsin appears also to be of no
great importance as regards trade though there is a circumstance
connected with it which renders it remarkable, viz: the inroad
made by the river into the city, which is situated on the concave
bank of a sharp bend in the river. The swift current after eating
its way through the foreshore has at length reached the S. W. angle
of the city which it has carried away, together with some three hun-

REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER. 267
dred feet on each side of the angle, and up to the present time is still
at work cutting deeper into the breach, no efforts being made by
the natives to arrest its progress. Some of the ruins of the wall
and outlying buildings are now visible above water near the
middle of the river, but they would form no obstruction to navi-
gation, seven and eight fathoms having been found within a few
yards of them and towards the right bank.
A few miles below Li-tsin the country begins to change its
character; the well wooded and well cultivated district above
described giving place to boundless tracts of mud and marsh but
poorly cultivated and thinly inhabited, and the whole aspect one
of a bleak, swampy, treeless waste, scarcely fit for man to dwell
in. Nevertheless, on the river's banks are villages at short
intervals of one another down to within about twenty miles of
the sea, which causes the traveller on the water to form an
exaggerated opinion of the population of the district, though he
is easily undeceived by walking a short distance away from the
river when it becomes apparent that on the whole the population
is sparse.
In fact the only fairly habitable region is that belt of land
immediately skirting the river, and from which the water of the
annual flood drains itself off naturally, whilst on the tracts lying
farther back it is either absorbed by the soil or remains on the
surface in the shape of marshes and ponds, rendering habitation
without artificial drainage almost an impossibility, except on a
most limited scale..
At the limit of the habitable region, viz: about twenty miles.
above the sea by the windings of the river, stands the village of
Tie-mên-quan, the port of the Yellow River, and though only a
village composed, like others in the neighbourhood, of mud built
houses, it has every appearance of being a most important place.
It is not a centre of trade but consists chiefly of hongs to which
traders from the different towns in the neighbourhood come to
transact their business, and during the winter months, when the
river is closed by ice, it is said to be nearly deserted. Now
although it is called a port, Tië-mên-quan is only used as such
by small Pei-ho and Yellow River junks. Larger vessels such
as those from Ningpo, Shanghai, Swatow, &c., never come
within twenty or twenty-five miles of it, but remain at an
anchorage outside the bar called Tai-ping-wan, where they
discharge their cargoes into Yellow River boats, receiving their

268 REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
homeward freight by the same means. Thus for these junks Tië-
mên-quan can scarcely be considered a port. The direct trade
which exists between places high up the river and Tien-tsin,
Chefoo and other ports on the gulf is carried on by boats of a
lighter draft and of a different construction to the seagoing junks
of the southern provinces, but well suited of course to the rivers
and shallow seas on which they are employed. The voyage to
Ta-ku it is said occupies these boats about two days with a fair
wind; that to Chefoo about four days. In both cases the journey
is performed by coasting round the gulf, and as the water for
some distance from the shore is very shallow the sea never rolls
heavily, and it is always possible to anchor in the event of a foul
wind. The principal trade of Tie-mên-quan appears to be with
Tien-tsin, which is the nearest open port, though junks bound to
and from all parts of the gulf are to be found there. The exports
are generally salt, cotton, dates, &c.; the imports are paper, timber,
seaweed, beans, sugar, and a few English cotton goods and lead.
More than three parts of the whole trade however would seem to
be in salt, which is produced in the neighbourhood, and is
not only exported but sent up the river in large quantities.
The salt manufactories, if such they can be called, for they
consist generally of nothing but a few ponds and a mud hovel or
two, are dotted about here and there over the waste marshy
lands before alluded to, and though constituting on the whole a
considerable industry yet it appears to be one that supports but
a small proportion of the population, and brings but a limited
area of land under subjection.
The country having only recently been left dry by the sea the
soil still contains a certain quantity of salt, and by digging to a
depth of two or three feet the salt water is obtained from which
the brine is procured by evaporation. A manufactory or saltern
consists of a series of shallow ponds connected one with the other
by means of narrow ditches. The water is first collected in the
outside pond, and after being allowed to evaporate for a few days
is conducted through a ditch into a second, where it remains for
a few days more and evaporates still further; this process being
continued till in the fourth or fifth pond the salt is seen lying at
the bottom, in crystallised layers as white as, and very much of
the appearance of snow, when it is scooped out and stacked, and
covered with a thatchwork of reeds and mud. The water in the
first or outside pond is but slightly salt, but the saltness increases

REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER. 269
with the amount of evaporation, until arriving at the last or inner
pond, when it becomes so intense as hardly to admit of putting
the tongue to it. It also acquires a peculiar bitter taste as the
evaporation proceeds and becomes beautifully clear towards the
end of the process. In such a concentrated solution of salt as is
the fluid in the inner ponds of these salterns, it would be thought
hardly possible that any animal could exist, yet in the clear
water above the crystallised layers thousands of small transparent
shrimps may be seen darting and gliding rapidly about in every
direction and resting sometimes on the salt itself. I believe this
little animal to be the "Brine Shrimp" or "Cancer Salinus"
(Linn:) well known as the inhabitant of salt pans in England,
where the workmen believe that it is of use in clearing the brine
of impurities and cultivate it accordingly. Whether this belief
obtains on the coast of Shantung I was unable to ascertain, but
possibly it does, for certainly no attempt is made to expel the
little creatures from the ponds.
Tie-mên-quan, as before remarked, is on the lower limit of the
habitable and salt producing region; the country between it and
the sea is an immense uninhabitable mud flat, stretching away
on both sides of the river as far as the eye can reach. In
the summer and autumn the greater part is covered with reeds,
the more accessible of which are collected for fuel by a race of
miserable reed cutters, whilst the rest afford cover for vast numbers
of wild fowl, geese of two kinds, swans, pelicans, gulls, &c. In
winter when the reeds are gone it must be a desert of mud, and
when the river is in flood it is of course totally submerged.
About twelve miles below Tiö-mên-quan and half a mile from the
river's left bank is a little knoll about ten feet above the general
level formed of sea shells and debris, evidently at one time an
island, and upon which stands a small brick Joss-house, appa-1
rently new, and a few mud houses, the dwellings of reed cutters.
This place is called Lau-ye-miau, the only habitable spot for many
miles in every direction, and is probably the point reached by
the naval surveyors in 1860, and called by them Miau-shing-pu.
About four miles below this again we come to the bar, an object
that has excited a great deal of interest amongst residents in
China, it having been thought that the navigability of many
hundreds of miles of the Yellow River hinged upon the depth of
water to be found there. This view however as will be seen
immediately is not a correct one, worse obstructions existing

270 REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
higher up. At the date I visited it, October 27th, the least depth
found was about five feet near the middle of the river, the water
at the time, being according to the pilot who accompanied me,
about a foot or eighteen inches above low water mark. The
deepest channel is near the right bank though there is one almost
as deep near the left, the shallowest part being in the middle.
In the former I found about nine feet, and in the latter seven
feet which at low water (springs) would give little over seven
and five feet. Several junks drawing it was said about two and a
half feet of water, were seen sailing through the left channel.
The range of the tide, would appear on the average to be about
two feet, rather more at springs and rather less at neaps. Ordi-
nary neap floods, when the river is not overflowed, are said to be
perceptible for about twenty or thirty li above the bar, and
springs when favoured by the wind and a low state of the river
are sometimes noticeable as high up as Tie-mên-quan, some sixty
li above it. It is of course obvious that a sufficiently long stay
to make personal observations on the tides was impossible, and
my information on this subject is derived from a number of junk
skippers, pilots and others, questioned at different times and under
different circumstances, and who, strange as it may appear in
this country, agreed remarkably in their statements. It is
possible therefore that some approximation to the truth has been
arrived at.*
From all I can gather, then on the matter of the bar, I am
inclined to believe that the draught of water of the southern
junks is no obstacle to their ascending the river, but the almost
total absence of tides and the narrowness of the channel constitute
the principal difficulty; this more especially as the anchorage at
Tai-ping-wan is stated to be safe and convenient and the tran-
shipment there of cargo easily performed, whilst to work a large
junk up a narrow and nearly tideless river for twenty miles
would be a slow and risky process even though the depth of water
would admit of it.
In the case of steam-vessels, of course, these objections do not
apply; the depth of water being the only matter for consideration.
[I may here remark that the Asiatic Society required the river to be ex-
amined as far down only as the highest point reached by the naval survey in
1860, viz: to about Lau-ye-mian and I wish it therefore to be distinctly
understood that I did not go to the bar with any intention of surveying it,
and do not pretend for a moment to have done so. My only object in visiting
it was to carry my work down to a known fixed point, a few lines of soundings
being taken across the bar itself merely by way of attempting to verify
information previously received on the subject.]

REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER. 271
II.
After returning to Tië-mên-quan from the bar on the 28th of
October, our party had thus far examined only the section of the
river included between the Grand Canal and the sea, and there.
still remained that portion above the Grand Canal to be explored.
It was already late in the season and before us was a journey on
the Yellow River of some five hundred and fifty miles, upwards of
four hundred of which was to be performed against a strong current,
and in a craft seareely suitable to the navigation. Every effort
therefore was made to push on as rapidly as possible, and no
special halts were made for any purpose, except a short one for
longitude observations, until arriving at Pa-li-miau on the Grand
Canal (our first station) on the 10th November.
The river here as before noticed has no defined bed but presents
the appearance of a belt of country ten to twelve miles broad in
a state of flood, trees, ruined villages and patches of bare mud
being all that is left of a once fertile and prosperous district.
We have already seen that this is the aspect of the river for the
nineteen miles immediately below the Grand Canal, viz: as far
as Yü-shan and in proceeding up stream we find another seventy-
six miles (more or less according to the season) of a precisely
similar character, making in all a section of ninety-five miles.
scarcely worthy of the name of a river. Bed there is none, and
at some periods of the year scarcely a channel for boats of a
moderate size. It is true the natives speak of two channels, and
indeed use them, a northern one and a southern one, but both
were gone over during the month of November, and when I say
that our boat drawing only fifteen inches of water had often.
difficulty in finding a passage, little more need be said concerning
the practicability of this portion of the Yellow River. During
the highwater season, junks drawing, it is said, as much as three
or three and half feet can use the southern channel, but the
journey is slow and laborious in the extreme, and whole days are
frequently spent in kedging over shoals or through places where
the deposit having found a group of trees or some other object to
silt against has commenced the formation of a mudbank. That
there can be no great depth in this lagoon-like section of the
river is at once apparent when we consider that the same volume
of water which lower down is contained between the banks of
the narrow Ta-tsing is here spread out over a belt of country

272 REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
ranging from ten to fifteen miles in width. Had this belt at any
time been the site of a fairly deep river or even a deep dug canal,
the water of the Yellow River, although at first of too great a
volume to be contained in the bed of such river or canal, would
in time have so enlarged it by means of its scouring power as to
have rendered it of the necessary capacity. This indeed is what
took place in the case of the T'a-tsing, for, as we have already
seen, the bed of that stream has become both deeper and broader
since the advent of the Yellow River and now contains the whole
of the latter's waters in addition to its own, and only overflows
its banks at the height of the flood season. Above the Grand
Canal, however, there was no river bed of sufficient size to form
the basis of a course for the Yellow River, and hence the wide
spread shallow flood instead of a defined stream. There were, it
is true, two small canals falling into the Grand Canal within seven
miles of one another; the more southerly of these, the Sun-kiang,
was a very small one, only ninety li long it is said. A portion
of it was examined, and the banks in some places found to be
hardly distinguishable, but everywhere the waters of the Yellow
River stretched away like an overflow on both sides. To judge
by the ruins of bridges, houses and pailows, the region through
which it runs must formerly have been a prosperous one.
present a few mud and reed hovels are the only habitations, and a
few patches of wheat sown on the mudbanks left temporarily
dry by the yearly seccession of the waters the only signs of cul-
tivation. The second or northerly canal was of much more
importance than the Sun-kiang, and though shallow and narrow
was about four hundred li in length. It was, and still is, called
the Chau-wang-ho, and led, I am informed, from the old Yellow
River to the Grand Canal near Pa-li-miau, the point of junction
with the old Yellow River. I have never been able to ascertain
with any certainty but I believe it to have been a short distance
to the east of the place now called Lung-mêng-kou, or the breach
in the old river's bark through which the yellow waters leave
their former bed. It presents on the whole much the same ap-
pearance as the Sun-kiang; viz: an embanked watercourse
running through an inundated country. Its artificial banks were
at one time at some little height above the general level of the
country, but they have now in most places been either carried
away by the floods or worn through by the current of the Yellow
River. The villages and bridges are mostly in a state of ruin and
At

REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER. 273
the latter as they reach now little more than half way from bank
to bank are additional evidences of the power of the river to form
for itself a bed provided only that it finds a sufficiently durable
basis to work upon. Durability in this case however is wanting,
and even had the Chau-wang been many times its original breadth
it would still have been useless as a channel for the Yellow River,
the artificial embankments being naturally unfitted to withstand
the scouring process. As it is the canal is only traceable here.
and there for a few miles at a stretch, and as its course through the
belt of country at present occupied by the river was a winding one,
the portions now left are, as it is only natural to suppose, those
whose direction was identical or nearly so with that taken by the
Yellow River.
A distance of seventy six miles then, by the southern channel
from the Grand Canal, brings us to the point where we find the
yellow waters again flowing in a defined channel which is traceable
as far as the old bed, a distance of about fifty-two (stat.) miles.
At the low water season this channel contains the whole Yellow
River, but as the banks in the highest places are no more than
about ten feet above the November level it can contain, during
the flood season, only a portion of it, for though broad, (in some
places over a mile), it is everywhere exceedingly shallow and its
capacity much contracted by shoals and mudbanks. Now although
when the banks are at ten feet above the level of the water this
channel has the appearance of being the permanent bed of the
river, yet so far from thinking it permanent, I should hesitate
even to call it a "bed" at all, for the banks and indeed the
country for miles on each side, are composed of the river's own
deposit which seems rather to have silted to a certain elevation
above the river level than that the water had cut a bed for itself
in the soil to a corresponding extent-or in other words it
appears that the river here flows but little if at all below the
general level of the country, a fact which is at once demonstrated
by considering, for example, that at a point in the lagoon-like sec-
tion just below the lower end of the defined channel and where
there were no banks apparent, old trees were growing on about the
level of the water, and ruins of houses were standing on patches
of mud only just awash; whilst at a point twenty miles higher
up and within the defined channel old trees were also growing
on mud banks about flush with the waterline, though here the
river banks, were ten feet high and little more than the roofs of

274 REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
houses were to be seen above ground. It is almost superfluous to
say that the country thus formed of the river's deposit is a perfect
level, and that the soil is very light and mobile, and though the
fiood of each successive year by adding more deposit increases
the stability, yet a powerful stream like the Yellow River can I
imagine hardly be thought to have adopted a permanent course,
when the nature and height of its banks, the character of the
adjoining country, the extent of its annual overflows, &c., are
taken into consideration.
Perhaps the most striking proof that the banks and neighbour-
ing country are the creation of the river's deposit rather than that
the channel is a natural excavation, is that of the buried or silted
up houses, which besides is a circumstance of interest in other
respect; as, for instance, that it goes to show not only the power
of the Yellow River in changing the configuration of the country
with which its waters come in contact, but also the effects pro-
duced by it in the economical condition of those portions of the
population whose misfortune it is to inhabit regions coming
within its influence. Such a region is that through which this
section of the river flows, and where we find many entire villages
half buried in deposit, and deserted by the greater portion
of the inhabitants, those who remain being in a poor and miser-
able condition. The houses are frequently silted up nearly to the
eaves, and have generally been abandoned, though a few have been
dug out. As an example of this I may mention a joss house within
a few yards of a point in the river where the level of the deposit
was some ten feet above that of the water. To enter this joss
house it was necessary to crawl under the enves, and when inside
it was evident from alterations that had been made in the door-
way &c., that for some time the inhabitants had attempted to
accommodate themselves to the constantly diminishing height of
the building, though since the last year or two apparently they
had been compelled to abandon it. The deposit on the inside.
was at precisely the same level as that on the outside, and was
said by the villagers in the neighbourhood to be twelve Chinese
feet in depth (say thirteen feet English) and to have been the
work of fifteen years, or fifteen successive floods of the Yellow
River. The heads of some of the larger josses still remained
visible above the mud level, but judging by them the size of the
rest of the figure to which they belonged, I should say that the
statement of the villagers was rather exaggerated, and that nine

REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER. 275
or ten feet (English) depth of deposit would be nearer the mark;
and in this opinion I am borne out by the proportions of the
building, the height of the river and other circumstances. The
houses, it may be remarked, in western Shantung and southern
Chilli, are built of brick and are more solid, and of altogether
superior construction to those in Kiangnan and eastern Shantung.
Many have two stories, and in every small village are to be found
one or more of those square, castellated little towers sometimes
called "watercastles."
So little used is the Yellow River above the Grand Canal, and
the navigation on it so little understood, that the people living
near its banks and even the boatmen themselves seldom know the
distance from one place to another by the river, but always speak
of distances by the road, and even then rarely agree, showing
of what little importance the river is regarded as a means of
communication, even though no roads worthy of the name exist
in its neighbourhood-nothing in fact but mere tracks over the
mud. In the same way information regarding the direction and
distances of towns lying back from the river can never be obtained
with any certainty, and though the boundary line between
Shantung and Chihli was known approximately, that between
Chihli and Honan was a subject of the most vague statements
by the people living near the spot. The absence of towns along
the course of the river may to some extent account for this kind
of ignorance-the only one on the river is the old or former Fan
(hien) of which there is nothing left now but a small village and
a ruined pagoda, the present town of Fan being it is said some
thirty li to the northwards. Tung-ming-hien is near the river
but not visible from it-the nearest point is one from which the
town is said to be distant 12 li in a S. E. direction. I believe it
to be a place of no importance, and there is certainly no trade
carried on there by means of the Yellow River. A somewhat
tedious journey of a fortnight from the Grand Canal brought our
party on the 24th of November to Lang-mên-kau, the diverging
point of the old and new courses of the Yellow River and the
upper limit of the exploration. The breach in the embankment of
the old river is about a mile in width, and the present channel
runs, as it were, diagonally through it. The two banks at this
point are about three miles apart. Near the northern one there is
a depression about a quarter of a mile broad full of small sandhills,
the only part of the old bed having any appearance of a dried up

276 REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
watercourse. This was the main or low water channel of the old
river, the artificial, outer embankments marking only the limit
attained during the annual floods. The course of this low-water
channel, as indicated by the present river to the west, and the
line of sand hills to the east of the breach, was not always parallel
to the flood banks, but made a winding, tortuous line between them,
apparently like a natural river, and the point where the breach
now is was one where the current impinged on the north bank.
Those parts of the bed of the old river lying between the low-water
channel and either bank are at a considerable elevation above the
general level of the neighbouring country, and this is particularly
apparent at the breach where the bank is seen in section, the outer
slope being some forty feet in vertical height whilst the inner would
be about twenty or twenty-five feet-showing an elevation of the
bed of fifteen or twenty feet near the bank; though as it slopes
somewhat towards the low water channel the average for the
whole breadth (exclusive of that channel) would probably not be
more than about fifteen feet. Thus by a mere cursory inspection
of the neighbourhood of the breach, the cause of the Yellow
River's change of course is at once apparent. The river had so
diminished the capacity of its bed (which by the way was always
an artificial one), by depositing the alluvium with which its
waters were charged, that the main pressure during the flood
senson had come to bear on the upper or weaker part of the
embankments, and no measures having been taken to strengthen
these or deepen the channel, the great catastrophe happened
which with its consequences had been predicted by the Abbé
Huc some years before, a catastrophe which has caused not only
the devastation by flood of that line of country through which
the river now flows but has also impoverished to such an extent
the districts through which it formerly flowed, and which were
dependent upon it for irrigation, as to render them almost unin-
habitable and to throw a great portion of the population out of
employment.
*Car le lit actuel du fleuve Jaune, dans les provinces du Honan et du
Kiang-sou, sur plus de deux cents lieux de long, est plus elevé que la presque
totalité de l'immense plaine qui forme sa vallée. Ce lit continuant toujours
à s'exhausser par l'énorme quantité de vase que le fleuve charrie, on peut
prévoir pour une époque peu reculée une catastrophe epouvantable, et qui
portera la mort et le ravage dans les contrées qui avoisinent ce terrible fleuve.
- Voyage dans la Tartarie, &c. 1, p. 223.

REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER. 277
Lung-mên-kau is a small village built along the north bank
of the old river east of the breach. About ninety li W.S.W. of
it stands Kai-fung-foo (or Pien-liang-chirg as it is more generally
called) the capital of Honan; and twenty-five or thirty li to the
S.E. is Lan-i (or Lan-yang) hien, a place that has gone entirely
to ruin during the last few years. It consists now of nothing but
a few mud and reed houses and is said to have been abandoned
by the mandarins. A road leads down the old bed and through
Lan-i towards the south, and boats bringing cargoes down the
river sometimes discharge them at Lung-mén-kau for conveyance
by waggon to towns in that direction. Some of these boats bring
small quantities of good anthracitic coal from the neighbourhood
of Hoai-king-foo; others iron ware, such as cast pots and pans,
wire, &c., from places not far distant; all of which are sent south
or east by road, Lung-mên-kau having no trade whatever of its
own.
After leaving Lung-mên-kau, the river was followed down as
far as the Grand Canal, which was reached on the 30th
November. It had been intended as before remarked to have
examined the channel, which leads from Nan-shan (on the Grand
Canal) to Yü-shan, and runs near the southern "limit" of the
river; but the fall of water had been so great since the first view
of this channel was obtained on the 17th October that it had
become impracticable for all but the smallest boats, and seeing
that the ice had already begun to form on the shallow waters of
the river, it was thought advisable rather to leave this channel
unexamined than incur the risk of being frozen in, and having to
transport the timekeepers overland. However as its length ean
be scarcely twenty miles, and as it is impracticable for large
boats except during the summer, but little could have been gained.
by visiting it, more especially as the northern parallel channel
had already been thoroughly examined. At Nan-shan therefore
on the 1st December the exploration came to an end and the
party returning by way of the Grand Canal arrived at Chinkiang
on the 15th of December.
To sum up shortly the capabilities of the Yellow River for
navigation, it would seem that a vessel of sufficiently light draft
to cross the bar, would have no difficulty in ascending the river
during all but the lowest point of the season as far as Tsi-ho a
distance approximately of two hundred and ten statute miles from
the bar; and were the ruins of the bridge at that place removed

278 REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
a further distance of fifty-eight miles would be rendered navigable,
making in all two hundred and sixty-six statute miles from the bar
to Yu-shan. To such craft the shoal three miles below Tsi-ho would
scarcely be an obstacle, though with the river at its lowest and
the vessel londed to cross the bar at high water it would probably
prove impassable. In many places the bends in the river's course
are very sharp with spits sometimes projecting from the salient
angle, but this would certainly be no obstacle to vessels under
two hundred feet in length, and considering the navigation on the
Pei-ho, where the curves are still sharper and the river narrower,
even a greater length might be found practicable.
All beyond Yü-shan, as far as Lung-mên-kau, must be regarded
as totally unnavigable, except perhaps the nineteen miles between
Yü-shan and the Grand Canal which could be used during the
high water season. The difference in the river's level between
the highest and lowest points in the year is something very con-
siderable; but until the fluctuations shall have been observed
throughout a whole year it will be impossible to obtain accurate
information on this subject. The yearly rise or fall is sometimes
greater than at others, but taking the November level of last
year as a base, and judging of the former by the indications of
the banks and other signs, and of the latter from native informa-
tions, I should think that a yearly range of twenty to twenty-two
feet would not be far from the mark. Both rise and fall take
place very irregularly, and it is said that a fall of three feet in
one day is a common occurrence especially towards the approach
of winter.
The current during the flood season is of course far stronger
than when the water is low, but on this subject also little can
be said in the absence or a whole year's observations. On the
26th October at Tië-mên-quan it ran from two and a half to three
knots an hour, and at Lo-kau on the 5th November rather under
four, and near Yü-shan on the 9th about the same, whilst on the
lagoon-like section above the canal it was generally under two.
Such solitary instances as these however form but a poor guide.
for making a general estimate, and though I believe that at the
lowest point of the season it is not much less than in November,
yet during the height of the floods it must be nearly double.
As in the first paragraphs of this paper mention was made of
a southern outlet of the Yellow River existing at the present day,

88
REPORT OF THE NEW COURSE OF THE YELLOW RIVER. 279
it must be explained here that this was caused directly by a rupture.
Though not a subject coming strictly within the province of
this report, it may not be entirely out of place to notice here the
rupture of the south bank of the old river near Yang-kiau in
Honan, about one hundred and fifty li above Kai-fung-foo, which
occurred in the 6th chinese month. Not having visited the spot
my information on this subject is of course derived from the
natives, who report that the bank is carried away for about three
li and that the water of the Yellow River flowing through the
breach floods a large tract of country outside the bank, and then
finds its way into a small river called the Sha, a tributary of the
Whai, which latter flows into the Hung-tsze lake. This breach is
called Sin-lung-mên-kau, the one lower down being sometimes
known as Lau-lung-mên-kau. It is said that the authorities are
trying to repair it in time for next summer's flood, about a third
of the work being already finished (in November), and the common
belief is that when the upper one has been closed the lower one
will be taken in hand and the river made to flow along its old
course to the sea. This however would appear to be impossible
as long as the old bed remains at its present level and to deepen
it or to raise the embankments would be equally impossible in the
present disorganised and impoverished state of the country. On
the 22nd November, while proceeding up the Yellow River, I had
a corroboration of the statements of the natives regarding a com-
munication with the southern waters by meeting five or six
Hung-tsze boats whose people said they had come from Ying-chow
(or Hing-chow) in Kiangnan by way of the Sha. These boats.
were said to draw about one feet and a half of water, but as they were
dropping down with the current no information could be obtained
concerning the Sha or the communication between the Yellow
River and the Hung-tsze, a matter of great interest, as should a
permanent communication be found to exist the Yellow River
will have to be regarded as in part nothing more than a tributary
of the Yang-tsze. The amount of water parted with through the
new breach I believe to be very inconsiderable.