[280]
ARTICLE X.
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN
DURING THE YEAR 1868.
THE year opened with the interesting intelligence that Great
Britain had resolved on an Abyssinian expedition, and that on
November 27th, 1867, two millions sterling had been voted for
that purpose. The resolve was well received throughout the
empire. The first mail of the year also brought news of the
execution of the Fenian murderers at Manchester on November
24th. The precautionary measures taken prevented any out-
break among the large Irish population of Manchester.
A meeting of land renters in Shanghai on 10th January fixed
the assessment for taxing purposes to the end of the municipal
year. Indications of the increased difficulties of municipal gov-
ernment in the cosmopolitan settlement of Shanghai were not.
wanting in this meeting. On the 5th January a fire destroyed
several foreign houses on the French Concession close to the parish
church. On the 6th the Nien fei rebels threatened the banks of the
Yangtsze, north of Chinkiang, and towards the end of the month
actually swept through the important town of Hsien-wen-miao,
taking from it much booty. A letter from the Tsung-le yamen
pointed out the status of the Chinese members of the mission
about to start to Europe.
On the 4th the Costa Rica brought intelligence of the successful
opening of Hiogo and Osaka to foreign trade. Mr. Burlingame.
visited Tseng-kuo-fan late in the month to explain the mission to
Europe. From Japan the startling and melancholy news reached
us that the American Admiral Bell and Lieut. Reid had been
drowned on the bar at Osaka on the 11th. Several important
bankrupt cases came before the Supreme Court this month, and the
agitation concerning the appropriation of the Recreation Fund
will long live in the memory of Shanghai.
Mr. McLeavy Brown arrived in February to join the Chinese
embassy, and on the 16th information reached us that Mr. T. T.
Cooper had reached Shaze in Szechnen, and that Mr. Myburgh,
H. B. M.'s Consul at Hiogo, was dead. General Napier landed in
Abyssinia on the 4th. On the 14th the Hongkong and Shanghai

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
281
Bank declared a dividend of 12 per cent. and a large reserve, and
the annual meeting of the Shanghai Steam Navigation Co. took
place on the 21st. A most serious fire occurred in Foochow,
destroying property to the value of 200,000 taels. At Osaka
some hard fighting proved the hopelessness of the Taicoon's cause,
his troops were defeated and his palaces burned or plundered.
Foreigners had to retreat from Osaka in no very pleasant manner.
Early in March the rebels again threatened Tien-tsin and
devastated the country close to the capital. The Taotai of
Shanghai notified that government institutions had been
established in Shanghai for the gratuitous vaccination of native
children. In Japan a boat's crew from a French man-of-war
were brutally murdered by some soldiers of the Prince of Fizen.
Ample vengeance was however exacted. Land sales effected in
Shanghai during the month show an astonishing decrease in
the value of estates.
Telegraphic news in April announced the appointment of
Ross Browne as Minister to China. On the 11th it was agreed at
a meeting of the China Fire Insurance Co. to wind the affair up,
a most unwise resolution as subsequent events have proved.
The Mixed Court in the Maloo was opened on the 9th instant.
News per Cadiz on the 15th announced a murderous attack on
Sir Harry Parkes while on a visit to his Imperial Majesty the
Mikado of Japan. Sir Harry's life was probably saved by a
Japanese noble who was riding by his side. Several men of the
escort were wounded, none however, fatally.
In May rebellion was still rampant near Tien-tsin, and Taku
was abandoned. Great fears were entertained in Tien-tsin that
the place would be taken. Mr. T. T. Cooper had reached the
western boundary of Szechuen in safety. On the 4th instant a
meeting of land renters was held at H. B. M.'s Consulate, when
a resolution was passed declaring that non-rate paying German
firms should be excluded from the benefit of municipal institutions.
A meeting of the Shanghai Club to consult with regard to their
indebtedness to the Recreation Fund ended in nothing. On the
24th May the Ellora brought the good news that the Abyssinian.
expedition had ended most successfully and gloriously, that
Theodore had been slain, Magdala taken, and all the captives
released. The would be assassin of the Duke of Edinburgh
in Australia had been sentenced to death. On the 23rd the fine.
P. &. O. steamer Benares stranded on Fisherman's group and soon

282
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
became a total wreck. During May the agitation concerning
Chefoo gold mines commenced.
In June Shanghai was amused and edified by the celebrated
trials for libel at the suit of Mr. Barnard. The two defendants
were fined small sums. The celebrated Vice-roy Tseng-kuo-fan
visited Shanghai this month. The usual complimentary Consular
visits were made to, and returned by him. At Kiukiang a curious
dispute arose between the Taotai and Commissioner of Customs.
The Taotai seems to have got the best of it, as the Commissioner
has been sent elsewhere. Lord Brougham's death was announced.
The French exploring expedition which had started from Saigon,
arrived at Hankow after two years absence, during which the
chief died. The rebels were gradually retreating from near
Peking. A new set of rules regarding the settlement of questions
connected with Customs' confiscations arrived from Peking, as
also a long letter from H. B. M.'s Minister regarding security chops.
Great excitement was caused by the action of certain Americans
who chartered the steamer China to go to the Corea for the
apparent purpose of unearthing a dead King and taking possession
of the treasure with which he was supposed to be buried.
On the 8th July a Court was held at the United States Consulate.
to try F. B. Jenkins for his share in the expedition to the Corea,
alleged to have been for the purpose of exhuming the body of one
of the Kings. The Court acquitted the accused. A Naval Court
was held about the same time at the British Consulate on the
Commanding and other officers of the Peninsular and Oriental
steamer Benares. The Commanding officer was acquitted, but
two of the others had their Certificates suspended for a period of
six months. On the 8th a farewell dinner was given to Mr. Consul
Winchester on his return to Europe after a service of twenty-five
years in China and Japan. Messrs. Russell & Co.'s proposal to
erect a jetty opposite to their premises in the British settlement
led to a prolonged discussion as to the claims of private owners to
the foreshore of the river opposite that settlement. Messrs. Russell
& Co. finally withdrew the proposal. Mr. Fitzroy, for many years
Commissioner of Customs at Shanghai, died at Nagasaki on the
8th. On the 17th a severe gale passed over the settlement causing
extensive floods and resulting in the loss of many native junks.
On the 23rd Mr. W. Medhurst assumed charge of the British
Consulate during the absence of Mr. Winchester.

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
283
In Hongkong much dissatisfaction was expressed at the action
of the Chinese Government in establishing within the limits of the
Colony certain stations for levying taxes on their subjects, and
also for placing Custom's barriers at the several entrances to the
harbour for the purpose of obtaining contributions from passing
vessels.
August opened with the news that the Taotai at Chefoo had
formally forbidden the working of gold mines in Shantung pro-
vince, declaring such to be in contravention of the laws of China.
On the 3rd a very able letter concerning Consular jurisdiction
over persons on board ships in Chinese waters was issued by Mr.
Seward, United States Consul General at Shanghai. A Company
to be called the North-China Steam Navigation Co. for the purpose
of continuing Messrs. Trautmann & Co.'s line of steamers between
Shanghai and the northern ports was instituted. News from the
north declared that the rebels had again entered Shantung.
About the middle of the month news was received at Shanghai
that a gross outrage had been committed by a Chinese mob on
the persons and property of certain Missionaries who had taken
up their residence at Yangchowfoo in this province, with the inten-
tion of establishing a permanent Mission. Mr. Medhurst pro-
ceeded at once to the spot to investigate the facts of the case.
The Municipal Council having revised objections to the expense
of keeping prisoners sentenced to hard labour by the Mixed
Court, the Taotai took the opportunity of declaring this punish-
ment to be unsupported by Chinese precedent and in consequence
abolished it.
An intercepted despatch from Tseng-kuo-fan Viceroy of the
Liang Kiang to the central government respecting treaty revision
was published about this time. While in some respects more
favourably disposed towards foreign improvements than might
have been expected from its author, there was throughout a marked
indisposition to accept the altered position of affairs now becoming
evident even to Chinese statesmen.
Mr. Medhurst having proceeded to Chinkiang and Yangchow
found that a spirit of hostility to foreigners had been aroused in
these cities, which was fostered if not originally instigated by the
ruling classes. Under these circumstances he proceeded to
Nanking to obtain a personal interview with the Viceroy and
urge on him a settlement of the points at issue, which mainly
consisted of the right of residence undisturbed in the interior, and

284
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
also compensation for injuries received. While negotiations were
proceeding the ill-timed withdrawal of H.M.S. Rinaldo, Com-
mander Bush, which had accompanied him so far, broke off these
negotiations before their conclusion, and led to the whole matter
being referred to Peking for adjustment.
News was received of the arrival of Mr. T. T. Cooper at Bathang
in Thibet on his way to the Indian frontier. The opposition of
the Thibetan authorities combined with want of funds unfortunately
compelled his return after he had assayed to gain the Birman
frontier through the territories ruled over by the Panthay King
of Yunnan. While trying to make arrangements with an officer
of the latter he was betrayed to the Chinese, by whom he was
kept in prison for some time and only let go on his promise to
return at once to Hankow.
The erection of telegraph posts in the British settlement by a
private firm was made a subject of discussion with reference to
the recurring question of public and private rights in the settle-
ments.
It was announced that the British government had given a
plot of land near the present Consular Jail to this Society on
condition that a building should be erected thereon for the purposes
of a library and museum.
Early in November a British squadron consisting of the Rodney
Capt. Heneage, the Rinaldo acting Commander Furguharson, and
H.M. gunboat Slaney, accompanied by Mr. Medhurst went up to
Nanking for the purpose of effecting a settlement of the Yangchow
difficulties hitherto refused by the provincial government. A threat
to seize a new Chinese government gunboat, unless some satis-
factory arrangement could be arrived at, led to Tseng-kuo-fan
the Viceroy acceding to all Mr. Medhurst's demands. A detach-
ment of Seamen and Mariners afterwards proceeded to Yangchow
where they remained for some four weeks having taken up quarters
in the Hsing-chiao temple. The expedition was afterwards joined
by the Icarus, Commander Lord C. Scott. During the stay of
the forces at Yangchow the utmost order was preserved in the
city.
News arrived on the 24th of the death of Mr. Thomas Taylor
Meadows, H.B.M. Consul at Newchwang. Mr. Meadows was
a corresponding member of this Society, and was well known not
only in China but in Europe for his knowledge of the Chinese
people, government and language.

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA AND JAPAN.
285
During the year few events of importance occurred. The partial
success of the Burlinghame Mission in the United States seemed
to raise the hopes of the old obstructive party, and led to a fixed
resolution on their part to oppose all changes however needed.
Petitions to open mines of coal or metal were persistently refused,
and such simple matters as the improvement of the roads leading
to the coal mines of Pechili were forbidden on the most trivial
grounds. The negotiations for the revision of the Treaties of
Tientsin were carried on but slowly, Sir Rutherford Alcock finding
it a difficult matter to overcome the prejudices of the authorities
so far as to obtain any real concession.