[78]
ARTICLE VI.
THE TABLET OF YÜ.
BY W. H. MEDIIURST, Esq.,
H. B. M's Consul at Hankow.
Most persons who have given any attention to the subject of the
ancient history of China must be familiar with the name of "Yü
the Great," the founder of the Hia dynasty, (B.C. 2205,) and
must have heard of the curious inscription in the "tadpole"
character, said to have been traced by him, or in his time, upon
a peak of the Hêng mountain in the province of Hunan, and
purporting to be a record (presuming certain interpreters of
its eccentric character to be worthy of credit) of the labour
which Yü expended in rescuing the country from the waste and
submerged condition in which tradition states it then stood..
Chinese archaeologists, literati, and critics, ancient and modern,
have looked into and discussed the question of the authenticity
of this inscription, commonly known as Shenyu pai, or the Tablet
of the sainted Yü, with a zenl and research which do them infinite
credit, and foreign savans and sinologues have taken up the
controversy as energetically in their turn; but to this day it
remains a matter of doubt as to how far such an inscription ever
had any existence, and at the same time a mystery as to what
common origin, if any, may be ascribed the several reputed fac-
similes, copies, or tracings, of the inscription which are undoubtedly
to be found in various parts of the empire.
One of these copies or reproductions, from which the impression
now presented to the Society (see plate A) was printed off under
my directions, is engraven upon a stone tablet, which was not long
ago erected by Kwan Wên, late Viceroy of Hukuang, upon the
prominent eminence of Wachang overlooking the Yangtsze, called
the Huanghoh low, or pavilion of the Yellow Stork, and it may be
interesting to institute a comparison between this copy and others
accessible to foreigners, in order to ascertain how far the alleged
copies at any rate agree one with the other, and therefrom to
judge of the value of the claims which they one and all set up to
a common origin. I have thus far only been able to get at one

THE TABLET OF YÜ.
79
other reputed copy-namely, that in the possession of the Revd.
Mr. Chalmers, of Canton, a facsimile of which, reduced in size by
photographic miniature, is published in Dr. Legge's Chinese
Classics, vol. III, part I, pag. 73, where likewise the curious reader
may find an exhaustive dissertation on the history and pretensions.
of this remarkable monument. It only needs a glance at the two
copies, mine and that published in Dr. Legge's work, to satisfy
the most sceptical that they are reproductions of some common
original, whatever or wherever that may be, although a close
inspection reveals dissimilarities more or less startling in individual
characters, as for instance in Nos. 6, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 22,
24, 25, 27, 28, 30, 31, 35, 36, 39, 42, 44, 48, 51, 52, 53, 57, 58,
60, 61, 65, 66, 67, 69, 73, 74 and 75; that is in no less than 34
characters out of the whole 77. In judging of these discrepancies
however, every allowance must be made for the deviations which
would very naturally arise in the process of manual reproduction
of such eccentric characters by various artists from copy to copy
in the course of several centuries.
The notice by Tang Siunfarg, attached to my copy of the
inscription (a translation of which I venture to furnish for the
benefit of the uninitiated), although containing the usual admixture
of sense and nonsense in which Chinese writers are so prone to
indulge, presents a very interesting criticism upon the history and
nature of the original inscription and the claims to credibility
which the usually recognised interpretation of it is entitled to.
Having been penned by an individual of both rank and education,
who is a native of the locality in which the original inscription
is said to be found, the notice is further valuable as throwing
light upon the question of its actual existence on which Dr. Legge
appears inclined to cast such grave doubts. On this point I
may observe that a Chinese official of my acquaintance here informs
me that portions of the rock on which the ancient inscription is
said to have been placed are still to be seen, and that a tablet with
a reproduction of the inscription reduced in size, but faithful and
entire, is, as Tang Siünfang states in his notice, to be found at
this moment at the foot of the Hêng mountain. My friend has
a brother resident in that vicinity, and he promises to use his
influence in procuring me a rubbing of the reproduction at an
early date.*
This pledge was soon after fulfilled. A facsimile of the rubbing is
hewn in plate B. It will be observed that this rubbing bears more marks

80
THE TABLET OF YÜ.
I have not thought it necessary to give a translation of the
inscription itself as interpreted by Yang Shin and others, that
duty having been already performed with such success by several
foreign sinologues, as may be seen in reference to Dr. Legge's
work already quoted, Dr. Williams's Middle Kingdom, and other
works. The imprint I now present consists of, first, the copy of
the inscription itself; second, the interpretation of it by Yang
Shin; third, a poetic effusion in twelve lines by Kwan Wên, late
Viceroy of these provinces, apostrophising the tablet; and fourth,
the critical notice by T'ang Siünfang. Translations by myself
of the last two will be found below. I may add for the information
of persons unacquainted with Chinese peculiarities that imprints
like the present one are taken with great facility by laying a sheet
of thin porous paper upon the face of the stone which bears the
inscription, and then rubbing it over with a bunch of tow filled
with damp coloring matter. If carefully done the whole body of
the paper takes the color, with the exception of those portions
which cover hollows or depressions in the stone, and the conse-
quence is that the imprint then comes out an exact facsimile of
the original from which it is taken.
HANKOW, 29th February, 1868.1
(TRANSLATION.)
W. H. MEDHURST.
Lines by Kwan Wên of Liaou Tung.
Tablet of Yü, celestial gem, by earth preserved,
Now darkly hid, now manifest, ablaze with light.
Chiselled by sprites, by gods set up, but sealed to man,
Thy purple stone bears letters bright, a heaven-born theme.
Like pheasant, or like phoenix, flitting to and fro,
Their track a mystery; so who can trace thy path?
of authenticity than that shewn in plate A. In the latter, for appearance,
sake no doubt, all the characters have been more or less touched up, and
those which happened to lie in the line of crack in the stone have been
altogether supplied. It must therefore be pronounced comparatively worthless
for the purposes of comparison or identification.
W. H. M.

THE TABLET OF YÜ.
Poised in mid air 'neath overhanging precipice,
The mountain elves have ever had thee in their care;
Penned in tortuous style, thy lines who can decipher?
Gemmeous casket, tablet of gold, by sage employed,
Thou keepest guard o'er hill of Hêng, and flood of Seang-
Thy influence benign, like tripods nine of Yu,
Sheds forth a light of noonday sun and silver moon.
Thy style miraculous, with book of Lo can vie,
From whence Fu-Hi of old his mystic model took.
Thy characters in number three score ten and seven
Tell how the waters, erst a raging, roaring flood,
Were led by art divine in useful streams to flow.
(TRANSLATION.)
Brief notice (of annexed copy of inscription) respectfully
penned by Tung Sünfang (late treasurer
of the province of Hu-pih).
81
The first notice on record of the "Tablet of Yü" on the Hêng
mountain is to be found in the history of Siang chung (the
modern Hu-nan), which states that researches in the work called
Yü-tsze-t'ung prove it to have reference to the art of conducting
water communication. The histories of Wu (the modern Kiang-
su) and of Yüeh (the modern Chekiang) say the same.
In none
of these compilations however is any mention made of the existence
of an inscribed tablet. T'sui Yung, who flourished in the time
of the Tang dynasty (A.D. 624-908) is the earliest writer who
speaks of the characters being set in shell on a wooden frame;
and Liu Yüseih and Han Yü (also two statesmen of Tang) were
the first to state that the inscription had been recorded and
engraved. It follows that the people of the time of T'ang must
have seen this rock, and the inscription which it bore.
The art of taking facsimile impressions was first introduced
in the reign of Kia Ting of the Sung dynasty (A.D. 1208-1224),
and the copy of the inscription obtained by this process, and
subsequently engraven on stone in the monastery of K'wei mên,
was of this period. The interpretation of the characters which
formed the original inscription was first declared by Yang Shin
and Shin Yi of the Ming dynasty (A.D. 1368-1644), and from

82
THE TABLET OF YÜ.
this source, sprung the numerous versions which have since been
handed down. These two writers appear to have determined the
identity of the seventy-seven hieroglyphics in the original inscrip-
tion from their fancied resemblance to known characters, and
thus managed in most cases to frame intelligible sentences out of
them. But they must have been ignorant of the six rules of
etymology, and they cannot have known any thing of the intona-
tion in vogue in ancient days. I therefore consider their inter-
pretation to be only worthy of ridicule.
The sainted Yi flourished several hundred years subsequently
to the days of Ts'ang Keih (the inventor of Chinese writing) and
although at that early period characters must have been eccentric
and quaint in appearance, yet they no doubt possessed specific
combinations and forms. No one at any rate ever heard of
interpretations being needed of the characters in which the canons
of Yaou and Shun were written, and it may be presumed therefore.
that the characters in use in those ages nearly resembled the "bell
and tripod" (commonly known as the "seal") characters, or perhaps
those to be found in the Shwo-wên-kiai-tsze (a dictionary of
definitions and explanations of characters, A.D.121.) It is much
to be regretted that Yang and Shin put forth the random inter-
pretation of the inscription which is attributed to them, and
thereby gave occasion for the contemptuous suspicions which
have been cast upon the authenticity of the inscription itself by
subsequent writers.
Recent investigations go to prove that the true rock on the
Yun Meih peak (the site of the inscription) hangs half way up a
high overhanging precipice, which seems to be on the very verge
of falling. I would ask therefore of those who pronounce the
inscription to be a counterfeit, whether it is probable that the
persons who placed it there, whoever they may have been, would
have risked all the danger and difficulty attending such an
undertaking, to carry out a purpose which could bring them no
possible advantage? Then again how is it to be explained that,
instead of adopting the style of writing in use amongst the ancients,
they preferred to invent a set of monstrous extraordinary cha-
racters such as those in the inscription, which, however likely to
secure for their framers the commendation of the ignorant, would
For these rules see "Curiosities of Chinese Etymology," by J. Edkins.
Notes and Queries on China and Japan, Jan. 1868.

THE TABLET OF YÜ.
83
certainly be calculated to earn the profound contempt of the
learned?
I, Siünfang, had my home close by the Hêng mountain, and
whilst yet a child deeply pondered this interesting subject, fondly
hoping that I might perchance succeed in deciphering a few at
any rate out of the many mysterious characters of which the
inscription consisted. Having taken impressions of it, I passed
days and nights in studying the shape of the several characters,
and in searching in every direction for ancient manuscripts with
which I might institute comparisons, and so determine the origin
and identity of every one. After a careful examination into the
nature and style of the characters, it occurred to me that they
closely resembled those depicted in the "veritable illustrations of
the five peaks" which one Paou-pu-tsze has handed down to
posterity; and I then suddenly remembered how the ancients had
said, "the draining of the waters was conducted upon principles
laid down in gemmeous tablets and characters, which constituted
mysterious talismans of the remoter ages." I thereupon at once
concluded not only that the strange forms depicted in the inscrip-
tion did not partake of the nature of characters, but that the
opinion commonly prevalent, to the effect that the tablet had been
inscribed by Yu in order to commemorate his miraculous deeds,
was entirely groundless. The "Scheme" put forth by the Yellow
River (the fabulous origin of the eight diagrams of Fu-Hi), and
the "Book" revealed by the River Lo (the legendary derivation
of the great plan of Yü), as well as the fairy characters and pearly
talismanic signs found from time to time in the hearts of moun-
tains in primeval ages, were imparted to the spiritual and holy
men of old, in order to aid them in carrying out their miraculous
undertakings; and is it for a moment to be supposed that the
paltry attempt at interpretation by a common mortal could suc-
ceed in unravelling any of their hidden mysteries?
An analogous instance, corroborative of the fact that such
miraculous inscriptions do exist, has occurred within the last few
years at Yung-Ning Chow in Kwei-chow, where a peak called
Hung Yen Shan, after a shower of rain, at sunrise and sunset,
shews lines depicted upon its face, which, although not actually
legible as characters, yet suffice to prove that some superhuman
agency is being exercised.
Reputed impressions of the accompanying inscription have been
reproduced in stone in some ten to twenty different localities in

84
THE TABLET OF YÜ.
the Chinese Empire. His Excellency Siu-fung (the late Viceroy
Kwan) having shewn me one taken from the original inscription
on the Yun Meih penk, and charged me with the duty of tracing
in outline the several characters, and restoring any defective
portions thereof, I made my tracings from an impression, which
I had had for some time past by me, of an engraven copy on stone,
which stands at the foot of the peak, merely reducing the cha-
racters somewhat in size, but adhering to their form and shape
in every respect. When my task was completed I added this
critical notice by myself of the ancient history of the inscription;
and I appended a copy of Yang Shin's so called interpretation,
not that I thought it at all worthy of record, but because of the
long notoriety which it has enjoyed, and because I am anxious
that those who are capable of forming a judgment may be in a
position to test its credibility for themselves.

CTO
tion
cing
ective
hich
one,
ba-
ape
this
on;
on,
the
ous
38
蛋限寶酒悦
生產内青饼

州兴曼
禹碑天寶地爲藏隨時隱顯騰光芒鬼
靈呵護懸崖旁蝌斗文字世莫詳玉函金
七十七字香滔滔洪水開八荒
量石靑字赤蘊天章鸞飄鳳泊 渺茫山
湘庥同九鼎日月光體追洛書法羲皇琅玕
遼陽官文題
衡山禹碑始見稱於湘中記云按省玉字通水理也吳越春秋亦同但未有刻碑之交至唐崔融乃有螺書扁刻之語而劉禹錫韓愈始云
有銘有碑則此石唐人蓥有見之者而拓本始於宋嘉定中模刻蓼門亦在是時其釋文則始於楊慎沈練從此盛傳凡七十七字大抵
據眞書形象約略成詞未明六書未知古韻適可謂訕而己神禹去倉頡後數百年其時文字雖奇古亦必有偏旁形勢無疑堯典諸篇未
聞繕釋知其時文字與商周鐘鼎款識及說文解字所載古籀文相同明矣不辛爲楊沈妄釋使後人盡嗤此碑之僞今觀雲密峰眞石在
縣巖之半倒壓欲落作偽者未能艱險爲無益如此且造字 時亦安能不依古文而詭作雄瑋以冀俗賞開指摘之門乎訓方居衡山之旁
少嘗深思頗釋出數字因取拓本日夜觀之搜攷古籍徵其由來諦觀意勢乃是抱朴子所傳五嶽眞形圖然後恍然於古八所云玉滯玉
字業以治水者蓋上古符篆之秘果非文字而刻石紀功之誣尤不足辨矣河出圖洛 山開靈書珍符以佐神聖豈可以陋詞釋之乎
近年貴州永甯紅岩山於雨後日夕山石隱起有交示見神奇不成字法卽其證也至 拓本翻刻者天下有十數處此是雲密峰原石
季峰節相師出以相示屬爲鉤補泐處因取舊藏嶽麓刻石拓本鉤出字體差小形象不調旣鉤畢豕镫以昔間跋於後方其釋文本不足
錄以流傳旣久亦書於下以備鑒正焉
同治三年八月唐訓方謹記 O驩
楊慎釋
承帝曰咨翼輔佐卿州渚與登鳥獸之門參身洪流而明發爾具久
旅忘家宿岳麓庭智營形拆心罔弗辰往求平定華岳泰衡宗疏事
衰勞餘伸禋鬱塞昏徙南濱衍亨衣制食備萬國其寧竄舞永奔
10: 3

PRÉFACE.
Après avoir étudié l'Assyrie, l'Egypte, l'Inde et tant d'autres
anciens Empires avec un zêle et une puissance d'analyse aux
quels nul secret n'a pu résister; après avoir fouillé le monde,
hormis la Chine, c'est enfin vers elle que les savants tournent
leurs yeux aujourd'hui. De tous côtés, se dressent devant elle,
comme des échelles contre les murs d'une place investie, d'innom-
brables points d'interrogation. Déjà même les assaillants re-
doublent leurs coups, et l'on sent, à la rapidité avec laquelle ils
se succédent, le prix qu'ils attachent à cette dernière conquête et
l'impatience qu'ils éprouvent de fixer enfin des solutions qu'ils ont
suspendues jusqu'à ce qu'ils aient pu sonder cette immense énigme,
si vieille et si longtemps oubliée.
J'ai voulu dans le travail que l'on. va lire, montrer, à propos
de la Géologie et de la Paléontologie, comment on pourrait ré-
pondre à ces attaques, non pas en y résistant comme on résiste
à des dangers, mais comme on accueille l'arrivée d'amis mal
disposés mais toujours attendus; en leur donnant un plan ou au
moins une esquisse de la ville et en leur ouvrant les voies et les
avenues qui leur sont préparées depuis tant de siècles.

[86]
Cette esquisse même ne m'a pas paru suffisante; et, afin qu'elle
pût servir non seulement à eux, mais à leurs amis et à leurs servi-
teurs, je n'ai pas cru trop faire de chercher, autant que possible,
à l'orienter et à y tracer çà et là, quelques points de repère.
Superflus pour ces savants et pour la plupart des membres de
la société qui veut bien me permettre de placer ce travail sous
ses auspices, ils pourront, toutefois, ne pas être inutiles pour
beaucoup de personnes dont l'esprit et l'attention ont été jusqu'ici
dirigés d'un autre côté, et qui, douées de la faculté d'observer,
peuvent, dans leurs résidences ou dans leurs voyages en Chine,
rendre d'importants services, pourvu qu'on leur explique bien ce
que l'on désire d'elles.
C'est pour ces personnes, c'est dans l'espoir d'exciter leur intérêt
en faveur des recherches qui nous occupent, que j'ai fait précéder
les indications que je me suis cru autorisé, par mes lectures ou
mes observations personnelles, à donner sur la Chine, d'une sorte
d'exposé, aussi complet et en même temps aussi succinct que'
possible, du sujet, tel que les savants nous le font connaître dans
les ouvrages dont j'ai cité les noms en tête de ma notice et aux
quels j'ai emprunté sans scrupule et tels quels, les extraits qui
m'ont paru nécessaires à mon but, bien sûr du pardon que ce but
m'obtiendrait.
D'un autre côté le plan que me traçait cette manière de voir
était celui qui pouvait le plus aisément m'aider à présenter aux
savants d'une façon claire et logique, des détails dont quelques
uns sont produits peut-être pour la première fois, et dont les autres
paraissent avoir dormi, oubliés, dans les livres où ils y avaient été
publiés en notre langue, il y a cent ou cent cinquante ans.
Ainsi ma notice n'est proprement et à très peu de chose près,
qu'un cadre dans lequel j'ai taché de grouper de façon à les éclairer
les uns par les autres, en vue des maîtres et en vue des serviteurs
de la science, les faits acquis et ceux que l'on peut recueillir en
Chine.
NINGPO, 15 janvier 1869.
G. EUG. SIMON.