[30]
ARTICLE III.
NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
A COMPLETE TRANSLATION OF THE YOK-KYI,
OR MEMORIAL OF MUSIC, ACCORDING TO THE IMPERIAL EDITION.*
BY DR. B. JENKINS.
CHAPTER I.
The Source of Music: Sounds proceed from the
emotional nature.
As to the source of Music, it is from some emotion of the human.
mind that every musical air takes its rise, and these emotions are
produced by exterior objects. As soon as an object strikes one,
an emotion is produced, and the effect is manifested by sounds.
As sounds thus respond to sentiments, a great variety is produced,
and from this variety, what are called musical airs are formed.
These airs being enriched with harmonious sounds, and accom-
panied with battle-axes, and standards formed of feathers and
long hair, the insignia of military power, and implements of
military manoeuvre, that is called music.
It is from airs that music is composed: but the source of music
lies in the mind of man, as it is affected by outward objects.
Therefore, when the mind is affected by sentiments of sorrow,
the sounds elicited are pungent and hasty: when pleasure is
experienced, the sounds drawn forth are mild and slow: when
joy is experienced, the sounds enlarge and expand: when anger
is felt, the sounds become coarse and wild: when the mind is
subdued by respect, the sounds become direct and clear: when
the mind is influenced by love, the sounds become harmonious
and tender. These six sorts of emotion are not naturally inherent
in the mind of man, but they are excited by exterior objects.
Therefore it is that the ancient emperors watched over with so
much care whatever might influence the mind of man.
* Read before the Society on 9th June, 1868.

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 31
It was on this account that the ancient emperors imposed.
ceremonial-rites, for instructing and directing the will of man,-
that they established music, for the purpose of harmonizing
sounds, instituted laws for the purpose of effecting unity in
human action, and attached penalties, in order to obviate dis-
order. In the rites and in music, in penalties and in statutory
regulations, there was but one object, and that was to produce a
uniformity in the sentiments of the people, and to educe the
doctrine of law and order in government.
It is in man's mind that every musical air finds its source.
The passions being moved within, are consequently manifested
without in sounds. When these sounds form a composition, that
is called an air. When good order prevails, the airs breathe
calm and joy, the government then is well-tempered. When
disorder prevails, the airs are filled with murmuring hate and
impatient anger, then government is perverse. When a nation
is about to fall, its airs breathe sorrow and reflection,—the people
are in straits: all which goes to prove that there is an intimate
relation between the nature of the musical airs and the condition
of the government.
The note kung appertains to the sovereign; the note sháng
relates to the magistrates; the note kyók relates to the people;
the note chz to work, and the note yi to things. If there be no
disorder in these five classes, then the airs meet with no defect or
obstacle. If the note kung be not in order, the sound will be
wild, like the sovereign who is proud and conceited. If the
note sháng be confused, then the sound is not correct,-like the
minister who is not regular in his duties. If the note lyóh be
irregular, then its sound will be mournful,-like the murmurings
of the people under oppressive government. If the note chz be
confused, then its sound will be piteous,-like the cries of un-
ceasing involuntary servitude. If the note y be out of order,
then the sound will be weak,-like the weakness of the people
overladen by the burden of excessive taxation. If the whole of
the five notes be not in order, then there will be a confusing and
overstepping of the proper bounds, which may be called careless-
ness. Thus the bounds between the respective spheres of the
governing and the governed being mutually overstepped, the
country is sure to fall, without any prospect of a restoration.
Every air finds its source in the mind of man. Music is in-
timately connected with the essential relations of beings. Thus,

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 33
only necessary for the object to be presented, and the man is
influenced. Now, man being thus moved by outward objects,
and the heavenly principle natural to him being destroyed, he
becomes a constant victim to his fleshly desires; hence arises
that rebellious and deceitful heart which is manifested, with its
carnal and rebellious workings in act. Wherefore it is that the
strong cheat the weak; the many oppress the few, the crafty take
advantage of the simple; the bold affright the timid; the sick are
not cared for and nourished; the infirm aged and tender youth,
the solitary widower and the lonely orphan, do not obtain what
their condition properly claims: courses which belong only to a
state of the greatest disorder.
Therefore the ancient kings, in instituting rites and music,
have fixed a mean to the inevitable tendencies of man. The
coarse hempen garments, sobbing and tears, establish a rule in
the different sorts of mourning. The bell, the drum, the shield
and battle-axe, serve to regulate joy and pleasure. The rites of
marriage, of assuming the cap of manhood, and taking the hair-
pin, regulate the relations and the distinctions between man
and woman. The ceremonial feasts between princes, and those
between agriculturists, fix the relations of intercourse in their
coming together.
The rites mark the classes and their reciprocal duties in the
minds of the people: music harmonizes the different sounds
among the people: laws require the observance of ceremonial
rites and musical regulations, and punishments restrain their
infraction rites, music, punishments and government extend.
everywhere, and no one is permitted to oppose their requirements.
Thus magisterial rule is complete.
CHAPTER II.
Music Discussed: In what it agrees with,
and differs from, the Rites.
It is by music that unity of sentiment is obtained. It is by
the rites that the requisite distinctions in society are established.
Unity produces reciprocal affection, and distinctions produce
appropriate respect. When music is in excess, the affections.
are not kept within due bounds; and when ceremonial rites are

34 NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
in excess, it tends to estrangement. The legitimate tendency of
music and the rites is, to produce harmony of sentiment and
elegance of manners.
In establishing a ritual etiquette, the noble and the ignoble
receive their appropriate rank; but in uniting all by means of
music, concord between the higher and lower classes is produced.
It is by the manifestation of liking for what is good, and aversion
toward what is evil, that a distinction is put between the wise
and those devoid of wisdom: it is by chastisement that a restraint
is put upon the oppressor; and it is by raising the meritorious
to dignities, that an equitable administration is indicated. It is
by benevolence that the ruler produces reciprocal affection, and by
justice that he corrects all impropriety. Thus it is that good
order is to be carried out among the people of the nation.
Music comes from within, and the rites find their accomplishment
without. As music comes from within, it is peace-inspiring:
as the rites arise from without, they are cultivating and adorning.
Music is by nature easy; and the rites generally present no
difficulties.
When music prevails, then all reproaches cease. When the
rites flourish, then there are no contentions. When the empire
is governed by condescension, it may be said that it is by music
and the rites that such a result is attained. When oppressors
of the people do not arise; when the feudal lords assist, and
submit to, the emperor; when the implements of warfare are laid
aside; when the five kinds of punishment fall into disuse; when
there are no grievances on the part of the people, and the emperor
is not irritated, in such a state of things, it is because music
generally pervades the nation. When the sovereign fulfils the
duties of filial piety, and makes clear the distinction between the
aged and the young, so as to incite by his example a respectful
disposition in all who live within the four seas,-when the sover-
eign acts thus, then it may truly be said that the rites are widely
disseminated.
The harmony of music is like that between heaven and earth.
The gradation in the rites is similar to that which exists between
the different beings in heaven and on earth. It is because of
harmony that beings do not perish: and it is because of the
gradation, that certain sacrifices are offered to Heaven, and
different ones to Earth. In the visible world there are the rites
and music, and in the unseen world there are the spirits of the

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 35
dead, and the spirits deified. Such being the case, if music and
the rites prevail in the empire, every body is respectful and
affectionate.
In the rites there are many details to be attended to, but the
object of all is to promote respectfulness: in music there are a
variety of compositions, but their object is to promote mutual
affection. The business of the rites and of music is, then, similar.
Therefore the enlightened sovereign carries on what his predecessors
commenced; yet matters in detail take the impress of the times,
and the names of musical compositions change to suit the exigency
created by the merits of those in whose honor they are performed.
The bell, the flageolet, the drum, the sonorous stone, the
plumed-standard, the flute, the shield and the battle-axe, are the
implements used in musical performances. The crookedness and
uprightness of the person, the inclination and elevation of the
head; the relative position of the ranks of persons; the measure
of the forward or retrograde steps; the slowness or celerity of
the movements,-these are the exterior appliances of music. The
sacrificial vases called fi, lei, tsu, and teu-according to the
established regulations-are the vessels of the ritual ceremonies.
To ascend and descend, to take one's place above or to wait below;
the assuming a reverential demeanor, and showing the beauties
of one's habiliments,-these are the elegancies of the rites.
He who knows the essential nature of music and of the rites,
can execute. He who knows their external elegancies can imitate.
He who by his own personal knowledge can execute, may be
accounted to be possessed of the noblest faculties: and he who
can imitate the productious of others may be called intelligent:-
so, those who are intelligent, and those who are possessed of the
noblest faculties, may be called imitators and inventors.
The harmony of music is like that which exists between heaven
and earth. The order in the rites resembles that which exists.
between the different beings in heaven and on earth. By reason
of that harmony all beings are produced. By reason of that
order and gradation all beings have their separate functions.
Music is an imitation of what the heavens originate. The rites
are an imitation of the laws existing on the earth. If the laws
be faulty, the result is disorder; if the executive be faulty, the
result is oppression. Understand thoroughly the heavens and
the earth, and then you will be able to practise successfully the
rites and music.

32 NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
to know sounds, without knowing airs, is to be like birds and
beasts. To know airs, without knowing music, is the province
of the vulgar herd of mankind. It is the province of the superior
man alone to understand the principles of music.
Therefore sounds are studied, in order to know airs; airs are
studied, in order to understand music; and music is studied, in
order to know how to govern. In this manner political science
is complete. Thus, we cannot discuss the nature of airs with a
man who does not understand sounds; and we cannot discuss
music with one who does not understand airs. But a knowledge
of music is closely akin to that of the ceremonial-rites. When
the ceremonial-rites and music are obtained, it may be said that
virtue is possessed,-for the word virtue may be defined-a
possession.
But the magnificence of music does not demand that we
should execute airs perfectly; as the rite of offerings does not
demand that an exquisite flavor should be given to the viands
offered. Even the lute which is played in the temple of ancestors
has only cords of red silk and a few perforations in the sounding-
board. There one person gives the keynote of the tune, and only
three others respond thereto,-thus leaving out other parts of the
harmony. In the ceremony of offering viands, water is preferred
to wine; the sacred vases contain only raw fish, and the soup has
no seasoning, so leaving out many of the flavors.
Thus it is that in instituting the rites and music, the ancient
emperors did not seek to satisfy entirely the appetites of the
mouth and stomach, of the ears and eyes, but they sought to
teach the people to hold the mean in the love of what was good
and aversion toward what was evil, in order to lead men into
correct principles.
Man is naturally peaceable. This is his heaven-conferred
nature. Influenced by external things, carnal desires are excited.
It is by the approach of external things that the mind acquires
knowledge, and that liking and aversion are manifested. If
sentiments of liking and aversion have no proper rules of
constraint within, man will be led into error by the influence of
outward things, and cannot return to personal virtue, and then
the original virtuous nature implanted in him by Heaven will be
destroyed.
When men are ceaselessly moved by external things, and their
likings and aversions have no proper rule of restraint, then it is

36
NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
The spirit of music consists in discussing the requirements of the
component parts, without injury to the exigencies of any one of
them. Joy and affection are its outward affairs. The maintenance
of the mean, and undeviating rectitude, are the substance of the
rites: seriousness, veneration, respect, and deference, are its laws.
So the rites and music have a broad significance, and are not
confined to the metals and stones of which their instruments and
utensils are composed, and that produce only sounds and airs,
these being only things used in the ancestral temple, and in the
sacrifices to the tutelary gods of the land and of grain, and in the
services offered to the mountains and rivers, and to the spirits
of the dead and of those who have been deified-things altogether
within the province of the mass of the people.
CHAPTER III.
The Principles of Music: How the Rites and Music
were settled and regulated.
When
When the sovereign has accomplished a work, he has a musical
composition made to perpetuate the remembrance thereof.
his government is firmly established he regulates the ceremonial
rites. If the work be great, the music is perfect. Should the
government extend everywhere, the rites are complete. The
manoeuvring of shields and battle-axes does not constitute perfect
music. The offering of boiled flesh in sacrifice does not constitute
an all-pervading sacrifice.
Under the Five Emperors, as the epochs differed in nature,
so the music was not uniform. Under the Three King's, as the
ages differed, so the same rites were not followed. Music when
carried to excess produces sorrow: and coarseness in the rites
induces a perfunctory execution of them. But to give profound
attention to music without inducing sorrow, and to give full
attention to the rites without inducing carelessness, it is only
he who is possessed of the highest mental and moral endowments
that can do thus.
*Those styled the Five Emperors, were Fúh-hyi, whose date is put at B. C.
2852: Shun-nung 2737: Hwang-ti 2697: Yau 2357; and Shun, 2255.
Those styled the Three Kings are: Yü, whose reign is placed at B. C. 2205:
Táng, 1766; and Wun and Wú as one reign, B. C. 1134 to 1115.

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 37
The heavens are high above, the earth is far below, and the
multitude of creatures which occupy the interval between them
have the corresponding gradation in their modes of existence;
hence the institution of the rites fixes the distinction between the
honorable and the mean among men. Heaven, earth and all
things unceasingly revolve, and their combined action gives rise
to all creations and transformations. So, music attunes and
harmonizes the emotional nature of man,-it combines the virtues
and nourishes them,-and thus it flourishes. In spring every-
thing puts forth; in summer everything increases-an emblem of
benevolence, which incites to the love of mankind. In autumn
we gather in our harvests, and in the winter we store them up-
distinguishing their qualities-an emblem of justice, which gives
to every one what is proper to his relation. Benevolence is akin
to music, for it unites and harmonizes; and justice is akin to the
rites, for it decides and apportions what is befitting.
Music is intimately connected with the harmony of the senti-
ments. It follows the superior principle in nature (the yáng) and
is directed toward heaven. The rites distinguish what things are
proper; they depend upon the inferior principle in nature (the
yin), and are directed toward earth. Therefore the ancient sages
created music, to respond to heaven; and instituted the rites to
respond to earth. When the rites and music are executed with
perfection, heaven and earth equally accomplish their respective
duties.
The heavens are high above, and the earth is below. The
distinction of sovereign above and subject below is in imitation
thereof. So mountains and valleys are spread over the earth, and
it is in imitation of them that we have the distinctions of noble
and plebeian among men: and the principle of movement and
the principle of repose constantly succeed each other appropriately,
as the lesser and greater rites make the requisite distinctions.
The five social relations (of king and minister, father and son,
husband and wife, elder and younger brother, friend and compa-
nion) collect together the individuals in relative order: the rites
separate things according to their species-and this is because
the decreed destiny is not alike for all. There are various figures
in the heavens, and various forms on earth, and these serve as
models for ornamenting costumes and constructing buildings-so
the distinctions established by the rites are like those which exist
between heaven and earth.

38 NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
The subtle fluid (kyfi) of earth mounts upward, and the subtle
fluid (ky'i) of heaven descends: the two principles (yin and yang)
come mutually into contact: the heavens and the earth act
reciprocally on each other. To move beings there is the thunder:
to make them spring there are the wind and rain: to keep them
in motion, there are the four seasons: to warm them up, there are
the sun and moon. By means of these, all beings have their
birth and development: so, then, the music of the sage is like the
harmony existing between heaven and earth.
When the transformations of heaven and earth are untimely,
then there is no birth. When the requisite distinctions between.
male and female are lost sight of, then confusion is complete.
So, when music is untimely, harmony is violated; and when the
rites fail to make the relative distinctions of duty, disorder results.
The influence of the rites and music reaches to heaven, and
pervades the earth; it runs through the yin and yang-the inferior
and the superior principles of nature,-and even pervades the
invisible world of souls and spirits; it reaches to the highest
elevation and most extreme distance, and sounds the most impe-
netrable depths.
Music holds the place of the great original principle-Heaven:
the rites hold the place of created beings-Earth. In showing
itself without repose music is like heaven, which is in perpetual
motion: in showing themselves immovable, the rites resemble
earth-which is without motion. On the one part unceasing
movement, on the other constant repose-all phenomena being
embraced in the interval between the two, therefore it is that
the men of the most exalted virtue speak only of the rites and
music-for the doctrines of music and the rites are like the doc-
trines of heaven and earth.
CHAPTER IV.
The uses of Music to the Nation: Music a recompense
of Virtue.
In ancient times the emperor Shun made a lute with five silken
strings, in order to chant the Ode "Nan fing" or "South wind."
Krei, his minister, began to regulate the sort of music which, as,
a reward, was allowed to the feudal barons. Therefore it is that
the emperors, in determining the music that might be used as a

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
39
reward by the feudal lords, recompensed the virtues of which
they were possessed. If their virtue was great,-if they taught
the people to esteem highly agriculture, so that the harvests were
ripe at the proper time, then a musical recompense was granted
to them. So, when a feudal baron laboured assiduously in the
good government of the people, the successive files of performers
allowed in the evolutions accompanying his music, extended to a
great distance; while he who was remiss in the government of the
people had but a very limited allowance in the files of performers
accompanying his music. Hence it was only necessary to glance.
at the display accompanying a baron's music in order to ascertain
the amount of his virtue, as it was only necessary to hear the
posthumous designation of one deceased, in order to know what
his actions were during his life.
The music of YAU, called the Ta-chang, displayed the virtues
of that ancient emperor. The music of HWANG-Tí, called kyien-ch:,
shows that all was complete under that emperor. The music
of SHUN, called the Shau, intimates the continuance of the virtues
of his predecessor. The music of Yi, called hya, indicates the
greatness of Yü. The music of the YIN and CHEU dynasties
exhausts all that appertains to human affairs.
The law of heaven and earth is such, that if the cold and heat
do not come at their appropriate season, maladies result: if the
wind and rain have not their due limits, famine results. Now,
instruction is to the people just like the cold and heat: if it be not
given at the proper time, great damage results. Public affairs
are to the people just like the wind and rain: if the proper limits
be not observed, no good results. So the ancient emperors have
given music for instruction, in order to imitate the lessons of
heaven in their government of the empire, and the people, likewise,
have imitated the virtuous example of the sovereign.
By the use of grain we may nourish hogs, and also produce
wine. The proper use of wine is not necessarily productive of evil
and misery; but when it is so taken as to be productive of quarrels
and lawsuits in abundance, then it becomes the cause of distress.
Wherefore, in the times of the ancient kings, wine being used in
the ceremony, manifold compliments between host and guest were
passed at each cup; but that they could drink for a whole day
without intoxication, this was the warning of the ancient kings
against the unhappy effects of wine. Wherefore feasts are for the

40 NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE, RESPECTING MUSIC.
enjoyment of the guests: music presents the image of virtue: the
rites impose obstacles in the way of excess.
Thus, whenever the ancient emperors had any occasion of great
mourning, they did not fail to observe the rites, in order to
moderate their grief; whenever any occasion of great rejoicing
occurred, they did not fail to observe the rites, in order to restrain
their joy: thus it is that the rites alone restrain grief and joy
within their proper bounds.
CHAPTER V.
Music des ribed: Its nature and effects.
Music is one of those things in which men of the highest virtue
and endowments find pleasure, for it has the power of making
the people good, of moving men in their inmost depths, and of
changing the entire manners of the age. Therefore the ancient
emperors promulgated music as a branch of instruction.
The people possess corporeal organs and intellectual faculties,
which constitute their nature; but grief and joy, pleasure and
anger, are emotions of the mind which are not constant. If an
emotion arise, excited by some exterior object, then the emotion
of the mind is immediately manifested without. Therefore it is
that when we find the monarch to be a person of small capacity,
and the airs composed dry, hasty, abrupt and meagre, we may
conclude that the people are thoughtfu land sorrowful. When
the ruler is liberal, cordial and considerate, and the airs are full,
broad, elegant and orderly, we may conclude that the people are
prosperous and joyous. When the ruler is rude and fierce, and
the airs begin with sounds which are coarse and shrill, conclude
with angry and wild sounds, and have loud and full sounds in
the centre, it may be determined that the people are firm and
courageous. When the ruler is pure and upright, and the airs.
compassionate, courteous, stately, dignified and solid, it may be
inferred that the people are rigid and respectful. When the ruler
is high-minded and liberal, and the airs flowing and harmonious,
it may be concluded that the people are tenderly affectionate.
When the ruler is wild and unsettled in disposition, and crooked
and depraved in character, and the airs produced are winding,
jerking and hasty, it may be concluded that the people are aban-
doned to the lowest passions.

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 41
Therefore it is that the ancient emperors took the sentiments
of human nature as the essential basis of music, and that they
examined the rules of different sounds and instruments, in order
to determine what was most suitable for the different rites.
Music is calculated to assist the harmony of the creative energy
(ky), and to direct human actions in the paths required by the
five relations. It prevents a too great development on the part
of the superior principle (yáng) in nature, and a too great retire-
ment on the part of the inferior (or yin) principle: it prevents
the too firm in character from running into anger, and the too
mild in disposition from running into fear. These four effects
extend and unite in their proper mean, in order to manifest them-
selves immediately without,-all quietly holding their respective
places, without at all infringing one upon the other.
Afterward, the ancient emperors established colleges and lite-
rary degrees; they gave development to music, the rules of which
they had fixed, and the beauties of which they studied, in order
to consolidate natural virtue; they united and harmonized the
weaker and stronger sounds, they gave the beginning and the
end their relative importance, so as to produce in music a repre-
sentation of human affairs. In short, they so managed that the
doctrine which regulates the duties between near and distant
relatives, between the noble and the plebeian, between the elder
and the younger, between males and females, were plainly dis-
played upon all these points in music: wherefore it is said that
by means of music the profoundest depths may be seen.
When the land is worn out, plants and trees cannot attain
their growth; when the waters of the rivers are disturbed, the
fishes and turtles cannot attain their proper size; when the cre-
ative energy is decayed, then the natural productions cannot
attain perfection; when the age is corrupt, then good principles
are buried, and music has become depraved.
Therefore it is that when the music is in a disordered state,
though there be pleasure, there is no quiet enjoyment; and there
is a neglect of the proprieties of life, a floating away with the
current of disorder, and a forgetfulness to come back to the fun-
damental principles of good order. In this state of unbridled
license, when difficulties press, then the baser passions rule, mov-
ing the lowest propensities, to the destruction of the harmony of
virtue; wherefore the sage despises and abandons such music.

42 NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
CHAPTER VI.
The forms of Music: Effects of Depraved
and of Correct Music.
Every depraved sound moves the mind of man, and immediately
the vicious inclinations respond thereto. When the vicious incli-
nations are incited to action, then depraved music flourishes.
When well-regulated sounds move the mind of man, then the
good inclinations in man respond When the good inclinations
are set in action, harmonious music flourishes. Every beginning
has, then, its legitimate response; the disobedient and; the de-
praved, the crooked and upright, each reverts to its legitimate
department, and the natural law of all things is that each,
according to the law of its species, acts one upon the other.
Wherefore, the endeavor of the sage is, to return toward those
sentiments which nature implanted in him at his birth, so as to
rectify his thoughts. He compares the nature of things, in order
to perfect his actions. So, he will not permit lewd sounds nor
unchaste sights to have access to his ears or eyes; nor will he
permit vicious music or depraved rites to have access to his heart;
he will not permit the influence of idleness and depravity to affect
the demeanor of his person; but he so acts that his ears, eyes,
nose, mouth, his intellectual faculties and his bodily organs,-
all follow a course of rectitude, in order to accomplish what is his
legitimate duty.
Then he puts forth sounds and airs, to which are added the
graces of the lute and the lyre; evolutions are made with the
shield and battle-axe; the flourishes with the tall standards or-
namented with plumes, and with those having long flowing hair,
give additional ornament,-while these are followed up with the
sound of pipe and flute. It is thus that the sage strives to
throw splendor upon his sublime virtues-of which music is the
exponent, and to assist the harmony of the four seasons, in
order to bring into bold relief the intimate relations existing be-
tween music and all created things.
Thus, the splendour of music is the image of heaven; its am-
plitude is the image of earth. The beginning and the end are
the image of the four seasons. The circuitous evolutions accom-
panying the music, are the image of the wind and rain. The five
notes, imaged in the five colors, form a harmonious whole, in
which there is no confusion. The eight winds follow after the

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 43
twelve notes of the gamut, in which there is no disorder. The
different degrees of the musical scale attain a certain number,
which is without any variation. The weak and the strong sounds
combine perfectly. The beginning and the end mutually produce
each other. The air and the accompaniment, with their clear or
cloudy sounds, succeed each other as conductors.
Therefore it is, that when music is generally taught, the duties
of the five relations are thoroughly comprehended; the ears and
the eyes are quick and penetrating; the animal spirits and the
emotional nature are in perfect calm; public manners and customs
are reformed, and the whole empire enjoys profound tranquillity.
Wherefore it is said that music is joy. But for the sage, joy
consists in the acquisition of virtue, while the joy of the mean
man consists in gratifying his carnal appetites. In regulating
the appetites by means of virtue, there is no disorder in them;
but in yielding to the appetites, by a complete forgetfulness of
virtue, man is thrown into that state of doubtful uncertainty where
there is no true joy. Hence it is that the superior man reverts
toward those sentiments of good which are his by natural endow-
ment, in order that he may rectify his thoughts, and that he may
extend the sphere of music, so as to complete his instruction,-
for if the sphere of music be extended, the people are directed to-
ward virtuous methods, and then the happy effect of the sovereign's
virtue may be seen.
Virtue is the great principle of human nature. Music is the
budding forth of virtue. Metals, stones, silk and bamboo furnish
material for musical instruments. Verse serves to express the
thoughts: singing modulates the voice: the evolutions set the
countenance in movement. These three things take their origin
in the mind, and the instruments of music follow the outward
expression.
Hence it follows that the internal nature of music is deep,
and that its external manifestation is brilliant. It may be com-
pared to that expansive energy which wonderfully produces all
things. The harmony however, must be concentrated inwardly,
in order to flourish outwardly, for music is a thing which cannot
be falsified.
Music is the product of the heart's emotions. Sounds and airs
are the body of music. The elegance and the measure are the
ornaments of the sounds. In the producing of music, the sage
begins by moving his own heart, and then strives to reproduce

44 NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
this emotion in music; and lastly, he regulates the adornments.
For this reason it is, that the evolutions are preceded by sounding
the drum, in order to awake to preparation. Three paces are
then taken, by way of prelude. The drum is again struck, as the
signal for moving forward. When the performers are in disorder,
they are recalled to their respective places by the globular bell;
and, how rapid soever the evolutions may be, no unfortunate ac-
cident occurs, and how profound soever the music may be, there
is nothing concealed. When in enjoying music alone, one enjoys
it inwardly, and does not grow weary of the pursuit of virtue,
then all the virtues which music nourishes are exalted, and of all
that might be coveted, nothing is selfishly appropriated. Thus
the sentiments of the sage appear, and propriety is clearly estab-
lished. Let music be generally disseminated, then virtue is duly
honored the noble man is led thereby more to the love of good,
and the mean man thereby hears his errors reproved. Hence it
is said-among the doctrines for educating a people, music is of
great importance.
Music is an overflowing of the sage's virtue upon the people,
while the rites are the recompense of gratitude. Music is the
rejoicing in our virtuous origin; the rites make us go back to the
fountain of our benefits. Music illustrates virtue; the rites are a
return of gratitude-by these we turn back to the source of our
benefits. Thus what is called the great, or golden coach, is the
emperor's chariot; and the standard of the emperor has a dragon.
and nine pendants; and the divining-tortoise of the emperor has
a blue or black border. The chariot is followed by a herd of
oxen, and a flock of sheep, from which ceremonial presents are
made to the feudal barons.
CHAPTER VII.
The Sentiments of Music: The forms may change-
the sentiments change not.
Music takes hold of those sentiments of human nature which
are not subject to change. The rites are founded in principles
not liable to variation. Music unites men by general sympathies-
the rites distinguish men by their different claims. So, when we
say "The rites and music," we mean accord with the sentiments
of mankind.

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 45
It is the province of music to make us investigate the radical
nature of things, and to cause us to comprehend the various
transformations taking place. It is the province of the rites to
make manifest sincerity, and to drive away dissimulation. The
rites and music are akin to the nature of heaven and earth:
they penetrate the virtue of the gods, bringing down the gods
which are above, and sending up the spirits from below; and
subjecting to our decision those recondite and manifest principles
which rule in all things, and govern the respective duties of
father and son, of sovereign and subject.
Therefore it is, that when great men seek to elevate appropriately
the rites and music, heaven and earth will respond to their efforts.
The heavens and the earth then delight in perfect accord; the
inferior (yin) and superior (yang) principles of nature mutually
harmonize; the celestial and terrestrial fluids cover and nourish.
all things; afterward plants and trees grow in abundance; the
flower-buds burst into bloom; the birds throng and flutter about;
quadrupeds come forth in abundance; insects awake from death
to life; the birds deposit and hatch their eggs; hairy animals
bring forth and nourish their young; among the viviparous there
are no miscarriages; and among the oviparous there are no
cracked eggs which fail to produce their young, and all this is
nothing but the harmony of music as it reverts upon the objects
of creation.
lads.
What is called music does not consist in the sounds hwang chúng
and ta ly, nor yet in the stringed instruments, the song or the
flourishing of standards,-for in music these things stand last in
importance; wherefore the evolutions are performed by young
The preparations of the sacrificial or festal table, the
display of vases and dishes, the arrangement of the vases for rice
and for meats, the art of ascending and descending in conformity
with the ceremonial rules, all these are matters of secondary
importance in the rites, wherefore there are persons employed to
take the charge of these things. The music-master understands
the nature of sounds and of verse; and for this reason, with his
face turned to the north, he attends to the playing of his instrument,
without giving his attention to the recondite meaning of the
music. The people employed in the ancestral temples understand
the ceremonial in use in the temples, but do not fathom the
deeper significance of the rites, wherefore they only attend to
keeping in the rear of the living representative of the ancestor.

46 NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
The officers attending to sepulchral ceremonies, are acquainted
with the rites appertaining thereto, but their business is confined.
to keeping behind the person who conducts the mourning.
Hence it is, that the perfecting of virtue occupies a superior
rank, while mere talent in the exercise of any art takes an inferior
place. He who practises virtue always goes in advance, and
the man of business follows. Wherefore it is that the ancient
emperors placed the one above and the other below, putting the
one before, and the other after; and thus it was that they
succeeded in ruling the empire.
CHAPTER VIII.
Ancient and Modern Music: The Duke of Wei's
conversation with Tsz-hya thereon.
Prince Wux, of the kingdom of WEI, inquired of Tsz-HYA,
saying "Can you tell me how it is that, while attired in cere-
monial robe and cap, I am listening to ancient music, I am
constantly afraid of going to sleep, while, when listening to the
airs of Ch'in and Wei I experience not the least weariness?"
Tsz-HYA replied "Now, in ancient music the advance move-
ment is made in an orderly manner, and the retrograde likewise,
-there is accord, exactness-hence expansion. The stringed
instruments, the gourd instruments, and the metal-tongued instru-
ments, all follow the strokes of the drum. The beginning of
each piece is announced by the drum. When the performers
return confusedly to their respective places, it is to the sound of
the nau-or globular bell. Any disorders arising, are corrected.
by blows on the siang-or husk-sack. Movements which are too.
precipitous are corrected by striking on the yá-or barrel-drum.
The sage who fully comprehends these things, discourses upon
and eulogises ancient music: but this is not all; he makes use of
it to renovate his own person, thereby favorably affecting his own
family and the whole empire. These are the effects of ancient
music.
"Now in the new music of the present age, there is no order
either in the advance or retrograde movement; it overflows with
lascivious sounds, in which the bearer sinks down, without
stopping. The dwarfish and monkey-like performers mix up
the sexes, and forget the distinctions of father and son such

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 47
music is entirely unfit for discussion, and cannot be spoken of
with ancient music. Such are the effects of modern music.
"Now, O prince, that about which you were inquiring is
music, but you are fond of the airs. Now, although music has
considerable affinity with airs, yet it is not the same thing."
Prince WUN then said-"I venture to ask how that is?"
Tsz-HYA replied "In antiquity, when heaven and earth followed
their laws, and the four seasons came at the appropriate time;
when the people were virtuous and the harvests abundant; when
pestilence did not seath, and extraordinary calamitous phenomena
did not affright,-that was what we call a state of great prosperity.
After such a state of things, eminent sages arose, who determined
the duties between father and son, between sovereign and subject,
and they made use of this as the lever for moving society. Now
as the lever was correctly true, the empire was thoroughly settled.
When the good order of the empire was thus established, then the
six notes were perfected, the five tones were harmonized, instru-
ments were introduced, and songs, odes and eulogies were com-
posed: these may be called virtuous airs; and it is only virtuous
airs that can be called music. Hence it is said in the Book of
Odes-
"Pure and tranquil! how harmonizing was the fame of
Wang-ky's virtue,-
A virtue which was widely displayed, and which illuminated
the world brilliantly:
With perspicacity to discern, and equity which could rightly
award;
How easy to him were the functions of instructor of the age;
How eminently was he fitted to be the sovereign to reward
and punish;
And to lead to prosperity this great country:
The hearts of the people he could render docile,
And in harmony unite the governing and the governed.
When we come to Wun-wung, still more,
His virtue was not regretted, as extinct with him;
Since, of the happiness imparted by the Supreme Being,
There remained still enough for his descendants to the latest
generation.'
"Which is to the same effect as what has been stated.
"Now, the airs of which you are fond, O prince, are they not
lascivious airs?" Prince Wun said "May I venture to ask

48 NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
whence come lascivious airs?" Tsz-hya replied-"The airs of
Ch'in lean toward depraved thoughts. The airs of Súng are full
of lewd ideas. The airs of Wei are lively, and inflame lustful
passions. The airs of Ti excite arrogance and pride. All four
kinds tend to drown men in the pleasures of lust, and are an
injury to virtue, for which reason they are not used in the
sacrifices.
"It is said in the Odes-Music in which the súh and the
yung accord, is heard with pleasure by our ancestors.' Súh
means reverential deference, and yung means harmony. Now,
where respect and harmony prevail, what affair may not be
accomplished?
"He who governs men should pay great attention to his
likings and to his aversions; for so soon as the sovereign gets
fond of anything, the magistrates immediately do the same, and
so soon as those in high places do anything, the people im-
mediately imitate them. The Ode says-There is nothing easier
than to lead the people into good or evil, by the example set':
which is equivalent to what has been said.
"When music had been instituted,-the instruments called
the tau-or hand-drum; the kú-or common drum; the ky'ang
-or wooden-tapper; the hyih-or sonorous lion; the hyün-or
earthen-egg pipe; and the chz-or flute, were constructed.
These six sorts of instruments produced sounds in harmony with
virtue. The bell, the sonorous stone, the yä pipe, and the seh-
or twenty-five stringed lyre followed, to harmonize with them.
Shields, battle-axes, and shafts ornamented with streaming
feathers or flowing hair served for the manoeuvres. These were
the implements made use of at the sacrifices in the ancestral
temples of the ancient kings: such also were the implements made
use of at those convivial feasts where the host drank in honor of
the guests, and the guests returned the compliments of the host.
It was these things that served among the magistrates, to dis-
tinguish between the more and the less honorable, so that each
obtained what was suitable to his rank and merit. These were
the things which served to proclaim to after generations the
distinctions established between the honorable and the plebeian,
and the grades between superiors and inferiors.
"The sound of the bell goes k'ung-kung. This sound reminds
the ruler of the standard of the commanding general-which
moves the troops. This standard inspires courage, and leads to

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 49
valorous deeds. When the sage ruler hears the sound of the
bell, then he thinks of his valorous generals. The sound of the
jadestone goes ching-ching. This clear sound recalls the necessity
of clear discrimination and accurate judgment. The equity of
character which is the sequence, enables one to confront death.
When the sage ruler hears the sound ching, then he thinks of his
generals who die in defending the frontiers of his kingdom.
Silk cords produce a dolorous sound. Grief causes one to be
given up to a single idea. Occupied by one idea, the mind is
recalled to virtue. When the sage ruler hears the sound of the
lute and the lyre, he then thinks of his magistrates whose minds
are set entirely upon the proprieties pertaining to their adminis-
tration. The sounds of bamboo instruments remind one of the
overflowing of waters. Overflowing waters remind one of the
vast assemblages driven together thereby. When the ruler hears
the sound of the bamboo instruments called the yü and súng pipes,
and the siau and kan flutes, he immediately thinks of his magis-
trates who know how to bring men together. The sounds of drums.
and tambourines are clamorous. By clamorous sounds troops are
moved. The movement causes them to advance together. When
the ruler hears the sound of the drum or tambourine, he imme-
diately thinks of his leading generals. Thus, when the wise ruler
listens to music, he does not confine himself simply to the more
or less sonorous nature of the sounds, but he thinks also of their
relative affinities. He whose mind is employed thus, is not in
danger of becoming drowsy."
CHAPTER IX.
Ancient and Modern Music, continued: Conversation
between Ping-meu Kya and Confucius.
Ping-meu Kya being seated by the side of Confucius, the latter
began to speak of music, saying "In the musical performance
called Wu, why is there so much time occupied in preparation,"
-after the drum has given the signal to begin? Ping-meu Kya
replied "It represents the concern lest the general assent of the
leaders and people should not be obtained." "And what," con-
tinued Confucius, "means the long-continued strain, resembling
continued desire, which follows the drum's warning sound, and

50 NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
precedes the evolutions?" Ping-meu Kya replied-"It is the fear
lest the feudal harons should not arrive in time to assist"-in the
grand undertaking of punishing the tyrant Chen. "And why,"
again inquired Confucius, "is there then such a precipitate move-
ment of hands and feet?" "Because," replied Ping-meu Kya,
"the time for going into action has arrived." "And why," con-
tinued Confucius, "in the same piece, when the time to kneel
comes, do they kneel upon the right knee, and lift the left?"
Ping-meu Kya replied "That is not the way of kneeling proper
to the Wa." "Why those sounds," said Confucius, "which seem
as if they were hankering after the Sháng dynasty?" Ping-meu
Kya replied "Those sounds do not belong to the piece Wú."
"If those sounds," replied Confucius, "do not properly belong to
the piece W, whence are they?" "They come," replied Ping-
men Kya, "from some director of music who has lost the correct
tradition. Were it not so, it would result, then, that Wi-wang
had barren thoughts"-a conclusion which is inadmissible.
"You are right," said Confucius, "I have heard several of the
great officers of Cheu relate the same thing as yourself."
Ping-men Kya arose, left his place, and respectfully addressing
Confucius said "The tardiness which accompanies the prelude,
in the performance called Wú, thanks to your kindness, I now
fully comprehend. But may I venture to inquire of you how it
is, that after the first delay there is yet a second delay of longer
duration?" Confucius replied- "Sit down, and I will tell you.
Musical performances represent events which have had their ac-
complishment. In this piece, there is, at one time, a general
raising of spears and shields and standing erect like a mountain
immovable. This represents the waiting of Wi-wang for the
feudal lords to arrive. The rapidity with which the performers
move their hands and feet, images forth the spirit which actuated
Tai-kung. The general confusion represents the battle; the gen-
eral resumption of places, shows how the duke Cheu and the duke
Shu governed the people.
"Now, the musical performance named We represents first,
the starting out toward the north-as Wa-wang did when he
went to inspect the troops for the expedition against the tyrant
of the north, Chen. The second part represents the extinction
of the Shang dynasty. The third part represents the return to-
ward the south-in imitation of Wi-wang after the defeat of the
tyrant Cheu. The fourth part represents the establishment of

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 51
king W's rule over those princes of the south who were reluctant
to submit to his authority. The fifth part represents the division
of the administration between the dukes Cheu and Shau, the
former ruling the left hand or east, and the latter the right hand
or west. The sixth brings us back to the starting-point-which
is to represent the elevation of Wi-wang to the imperial throne.
The two champions making four attacks, represent the indomita-
ble power of king Wú, now spread over the middle-kingdom.
The two officers (holding wooden bells) on the flanks of the
troops, and urging on the advance, represent the urgency of
Wu-wang's undertaking in order to release the suffering people
from the oppression of the tyrant. The long standing at the
commencement, represents the waiting of Wu-wang for the arrival
of the feudal barons, to begin the attack on the tyrant.
"Moreover, have you alone not heard the story of the battle on
the plains of Moh?...... Wa-wang having vanquished the dynasty
of Yin, and having arrived at the capital of Shang-in the district
of Méi-ere he had alighted from his chariot, he had already in-
vested the descendants of Hang-ti with the principality of Kyi;
he had invested the descendants of the emperor Yan with the
principality of Chúh, and had invested with the principality of
Chun the descendants of the emperor Shun. Having descended
from his chariot, he invested the descendants of Yü of the Hya
dynasty with the principality of Kyi; he sent the descendants
of Yin to the principality of Súng; he invested with a suitable
burial-place [or raised a tumulus to] the prince Pelán; released
Kyi-tsz,-or the viscount of Kyi,-from his imprisonment [and it
is said sent him to Corea], allowing him to follow the usages of
the Shang dynasty, and to resume the throne thereof; he freed
the people from oppressive laws, and increased the emoluments
of all whom he had employed. Wa-wang crossed the Yellow-river
and went to the west. The horses used in the campaign he let
loose upon the south side of the Hwa Shun-or Flowery Moun-
tain-and they were mounted no more. The oxen-used for
drawing-were let loose in the uncultivated lands of Tau-ling,
-or the Peach Forest, and were no more subjected to the yoke.
The war-chariots and armour were varnished over with blood,
and laid up in the arsenals, and were never used again. The
arms used were reversed, enveloped in tiger-skins, and were pro-
nounced laid up. The officers who had high commands were
appointed governors over provinces, and then all the empire knew
that W-wang did not wish to go to war any more.

52
NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
"The army being disbanded, archery was tanght in the impe-
rial institute; on the left they drew the bow to the air 'li-sheu'
-or 'fox-head:' on the right to the sounds of the air 'tseu-yü'
-or the 'virtuous horse:' as to the shooting of arrows, in which
the object is to pierce through the leather target, that practice was
discontinued with the cessation of the war. The costume and
ceremonial hat for magistrates, were revived with the use of the
ceremonial tablet held before the visitor; and the body-guard
laid aside their swords. The ancestral sacrifice was offered by
Wu-wang in the great hall of the palace, whereby the people
understood what filial piety meant. By their visits at the court,
the feudal barons learnt the duties of a vassal. By seeing the
sovereign himself work in the holy field, the productions of
which were used for sacrifices,-the feudal lords learnt the duty
of reverence. These five affairs were the great instructions of the
empire.
"At the feast in honour of old men, which was given in the
great college, the emperor tucked up his sleeves and cut the
meats: he took the sauces and presented them: he took the wine-
cup and presented the wine. Covered with his ceremonial hat,
by taking part in the general evolutions, he taught the feudal
lords the duties which younger brethren owe to their elders. In
this manner the great duties pervaded all quarters, and the rites
and music circulated everywhere. Tell me now, whether there
was not propriety in the long delay at the opening of the musical
performance called Wa?"
CHAPTER X.
The Renovating Influence of Music: How conservative
and reformatory it is.
It is said by the sage that propriety and music may not for a
moment be separated from our persons. When we thoroughly in-
vestigate music, in order to regulate the heart, then the sentiments
of uprightness and goodness come forth with facility. When the
sentiments of uprightness and goodness spring forth, then one
is pleased. When one is pleased, then there is quiet. Where
quietness is, there will be long duration. Where long duration
is, there is heaven-and where there is heaven, there the gods

are.
NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 53
It is no more necessary that heaven should speak, in order
to obtain our credence, than it is that the gods should be angry,
in order to overawe us. So it is, when we investigate music
thoroughly, in order to regulate inner man.
When we thoroughly investigate the rites, in order to regulate
the outer man, then we acquire gravity and a respectful deport-
ment. Possessing these, they give an imposing air. Should the
mind be for a moment without the peace and self-satisfaction
which virtue brings, then low and deceitful sentiments enter at
once. If the exterior for a moment be wanting in gravity and a
respectful deportment, then the feelings which easily enter, at
once excite contempt.
Now, music having its origin in the interior emotions, and
the rites having their accomplishment in exterior movements,
when the sage thoroughly studies the harmony proper for music
with the view of regulating his mind, and in the same manner
studies the proprieties belonging to the rites for the purpose of
regulating his exterior, inwardly he is in perfect harmony, and
outwardly he conforms to propriety; then the people, by only
looking at the appearance of his face, abstain from quarrelling
with him; and if the people only take one look at his countenance,
no sentiment of disrespect can have birth. So it is, that when
the lustre of the sage's virtue shines within him, among the peo-
ple there is not one who does not imitate and listen to him: and
when the proprieties are manifested without, there are none
among the people who do not conform to their requirements.
Hence comes the saying, "When the sage ruler thoroughly
understands the principles of music and of the rites, whatever
errors may arise in the empire, there will be no difficulty in correct-
ing them."
Music has its source from interior emotions, and the rites have
their accomplishment in exterior movements. It follows that the
tendency of the rites is to bring down in his own estimation the
person who observes them, and the use of music is to fill up the
mind with sentiments of good will. Yet, while the rites take down
self-conceit, they ought not to hinder our advance; for by
advance an accomplished character is formed; just as it is, that
while it is proper to have the mind filled with the sentiments
inspired by music, yet it is by restraint that an accomplished
character is formed. If in the rites we bring ourselves down,
without advancing, we are reduced to nothing; and if in music

54 NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
we fill ourselves up, without restraint, we abandon ourselves to
dissipation. Therefore it is, that in the rites we advance, and in
music we recede. When in the rites we succeed in advancing to
the proper point, the result is pleasure; and in music, when we
succeed in restraining ourselves within the proper limit, the result
is ease. So, advance in the rites, and retreat in music, mean
about the same thing-preserving the mean.
Now, it is the nature of music to hold joy within those bounds
which keep it in accordance with the sentiments of humanity.
Man's joy must be manifested by the sounds of his voice, and
rendered visible by the movement or repose of his person. The
action and changes of human emotion find their expression either
in the sounds of the voice, or the movement or repose of the body.
Man must have pleasure, and pleasure must have its manifestation.
If it be allowed to manifest itself without order, then it cannot
escape running into confusion. It was because the ancient
emperors were ashamed of this disorder that they established the
Ya and the T'súng odes [such as now form part of the poetical
Elegant Extracts, said to be compiled by Confucius himself]-in
order that joy might be correctly directed. Therein they managed
that the voice should have sufficient scope for joy, without allowing
it to run into excess and dissipation. In these odes they managed
that the composition should furnish matter enough for the dis-
cussion of principles, without extinguishing joy. They so managed
that there were curved sounds and straight ones; sounds that
were full, and lean sounds, abrupt sounds and those that were
continued; dividing sounds, and connecting ones, which were
quite adequate to move the human mind to good, without causing
any irregular emotions to find reception. Such was the method
of the ancient emperors when they instituted music.
Therefore, when music was performed in the ancestral temple,
the sovereign and magistrates, superiors and inferiors, heard it
together, and there was not one among them who was not
harmonized into respect. When music was performed in a clan or
a neighbourhood, the aged and the young heard it together, and
there was not one who was not rendered docile thereby. When
music was performed within the private family, father and son,
elder and younger brother heard it together, and there was not
one among them who was not drawn into closer affection. [Alas
for the poor women of China! Where were they?] So, in music,
the mind endeavors to establish the accord which exists between

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 55
the harmony of sounds and their sentiments. The instruments
and implements employed in musical performances give the
external embellishment. All the parts unite in forming a complete
composition, and this complete composition unites in harmony
the father and son, the sovereign and the minister, and conciliates
the affection of all the people. Such are the results of the method
of the ancient kings in the institution of music.
Thus, in listening to the singing of the Ya and Tsung odes
(which rectify our obliquities and praise our virtues) the thoughts
acquire breadth and expansion. In grasping and using the
implements used in the evolutions, in exercising the inclinations
and elevations of the head, the crouchings and the extensions of
the body, the exterior acquires gravity. In keeping one's self in
the proper rank and place, in giving due attention to the strategic
rules and evolutions, the different ranks of performers are kept in
line, and the marches and counter-marches preserve the requisite
precision. Wherefore it may be said of music, that it is like the
instructing ordinance of heaven and earth, or the harmonizing
binding-cord of the Mean-from whose restraint human passions
cannot free themselves.
Now, music may be considered as the outward adornment given
by the ancient kings to their joy-just as troops and their banners
and arms were the outward manifestation of their anger. So,
whether in their expression of joy or anger, the ancient kings
had their rule. Thus, in joy the empire was in accord with their
sentiments; and in anger, then the oppressor and the disorderly
alike were overawed. Hence it was, that under the system of
government adopted by these ancient kings, the rites and music
were in so flourishing a condition.
CHAPTER XI.
Tsz-king's conversation with the Music-master Yih:
The use of Song, and its effects.
Tsz-king, at an interview with the music-master Yih, put to
him this question,-"I have heard it said that for every person
there is a song which suits his character and disposition. Now,
as to myself, can you tell me which would be suitable to me?"
The music-master replied-"I am but an unskilful artist, how
could I presume to determine your question as to what would be

56 NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC.
befitting? But if you will rehearse those you have heard, you,
my master, will be able to lay hold yourself on a reply to your
inquiry. I have heard that, to men with varied ideas but calm
temperament, and to men who are meek but of upright character,
the Odes of Praise [Tang] would be suitable. To men with
broad and liberal ideas but calm in temperament, and to men
of thorough penetration but worthy of all confidence, the Odes
of the Ta Ya suit. To men who are respectful and economical,
but who love the rites, the Siau Ya suits. To men who are true
and upright, but calm and uncorrupted, yet condescending,
the Króh-fung suits. To men of unbending rectitude, yet com-
passionately tender, the Shúng suits. To men who are mild, and
yet know how to decide, the T'si suits. The nature of the odes
requires that one should first rectify his own person, and then
select the ode calculated to manifest the virtue one has acquired.
When one sets the virtue of his character in action, then heaven
and earth respond; the four seasons harmonize; the celestial
bodies follow their laws, and all beings receive nourishment ac-
cording to their respective exigencies.
"Now the Sháng has been bequeathed to us by the Five Em-
perors; but it is because the people of the Shang dynasty were
well acquainted with it, that it has been called Sháng. The Tsi
was bequeathed to us by the three dynasties-of Hyá, Shány and
Cheu, but it is because the people of Tsi were well acquainted
with it that it has been called Tsi. When one thoroughly com-
prehends the meaning of the airs of the Sháng, he is fitted to
decide all questions presented: and when one understands the
sense of the airs of the Tei, he willingly yields to others, even at
the sacrifice of his own personal interests. To decide every affair
which presents itself may be called bravery; but to yield will-
ingly to others what is just, at the sacrifice of one's own personal
interests-that is equity! Were bravery and justice not preserved
in song, pray tell me how they could be rendered durable?"
In song, the high notes may be likened to one's raising the
hands as high as possible. The low notes may be likened to
one's letting something fall. The curved notes may be likened
to repressed feeling. Notes when abruptly arrested may be
likened to the breaking of dry wood. Angular notes may be com-
pared to the square. Rounded notes may be likened to a crook.
Notes that succeed each other uninterruptedly, may be compared
to a string of pearls. Wherefore it may be said that song is

NOTIONS OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE RESPECTING MUSIC. 57
nothing but words, yet words prolonged. When one is delighted
he feels the necessity of expressing his joy by words; but una-
dorned words being insufficient, they are prolonged; prolonged
words not sufficing, they are modulated and melodized to express
the emotions that produce them; modulation and melody being
found insufficient, the hands and feet are unwittingly set in
motion, to give vent to the emotions of the mind.