[67]
ARTICLE V.
NOTICES OF LOK PING CHEUNG
LATE GOVERNOR
GENERAL OF SZE CHUEN
[..
BY REV. C. F. PRESTON.
THE accompanying Memorial and Imperial Rescript are of such
interest, that it is proper to translate them, with the addition of
a few particulars gathered chiefly from conversations with a
Chinese friend who is well acquainted with the circumstances.
It may be premised, that the facts are well known by the people
of Canton; and, as is quite natural, no little satisfaction is ex-
pressed by them, in having had such a worthy representative in
the government.
,
The late Viceroy is a native of the Flower District
which lies to the north of Canton about 30 miles, and the family
are now residing at Fuhshan the large market town,
about 12 miles to the east of this city. When he was young he
was a child of poverty, and when about 17 years of age was
employed as a cook in the family of a gentleman by the name of
Cheung Kam, who resided on the island of Honan
opposite the provincial city, whose sons were taught by a tutor
at home. While employed in his menial occupation the cook
found time to carry on his studies. He would come to the door
of the apartment where the classics were explained, and listen to
the instructions given. One day an essay was brought for cor-
rection, which the teacher, a "Siu t'sai", was confident
was not composed by the boy who presented it. Upon being
charged with imposition, the young culprit confessed that the
paper was prepared by the cook. The teacher was surprised,
but satisfied himself of the facts of the case by giving the master
of the kitchen a trial, to write upon a theme in his presence,
which was done in a short time, and without the necessity of
making corrections. The matter was reported to the gentleman
Read before the Society on 13th November, 1868.

68
NOTICES OF LOK PING CHEUNG.
in whose family it happened; and he willingly acceded to the
request of the teacher, to give the lad the advantages of a good
education. He released him from his servile engagement, gave
him a place with his own sons, and subsequently presented him.
a daughter in marriage. He passed successively the several ex-
aminations, until he became a member of the Han Lin Academy
B, from which according to the following translations, he
was recommended for promotion. The immediate occasion of this
recommendation is said to have been the discovery of his stern
honesty and strict fidelity, which have been distinguishing traits
of his character, during the whole of his official career, and
are now the formation of his fame, and the expressed reasons
for the high honours which have been accorded to him. It is
said that in one of the missions which was entrusted to him
it had been customary to receive presents, or what were in fact
bribes, to the amount of five or six thousand taels, a portion of
which it was usual upon the return to the Capital, to pay over to
one of the Members of the Cabinet. In the present instance the
payment not being made, an investigation was instituted which
resulted in the happy discovery that notwithstanding the poverty
of the Commissioner, which was well known, he was proof against
the many temptations to official corruption which he encountered,
and that he had refused all the presents of the kind referred to,
which rare instance of honesty and integrity, was destined to
meet an appropriate reward. At the time in question he was
remarkable for his simple manners, and want of ostentation.
When entitled by his rank to be addressed as "tajen"
great man, he made visits of ceremony, going on foot, carrying
his own cards, and being without attendants. A custom most
singular, if not almost improper according to the popular code in
vogue in China.
^.
It has been remarked repeatedly, that in this respect, as well
as in his ideas of what is honest, he was very like a foreigner.
Frugality and fidelity are by no means openly ignored as matters
of importance in Chinese official life. There is no lack either of
profession, of which there is abundance, but the pure article is
sufficiently rare to excite particular attention.
Those who have a reputation of this character are always.
selected as Imperial Commissioners when missions are instituted
to inquire into cases of alleged mismanagement, and crimes of
high officials, and it is not uncommon to see the character

NOTICES OF LOK PING CHEUNG.
69
affected to an extravagant degree, in order to give the greater
emphasis to the severity of the examination, an instance of which
occurred not long ago, in which it was reported, and believed
by the people outside, that the officer of the kind in question, of
a very high rank, was content with one servant, and one course
at his meals!
The accompanying translations mention that the late Viceroy
was, at the time of death so far as his family was concerned,
almost alone; the popular reason assigned for this, is want of
sympathy on the part of his sons in the strict code of honesty
and integrity adopted by their parent-a fact which resulted in
the lamentable separation. It is well known that relatives of
officials often take advantage of their position to accomplish
private ends, generally without the connivance or knowledge of
the official themselves, for the penalties of such offences are very
severe. Whatever may be the facts in the present instance, it is
evident that such improprieties were contemplated in the forma-
tion of the code of Chinese law,-which specially provides with
reference to the subject under contemplation, that all the principal
civil appointments shall be away from the native province; and
there are regulations in respect to what relatives are not per-
mitted to dwell, or hold office, within the same local jurisdiction;
and perhaps on the same account the term of office is made
very short, and matrimonial alliances are in certain cases not
allowed, as utterly improper.
The subject of this notice was a great favourite of the people.
The distinguishing traits of his character are what would render
him such, and his holding office for ten successive years in Hunan
, when the term is three years, is doubtless to be ascribed to
this fact, as well as the comparative freedom from the spirit of
rebellion during the time of the Nanking insurgents in
the province of Sze Chuen J. It is certainly remarkable
that this large outlying province has remained to such a little
degree affected by the almost universal anarchy which has ruled
so much of the empire in late years; doubtless it has been greatly
owing to the personal influence of the Viceroy. One of the so-
called Kings from Nanking who attempted to gain a foothold there,
was captured and executed, as referred to in the translations-
for which at the time much credit was awarded in the "Peking
Gazette." Another evidence that he was beloved by the people is
told with unfeigned pride by the people of Canton as seldom or

70
NOTICES OF LOK PING CHEUNG.
never having occurred before, that for seven days after his death,
people of all classes, even the poorest in the province where he
held office, put on mourning, and refrained from all festivity and
expressions of mirth, as though they had been bereaved of a
parent, and this spontaneous homage of the people is felt to be
a more precious tribute to his memory than even the Imperial
favours.
The surgical operation referred to was performed by Kwan A
I'o, a Chinese long connected with the hospital of the "Medical
Missionary Society in China," at Canton, for which a long
journey and protracted absence was required, but it was in a
measure successful, and it was suitably rewarded.
It is an interesting fact that the late Governor of Canton,
"Tseung Yik Lai", of whose energy, fidelity and honesty
so much has of late been written in connection with the many
reforms inaugurated at Canton by him, was a decided pet of the
subject of this notice. The people insist that they were kindred
spirits, and therefore a special and mutual attachment was the
result. As was the case with many of the most successful
military leaders of the past few years, this official was recom-
mended by the late Viceroy. It is reported as a matter of true
history, that after a certain reverse, the life of this young officer
was demanded by Chinese law and custom, to atone for defeat,
and that he was only saved by the energetic protest and security
of his venerable friend; and it is moreover the popular belief that
the document referred to in the translations, as left to be for-
warded to the Emperor, contained an expression of confidence
and earnest recommendation of the late Governor, now partially
degraded.
The following is the original, with a translation, of a pair of
scrolls which were sent according to Chinese custom to the
bereaved family after the news of the death of Lok Ping Cheung
騎乘章 by his protegé, Tseung Yik Lai 蔣签澧
1. 文澂國忠愛常存化布十六年我湘江同再造‧
2. 武鄉侯經論未竟名揚十八宿如公表又何人
1. In civil life the patriotism and charity of "Lo Kwok" are
preserved, his renewing influence extended over a period of
sixteen years. He protected me by the "Seung" river, and I was
restored to life again.

NOTICES OF LOK PING CHEUNG.
71
2. In military life, twisting the threads of the web like
"Heung Han" is not over, his fame spread through the eighteen
provinces. Who is to be compared to H.E. beyond the mountain
range? (Southern China.)
The Chinese gentleman referred to as patron, survived to a good
old age to see the fame of his son-in-law, in his high elevation,
nor was he forgotten. So long as he lived a sum of money was
every year sent for his support; and it was needed, since in
China as in other countries it is not uncommon to see changes
from wealth to poverty, and especially of late years the waves of
elevation and depression have passed quickly through the social
life of this empire.
In regard to the posthumous honours, conferred upon the
subject of these notices, it was at first a matter of conjecture, and
efforts were made at the Capital by the friends of the family to
obtain substantial acknowledgment of his services, and as the
merits of the case were well known, it was confidently expected
that in accordance with a wise policy they would not be suffered
to go unrewarded. Whether these expectations were fully met,
or what they would amount to by the standard of western
ideas, it would be difficult to say. It is evident that in him the
present dynasty has lost an able and faithful servant. The
honours accorded to him are exceedingly prized and seldom ob-
tained by his countrymen, by whom they are earnestly sought.
Hereditary rank in China does not bring so many substantial
benefits as in the countries of the west, and as there is no law
of primogeniture, it is seldom of long continuance, and unworthy
descendants are deprived of the position. Having a place in the
"Chapel of the Worthies" at Peking, might be compared with the
permission of burial in Westminster Abbey, or having a monu-
ment erected at government expense.
It would be interesting to know what were the feelings of the
Inte Viceroy in regard to the relations of China with western
countries; but he was not brought into any connection with
foreigners during his official life, and he was absorbed in atten-
tion to matters at home.
From what is known of him and the name he has acquired for
himself, he may be regarded as a bright example of official in-
tegrity and honesty, and he was a tower of strength in the time
of his country's need, found to be such by those who sought to
overturn the present dynasty. In both civil and military affairs
his executive ability was manifest.

72
NOTICES OF LOK PING CHEUNG.
Memorial of the Tartar General Shung Shih, in relation
to the death of Lok Ping Cheung.
Your slave Shung Shih kneeling makes a Memorial con-
cerning the relinquishment of office by H.E. the Governor
General, and in accordance with custom the memorial is sent by
express, looking up and praying for the Imperial attention.
It appears that "Lok Ping Cheung", Assistant Mem-
ber of the Cabinet, and Governor General of "Sze Chuen" was
more than seventy years of age. During the autumn of Tung Chi
3rd year, (1864,) in the first instance and subsequently by
Imperial favour, he was granted a vacation on account of disease
in his eyes. In the 9th month of the 4th year a memorial was
sent praying to be permitted to retire, when the Imperial Will
caused Your slave to perform in addition the duties of that office,
in order to rest and healing, following which a surgical opera-
tion was performed with the needle. In the 3rd month of
the present year, although his vital energy had not recovered its
usual force, he was for a short time able to examine public docu-
ments, and he felt that having received distinguished favours
from three emperors he did not dare even to rest for a little, or
cease attending to the business connected with the office. Just
at this time the "Nin" rebels burst into "Shien" and
"Nan" if (Shensi aud Yunnan,) plotting with reference to
"Sze Chuen" J, so that in increasing the army and planning
defense he had not a day of rest, and did not fail to exert himself
to the limit of his strength. From the commencement of the
autumn his eyes at times were clear, and at times blind, his
steps began to be slow and heavy, and in walking it was neces-
sary to have assistance. Still he applied himself with energy to
the transaction of public business, until the 9th month, when he
took a cold which did not yield to remedies.
Your slave was then engaged with the military examinations,
but from time to time went in company with the Commissioners,
Taotais, &c., to visit him, and repeatedly exhorted him to desist
from his labours, but H.E. the Viceroy was all the time em-
ployed in the public committee, and bowed himself to sustain the
onerous duties of his office, in performing which the patriotism
and sincerity of H.E. were manifest in his words and coun-
tenance. During the first part of the present month his maladies
were aggravated by a difficulty in breathing. Not being able to

NOTICES OF LOK PING CHEUNG.
73
sleep at night his vital energy was gradually weakened, and the
daily routine of business was more and more deputed for manage-
ment to the treasurer, Kong Sze Tsün, until he requested
a vacation of two months for healing, which during the 12th
month was forwarded in a mutual memorial by express. Just then
Your slave was engaged in the military examinations, but when
they were concluded a visit was immediately made, when it was
perceived that his disease was very serious. Already a memorial
has been sent reporting in the first instance and subsequently, the
conclusion of the military examinations, and a postscript was
affixed in a special message making mention of this; but most
unexpectedly on the 17th instant, the disease greatly increased
in violence, and Your slave, in company with the Commissioners
and Taotais of the province, went repeatedly to visit and inquire.
Whenever he received us he only spake of the spirit of rebellion
not yet quelled, of the plotting around the borders, of the
exigencies to be provided for on all sides, and of the plans of
defense to be devised. He was aware that recovery from his
illness could hardly be expected. He had prepared beforehand a
document which was committed to Your slave to forward in his
behalf, and he took the seals of his office and delivered them to
Your slave to manage in addition to those already incumbent
upon me, in order to avoid the danger of delay,-and at about
9 P.M. of the same day H.E. passed away.
In a review it is found that Lok Ping Cheung was recom-
mended for promotion from the Han Lin Academy
to Hing Tit卿秩. During the reign of Tao Kwong 道光,
in the first instance and subsequently, he received the Imperial
appointment to proceed to Shantung, Hunan and
other provinces, to examine and transact business. Subsequently
after being treasurer in Yunnan, he was promoted to fill
the office of Governor of Hunan, which he held for ten
years, training the army and instructing the scholars, dis-
tinguishing and promoting those of ability. The several south-
western provinces depended upon him to suppress the great
rebellion.
During the 10th year of Hien Fung, he received the
Imperial commands to take charge of the military affairs of Sze
Chuen, after which he received the selection to be Governor
General of Sze Chnen, since entering upon which office he
has suppressed the several rebellions from Tin and Ct

74
NOTICES OF LOK PING CHEUNG.
(Yunnan, Kwangtung and Kwangsi). Again he passed beyond
the borders of his jurisdiction to gain victories in Kwai Chow
, utterly sweeping away the rebellious hordes of Ki'en
(Kwai Chow).
In succession he received by Imperial favour the titles,
"Protector of the Heir Apparent" kkk. "Rewarded to
wear the double eyed peacock's feather" METEO.
"Rewarded with 1st class hereditary rank, Hing Ku To Wai"
During the 6th month of the present year he re-
ceived the Imperial will, to become "Assistant Member of the
Cabinet" The length of time he was in Chuk,
Cabinet”協辦大學士
(Sze Chuen,) was seven years. His august fame was far
spread, the whole province was at rest on account of him, and
his public patriotism was early 'manifested. He was frugal,
upright, and exercised self control, all the civil officers and people
of the whole province, and the military leaders and soldiers of
the several camps, all without exception, stood in awe of his great
virtue. Moreover his illness was brought on by his multiplied
labours, continued until he was unable to rise. Even at the hour
of death (lit. changing the mat), it was only with him a subject.
of regret that he was unable to requite the Imperial favours by
completely destroying the rebellion in the adjoining regions,
and there was not a word in regard to himself. Further, there was
not a single near relative in his office. His eldest son, Tin Po
, a "Yam Shang" of the 2nd class, his second son
Tin Ia "Yam Shang" of the 1st class, his grandsons
Mau Seung,惩湘,Mau Kan惩勤, Mau Yan慈仁and Mau
Fan, counting sons and grandsons, in all six persons, are
all at their home in Kwangtung. Only a grand-nephew,
Shiu Ts'ün, one person, was with him in his office. At
present Your slave in connection with the Commissioners, Taotais
&c., as is a matter of duty, will attend to the management of the
last offices to the deceased, but the affairs of the office of Governor
General are various and of great importance, and as there is urgent
necessity to guard the borders, it is mutually proper to request
that by the Imperial will a high official be soon selected to come.
to Sze Chuen to take the office and perform its important duties.
Your slave, albeit in the mean time performing the duties in
addition to his own, will do so to the best of his poor abilities,
guarding the several public roads, watching over the officers and

NOTICES OF LOK PING CHEUNG.
75
comforting the people, making provision for the revenue, and
coming to the rescue of the neighbouring provinces; in all these
things acting in sincerity and good faith, not daring in the least
to be inattentive or neglectful.
Besides taking the date of receiving the seals, and reporting
the same in a respectful memorial to the throne, it is proper to
prepare a respectful memorial, in regard to the matters connected
with the relinquishment of office by H.E. the Viceroy, by reason
of sickness, with the date, and to forward the same by express;
and still further, to enclose the document bequeathed by Lok
Ping Cheung, all of which are handed up for the Imperial
glance, kneeling, praying the Empress and Emperor to grant
the sacred glance upon this caretul memorial for the Imperial
Will.
It is recorded.
Imperial Rescript. The Assistant Member of the Cabinet, and
Governor General of Sze Chuen J was patriotic, sincere,
faithful, upright, firm in government, and diligent in wisdom.
He was recommended for promotion from the Han Lin Academy
to the 3rd rank "Hing", on account of frugal
principles and self control. His merit was discovered by the late
Emperor Tao Kwong, by whom first and subsequently he
was ordered to proceed to the provinces of Shantung
Hunan, &c., to transact business, from which he was suc-
cessively selected to act as judge, and appointed to the position of
a high official. He was in Hunan for ten years, training
its soldiers and instructing its scholars, discovering and promoting
those who had ability. The great rebellion of the southeast was
suppressed by his aid. Again he was indebted to the late Em-
peror Hien Fung, for recognizing his merit by whom his titles
were increased to wear a button of the head rank, to manifest
special regard, after which he was commended to take control of
the military affairs of Sze Chuen.
When We came to the throne he was immediately selected to
take the office of Governor General of Sze Chuen JI, proceed-
ing to Shuk, at the head of the army, distributing rewards
and punishments with discreet severity; whatever direction he
took he was victorious, and the several rebellions from Tin
and Üt , (i.e. Yunnan and Canton,) were entirely suppressed
by him, and in addition he passed beyond his own jurisdiction

76
NOTICES OF LOK PING CHEUNG.
into the departments and districts of Kansuh and Kweichow
, to gain victories, and on account of the capture of
the rebel "Shek" the territory of Sze Chuen I was pacified.
In accordance with his merits he was rewarded with the title of
"Protector of the Heir Apparent," and after the capture of
Nanking and the entire pacification of the southeast, remembering
that in former years while holding office in Hunan if it was
he who promoted the military leaders, that he was able to excite
military awe, his patriotism and entire devotion were acknow-
ledged by all, his diligence and toil were ever seasonable, and
he was again rewarded to wear the double eyed peacock's feather,
and granted the hereditary rank of first class, "Hing Kü To Waé"
and during the autumn of the present year he was
selected to the office of Cabinet Minister. He was long tried and
much respected, and it was desired that he might be spared to a
good old age, a support upon which to lean. Recently by
reason of a return of his old complaint, he was granted a vacation
for healing, and now it is reported that he has passed away.
Having examined the document bequeathed by him, the con-
sideration of his great goodness excites profound sorrow.
Let Lok Ping Cheung be granted the posthumous title "In-
structor of the Heir Apparent," and let the obsequies be conducted
according to those for Members of the Cabinet. All the censures
which he incurred during his official life are entirely removed.
It is proper that he should receive the Imperial bounty.
The Board in question is ordered to make examination of the
regulations and report in full, and at the same time there is to
be granted a posthumous name, and entrance into the Chapel
of Worthies at the Capital, with special chapels to be erected in
the provinces of Sze Chuen and Hunan, and the particulars of
his official life are to be entrusted to the Imperial Historiographer.
His son Lok Tin Po is granted the rank "Long Chung'
Eẞ, and after the period of mourning is passed he is to be
employed in the service of the Boards. Lok Tin I K
is granted the rank of "Kujin" A, and after the period of
mourning is past he is to be admitted fully to the examinations.
The grandsons, Man Seung Man Kau , Man Yan
Man Fan, are to be presented at court by the Board,
His grand-nephew, Lok Chin Ts'un , now waiting for
selection as deputy district magistrate (tso-ting), it is or-

NOTICES OF LOK PING CHEUNG.
77
dered that he be sent into the provinces to be appointed imme-
diately as district magistrate.
The mortal remains are to be removed to his native place,
and the local officials on the way are to give necessary attention,
in which they are to manifest sincere and careful intention.
Respect this.