[24]
ARTICLE II.
NOTES ON THE COAL FIELDS AND GENERAL GEOLOGY
OF THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF NAGASAKI.
BY THOS. W. KINGSMILL, Esq.,
Corresponding Secretary.
As I believe no attempt has yet been made to throw light on the
age of the Coal fields of Japan the following notes may have an
interest. The rock at Nagasaki itself may be called a coarse
volcanic grit; large blocks of green-stone lying embedded in a
mass of debris of every size and shape. Here and there these
rocks seem to be penetrated by dykes of more modern igneous
rocks, but the main masses though consisting of the ruins of
plutonic formations show little sign themselves of volcanic action.
The thickness of these grits must be very great: their base may
be seen in a valley near the village of Tomats, and from that they
seem to stretch as far at least as Tokeets some 13 miles distant.
They form hills about 1,800 to 2,000 feet in height and seem to
have a nearly constant dip at a very small angle to the W.N.W.
To a visitor the most striking feature of these rocks is the peculiar
manner in which the denuding forces have acted. Though as
above stated the strata are nearly horizontal the rock may be
seen jutting up into fantastic needles and castle-like structures.
Some times a few feet from the edge of a precipice a gigantic
needle will be seen rising far above the neighbouring trees, while
again on the top of a rounded mass will appear a pile of jutting
rocks almost like the bastions and walls of a medieval fortress;
and one mass on the road to Tokeets bears such a fantastic
likeness to the head of an Egyptian Sphinx as to have earned the
name of the "Giant's Head."
The lowest portion of this series may be seen in a valley to the
South of Tomats mentioned above; here at a turn in the road
soft shales appear dipping W.N.W. at an angle of about 15
degrees. A few steps further an excavation, driven in on the.

NOTES ON THE COAL FIELDS OF NAGASAKI.
25
slope of the strata and propped with wood, points out the entrance
to an old coal mine, now abandoned; about a quarter of a mile
on another similar is met with. Whether these mines were ever
profitably worked or not I was not able to learn; but the expense
of draining them in the native manner by means of flight of
small water wheels turned by the feet of boys must have been
excessive. At this spot I could obtain no fossils; but about a half
mile further, near a tea house at the summit of a path leading to
the sea, a bed of soft grey shale cropped up by the way side; in
this was a beautifully preserved leaf bed containing in abundance
the leaves of dicotyledonous plants. The colouring matter even
in some instances remained, while the structure and veining were
beautifully marked. Below these beds at the other side of the
valley, at the side of a small gorge known as the "Mermaids,
Dell" the lower rocks were seen to be mica schists altered and
contorted, on which the newer formations rested unconformably.
Lying in a S.E. direction from this spot, at the entrance of the
Bay of Nagasaki are the islands at Tako-sima, Koyaki and Iwo-
sima; the first of these is about half a mile in diameter and forms
an outlier of the coal series of the district; the rocks dip to the
N.W. and expose on the S.E. face a fine section of the coal
bearing strata. These are for the most part composed of a coarse
concretionary sand stone of a sickly yellowish brown colour
showing large concentric patches stained with iron. The whole
series is more or less fossiliferous; stems, leaves and trunks of
trees or stains of carbonaceous matter occuring all through the
series. One large boulder lying on the beach disclosed the
branching stem of a tree converted into coal, while all round the
debris cast out from the mines fragments of trunks of all sizes up
to 10 or 11 inches in diameter were lying. The interior of these
stems was generally converted into a silicious stone retaining
traces of structure, while the bark and the outer wood were for the
most part carbonized.
At various depths in the mass, but in more abundant quantities
near the coal seams, were leaf-bearing beds of blackish shale
containing likewise traces of carbonized branches; at intervals.
too occurred bands enclosing nodules of impure iron stone, these
bands however seeming not to exceed a few inches in thickness.

26
NOTES ON THE COAL FIELDS OF NAGASAKI.
D
In the island of Tako-sima three principal beds of coal seemed.
to occur in a thickness of about 750 feet; of which the upper
seemed to produce the
best coal, and had been
worked to a consider-
able extent. The island
forms a sort of irregular
triangle, the east face
where the edges of the
beds have been exposed
by denudation present-
ing a steep escarpment,
while the western por-
tion of the island des-
cends to the sea in a
gentle slope correspond-
ing with the dip of the
B
A
W
E
beds. The outerop of the beds is marked on the rough sketch in
the margin, C representing the highest and most worked seam.
Towards the extreme north-easterly angle of the island the out-
crop of this seam approached the sea level, below which on its dip
towards D it inclined; and here the lowest mine of the series had
been worked, which served besides as a drainage shaft for the
portion of the seam lying above it in level. The mode of working
adopted was most peculiar, and in view of the lie of the beds
probably the most unsatisfactory possible; long galleries heavily
timbered to support the roof and sides were driven in from the
outcrop on the slope of the beds, or at a declining angle about
12°, these passages were not even straight but twisted about from
one side to the other to avoid obstacles on their passage. As the
work went on the coal was simply extracted from the head of the
gallery, which in every case was supported and lined with heavy
masses of wood; no attempt was made by connecting passages to
extract the coal at either side, the miners simply working ahead
as long as they could remove the debris and coal from the
extremity. Some of these descending adits driven into the hill
were at least 400 yards in length, and yet at their extremity they
might probably have been reached by a vertical shaft of 50 yards

NOTES ON THE COAL FIELDS OF NAGASAKI.
27
in depth. The shafts were generally from 5 feet to 5 feet 6
inches high, and about the same width at bottom, tapering
towards the top, though their size varied according to the cir-
cumstances of the case. The coal seams themselves were irregular
in thickness, the coal appearing rather to lie in pockets than in
an even seam, in some places I was assured that it was 8 feet in
thickness while in others it dwindled down to 2 or 3 feet; thick
layers of shale occurred in some places in the middle of the seam
dividing it into two or more portions; sometimes the coal ap-
peared altogether to cease, nothing but a wall of rock existing at
one side, the result probably of slight shifts.
As stated above, the lowest shaft was used to some extent as a
drain for the upper portion of the seam; its mouth opened about
60 feet over the level of the sea, but it seemed to dip some con-
siderable distance under that level. The method of drainage
adopted was as primitive as the other operations about the mines.
Naked boys or men seated on a cross beam drove with their
feet light water wheels about 5 feet in diameter; floats fixed on
these lifted the water some two feet over a dam into the next
level where the same operation had to be repeated, each lift was
thus somewhat under 2 feet; I calculated there were eighty or
ninety of these wheels at work in this shaft. To carry off the
water from the upper shaft were small adits penetrating the rock
but whether natural or artificial I could not say. The workmen
said they were in hopes of getting this mine dry after some
weeks work, when they would remove the wheels and work it
further till the water again stopped them.
At intervals at the side of this shaft chambers for the accom-
modation of the workmen had been formed; when I passed down
they had all retired for a midday rest, and seemed quite happy
and comfortable, lying down asleep or chatting to one another.
Although this mine was much more crooked than the others and
there was no artificial means of ventilation, the air though damp
was pure. Throughout the whole of the mines there was no
escape of dangerous gases; indeed the little actual depth below
the surface at which they were worked naturally left a sufficiency
of natural channels for their dissipation. At the south east
angle of the island the lowest visible seam A cropped out on the

28
NOTES ON THE COAL FIELDS OF NAGASAKI.
beach, but had never been worked, probably owing to the expense
of drainage, it lying altogether below the sea level; the second seam
B was only partially worked, the uppermost C being the favourite.
On examining carefully, some time after my visit, the fossils
obtained by me on the spot, I was much surprised to find them.
agreeing in character with those from the leaf bed at Tomats; the
rocks are more compact than those at the base of the Nagasaki
grits, but this identity in fossils points them out as portions of the
same system, whether upper or lower the time and opportunities at
my disposal did not allow me to ascertain. The leaves especially
were beautifully preserved, bearing a considerable magnifying
power. They seemed to consist entirely of dicotyledons in the
specimens in my possession, though many of the trunks seem to
belong to the palm tribe; ferns and the more familiar plants of
the carboniferous formations in China and Europe were entirely
absent, nor did I notice conifers or cycads. The flora seemed to
bear a close resemblance to that of the "Brown Coal" of Germany
the likeness extending to the families represented.
As dicotyledonous plants made their first appearance, so far as
is already known, in the later secondary formations, and as
even at this epoch the flora still retained for the most part its
archaic physiognomy, being largely composed of the older cycads,
ferns, calamites and conifers, we can hardly place the geological
age of these rocks earlier than the Chalk of Europe. Indeed from
the similarity of its fossils to the recent flora of the neighbourhood,
it seems more probable that we must class the formation as
belonging to the early Tertiaries.
In the neighbouring island of Koyaki coal mines have also
been worked in similar rocks. Iwo-sima seems to consist of similar
deposits, while the same formation appears to extend to the Goto
Islands where large masses of shale and sand-stone dipping at
low angles towards the W. and S. are seen at both sides of the
Fukuye channel. The sand-stone used generally for building
purposes at Nagasaki is evidently quarried from the same forma-
tion; it is of a disagreeable yellow brown colour and of a marked
concretionary structure, large reddish spheroidal masses appear-
ing everywhere in the mass, giving the walls built of it a most
unpleasant appearance of insecurity.

NOTES ON THE COAL FIELDS OF NAGASAKI.
29
Should the other coal fields of Japan prove to belong to the
same series, we shall have in Japan one of the newest coal fields
of any extent in the world; deposits of carbonaceous matter of
equally late date occur indeed in many localities in Europe and
America but they are generally of extremely limited area, and
rarely if ever appear in the form of true coal, being usually in
the state of lignite. Compared with the neighbouring country of
China a curious contrast appears; in China most of the rocks
belong to the palieozoic or early secondary ages; the later de-
posits in the central and sea board provinces at least being
confined to a few sand-stones and clays; while in the island of
Kiusiu deposits of solid rock thousands of feet in thickness have
been formed and elevated in comparatively recent times.