ARTICLE III.
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.*
BY ROBERT SWINHOE, Esq., F. R. G.S., F.Z.S.
II. B. M. Consul at Ningpo.
PART I.
VOYAGE TO HAINAN, NAOCHOW ISLAND, HOIHOW, KIUNGCHOW
CITY, ROMAN CATHOLIC MISSION,
TRIP TO THE MOUNTAINS, ABORIGINES, TINGGAN CITY.
0
N the 29th January I embarked with my native
servants on board H. M.'s gun-boat Algerine,
Lieutenant and commander Domvile. The cruise
was not to exceed two and a half months. We left
Hongkong on the day of our embarcation, and on
the 31st put into Tsapo the harbour of the island called
Hailingshan in order to procure a pilot. This island
is in the Yangkiang district of the Shaoking prefecture
and has been well surveyed. The harbour of Tsapo besides
being a fishing station is used as a shelter for junks on the
west coast trade. The village is of moderate extent and at a fort
near to it is stationed a Sinkwan (or small naval officer) to keep
the peace and to collect harbour dues. We visited him and he
took us on board of a war junk anchored amongst several merchant
junks off the village. This junk was one of a fleet of five under
the command of commander Le who was subordinate to the Chintai,
or Commodore of Shaoking prefecture. The fleet cruised about
from Naochow island (south) to Kwangyang (north) for the sup-
pression of piracy. The commander was away at the district city
for the new year, but with the help of his secretary, who treated
us with the greatest courtesy, we succeeded in getting a pilot to
take us as far as Naochow. The guns at the fort were large and
looked better than usual, but many of their carriages were old
and on one side. The sampans or boats were somewhat egg-
shaped and sculled by women, looking much like those of Macao.
*Read before the Society on May 13th, 1872.

42 NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
There were many fishing junks in the harbour, their sails cut as
in the Canton sea-going junks, but they had blunted sterns.
Tsapo is a pretty harbour, the hills being covered with grass with
occasional occurrence of clumps of trees and brushwood. The rock
is granite but abounding in unusually large flakes of mica.
In the evening we were anchored under the island called Ty-
chookchow in the Tienpe district. Starting at daylight the next
day (1st February) we passed Shuytung. There is a bluff rock
below it called Amk'engshan which affords a good landmark.
There were many fishing-boats off this place, both large and small;
the small kind were like Amoy sampans with single square mat
sail, but their sterns were cut off straight and they were rowed
with a stern scull. Off Kwanchowshan fishing-boats of another
pattern appeared. The hill which affords a beacon to the entrance
of this bay is half hidden by a sand hill range in front. We entered
the Naochow straits and the pilot put us on a sand bank, which
untoward accident was so far fortunate as to give me the whole
of the next day (February 2nd) to explore the island.
As you enter the straits Naochow island presents a black and
white appearance from the promiscuous mixture of rock and sand,
and shows a range of cocoanut trees along a hill at its north-east
point. This is the first of the cocoanut that one sees on this
coasting route. We wandered over the southern end of the island
and saw no cocoanuts, except a solitary tree or two alongside the
fort near Naochow town. Along the western coast of the island
small rounded boulders of volcanic rock lie scattered about the
sand, but further inland similar-sized rocks of a fine bluish-grey
granite occur. The soil is reddish-brown clay yielding to sand in
many places and becomes very clammy after rain. To prepare this
clayey soil for cultivation the natives work in sand. The island
consists of low undulating land, a great deal of which is allowed
to lie waste. The depressed patches where water is available are
converted into rice fields, and we observed the young rice in nur-
series ready for planting out. Sugar cane was in full growth,
and a tall species of cotton plant four to five feet high with pods
bursting and exposing the cotton contained within. Sweet potatoes
were the chief cultivation. The houses of the natives were built
of fragments of stone with plaster between and were thatched.
Little groups of them forming hamlets were ensconced in trees.
and occurred at long distances apart. Tolerably good cart roads
led from one to the other. The carts were small and of rude

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
43
structure dragged by an ox on which the driver rode. The "yellow
cow" of China was comparatively scarce, its place being taken by
a large-humped animal like the Indian zebu. The dogs were like
those at Canton, and fowls, ducks, and pigeons were common
about the hamlets. The trees that sheltered the villages were
banyans, bamboos, tamarinds, pride of India (Melia azedarach),
and several handsome species of figs of large and umbrageous
growth. In the south-west end of the island buried among trees
stands the chief town of Naochow under the control of a Toosze or
military captain. He treated us very civilly, and sent off two
pilots both provided with certificates from British naval officers
and others who had used their services from Naochow to Hoihow.
and had found the men trustworthy. The natives, both men and
women, dress much as the Canton peasantry, They speak a
dialect which seems to be a mixture of the Swatow and Canton
dialects and differs from that spoken in north Hainan. Naochow
town is not large and much scattered; it has a poor market. It
is about half a mile inland from the landing beach near the fort
which is merely an open strand with no jetties. Naochow and
Kwangehowshan are included in the Woochuen district of Kaochow
prefecture, and are not as their geographical position would indi-
cate part of the prefecture of Luichow. The civil mandarin
stationed in Naochow is a Seunkeen or police magistrate; the
military mandarins a Toosze, a Tscentsung, and three Patsun
(serjeant). The population of Naochow is stated at 20,000, bu
I should judge one half of that nearer the mark. A little black
sugar is exported and a little of the Luhtow or small green bean.
Rice, cotton, and sweet potatoes are grown for home consumption;
and for the same purpose fish are caught and salted. The people
appear in tolerable condition. No dues are said to be charged
for the use of the harbour. Three small pirates visited the an-
chorage in November of the year preceding that of our visit and
under the guns of the fort robbed a junk of $1,000. The natives
declared that no mammals of any size are found in their island,
and we saw none. Coming within the influence of the north-east
monsoon most birds that wind their way down the coast of China
extend their journey to Naochow. Among these the common
crane was most conspicuous; it ranged also into north Hainan.
In the same way on our return we found many of China's summer
visitants scattered about the island on their passage back to their
breeding quarters.

44
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
The following remarks on the passage through the Naochow
straits have been kindly afforded me by Lieutenant Domvile: "The
Naochow passage is incorrectly laid down in the admiralty chart
as there is a bank with only six feet water running off the island
itself, as also the bank along the centre. I never examined the
passage to the north-west of the bank, but the pilot did not appear
to know that there was another channel beside the one we went
by, which is much more central than that laid down in the chart
with a depth of seven fathoms all the way through, deepening to
the fathoms by the fort at the point. The least water was off the
north end, but never less than four fathoms. The best anchorage
is off the town on the south end of the island, not too close to the
fort, as the water is deep. The bar marked on the chart as dry
at low water is always dry. The anchorage is only exposed to
southerly winds, when vessels might easily anchor in the channel.
Wood and water can be obtained here. The fishermen are the best
pilots for Naochow; but to take ships forward to Hainan there is
a regular staff of pilots, most of them holding good certificates."
Lieutenant Domvile continues, "it would be impossible to give
any safe directions for going through the "Thunder Sands' from
Naochow to Hainan as the pilots are continually altering course
by the soundings, and there is no land in sight for a great part
of the way to obtain bearings by. The pilot we had appeared
trustworthy and could give his own directions in English. The
distance is about 52 miles, and there are several anchorages (in
the open water between reefs where junks put into when the
weather threatens and the waves run high). The least water we
got inside the sands was two and a half fathoms, which we carried
for some time. The coast of Hainan, when you first sight it, is
very low and sandy with fishing-villages here and there, and a
reef about three miles from the land which you follow for some
way keeping it about 800 yards off on your starboard hand. The
first prominent object you see is a pagoda hill over Poochin (not
marked on the chart) about 450 feet high."
We anchored in the principal port of Hainan in the afternoon
of the 3rd February, 1868. It is simply called Hoihow (court
dialect Haikow) or sea port, being in fact the outlet to the capital
city Kiungchowfoo situate further inland. Lieutenant Domvile.
remarks that "it is a large straggling bay about three miles deep
running very shallow towards its head, and open from north-east
to north-west by west. The usual anchorage is off the town

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
45
of Hoihow on the east side of the bay in two and a half fathoms.
The town is situated at the mouth of a very small river, which is
nearly dry at low water. It is three miles from the anchorage
and is very difficult to get up to except at high water, as the
passage is intricate and very shallow. When the tides are high
good sized junks can haul up nearly to the town, but the greater
part of them load at the anchorage. The land about Hoihow is
low and sandy with a few hillocks in the back ground. The most
conspicuous objects seen from the anchorage are a tall pagoda to
the right of and just outside Hoihow, the highest peak of the
hummocks marked on the chart Marron, and a pyramidal pillar
or rock a short distance from the entrance of Jin-me point the
west boundary of the bay."
I will here quote what Du Halde (Hist. de la Chine) remarks upon
the port: "it is to the north of this island that nearly all the junks
from Canton resort. The port is formed by a somewhat broad
river, the entrance to which is defended by two small fortresses;
vessels otherwise constructed than those of the Chinese would have
trouble to enter it; it has only from ten to twelve feet water;
commerce attracts thither all the merchants of the island, who
have only agents in the other quarters. The capital is about two
leagues from this port and is only separated from it by a great
plain covered with many fine Chinese sepulchres, among which
is seen a cross raised over the tomb of an Italian Jesuit, the firs
missionary who had entered that island."
Mr. D. B. Robertson, H. M. Consul, and Mr. W. F. Mayers,
Vice-consul at Canton had kindly procured for me letters of in-
troduction from the Vice-roy of the two Kwang (the provinces of
Kwangtung and Kwangse) to the Taotai, Chintai, and Prefect of
Hainan. These we took ashore on the day of our arrival, and
handed to the Tsanfoo, or naval commandant of Hoihow for
transmission to Kiungchowfoo the chief city of the island, and at
the same time requested him to provide us with the means of
conveyance for visiting the city next day. Ponies were provided
and on the 4th we rode to the city and called upon the three
chief functionaries who received us affably. The Chintai (com-
modore and general) said that he was always pleased to see a
gun-boat down as it scared the pirates from the neighbourhood,
which he was not able to do himself as he had no means of equip-
ping war-junks. He only possessed one junk, and she was not
seaworthy. He told us that only lately three small junks had

46
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
been defying them and had beaten off three merchant junks that
the commandant at Hoihow had commissioned and sent out against
them. He was very anxious that the gun-boat should go out in
search for these pirates, which were reported to be not far off,
and wished to send the commandant in company in command of
three hired junks. Lieutenant Domvile at once agreed on the
cruise. The Taotai expressed himself extremely pleased to see us
and promised to do all in his power to assist me in my enquiries
and researches. He said that he was anxious to see the port open
in accordance with the treaty, as the trade of the place was dull
and required the foreign element to give it an impetus, especially
in the shape of steamers. That we were constantly sending down
expeditions of enquiry into the trade of the place, but that as yet
nothing had resulted from them. He referred, I presume, to the
two expeditions which the foreign customs had sent to Hainan.
The Taotai hoped that my investigation would settle the question
as to opening the port. He added that he would be happy to
provide me with quarters in the city while the gun-boat was away
in pursuit of pirates.
On the 6th at 10 A. M. our Cowloon mandarin came off with
the Tsanfoo's deputy. The Tsanfoo's junks were lying abreast of
us becalmed and the Tsanfoo came on board the gun-boat and
took breakfast with us. He was a tall portly individual of gen-
tlemanly manners, and tried to be friendly. Before noon he
returned to his flag junk. A light breeze sprang up and the junks
were soon in the offing. The gun-boat began to weigh, and I got
into a native boat with my Chinese servants and a few traps and
made for the shore. There was not much wind and the boat was
a long time reaching the town up the small shallow river with an
antiquated fort at each side near its entrance. We drew up near
the steps of the Kungho hong, the master of which a Cantonese
had received instructions from the Taotai to give me accommodation
and any assistance I required. These hongs that line the river or
more properly creek have all their backs to it, their fronts being
on the main street, most of them having private steps to the water,
and their names painted conspicuously over their back doors. The
master of the Kungho appeared of a sulky nature and did not seem
to appreciate the honour of entertaining a British official. He
came however and conversed with me for a long time giving me
what information I needed and sent those of his partners and
assistants that could speak the court dialect to talk with me.
But

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
47
there was little cordiality between us. Gun-boat officers had
visited him on former occasions, and having been recommended
by one of these when leaving Hongkong to visit his establishment
I had applied to the Taotai to direct the Kungho hong to receive
me on my landing. The merchants in Hoihow pretty generally
feared to have anything to do with an official personage lest the
mandarins might make it a plea for a fine. I had letters of intro-
duction from a British merchant at Hongkong to two Chinese
firms in Hoihow, but on sending to present the letters the bearer
was told that the head partners of both were away and that no
one was left who was worthy to do the proper honours to so distin-
guished a visitor. My Chinese servants were more fortunate in
their friendships. Chinese like the Scotch are clannish, and the
Amoy men soon found a hong conducted by their fellow provin-
cials, where they at once met a welcome. The master invited me
round and I spent a pleasant evening among them. All spoke
the Amoy dialect, with which from long stay in Amoy I was
tolerably conversant, and three of the partners could speak man-
darin. It was a gala night and lighted paper lamps were hanging
in front of each house in the main street through which I passed.
The inside of the large temple facing the main landing place on
the river was illuminated with glass chandeliers, and was crouded
with people, and fireworks were banging and cracking on all sides.
The next morning (27th February) a pony and two chairs were
sent and I removed to the city and took up my quarters in an
ancestral temple placed at my disposal by the Taotai. The dis-
tance from Hoihow to the city of Kiungehow foo is about 3 miles
along a hard and tolerably good road, which runs through gently
undulating barren country covered with round grave mounds like
those in North-China, which at a distance look like ant-hills.
Many of them date from the Ming dynasty, the better class with
an erect rectangular slab inscribed with characters on its face, and
with small stone censer and vases arranged in line in front varying
in number. Some of the oldest Ming graves were of stone shaped
like large coffins on legs with the corners of their tops prolonged
and recurved. A few low antiquated stone Pailow or memorial
arches, are seen in different parts of the road, and about halfway
an old building is passed under with several of the Pailow
arranged within. The barren grave-covered tract is composed of
a reddish marine deposit scantily covered with grass; but near
Hoihow, and extending east and west of it, the ground is depressed

48
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
and water being consequently available rice was flourishing; and
as you approached the capital plots of land were hedged in and
turned into kitchen-gardens in which with the help of night soil
the ordinary vegetables of the south of China were being cultivated.
The traffic between the city and Hoihow is carried on to some
extent by means of coolies with the shoulder bamboo, but the
greater part of it is done in wheel barrows pushed by a man
behind who supports the weight of the handles by a strap across
his shoulders. The wheel of the barrow is forward and caged
over, the cage expanding behind and yielding a seat at the inser-
tion of the long handles; below the insertion of each handle is a
prop on which the barrow stands when at rest. The burden is
placed on the seat in rear of the wheel. Chairs and ponies are
used but the barrow recommends itself on account of its cheapness,
and the majority of all classes male and female patronise it as a
mode of conveyance. They sit facing the wheel and with the
back to the driver or propeller, sometimes cross-legged, but often
astraddle with a leg on each side, the foot being inserted into a
ope stirrup which is suspended by the side of each wheel. Two
three little girls dressed in bright colours might often be seen
ding one behind the other, their legs dangling on either side.
adies sit cross-legged, generally with huge straw hats on, the
sides curled down to their ears forming a cylinder through which
they can see, but can scarcely be seen. The usual head dress for
the ladies is a black napkin covering the hend and drawn together
behind with the two ends hanging down the back. Their faces
are exposed, but they carry palm-leaf fans and when a stranger
passes coyishly dip behind them. Some of the fair faces we saw
a Chinaman would call pretty, and they were undoubtedly good
specimens of the Chinese type of beauty of the "willow pattern,"
but their charms were disgraced by thre fashionable white-powder
decoration. I must confess I did not myself apreciate travelling
in the barrow. It was too slow, and the seat being so near the
ground insufferably hot. Fine large banyan-like fig trees give
occasional shade on the road; leafless trees with long seed-pods
hanging downwards looked peculiar to our eyes; but notably the
strangest sight to a visitor from China was the cocoanut tree
which reared its lofty head in every direction. And when the
city wall appeared with the cocoanuts towering above it, it was
difficult to associate the impression with things Chinese.

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
49
up
A charming city must Kiungehow foo be to the eyes of native.
literati; its mandarin residences, its temples and examination halls
are all complete and not too much decayed; its wall is in good
order; the merchant is not there, and it seems abandoned to official
life and sloth. The main streets of the city are tolerably broad
and the houses well built but rather low. The wall is about
thirty feet high crenellated along the top and about two miles in
circumference. The city is truly small, but very compact and
well stocked with buildings, though empty spaces and cultivated
ground do occur within its walls chiefly at the north-east corner.
The wall is strengthened internally by a grassy embankment
which gives a good promenade. Outside the remains of a fosse
can be traced, but it is not easy to follow out, as it is much cut
and in places converted into vegetable gardens. Near the west
gate is the busiest part of the town, and there in the main street
live the dealers in carved cocoanut ware, such as teapots, cups,
bowls, &c., and in carved scented wood. These toys are usually
mounted with spelter, look very tasty, and are much admired and
esteemed by the Chinese. They are often seen in the houses of
the wealthier natives of the island and find a sale in the Canton
market. They constitute the one article for which Kiungchowfoo
is celebrated, and efford employment to a large number of hands.
Beyond the west gate is a large suburb equal in extent to nearly
one half of the city itself. It is enclosed by a low semicircular
wall reaching from the south-west corner to the north-west corner
of the city wall; the supplemental wall being pierced with three
gates. The traffic to Hoihow passes through this suburb, the
road leading through the west gate of the city and continuing
through the north gate of the suburb wall, or as it is called the
small north gate. The chief daily market is held in this suburb.
outside the city west gate. Inside the east gate a daily market
is also held for the accommodation of the people in that part of
the town. The north gate exists only in name. It is blocked
and a temple built on the wall above where it once opened.
could not learn when it was closed, but I was told that it was done
to keep out the demons who were in the habit of entering the
city through that gate in the form of men and purchasing articles
with coin which on their departure turned to paper. The gate
was blocked up at the clamour of the people, and the demons have
not since appeared. Beyond the north wall is the large parade
ground, and a group of temples notably the Lung Wang Miao or
7
up

50
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
"Temple of the Dragon King" built near the sight of a spring
whence the best drinking-water is procured. A high and conspi-
cuous pagoda called the Hea Yang T'a or "Summer Sun Pagoda"
stands about half a mile from the south-east corner of the city
wall, and a lower one called the Shi T'a or "Stone Pagoda"
appears about a mile to the west of the south gate. The Saddle
Hill or Marron of the chart (Magnan ling) to the north-west of
Hoihow (which according to Mr. T. Sampson of Canton who
ascended it is an extinct volcano), and stated to be 20 miles from
the city, and two or three low hills to the south-west and sonth-
south-west are the only other points in view along the nearly level
plain. A river from the Hoihow harbour passes north of the city
at a distance of one and a half miles, from which a small stream
issues running close by the east gate and yielding water to cul-
tivate the fields in the neighbourhood and consequently off the
eastern and southern walls rice again appears in small tracts, and
relieves the monotony of the grave-covered barrenness beyond.
Monseigneur Guillemin, French Bishop at Canton, had favoured
me with a letter of introduction to a Roman Catholic Missionary
in Hainan. The village wherein he resided called Lingshanshe
Fooao I found to be ten miles distant from the city. I mentioned
my desire to visit him to the Taotai, and the latter at once pro-
vided me with a corporal to guide me to the place. The village
lay to the south-east of the city on the other side of the river,
and consisted of a small group of farms embedded in bamboo.
Lingshanshe itself about two miles nearer to the city is a large
straggling market-town and contains a fine temple which the
Kiungshan Magistrate assured me was six hundred years old. I
found the Reverend Michel Chagot in a small one-roomed cottage
on the side of a farm. He was preparing a larger room attached
to the farm-house for a chapel. He had a few converts gathered
round him in the village and was getting together a school of
female children. The little orphans that he had collected together
read Chinese before me and I heard them reciting responses in
the chapel. The Christians were scattered about the country at
long distances apart, the Priest told me, and were now much
diminished in numbers. His district was the western half of the
north of the island, while the eastern half was under the control
of a second French missionary. The two met only once every
three months. The Roman Catholic Mission to Hainan dates so
far back as A. D. 1630, when a Portuguese Jesuit of the name

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN. 51
Benoit de Mathos established a church in Kiungchow city, where
he died in 1651, and was buried in a piece of ground about two
miles from the city which he had obtained for a Christian cemetery.
He was succeeded by other Jesuits, Portuguese, French, Italian,
and German. The tomb of the only German is of the latest date
1686. M. Chagot is positive that the Jesuit Missionaries resided
and had a church inside the capital, and declares that during the
persecution this church was converted into a temple of longevity
which still stands, and in which the authorities assemble to make
obeisance on the birth days of the imperial family. There was in
the city another place of worship known by the name of the
Temple of the Cross, but this had also been devoted to heathen
purposes. In the old cemetery one hundred and thirteen graves
bear the mark of Christian tombs, but the ground has been ne-
glected, many of the tombstones removed and broken, and two
of the four boundary stones carried away. After the suppression
of the Jesuits the Christians were for a long time deprived of
missionaries. Towards the end of the eighteenth century the
Bishop of Mneno sent some Chinese priests. In 1849 these priests
were replaced by French missionaries, the first of whom was so
badly beaten by the people that he died of his wounds. M. Chagot
had been trying in vain to procure from the Taotai permission to
wall in and keep in order the cemetery. He longed to have the
port opened to foreign commerce in the hope that it would lead to
his establishing in the city. I stayed the night with the worthy
priest, and partook of his humble fare. Humble it was indeed,
and great must be the faith that impels a man to desert the com-
forts of civilised life for such a state of wretchedness!
My time was spent in the city in paying and receiving official
visits, and in rambling about within its walls and its environs until
the 14th of February when the gun-boat not having returned from
her cruise after pirates I thought it well to make the best of my
time and penetrate into the country. The Taotai very kindly
detailed a junior military officer to accompany me, and at noon
we started for Shuy-wei-sze said to be the great place of barter
between the independent Le mountaineers and the dealers in
connection with Hoihow. The Taotai desired to pay the expenses
of the journey, but this of course I did not allow. Chairs and
coolies had to be engaged for the whole time and taken with us,
though some part of the journey was to be made in boats. From
the south gate and eastwards in half an hour we reached the

52
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
embarking-place on the river, and packed into a long and broad
flat-bottomed boat covered with semicircular moveable mats, and
propelled by means of sails and poles. The river which debouches
into the harbour was at this dry season of no great breadth,
though judging from the expanse of sand on either side in many
of its reaches it must swell during the midsummer rains to quite
a broad stream. No boats come up it from the harbour, and I
was told that such was impracticable. It is only used for commu-
nication with the interior by means of these flat-bottomed boats
that can drag over the rapids, one of which is encountered imme-
diately on leaving the city landing-place. The country through
which the river flows as far as the district city of Tinggan is of
little interest. The reddish gravelly earth scantily covered with
grass and sprinkled with tomb-mounds is the prevailing feature;
small villages shaded with bamboos, banyans, and cocoanuts,
appear at long distances apart, with more or less cultivation of dry
rice and vegetables around them. Wet rice fields are not so
abundant as the neighbourhood of a river would ensure at Canton,
but the land in many places is much higher than the water level,
and it would require many water-wheels and aqueducts to convey
the water for irrigation. The mandarins complained of the indo-
lence and constitutional weakness of the people, and these might
account for the poor display of agriculture. In some places
however we came across weirs which forced the water under the
play of wind-moved water-wheels, and the cultivation, though
twenty to thirty feet above the level of the river, looked fresh and
promising and the rice was several inches high. The land tra-
versed consisted of a coarse gravel of marine deposit (a block of
coral occurs on the bank of this river some 12 miles from its
mouth) and is no doubt very sterile; no rain had fallen they told
me, since October; and the face of the country looked burnt up.
But when Amoy men can make the granite detritus, which consti-
tutes their soil, smile like a garden, we must believe that it is not
the poorness of land but the want of energy that impedes cultiva-
tion in Hainan. About ten miles up the river the banks get hilly
and more trees appear, with a few small villages engaged in the
manufacture of earthen jars. After much meandering in a south-
erly direction the river brings us to a pretty tree-shadowed land-
ing-place, where we disembark and after a quarter of an hour's
chair-travel find ourselves in Kewchow seventeen miles from
Kiungehow city. This fair-sized market town is the halting

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
53
place of the dealers from the bartering stations of the interior,
and we passed between it and the landing-place many buffalo-
drawn carts laden with rice, cotton, deerhorns, and skins and hides
of different animals. Large quantities of earthen jars were piled
in the yards of the town. Leaving Kewchow we kept to the
westward of south along a large waste grassy plain undulating
gently, and patched with groups of grave mounds. We passed
to the left of a large pagoda called Pang Kao Ta, and after a
journey of three miles put up in the evening of the 15th at a
small halt-place called Pangkaowan in the Tinggan district. We
had up to this been travelling in the Kiungshan district, the chief
city of which is Kiungchowfoo or the capital of Hainan. We
started early (February 16th) southwards passing to the right of
the solitary round-backed hill about eight hundred feet high which
is visible from the walls of Kiungchow city. The hill from our pre-
sent view appeared conical. It is called by the natives Langhuyt'
sooy. In the afternoon we halted at Lung-fa-he, a large market-town
seven miles southward of Pangkaowan. We continued along a
poor country, sandy, gravelly, slightly undulatory and little culti-
vated. The hills began to peer in the distance. Some of the
houses in the hamlets had blocks of slate in their walls. A curious
botanical phenomenon here came under observation, a group of
pine trees was standing beside a clump of cocoanuts! A strange
zoological phenomenon was also noted, a pair of magpies had
built their nest in a cocoanut tree! At 3.14 P. M. we crossed the
river which here runs north and south, our course being to west-
ward of south, and at 4.35 we entered a valley between the outer-
most hills, or spurs running westwards from the mountains, and
soon reached the halting-place of Potsai, where we stopped for
the night. These resting-places, or Taug, occur on the main road
about every five miles; one soldier is stationed at each, instead
of five the proper guard. I crossed some farms to the range of
hills opposite, and climbed to the top about 200 feet. The country
we had traversed had sunk in level, and then gradually risen.
The conical hill was not visible, and there were no other recog-
nisable landmarks. Our valley seemed to extend to the southward
a long way, opening out as it went along. Mountains appeared
in the distance, and the country began to get interesting. In
Potsai there were only a few houses, so we passed a quiet night.
We started (February 17th) at 7 A. M. for Shuyweisze distant
eleven miles in a westerly direction. The valley rapidly rising

54
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
was grassy patched with scrub and with but little cultivation. A
few acres on the hill were burnt clear and planted with tobacco.
At 20 to 11 A. M. the hills closed in, our course being westward
over them. At to 12 we descended to a valley partly under wet
rice. At 2.20 P. M. we passed over a grassy hill with black
boulders of granite peeping through its surface. The villages
here abound with woods of lofty trees chiefly of the Fig group and
Liquidambar formosana, Hance. At to 3 we arrived at the
mandarin station of Shuyweisze, locally called Tunchang. The
Taotai had forwarded word that I was to be expected, and I was
consequently received with a salute and every other courtesy, and
conducted to the chief temple which stands outside the town,
where I was at once visited by the military and civil authorities,
presented with provisions, and provided with lodging. The civil
mandarin at Tunchang is a Seunkeen or Police Magistrate, the
present incumbent being a native of Tchenanfoo in Shantung
province near Tientsin, and not speaking a word of the local
dialect found the place very dull, having only his secretary and
the Tsungyay (the military authority) to converse with. The
Seunkeens hold their appointments for three years; the Tsungyays
are changed every year. Poleno a place some miles. further
within the mountains is the proper bartering station bordering
the Le territory, but it was found so malarious and unhealthy
that in the reign of Keenlung the mandarins were allowed to more
out and fix their offices in this healthier position. In Tunchang
a market is held every other day, but the Le do not come to it.
Its well-wooded neighbourhood affords excellent opportunity for
studying the natural history of the country without the obstruction
of jungle and inexcessible hills. The people have much of the
Le blood in their veins, are small and ugly, with cramped faces,
heads flat behind abounding in bumps, and broad nostrils; and
their women are no beauties. Shuyweisze is in the Kiungshan
district, and as the mandarins there did not encourage my tra-
velling into the mountains to make the acquaintance of the Le, I
determined to proceed further south to Taipingsze in the Ting-
gan district, where the Seunkeen, whom I had met at Kiung-
ehow foo, promised me greater facilities. I accordingly started at
10 A. M. on the 19th February and crossed the river winding
westwardly, which here forms the boundary between the two
districts of Kiungshan and Tinggan. We passed coolies carrying
out rattans and manis skins. Rice cultivation was more extended,

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
55
the rice being a small red kind yielding two crops a year. At
our second resting-place the small river-stream appeared again
winding a little west of south-west, our course being a little east
of south. At 1.30 P. M. the fine large trees about and between
villages formed quite a forest. At 2 P. M. reached Nanleu the
mandarin station of T'aipingsze seven miles only from Tunchang.
It was market day, and the long street, that I was carried down
to the temple prepared for me at its further end, was thronged
with people. I was saluted as before and received with all po-
liteness by the Seunkeen and the Tsungyay. This Seunkeen was
full of information and very communicative, but I was warned
not to believe implicitly all he said. As in Shuyweisze so here
the mandarins were at first compelled to reside at the bartering
town well within the hills, but were allowed to withdraw on
account of the changk'e or malaria of the mountains, which is so
injurious to Chinese life in Hainan. The original Taipingsze was
at Lingmun, it was then moved out to. Fungmoo and finally to
Nanleu; the first still continued to be the bartering station, and
no Le found their way to the two latter. The forests were more
extensive at Nanleu than at Tunchang and the opportunities of
studying the natural productions of the country much greater.
The Tsungyay was very attentive, pursuing me in my excursions
with tea and refreshments, and I endeavoured to make the best
of the occasion.
At 11.20 A. M. on the 21st February we started for Lingmun
travelling a little south of south-west and reached Fungmoo &
market town five miles distant, consisting of a long street of shops
selling medicines, toilet nicknacks, paper, prepared food, fuel and
rice. The tea drunk here was infused from fried barley. At 10
to 2 P. M. we continued, our course being more southerly, and in
an hour we reached the resting-place Pihtowteen where we
halted ten minutes before commencing to ascend a mountain range
cleared of jungle but patched here and there with scrub and clumps
of trees. It was hard work for the chair-bearers and porters.
The path led pretty steeply over the west corner of the barrier
chain to the height of about 800 feet, and then down into a large
partly cultivated amphitheatre among the mountains, in which the
bartering town of Lingmun (gate of the mountains) was situated.
The chain we crossed closed the large broad gradually rising
valley in which we had been travelling since entering the hills.
The town of Lingmun consists of one wide street about 150 yards

54
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
was grassy patched with scrub and with but little cultivation. A
few acres on the hill were burnt clear and planted with tobacco.
At 20 to 11 A. M. the hills closed in, our course being westward
over them. At to 12 we descended to a valley partly under wet
rice. At 2.20 P. M. we passed over a grassy hill with black
boulders of granite peeping through its surface. The villages
here abound with woods of lofty trees chiefly of the Fig group and
Liquidambar formosana, Hance. At to 3 we arrived at the
mandarin station of Shuyweisze, locally called Tunchang. The
Taotai had forwarded word that I was to be expected, and I was
consequently received with a salute and every other courtesy, and
conducted to the chief temple which stands outside the town,
where I was at once visited by the military and civil authorities,
presented with provisions, and provided with lodging. The civil
mandarin at Tunchang is a Seunkeen or Police Magistrate, the
present incumbent being a native of Tehenanfoo in Shantung
province near Tientsin, and not speaking a word of the local
dialect found the place very dull, having only his secretary and
the Tsungyay (the military authority) to converse with. The
Seunkeens hold their appointments for three years; the Tsungyays
re changed every year. Poleno a place some miles. further
ithin the mountains is the proper bartering station bordering
he Le territory, but it was found so malarious and unhealthy
that in the reign of Keenlung the mandarins were allowed to move
out and fix their offices in this healthier position. In Tunchang
a market is held every other day, but the Le do not come to it.
Its well-wooded neighbourhood affords excellent opportunity for
studying the natural history of the country without the obstruction
of jungle and inexcessible hills. The people have much of the
Le blood in their veins, are small and ugly, with cramped faces,
heads flat behind abounding in bumps, and broad nostrils; and
their women are no beauties. Shuyweisze is in the Kiungshan
district, and as the mandarins there did not encourage my_tra-
velling into the mountains to make the acquaintance of the Le, I
determined to proceed further south to Taipingsze in the Ting-
gan district, where the Seunkeen, whom I had met at Kiung-
chowfoo, promised me greater facilities. I accordingly started at
10 A. M. on the 19th February and crossed the river winding
westwardly, which here forms the boundary between the two
districts of Kiungshan and Tinggan. We passed coolies carrying
out rattans and manis skins. Rice cultivation was more extended,

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
55
the rice being a small red kind yielding two crops a year. At
our second resting-place the small river-stream appeared again.
winding a little west of south-west, our course being a little east
of south. At 1.30 P. M. the fine large trees about and between
villages formed quite a forest. At 2 P. M. reached Nanleu the
mandarin station of Taipingsze seven miles only from Tunchang.
It was market day, and the long street, that I was carried down
to the temple prepared for me at its further end, was thronged
with people. I was saluted as before and received with all po-
liteness by the Seunkeen and the Tsungyay. This Seunkeen was
full of information and very communicative, but I was warned
not to believe implicitly all he said. As in Shuyweisze so here
the mandarins were at first compelled to reside at the bartering
town well within the hills, but were allowed to withdraw on
account of the changk'e or malaria of the mountains, which is so
injurious to Chinese life in Hainan. The original Taipingsze was
at Lingmun, it was then moved out to Fungmoo and finally to
Nanleu; the first still continued to be the bartering station, and
no Le found their way to the two latter. The forests were more
extensive at Nanleu than at Tunchang and the opportunities of
studying the natural productions of the country much greater.
The Tsungyay was very attentive, pursuing me in my excursions
with tea and refreshments, and I endeavoured to make the best
of the occasion.
At 11.20 A. M. on the 21st February we started for Lingmun
travelling a little south of south-west and reached Fungmoo a
market town five miles distant, consisting of a long street of shops
selling medicines, toilet nicknacks, paper, prepared food, fuel and
rice. The tea drunk here was infused from fried barley. At 10
to 2 P. M. we continued, our course being more southerly, and in
an hour we reached the resting-place Pihtowteen where we
halted ten minutes before commencing to ascend a mountain range
cleared of jungle but patched here and there with scrub and clumps
of trees. It was hard work for the chair-bearers and porters.
The path led pretty steeply over the west corner of the barrier
chain to the height of about 800 feet, and then down into a large
partly cultivated amphitheatre among the mountains, in which the
bartering town of Lingmun (gate of the mountains) was situated.
The chain we crossed closed the large broad gradually rising
valley in which we had been travelling since entering the hills.
The town of Lingmun consists of one wide street about 150 yards

56
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
long with low-roofed shops on either side, and broad covered stalls
for three quarters of its length towards its further end, where a
fine temple closes the street and divides its termination into two
small exits with barred gates one either side; at the end we en-
tered there is also a gate. From the middle of the main street
on the left side another street with shops runs at right angles;
this ends also in a gate with bars. To the grand temple they car-
ried me through the crowd assembled in the market. The Tsungyay
from Nanleu, who has also the control of Fungmoo and this place,
was here to receive me. It was market day and there were many
Le in the place; the soldiers to my surprise dragged in three of
these and soon after a Meao-tsze for my inspection. The Le were
greatly alarmed and begged us to spare their lives. The Meao,
who was dressed as a Chinaman and might very well have passed
for one, was bolder. All the Le had the hair of the head drawn up
and twisted into a knot on the crown tied round with white tape at
its base. The straggling hairs at the back of the head were caught
and twisted into a small round knot behind. Over this coiffure they
wound a turban cloth. One was dressed in Chinese clothes, the other
two had Chinese jackets with the front and hind aprons peculiar to
their costume. Two of them were flat featured and rather fair, one
having the eyes slightly oblique; the third was bronze in com-
plexion and had a prominent nose. Their cheek-bones were not
peculiarly high, and I have seen among the Chinese faces very
like theirs. They wore a frightened uneasy look, and wanted to
kowtow saying that they had come to market to buy and sell and
were good men. One sat down in the mandarin's seat and when
reproved replied in broken Chinese that he was a coarse man and
did not know what was right. After taking down a few words of
their dialect and of that of the Meao we dismissed them all with
a present of cash.
The hills about Lingmun are clothed with little else than grass
and difficult to get on owing to the deep ditches at their feet which
the colonists employ for cultivation. The woods are all removed
for fear of giving shelter to the hostile Le, but the ranges on the
south of the amphitheatre show bushes and the mountains beyond
arecovered with timber and fine vegetation. My desire of course
was to visit a Le chief, but to do this required too much time, and
it could not be done without an interpreter. The mandarins de-
clined to accompany me, as since the troubles at Nychow some six
months ago they were greatly afraid of the Le; and they put the

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
57
people against assisting me. I had therefore to content myself
with spending a day at a village of a Le family who had submitted
to the Chinese authority. We ascended the hills in the east corner
and followed a path winding somewhat to the southward. I con-
jectured the range about 1,200 feet above the valley. From this
height we got a fine view of the high peaks further south. The
lofty mountain range seemed to run north and south, the highest
peak I should say not exceeding 7,000 feet. It showed no snow.
To the west the range is lower and more broken. Two high peaks
were conspicuous, the northern and southern; the one bearing
N. 82° W., the other S. 4° 30' W. Lingmun is in a raised plain
undulating and surrounded by hills. To the north-west and
south-west only small hills occur, the plain gradually rolling up
into hills. In the distance to the south-west no high mountains
are visible, and there seem no natural obstacles to having a road
in that direction across the island. The Chinese as long ago as
the Sung dynasty looked upon the cutting of a cross-road through
Hainan as the easiest way to subjugate the natives and they
deputed for this purpose a man well acquainted with the Le, but
he lost his life at their hands in the attempt. The hills we tra-
versed were very lovely, green checquered by lines of trees cross-
ing one another like a park at home in a hilly county. The path
ran up hill and down dale till rising into the bosom of a hill we
found the Le village with its cultivation around. The women were
planting out young rice in some small wet fields, and had on the
snall sarang or Malay petticoat, but before they presented them-
selves they donned the Chinese nether garment.
shaved and dressed like north China labourers.
very dirty and seemed very poor.
The men were
They were all
The best shops at Lingmun were the stationers, druggists and
tobacconists. Iron and copper-smiths drove a good trade in mak-
ing knives and domestic implements, earrings and other ornaments
for the Le. Agents for Hoihow exporters of Le produce had also
their residences there. They collect what the Le bring out in
driblets for sale and barter, and when sufficient is got together to
make a parcel they forward the same to Hoihow. With the Le
merchants, for the Le appear to have superior men who come out
well dressed like Chinese country-gentlemen, they keep accounts,
and settle by payment in kind or cash as required. To the poorer
Le they pay cash at once, and these expend it at the central stalls
on the Chinese goods, which on every market day are laid out
8

58 NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
temptingly before them, such as salt, iron-pans, crockery, domestic
utensils of different kinds, hatchets and knives, blue and white
cotton-cloth, combs, buttons, earrings, hair ornaments, &c. The
sale of gunpowder and firearms is naturally forbidden, but arrow
and spear-heads they are allowed to purchase for the chase. The
Chinese procure from them young horns and sinews of the three
species of deer found on the island (Cervus eldi, C. hippelaphus,
and C. vaginalis); skins of two of the species (that of the spotted
deer-C. eldi-being thin and worthless), hides of buffaloes and
cattle, skins of the scaly anteater (manis) for the sake of the seales,
skins of several small animals; rattans, timber, fire-wood, and
betelnut. The Le grow dry rice for their own use, as also tobacco.
The cultivation of tobacco that we saw on our road up, the manda-
rin assured me, was only this year's first attempt on the part of the
Chinese in that neighbourhood. The hides are taken to Hoihow
where in the southern suburb of the town the hair is planed off
and they are dressed for export. Some of the leather, chiefly that
from buffalo hides, is manufactured into very tolerable boxes,
which are exported to various parts of the coast. The Le also
collect and bring out a coarse kind of tea called Teen-cha (celestial
tea) which is retailed at about two shillings a pound. It looks
like the dried leaves of a wild camellia, and has an unpleasant
earthy taste when infused. They bring out also the bones of the
animals they slaughter to sell as manure. Chinese often escape
justice by fleeing to the mountains and getting themselves adopted
into Le families.
The Meno-tsze or Meao-le are descendants of some aborigines
of Kwangse province, who some centuries ago crossed over to this
island. They inhabit in some numbers the lower hills of these
parts, are shaved and wear the queue in submission to the Chinese.
They talk among themselves their native language, but in the
market an indifferent Chinese. They are successful farmers grow-
ing the best white rice, and pasturing large herds of cattle. Some
of the mandarins insisted that they were simply Chinese settlers
from Kwangse, but their language betrays them, and they are not
backward to confess their origin.
The Le pay no taxes, and their trade seems not to be taxed.
Those however that live in the hills under the wings of the Chinese
pay like the Chinese squatters a farthing a year on every areca
palm. This tax is a light substitute for the ground rent levied on
the plains and in the villages.

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
59
It was hard to wrest ourself away from a place so full of interest,
but I had to bear in mind that the gun-boat would be waiting for
me at Hoihow and her commander anxious to fulfil the voyage
within the limited two and a half months. Accordingly at noon on
the 24th February we left Lingmun, and steered as direct as the road
would permit for the district city of Tinggan. We reached Nanleu
at 5.30 P. M. and spent the night there. On the road thither we
had passed coolies bringing out loads of ducks' eggs preserved in
red clay considered a great delicacy by the Chinese, also packages
of the large spathes of the areca palm used for packing sugar, &c.
At Nanleu white or albino buffaloes with pink eyes are particularly
common. Brindled cattle were often seen in the large herds that
many of the farms possessed; the cattle are small and apparently
a cross between the little yellow cow of South-China and the zebu
or humped breed of India. Cattle sold in the market for slaughter
pay a tax of nine pence a head; buffaloes are not taxed. The
civil mandarin receives the taxes at Nanleu; the military at Fung-
moo and Lingmun. Chinese laws forbid the killing of cattle; the
squeeze is a douceur for allowing the infraction of the laws. The
flesh of the slaughtered is sold in the market, and as an animal is
rarely killed until worthless for agricultural purposes, the beef of
the country is not of the best kind. The want of rain is much.
felt, rice was at a shilling a pound, more than double its usual
price, and under instructions from the Taotai the mandarins were
supplicating for rain from the 2nd to the 7th of the moon, and
the slaughter of all flesh was for that time prohibited. Since
October scarce any rain had fallen. Market is held at Lingmun,
Fungmoo, and Nanleu on the same alternate days. The people
in the country are poor, but seem pretty comfortable. They have
no large landed proprietors or capitalists as in Formosa. The
mandarin assured me that a man possessing from five to eight
hundred pounds was in his village considered a wealthy man.
We left Nanleu on the 27th February at 12.45 P. M. and tra-
velling northwards reached Tunchang by sundown. I put up in
a house in the town in preference to the temple and was begged
by the mandarin (Seunkeen) to delay my departure until I could
fix the Fungshuy of a residence he was about to rent for his yamun.
The former yamun or office was blown down in a typhoon twenty
years ago and still lay in ruins, the mandarins having since had
to reside in private houses. The Fungshuy or "wind and water"
of a site implies a healthy position with a good prospect, protected

60
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
by certain charms such as particular trees, quaintly shaped rocks
and so forth against the evil influence of demons. Chinese geo-
mancers provided with a compass work out with great parade the
"fungshuy" of a place, and the poor Seunkeen having spied out
my travelling compass insisted that I was an adept at geomancy,
and emplored me to help him out of his difficulties.
We left at 8.30 A. M. and proceeding northwards passed after
an hour's travel the market town of Shanfoo. Coolies were met
carrying out deer's sinews and waterproof coats made of the small
leaves of the caryota palm. Little cakes of black sugar were
selling at the scantily-provided refreshment-stalls at less than a
farthing a piece, sugar-cane at the tenth of a farthing per stick of
one and a half foot length, and a cup of water with a few salt-soaked
small wild berries of a species of Muya (anglo-sinice, Arbutus) for
the fifth of a farthing. Next to tea there are few things so refreshing
to a heated traveller as sweetened water with a slight mixture of acid,
and the jaded coolies know how to appreciate it. But the great re-
freshment of the road, the cool jelly strained under water from the
seeds of the ogio fig, which yields such a treat to the wayfarer in For-
mosa, was unknown in Hainan. These however are mere snacks on
the road taken at the short halts, followed by a few whiffs of tobacco.
At the long halts the coolies fill themselves with rice washed down
with barley tea, and most of them before resuming their toil take
a few draughts of comfort from the opium pipe. At a push they
walk and carry well, but they have neither the strength nor the
endurance of the coolies at Canton, who are I think without
exception the best porters in China.
We continued a little eastward of north and at 3.25 reached the
town of Sinhing. This is a moderately sized market town in the
Kiungshan district and reckoned about eight miles from Tunchang.
At 7 A. M. on the 29th February we left Sinhing for Tinggan city
distant nine miles. From fine clear sunny weather with a ther-
mometer ranging between 70° and 80° we suddenly dropped into
a damp drizzling atmosphere the thermometer falling to 62°. At
9 A. M. the last of the hills were passed. It was blowing a north-
easter and the wind was so cold that the coolies did their utmost
to push along, while I lay damp and chilled in my chair. The
country-people were about in their waterproof coats, some sitting
on buffaloes with the waterproof expanded to shelter both man
and beast; buffaloes by themselves were also passed covered with
waterproof. We made only one short halt in the plain, then

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
61
hurrying northwards arrived at the city of Tinggan at 2 P. M.,
proceeding along the sandy shore of the river and entering from
the river bank by the west gate. I was carried direct to the Hien
magistrate's residence, and invited in. The Hien, a native of
Hoonan province, whom I had met before at the capital, was very
kind, insisted on seeing me in his reception hall wet and dirty as
I was, and provided me with a room adjoining that of his secretary.
In the evening he came to the secretary's room with other man-
darins and guests, and the company enjoyed themselves in smoking
opium, chatting, and drawing on fans.
The next morning opened with the same style of disagreeable
weather. I took a stroll with the secretary and some others on
the city wall and about the town. The wall is about twenty feet
high and much dilapidated. The gates are small with low arches,
and there is plenty of empty space within the walls. A market is
held in the centre of the town every other day. The city has four
gates and the wall is said to be 6,000 paces in circumference. The
Confucian temple is the finest building but it is old and wants re-
pair, as do all their public buildings. The Tsungyay, the chief
military authority in the place lived in a private house. The
secretary said with a smile that the city was simply a fair-sized
village with a wall round it; and except for some of the temples
and public buildings it might easily be taken for such. The man-
darin seemed on very friendly terms with his employés. He said
he regretted that he could not ask me to dine with him, but while
the supplication for rain lasted the yamên was supposed to be on
vegetable diet. He procured a boat for me, made it comfortable
with boards and matting inside, and insisted on paying my passage
to the capital. I protested against it in vain; the reply was that
the boatmen had already received their fare. The boat dropped
down to the front of the north gate, as our course was northwards.
The river winds past the north and west gates, and must reach
the walls of the city when full from floods. The north gate is very
low and dark below, the road under its archways inclining down-
wards towards the river. The Tsungyay of Taipingsze had escorted
me to Tinggan and insisted upon continuing with me to the capital,
of course for selfish reasons. He wanted me to speak a good word
for him to the Chintai at Kiungchow. He was the brother of a
well-to-do shop-keeper in the city, who had purchased him his
year of office for the sum of £60. He wanted continuance in it
for another year, and sought to be raised from the ninth to the

62
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
sixth rank. Before leaving Hainan I did bring him to the notice
of the chief authorities, and they promised to give him some
return for his great attention to me.
The rain poured without mercy, so drawing to the mat-covers
of the boat we saw little more of the country until we moored next
day at 11.30 A. M. at the city landing-place, whence I reached my
quarters soon after noon.
END OF PART I.

PART II.
CIRCUMNAVIGATE HAINAN, POOCHIN HARBOUR, CHINLAN RIVER,
LINGSHUY, YULINKAN BAY, NYCHOW CITY,
PAKLAI, HOITOW, HEONGPOO, HAOSUY, HUNGPAI.
HE gun-boat had been back some days, and was
at anchor in Hoihow harbour. Her cruise had.
been unsuccessful, and since her return the weather
had been very wet and squally, while we were
having it so fine among the hills. During my
absence the Urhfoo or Subprefect of Pihsha (locally
Backsha) in the Luichow prefecture had been to pay
his respects to the Taotai, and had been quartered in the
front rooms of the temple allotted to me. Lieutenant
Domvile, Capt. Holroyd and I again visited the three
chief authorities, and the Taotai invited us to a luncheon at which
the Chintai and Prefect were also present; the most relishable arti-
cle at the feast was hot milk seasoned with almonds. The Tsanfoo
or Captain of Hoihow commissioned a junior naval officer to proceed
with us on our cruise round the island, and having engaged the
services of a good pilot we were ready for sea on the 4th March.
Before embarking a few complimentary presents passed between
myself and the authorities.
We left Hoihow harbour at 5.15 P. M., and anchored outside
the bar of the Poochin river at 8.30 the same evening. On the
navigation from Hoihow to Poochin I quote from Lieut. Domvile:
"proceeding along the coast from Hoihow to the eastward after
passing the village of Packsha (the eastern boundary of Hoihow
bay) the land forms a large and deep bay with the mouth of a
shallow river at the head nearly lost in the sands. The pagoda
at Poochin is in sight from a short distance outside Hoihow. The
land does not run due east as the chart shows, but bends slightly
to the southward; the ship's course after clearing Hoihow being
E. S. E. for ten miles and afterwards E. S. The distance from
Hoihow to Poochin is shorter than given on the chart, being from
the anchorage at Hoihow between 20 and 21 miles by the ship's
run. The soundings deepen towards the north-east of Hoihow

64
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
harbour, the lead giving 5 and 6 fathoms and occasionally 7
fathoms when abreast of Packsha and about half a mile off shore.
Then for about half the distance to Poochin the depth is very
regular at 5 and 6 fathoms. As Poochin is approached, they lessen
to 4 and 4 fathoms, the latter being the depth at the anchorage.
Numerous fishing-stakes are set up on the sands along the coast,
which necessitate a careful lookout and quick steering to avoid.
Off the mouth of the river it runs very shallow in places and the
lead must be carefully watched. From the anchorage Poochin
point bore N.E., the left entrance to the river S.E. about 1 miles.
The appearance of the entrance is a well defined gap cut out of
the low land gradually increasing in height towards Poochin point.
The pagoda is on the highest point just inside the land about 450
feet high. We only remained at Poochin 13 hours so had not
time to sound the bar thoroughly, but in the cutter and gig we
took two lines of soundings, and the least water obtained was five
feet at about half ebb. The pilot informed us that the ship could
cross it at certain tides, and said that the deepest water was over
towards the north bank; inside there is a capital anchorage in 3
or 4 fathoms." Poochin is in the Wênchang district and about
twenty miles by land from the capital. The town is situated on the
north bank of the river near its mouth, and is simply a large fish-
ing village. A Police Magistrate or Seunkeen and a Sinkwan
(naval officer) have the control of it. Its small harbour is resorted
to by trading junks in place of the exposed anchorage at Hoihow
during the dangerous typhoon weather in summer. The fishing
junks of the place, as of several of the neighbouring ports, pursue
the large whale of the China seas (Balaenoptera Swinhoii, J. E.
Gray) when it visits their waters in the early spring. Its flesh is
eaten, its fat is boiled into oil, and its bones used for manure.
At 1 P. M. (April 5th) we weighed and leaving Poochin "kept in
two or three fathoms about 1 miles off the land round Ingpow
when the soundings quickly deepened to 7 fathoms. There are
several reefs of rocks close to the point, the most dangerous of which
are above the water about three cables from shore in a line with
Poochin pagoda E.S.E. We steered N. E. by E. which took us
to Hainan Head distant about 3 miles, keeping about 1 miles
from the land. Hainan Head or Capsinmoon is a sandy point
about 200 feet high with a reef of rocks running N.E. for 14 miles,
nearly the whole of which are from two to four feet above water.
The pilot passed close to, leaving them on our right hand, and the

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
65
'chowchow" was tremendous. It would be very unsafe for any
vessel that does not answer her helm quickly to attempt the pass-
age. From the anxiety displayed by the pilot to keep close to
the rocks I conclude that this must be a small channel between
the land and the sand-banks to the northward. What they call
Mucklantow is the highest land above the point, sloping down to
Capsinmoon. Before rounding we had 9 to 10 fathoms, close to
the rocks 5 fathoms, and afterwards 7 to 8 fathoms about two
miles from the end. The two islands marked Fankyen on the
chart are not in existence, and the Taya islands must be much
further to the east than laid down on the chart as they were not
to be seen from our mast-head. The coast is a series of white
sand-hills, and Poochin pagoda is plainly to be seen over them.
Outside a long reef extends about 7 miles off the land for 20 miles
in a southerly direction. There is a village called Sachow about 9
miles from Hainan Head with a little cultivation about it. The
land from Hainan Head runs S.E. 16 miles ending in a point with
a double hill called Moofo, which at first we mistook for Toncon,
there being no mountain on this point marked on the chart. It
was difficult to estimate the height, as we anchored late and weighed
very early, but it must be from 800 to 1000 feet high. Between
Hainan Head and Moofo there are several patches of sand-banks
from half a mile to a mile off shore, and off Moofo it runs very
shallow to two miles off. We anchored in 3 fathoms with hard
sand bottom."
Leaving Moofo at daylight on March 6th "we steered a little to
the eastward to get an offing, and then altering course under di-
rection of the pilot we averaged S.S.E. until abreast of Toncon
distant 20 miles at 11 A. M. Toncon is a small range of hills the
highest of which was clouded over in passing. The point is very
bluff and there is deep water close to. There is a shelter to be
found in the N. E. monsoon under the bluff. From Toncon to
Chinlan the course is S.W. W. eleven miles. The appearance
of the river from the sea is quite tropical, a low sandy beach with
forests of coconnuts extending almost to the water's edge, and a
bar breaking across. In making the entrance the pilot stood in,
but on shoaling the soundings the course was altered so frequently
it gave no opportunity for noting any good course for going in.
He appeared however to keep about 400 yards from the south reef
and the least water was 2 fathoms. On closing we passed close
to the point of the north bank, and after the first bend kept a

66
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
midchannel course, the soundings deepening to 5 fathoms inside."
On our way down we saw some large whales.
The Chinlan river, also in the Wênchang district, affords "one
of the most beautiful and safe harbours on the coast for vessels
that are able to cross the bar. The anchorage is about a mile and
a half from the entrance. The weather was so bad that we could
not sound the bar." The district city of Wênchang hien stands on
the north bank of the main branch of the river ten miles from the
anchorage, but we were not able to visit it on account of the con-
tinuance of rain, and because the hien or magistrate of the district
was busy with military examinations.
This city is said to be sixty miles distant from Hoihow vid
Tinggan city and the Kiungchow river; and by a branch of the
Chinlan river the Poochin river can be approached to within seven
miles. The abundant forests of cocoanuts with intervening man-
grove salt swamps reminded me forcibly of the vicinities of Galle
and Colombo in Ceylon, and indeed the cocoanut is the chief wealth
of this district. In no other part of the island was it seen in such
abundance, and this is curious when we consider that this district
is in the north-east corner of the island and exposed to the full
force of the winter monsoon. There were in harbour a good
many small junks both trading and fishing; also one or two large
junks from Macao that had brought rice, and were shipping pigs.
The chief articles exported are cocoanut fibre and bark, and shoes
and soles of same, China grass and grass-cloth. The fishing-junks
are small and flat-sided with square sterns, are painted black, and
have no eyes on the sides of their stems as most Chinese junks
have. They are engaged sometimes in whale-catching, and are
to be met with on all parts of the Hainan coast as carrying coasters.
"The Tinggan district has no sea, and the Wênchang district has
no Le" says a native verse which was quoted to me by the Taotai
of Hainan, meaning of course that Tinggan hien was an inland
district not bordering the sea, and that Wênchang hien not ex-
tending to the mountains did not possess any of the wild tribes.
"The natives of Wênchang are all Chinese," he added, "and are
largely given to emigration to Cochin-China and the Straits, where
they find labour for some years, and then return home with their
savings." I had before noticed at Singapore that many of the
servants employed by Europeans there were Hainan men. Some
that served in the chief hotel of the place spoke very tolerable
English, and showed a good deal of intelligence. The emigrants

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN. 67
go abroad in junk loads every winter monsoon from the Chinlan
river, and others return in the same manner by the summer mon-
soon. During the latter season the pirates accumulate and watch
for the return junks. Few but the prosperous return, so that if
the pirate is successful in his capture he is sure to make a good
prize. The pirates thus grow rich and bold, and when the season
slackens in Hainan they often venture up to the neighbourhood of
Hongkong and even dare to attack foreign ships. To check these
"monsters of the deep" our naval authorities at Hongkong fre-
quently send gun-boats to scour the west coast, and this, as I
have stated before, was a part of the mission of the Algerine.
The Sinkwan, or naval officer, of the port of Chinlan called on us
on our arrival, and made himself useful in supplying the wants of
the ship.
April the 8th dawned with a fair wind which we could not afford
to lose, so we weighed at 8 A. x. My head Chinese servant, a
native of Anhwuy province, did not come off and we had to leave
him behind. He was a great opium smoker and that morning
appears to have indulged to excess under the hope that on account
of the inclemency of the weather we would not leave so soon. He
could easily walk across the island to the capital where he had
friends, and whither he knew we would again go, so as his ser-
vices were not much needed and as a punishment to him we left
him behind and steamed away. "The character of the coast
remains much the same for the first ten miles, but after that the
vegetation becomes less and the land hilly with very high ranges
in the back ground. There are several anchorages on the coast,
generally protected from the north and east, but exposed to the
south-east. At Kechih about 32 miles from Chinlan there is a
pagoda which makes a good land-mark coming down the coast.
The course averages about S.S.W. keeping about 4 miles from the
land, with no soundings at ten fathoms. About 40 miles from
Chinlan there is a small river leading to the city of Wanchow the
capital of the Wan district, with two remarkable rocks at the
entrance, but there is not sufficient water on the bar and the
anchorage is unsafe. We stopped off Tyfar island intending to
anchor for the night, but the water was so deep and there was so
little shelter that we proceeded to Tychow.
"Tychow has the appearance of two islands connected by a low
sandy beach, the southeast extremity bearing the highest hill about
500 feet." It is covered with coarse grass on its exposed parts,

68
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
with patches of brushwood in its ravines, and with blocks of
blackened granite peering here and there. This and Tyfar to-
gether with the small islands round to the southward of Hainan
are said to yield birds' nests of a very superior quality, surpassing
all others in flavour, but scarce. The Chinese Gazetteer of the
Kiungshan district (Hainan) declares that they are built by a
species of "swallow" the size of a dove! We looked out in vain
for this species of swift. The nests are collected in the autumn
when the birds have deserted them. The pilot said that it was
necessary to dive to get into many of the caves which the birds
enter from small holes above. "The anchorage is off the west
side of the sandy bench which joins the two parts of the island.
We anchored in 8 fathoms about one mile from it, the water
gradually shoaling towards it."
Below Tychow island the character of the mainland changes to
a series of high ranges of mountains covered with vegetation. In
passing inside of Nankin island (9th March) we sighted a suspicious
looking junk close in shore, which as we advanced made for a
small lagoon about a mile east of Nankin island, into which she
was helped over the rocky bar by the surf. Her crew discharged
two big guns and tumbled them overboard, and themselves made
for the shore, where they could be seen squatting behind rocks
watching proceedings. The Cowloon Commissioner and the De-
puty for Hoihow were united as to the junk being a pirate, so the
gun-boat anchored and after firing a few shots at her sent some
men and set her on fire. The boats were nearly swamped in
crossing the bar. When they were recalled numbers of fishing
boats appeared from various parts of the long beach and swarmed
to the pillage of the junk, but she had no cargo and the fire had
not left much of her spars or rigging worth saving. These fisher-
men were a barbarous looking lot, many of them perfectly naked.
Their boats were constructed very like the Japanese boats at Na-
gasaki. The land to the south of us was steep and mountainous
covered with wood, and on the north ran the low sandy spit whence
the fishermen appeared. On leaving this anchorage we steered
to Tienfung rock passing between it and the mainland. The whole
of this part of the coast from the French survey seems correctly
laid down in the chart. There is a lagoon called Howtowwan
about 5 miles W.S.W. of Saddle island, but it being too shallow
we proceeded on to the anchorage off Lingshuy bar. While off
Lingshuy just before dark the pilot pointed to a large junk to

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
69
seaward which was tacking about in a suspicious manner. The
gun-boat gave chase and ran close to her. The Cowloon Com-
missioner hailed her and insisted on her putting down her sail,
and when this was not done he begged that the gun-boat should
fire into her. Of course his request was not complied with, and no
offensive measures taken. The master of the junk dropped a boat
and came alongside in her bringing his papers. He exhibited a
register from Wenchang and a clearance dated the previous day
from Lingshuy. He was bound with a cargo of white sugar and
rattans for Tungping on the coast of Kwangtung province. There
was no further doubt as to the honesty of his voyage, and after
lecturing the Commissioner for his precipitancy the Commander
apologised to the junk master for the inconvenience caused him,
and we put back and entered Lingshuy.
We spent March the 10th and 11th at Lingshuy. "The an-
chorage off the bar is much exposed, and there is not sufficient
water for junks of any size to cross it. There is a reef of rocks
off the S.E. extreme of the bay supposed to correspond with the
three detached rocks laid down on the chart. They appear to bo
be
all above water. We anchored in 5 fathoms with the south ex-
treme of the land E.S.E. and the entrance to the lagoon N. by W.,
the former being distant about one mile and the latter two. The
lagoon is of an oval form running N.E. and S.W. It is very
shallow and filled with coral and sand banks. The passage through
it to the village is very intricate. A small river runs into it.
There is a good watering-place on the point close to the anchorage."
The anchorage seems constantly exposed to a swell from the sea,
and the sea breaks in rolling surf over the small channel through
the sand which leads into the chief port of the Lingshuy district.
On the south bank of the lagoon about a mile from the entrance
stands a small thatched village with a few junks anchored off it
controlled by a Sinkwan. This anchorage is called the Sintsun-
keang, or new village anchorage, and further up occurs a second
junk anchorage with another small village called Tungtsekeang,
or tar and paint anchorage. At the head of the lagoon about 4
miles from the entrance is found the landing village for the district
city known as Seao-chai. The south side of the lagoon consists
mainly of a raised sand-bank, but on a somewhat lower level
cultivated fields intervene between it and the distant hills. Co-
coanut trees occur in greater or less number about all the hamlets
that sprinkle the valley of the lagoon. A little palm-swift (a new

70
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
species) and tiny sun-birds (also new to science) were here the most
noticeable birds. The former dashing about with rapid flight over
the tops of the tall palms, and the latter twittering on the tops of
bushes displaying to advantage in the sunlight their gaudy metallic
hues. On the sands a large long-tailed lizard could not but attract
the attention of the most unobservant. It was dark olive-coloured
covered with white spots, and its red costal skin hung loose and
was capable of expansion between its fore and hind legs. With
these false wings it would skim along the sands when disturbed,
and on reaching its hole stop short at the mouth, take a glance
around, and in an instant pop below. On the north side behind
the strand and a village with a little cultivation around, a series of
wild bush-clad hills succeed and extend to the anchorage. These
abound with jungle-fowl, francolin, small deer, and other game.
We found a grave-mound strewn with cock's feathers, which must
have served the jungle birds for strutting on; and at sundown the
cover resounded with the cries of the francolin, the grunt of the
muntjac deer, and the noises of various wild animals. Parts of
the lagoon were choked with corals of different kinds, and in the
shallows near the shore the water shewed numbers of a plant-like
object of a flesh-colour resembling somewhat in form the horse-tail
weed (equisetum) and about a foot high, conjuring up a fancy of
a miniature submarine pine-forest. At a touch each stalk absorbed
its leaves and sunk into the sand. The effect was curious, and
like a fairy whimsey worthy of Gulliver, to see the Lilliputian
forest disappear before our Brobdignagian legs as we waded to the
shore. What looked like a plant was really an animal protruded
from its tube hidden in the sand. Unfortunately we did not collect
specimens, thinking that we should find them in the other harbours
we were about to visit, but they never came again under our notice.
We pulled up to Seochai about noon of the 11th and walked to
the city of Lingshuy hien. The road lay first across a plain of
fine coral sand, and then through fields of sweet potatoes traversed
by two small streams. Rice fields in well advanced state occurred
near the suburbs. Outside the city at the foot of a hill we noticed
two curious temples, the handsomest and quaintest one being de-
dicated to Confucius. The main street of the town and part of
the outside road to it are paved. Within the walls the aspect is
that of a deserted village. We called on the magistrate-Ling-
shuy Hien-an intelligent Kiangse man, who had been some time
in Canton and was well acquainted with foreigners. He com-

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
71
plained of the miserable dulness of the place, and the want of
society; said his three years were up, and that he longed for his
relief. He told me that the sugar, the main produce of the place,
was grown among the Le hills by Chinese farmers who employed
the Le as labourers, and that there were seventeen sugar farms.
That the Le were more independent since the Nychow and Wan-
chow outbreaks, and did not come forward so readily to work as
they used to do. The Le in this district are distinguished by the
Chinese as the Seao-le. They submitted at an early date to the
Chinese rule, but were allowed to retain their own peculiar coif-
fure. The benefits of the public schools were extended to them
and two Sewtsaiship (degree of B. A.) set apart for their most
worthy scholars. But they do not seem to have appreciated
Chinese education, and no member of the tribe has ever won a
degree. The mandarin assured me that nearly every one smoked
opium, even the Le, to ward off the deadly malaria that prevails
amongst these hills. The importation of opium was irregular, and
it was being retailed at three half-pence an ounce. The man-
darin himself snuffed and was suffering great inconvenience for
the want of it. Most of the necessaries of life were brought from
the adjoining districts, but Lingshuy produces the best white rice
in the island. No tobacco is cultivated there. The Le bring out
fuel, timber, and a few skins. They could not be induced to bring
deers' horns. We rambled through the north gate to the market
street outside in the suburbs. This was the market for the Le.
It consists of a fine long street with great display of Manchester
and other longeloths, and nicknacks of all kinds such as the Le
delight in. The duty-farmer lives in this street, but he has an
agent at Seochai on the harbour. A few very dirty Seao-le, male
and female, were making their purchases. They are smaller and
darker than the Le at Taipingsze in the interior. Their rags are
broader and banded, their heads turbaned, and each carries a large
wood-cutter's knife in a basket fastened behind by a girdle round
the waist. Their women were very ugly and frowsy, and dressed
in a skirt reaching a little below the knee. They always made
off when they saw us, the Chinese hooting after them. The
mandarin receives the market and street dues as part of his emo-
luments, but he complained greatly of the poverty of the place.
He was not in good terms with the merchant who held the mono-
poly of trade duties. The military authority was away on circuit
among the hills, so we did not meet him. The long market street

72
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
ends on a bank, below which runs a small river that enters the
country further southward on the coast at a place called Paoting.
Cocoanuts lined its opposite shore, and beyond towered the jungly
hills the home of the Seaole. The view formed a very pretty bit of
oriental landscape. We returned at dark in chairs to the boat.
The boats that enter the lagoon through the surf are made of
planks stitched together with strips of rattan, and are sculled like
those we saw near Nankin island above referred to.
When landing at Seochai on our visit to the city we were
hailed from a junk. The person calling to us turned out to be
a Hainan Chinese that we had picked up at Hongkong with a
slight knowledge of English who engaged on an advance of wages
being paid to him to serve as our interpreter in Hainan. The
proprietor of an opium shop in the colony stood guarantee for his
honesty. A day or two after our arrival in Hoihow while out
shooting this man asked leave to visit his mother, a very common
plea for absenteeism in China, and we let him go. We never saw
him again till on this occasion. It was on the hurry of embarking
at Hongkong that I was forced to make shift with such a man as
the above, for before leaving Amoy I had already procured a to-
lerably good Hainanese. The latter however was led away by
the temptations of the gay native society in our colony, and not
having sufficient means to pay for his dissipation he was seized
and stripped of his clothes. My other men helped him out of his
trouble and to show his regret for the past and as a punishment
to himself he chopped off the first finger of his right hand. This
act of desperation so frightened my followers that they condemned
him as a dangerous character and protested against his forming
one of our party. This led me at the last moment to seek for a
substitute in Hongkong which resulted in my engaging the other.
Fortunately as it turned out we did not feel the want of a special
interpreter of Hainanese. The mandarins and their underlings
could all speak some sort of court dialect and they for the most
part interpreted between us and the people; moreover Hainanese
itself has so much in common with the Amoy dialect that by a
little attention it was not difficult from one's knowledge of the
latter to make out a good deal of what was said.
We left the Lingshuy anchorage at daylight of the 13th March,
and three merchant-junks that put back the evening previous
having reported that two pirates outside had fired on them, we
were on the alert. We came up with the pirates at sea, a large

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
73
Macno junk and a smaller Hainan junk. The big junk dropped
a boat full of men who pulled as hard as they could for the shore.
The gun-boat pursued and took them on board, as well as those
that remained in the junks, 44 in all. The big junk had a false
register dated in the 7th year of the so-called reign of Taiping
(rebel), and it would appear had captured the smaller junk; for
the latter had a proper register from the magistrate of the Wên-
chang district, and a clearance from the same dated seven months
back. As far as we could make out nine of the captives had
formed the crew of the smaller junk. We took both the junks in
tow and proceeded. This little event unfortunately prevented the
gun-boat from visiting Gealing bay, but all the points &c. marked
in the chart appeared to Lieutenant Domvile to be quite correctly
laid down. "We anchored on the east side of Yulinkan bay.
The water is deep, but there was a long swell rolling in from the
southward, which did not make it a comfortable anchorage. Fresh
water can be procured from a stream close by, also as much wood
as is required, the natives being only too ready and willing to
fetch them for a few old clothes. There is a beautiful harbour
called Eleem in the bend of Yulinkan bay, which we had not time
to explore, but I believe the French survey to be correct." This
harbour is referred to by Du Halde in the following words: "In
the south of the island, where vessels of the (East India) Company
have harboured, is found a great bay at the head of which is one
of the best ports that can be met with. You anchor in twenty
feet of water, and at a pistol range from the shore; six vessels
can pass the two monsoons there in the most assured security."
Yulinkan bay is in Nychow, or District of Ny, and is surrounded
by mountains covered with gingle inhabited by the Seaole, there
being only a few huts with Chinese fishermen remaining at Eleem
harbour of what was once a Chinese village; the village was burnt
down some years back for its connection with pirates. A few of
these fishing people, men and women, came off to us in boats.
They appeared to fear the Le, and would not go amongst them
without us. It is extraordinary that so fine a harbour and bay
should be so completely deserted by the colonists. We found the
Le very friendly and got them to guide us up the hills along the
narrow paths of the jungle. The cover was simply impenetrable
to a European on account of its density and the innumerable species
of thorny plants that abounded; but the almost naked Le with
his forest-knife in the basket behind glided and crept about with
10

74
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
the facility of a wild animal. There was no cultivation, but stock-
aded enclosures occurred with traps at each corner shaped like
lobster-baskets for the capture of wild pigs. These enclosures
may be planted in favourable seasons of the year. We found no
native houses, though we frequently came across Le men and
women cutting wood. They were of the same swarthy tribe called
Senole that we had met at Lingshuy. I took a few words of their
dielect and found them to differ somewhat from those of the Le
at Taipingsze. Many of the men had silver thumb-rings and ono
wore silver pear-shaped earrings. One had a fife on which he
played some pretty simple airs."
The pirates were all secured along the fore-deck of the gun-boat,
and at dark when food was served out to them their hands were
untied to enable them to eat. They wanted water and one of
their number was set adrift to supply the others. Quick as thought
he was over board swimming vigorously for the land. It was a
fine tropical night and the water sparkled at each splash, so we
could trace for some distance the sheen of his body as he glided
long. A boat was lowered, but in vain; the man escaped.
We sailed at noon on the 14th March having the small junk in
Low, and the big junk in charge of the second master in company,
"Passing another good harbour on the coast we anchored off West
Island at 4 P. x. in three fathoms. It makes a very good road-
stead, and the island protects you from the swell we found in
nearly every other harbour." The main of Hainan was about three
miles off, mountainous, woody, and wild. We had a ramble over
the island, and found a few fishing inhabitants who also turned
their attention to cultivating the ground. The flat part of the
island was grassy with some fields planted with cotton and hedged
with bushes and trees. The hilly portion was mostly covered with
wood. Among the rock-pools on its seaward side I found some
fine live samples of bicho de mar (Holothuria sp.) which are col-
lected on different parts of the Hainan coast for the market. The
Chinese make a very good soup of this animal properly dried.
They form balls half holothuria and half pigeon's egg, and of these
make the soup; the holothuria boils into a substance much like
the fat of turtle, and I must confess to my palate affords consider-
able relish. We had hoped to find about these rocks the birds' nests
swift before spoken off, but there were no signs of its appearance.
We left at noon of the 15th and arrived at Nychow about 4 P.M..
"On leaving West Island we steered for the Great Cape rounding

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
75
which Nychow is reached. There is a dangerous rock off the
Great Cape not marked on the chart, on which the sea breaks
when there is any swell on. It bears S.W. from the Great Cape
about 3 to 4 miles. The anchorage at Nychow is quite exposed.
to all winds between south and west, but there is a good junk
anchorage over the bar of the river. The bar has only 7 feet
water on it, and with southerly winds must be a very bad one.
There was a little wind when we were there and there was gene-
rally a good sea on. The best way to go in is to take a course
till nearly between the points, to then cross over and hug the
right bank, keeping clear of the spit which runs off the point. It
is a small and safe junk harbour, but very shallow in several places.
The river which passes the city runs into it, but is too shallow for
boats to get up." On anchoring we sent the Cowloon Commissioner
and the Hoihow Deputy on shore to report our arrival, and to make
arrangements for the removal of the prisoners. The next morning
(16th March) some junk-men came on board to take the pirates
on shore to the guard who had come down from the city for them.
The forty-three prisoners were delivered over to them. Lieutenant
Domvile, Captain Holroyd and I a little later pulled in through
the shallow passage over the surf, and landed at the fort on the
left side past the fishing stakes. The fort fired a salute, and a
crystal-buttoned mandarin, aide-de-camp to the Heëtai, or General
and Brevet-Commodore, of Nychow received us on shore. Ponies
were in readiness and we rode to the city distant about five miles.
A good part of the road kept the course of the river; Chinese were
wading about the water and catching fish with baskets, or stamping
about the mud and seizing shell fish with their toes. The two
long straggling villages passed after landing were full of Le car-
rying about country produce in the shape of vegetables, fruit,
firewood, &c., and we found large numbers of them in the city in
an almost nude state acting as porters. The Heëtai saluted us
with guns both on entering and leaving his yamun, and was very
polite and kind. He told us that he had received the prisoners
and had sent them to the magistrate for preliminary examination,
but that the latter had refused to accept them. We called on the
Ny Che-chow, or magistrate of Nychow, a very boyish-looking
money-bought mandarin, who honoured us with a salute and was
otherwise civil, but declined taking the prisoners on the plea that
he had no accommodation for them, and that it would be a useless
expense to him to send them all the way to the capital where he

76 NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
would get no merit for it, as they were not captured by himself.
He said that he would have to send two men with each prisoner
according to regulation, and that his office had not so many men
to spare. That he had only had six months of service in Nychow,
and had found nothing but expense and ill-luck. No sooner in
office than the troubles with the Le broke out. This of course led
to a visit from the Thotai and Chintai, and all the expenses ac-
cruing to such a visit. And now we had come to saddle him with
forty-three vagabonds, who would cost him a fortune before he
could get them off his hands. He beseeched us to take them
along, and deliver them ourselves to the authorities at Kiungchow.
Gun-boats had often caught pirates off the coast before, but they.
always carried them away with them. We told him that we were
on other service besides that of the capture of pirates, and that
we simply did our duty in handing them over to the first native
authority we came across. He ended by saying that as we had
captured the junks off the Lingshuy coast he would take the
pirates and forward them by first opportunity to the Lingshuy
magistrate. The Heëtai came off next day (17th March) on a
visit to the gun-boat, and had the captured junks examined with
a view to converting them into men-of-war. He accepted the big
junk for that purpose. A Wênchang trader was declared to be
the former owner of the small junk, and to him it was delivered.
A receipt was given by the authorities at Nychow to the com-
mander of the gun-boat for the pirates delivered, and this on our
return to Hongkong was transmitted by the commodore through
H. M. Consul at Canton to the Viceroy. At Hoihow we learned
that a rumour had reached there that all the prisoners had escaped
save one, but that seven of the runaways had been subsequently
recaptured by the Heëtai. The Heëtai and the magistrate at
Nychow were on bad terms with each other, and this was the
reason of all the trouble about the pirates. The Chintai and
Taotai at the capital declared that they would bring the mandarins
at Nychow to account for their shortcomings in the matter of
these pirates, and the Chintai said he would order up the captured
junk to serve him as a tender at Hoihow.
The surf on Nychow bar breaks in the calmest weather. In
the entrance there is a raised sand bank; behind this on the right
hand the trading junks huddle together in a nook. The fort
called Pao-ping-tai is about three quarters of a mile higher up on
the left bank. Along the sands were arranged, in pairs leaning

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
77
one against the other, a number of wedge-shaped flat punts
without sides, consisting of a series of thick planks nailed together
side by side. The fishing-junks go out crowded with these and
drop them one by one on a calm sea to fish from. These punts
are also used westwards round the Hainan coast. The boats that
cross the surf to the anchorage are decked over, and have a cen-
tral well for the crew to sit in; they are both sculled and sailed.
The Nychow valley through which the small river runs is about
ten miles across, bounded by jungly hills, a few of which were
cleared to some extent. The heat was great and the rice-fields
dried up and fallow; tobacco was thriving; the sugar-cane not
yet planted. Round the villages gardens occurred with sweet
potatoes, ground-nuts, and vegetables. As at Lingshuy sugar is
here the great staple of trade, and is grown with the assistance
of the Le. We entered Nychow city by the sea or west gate,
passing on our way a handsome temple, and then through a vil-
lage-like suburb with several sugar factories. Within the walls
the city looks ruinous and deserted, but emerging from the east
gate you come at once upon a fine long street of shops in the
suburb, where all manner of tempting and coloured goods are
exhibited. This part is crowded with Chinese, and much visited
by the Le of the adjoining country round. The merchant who
farms the duties lives in this busy street and collects his tithes on
the trade; but the toll on opium and the port dues are assessed
at the landing village by the fort. The city wall has only three
open gates, the north gate being blocked up on the model of
Kiungchow city.
The Le that frequent Nychow and the villages about live amidst
the surrounding jungle, their dwelling places being approached.
by creeps rather than paths. They call themselves K'lai, and I
found that their language differs dialectically from those of the
other two tribes already noticed. Both sexes are dark and with
their betel-stained lips look very like Malays. They have high
cheek bones, bushy eyebrows, and rather sunken horizontal eyes;
some are farge-boned with big heads. They do not crowd round
you curious and inquisitive like the Chinese. All have a nervous
and shy expression about the face, and try to avoid notice. The
Nychow Le are a good deal darker than the Le of Taipingsze, and
dress their hair differently. The knob on the top of the head
instead of being a lump of drawn up hair forms a whorl, the back
hair being twisted into a tail or two tails and led up to it on

78
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
one or both sides of the head, and a pin, usually of monkey bone,
mounted with silver, secures the knob. Over the crown a cloth
is usually wrapped in turban form. Their native dress seems to
be merely a rag descending in front from a string round the waist,
and passing between the legs ascending to the waist-string behind;
these groin rags vary in width. They rarely wear the front and
back aprons worn by the central tribe. You sometimes see them
with jackets, but these are of Chinese pattern. The women wear
their hair oftenest loose and hanging, but also gathered into a
knot behind; the head frequently turbaned.
They wear the
Chinese jacket and a skirt cloth to the knee. The married women
tattoo their faces in double line down either cheek and across the
chin, with a row of diamond-shaped or round spots between the
lines. The tattoo seems to be badly done and obliterates before
the person gets old. The females of these southern Le that we
came across were extremely ugly and dirty. Their houses are of
thatch without walls, the roof sloping on either side to the ground,
and they contain but little furniture. They live together under
their own head men or chiefs who are responsible to the Chinese
authorities, but their submission is by no means complete, as they
have never consented either to shave their heads or to wear
trowsers-both marks in the eyes of the Chinese of unpardonable
barbarism. In each village a separate building is set aside for the
storage of grain and other joint property of the tribe. Marriage
is celebrated with rejoicing and the presenting of betelnut, and
the husband goes over to the wife's family. They marry but one
wife, and are usually strict in the behaviour of one sex towards
the other; but on occasions of feasts and merry-making their
morality gets relaxed, and improper scenes occur. The dead are
buried in coffins made of hollow trunks of trees, and wakes are
held over them. The Nychow Le share with the Seaole of the
south-east the offer of government education, and many attend
the public schools, but not often with success. The Secretary to
the General at Nychow, to whom I am indebted for most of the
above notes, informed me that some years ago a Nychow Le
attained to the degree of Sewtsai or Bachelor of Arts, and held
office under the Chinese government. This was the only instance
he knew of a successful Le student; the better classes of the Le
preferred the wild life of the mountains, and had no taste for
literature. A wild berry was shewn me from which the Le infuse

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
79
a kind of Tea much used among themselves. In carrying loads
they have adopted the bamboo pole of Chinese porters. I was
anxious to visit the interior of Nychow district, but the mandarins
recommended me not to do so, as the Le since the outbreak
were in the frequent habit of making raids and plundering the
Chinese. The outbreak was brought about by a disagreement
between the Tsungyay stationed at Logansze and the Le he had
a nominal control over. It was an old rule that the Le should
contribute labour to keep in repair the mandarin's offices and the
town wall. The former Tsungyay had not demanded this labour,
but had the work done at his own expense. The new man re-
verted to the old rule and insisted upon the Le coming forward
to work. The Le pleaded that the old rule had been abolished,
and that the system in force was to pay for the labour. The
Tsungyay led out thirty soldiers to compel them to comply. The
soldiers are said to have taken liberties with the Le women, which
resulted in the Le blowing horns and calling to their assistance
their independent brethren. from the mountains. The mandarin
and the soldiers were taken prisoners, and the whole of them were
massacred. The Taotai and Chintai of Hainan journeyed to Ny-
chow and called on the Le to surrender the murderers. This the
latter refused to do, and the high mandarins had to return to the
capital without effecting a pacification. The opinion of the man-
darins now is that their prestige among the Le will never be
reestablished unless the government allow them to move an army
against the Le and thoroughly punish them for their presumption
and perverseness. In a jungly mountainous country like that at
Nychow field operations are not easy and a large number of men
must be sacrificed before much can be done against these hardy
mountaineers. The malaria too, to which we have before alluded,
few Chinese can stand. It affects them with a kind of dropsy, to
wit swelling of the belly and limbs, which mostly prove fatal.
Some attribute this to the hill water; others insist that the Le
poison their water and tea; while others lay the cause to a power
that the Le are supposed to possess of working deadly charms.
The Le use knives and spears, but their chief weapon is the bow
and poisoned arrow. The string of this instrument is usually made
of a bamboo strip, and can propel with great force, but the arrow
These berries appear to be the seed of the Galangal (Alpinia officinarum,
Hance) a plant that grows abundantly in the south of Hainan.

80
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
is not feathered and cannot fly straight for any distance, conse-
quently their practice in the chase is to creep close to their prey
before pulling the string. The wounded animal is followed up
until the poison of the arrow-head effects its death or stupefaction.
The Chinese in Nychow city speak a very corrupt kind of man-
darin or court dialect, which tradition says was originally taught
the people by the poet and statesman Soo Tung-po, who was
exiled to Hainan. Those in the surrounding country are from
different parts of the Kwangtung const. The district is very thinly
colonised, the Le or their half-caste descendants predominating.
The carts in use at Nychow are much like those of Lingshuy.
They are very narrow, little over a yard in width, with movable
basket or hurdle sides, and with nearly solid wheels which turn
with the axle and make a dreadful creaking.
About 3 miles north-west of the city near the hill range occurs
a hot mineral spring. The river which passes Nychow is here
reduced to a little stream, and close to ic is a small basin just off
the road which contains water about. a foot in depth and almost
too hot to keep your hand in. There was a slightly bitter taste
about this water, but it had no sulphurous or other smell, though
out of the hot sand at its bottom we picked out a sulphurous-
looking pebble. The General's Aide-de-camp that guided us
thither told us that a similar spring occurred in another direction
from the city.
Monkeys abound in the Nychow jungles, and we saw on one
occasion a party of large brown deer. Jungle-fowl, partridges,
quail, &c. are also numerous, but the cover is too thick and im-
penetrable to afford sport. Most of the tropical birds of the inte-
rior range down to the sea in this hot and jungly district.
We left Nychow on the 20th March at 5 A. M. under sail with
a good southerly breeze for Paklai, 80 miles distant on the west
coast. "From Nychow to Paklai a series of sand-banks occur,
which vessels of light dranght can go inside or outside of. As
we were under sail the pilot took us outside. It would be impos-
sible to give any course as the pilot hauled in and out as we
shoaled the water. The most dangerous bank is about 35 miles
from Nychow, and the pilot did not appear to know it was there
till the breakers were seen from the deck. It is about ten miles
from the land and where it forms an angle. Nearly all the banks
break, and you can generally tell by the colour of the water and
gradual shoaling of the soundings when you are on the edge of

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
81
them. In fact the pilot appeared to keep in about 5 to 7 fathoms
on the edges of the banks. The nature of the land is a flat sandy
plain with very high land in the distance. Off the greater part
of the land it runs very shoal. Pyramid point is very well named;
it runs out low and sandy with a pyramid-shaped rock on its
extreme end about 50 feet high, on rounding which you enter
the bay.
See-ka-sha marked on the chart as a village is really
the north point of the bay. The village or small town of Paklai
gives the name to the harbour although it is over two miles inland.
The anchorage is off a small fishing-village at the head of the bay,
the water gradually shoaling up to it. You must look out for a
very nasty little reef off the village, which only breaks at low
water. By the course we steered the outline of the land laid
down on the chart must be incorrect."
We anchored in the evening, and next morning (21st March)
pulled round the spit into the small creek, wherein the junks were
lying; we landed on the left and walked to the village a few
hundred yards off on a sand-mound just above the head of the
creek. It consisted of straw huts with narrow lanes between and
abounded in pigs, poultry, and filth. The Sinkwan that controlled
it had gone to Nychow. This place is called Tuntow-kang, and
is two and a third miles distant from Paklai of Peh-le-keai (street
of the northern Le) which lies in a south-easterly direction. We
walked to this town through a scorching wind blowing from the
south over the sand. It consists of a long street and was formerly
one of the bartering places of the Le. The Sinkwan was absent
so we visited the Kwanpoo or Custom House, and saw the agent
of the duty farmer, a pleasant lad who treated us with great civility.
He informed me that Paklai was in the Kangên district, though
its sea-port Tuntow-kang was in the Changhwa district. Paklai
was seventeen miles distant from Kangên city and twenty-three
from Changhwa city. Tuntow was a port for both Kangen and
Changhwa, but each city has a small shallow port in its neigh-
bourhood as well. There were only shops and small agencies at
Paklai, no large hongs; but the very tolerable Hwey-kwan or
meeting-hall of the merchants of Nanhai and Shunteh (districts
in the Kwangtung province) seemed to show that the better class
of traders did occasionally resort to this town. We walked through
the street, and crossing a stream continued round to a low range
of pyramidal hills, resounding with the notes of the spotted par-
tridge, that runs to the coast. The country was extremely dried
11

82
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
up; a few patches of sweet potatoes were seen, and there were
some large herds of cattle and goats. The villages were small,
few, and far apart, and the fields divided by hedges with broad
cart-roads between. There were trees round and about the villages,
especially about the fishing villages near the coast; Tuntowkang
being alone an exception. Some handsome specimens of the
Tamarind tree occurred; this very graceful tree thrives all over
the island, but in this place it showed to advantage; its preserve-
like seeds are eaten by the people. Some of the fields were being
prepared to plant dry rice. The earth was sandy, and the whole
country looked parched and dry. The inland hills, where the Le
frequent, seemed to be about eight miles distant.
We left at 5.30 A. M. (March 22nd), and "steered between the
sands marked on the chart off See-ka-sha point; they seemed tol-
erably correct as laid down, but the lead and the eye are the best
guides afterwards. We followed the land taking care not to keep
too close, as the water shoals in places. The walled city of
Changhwa close to Bluff point gives a junk anchorage, but no ship
could lie off there with safety. After leaving Bluff point you can
safely keep within two miles off the land in about seven fathoms
fall you reach the mouth of the little harbour of Hoitow." The
till
ill range that ends in Bluff point is clear of wood; sand runs up
s face on the seaward side. Large numbers of fishing junks
ame out of the Changhwa anchorage as we passed. They carry
one mast and have the mat main-sail well rounded on the outer
edge near the top, as if the gaff and the mainsail were run into
one. They carry their heads out of the water and have their
stern-peaks whipped round with rope. One net is hauled between
two junks, the net of each being used alternately. Rope fenders
are hung over the junks sides to prevent injury from collision.
As we arrived off Hoitow it began to blow and looked stormy.
The fishing junks, some hundreds in number all made for the
same port.
The harbour of Hoitow (sea head) is in Tanchow, or the district
of Tan, and "is formed by a small river the mouth of which is a
kind of lagoon covered at high tide and dry at low, except a little
corner formed by a sand-bank which gives the harbour. There
are only 2 fathoms on the bar at low water and you anchor in
about the same inside, and moor with a stern anchor. The gun-
boat completely filled up the harbour in turning. There is deep
water close to the village, or on the west side, and the junks moor

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
83
alongside the banks. It is the largest fishing station on the const."
The village situated on the left bank contains a good many straw-
thatched huts with walls constructed of coral and bits of volcanic
rock, and at its further extremity some more solid houses of brick
and tiles. The creek continues to the left along the village, but
soon shallows, and becomes a fresh-water stream. Inside the
shallower portion of the creek the fishing junks packed themselves
and others kept hurrying in till a late hour in the night. The
three or four trading junks were moored to the shore inside of the
gun-boat.
(March 23rd). The Sinkwan was away, so we called on the
master of the Taiseun hong apparently the only large merchant
in the place. He had a snug house with a druggist's shop in
front on the street, an upper story above with a verandah com-
manding a good view of the country. The merchant held a
small civil appointment under the Chechow (or magistrate) of
Tanchow, and before farmed the duties. He said the government
sold the monopoly of collecting these yearly for $400, the pur-
chaser having besides to pay to the retiring holder $200, or in all
$600. He showed me some specimens of copper ore (green car-
bonate of copper) which he informed me came from a mine in the
Shih-luh shan (stone-green hill) distant about 27 miles east, and
behind a small group of low bare hills about 13 miles off which
we could see from his window. The mine is surrounded wit
jungle and inside the Le territory. This mine I found on m
return to Hongkong to be well known to certain Europeans there,
who once made an ineffectual attempt to get Chinese to work it
under the sanction of their government, and to sell to them the
ore. Certain Chinese did get the permission of the high authori-
ties at Canton, but objection being made to foreign steamers going
to the port to load with the mineral, the scheme was abandoned.
The ore has been tested in England and found to be well charged
with copper. The merchant further informed me that in the same
group of hills lead and iron both occurred, the former containing
ten to fifteen per cent. of silver. The silver I had already heard
about from a mandarin at the capital, who had been employed to
work the mine on account of government; the expenses of working
were found to be so great and the return of metal so small that
the mine was sealed or closed in the first year of Hienfung (A.D.
1850). The older writers on China speak of gold as being one of
the articles brought out for barter by the Le, but I could learn

84
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
nothing of its occurrence now. At Taipingsze the gravelly soil
was sprinkled with some shining specks which my men mistook
for gold, but they turned out to be small fragments of yellow
mica. The merchant at Tuntow said that he fully believed from
indications he had noticed that coal also lay in the neighbouring
hills, but it had not as yet been discovered. The valuable metals
and minerals are only found among the hills in the possession of
the Le, and in places where the Chinese cannot penetrate without
their permission and assistance. The merchant traded largely with
them, and kept one in his house as an attendant. He however
declined to guide us to the hills without permission from the
Tanchow authorities, as he had already suffered so much from his
former connection with Europeans in mining operations. To
proceed to Tanchow and return was out of the question as we were
pressed for time; and to go inland without a guide or person con-
versant with the peculiar dialect of the colonists here and the
language of the Le was also impossible. Cantonese was not un-
derstood out of the harbour, and our attendant mandarins spoke
between them only Cantonese, Hainanese (or the language of the
northern portion of the island) and mandarin; the weather was
rainy and stormy, and conveyances difficult if not impossible to
procure; so we reluctantly abandoned our desire to visit the dif-
ferent mines. While the mines were worked the two forts on the
sands above the village were manned and kept in order, but they
had long since been deserted and fallen into disrepair; and now
notwithstanding the presence of the gallant Sinkwan, pirates, the
merchant assured me, frequently came inside and levied blackmail.
The Le servant in the merchant's house was a fine tall man but
with an effeminate cast of countenance and the shy look before
noticed. He was much fairer than the Nychow Le, and the list
of words he gave me bespoke a language different from the three
we had already noted, though evidently only dialectically so, and
not a distinct tongue as you find among neighbouring tribes in
Formosa. When summoned forward he took a seat on a stool at
the feet of his master, and looked foolish and childish. He be-
longed to a tribe called Laokwang, and though dressed in clothes
of a Chinese cut retained the coiffure of his tribe which was similar
to that of the Nychow Le. The merchant told us that not many
years since the Le set up an Emperor, but that the Emperor
exacted so much from his subjects that they rose against him and
dethroned him. That now they are organised as before under

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
.
85
chiefs. We had a ramble into the country and found the plain
sandy, and not much under cultivation, except with sweet potatoes;
many fields lay fallow. Off the harbour in the left bank there is
a little inlet wherein the small harbour boats find refuge. These
are a good deal like Macao sampans, and are sculled by women
who speak Cantonese and wear kerchiefs round their heads.
We sailed on the 24th March about 9 A. M. "Hoitow is only
fourteen miles from Flat Point leading into Chappoo bay. The
latter is a large open bay with a reef in the centre, which is not
marked in the chart. In the north-east corner is a little harbour
called Heongpoo formed by reefs, and the least water going in is
four fathoms. It is perfectly sheltered from all winds, and is the
best harbour for vessels of moderate size that there is on the coast.
There is a small sand-bank on the right hand going in. Beyond
the harbour is a large lagoon with a fort on each side of the en-
trance. It is possible to go just inside, but there is no better
shelter than off Heongpoo, and the lagoon is full of sand-banks.
Heongpoo is only a small fishing village."
On our way to this port the pilot pointed out as pirates three.
fishing boats stranded on the beach, and the Cowloon commissioner
and the captain of Hoihow's deputy requested Lieutenant Domvilo
to overhaul them. As we approached the crews deserted the boats
and took to the shore. The commander of the gun-boat landed
with all his available men and gave chase, our two mandarins with
him. When the pirates were sighted the young mandarin deputed
by the captain of Hoihow turned and ran back to the beach in
great fright as hard as he could run. The "commissioner for the
suppression of piracy" sent by the Chinese Commodore of Cowloon
kept with the party. When we afterwards reported this exhibi-
tion of the "white feather" to the authorities at the capital, they
made light of it on the score of youth and said that he would
grow braver as he grew older. The pirates collected on a mound
under a tree and waving flags defied the gun-boat's crew, but a
few shots soon dispersed them, and in their hurry to escape they
dropped their flags and two French muskets. It was no use at-
tempting to take them prisoners, so the party returned on board
after burning the three deserted junks. A small boat containing
three men was with the junks. These men declared that they
had been ten days in the hands of the pirates and were held to
ransom. They were allowed to depart with their boat in peace,
and we found them afterwards quietly anchored at Heongpoo.

86
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO MAINAN.
Heongpoo, or Yangpoo harbour which we reached at 6 P.M.
is at the mouth of a large river-like creek. It is in Tanchow, or
the district of Tan. The village that gives the name to the har-
bour is situated on the left near the entrance to the creek, and is
controlled by a Sinkwan. It is the head-quarters of a large
fishery for red fish (Chrysophrys major?) The fishing junks were
somewhat like those of Hoitow, but with the head less out of water,
their mainsails cut straight, and their stern peaks bent round and
meeting upwards but not bound round with rope. To reach
Tanchow city it was necessary to go seven miles up the creek to
a town called Sinying, and thence by road seven miles southward.
We made for the city on the following day at noon, the Sinkwan
of the port acting as our guide. Inside the creek there is deep
water, but the anchorage outside is preferred by the junks. The
smaller junks that belong to the country go up the creek and moor
off Sinying. These junks of about forty-eight tons burden much
resemble those of Poochin and Chinlan, and are employed on the
small coasting trade done from this port. The right shore of the
creek (going in) is sandy, the left covered with small boulders and
pebbles, mostly of a dark volcanic tufa. There is a dilapidated fort
on either side of the creek near its entrance. The Sinkwan said
that it was his duty to live near the forts and look after them, but
that he had not sufficient men to hold them against the pirates who
had threatened to carry away the guns. The guns were therefore
removed and the forts allowed to decay. We were obliged to hug
the left bank till well up the creek before we struck across, in
order to avoid a sand-spit in the centre running out from Sinying.
Sinying is a thriving-looking town, most of the houses being tiled,
with sides and walls of volcanic rock and coral. It straggled
along the creek some way. There were several smaller clusters
of houses on the same side of the lagoon, and a few also on the
left side. We did not have time to send to the city for convey-
ances, so had to walk. It was a long, sandy, dreary, uninteresting
road to the city, often between hedges, but oftener through open
fields. Sweet potatoes, sorghum millet, and melons were growing,
and a little vetch and dry rice, but the paddy fields were dried
up and fallow. We passed over two small bridges. Many of the
cattle were brindled, and the carts broader than they were further
south. The country women here have a curious and unbecoming
fashion of wearing a strip of unbleached white cotton-cloth across
the hair of the forehead and tied behind under a huge knot of

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
87
twisted hair looking like a "chignon," stuck through with pins.
The white cloth was worn also a good deal by the fisherwomen,
one of whom was generally to be seen in each boat in company
with the crew. Their earrings were the large brass rings worn
throughout Hainan, but with the knob that stands in front of the
lobe of the ear conical instead of round. Many of the men wore
white frocks. The light straw hats of the women had peaked
crowns and broad brims, some with a deep fringe, differing from
those worn by the country maids at Nychow and Lingshuy, which
were made of softer material and had deep fringes of blue calico.
We entered the south gate of the city, outside of which there
were no suburbs, and soon reached the Yewpoo's yamen. The
Yewpoo, or military captain, had a red button for distinguished
services against the Nankin Rebels. He was civil, but not enter-
taining. We visited also the Chechow, or magistrate, an Amoy
man only lately arrived. He knew little of the place himself and
called his secretary to tell us something about the trade. The
city has four gates, and a fine but worn Confucian temple. Most
of the houses look respectable, but there is a poor village-like ap-
pearance throughout the town. The sun was setting and we
could not get sufficient chairs to accommodate our small party, so
we had to hurry on our return walk. The mandarins had given
us no refreshment, and we plodded over the heavy sandy road in
a very jaded condition, not reaching our boat till late. The people
of the city like those of Nychow are said to talk mandarin, the
ancestors of both having been taught by Sootungpo. From the
jargon they now speak I am afraid they do not do much justice to
their worthy master. The mandarins gravely informed me that
the villagers spoke the Le language. This was not the case;
their language sounded like a dialect of Cantonese, with a frequent
use of the initial consonants "d" and "b." We met no Le, the
hills having retired to about twenty miles from the coast. The
copper mines were said to be about 60 miles from the city and
the military mandarin offered to assist us into the country, but
the weather was too stormy and our time too limited for such an
expedition.
Bad weather prevented us from leaving Heongpoo till the 28th
when starting at an early hour we reached Haosuy harbour at 4 P.M.
"On leaving Heongpoo you round Pillar Point so called from
a pillar-shaped rock on the west side; there is also an extraor-
dinary rock joined to the mainland by a reef which extends

88
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
round it but. close to. The next point is called Ping-ma-kok
or Double hill, and can be seen for some distance, it is about 800
feet high. After rounding this you are in the bay of Haosuy.
The island called in the chart 'sand-island' is continued by an
extensive reef which forms a most excellent shelter in 5 fathoms;
the entrance inside the reef to the northward is narrow, but the
entrance to the southward is open. The village of Haosuy is on
the east side of the bay, and there is a small river running. The
anchorage off the village is not so good as that inside the reefs as
the swell rolls along the coast. There is a remarkable hill on the
south-east side of the bay, which would make a good land mark
if correctly laid down in the chart; after leaving this the land is
quite flat." The so called village of Haosuy is in fact composed
of three small villages lying adjacent, the one right in the bight
is called Antseuen; the one on the left Sinying; and that on the
right Haosuy (head and lips). We landed at Haosuy and learned
that the Sinkwan of the port had been withdrawn. We were led
to the residence of the collector of the Opium toll. Haosuy har-
bour is in Linkaohien or district of Linkao, the chief city of which
is fifteen miles to the eastward; to reach it one has to pass a mile
or so up the river-creek to the town of Panchow, whence a road
leads to the city. The harbour held no trading junks and showed
no signs of trade. We rambled through Haosuy and out at the
back; a few villages with trees about them were scattered beyond;
the river ran fast but grew shallow before advancing far; it is said
to divide further up, one branch extending towards Linkao city and
the other towards the city of Tan. Most of the houses that we
saw on the river bank had tile-floored salt-pans with straining
mounds for the manufacture of salt. The soil was sandy, growing
groundnuts, dry rice, and vetches; many of the fields lay fallow,
a few only were ploughed. Blocks of volcanic rock and masses
of fine-grained granite were scattered about confusedly; both are
used for building; some houses were tiled, others only thatched,
and the people seemed in moderate circumstances; their language
sounded a good deal like that of the colonists at Heongpoo, and
they dressed in a similar way. Their harbour boats are sculled by
a stern oar, some being decked for the surf like those at Nychow.
We steamed out of Haosuy bay on the 30th march at 6.20 A.M.
and reached Hungpai at 11 A. M. "This little place is about 25
miles further along the coast in a series of shallow bays. It is a
small harbour formed by reefs, but runs very shallow inside. It

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
89
is a great place for piratical junks and the villagers are of doubtful
character. Between Haosuy and Hungpai the water runs very
shoal off the points, but the lead will always give you warning in
time." Hungpai or Kungpai is in Chengmai-hien, or district of
Chengmai; the country here is low with a reddish-brown clayey
soil, undulating gently with one or two prominent isolated hills.
The right point is rocky with a small fort on it and trees in the
distance; the left side sandy and undulating; the creek between
full of oyster-covered rocks. Behind the ship to seaward was a
low sandy island with a single conspicuous tree upon it; on the
left shore there were several small villages with only a very few
small fishing boats. The nearest naval authority (Sinkwan) was
stationed seven miles away. We landed up the creek on the
stones of the left shore and had to wade to land. The villagers
spoke quite a peculiar dialect unlike any that we had heard; they
were not on friendly terms with one another, following us only to
the boundary of their own land. A little cotton was observed growing
besides the ordinary sweet potatoes, vetches, groundnuts and so
forth, and fields for dry rice were in course of preparation. Our
pilot and Chinese attendants kept close to us on shore and would
have nothing to do with the natives, as the latter were reported
to be thieves and vagabonds. There were no signs of trade among
them, and this good harbour seemed thrown away, or rather de-
serted in favour of pirates and a lawless population.
About twelve miles beyond Hungpai there is another safe an-
chorage protected from southerly winds called Mahnoo also in the
Chengmai district, but beyond again none others occur till you
reach Hoihow.
We departed from Hungpai at 6.45 on the 31st March and
anchored in Hoihow harbour at 12.15. The coast we passed was
sandy with a slightly raised flat country hehind.
The mandarins of the capital were glad to see us back and con-
gratulated us on our successful cruise. The Chintai begged me
to acquaint the high authorities at Canton with his helpless posi-
tion as regarded piracy. That not having any men-of-war under
his command, he was obliged to charter merchant junks to proceed
against the pirates when they annoyed the trade of the harbour,
and as these junks took some days to get ready the pirates always
got wind of his intentions and kept out of the way for the time.
He said that the officials and people of Hainan were under great
obligations to the gun-boats from Hongkong, which alone could
12

90
NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
cope with the pirates and he was always glad to see them down
for a cruise. The Tsanfoo, or captain of the port of Hoihow, who
gave us a complimentary breakfast before we sailed, said with a
smile and a sly look "you must not tell the grandees at Canton
that you breakfasted with the Tsanfoo at Hoihow on shore, say it
was on board his war junk!".
The servant we left behind at Chinlan came on board, and we
prepared to return to Hongkong. We put to sea on the 2nd
April but the weather continuing stormy we ran across the straits
and anchored under the land of the Luichow peninsula opposite.
The country here was of a similar nature to that about Hoihow.
The rest of our course back was not far different from the one we
took coming. Our fuel getting exhausted and the baffling winds
continuing we put in to Macao for coals, and dropped anchor in
Hongkong harbour on the 11th April at 7 P. M.
I was particularly anxious to visit Lienchow foo at the head of
the Tonquin gulf to have a look at the land and ascertain its com-
mercial capabilities, and had with me a letter of introduction from
the Viceroy at Canton to the prefect of Lienchow, but our time
was limited and the weather unfavourable.
I have already related that while I was exploring in the interior
the gun-boat was in pursuit of pirates. The chase took the gun-
boat into the gulf of Tonquin on which Lieutenant Domvile has
favoured me with the following notes: "We paid so hurried a visit
to the gulf of Tonquin that it would be impossible to me remarks
of any value, but from what the pilot said there appear to be no
more dangers than those laid down in the chart except close to
the islands on the Cochin-China coast; and the the distances from
port to port appear to be out by our run to Backhai (the port of
Lienchow city) at the head of the gulf. The islands to the north-
ward of Gowtow are more numerous than laid down in the chart,
but occupy about the same space."
Lieutenant Domvile finishes the nautical notes on our cruise,
which he most kindly put at my service and most of which I have
introduced into this narrative, with the following remarks: "In
many cases the courses we made following the land round Hainan
would have put us inside the island showing that the coast-line is
considerably out. Also between Naochow island and Tienpak
the land extends a great deal further to the northward than laid
down. In numerous places on the coast of Hainan there are
distinguishing features such as high peaks, entrances to rivers, pa-

NARRATIVE OF AN EXPLORING VISIT TO HAINAN.
91
godas and so forth which would be of great assistance in naviga-
ting round the island if correctly laid down in the chart. Some
of these have been added to the chart, but the placing of them
is of necessity merely approximative, and in no case could the
correct height of the hills be determined. At present no vessel,
not even a gun-boat, should attempt the voyage round the island
without having a pilot on board. The greatest inaccuracy is the
drawing of the line of the west coast, which is placed too far to
the east and slightly to the southward, the difference being made
up by the part of the distance from Haosui to the N.W. point
of the island, which is considerably less than the chart shows."