ARTICLE IX.
THE ANTIQUITIES OF CAMBODIA."
BY J. THOMPSON, F. R. G. S.
AMBODIA as we find it at present is a small
kingdom of eastern Asia through which the Mekong
river flows, periodically flooding and fertilising the
land, as the Nile does Egypt. It is confined on
the north by Laos, and a number of petty, half-
savage States. On the east and south-east by Cochin
China. On the west by Siam, falling in the south into
the gulf of Siam, where a growing trade is carried on by
Chinese settlers at the port of Camput. It is only within
the last ten years, through the intervention of France that
the country regained its independence, and is now under the joint
protection of France and Siam. This brief outline will convey
some idea of the present geographical limits of the country. The
chief object of this paper is to attempt to throw some light on the
early history of Cambodia, or at least to creat an interest in its
ruined cities, of which one of our best authorities on eastern ar-
chitecture says. "Since the exhumation of the buried cities of
Assyria by Mons. Botta and Mr. Layard nothing has occurred so
startling or which has thrown so much light on eastern art as the
discovery of the ruined cities of Cambodia." Although something
has been done by the few foreigners who have explored those
ruined cities, much remains yet to be done by extended scientific
exploration and by a translation of the inscriptions which are
found in different parts of the ruins, and which probably contain
the only history this building race left behind them. It would be
interesting to know something definite regarding a people who
have left us such monuments of their art, civilisation and vast
resources. It would appear from the notices in the Chinese his-
tories that the Cambodians at an early period were a warlike race,
* Read before the Society on January 11th, 1872.
† Fergusson's History of Architecture. Vol. II, p. 71 et seq.

198
THE ANTIQUITIES OF CAMBODIA.
and that they annexed many surrounding kingdoms. They were
then noted for their commerce, their great wealth, and their arts.
It would seem that they had become effeminate at a later time.
Rejoicing in their wealth and luxury, they had forgotten, or ne-
glected the art of war, and had been swept from the land by some
rude, but hardy invader who had done his worst to wipe out the
memory of the conquered race, whose great buildings, though
battered and disfigured by the rude implements of war, defied him
to unbuild them. Many of these buildings are still in good pre-
servation although they have been neglected and deserted for
centuries, until the forest has grown up around them and stately
trees have grown from their roofs and walls, and the halls of Princes
have become the haunts of wild animals. It would be difficult to
recognise in the present inhabitants of the country the descendants
of the ancient Cambodians-difficult to concieve how it is possible
that a people who knew better than any other race of eastern Asia
how to construct stone buildings on the most enduring principles,
and with an elegance of design approaching to the classic examples
of Greece or Rome, could have so utterly lost all knowledge of
their early arts as to be unable to construct anything more endur-
ing than their huts of bamboo and palmleaves as we find them
in their scattered settlements in the forests of Cambodia at the
present day.
The ancient stone buildings of Cambodia are found far beyond
the present limits of the country. They have been found in Korat,
the northern extremity of Siam, high up on the banks of the
Mekong river, and south beyond the great lake Tale Sap. Nakon
Thom, the ancient capital, is situated in the province of Siam-rap,
fifteen miles north of the lake. This province appears in ancient
times to have been the centre of the Empire, as it contains the
principal buildings. Nakon Wat, the temple of the capital, is five
miles north of the city. It is the finest, and evidently the most
recent work of the ancient Cambodians, as there are some parts of
the building unfinished,-some parts of the ornament where the
sculptor seems to have been arrested at his work, where one sees
the rough mark of the chisel on some graceful scroll which he
never returned to finish. There is one pavilion within the enclosure
of Nakon Wat which reveals the ancient mode of building. There
are a number of unfinished pillars in the interior which are per-
fectly fitted to the blocks of stone of the roof and flooring, whilst
the shafts are rough and shapeless, excepting in one place where

Yeaching University Libary
199
THE ANTIQUITIES OF CAMBODIA.
I found a pillar half finished. The capital had been cut, and the
shaft half hewn down to its proper form when the work had to be
abandoned. There are other and older examples in the city which
show that the buildings were first erected, and afterwards orna-
mented by the sculptor.
"A brief description of Nakon Wat will convey some idea of the
magnificent scale on which the Cambodians constructed their
buildings. Following the narrow path through the forest, passing
over blocks of sculptured stones, we at length ascended four broad
flights of steps leading to an elevated stone platform, and guarded
on either side by a colossal stone lion sculptured out of a monolith.
The terrace had the form of a cross, having three similar approaches
with its main stem stretching away eastward towards the temple,
and crossing a moat 230 yards wide which surrounds the outer
building. I can hardly conceive of anything more startling than
the first sight of this great temple, after a month's journey through
the forests and jungles of Siam. Ascending the cruciform terrace
we had the building in full view, more imposing in its proportions
than the great pyramid, rising in a series of sculptured galleries
and terminating in a group of central towers. A few solitary
birds winged their flight from the terrace as we passed along
towards the western gate. We halted for a moment to admire
the solid masonry of the stone walls that retain the moat, * puzzled
to imagine by what mechanical appliances the huge blocks were
transported and adjusted in position.
The moat encloses a square space measuring over three fourths
of a mile on each side. Within there is a wall built in the finished
style that characterises the structure throughout. At each of the
four angles there is a tower, and pavilion, and in the centre of each
side of the wall there are long open galleries having screens of
classic looking square pillars. In these galleries there are gate-
ways conducting by inner stone causeways to the temple. Passing
through the western gate which is guarded by two seven-headed
snakes, sculptured in stone, we traversed the inner causeway, and
ascending an elevated and highly ornamented cruciform terrace
entered the porch of Nakon Wat. Of the actual appearance of
this temple, the classic proportions of its pillars, and beauty of its
* The stones must have been brought a distance of 60 miles over the plain,
from the Lychic mountains, where we found abundance of freestone and
traces of ancient quoins.

200
THE ANTIQUITIES OF CAMBODIA.
ornament, some notion may be formed by an inspection of the
photographs, although even with their aid one must still form but
an imperfect impression of the extent and design of the building.
To photograph the bas-reliefs in the lower galleries alone would
have occupied me six months at least. One of the constantly
recurring ornaments of these buildings is a seven-headed snake
similar to those seen above the ancient arch at the village of
Kew-yung-kwan in the Nankow pass. Mr. Fergusson considers
that the hydra-headed snake affords evidence that the ancient
Cambodians who built the temple were snake worshippers. The
general opinion of authorities in China is opposed to this view, and
for this reason:-Had the temples been built for snake worship the
snake god would have had the place of honour in the innermost
shrine, in place of holding the subordinate positic. of guardian at
the temple gate. "In China the "uddhists place the popular
Hindoo divinities in a very humble position. They are made to
act as keepers of the door to Buddha and his disciples." A Chi-
nese Ambassador who was sent on a mission to Cambodia in the
year 1295-the year in which Marco Polo left for Europe-found
it stated in one of the common traditions of the country that in
ancient times the great prophetess of Chinla had taken the form
of a nine-headed serpent and dwelt in the golden tower of the
palace, showing that if at an early period the serpent had been
an object of worship, it at that time only existed in the traditions
of the people, and as an ornament to their temples, occupying a
similar position to that of the Hindoo divinities in the Buddhist
temples of China.
My visit to Cambodia in the year 1866 was productive of nothing
beyond a series of photographs of its antiquities; a ground plan
of Nakon Wat; and a malignant attack of jungle fever brought
on by exposure to the excessive heat and miasma of the forests.
Among the fanciful traditions narrated to me by the natives of the
country regarding the mysterious creation of the great building,
one in which they appeared to have great faith states that the
walled cities and stone edifices were built by a race of giants, who
first moulded them in clay, afterwards pouring over them some
subtle fluid which transformed them into stone. It is a common
belief among the natives whom I frequently found burrowing in
The Religious Condition of the Chineso. Edkins, p. 11.
† "Chinla Tung-too-ke" by Chow Ta Kwan.

THE ANTIQUITIES OF CAMBODIA.
201
the mounds within the city, that vast stores of treasure were con-
cealed among the ruins. One of the natives, with something of
the ancient business spirit of the nation, sold me a piece of pottery
which he professed to have dug from a mound in the city, but I
afterwards discovered that the curio was a Chinese importation
bought at the nearest village.
Regarding the true history of the race some information might
be gathered from the ancient inscriptions which are cut on many
of the buildings. I succeeded in taking rubbings of them, but
failed both in Siam and England in obtaining translations, as the
characters are quite unknown. Some days ago Mr. Wylie showed
me a Chinese vocabulary of the Papih language. I believe I
recognise in the Papih the same characters as those of the Cam-
bodian inscrip.ns. The people who used that language were
the Laos of Chengmai which at one time formed part of Cambodia."
As late as the year 1644 e Papih was taught at the Hanlin
college of Peking. Unfortunately I cannot at present compare the
Papil with the ancient Cambodian, as the rubbings I obtained,
are in England. I am indebted to the Rev. Mr. Edkins and Mr.
Wylie for translations from the histories of the early Chinese dy-
nasties of reliable accounts of ancient Cambodia. I afterwards
found that a number of these had been published by A. Remusat
in 1829.+
The Chinese appear to have had no knowledge of that part of
Asia occupied by Cambodia and Cochin China before the year
140 B.C. It is noticed in the "Teen-hia-kwo-le-ping-shoo" by
Kwo Ting-lin. When Linquan was first known Cochin China
went under the name of the Seang region, which probably included
Cambodia, as there is no separate mention made of it. About 56
and 57 B.C. Cochin China was under Chinese rule, two governors
were appointed who taught the natives agriculture and how to make
caps and shoes, and contract marriages, showing that the people
of Cochin China were at that time in a savage state, probably
living much in the condition of the present mountain tribes of
Formosa, where the women select their partners and divorce them
at pleasure. What follows is a very early notice of women as-
serting their rights. Whether it was that they objected to be
interfered with in their social relations by the introduction of the
Memoirs concernant les Chinois. Vol. 14, p. 5.
† Nouveaux Melanges Asiatiques.
26

202
THE ANTIQUITIES OF CAMBODIA.
novelty of marriage amongst them; that they preferred their old
system of natural selection to the complicated ceremony of the
Chinese; or that the Amazon insurrection was raisel on purely
political grounds, is not recorded. It is simply stated that two
women named Ching Tsih and Ching Urh raised a rebellion which
was quelled by Ma Yuen. Sometime between A. D. 196 and 220
the name of the Seang region was changed to Keanon Chow
and remained unaltered during the former five dynasties which
terminated about the year A. D. 618.
It is mentioned in the history of the Tsin dynasty, A. D. 265 to
419, that the people of Foonan (which afterwards became part of
Cambodia) were noted for agriculture, and for freedom from rob-
bery. Sculpture is also referred to as an art in which they excelled.
They had at that time books, writing and treasuries. It is stated
in another account that the King of Foonan was Gotama, a Brah-
min and native of India. The mode by which he obtained the
throne was as follows. He stated that a spirit appeared to him
telling him that he ought to be King of Foonan. Coming to the
country of Banban the people of Foonan sent messengers to meet
him, and to crown him King. From this time the national insti-
tutions were altered and conformed to those of India. According
to the Siamese Annals, this would be about the time when Bud-
dhism was introduced into Cambodia. As there were no great
buildings in India before the Buddhist era, it is probable that none
of the Cambodian buildings were erected before the middle of the
fifth century, the time when Buddhism is said to have been brought
to the country.
In the book first quoted it is said that Chinla had also the name
Kampoge. It was also known as Kimei (it is still called Kimer
or Kimeia by the natives). It originally belonged to Foonan.
It first sent ambassadors to China during the Sin dynasty, A.D.
616. At an early period Foonan was governed by a Queen who
married a man from the Kenon country who succeeded in partially
civilizing the people, having taught them to wear clothing. He
was followed by a Hindoo priest who taught the people Divine
worship.
About A. D. 650 Chinla annexed many surrounding kingdoms.
It was afterwards divided into the Land Chinla and the Water
Buddhism introduced into Cambodia A. D. 422. "Travels in Indo-Chins
Cambodia et Laos." Mouhot, Vol. I, p. 66.

THE ANTIQUITIES OF CAMBODIA.
203
Chinla. It was again reunited when it conquered and exterminated
Tsiampa. The capital city of Chinla, or Cambodia, was at that
time 20 li in circumference.* If the ancient li was the same as
that in modern use this measurement would not agree with that
of the ruined city of Nakon Thom, + which is reported to have
been the ancient capital; otherwise the discription given by the
Chinese eye witness corresponds in most respects with the city as
I found it in 1866. Its great stone wall, moat and bridge, the
stone tower above the gateway, ornamented with colossal heads
of Buddha sculptured in stone, and the stone tank which he des-
cribes in the heart of the city are so accurately noted as to leave
little doubt that Nakon Thom was the city visited by the author
when the country was in a flourishing condition. The city had
20,000 houses. There were thirty other cities each having several
thousand houses. Some interesting details are given regarding
the manners and customs of the people. They bound up their
hair into a knot on the top of the head. They were of an active
and robust temperament. They practiced cremation just as in
Siam at present, burning the bodies of the dead on a pile of aro-
matic wood, the poor who were unable to procure fuel for the
ceremony casting out their dead to be devoured by savage beasts
in the obscure retreats of the mountains.
It is said that when a new King ascended the throne, hi
brothers were mutilated, one having his finger cut off, another hi
nose &c. This was instituted to disqualify them for holding office,
and thus to prevent corruption by having men placed in office
who could advance no better claim than their being related to the
King. It is also noticed that in one of the great temples, guarded
by a thousand soldiers, they had periodical sacrifices of human
beings. About this time the King of Cambodia was a Kshatriya,
a Hindoo of the military caste. Under the wise rule of his an-
cestors the country had gained strength having brought many
Kingdoms into subjection. These extracts point to the period of
the Hindoo Kings as being that in which Cambodia enjoyed its
greatest prosperity. They also account for the Hindoo element
in the sculptures of the ancient buildings. They do not show
however, how the Cambodians obtained the original ideas embodied
in the designs of their buildings; neither do they account for the
See History of the Seu Dynasty.
† It is 20 miles in circuit.

204
THE ANTIQUITIES OF CAMBODIA.
knowledge of European art shown in their finely formed square
pillars which are to be found in no part of India, and which re-
semble so closely in proportion pillars of the Roman Dorie order.
In one of the native traditions the presence is mentioned of white
men in the country at an early period, together with the name
of Rome. It is not impossible that some knowledge of Roman,
or Greek, art may have found its way into Cambodia before the
5th century. In the history of the second Han dynasty two
Ambassadors are reported to have visited China, one in the year
166 A.D. and the other about a century later, in 265. This is
however a question which I cannot venture upon, though it is one
which is well worthy of investigation. Taken in connection with
the antiquities of Cambodia it affords a rich field for research.
The great trade of the ancient Cambodians is noticed by the
Chinese writers, and the princely manner in which the merchants
lived, and of. their employing ships with sails, the great wealth
of the country, the golden tower of the Kings' palace, the golden
bridge, and of the people it is even admitted by the Chinese
Ambassador of the thirteenth century that they were comparatively
civilised.