JOURNAL
OF THE
NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF THE
ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.
ARTICLE I.
A IIISTORICAL AND STATISTICAL SKETCH OF THE
ISLAND OF HAINAN.*
BY WM. FREDERICK MAYERS, Esq., F. R. G. S., &c.
H. B. M's Acting Consul at Chefoo.
ELL-NIGH two thousand years have elapsed since
the attention of Chinese statesmen was first at-
tracted by rumours concerning the existence of a
great island, lying secluded far away in the tropical
seas that roll outside the borders of the Middle
Kingdom, many hundred leagues beyond the limits
within which, according to their knowledge and stead-
fast belief, the principles of social order and humanity
were confined. Seated in its splendid capital in the midst
of the temperate region of north-western China, the
mewly-founded government of the Han dynasty had little cog-
mizance, a century and a half before the birth of Christ, of the
tterritories stretching southward from the Yang-tsze, and now
constituting a full half of the Chinese Empire. The sacred books
contained, indeed, a reference in more than one passage to the
southern frontier-races, from whom, according to the legends
wwhich constitute the Book of History, ambassadors had come in
the most ancient times to cement alliances with the founders of
Chinese polity; but of the condition, government, derivation, and
language of the tribes or nations who dwelt beyond the rugged
*Read before the Society on 13th October, 1871.
1

2
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
mountains of Yüeh and Ts'u (as the modern region of Fukien,
Kiangsi, and Hunan was at that time denominated) and who
occupied the enormous tracts of this untravelled country, nothing
was known by the polished disciples of Confucius, careless, like
their modern descendants, of all extraneous affairs.
The first step toward a reduction of the countries extending on
the South of what was then the territory actually subject to Chinese
control-or, in other words, the modern region of Kwangtung,
Kwangsi, and Tonquin-had been made under the auspicies of
the famous conqueror who assumed the designation of She Hwang-
ti, proudly declaring himself in this ambitious title as the First
Founder of Universal Empire, and who completed, previously to
B. C. 221, the work of subduing and consolidating the disjointed
fragments of the Chinese Sovereignty, for the accomplishment of
which a long ancestral line had continuously striven. This re-
markable man, in whom was exhibited-even on the showing of
his embittered enemies, the Chinese literati-one of the greatest
governing minds the human race has produced, took early measures
for bringing the territories South of the mountain-barrier beneath
his sway. About the
About the year B. C. 220, the conquering innovator
despatched a general named Tu Hwei across the mountains, at
the head of a formidable army, for the purpose of enforcing the
submission of the natives of this region. Of the campaign that
ensued, history has recorded few particulars; but enough has been
handed down to make it clear that determination and valour,
coupled with the command of enormous forces, and complemented
by the free employment of that engineering talent which raised,
at the other extremity of the Empire, the Great Wall of China
during the same period, rapidly conducted the lieutenants of She
Hwang-ti to a successful issue in their undertaking. True, it is
related that Tu Hwei was defeated and slain in an engagement
in which his forces were surprised by the hostile aborigines, close
to the present site of the city of Canton, in the year B. C. 216;
but his lieutenant and successor, Jên Ngao, speedily retrieved this
disaster, and was able in the following year to announce the sub-
jugation of the coveted region, which was thereupon incorporated
with the Empire as the Province of the Southern Sea (Nan Hai),
under the Vice-royalty of the general who had reduced it to sub-
mission. Of the individuality or condition of the inhabitants of the
newly annexed territory at this period the meagre notices existing
in Chinese history afford little means of judging. From the few

ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
3
casual remarks, however, that may be gathered from widely seat-
tered materials, it would appear that the indigenous tribes of
Nanhai, at the period of Jên Ngao's conquest, were most probably
a race akin to the stock from which the nations of Cochin-China
and Cambodia were derived, and the direct progenitors, in all
probability, of the Miao-tsze and other aboriginal peoples still
maintaining a state of independence among the mountains of the
South of China. It is certain that in the 3rd century B. C. the
condition of what is now the central portion of Kwangtung had
not attained to any appreciable degree of culture or organization.
The tribes who successfully encountered Tu Hwei were enabled
to resist the disciplined legions from the North not by force of
warlike appliances, of fortified cities, or of military skill, but by
the craft of the forest-born and unfettered savage, with the aid of
natural difficulties presented by a wild and pathless country,
overgrown with impenetrable woods, and offering neither supplies
for the support of an advancing army nor facilities for the retreat
of a force overtaken by disaster. Under the direction of the
Chinese generals, however, military colonists were poured in
thousands from the cultivated regions beyond the mountain-barrier
of the Mei-ling into the newly acquired dependency; forests ra-
pidly disappeared before the axe and fire, fortifications rose where
cities were shortly to grow up; the noble rivers disclosed by the
labours of the woodman served as a ready means of transport,
and where these natural highways proved insufficient, artificial
canals were, dug to expedite the movements of the subjugating
and colonizing armies. A central position for the seat of govern-
ment was selected at the hills of P'an and Yü, where already a
native town existed, and, by a well-directed choice, the foundations
were planted here of what was to become in future the city of
Canton.
To enlarge upon the natural advantages of this celebrated spot,
lying, as it does, in the very centre of the great province of which
it has been during nineteen centuries the capital, and so situated
with reference to the provincial water system as to lie in close
proximity with the converging point of noble rivers, flowing from
the North, East, and West, and pouring southward from this
locality in many broad and navigable channels to the sea, would
be an undertaking foreign to the scope of the present inquiry.
Suffice it to say, therefore, that here the nucleus of a city was
gathered whose importance was no doubt foreseen, in part at least,

4
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
by the Chinese conqueror of the province, and which became the
seat of government for the region newly added to the dominions
of the Emperor.
A youthful adventurer from the extreme north-west of China
had received a commission in the armies headed by Jên Ngao in
B. C. 215, and had proved himself a capable and energetic subor-
dinate during the ensuing labours of conquest and organization.
A few years only had elapsed, and already the dominion founded
by She Hwang-ti was tottering to its fall, on the withdrawal of
the master hand which had achieved its astonishing greatness.
The monarch's weak and unworthy son fell a victim to the intrigues
of rival councillors, within a few months after he had ascended
the throne, and the northern provinces of the Empire relapsed
into a condition of anarchy and internecine warfare. At this
critical period, Jên Ngao was overtaken by mortal sickness, and
felt the necessity of entrusting the care of his Vice-royalty to a
capable successor. Chao 'T'o, the young lieutenant above referred
to, was summoned to his side, and was entrusted by the dying
statesman with the charge of his high office. The historians state
that to this bequest Jên Ngao added the advice that his successor
should avoid the disasters threatened by a prolonged connection
with the Chinese sovereignty in its then distracted state, by pro-
claiming himself the independent ruler of the southern regions.
Such, at least, was the course actually followed by Chao T'o, who,
on the final extinction of the last vestiges of the T's'in dynasty, and
the establishment of the house of Han on the ruins of the contend-
ing factions in northern China, declared himself, about the year
B.C. 206, Sovereign Prince of Nan Yüeh, and rapidly extended his
sway over the region lying westward and southward, which had
been designated the province of Kwei-lin (part of the modern
Kwangtung and Kwangsi). Reigning over these immense pos-
sessions, Chao T'o gradually extended the germs of order and
civilization from the mountains to the sea, and on repeated occa-
sions was visited by ambassadors from the founder of the Han
dynasty and his successors, whose nominal sovereignty he was
induced to acknowledge. On the decease of Chao T'o, in B. C.
137, his grandson succeeded to the throne of Yüeh, but was not
long permitted to maintain the position of virtual independence
which had been bequeathed to him. As the house of Han grew
firmer in its grasp of the sovereignty in northern China, its de-
mands upon the South became gradually more imperious, and

ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
5
hostilities at length broke out between the Empire and its feuda-
tory, which resulted in the subjugation of the principality of Nan
Yüeh, and its incorporation for the second time among the pro-
vinces of China.
Up to this epoch, as may be gathered from the indications
afforded by the histories of the Han dynasty, all beyond the more
central portions of what is now known as Kwangtung was virtu-
ally a terra incognita to the Chinese, and the existence of such an
island as that of Hainan was probably known only, if at all, by
vague report from the occupants of the promontory which juts out
from the mainland in an oblong projection and forms the peninsula
of Seu Wên, immediately facing the northern shores of Hainan.
At length, the progress of events necessitated the despatch of
considerable armaments from North-China for the complete re-
duction of the southern territories. The general Lu Po-teh was
despatched in B. C. 111, with the coöperation of three auxiliary
columns, crossing the mountains at as many different points, to
suppress a rebellion which had broken out in Nan Yüch, under
the instigation of Lü Kia, the minister there serving the descendant
of Chao T'o in the governorship of the province. Having com-
pleted the work of subjugation, the Chinese army crossed over
from the peninsula of Seu Wên to achieve a final triumph, and
took possession of the Great Island lying opposite to its southern
shore. This act of annexation to the dominions of the Emperor
Wu Ti took place in B. C. 110, and in this year we commence for
the first time to tread on firm historical ground with reference to
the island of Hainan. The principality of Nan Yüeh and the
adjacent territories were now apportioned under nine divisions,
called Kin, or Prefectures, of which the following is a recapi-
tulation, vix: Nan-hai, Ts'ang-wu, Kwei-lin (comprising the
greater portion of the modern Kwangtung and Kwangsi), Ho-p'u
(south-western Kwangtung), Kiao-che, Kiu-chên, Jih-nan (the
modern Tonquin and part of An-nan), and lastly Chu-yai and
Tan-urh, which latter divisions comprised the area of the newly
conquered insular dependency.
*
Of the condition of Hainan when first invaded by the armies of
Lu Po-teh, no contemporary account has been handed down, and
all that can be gathered is that the island was found to be in the
The limits of the ancient Kiün differed widely in extent, and in some
cases far exceeded those of the modern "prefecture," but this term is for
distinction's sake preserved as the equivalent of Kiün,

6
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
possession of savage aborigines, dwelling in the depths of forests
which then, as now, covered the whole interior, and calling
themselves Li, as their descendants at this day are still entitled.
That this designation originated with the natives themselves may
be inferred from the uncertain etymology of the Chinese character
which is employed to represent the sound. During the Han
dynasty, the character used was that signifying "base," "low,"
or "uncultivated;" but this in process of time became exchanged
for another character bearing the same sound, and used in certain
combinations (li shu, li min, &c.) to designate the bulk of the
people of China. Of the condition of the aborigines at the pe-
riod of the conquest, the only indications that have been preserved
are those afforded by the names bestowed on the territorial divi-
sions of the island. The newly acquired possession was divided
by the Chinese into two unequal portions by means of a line drawn
diagonally from N. W. to S. E., the interior range of mountains
forming apparently the guiding principle of this demarcation. The
southern and larger half, including those portions which are even
at present the wildest and least accessible, and which consequently
include the principal centres of the aboriginal population, was
entitled the Prefecture of Tan-urh (lit. Drooping Ear),
and the etymology of this title is referred to the fact that the
"King" of the native tribes was distinguished by ears the lobes
of which were drawn down to such an immoderate length that
they touched his shoulders. From this it may be inferred that
the authority of one supreme chief was acknowledged by at least
a large proportion of the aborigines. And that their customs were
in some degree similar to those which are characteristic at the
present day of the mountain tribes of the adjacent continent.
The northern and smaller division of the island was denominated
The only legend which the Chinese have preserved in connection with
the aborigines refers to the supposed manner of their origin. They relate
that, at some unrecorded period, a serpent's egg, lying in the forest which
then covered the whole of the still uninhabited island, was struck and split
asunder by a thunderbolt, and gave birth hereupon to a female of the human
race, who dwelt long alone upon the slopes of the mountain now designated
the Li Mu Shan or Li Mother Mountain. After many years, a
man belonging to one of the tribes of Cochin-China crossed to Hainan in
search of scented woods, and encountered this solitary female denizen of the
island, with whom he became united in the bonds of savage matrimony.
From this primeval pair the tribes of the Li derive their descent. (See the
Kwang Yü Ki or Imperial Topography, art. K'iung-chow).

ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
7
the Prefecture of Chu-yai ẞ, signifying the Pearl Shore,
from which title we learn that the mussel-beds from which a
valuable description of pearl was drawn, existing in the vicinity
of the Straits of Hainan, and which continued to yield supplies of
this treasure until the end of the fifteenth century, by which time
they appear to have become quite exhausted, were already known
in the second century before Christ. It seems probable, indeed,
that the conquest of Hainan was particularly coveted on this
account, and to its value as a source of supply of pearls, totoise-
shell, and scented woods for the use of the court the island pro-
bably owes the rapid colonization by means of which its shores
became peopled by settlements of Chinese. The two prefectures,
while subordinated to the government of Kiao-che, and ruled
from the opposite mainland, were shortly divided into five hien or
districts, each with its minor governor. Chu-yai was mapped
out into the districts of Tai-mei, Ts'ze-pei, and Kow-chung,
whilst to Tan-urh the districts of Chih-lai and Kiu-lung were
allotted. In B. C. 82, however, at a time when the Chinese
colonists appear to have given way in some measure before the
attacks of the aborigines, the prefecture of Tan-urh ceased to
exist, being merged in that of Chu-yai, and in B. C. 48 even this
latter government was abrogated, and the whole island was for a
time subordinated as a simple district, with the designation Chu-lu,
to the prefecture of Ho-p'u on the opposite coast. This gradual
shrinking of boundaries corresponds precisely with the period of
weakness and anarchy which ushered in the downfall of the elder
branch of the Han dynasty.
A new line of sovereigns-who became known in history as
the dynasty of the Eastern Han-having been founded in A. D.
25, signs of returning vigour were not slow in displaying them-
selves upon the remotest frontiers of the Empire. In A. D. 43
the celebrated commander Ma Yüan effected the subjugation of
Tonquin, where a temporary independence had been achieved;
and the inhabitants of Hainan hereupon made voluntary tender
of their renewed allegiance, the island having, it would seem,
been allowed to lapse into an independent state for some time
previously. The title of district of Chu-yai was now conferred
upon it, but it was not until A. D. 67 that Chinese authority was
1867.
Soo Notes and Queries on China and Japan, Vol. I, No. 1, Hongkong,

8
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
fully established upon the western coast. Very many and per-
plexing administrative changes of boundary and designation are
recorded by the Chinese historians and topographers, who content
themselves with the dry catalogue of successive dates and titles,
without affording ground for so much as a surmise respecting the
actual condition of the Chinese settlements which gradually formed,
in the course of centuries, a chain of cities round the island. It
is plain, notwithstanding this, that the dependency was kept in
view as a valuable possession, and that even the most shortlived
dynasties contrived to assert their sovereignty upon its shores,
where an increasing immigrant population partly composed. of
traders and partly of military settlers, formed a fringe around the
gloomy interior forests within which the aborigines had sullenly
retreated.
The progressive growth of each district in the island is traced
with minute assiduity by the native annalists, but it would be an
unprofitable task to aim at transcribing, with Chinese fidelity, all
the various changes of territorial nomenclature to which the literary
caprice or superstitious notions of successive rulers subjected the
local divisions of the island. Still, as an index to the gradual
development of the Chinese population, as shown by the date of
establishment of the various existing districts, and also as guide
to the ancient topography, all traces of which have now disap-
peared from the map of Hainan, the following table, condensed
from the historical synopsis forming part of the native gazetteer,
may be found useful:-
TABULAR VIEW OF THE DISTRICTS AND DEPARTMENTS
OF HAINAN.
Date of
Adoption
A. D.
Present Designation.
HK'iung-chow Fu
1370
K'iung-shan Hien
627
Remarks.
Anciently Chu-yai and
Tan-urh; Yai-chow, &c,
&c. A.D. 631, K'iung-
chow; 1278, K'iung-
chow Lu; 1368, K'iung-
chow.
B.C. 110, Tai-mei Hien.
Subsequently called
Chu-lu Hien. A.D. 523,
Yai-chow. A. D. 600,
Yen-lu Hien.

Present Designation.
Ch'eng-mai Hien
607
Ting-ngan Hien
1291
* Ef Wên-chang Hien
Hwei-t'ung Hien
1291
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
Date of
Adoption
A. D.
Remarks.
9
B.C.110, Kow-chung Hien
Anciently, part of Tai-
mei Hien.
627 Anciently, Ts'ze-pei Hien.
Anciently, part of Tai-
mei Hien.
樂會縣 Lo-hwei Hien
660
Do.
Do.
B.C.110, Tan-urh Kiün.
臨高縣 Lin-kao Hien
713
A.D. 607, Pi-shen Hien.
A.D. 622, Fu-lo Hien.
B.C. 110, part of Tan-
儋州 Tan Chow
622
urh Kiün. A.D. 1235,
Nan-ning Kiün.
Ch'ang-hwa Hien
607
B.C. 110, Chih-lai Hien.
1368
萬州
Wan Chow
陵水縣 Ling-shui Hien
622
崖州 Yai Chow
1368
Kan-ngên Hien
607
(B.C. 110, part of Tan-
urh Kiün. A. D. 662,
Wan-ngan Chow. A.D.
742, Wan-ngan Kiün.
I B.C. 110, part of Tan-
urh Kiüin.
(B.C. 110, part of Tan-
urh Kiün; afterwards
incorporated with Chu-
yai Kiün, and later with
Yai-chow. A. D. 1117,
Ki-yang Kiün.
B.C. 110, Kiu-lung Hien.
***From the above it will be seen that the island of Hainan, first deno-
minated by its present title of K'iung-chow Fu in A. D. 1370, now contains
ten districts (hien) and three departments (chow) subject to the government
of a prefect (fu).
2

10
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
It was not until the seventh century of our era that the character
K'iung, which was destined to become the distinguishing name of
the island, found its way into use as a local designation. In A.D.
627, on the commencement of the reign of the second Emperor
of the T'ang dynasty, a complete re-arrangement of the territorial
divisions of Hainan took place, concurrently with the strengthen-
ing of the Chinese military stations throughout the island. The
name of the district hitherto known as Yen-lu was changed to
K'iung-shan, with reference to a conspicuous hill, lying some
twenty miles to the South of the present capital town, which was
celebrated for the brilliancy and whiteness of the rock of which it
consists. The epithet K'iung, poetically applied to the most pre-
cious varieties of jade-stone, was attributed to this rock by some
unremembered writer's fancy, and the name, thus given, was
adopted at the period above-mentioned as the designation of the
principal district in the island. Hainan being at the same time
divided into four departments or chow, that one in which the
district of K'iung-shan lay was further denominated K'iung Chow.
This designation, after a multitude of administrative changes,
came at length in A.D. 758 to be bestowed upon the entire island,
and this title has been borne almost continuously since that period,
although under varying circumstances as to the relative rank and
dependence of its government. In 1370 the final stage was
reached, when it became constituted on its present footing as a
"Prefecture," with the name of K'iung-chow Fu, under the ju-
risdiction of the provincial government of Kwangtung.
The exceptional period during which the designation of K'iung-
chow fell into disuse must be briefly referred to as it explains the
name of HAINAN by which the island is most commonly
known to Europeans. The Mongol conquest of China having been
pushed forward to completion in A. D. 1278, and the last unhappy
heir of the Sung dynasty having perished by drowning, clasped
in the arms of his faithful minister and guardian, at the close of
the decisive sea fight which took place near the western mouth of
the Canton river, the Mongol commander-in-chief, Alihaya, at
once despatched a force to demand the allegiance of K'iung-chow
to the sovereignty of Kublay Khan. Some attempt at resistance
was shewn by the Chinese governor, but the populace rose against
him and delivered this officer with his subordinates into the hands
of the Mongol invaders, by whom they were barbarously put to
death. The island, thus subjugated, was reconstituted on a new

ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
11
administrative footing, and was incorporated with the western
portion of the present province of Kwangtung in a newly erected
satrapy under the designation of Hai-peh Hai-nan Tao-i. e. the
Circuit or Intendantship North of the sea (Straits) and South of
the sea.
From this period arose the practice of referring to the
island by the name of Hai-nan Tao, and hence has been derived
the familiar name of Hainan, though this is less usually employed
by the Chinese themselves than the modern official designation of
K'iung-chow Fu.
The constitution of the island as a prefecture in 1370 doubtless
marks the period when it first commenced to emerge from the
mere status of a remote dependency into the settled condition of
an integral portion of the Empire. From this period dates also
the gradual disappearance of the specially military character of
the subordinate cities, which under the T'ang and Sung dynasties
had been established at intervals along the coast. The superior
functions of government were discharged during the Ming dynasty
by a deputy of the Provincial Supervisor of Kwangtung, and the
same system survived without disturbance the downfall of the
Ming dynasty in the 17th century, enduring until leizure was
found in the reign of the second Emperor of the present line to
remodel the provincial system of administration. In the 13th
year of the reign K'ang-hi-A.D. 1674-the deputy-supervisorship
was at length exchanged for an office bearing the title of Fen Siün
Lui K'iung Tao, or Divisional Intendant of Lui [chow Fu and]
K'iung [chow Fu], from which appointment the existing office of
Tao-t'ai, under the same title, derives its origin. The officer
filling this post, and residing at K'iung-chow Fu, exercises a
general jurisdiction over the whole of Hainan and the prefecture
of Lui-chow on the mainland opposite. He has as his military
colleague a Tsung Ping or Brigadier-general, with the title K'iung-
chow Chên-t'ai, in command of all the garrisons in the island.
This office was first created, in its present form, in 1653.
To return-after this digression-to the earlier history of the
island, throughout the period of the T'ang dynasty and its imme-
diate successors, K'iung-chow demanded notice from the rulers of
China and finds mention on the part of the historians, principally
with reference to the outbreaks periodically indulged in by the
savages of the interior, who, though remaining quiet during peaceful
times in the fastnesses of their impenetrable valleys, nevertheless
took occasion whenever the Chinese garrisons were reduced or

12
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
became inefficient, to sally forth and commit devastations in the
settled country, which they still regarded as their legitimate pro-
perty. The Chinese, always supremely indifferent to whatever
concerns the origin, conduct, or well-being of races foreign to their
own, have been content to remain from first to last in almost total
ignorance respecting the numbers, organization and objects of the
savage tribes with whom they were brought on both sides most
unwillingly in partial contact. The savages in general maintained
with singular jealousy a rigid system of exclusion against all
attempts at penetrating their forest homes. The slopes of the
lofty Wu Che Shan, or Five Finger Mountains, which occupy the
centre of the island, and the valleys formed along the spurs thrown
out on every side by this range of hills, were known to be the
abode of numerous tribes of Li, subsisting by the chase and by
desultory agriculture,-fierce savages who boasted of their mar-
vellous strength and endurance, whose hands were never empty of
bow or spear, and who cherished an implacable resentment against
the intruders upon their native soil. As, however, the propin-
quity of civilization had borne its usual fruits in instilling new
wants into even this uncultured society, and as communication
of one kind or another between the settlers and the aborigines
was a matter of occasional necessity, there grew up in process of
time an intermediate race, of aboriginal descent like the savages,
yet, unlike them, acknowledging the supremacy of the Chinese
and adopting in great measure their customs. This race, forming
an inner fringe to the Chinese settlements on the coast, became
known as the Shu Li, or civilized natives, in contradistinction to
the Sheng Li or untamed savages of the interior. Although the
descendants, in part, of the wild aborigines themselves, the Shu
Li appear to have been not entirely of the same blood, but to have
been brought from the mountain tribes of the opposite mainland,
whence detachments were in early times recruited on the occasion
of military expeditions, with the object, doubtless, of furnishing &
means of communication with the indigenous race. In the course
of centuries, the existing population of Shu Li has been formed,
partly by descent from these early arrivals, and partly by suc-
cessive amalgamations between this stock and the tribes of the
interior. As their numbers iucreased, they became even greater
objects of anxiety to the Chinese government than the Shêng Li
themselves, and the chronicles of the island are filled with narra-
tives of outbreaks on their part; but if the past may be judged by

ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
13
the present there is ample reason for believing that they were in
most cases goaded into insurrection by the rapacity and injustice
of the governing officials.
It is easy to guess from the existing indications that Hainan
was for many successive centuries the receptacle not only for
turbulent classes of the Chinese population, who were frequently
deported here in masses, but also the favorite locus poenitentice for
disgraced officials, who for real or alleged delinquencies were
banished to what was rightly considered the most forlorn and
pestilential region within the Imperial dominions. That from this
system lawlessness among the people and corruption in the official
body must probably ensue would be a consideration of little weight
with the eunuchs or the literary pedants who alternately swayed
the movements of the Chinese court; but the practice of employ-
ing the island for the purpose of receiving offenders doomed to
banishment had one beneficial although quite unforeseen effect.
The caprice of Chinese sovereigns, notably during the period of
the Tang and Sung dynasty from A. D. 618 to A. D. 1278 fre-
quently placed the wisest and best among the servants of the
State beneath the ban of Imperial displeasure, and over the head
of honest councillors the mandate of disgrace was proverbially
ever in suspense. To such a degree was the island of Yai-chow
converted into the enforced abode of scholars and poets whose
literary renown had ensured their advancement to high office
without protecting them from what was often unmerited attack
and overthrow, that a marked influence for good was exerted upon
the mental development of the island population. A succession
of banished scholars diffused among the rude colonists of Hainan
an inclination toward study and a taste for literary refinement
which are declared by Chinese historians to have exerted a marked
influence upon the character of the people generally and upon the
intellectual development of individual natives. Among the victims
of misfortune who became in this manner temporary denizens of
the island the most widely-celebrated was the poet-statesman
Su She, better known as Su Tung-po,
who, during
the troubled reign of Cheh Tsung of the Sung dynasty was de-
graded from his high position in the Ministry of State and relegated
through various degrees of banishment to the last stage of disgrace
in being directed to repair, in A. D. 1097, as Sub-Prefect to the
district of Ch'ang-hwa, on the wild western coast of Hainan.
Here the fallen Minister spent three years in dignified seclusion,

14
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
though always accessible to the visits of admiring students who
were attracted by his fame to make pilgrimages to the humble
cottage in which he dwelt, with his little son for his sole companion.
The impression produced upon the poet's mind by the spectacle
of his enforced abode, on first arriving upon its shores, is expressed
in a quatrain which he composed on this occasion, and which is
still preserved among the literary monuments relating to Hainan.
This descriptive effusion may be translated as follows:-
THE ROCKS OF TAN-CHOW.
Rugged and steep, the wild cliff's upwards soar,
Like to no other hills the wide world o'er!
Wanderer behold these rocks that line the way-
Cast hear superfluous* on Creation's day!
Throughout the period of Su Tung-po's residence in Hainan he
mingled literary employment with the strict discharge of his hum-
ble official functions, and some of his most highly prized productions,
including a celebrated rhapsody entitled "The Typhoon," are
preserved among the printed records of the island history.
Differing widely from the famous poet whose banishment has
invested the shores of Hainan with enduring interest in the eyes
of Chinese scholars, another denizen of the Island has nevertheless
contributed materially to its renown. Hwang Tao-p'o, or the
wise woman Hwang-for it is one of the gentler sex to whom
reference is made-was a native of Yai-chow at the close of the
fourteenth century, and appears to have been versed in the art of
cotton-spinning at a time when the cultivation of this staple was
but just commencing to be spread in the northern provinces of
China, under the auspices of the Mongol conquerors, by whom
the plant was introduced upon the seabord from their homes in
Kan-suh and Central Asia. Long previously to this period,
however, cotton was undoubtedly grown in Cochin-China, t
whence it found its way by slow degrees into Kwangtung, and its
cultivation had doubtless been introduced at a comparatively early
The allusion here is to the Chinese legend that when Nü Kwa, a fabulous
hero of the primeval world, "melted rocks to repair the Heavens," a portion
of the material thus employed was cast aside as unfit for use. To this the
poet likens the rocks of Tan-chow.
† For an inquiry into the date and manner of the cotton cultivation into
China see Notes and Queries on China and Japan, vol. 2, Nos. 4 and 5, 1868.