ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
15
period into the southern regions of Hainan. Leaving her native
island, Hwang Tao-p'o visited the rich alluvial plains of Central
China, and taught her country-women dwelling upon the banks
of the Yang-tsze River the use of the distaff and cotton-loom, for
instruction in which, it is said, pupils flocked to her from all
quarters. After her decease, a memorial temple was erected at
K'iung-chow where sacrifices were annually offered, during a long
series of years to her manes.
Among the natives of K'iung-chow who rose to literary emi-
nence and political distinction (the one and the other being terms
almost synonymous in the career of a Chinese aspirant for fame)
the two individuals whose celebrity has been the highest and most
enduring were both subjects of the Ming dynasty, and ornaments
of consecutive ages. The elder, named K'iu Tsün, but better
known (from his posthumous title) as K'iu Wên-chwang, was born
A.D. 1420 of an immigrant family from the province of Fukien,
who like many others under similar circumstances, had become
settled in Hainan through the circumstance of their progenitor
being placed in an official position in the island, from which, in
those days of tardy locomotion, it was not easy to remove. After
rising to the foremost rank among his contemporaries, both as a
scholar and a statesman, K'iu Tsün died at the ripe age of seventy-
six, bequeathing numerous works the reputation of which is still
preeminent, in connection principally with subjects of classical and
historical research. He had taken, moreover, a leading part by
Imperial order in the continuation of the celebrated Tung Kien
Kang Mu or Synopsis of History, edited by Chu Hi during the
Sung dynasty.
In the century following that thich was adorned by the talents
and integrity of K'iu Tsün another brilliant name was added to
the category of distinguished natives of Hainan. Hai Jui,
or Hai Chung-kiai, as he became posthumously entitled, was the
son of a minor official of K'iung-shan, who, dying while the future
statesman was still a child, bequeathed his education to the care
of an excellent mother, under whose training the foundation of
future eminence was securely laid. Leaving the island at an early
age, Hai Jui passed the superior examinations with credit at
Peking, and rapidly rose in consequence to official distinction.
The historians of the Ming dynasty have much to say concerning
the firmness and plainness of speech with which Hai Jui was
accustomed to offer just though unpalateable counsels to his Imperial

16
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
Master; and this upright discharge of duty led in 1566 to his being
cast during ten months into rigorous confinement, of which, how-
ever, the despotic sovereign at length repented, reinstating Hai Jui,
in true Asiatic fashion, in all his former dignities. He died in 1587.
Although severed at an early age from immediate connection
with his native island, Hai Jui continued through life to bear its
interests actively in mind, and in one of his addresses to the Throne,
which has been preserved as at once a model of style and an
example of political wisdom, he has bequeathed what affords at
the present day a valuable insight into the condition of the island
during the sixteenth century.
Dwelling on the disturbances and forays under which the inha-
bitants of the sea-coast continually suffer, and against which the
isolated garrisons placed in each of the district cities were powerless
to afford protection, he pictures, by the aid of a striking metaphor,
the island as a body remote from all connection with the outside
world, whose heart-the savages of the interior-sends forth a
perpetual current of poison to paralyze its extremities; whilst at
the same time, by way of vividly depicting the close propinquity
with which the hostile races were associated, he exclaims that
"the savages of the mountain-peak hear the cock's crow and the
dog's bark in the homes of the Chinese householders. The salt
and fish, the rice and clothing that the one consumes, the other
supplies." In this indication of commercial intercourse may be
traced, most probably, the secret of the continual outbreak of
hostility on the part of the Li, both "savage" and "civilized."
Following the irresistible bent of their nature toward chicanery
and oppression, the trading classes of the Chinese in past ages as
in the present doubtless played toward the unsophisticated wild
men of K'iung-chow a similar part of trickery and injustice to
that which was practised in recent times and under British sway
by the Hindu usurers in their dealings with the simple mountaineers
of the Santhal highlands in Bengal, which led to sanguinary
reprisals and revolt barely fifteen years ago. Hai Jui recounts
in his memorial no less than three risings of the aborigines in the
space of exactly half a century, which were suppressed only by
means of enormous outlay and extraordinary armaments in addition
to the annual and costly expeditions which were rendered neces-
sary by continual minor outbreaks. The three campaigns referred
to were undertaken in 1501, 1541, and 1550, on each of which
occasions, it is represented by Hai Jui, more than 100,000 troops

ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
17
were brought over from the mainland, and hundreds of thousands
of taels were expended.
Enterprises so vast as these, and carried on with so little bene-
ficial result, appear the more astonishing when the statement of
Hai Jui, that the mountain tract within which the fastnesses of
the savages existed more than four hundred li (about 125 miles)
in its longuest diameter, is taken into consideration. The remedy
which Hai Jui suggested was simple and practical in the extreme
-the very counsel, indeed, that a New Zealand minister in the
present day might tender to his government, viz., the cutting of
military roads across the savage territory and the establishment
of posts to be occupied by military colonists at frequent intervals.
He dwelt particularly upon what has since been enshrined in the
history of Hainan as the "Proposal of the Cross Roads,"-a plan
namely of intersecting the island by two main highways, cutting
each other at right angles in the centre of the savage territory.
With its usual supineness and obduracy, however, the Chinese
government refused to inaugurate so active a measure of reform
as that proposed for the complete subjugation of the island, and
from the days of Hai Jui to the present time the interior of Hainan
has remained a terra incognita abandoned exclusively to its savage
denizens.
The only instance which history records of. any conversion of
the aborigines on an important scale from their independent mode
of life took place in 1174, when, as the annals relate, one of the
chiefs of the tribes inhabiting the central mountain region came
over with 1820 of his followers, both male and female, who ranged
themselves beneath the Chinese jurisdiction. The chief men
among this party, to the number of eighty-two, were marched in
procession with the governor of K'iung-chow to the principal
temple of the city, where they cut notches in a stone and dipped
their fingers in blood in ratification of their engagements to abandon
the practices of rapine and disorder. Drawings of their persons
and costume were hereupon prepared and forwarded to the Em-
peror.
It was not alone from the savages of the interior, however, that
the Chinese settlements along the coast had attacks to fear. The
chronicles of the island record perpetual forays upon the coast by
the pirates or sea banditti who roamed for centuries almost un-
checked along the entire sea-bord of China, and maintained in
repeated instances a species of maritime Empire, with hostility to
3

18
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
the settled order of the mainland as its guiding principle and
rapine as its industry and source of revenue. From the fifteenth
century downwards to the beginning of the nineteenth, the China
seas were never free from disturbances of this nature, and it is
only since the growth of a great foreign shipping interest upon
the coast, coupled with the changes introduced by steam navigation
and the exertions of the British naval squadron in these waters,
that piracy has slowly declined as a lucrative profession, and bids
fair within the next few years to become altogether extinct. Its
last feeble tokens of continued vitality are confined to petty
undertakings in the waters surrounding Hainan, where for three
hundred years the fleets of the freebooters were accustomed to
sail in all the pride of conscious dominion. To such an extent did
the evil flourish during the 17th century, in particular, that all
navigation on the open sea between the East Coast of Hainan and
the mouths of the Canton River was interdicted, with the view of
depriving the sea-rovers of their only object-plunder; and the
traffic between K'iung Chow and the mainland was forced to
confine itself to the track across the narrow straits which divide
the island from the jutting peninsula of Seu Wên on the North.
This entailed the disadvantage of a long journey by land, extending
at the quickest over fully one month, between the island and the
provincial capital, hampering trade and rendering travel a weari-
some undertaking; but the pirates were nothing daunted, and
transferred their ravages from the ocean to the shore, landing in
force time after time, and sacking the towns on the northern and
eastern coarts of Hainan in dispite of the Imperial garrisons.
It was only in 1684, the year after the destruction of the pirate-
kingdom established in Formosa by the celebrated Chêng Che-lung
(Kok-singa), that navigation along the West coast of Kwangtung
was again permitted, and the embargo hitherto laid on the exit
of shipping from the ports of Hainan was once more allowed.
Since this period, as already indicated above, piracy has never-
theless flourished in a greater or less degree in the vicinity of
Hainan, and squadrons of pirate-junks were accustomed until the
most recent times to sail northward annually with the summer
monsoon, and commit enormous depredations detween the Straits
of Hainan and the entrance to the Formosa Channel. Between
1842 and 1860 more than one desperate encounter took place
between these fleets and vessels of the British navy, which were
despatched from time to time on cruises against these public

OF THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
19
enemies; but it was not until after the complete establishment of
friendly retations with the Chinese government and the arrival at
the British naval headquarters in Hongkong of steam gun-boats
suitable for navigation in shallow waters that effective measures
could be adopted for parmanently clearing the seas of freebooting
squadrons. From 1803 onwards, unintermitting labours devolved
upon vessels of this class in the good work of exterminating the
remaining vestiges of piracy on the southern coastline of China;
and a quick succession of deeds of skill and daring, crowned almost
uniformly with marvellous good fortune, attended the efforts of the
diminutive cruisers Opossum, Bouncer, and Algerine, whose names,
with those of their gallant commanders, have earned a wide cele-
brity through the exploits achieved in this laborious but exciting
service. Since 1868, the Chinese provincial government of Kwang-
tung has been placed in possession of steam gun-boats of its own,
built and equipped in England, and officered by Englishmen, but
manned by Chinese sailors, and to these will henceforth be com-
mitted the task of finally completing the suppression of piracy and
of preventing its revival in future. They have already performed
gallant and effective service in the waters of Hainan.
Reference has been made above to the local chronicles or
"Gazetteer" of K'iung-chow, and for much of the information
upon which this historical sketch is based acknowledgement must
be given to its pages. The work in question is the Che or uni-
versal description of the prefecture, embracing a vast variety of
details, and is one of the class of compilations such as exist in
behalf of every district, prefecture, and province throughout the
Chinese Empire. The growth of this most useful department of
literature may be traced to a period almost coeval with the inven-
tion of printing in China, and dates therefore from about the 11th
century of our era. at the present day, these works afford an
invaluable mass of material with respect to the topography, history,
flora, fauna and natural productions, the celebrated characters,
literary achievements, statistics, antiquities, chronology, and even
legends appertaining to each of the sections into which the Empire
is divided for administrative purposes. The Prefectural Gazetteers,
holding an intermediate rank between the comparatively restricted
descriptions of mere districts, and the necessarily bulky but less
detailed works devoted to entire provinces, are the most eligible
sources of information to which an inquirer can have recourse.
A work of this description is the gazetteer of K'iung-chow Fu,

20
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
which occupies seventeen volumes. Like all existing compilations
of its kind, it is the production of a number of hands, cooperating
under the direction of the local governor for the time being. The
first gazetteer was compiled under the Ming dynasty, some three
centuries ago; and several revisions have taken place during the
ensuing period. The present edition dates from 1841, and is a
favorable specimen of its class.
From the chronicles of remarkable occurences to which one
volume of the Gazetteer is devoted, numerous extracts of interest
with regard to the condition of Hainan may be selected, amid a
mass of comparatively unimportant details. Thus we learn, in
addition to notices of risings on the part of the aborigines and
forays of the sea-banditti which have already been noticed above,
that the naval armaments of the Japanese, during their protracted
hostilities with the Ming Emperors, extended on more than one
occasion their predatory cruises as far south as the coast of Hainan,
where, in 1411, they landed in force and captured the outworks
of the district city of Ch'ang-hwa. As records of the occurrence
of natural phenomena, moreover, the Chinese gazetteers have
always an especial value; and the chronicles of K'iung-chow Fu
contain a vast collection of 73 memorabilia under this head. The
destructive force of typhoons in the southern portion of the Chins
seas is one of the most familiar facts in meteorology, but the
liability of Hainan to suffer from earthquakes is not so generally
known. Catastrophes of this nature, however, are recorded in the
gazetteer as of frequent occurrence. The first earthquake of
which mention is made is stated as having taken place in 1523,
when the district of Lo-hwei is said to have been disturbed for
days by tremblings of the soil, accompanied by a noise as of peals
of thunder, causing great consternation among the inhabitants.
In the following year shocks were felt simultaneously at Tan-chow,
Hwei-t'ung, and Lo-hwei (the axis of the disburbance crossing
the island, therefore, in the direction of N. W. to S. E.) The
mountain known as the Yeo-t'an Shan subsided vertically in depth
to more than 100 feet. This was during the third moon of the
year, or about the month of April according to our present reck-
oning; and in the autumn the most appalling and destructive
typhoon on record up to that time burst over the island.
In 1526 an earthquake again occurred at Tan-chow. In 1605
the whole island was visited with shocks lasting several days and
entailing a loss of several thousand lives. Gulfs opened and closed,

ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
21
and numbers of dwellings were thrown down. In 1052, Ch'êng-
mai, in the N. W. angle of the island; experienced a shock; and
in 1677, 1681, and 1684, the capital city was similarly disturbed.
During the winter of 1684 the extraordinary phenomenon of a fall
of snow took place, leading to the destruction through cold of the
greater part of the cocoa-nut trees with which the shores of the
island were there, as now, densely over-grown. In 1702 another
earthquake was felt at K'iung-chow; and in 1704 a shock occurred
at Wên-ch'ang, some little distance further to the S. E. In 1725
the centre of disturbance appears to have shifted to the extreme
south of the island, Yai-chow being the sufferer in this year; and
in 1742 typhoons are again found associated with an earthquake
in the work of destruction. In the seventh moon of this year three
typhoons passed over the island, doing an enormous amount of
damage; and in the eleventh moon an earthquake made itself felt.
During the last hundred years to which the chronicle extends, a
great number of shocks are recorded, but the greater number
may be passed over as undeserving special mention. To come down
to the record of calamities within living memory, we find that in
1816 Yai-chow was again the scene of an earthquake, and in
1817 was visited by a disastrous typhoon. In the following year
a terrific typhoon was experienced throughout the island, attended
as usual by fearful inundations, which swept away vast numbers
of human beings. The year 1821 was rendered memorable by a
pestilence which devastated the districts af K'iung-shan, Wan-
chow, and Lo-hwei (on the east coast). This may very possibly
have had some connection with the outbreak of cholera which
swept along the coast of China in more northerly latitudes at about
the same period, previously to the first advance of the disease in
the direction of Europe. In 1822 another earthquake took place
* The storm-wave which adds to the destruction wrought by revolving
hurricanes is a phenomenon well known to scientific observers, and is referred
to in the following terms in Buchan's Handy Book of Meteorology, Edinburgh,
1868: "Owing to the diminished pressure of the air at the centre compared
with what prevailed at the outset of the storm [viz. the Bahama hurricane of
October, 1866], the difference being fully two inches of mercury, the level
of the sea at the centre would be raised about three feet, being sustained at
that height by the greater pressure all round." Similarly, in the great
typhoon of July, 1862, which swept over Canton and a wide extent of the
adjacent country, the sudden rise of the tide at places forty or fifty miles
from the sea was estimated at a height of from three to five feet above the
ordinary river-level, leading to an immense destruction of life and property.

22
22
ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
at Wan-chow, followed in the beginning of 1823 by devastating
hail-storms, the stones varying in size, it is related, from a bushel
measure to the size of the fist. The melting of these masses of
ice caused floods, and the rice-fields were laid under water to an
enormous extent. The consequence of this was a widespread.
famine in the ensuing year; and the disastrous results of this
affliction were intensified by an invasion of locusts, which destroyed
the small remnants of a crop that had been looked upon as the
sole reliance of the people. The corpses of those who perished
by starvation lay piled in heaps upon the roads, and an enormous
exodus of the population took place toward the mainland.
In 1834 another earthquake shook the districts of K'iung-shan
and Wên-ch'ang, with the record of which the dismal category of
these phenomena ends.
The same methodical compilation which has supplied the means
of preparing the above account of remarkable occurrences in
Hainan, furnishes also some particulars with reference to the po-
pulation, revenue, and extent of land in cultivation. It is alleged
that the total area of all land subject to taxation, as being held
under government title-deeds, and in cultivation either as arable
land or garden-ground, amounted in 1840 to two million nine
hundred and ninety-eight thousand two hundred and twenty-seven
mon, which, at the rate of six mow to the English acre, according
to the usual scale of computation, gives an extent of 499,704}
acres.
The total revenue collected by the Prefect of K'iung-chow Ful
at the same period from all sources, such as land tax, commuted
capitation tax, salt monopoly, local customs, &c., is stated as
amounting to Taels 88,935, plus the commuted value of 16,282
shik of rice. Calculating this latter source of income according to
the rates of levy prevailing elsewhere, the amount yielded would
be about Taels 73,269; and the two sources of revenue combined
would make a total sum of Taels 162,204, equivalent to about
216,000 dollars. It is, probable, however, that not more than
one-third of the amount collected under the head of rice levy
would appear in the public accounts, as the bulk of this source of
income is, with the tacit sanction of the government, withheld by
the district magistrates for the defrayal of the expenses of admí-
nistration.
The military force constituting the resident garrisons of the
thirteen walled cities of the island amounts to a total of 5,370 men,
with 130 officers,

ON THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
23
The population of Hainan is naturally of a very miscellaneous
character by descent, owing its origin to the successive waves of
immigration introduced in past ages on the conquest and recon-
quests of the island, changes of dynasty, involving wholesale
banishments from the mainland, and the continual influx of military
and commercial settlers from various parts of the Empire. The
settlements originally founded under the Han dynasty, subse-
quently to the annexation of the island in B. C. 110, are stated to
have amounted in all to 23,000 families-a large number, but not
excessive when viewed with reference to the magnificent scale
upon which removals of population were ordered and effected in
that age. During the ensuing centuries, immigration took place
indiscriminately from various parts of the Empire; and in A.D.
1300 the population was found to amount to 166,257 souls. In
1370 an enumeration took place, giving as its result 68,500
households, and 291,030 souls. In 1617 the population was found
to have fallen to 250,524; but a steady increase appears to have
continued since the middle of 17th century, and in 1835 the total
number of inhabitants was returned by the official census at (in
round numbers) 1,350,000 souls. It is necessary to bear in mind,
however, that all Chinese statistics, even where not intentionally
fallacious, are exceedingly loose and generally untrustworthy;
more especially, owing to causes upon which it is not needful to
expatiate here, in relation to questions of population and revenue.
In the above pages, the history and gradual development of
Hainan have been traced in accordance with the information to
be gathered from Chinese sources or from contemporary experience.
The existing condition of the island has during the last few years
been investigated on the spot by one of Her Majesty's Consuls
(Mr. Robert Swinhoe); and as regards the future prospects of this
tropical nook, it remains for coming years to lift the veil of uncer-
tainty, and to decide whether so rich and productive but neglected
an expanse of territory is to continue in its present state of aban-
nonment and decay or to become a valuable contributor to the
world's wealth by means of the admission of European enterprize
and commercial relations.