ARTICLE I.
THE HUNG LÓU MÉNG 紅樓夢:
COMMONLY CALLED
THE DREAM OF THE RED CHAMBER.*
BY
HERBERT A. GILES, President. -
Four thousand six hundred and twenty-three years ago, the
heavens were out of repair. So the Godless of Works set to and
prepared 36,501 blocks of precious jade, each 240 feet square by
120 feet in depth. Of these, however, she only used 36,500; and
cast aside the single remaining block upon one of the celestial
peaks.
This stone, under the process of preparation, had become as it
were spiritualised. It could expand or contract. It could move.
It was conscious of the existence of an external world. And it
was hurt at not having been called upon to accomplish its divine
mission.
One day, a Buddhist and a Taoist priest who happened to be
passing that way, sat down for a while to rest; and forthwith
noticed the disconsolate stone which lay there, no bigger than
the pendant of a lady's fan. "Indeed, my friend, you are not
wanting in spirituality," said the Buddhist priest to the stone, as
he picked it up and laughingly held it forth upon the palm of his
hand. "But we cannot be certain that you will ever prove to be
of any real use; and moreover you lack an inscription, without
which your destiny must necessarily remain unfulfilled." There-
upon he put the stone in his sleeve, and rose to proceed on his
journey.
"And what, if I may ask," enquired his companion, "do you
intend to do with the stone you are thus carrying away?"
Read before the Society 16th April 1885.

2
THE DREAM OF
"I mean," replied the other, "to send it down to earth, to play
its allotted part in the fortunes of a certain family now an-
xiously expecting its arrival. You see, when the Goddess of
Works rejected this stone, it used to fill up its time by roaming
about the heavens, until chance brought it alongside of a lovely
crimson flower. Being struck with the great beauty of this
flower, the stone remained there for some time, tending its pro-
tegée with the most loving care and daily moistening its roots with
the choicest nectar of the sky; until at length, yielding to the
influence of disinterested love, the flower changed its form and
became a most beautiful girl.
"Dear stone," cried the girl, in her new-found ecstasy of life;
"the moisture thou hast bestowed upon me here, I will repay
thee in our future state with my tears!"
Ages afterwards, another Taoist priest, in search of Light,
saw this self-same stone lying in its old place, but with a record
inscribed upon it;-a record of how it had not been used to re-
pair the heavens, and how it subsequently went down into the
world of mortals, with a full description of all it did, and saw,
and heard while in that state.
"Brother Stone," said the priest, "your record is not one.
that deals with the deeds of heroes among men. It does not stir
us with stories either of virtuous statesmen or of deathless patriots.
It seems to be but a simple tale of the loves of maidens and
youths, hardly important enough to attract the attention of the
great busy world."
"Sir Priest," replied the stone, "what you say is indeed
true; and what is more, my poor story is adorned by no rhetori-
cal flourish nor literary art. Still, the world of mortals being
what it is, and its complexion so far determined by the play of
human passion, I cannot but think that the tale here inscribed
may be of some use,-if only to throw a further charm around
the banquet hour, or to aid in dispelling those morning clouds.
which gather over last night's excess."
Thereupon the priest looked once more at the stone, and saw
that it bore a plain unvarnished tale of
Beauty and anguish walking hand in hand
The downward slope to death-

THE RED CHAMBER.
telling how a woman's artless love had developed into deep, des-
troying passion; and how from the thrall of a lost love one soul
had been raised to a sublimer, if not a purer conception of man's
mission upon earth. He therefore copied it out from beginning
to end. Here it is:-
Under a dynasty which the author leaves unnamed, two brothers
had greatly distinguished themselves by efficient service to the
state. In return, they had been loaded with marks of Imperial
favour. They had been created nobles of the highest rank. They
had amassed wealth. The palaces assigned to them were near
together, in Peking; and there their immediate descendants were
enjoying the fruits of ancestral success when this story opens.
Of these descendants, however, only the most prominent charac-
ters, connected with the main line of events, will be here in-
troduced. And this is perhaps a good place to mention that the
Dream of the Red Chamber was probably composed during the
latter half of the 18th century. The name of its author is
unknown. It is usually published in 24 vols 8, containing 120
chapters which average at the least 30 pages each, making a
grand total of about 4,000 pages. No less than 400 personages
of more or less importance are introduced first and last into the
story, the plot of which is worked out with a completeness worthy
of Fielding, while the delineation of character-of so many clin-
racters-recalls the best efforts of the greatest novelists of the
West. As a panorama of Chinese social life, in which almost
every imaginable feature is submitted in turn to the reader, the
Dream of the Red Chamber is of the utmost value to the foreign.
student, and should be carefully studied by all who, for their sins,
are condemned to penal servitude upon the written language of
China.
To return. The two ennobled brothers above-mentioned had
each a son and heir; but at the date at which we are now,
fathers and sons had all four passed away. The wife of one of
the sons only was still alive,-a hale and hearty old lady of about
80 years of age. Of her children, one was a daughter. She had
married and gone away south, and her daughter Tai-yü, is the
heroine of this tale. The son of the old lady's second son, and
first cousin to Tai-yü, is the hero. His name is Pao-yü; and his
3

4
THE DREAM OF
mother's sister's daughter, another absent first consin, named
Pao-ch'ai, is the last Chinese name with which I shall have to
trouble you this evening. Thus, we have the old grandmother
and her son's son Pao-yil in Peking; her daughter's daughter
Tai-yü, and her grandson's first cousin Pao-ch'ai, both residing
at their own homes far away in the south.
The two noble families were now at the very zenith of wealth
and power. Their palatial establishments were replete with every
luxury, including for instance a foreign clock, which at that time
must have been quite a rarity in the empire. The courtyards,
alley-ways, and gardens, which go to make up a large Chinese
place of residence, were here evidently on a scale commensurate
with the enjoyment and comfort of their numerous inhabitants.
Feasting and theatricals were the order of the day; and to crown
all, one of Pao-yü's sisters had been chosen for the high honour
of the Imperial seraglio. No one stopped to think that human
events are governed by an inevitable law of change. He who is
mighty to-day shall be lowly to-morrow: the rich shall be made.
poor, and the poor rich. Or if any one, more thoughtful than
the rest, did pause awhile in knowledge of the appointments of
Heaven, he was fain hope that the crash would not come at any
rate in his own day.
Things were in this state when Tai-yü's father decided to place
his motherless daughter under the care of her grandmother at
Peking. Accompanied by her tutor, the young lady set out at
once for the capital and reached her destination in safety. I will
not dwell upon her beauty nor upon her genius, though both are
minutely described in the original text. Suffice it to say that
during the years which have elapsed since she first became known
to the public, many brave men are said to have died for love of
our entrancing heroine.
Tai-yü was received most kindly by all. Especially so by her
grandmother, who shed bitter tears of sorrow over the premature
death of Tai-yü's mother, her lost and favourite child. She was
introduced to her aunts and cousins and cousins and aunts in
such number that the poor girl must have wondered however
she should remember all their names. Then they sat down and
talked. They asked her all about her mother, and how she fell

THE RED CHAMBER.
5
ill, and what medicine she took, and how she died and was
buried, until the old grandmother wept again. "And what
medicine do you take, my dear?" asked the old lady, seeing that
Tai-yü herself seemed very delicate and carried on her clear
cheek a suspicious-looking flush.
"Oh, I have done nothing ever since I could eat," replied Tai-
yü, "but take medicine of some kind or other. I have also seen
all the best doctors, but they have not done me any particular
good. When I was only three years of age, a nasty old priest
came and wanted my parents to let me be a uun. He said it was
the only way to save me. But they would not hear of it; and
then the priest told them to be careful at any rate not to let me
hear crying nor to see any one except themselves."
"Oh, we will soon cure you here," said her grandmother,
smiling; "we will make you well in no time."
Tai-yi was then taken to see more of her relatives, including
her aunt, the mother of Pao-yü, who warned her against his
peculiar temper, which she said was very uncertain and variable.
"What! the one with the jade ?" asked Tai-yü, "but we shall
not be together" she immediately added, so:newhat surprised
at this rather unusual warning. "Oh yes, you will," said her
"lle is dreadfully spoilt by his grandmother, who allows
him to have his own way in everything. Instead of being hard'
at work, as he ought to be by now, he idles away his time with
the girls, thinking only how he can enjoy himself, without though
of making a career or adding fresh lustre to the family name..
Beware of him, I tell you."
The dinner-hour had now arrived, and after the meal Tai-yü
was questioned as to the progress she had made in her studies.
She was already deep in the mysteries of the Four Books, and it
was agreed on all sides that she was far ahead of her cousins,
when suddenly a noise was heard outside, and in came a most
elegantly dressed youth about a year older than Tai-yü, wearing
a cap lavishly adorned with pearls. His face was like the full
autumn moon. His complexion like morning flowers in spring.
Pencilled eyebrows, a well-cut shapely nose, and eyes like rip-
pling waves, were among the details which went to make up an
unquestionably handsome exterior. Around his neck hung a

6
THE DREAM OF
curious piece of jade; and as soon as Tai-yil became fully
conscious of his presence, a thrill passed through her delicate
frame. She felt that somewhere or other she had looked upon
that face before.
-
Pao-yü for it was he saluted his grandmother with great
respect, and then went off to see his mother; and while he is ab-
sent I shall take leave to say a few words about the young gen-
tleman's early days.
Pao-yil, a name which means Precious Jade, was so called
because he was born, to the great astonishment of every body,
with a small tablet of jade in his mouth; a beautifully bright
mirror-like tablet, bearing a legend inscribed in the quaint old
"seal character" of several thousand years ago. A family con-
sultation resulted in a decision that this stone was some divine
talisman, the purpose of which was not for the moment.clear, but
was doubtless to be revealed by and by. One thing was certain.
As this tablet. had come into the world with the child, so it
should accompany him through life; and accordingly Pao-yü
was accustomed to wear it suspended around his neck. The news
of this singular phenomenon spread far and wide. Even Tai-yü
had heard of it long before she came to take up her abode with
the family.
It has been already stated that Pao-yü was the very apple of
his grandmother's eye. Not so with his stern scholarly father,
who may be said almost to have disliked the child ever since his
first birthday. On that day, in accordance with Chinese custom.
the anxious father spread out on a table, within reach of his little.
boy, all kinds of different things, in order to test the bent of his
inclinations in after life. We can well imagine how he longed
for the baby to grasp the manly bore, and rival the great Toxo-
philites of old; or the sword, and live to be enrolled a fifth among
the four famous generals of China; or the pen, and under the
favouring auspices of the god of literature, rise some day to assist
the Son of Heaven with his counsels, or write a commentary upon
the Book of Rites. Alas for human hopes! The naughty baby,
regardless alike of his father's wishes and the filial code, passed
over all these glittering instruments of wealth and power, and

THE RED CHAMBER.
7
devoted his attention exclusively to some hair-pins, pearl-powder,
rouge, and a lot of women's head ornaments.
And so Pao-yü grew up, a wilful, wayward boy. He was a
bright, clever fellow and full of fun, but very averse to books.
He declared in fact that he could not read at all, unless he had
as fellow-students a young lady on each side of him, - to keep
his brain clear! And when his father beat him, as was fre-
quently the case, he would cry out "Dear girl, dear girl," all the
time, in order as he afterwards explained to his cousins, to take
away the pain. Women, he argued, are made of water, with pel-
lucid mobile minds; while men are mostly made of mud, mere
lumps of uninformed clay.
By this time he had returned from seeing his mother and
was formally introduced to Tai-yü. "Ha!" cried he "I have
seen her before somewhere. What makes her eyes so red? In-
deed, cousin Tai-yü, we shall have to call you Cry-baby if you
cry so much." Here some reference was made to his jade tablet
and this put him into an angry mood at once. None of his
cousins had any, he said, and he was not going to wear his any
A family scene ensued, during which Tai-yü went off to
bed and cried herself to sleep.
more.
Shortly after this, Pao-yü's mother's sister was compelled by
circumstances to seek a residence in the capital. She brought
with her, her daughter, Pao-ch'ai, the other cousin to Pao-yu,
but about a year older than he was; and besides receiving a
warm welcome, the two were invited to settle themselves com-
fortably down in the capacious family mansion of their relatives.
Thus it was that Destiny brought Pao-yü and his two cousins
together almost under, the same roof.
The three soon became fast friends. Pao-ch'ai had been care-
fully educated by her father, and was able to hold her own even
against the accomplished Tai-yü. Pao-yü loved the society of
either or both. He was always happy so long as he had a pretty
girl by his side, and was moreover fascinated by the wit of these
two young ladies in particular.
An incident here occurs of which it is necessary to take some
notice. Tired out after a festive party, which had been enlivened
as usual with plenty of wine, Pao-yü goes to sleep in an adjoining

8
THE DREAM OF
There he dreams that a goddess appears to him, the
goddess who presides over the loves and hates and fears and
jealousies of mankind. Taking him by the hand, she led him to
place where were kept the records of the destinies of lovers.
Into these he was permitted here and there to glance; and
finally the goddess gave him to understand that the fortunes of
the family depended upon his efforts, taking occasion to warn
him against the vices of his age and pointing out the unreality of
beauty and love. Pao-yü waked from his dream in a fright.
From this moment the character of Pao-yü undergoes some-
what of a change. He has occasional fits of moody depression,
varied by discontent with his superfluous worldly surroundings.
"In what am I better," he would say, "than a wallowing hog
or a mangy cur? Why was I born and bred amid this splendid
magnificence of wealth, instead of in some coldly-furnished house-
hold where I could have enjoyed the pure communion of friends?
These silks and satins, these rich meats and choice wines, of
what avail are they to this perishable body of mine? O wealth!
O power! I curse you both, ye cankerworms of my earthly
career."
-
All these morbid thoughts, however, were speedily dispelled
by the presence of his fair cousins with whom in fact Pao-yü
spent most of the time he ought to have devoted to his books.
He was always running across to see either one or other of these
young ladies, or meeting both of them in general assembly at
his grandmother's. It was at such a tête-à-tête with Pao-ch'ai
that she made him show her his marvelous piece of jade, with the
inscription, which she read as follows:-
Lose me not, forget me not,
Eternal life shall be thy lot.
The indiscretion of a slave-girl here let Pao-yü become aware
that Pao-ch'ai herself possessed a wonderful gold amulet upon
which also were certain words inscribed; and of course Pao-yü
insisted on seeing it at once. On one side was written-
Let not this token wander from thy side
and on the other -
And youth perennial shall with thee abide.
In the middle of this interesting scene, Tai-yü walks in, and

THE RED CHAMBER.
9-
seeing how intimately the two are engaged, "hopes she doesn't
intrude." But even in those early days the ring of her voice be-
trayed symptoms of that jealousy to which later on she succumbed.
Meanwhile she almost monopolises the society of Pao-yu; and
he, on his side, finds himself daily more and more attracted by
the sprightly mischievous humour of the beautiful Tai-yü, as
compared with the quieter and more orthodox loveliness of Pao-
ch'ai. Pao-ch'ai does not know what jealousy means. She too
loves to bandy words, exchange verses, or puzzle over conundrums
with her mercurial cousin; but she never allows her thoughts to
wander towards hin otherwise than is consistent with the strict-1
est maidenly reserve. Hers is a more phlegmatic temperament;
and in her bosom the torch of Love could never glow unless it
had first been kindled from without.
Not so Tai-yü. She had been already for some time Pao-yü's
chief companion, when they were joined by Pao-ch'ai. She had
come to regard the handsome boy almost as a part of herself,
though not conscious of the fact until called upon to share his
society with another. And so it was that although Pao-yü
showed an open preference for herself, she still grudged the lesser
attentions he paid to Pao-ch'ai. As often as not, these same
attentions originated in an irresistible impulse to tease. Pao-yit
and Tai-yü were already lovers in so far that they were always
quarrelling; the more so, that their quarrels invariably ended,
as they should end, in the renewal of love. As a rule, Tai-yü
fell back upon the ultima ratio of all women,-tears; and of course,.
Pao-yi, who was not by any means wanting in chivalry, had no
alternative but to wipe them away. On one partic:lar occasion,
Tai-yü declared that she would die; upon which Pao-yü said
that in that case he would become a monk and devote his life to
Buddha; but in this instance it was he who shed the tears and
she who had to wipe them away.
All this time Tai-yü and Pao-ch'ai were on terms of scrupulous
courtesy Tai-yü's father had recently died, and her fortunes.
now seemed to be bound up more closely than ever with those of
the family in which she lived. She had a handsome gold orna-
ment given her to match Pao-ch'ai's amulet, and the three young
people spent their days together, thinking only how to get most

10
THE DREAM OF
enjoyment out of every passing hour. Sometimes however a
shade of serious thought would darken Tai-yü's moments of
enforced solitude; and one day Pao-yü surprised her in a
secluded part of the garden, engaged in burying the peach-
blossoms that had been blown down by the wind. It ended in
their burying the blossoms together.
But all episodes did not end like that. On another occasion,
when the quarrel had been unusually severe, Pao-yü stopped
Tai-yü from leaving him in anger by seizing her hand. "Dear
cousin," said he, "let me explain." "No," replied she, shaking
him off, "I want none of your explanations. I know them all
already." With that she turned away, and Pao-yü stood there a
moment, speechless, not knowing what to say next. But in a
few moments he had recovered himself, and turning quickly
round seized her hand again and said "Dear cousin, I have never
dared tell you, but now I will tell you,. . . . I love you, and
sleeping or waking you are never absent from my thoughts...."
At that moment Pao-yü discovered that Tai-yü had gone away,
and that he was pouring these impassioned words into the ear of
a slave-girl who had just run up to bring him his fan!
On the other hand, when Pao-yü's father had given him a
severe flogging which confined him to his bed, who was so
anxions about him as Tai-ya? The fatal flush burned brighter
than ever on her cheek, and sleep was banished from her eyes.
Then when all were lond in denouncing his idle habits, Tai-yü
alone felt obliged to take his part. And so it came about in
lapse of time that Pao-yü and Tai-yü were in love.
Meanwhile, Pao-yu's father had received an appointment which
took him away to a distance, the consequence being that life
went on at home in a giddier round than usual. Nothing the
old grandmother liked better than a picnic or a banquet; feasting
in fact of some kind, with plenty of wine and mirth. But now,
somehow or other, little things were always going wrong. In
every pot of ointment, the traditional fly was sure to make its
appearance; in every sparkling goblet, a bitter something would
always bubble up. Money was not so plentiful as it had been;
and there seemed to be always occurring some unforeseen drain
upon the family resources. Various members of one or other of

THE RED CHAMBER.
11
the two grand establishments get into serious trouble with the
authorities. Murder, suicide and robbery, occupy the attention
of their inmates. The climax of prosperity had been reached,
and the hour of decadence had arrived. Still, all went merry as
a marriage-bell, and Pao-yi and Tai-yil continued the agreeable
pastime of love-making. In this they were further favoured by
circumstances. Pao-ch'ai's mother gave up the apartments which
had been assigned to her, and went to live in lodgings in the city,
of course taking Pao-ch'ai with her. Some time previous to this
a slave-girl had casually remarked to Pao-yü that her young
mistress, Tai-yi, was about to leave and go back again to the
south. Pao-yü fainted on the spot, and was straightway carried
off and put to bed. He bore the departure of Pao-ch'ai with
composure. He could not even hear of separation from his
beloved Tai-yü.
And she was already deeply in love with him. Long, long
ago, her faithful slave-girl had whispered into her ear the soft
possibility of union with her cousin; but then she had listened
with deeper attention to Pao-ch'ai's mother, who once took occa-
sion to tell the young ladies how marriages were made in heaven
and how the old man of the moon linked together by an invisibl
thread, no matter at wbat distance asunder, those whom an un
alterable destiny had already pronounced to be man and wife.
Of late, however, Tai-yü's feelings had been far less under control.
Day and night she thought about Pao-yü, and bitterly regretted
that she had now neither father nor mother on whom she could
rely to effect the object that lay nearest to her heart. One eve-
ning, tired out under the ravages of the great passion, she flung
herself down, without undressing, upon a couch to sleep. But
she had hardly closed her eyes ere her grandmother, and a whole
bevy of aunts and cousins walked in to offer, as they said, their
hearty congratulations. Tai-yü was astonished, and asked what
on earth their congratulations meant; upon which it was ex-
plained to her that her father had married again, and that her
stepmother had arranged for her a most eligible match, in con-
sequence of which she was to leave for home immediately. With
floods of tears Tai-yü entreated her grandmother not to send her
away. She did not want to marry, and she would rather become

12
THE DREAM OF
a slave-girl at her grandmother's feet than fall in with the scheme
proposed. She exhausted every argument, and even invoked the
spirit of her dead mother to plead her cause; but the old lady
was obdurate, and finally went away, saying that the arrange-
ment would have to be carried out Then Tai-yü saw no escape
but the one last resource of all; when at that moment Pao-yü
entered, and with a smile on his face began to offer her his con-
gratulations too.
"Thank you, cousin," cried she, starting up and seizing him
rudely by the arm. "Now I know you for the false fickle
creature you are!" "What is the matter, dear girl?" enquired
Pao-yu in amazement; "I was only glad for your sake that you
had found a lover at last."
"And what lover do you think I could ever care to find now?"
rejoined Tai-yü, in a somewhat softened tone.
"Well," replied Pao-yü, "I should of course wish it to be my-
self. I consider you indeed mine already; and if you think of
the way I have always behaved towards you....."
"What!" said Tai-yü, partly misunderstanding his words, "can
it be you after all? and do you really wish me to remain with
you?"
"You shall see with your own eyes," answered Pao-yü, "even
into the inmost recesses of my heart, and then perhaps you will
believe."
Thereupon he drew a knife, and plunging it into his body,
ripped himself open so as to expose his heart to view. With a
shriek Tai-yü tried to stay his hand, and felt herself drenched
with the flow of fresh warm blood; when suddenly Pao-yü uttered
a loud groan, and crying out "Great Heaven, my heart is gone!".
fell senseless to the ground. "Help! help!" soreamed Tai-yü;
"he is dying, he is dying." "Wake up, wake up," said Tai-yü's
maid, "whatever has given you nightmare like this?"
So Tai-yi waked up, and found that she had had a bad dream.
But she had something worse than that. She had a bad illness
to follow; and strange to say Pao-yü was laid up at the same.
time. The doctor came and felt her pulse both pulses in fact;
and shook his head, and drank a cup of tea, and said that

THE RED CHAMBER.
13
Tai-yü's vital principle wanted nourishment, which it would get out
of a prescription he then and there wrote down. As to Pao-yu,
he was simply suffering from a fit of temporary indigestion.
So Tai-yü got better and Pao-yü recovered his spirits. His
father had returned home, and he was once more obliged to make
some show of work, and consequently had fewer hours to spend in
the society of his cousin. He was now a young man, and the
question of his marriage began to occupy a foremost place in the
minds of his parents and grandmother. Several names were
proposed, one especially by his father; but it was finally agreed
that it was unnecessary to go far afield to secure a fitting bride.
It was merely a choice between the two charming young ladies
who had already shared so much in his daily life. But the diffi-
culty lay precisely there. Where each was perfection, it became
invidious to choose. In another famous Chinese novel a similar ✓
difficulty is got over in this way;-the hero marries both. Here,
however, the family elders were distracted by rival claims. By
their gentle, winning manners, Pao-ch'ai and Tai-yü had made
themselves equally beloved by all the inmates of these two noble
houses, from the venerable grandmother down to the meanest
slave-girl. Their beauty was of different style; but at the bar of
man's opinion, each would probably have gained an equal number
of votes. Tai-yil was undoubtedly the cleverer of the two, but
Pao-ch'ai had better health; and in the judgment of those with
whom the decision rested, health carried the day. It was arranged
that Pao-yil was to marry Pao-ch'ai.
This momentous arrangement was naturally made in secret.
Various preliminaries would have to be gone through before a
verbal promise could give place to formal betrothal. And it is a
well-ascertained fact that secrets can only be kept by men, while
this one was confided to at least a dozen women. Consequently,
one night when Tai-yü was ill and alone in her room, yearning
for the love that had already been contracted away to another,
she heard two slave-girls outside whispering confidences, and fan-
cied she caught Pao-yi's name. She listened again, and this
time without doubt, for she heard them say that Pao-yi was en-
gaged to marry a lady of good family and many accomplishments.
Just then a parrot called out "Here's your mistress: pour out

14
THE DREAM OF
the tea!" which frightened the slave-girls horribly; and they
forthwith separated, one of them running inside to attend upon
Tai-yü herself. She finds her young mistress in a very agitated
state, but Tai-yü is always ailing now, and she had no idea what
had been the immediate cause of her present distressed condition.
As to Tai-yü she made a great effort to keep calm, and went to
bed, longing that she were well done with this world of sickness
and sorrow. By and by, she determined upon a plan. She would
refuse food and gradually get rid of her little remaining strength;
until from its now inhospitable tenement of clay, her bleeding
soul should pass to rest in the palace of the Pure Serene.
This time Tai-yü was seriously ill. She ate nothing. She
was racked by a dreadful cough. Even a Chinese doctor could
now hardly fail to see that she was far advanced in a decline.
But none knew that the sickness of her body had originated in
sickness of the heart.
One night she grew rapidly worse and worse, and lay to all
appearances dying. A slave-girl ran to summon her grand-
mother, while several others remained in the room talking about
Pao-yü and his intended marriage. "It was all off," said one
of them. "His grandmother would not agree to the young lady
chosen by his father. She had already made her own choice, -
of another young lady who lives in the family, and of whom we
are all very fond." The dying girl heard these words, and it
then flashed across her that after all she must herself be the
bride intended for Pao-yü. "For if not I," argued she, "who
can it possibly be?" Thereupon she rallied as it were by a su-
preme effort of will, and to the great astonishment of all, called
for a drink of tea. Those who had come expecting to see her.
die, were now glad to think that her youth might ultimately
prevail.
So Tai-yü got better once more; but only better, not well.
For the sickness of the soul is not to be cured by drugs; the
wounded heart can only be healed by him who struck the blow.
At the same time, it was only the fact of Pao-yu's intended
betrothal to a cousin which had fluttered the family dove-cotes.
It was not generally known to which of the two cousins he was
to be definitely betrothed; and if anything, the majority were in

THE RED CHAMBER.
15
favour of Tai-y. To the eyes of the outside world they seemed
meant for one another. And as the marmur of gossip became
daily louder and louder, it was felt by those in authority that
the time had come to do, what is done somewhat earlier in the
West, consult the young people themselves. Meanwhile, an
event occurred which for the time being threw everything else
into the shade. Pao-yü lost his jade tablet. After changing his
clothes, he had forgotten to put it on, and had left it lying upon
his table. But when he sent to fetch it, it was gone. A search
was instituted high and low; without success. The precious
talisman was missing. No one dared tell his grandmother and
face the old lady's wrath. As to Pao-yü himself, he treated the
matter lightly. Gradually, however, a change came over his
demeanour. He was often absent-minded. At other times his
tongue would run away with him, and he talked nonsense. At
length, he got so bad that it became imperative to do something.
So his grandmother had to be told. Of course she was dreadfully
upset, but she made a move in the right direction and offered an
enormous reward for its recovery, amounting to no less than
10,000 faels. The result was that within a few days the reward
was claimed. But in the interval the tablet seemed to have lost
much of its striking brilliancy; and a closer inspection showed it
to be in reality nothing more than a clever imitation. This was
a crushing disappointment to all. Pao-yü's illness was increasing
day by day. His father had received another appointment in
the provinces; and it was eminently desirable that Pao-yü's
marriage should take place previous to his departure. The great
objection to hurrying on the ceremony was that the family were
in mourning. Among other calamities which had befallen of
late, the young lady in the Imperial seraglio had died, and her
influence at Court was gone. Still everything considered, it was
deemed advisable to solemnise the wedding without delay. Pao-
yü's father, little as he cared for the character of his only son,
had been greatly shocked at the change which he now saw. A
worn haggard face, with sunken lack-lustre eyes; rambling,
inconsequent talk; this was the heir in whom the family hopes
were centred. The old grandmother finding that doctors were
of little avail, had even called in a fortune-teller, who said pretty

16
THE DREAM OF
much what he was wanted to say, viz, that Pao-yü should marry
some one with a golden destiny, to help him on.
Further, from that
With Pao-yü, how-
His love for Tai-yü
So the chief actors in the tragedy about to be enacted, had to
be consulted at last They began with Pao-ch'ai, for various
reasons; and she, like a modest well-bred maiden, received her
mother's commands in submissive silence.
day she ceased to mention Pao-yü's name.
ever, it was a different thing altogether.
was a matter of some notoriety, especially with the slave-girls,
one of whom even went so far as to tell his mother that his heart
was set upon marrying her whom the family had felt obliged to
reject. It was therefore hardly doubtful how he would receive
the news of his betrothal to Pao-ch'ai; and as in his present
state of health, the consequences could not be ignored, it was re-
solved to have recourse to stratagem. So the altar was prepared,
and naught remained but to draw the bright death across the vic-
tim's throat.
In the short time which intervened, the news was broken to
Tai-yil in an exceptionally cruel manner. She heard by accident
in conversation with a slave-girl in the garden that Pao-yü was
to marry Pao-ch'ai. The poor girl felt as if a thunderbolt had
pierced her brain. Her whole frame quivered beneath the shock.
She turned to go back to her room, but half unconsciously fol-
lowed the path that led to Pao-yü's apartments. Hardly noticing
the servants in attendance, she almost forced her way in, and
stood in the presence of her cousin. He was sitting down, and
he looked up and laughed a foolish laugh when he saw her enter,
but he did not rise, and he did not invite her to be seated. Tai-
yü sat down without being asked, and without a word spoken on
either side. And the two sat there, and stared and leered at each
other, until they both broke out into wild delirious laughter, the
senseless crazy laughter of the mad-house. "What makes you
ill, cousin?" asked Tai-yü, when the first burst of their dreadful
merriment had subsided. "I am in love with Tai-yü," he re-
plied; and then they both went off into louder screams of laught-
er than before.
At this point the slave-girls thought it high time to interfere;
and after much more laughing and nodding of heads, Tai-yü was

THE RED CHAMBER.
17
persuaded to go away. She set off to run back to her own room,
and sped along with a newly-acquired strength. But just as she
was nearing the door, she was seen to fall, and the terrified slave-
girl who rushed to pick her up, found her with her mouth full
of blood.
By this time, all formalities have been gone through, and the
wedding day is fixed. It is not to be a grand wedding; but of
course there must be a trousseau, and a gorgeous sedan-chair in
which to convey the bride to her future husband's home. Pao-
ch'ai sometimes weeps, she scarcely knows why; but preparations
for the great event of her life leave her, fortunately, very little
leisure for reflection. Tai-yü is in bed, and, but for a faithful
slave-girl, alone. No body thinks much about her at this junc-
ture; when the wedding is over she is to receive a double share
of attention.
One morning she makes the slave-girl bring her all her poems
and various other relics of the happy days gone by. She turns
them over and over between her thin and wasted fingers until
finally she commits them all to the flames. The effort is too.
much for her, and the slave-girl in despair hurries across to her
grandmother's for assistance. She finds the whole place deserted,
but a moment's thought reminds her that the old lady is doubtless
with Pao-yu. So thither she makes her way as fast as her feet
can carry her, only however to be still further amazed at finding
the rooms shut up and no one there. Utterly confused, and not
knowing what to make of these unlooked-for circumstances, she
is about to run back to Tai-yü's room, when to her great relief
she espies a fellow-servant in the distance, who straightway in-
forms her that it is Pao-yü's wedding day and that he had moved
into another suite of apartments. And so it was. Pao-yu had
joyfully agreed to the proposition that he should marry his cousin,
for he had been skilfully given to understand that the cousin in
question was Tai-yü. And now the much wished-for hour had
arrived. The veiled bride, accompanied by the very slave-girl
who had long ago escorted her from the south, alighted from her
chair at Pao-yü's door. The wedding march was played, and the
young couple proceeded to the final ceremony of worship which
made them irrevocably man and wife. Then, as is customary

18
THE DREAM OF
upon such occasions, Pao-yü raised his bride's veil. For a moment
he seemed as though suddenly turned into stone, as he stood there
speechless and motionless, with fixed eyes gazing upon a face he
had little expected to behold. Meanwhile, Pao-ch'ai retired into
an inner apartment; and then for the first time Pao-yü found his
voice.
"Am I dreaming?" cried he, looking round upon his assem-
bled relatives and friends. "No, you are married," replied seve-
ral of those nearest to him. "Take care; your father is outside.
He arranged it all."
"Who was that?" said Pao-yü, with averted head, pointing
in the direction of the door through which Pao-ch'ai had.
disappeared.
"
"It was Pao-ch'ai, your wife..... "Tai-yü, you mean;
Tai-yü is my wife," shrieked he, interrupting them; "I want Tai-
yü, I want Tai-yü. Oh bring us together and save us both!"
Here he broke down altogether. Thick sobs choked his further
utterance, until relief came in a surging flood of tears.
All this time Tai-yü was dying, dying beyond hope of recall.
She knew that the hour of release was at hand, and she lay there
quietly waiting for death. Every now and again she swallowed
a teaspoonful of broth, but gradually the light faded out of her
eyes, and the slave-girl, faithful to the last, felt that her young
mistress' fingers were rapidly growing cold. At that moment,
Tai-yu's lips were seen to move, and she was distinctly heard to
say "O Pao-yü, Pao-yü ... Those words were her last. A
cold moisture broke out upon the body which her gentle weary
spirit had now quitted for ever.
"
Just then, breaking in upon the hushed moments which suc-
ceed dissolution, sounds of far-off music were borne along upon
the breeze. The slave-girl crept stealthily to the door, and
strained her ear to listen; but she could hear nothing save the
soughing of the wind as it moaned fitfully through the trees.
But the bridegroom himself had already entered the valley of
the dark shadow. Pao-yü was very ill. He raved and raved
about Tai-yü, until at length Pao-ch'ai, who had heard the news,
took upon herself the painful task of telling him she was already
dead.
"Dead?" cried Pao-yü, "dead?" and with a loud groan

THE RED CHAMBER.
19
he fell back upon the bed, insensible. A darkness came before
his eyes, and he seemed to be transported into a region which
was unfamiliar to him. Looking about, he saw what seemed to
be a human being advancing towards him, and immediately call-
ed out to the stranger, to be kind enough to tell him where he
was. "You are on the road to hell," replied the man; "but
your span of life is not yet complete, and you have no business
here." Pao-yü explained that he had come in search of Tai-yü
who had lately died; to which the man replied that Tai-yü's soul
had already gone back to its home in the Pure Serene. "And
if you would see her again," added the man, "return to your
duties upon earth. Fulfil your destiny there, chasten your un-
derstanding, nourish the divinity that is within you, and you
may yet hope to meet her once more." The man then flung a
stone at him and struck him over the heart, which so frightened
Pao-yu that he turned to retrace his steps. At that moment he
heard himself loudly called by name; and opening his eyes saw
his mother and grandmother standing by the side of his bed.
-
They had thought that he was gone, and were overjoyed at
seeing him return to life, even though it was the same life as
before, clouded with the great sorrow of unreason. For now
they could always hope; and when they saw him daily grow
stronger and stronger in bodily health, it seemed that ere long
even his mental equilibrium might be restored. The more so that
he had ceased to mention Tai-yü's name, and treated Pao-ch'ai
with marked kindness and respect.
All this time the fortunes of the two grand families are sinking
from bad to worse. Pao-yi's uncle is mixed up in an act of
disgraceful oppression; while his father, at his new post, makes
the foolish endeavour to be an honest incorrupt official. He tries
to put his foot down upon the system of bribery which prevails,
but succeeds only in getting himself recalled and impeached by
the Censorate for maladministration of affairs. The upshot of
all this is that an Imperial Decree is issued, confiscating the
property and depriving the families of their hereditary rank.
Besides this, the lineal representatives are to be banished; and
within the walls which have been so long sacred to mirth and
merry-making, consternation now reigns supreme. "O high

20
THE DREAM OF
Heaven," cries Pao-yü's father, as his brother and nephew start.
for their place of banishment, "that the fortunes of our family
should fall like this!"
Of all, perhaps the old grandmother felt the blow most severely.
She had lived for 83 years in affluence, accustomed to the devo-
tion of her children and the adulation of friends. But now mo-
ney was scarce, and the voice of flattery unheard. The courtiers
of prosperous days forgot to call; and even the servants deserted
at their posts. And so it came about that the old lady fell ill,
and within a few days was lying upon her death-bed. She spoke
a kind word to all, except to Pao-ch'ai. For her she had only a
sigh, that fate had linked her with a husband whose heart
was buried in the grave. So she died, and there was a splendid
funeral, paid for out of funds raised at the pawnshop. Pao-ch'ai
appeared in white; and among the flowers which were gathered
around the bier, she was unanimously pronounced to be the
fairest blossom of all.
Then other members of the family die, and Pao-yü relapsest
into a condition as critical as ever. He is in fact at the point of
death, when a startling announcement restores him again to
consciousness. A Buddhist priest is at the outer gate, and he
has brought back Pao-yü's lost tablet of jade. There was of
course great excitement on all sides; but the priest refused to
part with the jade until he got the promised 10,000 taels reward.
And where now was it possible to raise such a sum as that, and
at a moment's notice? Still, it was felt that the tablet must be
recovered at all costs. Pao-yü's life depended on it, and he was
the sole hope of the family. So the priest was promised his
reward, and the jade was conveyed into the sick room. But
when Pao-yü clutched it in his eager hand, he dropped it with
a loud cry, and fell back gasping upon the bed. The tablet was
no longer whole, but broken.
In a few minutes Pao-yu's breathing became more and more
distressed, and a servant ran out to call in the priest, in the hope
that something might yet be done. The priest, however, had
disappeared, and by this time Pao-yü had ceased to breathe..
Immediately upon the disunion of body and soul, which.
mortals call death, the spirit of Pao-yü set off on its journey to

THE RED CHAMBER.
21
the Infinite, led by a Buddhist priest. Just then a voice called
out and said that Tai-yü was awaiting him, and at that moment
many familiar faces crowded round him, but as he gazed at them
in recognition, they changed into grinning goblins. At length
he reached a spot where there was a beautiful crimson flower in
an enclosure, so carefully tended that neither bees nor butterflies
were allowed to settle upon it. It was a flower he was told which
had been to fulfil a mission upon earth, and had recently returned
to the Infinite. He was now taken to see Tai-yü. A bamboo
screen which hung before the entrance to a room, was raised;
and there before him stood his heart's idol, his lost Tai-yü.
Stretching forth his hands, he was about to speak to her, when
suddenly the screen was hastily dropped. The priest gave him
a shove, and he fell backwards, awaking as though from a dream.
Once more he had regained a new hold upon life: once more
he had emerged from the very jaws of death. This time he was
a changed man. He devoted himself to reading for the great
public examination, in the hope of securing the much-coveted de-
gree which is usually called master of arts. Nevertheless, he
talks little, and seems to cure less, about the honours and glory
of this world; and what is stranger than all, he appears to have
very much lost his taste for the once fascinating society of women.
For a time he seems to be under the spell of a religious craze,
and is always arguing with Pao-ch'ai upon the advantages of de-
voting one's life to the service of Buddha. But shortly before.
the examination he burns all the books he has collected which
treat of immortality and a future state, and concentrates every
thought upon the great object before him.
At length the day comes, and Pao-yü, accompanied by a ne-
phew who is also a candidate, prepares to enter the arena. His
father was away from home. He had gone southwards to take
the remains of the grandmother and of Tai-yü back to their an-
cestral burying-ground. So Pao-yü first goes to take leave of
his mother, and she addresses to him a few parting words, full of
encouragement and hope. Then Pao-yü falls upon his knees
and implores her pardon for all the trouble he has caused her.
"I can only trust," he added, "that I shall now be successful,
and that you, dear mother, will be happy." And then amid

22
THE DREAM OF
tears and good wishes, the two young men set out for the ex-
amination hall, where, with several thousand other candidates,
they are to remain for some time immured.
The hours and days speed apace, full of arduous effort to those
within, of anxiety to those without. At last the great gates are
thrown wide open, and the vast crowd of worn-out weary students
bursts forth, to meet the equally vast crowd of eager, expectant
friends. In the crush that ensues, Pao-yü and his nephew lose
sight of each other, and the nephew renchies home first. There,
the feast of welcome is already spread and the wine-kettles are
put to the fire. So every now and again somebody runs out to see
if Pao-yü is not yet in sight. But the time passes and he comes
not. Fears as to his personal safety begin to be aroused, and
messengers are sent out in all directions. Pao-yü is nowhere to
be found. The night comes, and goes. The next day, and the
next day; and still no Pao-yü. He has disappeared without
leaving behind him the faintest clue to his whereabouts. Mean-
while, the list of successful candidates is published, and Pao-yü's
name stands seventh on the list. His nephew has the 130th
place. What a triumph for the family, and what rapture would
have been theirs, but for the mysterious absence of Pao-yu.
Thus, their joy was shaded by sorrow, until hope, springing
eternal, was unexpectedly revived. Pao-yü's winning essay had
attracted the attention of the Emperor, and his Majesty issued an
order for the writer to appear at Court. An Imperial order may
not be lightly disregarded; and it was fervently hoped by the
family that by these means Pao-yü might be restored to them...
This, in fact, was all that was wanting now to secure the renew-
ed prosperity of the two ancient houses. The tide of events lind
set favourably at last. Those who had been banished to the
frontier had greatly distinguished themselves against the bandit-
ti who ravaged the country round about. There was Pao-yü's
success, and his nephew's; and above all, the gracious clemency
of the Son of Heaven. Free pardons were granted; confiscated
estates were returned. The two families basked again in the
glow of Imperial favour. Pao-ch'ai was about to become a mo-
ther: the ancestral line might be continued after all. But Pao-
where was he? That remained a mystery still, ngainst
yil,

THE RED CHAMBER.
23
which even the Emperor's mandate proved to be of no avail.
It was on his return journey that Pao-yü's father heard of the
success and disappearance of his son. Torn by conflicting emo-
tions, he hurried on, in his haste to reach home and aid in un-
raveling the secret of Pao-yü's hiding-place. One moonlight
night, his boat lay anchored alongside the shore, which a storm
of the previous day had wrapped in a mantle of snow. He was
sitting writing at a table, when suddenly, through the half-open
door, advancing towards him over the bow of the boat, bis
silhouette sharply defined against the surrounding snow, he saw
the figure of a shaven-headed Buddhist priest. The priest knelt
down and struck his head four times upon the ground, and then,
without a word, turned back to join two other priests who were
awaiting him. The three vanished as imperceptibly as they had
come; before, indeed, the astonished father had time to realise
that he had been, for the last time, face to face with Pao-yu!