ARTICLE VII.
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ OR HAN WEN-KUNG.*
mencement.
BY T. WATTERS.
HE period during which the Tang dynasty ruled
in China, extending over nearly three centuries from
A. D. 618 to 907, is one of the most interesting in
this country's history. Religion, mainly in the
form of Buddhism, prevailed then to a greater ex-
tent than at any other time before or since. Along
with it came Poetry and the Fine Arts, but at the same
time moral and intellectual decadence. These statements
refer more to the middle and end of the dynasty than to the
period of the illustrious sovereigns who adorned its com-
The martial and political virtues of its founder and
the dashing exploits of his immediate successors are for ever famous,
but their descendants were generally mean and ignoble-slaves
to women, and eunuchs, and monks. Yet the good institutions
which the early rulers had devised survived the feebleness and
misrule of their posterity, and among them one of the most ex-
cellent was that which made mental accomplishments the highway
to official employment, thus giving a stimulus to the cultivation
of literature. To this must be added the rapid spread of a foreign
Hence
religion introducing new ideas about man and nature.
arose learned ecclesiastics, poets, and essayists who surrounded
this dynasty with glory and fame, and among these few have
earned more honorable place than the subject of the present me-
moir, viz-Han Yü or Han Wen-kung. Yet I would not have
thought of writing about him had it not seemed to me that he has
been rather overlooked by Western writers on China. Remusat,
Pauthier, Julien, Davis, and Williams tell us little or nothing
about him, and one of these celebrated sinologues actually calls
him Han Yin (though this may be a typographical mistake). In
Mr. Wylie's very excellent Notes on Chinese Literature his name
* Read before the Society on April 17th, 1872.

166
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
and works are utterly unmentioned, and Mr. Edkins is, so far as
I know, the only Western writer who shows an acquaintance with
them. Should it be, however, my own ignorance which has led
to the above statements I hope it will still be a not useless work
to give a brief outline of the life and literary remains of the illus-
trious individual in question.
Han Yü (), then, whose style was Tui-chi (2), was
a scion of an illustrious family. One of his remote ancestors had
been honoured by the title of Prince as a reward for the services
he had rendered a ruler of the latter Wei dynasty. His father,
Chung-ch'ing (), was in early life Magistrate of the Wu-
ch'ang district in Hupeh, and afterwards a high officer at the
capital. Han Yü was born in A. D. 768, the sixth year of the
reign of Tai-tsung the eighth Emperor of the T'ang dynasty.
The place of his birth was Nan-yang in Honan, though he gene-
rally described himself as a native of Ch'ang-li (). This
was a city of Yung-ping-foo in Chilli, and as his posthumous
title was derived from it, the family may have regarded it as their
ancestral home. When only three years of age Yü was left an
orphan by the death of his father, but he was immediately taken
charge of by his cousin Hui. This last on being officially exiled
to the south of the empire took the child with him but died shortly
afterwards. The little orphan was, however, taken care of by
Hui's widow, who seems to have won his affections by her kind
and amiable treatment, and it is recorded that on her death her
foster child observed the full period of a year's mourning for her.
It is stated that Yü was a precocious boy, having a wonderful
memory and facility for learning so that he was able to learn
several hundreds of characters in a day. But of his infancy and
boyhood the biographer has told us nothing more.
We learn
from himself that his education was confined to books, and that
he was not taught any art or craft by which to earn a subsistence
should he fail to obtain official or literary employment.
So he grew up a mere student, and we are informed that he
became proficient not only in the ancient classics but also in modern
miscellaneous literature. When 24 years old he was fortunate
enough to be recommended for examination for the Chin-shi de-
gree which he obtained. The Chin-shi of that time was very
different from the literary degree which now bears the name. It
corresponded somewhat to the Hsiu-tsai of the present, although
the subjects of examination for the former are unlike those with

THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
167
which the candidates for the latter are required to be acquainted.
The Chinese biographer is provokingly reticent respecting the
domestic affairs of Yü, and does not tell us when he married or
who was his wife. It is not improbable, however, that he was a
married man about the time of his examination, as not long after-
wards he writes of himself as being a husband and father.
It was the time-honoured custom at this period for the high officers
throughout the empire to bring to their sovereign's notice those
men in their jurisdictions who were remarkable for the possession
of high moral character and intellectual abilities that they might
be employed in the administration of government. According to
his own testimony Han Yü was eagerly desirous of official life,
and was considerably disappointed at not obtaining a recommen-
dation immediately after he obtained his degree. The destined
time, however, arrived at last, and he received a subordinate
appointment as assistant to an officer corresponding somewhat to
a modern Intendant of Circuit or Taotai. Shortly afterwards he
gained great distinction by the services he rendered in suppressing
a military revolt at Pien-chow, the present K'ai-fêng-foo in Honan,
and at that time the Eastern Capital. In a poetical letter to a
friend he describes the hardships he endured on the way to this
city and his distress about his wife and child who had remained
within its enclosures. His success on this occasion obtained for
him what he had long coveted, a congenial post at the western
capital-Si-an-foo. His enjoyment of this office was not, however,
of long duration. In 803 he offended the reigning Emperor,
Te-tsung, by a strongly-worked memorial about an abuse at the
palace, and was sent away to Kwangtung as Magistrate of Yang-
shan. Three years afterwards, in the reign of the Emperor
Hsien-tsung, we find him back in the capital, and filling a very
important and honorable post. He could not, however, keep his
place and was again sent away to the provinces. About this time
a petty mandarin at a place called Hwa-yin was denounced to the
Throne by his superior and consequently deprived of office. A
new chief came who coincided with the views of his predecessor
and was disposed to take sharp measures with the offender. Han
Ya happened to pass through the place at the time, and hearing
some rumours about complicity between the old and new chiefs
he instantly accused the latter to the Emperor of acting unfairly.
An investigation was ordered, the result of which was that the
hot-headed Yü was declared to be in the wrong, and he was ac-

168
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
cordingly sentenced to degradation. The life of a Chinese man-
darin is usually one of ups and downs, and of this the career of
the one under notice is an excellent instance. He was soon
afterwards again recalled to the capital-Si-an-foo, and appointed
to an office in the Criminal Board.
At this time there was a very serious disaffection at Huai-si
and other places in the principality of Ts'ai, part of the present
In-ning-foo in Honan. Han Yu memorialised the Throne on
the subject, representing the state of affairs as very critical but
not beyond remedy if the Emperor at once adopted decisive mea-
sures. A Minister of State who had a different opinion on the
subject got angry here-upon, brought a wanton accusation against
Han Yü, and had him removed to an inferior office. But shortly
afterwards Yü's counsel prevailed, and he assisted so successfully
in restoring peace and loyalty in Ts'ai that he was rewarded on
his return with the post of Vice-President of the Criminal Board.
We now come to the most important event of his life, and that
which has crowned his name with unfading glory. In the year
819 the Emperor Hsien-tsung, a devoted follower of Buddhism,
ordered a grand procession to escort a reputed finger-bone of
Gautama Buddha from a frontier city to the capital, and after
a three-days' stay within the palace to the various Buddhist
temples in the city. The pious orthodoxy of the Vice-President
was offended, and he sent in an angry and spirited remonstrance
called a Memorial respecting the Buddha's Bone. This is a very
celebrated document and has been frequently reprinted by icono-
clastic Confucianists. It rebukes His Majesty in no gentle terms
-shows that Buddhism was the invention of barbarians and of
recent importation-and that the Emperors who lived before its
introduction into the country enjoyed long lives and reigned many
years while those who lived since that event had few and evil
years. The Emperor became highly enraged and wanted to have
his fiery servant beheaded, but some friends interceded for him
and soothed the Imperial anger.
He was, however, dismissed from Court and sent to serve as
Prefect at Ch'ao-chow, a city in the East of Kwangtung and now
unfortunately a Treaty Port. This reverse humbled Yü consider-
ably and on arriving at his post he wrote a repentant memorial
confessing his sin and thanking His Majesty for the matchless
generosity which had spared a forfeited life. That was a sad and
dreary day for him on which he set off from the capital to cross

THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
169
the myth-haunted mountains and take up his residence among
creatures ranked with spirits and hobgoblins-in a district lying
far out of the Imperial Sunshine and cursed with pestilence and
plague. After a long and wearisome journey of a month and
twenty-five days he reached Ch'ao-chow-foo-even now a city of
gamblers and gods, and possessing not a single grace or merit to
save it from unqualified execration save only this fact that Han Yü
once lived within its precincts.
At the time of his residence here the district was inhabited by
ignorant barbarians who had advanced from the savage state only
so far as to cultivate the willing fields and rear domestic animals.
Among all the people there was only one man of any education
with whom the new Prefect could hold intercourse, and this man
became his librarian. Strange to relate Yü formed an intimate
friendship with a Buddhist monk here, and scandal whispered
that he too had joined the crowd and forsaken the old path of
Confucianism-a scandal which he indignantly refuted.
When Han Yü arrived at Ch'ao-chow he found the inhabitants
suffering from the ravages of a huge brute which haunted the
river flowing past their city. This monstrous alligator-like cren-
ture had long harassed the district making frequent excursions
on shore and carrying off fowl and cattle and sometimes even
human beings. Many and various means had been tried to kill
or capture the horrid brute but all hitherto in vain. Now the
people came to their Prefect, and told him their story, and implored
him, as one who had dared the spiritual powers to rid them of the
monster that had wrought such dreadful woe. He at once pro-
mised to comply with their request and proceeded to make personal
investigation. One evening he came to the river's bank and
standing close by the water he ordered his attendants to throw a
hen and a sheep into the river. When this was done he himself
literally read the alligator a lesson-expostulating with the beast
on the wickedness of his conduct and his want of respect for the
ancient sages and the ruling Emperor-and recommending him
to return to the ocean his proper sphere, there to mix with whales
and leviathans his proper associates-and threatening him with
further and more violent proceedings in case he failed to obey.
Great is the power over the abnormal births of nature which that
man possesses who can stand upright before the gods nor feel.
any pulse of fear! Exorcised by the mighty words of the man-
darin the monster at last had to own a superior power. In his
22

170
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
despairing rage he made the river seethe and boil and almost
dried it up a fact which satisfactorily accounts for the shallow-
ness of the river to this day-then wriggled his hated length
away from Ch'ao-chow-foo for ever."
Han Yü performed several other useful and benevolent actions
at this place, but at the end of eight months he was transferred
to Yang-chow in Kiangsi. The Emperor was willing indeed to
recall him to the Capital but his enemies at Court prevailed for
the time at least. One of the bitterest of these was Hwang-foo
who hated the frank honesty of Yü and represented him to the
Emperor as a madman. At Yuan-chow also his name is associated
with noble deeds, and he abolished an old but evil custom which
allowed men and women to pawn themselves and their children
to the officials for money, and the latter to confiscate as slaves all
who were unredeemed. He even devised a means by which 700
of such slaves were purchased from their owners and restored to
their relatives.
Once more he returned to the capital and was appointed Vice-
President of the Board of War. On the breaking out of a mutiny,
however, at Cheng-chow in Chihli he was sent thither to restore
loyalty, and was again successful. He came back triumphant
and had new honours heaped on him, being made Vice-President
of the Board of Ceremonies, but he could never agree well with
his chiefs and so was again transferred. He was fortunate enough,
however, to be allowed to remain within the genial influences of
the Court until his death which happened in the year 823, in the
reign of the Emperor Mu-tsung.
The posthumous title President of the Board of Ceremonies
was conferred on him, and he was honoured with the epithet Wên
or accomplished, to which the customary Kung, a courteous de-
signation, was appended and hence he is generally known as
Han-wên-kung. Long after his death in the year 1084, the 16th
of the reign of Shên-tsung of the Sung Dynasty, he was ennobled
as Ch'ang-li Po or Earl of Ch'angli, and he is frequently de-
scribed as Ch'ang-li-hsien-shêng (4), the Ch'ang-li gen-
tleman or teacher. There have also been temples erected to his
memory in several places. One of these is at Ch'ao-chow-foo on
the western slope of the Pen-rest hill which rises gently from the
*According to another account, however, the monster reappeared in the
Sung Dynasty and was finally despatched with tridents and spears.

THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
171
left bank of the river opposite the east side of the city. It con-
tains a large image of Han-wên-kung and small images of two of
his disciples, besides the memorial tablets of some of his descend-
Over the door is a board bearing the inscription-In merit
not beneath Mencius,-and within the building is another inscribed
-In merit not beneath Yü-(the semi-fabulous Emperor who
assisted Shun and founded the Hsia Dynasty about B. C. 2200).
Here the quiet rooms, with the shady trees outside, and the
purling of the tiny half-hidden brook, and the daily view of the
sun, setting behind the hills in the distance all invite to gentle
musing and solemn contemplation. Hence the temple is used as
a literary retreat by young men who devote themselves to study
and who are competing for their degrees.
The Taotai of the Circuit also is obliged to repair to it officially
once in the spring and once in the autumn every year and do
reverence at the shrine of the sage. Within the city walls is his
ancestral temple, now utterly neglected-tenanted by bats and
overgrown with weeds. Long after Han Yü's death the celebrated
poet Tung-p'o was driven by a similar cruel fate to Hui-chow
another city in Kwangtung.
The inhabitants of Ch'ao-chow
requested him to write a eulogy for their former Prefect, and he
willingly complied with their request. It was engraved in stone
and remains to this day. The ode which he appended ends thus:
"There was no one to play the lyre in heaven and god was
deeply distressed-Wishing to continue the singing he sent the
sorcerer Yang to summon [Han Yü] from earth. With pied oxen,
and sheep, and foul I do him worship offering him wine from my
own horn-And lichees bright red and bananas all yellow. That
he did not tarry a little I weep and wail, and with fluttering robes
and dishevelled hair I go down into the waste of men."
We do not know how many of his children survived Han-wên-
kung, but it is evident that at least one son was alive after his
father's death. The Hans, as has been stated, were an illustrious
family, and, besides those already mentioned, several other mem-
bers of it became eminent men. Han Yü's father's brothers were
officials of considerable standing. His own son was a precocious
child and attained to great literary distinction. His nephew,
Hsiang-tzu, from whom the bridge at Ch'ao-chow-foo derived its
name, was also an infantine genius. He grew up to be a clever
but eccentric man and finally obtained immortality and divinity,
being worshipped as one of the Pa-hsien or Eight Genii. In the

172
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
temple near Ch'ao-chow-foo are also, as I have stated, tablets to
several descendants of Han Ya who had deserved well of their
country as scholars and officials. The Chinese believe to a certain
extent in Hereditary Genius, or, according to their saying, that
the Dragon produces a dragon and the Phoenix produces a phoenix.
A very good example of this transmission of genius is presented
by this family, and I believe that the ancestral talents have been
inherited to a large extent by some of its very recent represen-
tatives,
Of Han-wen-kung's personal appearance and habits we know
very little. He seems to have been troubled with sore eyes, and
to have had originally a weak constitution which his residence at
Ch'ao-chow-foo greatly impaired. He was fond of fishing, and
of solitary walks in the country, though he was a man of social
habits, and not unwilling to take a glass too much on a festive
occasion. His moral character was such as is seldom met with
among Chinese officials. In all his constitution there was not a
trace of guile or deceit. He possessed in a large measure those
qualities which we so much admire, and the absence of which we
lament in Orientals-frankness and pluck. Indeed with him these
virtues leaned conspicuously to the side of faults, and his boldness
of speech and audacity of action brought him into frequent trouble.
Whether before the despot on the throne, the arbitrary Gods, a
rebellious army, or a revolted city his courage never failed him,
when all others were renegades from Confucianism, and running
after the fashionable heresy imported from India, Yü remained
constant, walking in almost solitary sternness in the old path of
orthodoxy.
He was an uncompromising Conservative-in religion, politics,
social life and education always a Conservative. He was true and
constant in friendship, ever ready to assist those in need of help.
and never cringing or toadying to those who were socially above.
him. It is affectionately recorded of him that he got the orphan
daughters among his poor relatives married, and we know that he
assisted in the education of the boys. Fiery and impulsive, how-
ever, he was always getting himself into trouble, and he was
evidently fond of having his own way. Modesty and humility
were qualities which never set well on him though he could assume
them when convinced they were necessary. His learning was
profound and extensive, but he wore it all "lightly as a flower;"
and from his earliest years he was noted for a sharpness and viva-

THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
173
city of intellect which never forsook him. As a public servant
Han Yü was more distinguished for a dauntless and generous
spirit than for a dexterous and long-sighted policy. He was ac-
knowledged to be a man of unswerving integrity and stedfast
principle.
Most of the Emperors under whom he served were men of little
worth, generally ruled by eunuchs and priests, and inattentive to
the great interests of the Empire. Yet he praises them on several
occasions and even when reproaching them for shameful crimes.
He had to expostulate with one of them, in a memorial, about the
retention of large rewards which His Majesty had offered for the
arrest of certain banditti. That Government was competent to
cure every evil and remedy every defect in the body politic was a
firm conviction of Han Yü's. Accordingly on the occasion of a
great dearness and scarcity of coin we find him suggesting the
following remedial expedients:-that producers and mechanics
should be allowed to pay duties and taxes in the articles of their
industry instead of in money-that it should be forbidden to any
one to use copper in the fabrication of bells, images, and similar.
objects-that the exchangeable value of the copper coin in circu-
lation at the time should be altered, so that one coin would
represent five-and that as supplementary to these the governmen
employés receive two-thirds of their pay in the commoditie
accumulated in the Revenue Offices and the remaining one-thir
in the altered coins. In the year 809 there was a drought which
was followed by a famine, and the Emperor, Hsien-tsung, issued
an edict ordering the literary examinations at the capital to be
deferred, alleging as his reason for doing so that the crowds of
competitors filling the city would greatly increase the distress
among the residents. Han Yü memorialised the throne against.
this, and hinted that the course adopted was rather likely to induce
further dronght. In another public document he warns the rulers
of the danger of not keeping the frontiers well defended. The
country people, he says, are clever enough to make fences and
ditches against wild beasts; and dwellers in cities know to keep
high walls and strong bars against burglars. Yet Government
does not know to be ready though on its borders are dangerous
enemies; and, he adds, to treat matters lightly is the greatest of
national misfortunes. Han Yü was too impulsive and outspoken
to make a very good official, and he had always enemies at Court
who made the most of his errors and bursts of passion. He was

174
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
also undoubtedly a rather unpractical man, dreaming of a Utopia
and wishing to have the actual world conform to his dream. The
glories and virtues which he fondly imagined for the ignominious
rulers whom he served were derived from the Emperors of anti-
quity whose legends he had read in early youth. Hence to us
he seems guilty of gross flattery when he ascribes excellences to
men who, as he knew to his cost, were utterly devoid of them.
In his view, however, the sublime virtues went with the Supreme
Decree, and they remained at least Intent even in the worst of the
T'angs.
I come now to consider Han-wên-kung as an author. His liter-
ary remains were collected after his death and published by Li
Han, an ardent admirer and devoted desciple. The best and most
complete edition of his works, so far as I know, is that which was
brought out in 1728 by Ko Chêng-hu (E) from blocks which
had been cut for one of his ancestors. The title of the work, which
is in 10 volumes, is Chang-li-hsien-sheng-ch'uan-chi (t
), or The Complete Works of the Ch'ang-li Teacher. This
edition is badly arranged, contains many doubtful or erroneous
characters, and is unaccompanied by note or comment. In the
introduction, however, much useful information is given respecting
the life of the author, the history of his works, and other matters
of interest. Han Yü's writings as they appear in this edition
consist of poems, miscellaneous essays on ethics and politics, letters,
official documents, an account of the reign of Shun-tsung who
occupied the throne during the year 805, and a collection of de-
tached compositions on various subjects.
His
The prose writings of our author are generally more admired
than his poetry which was eclipsed by the works of the celebrated
poets who imparted to the T'ang dynasty its greatest glory. Yet
Tung-p'o says of him that he soared with Li and T'u and rose far
above Chi and Chi until he vanished from their sight.
essays are to this day considered models of a graceful yet nervous
style, abounding in neat and concise phrases, and surprising the
reader by its sharpness and suddenness of movement. He yields
to few Chinese authors in command of language and in a happy
selection of phrases and epithets. To a native savant he is also
peculiarly charming on account of the hints and allusions to the
*It is from this book that I have derived nearly all the information I
possess about Han-wên-kung.

THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
175
ancient classics which abound in his writings. For his works are
not such that he who runs may read and understand them. On
the contrary they are composed in terse concise sentences couched
in classic language, and never intended for Philistines. Some
have accused him of being original in thought and expression but
this terrible charge has been successfully repelled by others who
assert that he was in both a follower of ancient orthodox tradition.
His poems are divided into two kinds, the antique and the re-
gular. Those of the former class have a considerable license as
to the number of syllables in each line and the nature of the
rhymes, while those of the latter kind are bound down to the
observance of established laws. Many of his odes and poetical
epistles are beautiful and interesting, sometimes reminding us of
other and dearer singers. A short one addressed to Li Kwan
runs thus:-
"In the far north is a caged bird-in the southern ocean a
hidden fish-broad waters and lands keep them apart so that they
can neither see nor hear each other. One day the winds and
clouds bring them together, and they are transmuted and become
one creature. So who will speak of length of distance [as sepa-
rating us]? For [hearts] stirred with emotion are swift as spirits.
When twenty-five years of age I sought for a friend-not knowing
men I sang sadly in the public places of the western capital, and
joined friendship with you. Those who are at one in sentiments
and pursuits do not discuss their mutual intellectual disparities.
Let us be of good mettle, and never suffer stain or flaw-not as
children mourn and whine because we are lowly and poor."
To another friend, Chên Yü, is addressed the following:-
"Fallen leaf that cannot rest-broken sedge without a root--they
flutter and float for ever apart. We being like these unexpectedly
met for an instant-in midnight whispers we spoke together-
the cold moon's light broad over head. Who can say the young
feel no sorrow at parting? Our tears flowed until they soaked
our clothes." Sunrise as observed from a hill at the seaside he
speaks of as "the sunwheel still held in the ocean waves-the
fish and dragons leaping in terror, and utterring sad sad wailings
-fantastic vapours purple and vermeil beaten out in spiral eddies.
The golden duck soars on high and in a trice the world is bright
with light."
Han Yu's published letters relate largely to official matters thought
many refer to private subjects. In style they are seldom if ever

176
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
colloquial but generally elegant and flowery. I transcribe a por-
tion of one addressed to Mêng Tung-ye, a mandarin of high standing
and good reputation and a very intimate friend of Han Yü. Neither
place nor time is mentioned but the contents show that it must
have been written about the year 802.
"I have been separated from you, dear Sir, for a long time, and
judging from my own heart's thoughts of you I know that you are
in anxious suspense about me. Haltered each by his public
business we cannot come together. You know, dear Sir, whether
I am happy or not being from day to day with men among whom
you are never seen. Who is there to listen to me talking? Who
to accompany me singing? My talk unlistened to, my song un-
accompanied going my way alone without a kindred spirit, with-
out any one like minded in matters of conscience-you know
whether my heart is glad. You, dear Sir, have lofty talents and
a subtle genius-living in the world of the present you follow
ancient principles-possessing no property you yet serve your
parents with clothes and food, nor in any quarter violate filial
piety. You are zealous in mental application and unsparing in
bodily exertion. Though you are mixed up with an age defiled
and defiling your mind goes back after the ancients and follows
them. Your spiritual attainments make me quite distressed for
myself. In the spring of last year I had the good luck to escape
from the troubles of Pien-chow with my life, and having no other
place I came here. My chief is an old friend, and pitying my
extremity he gave me a residence at Chu-shang in Fu-li (a place
in the Feng-yang Prefecture of Kiangnan). When it came to
autumn and I was about to take my leave he detained me on
public business, so I have been idly quiet here for nearly a year.
I have an idea of trying again to get away this autumn and going
to the rivers and lakes in which I delight and of having the good
luck to meet you at last. Li Hsi is to marry the daughter of my
late early brother some day next month, and he ought to be here
any day. Chang Chi is observing the period of mourning for his
parent at Hochow. His family is very badly off and, as I was
afraid you did not know, I have written for the purpose of telling
you. I hope you will come and pay me a visit. Though it is a
long way from à your place to this yet if the whole journey is made
by water you can count on arriving speedily. I shall look for you.
The spring is now over and the weather is becoming warm.
wish you all domestic prosperity. My eye has become more

THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
177
painful and I am dreadfully in the dumps, so I do not give you
any more particulars. My respects twice over."
A tender air of melancholy breathes over this as over many
others of Han Yi's letters leading us to believe that he had few
sympathies with the age in which he lived. Though often sad
and desponding about himself, however, his letters are always
kind and courteous and they frequently give advice and cheerful
encouragement to his younger friends.
The Memorial Inscriptions, eulogies on friends and others, and
the documents which he prepared for various ceremonial occasions
were generally of only local and often of merely current interest.
I accordingly pass them over and proceed to give some account
of his essays on ethical and other subjects. These have always
been greatly admired by Chinese scholars not so much on account
of the truths discussed in them as on account of their literary
beauties. They do not enter very deeply into the investigation
of great principles but rather treat in a sprightly, fanciful manner
of what may be called popular philosophy. We may compare
some of them with the best of Addison's contributions to the
Spectator and some with the charming essays in Friends in Council;
and they are as popular with refined Chinese as these are with
Englishmen and Americans. In all Chinese books of Elegant
Extracts at least one or two of these essays must appear, and the
greatest favourits are the two which bear the titles of Yuan-tao
(A) and Yuan-kuei (L) respectively. Here the word yuan
has been variously interpreted as meaning the source and history
of that which the following word denotes, or as meaning real or
original. The former interpretation accords better with the con-
tents of the essays and the latter with the genius of the language.
We may perhaps translate it by the expression-an enquiry into
the origin of, and Yuan-tao, Yuan-kuei will then mean an enquiry
into the origin of the orthodox rule of life and of demons respect-
ively. The former of these essays begins by defining certain
ethical terms and explaining how the author's use of these differs
from that of Laotxã. It then shows how orthodox Confucianism
had waned and almost faded away out of the country under the
baneful influences of Buddhism and Taoism. It next proceeds to
give an account of the origin of civilisation, tracing every advance
from savagedom to the action of individual Shêng-jên-the Heroes
of Chinese antiquity. The institution of rulers and officers (which
was the first step), the expulsion of noxious animals and the set-
23

178
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
tling of men on the central soil, the providing of clothing and food,
the construction of houses instead of an unsafe perch in trees or
unhealthy hole in the ground, the devising of mechanical imple-
ments, the institution of arts, trades, and all branches of culture
owe their origin exclusively to the primeval Godlike Men. Had
it not been for these the human race would have been long since
extinct, for an has no feathery, or woolly, or scaly covering to
protect him against cold and heat, nor claws and teeth with which
he can struggle for his food. It then inveighs against Buddhism
and Taoism which would do away with all that man had inherited,
and bring him again near to the brutes. The Law of Life which
Han Yü teaches is comprehended in the classic literature and the
political and social institutions of the country; it is the Law which
Yao transmitted to Shun, Shun to Yü, Yü to T'ang, T'ang to Wên
Wang, Wu Wang, and Chow Kung, these to Confucius, and he
to Mencius, on whose death the transmission ceased.
The Kuei, that is, demons or evil spirits, were and still are po-
pularly believed in China as in other countries to cause all the
misfortunes and sufferings that afflict men. It is against this
superstition that Han Yü wrote his essay on demons, and his
arguments respecting them are not unworthy of a Western Ra-
tionalist of the nineteenth century. I can only pretend to give
in the translation of this as of the other writings of our author an
approximate rendering of his meaning. It runs thus:-"Is that
a demon which screams at a bridge and cannot be seen when you
follow it with a light? No, a demon has no sound. Is that a
demon which takes its stand in the hall but cannot be seen when
you go to inspect it? No, a demon has no visible form. Is that
a demon which bumps against me and cannot be caught when I
grasp at it? No, how can a demon being destitute of sound and
visible form have any force? Well, if a demon be without sound,
without form, and without force, I suppose, that after all a demon
does not exist? Now there are things possessing form but with-
out sound, such are earth and stone; there are things possessing
sound but without form, such are wind and thunder; there are
things possessing both form and sound, such are men and beasts;
and there are things destitute both of form and sound, such are
demons and spirits. Granted-then what of those unnatural phe-
nomena which affect people and things? They are of two kinds,
demons and material objects. Now it is the normal condition of
demons to be devoid of form and sound. When any one rebels

THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
179
against heaven, goes counter to the people, or goes wrong in the
common affairs of life, he violates the moral and social laws and
so produces confusion in the elements of nature. In such cases
the demon becomes visible through something possessing form and
makes use of that which has sound in order to make retribution
by sending down calamity and misfortune-the whole being the
work of people themselves-and when its work is over it again
returns to its normal condition. What do you call the material
objects? Earth, stone, wind, thunder, man, and beasts being
made with form and sound, and on the other hand demons and
spirits being destitute of sound and form, the material objects of
an unnatural kind are those which cannot have and cannot be
without form and sound. Hence there is nothing to be depended
on as to their emerging and interfering with people. Hence
sometimes they visit people and bring misfortune, and sometimes
they visit people and bring good fortune; and sometimes they
visit people and bring neither misfortune nor blessing-according
to the momentary circumstances of the individual visited." Ghosts
and demons are thus according to Han-wên-kung the reproaches
of a troubled conscience which imagination bodies forth in spectra
monsters visible only to the mind's eye, or at the most mere sub
jective creations having nothing corresponding to them in the
actual world. It is not by any demon that pain and misery are
brought on man, they are the inevitable consequences of his own
misconduct. Han Yü is similarly original in his views respecting
the Ch'i-lin, the Peacock or some other rara avis of the early
Chinese, usually translated by Phoenix. This bird is universally
regarded as lucky, but as people know nothing about it, and as it
cannot be referred to any species of existing animals, those who
see it and do not recognise it rightly regard it as unlucky. It
appears properly when a holy man is in power, and if such a man
recognise a bird as the Ch'i-lin it is certainly lucky. Again we
may say since it is its moral endowments and not its external ap-
pearance which makes the Chi-lin what it is, if it do not wait for
the advent of the holy man it is rightly said to be unlucky.
The Yuan-hui (5) or examination of the essential of moral
criticism is also a very charming essay, and worthy of being read.
Its burden is that we should be rigorous and thorough in criticising
ourselves and lenient and slack in criticising others. The leading
men of his time, Han Yü says, were not so; on the contrary they
exacted saintship in others while content to be themselves like

180
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
the multitude. People easily accord greatness to those who are
their friends, or who do not interfere with their gains, or of whom
they are afraid; and for opposite reasons they will refuse to ac-
knowledge moral superiority in another. In the essay on man
he includes under the term man savage tribes, birds, and beasts,
just as heaven includes sun and moon and stars. He does not
mean by this that a barbarian or a beast is a man. "If I point
to a hill and ask if it is a hill, the answer yes is correct." Now a
hill includes herbs, trees, birds, and beasts, but if I point to an
herb and ask if it is a hill, the answer yes would be incorrect.
As heaven is ruler over sun, moon, and stars-as earth is ruler
over herds, trees, hills, and streams-so man is the lord of bar-
barians, birds, and beasts. In his essay on man's moral constitu-
tion he makes a threefold division into high, medium, and low
moral natures-a division which Chu Hsi disposes of in a very
summary manner.*
Another very interesting article is that on the Emperor Yü.
Yao chose Shun to be his successor on the throne because Shun
was the best of all his officers, and for a similar reason Shun chose
Yü. This last, however, appointed his son to succeed him, and
the question was, did Yü in this prove himself to be possessed of
less illustrious virtue than his predecessors? To this Han-wên-
kung replies that he did not. Yao and Shun consulted for the
present but Yü was anxious lest in after generations struggles for
the throne should arise. The two former sovereigns did great
good to the empire, but Yü took deep forethought for its future.
When the imperial power goes from father to son the element
of uncertainty is removed, and the supposition that the son may
turn out bad applies also to election. Neither men of great virtue
nor men of great vice are of common occurrence. It was 400
years after Yü that the wicked sovereign Ch'ü () arose, but it
was also 400 years after Yü that T'ang () and Yi-yin (F)
appeared-Tang being the founder of the Shang dynasty and
Yi-yin his celebrated minister.
I might quote from or refer to many more of these miscellanies,
but it is time to conclude. Enough has been given, I hope, to
present an outline of what Han-wên-kung did and thought. To
me he seems to be a very good type of genuine Confucianists in
their excellences and defects. Such as he was 1,000 years ago
* See the 朱子全書 Ch. 五十八

THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HAN YÜ.
181
such are the orthodox of China to-day. With them as with him
the far off past was a time of transcendent glory and virtue, while
the present is low and depraved, and the only hope for the future
is to turn back on the past. There is no progress for the Confu-
cianist. Again Han-wên-kung opposed Buddhism because it
was a barbarian invention and because it exalted religious ties
above human relationships. So now the literati object to Christian
converts that they leave the old manners of their native land for
those of barbarians-that they part from their parents and friends
and make mystic brotherhoods with aliens and strangers. The
T'ang philosopher scouted the fables of Buddhism but believed in
those of his own country; and the Confucianist who laughs at the
tales and fables of Christianity believes all native absurdities and
worships the airy phantoms with which he peoples the invisible
world. All that is necessary to man for the conduct of life is
contained in the ancient classics-receptacles of primeval wisdom
-so taught Han-wên-kung and so still believe his representatives.
in the present. Piety at home is the first step in the way of virtue;
this leads to the performance of social duties; and man's crowning
perfection is to serve well and faithfully his family, society, and
his country. To employ his talents in assisting the administration
of government-to live by law and fear shame rather than death
-to cull the topmost virtues of the past and rise superior to all
the attractive vices of the present are the professed aims of all
true followers of Confucius, and few have succeeded in these
noble aims to so great an extent as Han-wên-kung.