ARTICLE XI.
CHINESE USE OF SHAD IN CONSUMPTION AND IODINE
PLANTS IN SCROFULA.*
BY D. J. MACGOWAN, Esq., M. D.
OW mankind in widely separated portions of the
globe were led to independent and identical discov-
eries in materia medica,-to learn that certain non-
alimentary substances should be adopted to cure
certain maladies, is a question which medical phi-
losophy has hitherto failed to elucidate. Waiving the
discussion of this interesting subject, this brief note is
restricted to the presentation of two facts which the in-
Squiry has elicited.
Two of the most important additions that have been recently
made to our materia medica were derived from "folk lore;'
coastlanders of the Baltic discovered the efficacy of cod-liver oi
in strumous complaints, and mountaineers of regions adjacent to
the Mediterranean discovered the efficacy of burnt sponge in
goitre, and analogous discoveries were made in remote times by
the Chinese. We learn from Chinese medical writings that shad,
particularly shad oil, is efficacious in the treatment of consumption,
and that seaweed is serviceable in goitre.
Besides shad, several other oleaginous fish are considered as
peculiarly adapted to consumptive patients. The barbel is com-
mended in that disease, fattenning the patient and imparting
glossiness to the skin. The bream is useful in emaciation. The
gurnard is extolled as useful in phthisis. The eel is also named
as useful in that malady. Anthelmintic properties (one of the
qualities of cod-liver oil) are attributed to the eel, and the mullet,
which is styled the precursor of the shad.
* Read before the Society June 12th, 1872.

236
CHINESE USE OF SHAD AND IODINE PLANTS.
The shad of China appears to be identical with the clupea of
the American Coast. In Canton colloquial it is called the
sam-lai, and is known to foreigners by that name.
In this part
of China it is called the sz'-ng, shi-yi or periodical fish. It
enters the Yangtze and adjacent waters in May and is in season
for about 16 weeks. According to the Punteau it ascends to the
upper Yangtze, and what is remarkable, this wholesome and luscious
fish is there called pestilence fish from its deleterious properties.
On the Potomac, shad which are caught high up that river are
esteemed better than those that are taken below the falls. It has
been supposed that only the most vigorous and therefore the most
luscious are able to make that ascent. Perhaps their long journey
up the Yangtze renders them enfeebled and diseased.
The Puntsau says shad should neither be boiled, stewed nor
fried, its flavor and nutricious qualities being best preserved by
steaming, which is recommended to be done with savory vegetables.
The inconvenience of the bones is lessened by cooking the fish in
transverse slices. The shad caught earliest in the season command
fabulous prices, and high officials are supposed to have the first
claim for the luxury on each recurring season. It is named an
article of tribute to the Emperor.
Besides its use in consumption there is a long list of maladies,
similar to those in which we administer cod-liver oil, for which it
is commended by the Puntsau. Doubtless the alterative or stim-
ulant properties which the Chinese have found to exist in shad
are due to its oleaginous portion. Probably on analyzing, it would
be found to contain gaduin, or a closely analogous substance, and
most of the twenty-three substances which De Jongh enumerates
as composing oleum morrkuae.
As the Chinese found shad to be useful in the same class of
diseases in which we employ cod-liver oil, so they have discovered
that various fuci are efficacious in goitre, glandular swellings of
a scrofulous character, and cutaneous eruptions. Those seaweeds
which are known to be richest in iodine are most valued. Whole
cargoes of Laminaria, chiefly L. digitati are frequently imported
from Japan into this port for consumption in the interior. There
is a popular belief in those regions where mineral coal is employed
for fuel, that seaweed is indispensable as a corrective against the
fumes of coal fires.