ARTICLE XII.
ON THE "MUTTON WINE" OF THE MONGOLS AND ANALO-
GOUS PEPARATIONS OF THE CHINESE.*
BY DR. MACGOWAN.
HINESE medical writers make little distinction
between their Materia Medica and Materia Alimen-
taria. The Puntsau ascribes therapeutic properties
to all articles that are used as food. Nearly all
portions of animals, the human frame included, are
supposed to be efficacious in the treatment of disease.
In their preparation they are for the most part sub-
jected merely to ordinary culinary treatment. The ex-
ceptions consist of animal substances which are macerated
in fermented or distilled liquors. To these they apply the term
chiu, commonly rendered wine by sinologues. Hence we find in
the Puntsau, mutton wine, dog wine, deer wine, deer horn wine,
tiger bone wine, black snake wine, flowery snake wine, ki snake
wine and tortoise wine.
Alcohol is designated in the Puntsau as Ah-lih-kih, which ir
dicates the Arabian origin in China of the art of distillation.
is seldom used as a pharmaceutic menstruum, their distilled chi
being employed as a solvent for articles used as medicines.
These animalized liquors, if that term be allowable, are for the
most part extemporaneously prepared, a few only are to be had in
apothecary shops ready made; such are several kinds of snake
wines. Snake wines are used in palsy. In Kwangsi the ferment-
ing agent is a species of wild grass. The snake thus employed
appears to be peculiar to the mountains of that province. To
assure purchasers that the article is genuine, a strip of the skin of
the animal is fastened to the top of the containing vessel. This
wine is in high esteem as an anthelmintic, and an antidote to
malaria. Wuhu on the Yangtsze produces a snake wine which is
in high repute. An adder wine is used in paralysis and insanity.
There is a long edible snake, spoken of as found in Kiangsi, which
being dried and smoked is pared off in thin slices, like smoked
beef and is found a convenient condiment by travellers.
Read before the Society March 23rd, 1872.

238
ON THE MUTTON WINE OF THE MONGOLS.
The wine in which tortoise has been macerated is described as
useful in chronic bronchitis. Cases of ten and twenty years stand-
ing have, says the Puntsau, yielded to this remedy.
Dog wine is described as very heating and stimulating.
The officinal mutton wine of the Pharmacopoeia is in fact made
of goat's flesh; the goat and sheep being often confounded, the
latter animal does not appear to have been known to the ancient
Chinese.
Various species of sheep are described in the Puntsau, or Chi-
nese Pharmacopoeia, that are not recommended for macerating in
wine. Among these is the great tailed sheep of the Kwanlun
mountains, the caudal extremities of which are stated to weigh
thirty pounds, rendering locomotion difficult. It is added that
these adipose tumors require to be removed annually, else the
animal will die. Their tails are cut open, the fat cut out, when
the edges are brought together by a suture.
Sheep and goat wines are directed to be prepared in the follow-
ing manner: Take ten catties of soaked rice, seven catties of
goat or sheep flesh, fourteen onions, one Shantung cabbage and a
catty of almond kernels. Mix them well together, and let the
mixture stand and brew without malt for ten days, at the end of
which time a small quantity of liquor is produced; it is a sweet and
unctuous liquor, or mutton wine.
This is the formula adopted in the preparation of all the animal
liquors above named.
Mutton or goat wine is a great restorer of the constitution, it
strengthens the stomach, the kidneys and testes.
Having many years ago met with a jar of mutton wine which
its owner, a Mongolian mandarin, greatly prized, I instituted in-
quiries respecting its mode of preparation and uses among the
nomads of the North, but without success until a few months ago,
when the Rev. J. Gilmour, in response to a request that I made him,
courteously undertook the investigation of the matter, and was at
the pains to have the article, a specimen of which I lay before
you, prepared under his own supervision.
"The following were the ingredients:-1 sheep, 40 catties of
cow's milk whiskey, 1 pint of skim milk, soured and curdled,
8 ounces of brown sugar, 4 ounces of honey, 4 ounces of fruit of
dimocarpus, 1 catty of raisins, and a half a dozen drugs weighing
in all about one catty. The sheep must be two years old, neither
more nor less, a male, castrated.

ON THE MUTTON WINE OF THE MONGOLS.
239
Plant necessary for distillation.-1 large pot (cast iron), 1 wood-
en half-barrel opened at bottom, 1 smaller pot (cast iron), 1
earthenware jar, felt belts, cow dung, fire.
Process.-Set the boorher on the large pot, calk the joining
first with paper, then daub the outside with cow dung and ashes.
Make the boorher air-tight by plastering it all over outside with
cow dung.
Pour in the wine, add half the raisins (i. e. 8 oz.) cut or crushed,
half the black sugar, the pint of airik, and the bones of the sheep's
legs from the knee downwards after breaking them open.
From the other bones strip all the fat and most of the flesh,
leaving them fleshy. Hang them head and all inside the boorher
high enough to be beyond the reach of the whisky, and low enough
to be out of reach of the pot above. Break up the medicines into
small pieces (do not pound them) and put them into the earthen-
ware pot. Into that pot put also the honey, white sugar, dragon's
eye and the remaining half of the black sugar and raisins. Sus-
pend the earthenware pot in the centre of the boorher, put on the
pot above, make the joining air-tight by paper, cloth and felt bands.
Apply fire to the great pot. When the upper pot feels warm to
the touch, fill it with cold water and stir it. When the water be-
comes too hot to touch, ladle it out and fill up with cold water.
When this second potful of water becomes too hot for the hand,
slacken the fire, take off the upper pot, and the earthenware pot
will be seen full of a dirty brown liquor boiling furiously. Take
out the earthenware pot, pour off the liquid, replace the earthen-
ware pot, replace the upper pot, fill with cold water. When this
potful of water becomes hot, the whole thing is over. The earth-
enware pot is again about half filled, pour it off and let it cool.
When reasonably cold put it up in jars and close them with the
membrane of ox or sheep bladders.
Remarks.-The great bulk of the flesh of the sheep is not used,
nor any of the fat. All the marrow bones are broken open. The
skull is not broken open nor the toungue extracted from the head.
At the end of the process the mutton on the bones is cooked, but
tastes badly. The hoien nood (dragon's eye) which was put in
black comes out white. The quantity of cow's milk wine in the
This is about 2 feet high (English): tapers. At the bottom it is large
enough to sit on the rim of the big pot; at the top it is small enough to let
the small pot sit in it without falling through. It is called Boorher.

240
ON THE MUTTON WINE OF THE MONGOLS.
pot is not much diminished, but the strength is gone and what re-
mains is good for throwing away only.
Time of making.-It should not be made before the seventh or
eighth Chinese month. This was made on the 12th of the 9th
month. It should not be used before the 11th or 12th Chinese
month. None but aged people should drink it. It may be taken
daily in one, two or three small Chinese wine cupfuls till finished.
The first winter the patient uses it, not more than 2 or 3 catties
should be drunk. If found to agree with the patient and if taken
a second winter a catty more may be taken. If taken a third
winter another catty may be added, i. e.-First winter 2, second
3, third 4 catties. If kept till spring, it becomes useless if not
dangerous. Many people use it (I am told), but few take it more
than one winter. Its use is (seemingly) to repair any manifesta-
tion of weakness arising from old age.
Case-My teacher (Mahabul) when 50 years old was afflicted
with a shaking of the head from right to left. He drank 2 or 3
catties of mutton wine in the dead of winter, recovered and is now
all right.*"
The liquor thus prepared, has, you will observe, a very strong
odour of mutton, it is sweetish and unctuous. Specific gravity
0.98873. Alcohol per cent. 9.14.
Translation of a Mongolian prescription drawn up by the Lama who
furnished the medicines.
"Jadae haeshae, good for inside and outside HEE (colic?). Wangluk, Nee-
shing, Ramnee, these three are strengthening. Ga, good for the stomach.
Honey 4 oz. White sugar 1 oz. Dragon's eye 4 oz. Black sugar 8 oz. Rai-
sins 1 catty.
"Take the mutton from the bones, leaving a little on them; break all the
marrow bones and distil. Too much mutton spoils the taste and the nature
of the wine. Too much fat won't do. If the proportion of drugs be larger
than this it won't agree. Indeed this Bawry Daruss at first must be taken in
small quantities. After having taken it in small quantities during one win-
ter, should it agree (with the patient), it may be taken another winter. It
won't do at all in the hot season."
[Inside HEE is wind ascending and descending, evidently colic; what out-
side hee is I can't discover. It fixes on the skin! After pursuing my teacher
over the verge of his knowledge, the old man admitted he had never seen
outside hee, though he had often suffered from inside hee.]