ARTICLE VIII.
CHINESE LEGENDS.*
BY G. C. STENT.
HE legends of all nations will generally be found
to be linked to some prominent natural features, or
enduring architectural monuments of the countries
to which they respectively belong, and it is these
legendary associations which give to them their
intensest interest.
We, in the west, have, and are proud of having, our
old castles, cathedrals, and ruins, not for their intrinsic
value, their picturesque beauty, in many cases, or even
their age, but from the historical or legendary associations
connected with them. These throw an indescribable charm, at
once awe-inspiring, mysterious and attractive over old buildings,
far more effective than their antiquity. Who, in his boyhood, has
not experienced the feeling of unnameable awe, that has taken
possession of him when passing an old house that has had the
reputation of being haunted; and yet at the same time felt the
invincible attraction the house had for him? Again, what crowds
assemble to look at a house that has been the scene of some crime;
attracted to it, in spite of themselves, by a morbid curiosity, not
simply to look at the house for its own sake, but on account of the
crime committed there! Who would care to look at the "Tower
of London" even, were it not that in old times it has been the
scene of many bloody actions, that the very walls speak almost of
the deeds done there? Every character engraved on them by the
noble and the great, conveys to our minds whole histories of
suffering, imprisonment and death, more telling than mere written
histories. These are what attract us, and not the antiquity or
beauty of the building, for to beauty it can lay no claim. Our
glorious old castles and cathedrals were they divested of this at-
tractive legendary charm, would, in spite of their grandeur and
* Read before the Society on June 12th, 1872.

184
CHINESE LEGENDS.
hoary antiquity, be simply old castles and cathedrals,-nothing
more; but when to their age or beauty is added the mysterious
legends connected with them, they become in our eyes something
sacred.
The "Well at Cawnpore" would probably never have been heard
of; people of other lands would never have known of its existence,
but for the fact that it bears within its bosom some of the victims
of an atrocious massacre. Now, that well is a monument for
future generations to visit with awe and reverence; it is rendered
sacred by the history connected with it; it possesses the legendary
charm, and ages hence, when the traveller approaches it, it will
be with "uncovered head and bated breath," and the feeling that
he is standing on holy ground.
This brings me to the subject of this paper: "Chinese Legends."
Most foreigners think, that there is no such thing as romance
amongst the Chinese, that they are too money-loving and matter-
of-fact to allow of such a weakness. But on closer acquaintance
they will be found to possess their full share of oriental imagina-
tiveness, delighting in nothing more than in tales of the marvellous,
whether true or not; so much so, that one of the commonest pro-
fessions in China, is that of a tshuo shu ti, or teller of
stories; and a looker on can see with what avidity an audience
will listen to one of these street "story-tellers;" how they follow
him through each phase of some exciting adventure, or thrilling
legend; breathless to catch every word, and exhibiting such emo-
tion at any affecting picture of suffering or distress, that one would
scarcely imagine the same people could perhaps shortly after pass
a similar scene of real, living distress and suffering with utter
indifference. In fact, the realities that occur daily in China put
one in mind of the dark ages of our own countries; there is con-
stantly occurring some scene of blood, cruelty or suffering, that
in western countries would soon be woven into volumes of "Ro-
mances of Real Life." For instances of this, one has only to take
an occasional glance at the "Peking Gazettes;" and when one
reflects on the number of cases daily occurring that are not offici-
ally reported, the idea is suggested "what a splendid field this must
be for sensational novels! Here are materials for any number of
such books!" Yet all these are lost to the public, simply for want
of persons to put them together: could this be done, how greatly
would our knowledge of China be enlarged! What an insight
into this people's character and history we should possess !

CHINESE LEGENDS.
185
in
There is scarcely a place in China but possesses some legend
attached to it; indeed, the country abounds with them. I have often
listened with pleasure, to the telling of some old legend, strange
every way to the ear of a foreigner. I propose relating two or
three of these from memory, reproducing at least substantially
what was told me.
THE "LEGEND OF THE BELL. TOWER OF PEKING."
I beg the audience to bear in mind that "I tell the tale as 'twas
told to me," and from memory only; I will not guarantee dates or
names, or even vouch for the facts. My Chinese informant relat-
ed it with evident gusto, and firmly believed it himself; and almost
every Pekinese, amongst the lower orders especially, concurs in
the same belief.
"Legend of the Bell Tower."
It was in the reign of "Yung Lo," the third monarch of the.
Ming Dynasty, that Peking first became the capital of China.
Till that period the "Son of Heaven" had held his court at Nankin,
and Peking had comparatively been of little note. Now, however,
on being honoured by the "Sacred Presence," stately buildings
arose in all directions, for the accommodation of the Emperor and
his courtiers. Clever men from all parts of the empire were at-
tracted to the capital, and, such as possessed talent were sure of
lucrative employment. About this time the "Drum Tower" and
the "Bell Tower" were built; both of them as "look-out" and
"alarm" towers. The "Drum Tower" was furnished with a
monster drum, which it still possesses, of such a size, that the
thunder of its tones might be heard many "tens of li," in fact all
over the city, the sound being almost enough to waken the dead.
The "Bell Tower" had been completed some time before at-
tempts were made to cast a bell proportionate to the size of the
building. At length Yung Lo ordered Xuan Yu, a mandarin of
the second grade, who was skilled in casting guns, to cast a bell,
the sound of which should be heard, on the least alarm, in every
part of the city. Kuan Yu at once commenced the undertaking.
He secured the services of a great number of experienced work-
men, and collected immense quantities of material. Months passed
in the preparation till at length it was announced to the Emperor
that everything was ready for the ceremony of casting. A day
24

186
CHINESE LEGENDS.
was appointed; the Emperor, surrounded by a croud of cour-
tiers, and preceded by the court musicians, went to witness it.
Now came the exciting moment. At a given signal, and to the
crash of music, the melted metal rushed from its confinement into
the mould prepared for it. After the ceremony, the Emperor and
his court retired, leaving Kuan Yu and his subordinates to await
the cooling of the metal, which would tell of his failure or success.
At length it was announced to be sufficiently cool to detach the
mould from it. Kuan Yu, in breathless trepidation, hastened to
inspect it, but to his mortification and grief, discovered it to be
honey-combed in many places, which would render it utterly use-
less as a bell. The circumstance was reported to the Emperor,
who was naturally vexed at the expenditure of so much time,
labour and money, with so unsatisfactory a result. However, he
ordered Kuan Yu to try again. He obeyed, and thinking the
failure of the first attempt must have resulted from some oversight
or omission on his part, he watched every portion of the proceed-
ings with redoubled care and attention, fully determined that no
neglect or remissness should mar the success of this second casting.
After months of labour the mould was again prepared, and the
metal poured, into it, but again with the same result. Kuan Yu
was distracted, not only at the loss of his reputation, but at the
certain loss of the Emperor's favour. Yung Lo when he heard of
this second failure was very wroth, and at once ordered Kuan Yu
into his presence, and told him he would give him a third and last
trial, and if he did not succeed this time, he would behead him.
Kuan Yu went home in a despairing state of mind, thinking what
crime he, or any of his ancestors might have committed to have
caused such a calamity to have befallen him.
Now Kuan Yu had an only daughter, about sixteen years of
age, and having no sons, the whole of his love was centred in
this girl, for he had hopes of perpetuating his name through her
marriage with some deserving young nobleman. And truly she
was worthy of being loved:-"almond-shaped eyes, like the autumn
waves, which sparkling and dancing in the sun, seem to leap up
in very joy and wantonness to kiss the fragrant reeds that grew
upon the rivers' banks; yet of such limpid transparency, that one's
form could be seen in their liquid depths as if reflected in a mirror.
These were surrounded by long silken lashes,-now drooping in
coy modesty, anon rising in youthful gaiety, and disclosing the
laughing eyes but just before concealed beneath them. Eyebrows

CHINESE LEGENDS.
187
like the willow leaf; cheeks of snowy whiteness, yet tinged with
the gentlest colouring of the rose; teeth like pearls of the finest
water, were seen peeping from between half open lips, so luscious
and juicy that they resembled two cherries;-hair of the jettiest
blackness and of the silkiest texture. Her form was such as poets"
love to describe and painters limn; there was grace and ease in
every movement; she appeared to glide rather than walk, so light
was she of foot. Add to her other charms that she was skilful
in verse-making, excellent in embroidery, and unequalled in the
execution of her household duties, and we have but a faint de-
scription of Ko-ai, the beautiful daughter of Kuan Yu."
Well might the father be proud of and love his beauteous child,
-and she returned it with all the ardour of her affectionate nature;
often cheering him with her innocent gaiety when he returned
from his daily avocations wearied or vexed. Seeing him now
return with despair depicted in his countenance, she tenderly en-
quired the cause, and not without hope of being the means of
alleviating it. When her father told her of his failures, and of
the Emperor's threat, she exclaimed, "Oh, my father, be comforted!
Heaven will not always be thus unrelenting. Are we not told
that 'out of evil cometh good;' these two failures will but enhance
the glory of your eventual success, for success this time must crown
your efforts. I am only a girl, and cannot assist you but with my
prayers; these I will daily and hourly offer up for your success
and the prayers of a daughter for a loved parent must be heard."
Somewhat soothed by the endearments of Ko-ai, he again devoted
himself to his task with redoubled energy. Ko-ai in the mean-
while constantly praying for her father in his absence, and minis-
tering to his wants when he returned. One day it struck her
that she would go to a celebrated astrologer to ascertain the cause
of these repeated failures, and what means could be taken to
prevent a recurrence of them. From him she learned that the
next casting would also be a failure if the blood of a maiden were
not mixed with the ingredients. She returned home full of horror
at this information, yet inwardly resolving to immolate herself
rather than her father should fail. The day for the casting at
length came, and Ko-ai requested her father to allow her to go
to witness the ceremony and "to exult in his success" as she
laughingly said. Kuan Yu gave his consent, and accompanied
by several followers she went, taking up a position near the mould.
Everything was prepared as before:-an immense concourse

188
CHINESE LEGENDS.
assembled to witness the third and final casting, which was to result
in either honour, or degradation and death for Kuan Yu. A dead
silence prevailed through the vast assemblage as the melted metal
once more rushed to its destination; this was broken by a shriek,
and a cry "for my father!" and Ko-ai was seen to throw herself
headlong into the seething, hissing metal. One of her followers
attempted to seize her while in the act of plunging into the boiling
fluid, but succeeded only in grasping one of her shoes, which came
off in his hand. The father was frantic, and had to be kept by
force from following her example;-he was taken home a raving
maniac. The prediction of the astrologer was verified, for, on
uncovering the bell after it had cooled, it was found to be perfect,
but not a vestige of Ko-ai was to be seen; the blood of a maiden
had indeed been fused with the ingredients. After a time the
bell was suspended by order of the Emperor, and expectation was
at its height to hear it rung for the first time. The Emperor
himself was present. The bell was struck, and far and near was
heard the deep tone of its sonorous boom. This indeed was a
triumph! Here was a bell surpassing in size and sound any other
that had ever been cast! But, and the surrounding multitudes
were horror-struck as they listened,-the heavy boom of the bell
was followed by a low wailing sound like the cry of a human
female voice in dreadful agony, distinctly saying the word "hsich"
(shoe). To this day, the bell each time it is rung, after every
boom appears to say the word "hsieh," and people when they hear
it, shudder and say, "there's poor Ko-ai's voice calling for her shoe."
I am well aware that the "eminently practical man" of the
"Bounderby" or "Gradgrind" species, would pooh, pooh, a tale
like this, and proceed at once to prove by lines and angles that
such a thing could not possibly occur; and could probably do so
to his own satisfaction. But divest our own legends of their
colouring, leave but the skeleton facts of many historical events
which we now religiously believe in and venerate, and our belief
would become indifference or scepticism, our veneration, disgust.
There are times and places when too much "practical knowledge,"
greatly as we respect knowledge, in the abstract, becomes insuffer-
able boredom, and we are surfeited with it; we do not wish our
aerial castles to be rudely demolished by the practical hammer of
"matter of fact." The most delightful reminiscences of our short
lives are those connected with our childhood. These become
grounded in our very nature, and even now, old as we are, prac-

CHINESE LEGENDS.
189
tical as we may be, there must be times, when, wearied with our
worldly pursuits, we live our childhood over again in our heart's
most sacred memories, and reverently think of those
"Who taught us how to read and spell,
And would some pretty story tell."
We should not like the charm of those associations to be broken!
We should not like to see our children miniature "practical men
and women." We "are but children of a larger growth," certainly
but children in everything that appertains to a knowledge of the
Chinese; and as such, we should have some little amusement
blended with our instruction, as the two lines just quoted imply.
The study of Chinese might be made infinitely more attractive by
the introduction of tales or legends, and as the student progressed
in knowledge of the language, songs, novels, &c., no matter how)
absurd or trivial the subject may be, or even if they are not all
"founded on fact." As I asserted some months ago before this
Society, "more knowledge of the Chinese can be obtained from
such sources than from any other." I have since been much
gratified to find that my opinions have been indorsed practically
by several gentlemen in Shanghai.
The next illustration I shall give-which I also received ver-
bally from a Chinese in Peking-is called
"THE LEGEND OF THE CURSED TEMPLE."
The reign of Chung Chen the last Monarch of the Ming
dynasty was much troubled both by internal broils, and by wars;
for while he was constantly attacked by the Tartar hordes from
without, though generally beaten back by the celebrated general
REWu San Kuei, the country was perpetually in a state of
anarchy and confusion, being over-run by bands of marauding
rebels; indeed, so bold did they become, that they assembled under
a chief named Li Tha Cheng, and actually marched on
to the capital with the avowed intention of placing this rebel chief
on the "Dragon Throne." Chung Chên on the reception of this
startling news,-with no one that he could trust to in an emer-
gency like this,-(for Wu San Kuei, the only one he could have
depended on was absent on an expedition against the Tartars),
was at his wit's end. The insurgents were daily making nearer
advances to Peking, in fact they were almost in sight of its walls,
and at any moment might arrive. Rebellion seemed rife in the

190
CHINESE LEGENDS.
city itself. If he went out boldly to attack the rebels himself, he
was uncertain whether his own troops might not go over to them,
or deliver him into their hands; if he stayed in the city, the people
would naturally impute it to pusillanimity, and probably open the
gates to the rebels,
In this strait, he resolved to go to the "San Kuan Miao," ant
imperial temple situated near the Chao Yang Men, and entreat
the gods as to what he should do under such dire circumstances,
and decide his fate by "drawing the slip," fully determining to
abide by the result of this fortune-telling process;-thus, if he
drew a long slip, this would be a good omen, and imply unqualified
success, and he would boldly march out to meet the rebels, con-
fident of victory; if a middle length one, implying partial success
only, he would remain quietly in the palace, and passively await
whatever might happen; but, if he should unfortunately draw a
short one, which would denote utter ruin, he would take his own.
life rather than suffer death at the hands of the rebels. Firmly
resolved on these several points, he proceeded to the temple, ac-
companied by the high officers of his court. In the presence of
them all the sacrifices were offered up, and the incense burnt,
previous to drawing the slip on which hung the destiny of an
empire, while he himself remained on his knees in prayer. At
the conclusion of the sacrificial ceremony the tube containing the
bamboo fortune-telling sticks was placed in his hand by one of
the priests. His courtiers and the attendant priests stood around
in breathless suspense, watching him as he swayed the tube to
and fro; at length one falls to the ground; there is a dead silence
as it is raised by a priest and handed to the Emperor. It is a
short one! Dismay falls on every one present, no one daring to
break the painful, horrible silence. After a pause, the Emperor
with a cry of mingled rage and despair dashed the slip on the
ground, exclaiming, "May this temple built by my ancestors
evermore be accursed! Henceforward may every suppliant be
denied what he entreats, as I have been! Those that come in
sorrow, may that sorrow be doubled; in happiness, may that
happiness be changed to misery; in hope, may they meet despair;
in health, sicknes; in the pride of life and strength, death! I,
"Ch'ung Chên," the last of the Mings, curse it!"
Without another word he retired, followed by his courtiers,-
proceeded at once to the palace, and went straight to the apart-1
ments of the Empress. The next morning he and his Empress

CHINESE LEGENDS.
191
were found suspended from a tree on "Prospect Hill." "In their
death they were not divided." The scenes that followed; how
the rebels took possession of the city and were driven out again
by the Chinese general, assisted by the Tartars; how the Tartars
finally succeeded in establishing the present dynasty are all matters
of history. The words used by the Emperor at the temple were
prophetic, he was the last of the Mings. The tree, on which the
monarch of a mighty empire closed his career, and brought the
Ming dynasty to an end, was ordered to be surrounded with
chains; it still exists, and is still in chains. Upwards of two
hundred years have passed since that time, yet the temple is stand-
ing as of old, but the halls that at one time were crowded with
worshippers, are now silent, no one ever venturing to worship
there; it is the resort of the fox and the bat, and people at night
pass it shudderingly.-
"It is the cursed temple!"
I shall make no remarks on the above beyond stating that I
have often seen the temple, and know it to be as I have described;
as for the remainder, where history breaks off and fiction com-
mences, I leave it to others.
The next illustration I shall give is of a more recent date. Some
years ago, when walking near the race-course at Tientsin, I called
the attention of a Chinese friend who was with me, to the neatness
of a plot of ground used as a family burial place. "Ah!" he ex-
claimed, "that is the burial ground of the Chang family; it did
not originally belong to them, and came into their hands through
a rather singular circumstance, being no other than that one of
their members 'stole a burial' there." Curious to know how a
person could possibly "steal a burial," I begged him to relate the
particulars to me, which he did as near as I can remember, in
the following words.
"THE STOLEN BURIAL."
Some sixty or seventy years ago, one of the ancestors of the
Chang family died here at Tientsin, leaving his widow, and an
only son, a youth about nineteen, the hero of this tale, in very
comfortable circumstances. Possessed of competence, youth, the
advantages of a liberal education, and good natural qualities, he
might have been a comfort and a solace to his mother, but, alas!
his good nature and yielding disposition, caused him to be easily

192
CHINESE LEGENDS.
led astray, and, freed from the restraining hand of a father, he
plunged with avidity into all the gaieties of the place, and was at
length tempted by some of his profligate companions into play.
By degrees he became so infatuated with this pursuit, that, in spite
of the repeated warnings of his mother, who with tears entreated
him to leave off this pernicious habit, he went from bad to worse,
till he had squandered the whole of his patrimony. For some time
he was enabled to continue this all-absorbing passion for play, by
loans from his relatives; this could not last long, for, when they
understood to what a state he had brought himself by his reck-
lessness, they, with reproaches to him for his depravity, and
undutifulness to his mother, drove him from their doors.
Now, indeed, he began to feel poverty. Day by day, some
article of furniture or clothing had to be disposed of to supply the
common necessaries of life; but whenever he could scrape to-
gether a few cash, he hurried on the final catastrophe, by rushing
with it to the gambling house,'till finally, he was left with not one
solitary article but an old worthless mat, on which lay the body
of his dead mother. Dead, through want and sorrow brought on
solely by his worthlessness. Frantic with remorse, he went to
the different members of his family, begging of them to supply
im with funds so that he could at least bury his mother respectably.
Amongst them he collected twelve taels, for they were too cautious
o advance any very large amount. With this sum in his posses-
sion he proceeded homewards; on the way he thought, "In all
my gambling transactions I have hitherto lost; I am reduced to
beggary, and I have destroyed my mother by it. Why should I
not stake this money? Why should not the very cause of her
death be made the means of enabling me to insure her a funeral
worthy of her former station? I must win! Heaven will not let
me lose, when it is for so good a purpose! I will risk it!" He
did risk it,-and-lost!
Now, what was he to do? Hungry, penniless, with a dead
mother, and having just thrown away the means of decently in-
terring her! He sat down by the corpse and bitterly reproached
himself. At length he thought, "I must bury my mother at any
sacrifice, or I shall be looked upon as an unnatural monster; if I
cannot do it otherwise, I will "steal a burial!" (This is often
done by poor people who have not the means of purchasing the
ground; and if they can only succeed in burying the corpse, the
owners of the ground, however much they may deprecate the

CHINESE LEGENDS.
193
circumstance, dare not remove the body). The young man then
carefully folded the body of his mother in the old mat,-borrowed
a spade from a neighbour, and taking the corpse on his shoulder
proceeded to the cemetery. When he arrived there, he placed
the body on the ground, and by the light of the moon, selected
what he thought a suitable place for the interment, being one
raised above the general level. He hastily set to work to dig the
grave, trembling meanwhile with fear at the ghastly nature of his
employment, and filled with dread lest he should be interrupted
in it. When he had completed the grave, he reverently placed
the corpse of his mother in it, covered it in, made a neat mound
of earth over it, and after a few muttered prayers, hurried to the
four bare walls that had once been his home.
The next morning, after pointing out the place to one of his
relatives, and leaving him to imagine his mother had been lawfully
buried there by the assistance of the twelve taels he had received,
he turned his back on his native place. With no fixed intention,
so long as he was only going from the scene of his disgrace, he
wandered southward, subsisting on the way by begging, till he
came to Té-chou, where were docks for the building of junks,
and a government timber yard. Here he obtained employment
as a labourer; giving general satisfaction by his industry, and
liked by his fellows for his pleasant and obliging disposition, but
still with the passion for play strong as ever; occasionally stealing
and selling wood from the yard to replace his losses. One night
he was stealthily proceeding to a place where he had deposite
some wood for the purpose of disposing of it in this way, whe
he suddenly encountered the official in charge of the works, who
asked him what he was doing there at that hour. Chang replied,
"I thought I heard some one in the yard, and fearing it might
be thieves, I came out to see." The mandarin, attracted by his
appearance and manner, and pleased to see such apparent care in
a labourer, appointed him at once as one of the overseers. From
this time he gradually broke off his gambling habits, and sedu-
lously devoting himself to his duties, daily grew in favour both
with his employer, and those over whom he was appointed.
A year or two after this, the province was infested by bands of
rebels, and the government employés were enrolled as volunteers,
and went out with the regular troops against them; Chang hold-
ing a small rank amongst the mounted volunteers. One day, the
army had halted for rest and refreshment, and Chang and some
25

194
CHINESE LEGENDS.
of his companions were just sitting down to a hot dinner, when
the alarm was given that the rebels were approaching. In a mo-
ment, everything was confusion and uproar; horses being saddled,
men rushing for their weapons, and shouting in all directions.
Chang knowing by experience that good dinners were not always.
readily to be procured in these times, hastily strapped the vessel
containing his portion of the hot mess on the croup of the horse,
and at once mounted. The remainder quickly got together, and
advanced in the direction of the rebels, blowing horns and beating
gongs. The rebels were seen at some distance, brandishing their
weapons, when suddenly the horse ridden by Chang, feeling some-
thing unusually hot trickling down his croup, the lid of the pan-
nikin having partially opened, dashed to the front, and galloped
towards them furiously, in spite of all Chang's efforts to prevent
it. Seeing nothing but death before him, he determined to make
the best of it, and sell his life as dearly as possible; so he drew
his sword, and frantically waving it over his head, commenced
shouting with all his might. His own party seeing him so boldly,
as they thought, charging the enemy alone, hastily followed. The
rebels at once turned and fled, with Chang, though much against
his will, by this time in the midst of them, cutting and slashing
at random in his desperation; which was imputed both by the
rebels and his own party to reckless bravery. The rebels were
utterly routed.
The general after the affair was over, enquired who the indivi-
dual was who had displayed so much gallantry, exclaiming,
"Where is that noble hero, who alone and unaided rushed into
the thickest of the enemy, scattering death and destruction wher-
ever he went? Bring him to me, that I may reward him as he
deserves!" Chang was led into the presence, of the general,
highly complimented on his bravery, and made a "blue-button"
on the spot. He received the praises and honour bestowed on
him with great modesty, naturally suppressing the fact that he
owed the credit of bravery to his hot dinner and the fright of his
horse. From this moment, his fortune was made. The general
in writing an account of the affair to Peking, described his valour
in glowing terms, giving him the entire credit of the victory.
The Emperor confirmed the honour conferred on him. His repu-
tation for bravery spread far and wide, and he was constantly being
sent on different expeditions; the prestige attached to his name
doing much to assist in the many victories he afterwards obtained.

CHINESE LEGENDS.
195
Success seemed to follow him everywhere, and he rapidly rose to
the highest rank. In the mean time he did not forget the cir-
cumstances attending the "Stolen Burial," but caused the plot of
ground to be bought that contained the body of his mother. He
also married and had numerous children. At his death a temple
was ordered to be built and dedicated to his memory; it stands
now as a monument to his bravery; and his descendants at this
time are amongst the most influential in Tientsin; but while they
take pride in relating the glorious deeds of their ancestor, they
invariably omit the entire particulars of his "first charge," and the
history of "The Stolen Burial."