ARTICLE VI.
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE IN THE MATTER
OF PHYSICAL SCIENCE ACKNOWLEDGED BY
EMINENT CHINESE;
BEING EXTRACTS FROM THE PREFACE TO TSANG KWO-FAN'S EDITION
OF EUCLID WITH BRIEF INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS."
BY REV. G. E. MOULE.
SANG KWO-FAN is but recently dead. It is but
a few months since he was looked upon both by
Chinese and Europeans as the most eminent per-1
sonage in the Empire out of Peking. His coun-
trymen had a high opinion of his ability and good
fortune, particularly after the fall of Nankin, and were
'not without respect for his character as on the whole
Jan officer of public spirit. By ourselves he was regarded
alternately as implacably hostile on principle to the pre-
sence of foreigners in China, and as dangerous to the
throne itself and only biding his time to re-establish a native
dynasty in his own person.
It is not without interest to view him in another character, one
in which he has bequeathed some results to his country; namely
that of a scientific student, and one who understood in some
ineasure the importance of physical science in the practical con-
cerns of political and private life.
Immediately after his own preface to his edition of Euclid he
has reprinted the joint essay of Ricci and his illustrious pupil Seu;
and then that of Wylie and his able assistant Le; a care for which
the history of the relations of Europe and China will always be
indebted to him. But in his own brief account of the occasion
of his publication he has said enough of his love for western ma-
thematics, and of his sense of obligations, on his own part and
that of his countrymen, to scientific foreigners like Ricci in the
past and Wylie in this age, to kindle our interest in that earlier
* Read before the Society on 12th June, 1872.

148
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
missionary; in the position he vindicated at the Ming court, by
his knowledge and address, for himself and his distinguished
companions; and in that eminent and earnest Chinese scholar
who stood beside him and his brethren in all the labours and
sufferings of many eventful years.
In the midst of the polite conventionalities of a preface, the
mutual appreciation of the great Jesuit and his eager and enlight-
ened pupil Seu, recorded-one feels, with but little affectation-
by their own pens, is full of deep interest morally and biographi-
cally.
Other points of interest are, (1) the Jesuit's intelligent assertion
of the value, absolutely and in their applications, of the exact
sciences, his share nevertheless in the lingering belief in astro-
logy, the importance attached by him to an unceasing effort after
improvement in weapons of war, antedating the present eager
competition in the perfecting of 'arms of precision,'-his personal
relation to Christopher Clavius the early modern commentator on
Euclid, eminent also for his labours in connection with the re-
formed calendar, and finally his narrative of the circumstances
under which, as an imperial guest, he projected, and after long
delay with the help of Paul Seu achieved, the translation of the
First Six Books.
There is something touchingly noble in his description of the
impatience of the Christian Han-lin to make public his new made
translation as first steps towards an acquaintance with western
lore which might perhaps lead his fellow students to the reception
of Christian Doctrine in the sequel; and also of his willingness
that the honours of continuing the scientific labour should fall to
others if it was so to be. Such a spirit, though in a Jesuit and
a man of Keangsoo, would perhaps not have grudged these honours
even to a Protestant Missionary and his assistant Le Jin-shub of
Haining (2).
(1) A century later a beautiful edition of the Principia was brought out by
the Jesuits (in Europe)-with the unhappy Colophon that, however irrefrag-
able Newton's conclusions, they were to be received only so far as they were in
harmony with Holy Church.
(2) I am indebted to Mr. A. Wylie who was so good as to read portions of
this paper in my absence, at the Asiatic Society's meeting at Shanghai, not
only for valuable information which I have embodied in the notes, but for
corrections and elucidations of my rendering of mathematical terms in the
text, and for one or two more important corrections.

THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
Translation.
149
ELEMENTS OF GEOMETRY, IN FIFTEEN BOOKS, A CORRECTED EDITION
PRINTED IN THE YAMEN OF TSANG KWO-FAN
AT KIN-LING (NANKIN)
IN THE SUMMER OF THE IV YEAR OF T'UNG-CHE.
PREFACE.
The first six books of the Elements of Geometry were obtained
by Seu Wen-ting from the European Le Ma-tow (Mateo Ricci).
At the same time Le Leang-an compiled the (1) Introduction to
Astronomy and in the tract on the ratios of regular polygons and
polyhedrons contained in circles and spheres respectively, and that
on methods of trigonometrical observation, the references to the
elements necessarily went beyond the first six books. This oc-,
casioned disappointment to students because they could not get
access to the complete work.
At last during the reign Heen-fung Li Jin-shuh of (2) Hai-ning
in conjunction with the western scholar Wei-lee Ya-leih (Alex-
ander Wylie) continued the translation through the latter nine
Books, and revised and corrected the whole. The work was now
complete; but it had scarcely been engraved and published by
Han Luh-kh'ing of Sung-keang when the blocks were destroyed
by the (3) Banditti.
Jin-shuh accompanying me to my camp at (4) Gan-kh'ing
showed me the work; and represented that it was one which
mathematicians could not dispense with, and if the present oppor-
tunity of editing it (lit. engraving) were let slip it would again
in course of time be lost.
(1) Mr. Wylie informs me that this work consists of nineteen tracts
published by the Jesuits, of which seven are religious, the others scientific.
One of these latter is the first edition of the Elements of Geometry. Two
others are the 圜容較義 and the 测量法義, names which I have
explained rather than translated according to information kindly furnished by
Mr. Wylie. (See Mr. Wylie's Notes on Chinese Literature, pp. 217 and 88).
(2) Near Hangehow in Chekeang. The reign Heen-fung extended from
1850 to 1862.
(3) Taipings.
(4) Capital of Ganhwey or Anhwey.

150
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
My official post being now changed to Nankin I directed Jin-
shuh to make a new revision of the latter nine books and get them
printed.
It then occurred to me that without the first six, beginners (in
mathematics) would lack the principles of their science. But
since the Rebellion, through the dispersion and destruction of
books of all kinds, the "Introduction to Astronomy" is hardly to
be met with. And the recent editions published in Kwangtung
at the (1) Hai-shan-seen-kwan are so full of errors as to be little
worthy of notice. I therefore directed that the first six books
likewise should be revised and printed.
Our Chinese Mathematical (2) Work arranged under nine heads
founds its terminology throughout on concrete subject matters;
treating each by separate method. The student sticking blindly
to the track (marked out for him) pursues his search; and after
a lifetime spent in practical mathematics knows his rules indeed,
but knows nothing of the reason for them. So that mathematics
are thought by some an impossible study owing to the wearisome
multiplicity (of the rules); (but) simply because they look vaguely
at the methods and have not the sense to enquire after principles.
We read in the commentary; (on the "Spring and Autumn"
of Confucius, § 13, Hi-kung 15th year) "upon the production of
things follows form, after form comes multitude, after multitude,
number." Hence number is a result of form. We consider form,
penetrate to its principle, and then devise a method for determining
its number. Thus though we have not yet seen the methods
perfected by our predecessors we invent methods for ourselves
which agree (with those) like tallies; and so we go on to calculate
the remote and search into the abstruse, enlarging the ancient
methods where they are inadequate and advancing continually
ad infinitum.
Our Elements of Geometry discuss not methods but principles,
embracing all that possesses form; classed under the heads of
(1) The establishment of the well-known Hong merchant Pun Tin-qua at
Canton. He published a collection of works some years since including
Euclid and other scientific books with the title
The
Hae-shan-seen-kuan collection. (I owe this information to Mr. Wylie).
(2) Mr. Wylie tells me that this work, the JL is almost the earliest
mathematical work known in China; and is so named because nine different
branches of mathematics are treated in so many chapters. (Note on Chinese
Literature, p. 91).

THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
151
point, line, surface and solid. That which is traced out by a point
is a line. The meeting of lines gives surface. The (1) accumula-
tion of surfaces is solid.
Between line and line, surface and surface, solid and solid,
there exist, as to form, mutual accretion or similarity, and as to
numbers, their sum and difference, commensurable and incommen-
surable numbers, rational numbers and surds.
A thorough knowledge of points, lines, surfaces and solids ap-
plied to the four rules of Arithmetic, is like building your chariot
within doors, and bringing it forth to put it on wheels.
Why investigate with servility each concrete object by itself!
Are we then to conclude that the Nine Chapters may be dis-
pensed with? Assuredly not. Let the student thoroughly master
his tones and (rhyming) vocables, his scholia and commentaries,
and he may then read and taste the deep streams of ancient
literature. In like manner a clear understanding of the proper-
ties of points, lines, surfaces, and solids will enable the student to
solve the manifold problems of number.
The rules of Arithmetic are adapted, each to its special purpose.
But the Elements of Geometry lay open the original reasons for
the arithmetical rules, and present us with results which the rules
fail to reach. Develop your knowledge in the one and you will
find its use in the other; just as diligence in the studies of child-
hood finds its reward in (the access it procures to) the universe
of books.
(Signed)
TSENG KWO-FAN.
(2) IVth year of Tung-che, Xth month.
ORIGINAL PREFACE (VIZ: OF SEU WEN-TING).
In the days of (3) Th'ang and Yu the regulation of the Calendar
by He and Ho, and the duties of the (4) Five Ministers, Sze-kung,
(1) "Here," Mr. Wylie remarks, "the author evidently jumps from the
abstract mathematical conception to the concrete; his aim being to show the
relation between form and number in the process of involution. Hence we are
to understand by point not a mathematical point but a unit or monad and
then all will come straight."
(2) 1865; November-December.
(3) Vide Shoo-king, pp. 18 & 599. Ed. Legge.
(4) The Five Ministers were respectively of Wastes, Husbandry, Works,
Forests, and Music.

152
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
How-tseih, Kung, Yu, and Teen-yoh, all depended upon mensur-
ation and arithmetic.
The (1) six arts of the "Ministers of Chow" included arith-
metic amongst them; and the other five could not be applied
without mensuration and arithmetic.
Are we to think that (2) Seang and Kh'wang in the invention
of Music, or Pan and Mih in that of Implements possessed some
extraordinary and marvellous sleight of hand? No, it was merely
their refinement in the application of method.
Hence it is said that before the (3) three dynasties they pos-
sessed a consummate science of original principles perfected by
tradition of masters and the practice of pupils.
But this perished at last in the fires of (4) Tsoo-lung.
From the Han dynasty downwards every one made guesses for
himself; like a blind man shooting at a target aiming at random
and never hitting. Some relied on their notions of form, like one
who would illuminate an elephant with a fire-fly; getting a view
of its head but losing sight of its tail.
At the present day even this (pretence at) science is lost, as it
could hardly but be lost.
The Elements of Geometry are the foundation of mathematics,
whereby the nature of the square and circle, the horizontal and
the vertical, can be ascertained; and the uses of the compass and
square, the level and the plumb-line, perfectly explained.
Master Ricci from his early years, in the intervals of his studies.
in moral science, gave his mind to the polite arts. This is a pur-
suit which belongs to the category of those which (5) are ad-
vanced by the traditions of masters and the experiments of students.
Now (Ricci) had for his master a mathematician of the highest
fame named (6) Ting. Hence he is absolutely perfect in his
(1) "Ministers of Chow"
The Six Arts-Ritual, Music, Archery,
Pushing the Chariot, Writing and Arithmetic.
(2) Vide Lun-yu, p. 202. Mencius, p. 161, for Seang and Kh'wang. Pan
name of Kung-shoo. Mencius 161 Qu. whether Mih is the heretical philo-
sopher of whom Mencius says so much.
(3) Hia, Shang, Chow.
(4) Tsin Sze Hwang-ti B. C. 243, (vido Sze-kee 36th year of Sze Hwang,
B. C. 215).
(5) See above p. 6.
(6) Christopher Clavius, (vid. Ency. Brit. art Euclid). T usually written
Ja nail, adopted, somewhat fancifully, to represent the latin name Clavius,
(quasi Clavus a nail). Some of the Roman Catholic Missionaries of the
present day appear to be guided by the sense rather than sound of their
names in turning them into Chinese. E. G. de la Place.

THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
153
demonstrations. Having long been intimate with me, and, in
our occasional conversations, having frequently touched upon this
topic, I begged him to turn into Chinese the various works on
form and number. I conceived however that until this book
(the elements) were translated, we could not discuss the others.
And accordingly I assisted him in making a version of the six
most important books. When it was finished we went through
it again, advancing thus from what was obvious to what was
abstruse, and from a state of hesitation to one of certainty.
Meantime I found applications for what had seemed useless,
and (gathered that the whole) was the foundation of all the
useful arts.
Well may our work be called the (1) Figure-garden of all Form,
the Science-ocean of all the Schools.
Although our work is by no means complete, yet compared
with other books this is in a reasonably good condition.
I cannot but reflect with amazement that, so unexpectedly, when
the Science of the Ancients had been utterly lost already some
two thousand years, we should thus have suddenly obtained a
means of supplying the lack of the canon and traditions of Th'ang,
Yu, and the three dynasties. The advantage to this age is most
assuredly great.
With two or three friends of common tastes I have therefore
printed and published this Treatise.
The master says; this book is of such service to all the schools
as almost to be equivalent to the living presence of He and Ho,
Pan and Mih. Small in extent, its great use lies in this that it
will give accuracy and precision to the natural genius of students.
My own opinion is that its usefulness will be greater or less
according as persons use it.
Like the great wood-cutter Tun Lin, whose proper genius guided
him in choosing (trees for) posts or beams, joists or rafters.
However, our master's learning is three fold; its highest divi-
sion is Morals and Religion, its lowest Natural History and Phy-
sics. Of Physics one distinct branch deals with form and number,
each point being precise, real, and of the nature of an axiom;
ascertained beyond the chance of doubt, and capable by analysis
and demonstration of being assured to others.
(1)萬象之形圈
百家之學海
20

154
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
I have been eager to publish this, a part of the lowest class of
the sciences; because I was anxious first to bring forward what
is easy of belief; so that persons who have read our text and
comprehended its meaning, may perceive that our master's eru-
dition is trustworthy and beyond suspicion.
As for what was said above that all the mathematical sciences
depend on this (Euclid) for their principles-that could hardly be
set forth even summarily in this preface of mine.
Written by (1) Seu Kwang-ch'ee of Wu-sung.
(PREFACE CONTINUED BY RICCI.)
The all-important aim of scholarly study is the (2) Advancement
of Knowledge; and that must take its rise from a clear under-
standing of the principles of nature. But the principles of nature
are complex and abstruse, and the human mind is dull and pur-
blind. There is no way of perfecting knowledge except that of
starting from what is clear and so successively advancing to what
is still undiscovered.
Our (3) remote western country, though of small extent, pos-
sesses literary institutions which in respect of the material sciences
analytically pursued are superior to those of all other states. And
hence books which discuss the principles of things are exceeding
numerous and full.
Our students take it as an axiom in their discussions, that only
what can be proved is of moment, and that mere opinion must be
rejected. For they agree that the investigation of the principles
(of things) begets knowledge; but opinion can but beget opinion
after all.
.Knowledge implies the absence of doubt; but opinion ever
carries along with it (the possibility of) doubt.
(1) The celebrated Paul Seu of Sikawei (Seu-kea-wei) near Shanghai
(here called by its classical name Wu-sung), who with his grand-daughter
Candida were zealous Christians; and at the same time were much honoured
by the Chinese for their good deeds. His conversion seems to have taken
place about the time of his admission to the Han-lin. Huc's Christianisme
contains interesting particulars.
(2) Ta-heo p. 222. Ed. Legge.
(3) angular, in a corner. Query does he mean Italy? or Europe in
general? Michael Angelo and Macchiavelli were dead. Galileo was still
living, and not yet condemned for heresy.

THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
155
The philosophy of the abstract and abstruse, though argued Metaphysics.
upon correct (principles of) demonstration, can never quite expel
doubt. (Since) it is always possible for another (1) method (of
discussion) to find a flaw (in yours). It can induce assent; but
it cannot breed a faith which entirely excludes the possibility of
mistake.
Only the science of the real and the evident cuts up and dis- Physics.
perses every kind of suspicion, and is able to compel a full assent,
leaving no opportunity for another method to impugn it.
The knowledge which results is at once deep and solidly esta-
blished. In this category mathematics holds the highest place.
Mathematics deals entirely with the parts and limits of things.
The parts; as in the case of things divided, so as to occasion
multitude; when (mathematics) will show how many they are;
the limits, in the case of integers, when it demonstrates how great
they are.
matics.
Number and degree may be conceived of apart from matter and are Mathe-
discussed in the abstract, and then for numbers we have arithmetic;"
and for degree geometry.
thematics.
Or both may be conceived of in connection with matter and then Mixed Ma-
speaking of number we have for instance the harmony produced
by sounds properly matched, and the science of music with its (2)
sharps and flats; and speaking of degree we have as an example
the movements of the visible heavens which mark time, and the
sciences of Astronomy and Chronology.
try and Co-
These (3) four main branches subdivide into a hundred streams. Trigonome-
One measures the magnitude of the universe; as the thickness of nies.
the (4) successive superposed heavenly spheres, the distance from
the earth of the sun moon and stars, and their comparative mag-
nitudes, the diameter of the earth and distances on its surface;
also the heights of mountains and hills, lofty buildings of all kinds,
the depth of pits and valleys, the mutual distance of two places,
the area and boundaries of fields, cities, and mansions, the solid
content of storehouses, piles of goods, and large vessels. Another
subdivision computes (5) locality, so as to explain the sequence of
the seasons, the varying length of day and night and the hours of
(1) Or perhaps hypothesis.
(2)
rather perhaps notes and intervals.
(3) Namely Arithmetic and Geometry, pure and mixed.
(4) 各重天
(5) Query, the place of the earth in the solar system.

Mechanics
and Hydros-
tatics.
156
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
sunrise and sunset, and thus deduce (1) latitude and longitude;
(2) the three commencements of the year, the equinoxes and
solstices, the (3) days of opening and shutting, the year for the
intercalary month, the month for an additional day.
Another subdivision constructs instruments for observing the
form of heaven and earth, and the sequence and place in the
ecliptic of the (4) Seven Directors; for transmitting, the (5) eight
sounds, and marking the passage of time by a self sounding (clock)
so as to facilitate the occupations of the people, and (fix the time
for) the sacrifice to (6) Shangte. Again another subdivision regu-
lates the arts which work in water, earth, wood, and stone; builds
cities, erects towers and stages, palaces and temples, from the roof
to the foundation; opens canals, forms reservoirs and builds bridges.
And all these not merely studying ornament and beauty, but
securing by all means stability, so as to resist the wear and tear
of any number of years.
Another constructs machinery to economise power in moving
great weights both vertically and horizontally, so as to facilitate
the transport of provisions, the supply of water, the draining of
marshes, the irrigation of deserts, the (7) raising and lowering
of vessels of all sizes.
These various machines either avail themselves of the force of
wind, or depend on water power, or work by pulleys, or by (8)
dams and valves or rely on a vacuum.
Again another subdivision investigates (9) the optical powers
of the eye, so as on a plane diagram with graduates rectangles or
(1) A very hesitating version of H L F
(2) The three commencements, vid: Lun-yu 162 note.
mencement is said to be in
Heaven's com-
tsze (the winter solstice), Earth's in mau
yin (a month later still). Opening and
(a month later), and Man's in
shutting, perhaps spring and winter.
(3) See above.
(4) The seven directors, probably the Sun, Moon, and five planets, Mercury,
Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn. Dr. Legge. Shoo. p. 33.
(5) Query whether the gamut; or the sound made by the eight substances
Metal, Stone, Silk, Bamboo, Gourd, Earth, Leather, Wood.
(6) Shangte as the name for God was not finally proscribed by Papal
ordinance till the 18th century. It is possible that the Imperial worship of
the idol Shangte is meant.
(7) Query in docking, or by canal-locks.
(8) perhaps rather systems of cogwheels.
(9) Qu: Optics or Perspective? 目視势

THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
157
curves according to the figure of each object, to represent the
different properties of distance, obliquity, elevation and the rest;
to observe the (1) limits of distant objects, so as to get at their
true forms; produce the effect of great size by a small drawing,
and of distance by one close to the eye, represent a solid globe
by means of circles, depict accurately the unevennesses of surface,
and give the lights and shadows in views of buildings.
Another deals with Geography, from the general representation Geography.
of the earth with its mountains and seas, to the separate maps of
the five divisions of the earth and the four seas; every kingdom
of each continent, and every island of each sea, with the provinces
and departments, all laid down in miniature. The general maps
answering to the points of the compass, the separate maps tallying
with the general one; and all so proportioned as to avoid mistake
and confusion. So that from the (2) chang, feet, inches, and
tenths (of the map) you may compute any distances whatever by
land or sea; learn the great from the small, and distance from
what is close at hand; thus proving the charts useful as an itin-
erary for land and sea without confusion or mistake.
These are some of the branches which depend directly upon the
general science of Mathematics.
For the rest whether they are concerned with higher or lower
matters all without exception depend on mathematics to establish
their principles of working.
For example the statesman ought to be thoroughly familiar with statecraft.
the configuration of the frontier, the distance thence to foreign
states and the extent of their territory, so as to know how with
appropriate (3) ceremony to receive and dismiss their respective
envoys; and to be ready for unforeseen chances, lest he be either
needlessly apprehensive, or recklessly secure.
If he neglect to estimate the productive powers and rate of
consumption of his country, and the (4) receipts and expenditure
of money and corn-he will be without data for the guidance of
his administration.
(1) Qu: angular measure.
(2) The chang is ten Chinese feet.
(3)議禮賓來往之儀
(4) Produce and expenditure of taxos.

Medicine.
Commerce.
War.
158
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
If he knows nothing about (1) astronomy, and trusts to other
persons' information, the confusion arising from false methods of
computation will be great.
Agriculturists who have no knowledge beforehand of the seasons,
will be at a loss when to sow and plant all the various crops; or
to guard against the calamities of drought and flood, and thus
secure the (2) very root of the commonwealth.
The physician who cannot compute the paths of the sun, moon
and planets, and their influence on the diseased body will perillously
mistake concords for opposites, and applying at random (3) his
drugs, and instruments, not only do no good, but, mayhap, inflict
great injury. Many a time have we seen, through some trifling
disorder, under the misapplication of (otherwise) efficacious drugs,
young and hale men pass away before their time; simply because
of ignorance of (4) astrology.
The merchant who is a bad calculator, will be in the dark as to
all questions of barter, interest, rules of partnership, (and the like);
and he will either be injuring his partner or be wronged by his
partner, either alternative alike intolerable.
Now I have no time to set forth all the branches of study that
make use of mathematical methods, but, the military art, the
most important to the state, that on which depend our security
and our danger, has the most necessary dependence of them all
upon this science. Wherefore for the commander of knowledge
and courage, it is most necessary to have first studied mathematics.
Otherwise though knowledge and valour are present, they will
prove of no use. Of course the good general does not give his
mind to questions of astronomy or chronology. The good gene-
ral's anxiety is first about supplies of food and forage for his troops
and horses, and the distance and natural features of his lines of
march; their (5) dangerous or easy, open or confined (6), healthy
or unhealthy character.
(1) With a view to the Calendar. A hint, perhaps, at the empiricism of
both the Chinese and Mahometan astronomers which was afterwards exposed
so unsparingly by Verbiest.
(2) Viz: supply of grain.
(3)
The last two are probes of steel and stone respect-
ively. I do not know
(4)
in this connexion must be the influences of the heavenly bodies.
(5) Steep and rugged or easy."
(6)死生

THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
159
In the second place he studies the best disposition of his forces,
whether the whole host or its divisions. As for instance a circular
array to mask numbers, or one with wings (horns) to conceal
paucity of force, or one like a crescent moon to surround the
enemy, or a wedge shaped one to break and scatter him.
Thirdly he (1) takes careful note of all weapons of offence and
defence, thoroughly ascertaining their advantages and effective-
ness, and comparative excellence under various circumstances, and
ever proceeding in the course of improvement. He is well read
in the historical examples of various states, and knows that the
invention of a new and ingenious weapon has never failed to
carry with it victory in attack, or else security in defence. There
is nothing in beating few with many, or weak with strong forces;
but to vanquish a numerous and mighty host with a small and
weak one is the feat of none but the gifted captain of knowledge.
I have heard that in the West some sixteen hundred years ago,
before the general diffusion of (2) Christianity, when the different
states were mostly united (under one rule), among them there
was a famous captain who, with a few beaten troops matched
against a host of tenfold strength, held an insulated and dangerous
fort and repulsed all attacks whether by sea or land. And like-
wise in China the renowned men who, from time to time, (3) like
Kung-shu and Mih-tih, 'nine times attacked, nine times repulsed
the foe,' performed such deeds by no other secret than their great
skill in mathematics.
Hence we may see that the connexion of this science with
human affairs is of the greatest and most important nature. And
therefore men of spirit, the heroes who have given principles to
the world, whether by the practice that goes before or the subse-
quent (work of) tradition, have never ceased in the world; but
have kept adding light and extent (to the science) and making
the commentaries on it fuller and fuller.
However about the middle age of antiquity our western schools
produced one noted philosopher named Euclid, who in mathema-
tical science far outstripped his predecessors and instructed with
unusual luminousness those who were afterwards to enter upon
(1) A hint to the Ming which the Tartar afterwards attended to, when he
induced Ricci's successors to cast heavy ordnance to assist him in crushing
the remains of the Chinese power.
(2) 天主
(3) See Mencius p. 161.

160
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
those paths. His definitions were very numerous and subtle. Of
the works put forth by him during a life time, not a single sentence
can be doubted or questioned. But his elements are especially
solid and trustworthy. What is called the elements is the de-
monstration of mathematical first principles. Every one who
discourses (on mathematics) must start with these. Hence his
successors lauded him with this saying: Euclid in his other books
excelled other men; in this book he outdid himself.
Now, after a thorough (1) trial of the book, his method and
sequence are altogether surprising.
At the commencement of his propositions he first exhibits de-
finitions; then states axioms on which the propositions depend;
and then produces his propositions (2). Each proposition has its
statement, its construction, and its demonstration. Every point
ascertained becomes the foundation for a succeeding (argument).
In the thirteen books one line of argument runs through five
hundred or more propositions: book having a mutual interdepend-
ence on book and proposition on proposition. (And the sequence
is essential). Nothing could be placed earlier or later than it
actually is. There is a close connexion and mutual succession
without break to the very end.
It was said above that the (3) exact sciences are very easy and
clear. By a gradually accumulating argument they end in de-
veloping what is most abstruse. If you look cursorily at one or
two of the later propositions, their assertions, difficult as they are
of investigation, will also prove hard to believe. But when you
take the early proposition as your ground of proof, and at each
step (see) the seal of evidence, stage after stage opens out, till the
meaning lies plain (4) like the eye-brows, more and more fully
explicated, so that you shall at last smile (with pleasure).
During the thousand and odd years since (Euclid) there have
not wanted eager and strenuous disputants; but the result of the
earnest scrutiny of a whole lifetime has been that (5) they could
not cavil at a single word.
(1) "Taste;" meaning the examination and appreciation of so many ages.
(2) Mr. Wylie renders; "the propositions aro accompanied by explana-
tions of theorems, constructions of problems, and scholia."
(3)質理
(4) I cannot illustrate this metaphor from Chinese classical literature.
(5) This will hardly be maintained now.

THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
161
As to those who have devoted themselves to the geometry, al-
though of divine perspicacity and favoured by heaven, they have
all been obliged to use the Elements as their ladder of ascent.
Until this book is mastered, whoever would take up a position
within the (1) circle (of science), as a learner he will gain no help
for his mind, and yet more as a teacher he will lack this (indis-
pensable) help in his discourse.
In
In our western schools as it has been already said, the ten thousand
books, to speak in round numbers, of the hundred sciences which
depend on geometry all take this book as a canonical authority,
and adduce it as proof whenever they establish a proposition.
using other works it is necessary to quote the name, but in ad-
ducing this book one merely says such a proposition of such a book.
So that you may see that it is the daily meat and drink of geo-
metricians.
The present age has seen the rise of another famous philosopher,
who was Mateo's principal master in mathematical studies. His
name is master Clavius; and he has both enlarged and consider-
ably elucidated this science.
(2) In early life when Mateo was travelling in the west, in
every renowned state, wherever he met with high and distin-
guished houses, it was the general talk that, whatever might
happen in the future, for all that went before the present age,
Master Clavius' achievements in mathematics left him without
an equal.
(3) The result of this master's long and accurate studies in
Euclid is a collection of expository notes, and additional and con-
tinuatory matter amounting to two books. So that in all wo
have, with the original, fifteen books. Besides, he introduced
into each book certain new demonstrations of the same general
character. And thus the work is as detailed and complete as
possible, a very ford or bridge for future students, leaving abso-
lutely nothing to be desired.
(1)道
(2) Clavius' employment in the reform of the calendar, and the contro-
versy to which this led him with distinguished men, would necessarily render
him famous among his contemporaries. He was attacked more than once by
Scaliger and as often replied.
(3) His two books are apparently confounded with the XIV and XV books,
which are ascribed to Hypsicles, about A. D. 550. Mr. Wylie says that Ricei
in projecting a version of the whole of Euclid probably intended to sub-
stitute Clavius' for the ancient books XIV and XV. See preface to Mr.
Wylie's edition of Euclid in Chinese.
21

162
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
From Mateo's first arrival in China he observed that whilst
there was no lack of confidence on the part either of the students
or the text books in geometry, there was nothing, so far as he
could see, of the nature of (1) discussions of the principles. But
without root or basis it is difficult to build. And thus the best
intellects failed both in practice and discourse in demonstrating
the rationale (of the science). What was correct failed to be
clearly proved; and when they were mistaken no one could dis-
criminate (the results) from what was right.
I had at that time already a desire to translate this book and
offer it for the use (2) of the scholars and gentles of the day, as a
grateful acknowledgement of the courtesy with which they have
received me a stranger. But my lack of ability, and the entire
difference between the grammars of the east and west (deterred
me). In seeking words and expressions (3) (in the one language
to represent those of the other) there were ever many deficiencies.
No doubt in speaking something may be done with effort; but
when you take pen in hand to write it becomes a difficulty indeed.
From that time onward I often met scholars of spirit who by
suggestions or encouragements (moved me to proceed). But I
was ever afraid of failure, and of commencing merely to desist.
Alas, (said I) this is but a superficial acquaintance with the science
that I possess, the discussion of the merest elements of form.
Thus did I debate with myself. (But at length) I concluded:
It is but the difficulty of the first step; where there's a will the
work is done. And so I waited till the present time.
In the year (4) Kang-tsze, Mateo had occasion to go to the
capital with presents of homage, and sojourned there. During
the winter of (5) Kwei-mau, Seu Thae-sze Sien-sheng of (6)
Keang-soo came (to Peking). The (7) Thae-sze, naturally a per-
son of fine parts, and long practised in elegant literature, and
who, moreover, had for a considerable time been intimate with
(1) Qu: the "Elements" viz: of Euclid.
(2) 當世賢人君子
(3)相
(4) A. D. 1600-1601 Dr. Williams says he arrived in Peking in January
1601 bringing presents for the Emperor by special permission.
(5) A. D. 1603.
*(6) 吳下
(7) One of the names for members of the Han-lin. It is here given in
advance, since he did not get that degree till afterwards.

THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
163
me and my brethren, foreigners (like myself), conceived the idea
of sharing the task of translation with me and so rendering easy
the production of our book. (1) As for the time he designed to
come to it, along with me. In the spring however (qu: 1604)
being recommended (for the examinations in) the Southern Palace
he was chosen (2) Shoo-ch'ang. But just at the time when he
was reading the more abstruse class of Chinese books, I had oppor-
tunities of conversation with him, and frequently discussed the
high doctrine of the Lord of Heaven putting morality and (3).
devotion in the most prominent place. We had no leisure then
for this mundane and unspiritual affair. (Viz: of mathematical
discourse. But my teacher takes it to mean; "He had no time
to think of political affairs." being a fine phrase for these,
as compared with philosophy).
Last autumn however he interrogated me about our western
schools and (4) systems of promotion; to which I made answer
by speaking of our natural philosophy, and so spoke of geometry
and the like. This led to my mentioning the accuracy of this
work, and explaining the difficulty of translating it and the manner
of my relinquishing the task a while ago. The Sien-sheng said;
"our ancient worthies used to say, 'it were a shame for a scholar
to be ignorant of any one thing." If now this branch of science
has been actually lost to us, it amounts to this that our students
are all groping in the dark. As I have met with the book; and
met too with you, Sir, a person so modest and so liberal, if you
please to (5) entrust (the matter) to me, I shall of course think
nothing of the labour, and lose no time in going to work. (Else)
the loss will lie at the door of our generation."
"Ah me! When I shrank from difficulty it grew as a matter
of course. I faced it and it as naturally shrunk into insignificance.
We must surely accomplish the task, Sien-sheng." We addressed
ourselves to the work. He bade me dictate, and himself took
down my sentences with pen and ink. It was considered and
reconsidered again, with a view to express the sense of the original
in Chinese phrase. Again and again it was revised; three suc-
(1) This whole passage, especially the words
is to mo
very hard. I do not think I have given the sense-(if any sense) correctly.
(2) That is member of the Han-lin, of a certain class.
(3)
Qu: an ellipsis of EShiking. p. 433. Legge.
(4) Q:舉業
(5) Namely of giving a classical shape to Ricci's dictations from Euclid.

164
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA TO EUROPE.
cessive draughts in all being prepared. The Sien-sheng's zeal
forbade my requiting him with slothfulness. In the present spring,
the most important and first portion of the work, the first six books,
is at length finished.
But (1) the original text of Euclid does not itself transmit to
us its (ultimate) idea. Of master Clavius' work we have translated
only the preliminary discourse.
The Thae-sze in his eager zeal wished to complete it. But
said I: "let us pause. Put forth this first that persons of like
taste with us may prove by practice the usefulness (of the treatise);
and then with due deliberation consult for the remainder." The
Thae-sze replied: "be it so. If it be well that this book should
be completed; why should it depend only on me." He desisted
therefore from the translation, and sent it to be engraved; with
the one aim of publishing it for the common advantage; impatient
as he was of having it kept a secret even for a day.
When it was ready for printing Mateo made a brief statement
of its purport, to place at the commencement; which he knows
well to be wanting in elegance, and would shrink from foisting
into a connexion with this (2) splendid record of (mathematical)
operations. Nevertheless, in however lame a manner he has
made some introduction to the main gist of our work, and (re-
corded) the occasions of the translation, that those who make use
of it in time to come may know the intention of its communication
to them; and considering the painful efforts (we have made) I
hope they may practice (its principles) more and more thoroughly;
so as to complete the fair work, and enable all men of instructed
mind to pursue heartily the study of the exact sciences, and prove
their efficacy in all the manifold divisions of polite study set forth
above; thereby attaining merit and offering service to the empire.
So too may Mateo and his brethren, these many years past en-
tertained, though foreigners, with the consideration of ministers
of state, repay one tenthousandth part the immensity of the
(imperial) grace.
Respectfully written in (3) Tin-wei of Wan-leih by the Euro-
pean Mateo Ricci,
(12)
Qu: rather. "We have not neglected (fully given)
the gist of Euclid's original text."
(13) 述作之林
(14) A. D. 1607, three years before Ricci's death. Wan-leih A. D. 1571
to 1619.