LETTER FROM ANTHONY NORRIS GROVES
My Dear DARBY,
TO J. N. DARBY.
Milford Haven, March 10th, 1836.
As the stormy weather threatens a little delay, I am
not willing to leave England without a few words in reply
to your note, and a short explanation of some other points
that interest me. I have ever regretted having had so few
opportunities of seeing and conversing with you since my
return to England, and thereby explaining many things
that might have allowed us to depart on the whole more
happily than now, yet I wish you to feel assured that
nothing has estranged my heart from you, or lowered my
confidence in your being still animated by the same en-
larged and generous purposes that once so won and rivetted
me; and though I feel you have departed from those
principles by which you once hoped to have effected them,
and are in principle returning to the city from whence you
departed, still my soul so reposes in the truth of your heart
to God that I feel it needs but a step or two more to
advance and you will see all the evils of the systems from
which you profess to be separated to spring up among
yourselves. You will not discover this so much from the
workings of your own soul as by the spirit of those who
have been nurtured up from the beginning in the system
they are taught to feel the only tolerable one; that not
having been led like you, and some of those earliest con-
nected with you, through deep experimental suffering and
sorrow, they are little acquainted with the real truth that

2-
may exist amidst inconceivable darkness: there will be
little pity and little sympathy with such, and your union
daily becoming one of doctrine and opinion more than life
and love, your government will become-unseen, perhaps,
and unexpressed-yet, one wherein, overwhelmingly, is felt
the authority of men; you will be known more by what you
witness against than what you witness for, and practically
this will prove that you witness against all but yourselves as
certainly as the Walkerites or Glassites: your Shibboleth
may be different, but it will be as real. It has been
asserted, as I found from your dear brother Wand
others, that I have changed my principles; all I can say
is, that as far as I know what those principles were in
which I gloried on first discovering them in the Word of
God, I now glory in them ten times more since I have.
experienced their applicability to all the various and per-
plexing circumstances of the present state of the Church;
allowing you to give every individual, and collection of
individuals, the standing God gives them, without identify-
ing yourself with any of their evils. I ever understood our
principle of communion to be the possession of the common
life or common blood of the family of God (for the life is in
the blood); these were our early thoughts, and are my
most matured ones. The transition your little bodies have
undergone, in no longer standing forth the witnesses for
the glorious and simple truth, so much as standing forth
witnesses against all that they judge error, have lowered
them in my apprehension from heaven to earth in their
position of witnesses. What I mean is, that then all our
thoughts were conversant about how we might ourselves moet
effectually manifest forth that life we had received by Jesus,
knowing that that alone could be as the Shepherd's voice to
the living children, and where we might find that life in
others; and when we were persuaded we had found it, bidding

- 3-
them, on the Divine claim of this common life (whether their
thoughts on other matters were narrow or enlarged), to
come and share with us, in the fellowship of the common
Spirit, in the worship of our common head; and as Christ
had received them, so would we to the glory of God the
Father; and father, that we were free, within the limits of
the truth, to share with them in part, though we could not in
all, their services. In fact, as we received them for the
life, we would not reject them for their systems, or refuse to
recognise any part of their systems, because we disallowed
much. Trusting that if this inter-communion could be
established, to effect all we desire by being upheld by God,
in walking in the light, as the Christ-like means of witness-
ing against any darkness that might be in them, according
to the rule of the Lord; John iii. 19: "This is the con-
demnation, that light is come into the world, and men
loved darkness rather than light because their deeds were
evil, neither will they come to the light lest their deeds
should be reproved." A more difficult ministry of witness,
than a preaching one of words, or separating one of persons,
yet possessing a much more mighty power over the hearts
of others and a much more influential one in blessing; and
which, dear brother, I know no heart more ready to ac-
knowledge than your own. The moment the witnessing for
the common life as our bond gives place to a witnessing
against errors by separation of persons and preaching (errors
allowably compatible with the common life), every individual,
or society of individuals, first comes before the mind as those
who might need witnessing against, and all their conduct
and principles have first to be examined and approved
before they can be received; and the position which this
occupying the seat of judgment will place you in will be
this: the most narrow-minded and bigoted will rule because
his conscience cannot and will not give way, and therefore

the more enlarged heart must yield. It is into this posi-
tion, dear D, I feel some little flocks are fast tending,
if they have not already attained it. Making light not life
the measure of communion. But I am told by our beloved
brethren, C. and H., that if I give up this position of wit-
-nessing against evil in this PECULAR WAY OF SEPARATION
from the systems in which any measure of it is mixed up,
I make our position one of simple, unpardonable schism,
because we might join some of the many other systems. I
cannot be supposed, of course, to know fully their ground
of acting, but I thought I knew yours, at least your
original ones. Was not the principle we laid down as to
separation from all existing bodies at the outset, this: that
we felt ourselves bound to separate from all individuals and
systems, so far as they required us to do what our consciences
would not allow, or restrained us from doing what our con-
sciences required, and no further; and were we not as free
to join and act with any individual, or body of individuals,
as they were free not to require us to do what our con-
sciences did not allow, or prevent our doing what they
did 1 and in this freedom did we not feel brethren should not
force liberty on those who were bound, nor withhold freedom
from those who were free?
Did we not feel constrained to follow the apostolic rule
of not judging other men's consciences, as to liberty, by our
cwn; remembering it is written, "Let not him that eateth
d spise him that eateth not; and let not him which eateth
not, judge him that eateth; seeing that God hath received"
both the one and the other? Now it is one of these two
grounds; their preventing me from, or demanding from me,
other than the Lord demands, that divides me in a measure
from every system; as my own proper duty to God, rather
than as witnessing against THEIR evils. As any system is
in its provision narrower or wider than the truth, I either

- 5-
stop short, or go beyond its provisions, but I would infin-
itely rather bear with all their evils, than separate from
their good. These were the then principles of our separ
ation and inter-communion; we had resolved never to try
to get men to act in uniformity, further than they felt in
uniformity, neither by frowns or smiles; and this, for one
simple reason, that we saw no authority given us from God
thus to act; nor did our experience lead us to feel it the
best means at all of promoting their blessing or our common
aim of a perfect spiritual uniformity of judgment; whilst
to ourselves it afforded a ready OUTLET to the PROPENSITIES
of the FLESH, under the appearance of spiritual authority
and zeal for the truth. But in all these matters, we desired
that our way might be bright as the light, and our words
drop noiselessly as the dew, and if, at the last, they re-
mained "otherwise minded," we would seek of God, that even
He should reveal it unto them. There is something at pre-
sent so like building what you destroyed, as if when weak
you can be liberal and large, but when holpen with a little
strength, the true spirit of sectarianism begins to bud; so
that being "one of us" has become a stronger bond than
oneness in the power of the life of God. I know it is said
(dear Lady Powerscourt told me so) that so long as any
terms were kept with the Church of England, by mixing up
in any measure with their ministrations, when there was
nothing to offend your conscience, they bore your testimony
most patiently, but after your entire rejection of them, they
pursued you with undeviating resentment, and this was
brought to prove that the then position was wrong, and
the present right. But all I see in this is, that whilst you
occupied the place of only witnessing against those things
which the divine life within themselves recognized as evil,
and separating from them ONLY SO FAR as they separated
from Christ, you established them as judges of themselves,

-6-
and of themselves they were condemned; and at the same
time you conciliated their heavenly affections, by allowing
all that really was of the Lord, and sharing in it, though
the system itself in which you found these golden grains,
you could not away with. But the moment your position
and your language implied a perfect separation, alike from
the evil and the good, and a rejection of them, in con-
sequence of their system, without discrimination, you no
longer had their consciences with you, but they felt that
though only a brother in a Father's house, you exercised
more than a Father's power, without a Father's heart of
mercy, and they, therefore, appealed from yon to your
common head, both in behalf of themselves and their
systems. There is no truth more established in my own
mind than this, that to occupy the position of the maximum
of power, in witnessing to the consciences of others, you must
stand before their unbiassed judgment as evidently wishing
to allow in them more than their own consciences allow,
rather than less, proving that your heart of love is more
alive to find a covering for faults, than your eagle eye of
light to discover them. I send you this letter as we were
the first to act on these principles, rather than to H-
and C, whose faith and love I do so truly desire to
follow. They have written to me two very long and kind
letters, which I purpose more effectually and fully to
answer, by meeting the positions contained in them, in a
little tract, which I hope to prepare on the voyage, and
finally to publish.
I particularly, regret not meeting you at Bristol, as I
had much to say to you relative to Rhenius, and other
things connected with India, for my heart would naturally
seek sympathy and fellowship with you and those dear
brethren with whom I have no dividing thoughts relative
to the great bearings of truth, or the truths themselves, in

-7-
which lie the power and peace of the Gospel,-neither in
the objects or principles of ministry do I differ;-my
difference with you is only as to the manner in which you
maintain your position of witnessing for the good against
the evil. I feel no one ever expects me, when an acknow-
ledged visitor in the house of another, to be answerable for
the ordering of that house, or as thereby approving it-
they would naturally come to the house in which I had
control, and where the acts were looked upon as mine, to
form such a judgment; and even in such a case, if I was
but one among many in the government, no honest mind
would make me responsible for faults, against which, in my
place and according to my power, I protested; because I
submitted to those acts of others, rather than forego a
greater good, or incur a greater evil. If it is said man
cannot discriminate, nor feel the force of my witness, unless
I separate, not by heart and life, but by contiguity of
person, altogether from all kinds of false systems, my
answer is, that He, whose place it is to judge, and to whom
we are called to approve our hearts, can, and to Him, in
this matter, I am content to stand or fall.
Some will not have me hold communion with the
Scotts, because their views are not satisfactory ahout the
Lord's Supper; others with you, because of your views
about baptism; others with the Church of England, be-
cause of her thoughts about ministry. On my principles I
receive them all; but on the principle of witnessing against
evil, I should reject them all. I feel them all, in their
several particulars, sinning against the mind and heart of
Christ, and letting in, in principle, the most tremendous
disorders, and it is not for me to measure the comparative
sin of one kind of disobedience against another. I make
use of my fellowship in the Spirit, to enjoy the common life
together, and witness for that, as an opportunity to set

before them those little particulars into which, notwith-
standing all their grace and faithfulness, their godliness
and honesty-they have fallen. Nor shall I ever feel
separation from the good for the sake of the evil, to be my
way of witnessing against it, till I see infinitely clearer than
I now do, that it is God's. I naturally unite fixedly with
those in whom I see and feel most of the life and
power of
God. But I am as free to visit other churches, where I see
much of disorder, as to visit the houses of my friends,
though they govern them not as I could wish; and, as I
have said, I should feel it equally unreasonable and un-
kind, for any brother to judge me for it, though I leave
him in perfect liberty to judge himself. You must not
however, dear brother, think, from anything I have said,
that I shall not write freely and fully to you, relative to
things in India, feeling assured in my own heart, that your
enlarged and generous spirit, so richly taught of the Lord,
will one day burst again those bands which narrower minds
than yours have encircled you with, and come forth again,
rather anxious to advance ALL the living members of the
living Head into the stature of men, than to be encircled
by any little bodies, however numerous, that own you for
their founder. I honour, love, and respect your position
in the Church of God; but the deep conviction I have that
your spiritual power was incalculably greater when you
walked in the midst of the various congregations of the
Lord's people, manifesting forth the life and the power of
the gospel, than now, is such that I cannot but write the
above as a proof of my love and confidence that your mind
is above considering who these remarks came from, rather
than what truth there may be in them.
Yours very affectionately in the gospel,
March 10th, 1836.
A. N. GROVES.