ARTICLE V.
THE MYTHICAL ORIGIN OF THE CHOW OR DJOW
DYNASTY,
AS SET FORTH IN THE SHOO-KING.*
BY THOS. W. KINGSMILL.
O the student of Chinese history the names of Yaou,
Shun and Yü ever loom like gigantic spectres on
the confines of another world. They have so much
humanity about them that we feel loth to depose
them from the realm of fact, and give them their
station merely amongst the myths of ancient mankind.
So distinct do they appear that we almost feel as if we
could grasp them in person and assign them their place
in Chinese history, and it is only when we seek to define
more strictly their operations' and place in the current of
time, that we find them continually eluding our search. They
stand ever before us like the grim giant of the Brocken; and like
it we cannot be surprised, that it is only before the strong light of
modern philosophic research, that we find them at last dissipated
into vast shadows cast by ourselves on the distant clouds of
antiquity.
Still however there is much to be learnt from them. They point
out to us the first beginnings of Chinese civilisation, and, intensely
Aryan as they are in their vigour and vitality, they lead us to the
inevitable conclusion that to that race China, as well as Europe
and the greater part of Asia, owes her first step in the onward
path of civilisation..
If however Yaou, Shun and Yu are in person to be relegated to
the world of myth, the works they are fabled to have undertaken
still exist to testify that there were intellectual giants in those
elder days. They point out that the path of Aryan progress.
and increasing civilisation spread from that home of the race.
* Read before the Society on 7th February, 1872.
18

138
THE MYTHICAL ORIGIN OF THE CHOW DYNASTY.
in Central Asia whose position and history is still a thing of
mystery. The later progress of the conquering race in China.
falls within the limits of history; the occupation of the two Kwangs
and the coast provinces are events of which we have written ac-
counts, clouded indeed with fable but clear and distinct in their
main issues.
Dim tradition points out to us the entrance of the Aryans into
the Flowery Land from the extreme N. W. of the empire, and
both it and the remains of their handiwork show their gradual
advance along the Yellow River, till at last, the banks of that
river being occupied, we trace them up to, and at last crossing
the great Yangtsze (the Kiang par excellence).
Had the Chinese been a nation of poets the remembrance of
their great ancestors would have found vent in an epic prouder
than that of the Greeks themselves, as the Chinese poem would
have had for its burden the contest of man with the powers of
nature, rather than the struggles of nations anxious for pre-emi-
nence. The Chinese are not a nation of poets, and to myth and
fiction they have even been prone to apply the rule and square;
they are euhemerists in the truest sense of the word, in their
search after prosaic possibility. They long ago arrived at that
stage of criticism which led them to view fable as the mere me-
mory of fact, and to endeavour by leaving out the apparently
improbable portion of their myths to restore the lost current of
history. It is thus that Chinese chronology is made to ascend to
long ages before there is any evidence that the Aryan race itself
had existence, and compared with which its residence in China is
but a thing of yesterday.
This euhemerism has produced in Chinese story an ante-mythic
period filled with dreary tales of the reigns of Hwangti, of Shen-
nung and others, from which it is a relief to pass on to the myths
of the Hia and Shang, with their quaint tales of the emperors Yaou,
Shun and Yü. Even here we notice the same squaring down of
tradition and myth. The stories of the Hia, the Shang and the Yin
dynasties have been reduced by rule and compass, till in Chinese
history they look like the annals of events which occurred yesterday;
and it is only when we arrive at the dawn of real history and notice.
the uncertainty hanging over many of its recorded events, that
we can form a just idea of the amount of squaring and invention
necessary to have produced the logically perfect records of the
early part of the Djow, the Shang, and the Hia dynasties.

THE MYTHICAL ORIGIN OF THE CHOW DYNASTY.
139
The burning of the books in the time of the Tsin, (even if that
event be not itself a fable) has aided this process by destroying,
in a great measure, all records which would have thrown discredit
on the traditions of the earlier dynasties, so that the lists of sover-
eigns and ministers bear no small resemblance to the pedigrees of
ancient families with ourselves; the very completeness of which,
sometimes up to the time of the Flood or antecedently thereto,
carries their most conclusive disproof.
Looking back then through the so called history of China wo
find records of sovereigns ruling over the Tienhin ages before that
expression had any significance to the Chinese themselves. Yü
and his successors, who, if they had any personal existence, were
merely the chiefs of a small settlement laboriously extending their
fields, won from the plain of the Hwangho, by embankments carried
down by degrees from higher to lower levels, are made to appear
rulers of a great empire; and it is not till late on in time of the
Djow that we really find any tangible limits to the boundaries of
the actual empire. The province of Chehkiang claims the resting
place of the great chief, a fitting burial place certainly were we
to place implicit credence in the legends of the great engineer
and statesman. The object is however not to elucidate the myth
of the great flood and the labours of the three sovereigns but to
draw attention to a still later development of fable.
In a few words history may be said to begin to dawn with the
later monarchs of a stock calling themselves the Djow, and alleging
their descent from a certain King Wan otherwise the Classic
King who ruled over the state of Djow, at that time bearing
allegiance to the empire of the Shang under the corrupt Show or
Chow the last of the line.
A critical examination of the legend of the rise to power of the
Djow will throw some light on the origin of the story which seems
to have sprung from one of the solar myths of the ancient Aryan
race.
First however it is necessary to point out how much the usually
received method of romanising Chinese words has tended to obscure
their connection with the root words of the Aryan family, and
hitherto in great measure to obstruct their intelligent comparison.
Two points in which the Chinese and the other Indo-Chinese
languages differ from those of the great Indo-Germanic family
have been especially potential in throwing a cloud of uncertainty
round this connection, namely the system of tones and the so-

140
THE MYTHICAL ORIGIN OF THE CHOW DYNASTY.
called aspirated consonants. The former seem to have derived
the origin from the initial or final letters and at first to have
been constant in their application; gradually the elision of finals or
initials rendered them merely the echoes of departed sound, and
introduced an element of uncertainty in their application which
has since had a perpetual tendency to increase, till at the present
day their original application is almost entirely clouded under a
host of irregularities and exceptions. The so called aspirates are
the vicious rendering of the ordinary Aryan surds and sonants,
and possibly owe their origin to tradition from pre-existing dialects.
They are produced by checks in pronouncing the consonants more
sharp and distinct than those of the more polished Aryan tongues.
Phonologically compared these checks are found to correspond
with the more simple Aryan system; the so-called aspirates and
non-aspirates being respectively the surds and sonants of the
other.
Other changes may be noticed, but as these generally fall under
the rules of what is known as Grimm's law there is the less need
in this paper to follow them out in detail. Suffice it therefore to
say that the distinction between surd and sonant (or aspirate and
non-aspirate) is as constant and unchangeable in Chinese as in the
Indo-Germanic group, and that it is as difficult for one to be
derived from the other as for a Sanskrit t to change into d.
Applying this rule to the two languages we find a considerable
number of the fundamental roots in the two representative of one
another, and by the light thus afforded may make our first attempt
to compare the myths of the two nations."
Most ancient in Aryan thought is probably the connection of
the bright sky with the Deity, and though the same idea was pre-
eminent in the Chinese mind it was impossible to trace any philo-
logical connection with the Sanskrit Dyaus and the Chinese Tien.
The rule we have enunciated forbids us to derive one from the
other, we can however analyse the Sanskrit word and then will
be in the better position to trace its Chinese analogue, if such exist.
We learn then that the original form of Dynus was Dyu, associated
in Sanskrit, as still in the Indian languages, with the bright clear
sky (literally it is said from the idea of springing forth as French
eclater, to break forth, eventually came to mean to shine). We find
the same word and the same idea as sky or day in the Greek Zeus
the Latin Ju-piter (Father Dyu) not to speak of the Teutonic
Tuisco, and our own Tuesday. In Chinese we have the bright

THE MYTHICAL ORIGIN OF THE CHOW DYNASTY.
141
day as distinguished from the night represented by the analogue
of the same word djow a form which survives in the colloquial
to the present day. Nor is this all; in its sense of all extending
or arching we find the same word djow in the character J,
a character chosen to represent the first historic dynasty. Now
it is sufficiently remarkable that this word Djow the correlative
of the more modern form Tienhia (under the bright sky) should
be the name handed down to us as that of the original seat of
the Chinese empire. Its king Wan-Wang (the Classic King) by
name Chang, the brightness of morning, has by his wife Tai-sze
nine sons, the eldest Bek-yi-kuan of whom nothing of importance
is heard, the second Wu-wang (the military King) the founder of
the empire, but whose name was Fah (literally the sender forth
of light) the third Sien (clear or fresh) the fourth Dan E†
(the dawn). Of the sons Fah and Dan occupy the most conspi-
cuous place, supported indeed by a relation Shih (the carna-
tion coloured).
Their father, ruler of Djow, in dying calls the attention of his
sons Fah and Dan to the iniquities of Show (the Receiver) or
Chow (both apparently forms of the one word and connected
with chow to stink, the Greek orvуew, orv,) the last of the dynas-
ty of Shang, or as its latter portion is generally called Yin. Curiously
Shang, the usual meaning of which is to devise, is also the term
applied to that portion of the night immediately before sunrise,
while Yin though ordinarily meaning flourishing or affluent,
seems related with Yin (obscure, opaque) the correlative of Yang
F(clear, splendid) in the Chinese scheme of cosmogony. Too
much stress may however be laid on mere verbal coincidences in
our present state of ignorance of Chinese philological changes.
The line of Shang is however coming to an end and divers portents
announce it. Show neglects the five virtues and gives himself up
to idleness and irreverence; he cuts himself off from heaven and
introduces disunion amongst the people. He cut through the leg
bones of those who were wading in the morning, and tore out the
heart of the worthy man; he poisoned and caused to sicken the
dwellers within the four seas, and gave his confidence to the
villanous and bad; he neglected the sacrifices and incurred the dis-
pleasure of heaven. More special crimes are that he murders
Bak-kan (the Northern Shield) apparently connected with
the Shih Kan+For ten celestial stems, he imprisons Gedsze
djow tien likewise occurs as the zodiac.
† Dan is apparently connected with the Vedic Ahana the Dawn.

142
THE MYTHICAL ORIGIN OF THE CHOW DYNASTY.
(the Sieve constellation) one of the 28 mansions corresponding
with part of Capricornus; while Weidsze Ke, the Morning star
(Ke the little one) withdraws from the court, and flies
away in woeful plight with the sacrificial vessel of Shang to meet
the coming prince. The affix dsze here usually translated as a title
of honour may he compared with the similar appellation of Kung
and Wang in the incoming dynasty, and has been possibly added
by the euhemerists to square the story.
The end of the Shang rapidly approaches and is announced
by an omen, simple enough according to our explanation, but
which has hopelessly puzzled the Chinese commentators. On the
day of the sacrifice to the Imperial Ancestor a pheasant crows;
the herald of the advent of the Djow or daylight. Meanwhile
King Wang (the Classic King) before spoken of but whose name
was Chang (the Effulgent, literally the light of the rising sun)
was imprisoned by the tyrant Show for protesting against his evil
courses. He finally obtains his freedom, but with his freedom he
feels that heaven has appointed him to put an end to the corruption
of the empire. According to one tradition he himself, according
to another his sons Fah (the Putter forth) and Dan (the Morning),
assemble their forces in the West, Chang having been appointed
by the tyrant Sai-bak or ruler of the West. From the West then
he advances eastwards to the great battle and occupies Li (the
land of the Agriculturists or the Aryans). It was still farther east
however in the land of the herdsmen 4 Mukye, that the great
contest took place, and engaged in it are the two brothers Dan
and Fah, the ever recurring twins of Aryan myth, the Asvins of
the Veda and the Dioscuri of classic mythology.
The forces of Djow, the day, were victorious; they crossed the
ford of Mang (the Beginning), at early dawn. Show led forth
his hosts like the forest, and assembled them on the plains of
the shepherds; they could offer no opposition, but those in front
turned their spears on the hindmost, and the red blood flowed
higher and higher till it floated about the Choo or beaters.
So once arms were donned, and the empire was greatly settled.
Shang was put an end to and the old course restored; Ge (the
Sieve) is let out of confinement and a grave mound erected over
the dead Bak-kan (the Northern Shield).
For
Choo, the beater, we should possibly read Choo the pole star,
the Vedic Akshas,

THE MYTHICAL ORIGIN OF THE CHOW DYNASTY.
143
The new sovereign bowed as he passed the gate of Shang Yung
, scattered around the treasures in the Deer tower and dis-
tributed (fah) the grain of Gü kiau thus conferring great
gifts throughout the empire. He came from Shang to Fung,
stilled the war and attended to the work of peace. He sent his
horses to the south of mount Hwa and drove out his cattle to the
wilds of the peach woods, showing the empire he had no further
use for them as he had soothed the summer regions
Such is the simple legend of the foundation of the Djow dy-
nasty which I have put down as I found it in Dr. Legge's Shoo
King. The proper names I have translated in every case as they
are to be found in any good dictionary, many of them remaining
to the present day the common appellations of the heavenly bodies.
Solar myths and the contest of the dawn with the powers of
darkness undoubtedly underlie much of the mythology or folk-lore
of the Aryan races. Eacus King of Egina was himself the son
of Zeus, the bright heaven; Zeus the strong rising sun carries off
Europa the wide shining dawn, and becomes the parent of Minos
King of Crete. Hercules interferes himself in the government of
Lacedemon and his descendants, dual, like those of Djow, occupy
the throne at a subsequent date.
But if solar myths are thus frequent amongst Aryan tribes,
the labours of the mythologists in endeavouring to reduce all
ancient legend to the strife of the dawn with the dark night have
brought a certain amount of discredit on the fact. It is easy to
make a solar story out of many transactions in authentic history.
The tale of Caesar and Pompey has more than once been adduced;
and the nursery rhyme of the King and the four-and-twenty
blackbirds furnishes a still more complete instance. It is thus
necessary to add that it was no preconceived idea of finding a
solar myth that led me to search the Shoo King for the records
of Djow.
Were the Chinese really to be descended from one of the Aryan
tribes whose civilisation has altered the very face of the earth,
some trace of the stories of Zeus and the other early Gods and
heroes of the race was probably to be found. Yet Chinese cos-
mogony as interpreted by Chinese historians and Chinese com-
mentators showed no trace of this phase of Aryan culture. Tien
and Shang-di and Di (the earth mother) belonged to the later
phase represented in the Vedas, when Indra and the Devas had
usurped the place of the more ancient deity.

144
THE MYTHICAL ORIGIN OF THE CHOW DYNASTY.
If the identification, which there is no reason to doubt, of Dyu
and Djow, the Sanscrit and Chinese forms of the same word the
bright daylight sky, be correct, then the story of the Djow dy-
nasty literally read is one of the most perfect of these legends.
But we have as yet scarcely arrived at its conclusion. Daylight
and Dawn are in many of the myths of the more westerly nations
represented as twin brothers with equal powers and attributes,
but Chinese ethics would not permit such an interference with the
system of subjection of youngers to elders to appear. Fah is
therefore the elder brother, and Dan, the dawning, the younger.
Dan is the adviser, the prime minister, the general, the factotum
of the rising empire; his are the horses and chariots and more
especially to him is attributed that stumbling block of Chinese
tradition the south pointing chariot. Seen as the reflection of
a solar myth its meaning becomes apparent and we need for its ex-
planation no more tales of the invention of the mariner's compass.
The rising sun gradually climbs the heavens, and as it rises higher
and higher its course is more and more directed to the south. Dan
however, great as he is, never presumes to occupy his brother's
position though evil tongues more than hint at his infidelity.
His elder brother becomes ill, the clouds overshadow him and the
younger offers himself as a sacrifice in his stead to his great
ancestors; his prayer is written on tablets and enclosed in the
metal bound coffer. Heaven does not require the sacrifice; the
clouds move off and Fah's life is spared. Fah however finally dies.
Cheng (the completer) succeeds him and jealous eyes are turned
on Dan. He resided in the east for two years longer, till the
criminals were taken; he presented the poem of the "Owl" to the
King, but this being only partially successful the metal coffer is
opened, a great storm of thunder and lightning having convinced
the King that something was wrong. In the coffer is found the
prayer, and his purity of mind is put beyond question; Heaven
sends down rain, the crops beaten down by a furious wind spring
up again, the overturned trees are replanted and prosperity marks
the year.
There is yet however another aspect in which the story of the
Djow has to be reviewed; myth merges in tradition, and while
Fah and Dan are none the less solar heroes we are not to be
surprised at finding referred to them the dim memories of the
past. As hinted above we find Wu Wang in occupation of the
Li country, now Li representing the Chinese people in the

THE MYTHICAL ORIGIN OF THE CHOW DYNASTY.
145
phrase Li-min, and Lito. plough may justly be taken as one
and the same word, differentiated merely by the substitution of 4
go or niu an ox in the lower part of the latter. We do no vio-
lence to philological principles by recognising in the word the
old root ar of the Aryan tongues. In the occupation then of Li
by the Djow we mark the onward progress of Aryan invasion.
It does not however stop here, but overflows eastwards into the
country of the herdsmen the Muk-ye, the wilderness where
Turanian tribes drove about their flocks in search of pasture, like
the Nomads of Mongolia of the present, and of Manchouria of the
last century.
Before its advance the wild tribes disappear, they make a stand
indeed and offer battle, but the Mang the Rubicon has been
crossed and the superior arts of the invaders tell sorely and surely.
It needs no long struggle to decide the mastery; the ruder tribes
turn their arms against one another and melt away, as in our own
days we have seen the American Indian melt away before the
progress of an advancing race.
Myth and tradition here as everywhere else go hand in hand
and between the two occurs the debateable land which may belong
to either. The old Aryan myth of the struggle of light against
darkness, not inaptly fits in with the tradition of the conquest of
barbarism by civilisation; and the tales of the sky, of the rising
dawn, and the expiring night, afford the basis for the personification
of decaying tradition. To quote Max Müller (Chips from a German
Workshop, vol. II page 172). "Here then we see that mythology
does not always create its own heroes, but that it lays hold of real
history and coils itself so closely, that it is difficult, nay, almost
impossible, to separate the ivy from the oak, the lichen from the
granite to which it clings. And here is a lesson which compara-
tive mythologists ought not to neglect. They are naturally bent
on explaining everything that can be explained; but they should
bear in mind that there may be elements in every mythological
riddle which resist etymological analysis, for the simple reason
that their origin was not etymological but historical." If there
seem to be, as I believe there is, a sharper line of demarcation
between Chinese myth and Chinese tradition, than between the
myths and legends of other branches of the family, it is to be at-
tributed to the early epoch at which the language became moulded
into its present symbolic form. Chang, Fah and Dan would ages
ago have suffered as much dialectic degradation as their analogues
19

146
THE MYTHICAL ORIGIN OF THE OHOW DYNASTY.
in classic history, were it not that in the Shooking we have
their symbolic representations as well as their phonetic equivalents.
Wu Wang the Martial King and Chow Gung lead us to the con-
fines of tradition, into the realms of which we are taken in the
contest between the cultivators and the herdsmen.
Such is the myth of the foundation of the Chinese empire.
I have given it in its plain simplicity, laying on one side the many
subsidiary stories pointing in the same direction, by which it is
surrounded. If I have made it interesting I hope the subject
will not be neglected by those with more time and better oppor-
tunity, and that a more intelligent system of criticism than blindly
following the Chinese commentators will be introduced.
If the origin of the Djow be a myth, that of antecedent dynas-
ties must revert to mere tale. We can readily understand how
more horary characters stand for monarchs, and how Chinese astro-
nomy bungled in its calculations of eclipses long past. We may
search the national records for traces of traditions of still earlier
ages, but we must give up for more intelligible deductions, the
long lines of monarchs and dynasties into which the prosaic ten-
dency of Chinese historians and commentators has attempted to
turn the cosmogony of a race, from which our own civilisation as
theirs derives its origin.