ARTICLE XIII.
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA, &c. DURING
THE YEARS 1871 AND 1872.
1871
N happy contrast to the record of the preceding
year the retrospect of 1871 presents no event of
conspicuous importance to China, either in her in-
ternal or external relations. The agitation against
"foreigners in general, and missionaries in particular
which culminated so tragically in June 1870 reappeared
in a mild form at various places, and continued to
smoulder during 1871, but without leading to violence or
outbreak. Symptoms of disquiet in the country have not
been wanting, but this may be presumed to be a chronic
state of affairs, only brought more prominently to the notice of
foreigners of late by the extended means of observation available
to them. From Newchwang and Swatow lawless acts have been
reported, and insurrection was threatened in Honan; but the most
formidable rising against the constituted authorities was probably
that noticed by Mr. White, Commissioner of Customs at Ningpo,
which occurred on the borders of Chekiang and Anhwei provinces,
and in which were implicated 10,000 disbanded braves to whom
grants of land had been given in the districts depopulated by
the Taiping Rebellion. This disturbance was put down without
difficulty.
The success of the Imperial Arms in quelling the Mahomedan
insurrection in Kansuh and in subjugating the Miautze in Kwei-
chow have been uninterrupted if not brilliant; and the authority
of the government has been asserted with effect among the tur-
bulent tribes of Kwangtung and Fokien. In the revolted province
of Yunnan, however, no progress seems to have been made by
either belligerent. The occupation by the Russians of the town.
and fortress of Kuldja in Chinese Turkestan definitively cuts off
an extensive region from allegiance to the Emperor of China.
31

242
RETROSPECT.
The recovery of the central and eastern parts of China from the
effects of the Taiping devastations has progressed satisfactorily
during the year, and improvement is to be noted in the condition
of the agricultural, industrial, and to some extent also of the
commercial classes throughout the country, except in districts that
have been overtaken by natural calamity. Unhappily the excep-
tions under this head are of great magnitude. Inundations on a
small scale have been reported in Liautung and in Kwangtung;
but in the province of Chihli extensive tracts have been laid per-
manently under water, the means of drainage being wholly insuf-
ficient to draw off the body of water that has escaped from the
canals and rivers and overflowed the plain. Mr. Commissioner
Hannen of Tientsin reports 45 rainy days in the months of July,
August and September and adds that "it never rained in anything
but the steadiest and most determined downpour," resulting in
the bursting of the embankments of the Grand Canal, the Yung-
ting-ho, Si-ho, and other rivers. In the Tientsin "Foo" 200
villages with a population estimated at 80,000 were reported to
be flooded in October; and there were three other Foos within
the area of the inundated country, viz: Pao-ting (the provincial
capital) Shun-tien (Peking) and Ho-chien. The extent of country
more or less under water is estimated by Mr. Hannen at 1,000 li
from north to south, and 600 li from east to west. It would be
impossible to obtain any accurate idea of the destruction of life and
the means of living by these vast inundations, but unquestionably
the sufferings of the people have been most severe.
In the south of China a scarcity, amounting to famine, was felt
towards the close of the year, but thanks to the telegraph, the
large available fleet of ocean going steamers in the Chinese waters,
efficient commercial machinery generally, and an enlightened
policy on the part of the Chinese government which permits the
exportation of grain from one province to another, the demands
of Kwangtung were promptly supplied.
The gratuitous distribution of Mulberry trees among the people
of Kiangsu with a view to the extension of sericiculture in the
province has attracted honorable notice to the late Taoutae of
Chinkiang (Shên); and among the other improvements of the
year must be ranked the increase in Tea cultivation in the island
of Formosa where the article now takes rank as a constituent of the
export trade.

RETROSPECT.
243
The traffic in Chinese Coolies has continued to flourish at Macao,
and two deplorable casualties have resulted from it this year-one
the murder of the Captain and crew of the French ship Nouvelle
Penelope by the coolies who constituted her cargo, the other the
burning of the Dolores Ugarte close to Hongkong, which was
attributed to the emigrants on board of her.
Rapid advances have continued to be made by the Chinese
government in the creation of coast defences. The arming of the
Taku forts with the most powerful modern artillery has especially
attracted the attention of foreigners; and the growth of an efficient
native-built and native-manned and officered steam navy has
excited much admiration. The arsenals at Shanghai, Nankin and
Foochow have been kept going with unflagging zeal, and have
now been brought to a high pitch of efficiency both in the casting
of heavy guns and in the construction of ships with all their en-
gines and equipment.
In her foreign relations China achieved a decided diplomatic
success in the official reception by the President of the French
Republic of His Excellency Chung-How, who was despatched to
France on a special mission in connexion with the Tientsin Mas-
sacre. In view of the so-called "Audience Question" which looms
over foreign relations with the Chinese Court and constitutes the
coming diplomatic "difficulty" at Peking it was expected in some
quarters that advantage would be taken by the French government
of the Mission of Chung-How to obtain a proper reception of the
French Minister at Peking as a condition of granting the like
privilege to the Chinese Envoy at Versailles. M. Thiers however
received Chung-How unconditionally, leaving the Ministers in
China to fight the audience question on its own merits and on
their own resources.
A Treaty of Peace and Commerce was signed, at Tientsin,
between Prince Date representing the Mikado of Japan and Li
Hung-chang representing the Emperor of China, in October 1871.
H. E. Tsêng Kwo-fan, Vice-Roy of the Liang Kiang, visited
Shanghae on 29th November.
Telegraphic communication between Shanghae and Hongkong
was established on April 18th, and the line from Hongkong to
Singapore was opened on June 3rd thus completing the commu-
nication between China and the Western World. The lines have
worked with fair success during the year, and the coast cables to
Hongkong and Nagasaki have been extensively made use of by
Chinese merchants.

244
RETROSPECT.
In accordance with a programme originating with the Consul-
General in Shanghae in 1868, an American Naval Expedition was
despatched to Corea in the summer of this year under the direction
of the Hon. F. F. Low, U. S. Minister in China, and under the
immediate command of Admiral Rodgers. The object of the ex-
pedition was to enquire into the fate of the crew of the schooner
General Sherman, which vessel was destroyed in Corea in 1866,
and to take advantage of the opportunity to conclude a Treaty of
Commerce with the Corean government, or if that were found
impracticable, to obtain a Treaty for the protection of vessels and
their crews cast on the Corean shores by stress of weather. The
Coreans however resisted the approach of the Americans, and
after capturing several batteries and a strongly garrisoned citadel
in front of the town of Kang-hoa, Admiral Rodgers found his
forces inadequate to follow up these successes, and the squadron
shortly afterwards withdrew from Corea without having achieved
any of the results hoped for. A haughty defiance was the only
reply vouchsafed by the Regent of Corea alike to the friendly
overtures of Mr. Low, and the ruder appeals of the Admiral.
1872
NOTWITHSTANDING the efforts of the authorities to mitigate the
sufferings of the population, great distress existed during the
winter of 1871-72 in the flooded districts of Chihli. His Excel-
lency Li-hung-chang, Vice-Roy and Governor-General of the
province early in the year drew the attention of the Supreme
government to the fact that the breaches in the embankments of
the canals and rivers were due to the misappropriation of the funds
annually set apart for their conservation; and almost simulta-
neously an Imperial Edict appeared ordering a tablet to be placed
in the temple of Ta-wang at Tientsin in honour of the River-
God who, during the floods, had been worshipped in the form of a
snake, and by whose timely interposition the deluge was stayed.
The breaches in the embankments had been repaired under the
supervision of the Vice-Roy, at a cost estimated by himself at
295,000 taels. On the 12th August Li reported the completion
of the works, and submitted a detailed account of what had been
done, with the amount of money expended. At the same time Li,

RETROSPECT.
24x
by way of assuring their Majesties that a period of agricultural
prosperity was to follow the recent floods, forwarded a Memorial
reporting the discovery in more than one district in the province
of double-headed wheat stalks, a phenomenon of happy augury.
Unfortunately, however, for the success of Li-hung-chang's con-
gratulations this Memorial had scarcely appeared in the Gazette,
when the newly repaired embankments of the Yung-ting-ho, the
Peiho and the Imperial Canal again gave way, and before the
waters which flooded the plains in 1871 had been drawn off, the
country was once more submerged. Out of the 144 hsien in the
province of Chihli we learn from the interesting reports of Mr. Com-
missioner Hannen that the population of 57 were sufficiently impov-
erished by these fresh floods to warrant the remission of taxes in
their favour; and the country in the vicinity of Tientsin is des-
cribed as presenting the aspect of a sea, traversed by sailing boats.
On this disastrous state of things being revealed Li-hung-chang
was assailed with caustic reproaches by one of the Censors, Pe-
pau-dsze, and the Emperor ordered the names of the Mandarins
recommended by Li to be struck off the list for promotion. Up to
the end of 1872 the waters still cover the land, and over a larger
tract of country than in the preceding year.
It has been noted that the four seasons never pass without the
occurrence of famine either in one part of China or another. In
the present year the most urgent complaint under this head comes
from the fertile and prosperous province of Szechuen. Owing, we
are told, to a dry summer, a wet autumn and a continuous down-
pour of rain in the succeeding spring, the scarcity of food was so
severely felt that the Vice-Roy of that province solicited the Im-
perial sanction to a remission of Li-kin taxes to the amount of
200,000 taels. A cry of distress comes likewise from Yunnan,
the eastern and southern portions of which province claim to be
still under Imperial rule. The sinews of war have failed in that
quarter, for the Li-kin tax produces nothing, trade being extinct;
and "the roads overgrown with thorns;" and the army of Yunnan
has had to depend on contributions from more prosperous provinces.
These contributions, however, by reason of the remoteness of the
region to be supplied have failed to reach the theatre of war. One
of the Censors therefore urges on the Imperial government, as a
means of replenishing the exhausted military chest of Yunnan,
the re-opening of the Copper mines and Salt pits in the province.
The arrears of remittances due to Yunnan by other provinces

246
RETROSPECT.
"The
would, he submits, be the legitimate source whence to obtain the
capital required to commence the works. Kwangtung alone, ac-
cording to his account, owes 500,000 taels, half of which would
be sufficient to set the mining works agoing. Besides supplying
funds for carrying on the war against the Mahomedan insurgents,
other important advantages would flow from the re-opening of the
Copper mines, which are thus classified by the Censor.
people of Yunnan are chiefly dependent on the mines for a liveli-
hood, so that when these were closed one-half of the miners were
driven by want to join the rebels. If the mines were re-opened,
the miners would return to their work, and the enemy would be
unable to stir up disaffection among them. Secondly, the resus-
citation of the copper trade would give such an impulse to business
generally that merchants and settlers would be induced to emi-
grate from other parts. Yunnan is so thinly populated that an
influx of settlers is greatly needed. Thirdly, the government
would have an abundant supply of copper for the mint. The supply
has been so inadequate of late that the currency has become both
debased and insufficient."-N.-C. Herald.
The annals of the year have not been free from the usual out-
breaks of banditti and disaffected people, in various parts of the
country. Rebellion simmers in Honan: a conspiracy at Soochow
caused some alarm to the authorities in the early summer and
"bread-riots" have occurred in some places. But the successes.
of the Imperial arms against the Mahomedans in the North-west
and the Miautze in Kweichow have been well marked, and have
again raised the prestige of the government. From the interesting
reports of that distinguished explorer Baron von Richthofen,
published in Shanghai in March 1872, we learn that the desultory
struggle which had been kept up in Shensi from 1861 till 1870
with varying results, but in which the Imperialists were latterly-
being driven back was brought suddenly to a close in the spring
of 1870 by the reported approach of Li-hung-chang with an army
of foreign-drilled and armed troops from Wuchang. The Maho-
medan rebels without waiting to exchange a shot with the new
levies evacuated the provincial capital Si-gnan-fu and retreated
precipitately into Kansuh, where they by last accounts occupied
two strongholds Ho-chau and Lan-chau; but were being followed
up by Tso-kung-pau, Governor-General of Shensi and Kansuh, and
by a portion of Li's disciplined troops under the command of Tsau-
chu-men,

RETROSPECT.
247
In Kweichow the Miautze, except a few thousand occupying
the inaccessible parts of the mountains, have been subdued by the
forces under Tso-tao-wa, and it must be added that the Imperial
officers have, as their manner is, stained their victory with trea-
chery and with most revolting cruelties practiced on their van-
quished enemies, whose crime was a gallant but unequal struggle
for their independence. The latest news received from Kweichow
is from a foreigner employed on General Tso's staff, and is dated
Sin-chen, 9th November 1872. It reports the capitulation of the
Mahomedans who held that city, and it is satisfactory to know that
in this instance the honors of war were accorded to the garrison.
This is said to be the last Mahomedan stronghold remaining in
Kweichow, Sun-ye-foo having been surrendered in June.
The port of Kiungchow in the island of Hainan was visited by
Mr. Hart, Inspector-General of Customs, about the beginning of
June with a view to its being opened to foreign trade and residence
under the Treaty of Tientsin. Mr. Hart was accompanied by a
number of native officials, and by Mr. Henderson, Engineer-in-
chief of the Customs' service, Mr. H. O. Brown, Commissioner,
and Mr. Brenan of the British Consular service.
Much discussion has taken place in Shanghai on the contraction
of the river channel and repeated applications have been made to
the Chinese government to have the "Bar" near Woosung dredged
so as to admit of the free ingress and egress of the large steamers
which now perform the long sea voyages to and from the port.
Several useful additions have been made to the Chinese Steam
fleet during the year, and on the 24th May the first frigate was
launched from the Kaou-chang-meaou building yard. She is 263
feet long, extreme, carries 26 40-pounder rifled guns on broadside
battery, with 2 90-pounder Krupp pivot guns; and has a nominal
horse-power of 400. This vessel is to be followed by another of
similar dimensions. The exertions of the high authorities to place
the country in a state of defence against invasion by sea continue
unabated. Roads for artillery have been constructed by the Vice-
Roy of Chihli between Tientsin and Taku; and the ingenuity of
Dr. Macartney at Nankin has placed the Chinese in possession of
that formidable weapon for river defence, the torpedo.
The various independent squadrons, under the control of Vice-
Roys, and belonging to the Customs' service, have since November
been placed under the new dragon flag.

248
RETROSPECT.
The "Chinese Mercantile Steam Navigation Company" has
been formed under official auspices for coast service, with a special
view to carrying the Tribute Rice to Tientsin. The Company has
commenced its operations by purchasing some old steamers from
foreigners, but some new vessels are shortly to be added.
Baron von Richthofen completed the last of his interesting
journeys in the interior of China in the spring of this year. Start-
ing from Peking in October 1871 he made a short excursion into
the southern portion of Mongolia: then southwards through the
province of Shansi to Tung-kwan, the celebrated fortress situated
at the great bend of the Hwang-ho. Thence he travelled to Si-
gnan-fu, and through Shensi to Szechuen, intending to penetrate
to Yunnan. The latter part of the programme had, however, to
be abandoned; and the traveller returned to Shanghai in May,
taking his final departure for Europe in October. The report of
this last journey published by the Shanghai Chamber of Commerce
is replete with interest and is full of important information.
Since the establishment of a kindred society in Yokohama, to
say nothing of the periodical press which is there conducted with
conspicuous ability, the less need is felt for this society to embrace
in its retrospect events which transpire in the Japanese islands.
Yet the progress of the government and people of Japan in
adopting European precedents in politics, finance, religion, manners
and social ethics, is too remarkable to be passed over without some
notice. Within a year we have heard of several astounding
changes in that country which have been effected in the most
orderly manner. The persecution of Christians which was referred.
to in the last number of this Journal, has ceased and the victims
have been reinstated. On the other hand the Buddhist religion
has been disestablished if not proscribed, and the temporalities of
the sect converted to the secular use of the government.
Nothing seems to be too great or too small for the Japanese
Reformers; and we find prostitution and female slavery, fashions
in dress, furnishing of houses, down to so apparently trivial a matter
as expectoration in the streets, all summarily dealt with in the
Edicts of the Mikado; and the Calendar has been assimilated to
that in use among Western nations.
The Railway between Yedo and Yokohama was opened to the
public by the Mikado on the 13th November and has since been
working successfully.

RETROSPECT.
249
The land lines of telegraph connecting Nagasaki and Yedo,
and the open ports of Japan with the general sub-marine system
of the world have been completed some time, but have not yet
been opened for general use.
An International Exhibition was opened at Kioto in May last,
which attracted many visitors, who were generally charmed with
the kindly reception they met with, and with the natural attractions
of the city and its environs.
Not the least note-worthy of the occurrences of the year is the
attitude assumed by the Japanese government in regard to the
traffic in emigrants to South America. A Coolie ship, the Maria
Luz under Peruvian colours, and bound from Macao to Callao,
put into Yokohama from stress of weather. Peru having no treaty
with Japan, the government of the Mikado, prompted doubtless by
their foreign advisers, assumed their full territorial rights according
to the law of nations, and ordered an investigation into the terms
of the contracts under which the Coolies were held to service.
These contracts being pronounced invalid alike by the laws of
Japan, of China and the Law of Nations, the Coolies were set at
liberty by the Japanese Court; and were shortly afterwards for-
warded to Shanghai and thence to their homes in Kwangtung
One of the most gratifying features in this case was the new-bor
interest evinced by Chinese government officials in the fate of theil
countrymen abroad. The bold initiative of the Japanese authori-
ties seems to have stirred the energies of the Vice-Roy of the two
Kwang at whose instance a trusty officer, Chên of the Shanghai
Mixed Court, was despatched to Yokohama to watch over the
liberated Coolies and to provide a passage for them to China. A
precedent has thus been established which may not be unfruitful
of good in the future.
The obituary of the year includes the name of the "Great
Vice-Roy," Tseng-kwo-fan, who died on the 12th March at Nan-
kin, at the age of 65, mourned sincerely by the government to
which he had rendered long and distinguished services, and by
the people whom he ruled and whose affections he had won in an
unusual degree. Tsêng-kwo-fan's political views were doubtless
of that type which is known as "anti-foreign," but no foreigner
will grudge his tribute of respect to the memory of an eminent
soldier, statesman and scholar who had the good fortune to earn
the gratitude of his own countrymen.
32

250
RETROSPECT.
A Chinese Educational Mission to the United States has elicited
some interest among foreigners, but little definitely is known of
the real designs of its promoters. The "Mission" is composed of
some 30 pupils under the charge of Chun-lan-pin, a native of
Canton and an Under Secretary of the Board of Punishment. It
left Shanghai in August for San Francisco.
The Emperor of China having attained his majority was married
at Peking on October 16th to Ah-lu-te, daughter of Chung-chi,
a lecturer in the academy of Han-lin and now raised to the dignity
of Duke,