JOURNAL
OF THE
NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF THE
ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.
ARTICLE I.
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA,
DRAWN FROM CHINESE SOURCES.*
BY THE REV. ARCHIMANDRITE PALLADIUS.
INTEND in the following notes to verify, by means of Chinese
I documents, some of Marco Polo's statements regarding his
route from Lobnor, to Shangtu in the northern part of China
proper. I do not undertake to explain all the dark and doubtful
points in the narrative of the celebrated traveller, but merely offer
some information in as far as my acquaintance with Chinese
literature may enable me. The abundant and multifarious
material found in this literature is well nigh inexhaustible; but a
considerable collection of books and a good deal of time are re-
quired, to admit of the systematical research necessary for the
solution of the questions before us. As a basis for my investiga-
tions, I have chosen Col. H. Yule's work, The Book of Ser Marco
Polo, etc., London, 1871. The vast work of this learned com-
mentator obviates the necessity of discussing many questions
which have already been solved by him with the sound critical
judgment which distinguishes his conclusions.
BOOK I.
Ch. XXXVIII.-Charchan.
"CHARCHAN is a Province of Great Turkey, lying between north-east
and east. The people worship Mahommet. There are numerous
towns and villages, and the chief city of the kingdom bears its
name, Charchan. The Province contains rivers which bring down
jasper and chalcedony, and these are carried for sale into Cathay
* Read before the Society on January 20th, 1875.

2
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
where they fetch great prices. The whole of the Province is
sandy, and so is the road all the way from Pein, and much of the
water that you find is bitter and bad. However at some places
you do find fresh and sweet water. When an army passes through
the land, the people escape with their wives, childrea, and cattle
a distance of two or three days' journey into the sandy waste; and
knowing the spots where water is to be had they are able to live
there, and to keep their cattle alive, whilst it is impossible to dis-
cover them; for the wind immediately blows the sand over their
track." (Vol. i, p. 178.)
*
Such a name is not met with, either on the 16th century map
or in other extant geographical documents relating to the Mongol
period; a name similar to it occurs for the first time in a descrip-
tion of the route from China to the west, as far as the Mediter-
ranean Sea, compiled in the time of the Ming dynasty.+ Eight
hundred and fifty li west of Turfan, the town Karahashitie is
mentioned in the itinerary. To the south of this town, it is
further stated, is a river Che-li-ch'ang. Two hundred li
further on (west) is mentioned
He-shui-ts'iuen "Black-
Ch'e-li-ch'ang.
water's source." To the north of this is the town of
Ch'a-li-shi, and to the south, the town of
Three hundred li west of the Black-water's source, is mentioned the
well of Ch'a-li-ch'a; and to the north,
Ho-yen
shan "the Mountain of Fire." There is no necessity to see in
this "Mountain of Fire," the mountain
Nao-sha shan,
which lies a hundred li north of Kutch. Chinese geographers
state that "burning caverns" are found in the mountain range of
Tien shan, on the whole distance from Turfan to Kutch.
Appended to the
Hai kwo t'u chi, and to vol iv of
the Contributions of the members of the Russian Ecclesiastical Mission,
Peking.
+ This itinerary, published with some modifications during the present
dynasty, is appended to the extensive work, FT
#
Tien hia kiun ko li ping shu, or "Strategetical Description of China (com-
menced in 1639, terminated in 1662)." There exist also manuscript copies of
this itinerary, but they are, like the printed work, full of errors and discrepan-
cies. The compilation of this itinerary, or at least the principal information
contained in it, must belong to the beginning of the 15th century. It is men-
tioned in the Hwang ming ta ching ki, that in 1415,
Ch'en Ch'ing returned from the western countries after three years'
travels, and that he wrote a detailed description of the countries he visited.
This description probably served as a groundwork for the itinerary. There
was another traveller, An Chi-tao, who was despatched to
Tamerlan in 1395, and returned in 1407; he also wrote a description of the
western countries; but it was not published even in the time of the Ming
dynasty. Vide
Ye ho pien.
See
Hui kiang t'ung chi, and other works.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
3
There seems to be no doubt that Ch'e-li-ch'ang is the "Charchan"
of Marco Polo, and that it is to be found in the present province
of Karashar.
Ch. XXXIX.-Lop, etc.
"LOP is a large town at the edge of the Desert, which is called the
Desert of Lop, and is situated between east and north-east. It
belongs to the Great Kaan, and the people worship Mahommet.
Now, such persons as propose to cross the Desert take a week's
rest in this town to refresh themselves and their cattle; and then
they make ready for the journey, taking with them a month's
supply for man and beast. On quitting this city they enter the
Desert. The length of this Desert is so great that 'tis said it
would take a year and more to ride from one end of it to the other.
And here, where its breadth is least, it takes a month to cross it.
"Tis all composed of hills and valleys of sand, and not a thing to
eat is to be found on it. But after riding for a day and a night
you find fresh water, enough mayhap for some 50 or 100
persons with their beasts, but not for more. And all across the
Desert you will find water in like manner, that is to say, in
some 28 places altogether you will find good water, but in no
great quantity; and in four places also you find brackish water.
Beasts there are none; for there is nought for them to eat. But
there is a marvellous thing related of this Desert, which is that
when travellers are on the move by night, and one of them chances
to lag behind or to fall asleep or the like, when he tries to gain
his company again he will hear spirits talking, and will suppose
them to be his comrades. Sometimes the spirits will call him by
name; and thus shall a traveller ofttimes be led astray so that
he never finds his party. And in this way many have perished.
[Sometimes the stray travellers will hear as it were the tramp and
hum of a great cavalcade of people away from the real line of road,
and taking this to be their own company they will follow the
sound; and when day breaks they find that a cheat has been put
on them and that they are in an ill plight.] Even in the day
time one hears those spirits talking. And sometimes you shall
hear the sound of a variety of musical instruments, and still more
commonly the sound of drums. [Hence in making this journey
'tis customary for travellers to keep close together. All the
animals, too have bells at their necks, so that they cannot easily
get astray. And at sleeping time a signal is put up to show the
direction of the next march.]" (Pp. 180, 181.)
name.
Neither Chinese history nor Chinese geography contains any
mention of the existence of the city of Lop, near the lake of this
The descriptions of Chinese travellers do not show that
the shores of this lake are inhabited at present; the only inhabi-
tants of this locality,-half-savage people numbering several
hundred families,--are settled on two little islands in the lake.
The villages nearest to the lake are on the basin of the river
Tarim, and the line of military posts, which begins at

4
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
It may be that in
on this river also,
Tun-hwang (the ancient Sha-chow), and turns round the
southern part of Lobnor, extends to the Tarim.
the time of Marco Polo, caravans used to stop
and proceeded thence by the present line of posts through the
desert as far as Sha-chow.
In
This desert was known in China of old by the name of
Lew-sha, i.e., "Quick-sand," or literally "Flowing sands.'
Chinese traditions the name of this desert occurs earlier than that
of Sha-mo, the sandy region of Mongolia. Lew-sha is the
western prolongation of Sha-mo; it stretches further south, into
Kukunor, under the name of Mo-hai or Mo-ho-yen desert,*
gradually diminishing in size; from thence it stretches east, to the
sources of the Yellow River, and terminates in a curve on the
north. A Chinese traveller, in the time of the T'ang dynasty,
saw this termination on his way to Lhassa, or as he calls it, this
tail of the great desert; he states that in that place, the desert is
not over fifty li wide. The Lew-sha was the subject of various
most exaggerated stories. We find more reliable accounts of it
in the Chow shu; thus it is mentioned in that history, that
there sometimes arises in this desert a "burning wind," pernicious
to men and cattle; in such cases the old camels of the caravan,
having a presentiment of its approach, flock shrieking to one
place, lie down on the ground and hide their heads in the sand;
on this signal, the travellers also lie down, close nose and mouth,
and remain in this position until the hurricane abates; un-
less these precautions are taken, men and beasts inevitably
perish.
9
Ch. XL.-Sachiu.
"After you have travelled thirty days through the Desert as I have
described, you come to a city called SACHIU lying between the
north-east and east; it belongs to the Great Kaan, and is in a
province called TANGUT. The people are for the most part Idola-
ters, but there are also some Nestorian Christians and some
Saracens. The Idolaters have a peculiar language, and are no
traders, but live by their agriculture. They have a great many
abbeys and minsters full of idols of sundry fashions, to which they
pay great honour and reverence, worshipping them and sacrificing
to them with much ado. For example, such as have children will
feed up a sheep in honour of the idol, and at the New Year, or on
the day of the Idol's Feast, they will take their children and the
sheep about with them into the presence of the idol with great
ceremony. Then they will have the sheep slaughtered and cooked,
and again present it before the idol with like reverence, and leave
*Su chow chi, "Description of Suchow." 1737.
+Tz'e fu yuen kui, a collection of the Sung dynasty ;-
in the division on Embassies.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA,
5
it there before him, whilst they are reciting the offices of their
worship, and their prayers for the idol's blessing on their children.
And if you will believe them the idol feeds on the meat that is set
before it! After these ceremonies they take up the flesh and carry
it home, and call together all their kindred, to eat it with them in
great festivity [the idol-priests receiving for their portion the head,
feet, entrails, and skin, with some part of the meat]. After they
have eaten they collect the bones that are left and store them
carefully in a hutch." (P. 184.)
Sha-chow, the present Tun-hwang hien (a few li
east of the ancient town), has since the Han dynasty always been
considered a very important point; chiefly because all the roads
leading to China from the west passed through it; later accounts
also confirm the statement that Tun-hwang lies on an important
cross-road. Besides communication with Lobnor, it has a desert
road to Turfan and another through Sertennor to Kukunor.*
In 1820, or about that time, an attempt was made to re-establish
the ancient direct way between Sha-chow and Khotan. With
this object in view an exploring party of ten men was sent from
Khotan towards Sha-chow; this party wandered in the desert over a
month and found neither dwellings nor roads, but pastures and
water everywhere.+ M. Polo omits to mention a remarkable
place at Sha-chow, a sandy hillock (a short distance south of this
town) known under the name of Ming-sha shan,-the
"rumbling sand hill." The sand in rolling down the hill produces
a particular sound similar to that of distant thunder. In M.
Polo's time (1292), Khubilai removed the inhabitants of Sha-chow
to the interior of China; § fearing probably the aggression of the
seditious princes; and his successor, in 1303, placed there a garri-
son of ten thousand men.]| Some time later granaries were es-
tablished there, for the supply of the military posts over the site
of the present Djungaria. During the emperor K'ien-lung's reign,
the Tun-hwang district was colonized on a vast scale; in 1830 it
numbered about a hundred thousand inhabitants. T
Ch. XLI. Camul.
"CAMUL is a province which in former days was a kingdom. It
contains numerous towns and villages, but the chief city
bears the name of CAMUL. The province lies between two
deserts; for on the one side is the Great Desert of Lop, and
*Su chow chi.
+Tun hwang hien chi,-in fine.
Tun huang hien chi.
§
|| 16.
Tun hwang hien chi.
Siu t'ung kien kong mu.

6
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
on the other side is a small desert of three days' journey in
extent. The people are all Idolaters, and have a peculiar language.
They live by the fruits of the earth, which they have in plenty,
and dispose of to travellers. They are a people who take things
very easily, for they mind nothing but playing and singing and
dancing and enjoying themselves. And it is a truth that if a
foreigner comes to the house of one of these people to lodge, the
host is delighted, and desires his wife to put herself entirely at the
guest's disposal, whilst he himself gets out of the way, and comes
back no more until the stranger shall have taken his departure.
The guest may stay and enjoy the wife's society as long as he lists,
whilst the husband has no shame in the matter, but indeed con-
siders it an honour. And all the men of this province are made
wittols of by their wives in this way. The women themselves are
fair and wanton. Now it came to pass during the reign of MANGU
KAAN, that as lord of this province he came to hear of this custom,
and he sent forth an order commanding them under grievous penalties
to do so no more [but to provide public hostelries for travellers].
And when they heard this order they were much vexed thereat.
[For about three years' space they carried it out. But then they
found that their lands were no longer fruitful, and that many mis-
haps befel them.] So they collected together and prepared a grand
present which they sent to their Lord, praying him graciously to
let them retain the custom which they had inherited from their
ancestors; for it was by reason of this usage that their gods bestowed
upon them all the good things that they possessed, and without it
they saw not how they could continue to exist. When the Prince
had heard their petition his reply was: Since ye must needs
keep your shame, keep it then,' and so he left them at liberty to
maintain their naughty custom. And they always have kept it
up, and do so still." (P. 189, 190.)
Speaking of Hami, M. Polo describes a strange custom of the
Uigurs, originating in a perverted notion of hospitality. It is
remarkable that the Chinese author Hung Hao, who lived
a century before M. Polo, makes mention in his memoirs * nearly
in the same words of this custom of the Uigurs, with whom
he became acquainted during his captivity in the kingdom of the
Kin. According to the chronicle of the Tangut kingdom of
Si-hia, Hami was the nursery of Buddhism in Si-hia
and provided this kingdom with Buddhist books and monks.
Ch. XLII.-Chingintalas.
"CHINGINTALAS is also a province at the verge of the Desert, and lying
between north-west and north. It has an extent of sixteen days'
journey, and belongs to the Great Kaan, and contains numerous
towns and villages. There are three different races of people in
it-Idolaters, Saracens, and some Nestorian Christians. At the
松濮紀聞 Sung mo lei wen.
+
Si hia shu shi. Edit. 1826.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
7
northern extremity of this province there is a mountain in which
are excellent veins of steel and ondanique. And you must know
that in the same mountain there is a vein of the substance from
which Salamander is made. For the real truth is that the
Salamander is no beast, as they allege in our part of the world,
but is a substance found in the earth; and I will tell you about
it." (Pp. 191, 192.)
Supposing that M. Polo mentions this place on his way from
Sha-chow to Su-chow, it is natural to think that it is Chi kin talas
i.e. "Chi-kin plain" or valley; Chi-kin was the name
of a lake, called so even now, and of a defile, which received its
name from the lake. The latter is on the way from
Kia-yu kwan to An-si chow. The first mention of the
name Chi-kin occurs, as far as I know, in Chinese history, only
after the expulsion of the Mongols from China. When the armies
of the new (Ming) dynasty were driving out the Mongols from
the frontiers of China proper, they found beyond the barrier of
Kia-yu kwan several Mongol aymaks (clans), which at once de-
clared themselves subject to the new dynasty; among them was
an aymak settled near lake Chi-kin, and composed of five hundred
families; the military post Chi-kin wei was formed of
this aymak, the chief of which, whose father had the honorary
title of Ching-siang, i.e. " Minister," was appointed com-
mander of the post. This happened in 1370 to 1380 ;+ and
since that time a separate chapter was devoted to Chi-kin wei and
Chi-kin mung-ku "the Mongols of Chi-kin," in all
the historical and geographical works of the Ming dynasty. To-
wards the middle of the 15th century, the Djagataian sultans
or beks, having taken possession of. Eastern Turkestan, drove out
of Hami the Chingiskhanides of the eastern branch, and made
incursions as far as Su-chow. The Ming government then remov-
ed the Chi-kiu and other Mongols to the interior of China, and
settled them in the district of Su-chow, in the same way as the
emperors Kang-hi and Yung-ching of the present dynasty remov-
ed the descendents of these very Djagataians to Kan-su, in
consequence of the invasions they suffered on the part of the
Djungars. During the war with the Djungars Kang-hi re-establish-
ed the military post of Chi-kin, but when peace was re-established,
* Chikin, or more correctly Chigin, is a Mongol word, meaning "ear;" there
was in Mongolia a Chigin ola, "Ear mountain," i.e., a hill bearing a resem-
blance to an ear; it is probable that the lake has received this name on the
same ground. The above-mentioned itinerary observes that there are two
Chikin lakes, the great and the little one.
+ 大明一統志 Tu ming i lung chi,一皇明從信錄 Hwang
ming ts'ung sin lu, etc.

8
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
the post was reduced to a postal station, and placed under the
administration of An-si.* During the Ming dynasty, Chi-kin
was renowned for some natural products,
kang-sha "sal
ammoniac," shi-yew "petroleum,"
tsung-yung
"orobanche," gold sand found in the northern "Black hills," etc.+
Thus the Chinese accounts of Chi-kin are not in contradic-
tion to the statements given by M. Polo regarding the same
subject; but when the distances are taken into consideration, a
serious difficulty arises; Chi-kin is two hundred and fifty or sixty
li distant from Su-chow, whilst according to M. Polo's statement,
ten days are necessary to cross this distance. One of the three
following explanations of this discordance must be admitted:
either Chingintalas is not Chi-kin, or the traveller's memory failed,
or lastly an error crept into the number of days' journey. The
two last suppositions I consider the most probable; the more so
that similar difficulties occur several times in Marco Polo's narra-
tive. However, having set forth the data, I leave it to readers
who have thoroughly studied Marco Polo's work, to draw their
own conclusion from them.
Ch. XLIII.-Sukchur.
"At the end of those ten days you come to another province called
SUKCHUR, in which there are numerous towns and villages. The
chief city is called SUкCHU. The people are partly Christians and
partly Idolaters, and all are subject to the Great Kaan. The great
General Province to which all these three provinces belong is
called TANGUT. Over all the mountains of this province rhubarb
is found in great abundance, and thither merchants come to buy it,
and carry it thence all over the world. [Travellers, however, dare
not visit those mountains with any cattle but those of the country,
for a certain plant grows there which is so poisonous that cattle
which eat it lose their hoofs. The cattle of the country know it and
eschew it.] The people live by agriculture, and have not much
trade. [They are of a brown complexion. The whole of the
province is healthy.]" (P. 196.)
Su-chow, as a transit-trade point, was always an im-
portant town, from the number of its inhabitants and its wealth.
Marco Polo, however, does not speak favourably of it, and he is
right; in his time this town could not yet have recovered from
the Mongol devastation of 1226. Chingis khan, on his return
from the western countries, laid waste by fire and sword the
country from modern Ning-hia to Sha-chow, to avenge the refusal
+
Ta ts'ing i t'ung chi, and Su chow chi.
Tsien k'io lui shu, "Cyclopædia," edit. 1830, art.-
Su chow chi, etc.
"It has not much trade."

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
9
of the king of Si-hia to join him in his campaign in the west.
Irritated by the obstinate defence of Su-chow by its inhabitants,
he slaughtered them all, men and women, young and old, after
the town was captured.* With respect to rhubarb, of which M.
Polo speaks, the
Su chow chi also makes the remark,
that the best rhubarb, with golden flowers in the breaking, is
gathered in this province (district of Shan-tan), and that it
is equally beneficial to men and beasts, preserving them from the
pernicious effects of the heat. M. Polo notices that the cattle
not indigenous to the province lose their hoofs in the Su-chow
mountains; but that is probably not on account of some poisonous
grass, but in consequence of the stony ground. The Chinese envoy
Kao Kiu-hui, when travelling in A. D. 981, from Kan-chow to
Su-chow, fastened wooden shoes to his horses' hoofs, and tied
yak's skin round and under the camels' feet. The Su chow chi
contains the following remarks on cattle-breeding in that province:
"It cannot be said that horses and horned cattle breed here suc-
cessfully; mules brought from other provinces are sometimes of
extraordinary strength, so that they can carry burdens of from
seven to eight hundred kins weight; but they soon perish, the
climate not agreeing with them. Yaks are bred by the Tanguts
(settled in the Su-chow province), but they cannot be made use of
by our cultivators; it being impossible to employ them in the
fields, as they are not accustomed to our fodder. The cross breed
of the yak and the common cow is a strong one ;§ and fit both for
agricultural purposes and for carrying burdens. The ordinary
mode of conveyance here is on donkeys; military provisions are
carried on them to Hami and Barkul; the transports leave in
spring, and return in autumn. (1737)."
Ch. XLIV.-Campichu.
"CAMPICHU is also a city of Tangut, and a very great and noble one.
Indeed it is the capital and place of government of the whole
province of Tangut. The people are Idolaters, Saracens, and
Christians, and the latter have three very fine churches in the
city, whilst the Idolaters have many minsters and abbeys after
their fashion. In these they have an enormous number of idols,
both small and great, certain of the latter being a good ten paces
*
Si hia shu shi, Annals, and Biography of Li-kung, a
relative of the Tangut kings of Si-hia. His forefather betrayed his king
and went over to Chingis khan; he was with him at the siege of Su-chow.
It is stated in this biography, that Chingis khan spared a hundred and five
families in Su-chow.
+1 Wu tai shi ki.
About 1,000 lbs. ;-somewhat incredible..
§ In Ch. lvii, M. Polo says the same in reference to Si-ning.

10
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S -
in stature; some of them being of wood, others of clay, and others
yet of stone. They are all highly polished, and then covered with
gold. The great idols of which I speak lie at length. And round
about them there are other figures of considerable size, as if ador-
ing and paying homage before them." (Pp. 197, 198.)
Kan-chow has occupied rather an important place in the history
of North China. In the beginning of the 11th century it was the
residence of an Uigur prince. It fell under the Tangut dominion
in 1208. The temple, in which M. Polo saw an idol of Buddha,
represented in a lying position, is evidently
Wo-fo-sze,
i.e., "Monastery of the lying Buddha." It was built in 1103 by a
Tangut queen, to place there three idols representing Buddha in
this posture, which have since been found in the ground on this
very spot. Through Kan-chow was the shortest, and most
direct and convenient road to I-tsi-nay. The latter post used
to be also furnished with provisions through Kan-chow.t
Ch. XLV.-Etzina.
"When you leave the city of Campichu you ride for twelve days, and
then reach a city called ETZINA, which is towards the north on the
verge of the Sandy Desert; it belongs to the Province of Tangut.
The people are Idolaters, and possess plenty of camels and cattle,
and the country produces a number of good falcons, both Sakers
and Lanners. The inhabitants live by their cultivation and their
cattle, for they have no trade. At this city you must needs lay in
victuals for forty days, because when you quit Etzina you enter on
a Desert which extends forty days' journey to the north, and on
which you meet with no habitation nor baiting-place. In the
summer-time, indeed, you will fall in with people, but in the
winter the cold is too great. You also meet with wild beasts (for
there are some small pine-woods here and there), and with num-
bers of wild asses." (P. 202.)
I-tsi-nay, or Echiné, is properly the name of a lake.
Khubilai, disquieted by his factious relatives on the north,
established a military post near lake I-tsi-nay, and built a town, or
a fort on the south-western shore of this lake. The name of I-tsi-
nay appears from that time; it does not occur in the chronicle of
the Tangut kingdom; the lake had then another name. Vestiges
of the town are seen to this day; the buildings were of large
dimensions, and some of them were very fine. § In M. Polo's
time there existed a direct route from I-tsi-nay to Kharakhorum;
traces of this road are still noticeable, but it is no more used. This
Si hia shu shi, Anno.
+ Si hia shu shi.
Siu tung kien kang mu.
§ Su chow chi.
Ib. The displacing of the political centres, and consequently of those

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
11
circumstance, i.e., the existence of a road from I-tsi-nay to
Kharakhorum, probably led M. Polo to make an excursion (a
mental one, I suppose) to the residence of the khans in Northern
Mongolia.
Ch. XLVI.-Caracoron.
"CARACORON is a city some three miles in compass. [It is surrounded
by a strong earthen rampart, for stone is scarce there. And beside
it there a great citadel wherein is a fine palace in which the
Governor resides.] 'Tis the first city that the Tartars possessed
after they issued from their own country." (Pp. 203, 204.)
Everything that the studious Chinese authors could gather and
say of the situation of Kharakhorum is collected in two Chinese
works, Lo fung low wen kao (1849), and
Mung ku yew mu ki (1859). However, no positive
conclusion can be derived from these researches, chiefly in con-
sequence of the absence of a tolerably correct map of Northern
Mongolia.*
Ch. LI.
"You should be told also that all the Grand Kaans, and all the des-
cendants of Chinghis their first Lord, are carried to a mountain
that is called ALTAY to be interred. Wheresoever the Sovereign
may die, he is carried to his burial in that mountain with his
predecessors; no matter, if the place of his death were 100 days'
journey distant, thither must he be carried to his burial." (P. 227.)
There are no,accurate indications in the documents of the Mon-
gol period on the burial-places of Chingis khan and of the khans
who succeeded him. The Yuan shi, or "History of the
Mongol dynasty in China," in speaking of the burial of the khans,
of trade, was followed by a change in the general direction of the routes
across the desert. The emperor Kang-hi, who carried on a long struggle
with the Djungars, traced out several military roads across the Mongolian
desert in various directions, in 1697. The route from 涼州府
Liang-chow fu to I-tsi-nay, and farther to the north-west was explored (v. So
no fang lio). In 1719 communications were established from Kuku hoton.
towards Barkul; this route is described in the Ts'ung si ki lio (translated into.
Russian by M. P. S. Popoff). Trade was not slow in availing itself of the
new routes; the northern limit of I-tsi-nay became the meeting place of
caravans from Kuku hoton and Lan-chow fu, on their way to Burkul and
Urumtsi. Vide Su chow chi and Mung ku yew mu ki.
*M. Paderin (Secretary to the Russian Consulate, Urga) has recently,
on his way from Urga to Ŭliasutai, set himself to the task of finding the site
of Kharakhorum, in following partly the indication contained in the diary
of Chang Te-hui, 1248 (the diary is translated and inserted in the Records
of the Siberian Branch of the Russ. Geogr. Society, Irkutsk, 1867). His
efforts were apparently crowned with success; it is to be regretted that he
had no means to determine astronomically the site; his report is probably
already published by the Geographical Society of Petersburg.

-12
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
mentions only that they used to be conveyed from Peking to the
north, to their common burial-ground in the Ki-lien valley. This
name cannot have anything in common with the ancient K'i-lien
of the Hiung-nu, a hill situated to the west of the Mongol desert;
the K'i-lien of the Mongols is to be sought more to the east. When
Khubilai marched out against Prince Nayan, and reached the
modern Talnor, news was received of the occupation of the khans'
burial-ground by the rebels. They held out there very long,
which exceedingly afflicted Khubilai ;* and this goes to prove that
the tombs could not be situated much to the west. Some more
positive information on this subject is found in the diary of the
campaign in Mongolia in 1410, of the Ming Emperor Yung-lo.+
He reached the Kerulen in the place where this river, after
running south, takes an easterly direction. The author of the
diary notes, that from a place one march and a half before reaching
the Kerulen, a very large mountain was visible to the north-east,
and at its foot a solitary, high and pointed hillock, covered with
stones. The author says, that the sovereigns of the house of
Yuan used to be buried near this hill. It may therefore be
plausibly supposed, that the tombs of the Mongol khans were
near the Kerulen; and that the "K'i-lien" of the Yuan-shi is to
be applied to this locality; it seems to me even, that K'i-lien is
an abbreviation, customary to Chinese authors, of Kerulen. The
way of burying the Mongol khans is described in the Yuan shi
(chap. On the national religious rites of the Mongols,) as well
as in the Ch'ue keng lu, "Memoirs of the time of the
Yuan dynasty."§ When burying, the greatest care was taken
to conceal from outside people the knowledge of the locality of
the tomb. With this object in view, after the tomb was closed,
a drove of horses was driven over it, and by this means the ground
was for a considerable distance trampled down and levelled. It
*
元史類編 Yuan shi lui pieo.
Pe ching lu.
Our well-known Mongolist, N. Golovkin has told us, that according to
a story actually current among the Mongols, the tombs of the former Mon-
gol khans are situated near Tas-ola hill, equally in the vicinity of the
Kerulen. He states also that even now the Mongols are accustomed to
assemble on that hill on the 7th day of the 7th moon (according to an
ancient custom), in order to adore Chingis khan's tomb. Altan tobchi
(translated into Russian by Galsan Gomboeff), in relating the history of the
Mongols after their expulsion from China, and speaking of the khans'
tombs, calls them Naiman tzagan gher, i.e. "Eight White tents" (accord-
ing to the number of chambers for the souls of the chief deceased khans in
Peking), and sometimes simply Tzagan gher, "the White tent," which ac-
cording to the translator's explanation, denotes only Chigis khan's tomb.
§ Extracts from these memoirs are inserted in vol. iv. of the Contribu-
tions of the members of the Russ. Eccl. Mission, Peking.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
is added to this (probably from hearsay), in the
13
Tsao
mu tze Memoirs (also of the time of the Yuan dynasty), that a
young camel used to be killed (in the presence of its mother), on
the tomb of the deceased khan; afterwards, when the time of the
usual offerings on the tomb approached, the mother of this im-
molated camel was set at liberty, and she came crying to the place
where it was killed; the locality of the tomb was ascertained in
this way.
"Let me tell you a strange thing too. When they are carrying the
body of any Emperor to be buried with the others, the convoy
that goes with the body doth put to the sword all whom they fall
in with on the road, saying: "Go and wait upon your Lord in the
other world! For they do in sooth believe that all such as they
slay in this manner do go to serve their Lord in the other world.
They do the same too with horses; for when the Emperor dies,
they kill all his best horses, in order that he may have the use of
them in the other world, as they believe. And I tell you as a
certain truth, that when Mongou Kaan died, more than 20,000
persons, who chanced to meet the body on its way, were slain in
the manner I have told." (P. 217.)
The burying of living men with the dead was a general custom
with the tribes of Eastern Asia. Favourite servants and wives
were usually buried in this way. In China, the chief wives and
those concubines who had already borne children were exempted
from this lot. The Tunguz and other tribes were accustomed to
kill the selected victims by strangulation. In China they used
to be buried alive; but the custom of burying living men ceased
in A.D. 1464.* In the time of the present Manchu dynasty, the
burying of living men was prohibited by the emperor Kang-hi, at
the close of the 17th century, i.e., the forced burying; but volun-
tary sepulture remained in force.+ Notwithstanding this prohibi-
tion, cases of forced burying occurred again in remote parts of
Manchuria; when a concubine refused to follow her deceased
master, she was forcibly strangled with a bow-string. I must
observe, however, that there is no mention made in historical
documents, of the existence of this custom with the Mongols; it
is only an hypothesis based on the analogy between the religious
ideas and customs of the Mongols and those of other tribes.
*
皇明從信錄 Hwang ming ts' ung sin lu,-Ann. The 國史畧
Kwo shi lio (Koku-shi riaku) "Abridged History of Japan," under A.D.
646, says, that in this year the burying of living men with the dead was
prohibited, and it reproaches China with the tardy stoppage of this inhuman
custom.
Yu chi wen. Part ii.
‡寧古志 Ninguta chi.

14
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
Ch. LII.-Pharaoh's Rats.
"They live on the milk and meat which their herds supply, and on
the produce of the chase; and they eat all kinds of flesh, including
that of horses and dogs, and Pharaoh's rats, of which last there are
great numbers in burrows on those plains." (P. 220.)
In the Mongol biography of Chingis khan,* mention is made
of two kinds of animals (mice) used by the Mongols for food: the
tarbagat and kuchugur.
Ch. LIII.
"This is the fashion of their religion. [They say there is a Most High
God of Heaven, whom they worship daily with thurible and in-
sense, but they pray to him only for health of mind and body."
(P. 224.)
The God of Heaven is evidently the Tengri of the Mongols,
the highest object of their reverence. They used to apply to it
the epithets of Dere, "Supreme," and Munke, "Eternal." The
affinity of the Shaman idea of Heaven with that of the Chinese
is indubitable. It does not appear, however, that Shamanism
admits the idea of a personified and intelligent supreme being,
similar to that existing in China, where this idea has inspired
some thinkers, and raised their mind to high spiritual conceptions.||
Still the acknowledgment of Heaven as the highest power, was
the best side of the coarse religion of Shamanism; as the reverent
awe of Heaven was the principal moral check for half savage
tribes. The sacrifice to Heaven consisted in the raising of the
sacrificial flesh on a stake or pole, and the libation of kumiss,
or the milk of a white mare. The sacrificial stake is to this day
the indispensable attribute of Shaman ceremonies. With the
Manchus it is called somo, and is chiefly employed in the offerings
to the Ongons.** It was used also in ancient Corea,++ and
*
+ Aritomys Bobac.
Yuan ch'ao pi shi (Mongol text).
Dorji Banzaroff, in his dissertation "On the Black Religion," i.e.
Shamanism, 1846, has investigated the religious ideas of that system with
all possible fullness; I deem it unnecessary therefore to repeat what has
been already published by him on the subject.
§ Yuan ch'ao pi shi, Mongol text. This ancient text (of the 13th cen-
tury) is the only unquestionable authority on Mongol antiquities, the in-
fluence of extraneous elements not being noticeable in it. Later monuments
of the Mongol literature, as the work of Sanang Setzen and Altan tobchi are
strongly impregnated with Buddhist ideas.
It is sufficient to quote, for instance, the following sentence of a Con-
fucianist "The Supreme Lord (Shang-ti) dwells in an unattainable depth
(darkness), but his presence is flaming everywhere."
This sacrificial stake is indubitably "the tree, to which, as the Russian
chronicles narrate, a pious Russian prince refused to bow."
**
* 大清會典 Tu tsing hui tien.
艹漢 Hun shu.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
15
is even now not unknown in the popular Corean religion.*
The author of the Y yu (middle of 16th century) relates
that in his time, the Mongols used to make human offerings to
Heaven. I quote his words: "The Mongols deeply revere
Before every important undertaking they offer
a human sacrifice to Heaven. For this purpose they usually select
a Chinaman (among the prisoners) of as fine a form as possible,
strip him of his clothes and pour water over him ;.
Heaven.
the victim is bound in the field, and a nimble horseman cuts his
head off at a run; his belly is then cut open, and the bowels are
spread on the ground (as an offering to Heaven)." It is difficult
to vouch for the accuracy of this statement.
Natigay.
"[But] they have [also] a certain [other] god of theirs called NATIGAY,
and they say he is the God of the Earth, who watches over their
children, cattle, and crops. They show him great worship and
honour, and every man hath a figure of him in his house, made
of felt and cloth; and they also make in the same manner images
of his wife and children. The wife they put on the left hand,
and the children in front. And when they eat, they take the fat
of the meat and grease the god's mouth withal, as well as the
mouths of his wife and children. Then they take of the broth
and sprinkle it before the door of the house; and that done, they
deem that their ged and his family have had their share of the
dinner." (P. 224.)
I
Whether this word is to be taken as a corruption of the word
Ongot (according to Yule), or as corresponding to Etugen, is
equally difficult to verify by means of ancient documents.
cannot find in the Mongol text of the Yuan ch'ao pi shi the word
Ongon, or Ongot. The souls of deceased parents and ancestors
are called there Ekes, i.e. "Magnates, Lords;" Ongon is probably
of Tungusian, not Mongol origin. It is necessary to keep in view,
that there exist in Shamanism not only local differences, and
some belonging to certain tribes, but that in the course of time
and under the influence of Buddhism, some essential changes may
have happened. It is not altogether easy therefore, to judge of
ancient Shamanism by that of the present day. I shall add one
new variant to what the learned Col. Yule has collected and set
forth with such precision, on the Shaman household gods. "The
Dahurs and Barhus have in their dwellings, according to the
*
象胥聞 Siang siu ci wen.
+ Dorji Banzaroff is disposed to see in Natigay of M. Polo, the Ytoga of
other travellers, i.e. the Mongol Etugen,-" earth" as the object of venera-
tion of the Mongol Shamans. They look upon it as a divinity, for its
power as Delegei in echen, i. e. "the Lord of Earth," and on account of its
productiveness,-Altan delegei, i.e. "Golden Earth."

16
ELUCIDATIONS CF MARCO POLO'S
number of the male members of the family, puppets made of
straw, on which eyes, eyebrows and mouth are drawn; these
puppets are dressed up to the waist. When some one of the
family dies, his puppet is taken out of the house, and a new pup-
pet is made for every newly-born member of the family. On
new-year's day, offerings are made to the puppets, and care is
taken not to disturb them (by moving them, etc.), in order to
avoid bringing sickness upon the family."*
Ch. LVI.--Bargu.
"And when you leave Caracoron and the Altay, in which they bury
the bodies of the Tartar Sovereigns, as I told you, you go north
for forty days till you reach a country called the PLAIN OF BARGU.
The people there are called MESCRIPT; they are a very wild race,
and live by their cattle, the most of which are stags, and these
stags, I assure you, they use to ride upon. Their customs are like
those of the Tartars, and they are subject to the Great Kaan.
They have neither corn nor wine. [They get birds for food, for
the country is full of lakes and pools and marshes, which are much
frequented by the birds when they are moulting, and when they
have quite cast their feathers and can't fly, those people catch
them. They also live partly on fish.]" (Pp. 236, 237.)
In the Mongol text of Chingis khan's biography, this country
is called Barhu and Barhuchin; it is to be supposed, according to
Col. Yule's identification of this name with the modern Barguzin,
that this country was near lake Baikal. The fact that Merkits
were in Bargu is confirmed by the following statement in Chingis
khan's biography: "When Chingis khan defeated his enemies the
Merkits, they fled to Barhuchin tokum." Tokum signifies "a
hollow, a low place," according to the Chinese translation of the
above-mentioned biography, made in 1381; thus Barhuchin tokum
undoubtedly corresponds to M. Polo's Plain of Bargu. As to
M. Polo's statement that the inhabitants of Bargu were Merkits,
it cannot be accepted unconditionally. The Merkits were not
indigenous to the country near Baikal, but belonged originally,
according to a division set forth in the Mongol text of the Yuan
ch'ao pi shi, to the category of tribes living in yurts, i.e. nomade
tribes, or tribes of the desert. Meanwhile we find in the same
biography of Chingis khan, mention of a people called Barhun,
which belonged to the category of tribes living in the forests; and
we have therefore reason to suppose that the Barhuns were the
aborigines of Barhu. After the time of Chingis khan, this ethno-
graphic name disappears from Chinese history; it appears again
in the middle of the 16th century. The author of the Yu
(1543-4) in enumerating the tribes inhabiting Mongolia and the
He lung kiang wai ki.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
17
adjacent countries, mentions the Barhu, as a strong tribe, able to
supply up to several tens of thousands (?) of warriors, armed with
steel swords; but the country inhabited by them is not indicated.
The Mongols, it is added, call them Black Ta-tze (Khara Mon-
gols). At the close of the 17th century, the Barhus are found
inhabiting the western slopes of the interior Hing'an, as well as
between lake Kulon and river Khalkha, and dependent on a
prince of eastern Khalkhas, Doro beile.+ At the time of Gal-
dan khan's invasion, a part of them fled to Siberia with the eastern
Khalkhas, but afterwards they returned. After their rebellion
in 1696, quelled by a Manchu general, they were included with
other petty tribes (regarding which few researches have been
made) in the category butkha, or hunters, and received a military
organisation. They are divided into Old and New Barhu, ac-
cording to the time when they were brought under Manchu rule.
The Barhus belong to the Mongolian, not to the Tungusian race;
they are sometimes considered even to have been in relationship
with the Khalkhas. § This is all the substantial information we
possess on the Barhu. Is there an affinity to be found between
the modern Barhus and the Barhuns of Chingis khan's biography;-
and is it to be supposed, that in the course of time, they spread
from lake Baikal to the Hing'an range? or is it more correct to
consider them a branch of the Mongol race indigenous to the
Hing'an mountains, and which received the general archaic name
of Bargu, which might have pointed out the physical character of
the country they inhabited,|| just as we find in history the
Urianhai of Altai and the Urianhai of Western Manchuria?
It is difficult to solve this question for want of historical data. T
Chap. LVII.
"On leaving Campichu, then, you travel five days across a tract in
*i.e. "Lower Mongols." On the maps of the Ming dynasty time, the
name Siao Ta-tze, or "Little Mongols" (near the Amur), probably designates
also the Barhu.
+ A Manchu title, conferred on him by the emperor Kang-hi.
Mung ku yew mu ki and Lung sha ki lio.
§ He lung kiang wai ki and Lung sha ki lio.
The Kin shi, or "History of the Kin dynasty," for instance, clearly
proves, that all the tribes of Churchin received their names, from the moun-
tains, rivers and lakes, near which they lived.
In Eastern Siberia, the Buriats of the Buddhist creed give to Shaman
Buriats the name of Bargu Buriats; taking the word Bargu in the sense of
stupid and rude. It is also stated that Manchu officials call the modern Bar-
hus indiscriminately Barhus and Barhu Buriats (N. Gomboeff). The Buriats
are also an ancient tribe, already known in Chingis khan's time. It was
like the Barhun, placed in the category of sylvan tribes. I do not take upon
myself to elucidate this ethnographical discrepancy, founded it may be on
an error or a misunderstanding.

18
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
which many spirits are heard speaking in the night season; and
at the end of those five marches, towards the east, you come to a
kingdom called ERGUIUL, belonging to the Great Kaan. It is one
of the several kingdoms that make up the great Province of Tangut.
The people consist of Nestorian Christians, Idolaters, and worship-
pers of Mahommet." (P. 241.)
Erguiul is Erichew of the Mongol text of the Yuen ch'ao pi shi,
Si-liang in the Chinese history, the modern Liang-chow fu.
Klaproth, on the authority of Rashid-eddin, has already identi-
fied this name with that of Si-liang.
"In this country too is found the best musk in the world; and I will
tell you how 'tis produced. There exists in that region a kind of
wild animal like a gazelle. It has feet and tail like the gazelle's,
and stag's hair of a very coarse kind, but no horns. It has four
tusks, two below, and two above, about three inches long, and
slender in form, one pair growing upwards, and the other down-
wards. It is a very pretty creature. The musk is found in this
way. When the creature has been taken, they find at the navel
between the flesh and the skin something like an impostume full
of blood, which they cut out and remove with all the skin
attached to it. And the blood inside this impostume is the musk
that produces that powerful perfume. There is an immense num-
ber of these beasts in the country we are speaking of." (P. 242.)
Here M. Polo speaks of musk; musk-and rhubarb (which he
mentioned-before*) are the most renowned and valuable of the
products of the province of Kansu, which comparatively produces
very little; the industry in both these articles is at present in the
hands of the Tanguts of that province.+
Chap. LVIII.
"Starting from Erguiul you ride eastward for eight days, and then
come to a province called EGRIGAIA, containing numerous cities and
villages, and belonging to Tangut." (P. 247.)
From Liang-chow fu M. Polo follows a special route, leaving
the modern postal road on his right; the road he took has since
the time of the emperor Kang-hi been called the courier's route.
Egrigaia is. Erigaia of the Mongol text. Klaproth was correct
in his supposition that it is modern Ning-hia. Even now the
Eleuts of Alashan call Ning-hia-Yargai.
In M. Polo's time this
department was famous for the cultivation of the safflower
(carthamus tinctorius).
*In Chap. xliii, describing Sukchur or Su-chow, he says:-"Over all
the mountains of this province rhubarb is found in great abundance, and
thither merchants come to buy it, and carry it thence all over the world."
(P. 196.)
Su chow chi.
Siu t'ung kien, A.D. 1292.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
19
Erigaia is not to be confounded with Urahai, often mentioned
in the history of Chingis khan's wars with the Tangut kingdom.
Urahai was a fortress in a pass of the same name in the Alashan
mountains. Chingis khan spent five months there (an. 1208),
during which he invaded and plundered the country in the neigh-
bourhood.* The Alashan mountains form a semicircle five
hundred li in extent, and have over forty narrow passes leading
to the department of Ning-hia; the broadest and most practicable
of these is now called Ch'i-mu k'ow ;t it is not more than eighty
feet broad. It may be that the Urahai fortress existed near this
pass.
"The capital city is called CALACHAN. The people are chiefly Idolaters,
but there are fine churches belonging to the Nestorian Christians.
They are all subjects of the Great Kaan. They make in this city
great quantities of camlets of camel's wool, the finest in the world;
and some of the camlets that they make are white, for they have
white camels, and these are the best of all. Merchants purchase
these stuffs here, and carry them over the world for sale." (P.
247.)
Calachan is the chief town of the Egrigaia province, according
to M. Polo's statement. M. Polo, when describing the Tangut
kingdom, apparently spoke of a state of things already past in his
time; but preserved in the popular memory. Under the name of
Calachan he probably means the summer residence of the Tangut
kings, which was sixty li from Ning-hia, at the foot of the
Alashan mountains. It was built by the famous Tangut king
Yuen-hao, on a large scale, in the shape of a castle, in which were
high terraces and magnificent buildings. § Traces of these build-
ings are visible to this day. There are often found coloured tiles
and iron nails one foot, and even two feet long.|| The last
Tangut kings made this place their permanent residence, and led
there an indolent and sensual life. The Chinese name of this
residence was Ho-lan shan Li-kung. There is sufficient reason
to suppose that this very residence is named (under the year 1226)
in the Mongol text Alashai nuntuh ;** and in the chronicles of
Si hia shu shi.
+ 赤木口
Ning hia fu chi.
§ Si hia shu shi.
Ning hia fu chi.
The
Li-kung, literally "a separate palace," cannot be translated a suburban
palace, as such palaces in China were often very distant from the
capital; it is more correct to render it by "temporary residence."
Tangut kings had besides this a summer palace. Ho-lan-shan is the Chinese
form of Alashan; in the Mongol text-Alashai.
** Nuntuh (at present Notok) has in the Mongol text the meaning of
'nomade camp, residence, military quarters and military camps."

20
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
the Tangut kingdom, Halahachar, otherwise Halachar, ap-
parently in the Tangut language. Thus M. Polo's Calachan can
be identified with the Halachar of the Si hia shu shi, and can be
taken to designate the Alashan residence of the Tangut kings.
Ch. LIX.
"TENDUC is a province which lies towards the east, and contains
numerous towns and villages; among which is the chief city also
called TENDUC......And when you have ridden seven days eastward
through this province you get near the provinces of Cathay. You
find throughout those seven days' journey plenty of towns and
villages, the inhabitants of which are Mahommetans, but with a
mixture also of Idolaters and Nestorian Christians. They get
their living by trade and manufactures; weaving those fine cloths
of gold which are called Nasich and Naques, besides silk stuffs of
many other kinds. For just as we have cloths of wool in our
country, manufactured in a great variety of kinds, so in those
regions they have stuffs of silk and gold in like variety." (Pp. 249,
250.)
M. Polo does not speak of the journey from Ning-hia to the
boundary of Tenduc through the steppes of the modern Ordos.
The principal route from Ning-hia to the east lies, through the
town of
Shin-mu hien, to the crossing of the Hoang-ho
near the town of Pao-te chow, a distance of 975 li in a straight
line; or 1135 li if taking the indirect way through Yü-
lin. It is the direct road from Shensi to the northern part
of Shansi. The shortest road to Kuku-hoton (the supposed
Tenduc) lies towards a more northern crossing, namely, Hu-
tan-hosho.t Here was the western boundary of the Tien-
te kiun (Tenduc), as it is now the boundary of Kuku-hoton,
Further, the distances between Pao-te chow and Siuen-hwa fu
(Siuen-te chow in M. Polo's time) through Ta-t'ung fu on the one
hand, and between Hutan-hosho and Siuen-hwa fu, through
Kuku-hoton and Ta-t'ung fu, on the other, are almost equal,-
about 950 li. It follows that it comes to the same, whether M.
Polo travelled by the one or other of these routes, and that the
towns which he saw during his seven days' journey, and which
according to his statement belonged to Tenduc, are to be placed
inside, not outside the Great Wall; for if from Tenduc he did not
go to Ta-t'ung fu, but straight east to Shang-tu, it follows that he
could not be in Siuen-te chow, where he would have had to go
down from the mountains, in order afterwards nearly to retrace
*
Explored in 1697. Ping ting so mo fang lio; cf.
the same year.
Gerbillon's journal,
+at the mouth of the Hutan river on the Hoang-ho.
Si hia shu shi.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
21
his steps. It seems to me, then, that M. Polo on his way from
the banks of Hoang-ho to Siuen-te chow travelled mostly inside
the Great Wall. As to the power and the extent of the dominions
of the tribe which inhabited Tenduc, our traveller took historical
traditions for actualities.
The name of Tenduc obviously corresponds to T'ien-te kiun,* a
military post, the position of which Chinese geographers identify
correctly with that of the modern Kuku-hoton.+ The T'ien-te kiun
post existed under this name during the K'itan (Liao) and Kin
dynasties, up to Khubilai's time (1267); when under the name
of Fung-chow it was left only a district town in the department
of Ta-t'ung fu. § The Kin kept in T'ien-te kiun a military chief
Chao-t'ao-shi, whose duty it was to keep an eye on the neigh-
bouring tribes, and to use, if needed, military force against them.
The T'ien-te kiun district was hardly greater in extent than the
modern aïmak of Tumot, into which Kuku-hoton was included
since the 16th century, i.e. 370 li from north to south and 400 li
from east to west; during the Kin it had a settled population
numbering twenty-two thousand six hundred families.
"The king of the province is of the lineage of Prester John, George by
name, and he holds the land under the Great Kaan; not that he
holds anything like the whole of what Prester John possessed. It
is a custom, I may tell you, that these kings of the lineage of
Prester John always obtain to wife either daughters of the Great
Kaan or other princesses of his family.
You must
know that it was in this same capital city of Tenduc that Prester
John had the seat of his government when he ruled over the
Tartars, and his heirs still abide there; for as I have told you this
king George is of his line, in fact, he is the sixth in descent from
Prester John." (Pp. 249, 250.)
Tien-te kiun was bounded on the north by the In-shan
mountains, in and beyond which was settled the Sha-t'o Tu-k'iu
tribe, i.e. Tu-k'iu of the sandy desert. The K'itans, when they
conquered the northern borders of China, brought also under
their rule the dispersed family of these Tu-k'iu. With the ac-
*天德軍
Ta ts'ing y t'ung chi, chap. on the Tumots of Kuku-hoton.
Vide the geographical parts of the Liao shi, Kin shi and Yuen shi; M.
Polo's commentators are wrong in suspecting an anachronism in his state-
ment, or trying to find Tenduc elsewhere.
§ During the Kin dynasty, Tien-te kiun was also the centre of administra-
tion for the agricultural population of the district; and as such was also
called
Fung-chow.
|| 招討使
Yi t'ung chi, Tumots of Kui-hoa ch'ing.

22
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
cession of the Kin, a Wang-ku* family made its appearance, as
the ruling family of those tribes; it issued from those Sha-t'o Tu-
k'iu who once reigned in the north of China as the How T'ang
dynasty (923 to 936 A.D.).+ It split into two branches, the
Wang-ku of the Yn-shan, and the Wang-ku of the Lin-t'ao (west
of Kan-su). The Kin removed the latter branch to Liao-tung
(in Manchuria). The Yn-shan Wang-ku guarded the northern
borders of China belonging to the Kin, and watched their herds.
When the Kin, as a protection against the inroads of the tribes of
the desert, erected a rampart, or new wall, from the boundary of
the T'angut kingdom down to Manchuria, § they intrusted the
defence of the principal places of the Yn-shan portion of the wall
to the Wang-ku, and transferred there also the Liao-tung Wang-ku.
At the time Chingis khan became powerful, the chief of the Wang-
ku of the Yn-shan was Alahush; and at the head of the Liao-tung
Wang-ku stood Pa-sao-ma-ie-li.|| Alahush proved a traitor to
the Kin, and passed over to Chingis khan; for this he was mur-
dered by the malcontents of his family, perhaps by Pa-sao-ma-ie-li,
who remained true to the Kin. Later on Chingis khan mar-
ried one of his daughters to the son of Alahush, by name Po-yao-ho,
who however had no children by her. He had three sons by a
concubine; the eldest of whom, Kiun-pu-hwa, was married to
Kuyuk khan's daughter. Kiun-pu-hwa's. son ** Ko-li-ki-sze had
two wives, both of imperial blood. During a campaign against
Haidu, he was made prisoner in 1298, and murdered. His title
and dignities passed over in A.D. 1310 to his son Chuan.tt No-
thing is known of Alahush's later descendants; they probably
became entirely Chinese, like their relatives of the Liao-tung
branch.
The Wang-ku princes were thus de jure the sons-in-law of the
*E; also called Yung-ku, Ongot of Rashid-eddin, Ongut
of the Mongol text.
+Yuen shi, Biography of Alahush, chap. cxviii, fol. 19.
Yuen shi, Biography of Yue-nai-ho, chap. cxxxiv, fol. 2.
§ Kin shi, an. 1200; Siu t'ung kien, an. 1199-1200; Si hia shu shi, an.
1201. Yi t'ung chi, Tumot. Traces of this wall of the Kin can be seen even
at the present day north of the Great Wall.
Biography of Alahush and of Yue-nai-ho; in the last mention is made
of Pa-sao-ma-ie-li's grandfather-Yue-ko Temur, var. Temur Yue-ko.
Pa-sao-ma-ie-li's son Si-li-ki-sze lost his life in Shensi, in a battle with
the Mongols; his son Yue-nai-ho went over to the Mongols in Munke
khan's time (biography of Yue-nai-ho); his descendant Matsuch'ang was a
well-known Chinese literary man.
**According to the list of princesses in the Yuen shi; but according to
Ki-li-ki-sze's biography he was son of Po-yao-ho's second son Ai-pu-hwa,
who was married to Khubilai's daughter.
++ Biography of Ki-li-ki-sze, in the Yuen shi, chap. cxviii.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA,
23
Mongol khans, and they had moreover the hereditary title of
Kao-t'ang princes (Kao-t'ang wang *); it is very possible that
they had their residence in ancient Tien-te kiun (although no
mention is made of it in history), just as at present the Tumot
princes reside in Kuku-hoton.
The consonance of the names of Wang-khan and Wang-ku
(Ung-khan and Ongu) led to the confusion regarding the tribes
and persons, which at M. Polo's time seems to have been general
among the Europeans in China; M. Polo and Johannes de Monte
Corvino transfer the title of Prester John from Wang-khan, already
perished at that time, to the distinguished family of Wang-ku.
Their Georgius is undoubtedly Ko-li-ki-sze, Alahush's great-grandson.
That this name is a Christian one is confirmed by other testimo-
nies; thus in the Asu (Azes) regiment of the khan's guards was
Ko-li-ki-sze, alias Kow-r-ki, († 1311) and his son Ti-mi-ti-r.+
There is no doubt that one of them was Georgius, and the other
Demetrius. Further, in the Description of Chin-kiang in the
time of the Yuen, mention is made of Ko-li-ki-sze Ye-li-ko-wen,
i.e. Ko-li-ki-sze the Christian, and of his son Lu-ho (Luke).
Ko-li-ki-sze of Wang-ku is much praised in history for his
valour and his love for Confucian doctrine; he had in consequence
of a special favour of the khan two Mongol princesses for wives
at the same time (which is rather difficult to conciliate with his
being a Christian). The time of his death is correctly indicated
in a letter of Joannes de M. Corvino of the year 1305: ante sex
annos migravit ad Dominum. He left a young son Chu-an,
who probably is the Joannes of the letter of Ioannes (Giovani)
de M. C., so called propter nomen meum, says the missionary.
In another Wang-ku branch, Si-li-ki-sze reminds one also of the
Christian name Sergius.
Argons.
"The rule of the province is in the hands of the Christians as I have
told you; but there are also plenty of Idolaters and worshippers
of Mahommet. And there is also here a class of people called
Argons, which is as much as to say in French Guasmul, or, in
other words, sprung from two different races; to wit, of the race
of the Idolaters of Tenduc and of that of the worshippers of
Mahommet. They are handsomer men than the other natives of
the country, and having more ability they come to have authority;
and they are also capital merchants.' (P. 250.)
It is impossible to admit that M.
signate the Christians by this name,
高唐王
+Yuen shi, chap. cxxxv, fol. 7.
Polo had meant to de-
who were called by the
# MChi sun chin kiang chi, chap. xv, fol. 16.

24
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
Mongols Erkeun. He was well acquainted with the Christians in
China, and of course could not ignore the name under which they
were generally known, to such a degree, as to see in it a designa-
tion of a cross-race of Mahommetans and heathens. It is difficult
to understand who is to be meant under the name of Mahommet-
ans. I shall, without venturing upon idle hypothesis, lay before
the reader whatever I have found in Chinese documents of a
nature to elucidate this question.
1.-It is mentioned in the Yuen ch'ao pi shi, that there lived
amongst the Wang-ku a certain Asan, who carried on trade with
the nomade tribes; to judge by his name (Hassan) he was a
Mahommetan. He was, according to the Mongol text of the
Yuen ch'ao pi shi a Sartaht'ai, i.e. native of Sartaul or Sartol.
The Mongols generally called this Western Turkestan, not merely
because it was the country of the Sartes. We see then that in
those times there were, amongst the Wang-kus, emigrants from
Western Turkestan.
*
2.-We find among the tribes mentioned in the Yuen shi one
called A-r-hun; in the ethnographical division adopted by the
Yuen of the tribes and nations subdued by them, in four groups,"
A-r-hun belonged to the second, i.e. to the group of Turk and
other western tribes; the Wang-ku belonged also to this group;
judging by the name of an A-r-hun (Ali) mentioned in the descrip-
tion of Chin-kiang fu, the A-r-hun were Mahommetans.
3. If A-la-un, mentioned in the Yuen shi and not to be found
in the list of tribes, is a variant of A-r-gun, we learn that it
was a distinguished family in the western countries (as history
says) and that it belonged also to the Mahommetan faith, if we
take the names into account.
That is all that I can say about the Argons of M. Polo.
Sindachu.
"All this region is subject to the Great Kaan. There is a city you
come to called SINDACHU, where they carry on a great many
crafts such as provide for the equipment of the Emperor's troops.
In a mountain of the province there is a very good silver mine,
from which much silver is got; the place is called YDIFU. The
country is well stocked with game, both beast and bird." (Pp. 250,
251.)
Siuen-te chow is the modern Siuen-hwa fu. Marco Polo's
remark on the existence of silver mines in this country is cor-
roborated in the Yuen shi, in which it is stated that there were
*The 1st group-the Mongols, and other nomade tribes;-the 2nd group:
Naiman, Wangku, Arhun, Kipchak, Kankly, etc.;-3rd group: the northern
Chinese, Coreans, Kitans, etc.;-4th group: the southern Chinese.-Vide the
list of tribes in the
Ch'ue keng lu.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
25
gold and silver mines in the districts of Siuen-te chow and
Yu chow, as well as in the Ki-ming shan mountain.
These mines were worked by the government itself up to 1323,
when they were transferred to private enterprise.* M. Polo's
Ydifu is probably a copyist's error, and stands instead of Yu chow.
M. Polo stopped in Siuen-te chow on the so-called western road
connecting Shangtu with Peking; which ran from Peking to
Siuen-te chow through the same places as now; but from the latter
town it led, not to Kalgan as it does now,-but more to the west
to a place called now Shan-fang p'u,+ where the pass across the
Ye-hu ling range begins. In the town of Hing-ho,
the modern Kharabalgasun, it joined the present caravan road
from Kalgan, and left it again in the same place. The
distance from Peking to Shangtu by this road was 1095 li.
Besides this western route to Shangtu, there existed yet two
other roads, both to the east of the former, and leading to Shang-
tu through Tu-shi k'ow. One of them diverged at the northern
exit of the Kiu-yung-kwan pass. § The other left at the place
called 土木 Tumu. Both converged in one road towards T'u-
shi-k'ow, and then joined the western road, leading through Ye-
hu ling, at the lake Chagan-nor, south of Shangtu. By this
road it was 750 li from Peking to Shangtu. The Mongol khans
when proceeding to Shangtu for the summer season, used to take
the eastern road through Tu-shi- k'ow, but for the return journey.
followed the western road by Ye-hu ling.|| On both these roads
nabo, or temporary palaces, were built, as resting-places
for the khans; eighteen on the eastern road and twenty-four on
the western,**
Ch. LXI.
"And when you have ridden three days from the city last mentioned,
between north-east and north, you come to a city called CHANDU,
which was built by the Kaan now reigning. There is at this
place a very fine marble Palace, the rooms of which are all gilt
and painted with figures of men and beasts and birds, and with
a variety of trees and flowers, all executed with such exquisite art
that you regard them with delight and astonishment." (P. 263.)
*Siu t'ung kien, ann.
+
Called
about 30 li from Kalgan.
Fu-chow at the time of the Kin.
§ This branch was called the Palankin road.
The greater part of the khan's suite and baggage usually went by the
way of Ku-pe k'ow.
Nabo or Naba is a Kitan name; the Kin adopted it, and it passed from
them to the Mongols.
*LYuen shang tu yi ch'ing k'ao (Researches on
the routes to Shangtu).

26
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
M. Polo's statement that he travelled three days from Siuen-te-
chow to Chagannor, and three days also from the latter places to
Shangtu, agrees with the information contained in the "Researches
on the routes to Shangtu." The Chinese authors have not given
the precise position of lake Chagannor; there are several lakes
in the desert on the road to Shangtu, and their names have changed
with time. The palace in Chagannor was built in 1280.*
Chandu, Shantu, i.e. "the upper capital," called also Loan
king, i.e. "the capital on the Loan river." Mangu khan
having in 1256 committed to Khubilai the task of building
a residence near the limits of China proper, had in view to
establish a southern ordo (residence), and in it a fair for the
trade between China and Mongolia ; but violating the will of
his predecessors whose plan was not to leave the steppes, but to
govern the subjugated populations from the depths of Mongolia,
Khubilai preferred a settled abode in Peking, and made of Shang-
tu a summer residence. §
"The Lord abides at this Park of his, dwelling sometimes in the
Marble Palace and sometimes in the Cane Palace for three months
of the year, to wit June, July, and August; preferring this
residence because it is by no means hot; in fact it is a very cool
place. When the 28th day of [the Moon of] August arrives he
takes his departure, and the Cane Palace is taken to pieces." (P. 264.)
The khans usually resorted to Shangtu in the 4th moon and
returned to Peking in the 9th. On the 7th day of the 7th moon
there were libations performed in honour of the ancestors; a
shaman, his face to the north, uttered in a loud voice the names
of Chingis khan and of other deceased khans, and poured mare's
milk on the ground. The propitious day for the return journey
to Peking was also appointed then.||
"Moreover [at a spot in the Park where there is a charming wood]
he has another Palace built of cane, of which I must give you
a description. It is gilt all over, and most elaborately finished
inside. [It is stayed on gilt and lackered columns, on each of which
is a dragon all gilt, the tail of which is attached to the column
whilst the head supports the architrave, and the claws likewise
are stretched out right and left to support the architrave.] The
roof, like the rest, is formed of canes, covered with a varnish so
strong and excellent that no amount of rain will rot them. These
* Siu t'ung kien.
+ 灤京
Siu t'ung kien.
§ Detailed information on Shangtu is to be found in
=
K'ow pe san ting chi and in the Yuen shang tu y ch'ing k'ao; cf.
Ta ming y t'ung chi and the Ta ts'ing y t'ung chi.
Yuen shang tu y ch'ing k'ao.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
27
canes are a good 3 palms in girth, and from 10 to 15 paces in
length. [They are cut across at each knot, and then the pieces
are split so as to form each two hollow tiles, and with these the
house is roofed; only every such tile of cane has to be nailed down
to prevent the wind from lifting it.] In short, the whole Palace
is built of these canes, which (I may mention) serve also for a great
variety of other useful purposes. The construction of the Palace
is so devised that it can be taken down and put up again with
great celerity; and it can all be taken to pieces and removed
whithersoever the Emperor may command. When erected, it is
stayed [against mishaps from the wind] by more than 200 cords of
silk." (P. 264.)
The Palace of canes is probably the Palm Hall* of the
Chinese authors, which was situated in the western palace garden
of Shangtu.+
Horiad.
"You must know that the Kaan keeps an immense stud of white horses
and mares; in fact more than 10,000 of them, and all pure white
without a speck. The milk of these mares is drunk by himself
and his family, and by none else, except by those of one great
tribe that have also the privilege of drinking it. This privilege
was granted them by Chinghis Kaan, on account of a certain
victory that they helped him to win long ago. The name of the
tribe is HORIAD." (Pp. 264, 265.)
If according to Col. Yule's conjecture we should take this name
to designate the Oirat tribe, the honours which, as M. Polo says,
were paid to this tribe, were addressed probably to the descendants
of Hutukhabeki, one of the Oirat princes, in consideration of his
having been the first to submit to Chuchi, Chingis khan's son, and
of the aid lent by him for subduing the other Oirat princes..
Chingis khan had, for these services, married his daughter Che-
chegen to Inalchi, Hutukhabeki's son. It is, however, strange
that the Oirats alone enjoyed the privilege described by M. Polo;
for the highest position at the Mongol khan's court belonged to
the Kunkrat tribe, out of which the khans used to choose their
first wives, who were called Empresses of the first ordo. §
Tebet and Kasimur.
"But I must now tell you a strange thing that hitherto I have for-
gotten to mention. During the three months of every year that
the Lord resides at this place, if it should happen to be bad weather,
there are certain crafty enchanters and astrologers in his train,
who are such adepts in necromancy and the diabolic arts, that
*
Tsung tien, alias Tsung mao tien.
+ Mention is made also in the Altan Tobchi of a cane tent in Shangtu,
Yuen ch'ao pi shi.
§ Conf. Yuen shi, chap. cxxviii, p. 14.

28
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
they are able to prevent any cloud or storm from passing over
the place where the Emperor's Palace stands. The sorcerers who
do this are called TEBET and KESIMUR, which are the names of
two nations of Idolaters. Whatever they do in this way is by the
help of the Devil, but they make those people believe that it is
compassed by dint of their own sanctity and the help of God.
[They always go in a state of dirt and uncleanness, devoid of
respect for themselves, or for those who see them, unwashed,
unkempt, and sordidly attired.] These people also have a custom
which I must tell you. If a man is condemned to death and
executed by the lawful authority, they take his body and cook
and eat it. But if any one die a natural death then they will
not eat the body." (Pp. 265, 266.)
"Lamas were of various extraction; at the time of the great
assemblies, and of the khan's festivities in Shangtu, they erected
an altar near the khan's tent and prayed for fine weather; the
whistling of shells rose up to heaven." These are the words in
which M. Polo's narrative is corroborated by an eye-witness who
has celebrated the remarkable objects of Shangtu.* These lamas,
in spite of the prohibition by the Buddhist creed of bloody sacri-
fices, used to sacrifice sheep's hearts to Mahakala. It happened,
as it seems, that the heart of an executed criminal was also con-
sidered an agreeable offering ;+ and as the offerings could be,
after the ceremony, eaten by the sacrificing priests, M. Polo had
some reason to accuse the lamas of cannibalism.
"There are some among these Bacsi who are allowed by their rule
to take wives, and who have plenty of children." (P. 267.)
A good number of lamas were married, as M. Polo correctly
remarks; their wives were known, amongst the Chinese, under
the name of 梵嫂 Fan-sao.‡
"And when the Idol Festivals come round, these Bacsi
*
go to the
Prince and say: "Sire, the Feast of such a god is come" [naming
him]. "My Lord, you know," the enchanter will say, "that this
god, when he gets no offerings, always sends bad weather and spoils
our seasons. So we pray you to give us such and such a num-
ber of black-faced sheep," naming whatever number they please.
"And we beg also, good my lord, that we may have such a quan-
tity of incense, and such a quantity of lign-aloes, and "-so much
of this, so much of that, and so much of t'other, according to their
fancy "that we may perform a solemn service and a great sacrifice
to our Idols, and that so they may be induced to protect us and
all that is ours." The Bacsi say these thing to the Barons en-
trusted with the Stewardship, who stand round the Great Kaan,
and these repeat them to the Kaan, and he then orders the Barons
Loan king tsa yung.
+ Siu t'ung kien, chap. cciii,
Ch'ue keng lu.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-OHINA.
29
to give everything that the Bacsi have asked for. And when they
have got the articles they go and make a great feast in honour
of their god, and hold great ceremonies of worship with grand
illuminations and quantities of incense of a variety of odours,
which they make up from different aromatic spices. And then
they cook the meat, and set it before the idols, and sprinkle the
broth hither and thither, saying that in this way the idols get
their bellyful. Thus it is that they keep their festivals. You
must know that each of the idols has a name of his own, and a
feast day, just as our Saints have their anniversaries." (Pp. 266,
267.)
The maintenance of the lamas, of their monasteries, the expenses
for the sacrifices and for transcription of sacred books, required
enormous sums. The lamas enjoyed a preponderating influence,
and stood much higher than the priests of other creeds, living in
the palace as if in their own house. The perfumes, which M.
Polo mentions, were used by the lamas for two purposes; they
used them for joss-sticks,* and for making small turrets, known
under the name of ts'a-ts'a ;t the joss-sticks used to be burnt in
the same way as they are now; the ts'a-ts'a were inserted in
suburgas or buried in the ground. At the time when the suburga
was built in the garden of the Peking palace in 1271, § there were
used, according to the Empress' wish, 1008 turrets made of the
most expensive perfumes, mixed with pounded gold, silver, pearls
and corals, and 130,000 ts'a-ts'a made of ordinary perfumes.||
"They have also immense Minsters and Abbeys, some of them as big
as a small town, with more than two thousand monks (ie. after their
fashion) in a single abbey. These monks dress more decently
than the rest of the people, and have the head and beard shaven."
(P. 267.)
The monasteries with numbers of monks, who, as M. Polo
asserts, behaved decently, evidently belonged to Chinese Buddhists,
ho-shang; in Khubilai's time they had two monasteries in Shang-
tu, in the N.E. and N.W. parts of the town.¶
"Then there is another kind of devotees called SENSIN, who are men
of extraordinary abstinence after their fashion, and lead a life of
such hardship as I will describe. All their life long they eat
*
Joss-sticks are made even now in Thibet with musk and Thibetan saffron.
+ Yuen shi, section on Buddhism.
+ Yuen shi.
§ On the same spot where a suburga exists now; it is called Pe t'a, "the
white pagoda," and was built in Shun chi's time.
Pien wei lu, in fine; here is quoted the text of the tablet
relating to the construction of the suburga; the perfumes used are also
enumerated.
Hwa yen sze pei, "Tablet of the construction of the Hwa-yen-sze
monastery (in Shangtu) 華嚴寺碑;vide元文抄

30
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
nothing but bran, which they take mixt with hot water. That is
their food, bran and nothing but bran, and water for their drink.
'Tis a life-long fast! so that I may well say their life is one of
extraordinary asceticism. They have great idols, and plenty of
them; but they sometimes also worship fire." (Pp. 267, 268.)
Sensin is a sufficiently faithful transcription of Sien-seng
(Sien-shing in Pekingese); the Mongols called thus, as well in
conversation as in official documents, the Tao-sze, in the sense of
preceptors, just as lamas were called by them Bacshi, which cor-
responds to the Chinese Sien-seng.* M. Polo calls them fasters
and ascetics. It was one of the sects of Taouism. There was
another one which practised cabalistic and other mysteries.+
The Tao-sze had two monasteries in Shangtu, one in the east part
of the town, the other in the western part.
"The other Idolaters who are not of this sect call these people heretics
-Patarins as we should say-because they do not worship their
idols in their own fashion. Those of whom I am speaking would
not take a wife on any consideration." (P. 268.)
The Tao-sze, says M. Polo, were looked upon as heretics by the
other sects; that is, of course, by the Lamas and Ho-shangs; in
fact in his time a passionate struggle was going on between Budd-
hists and Tao-sze, or rather a persecution of the latter by the
former; the Buddhists attributed to the doctrine of the Tao-sze a
pernicious tendency, and accused them of deceit; and in support
of these assertions they pointed to some of their sacred books.
Taking advantage of their influence at Court, they persuaded
Khubilai to decree the burning of these books, and it was carried
out in Peking, A.D. 1281.§
"They wear dresses of hempen stuff, black and blue, and sleep upon
mats; in fact their ascetism is something astonishing." (P. 268.)
The Tao-sze, says M. Polo, wear dresses of black and blue linen;
i.e. they wear dresses made of tatters of black and blue linen, as
can be seen also at the present day.
"Their idols are all feminine, that is to say, they have women's
names." (P. 268.)
The idols of the Tao-sze, according to M. Polo's statement, have
female names; in fact, there are in the pantheon of Taoism a
* Vide Chinese text of the charters granted to monasteries; cf. "Re-
searches on Christianity in China," in the Russian "Eastern Magazine."
The Mongols gave no translation of the word Sien-seng in their language,
and pronounced it Shan-shing. Vide
"Vocabulary of Mon-
gol words."
+ Yueu shi, art. on the Tao-sze.
Hwa yen sze pei.
§ Pien wei lu.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
31
great many female divinities, still enjoying popular veneration in
China; such are Tow mu (the "Ursa major," constellation),
Pi-hia-yuen kiun (the celestial queen), female divinities for lying-
in women, for children, for diseases of the eyes; and others, which
are to be seen everywhere. The Tao-sze have, besides these a
good number of male divinities bearing the title of Kiun in
common with female divinities; both these circumstances might
have led M. Polo to make the above statement.
BOOK II.
Chap. II., seq.-Nayan.
"There was a great Tartar Chief, whose name was NAYAN, a young
man [of thirty], Lord over many lands and many provinces; and
he was Uncle to the Emperor Cublay Kaan, of whom we are
speaking. And when he found himself in authority this Nayan
waxed proud in the insolence of his youth and his great power;
for indeed he could bring into the field 300,000 horsemen, though
all the time he was liegeman to his nephew the Great Kaan
Cublay as was right and reason." (Pp. 296, 297.)
His great grandfather, Belgutai, was Chingis khan's step-brother.
The situation and limits of his appanage are not clearly defined
in history. According to Belgutai's biography, it was between
the Onon and Kerulen,* and according to Shin Yao's researches, +
at the confluence of the Argun and Shilka. Finally, according to
Harabadur's biography, it was situated in Abalahu,-which
geographically and etymologically corresponds to modern Butkha ;+
Abalahu, as Khubilai himself said, was rich in fish; indeed, after
the suppression of Nayan's rebellion, the governor of that country
used to send to the Peking Court, fishes weighing up to a
thousand Chinese pounds (kin). It was evidently a country near
the Amur river. But history has apparently connected Nayan's
appanage with that of Hatan, § whose ordo was contiguous to
Nayan's, on the left bank of the, Amur, hypothetically east of
Blagoveshtshensk, on the spot, where still the traces of an ancient
city can be seen. Nayan's possessions stretched south to
Kuang-ning, which belonged to his appanage, and it was from
this town that he had the title of prince of Kuang-ning (Kuang-
ning-wang.)
* Yuen shi.
+Lo fung low wen kao.
Yuen shi.
See Harabadur's biography.
§ A grandson of Hachiun, brother of Chingis khan.
Shin Yao, Researches; Biogr. of Yusi-Temur. The Mongol appanage
princes, although they were nomads, liked to surround their ordos with
settlements and walls.
Yuen shi, Geographical part. Kuang-ning bears this name also now;
it is situated in southern Manchuria, near a mountain range of the same

32
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
"And when the Great Kaan had gained this battle, as you have heard,
all the Barons and people of Nayan's provinces renewed their
fealty to the Kaan. Now these provinces that had been under
the Lordship of Nayan were four in number; to wit, the first
called CHORCHA; the second CAULY; the third BARSCOL; the
fourth SIKINTINJU. Of all these four great provinces had Nayan
been Lord; it was a very great dominion." (Pp. 306, 307.)
According to M. Polo's statement, Ch. V., Chorcha, Cauly,
Barscol and Sikintinju formed part of Nayan's appanage.
Chorcha is Churchin.-Nayan, as vassal of the Mongol khans,
had the commission to keep in obedience the people of Man-
churia (subdued in 1233), and to care for the security of the
country; there is no doubt that he shared these obligations
with his relative Hatan, who stood nearer to the native tribes of
Manchuria.
Cauly is Corea.-The Corean kingdom proper could not be a
part of the prince's appanage. M. Polo might mean the northern
part of Corea, which submitted to the Mongols in A.D. 1269, with
sixty towns, and which was subordinated entirely to the central
administration in Liao-yang. As to the southern part of Corea,
it was left to the king of Corea, who however, was a vassal of the
Mongols.
Barscol.-There are in the Yuen shi the names of the depart-
ment of
P'u-yü-lu and of the place Pu-lo-ho,+ which,
according to the system of Chinese transcription, approach to
Barscol; but it is difficult to prove this identification, since our
knowledge of these places is a very scanty one; it remains only
to identify Barscol with Abalahu, already known, all the more as
the two names of P'u-yü-lu and Pu-lo-ho have also some resem-
blance with Abalahu.
Sikintinju. It is easy to distinguish in this complicated name,
the name of Kien-chow, belonging to a town which was in
Nayan's appanage, and is mentioned in the history of his rebellion.
There were two Kien-chow, one in the time of the Kin in the
name, (the ancient
Yi-wu-lui.)
Yuen shi, geograph. part, where five tribes of Churchin are enumerated.
One of them was called Odolen, from which the present Manchu race derive
their origin.
+ These names existed in the time of the Kin, but were preserved, as
many others, by the Mongols; the places to which they refer must have
been in the neighbourhood of Nayan's appanage. Compare the map of the
dominions of the Kin in the
Li tai ti li yen ke t'u
published in Nanking 1872. P'u-yü-lu was also called
Fu-yü-lu.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
33
modern aimak of Khorchin; the other during the Mongol
dynasty, on the upper part of the river
Ta-ling ho, in
the limits of the modern aimak of Kharachin;t the latter de-
pended on Kuang-ning. Mention is made of Kien-chow in
connexion with the following circumstance. When Nayan's
rebellion broke out, the Court of Peking sent orders to the King
of Corea, requiring from him auxiliary troops; this circumstance
is mentioned in the Corean Annals, under the year 1288 § in
the following words:-"in the present year, in the 4th month,
orders were received from Peking to send five thousand men with
provisions to Kien-chow, which is three thousand li distant from
the king's residence."|| This number of li cannot of course be
taken literally; judging by the distances estimated at the present
day, it was about two thousand li from the Corean K'ai-ch'ing fu
to the Mongol Kien-chow; and as much to the Kien-chow of the
Kin (through Mukden and the pass of Fa-k'u mun in the willow
palisade). It is difficult to decide to which of these two cities of
the same name the troops were ordered to go, but at any rate,
there are sufficient reasons to identify Sikintinju of M. Polo with
Kien-chow.
"Seeing then what great power he had, he took it into his head that
he would be the Great Kaan's vassal no longer; nay more, he
would fain wrest his empire from him if he could. So this
Nayan sent envoys to another Tartar Prince called CAIDU, also
a great and potent Lord, who was a kinsman of his, and who was
a nephew of the Great Kaan and his lawful liegeman also, though
he was in rebellion and at bitter enmity with his Sovereign Lord
and Uncle. Now the message that Nayan sent was this: That he
himself was making ready to march against the Great Kaan with
all his forces (which were great), and he begged Caidu to do like-
wise from his side, so that by attacking Cublay on two sides at
once with such great forces they would be able to wrest his
dominion from him. And when Caidu heard the message of
Nayan, he was right glad thereat, and thought the time was come
at last to gain his object. So he sent back answer that he would
do as requested; and got ready his host, which mustered a good
hundred thousand horsemen. . . . . When the Great Kaan heard
what was afoot, he made his preparations in right good heart, like
* Kien-chow of the Kin was probably on the site of modern
Ch'ang-ch'un pu, on the boundary of Manchuria and Mongolia, west of
Modern Kizin.
Man chow yuen lew k'ao.
Yuen shi, geograph. part.
§ Kao li shi, chap. xxx, fol. 11.
The Corean capital was at that time in K'ai-ch'ing fu. According to
the Siu tung k'ien, the Coreans sent five hundred men instead of five
thousand. The Siu t'ung k'ien places this event in 1287, differently from
the Coreans.

34
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
What
one who feared not the issue of an attempt so contrary to justice.
Confident in his own conduct and prowess, he was in no degree
disturbed, but vowed that he would never wear crown again if he
brought not those two traitorous and disloyal Tartar chiefs to an
ill end. So swiftly and secretly were his preparations made that
no one knew of them but his Privy Council, and all were completed
within ten or twelve days. . . . . And when he had got ready this
handful (as it were) of his troops, he ordered his astrologers to
declare whether he should gain the battle and get the better of
his enemies. After they had made their observations, they told
him to go on boldly, for he would conquer and gain a glorious
victory whereat he greatly rejoiced. So he marched with his
army, and after advancing for 20 days they arrived at a great
plain, where Nayan lay with all his host, amounting to some
400,000 horse. Now the Great Kaan's forces arrived so fast and
so suddenly that the others knew nothing about the matter. For
the Kaan had caused such strict watch to be made in every direc-
tion for scouts that every one that appeared was instantly captured.
Thus Nayan had no warning of his coming and was completely
taken by surprise; insomuch that when the Great Kaan's army
came up, he was asleep in the arms of a wife of his of whom he
was extravagantly fond. So thus you see why it was that the
Emperor equipped his force with such speed and secresy.
shall I say about it [the battle]? When day had well broken,
there was the Kaan with all his host upon a hill overlooking the
plain where Nayan lay in his tent, in all security, without the
slightest thought of any one coming thither to do him hurt. In
fact, this confidence of his was such that he kept no vedettes
whether in front or in rear; for he knew nothing of the coming of
the Great Kaan, owing to all the approaches having been completely
occupied as I told you. Moreover the place was in a remote wilder-
ness, more than thirty marches from the Court, though the Kaan
had made the distance in twenty, so eager was he to come to battle
with Nayan. And what shall I tell you next? The Kaan was
there on the hill, mounted on a great wooden bartizan, which was
borne by four well trained elephants, and over him was hoisted
his standard, so high aloft that it could be seen from all sides.
His troops were ordered in battles of 30,000 men apiece; and a
great part of the horsemen had each a foot soldier armed with a
lance set on the crupper behind him (for it was thus that the foot-
men were disposed of); and the whole plain seemed to be covered
with his forces. So it was thus that the Great Kaan's army was
arrayed for battle. When Nayan and his people saw what had
happened, they were sorely confounded, and rushed in haste to
arms. Nevertheless they made them ready in good style and
formed their troops in an orderly manner. And when all were in
battle array on both sides as I have told you, and nothing re-
mained but to fall to blows, then might you have heard a sound
arise of many instruments of various music, and of the voices of
the whole of the two hosts loudly singing. For this is a custom
of the Tartars that before they join battle they all unite in singing
and playing on a certain two-stringed instrument of theirs, a thing

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
35
right pleasant to hear. And so they continue in their array of
battle, singing and playing in this pleasing manner, until the great
Naccara of the Prince is heard to sound. As soon as that begins
to sound the fight also begins on both sides; and in no case before
the Prince's Naccara sounds dare any commence fighting. So then,
as they were thus singing and playing, though ordered and ready
for battle, the great Naccara of the Great Kaan began to sound.
And that of Nayan also began to sound. And thenceforward the
din of battle began to be heard loudly from this side and from that.
And they rushed to work so doughtily with their bows and their
maces, with their lances and swords, and with the arblasts of the
footmen, that it was a wondrous sight to see. Now might you
behold such flights of arrows from this side and from that, that
the whole heaven was canopied with them, and they fell like rain.
Now might you see on this side and on that full many a cavalier
and man-at-arms fall slain, in so much that the whole field seemed
covered with them. From this side and from that such cries
arose from the crowds of the wounded and dying that had God
thundered, you would not have heard Him! For fierce and
furious was the battle, and quarter there was none given. But
why should I make a long story of it? You must know that it was
the most parlous and fierce and fearful battle that ever has been
fought in our day. Nor have there ever been such forces in the
field in actual fight, especially of horsemen, as were engaged-for,
taking both sides, there were not fewer than 760,000 horsemen, a
mighty force and that without reckoning the footmen, who were
also very numerous. The battle endured with various fortune
on this side and on that from morning till noon. But at the last,
by God's pleasure and the right that was on his side, the Great
Kaan had the victory, and Nayan lost the battle and was utterly
routed. For the army of the Great Kaan performed such feats of
arms that Nayan and his host could stand against them no longer,
so they turned and fled. But this availed nothing for Nayan; for
he and all the barons with him were taken prisoners, and had to
surrender to the Kaan with all their arms. Now you must know
that Nayan was a baptized Christian, and bore the cross on his
banner; but this nought availed him, seeing how grievously he
had done amiss in rebelling against his Lord. For he was the
Great Kaan's liegeman, and was bound to hold his lands of him
like all his ancestors before him. And when the Great Kaan
learned that Nayan was taken right glad was he, and commanded
that he should be put to death straightway and in secret, lest
endeavours should be made to obtain pity and pardon for him,
because he was of the Kaan's own flesh and blood. And this was
the way in which he was put to death: he was wrapped in a carpet,
and tossed to and fro so mercilessly that he died. And the Kaan
caused him to be put to death in this way because he would not
have the blood of his Line Imperial spilt upon the ground or ex-
posed in the eye of Heaven and before the Sun." (Pp. 297-306.)
The rebellion of Nayan and Hatan is incompletely and contra-
dictorily related in Chinese history. The suppression of both

36
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
these rebellions lasted four years. In 1287, Nayan marched from
his ordo with sixty thousand men through eastern Mongolia. In
the 5th moon (var. 6th) of the same year Khabilai marched
against him from Shangtu. The battle was fought in south-eastern
Mongolia and gained by Khabilai, who returned to Shangtu in
the 8th month. Nayan fled to the south-east, across the moun-
tain range, along which a willow palisade stands now; but forces
had been sent beforehand from Shin-chow (modern Muk-
den) and Kuang-ning (probably to watch the pass), and Nayan
was made prisoner.*
Two months had not passed, when Hatan's rebellion broke out+
(so that it took place in the same year 1287). It is mentioned +
under year 1288, that Hatan was beaten and that the whole of
Manchuria was pacified; but in 1290, it is again mentioned, that
Hatan disturbed southern Manchuria, and that he was again de-
feated. It is to this time that the narratives in the biographies
of Liting, Yuesi Femur, and Mangwu ought to be referred. Ac-
cording to the first of these biographies, Hatan after his defeat by
Liting on the river Kui lui (Kuilar?) fled and perished. Accord-
ing to the second biography, Hatan's dwelling (on the Amur river)
was destroyed and he disappeared. According to the third,
Mangwu and Naimatai pursued Hatan to the extreme north, up
to the eastern sea-coast (the mouth of the Amur). Hatan fled,
but two of his wives and his son Laoti were taken; the latter was
executed, and this was the concluding act of the suppression of
the rebellion in Manchuria. We find, however, an important
variante in the history of Corea; it is stated there, that in 1290,
Hatan and his son Laoti were carrying fire and slaughter to Corea,
and devasted that country; they slew the inhabitants and fed on
human flesh. The King of Corea fled to the Kiang-hwa § island.
The Coreans were not able to withstand the invasion. The Mon-
gols sent to their aid, in 1291, troops under the command of two
generals, Seshekan (who was at that time governor of Liao tung)
and Namantai (evidently the above-mentioned Naimatai). The
Mongols conjointly with the Coreans defeated the insurgents, who
had penetrated into the very heart of the country; their corpses
covered a space thirty li in extent; Hatan and his son made their
way through the victorious army and fled,|| finding a refuge in
* Siu t'ung kien; Yuen shi lui pien; and biography of Mangwu, in the
Yuen ven cha'o.
+ Biogr. of Mangwu.
In the Siu tung kien..
§ 江華島
Tsung kwo shi lio, a short history of Corea.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
37
the Niuchi (Djurdji) country,* from which Laotai made a later
incursion into Corea.+ Such is the discrepancy between his-
torians of the same fact. The statement found in the Corean
history seems to me more reliable than the facts given by Chinese
history.
Ch. III.-Note.
"In that time he had assembled good 360,000 horsemen and 100,000
footmen, but a small force indeed for him, and consisting only
of those that were in the vicinity. For the rest of his vast and in-
numerable troops were too far off to answer so hasty a summons, being
engaged under orders from him on distant expeditions to conquer
divers countries and provinces. If he had waited to summon all
his forces, the multitude assembled would have been beyond all
belief, a multitude such as never was heard of or told of, past all
counting! In fact, those 360,000 horsemen that he got to
together consisted merely of the falconers and whippers in that
were about his court !" (P. 299.)
"Ramusio has here the following explanatory addition:-'You must know
that in all the Provinces of Cathay and Mangi, and throughout the
Great Kaan's dominions, there are too many disloyal folk ready to
break into rebellion against their Lord, and hence it is needful in
every province containing large cities and much population, to main-
tain garrisons. These are stationed four or five miles from the cities,
and the latter are not allowed to have walls or gates by which they
might obstruct the entrance of the troops at their pleasure. These
garrisons, as well as their commanders, the Great Kaan causes to be
relieved every two years; and bridled in this way the people are
kept quiet, and can make no disturbance. The troops are maintained
not only by the pay which the Kaan regularly assigns from the
revenues of each province, but also by the vast quantities of cattle
which they keep, and by the sale of milk in the cities, which furnishes
the means of buying what they require. They are scattered among
their different stations, at distances of 30, 40, or 60 days (from the
capital); and had Cublay decided to summom but the half of them,
the number would have been incredible,' &c." (P. 300.)
Col. Yule extracts from Ramusio M. Polo's statement as to the
In the
Mongol garrisons cantonned near the Chinese towns.
Mongol-Chinese documents ‡ they are mentioned under the name
of Aolu, but no explanation of the term is given; M. Polo gives a
clear idea of them.
Ch. V.
"And after the Great Kaan had conquered Nayan, as you have heard,
it came to pass that the different kinds of people who were present,
Saracens and Idolaters and Jews, and many others that believed
*i.e. the present maritime province, belonging to Russia.
† Kao li shi, "The history of Corea," chap. cxiv, fol. 15.
Vide
King shi ta tien (in extracts). Aolu is given in the
Mongol text of the Yuen ch'ao pi shi as Aoluh.

38
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
not in God, did gibe those that were Christians because of the
cross that Nayan had borne on his standard, and that so grievously
that there was no bearing it." (P. 307.)
The Jews are mentioned for the first time in the Yuen shi
under the year 1329,* on the occasion of the re-establishment of
the law on the collection of taxes from dissidents. Mention of
them is made again under the year 1354,+ when on account of
several insurrections in China, rich Mahommetans and Jews were
invited to the capital in order to join the army. In both cases
they are named Chu hu (Djuhud).
Ch. VII.
"So we will have done' with this matter of Nayan, and go on with our
account of the great state of the Great Kaan. We have already told
you of his lineage and of his age; but now I must tell you what
he did after his return, in regard to those Barons who had behaved
well in the battle. Him who was before captain of 100 he made
captain of 1,000; and him who was captain of 1,000 men he made
to be captain of 10,000, advancing every man according to his
deserts and to his previous rank. Besides that, he also made
them presents of fine silver plate and other rich appointments;
gave them Tablets of Authority of a higher degree than they held
before; and bestowed upon them fine jewels of gold and silver,
and pearls and precious stones; insomuch that the amount that
fell to each of them was something astonishing. And yet 'twas
not so much as they had deserved; for never were men seen who
did such feats of arms for the love and honour of their Lord, as
these had done on that day of the battle. Now those Tablets of
Authority, of which I have spoken, are ordered in this way. The
officer who is a captain of 100 hath a tablet of silver; the captain
of 1,000 hath a tablet of gold or silver-gilt; the commander of
10,000 hath a tablet of gold, with a lion's head on it. And I will
tell you the weight of the different tablets, and what they denote.
The tablets of the captains of 100 and 1,000 weigh each of them
120 saggi; and the tablet with the lion's head engraven on it,
which is that of the commander of 10,000, weighs 220 saggi. And on
each of the tablets is inscribed a device, which runs: "By the
strength of the Great God, and of the great grace which He hath ac-
corded to our Emperor, may the name of the Kaan be blessed; and let
all such as will not obey him be slain and be destroyed." And I tell
you besides that all who hold these tablets likewise receive war-
rants in writing, declaring all their powers and privileges. I
should mention too that an officer who holds the chief command
of 100,000 men, or who is general-in-chief of a great host, is entitled
to a tablet that weighs 300 saggi. It has an inscription thereon to
the same purport that I have told you already, and below the inscrip-
tion there is the figure of a lion, and below the lion the sun and moon.
They have warrants also of their high rank, command, and power.
*Yuen shi, chap. xxxiii, p. 7.
+ Ib. chap. xliii, fol. 10.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
39
Every one, moreover, who holds a tablet of this exalted degree is
entitled, whenever he goes abroad, to have a little golden canopy,
such as is called an umbrella, carried on a spear over his head in
token of his high command. And whenever he sits, he sits in a
silver chair. To certain very great lords also there is given a
tablet with gerfalcons on it; this is only to the very greatest of
the Kaan's barons, and it confers on them his own full power and
authority; so that if one of these chiefs wishes to send a messenger
any whither, he can seize the horses of any man, be he even a
king, and any other chattels at his pleasure. (Pp. 312, 313.)
Tiger's tablets, Sinice Hu fu,* and p'ai tsze + in the common
language. The Mongols had them of several kinds, which differed
by the metal, of which they were made, as well as by the number
of pearls (one, two or three in number), which were incrusted in
the upper part of the tablet. Falcon's tablets with the figure of a
falcon, were round, and used to be given only to special couriers
and envoys of the khan. The use of the Hu-fu was adopted by
the Mongols probably from the Kin.
Ch. VIII.
"The personal appearance of the Great Kaan, Lord of Lords, whose
name is Cublay, is such as I shall now tell you. He is of a good
stature, neither tall nor short, but of a middle height. He has a
becoming amount of flesh, and is very shapely in all his limbs.
His complexion is white and red, the eyes black and fine, the nose
well formed and well set on. He has four wives, whom he retains
permanently as his legitimate consorts; and the eldest of his sons
by those four wives ought by rights to be emperor ;-I mean when
his father dies. Those four ladies are called empresses, but each
is distinguished also by her proper name. And each of them has
a special court of her own, very grand and ample; no one of them
having fewer than 300 fair and charming damsels. They have
also many pages and eunuchs, and a number of other at-
tendants of both sexes; so that each of these ladies has not
When the
less than 10,000 persons attached to her Court.
Emperor desires the society of one of these four consorts he
will sometimes send for the lady to his apartment, and some-
times visit her at her own. He has also a great number of con-
cubines, and I will tell you how he obtains them. You must
know that there is a tribe of Tartars called UNGRAT who are
noted for their beauty. Now every year a hundred of the most
beautiful maidens of this tribe are sent to the Great Kaan, who
commits them to the charge of certain elderly ladies dwelling in
his palace. And these old ladies make the girls sleep with them,
in order to ascertain if they have sweet breath [and do not snore],
and are sound in all their limbs. Then such of them as are of
虎符
+
Yuen shi lui pien, and Yuen ch'ao tien chang.

40
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
approved beauty, and are good and sound in all respects, are
appointed to attend on the Emperor by turns. Thus six of these
damsels take their turn for three days and nights, and wait on
him when he is in his chamber and when he is in bed, to serve
him in any way, and to be entirely at his orders. At the end of
three days and nights they are relieved by other six. And so
throughout the year, there are reliefs of maidens by six and six,
changing every three days and nights." (Pp. 318, 319.)
Kubilai's four wives, i.e. the empresses of the first, second,
third and fourth ordos. Ordo is properly speaking a separate
palace of the khan, under the management of one of his wives.
Chinese authors translate therefore the word ordo by "harem."
The four ordo established by Chingis khan were destined for the
empresses, who were chosen out of four different nomad tribes.*
During the reign of the first four khans, who lived in Mongolia,
the four ordo were considerably distant one from another, and
the khans visited them in different seasons of the year; they
existed nominally as long as China remained under Mongol
domination. The custom of choosing the empress out of certain
tribes, was in the course of time set aside by the khans. The
empress, wife of the last Mongol khan in China was a Corean
princess by birth; and she contributed in a great measure to the
downfall of the Mongol dynasty.+
Ch. X and XI.
"You must know that for three months of the year, to wit, December,
January, and February, the Great Kaan resides in the capital city
of Cathay, which is called CAMBALUC, and which is at the north-
eastern extremity of the country. In that city stands this great
Palace, and now I will tell you what it is like. It is enclosed all
round by a great wall forming a square, each side of which is a
mile in length; that is to say, the whole compass thereof is four
miles. This you may depend on; it is also very thick, and a good
ten paces in height, whitewashed and loop-holed all round.
Now there was on that spot in old times a
great and noble city called CAMBALUO, which is as much as to say
in our tongue "The City of the Emperor. But the Great Kaan
was informed by his Astrologers that this city would prove rebel-
lious, and raise great disorder against his imperial authority. So he
caused the present city to be built close beside the old one, with
only a river between them. And he caused the people of the old
city to be removed to the new town which he had founded; and
this is called TAIDU. [However, he allowed a portion of the
people which he did not suspect, to remain in the old city, because
the new one could not hold the whole of them, big as it is.] As
regards the size of this (new) city you must know that it has a
*See Yuen shi, on the empresses, and also Yuen ch'ao pi shi.
† See Yuen shi,-Pen ki.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
*
41
compass of 24 miles, for each side of it hath a length of 6 miles,
and it is four-square. And it is all walled round with walls of
earth which have a thickness of full ten paces at bottom, and a
height of more than ten paces; but they are not so thick at top,
for they diminish in thickness as they rise, so that at top they are
only about three paces thick. And they are provided throughout
with loop-holed battlements, which are all whitewashed. There
are 12 gates, and over each gate there is a great and handsome
palace, so that there are on each side of the square, three gates and
five palaces; for (I ought to mention) there is at each angle also a
great and handsome palace. In those palaces are vast halls in
which are kept the arms of the city garrison." (Pp. 324, 331, 332.)
Peking. Abundance of historical and archeological information
on Peking is contained in the historical description of the city
BT
Yi hia kiu wen k'ao, 1774, but unfortunately
without criticism. The Peking of the Mongol time, as well as the
palace of the khans, seem to have existed on the site of the
modern town, and of the Bogdo khan's palace. The town was in
those times 60 li in circumference, but the Chue keng lu state ex-
pressly that those li (field li) are meant, which contain only 240 pu.
This will give for the circuit of the Mongol capital only forty
geographical li, each of them containing now 360 pu. When the
Ming army took possession of Peking, the Emperor Hung-wu reduc-
ed its dimensions, but his son Yung-lo, who determined to make it
the northern capital, enlarged it again. In his time Peking was
6879,83 chang† in circumference, i.e. 13759,33 pu, not over
640 pu less than during the Mongols. The wall surrounding
the palaces of the Mongol khans was 9 li 30 pu in circumference.
The square measured from east to west 480 pu, from north to
south 615 pu. Consequently the opinion of those who think
that the ancient wall 5 or 6 li north of Peking belongs not to
the Mongol time but to a remoter period § is not unfounded.
Besides this, the author of the
Ch'ang an ko hua
(published during the Ming dynasty) states expressly that Yung lo
built the walls of Peking on the walls of the Mongol capital. It
is possible, however, to verify this point. The first Nabo (station
of khan) on the road from Peking to Shang-tu was 20 li north of
the P Kien te men gate, in the small borough
Ta-k'ow. There were three hillocks on that spot and this circum-
stance caused Ta-k'ow to be called also San-ko-ta (the three
humps. Physical signs are not destroyed by time as rapidly as
See Wylie's Notes on Chinese Literature.
+ Yi hta kiu wen k'ao, chap. xxxviii, fol. 12.
The modern pu equal to 5 large feet the ancient pu of 6 small feet.
Ye hu pien, published in 1606.
Researches on the routes to Shang-tu.

42
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
buildings are; it is probable therefore, that these hillocks still
exist; and it is possible by their relative distance from the present
northern wall of Peking, to determine how far the Mongol capital
stretched to the north. If the wall of modern Peking was built
on the wall of the Mongol capital, the Kien-te-men gate of the
Mongol time would answer to the present Te-shing-men gate.
Twenty li north of this gate, lies now the small town of
Ts'ing ho on the river of the same name.
There was at this place
during the Ming dynasty a temporary palace, on the road to the
imperial cemetery. In the time of the Mongols, roads were
measured, as they are now, in ordinary li.
As I know that one of my friends in Peking has undertaken
to examine the remains of ancient Peking, and that he intends to
publish his archeological investigations, I need not enlarge upon
this subject.
Ch. XII.
"You must know that the Great Kaan, to maintain his state, hath a
guard of twelve thousand horsemen, who are styled KESHICAN,
which is as much as to say "Knights devoted to their Lord." Not
that he keeps these for fear of any man whatever, but merely be-
cause of his own exalted dignity. These 12,000 men have four
captains, each of whom is in command of 3,000; and each body of
3,000 takes a turn of three days and three nights to guard the
palace, where they also take their meals. After the expiration of
three days and nights they are relieved by another 3,000, who
mount guard for the same space of time, and then another body
takes its turn, so that there are always 3,000 on guard. Thus it
goes until the whole 12,000, who are styled (as I said) Keshican,
have been on duty; and then the tour begins again, and so runs
on from year's end to year's end." (P. 336.)
By Keshican in Col. Yule's M. Polo, Keshikten is evidently
meant. This is a general Mongol term to designate the Khan's
life guard. It is derived from the word keshik meaning a guard
by turns, a corps on tour of duty.* Keshik is one of the archaisms
of the Mongol language, for now this word has another meaning
in Mongol. Col. Yule has brought together several explanations
of the term. It seems to me that among his suppositions the
following is the most consistent with the ancient meaning of the
word-
"We find Kishik still used at the court of Hindustan, under
"the great kings of Timur's House, for the corps on tour of duty
"at the palace.
The royal guards in Persia, who
"watch the king's person at night, are termed Keshikchi."
*Comp. Yüan ch'ao pi shi. The Mongol as well as the Chinese text give
detailed accounts respecting this guard.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
43
The Keshikten was divided into a day-watch called Turgaut *
and a night-watch Kebteul.+ The Kebte-ul consisted of pure Mon-
gols, whilst the Turgaut was composed of the sons of the vassal
princes and governors of the provinces, and of hostages. The
watch of the khan was changed every three days, and contained
400 men. In 1330 it was reduced to 100 men.
Ch. XIII.
"[There are certain Barons specially deputed to see that foreigners,
who do not know the customs of the Court, are provided with
places suited to their rank; and these Barons are continually
moving to and fro in the hall, looking to the wants of the guests
at table, and causing the servants to supply them promptly with
wine, milk, meat, or whatever they lack. At every door of the
hall (or, indeed, wherever the Emperor may be) there stand a
couple of big men like giants, one on each side, armed with staves.
Their business is to see that no one steps upon the threshold in
entering, and if this does happen, they strip the offender of his
clothes, and he must pay a forfeit to have them back again; or in
lieu of taking his clothes, they give him a certain number of blows.
If they are foreigners ignorant of the order, then there are Barons
appointed to introduce them, and explain it to them. They
think, in fact, that it brings bad luck if any one touches the
threshold. Howbeit, they are not expected to stick to this in
going forth again, for at that time some are like to be the worse
for liquor, and incapable of looking to their steps.]" (Pp. 339, 340.)
The author of the Ch'ue keng lu mentions also the athletes with
clubs standing at the door, at the time of the khan's
presence in
He adds, that next to the khan, two other life-guards
used to stand, who held in their hands "natural" axes of jade.§
the hall.
Ch. XIV.
"You must know that the Tartars keep high festival yearly on their
birthdays. And the Great Kaan was born on the 28th day of the
September moon, so on that day is held the greatest feast of the
year at the Kaan's Court, always excepting that which he holds
on New Year's Day, of which I shall tell you afterwards. Now,
on his birthday, the Great Kaan dresses in the best of his robes,
all wrought with beaten gold; and full 12,000 Barons and Knights
on that day come forth dressed in robes of the same colour, and
precisely like those of the Great Kaan, except that they are not so
costly; but still they are all of the same colour as his, and are
also of silk and gold. Every man so clothed has also a girdle of
gold; and this as well as the dress is given him by the Sovereign.
*Abulghaji spells this word, Torgak.
† It is a curious fact, that the tribe of the Kalmuk-Torgauts near
Astrakhan derive their origin from the life-guard of the Mongol khans.
See Yuen shi lui picn.
§i.e. axes found fortuitously in the ground, probably primitive weapons.

44
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
And I will aver that there are some of these suits decked with so
many pearls and precious stones that a single suit shall be worth
full 10,000 golden bezants. And of such raiment there are several
sets. For you must know that the Great Kaan, thirteen times in
the year, presents to his Barons and Knights such raiment as I
am speaking of. And on each occasion they wear the same colour
that he does, a different colour being assigned to each festival.
Hence you may see what a huge business it is, and that there is no
prince in the world but he alone who could keep up such customs
as these. On his birthday also all the Tartars in the world, and all
the countries and governments that owe allegiance to the Kaan, offer
him great presents according to their several ability, and as pre-
scription or orders have fixed the amount. And many other
persons also come with great presents to the Kaan, in order to beg
for some employment from him. And the Great Kaan has chosen
twelve Barons on whom is laid the charge of assigning to each of
these supplicants a suitable answer. On this day likewise all the
Idolaters, all the Saracens, and all the Christians and other
descriptions of people make great and solemn devotions, with
much chaunting and lighting of lamps and burning of incense,
each to the God whom He doth worship, praying that He would
save the Emperor, and grant him long life and health and happi-
ness." (Pp. 343, 344.)
The accounts given by M. Polo regarding the feasts of the
khan and the festival dresses at his Court agree perfectly with
the statements on the same subject of contemporary Chinese
writers. Banquets were called in the common Mongol language
chama, and festival dresses chisun.* General festivals used to be
held at the new year and at the birthday of the khan.+ In the
Mongol-Chinese Code, the ceremonies performed in the provinces
on the khan's birthday are described. One month before that
day the civil and military officers repaired to a temple, where a
service was performed to the khan's health. On the morning of
the birthday a sumptuously adorned table was placed in the open
air, and the representatives of all classes and all confessions were
obliged to approach the table, to prostrate themselves and exclaim
three times wan-sui (i.e. "ten thousand years" life to the khan).
After that the banquet took place. In the same code (in the
article on the Ye li ke un ) it is stated, that in the year 1304,-
owing to a dispute, which had arisen in the province of Kiang-nan
between the ho-shang (Buddhist priests) and the Christian mis-
sionaries, as to precedence in the above-mentioned ceremony,-a
Comp. the above-mentioned Researches on the routes to Shang-tu.
+ See Yüen shi, section on ceremonies, and
tien chang or "Mongol Ohinese Code."
Yueu ch'coo
Ye li ke un was the name by which Christians were
designated at the time of the Mongol dynasty. The word is Erke-un in
Mongol.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
45
special edict was published, in which it was decided that in the
rite of supplication, Christians should follow the Buddhist and
Taouist priests.
Ch. XVII-seq.
"The three months of December, January, and February, during
which the Emperor resides at his Capital City, are assigned for
hunting and fowling, to the extent of some 40 days' journey round
the city; and it is ordained that the larger game taken be sent to
the Court. To be more particular: of all the larger beasts of the
chase, such as boars, roebucks, bucks, stags, lions, bears, &c., the
greater part of what is taken has to be sent, and feathered game
likewise. The animals are gutted and despatched to the Court on
carts. This is done by all the people within 20 or 30 days'
journey, and the quantity so despatched is immense. Those at a
greater distance cannot send the game, but they have to send the
skins after tanning them, and these are employed in the making
of equipments for the Emperor's army." (P. 352.)
Kubilai khan kept a whole army, 14,000 men, huntsmen, dis-
tributed in Peking and other cities in the present province of
Chili. The khan used to hunt in the Peking plain from the
beginning of spring, until his departure to Shang-tu. There are
in the Peking department many low and marshy places, stretching
often to a considerable extent and abounding in game.
biography of Ai sie, (Yuen shi, chap. cxxxiv), who was a Christian,
it is mentioned that Kubilai was hunting also in the department
of Pao-ting fu.
In the
"And when he (the Emperor) has travelled till he reaches a place
called CACHAR MODUN, there he finds his tents pitched, with the
tents of his Sons, and his Barons, and those of his Ladies and
theirs, so that there shall be full 10,000 tents in all, and all fine
and rich ones. And I will tell you how his own quarters are
disposed. The tent in which he holds his courts is large enough
to give cover easily to a thousand souls. It is pitched with its
door to the south, and the Barons and Knights remain in waiting
in it, whilst the Lord abides in another close to it on the west
side. When he wishes to speak with any one he causes the person
to be summoned to that other tent, &c." (Pp. 359, 360.)
With respect to Cachar Modun, Marco Polo intends perhaps by
this name Ho-si wu, which place together with
Yang-ts'un were comprised in the general name ma-t'ou
(perhaps the modun of M. Polo). Ma-t'ou is even now a general
term for a jetty in Chinese. Ho si in the Mongol spelling was
Ha shin. D'Ohsson in his translation of Rashid-eddin renders
*In the Mongol-Chinese Code the whole text of the edict is found.
+ Yuen shi, K.
See Mongol text of the Yuen ch'ao pi shi.

46
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
Ho si by Co shi,* but Rashid in that case speaks not of Ho-si wu
but of the Tangut empire, which in Chinese was called
Ho si, meaning west of the (yellow) river. Ho-si wu as well as
Yang ts'un, both exist even now as villages on the Peiho river,
and near the first ancient walls can be seen. Ho-si wu means:
"custom's barrier west of the (Peiho) river."
Ch. XIX.-Chinuchi, Cunici.
"The Emperor hath two Barons who are own brothers, one called
Baian and the other Mingan; and these two are styled Chinuchi
(or Cunichi) which is as much as to say, "The Keepers of the
Mastiff Dogs." Each of these brothers hath 10,000 men under his
orders; each body of 10,000 being dressed alike, the one in red
and the other in blue, and whenever they accompany the Lord to
the chase, they wear this livery, in order to be recognized. Out
of each body of 10,000 there are 2,000 men who are each in charge
of one or more great mastiffs, so that the whole number of these
is very large. And when the Prince goes a-hunting, one of those
Barons, with his 10,000 men and something like 5,000 dogs, goes
towards the right, whilst the other goes towards the left with his
party in like manner. They move along, all abreast of one
another, so that the whole line extends over a full days' journey,
and no animal can escape them. Truly it is a glorious sight to
see the working of the dogs and the huntsmen on such an occa-
sion! And as the Lord rides a fowling across the plains, you will
see these big hounds coming tearing up, one pack after a bear,
another pack after a stag, or some other beast, as it may hap, and
running the game down now on this side and now on that, so that
it is really a most delightful sport and spectacle." (P. 356.)
Chinuchi, Cunici.-These names are used by M. Polo to de-
signate two dog-keepers of Kubilai, but they have no resemblance
with any of the names found in the Yuen shi, chap. xcix, article
Ping-chi (military organisation), and relating to the hunting staff
of the khan, viz:昔寶赤 Si pao chi (falconers),火兒赤
Hor c'hi (archers), and Ke lien ch'i (probably those
who managed the hounds).
Ch. XX.-Toscaol.-Toscaul.
"After he has stopped at his capital city these three months that I
mentioned, to wit, December, January, and February, he starts off
on the 1st day of March, and travels southward towards the Ocean
Sea, a journey of two days. He takes with him full 10,000 falcon-
ers, and some 500 gerfalcons besides peregrines, sakers, and other
hawks in great numbers; and goshawks also to fly at the water-
fowl. But do not suppose that he keeps all these together by him;
they are distributed about, hither and thither, one hundred toge-
ther, or two hundred at the utmost, as he thinks proper. But they
Hist. des Mong., tom. 1, p. 95.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
47
are always fowling as they advance, and the most part of the
quarry taken is carried to the Emperor. And let me tell you
when he goes thus a fowling with his gerfalcons and other hawks,
he is attended by full 10,000 men who are disposed in couples;
and these are called Toscaol, which is as much as to say 'Watchers."
And the name describes their business. They are posted from
spot to spot, always in couples, and thus they cover a great deal
of ground! Every man of them is provided with a whistle and
hood, so as to be able to call in a hawk and hold it in hand. And
when the Emperor makes a cast, there is no need that he follow
it up, for those men I speak of keep so good a look out that
they never lose sight of the birds, and if these hawks have need of
help they are ready to render it." (Pp. 357, 358.)
I have heard from men well acquainted with the customs of
the Mongols, that at the present day the leaders of the two
flanks in "battues," which surround the game, are called toscaul in
Mongol.
Bularguchi.
"All the Emperor's hawks, and those of the Barons as well, have a
little label attached to the leg to mark them, on which is written
the names of the owner and the keeper of the bird. And in this
way the hawk, when caught, is at once identified and handed over to
its owner. But if not, the bird it carried to a certain Baron who
is styled Bularguchi, which is as much as to say 'The Keeper of
Lost Property.' And I tell you that whatever may be found
without a known owner, whether it be a horse, or a sword, or a
hawk, or what not, it is carried to that Baron straightway, and he
takes charge of it. And if the finder neglects to carry his trover
to the Baron, the latter punishes him. Likewise the loser of any
article goes to the Baron, and if the thing be in his hands it is
immediately given up to the owner. Moreover, the said Baron
always pitches on the highest spot of the camp, with his banner
displayed, in order that those who have lost or found anything may
have no difficulty in finding their way to him. Thus nothing can
be lost but it shall be straightway found and restored." (Pp. 358,
359.)
Bularguchi.-There are two Mongol terms, which resemble this
word, viz., Balagachi and Buluguchi. But the first was the name
used for the door-keeper of the tent of the khan. By Buluguchi
the Mongols understood a hunter and especially sable hunters.*
No one of these terms can be made consistent with the accounts
given by M. Polo regarding the Bularguchi. In the
Kui sin tsa shi written by Chow Mi, in the former part of
the 14th century,+ interesting particulars regarding Mongol hunting
(*) are found.
* See the Man chow yuen liu k'ao.
+ See Wylie's Notes on Chinese Literature, p. 158.

48
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
"The Emperor himself is carried upon four elephants in a fine chamber
made of timber, lined inside with plates of beaten gold, and out-
side with lion's skins [for he always travels in this way on his
fowling expeditions, because he is troubled with gout]. He always
keeps beside him a dozen of his choicest gerfalcons, and is attended
by several of his Barons who ride on horseback alongside. And
sometimes, as they may be going along, and the Emperor from
his chamber is holding discourse with the Barons, one of
the latter shall exclaim: 'Sire! Look out for Cranes!' Then
the Emperor instantly has the top of his chamber thrown
open, and having marked the cranes he casts one of his gerfalcons,
whichever he pleases; and often the quarry is struck within his
view, so that he has the most exquisite sport and diversion, there
as he sits in his chamber or lies on his bed; and all the Barons
with him get the enjoyment of it likewise! So it is not without
reason I tell you that I do not believe there ever existed in the
world or ever will exist, a man with such sport and enjoyment
as he has, or with such rare opportunities." (P. 359.)
The gout of Kubilai khan.-In the Corean history allusion is
made twice to the khan's suffering from this disease.* Under the
year 1267 it is there recorded that in the 9th month, envoys of
the khan with a letter to the king arrived in Corea. Kubilai
asked for the skin of the Akirho munho, a fish resembling a cow.+
The envoy was informed that, as the khan suffered from swollen
feet it would be useful for him to wear boots made of the skin of
this animal, and in the 10th month, the king of Corea forwarded
to the khan seventeen skins of it.
It is further recorded in the Corean history, that in the 8th
month of 1292, sorcerers and Shaman women from Corea were
sent at the request of the khan to cure him of a disease of the
feet and hands. At that time the king of Corea was also in
Peking, and the sorcerers and shaman women were admitted during
an audience the king had of the khan. They took the khan's
hands and feet and began to recite exorcisms, whilst Kubilai was
laughing.
Ch. XXIV.-Bank Notes.
"Now that I have told you in detail of the splendour of this City of
the Emperor's, I shall proceed to tell you of the Mint which he
hath in the same city, in the which he hath his money coined and
struck, as I shall relate to you. And in doing so I shall make
manifest to you how it is that the Great Lord may well be able to
*Kao li shi, chap. xxvi, fol. 8-9, and chap. xxx, fol. 22.
† In Russian Manchuria the Sea-dog is called a kipi. Perhaps by akirho
munho "the sea cow" (Rhytina Stelleri) is meant. As Dr. Bretschneider
formed me, this large sea beast was found in the sea of Behring, near
Kamtchatka, last century by Steller, which however at the present time can
be considered as extinct."
The shaman women of Corea were famed all over China for their powers
of charming.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
49
accomplish even much more than I have told you, or am going to
tell you, in this Book. For, tell it how I might, you never would be
satisfied that I was keeping within truth or reason! The Emperor's
Mint then is in this same City of Cambaluc, and the way it is
wrought is such that you might say he hath the Secret of Alchemy
in perfection, and you would be right! For he makes his money
after this fashion. He makes them take of the bark of a certain
tree in fact the Mulberry Tree, the leaves of which are the food of
the silkworms, these trees being so numerous that whole districts
are full of them. What they take is a certain fine white bast or
skin which lies between the wood of the tree and the thick outer
bark, and this they make into something resembling sheets of
paper, but black.
When these sheets have been prepared they are
cut up into pieces of different sizes. The smallest of these sizes
is worth a half tornesel; the next, a little larger, one tornesel;
one, a little larger still, is worth half a silver groat of Venice;
another a whole groat; others yet two groats, five groats, and ten
groats. There is also a kind worth one Bezant of gold, and others
of three Bezants, and so up to ten. All these pieces of paper are,
[issued with as much solemnity and authority as if they were of
pure gold or silver; and on every piece a variety of officials,
whose duty it is, have to write their names, and to put their seals.
And when all is prepared duly, the chief officer deputed by the
Kaan smears the Seal entrusted to him with vermilion, and im-
presses it on the paper, so that the form of the Seal remains stamp-
ed upon it in red; the Money is then authentic. Any one forging
it would be punished with death]. And the Kaan causes every
year to be made such a vast quantity of this money, which costs
him nothing, that it must equal in amount all the treasure in
the world. With these pieces of paper, made as I have described,
he causes all payments on his own account to be made; and he
makes them to pass current universally over all bis kingdoms and
provinces and territories, and whithersoever his power and sover-
eignty extends. And nobody, however important he may think
himself, dares to refuse them on pain of death. And indeed every-
body takes them readily, for wheresoever a person may go through-
out the Great Kaan's dominions he shall find these pieces of paper
current, and shall be able to transact all sales and purchases of
goods by means of them just as well as if they were coins of pure
gold. And all the while they are so light that ten bezants' worth
does not weigh one golden bezant. Furthermore all merchants
arriving from India or other countries, and bringing with them
gold or silver or gems and pearls, are prohibited from selling to
any one but the Emperor. He has twelve experts chosen for this
business, men of shrewdness and experience in such affairs; these
appraise the articles, and the Emperor then pays a liberal price for
them in those pieces of paper. The merchants accept his price
readily, for in the first place they would not get so good an one
from anybody else, and secondly they are paid without any delay.
And with this paper-money they can buy what they like anywhere
over the Empire, whilst it is also vastly lighter to carry about on
their journeys. And it is a truth that the merchants will several

50
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
times in the year bring wares to the amount of 400,000 bezants,
and the Grand Sire pays for all in that paper. So he buys such a
quantity of those precious things every year that his treasure is
endless, whilst all the time the money he pays away costs him
nothing at all. Moreover several times in the year proclamation
is made through the city that any one who may have gold or silver
or gems or pearls, by taking them to the Mint shall get a hand-
some price for them. And the owners are glad to do this, because
they would find no other purchaser give so large a price. Thus
the quantity they bring in is marvellous, though those who do not
choose to do so may let it alone. Still, in this way, nearly all
the valuables in the country come into the Kaan's possession.
When any of those pieces of paper are spoilt-not that they are so
very flimsy neither-the owner carries them to the Mint, and by
paying 3 per cent. on the value he gets new pieces in exchange.
And if any Baron, or any one else soever, hath need of gold or
silver or gems or pearls, in order to make plate, or girdles or the
like, he goes to the Mint and buys as much as he list, paying in
this paper-money." (Pp. 378-380.)
Without doubt the Mongols borrowed the bank-note system from
the Kin. Up to this time there is in Sian fu a block kept, which
was used for printing the bank-notes of the Kin dynasty. I have
had the opportunity of seeing a print of those bank-notes. They
were of the same size and the same shape as the bank-notes of the
Ming. A reproduction of the text of the Kin bank-notes is found
in the
Kin shi tsui pien.* This copy has the
characters pao küan (precious charter) and the years of
reign貞 1213-1216. The first essay of the Mongols to intro-
duce bank-notes dates from the time of Ogodai khan 1229-42, but
Chinese history only mentions the fact without giving details. At
that time silk in skeins was the only article of a determinate
value in the trade and on the project of Ye lü ch'u ts'ai, minister
of Ogodai the taxes were also collected in silk delivered by
weight. It can therefore be assumed that the name
sze ch'ao (i.e. bank-notes referring to the weight of silk), dates
back to the same time. At any rate at a later time, as, under the
reign of Kubilai, the issuing of bank-notes was decreed, silk was
taken as the standard to express the value of silver and 1,000
liang silk was estimated 50 liang (or 1 ting) silver. § Thus, in
*See Wylie's Notes on Chinese Literature, p. 64.
+ Transactions of that kind were in use until a short time ago in Kiakhta
on the Russian-Chinese frontier, where in the retail trade between Russians,
Chinese and Mongols, silk skeins took the place of money.
I think that sze-ch'ao cannot mean bank-notes made of silk-paper as has
been suggested by some sinologues.
§ The ting of the Mongol time as well as during the reign of the Kin, was
a unit of weight equivalent to 50 liang, but not to 10 liang as has been
suggested by some interpreters of M. Polo. (Comp. Ch'ue keng lu, and

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
51
consequence of those measures, it became gradually a rule to trans-
fer the taxes and rents originally paid in silk, into silver.
The wealth of the Mongol khans in precious metals was re-
nowned. The accounts regarding their revenues, however, which
we meet occasionally in Chinese history, do not surprise by their
vastness. In the year 1298 for instance the amount of the revenue
is stated in the Siu t'ung kien to have been :-
19,000 liang of gold=(190,000 liang of silver according
to the exchange of that time at the
rate of 1 to 10).
60,000
"
"
silver.
3,600,000 ting of silver in bank-notes (i.e. 180 millions liang).
altogether 180,250,000 liang of silver.
But if the
The number seems indeed very high for that time.
exceedingly low exchange of the bank-notes be taken into con-
sideration the sum will be reduced to a modest amount.
Ch. XXXIII.-Astronomers and Astrologers.
"[There are in the city of Cambaluc, what with Christians, Saracens,
and Cathayans, some 5,000 astrologers and soothsayers, whom the
Great Kaan provides with annual maintenance and clothing, just
as he provides the poor of whom we have spoken, and they are in
the constant exercise of their art in this city. They have a kind
of Astrolabe on which are inscribed the planetary signs, the hours
and critical points of the whole year. And every year these
Christian, Saracen, and Cathayan astrologers, each sect apart, in-
vestigate by means of this astrolabe the course and character of
the whole year, according to the indications of each of its Moons,
in order to discover by the natural course and disposition of the
planets, and the other circumstances of the heavens, what shall be
the nature of the weather, and what peculiarities shall be produced
by each Moon of the year; as for example, under which Moon
there shall be thunderstorms and tempests, under which there
shall be disease, murrain, wars, disorders, and treasons, and so on
according to the indications of each; but always adding that it lies
with God to do less or more according to his pleasure. And they
write down the results of their examination in certain little
pamphlets for the year, which are called Tacuin, and these are sold
for a groat to all who desire to know what is coming. Those of
the astrologers, of course, whose predictions are found to be most
exact, are held to be the greatest adepts in their art, and get the
greater fame.]" (Pp. 399, 400.)
Kubilai khan established in Peking two astronomical boards
Yuen shi, chap. xcv). The Yuen pao, which as everybody in
China knows, is equivalent to 50 liang (taels) of silver, is the same as the
ancient ting, and the character yuen indicates, that it dates from the Yuen
dynasty.

52
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
and two observatories. One of them was a Chinese observatory
(sze tien t'ai), the other a Mohammedan observatory (hui hui sze
tien t'ai) each with its particular astronomical and chronological
systems, its particular astrology and instruments. The first astro-
nomical and calendar system was compiled for the Mongols by
Ye-liu Ch'u-ts'ai, who was in Chingis khan's service, not only as a
high counsellor, but also as an astronomer and astrologer. After
having been convinced of the obsoleteness and incorrectness of
the astronomical calculations in the Taming li (the name of the
calendar system of the Kin dynasty), he thought out at the time
he was at Samarcand a new system, valid not only for China, but
also for the countries conquered by the Mongols in western
Asia; and named it in memory of Chingis khan's expedition
Si ching keng wu yüan li, i.e. "Astronomical
calendar beginning with the year keng-wu, compiled during the
war in the west." Keng-wu was the year 1210 of our era. Ye-liu
Ch'u-ts'ai chose this year, and the moment of the winter solstice,
for the beginning of his period; because according to his calcula-
tions, it coincided with the beginning of a new astronomical or
planetary period. He took also into consideration, that since the
year 1211 Chingis khan's glory had spread over the whole world.*
Ye-liu Ch'u-ts'ai's calendar was not adopted in China, but the
system of it is explained in the Yuen shi, in the section on
Astronomy and the Calendar.+
In the year 1267 the Mohammedans presented to Kubilai their
astronomical calendar, wan nien li, i.e. the calendar of ten thousand
years. By taking this denomination in its literal sense, we may
conclude, that the Mahommedans brought to China the ancient
Persian system, founded on the period of 10,000 years.
The
compilers of the Yuen shi seem not to have had access to docu-
ments relating to this system, for they give no details about it.
Finally by order of Kubilai the astronomers Hiu Heng and Ko
Show-king composed a new calculation under the name of Shou-shi
li, which came into use from the year 1280. It is thoroughly ex-
plained in the Yuen shi. Notwithstanding the fame this system
generally enjoyed, its blemishes came soon to light. In the 6th
* See Ye-liu Ch'u-ts'ai's address to Chingis khan in the
Yüan wen ch'ao.
† In the Ch'ue keng lu it is stated, that Ye-liu Ch'u-ts'ai was an adherent
of the astronomy of the Mohammedans, because he found that there the
theory of the five planets was more precisely explained than in Chinese astro-
nomy (probably the hypothesis of the epicycles is meant). Inspired by these
theories he compiled the astronomical calculation
Ma-ta-pa
(evidently a Mohammedan term). I leave to specialists to decide what con-
nection could be supposed between the system of Ch'u-ts'ai and the Ma-ta-
pa.

TRAVELS IN NORTH-CHINA.
53
month of 1302 an eclipse of the sun happened, and the calculation
of the astronomer proved to be erroneous (it seems the calculation
had anticipated the real time)."
*
The astronomers of the Ming dynasty explained the errors in
the Shou-shi li by the circumstance, that in that calculation the
period for one degree of precession of the equinox was taken too
long (81 years).+ But they were themselves hardly able to
overcome these difficulties.
Ch. XXXIV.
"As we have said before, these people are Idolaters, and as regards
their gods, each has a tablet fixed high up on the wall of his
chamber, on which is inscribed a name which represents the Most
High and Heavenly God; and before this they pay daily worship,
offering incense from a thurible, raising their hands aloft, and
gnashing their teeth three times, praying Him to grant them health
of mind and body; but of Him they ask nought else. And below
on the ground there is a figure which they call Natigai, which is
the god of things terrestrial. To him they give a wife and
children, and they worship him in the same manner, with incense,
and gnashing of teeth, and lifting up of hands; and of him
they ask seasonable weather, and the fruits of the earth, children,
and so forth." (P. 404.)
By the "Most High and Heavenly God" worshipped by the
Chinese, as Marco Polo reports, evidently the Chinese Tien,
"Heaven" is meant, Lao t'ien ye in the common language.
Regarding "the God of things terrestrial" whose figure the
Chinese, according to M. Polo, placed below on the ground"
there can also be no doubt that he understands the
66
Tu-ti,
the local "Lar" of the Chinese, to which they present indeed
sacrifices on the floor, near the wall under the table.+
M. Polo reports, that the Chinese worship their God offering in-
cense, raising their hands aloft, and gnashing their teeth. § Of course
he means that they placed the hands together, or held kindled
joss-stick bundles in their hands, according to the Chinese custom.
The statement of M. Polo sbattano i denti is very remarkable. It
seems to me, that very few of the Chinese are aware of the fact,
that this custom still exists among the Taouists. In the rituals of
*The answer of the astronomer, called to account, is worthy of being
mentioned. He pretended, that his calculation was correct, and that the
fact of the non-accordance with the phenomenon was the business of Heaven,
and not the fault of the astronomer. See: Siu t'ung kien year 1302.
+ King chuan pai pien published in A.D. 1581 (see
Wylie's Notes on Chinese Literature, p. 149). Section on Astronomy.
This household god is represented as an old man, and they add also his
wife under the name of Tu-ti Nai nai.
§ Ramusio's original text has sbattano i denti.

54
act.
ELUCIDATIONS OF MARCO POLO'S
the Taouists the k'ow-c'hi (ko'w" to knock against,"
ch'i "teeth") is prescribed as a comminatory and propitiatory
It is effected by the four upper and lower fore-teeth. The
Taouists are obliged before the service begins to perform a certain
number of k'ow-ch'i, turning their heads alternately to the left
and to the right, in order to drive away mundane thoughts and
aggressions of bad spirits. The 'ow-c'hi repeated three times is
called ming fa ku in Chinese, i.e. "to beat the spiritual
drum." The ritual says, that it is heard by the most high Ruler,
who is moved by it to grace.* **
M. Polo observed this custom among the lay heathen. Indeed
it appears from a small treatise, written in China more than a
hundred years before M. Polo,+ that at the time the Chinese
author wrote, all devout men, entering a temple, used to perform
the 'ow-ch'i, and considered it an expression of veneration and
devotion to the idols. Thus this custom had been preserved to
the time of M. Polo, who did not fail to mention this strange
peculiarity in the exterior observances of the Chinese. As regards
the present time it seems to me, that this custom is not known
among the people, and even with respect to the Taouists it is only
performed on certain occasions, and not in all Taouist temples.
*See the ET'ai tsing yü ts'e published in 1444. Ex-
planation of the principal rituals of the Taouists.
+Tao shan ts'ing hwa, published in A. D. 1106. It
is generally included in the Chinese collections of reprints, f. i. in the
百川學海