ARTICLE II.
NOTES MADE ON A TOUR THROUGH SHAN-HSI AND SHEN-HSI. *
BY REV. C. HOLCOMBE.
"Imperial Highway" from Peking to the western and
southern provinces of China, passes, as is well known, along
the great "Plain of Chih-li" in a general south-westerly direction,
at an average distance of about fifteen English miles from the
"Western Hills," until Ching-ting fu (EF) is reached, at a
distance of two hundred miles from the Imperial capital. At this
point, the "Great Road" sends off a branch due south, passing
through K'ai-feng fu (F), the provincial capital of Ho-nan
(), and thence on to the central and south-eastern provinces.
The main road, however, turns due west at Ching-ting fu, and
enters Shan-hsi through what is known among Chinese travellers
as the "Ku-kuan" (). It is the purpose of the writer to
follow this great highway into Shan-hsi (), and then, still
following it, or diverging from it at his pleasure, to attempt some
descriptions of the geography and natural scenery of that province
and of the south-eastern portion of the province of Shen-hsi
(B), adjacent to, and bounding the first named province upon
the west.
The city of Ching-ting fu is like an empted pea-pod, all shell.
Possessing a fine wall, stretching around a very considerable area,
the great proportion of the land so enclosed is still devoted to
vegetable gardens, and wheat and millet fields; while the few business
shops which the city contains, are gathered in a little knot about
the intersection and crossing of the two great streets which con-
nect the four gates of the city. The notable, perhaps one might
say, the ominous sight to be seen, is found in the north-eastern
corner of the city, and consists of a great Buddhist temple with
its innumerable rows of outbuildings, all giving evidence of
original costliness and former splendour, but now decayed and
falling to ruin; while immediately beside it, rise the fair towers,
and well proportioned walls of the Romish Cathedral, with its
new and finely kept buildings and gardens. It hardly need be added,
that although the great Buddha of the temple lifts its impassive
bronze face up nearly a hundred feet into the air, the twin
*Read before the Society on June 7th, 1875.

56
NOTES MADE ON A TOUR
towers of the Cathedral mount still higher, and overtop the
idol. There again, Christianity looks down upon heathenism.
Crossing a small moat of running water, outside the west gate of
this city, and travelling ten li to the west, in which distance two
heavy dykes are crossed, the Hu-t'o river (E) is reached.
To defend the city against the ravages of this river is the evident
purpose of the dykes. The stream has its origin upon the western
slope of the mountains which separate the provinces of Chih-li and
Shan-hsi. We shall meet it again in the course of our journey. It
has all the expansive and destructive powers peculiar to the streams
of North-China; is not navigable at Ching-ting fu or any point
above; and aside from irrigation serves no useful purpose, except
turning a few rudely constructed water-wheels.
Williamson states in his Journeys in North-China, that the name
of this stream is properly Poo-too Ho-"Grape River" (0),
but is sometimes written Hu-t'ou river incorrectly. The above-
named author however, is himself in error, the name given above
being invariably found in all Chinese authorities, as well as being
the name by which the stream is known all along its course.
the time it was crossed by the writer-in October, 1874, it was
very broad, but barely two feet at its greatest depth. The current
was rapid and full of sand and earthy substances.
At
Sixty li west of Ching-ting fu, the traveller reaches Huai-lu
hsien, properly pronounced Huo-lu hsien (E), a miser-
able town lying among the foot hills, and at the mouth of the
valley, up which the road into Shan-hsi lies. This valley, at first
broad, and filled with the pebbly debris from a hundred mountain
streams, which in summer, foam and roar down the precipitous hill
sides, soon narrowed into a deep-cut gorge, or rather, our road
led into one of many gorges, which by their union form the valley.
The mountain walls on either hand were of dark-blue limestone,
-almost black, and so far as could be seen, bore no traces of
fossils. Limestone seemed to be the only material entering into
the composition of these hills, at least in their eastern faces,
and large quantities of it were being quarried, and burned for
building purposes.
The mountain faces were bald and barren;
but the gorge, up which the path led, was quite thickly populated,
and the beautiful brook of mountain water flowing down its center,
was turned aside to purposes of utility as well as beauty, and
irrigated many little patches of cultivated ground, none of them
larger than the floor of a good-sized drawing room.
The ascent grew more steep as we proceeded, until at a distance
of some eight miles from the plain, the gorge shallowed out, and
the road, climbing three miles more up the bare precipitous face of
the mountain, at last gained the crest of the first range, and passed

THROUGH SHAN-HSI AND SHEN-HSI.
57
under the "Eastern Celestial Gate" (FI). The view at this
point was worthy the pencil of a painter. At the west, and
almost beneath the traveller's feet, so precipitous were the slopes,
lay a valley held in the lap of the hills, lifted here, and depressed
there, but full of trees and villages; the hill-sides terraced to their
summits, and yellow with the ungathered harvest, all lying in the
shimmer of the hazy October sun which lit up one slope, and cast
another into shadow; and, vibrating through the air, sounded the
deep, sweet tone of a distant Temple bell, so deep, and so sweet,
that it came, not as made by hands, but as the very throb and
pulse of the atmosphere itself. This beautiful landscape seemed to
be not without its elevating and refining influences upon the people
whose happy lot it is to live in the midst of such beauty. For, as
the writer stood drinking in the precious vision, there came near
to him a ragged, dirty, verminous Chinese boy, busily engaged in
his work as scavenger upon the public highway; and neatly tied
to the handle of his basket, was a bunch of purple hare-bells, and
other wild flowers!
A few li of slipping and stumbling down the western face of
this first line of hills, brings the traveller to a level-only temporary
-in the bed of the "Ching-hsing River" (J). He sees
a bright mountain stream of clear water, flashing and making
music as it slips over its bed of pebbles and clean gravel. But by
the road side, on the brink of the stream, stands a striking monu-
ment to the destructive force of the river when it rises in its
strength. It-the monument-is the single remaining arch of a
massive stone bridge, which once spanned the stream at this
point, its central arch being not less than twenty-five feet above
the ordinary water mark. The entire bridge has been carried
away, this one arch, in the eastern approach to the bridge proper,
alone remaining. When crossed by the writer, the stream was
about twenty inches deep. It runs in a north-easterly direction,
and is one of the main tributaries of the Hu-t'ou river.
A large
number of grist mills, run by water power, were found upon its banks.
In each case, a few large stones were laid across the stream at a
considerable distance above the mill, in order to divert a portion
of the current to a sluice-way prepared to receive it. The sluice-
way terminated in a small dam, so arranged as to give a fall of
about three feet, and the water poured over this dam in two streams
of unequal size, striking at a slight angle the floats of two upright
wheels like a turbine, minus the inclosing case. Of course there
is a very large loss of power. Upon the upper end of the vertical
shaft of the larger wheel is fastened the nether millstone, which
revolves with the wheel. The upper stone rests upon it and is
chained, or roped to the building, to prevent its revolving from

58
NOTES MADE ON A TOUR
motion communicated to it by the lower stone.
The grain is fed
from a hopper, through a circular opening, in the center of the up-
per stone.
The smaller wheel drives the bolting apparatus.
As a
rule, the flume of these mills was not provided with any gate.
When it was desired to stop the machinery, it was done by apply-
ing a brake to the nether millstone, and chaining it so as to pre-
vent not only its revolutions, but those of the wheel as well.
These mills were very common throughout the mountain regions
of central and southern Shan-hsi.
The highway follows the course of this stream for a number of
miles, going continually up its bed. It finally leaves it, a mile or
more, south of Ching-hsing hsien (), a decayed and
dying city lying upon the bank of the stream. Here again ap-
peared another bridge, built of huge blocks of limestone, wrenched
in two, in the middle, and one half destroyed and swept away by
the flood. As has been already indicated, both slopes of this val-
ley were susceptible of cultivation. The rock which had on the
eastern slope, been all limestone, now alternated between limestone,
and clay shale. Signs of coal were abundant, and in several places
the mineral itself cropped out, in the cutting of the road along
a bluff, or through a bank. At the point, a mile beyond Ching-
hsing hsien, where the road finally leaves the river and commences
to climb the second range of hills, were some rude furnaces for
smelting iron, the ore being brought from a mine some five miles
distant. Traces of iron were abundant, in the rock of the imme-
diate vicinity.
The ascent of the second range was, perhaps, a trifle less pre-
cipitous than the first. The road was through a constant succes-
sion of villages, each having its own finely-cut gateways, or arches,
of stone, at either extremity of the town. The houses were of a
good class, for the most part being built of square blocks of
limestone, well laid in good lime, and carefully pointed. A large
proportion of them had flat and battlemented roofs, and in several
instances, a short flight of steps at one corner of the roof was no-
ticed, coming down from the roof to a point reachable by a ladder
of moderate length and there ending, flush with the main wall of
the building. As the road wound up nearer to the crest of the
second line of hills, the foundation became again composed, almost
exclusively of limestone, and coal measures and clay shale seemed
to disappear in company. Five li below the crown of the ascent
stands a stone Pai-lou on the sides of which are cut, respectively,
"Western limit of Chih-li" and "Eastern limit of Shan-hsi." And upon
the crown of the ascent, stands the archway called the "Northern
Celestial Gate." Opportunity is here given, to such as desire, to
return thanks-in cash-in one, or several temples to Buddha, for
the safe ascent of the mountain. Five li down the western face,

THROUGH SHAN-HSI AND SHEN-HSI.
59
brings the traveller to the Great Wall, which, as is well known,
stretches an arm down this line of mountains between the two pro-
vinces. It is really little more than a line of towers, substantially
built, surmounting the tops of the hills. Here is the Customs'
barrier called Ku Kwan ().
The ascent of the third range, which commences only some two
or three miles beyond the Customs' barrier is precipitous, and
wild in the extreme. The path winds, twists, and turns up the
rocky bed of a gorge, cut down deep in the heart of barren desolate
mountains. The path is very tortuous, and the traveller fre-
quently finds himself facing a solid wall of rock, hundreds of feet
in height, and just as he is debating whether he must indeed,
turn back or fly out, a crevice opens at one side, and he slips
through that, only to be again confronted with overhanging cliffs,
and to turn again. At numerous places the warning is cut into
the rock by the path-"Beware of mountain floods, don't shelter
from rain here." And the warning would seem to be timely.
This ascent, gloomy and wild, ends at last at the "Western
Celestial Gate," passing which the descent begins down the open
face of the mountain. On every side were terraced hill slopes,
and villages with their inevitable attending groves of trees.
Every inch of ground seemed to be brought under cultivation.
The mountain sides were cut into huge flights of stairs, and wheat
fields, not large enough to turn a donkey of any enterprise around
in, were terraced and notched into every ravine. At one point,
fifty-seven distinct and separate terraces were counted, rising
from the ravine at the bottom of a long hill side, to the little
circle, twice as large as a dining table, which crowned its summit.
A large, beautiful, and fertile valley, ends the western slope of
this third range; and at the south-western point of this valley is
situated the interesting, and prospectively important city of Ping-
ting cho (J). It lies in the center of a region of coun-
try, inexhaustible in its mineral resources. Coal and iron might
almost be said to make up the hills on every side. It costs
nothing to mine the ore, because it lies exposed on the surface of
the hill slopes, and only the merest trifle to smelt it, because the
coal is even more easily accessible than the iron.
proper system of development, this city would at no
become the Pittsburg, or Birmingham of China.
beautiful for situation, and full of undeveloped wealth, it is
principally remarkable for the great number of pai-lous which
adorn and obstruct its main street, and for the kindly disposition,
and courteous demeanor of all its people, even down to "the
small boys."
Under any
distant day
At present,
The road bends sharply to the south as it leaves Ping-ting cho,

60
00
NOTES MADE ON A TOUR
and after a sharp climb of two miles reaches the summit of the
last range of hills, crowned with the Jast, and "Southern Celestial
Gate." Here a picture finer even than any which had preceeded
it awaits the traveller, doubly beautiful, if he sees it, as the writer
did, at sunrise. An oval basin, among the mountains, hollowed
out at its bottom and in the direction of its longer diameter; a
line of trees, showing where a stream ran; capping the trees,
and twisting and writhing beneath the warm rays of the sun,
just getting over the hill-tops, lay a long and slender
fog line, growing smaller each moment as masses broke off, and
wreathed, and rose, and vanished; the lower slopes of the hills
terraced, under cultivation, and blocked off into unequal squares
of green, from the newly sown wheat, or of yellow, from the
ungathered millet; higher up, the bare mountain faces banded
with broad stripes of chocolate, and purple, and blue, and grey, and
black, from the various mineral substances of which they were
composed; and capping all, the many pointed crown of the circling
hills. Such was the picture lying there, food for the eyes of the
weary traveller as he rests a moment from his steep climb, and
gathers breath for his no less precipitous descent. The road
winds down into this valley, and follows up the stream for many
miles, until it comes to its source among the hills at the south-
west. Here the character of the scenery changes as if by magic.
Gravel, sand, rocks, and bare mountains, which had formed the
characteristic features of the way, suddenly disappear, and in
their stead is a table-land, or more correctly a water-shed of yel-
low slippery clay. Great yawning gullies gape on every side, and
deep cuts through the clayey soil continually hide the traveller
as he follows his path in its tortuous course along this water-shed.
There is still some climbing to be done, until as Sbih-lieh is
reached, the traveller seems to have gained at last the very ridge-
pole of the world, and to stand at an altitude where he can literally
"look down" upon all the kingdoms and cities of the globe.
Indeed this whole pass, although containing some descents is still
literally climbing one enormous flight of stairs, stretching over a
hundred and fifty miles in length, from Ching-ting fu in Chih-li
to Shih-lieh in Shan-hsi. The soil however does not vary, after
the sudden change noticed above, but continues the same through-
out the greater portion of the province last named.
T'ai-yuen fu, the provincial capital, lies in the extreme northern
point of a district which may be called the "Central plain of Shan-
hsi." Immediately outside the north gate of the city, a rather
low range of hills stretches across, in nearly a western course, and
separates this plateau from one still more elevated at the north.
The great road which we have followed through the mountain

THROUGH SHAN-HSI AND SHEN-HSI.
61
pass from the plain of Chih-li debouches upon this central plain
about ten miles to the south-east of the provincial capital.
This plain is the garden of Shan-hsi, and so far as the writer's
observation extends, of all north China. Its general direction is
to the south-west, and it has a length of about ninety-five English
miles, by an average breadth of, say eighteen. Along its western
border, flows the Fan river (1), of no value here except for
general purposes of irrigation. Frequent smaller streams come
down from the mountains which surround this basin, and these
are all utilized, in a manner which puts into most favorable light
the far-sightedness of the people, for watering the numerous and
carefully cultivated fields. Channels are carefully constructed for
these streams, and as carefully kept in order, and suitable gates,
frequently of stone, are prepared here and there, by which the
water can be let on to any man's land at will. By this care, these
streams are carried many miles, and made to increase the fertility
and productiveness of large areas of country. The soil is in a high
state of cultivation, and supports a very dense population. The
hills on every side are rich in coal and iron, the former mainly
bituminous and of the best quality; the latter famous all over the
empire for its toughness and strength. In the mountains directly
west of T'ai-yuen fu, are large deposits of sulphur, which are the
personal property of the emperor, and from which large supplies
are drawn for preparing munitions of war. Large quantities of
cotton, wheat, and millet are grown, besides tobacco and some
opium. West of the Fan river, is a large area, close under the
hills, almost exclusively given up to the cultivation of the grape.
The grapes are unusually large, and of delicious flavor. They
were sold to the writer, at about two cents a catty, which, as was
subsequently learned, was about double the proper price. North
of the grape region, and also west of the Fan river, is a large cluster
of villages given exclusively to the manufacture of paper, while still
north of them is another the sole business of which is mat weaving.
The style of architecture was very noticeable, indicating not only
thrift, and a population on the whole well-to-do, but also possess-
ing not a little taste and sense of the beautiful.
A large propor-
tion of the houses were built of good kiln-dried brick, comparatively
few mud houses were seen, and it was quite common to see these
brick residences, built with towers, and a battlemented wall sur-
rounding a courtyard, reminding one strongly of the castles and
noble residences of Great Britain and the continent of Europe.
These premises would hardly bear very close or searching inspec-
tion, but their outlines were in many instances decidedly beautiful,
and spoke well for the character of their occupants. In short,
everything in this plain, or perhaps more properly, basin,-

62
NOTES MADE ON A TOUR
betokened an amount of thrift, intelligence, and taste, far above that
found among the inhabitants of Chih-li, or other portions of North-
China visited by the writer. There are three large centers of trade
in this basin, namely Ta'i-yuen fu, the capital, Fan-chow fu on
the western edge of the plain and about midway between its
northern and southern extremeties, and "Ping-yao hsien" (4
), on the great road and nearer the eastern border.
The great highway, having kept along the eastern edge of the
basin through its entire length, and consequently at a very con-
siderable distance from the Fan river, comes into the narrow
valley of this river at the lower extremity of the Central plain,
and follows along its gorge for about twenty-five miles, to a point
ten li south of Ling-shih hsien (). Here the stream
makes a long curve to the west, while the great road climbs the
mountains, crossing at the Han-hou pass (). The bluffs,
of clay shale, on either bank of the river for the entire twenty-five
miles mentioned above, are literally full of coal, both anthracite
and bituminous being found of the best quality and in greatest
abundance. As an illustration of the exceeding cheapness with
which many kinds of manufacturing industries are carried on,
take the following. At one point, a pottery was visited, which
made large quantities of the common ware in use among the
Chinese, but of a quality rather above the average. The clay, of
fine quality, was found in the bluff, and cost merely the labour of
digging, that is about ten cents a day, and coal for burning the
crockery was to be had, in inexhaustible quantities and of most
excellent quality, for three cents per hundred catties, or about
forty-five Mexican dollar cents per ton! In different points in the
province, all the necessary materials for manufacturing common
window and bottle glass, were found in equal quantities and equally
cheap.
The Han-hou mountains lie in a cluster rather than in an
extended line, and fill up the entire space between the two main
lines of hills on the eastern and western borders of Shan-hsi,
except a very narrow and circuitous gorge, through which the
Fan river finds its way. They thus separate the central plain of
Shan-hsi, from the smaller and lower Ping-yang fu (4)
basin, which I will soon describe. The foundation of these
mountains seems to be a clay rock, friable and quickly decom-
posing on exposure to the atmosphere. The cuttings for the
roadway through the clay soil are very deep, and the pitch of the
road exceedingly great, more than at any point in the pass between
Chih-li and Shan-hsi. But the roadway being for the most part
smooth and devoid of stones, affords better foot-hold for animals,
and is more easily travelled than the other, except during rainy

THROUGH SHAN-HSI AND SHEN-HSI.
63
weather. Then it would probably be so slippery as to be ex-
ceedingly difficult, if not absolutely impassible.
Throughout these hills there is the same beautiful banding of
colors spoken of above, and mines of coal are frequent, while
unmined seams and measures of coal, are to be found everywhere.
Sheep raising is a common occupation, while the less precipitous
hill slopes are carefully terraced and sown with wheat and millet,
or planted with cotton or potatoes. The style of architecture is
quite peculiar. On the slopes of the mountains, whole villages
are to be seen, in which the houses are built tier above tier, the
flat roof of the lower tier forming the front yard to the tier next
above, while the roofs of that tier serve the same purpose for their
more exalted neighbours. The house itself is simply an arch laid
in brick, about fifteen feet in length, with a diameter of ten feet,
and height, to crown, of about eight feet. The rear end of this
arch being generally in the hill, has a wall of solid mountain
enclosing it, while the front end, is bricked up and fitted with
door and windows. This style of architecture proves to be so
satisfactory that it was found to be quite commonly adopted, even
out on the level plain. Huo-cho (J), a miserable opium-
stricken city, lies in a valley in the midst of this mountain pass,
where the road for a short distance dips down again to the banks
of the Fan river. Here large numbers of grist mills are found,
driven by water power, and all grinding wheat. The flour is
carried up the valley and over the pass into the central plain in
great quantities, where it finds ready market; mules and donkeys,
mainly the latter, are the means of transportation. The wheat
is grown in the deep gorges along the river-side, and is said to be
of a superior quality.
The Han-hou pass is about sixty miles in length, extending
from near Chieh-hsin hsien (to Chao-chêng hsien
(). Near the latter city the descent is made to the Ping-
yang fu basin, a section of country about forty miles in length by
eight or ten in width, and lying along the same stream the course of
which we have followed so long. The principal centers of trade here,
are the cities of Chao-chêng hsien and Hung-lung-hsien (),
the more pretentious city of Ping-yang fu being in a state of
chronic decay and desolation, owing evidently to an excess of alco-
hol and opium. Great care is given to proper irrigation upon this
plain; in one instance at least, a very considerable stream of water
being carried by an aqueduct over another stream, in its course to
the fields needing its moisture. The growth of grain is less upon
this plain than upon its northern neighbour, while the areas de-
voted to cotton and opium have increased considerably. This
basin is decidedly inferior to the one heretofore described, whether

64
NOTES MADE ON A TOUR
regard be had to beauty of prospect, quality of soil, variety of
products, or the thrift and general intelligence of the people, or
lastly to the density of population. Yet it is superior in the
writer's opinion to the plain of Chih-li, in perhaps all these re-
spects, save the one of density of population. Coal and iron
abound in the hills.
Twelve miles below Ping-yang fu the road bids a final farewell
to the Fan river, which at this point turns more to the westward,
which course it keeps until it is swallowed up in the Huang-ho
(), while the highway enters another low pass, precisely
similar in general character and appearance to the last described,
though shorter and less difficult. This low range of hills serves
to separate the Ping-yang fu basin from the southern plain of
Shan-hsi. This plain extends from the city of Wên-hsi hsien
(), which lies nearly in its north-eastern apex, to the
Yellow river, a distance of a hundred and fifteen miles. For
about half this distance the plain has mountains on three sides,
but finally those on the west, end abruptly in one bold peak, and
the plain in that direction is limited by the Yellow river. The
character of the soil is essentially the same as that of the Ping-
yang fu basin. The areas devoted to the cultivation of cotton
and opium have increased, while there has been a corresponding
decrease in the acreage of the cereals, and a resultant decrease in
the prosperity and intelligence of the people. Large orchards of
persimmon trees, grafted, are found, and not infrequently the
traveller meets with apparatus by which persimmon whiskey is
distilled. The process is simple. The fruit is partially dried in
the sun, then mashed to a pulp, and the liquor produced from
the fermentation of this pulp is subjected to a process of distilla-
tion. The product tastes not unlike a poor quality of Scotch
whiskey.
On the eastern edge of this plain, close under the bordering
hills, lies an extensive salt marsh. It is the exclusive property
of the emperor; is placed under the superintendence of a Tau-t'ai;
and is farmed out to companies who manufacture the salt. The
process is the ordinary one of solar evaporation, and of purifica-
tion by water, leached through clay, and needs no description here.
The product is carried into Ho-nan and Shen-hsi, besides sup-
plying the central and southern portions of Shan-hsi. The most
important trade-centers of this plain, are Lu-t'sun () and
Chieh-cho (H), at the northern and southern extremities of
this salt marsh. Wên-hsi hsien is also a place of very consider-
able trade.
P'u-cho fu (HF) lies on a level with the Yellow river,

THROUGH SHAN-HSI AND SHEN-HSI.
69
65
and on the edge of a large extent of worthless marsh land, full
of pools of brackish, and in some places, positively salt water. A
descent of several hundred feet must be made in getting from the
plain of P'u-cho fu to the marsh in which the city itself stands.
The city has the general appearance of having slipped from the
plain on which it ought to have stood, down into this quagmire,-
and to have slipped down from all prosperous growth, and general
respectability at the same time. The business of the place is
confined to a single dirty street in the eastern suburb. The great
road does not pass into the town, having succeeded in maintain-
ing its position on the high ground from which the town has
backslided. In the pools of salt water upon the plain, or marsh,
surrounding the city, a species of shrimp was found in great
numbers, differing somewhat, yet bearing a strong family resem-
blance to the one ordinarily seen. The great road keeping to the
bluff, runs on, turning first south, and then a trifle to the east of
south, until the road, the bluff, and Shan-hsi, all end together,
making a sudden plunge down a precipice and being lost in the
dirty waters of the Yellow river.
At this point, the three provinces of Shan-hsi, Ho-nan, and
Shen-hsi abut upon each other, the river forming the line of divi-
sion between the first named and the others. The banks just at
this point are very steep, and the river, narrowed in between
these walls, runs with very great rapidity. It is barely half a
mile in width. Williamson states that it was so deep that no
bottom could be found by sounding as they crossed. But when
it was crossed by the writer, it was nowhere more than six feet
deep, and on returning, three of the boatmen sprang into the
water in midstream and waded ashore, carrying a line from the
ferry-boat to prevent us from rapidly drifting down with the current.
The water was just up to their hips. The boat is carried nearly a
mile down stream in crossing, and to get from bank to bank is
good work for a half day; at least the writer found it so, both
times, when he crossed. There seems to be a small amount of
traffic on the river for boats drawing when loaded, not more than
twelve inches, and a small Chinese gunboat, of the same fashion
as those common on the Pei-ho at Tientsin, was lying at the ferry.
The fact seems to be, that this river in many places spreads out
to an enormous width,-as it does at a point a few miles above
this crossing, and becomes correspondingly shallow,-so shallow
as to be impassible to boats of any draft. The large, thriving,
business-like city, lying upon the western bank, opposite the
ferry, is not, as the above quoted author calls it Tung-kwan
(B) "The Eastern Fortress," but Tu'ng-kwan (B)..
The hills on the Shen-hsi bank are very steep and high. They are

66
NOTES MADE ON A TOUR
the range in which the famous Hua-shan (II), one of China's
sacred mountains is found. They rise in very abrupt ascent from
the bank of the Yellow river, and clinging to their sides, its
walls dipping down into the ravines, and capping the highest
summits, is the city and fortification of Tu'ng-kwan. The walls and
gate-towers are high and in excellent repair, and in conjunction
with the bare, brown, hill sides, and their clean-cut sky-line, form
a picture peculiarly Chinese, and by no means devoid of beauty.
From Tu'ng-kwan to Hsi-an fu (f), the capital of the
province, the road runs in a direction nearly due west, through a
most lovely section of country, having the range of high hills just
mentioned upon the south, and the Wei river ( ), on the
north.
The road lies through one long orchard, and the walled towns
and cities lie thickly along, for the most part at a little distance
from the highway.
The only uncomfortable part of the picture was the one or two
large towns and cities which had been destroyed during the
Mohammedan rebellion, and had not been rebuilt. Hua-cho
(), the city where it first broke out, was in a state of the
most utter desolation. Near that city was a genuine bit of wild,
New England scenery, with its moss-covered granite rocks and
boulders, its many springs of beautiful water, and its thickets of
evergreen trees and shrubs. It seemed lost, and out of place, in
the midst of scenery which was so unlike it.
At Lin-tu'ng-hsien () is a very large fountain of
hot water, bursting from the rocks at the base of the hills, just
outside the south gate of the city. Numerous baths have been
constructed at the fountain by the Chinese, and the warm water
having assisted to cleanse the soiled sons of Han, makes its way
down the slope and into the Wei river, by two streams, its courso
traceable from a distance by the threads of vapor hanging in the
air above it.
From this point the great road descends very gradually for
about five miles, and thus reaches and crosses the marshy bed of
a small affluent of the Wei. The traveller crosses this stream
upon a fine bridge of wood, resting upon stone piers, and then
sees in front, the perpendicular face of a bluff, several hundred
feet in height, its face honey-combed with the residences of
troglodytic Chinese, whole villages of whom are found snugly
ensconced on eligible building sites, having an eastern exposure
and protected against the cold winds from the north and west.
These villages are composed of those who cultivate the bottom-
land near by, and which cannot be built upon as it is flooded
several times each year.

THROUGH SHAN-HSI AND SHEN-HISI.
67
The cast
Ascending this bluff by a path cut through its face, the traveller
comes out upon another plain, and sees at a distance of three
miles, the high towers and finely built walls of Si-ngan fu
(F), the provincial capital, and the ancient capital of the
empire. Standing out upon the plain in bold relief, unobscured
by trees or other obstructions, it presents a finer appearance than
Peking, or any Chinese city yet visited by the writer.
and west gate-towers are especially fine, being unsurpassed, even
by the lofty ones found in the present capital. The walls are
high, broad, and kept in excellent repair, and within them is a
dense and busy crowd of people. Careful examination of all sec-
tions of the city, failed to develop any considerable areas of vacant
space. The entire city appeared to be closely built over, and to
be crowded with inhabitants. The population is somewhat
heterogeneous, being composed of natives of Shen-hsi, Shan-hsi,
Ho-nan, Kan-suh, Sze-chuen, not to mention a Manchu garrison of
some five thousand families, and a note-worthy sprinkling of Mon-
gols. Thibetans were also seen about the streets. The city is
third in population in North-China, Peking and Tientsin only
out-numbering it. The old wall enclosing the imperial resi-
dence, and some of the palace buildings are still standing.
The market is excellent, vegetables of all sorts, with a great variety
of fine fruits and nuts, appearing upon the streets every day. The
quantity and variety of foreign goods exposed for sale in the fine
large shops is something surprising and remarkable. The greater
portion of these are obtained from Hankow (I), though some
come overland from Russia. So far as could be learned, there is
no foreign trade between this city and Tientsin. Indeed, the shortest
route to Tientsin in point of time, is via Hankow and Shanghai.
The number of shops given up to the trade in opium is alarming, and
the percentage of opium-smokers in the population seems to be
much greater than in Chih-li.
Having thus traversed Shan-hsi from its capital-T'ai-yuen fu-
to its southern extremity, allow the traveller to retrace his steps,
and from that city as a starting point, to explore in a hasty way,
the northern sections of the province.
Immediately outside the north gate of T'ai-yuen, rises a low
range of hills, a spur thrown out from the longer range at the
east, and which the tourist crossed in the early part of this paper.
This range forms the northern limit to the plain on which the
city stands. The Fan river at this point makes a sharp turn to
the west, and comes down a gorge at a point where the hill-line is
quite low, close under the main line of western hills.
The great road north from T'ai-yuen fu,-through Yên-mun kuan
(HEP), and thence to Ta-t'ung fu (F), where it forks,

68
NOTES MADE ON A TOUR
one branch continuing north-west to Kuei-hua ch'êng (1),
and one north-east to Chang-chia k'ou (I), Kulgan-cuts
this line of hills immediately after leaving the gates of the
provincial center. The ascent from the south, through the deep
cutting, worn by the travel of centuries, in the loess of which the
hills are composed, may be two or three hundred feet in excess of
the descent upon the north side, which is slight. The road is nearly
straight, and good, but not equal to the demands of travel which
are very great indeed. These hills, being low and entirely devoid
of rocks, are, for the most part, under cultivation. This line of hills
forms a water-shed between the head-waters of certain tributaries
to the Huang-ho () and the Pei-ho (L), all streams south
of this range finding their way into the former, and all above it into
the latter. Having passed this water-shed, the traveller finds
himself upon a plateau of slightly rolling ground, the longest
diameter of which runs nearly due east and west. It is walled in,
by what may fairly be called mountains, upon the east and north,
and by hills of moderate elevation, upon the west. The products
of the soil indicate a higher altitude than the plains further south.
Oats, Irish potatoes, and millet are the staples. Wheat is grown
in but small quantities. Coal, or coke prepared from the coal, is
the only fuel used, and it is abundant, and in consequence very
cheap. Hsin-cho (f), and Tai-cho (ft), are the prin-
cipal cities, while there are a large number of thriving market
towns scattered about. The population, although less in propor-
tion to area than in the center of the province, is still quite dense,
and gives evidence of a fair degree of thrift and intelligence. A
very fair quality of slate is found in inexhaustible quantities, in
the mountains at the east of this plateau, near the Hu-tou river,
which here enters the mountains and makes its way to the plain
of Chih-li, near Ching-ting fu where we have seen it. And, rising
somewhat above their fellows, in the north-eastern corner of this
plateau, are the mountains famous and sacred in Buddhistic annals
as Wu-t'ai shan (). They seem to form the culminating
peaks of all these lines of hills and mountains, and while their
summits are not clothed in everlasting snows, they are condemned
to stand in everlasting sterility. Down their slopes, and in their
narrow ravines, are found the only two crops which grow in their
inhospitable neighbourhood, oats, and Buddhist priests. The first
are of good quality, but the yield is small. Of the second the
yield is ample, but the quality bad. These mountains are accessi-
ble from three points. A mule-path will take the traveller to
their fastnesses in four or five days, from Pao-ting fu, from which
city they lie due west. Or from T'ai-yuan fu, he may go north

THROUGH SHAN-HSI AND SHEN-HSI.
69
and east, upon the plain which we have just crossed, to Wu-t'ai
hsien (), from which point a bridle-path, through
country rough and wild in the extreme, will take him by a journey
of forty miles to the sacred mountains. The third and most
commonly travelled route, brings in the pilgrims from Mongolia.
It is impassable for carts, for a distance of about fifty miles from
the town, which is the center of the mountains. No one of these
peaks is higher in any considerable degree than the others, and
the view from the summit of any one is not extensive, being
limited to the rough sea of hills, mountain-peaks, ravines, wind-
ing gorges, and precipices, which fill the horizon in all directions
There are immense beds of a very superior quality of bituminous
coal in these mountains, and the coal is sold for about half a dol-
lar a ton. Insufficient transportation would, however, make it
more expensive, delivered in Peking than the best English coal.
The "Mongol Pilgrim Road" out of Wu-t'ai shan, takes a course
due west, and having surmounted one of the steepest of the many
hills, meets with one of the main tributaries of the Hu-t'ou river
at its source, in a beautiful spring, far up the western side of this
hill. The path follows the tiny thread of water down the moun-
tain side, and into the cheerless winding gorge which yawns to
receive it at the bottom. It follows this stream when it has
become a brawling noisy brook, still in this deep mountain walled
gorge, and when it has grown into a deeper and more quiet
stream, still the pathway keeps by its side, in many turns and
twists, but with a general westerly course, until having reached
the plain, the stream turns to the north, while the path, now
grown to a cart-road still keeps due west to Tai-cho. Here it
turns north, and enters the great road to Ta-t'ung fu, at Nan-k'ou
(i), the southern mouth of the Yên-mên kuan ( P9 B).
This pass, only about fifteen miles long, is in the range of
mountains forming the northern boundary of the plain just left.
The descent upon the northern slope, is again, much less than the
ascent from the southern side. The roadway is for the most part
good, speaking from a Chinese point of view, but very slippery and
dangerous to animals in winter, from the ice which covers it in
great sheets.
On its northern declivity the inner line of the great
wall is passed, a continuation of the wall seen at Nan-k'ou-thirty
miles north of Peking.
Of the plain of Ta-t'ung fu, the northern plateau of Shan-hsi,
little need be said. It extends, with but slight variations in its
surface, away to the steppes of Mongolia, and is for the most part
a miserable, dreary waste, with a poor thin soil of drifting sand,
and a sparse, and half-starved population. Its hills, bordering
upon the east and west, are rich in coal and iron. Ta-t'ung fu

70
10
NOTES MADE ON A TOUR
(), the one city of importance upon it, has considerable
trade in these two commodities, but seems to be in a chronic con-
dition of demoralization and decay. A large proportion of the
area inclosed within the city walls is vacant, only occupied with
the debris of fallen buildings, and, so far as could be discovered,
not a single public building was in a creditible state of repair.
It should be said, in conclusion, that the observations recorded
here, were made during a missionary tour of about three months'
duration. This may serve to account for the somewhat superficial
character of the observations, as the traveller's time was mainly
given to other things than to the study of the geography, or the
resources of the country.
As illustrating the peaceful nature, and kind disposition, of the
people, it should also be remarked that throughout the entire
journey no trouble of any sort was experienced from them, and as
a rule, to which there were at most but few exceptions, cordial
greetings and a pleasant reception were everywhere met with.
Landlords were for the most part courteous in their treatment,
and moderate in their charges; officials showed no disposition to
place obstacles of any sort in the traveller's way; and the people,
few of whom had met with foreigners before, were curious, but as
a rule, not rude.
The journey was throughout pleasant, instructive, and satisfac-
tory beyond expectation.