ARTICLE III.
SHORT NOTES ON THE IDENTIFICATION OF THE YUE-TI AND
KIANG TRIBES OF ANCIENT CHINESE HISTORY.*
By T. W. KINGSMILL.
HEN engaged last year in preparing some notes on the
W probably recent elevation of Central Asia, I had occasion to
insert some remarks with regard to the tribes handed down in
Chinese history as the (in modern Chinese Yuèti). None
of the identifications usually accepted for those tribes seemed to
tally with the circumstances of the case, and finding myself
without external evidence, I suggested from philological motives
alone that the word Vidal would be found an approximation to
the actual name of the tribes.
I was unaware at the time that M. Vivien de St. Martin had, in
a review of the destruction of the Greco-Bactrian Kingdom, from
historic grounds identified the so-called Yuèti with the White
Huns, the Haiáthalah, the Ephthalites of the Greek writers, who
about the year 134 B. C. overran that country, and finally des-
troyed the Grecian dynasty which from the time of Alexander's
death had been paramount.
Vidhal rather than Vidal should have been the rendering of
the old Chinese name, and as this may be considered as identical
with the Greek name for the tribe,-the Ephthalites, as well as its
Arabic form Haiáthalah, it may be interesting to review the
grounds on which this reconstruction of the ancient sounds of
the characters was founded.
The characters made use of to express the name of the tribes,
have in their present form no meaning; they were at first only
used as phonetic elements. To arrive at their archaic sounds it
will be necessary, however, to analyse their separate meanings;
and endeavour if possible to find their analogues in some language
making use of an alphabet. Such we find in Sanscrit,—a language
having many relations with primitive Chinese.
Taking then the Chinese characters separately, we find the first
Yuè, the moon, in Cantonese, the nearest existing dialect to
Read before the Society on June 7th, 1875.

72
SHORT NOTES ON THE IDENTIFICATION OF THE YUÈTI
that spoken at the beginning of Chinese history, Üt or Yüet; the
second ti, in Cantonese tai, meaning fundamental, radical,
reaching to the ground. Comparing these words with Sanscrit we
find the first represented by a word vidhu, with the same
meaning. Bopp gives no derivation, nor does he mention any
analogues amongst Aryan languages. It may therefore be fairly
accepted as a non-Aryan term for the moon which found accept-
ance in Sanscrit. The form tai for the second syllable seems to
point to a lost liquid termination, 1 or r, more probably the for-
mer. Tai will thus agree in its original sound with the Sanscrit
tal, condere. This root is one of extensive distribution; in
Sanscrit it gives tala, solum, fundus; in Latin tellus; in Chi-
nese ti, the earth, ti, fundamental, &c.
From analogy therefore the combination of the two characters
would have been pronounced Vidh-tal, Vidal or Vidhal; thus
corresponding with the actual name of the tribes as handed down
from other sounds.
Similar reasons would lead me to identify the Kiang tribes of
the Chinese with the Kurus of the Indian legends. The change
of r into Chinese ng is of the commonest; Çûra, hero, reads
Kung in Chinese; kara, tribute, Kung; mri, mori, mong
or wang, &c.
The dawn of Hindoo story finds the Kurus in Central Asia,
whence they succeeded in effecting a lodgment in North-western
India. The dawn of Chinese legends brings them in contact
with the ancestors of the Chinese along their western frontier.
They are more or less allied to the Yuèti, but there is some
difficulty in agreeing with the Chinese as to their descent from the
Sanmiaou of the Shooking.
The contest of the Kurus and the Pândavas in early Indian
legend seems to indicate a struggle between the Scythian and
Aryan races for supremacy. The Chinese describe the Kiang as
nomadic and little given to agriculture, and this character would
probably best suit their compatriots in India.
The Kurus were, however, advanced to a certain stage of
civilization, and Kurukshetra, the plain of the Kurus, becomes the
cradle of Indian culture. It is there that the gods themselves
offer sacrifice, and here was fought the battle of Panniput. The
eponym Kuru founds the two families of the Pandavas by whom
the arts were introduced into Hindoostan. He therefore appears
to correspond with the Chinese mythical hero Shin-nung or Kiang
who fashioned timber into ploughs and taught the people
husbandry. The legend of Shin-nung belongs to a different cycle
from that of the Chow tribes. We read nothing of it in the earlier

AND KIANG TRIBES OF ANCIENT CHINESE HISTORY.
73
authors of the Chow dynasty, and the Book of Poetry is silent. It
in great part belongs to that period of the early Han when communi-
cation with India seems for a time to have been constant, and
which has given a distinctly Indian aspect to the later Chinese
legends.
Kuru was the son of Agnidhra, King of Jambudwipa, while the
Chinese story makes Kiang the son of Ngan-teng, its nearest
analogue. Ngan-teng was a princess, but changes of sex make
little difference in mythology. Kuru dwelt in the Sweta moun-
tain, Mons Candidus, as did Kiang by the Liet-shan of similar
meaning, while the former is associated with the Kurab, as the
latter with the Kiang-shui river.
These short notes are only intended to show that in the early
Chinese legends, which have hitherto been looked upon as uncon-
nected with those of other countries, there really exists a bond of
common origin with those preserved to us in Indian literature.
To comprehend this connection thoroughly will need an intimate
knowledge of the ancient literature of both countries, to which no
one has as yet attained. Points of similarity as well as of differ-
ence have in comparative mythology their meaning and power,
and we shall be better able to trace the early movements of man-
kind when we have compared the oldest forms of these legends.