ARTICLE IV.
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND HISTORY OF
CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
Drawn from Chinese and Mongol writings, and compared with the
observations of Western authors in the Middle ages.*
BY E. BRETSCHNEIDER, M.D.
TH
INTRODUCTION.
THE restlessly progressing civilization of Europe has led to a
high development of the faculties and the critical judgment
of European nations. Every day science unveils mysteries and
facts, which have been hidden from human knowledge for many
thousand years. It is also a merit of our times to have delivored
science from all the fables and hypotheses, with which ancient
scholars were so much pleased. It is now a rule adopted for all
branches of knowledge, that in scientific researches, the lead-
ing idea must be to bring to light the truth. With respect
to some sciences,-as for instance geography,-this aim can be
attained with more or less completeness by means of direct
observations. But as to history, and especially history of remote
times, we depend entirely upon the statements and views of
ancient chroniclers, whose style is often far from being clear, whilst
the veracity of their reports is not always to be relied on. The
same must be said with respect to ancient geographical accounts
and narratives of travels. For researches in these departments it
is therefore of great importance, to compare the statements of
several contemporaneous authors who have written on the samo
subject. Judging from this point of view, it seems to me that the
ancient historical and geographical accounts of the Chinese, as far
as they treat of nations, countries and events spoken of also by
western writers, present a high interest; all the more so, when we
have to compare statements on the same subject of nations so
diametrically different in their mode of viewing things. In a
recently published paper (Notes on Chinese Medieval Travellers
to the West) I tried to review the narratives of some Chinese.
travellers to western Asia in the Mongol period, which permit a
* Read before the Society, on November 29th, 1875.

76
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
comparison with the accounts of those western medieval travellers,
who went to eastern Asia in the same 13th century. Now I
venture to lay before the reader a paper of kindred character.
In the present essay I wish to render accessible to European
scholars interested in Asiatic history and geography, some accounts
of this subject found in ancient Chinese and Mongol works, and
referring to the days of Mongol supremacy in Asia. As I have
access to many special sources of information, with respect to
eastern Asiatic literature, I have been enabled to gather a con-
siderable amount of additional material bearing on the history and
the geographical knowledge of that period. These eastern sources
of information will generally prove to be meagre and fragmentary;
and sometimes they only become intelligible, when compared with
the detailed records left behind by the Arabian and Persian chroni-
clers; but they have nevertheless a considerable interest, and we
shall see, that much fresh light is thrown by Chinese and Mongol
writers, in corroboration of the statements of European medieval
travellers across the Asiatic continent, and in elucidating dubious
questions with respect to Asiatic history and geography.
The object, which it was originally proposed to accomplish by
the publication of this paper, was the explanation of an ancient
Chinese map of western and central Asia, and even eastern
Europe, dating from the first half of the 14th century. But in
commenting on this map, I was induced to examine for the
corroboration of my views, the Chinese historical works of the
the Mongol period; and I found, that it would be useful for the
understanding of the slender information furnished by the ancient
map, to give a short but coherent account of the warlike enter-
prises of the Mongols in the western part of Asia and in eastern
Europe, according to the Mohammedan authors, and to add all the
information on the same subject, which I have been able to find
in Chinese and Mongol works.
I divide my paper into six parts.
In the first, I review the writings of eastern and western authors,
to which reference is made in this essay.
In the second, I give a full account of the Kara-khitai or Si
Liao, an interesting nation originating in eastern Asia, who in
the 12th century dominated over the whole of central Asia, and
was finally destroyed by Chinghiz khan.
In the third, I have attempted to bring together the accounts
found in Chinese and Mongol medieval works with respect to the
Mohammedans.
The fourth and the fifth parts are devoted to the record of the
military doings of the Mongols in the far west.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
77
The sixth part treats of the above-mentioned ancient map of
central and western Asia.
It may be the proper place here, for a few remarks regarding
the Chinese mode of rendering foreign words and proper names,
and my mode of romanizing Chinese sounds. In rendering Chi-
nese sounds, representing foreign words met with in Chinese works of
the Yüan period, I have found that to use the Russian mode of
spelling (in roman letters), restores the original words more closely
than any other of the numerous systems invented by the sinologues
of various nations. This is easily understood. The official and
other documents, on which the Yüan shi or Chinese "History of
the Mongol dynasty," and many other Chinese works of that time
are based, have been written (in Chinese, or translated into Chi-
nese from the Mongol) in Peking; and the Russian pronunciation
of Chinese sounds, established first more than fifty years ago by
Father Hyacinth, and adopted subsequently with some insigni-
ficant changes by all Russian sinologues, refers to the Peking
Mandarin dialect. I have little doubt, that the Peking pronuncia-
tion in the days of the Mongols was the same as now. When
casting his eyes upon the ancient Chinese map, a facsimile of which
is appended to this paper, the reader will admit that with a few ex-
ceptions, all the names of countries and places in western Asia are
rendered as exactly by the Chinese sounds as the language per-
mits; and when examining the other map, where the Chinese
sounds are romanized according to the Russian system, he will
easily recognize the Persian or Arabic names intended. It would
in some cases be very difficult to identify the names found on the
ancient map had I adopted the English or French mode of spel-
ling. Fearing however lest my pleading in favour of the Russian
system might prejudice some English linguists, I confess that I am
completely ignorant of linguistic theories, and of the rules to be
followed in romanizing Chinese and other sounds. I can judge
this matter only from a practical point of view.
It is known, that the Chinese, when rendering a foreign word
are obliged to represent every syllable by one of their characters,
which are all monosyllabic. But it is not always possible to render
correctly the sounds of other languages by Chinese characters.
This is the case with the syllables terminating in a consonant.
With the exception of n or ng, the Chinese sounds of the Man-
darin dialect never have a consonant at the end. Thus the Chi-
nese in rendering the name Thalas, Djand, Nakhshab, Chach, are
obliged to write 塔刺思 Ta-la-sze毡的Djan-di,那黑沙不
Na-hei-sha-bu, Cha-chi (see the ancient map). Some-
times again they do not attempt to render the terminal consonant,
e.g. Djambalik, Almalik and Pulad, are termed on themap A

78
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Djang-ba-li, A-li-ma-li and JP'u-la. It is difficult
for a European to pronounce a Chinese character sounding like
or This sound is rendered eulh by French sinologues,
which seems to me quite a corrupt spelling; for it is (in Peking
at least) the nearest to our (with rattling), and Russian
sinologues render it simply by r, whilst the English write urh.
The rule for spelling foreign names adopted by the Chinese of the
Mongol period, proves that in some cases, characters like and
were considered as equivalents for our . Thus they write
馬扎兒 Ma-dja-r",撒麻耳干 Sa-ma-r-cam, 帖木兒 Tie-
mu-r, for Madjar (Hungaria), Samarcand, Timur. At the present
day the Chinese always render our 7, or the syllables ri, ra, ru, by
characters sounding li, la, lu; and occasionally the Chinese of the
Mongol period followed the same rule; e. g. we read on the
ancient map,
Ho-la-huo-djo,
Saria.
Dju-li-djang,
Sa-li-ya, intended for Djurdjan, Kara-khodjo,
PART I. BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTICES.
1. IT has appeared desirable to put at the head of this essay,
a critical review of the works, from which the information dealt
with in these pages has been derived. I may begin with the
Chinese and Mongol literature.
Among the Chinese works extant, treating of the history and
geography of Asia in the 13th and 14th centuries, the
Yüan shi, or Chinese "History of the Mongol Dynasty" without
doubt takes the first rank. It is only to be regretted, that the
work has been compiled with great carelessness by the Chinese
scholars of the Ming dynasty, who had been entrusted with this
task. In the Annals of the Ming shi or "History of the Ming,"
sub anno 1369 (a year after the expulsion of the Mongols from
China), I find the following statement, with respect to the com-
pilation of the Yüan shi. In the above-mentioned year (the
Ming) the detailed records of the reigns of the thirteen Yüan em-
perors (+) were procured, and the emperor (Hung-wu)
gave orders to compile the history of the Yüan, under the direction
of Sung Lien and Wang Wei. The work, which oc-
cupied sixteen scholars, was begun in the 2nd month of 1369, and
finished in the 8th month of the same year. But as at that time,
the record of the reign of Shun-ti (the last Mongol emperor in
China) was not yet received, the scholar
Ou-yang Yu
and others, were sent to Pei-p'ing to obtain the required

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
79
information. 1 In the 6th month of 1270 the Yüan history
was complete.
A new edition of the Yüan shi was published during the reign
of Kia-tsing (1522-1567). The edition to which my frequent
quotations from the Yüan shi in these pages always refer, bears
the date of 1603. There were several other editions of the work
issued during the Ming. My friend Mr. Arendt, of the German
Legation, possesses a curious copy of the "Yuan History," which
has been printed from blocks of different editions, some pages
showing the date of 1609, others 1623 and 1630. One part has
no date, but judging from the print, the blocks must have belong-
ed to an early period of the Ming.
As far as I know, three editions of the Yüan shi have been
published during the present dynasty; one in 1659, another
about the middle of the last century, and the third in the present
century. I may venture a few remarks with respect to the second
one, which is an unhappy revision of the former editions.
2. A learned committee, consisting of Chinese, Manchus,
Mongols, western Mohammedans, etc. was appointed by the
emperor Kien-lung to revise the Yüan shi, and especially the
foreign names of men, places etc. occurring so frequently in that
book. These savants in their reformatory zeal, proceeded on the
idea, that all the proper names had been incorrectly rendered in tho
official documents of the Mongols, and had to be changed. They pro-
nounced the same verdict with respect to the histories of the Liao
and the Kin. Thus in the new editions of the histories of the Liao,
Kin andYüan, all the original proper names without exception
disappeared, and were replaced by names of a new invention,
which generally have little resemblance to the original.
further particulars, compare my Notes on Chinese Medieval Tra-
vellers, p. 58, note 1. By this way of corrupting the names of
the original histories, which have generally rendered foreign
sounds as correctly as the Chinese language permits, the K'ien-
lung editions of these works have become completely unserviceable
for historical and geographical investigations. K'ien-lung was
very proud of the happy idea of metamorphosing the ancient
proper names, and issued an edict, that in future no Chinese
scholar should dare to use the ancient names.
For
After the three histories had been corrupted, K'ien-lung ordered
the same committee to explain the meanings of the new names;
and this gave rise to a new work entitled:
1
Pei-p'ing was the name of the present Peking, in the beginning of the
Ming. It seems the committee entrusted with the compilation of the Yüan
shi was in session at Nanking, which at that time was the capital of the
Ming.

80
NOTICES ON THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Liao kin yüan shi yi kai, or "Explanation of words (proper
names) found in the histories of the Liao, Kin and Yüan." In this
vocabulary, all the names of men, countries, places, mountains,
rivers etc. of the three histories have been systematically ar-
ranged, but according to the new spelling. The original spelling
of the name however is always given, and the chapters are indi-
cated where the name occurs. This renders the vocabulary very
useful for reference, and we may lay aside the fact, that the prin-
cipal object in view of the learned committee, was the absurd
explanation of the meaning of the newly-invented names. I may give
a few examples of the sagacity these savants displayed in their
etymological commentaries. The city of Derbend (the name means
"gate" in Persian), situated on the western shore of the Caspian
sea, is mentioned in the Yuan shi, as a city of Persia, and the
name is written THE Da-r-ban. The committee changed the
name into Du-r-ben, and explain that durben in Mongol
means, "four." The name of Bardaa, a city of Armenia, is render-
ed in the original Yuan shi by
TJ Ba-r-da-a. The com-
mittee will have the name to be
A Ba-le-t'a-ha, and com-
ment that this name in Manchu means "the neck part of a sable
skin." By
Bie-shi-ba-li in the uncorrupted Yuan shi,
Bishbalik is to be understood. The meaning of this name in
Turkish, is "Five cities," and the term i Wu-ch'eng, meaning
also "Five cities," occurs repeatedly in the Yuan shi, as a syno-
nym of Bie-shi-ba-li. The committee however transformed the
name into Ba-shi-bo-li, and state that Ba-shi in the
language of the Mohammedans means "head" and bo-li "kidneys."
The most recent edition of the Yüan shi (also with corrupted pro-
per names) is dated 1824, but Archimandrite Palladius has noticed
that it was only finished about twenty years later. This edition
is not difficult of purchase, and I fancy it is the only edition of
the Yüan shi found in European libraries. The numerous transla-
tions from the "Mongol history," found in Pauthier's M. Polo,
have all been made from this corrupted text. At the time Klap-
roth and Rémusat wrote, the Yüan shi was unknown in Europe,
and it seems, that even the old Catholic missionaries in Peking
had not seen it. The old sinologues knew only an extract of the
great "Mongol History" (see further on).
3. The Yüan shi has been compiled from official documents.
Perhaps we must except the biographies, for which the information
was probably often derived from private sources. It seems, that
the greater part of the documents on which the Chinese history of
the Mongols is based, had been drawn up in the Chinese language;
but in some cases they appear to have been translated from the

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
81
I may
Mongol. I conclude it from the fact that in the Yüan shi, places
are often mentioned, not as usually by their Chinese names, but by
their Mongol names represented in Chinese characters.
quote a few instances, and select such topics, as will at the same
time serve to corroborate the statements of Marco Polo and Rashid-
eddin, who, as is known, generally mention places and countries of
eastern Asia, by their Mongol names.
The province of
Yunnan, in the south-western part of
China proper, bears this name,-as in our day,-in the Annals of
the Yun shi; and in the geographical part of it, we find it men-
tioned as one of the twelve provinces of China. But Marco Polo
and Rashid-eddin always term this province Carajan (Yule's M.
Polo, vol. ii, p. 36; Cathay &c. p. 269), probably
a local
name, adopted by the Mongols. Polo and Rashid both state, that
the capital of this province is called Yachi, which latter place
Klaproth tries to identify with Wei-ch'u,-Pauthier with
Li-kiang fu. Rashid states further (Yule's M. Polo,
vol. ii, p. 43), that some of the inhabitants of Kará-jáng are white,
and these are called Chaghan-jáng by the Mongols. These names
are not met with in the Chinese annals, nor in the description of
Yünnan in the Yüun shi (geographical part). In the latter ac-
count Kara-jang and Chagan-jang (Black and White Jang) are ren-
dered by Wu man and Po man (Black and White
Barbarians). But in the biographies of Djao-a-k'o-p'an, A-r-sze-lan
(Yuan shi, chap. cxxiii) and others, these tribes are mentioned
under the names of 哈剌章 Ha-la djang and 察罕章 Chéa-
han djang, as the Mongols used to call them; and in the biography
of Wu-liang-ho-t'ui (ibid, chap. cxxi), the conqueror of Yunnan,
it is stated, that the capital of the Black Barbarians was called
Ya-ch'i. It is described there as a city surrounded by
lakes on three sides.
In the Annals of the Yüan shi, the tribe of the Onguts,-so called
by Rashid (Polo styles them Ung, l. c. vol. i, p. 250),-is men-
tioned under its Chinese name Po Ta-ta (White Tatars),
whilst in the biographies it is termed Wang-gu, some-
times Yung-gu. There can be no doubt about the identity of
the Po Ta-ta and Wang-gu. In the biography of J
A-la-wu-sze T'i-gi Hu-li (Yüan shi, chap. cxviii), it is
stated that he was the chief of the tribe Wang-gu. Chinghiz khan
bestowed one of his daughters on A-la-wu-sze's son as wife.
But in
the Annals of the Yüan shi (sub anno, 1203) the same A-la-wu-sze
2
Rashid-eddin (D'Ohsson's Hist. d. Mongols, tom. i, p. 84) calls this chief
of the Onguts Alacush tikin kuri, stating that tikin kuri is a title.

82
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
is mentioned as the chief of the Po Ta-ta, who surrendered to
Chinghiz khan.
Si Hia (western Hia) or Ho-si (west of the
Yellow river), was the Chinese name for the Tangut empire. In the
Annals of the Yüan shi it always appears under these names;
but in the biographies, this kingdom and the people are generally
termed by their Mongol name, i.e. Tang-wu. This name
occurs very often; a number of valiant warriors in the Mongol
army were of Tangut origin. M. Polo (vol. i, p. 184) speaks of
the Great Province of Tangut. 3
The name for the Yellow river in the Yüan shi, is generally
Ho (meaning simply "the River"). " The Mongols called it
(and call it even now) Kara muren, the "Black River." In
the narratives of M. Polo and other mediæval travellers, and in
Rashid's accounts, the river appears under the name of Cara
muren. In one instance, this Mongol name is applied to the
Yellow river also in the Yüan shi, and written there A**
Ha-la mu-lien (see chap. c. Imperial pasture lands).
4. The Yüan shi comprises 210 chapters, in 4 sections. The
first section, Pen ki (47 chapters), contains the biographies
of the thirteen Mongol emperors, and the historical records of
their reigns, beginning with Chinghiz, and ending with Shun-ti
who was overthrown by the Ming in 1368. The 1st chapter,
treats first, of the history of the Mongols before Chinghiz, and
then records the doings of the reign of the great conqueror. The
2nd chapter, comprises the reign of Ogotai, and the 3rd that of
Mangu. Thenext 14 chapters (iv-xvii) are devoted to Kubilai khan.
The remainder of the Pen i continues the history of the Mongol
empire in China to the fall of the dynasty.
5. The second section Chi, "Memoirs," chap. xviii-cv,
has two chapters (xlviii, xlix) on "Astronomy,"
and two (1, li) on "Elemental influences,"
8
Tien wen,
Wu hing.
The country of the Tanguts was known to the Mongols also under the
name of Cashi or Coshi (D'Ohsson, l. c. tom. i, p. 95). Rashid reports, that
about the time Chinghiz conquered this country, a son was born to Ogotai
(the third son of Chinghiz), and he received the name Cashi. At another
place (quoted by Klaproth, Nouv. Journ. Asiat. tom. xi, p. 464) Rashid
states, that the country of the Tanguts is called also Hoa-si, which means
"west of the great river" in the language of the Katayans. It seems that
Cashi also is intended for the Ho-si.
Ho is the name by which the Yellow river is designated in the most an-
cient Chinese topography, found in the chapter Yü kung of the Shu king.
The name Huang ho (Yellow river) appears first in the T'ai p'ing
huan yü ki, a description of the Chinese empire, published at the end of the
10th century (see Wylie's Notes on Chin. Lit. p. 36).

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
83
There, remarkable atmospheric and other phoenomena are recorded.
Chapter lii-lvii are on Li, "Mathematical Chronology
and the Calendar."
Chapters lvii-lxiii comprise Ti li, "Geography of the
empire," or rather, an enumeration of the provinces, departments,
districts, etc. of China proper, a part of Mongolia, and even
Manchuria and Corea, accompanied occasionally by some statistical
and historical notes. 5 After this, chapter lxiii contains also a
dissertation on the sources of the Yellow river,
Ho yuan,
an enumeration of countries and places in central and western
Asia,
Si pei ti (see Part VI of this paper), and an in-
teresting account of the Ki-li-gi-sze, or "Kirghiz.".
The chapter concludes with an enumeration of the cities of
An-nan (the Anin of M. Polo, vol. ii, p. 82, now Tong-king)
and some neighbouring countries.
Chap. Ixiv-lxvi,
of China.
Ho-kü, treat of the rivers and canals
Chap. lxvii-lxxi,-Li-yo, "Rites and Music."
Chap. lxxii-lxxvii, are ou
Chap. lxxviii-lxxx comprise
chariots and official dress."
Tsi-sze, "Sacrifices."
Yü-fu, "Regulations on
Chap. lxxxi-lxxxiv,-Süan-kü, "Regulations on ap-
pointments to office."
Chap. lxxxv xcii,-Po-kuan, "Government offices."
Chap. xciii-xcvii,-
generally translated by
Shi-hua. These two characters are
Political Economy."
matters are treated of under this head :-
Chap. xciii contains
The following
King-li, "Cadastre ;"-Nung-
sang, "Agriculture and Sericulture; "-Shui-liang,
"Custom's regulations; "-Liao-ch'ai, "Socage regu-
lations; "Sze-liao, "Furnishing raw silk and other
materials; "Pao-yin, "Regulations regarding silver;"
-Hai-yün, "Regulations on transport by sea;
Ch'ao-fa, Paper money."
"and
-
Chap. xciv contains Sui-k'o, "Levying of annual taxes;"
-Yen-fa, "Salt regulations; "-Ch'a-fa, "Tea
regulations; "Tsiu-tsu-ko, "Taxes on wine,
1
A detailed description of the Mongol empire had been compiled
during the Yüan dynasty, under the name of Yuan yi tung
chi. It seems this work has now disappeared. Perhaps a copy of it may be
found in the Imperial Chinese library. It is often quoted in the Ji hia kiu
wen (see my Archaeological researches on Peking).

84
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
vinegar, etc."- Shang-shui, "Mercantile dues regula-
Shi-po, "Maritime trade regulations; "--
Owui-k'o, "Extraordinary taxes."
tions; "
Chap. xcv,
Sui-sze, "Annual expenses for rewards and
pensions of the empresses, princes, princesses and merito-
rious officers.
Chap. xevi, Feng-chi, "Salary of officers; "-
Chi-tien-shu, treats again on "Cadastre; "-R
Hui-min yao-ki, "Dispensaries; "-Shi-ti, "Granary
regulations; "- Chen-s", "Regulations for a time of
dearth (compare M. Polo, vol. i, p. 393)."
Chap. xcvii contains further regulations on the transport by sea,
and regulations with respect to paper money, salt and tea,
being a continuation of the articles under these headings in
chap. xciii and xciv. I cannot say why the accounts have been
separated.
Chap. xcviii-ci,
following heads :-
Chap. xcviii,
0
Chap. xcix,
Ping, "Military regulations," under the
Ping-shi, "Organization of the army."
Su-wei, "The emperor's body-guard; "
Wei-su-kün, "The guards; "-Yi-chang-
kun, "Parade troops; "Hu-tsung-kün, "The em-
peror's travelling guards; "-
K'an-shou-kün, "Gar-
risons in the fortresses; "-Sü-lo, "Patrol guards"
(M. Polo, vol. i, p. 368);-Chen-o-kün, "Pick-
ets; "-Chen-shu, "Protection of the frontiers."
It is stated in this article, amongst other things, that in 1277, a super-
intendent of foreign trade was established in
Ts'üan-chou. Ano-
ther superintendent was established for the three ports of King-
yüan (the present Ningpo), Shanghai and Gan-p'u. These
three ports depended on F'ukien. Further on, the ports of Hang-
chou and Fu-chou are also mentioned in connection with foreign trade.
Chang-chou is only once spoken of,-and in connection with the salt
trade. We meet further, the names of Wen-chou and Kuang.
chou as sea-ports for foreign trade in the Mongol time. But Ts'uän-chou in
this article on the sea trade seems to be considered the most important of the
sea-ports, and it is repeatedly referred to. I have therefore little doubt that
the port of Zaiton of the medieval travellers can only be identified with
Ts'uän-chou;-not with Chang-chou as has been suggested by some com-
mentators of M. Polo. There are many other reasons found in Chinese
works in favor of this view; but this subject lies beyond the field of my in-
vestigations. Gan-p'u of the Chinese authors is the sea-port Ganfu of M.
Polo, (vol. ii, p. 149). Hang-chou as is known, is Polo's Kinsay.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
85
Chap. c, Ma-cheng, "Administration of the imperial
horse pastures;" and-Tun-t'ien, "Military colonies."
Chap. ci,Djan-chi, "Postal communication;"
Kung-shou, "Convoy;"
Ki-ti-pu-ping,
"Foot-runners" (compare M. Polo, vol. i, p. 389); "-and
Ying-jang-bu-lie, "Falconers." A certain class
of the falconers are termed Bo-lan-gi (Ferenghi ?).
Chap. cii-cv,-Hing-fa, "Jurisprudence."
6. The third section, chap. cvi-cxiii, is termed
contains genealogical and other tables.
Chap. evi-
cubines."
Chap. cvii,
Piao, and
Hou-fei, "Table of the Empresses and Con-
Tsung-shi-shi-hi, "Genealogical table
of the Mongol imperial family."
Chap.
cviii
and their apanages."
E Chu-wang, "Princes of the imperial family
Chap. cix, Kung-chu, "Princesses and sons-in-law of the
Emperors (駙馬 Fu-ma).”
Chap. cx-cxi,- San-kung, "The three Kung." The
three highest offices in the empire, or rather titles, e.g. "Chan-
cellor," in Europe.
7
By djan-ch'i a Mongol word is rendered. Even in modern Mongol a
post-station is called djam. Thus the word is pronounced in southern Mon-
golia. In the north it sounds dzam. European mediæval travellers call the
Mongol post-stations Yam or Yamb, and the diarist of the embassy of Shah
Rokh to the Chinese court (1420) uses the same name (Yam khané) for the
post-houses in China (Yule's M. Polo, vol. i, p. 388; Cathay, pp. ccii,
137). Pauthier suggests (M. Polo, p. 335), that this word may be intended
for "Yimà qui signifie poste aux chevaux." But yi-ma in Chi-
But
nese means a "post-horse," not a station. There is no Chinese etymology
in the word yam, which even at the present day is used by the Tatars of
Kazan etc. to designate a "post-station;" and the Russian word yamshchik,
meaning "a coachman carrying the post," has evidently been borrowed ori-
ginally from the Tatars. There are in the Russian language a good many
Tatar words. The Russian linguists generally derive the word yam from the
Mongol dzam, supposing that it was pronounced yam in former times.
we have seen that the Yüan shi renders quite correctly the Mongol djam;
and we may conclude that this was the Mongol term for post-station, even in
the 13th and 14th centuries;-all the more as the Mongol text of the Yüan
chao pi shi (a work written in 1240, of which I shall speak further on) also
uses djam-chi for postal communication. I may observe that the character
djan, by which the Mongol word for station has been rendered in the
Yüan shi, means also station in Chinese; but the addition of the character
ch'i (meaning "red"), which here represents only a sound, proves that
djan-c'hi was intended to express a foreign word. Yam is probably of Turk-
ish origin.

86
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Chap. cxii-cxiii,-Tsui-siang, "List of the Ministers of
the Mongol empire." This list begins only with Kubilai khan's
reign.
7. The fourth section, Lie-chuan, chap. cxiv-ccviii,
is almost entirely devoted to biographies of men of eminence during
the Mongol period. It comprises about a thousand biographies.
In chap. cxiv, we find the biographies of the principal Empresses,
from the time of Chinghiz down to the last Mongol emperor in
China.
Chap. cxv-cxvii give the biographies of the most distinguished
of the Mongol princes, viz:-
Chap. cxv,-To-lei (son of Chingiz), Chen-kin (son of Kubilaï),
Gan-ma-la and Ta-la ma-ba-la (both sons of Chen-kin).
Chap. cxvi,-biographies of the wives of the afore-mentioned
princes..
Chap. cxvii,-Bie-li-gu-dai, Chingiz' elder brother (Bilgutei of
Rashid); Dju-ch'i (Chingiz' eldest son); Tu-la, a great-
grandson of Chagatai (second son of Chingiz); Ya-hu-du,
grandson of T'o-lei; K'uan-chi bu-hua and Tie-mu-r bu-hua
both grandsons of Kubilaï.
The remainder of the biographies record the lives and
doings of eminent statesmen, officers, generals, scholars, artists,
priests, and even remarkable women, &c. (chap. cc, cci). The
biographical section of the Yüan shi contains a great amount of
information with respect to the ancient geography and history of
Asia. It is not easy however to lay it under contribution, for the
accounts, which are scattered over nearly a hundred chapters, are
generally short and fragmentary, and have chiefly a value with
respect to comparative investigations. The biographies found in
the "History of the Mongols" bear evidence to the liberal views
of the latter as to the acknowledgment of merit. They seem
never to have been influenced by national considerations. Among
the prominent men, whose biographies are included in the Yuan
shi, we meet with representatives of most of the nations of Asia
subdued by the Mongol arms, viz. Chinese, K'itum, Nüchi,
Tanguts, Onguts, Uigurs, Kanglis, Alans, Kipchaks, Carluks,
Merkits, Persians, and other Mohammedans, etc. Some of these
foreigners held high offices at the court of the Mongol emperors;
others distinguished themselves as valiant captains. The Mongols
were conscious of the intellectual superiority of those more civiliz-
ed nations. Kubilaï, after having established his power in China,
did not oblige the Chinese to learn Mongol. He was, on the con-
trary, a protector of Chinese literature, which was very flourishing
in the days of the Mongols. Of course the greater part of the
biographical section of the Yüan shi is devoted to persons of

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
87
Mongol origin; but we are not surprised at finding, that with a
few exceptions, all the distinguished Mongols belonged to the
army, or were governors (darugachi) in the provinces.
8. The fourth section of the Yüan shi concludes with some ac-
counts of various foreign nations and countries, east and south of
China, and of some sea-ports of India (chap. ccviii-ccx). As these
countries are beyond the field of my researches, I will give only
the names:-
Chap. ccviii, Kao-li, "Corea;" Tan-lo, a country
in the vicinity of Corea; Ji-pen, "Japan."
Djao-wa, "Java;"
An-nan, "Annam, Tongking."
Chap. ccix,
Chap. ccx,一緬 Mien, now 緬甸 Mien-tien, “ Burma;”占城
Chen-ch'eng, "Cochin-China;" Sien,-now Sier-lo, "Siam;"
Liu-k'iu islands; San-yu (near
the Liu-k'iu islands); Ma-ba-r, the "Maabar" of M.
Polo, vol. ii, p. 266, the Coromandel coast; Kü-lan, the
"Coilum" of M. Polo, vol. ii, p. 312; the kingdom of
Su-mu-ta; the kingdom of
the kingdom of E Na-wang;
nath" of M. Polo, vol. ii, p. 334;
Su-mu-ta-la, "Sumatra;'
PS-men-na, the "Sem-
Seng-gi-li, the "Cyngilin"
Nan-wu-le;
Ma-lam-dan;丁阿兒Ting-ho-r;來來Lai-lai;急蘭亦解
of Odoric (Yule's Cathay, p. 75);
Gi-lan-i-te.
9. In 1828 Father Hyacinth translated the first three chapters
of the Yüan shi into Russian, and published his translation in the
History of the reign of the first four Khans of Chingiz khan's
dynasty. His version is very correct; it is to be regretted how-
ever, that this accomplished sinologue translated from the corrupted
text of the Yuan shi; it is therefore impossible to make use of
his version without comparing it with the original Chinese text.
A complete translation of the original text of the Yuan shi would
be a very valuable contribution to our knowledge of the mediæval
history and geography of Asia. It would throw much fresh light
especially on the history of the Mongols, and be serviceable to
explain many dubious questions in the narratives of European
mediæval travellers.
10. There is an abridged Chinese history of the Mongol dynasty
extant, published in 1699, by
Kiai-shan, under the name
of
Yuan shi lei pien, in 42 chapters. It is known
also under the name of
Su hung kien lu, i.e. "Con-
tinuation of the Hung kien lu," the latter being a historical work
embracing the annals of the Wu-tai period, A.D. 907-960, the
Sung, Liao, Hia and Kin. The Yüan shi lei pien, although only

88
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
an extract from the Yüan shi, is a very valuable book for re-
ference; for the learned author has added a great deal of interest-
ing matter, drawn for the greater part from rare works of the
Mongol period. The first 10 chapters comprise an extract from
the Annals (Pen ki) of the Yuan shi, and have been translated
by Father Gaubil, in his Histoire de Gentchiscan et de toute la
dynastie des Mongous, 1739. A curious ancient map is found at
the head of the Yuan shi lei pien. It bears the title of
So mo t'u, "map of the desert," and comprises the Mongol
desert and the adjacent countries. The map has the appearance
of a reproduction of an ancient map, compiled in the days of the
Mongols. There are some names of places marked, especially in
the neighbourhood of Karakorum, which are not mentioned in
the Yuan shi, or in other works; and it is very unlikely that the
author of the Yüan shi lei pien compiled this map from the de-
scriptions at his disposal.
11. In the year 1866, Archimandrite Palladius made the
learned world (in Russia) acquainted with a Chinese (or rather
Mongol) historical work of considerable importance. In the 4th
vol. of the Records of the Russian Ecclesiastical Mission at Peking,
he presented a Russian translation of the
Yuan
ch'ao pi shi, or "Secret history of the Mongol Dynasty." In the
introduction to his translation, Palladius gives a minutely
detailed history of the work, from which we learn, that it was
originally written in Mongol, and had been finished in A.D. 1240,
at the time of a great assembly on the river Kerulun. It treats
of the early history of the Mongols, the reign of Chinghiz khan,
and the beginning of the reign of Ogotai. In the early Ming time,
a Chinese, translation of it was made. The text translated by
Palladius is included in a collection of reprints published in 1848,
the same in which the Si yu ki is found, of which I have given a
translation in my Notes on Chinese Mediaeval Travellers (pp. 15-
56).⁹ As stated in the preface to this text of the Chinese
Yüan ch'ao pi shi, it had been copied from the original, in the
Chinese imperial library. The Yüan ch'ao pi shi is mentioned in
the Hung wu shi lu, or "Detailed record of the reign of Hung-wu,"
under the year 1382. It is stated there, that it had been written
8
The name is written Yüan chao mi shi in the Russian translation; but
as the reading mi of the character is only the popular pronunciation at
Peking, I prefer to write pi, according to the Mandarin dialect, as Palla-
dius does also in his Elucidations of M. Polo.
. It contains also the
moires sur les contrées Occidentales).
Si yü ki translated by Stan. Julien (Mé-
The title of the collection reads
叢書.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
89
in Mongol, in Uigur letters, and that a Chinese translation of it
was made, to which the Mongol text was annexed,-not in the
original letters, but by rendering the Mongol sounds by Chinese
characters. After Palladius had published his translation, made
from the Chinese text in the afore-mentioned collection, he hap-
pened to obtain a MS. copy of the Ming edition of the work,
accompanied by the Mongol text (in Chinese characters), for the
use of which I have to thank the learned owner. It was found,
that the text Palladius had translated, was only an extract of the
original work, which comprises 15 chapters, but has no title.
Although many archaisms and clerical errors occur in this text,
the restoration of the Mongol original presents little difficulty for
men acquainted with both Chinese and Mongol; the Mon-
gol text (represented by Chinese characters) being accompani-
ed by the Chinese translation. For all who have made the history
of the Mongols their study, this rare document of ancient Mongol
literature presents a high interest. It corroborates generally
Rashid-eddin's records, and occasionally we find passages in it,
which sound like a literal translation of the statements of the
Persian historiographer. This proves that Rashid had had the
same source of information as the unknown author of the Yüan
ch'uo pi shi. As to the dates in the latter work, they are general-
ly in accordance with the dates given by the Mohammedan au-
thors; but in a few cases the Yian ch'ao pi shi commits great
chronological blunders and misplacements of events, as for instance
with respect to the war in the west (see further on).
12. In the Russian Oriental Record, vol. i, 1872, Palladius
has published the translation of another ancient historical docu-
ment, recording also the early history of the Mongols. The Chinese
name of the book, of which Palladius possesses only a MS.
copy (there is no proof of its having ever been printed), is
TE Huang yüun sheng wu ts'in cheng lu, a
record of Chinghiz khan's warlike doings. It seems to have been
compiled from Mongol documents, in the first half of the 14th
century; but the author is unknown. The Huang yuan sheng wu
ts'in cheng lu is repeatedly quoted in the Yüan shi lei pien.
13. I may also mention a history of the Mongols, compiled in
the middle of the 17th century, by the Mongol prince Sanan
Tsetsen. The title of this manuscript work is Sanan Tsetsen u
Namtar. A German translation of it was published in 1829 by
J. Schmidt, in St. Petersburg. There is also a Chinese translation
of the work extant, known under the name of
Meng
yüan liu.
It seems that this Mongol history is based principally
on traditions, not on official documents; therefore it sometimes

90
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
diverges widely from the other more authentic records of Mongol
history we know; and with respect to the dates it is quite un-
trustworthy. Professor Berezin in his translation of Rashid-eddin
(see further on) says, that the non-existence of Sanan Tsetsen's
history, would be no loss to historical science.
14. Finally, in reviewing the Chinese and Mongol works
treating of the history of the Mongols, I ought not to omit men-
tioning the
Chue keng lu, written in the middle of the
14th century, by the learned Tao Tsung-i. It com-
prises 30 chapters, and contains notes on different matters refer-
ring to the time of the Mongol dynasty. There is in it a con-
siderable amount of information with respect to the customs
institutions etc. of the Mongols; and we meet also interesting his-
torical and geographical accounts bearing on that period. I have
had an opportunity of giving extracts from the Chue keng lu, in my
Notes on Chin. Med. Travellers, and in my Arceological Re-
searches on Peking.
15. As the Chinese and Mongol sources of information, with
respect to the Mongol nation, are very little known to European
scholars, our historians who have written the history of the Mongols,
have relied almost entirely upon the Mohammedan historians of
the 13th and 14th centuries, whose conscientious records con-
cerning the Mongol era are indeed, entitled to the greatest con-
fidence. The Chinese and Mongol chroniclers never present so
detailed, coherent, and intelligible accounts as do the able Persian
historiographers on the same subject. But, as I have stated
above, I assign to the authors of the far east, also, a great im-
portance, and especially with respect to comparative historical
researches.
The subsequent notices with respect to the Mohammedan au-
thors, who wrote on the Mongols, are borrowed from D'Ohsson's
Histoire des Mongols, where more detailed accounts on this sub-
ject will be found. I mention only the most important Persian
works.
It first
16. The Tarikh Djihan Kushi, or "History of the conqueror of
the world," written by Ala-eddin Atta mulk Djouveini, records
the events of the last ten years of Chinghiz khan's reign.
gives a detailed account of the conquest of Transoxiana and Persia,
by the Mongols. After this, the reigns of Ogotai and Cuyuc, and
the beginning of the reign of Mangu are treated of, up to the year
1257, where Alaï-eddin's chronicle concludes. We find also in
this history, interesting accounts of the Uigurs and the Kara-khitai,
of which I shall give a translation further on.
Alai-eddin's work has been continued by Abd-ullah, son of

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
91
Fazel-ullah, more generally known under his honorific title Vas-
It bears the
suf ul Hazret, or the "Panegyrist of his Majesty."
title of Kitab tedjziyet ul emssar ve tezdjiyet ul a'ssar, "Division
of the countries and transition of the centuries," and contains the
history of the Mongols from 1257 up to 1327.
17. Among the Persian authors who wrote on the Mongols,
and the great political events which shook the different states
of Asia in the 13th century, the first rank is incontestably due
to the celebrated historiographer Rashid-eddin, who in his re-
markable work Djami ut Tevarikh or "Collection of Annals,"
gives the most complete and intelligible record of the history of
the Mongols. Besides this, we find in his book very valuable
and detailed accounts of the nomadic Tartar and Turkish tribes,
who in the days of Chinghiz khan lived in Tartary. One chapter
is devoted to a very interesting and quite exact description of
China proper at the close of the 13th century.
Rashid-eddin was born at Hamadan about A.D. 1247, and was a
physician by profession. 10 Ghazan khan named him vizier of
the Persian empire, in 1298, having been retained in this office by
Ghazan's successor Oljaitu. But after the death of Oljaitu,
Rashid was executed, by order of Abu Said in 1318, which was
also the fate of many of the eminent statesmen in Persia. Rashid
states, in the preface to his work, written by order of Ghazan
khan and finished in 1312, that in compiling it he was consider-
ably aided by the great Noyen Pulad Ckinksank (a Mongol
"who knows
evidently), generalissimo and minister of the empire,
better than any man living, the origin and history of the Turkish
tribes, and of the Mongols especially." Rashid mentions also
10
I may quote here a curious statement of a Persian author contempora-
ry with Rashid, which makes the celebrated historiographer of Chinese na-
tionality. We read in Abdallah Beidavi's History of China (Latin transla-
tion by A. Müller, Greiffenhag, 1689, pp. 5, 6) Tempore Hulagu-chan
magna manus Philosophorum & Astronomorum Chataicorum cum illo huc
profecti sunt. Ex his Fu-muen-gi erat, Vir Philosophus, Sing-sing cogno-
imento dictus, h. e. Polyhistor. Eodem tempore Dominus, Nasiro'd Din,
Tuso, (urbe (horasance) oriundus de mandatu Hulaguchan Tabulas Ilchanicas
condidit. Ubi è Polyhistore fundamenta Astronomica & Chronologica
illorum tradit. Erat item alius tempore Muslimici Regis, Gazan Hakan
dicti. Ejus, qui sacrosanctam Chronologiam Gazanicam conscribi manda-
verat. Dominus videlicet Rexido'd Din, Vezirius, ê Philosophis Chatajorum,
Litagi & Meksun nomine. Hi duo Medicinam, Astronomiam & Chronologiam,
sive etiam Historiam temporum, apprimè tractarunt & scriptis propaga-
runt. Iidem quosdam Chatajorum libros secum asportantes, sua ex illorum
principiis comprobant." Ibid. pp. 12, 13, we read again "Dn. Rexido'd
Din, Vezirius ille supra laudatus, terris Hing-ping-xang oriundus, fidem
facit, regnum Magin quotannis nongentos Tumanos seu Myriades in rationes
Imperatoris conferre." These passages leave no doubt that Abdallah takes
Rashid to be a Chinese.

92
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
important historical documents with respect to the history of the
Mongols, preserved in the archives of Ghazan khan, and to
which he had access. He speaks further, of the Mongol annals
called Altan depter (golden book), kept in the treasure house of the
khan, and committed to the charge of the senior of the begs
(cf. Prof. Berezin's Russian translation of Rashid-eddin, vol. i,
pp. viii, 183).
18. The first attempt to translate Rashid's Djami ut Tevarikh
was made by a German orientalist, Hammer Purgstall, who
selected for this purpose, one of the most interesting chapters of
the book, the account of China proper. But Klaproth found
much fault with Hammer's version, especially in the defective
decipherment of proper names, and published a new translation
in correction of Hammer in 1833, in the Nouveau Journal Asia-
tique, tom. xi.
At about the same time à renowned French orientalist Quatre-
mère began to publish in the Collection orientale, 1833, his His-
toire des Mongols de la Perse, translated from the Djami ut
Tevarikh; but only the fifth part of the history of the Mongol
dynasty in Persia appeared.
The most complete translation of Rashid's history of the Mongol
empire, we possess, is found in D'Ohsson's Histoire des Mongols
(see further on). The author however does not always give a
literal, coherent translation of the Persian historian, but rather
works up Rashid's statements, together with those of other writers,
into his elaborate History of the Chinghizkhanides.
A complete Russian translation of Rashid's History of the
Mongols, has been undertaken by a learned Russian orientalist, Pro-
fessor T. N. Berezin in St. Petersburg. It is being published in the
Journal of the Imperial Russian Archaeological Society. The first
volume, 322 pages (vol. v. of the Journal), comprising Rashid's
accounts of the various nations and tribes of Turkish and Mongol
origin, living in the eastern part of Asia, was issued in 1858;
the second, containing the early history of the Mongols, up to the
time of Chinghiz khan's accession to the throne, A. D. 1206, saw
the light in 1868 (vol. xiii of the Journal of the Society), 239
pages Persian text, and 335 of translation and commentary. As
the author informs us, four volumes more are to follow; and sup-
posing he continues to publish a volume every ten years we
may hope to see the work finished in A. D. 1908. It seems to
me that none of the previous translations of Rashid-eddin can
enter into competition with that of Mr. Berezin. Not only has he
at his disposal several of the best manuscripts of Rashid's work ;
but he is also considerably aided in the understanding of the Persian
author's records, by his acquaintance with eastern Asiatic languages.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
93
Berezin states in the preface, that Rashid's style is quite easy
of understanding, and that the only difficulty the translator meets,
is to get the correct reading and pronunciation of the foreign proper
names, occurring so frequently in the Persian text, the diacritical
points of the letters being often omitted in the manuscripts.
19. In commenting upon geographical names of central and
western Asia, mentioned in ancient Chinese and Mongol writings,
I was often obliged to refer, for corroboration or elucidation, to
the geographical accounts of those countries, as given by
western Asiatic authors of the same period. Generally the in-
formation drawn from Persian works found in D'Ohsson's Histoire
des Mongols, proved to be sufficient for my comparative investiga-
tions. In some cases only, I felt the want of special Arabic or
Persian geographical works for reference, e. g. those of Yakut
(1179-1249), Abulfeda (1273-1319), etc., and my ultimum
refugium was then D'Herbelot's Bibliothèque Orientale, ou Diction-
naire Universel, contenant tout ce qui fait connaître les peuples de
l'Orient, leur histoire, etc., etc. The first edition was published
in Paris in 1697; the second in Maestricht in 1776. I always
refer to this second edition in folio. This dictionary of
the eminent orientalist, D'Herbelot, is still an indispensable book
of reference with respect to Asiatic history and geography, for
students in this department who have not access to the original
sources, or who are not acquainted with Arabic and Persian.
Klaproth calls D'Herbelot, le père de nos connaissances sur
l'orient." The only reproach to wh ch D'Herbelot is open, is that
of merely giving translations from Mohammedan authors without
venturing any critical remarks, or even taking exception to con-
tradictions in the statements he brings forward. The second
edition of the Bibliothèque Orientale has a very valuable appendix.
Supplément à la Bibliothèque Orientale par C. Visdelou et A. Galand.
About 200 pages of this supplement are from the pen of Visdelou,
and contain a great amount of very valuable information, drawn
from Chinese sources, with respect to the history and geography
of eastern and central Asia. Claude Visdelou, born in 1656, in
Bretagne, went as a missionary to China in 1685, and spent there
twenty-two years. I feel no hesitation in asserting, that he was
the most accomplished sinologue among the old Jesuit missionaries
in China. All his translations shew a profound and critical
knowledge of the Chinese language. With respect to China,
Visdelou takes the same place, as Klaproth assigned to D'Herbelot
with reference to western Asia, and well deserves to be termed
the father of our knowledge of Chinese historical records, and
especially the history of the nations of central and eastern Asia.
In the first part of the Appendix to the Bibl. Orient. Visdelou

94
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
explains from Chinese sources, a number of proper names and terms,
used by the Mohammedan authors with reference to China;-for
instance, Fagfur, Tencu, Sin, Loukin, Khankou, Numkink, Kha-
thai, Khanbalig, Cara-Cathaian, Van, Ca, Ducouk, Dapikhen,
Fenek, Giugh or Tchagh. (The latter seven terms refer to chrono-
logy and astronomy.) The second part is entitled Histoire de lu
Tartarie, pp. 18-133, and gives the complete history of the nations
and tribes of Mongolia and central Asia; all the information being
drawn from the histories of the Chinese dynasties. We find there,
the history of the Hiung-nu, the Wei, the Geou-gen, the Tou-kine
(Turks), the Hui-ho (Uigurs), the Sie-yen-to, the Kie-kia-sze (Kir-
ghiz) and many others. The next 43 pages are devoted to the
histories of the K'itun (Liao) and the Kin,-translations from the
Liao shi and Kin shi. On pp. 117-119 we find an interesting dis-
sertation on the invention of gunpowder by the Chinese, and the
cannons they made use of in the middle ages. The accounts
Visdelou gives of the Yuen or Mongol dynasty, occupy only one
page; the Manchus are treated of in six pages. The third part, con-
tains a dissertation on the term Khan. The fourth part, (30 pages)
has further explanations of names of countries, places and nations of
central and eastern Asia, occurring in the writings of the Moham-
medans, viz. Cara-khotan, Khotan, Aigur, (Uigur), Botom, Turk,
Ung, Cuthay, Tutar, Mogol and others. Besides this, Visdelou
gives a short account of the reigns of the first five Mongol emperors.
The fifth part pp. 165-190, is a learned treatise on the Nestorian
tablet at Si-an fu.
20. I ought not to omit from my record, an extensive work on the
history of Asiatic nations, written last century, by a French
orientalist of great repute. It cannot be denied, that Deguignes in
his Histoire des Huns, published in Paris, 1756-1758, in five vo-
lumes, has contributed a great amount of new information, drawn
from Mohammedan, Chinese and other sources; but the competent
reader will admit, I think, that the vast material brought together
has been badly worked up by the author; who in his conclusions
and identifications draws too much on his imagination, and seldom
deems it necessary to give any evidence for the correctness of his
views. In many cases it is impossible to decide, who is responsi-
ble for any given account or opinion,-whether it is Deguignes or
the ancient writer he quotes. Thus his researches on Asiatic
history have but little claim to be considered scientific investiga-
tions; and it may be said, that he has rather spread confusion than
shed light.11 Unhappily Deguignes still remains an authority
with respect to the ancient history of the nations of Turkish origin,
11
With respect to the value of Deguignes' historical researches, compare
also Klaproth's Mémoires relatifs à l'Asie, tom. ii, pp. 391, 396.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
95
In his
and all who make this department their study cannot avoid refer-
ring to his Histoire des Huns, of which even the title implies a
great error; for he identifies the Huns with the Hiung-
nu, a people first mentioned in the Chinese annals in the 3rd cen-
tury B. c. as living in Mongolia, and who for nearly four hundred
years were very troublesome neighbours of the Chinese.
identification (l. c., tom. i, p. 215), Deguignes was of course only
guided by similarity of sound; and Klaproth has already proved
that his view is opposed to all that we know regarding the history
of the Huns and the Hiung-nu. The same Deguignes has also
broached the famous hypothesis, that the Chinese were an Egyp-
tian colony.
21. After Deguignes, a more able and clear-minded orientalist
of the present century undertook to write a history of the Mongols.
In 1834, the Baron C. D'Ohsson published his Histoire des Mongols
depuis Tchinguiz khan jusqu'à Timour Bey on Tamerlan, in four
volumes. A map, showing the political divisions of Asia in the
13th century is appended. In this elaborate work, which I shall
quote frequently in the subsequent pages, the learned author has
gathered all the documents bearing on the history of the Mongols,
known at the time he wrote. D'Ohsson's information is
drawn principally from the Mohammedan authors, of whose re-
cords he gives the most satisfactory translations. D'Ohsson was
himself of oriental origin (Armenian), and therefore well versed in
Persian, Arabic and Turkish. He was also well acquainted with
many European languages. His Histoire des Mongols is written in
an admirably attractive style. It seems to me, that D'Ohsson has
exhausted the sources respecting the history of the Mongols, as
far at least as information can be drawn from Mohammedan and
other western Asiatic and European mediæval writers.
It is only
from the ancient records of the Chinese and Mongols that some
new light on this subject can be expected.
22. I shall have to quote also repeatedly, in my paper, the nar-
ratives of those well-known Christian travellers, who visited east-
ern Asia in the 13th century. As to Carpini (1246), and Rubru-
quis (1254), my references invariably are to the pages of the Latin
editions in the Recueil de Voyages et de Mémoires publié par la
Société de Géographie, tom. iv, 1839. Of Haithon's narrative
(1254), I shall give an English version at the end of my paper.
With respect to Marco Polo and the other medieval travellers
(Odoric, Marignolli, etc.), I rely upon the magnificent works of
Colonel Yule, viz. The Book of Ser Marco Polo, 1871, 12 and
Cathay and the way thither, 1866.
12
I have heard, that Col. Yule has lately published a new edition of his
M. Polo, but have not yet seen it.

96
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Among the works to which reference will be made in these
pages, I may finally mention Karamzin's History of Russia (in
Russian), published in 1815-1829, in 12 volumes. This extensive
work gives the original text of all the ancient Russian annals in
Sclavonian. In vols. iii and iv, the invasion of Russia by the
Mongols is treated of, principally from Russian sources.
PART II. NOTICE OF THE KARA-KHITAI OR SI LIAO.
23.
Kara-khitai is the name applied by the Mohammedan,
and other western authors of the 13th century, to a people
originating from eastern Asia, who in the beginning of the 11th
century, after an audacious expedition westward, subjugated the
territories of central Asia, and penetrated even to Transoxiana. For
nearly a century the Kara-khitai maintained their power in Tur-
kistan, until their empire was destroyed by Chinghiz khan, who
after having subdued the Tartar tribes in Mongolia, and made
several irruptions into China and the Tangut empire, directed his
armies towards the west; and there it was next the turn of the
Kara-khitai--whose dominions then bordered upon the expand-
ing empire of the conqueror-to experience the invincibleness of
his arms. The Kara-khitai in the 12th century had caused much
trouble in the Mohammedan countries.
It is needless to say that the name of Kara-khitai was not
invented in western Asia; it seems to be of Turkish or Mongol
origin; for kara means black" in both languages, and khitai
is intended for K'itan, a people whose original seats were in
southern Manchuria, and who in the 10th and 11th centuries
were in possession of the northern part of China. Their dynasty
in the Chinese annals is called Liao; and as the founder of
the dynasty of the Kara-khitai was a prince of the Liao, the
Kara-khitai are always called Si Liao or Western Liao by Chinese
authors; the other name being unknown to them. The ancient
Mongol records style this people Karakitat; which is the plural
form of Karakita. The reason why in the middle ages the West-
ern Liao of the Chinese were termed Black Kitan13 by other
Asiatic nations is unknown. The etymology given in the Biblio-
thèque Orientale (p. 231,"Cara Cathaï ou Cathaï noir, c'est la
partie du Cathai qui est la plus couverte de forets") is absurd.
D'Ohsson has made accessible to the learned world, the
13
I have only once met with the name of Black K'itan in Chinese books.
The Chinese mediaeval traveller Ch'ang Te (1259) mentions the
Hei K'itan (Black Kitan) in Kirman (see my Notes on Chinese Mediav. Trav.
p. 90).

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
97
accounts found in the writings of the Mohammedan authors, with
respect to the Kara-khitai. In the first volume of his history of
the Mongols, pp. 441-444, he gives translations from the Tarikh
Djihan Kushai and the Djumi ut Tevarikh regarding this people
and their history. Chinese records on the same subject have been
translated by Visdelou, and published in the Suppl. à la Bibl.
Orient. pp. 10 sqq. and in Du Mailla's Histoire de la Chine,
tom. viii, pp. 408, 419. Visdelou translates from the "History of
the Liao," giving a very correct and literal version. He has how-
ever, occasionally omitted some particulars (e. g. proper names),
considering them probably unimportant. Du Mailla translates
from the Chinese Annals Kang mu, the compilers of which
seem to have made use of information independent of the Liao
shi. 11
I shall present in the following, a new and complete transla-
tion of the article on the Si Liao found in the Liao shi, or "His-
tory of the Liao," chap. xxx, at the end of the Annals, reign of
Tien-tso, A. D. 1101-1125, the last emperor of that dynasty.
This translation will be followed by others on the same subject,
not published hitherto, and drawn from the histories of the Kin
and Yüan, the Yüan chao pi shi and other Chinese or Mongol
mediæval works.
24. The Liao shi (1. c.) reads as follows:-"#
Ye-lü Ta-shi was the founder of the dynasty called Si Liao.
He was a descendant in the eighth generation of Tai-tsu (or Apoki,
the first emperor of the Liao ). The honorific title
Chung-te (highly meritorious) had been bestowed upon him.
He was well versed in the literature of the Liao, as well as that of
the Chinese (Han); and besides this, he was a clever horseman
and skilful archer. In 1115 he received the degree of t
shi (doctor) and was admitted a member of the han-lin (national
academy); and as he was lin-ya16 in the academy, he
was generally called Ta-shi lin-ya. Subsequently he was appoint-
ed civil and military Governor in the north-eastern provinces.
In the year 1120 the emperor T'ien-tso, pressed hard by the Kin,
had, abandoned his throne and taken to roving about. Ye-lü Ta-
shi then assembled the dignitaries of the empire, and placed on the
throne Shun, a prince of the imperial family. But Shun fell
14
There are some differences in these two records with respect to the
same events; and for the dates, the Kang mu is generally one or two years in
advance.
15
Ye-lü was the name of the reigning family of the K'itan or Liao. See
my Notes on Chin. Mediaev. Trav., p. 109.
16
Lin-ya seems to be a term of the K'itan language. Visdelou translates
it by "académicien."

98
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
ill and died, and then his wife Siao Te was intrusted with the
regency and the defence of Yen (the present Peking, at that
time the capital of the Liao). When the army of the Kin arrived
at Yen (in 1220 according to the Annals of the Liao shi), Siao Te fled
to the emperor Tien-tso,18 who grew very angry, ordering her
to be put to death, and reprimanded Ta-shi19 for having raised
to the throne the Prince Shun, whilst the legitimate emperor was
still alive. Ta-shi then answered:- Even at the time when the
empire was still in full vigour, your Majesty had not been able once to
repulse the enemy, but had fled far away, abandoning the people in
their calamities; and had I then placed prince Shun on the
throne, the reigning family would still have been descendants of
our ancestor T'ai-tsu. Has it not been the more dignified course now
thus to act, instead of imploring the enemy for mercy?' To this
the emperor had nothing to reply. He entertained Ta-shi with a
feast and pardoned him; but Ta-shi did not feel himself in
safety, and after having killed Ki-sie and Po-li-kuo20 he declared
himself sovereign. Then at the head of two hundred well-armed
horsemen he departed by night (evidently from T'ien-te), and
proceeded northward.
25. "After a march of three days they crossed the
Hei shui. There Ta-shi met with Chuang-gur, the chief 2 2 of
the Po Ta-ta, 23 who offered him four hundred horses,
twenty camels, and about a thousand sheep. Thence proceeding
westward, he arrived at the city of JK'o-tun. 24
In
17 In the same Liao shi, beginning of chap. xxx, it is stated that Shun
was buried on the hill Hiang shan, west of Yen. Hiang shan is
even now the name of a hunting park in the mountains west of Peking, with
ruins of ancient palace buildings.
18
The emperor of the Liao was at that time in Tien-te, accord-
ing to the annals of the Liao shi, sub anno 1120. Tien-te,-the Tenduc of
M. Polo (vol. i, p. 249), was near the modern Ku-ku kcho-ton in southern Mon-
golia, in the vicinity of the great northern bend of the Yellow river.
19
Some details regarding the retreat of Ta-shi from Peking are given in
the history of the Kin (see further on, note 30).
20 Probably dignitaries at the court of the Liao emperor.
21
Hei shui or "Black river" may be the same as the Khara gol or "Black
river" of the Mongols, which is marked also on our maps of Mongolia. It
discharges into a lake north of the great bend of the Yellow river.
22
siang-wen. It seems to be a K'itan term.
23 This is the Chinese name for the Ongut tribe. See above, note 3.
24
The existence of a country or city of this name, seems to be corroborat-
ed in the Kin shi. In the geographical section (see Si-king
lu, the province comprising at that time, the northern part of the present
Shansi and the south-western part of Mongolia),
Hu-tun is men-
tioned among the nine countries or rather tribes (in western Mongolia),
governed by a siang-wen (L). Compare also note 45, Ho-tung.

舘寳圖學大京燕
L
Yenching University Library
HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
99
Pei-t'ing tu-hu-fu25 he rested for some time,
and assembled the chiefs of the seven chou (cities) 26 and the
eighteen pu (tribes). The seven chou are enumerated as
follows:-
1.
2.
3.
4. 新
5.
6.
7.
Wei-wu (Uigurs,-see further on).
Chung-te.
Hui-fan.
Sin. (There is perhaps a character wanting.)
Ta-lin.
Tze-ho.
To.
The names of the eighteen tribes are also given 27 :-
Ta-huang shi-wei. 10.
1.
2. 刺
Ti-la.
11.
3.
Wang-ki-la.
12.
Mi-r-ki.
Ho-chu.
Wu-ku-li.
4.
Ch'a-chi-la.
13.
5. 也喜
Ye-si.
14.
Tsu-pu.
Pu-su-wan.
6.
Pi-ku-te.
15.
7. 尼剌
Ni-la.
16.
8.
Ta-la-ch'ui.
17.
9.
Ta-mi-li.
18.
Tang-ku.
Hu-mu-sze.
Hi-ti.
Kiu-r-pi.
"Ta-shi spoke to the assembled chiefs as follows:-' My an-
cestors had founded a vast empire and had to endure many
trials; nine emperors having successively reigned over it for two
hundred years.
Now the Kin, who are subjects of our dynasty,
massacre our people and destroy our cities. Our emperor
25 Pei-t'ing was situated at about the place where now Urumtsi stands
(see further on, the article on Bishbalik). To avoid long explanations I may
translate tu-hu-fu by "seat of a military governor."
20
The Kang mu in recording the same, says "the
seven chou at the western frontier."
27 It seems that the tribes here mentioned, occupied the western part and
even the east of Mongolia. Shi-wei (1) is a name applied since the
4th century of our era, to a considerable tribe, divided into many branches,
and occupying the land near the lake Baikal. See "History of the northern
Wei" and "History of the T'ang," chap. cclixb. Ti-la (2) are perhaps the
Tie-le of the Tang history (chap. cclviia) in which name the Telenguts
of Rashid may be traced. The Wang-ki-la (3) are perhaps the Cuncrats;
Ch'a-ch'i-la (4), the Djadjerats; and Mi-r-ki (10), the Merkits of Rashid. By
T'ang-ku (15) it seems the Tanguts are meant. The same name appears in
the geographical section of the Kin history, Si-king lu (see note 24). There
we find also a tribe Wu-ku-li (12) mentioned. We shall see further on, from
the accounts of the Kin shi, that Ta-shi's influence extended over the whole
of Mongolia.

100
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Tien-tso has been constrained to flee shamefully and abandon
the empire, being continually in trouble. Now, relying on the
justice of my cause,-I have come to ask your assistance for the
extermination of our common enemy, and the re-establishment of
our empire. I am sure you will feel compassion for our distress.
Can you see without remorse the destruction of the temples of our
tutelary genii. No doubt you will help our emperor and father;
nor will you look indifferently upon the misery of our people.'
The assembled tribes then raised an army numbering more
than ten thousand horsemen, and Ta-shi appointed officers and
furnished the troops with arms.
if
Bu-gu-
"In the following year (it seems 1121 is meant), in the second
month, on the day kia-wu, Ta-shi, after having sacrificed a black
bull and a white horse to Heaven, to Earth, and to his ancestors,
put his troops in order and set out for the west. But he had
previously sent to the king of the Hui-hu (Uigurs), by name
Pi-le-ko, a letter of the following tenor:-'In times
past my ancestor, the emperor Tai-tsu, who directed his army to
the north, when passing through the city of
han, 28 sent an envoy to your ancestor Wu-mu-chu, in
Kan-chou, with the following message:-Do you still cherish the
remembrance of your ancient country? I shall occupy it for you,
I you wish to return.-But your ancestor thanked the emperor,
saying, that his people had left their ancient abodes for more than
ten generations, that all were quite happy in their present coun-
try, and that there was no desire to return to their original
patrimony. This proves that we have been for a long time
on good terms with your people. It is now my intention to
advance westward to the Ta-shi, 29 and I ask permission to
pass through your country. Do not entertain suspicion.' Pi-le-
ko having received this letter, immediately went to meet Ta-shi;
and on reaching his encampment, three days were spent in enter-
tainment. When Ta-shi started again, the king presented him with
six hundred horses, a hundred camels and three thousand sheep;
and to prove his sincerity gave some of his sons and grandsons as
hostages; and declaring himself a vassal of Ta-shi, accompanied the
latter as far as the boundary of his realm.
26. "Thereupon Ta-shi, proceeding further to the west, van-
quished all enemies he met on his road, maintaining peace with
28
Bu-gu-han means Boca khan, a famous khan of the Uigurs, who had
his residence near the place where afterwards Caracorum was built. For fur-
ther details see the article on the Uigurs, in Part VI.
29 By this name the Arabs were known to the Chinese. See my pam-
phlet On the knowledge possessed by the ancient Chinese of the Arabs, etc., pp.
6-16.
London, Trübner 1871.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
101
Hu-r-shan. 31
distance of 2 li
the following
wants an able
those who surrendered voluntarily. Thus the army advanced
ten thousand li, overthrowing kingdoms and taking innumer-
able camels, horses, cattle, sheep and goods. The power of
Ta-shi's arms increased from day to day, and also the valour of the
soldiers. When he arrived at Sun-sze-kan, 30 he met the
united army of all the western kingdoms, numbering a hundred
thousand men, and commanded by the
The two armies were fronting one another at a
apart; when Ta-shi addressed his troops in
terms: We see before us a numerous host, but it
commander. When they are attacked in front, the rear will fail
to come to the rescue (ET), and there can be no doubt
our army will gain the victory.' After this he formed his
troops in three divisions, ordering the princes Siao
Wa-li-la, Ye-li Sung-shan and others, at the
head of two thousand five hundred men to attack the right flank of the
enemy; whilst the princes 肅刺阿不 Szao La-a-bu and 耶律
Ye-lü Mu-sie received orders to lead two thousand five
hundred men against the left flank; and Ta-shi himself with the main
body of the army, assaulted the centre. These three divisions
rushed at the same time upon the Hu-r-shan, whose army was
completely defeated; and to an extent of ten li the ground was
covered with dead bodies. Ta-shi with his army rested in Sün-
sze-kan ninety days. The Hui-hui wang (king of the
Mohammedans) came to offer his submission, and brought pro-
ducts of his country as tribute. After this, Ta-shi proceeded to
the west as far as
Ki-r-man. 32 There all his officers,
civil and military (t), assembled and proclaimed
Ta-shi emperor (). This happened on the 5th day of the 2nd
month of 1124 (according to the Kang mu, 1125). The emperor, who
was then thirty-eight years old, assumed at the same time the title
of Go-r-han (Gurkhan of the Moham. authors), and
30
vellers.
Samarcand, repeatedly mentioned in my Notes on Chin. Medicv Tra-
31 Hu-r-shan has some resemblance in sound with Khorazm Shah.
Cutb-eddin Mohamed, 1097-1127, first took the title of Khorazm Shah for his
dynasty. He was a vassal of the Seldjucs, who at that time reigned in Trans-
oxiana and Fergana. The Mohammedan authors however do not record a bat-
tle at Samarcand between the Kara-khitai and Khovarezm Shah or the Sel-
djucs, but mention about fifteen years later a great defeat of the Seldjuc sul-
tan Sangiar by the gurkhan of Kara-khitai (see note 61).
32 Evidently Kerman in southern Persia is not meant, as has been sug-
gested by some commentators (Plath's Geschichte Ost Asiens, b. i, p. 100),-but
Kermané, a place situated between Samarcand and Bokhara, and frequently
mentioned by Mohammedan medieval authors. The city of Kerminé still
exists.

102
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
the Chinese title
his reign being named
Tien-yu huang-ti; the years of
Yen-king. Ta-shi bestowed also
honorary titles upon his ancestors and his wife. After this he
assembled the officers and spoke to them as follows:-'We have
made together a journey of thirty thousand li; we have crossed
deserts and suffered many hardships by night and by day. That
you may share in my glory, I am about to grant honorary titles
to your ancestors.' He then conferred posthumous titles upon the
ancestors of the prince Siao Wa-li-la and on those of forty-nine other
distinguished officers. In the year 1226 Ta-shi conducted his army
back to the east. After a journey of twenty days on horseback
they reached a fertile land, where a capital was founded, and
named
Hu-sze wa-r-do. 33 The name of the reign
K'ang-kuo.
was then changed to
27. "In the same year Siao Wa-li-la was appointed com-
mander-in-chief. (I omit the other appointments mentioned
in the Chinese text.) An army of seventy thousand horse-
men was raised for an expedition to the east. After having
sacrificed a black bull and a white horse to Heaven, Ta-shi ordered
a banner to be set up, around which he assembled his troops,
haranguing them in the following terms:-Our great Liao dynasty
rose under difficult circumstances; and it was due to the merits of my
ancestors, (the great work) was accomplished. But their successors
were addicted to pleasure and debauchery, and neglected the gov-
ernment of their people; when riots broke out, and our empire was
destroyed. Now I wish to conduct you back to the So-mo
(Mongolian desert), and to re-establish our ancient splendour. This
is no country for me and my people to dwell in.' Thereupon Ta-shi
enjoined the commander-in-chief Siao Wa-li-la to move out, giving
him the following instructions:-March out now; take care to
reward merit and punish those who do not perform their duties.
Try to share conscientiously with your troops, fortune and mis-
fortune(); choose places rich in grass and water for
encamping; before giving battle, take care duly to estimate
the strength of the enemy. Be ever cautious not to draw down
upon yourself a defeat.' Thereupon the army moved out, and made a
march of more than ten thousand li, without meeting any success.
They lost a great number of horses and cattle, and were
constrained to return, the troops being exhausted. Ta-shi then
said: 'Heaven is not propitious towards me.' He died in the
33
"
Visdelou explains the name of Hu-sze wa-r-do by "le fort palais."
Wa-r-do is evidently intended for ordo, "residence," hu-sze has some resem-
blance with ho-sun, meaning "strength" in Manchu. For further particulars
regarding the capital of the Kara-khitai, see note 57.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
103
10th year of Kang-kuo, or A. D. 1135 (according to the Kang mu,
in 1136), after having reigned twenty years 34. He was canonized
as 德宗 Te-tsumg.
28. "When Ta-shi died, his son
age, and Ta-shi's widow, by name
Yi-lie was not of full
T'a-bu-yen, called also
Kan-t'ien huang-hou, was intrusted with the regency.
The name of her reign was Hien-ts'ing. Seven years later
Yi-lie himself took charge of the government; and the name of his
reign was Shao-hing, which lasted thirteen years (1142-
1155). He ordered a census of the people over eighteen years old,
when it was found that there were eighty-four thousand five
hundred families in all. After death he was canonized as
Jen-tsung. His son being still a minor, Pu-su-wan,
the younger sister of the late emperor, undertook the regency
and reigned fourteen years (1155-1169). The name of her reign
was Chung-fu, and her title was
Cheng-
tien t'ai-hou. She had married Siao To-lu-bu, the son of Siao
Wa-li-la (the above-mentioned commander-in-chief), but held illicit
intercourse with her husband's younger brother P'u-gu dji-sha-li.
She conferred upon her husband the title of FE Tung-ping
wang, but subsequently gave orders to kill him; Siao Wa-li-la
however, surrounded the palace with troops, and the empress
was killed, together with her lover, by arrow shots.
"Dji-lu-gu, the second son of Jen-tsung was next pro-
claimed emperor. His reign was named
Tien-hi, which
lasted thirty-four years (1169-1203). It happened in the autumn
of 1203 when the emperor was on a hunting excursion, he was
made prisoner by K-chu-lü prince of the Nai-
man, 35 who had been lying in ambush with eight thousand men.
K'ü-c'hu-lü then took possession of Dji-lu-gu's throne, adopting
the dress and customs of the Liao. But he left to the late em-
peror the title IT'ai-shang-huang, and to the empress the
title Huang-t'ai-hou. As long as they were alive, K'ü-
ch'u-lu visited them twice a day. Some time after, Dji-lu-gu died
and with him the Liao dynasty became extinct."
34
If we date his reign from 1124, the year he was proclaimed Emperor,
-then he only reigned eleven years.
35
Kü-ch'u-lü is the Guchluk of Rashid. He was the son of T'ai-yang,
khan of the Naimans, overthrown by Chinghiz. In the Yüan shi Guchluk
is termed K'ü-ch'u-lü han. The Kang mu places the date of Guchluk's tak-
ing possession of the throne of the Si Liao at 1201, in the 8th month; but the
Yüan shi states, that he fled to the K'itan only in 1208, which latter date is
in accordance with the statements of the Mohammedan authors.

104
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
29. Besides the above Chinese record, regarding the Si Liao or
Kara-khitai, many other fragments on the same subject may be
found in Chinese literature, especially of the Kin and Mongol
periods. I may quote some of them in order to complete my
accounts from Chinese sources.
The Si Liao and Ta-shi's exploits are spoken of with some detail
in the Pei shi ki, or "Account of Western Countries by an
Envoy of the Kin emperor, sent to Tchinguiz khan in A.D.
1220." See my translation of this narrative in Notes on
Chinese Medieval Travellers, pp. 100 sqq. Some particulars, which
the Kin envoy gives, with respect to the peregrinations of Ta-shi,
point to the fact, that his way from Mongolia to Transoxiana led
through the Talki defile, north of the present Kuldja (1. c., p. 103).
The diarist of Chang-ch'un's travels to the west, as well as the
traveller Ch'ang Te, and Ye-lü Ch'u-ts'ai in his narrative, all,
when passing through Turkistan mention the traces of the K'itan
empire (l.c., pp. 35, 74, 114).
Interesting notices throwing some new light on the Kara-khitai
are found in the "History of the Kin," in one of the biographies,
which I shall translate presently. The Kin, after having destroyed
the empire of the Liao or Kitan in eastern Asia (1125), and
established their dynasty in northern China, extending their
power also over a great part of Mongolia, being apparently very
uneasy about the foundation of a powerful Liao empire in Turki-
stan, did not let an opportunity slip of gathering information
regarding it; and even sent envoys to them. The following
account is translated from the biography of
Nien-ko
Han-nu, in the Kin shi, chap. cxxi, where some particulars of the
intercourse between the Kin and the Kara-khitai in the 12th
century are recorded:-
30. "Nien-ko Han-nu was a meritorious officer in the army of
the Kin (in the first half of the 12th century). The emperor had
granted him as a mark of distinction, a harness, a bow and arrows
and a war horse." (After these statements, the biographer in-
terpolates a long notice of the Si Liao, to whom Nien-ko Han-nu
was subsequently sent as an envoy. This account is as follows :)
"At the time T'ai-tsu 36 passed through
Kü-yung 37
Ye-lü Ta-shi, a prince of the Liao withdrew through the defile of
Ku-pei l'ou38 (the capture of Yen--or Peking-by
3 6
The first Kin emperor, called also Aguta 1115-1123, who overthrew
the Liao.
37
This is even at the present day the name of a defile and a fortress in
it, north-west of Peking. The defile is more generally known to Europeans
under the name of the Nan-kou pass.
38
The name of an important defile, north-east of Peking.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
105
the Kin, is recorded in the Liao shi under the year 1120); but
he appeared again, took
intrenched his troops 25 li east of
Feng-sheng chou, 39 and
Lung-men. 10 This in-
trenchment was taken by Lou-shi (a general of the Kin), and Ta-shi
with his troops surrendered. Tsung wang (also a general of the
Kin) captured the heavy baggage of the Liao emperor (the text has
), near the place called Tsing-chung, and on this
occasion Ta-shi served as guide. The (Kin) emperor pardoned all
the princes and soldiers of the Liao who had been made prisoners,
and ordered a communication to be made to Ta-shi, that, notwith-
standing his having been taken in arms, the emperor acknowledged
his merits; especially on account of the service he rendered in
guiding the (Kin) troops. This happened in 1121; but sub-
sequently Ta-shi fled, and it was unknown in what direction. 42
"In the year 1124 a report was received from the chief of some
tribes (in Mongolia) who had surrendered to the Kin, stating that
Ta-shi had been proclaimed king (E) in the Pei-fang
(northern regions),-that his realm consisted of two provinces, a
northern and a southern,-that he possessed ten thousand cavalry
horses, numerous herds and great riches in products. The em-
peror gave orders to continue the pursuit of the Liao prince, and
not to neglect at the same time to procure authentic information
about Ta-shi.
"In the next year, 1125, one of the governors at the frontier
reported a rumour, that the Hia (Tangut empire) was in
39
Now Pao-an chou (north-west of Peking). I may observe here that
my identifications of ancient names of places in China proper, Mongolia and
Manchuria, are based upon the geographical dictionary
Li tai ti li chi yün pien kin shi, which is very useful for reference.
A new edition with maps has been lately published. The identifica-
tions in this work are quite reliable, for the author has drawn his infor-
mation from the geographical sections of the Chinese dynastic histories.
Biot published in 1842, a dictionary of the ancient and modern names of
places in China (Dictionnaire des noms anciens et modernes des Villes et Ar-
rondissements de premier, deuxième et troisième ordre compris dans l'empire
Chinois &c.), but his book is too incomplete for exact and detailed researches.
There are several defiles of this name (Dragon gate) in the mountains
north and west of Peking.
40
41
42
This happened in 1121 according to the Annals of the Liao shi.
With respect to Ta shi's relations with the Kin, the historians of the
Liao and the Kin are in contradiction; or at least the Liao shi does not say
that Ta-shi had been made prisoner by the Kin; but only states that he re-
paired to the Liao emperor after the fall of Peking. The Kang mu, which
seems to have been made from special sources of information, records (Du
Mailla, Z. c.), that Ye-lü Ta-shi, after having been captured by the Kin, near
the defile of Kü-yung, was released and sent by the Kin emperor to find the
Liao emperor, who was wandering about in southern Mongolia.

106
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
collusion with Ta-shi, and plotting an invasion of the province of
Shansi. The emperor again gave orders to inquire into this matter,
and at the same time to arm for war.
"In 1129 a report came to hand from a general commanding in
T'ai-chou (in eastern Mongolia), in which he notified that
Ta-shi had already succeeded in taking the two military encamp-
ments situated in the regions of the northern tribes.
He ex-
pressed his apprehensions with respect to the security of the
pasture lands (for the imperial horses), which were situated not
far from the above-mentioned places. The emperor was at first
afraid that the tribes in the north might revolt, if troops should be
collected in those regions. However in 1130 Ye-lü Yü-ta, 13 and
two other commanders were sent to pursue Ta-shi. They had been
ordered also to raise troops from the tribes (in the north), but these
tribes refused to obey. This expedition proceeded as far as the
river Wu-na and then returned. Ye-lü Yü-ta made a re-
port to the staff (F), that Ta-shi was said to sojourn in the
country of Ho-chou (F), and to be in collusion with
the Hia (Tanguts). 15 Thereupon the emperor sent an envoy to
the Hia, to demand an explanation; but they replied that they
had heard nothing of Ta-shi, and that their country was not
contiguous to Ho-chou.
44
31. "In the year 1144, envoys from the EJ Hui-ho16 came
to the capital of the Kin, to pay tribute; and they stated, that
Ta-shi was not then alive, but that his people dwelt in their (i.e.
the Hui-ho's) vicinity. Then Han-nu (in whose biography all
Kin.
44
A prince of the Liao, who had deserted and entered the army of the
Ho-chou is the same as Karakhodjo near Turfan. See further on, arti-
cle Karakhodjo in Part VI.
43
The Kang mu in recording the expedition of Ye-lü Yü-ta (Du Mailla,
1. c.) states, that he started with ten thousand men to look for Ta-shi, who
was said to approach Ho-chou. As the Kin did not put absolute trust in
Ye-lü Yü-ta, his family were retained as hostages. Yü-ta advanced as far as the
city of Ho-tung north of the desert, more than three thousand li dis-
tant from Yun-chung (the present Ta-t'ung fu in northern Shansi). But this
expedition missed its aim, and only devastated the provinces of Yen (northern
Chili), Yün-chung and Ho-tung, which had to furnish the troops with provi-
sions. (See Kang mu, sub anno 1131.) The city of Ho-tung mentioned here
is probably the K'o-tun in Ta-shi's itinerary, and the Hu-tun of the Kin shi
(see note 24). The rumour spread about the approach of Ta-shi towards Ho-
chou in 1130, as reported in the Kin shi and the Kang mu, seems to have
been in connection with the great, but unsuccessful expedition sent by
Ta-shi to the east about the same time (see above, 27, the translation
from the Liao shi).
46 Mohammedans, or perhaps Uigurs are to be understood. Regarding
the term Hui-ho, see 41.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
107
these accounts are recorded) received orders to accompany the
envoys of the Hui-ho to their country; and the honorary title
Wuyi tsiang-kün (the brave and loyal general) was
conferred upon him. He departed, and afterwards nothing more
was heard of him. Under the reign of Ta-ting 1161-1190,
a merchant of the Hui-ho, I-si-lan by name, arrived with
three companions at the south-western frontier (of the Kin). These
merchants gave the following statement: Our native country is
called Dsou-gua (the Chinese biographer adds,--that is the
name of a foreign tribe). The name of the capital is
t
The
Gu-sze o-lu-do. 17 The people of this country are not of warlike
character, but are engaged in agriculture, and every year pay
one tenth of their produce to the government. Old men state,
that in times past, when the K'itan arrived, they (i. e. the people
of Dsou-gua) surrendered without offering any resistance.
encampment (), in which the K'itan live, is so large, that it
takes half a day to ride round it. 18 A short time ago the ruler of
the K'itan had sent A-ben-sze, his son-in-law, with ten thousand
men to subdue the Ye-bu-lien and other tribes, but his
expedition was not successful. The war however is not yet
finished.' The emperor ordered these Hui-ho, who had brought
this information, to be settled near Hien-p'ing fu (now
Tie-ling hien in southern Manchuria), where settlements of the
Hui-ho had existed from olden times. In the same year Sa-li-ya
Nien-ba-en, and Bo-gu chief of the
Kang-li9 and other tribes, sent envoys and begged to be
admitted as vassals of the Kin emperor. They offered the seal
given to them by Ta-shi, and solicited a new seal from
the Kin. The emperor gave orders to instruct the governor
at the south-western frontier, to send officers to these countries,
to inquire into the sincerity of these tribes; whereupon an en-
voy was dispatched, together with an interpreter. They saw
Sa-li-ya, who maintained his sincerity; and from him they heard
also of the fate of Han-nu. Sa-li-ya told them, that many years ago
the Kin emperor had sent an envoy named Han-nu, by way
of Ho-chou (see note 44) to the dominions of
Ta-shi. He had met Ta-shi, when he was on a hunting
chief of the
47
48
Evidently the same as Hu-sze wa-r-do. See 26.
Compare, further on (37), the statements of Rubruquis, about the re-
mains of the encampment of the K'itan.
49
By K'ang-li, the Kankly of the Mohammedan authors are meant.
I know nothing about
shall speak more fully of this people further on (64).
the Nien-ba-en and Ye-bu-lien tribes and the country of Dsou-gua, mentioned
in this article.
I

108
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
excursion, and had been asked by him why he did not get down
from his, horse. Han-nu had replied that he was the envoy of the
Kin emperor and that it was the place of Ta-shi to dismount,
in order to listen to the imperial message; upon which Tashi had
ordered Han-nu to be put to death. Such was the information
the envoy brought back to China."
32. Let us turn now to the records of Mohammedan historians
regarding the Kara-khitai. (Compare D'Ohsson, l. c. tom. i, pp.
441-443.) Rashid-eddin has gathered the following information
with respect to this dynasty:-
"After the sovereign of the Churchés 50 had destroyed the empire
of the Kara-khitai, 51 a prince by name Nushi Taifu,52 standing in
high esteem in his own country, fled, first to the country of the
Kirghiz, then passed to the Uigurs, and finally arrived in Turkis-
tan. Being a man of high intelligence and capacity, he
succeeded in rallying a considerable force in these countries and
conquered the whole of Turkistan; whereupon he took the title
R
so The Churchés of the Mohammedan writers, are the same as the
Nü-chi of the Chinese authors,-a people of Manchu race, who came to
power in the beginning of the 12th century, overthrew the en pire of the
Liao, and founded a dynasty in northern China, Mongolia, etc. under the
name of the Kin ("Golden" dynasty). The Persian chroniclers heard
the name Churché probably from the Mongols; for this seems to have bee
the proper name of this nation. In the
Takin kuo chi, or
"History of the Kin nation" (see Wylie's Notes on Chinese Literature, p. 24),
I find a statement, that the Nü-chi or Kin were properly called
Chu-li-chen. The name Nü-chi, was also known to the Mohammedan au-
thors. We read in Abdallah Beidavi's Historia Sinensis, p. 15:"Conter-
minus est hisce alius ruricola populus. Quem Chataji Niu-che vocant. Mo-
golibus vero aliisque populis Hurge dictum. Ex his vir exiit, cui Huonyen
Agudai nomen erat; Dai-gim agnomen." Here Dai-gim is evidently in-
tended for T'ai kin, the "Great Kin." The name of the founder of the
Kin dynasty is written
A-gu-da in the Kin shi.
[Huonyen is the Nü-chi word for "Prince,"
stant use through the Kin history.-ED. COM.]
31
32
Wan-yen, in con-
Rashid terms the Liao dynasty in eastern Asia also Kara-khitai.
On page 163 (tom. i) D'Ohsson states, that Rashid terms the founder
of the dynasty of the Kara-khitai Tushi Taifu. Thus Nu-shi must be a
misprint or a clerical error in the Persian MS. Tushi seems to be the cor-
rect reading, for it is nearer to Tashi, which as we have seen was the name of
the founder of the Si Liao dynasty, according to the Liao shi. D'Ohsson
states (l. c.), evidently on the authority of some sinologue, that Taifu in Chi-
nese means "général en chef." This view is not correct. T'ai-fu
(lit. meaning "great man") now means a physician, but only in the popular
language; it is rarely met with in books. But Ta-fu (meaning
also "great man") is an old term, an honorary title, applied however, not to
military, but only to civil officers.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
109
of gurkhan, meaning 'great khan.' These events took place in 1128
and 1129.53
"After Nushi Taifu's death, his son, who was then only seven
years old, was proclaimed gurkhan. He lived to the age of
ninety-five and died about 1213. When Chinghiz was born, the
gurkhan was thirty-four years old, and had already reigned
twenty-five years."54
33. The author of the Tarikh Djihan Kushai gives more detailed
accounts of the Kara-khitai. He records as follows:-"The
khans of Kara-khitai derive their origin from Khitai. The
founder of this empire had a great reputation among his own
people; but had been constrained by political events to leave his
native country. He assumed the title gurkhan, meaning 'univer-
sal khan.' It is reported that when he left Khitai he was
accompanied by only sixty followers; 55 but some assert, that he
was at the head of a numerous army. These emigrants first
reached the frontier of the Kirghiz, making incursions upon their
territories; but after the latter had taken measures to repulse
the aggressors, the Khitai withdrew to the country of Imil, 6
where they founded a city, of which the ruins are still to be seen.
The tribes of the Turks submitted to the Khitan prince, who after
a short time found himself at the head of forty thousand families.
He conducted his army to Bela-sagun, a city which is now called
Gu-balik by the Mongols. 57 The sovereign of this country, who
53
34
Four or five years earlier (1124) according to the Liao shi.
According to the Chinese authors (Liao shi), Ta-shi was succeeded in
turn by his son and grandson. The latter was on the throne thirteen years,
1169-1203. Thus Rashid has omitted one of the gurkhans; but he may be
more correct than the Liao shi, in stating that the last gurkhan of the Kara-
khitai died about 1213. The Liao shi puts this event earlier. As to the
dates in the history of the Kara-khitai, the Yüan shi is in accordance with
Rashid. See note 35.
35
86
By two hundred, according to the Liao shi.
Imil or Emil is even in our day the name of a river in Russian Tur-
kistan. I shall speak more fully of this country in Part VI.
57
It may be the proper place here, to say a few words on Bela-sagun and
its position, as far as it can be ascertained from the fragmentary accounts of
this place given by the Mohammedan, Mongol and Chinese authors.
We
shall see further on (see the article on the Uigurs), that according to the
Tarikh Djihan Kushsi, the city of Bela-sagun had been founded by a
khan of the Uigurs (in the 10th century it seems), in a well-watered plain
of Turkistan, with rich pastures. The Bibl. Orient, p. 891, art. Tures,
mentions Bela-sagun as the capital of Turkistan in the first half of the 11th
century. We read in the same work, p. 690, art. Otrar (on the Yaxartes), that
this city was not very far from Bela-sagun; and p. 166, that Bela-sagun lies
beyond the Sihon (or Yaxartes), and less distant from it than Cashgar. De-
guignes states (Hist. des Huns, tom. iii, p. 252), that the khan of Turkistan,
who had his residence at Bela-sagun and was dethroned by the Kara-khitai,
was a Uigur prince, by name Illik-khan. The Mohammedan authors also

110
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
was descended from Efrassiyab (a mythical king of the Turks,
spoken of in the ancient Persian chronicles), at that time had lost
mention Bela-sagun as the capital of the Kara-khitai in the 12th century
and the beginning of the 13th; and for this period we find many notices in
Chinese and Mongol works, pointing to the position of this place. We have
seen, that according to the Liao shi, the founder of the western Liao dynasty
had established his residence twenty day's journey east of Kermané (the latter
place being situated between Samarcand and Bokhara). This residence is
named there Hu-sze wa-r-do. We have further seen, in the report of some
Mohammedans, who came to China from the country of the western Liao in
the second half of the 12th century, that mention is made of a city Gu-sze
o-lu-do in the vicinity of the encampment of the Kara-khitai. Hu-sze wa-r-
do and Gu-sze o-lu-do are evidently the same name. Ye-li Ch'u-t'sai (1219;
-see my Notes on Chin. Medicev. Trav. p. 114) states, that Hu-sze wo-lu-do
the capital of the Si Liao is situated west of the river I-lie (Ili). In the Yian
shi, chap. cxx, biography of Ho-sze-mai-li, the same name is spelt Gu-dse
wa-r-do (Chin. Med. Trav. p. 114, note 24). I have little doubt that these
names, applied by the Chinese authors to the capital of the Kara-khitai, are
identical with Bela-sagun. In the Yüan ch'ao pi shi, we find a more precise
indication of the position of this place; for it is stated there (Palladius'
translation, p. 72), that Ung khan had fled (close of the 12th century) to the
gurkhan of the Kitan, who lived on the river Chui. This river, marked on
our maps as Chu or Choo (on modern Chinese maps it is still styled Ch'ui
takes its rise in the mountains west of lake Issikul, and is also connected
with that lake. In Ch'ang-ch'un's narrative (Chin. Med. Trav. p. 50), the
Ch'ui river is also noticed. As the Chu or Chui river and its numerous tri-
butaries now belong to Russian Turkistan, it may be expected, that some
vestiges of the ancient capital of the Kara-khitai will be discovered by Rus-
sian archeologists. In the Transactions of the Russian Geograph. Soc. 1871,
vol. ii, p. 365, it is stated, that the best pasture land in Turkistan is found
on the river Chui. This agrees well with the statement in the Tarikh Djihan
Kushai (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 433) that Bela-sagun had been founded in a
well-watered plain within rich pastures. I am inclined to suppose, that the
name of Bela-sagun, or Balasgun as it is sometimes spelt, is a corruption of
balgasun, which in Mongol means "city." It is not unlikely, that this word
was used also with the same meaning by the Turkish tribes. The author
of the Tarikh Djihan Kushai states (1. c.), that the Mongols of his time de-
signated Bela-sagun by the name of Gu Balik. It seems to me that this lat-
ter name presents some resemblance to the Chinese Gu-tse wa-r-do, for ba
like and ordo ("city" and "residence") have nearly the same meaning. It
is worthy of note, that Mr. Spruner, who, I should think, had not access
to the afore-mentioned Chinese and Mongol accounts of the capital
of the Kara-khitai, has placed Bela-sagun on the river Chu. Compare his
Historical Maps of Asia, No. 5. Klaproth was not aware of the position of
Bela-sagun; at least he did not mark it on the maps accompanying his Tabl.
Hist. de l'Asie. Col. Yule, on the map appended to his Cathay etc. puts Bela-
sagun (with a ? however) between Bishbalik and Caracorum. It is not im-
probable that ancient Bela-sagun was situated at the same place, where ac-
cording to the "History of the T'ang" (T"ang shu, chap. cclvb. sub fine) the
khan of one branch of the western Tu-kie (Turks) had his residence, in the
8th century. It is stated there, that his residence was on the river
Sui-ye. A century earlier, the Buddhist monk Hüan-tsang proceeded from
China to Samarcand. by a route south of the Celestial mountains, and along
the southern border of the Ts'ing ch'i (Limpid lake). The descrip-

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
111
his power, and had ceased to reign over the tribes of the Karluks
and Kankalis, who even made incursions upon his territories. When
the Kara-khitai approached his country, the sovereign sent envoys to
their chief, and invited him to take possession of his realm. 58 The
Khitan prince then arrived at Bela-sagun, and the descendant of
Efrassiyab abdicated, merely reserving the title Ilk Turkan, or
Chief of the Turks.' After this the gurkhan of Kara-khitai appoint-
ed governors in all the provinces of his empire, from Kum-kidjik to
Barser-djan and from Taras to Tamidj.59 Subsequently he
tion he gives of the lake leaves no doubt that he passed by the lake Issi-
kul). A hundred li north-west of it he arrived at i. e. "the
city on the river Su-ye," where the merchants of different countries met.
Huan-tsang's river Su-ye is the same as the Sui-ye of the T'ang history, and
only the Ch'ui (or Chu) river can be meant. In the same T'ang shu., chap.
celviiib, article (Shash, Tashkand), we read that the city of Sui-ye was
west of the lake Jo-hai (hot lake) which does not freeze even in win-
ter. I am not aware, whether the Balkash or the Issikul is meant. In the
same article it is stated, that the river Sui-ye has a length of a thousand li,
and that the city of Sui-ye was destroyed A. D. 748, by a Chinese gover-
nor of Pei-t'ing (the present Urumtsi).
58 Compare the report of the Mohammedan merchants found in the Kin
shi (see above, 31), that Gu-sze o-lu-do had surrendered to Ta-shi without of-
fering resistance.
59 With the exception of Taras, the places or countries here noticed are
unknown to me. Kum means "desert." With respect to Barser-djan I may
mention, that Du Halde, in the map of China appended to his history of
China, 1734, places "Bersagian la Haute ou Sairam,"-I am not aware on
what authority,-on the river Talas. A city of Taras or Talas is often men-
tioned by the Mohammedan medieval writers, and also by the Chinese au-
thors. Talas is still the name of a river in Russian Turkistan, and the city
of the same name seems to have been situated on that river; at least
this may be concluded from the narratives of the Chinese medieval travellers
Ch'ang-ch'un, Ch'ang Te and Ye-lü Ch'u-t'sai, all of whom went through Tur-
kistan by the same route. The first, mentions the crossing of the river Ta-
la-sze; the others, speak of a city of this name which they passed through.
(compare my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. pp. 34, 75, 114). Talas was situat-
ed on the great highway leading from Mongolia to Persia. Thus Haithon,
king of Little Armenia, on his way home from Mongolia in 1255, also passed
through Talas, and saw there the prince Hulagu, who was on his way to Per-
sia (see Haithon's narrative at the end of this paper). Mr. Vivien de St.
Martin, in his geographical commentary on Stan. Julien's translation of the
Si yi ki (Mém. s. 1. Contrées Occident. tom. ii, pp. 267-273) places the city of
Ta-lo-sze, mentioned in the itinerary of Hüan-tsang, near the
Yaxartes. Hian-tsang states, that proceeding from the river Su-ye (the Chu
as we have seen) 400 li westward, one arrives at a well-watered country called
Tsien-ts'üan (the name means "thousand springs"), which on the south
is bordered by snowy mountains, and on the three other sides by plains.
About 150 li further to the west is the large city of Ta-lo-sze. M. Vivien de
St. Martin at first identifies Ts'ien-ts'üan with a place, Ming bulak, found on
our maps of Asia, south of the lake Karakul, into which the river Talas

112
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
subdued the Kankalis. 60 His troops conquered Kashgar and
Khotan; he sent also an expedition against the Kirghiz. Bishbalik
was taken, and Fergana and Transoxiana61 submitted. Thus the
empties itself. It seems Mr. Vivien has been guided in his views, only by the
fact that Ming bulak also means "thousand springs" (in Mongol and other
languages); but as I have been assured by a friend, who has travelled much in
Russian Turkistan, Ming bulak is a quite frequent name for places there. It
is the same with respect to Mongolia. It seems to me that Hüian-tsang's
"Thousand springs" bordered on the south by snowy mountains, must be
rather looked for somewhere on the northern slope of the high mountain
range, stretching from Lake Issikul westward, and marked on Russian maps
as Alexander's chain. Many rivers and torrents, tributaries of the Chu, run
down from these mountains, which are very rich in watercourses. The
great highway from Kuldja to Tashkand crosses all these rivers, and also the
Talas at Au-lie-ata; and I have little doubt that Hüan- tsang's way from
the river Chu to Chash (Tashkand) followed the same direct route along the
northern slope of Alexander's chain. But Vivien carries the traveller far
north to Ming bulak, and then locates his Ta-lo-sze near the Yaxartes, a
little east of Otrar (see Vivien's map). Thus he makes the traveller take a
round-about way. Klaproth suggests (Nouv. Journ. Asiat. tom. xii, p. 283)
also, that the city of Taras was situated on the Yaxartes, and ought not to
be confounded with the city of Talas on the river of the same name. But as
neither Vivien nor Klaproth have produced evidence for their views, that an-
cient Taras was situated on the Yaxartes, I maintain my supposition that Taras
and Talas of the Mohammedan authors are the same, and that the Ta-lo-sze
of the Chinese is also the same place. Rashid states (D'Ohsson, tom. iii, p.
126) that Argun, the Mongol governor in Persia, on his way home to Mongo-
lia (1248 or 1249) passed through Taras, where he heard of the death of Cu-
yuk khan. There is no necessity for assuming that Argun went from Persia
to Mongolia by another way than the afore-mentioned Chinese medieval tra-
vellers and king Haithon, who all speak of a city Ta-lo-sze or Talas on their
route. As the ancient Chinese itineraries agree in locating Ta-lo-sze on
the direct road from Almalik (Kuldja) to Sairam, the city was probably si
tuated near the place, where on the Russian maps Au-lie-ata is marked. The
most ancient mention of a place called Talas occurs, it seems, in the narra-
tive of Zemarchus' embassy to the khan of the Turks, in the 6th century
(Yule's Cathay, p. clxv). A century later, the name appears in Hüan-tsang's
narrative and also in the Chinese annals. In the T"ang shu, chap. cclviiib, ar-
ticle Shi (Chash,-Tashkand) we find
Ta-lo-sze mentioned as
a city situated west of the river Sui-ye (Chu,-see above, note 57). The king
of Shi is stated to have kept a garrison there. Compare also Deguignes, l. c.
tom. ii, p. 500. The Mohammedan authors often associate Taras with Bela-
sagun. It seems the distance between these cities was not great. Compare
also Deguignes, tom. iii, pp. 219, 229. Rubruquis mentions a city and a
kingdom of Talas, but he was not himself there. As he states (p. 280) he
was told, when proceeding from the Volga to Cayalic, that the city of Talas,
situated in the vicinity of mountains, was distant six day's journey from the
route he followed. On page 279 he says " Quesivi etiam de Talas civitate
in qua erant Teutonici servi Buri, etc" (on these Germans and Buri, see
81, and article P'u-la in Part VI.
60
Compare the Chinese records above (32). The Kang-li offered the seal
of the Kara-khitai to the Kin emperor.
61
The Bibl. Orientale, p. 741, states, that the Seldjuc sultan Sandjar
(who reigned over Transoxiana, Fergana, etc.) conducted his host against the

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
113
predecessors of Sultan Osman (of Samarcand) became the gurkhan's
vassals. After having accomplished these conquests, he sent his
general Ernuz against Khorasm, who carried fire and slaughter
through this country. Atsiz Khorasm shah offered his submission
and paid a large tribute; when Ernuz withdrew. Some time after,
the gurkhan died, and his widow Kenyunk occupied the throne.
She was subsequently convicted of an illicit intercourse, and killed
together with her lover. 62 One of the two brothers of the de-
ceased was then placed on the throne. 63 The sultan Tacash,
successor of Atsiz. continued to pay tribute to the gurkhan of Kara-
khitai, and was on good terms with him. He also recommended
his son and successor to follow the same policy in regard to the
gurkhau, whose empire was a strong barrier to protect Khorasm
from the dreaded people of the east."
34. The Mohammedan authors do not record the names of
the gurkhans of Kara-khitai, as the Liao shi does; but they
give detailed accounts of the reign of the last khan of this
dynasty, who was dethroned by the Naiman prince Guchluk.
The following are the chief points of the Mohammedan records on
this subject, translated by D'Ohsson, l. c., tom. i, pp. 105-166:-
"Guchluk,-after his father Tai-yang, khan of the Naimans
had been slain, and the power of the Naimans had been broken
by Chinghiz khan,-made a league with Tucta, khan of the
Merkits, A. D. 1208. Chinghiz' army attacked Guchluk and
Tucta, who had rallied their active force on the river Irtysh,-
and defeated them near the river Djem. 64 Tucta was slain, but
Guchluk escaped and fled, at first to Bishbalik, then to Kudja, and
finally arrived, in 1208, in the dominions of the gurkhan of
Kara-khitai, 5 where he found shelter, and was well received
Gurgiasb (probably Gurkhan is the correct reading) of the Karakatai (in 1141
according to Deguignes); but he was defeated and the Karakatai captured
his harem. Sandjar fled to Termed.
02
Evidently Pu-su-wan, the younger sister of the successor of Ta-shi (see
the Chinese accounts above, 28) is meant. She was in fact killed together
with her lover.
03
64
A grandson of Ta-shi according to the Chinese authors.
The Annals of the Yüan shi, sub anno 1208, report the same, without
mentioning the river where the battle took place. But in the biography of
Ba-r-dju a-r-te te-gin, king of the Uigurs (Yüan shi, chap. cxxii, where the
war with Guchluk and Tucta is also recorded), the river in question is styled
Ch'en. In the biography of Su-bu-t'ai (ibid. chap. cxx), it reads Shen.
In the Ts'in ch'eng lu, it is Ts'an. Probably one of the affluents of the
upper Irtysh, in the Mongol period had a similar name.
65
As I shall prove further on, ancient Bishbalik, the capital of the Uigurs
was located near the site of the present Urumtsi. D'Ohsson identifies Kudja
with Kucha, a place south of the Celestial mountains, west of Kharasha. The
Yüan ch'ao pi shi (Palladius' translation, p. 110) states that Guchuluk, after

114
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
At
at the court. The gurkhan even gave him his daughter in
marriage; but some time after, Guchluk formed a plot to de-
throne his benefactor. Having obtained the permission of the
gurkhan, to receive in his empire the remnants of the Naiman
tribes, who were scattered over the countries of Bishbalik, Imil,
and Cayalic, Guchluk collected a considerable force, consisting of
Naimans and Merkits, and entered into league with Mohammed,
sultan of Khovaresm, and Osman prince of Samarcand, both
vassals of the gurkhan. Mohammed and Osman attacked the Kara-
khitai; and Guchluk tried at the same time to take the capital,
Bela-sagun; but his troops were defeated by the Kara-khitai
near the river Chinbudje, and Guchluk was obliged to retreat.
the same time the troops of Mohammed and Osman entered the
dominions of the gurkhan, and gained a victory over him
beyond the city of Taras; when Guchluk taking advantage of this
event, succeeded in dethroning his father-in-law. This happened
in 1211 or 1212, two years after which, the old gurkhan died.
He was however treated with great respect by Guchluk to the end
of his days. After having strengthened his authority on the
throne of Kara-khitai, Guchluk marched against Ozar prince of
Almalik and ordered his execution. The people of Kashgar and
Khotan, who had withdrawn allegiance from the usurper, were
reduced to obedience by Guchluk's troops, who during several
years devastated these countries. Guchluk was a cruel persecutor
of Islam. He was himself a Nestorian Christian, as most of the
Naimans were; but after his marriage with the daughter of the
gurkhan of Kara-khitai, he became Buddhist."
DESTRUCTION OF THE EMPIRE OF THE KARA-KHITAI
BY THE MONGOLS IN 1218.
35. With respect to the events above spoken of, the Mohammedan
authors give the following short account (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p.
172):-
"When Chinghiz prepared his expedition to the Mohammedan
countries in western Asia, he dispatched a body of twenty thou-
sand men under the command of the Noyen Chebé, in 1218,
66
having lost the battle (on the Djem river) fled through the countries of the Wei-
wu (Uigurs) and the Kharlu (Karluks) to the river Ch'ui, where he made a
league with the gurkhan of the Khara kita. The date 1208, given by the
Mohammedan authors for the arrival of Guchluk in Kara-khitai, is in accord-
ance with the Yüan shi.
00
Noyen is a Mongol title. It occurs frequently in the Yüan shi, where
the term is spelt No-yen. Che-bé was a famous general in Chin-
ghiz khan's army. His name will be met with frequently in these pages.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
115
against Guchluk, who at that time was in Kashgar. When Chebé
approached, Guchluk fled. The Mongol general proclaimed re-
ligious liberty, and the people massacred Guchluk's soldiers. After
this the Mongols pursued Guchluk, and captured him in the
mountains of Badakhshan. Chebé ordered him to be beheaded."
36. The accounts of the Chinese and Mongol authors regarding
the same events, although only fragmentary, corroborate the
statements of the Persian historians, and even throw some new
light on the subject.
Gu-dse
kuo-r-han
In the biography of Ho-sze-mai-li (Ismael?),-Yüan-shi, chap.
cxx, it is stated, that "he was a native of
wa-r-do (see note 57), and a confidant of the
(garkhan) of the Si Liao (or Kara-khitai).
cities Ko-sun and
He governed the two
A Ba sze-ha, subject to Gu-dse
wa-r-do. At the time of Chinghiz khan's expedition to the west,
he surrendered, together with the chiefs of these cities, 67 and then
entered the avant-guard commanded by Dje-bie (Noyen
Chebé; see note 66). When the Nai-mun were attacked, Ho-sze-
mai-li killed their khan
Kü-ch'u-lü (i. e. Guchluk), and
Dje-bie ordered him to take the head of the victim, and carry it
through the cities of his empire (i. e. the empire of Kara-khitai).
After this, the cities of K'o-shi-ha-r (Kashgar), Ya-r-kien (Yarkand)
and O-duan (Khotan) surrendered to the Mongols."
The Yüun ch'ao pi shi states (Palladius' translation, p. 131):-
"Chinghiz ordered Djebie to attack Guch'uluk. Djebie pursued him
to the country called Salikhkun, 68 killed him and then returned."
According to Rashid, who narrates some anecdotes in the life of this hero, he
belonged to the Mongol tribe of the Yissuts (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 172). In
the Yüan shi, where mention is repeatedly made of his exploits, the name is
written 哲伯Dje-bo or Dje-bie. It is strange that his biography
has been omitted from the Yüan shi, whilst those of all the other illustrious
men of the Mongol period are found there. See further on, 61, on Chebé's
death.
67
When commenting upon Ye-li Ch'u-ts'ai's travels (Notes on Med.
Trav. p 114). I translated a part of this notice, suggesting that the city of K'o-
san mentioned in it, may be identical with the city of the same name marked
on the ancient Chinese map, appended to this paper; north-east of Marghi-
nan. But now I see the possibility of another identification, which at the
same time would corroborate M. Polo's account of Badakhshan.
The great
traveller mentions in this country, or about it, the province and town called
Casem, subject to a count (vol. i, p. 145); and at page 155, the province of
Pashai (Ibn Batuta writes the same name Bashai). I am inclined to see
in the cities K'o-san and Ba-sze-ha of the Yüan shi, M. Polo's Casem and
Pashai. It is true, it is nowhere stated that Badakhshan was subject to the
Kara-khitai; but it is not impossible that it was so; especially as according to
the Persian authors, Guchluk, when pursued by the Mongols fled to Badakh-
shan.
08
As the Mohammedan authors record, that Guchluk was captured and

116
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
The Yüan ch'ao pi shi records this event erroneously under the year
1206; but the Ts'in ch'eng lu agrees with Rashid, in placing the
destruction of the empire of the Kara-khitai under the year 1218.
(Palladius' translation, p. 191). It is stated there, that Chinghiz
sent the great general Dje-bie against K'ü-chu-lu ko-han.
He par-
sued him to the place Sa-li-huan, where K'ü-chu-lu was defeated.
37. Plano Carpini, who passed through the country of the Kara-
khitai in 1246, gives in his narrative, p. 648, some details regarding
the struggle between this people and the Mongols. We read there:-
"Naimani etiam et Kara-Kitai, id est nigri Kitai, ex adverso
plurimi in quandam vallem strictam inter duos montes, per quam nos
euntes ad Imperatorem eorum transivimus, 69 similiter con-
venerunt: et commissum est prælium, in quo Naimani et Kara-
Kitai a Mongalis sunt devicti, et major pars eorum fuit occisa, et
alii qui evadere non potuerunt in servitutem redacti sunt."
It may be concluded from Carpini's report, that the battle of
which he speaks took place in western Turkistan. The Moham-
medan authors do not mention this expedition.
Rubruquis, who saw the country of the Kara-khitai a few years
later, states (pp. 259 sqq.), that the Caracatay or niger Catay inha-
bited in former times certain mountain pastures, which he passed
through; and in certain plains among these mountains their Coir
chan dwelt, who was deposed by a Naiman chief (Guchluk). On
p. 280, he mentions the country of the Caracatay again, with a
great river in it (the Chu), and a valley with old intrenchments of
earth.
38. It is a fact worthy of notice, that some descendants of the
people of Kara-khitai still exist, it seems, in Fergana. At least Mir
Izzet Ullam, who visited central Asia in 1812, mentions a city
called Kara-khatai, between Marghinan and Kokand, inhabited by
Kara-khatai people, who are Mohammedans (Klaproth, Magazin
Asiatique, tom. ii, p. 45). This Kara-khatai is probably identical
with Kitai, marked between Marghinan and Kokand on the map
of Turkistan, Kokand etc. in Petermann's Mittheilungen, 1874, vi.
PART III. CHINESE MEDIEVAL NOTICES OF THE
MOHAMMEDANS.
39. It was under the emperor Wu-ti of the great Han dynasty
executed in Badakhshan, we have to look for Salikhkun or Sa-li-huan in this
country.
The Chinese traveller Ch'ang Te (see my Notes on Chin. Med. Travel-
lers, p. 74) mentions a place, Yi-tu situated between two mountains in the
country of the Kara-khitai. He passed Yi-tu four days before reaching Talas.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
117
(B. c. 140-86), that the Chinese first became acquainted with the
countries west of the Bolor mountains.. About B. C. 122 the
adventurous Chinese general Chang Kien returned,-after
having been absent for more than ten years,from the countries of
the Yaxartes and Oxus. After he had opened up communication
between China and the kingdoms of the far west, the intercourse
of the Middle kingdom with western Asia by water or overland,
was maintained with short interruptions during many centuries,
by the several dynasties which successively reigned over the whole
of China or a part of it. Thus the Chinese were acquainted with
the nations who now profess Islam, long before Mohammed had
made his appearance. The Parthians (dynasty of the Arsacides
B. C. 242-A. D. 228)
安息 An-si.
were known to them under the name of
From the middle of the 5th century of our era,
mention is made in the Chinese annals, of the country or people of
Po-sze; and the notices given of it leave no doubt, that
Persia is meant. Many embassies from Po-sze to China are
recorded in Chinese history from the 5th to the 7th century, and
in the "History of the T'ang" we find even some particulars on
Yi-sze-sze (Yezdejerd III) the last king of the Sassanides, who was
slain by the Arabs.
The Arabs are spoken of in the Chinese annals, soon after the
rise of Islam. The great Tang dynasty, 618-907, was con-
temporary with the rise and prime of Arabian power. In the
"History of the T'ang," the Arabs are always styled
Ta-shi. By these two characters the ancient Chinese represented
doubtlessly a foreign name, probably Tazy. According to D'Ohs-
son (1. c. tom. i, p. 217), this was the name by which the Arabs
were known to the ancient Persians. The Arabian legends re-
garding Mohammed are recorded by the Chinese authors quite in
accordance with Mohammedan tradition; and the accounts of the
first conquests of the Arabs are also reported by them with toler-
able correctness. The Tang shu notices also several embassies of
the califs to the Chinese court in the 7th and 8th centuries; name-
ly of Han-mi mo-mo-ni (a Chinese corruption of Emir al mumemin,
"Prince of the Believers," a title which was assumed by Othman);
A-bo-lo-ba (Abul Abbas);-A-p'u ch'a-fo (Abu Djafar);-A-lun
(Harun al Rashid). It is known from Chinese sources, as well as
from the accounts given by Arabian travellers to China, that in
the 8th century there were great factories of Arabian merchants in
Canton.
The intercourse between the Arabs and the Chinese continued
still by land and sea during the 10th, 11th and 12th centuries.
The "History of the Sung," 960-1280, mentions twenty embassies
of the Ta-shi or Arabs. The Sung did not reign over the whole of

118
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
China; for the northern provinces were subject at first to the Liao,
and afterwards to the Kin. The Liao had also communications
with the Arabs in the north. In the Liao shi, chap. ii, it is
recorded, that the first emperor of the dynasty (A-pao-ki, 916-927)
received an embassy from the Ta-shi in 924, at the time he so-
journed near the ancient capital of the Uigurs (where afterwards
Karakorum was built).
For further details regarding the intercourse between the Arabs
and China, see my pamphlet On the knowledge possessed by the
ancient Chinese of the Arabs and Arabian colonies. London,
Trübner, 1871.
40. Archimandrite Palladius in his article on "the Moham-
medans in China" (Records of the Eccles. Miss. in Peking, vol. iv,
p. 438) states, that in Si-an fu, where the well-known Nestorian
tablet of the time of the T'ang was dug up, another ancient monu-
ment has been discovered, referring to the introduction of Islam
into China. This Mohammedan tablet is said to bear the date
A. D. 742, and records that during the reign of the Sui emperor
Kai-huang (581-600), Islamism first penetrated to China. Pal-
ladius gives no details about this tablet; but he has kindly inform-
ed me, that it is spoken of in several Chinese works on Moham-
medanism. I find in the Ming yi t'ung chi, the great geography
of the Ming empire, published in 1461, the following statement,
referring evidently to that alleged inscription. In chap. xc, fol.
12, we read, under the head of Mo-de-na, the realm of the ancestor
of the Mohammedans (), that during the
reign of K'ai-huang of the Su dynasty, Sa-ha-ba Sa-a-di Gan-go-
sze a man who had arrived from that country, first taught his
doctrine in the Middle Kingdom (隋開皇中其國撒哈
八撒阿的斡葛思始傳其敎入中國). But at the time
assigned here to the introduction of Islamism into China, Moham-
med was still an obscure merchant.
[As to the Arabic names in the above-quoted Chinese state-
ment, Sa-ha-ba represents evidently "Saheb" which according to
the Bibl. Orient. p. 721, means " a companion, a master, a pro-
fessor." Sa-a-di is probably "Saad" a favourite Arabic name of
persons. I cannot say what words or names are intended by
Gan-go-sze.]
Palladius quotes also from a biography of Mohammed, written
by a Chinese Mohammedan, in which it is stated, that in A. D.
587, the emperor of China sent an embassy to Mohammed in
Arabia, to invite him to China. The latter refused, but sent his
portrait, which however subsequently disappeared from the canvas,
in order that it might not become an object of worship.
In another Chinese Mohammedan work, the
Hui

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
119
hui yuan lai (Mr. Wylie, in his Notes on Chinese Literature, p. 145,
calls it "an apocryphal narrative of the introduction of Moham-
medanism into China, bearing date 1754"), it is recorded that in
the year A. D. 628, the emperor of China sent an envoy with a
letter to the king of the Mohammedans; and when this embassy
returned, it was accompanied by a turbaned Mahommedan priest
and three thousand followers. These are said to have formed the
foundation of the Mohammedan colonies in China (Palladius, l. c.).
These tales are not corroborated by the chroniclers of the
Sui and T'ang periods. There can, however, be no doubt, that at
the time of the T'ang, many Mohammedans were settled in China.
41. In early times, when the Chinese began to extend their
power over the countries west of China proper, they denominated
them by the general term Si-yü (western countries). It
seems this name came first into use, when Chang Kien had returned
from western Asia. In the "History of the anterior Han" (Han shu,
chap. xcvi), where the countries of the Si-yü are first described, it
is stated, that the Si-yü begins at the Chinese fortresses
Yü-men kuan and Yang kuan (both were situated in the
western part of the present Kansu, west of the
Kia-yu
kuan, one of the principal gates of the Great wall). The name
Si-yü is still applied in a general sense to the same regions of
central and western Asia, inhabited by Mohammedan people.
Up to the 12th century, the Mohammedans are not designated by
a general name in Chinese history. In the "Tang History," where
they are first mentioned, they go under the name of Ta-shi,
which term as we have seen was applied to the Arabs. O
Hui-hui is now the common Chinese name for all professors of
Islamism. It seems this term occurs first in the Liao shi, at the
beginning of the 12th century. In the article on the Si Liao above
translated (26), it is recorded that the
Hui-hui wang
or "king of the Mohammedans" paid tribute to the chief of the Si
Liao. The "History of the Kin" also once uses this name, stating,
that in the 12th century there was a regiment of the Hui-hui in
the army of the Kin, who were able to cast inflammable substances
(see Archim. Palladius' above-quoted article on "the Mohammedans
in China," p. 439). In the Yüan shi, the term
Mohammedans is met with in only a few
being generally styled there Hui-ho or
latter denominations have given rise to a great confusion in Chinese
history; for at the time of the T'ang, and even in the 12th
century, only the Uigurs were designated by these names (see
further on, Part VI). Compare also (25) above, the article on the
Si Liao, where it was stated that Ye-lü Ta-shi sent a letter to the
J Hui-hui for
instances; they
Hui-hu. These

120
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
king of the Hui-hu in Kan-chou. There Hui-hu can only mean
Uigurs. The Yuun shi however, applies to the Uigurs a new
name, which reads Wei-wu-r, and the terms Hui-ho or
Hui-hu, when met with in the Yüan shi have always to be translated
by Mohammedans. I am not prepared to give a satisfactory ex-
planation of the origin of this strange denomination of the pro-
fessors of Islamism by the Chinese. (Compare on this subject my
Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 31, note 68).
In the Mongol text of the Yuan ch'ao pi shi (13th century), the
Mohammedans are always termed Sartol. The Chinese translation
of the same work, made in 1388, renders Sartol always by Hui-hu.
The Sartol of the Mongols are evidently the same as the Sarti
of Carpini, p. 710. Even now the people of Transoxiana are
known in western Asia under the name of Sarti (Ritter's Asia,
vol. v, p. 725). D'Ohsson is wrong in stating (1. c. tom. i, p. 216),
that the Mongols called the Mohammedans Tadjiks. But Tadjik
even at the present day means the same people as Sarti, according
to Burnes (Trav. into Bokhara, vol. ii, p. 268).
In a few cases the Chinese writers of the Mongol period call
the Mussulmans by this very name.
In the Yuan shi, chap. v,
we read, that in 1262 an imperial decree was given, that young
men belonging to the families of the Mu-su-man,
Wei-wu-r (Uigurs),
Ye-li-ko-wen (Chris-
Da-shi-man (Mollahs), are to be employed
tians), and
in military service.
The Nüchi traveller Wu-ku-sun, 1220 (see my Notes on Chin.
Med. Trav. p. 104), speaks of the
man Hui-ho in Persia.
Mu-su-lu-
In Ch'ang-ch'un's narrative (ibid. p. 33) we find a realm of the
Pu-su-man noticed, the ruler of which seems to have
had his residence at Almalik. P'u-su-man is evidently the same as
the Bussurman in the ancient Russian annals, by which name
the Mohammedans are always to be understood (Karamzin, vol. iv,
p. 304). Carpini, Rubruquis and M. Polo generally term the
Mohammedans-Saracens; but in Carpini's narrative we find also
the Besermans.
Carpini states, pp. 749, 750:-"De terra Cangitarum (Kankalis,
see further on, 64) intravimus terram Biserminorum.
Işti homines
linguam Comanicam (Kiptchak ;-see Part VI) loquebantur, et
adhuc loquuntur; sed legem Sarracenorum tennent, etc."
Benoit, Carpini's travelling companion, identifies the country
of the Beserman with Turkya (ibid. pp. 777 and 502).
42. I may quote a statement from the Yüan ch'ao pi shi point-
ing to the fact, that even before the rise of Chinghiz khan,
Mohammedan merchants carried on trade with the nomade tribes in

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
121
the most eastern part of Mongolia. Compare Palladius' translation,
p. 95: "When Chinghiz was encamping on the lake Baldjuna
(1203), 70 a Mohammedan (the Mongol text has Sartatui, i. e. a
native of the country of the Sarti) by name Asan (Hassan), arrived
from Alahushi digit huri of the tribe Wangut. He took
along with him a thousand sheep and a white camel, for his
passage down the river Ergunie, 72 to barter for sable and squirrel
skins. When he stopped at the lake to water his sheep he met
with Chinghiz."
The conquests of Chinghiz and his successors had opened a
highway of communication between the east and the west of Asia;
and western people began to frequent the far east, and even to
settle there. The Mongol emperors patronized the colonization of
China by foreigners; and with respect to the Mohammedans,
it seems, that since Hulagu khan the brother of Mangu khan,
ruled over western Asia, emigration from Persia to China had
considerably increased. I think it not unlikely, that the Moham-
medans now scattered over the whole of China proper, and forming
large communities especially in the provinces of Kansu, Shansi
and Chili, are for the greater part descendants of those Saracens
mentioned by M. Polo in the same provinces. Rashid-eddin states,
in his description of China (Yule's Cathay, p. 269), that in his
time all the inhabitants of Karadjang (or Yunnan) were Moham-
mendans; and I feel tolerably certain also, that the Mohammedan
power, which suddenly rose in the Chinese province of Yunnan,
about ten years ago, may be traced back to the time of the Mongol
emperors.
43. The Yuan-shi gives many biographies of distinguished
Mohammedans in the service of the Mongols. A number of them
occupied high offices. I may quote the names of the Hui-ho met
with in the history of the Mongols, and notice occasionally some
particulars from their biographies.
In chap. cxxv, we find the biography of
Sai-dien-ch'i shan-sse-ding, called also
a Hui-hui and a descendant of the
T
Wu-ma-r. He was
Bie-an-bo-r. 73
(noble
In his country Sai-dien-ch'i has the same meaning as
family) in Chinese. There is a long biography of Sai-dien-ch'i,
70
The Mohammedan authors also mention Chinghiz' encamping there,
but they speak of a river Baldjuna (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 72). The Bal-
djuna lake or river seems to have been somewhere near the Kerulun river.
D'Ohsson locates it too far northward.
71
Alacush tikin curi of Rashid, chief of the tribe of the Onguts (D'Ohs-
son, tom, i, p. 84). See also above, 3.
7 2
The river Argun, a tributary of the Amur. It comes out from the
northern corner of the lake Kulon nor, into which the Kerulun empties itself
from the south.
7%
Peighamber in Persian means "prophet."

122
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
from which we learn that he submitted to Chinhiz when the latter
waged war in western Asia, and entered his life-guard. Under
Ogotai and Mangu khans he was governor, and held other offices.
Kubilai khan appointed him minister (see also the list of the minis-
ters, in the Yüan shi, chap. cxii). He died in Yunnan, where he
had been governor. Five sons of Sai-dien-ch'i are mentioned, viz.
T Na-su-la-ding (Nasr-uddin), A Ha-san (Hassan),
Hu-sin (Hussein),
TShan-su-ding wu-mo-
li and Ma-su-hu. All these held high offices.
Na-su-la-ding has a separate biography in the same chapter. He
was governor in Yunnan, and distinguished himself in the war
with the southern tribes of Kiao-chi (Cochin-china) and
Mien (Burma). He died in 1292, the father of twelve sons,
the names of five of which are given in the biography, viz. 1
Bo-yen ch'a-r, who had a high office,
Wu-ma-r,
答法兒 Dje-fa-r (Djafar),忽先 Hu-sien (Hussein) and 沙的
Sha-di (Saadi).
The Sai-dien-ch'i of the Chinese authors is without doubt the
same personage spoken of by Rashid (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 467)
under the name of Sayid Edjell. According to the Persian histo-
rian, he was a native of Bokhara, and governor of Karadjang
(Yunnan) when Kubilaï entered the country, under the reign of
Mangu. Subsequently he was appointed vizier, and in the begin-
ning of Kubilai's reign he had charge of the finances. His son Nusr-
uddin was appointed governor in Karadjang, and retained his po-
sition in Yunnan till his death, which Rashid, writing about
A. D. 1300, says occurred five or six years before (according to
the Yuan shi, Na-su-la-ding died in 1292). Nasr-uddin's son Abu-
beker, who had the surname Bayan Fenchan (evidently the Bo-
yen ch'a-r of the Yüan shi), was governor in Zaitun at the time
Rashid wrote. He bore also his grandfather's title of Sayid Edjell,
and was minister of Finance under Kubilaï's successor (D'Ohsson,
tom. ii, pp. 476, 507, 508). Nasr-uddin is mentioned by M. Polo,
who styles him Neseradin (vol. ii, p. 66).
44. In chap. cxxiii of the Yüan shi, we find the biography of
A-la-wa-r-sze, who is stated there to have been
a Hui-ho and a native of Ba-wa-r (probably Baurd a
city of Khorassan of which I shall speak further on, in Part VI).
He was commander of a thousand in his own country.
ghiz arrived at Ba-wa-r, he surrendered and entered his army.
son A-la-wu-ding (Alaï-eddin) was a valiant warrior in Kubilaï's
74
When Chin-
His
This Bo-yen is not to be confounded with the eminent general of the
same name, who was a Mongol, and who is mentioned as Bayan Chinesan by
M. Polo (vol. ii, p. 107). The biography of this valiant captain is found in
the Yian shi, chap. cxxvii. He is also spoken of by the Persian historians.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
123
His
army. He died in 1292, at the age of a hundred and two.
son Djan-sze-ding had five sons, namely, Wu-ma-r, A-san-bu-bie,
Hin-djo-lan-cha, A-ha-ma (Ahmed) and O-tu-man (Othman).
Other Hui-ho, or Mohammedans, whose biographies have been
incorporated in the Yüan shi are the following:-
Chap. cxxxiv: San-gi-sze.
Chap. exciv: Na-su-la-ding (not the above-mentioned son of
Sayid Edjell), the son of Ma-ho-mu (Mahmud).
Chap. cxcvi: Tie-li-mi-shi.
Chap. cev:
A-ho-ma (Ahmed). His biography is
placed in the Yüan shi under the rubric "Villainous Min-
isters." This is the "certain Saracen named Achmath," to whom M.
Polo has devoted a long chapter entitled "Oppressions of Achmath"
(vol. i, p. 370).
Another Mohammedan, who held high offices in China under
Chinghiz and his successors, was Mahmud Yelvadj. His son
Massoud was governor in Turkistan. Both are spoken of by the
Persian authors as well as in the Yüan shi. For further details
on these personages, see my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 110.
The Annals of the Yuan-shi mention further, a Mohammedan
named JAAo-du-la-ha-man, to whom Ogotai khan
had leased on rent all the revenues of his empire. He is stated in
the Chinese annals to have caused indirectly the death of Ogotai,
by making him a present of wine. The khan, who was given to
drinking, found it so delicious, that he drank until midnight, and
the next morning expired, in December, 1241 (Yüan shi, sub anno).
D'Ohsson (tom. ii, p. 189) calls this man Abdur Rahman.
seems he quotes the name from the Persian authors.
It
45. In the biographies of the following, where the Si-yü is
given as their native country, evidently Persia is meant.
Chap. cxx: Dja-ba-r huo-djo, a valiant com-
panion in arms of Chinghiz. In his biography it is stated, that he
was a native of Sai-yi, which country (or tribe) is said
there to be in the Si-yü. He was the chief of his tribe; wherefore
he bore the name Huo-djo, which in their language is the name of
an office. 76 He was of a tall figure, had a splendid beard, large
eyes () and a broad forehead. He was brave, and a skilful
rider and archer. Chinghiz khan accidentally seeing this man in
his army, was surprised at his appearance, and became interested
in him. This must have happened at an early period of Chinghiz
khan's career, for further on Dja-ba-r is stated to have been with
the conqueror when he waged war with Wang han (Ong khan of
75
Perhaps Seyistan is meant.
Te Pauthier (M. Polo, p. cxxvii, note 2) translates the Persian title Khôdjah
by "un homme de distinction,' un 'gouverneur." "

124
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
the Keraits), A. D. 1203. Thus it seems that Mohammedans served
in the Mongol army, even before the rise of Chinghiz. The
biography states also, that Dja-ba-r had been intrusted by Chinghiz
with a mission to the celebrated Taouist monk Kiu Ch'ang-ch'un,
who lived among the mountains of Kun-lun. Ch'ang-ch'un
asked Dja-ba-r which he would prefer,-honors and splendor, or a nu-
merous posterity? Dja-ba-r answered, "After a hundred years,
riches and splendor will be of no value to me; but I should wish
my sons and grandsons to be prosperous, and to continue my
lineage." Ch'ang-ch'un said-"Your wish shall be realized." And
indeed it was so; Dja-ba-r died at the age of a hundred and eighteen,
and several of his descendants are mentioned in his biography.
Chap. cxxxiii: K'ie-lie.
Chap. cxlii: Che-lie t'ie-mu-r, a native of
A-lu-wen in
the Si-yü (A-lu-wen is perhaps Hol van between Kirmanshah and
Bagdad).
Chap. cciii: TA-lao-wa-ding (Alaï-eddin), a man from
*Mu-fa-li in the Si-yü (Mu-fa-li is probably intended for
Moaferin, a fortress north-east of Diarbekir, taken by the Mongols
in 1260). I-sze-ma-yin (Ismael), a man from
Hu-lie in the Si-yü. (Although by Hü-lie the Chinese text seems
to indicate a place,, it is possible however, that
originally "a man belonging to Hulagu" was intended; for in the
Yüan shi Hulagu's name is always written JCH-lie-wu).
Both A-lao-wa-ding and I-sze-ma-yin were Persian engineers, expert
at the construction and working of catapults. They had been sent
from Persia to China in 1271, and their machines were employed
at the siege of Siang-yang fu.
The biography of I-sze-ma-yin's son I-ho-di-ya-r-ding is found in
chap. cxxxvii.
In chap. xlviii,-on Astronomy,-mention is made of LT
Dja-ma-la-ding, a Persian astronomer, who in 1267 brought a
number of astronomical instruments from the Si-yü to the Mongol
capital Ta-tu (Peking). The instruments are enumerated by their
Persian names, and a description is also given.
46. The historians of the Ming, always term the Mohammedans
EJEJ Hui-hui, and as I have stated above, this is the name also
by which all professors of Islam in China proper as well as in
central and western Asia, are known to the Chinese of our day.
TT
Not to be confounded with the great mountain chain K'un-lun in cen-
tral Asia. The mountains here spoken of, are in the province of Shantung,
the native country of Ch'ang-ch'un, south-east of Ning-hai chou.
They are
marked on modern Chinese maps. With respect to Ch'ang-ch'un, compare
my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. pp. 15-17. In 1220 Chinghiz sent a second
time to invite the sage, who then set out to meet the emperor in western Asia.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
125
In concluding my notices of the Mohammedans, I may venture to
make a few remarks ou the Dungen or Tungun, a name applied by
the nations of Turkish race in Asia to the Chinese Mohammedans.
It is known that in 1862, the Mohammedans in the Chinese domi-
nions revolted against Chinese (Manchu) authority. The central
seat of this rebellion was (and seems to be still) the province of
Kansu; whence the insurrection spread rapidly over the whole
of eastern Turkistan, and in 1864 reached the province of
Ili, bordering on Siberia. Some years later, the Tungan made
themselves masters of Ili, but were subsequently expelled by the
Russians (by a single cannon shot as I have been told by an eye-
witness), who in 1870 took possession of Kuldja, the capital of Ili.
Since the outbreak of the Mohammedan insurrection in Ili, the
name of Tungan has become more generally known in Russia, and
has given rise to many conjectures by Russian and other orientalists
and ethnologists, as to the origin of the people and the etymology
of the name. Some have tried to trace the origin of the Tungan
back to Alexander the Great; others suggest that they have been
left in central Asia by Tamerlane; alleging in favour of their
view, that Turmak in Turkish, means "to leave behind" (sic!).
Compare General Heins' article on the Dungen in the Proceedings
of the Russian Geogr. Soc. 1866, vol. ii, p. 77. General Heins states,
that the Dungen call themselves Turgen. Prof. Vambery translates
Tungan by "a convert" (in Turki). See Col. Yule's M. Polo,
vol. i, p. 255. But the strangest hypothesis with respect to
the name Tungan,-which I may quote as a curiosity,--has been put
forward by Mr. Hoyer in the Russian military journal (The
Invalid, 1869, No. 98). He states, that soon after Islamism had
spread over central Asia (i. e. in the 9th or 10th century), the
Chinese government, apprehensive of the increasing power of the
Mohammedans, transferred a number of them from Turkistan to
the Chinese province of Kansu, whence they spread gradually
over the whole of China; wherefore the Chinese termed the
Mohammedans Tung Kan-su, meaning "the same as the (Moham-
medan) people of Kansu" (sic !!). Mr. Hoyer intends probably
Tung Kan-su;78 but the name Tungan is completely
unknown to the Chinese, who designate all Mohammedans of Asia
by the name of Hui-hui.
All attempts to explain the word Tungan and its origin have
proved to be unsatisfactory. We know only that the Tungan are
Mohammedans, that they speak Chinese, and are dressed in the
Chinese fashion (at least in Ili). Compare General Heins, l. c. p. 80.
It is also impossible to say at what time the name Tungan first
appeared in central Asia. Among European travellers, Putimtzeff
78
I may observe that Kan-su as the name of a Chinese province, appears
first in the Mongol period (see Yüan shi, geographical part).

126
7
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Ils
seems to be the first who mentions the Tungan. This Russian
traveller, who in 1811 visited Kuldja, published his interesting
narrative, in Russian, in a Siberian periodical. Klaproth in his
Magazin Asiatique, tom. i, pp. 174, 594 sqq. has given a French
translation of it, 1. c. p. 215, in which we read:"Les princi-
paux habitants de Gouldja sont les Chinois appelés Kara-kitat-
Nogontuk, 8a et des Tougean. Ces derniers se regardent comme
les descendans des guerriers de Témir-aksak ou Tamerlane.
sont rigides sectateurs de l'Ilamisme, mais ils parlent Chinois. Ils
sont aussi bourrus, grosiers et hautains que les Chinois, dont ils
ont empruntés l'habillement, les usages et les vices."-I have no
doubt that Tougean was a misprint in the Russian text (to which I
have not access) for Tungan, all the more so as, on p. 216 in the
same translation Klaproth writes the name of the same people
Toupgan"Les Chinois de Gouldja exercent différens métiers.
Les Toupgan cultivent des jardins, tiennent auberges et
font dans les marchés le commerce de détail." The Toupgan are
mentioned also in several other parts of Ili, in Putimtzeff's nar-
rative. Here Klaproth probably took the Russian n (which is writ-
ten H) for a p (u), or perhaps the misprint was in the Russian text.
At the time Klaproth wrote, the name Tungan was completely
unknown in Europe; the great orientalist therefore could give no
explanation on this subject. However at p. 210, Klaproth in his
translation writes correctly:-" Un Mahométan nommé Toungan,
qni tenait auberge, nous invita chez lui."
The Tungan are mentioned also by some Mecca pilgrims, who
visited Yarkand, as carrying on trade in that city. Compare
Wathen's "Memoir on Chinese Tartary and Khoten" in The Journ.
of Asiat. Soc. of Bengal, 1835, iv. The same pilgrims report, that
the principal seats of the Tungan are in Salar and Seiram.
Burnes, who in 1832 visited Bokhara, gathered some informa-
tion there from merchants of Yarkand about the Tungan, who
are represented by him, as Mohammedans from the adjacent
provinces (of Chinese Turkistan it seems), being dressed in the
Chinese fashion, and employed for garrisoning the cities of eastern
Turkistan.
This is all that I have been able to gather with respect to the
Tungan. I may finally say a few words concerning the places
Salar and Seiram, mentioned by the Mecca pilgrims.
By the
latter, probably Sairam or Sairim in eastern Turkistan west of
Kuche is meant. This place is marked on modern Chinese maps as
780 As I was informed by a Russian gentleman, who lately had been in
Kuldja, the Chinese there are indeed called Kara-kitat (by the Kirghiz ?).
This name has no connection with the Kara-khitai of the middle ages. Nogon-
tuk in Mongol means "the green banner," in Chinese lu ying. This
is the name for the troops formed exclusively of Chinese.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
127
Sai-li-mu and Hui-ch'eng (Mohammedan city). It
is not to be confounded with Sairam in Russian Turkistan.
There is also a lake north-east of Kuldja, which bears the name
Sairam.
With respect to Salar, Archimandrite Palladius in his article on
"the Mohammedans in China," l. c. p. 443, gives a detailed account,
drawn from Chinese sources, of the Mohammedans of Salar and
their origin.
We learn from this article that they were originally
Uigurs from Khamil. Since the last century, Salar has always
been the hotbed of Mohammedan anti-Chinese machinations, and
this place also sustained an important role in the last Mohammedan
insurrection. The Mohammedan community of
Sa-la-r
belongs to the district of Ho-chou in Kansu.
maps it is marked a little north-west of the city of
On Chinese
Sun-hua.
PART IV. CHINGHIZ KHAN'S EXPEDITION TO WESTERN ASIA,
A. D. 1219-1225.
47. The material, which hitherto has been worked up by our
historians dealing with the conquest of western Asia and eastern
Europe by the Mongols, is almost exclusively derived from west-
ern, and principally Persian sources. It is only in a few cases,
that D'Ohsson in his Histoire des Mongols quotes, with respect to
these events, Father Hyacinth's above-mentioned translation of the
first three chapters of the Yüan shi, where the doings of the Mon-
gols are recorded up to the year 1260. It is not to be wondered
at, when D'Ohsson, although he possessed a knowledge of the
Russian language, has not been able to find in Hyacinth's transla-
tion, corroborations of the Persian records; the former being made
from a corrupted edition of the Yüan shi, as I have stated above.
I can also understand it, when D'Ohsson says with respect to the
Si shi ki (see my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 57) of which he
saw Rémusat's translation :-"Cet itinéraire n'a rien ajouté à nos
connaissances" (D'Ohsson, l. c., tom. iii, p. 138). A correct trans-
lation of this ancient narrative, and a translation of an uncorrupted
edition of the Yüan shi would have furnished him with many argu-
ments for his historical researches. I am however far from assigning
to the Chinese and Mongol historical accounts regarding the warlike
enterprises of the Mongols in the west, a high historical value.
These fragmentary and aphoristic notices can often only be under-
stood, when comparing them with the more detailed western
records. But it is needless to say that every ancient historical
document is calculated to throw some new light, all the more
when bearing upon a subject repeatedly ventilated by European
savants.

128
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Proceeding from this point of view, I shall present in this part
and in the next, comparative notices of western and eastern
authors with respect to the Mongol invasions of the countries of the
west. I omit the review of Hulagu's expeditions to Persia, Syria,
etc. 1258-1260; for this subject has already been treated of in my
Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. pp. 60 sqq.
48. I begin with a sketch of the records of Mohammedan
writers regarding Chinghiz khan's invasion of western Asia; my
notes being an abstract from D'Ohsson's work (tom. i, chap. 7), to
which I shall add my remarks.
Mohammed Khorazm shah, on his return from an expedition to
Irak Adjem in 1218, received at Bokhara some envoys from
Chinghiz khan (who however were all subjects of the shah,-it
seems Mohammedan merchants returning from Mongolia). They
brought presents and a peaceful message, with a proposal of
the Mongol khan, to establish regular commercial intercourse
between Mongolia and the dominions of the shah. Mohammed
apparently received them with cordiality, but felt that it would
be to his prejudice to form an alliance with Chinghiz, acknowledg-
ing his supremacy. After this Chinghiz dispatched a caravan con-
sisting of four hundred merchants, all Mohammedans, to Khorazm;
who were also intrusted with diplomatic messages. But when
they arrived at Otrar they were plundered and put to death, by
order of the governor of that place, by name Inaldjuc gair khan;9
and this was the origin of the war. Before beginning hosti-
lities, Chinghiz sent a Turk named Bagra, accompanied by
two Mongol officers, to ask satisfaction for these outrages;
but Bagra was executed by order of Mohammed, and the two
Mongol officers were sent back after having been shaved. Some
time subsequently, Mohammed began hostilities by attacking a
body of Mongols, who had pursued the Merkits to the territories
of the Kankali. This battle took place north of the city of Djend
on the lower Sihon.
Towards the end of 1218 Chinghiz left his ordo, intrusting his
younger brother Udjukin with the government of his states. The
Mongol army spent the whole summer of 1219 on the river Irtysh,
in order to equip anew and to complete the cavalry. 80
Chin-
ghiz was joined there by the prince of the Uigurs (Bardjuc) by
79
As to the number of merchants sent by Chinghiz to Khorazm, and
killed in Otrar, the Mohammedan authors do not agree in their statements.
Some assert, that there were only four. Ye-lü Ch'u-ts'ai, who in his narra-
tive (Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 115) speaks of the catastrophe of Otrar,
states that several envoys of Chinghiz and several hundreds of merchants
had been murdered on this occasion. The Yüan ch'ao pi shi (Palladius' trans-
lation, p. 143) says, with respect to the same event:-The Sartol had killed
Chinghiz khan's envoy Wu-hun, and put to death a hundred men in all."
See my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 111, note 7.
80

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
129
Signac Tekin prince of Almalik, and by Arslan khan of the
Karluks. The army marched out in autumn; and no resistance
was opposed to the Mongol arms, until the Sihon (Yaxartes) had
been reached. 81
49. When the army had arrived at Otrar (end of 1219 it
seems), it was divided into four corps, the first of which, command-
ed by Chinghiz khan's sons Ogotai and Chagatai, invested Otrar.
The second, under the command of Chinghiz' eldest son Djuchi,
was directed to the right, against the city of Djend. The third
corps, conducted by the Mongol generals Alac, Sugtu and Togai,
marched up the Sihon upon Benaket (written also Fenaket). Chin-
ghiz himself with the main army advanced upon Bokhara.
After a five months' siege, Otrar was captured and pillaged; its
governor Gair khan was taken prisoner, and afterwards put to
death by having melted silver poured into his ears and eyes.
One divi-
Djuchi on his way towards Djend arrived at Signac. The town
was captured after having been stormed for seven days. Ozkend,
Barkhalighkend and Eshnass suffered the same fate. Djuchi
then marched against Djend, which was also stormed.
sion was dispatched to take Yenguikend. All these cities were
situated on the Sihon; the last at a distance of two days' jour-
ney from the lake of Khorazm (Aral). The Uigur troops, num-
bering ten thousand men, were then allowed to return home, 82
and were replaced by ten thousand Turkmans.
The left flank of the Mongol army was also successful in its
operations. Benaket, which was garrisoned by Turk-Kankalis, sur-
rendered. The Mongols then attacked Khodjend, whose governor
was the valiant Timur-melik. Being constrained to abandon
Khojend, he retired with a thousand men to a castle on an island
in the Sihon, where he held out for a long time. But having
lost the greater part of his troops, he was at length forced to fly,
and succeeded in reaching Khorazm, where he joined Djelal-eddin,
the son of Mohammed shah, from whom he did not separate until
the death of that prince.
Meanwhile Chinghiz, accompanied by his son Tului, had ad-
vanced into Transoxiana, and in March of 1220 appeared at
Bokkara,83 which was then a large and magnificent city. After
81
The Mohammedan authors give no details regarding the march of
Chinghiz from the Irtysh to the Sihon. I have translated from Ye-lü Ch'u-
ts'ai's narrative, the itinerary of the way followed by the Mongol armies
proceeding to the west (see my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 108).
82
This statement does not agree with the Yüan shi; for in the biography
of the prince of the Uigurs, it is stated, that he assisted at the storming of
Ni-sha-bu-r (see further on, Part VI, article "Uigurs ").
82
This is the first date D'Ohsson gives after the starting from the Irtysh

130
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
several days' siege, the garrison tried to force its way through the
Mongol lines, but was almost destroyed. The city surrendered,
but the citadel held out twelve days.
Chinghiz next advanced along the fertile valley of the Sogd
(Zarafshan river of our maps) towards Samarcand, which was
then garrisoned by forty thousand men, most of whom were Kan-
kalis. Samarcand surrendered in April, 1220, when the greater
part of the inhabitants were slaughtered.
50. Whilst the Mongols devastated Transoxiana, Mohammed
shah behaved with the greatest indifference. He was at Samar-
cand, when the enemy entered Transoxiana, and then fled to
Nakhsheb. He was at first disposed to repair to Ghazna; but
when he had reached Balkh, he was persuaded by one of his viziers
to retreat to Irak Adjem. On the 18th of April he halted at
Nishabur; but after a rest of three weeks was obliged to start
again, being informed of the approach of the Mongols through
Khorassan. He then took the road to Kasvin, where his son
Rokn-eddin was said to have rallied about thirty thousand troops.
When sojourning at Samarcand, Chinghiz had sent two corps in
pursuit of Mohammed, under the command of Chebé (see note 66)
and Subutai bahadur.84 They crossed the Djihun (Oxus,
Amu-daria) at Pendjab, and advanced into Khorassan. Chebé
took the way through Nishabur to Mazanderan, whilst Subutai
proceeded through the Cumuss to Irac Adjem, passing through
Kabushan, Thus, Esferain, Damegan and Simnan.
Both corps
met at Rayi (near the present Teheran).
Mohammed trying to flee to Bagdad, was near being taken by
the Mongols; but he succeeded in escaping, and retired through
the mountainous country of Ghilan to Mazanderan. The Mongols
however were already masters of that country, and Amol and
Asterabad had been sacked. Mohammed arrived in Mazanderan
almost alone, and hid himself for some days in a village on the
shore of the Caspian, till his asylum was betrayed, when he fled
to a small island in the sea of Absukun (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 255), 85
where he subsequently died from an attack of pleurisy.
(autumn, 1219). The military events above related must have taken place in
the beginning of the year 1220.
84
1 shall speak more fully of this valiant Mongol general (see note 103).
Bahadur is an honorific title meaning "brave" in Turkish (D'Ohsson, tom.
i, p. 35). The Russian bogatyr, "a valiant man,-a champion," seems to
have the same origin. We meet this title frequently in the Yüan shi, where
the term is generally rendered by
biography of Shan-che ba-du-r.
Ba-du-r. See chap. cxxiii,-
[This is probably the same root as the Manchu honorific title Baturu, mean-
ing "brave," now conferred as a military distinction.-ED. COM.]
83
Ebn Haukal (10th century) states that Absukun is a town on the

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
131
Turkan khatun, the mother of Mohammed, had at that time
left Keurcandje the capital of Khorazm, and hid herself with the
princesses in the castle of Ilal among the mountains of Mazanderan;
but she was discovered and obliged to surrender. Compare Ye-lü
Ch'u-t'sai's notice of Turkan khatun, in my Notes on Chin. Med.
Trav. p. 117.
51. After the fall of Samarcand, Chinghiz encamped his army
in the country between this town and Nakhsheb, and spent the
whole summer of 1220 there. In autumn the military operations
recommenced. One army, commanded by Chinghiz' sons Djuchi,
Ogotai and Chagatai, was sent against Keurcandje, or Orcandje, the
capital of Khorazm, which at that time had no ruler; for owing
to a revolt of the troops, Djelal-eddin had been constrained to leave,
and had fled to Ghazna. He was accompanied by the valiant Timur-
melik (see above). Tului, the fourth son of Chinghiz, received
orders to devastate Khorassan; whilst Chinghiz himself directed
the main army to the south, beginning this expedition with the
siege of Termed, situated on the north bank of the Sihon;
which was captured after ten days' storming. Chinghiz then
wintered (1220-1221) in the district of Seman, whence Badakhshan
was invaded.
In the spring of 1221, Chinghiz crossed the Sihon with his
army. The city of Balkh surrendered; but being afraid to leave it,
Chinghiz slaughtered the inhabitants and reduced the city to ashes.
Hence he advanced upon the fortress of Nussretkuh, situated in
the mountainous country of Talecan. This place had been in-
effectually besieged by one of his generals for six months; but was
captured when Chinghiz' army arrived.
Meanwhile Tului, executing the orders of his father, had invad-
ed Khorassan, and sent his brother-in-law Togachar with the
avant-guard to Nessa. After having sacked this place he advanced
upon Nishabur (Nov. 1220), but was killed on the third day of the
siege. Tului directed his main army, numbering seventy thousand
men, upon Meru shahidjan, which was captured in February, 1221,
and then marched upon Nishabur. The latter place was taken by
assault, and the destruction of the city occupied fifteen days (April,
1221). Thence Tului pursued his way to Herat (more generally
styled Heri in the middle ages). A detachment of his forces de-
stroyed the tomb of the calif Harun al Rashid near the town of
shore of the Caspian, and the sea-port of the city of Djurdjan. Massudi
(10th century) speaks also of this city, which he styles Abisgun, as situated
on the sea of Khazar, and plundered by the Russians in the 10th century.
Compare Klaproth's Magaz. Asiat. tom. i, p. 277. The ruins of the port of
Abisgun can still be seen at the mouth of the river Djurdjen (Transactions
of the Russian Geogr. Soc. 1871, vol. iv, p. 103).

132
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Thus; and the country of Kuhistan, through which Tului's way
lay, was laid waste. The Mongols arrived at Herat, and after eight
days' attack, and the death of its governor, the city offered to
capitulate. On the capture of this place, Tului joined his father in
Talecan.
At that time Orcandje, the capital of Khorazm had also been
taken by the other sons of Chinghiz, after a siege of more than six
months. The capture of the place had been partly retarded owing
to a disagreement, which had arisen between Djuchi and Chaga-
tai. When Chinghiz heard of this quarrel, he grew very an-
gry and ordered Ogotai to take the command. After the fall of
Orcandje, Ogotai and Chagatai both came to join their father.
Only Djuchi remained in the country north of the Sihon.
52. Chinghiz after spending the summer of 1221 among the
mountains surrounding Talecan, recommenced operations and ad-
vanced towards Ghazna, where Djelal-eddin had rallied consider-
able forces. The Mongols were detained a whole month by the
siege of the fortress of Kerduan. After the place had surren-
dered, Chinghiz crossed the Hindu-kush and attacked Bamian.
There one of his favourite grandsons was killed, and to avenge his
death, he ordered the city to be destroyed and the whole district
to be made a desert.
The Mongol general Shiki Cutucu had been posted with a corps
of observation on the mountainous frontiers of Cabul and Zabel-
stan, to cover the operations of Chinghiz. This corps was defeated
by Djelal-eddin in the plain of Beruan; but the latter was not
able to profit by his victory, being abandoned by a part of his.
troops; he therefore determined to retreat towards the river Sind.
He was pursued rapidly by Chinghiz, who arrived at Ghazna
fifteen days after the sultan had left it. Djelal-eddin had not yet
crossed the river when the Mongols arrived. A desperate battle
was fought, in which the sultan's troops were defeated.
The
sultan jumped into the river with his horse and swam across it.
This happened in December, 1221. Some time after, Djelal-eddin
was said again to rally some forces beyond the Sind. Chinghiz
then sent his two generals Bela and Turtai in pursuit of the sul-
tan, who retired towards Delhi (in spring of 1222). They pro-
ceeded to invest Multan; but as it held out bravely, and they
were afraid of the terrible heat there, they retired again to Ghazna,
after ravaging the provinces of Multan, Lahore, Peshawur and
Melikpur.
On the defeat of Djelal-eddin, Chinghiz sent Ogotai to destroy
Ghazna, and the general Ilchikadai received orders to punish Herat,
which had revolted. After a siege of six months Herat was taken,
on the 14th of June, 1222, and destroyed. Besides this, Meru

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
133
was plundered for the second time. Ogotai after having destroyed
Ghazna, asked permission to attack the city of Sistan; but Chin-
ghiz objected owing to the excessive heat, and recalled his son.
Chinghiz spent the summer of 1222 in the plain of Beruan with
his troops;86 and when Bela and Turtai returned from India, the
whole army, set out again. Ogotai joined the main army with his
corps near the fort Gunaun kurgan. The Mongols wintered in
the mountainous country of Buya-ketwer, about the sources of the
Sind.
In the spring of 1223, Chinghiz determined to return home
to Mongolia by way of India and Tubet. The army indeed
moved out in this direction, but was obliged to return to Pesha-
wur, owing to the great difficulties the route presented. Having
crossed the mountains of Bamian, the conqueror passed the sum-
mer of 1223 in the district of Bacalan, where he had left the heavy
baggage. In the autumn he started again; and on passing Balkh,
ordered the extermination of the population, who in the mean-
while had reoccupied the ruins. He then crossed the Sihon and
advanced to Bokhara.
The winter of 1223--1224 was spent near Samarcand. In the
spring of 1224 the army marched out again. On the river
Sihon, Chinghiz was joined by his sons Ogotai and Chagatai, who
had been engaged in hunting near Bokhara. In the summer of the
same year he encamped in the district of Calan tashi, and passed
his time in hunting excursions. In February of 1225 Chinghiz
reached his ordo in Mongolia. 87
86
87
See my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 43, note 118.
It is not without interest that we compare these records of the Persian
historians regarding Chinghiz' expedition to western Asia, with the Si yu ki
or narrative of (h'ang-ch'un's journey to the conqueror, who was then encamp-
ed among the Hindu-kush mountains (see my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav.).
The diarist of Ch'ang-ch'un's expedition writes as an eye-witness, and his
dates receive a stamp of authenticity by the fact, that the data he gives for
the occurrence of a total solar eclipse they observed on their route, is in per-
fect accordance with the truth, as has been proved by Mr. A. Wylie's investi-
gations on this subject (see the Appendix to my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav.).
It may be said, that all the details in the narrative with respect to Chinghiz
and the war in western Asia, agree well with the statements of the Persian
authors, with the exception, that according to the latter, Chinghiz sojourned
a year longer in western Asia than Ch'ang-ch'un's narrative will admit.
shall point out this discrepancy. With respect to the date of Chinghiz'
starting from Mongolia, both the Si yu ki and the Djami ut Tevarikh agree.
The latter states, that the Mongol army, after having passed the whole sum-
mer of 1219 on the Irtysh, moved out in autumn of the same year. In the
Si yu ki we read (l. c., p. 17) that in the 5th month of 1219 Chinghiz was in
the country of the Naimans, who as is known dwelt on the Irtysh. In April,
1220, when Ch'ang-ch'un arrived at Peking, he was informed that Chinghiz
had left for the west. On the 29th of October, 1221, Ch'ang-ch'un met, between
I

134
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
53. Let us turn now to the Chinese and Mongol records con-
cerning the events related in the foregoing pages. In the Annals
of the Yüan shi we read sub anno 1219 :-
"In summer, in the 6th month (of the preceding year), the
envoys of the emperor had been killed in the Si-yü (see above, 48),
and the emperor determined to lead an army in person against
these countries. He captured the city of
Ot'a-la (Otrar),
and the chief of this place, by name ARRHHa-dji-r
dji-lan-to,88 was made prisoner.
"Ibid. sub anno 1220, in the 3rd month of spring, the emperor
took the city of Bu-hua (Bokhara), and in the 5th month
Sün-sze-kan (Samarcand). After this he pitched his
camp at Ye-shi-di-shi. 89 In autumn 斡脫羅兒
Wo-to-lo-r was captured.
"Ibid. sub anno 1221, in spring, the emperor besieged the cities of
Talas and Sairam, a Chinese envoy returning from Chinghiz' encampment,
who had seen the conqueror in the beginning of June of the same year, and
who reported that he was pursuing the sultan to India (l. c. p. 35). Accord-
ing to Rashid, Chinghiz spent the summer of 1221 among the mountains
of Talecan, and arrived at Bamian it seems only in autumn. In December, 1221,
Djelal-eddin was defeated on the Sind. Ch'ang-ch'un after his arrival at Sa-
marcand on December 3rd, 1221, went twice to the encampment of the emperor.
The first time he started from Samarcand on April 26th, 1222, crossed the Amu-
daria on May 10th, saw the emperor on the 16th, and went with him to pass
the summer on the snowy mountains. According to Rashid, Chinghiz was at
that time in the plain of Beruan by the Hindu-kush (north of Cabul). In
June Ch'ang-ch'un returned to Samarcand, set out for the second time on
September 14th, and arrived in fourteen days at the encampment of the em-
peror, which seems then to have been at a distance of only three days' journey
from the Amu-daria; for according to the Si yu ki, the emperor set out for the
north on October 3rd, and crossed the Amu-daria on the 6th. Ch'ang-ch'un ac-
companied Chinghiz on his way to Samarcand, where they arrived in Novem-
ber, 1222. Chinghiz' encampment was 30 li east of the city. In March of
1223, Ch'ang-ch'un was with the emperor east of the Sihon, it seems near
Tashkand, when the latter was hunting on the mountains to the east; and on
the 9th the emperor remarked to the sage :-"In three or five days my sons
will arrive." The events there reported are all corroborated by Rashid's re-
cords; only there is a discrepancy of just a year between the dates in
the two accounts. As I have stated above, according to Rashid, it was only
in the spring of 1223 that Chinghiz determined to return home; he spent the
winter 1223-1224 near Samarcand. In the summer of 1224, after having crossed
the Sihon, he was hunting in the district of Calan tashi, which answers it
seems to Tashkand. I am inclined to assume, that Ch'ang-ch'un's narra-
tive gives the correct dates, and that the Persian authors have been mistaken
in retaining Chinghiz a year longer in western Asia.
88 Here evidently Inaldjuc gair khan (see 48) is meant. Mr. Berezin
in his translation of the Djami ut Tevarikh, vol. ii, p. 74, writes his full
name and title, Hal Sultan Inaldjuc, Gair Sultan.
8. According to the Persian authors, Chinghiz encamped in the summer of
1220 between Samarcand and Nakhsheb.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
135
卜哈兒 Bu-ha-" and 薛思迷干 Sie-mi-sze-Ican.00 朮赤
Dju-ch'i, the (eldest) son of the emperor, took the cities of
吉干 Yang-gi-lean and 八兒眞 Ba-r-djen.91
In summer
in the 4th month, the emperor moved out to an encampment
near the Tie-men-kuan (Iron-gate pass). 2 Here he gave
audience to an envoy of the Kin, etc. 93
HE Ban-le-ho (Balkh) was taken. 94
Dju-ch'i, Ch'a-ho-tai and
the city of
In autumn the city of
The princes 朮赤
Wo-k'uo-t'ai captured
Yu-lung-gie-ch'i (Orcandje or Urgendj, the
capital of Khorazm), and other places. In winter, in the 10th
month, the prince 拖雷 To-lei took the cities of 馬魯察葉可
Ma-lu-ch'a-ye-k'o.95 Ma-lu (Meru, Merv) and
Si-la-sze.96
00
The Chinese historians, who compiled the Yüan shi from official docu-
ments, have evidently been misled by the different spellings of the names of
the same cities in different reports; for O-t'a-la and Wo-t'o-la-r both mean
Otrar, Bu-hua and Bu-ha-r are both intended for Bokhara, and Sün-sze-kan
and Sie-mi-sze-kan (Semiscant) for Samarcand. Thus they report the capture
of the cities of Otrar, Bokhara and Samarcand twice under different years.
Owing to this mistake some chronological confusion has crept into the Yuan
shi with respect to the first Mongol expedition to western Asia. The events,
however, are recorded in the Yüan shi with tolerable correctness.
91 According to the Persian authors, Djuchi took Yenguikend and Bar-
Ichalighkend; the former of which was situated on the Sihon. Levshin, in his
Description of the country of the Kirghiz Kaisakhs (in Russian), vol. i, p.
212, speaks of the ruins of Yenguikend, known also under the name of Dja-
nikend. They are found at a distance of one hour's journey from the left bank
of the Sir-daria, and one day's journey from the mouth of this river. D'Ohsson
(tom. i, p. 223) places ancient Yenguikend (meaning "new city") on the right
bank of the Sihon (see his map), and states (evidently on the authority of
the Persian authors) that it was distant two days' journey from the lake of Kho-
razm (Aral). Yenguikend is mentioned by Abulfeda (14th century). It is not
known at what time it was founded. We read in Carpini's narrative, pp. 749,
750: "De terrâ Cangitarum intravimus terram Biserminorum (see above, 41)
...... In hâc terrâ invenimus urbes innumeras subversas, et castella diruta, et
villas multas desertas. In hâc terrâ est quidam fluvius magnus, cujus nomen
ignoramus (the Sihon), super quem est civitas quædam que vocatur Ianckint,
et alia quæ vocatur Barchin, et alia quæ vocatur Ornas (other reading Or-
par), etc." It seems that Carpini's Ianckint represents Yenguikend, and his
Barchin appears to be the same as the Ba-r-djen of the Chinese and the Bar-
khalighkend of the Persian authors. The commentators of Carpini have
been much puzzled as to the identification of Ornas (Orpar), and there are
some contradictions in his narrative. Probably he meant Otrar.
02
For
The Iron-gate is a defile in the mountains south of Samarcand.
further particulars, see my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 41, note 111.
For further particulars regarding this audience, see my Notes on Chin.
Med. Trav. p. 106.
03
94
In the Chinese annals Kang mu,
Tie-li-mi (Termed) is
mentioned (before Balkh) among the cities captured by Chinghiz.
93
Maruchak, a district subject to Merv.
Serakhs, to the south-west of Merv.
D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 280.
D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 281.

136
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
"Ibid. sub anno 1222, the prince T'o-lei took the cities of
Tu-sze (Thus) and Ni-ch'a-wu-r (Nishabur); and
when returning he devastated the kingdom of the
Mu-la-yi. T'o-lei next crossed the river
Ch'o-ch'o-
lan (it may also be read Shuo-shuo-lan), 98 captured the city of
Ye-li and other places, and then joined the emperor. Toge-
ther they stormed the fortress of T'a-li-han (Talecan);
and in order to avoid the great heat of the summer, the emperor
pitched his camp near that city. 100 LT Dja-lan-ding the
king of the Si-yü (see 41) joined (or .was joined by)滅里可汗
Mic-li l'o-han. 101 The (Mongol) general
Hu-tu-hu, 102
who gave them battle, was defeated. Then the emperor
in per-
son directed his host against the enemy. Mie-li k'o-han was
defeated and Dja-lan-ding fled. The general Ba-la (Bela
of the Persian authors) was sent in pursuit, but he was unable to
capture him."
54. In the biography of Su-bu-tai, 103-Yüan shi, chap. cxxi,-
some particulars are found regarding the pursuit of Moham-
med shah, with which, according to the Persian authors, the
97
The Mulahida or Ismaëlians in Kuhistan. See my Notes on Chin.
Med. Trav. p. 63.
98
The name of a city Chukhchelien occurs in the Mongol annals. See
Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 104, note 15.
89
Herat, or Heri as it was generally called in the middle ages, known to
the ancients under the name of Aria. On the Catalan map of the year
1375, Herat is styled Eri. On Col. Yule's map of the Nestorian metropoli-
tan sees (Cathay, p. ccxlv), the name is written Harah.
100
As we have seen, the Persian authors also state that Chinghiz spent
the summer among the mountains of Talecan, but record this fact under the
year 1221.
201
Djelal-eddin the son of Mohammed shah, and Melik khan. By the
latter name probably the intrepid Timur-melik is meant, the faithful com-
panion of Djelal-eddin.
102
The Shiki Cutucu of the Mohammedan authors. He was defeated by
Djelal-eddin in the plain of Peruan (see above, 52).
103
Su-bu-tai was one of the most distinguished generals in the Mongol
army. He is repeatedly mentioned by the Persian authors, as well as in the
Yüan shi; and his name is met with even in the ancient Russian annals.
Rashid, treating of the Uriankhits, states that Subutai belonged to that Mon-
gol tribe (Berezin, l. c. vol. i, p. 145). In the Yüan shi he has a long biography,
in which all his exploits in China, western Asia, Russia and Hungary are re-
corded with some detail. I shall give successively in the proper places,
translations from his biography. The Yüan shi states that
Su-bu-t'ai belonged to the Men-gu (Mongol) tribe of the
Wu-liang-ho. His ancestors were hunting together with the ancestors of
Chinghiz on the river Wa-nan (the Onan in north-eastern Mongolia,
an affluent of the Shilka, resp. the Amur). Su-bu-tai entered Chinghiz' army
in the beginning of the 13th century.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
137
We
generals Chebé noyen (see note 66) and Subutai bahadur had
been intrusted. Mohammed in this biography is erroneously call-
ed Melik, and it seems is confounded with Timur-melik. 104
read there: "When the emperor invaded the kingdom of the
Hui-hui (Mohammedans), the ruler of it Mie-li fled and
Dje-bie received
abandoned his throne. Then Su-bu-t'ai and
orders to pursue him. They arrived at the river
Hui-li, (?) where Dje-bie attacked the enemy, but without
success. Then Su-bu-t'ai made a great fire on the eastern
bank of the river, to mislead the enemy with respect to
the (Mongol) forces. Mie-li was struck with fear, and fled
the same night. Su-bu-t'ai with a host of ten thousand men went
in pursuit, passed J Bu-han chuan 105 and the city of
必里罕 Bi-li-han.100 He pursued Mie-li uninterruptedly day
and night through countries destitute of water (the deserts of
Khorassan). Finally, when he was about to catch him, Mie-li fled
to an island in the sea, where he died a month after (compare
above, 50). Su-bu-t'ai captured all his treasures, precious stones,
silver vessels, etc. and sent them to the emperor."
55.
In the Yüan shi, Annals, 1223, we read:-"In order to avoid the
heat of the summer, the emperor moved to the valley (or river)
Ba-lu-wan (the plain of Peruan in Rashid's record); after which
he was joined by the princes Dju-ch'i, Ch'a-ho-t'ai and Wo-k'uo-t'ai,
and the general Ba-la, on their return from their expeditions. 107
When the conquered realms in the Si-yü were pacified, ***
104 In the biography of the Uigur prince Ba-r-dju a-r-te di-gin,-Yüan shi,
chap. cxxii, Mohammed shah is termed Han mie-li su-tan (Khan Melik sul-
tan). See further on.
105
I. c. the valley or river of Bu-han. I am not prepared to identify
either the Hui-li or the Bu-han river. Probably the names are misspelt.
One of them is evidently intended for the Amu-daria (Oxus, Sihon) which
however is generally styled A-mu or An-mu by the Chinese
(or Mongol) authors of that period. Compare Yüan shi, Annals, A. D. 1251,
and the biography of Kao Pao-yü,-chap. cxlix,-where the crossing of the
Oxus by the Mongols is spoken of. See also Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. pp.
42, 77 (An-bu) and 117.
100
Bi-li-han is probably Balkh. According to the Persian authors, Su-
butai and Chebé crossed the Sihon at Pendjab, and proceeded to Balkh.
107
The Chinese annals Kang-mu state, sub anno 1223, that the emperor
spent the summer on the river Ba-lu-wan, and sent his troops to subdue the
neighbouring tribes. When he subsequently had moved out and reached the
fort of JK'o-wen, he was joined by his generals. K'o-wen is probably
the Gunaun kurgan of the Persian authors. Perhaps the Khewek pass in
the Hindu-kush,-noticed by sultan Baber,-is meant. See Col. Yule's map
in his Cathay, etc.

138
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
da-lu-hua-ch'i (Mongol governors) 10 were appointed to govern
them."
Ibid. 1224-"The emperor advanced as far as
Tung yin-du kuo (the kingdom of eastern Yindu or Hindu), where
he met the küe-tuan109 and then turned back."
Ibid. 1225: "In spring, in the first month, the emperor return-
ed (from western Asia) to his hing-kung (ordo)."110
56. In the Yüan ch'ao pi shi we find a more detailed descrip-
tion of the military doings of Chinghiz in the west.
The events
however are not recorded there in chronological order, and
there is some confusion also in its statements. I do not wish to
trouble the reader with a complete translation, and will therefore
confine myself to quoting from this ancient Mongol record only
such passages as may present special interest.
The year 1219 is given also in the Yüan ch'ao pi shi as the date
of Chinghiz' departure for the countries of the west, in accordance
with the statements of the Persian authors and the Yüan shi.
Chinghiz intrusted his brother Ochegin, 111 it is said, with the
government of the Mongol empire, and took with him his wife
Hulan;112 Djebe having command of the avant-guard, and Subut'ai
the rear.
The following names of places occur in the record in connec-
tion with the first Mongol expedition to western Asia:-Udarar
(Otrar), Bukhar (Bokhara), Siemisgien (Samarcand) and Niesgiab
(Nakhsheb).
Djochi, Djaadai (Chagatai) and Ogedai received orders to cross
the river Amuy (Amu-daria or Oxus) and attack the city of Urun-
gechi (Orcandje the capital of Khorazm). When they had reached
the city, they sent to Chinghiz to ask who should take the supreme
command. Chinghiz ordered Ogodai to take it. 113 Tului took
108
See my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 6.
109 By küe-tuan (upright horn) the Chinese chroniclers understand an
animal (of course a fabulous one) which is said to have advised the conqueror
to go back and cease his conquests. Further particulars regarding it may be
seen in the Yüan shi, chap. cxlvi, biography of Ye-lü Ch'u-ts'ai.
110 This date is in complete accordance with the statements of the Per-
sian authors (see above, 52).
111 Compare Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 18, note 12.
112 Palladius' translation, l. c. p. 146. We read in the same Yüan
ch'ao pi shi (l. c. p. 109), that in 1204 Dair usun of the tribe Horze Mierke
surrendered to Chingbiz, and gave him his daughter Hulan. In the list of the
empresses,-Yüan shi, chap. evi,-Hu-lan appears as the second wife
of Chinghiz. Compare also D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 90. Rashid states, that
Dair assun, chief of the Uhus Merkits surrendered to Chinghiz on the river
Tar, and gave him his daughter Culan. Further on (1. c. tom. i, p. 418),
Culan is mentioned by Rashid as the emperor's second wife.
113
The Persian authors speak of the quarrels of Djuchi and Chagatai

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
139
the cities of Isiepur (Nishabur), Chukhchelien (Ch'o-ch'o-lan of
the Yüan shi), Ilu (Heri or Herat) and Sisten (Sistan).
We read further in the Yüan ch'ao pi shi:-
"The prince Mielik (Timur-melik) fled and joined Djalalding,
the king of the Sartol. When they intended to attack Chinghiz,
the latter ordered Shigi Hutuhu (Shiki Hutuku of Rashid;-see note
102) to command the avant-guard; but he was defeated by
Djalalding, who pursued him near to the place where Chinghiz
was encamped. Chinghiz then sent Djebie, Subietai and Tohu-
char against Djalalding, who was beaten. He tried at first.
to escape towards Bukhar; but not succeeding, he fled to the river
Shin (Sind), to which point he was pursued. Nearly all his
troops were drowned in the river; but Djalalding and Mielik
escaped. Bala who was sent in pursuit, crossed the river Shin
and proceeded to the country of Hindu. Not being able to find
Djalalding, he captured a number of camels and sheep, and re-
turned."
Chinghiz went up the river Shin, took the city of Batkesie, (?)
arrived at the rivers Ekie horohan and Geun horohan, 115 and
pitched his camp at Baruan keher. 116 According to the Yüan ch'ao
pi shi, Chinghiz spent one summer (it is not clear in what year) in
the mountains Altan horhuan, where the king of the Moham-
medans was accustomed to encamp. Finally we read in the Yuan
ch'ao pi shi, that Chinghiz, in the seventh year after he had left
Mongolia, in the autumn of 1225, returned to his principal en-
camping place, Karatun¹ 17 on the river Tula. 118
interfering with the progress of the siege of Orcandje. Chinghiz appointed
his younger son Ogotai to superintend the siege.
114
This is an erroneous statement; for Chinghiz himself went to attack
Djelal-eddin. Subutai and Chebé at that time were in the countries near
the Caucasus. As to Toguchar, he had been killed before, as Rashid records,
at the siege of Nishabur in 1220.
115 Probably Rashid's Gunuun kurgan (see note 107) near the sources of
the Sind.
116
Here doubtlessly the plain of Peruan is meant.
means "a steppe."
117
Keher in Mongol
The Chinese text of the Yüan ch'ao pi shi renders Karatun by
Hei-lin (black forest); and in the Yüan shi, Hei-lin is also frequently men-
tioned as the favorite encamping place of Chinghiz. Rashid-eddin terms the
same place Caraun cabdjal, explaining that it means "black forest" (D'Ohs-
son, tom. i, p. 73). Indeed kara in Mongol means "black" and oi (genitive
=oin) "forest." Cabdjal means "defile." Thus Caraun cabdjal="defile
of the black forest."
118
The river Tula has the same name even at the present day. It passes
near the city of Urga. Another favourite resting-place of Chinghiz was
on the river Kerulun; and according to Palladius' researches (Elucidations
of M. Polo's travels, p. 12), the tomb of the conqueror was near the river
Kerulun

140
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
57. The accounts given in the Ts'in cheng lu (see above, 12)
of Chinghiz' conquest of western Asia are remarkable for their
strong accordance with Rashid's records. There is only a differ-
ence in the dates, the Ts'in cheng lu being a year in advance. I
shall give a complete translation of the respective accounts, i. e. I
translate from Palladius' Russian version of the Ts'in cheng lu:-
"In the year 1219 Chinghiz moved out at the head of a great
host to subjugate the western countries. He spent the summer of
1220 on the river Yerdishi (Irtysh). In autumn he started again
and captured all the cities on his way. Thus the army arrived at
Otolar (Otrar). Chinghiz left his second and third sons to invest
this place, which was soon taken by assault, and in 1221 marched
himself, with his fourth son, upon Bu-ha-r (Bokhara). This city
was captured, and also Sie-mi-sze-kan (Samarcand). The eldest son
of Chingliz captured the cities of Yang-gi-kan (Yengikand), Ba-r-
djin (see note 91) and others. Chinghiz spent the summer in the
summer residence of the su-wan-tan (sultan) of the Si-yü.119
Subsequently he ordered Hu-tu no-yen to take command of the
avant-guard. 120 In autumn of the same year he sent his eldest,
second and third sons with the right flank of the army, to
attack Yü-lung-kie-chi (Orcandje) and Bu-djin ye-ha-da (probably a
misspelt name). Chinghiz' third son was intrusted with the chief
command. The emperor himself with the main army marched
upon the Iron-gate, captured Tie-r-mi (Termed), destroyed Ban-le-ho
(Balkh), and then besieged Ta-li-han (Talecan). In winter, the
fourth prince took the cities of Ma-lu-ch'a-ye-k'o (Maruchak),
Wu-lu (probably misspelt for Ma-lu, or Meru), Si-la-sze (Serakhs),
Ni-sha-u-r (Nishabur) and Ye-li (Heri or Herat).
"In the spring of 1222, the fourth prince captured Tu-sze (Thus)
and Ni-sha-u-r (Nishabur). 121 At the beginning of the hot
season he received orders to make haste to join his father; but
before doing so, he made an incursion into the country of the
Mu-la-di (see note 97), devastated it, crossed the river So-so-lan
(see note 98) and sacked Ye-li (Herat). When the fourth prince
had joined the emperor, they attacked Ta-li-han in concert. Chinghiz'
three eldest sons had at that time taken the city of Yü-lung-kie-
chi; and the eldest prince had arrived at his father's camp. 123
119 In the Yüan ch'ao pi shi, the mountains of Altan horhuan are men-
tioned as the summer residence of the sultan.
120
See note 102. Cutucu, the foster-son of Chinghiz (D'Ohsson, tom.
i, p. 304).
121
The name of Nishabur occurs here for the second time. Indeed ac-
cording to the Persian authors, this place was twice sacked.
122 According to the Persian authors, Djuchi, the eldest son of Chingiz,
after the quarrel with his brother, did not return to his father; but died in
1225, without having seen Chinghiz khan. The Yüun ch'ao pi shi however,

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
141
The second and third sons came only after the fortress had been
destroyed. 123
"Meanwhile Dja-lan-ding, the su-li-t'an of the Si-yü had fled.
Chinghiz had sent Dje-bie,-who commanded the avant-guard,-
in pursuit; and despatched another corps, under Su-bu-t'ai, to assist
Dje-bie. T'o-hu-ch'a-r commanded the rear. Dje-bie proceeded to
the city of Mie-li k'o-han, 124 but passed without attacking it.
Su-bu-tai did the same; but T'o-hu-ch'a-r had a skirmish with
the troops outside the city. Mie-li k'o-han was then struck with
fear, left the city and fled. Hu-du-hu no-yen went in pursuit ;
but Mie-li k'o-han succeeded in joining Dja-lan-ding. The latter
then attacked Hu-du-hu and defeated him. A courier was des-
patched to Chinghiz with a report; whereupon Chinghiz, with a
corps of élite troops left the mountains of Ta-li-han and marched
rapidly upon the enemy, pursued him to the river Sin-tze su, 125
made Mie-li k'o-han prisoner, and destroyed his army. Dja-lan-
ding escaped, jumped into the river and swam across it. Chinghiz
sent a corps under Ba-la no-yen in pursuit of him. Bala was not
able to catch the prince, but captured half of the Hindus, and
returned.
"In the spring of 1223, Chinghiz moved out with his army and
proceeded northward, following the course of the Sin-tze su."
(Here is a break in the MS.)
"The third prince reached the city of Bu-si-sze-dan (probably
Bost in Seyistan is meant ;-see D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 298), and
asked permission of Chinghiz to attack it, but the emperor recalled
his son in view of the hot season commencing. Chinghiz spent
the summer with his troops on the river Ba-lu-wan (Peruan), and
defeated the enemy in the adjacent countries. After the arrival
of the corps of Ba-la, the army moved to the west, (it seems a
mistake for east); and when they had reached the fort of Ke-un
(see note 107), the third prince also arrived. After Chinghiz had
conquered the western countries, he placed a da-lu-hua-ch'i (Mon-
gol governor) in every city.
"In the year 1224, Chinghiz started on his homeward route, and
in the spring of 1225 reached his native land, after an absence of
seven years."
states, in accordance with the Ts'in cheng lu, that after the fall of Orcandje,
Djuchi, Chagatai and Ogotai repaired to the camp of their father.
123 See note 113.
124
I am not able to say what place is meant here by the city of Melik
khan. The accounts are somewhat confused, but they may be made consist-
ent by means of the records of the Persian authors.
123
Sin-tze su means the Sind. Su is "river" in Mongol.

142
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
EXPEDITION OF THE MONGOL GENERALS SUBUTAI AND CHEBE TO
WESTERN PERSIA AND THE REGION OF THE CAUCASUS,
A. D. 1220-1224.
58. I may again commence with the records of the Moham-
medan authors (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 444). We have seen, that
in 1220 Chinghiz had sent out two corps under the command of
Subutai and Chebé in pursuit of Mohammed shah. They ravaged
Irac Adjem and Mazanderan; and after the miserable end of
Mohammed they continued to carry fire and slaughter over Irac
Adjem. The cities of Rayi, Kum, Hamadan, Kasvin and Zen-
djan were sacked. The two generals then advanced on Tebriz, the
capital of Azerbaidjan, which province was ruled by the atabeg
Euzbeg, a Turkish prince. He bought off the Mongols by rich
presents, who then evacuated Azerbaidjan and wintered in the
plain of Mogan on the shore of the Caspian. In the beginning
of the year 1221 they advanced into Georgia, nearly as far as
Tiflis, and defeated the Georgian army. After this they returned
to Tebriz, levied a second contribution upon that city, and
then attacked Meraga. Meanwhile the inhabitants of Hamadan
had killed the Mongol governor placed there; whereupon the
Mongol army proceeded to that city, which was taken and
destroyed. Returning to the north, the Mongols captured
Erdebil, and appeared for the third time at Tebriz. Euzbeg,
fled to Nakhshevan, and Tebriz again paid ransom. After this
the Mongol host was directed against Georgia, and an army of
thirty thousand Georgians was destroyed. Having ravaged the
latter country, they turned upon Shirvan and captured Shama-
kha its capital. Rashid, the shah of Shirvan, had taken refuge in
the citadel of Derbend. The Mongols had no difficulty in taking
the city, but could not capture its citadel. As they intended to
cross the Caucasus, they were in need of good leaders; and by
means of cunning and force, they obliged the envoys of Rashid to
guide them across the mountains. On the other side of the Cau-
casus they found the Alans or Ases, the Lerguiz, the Circassians
and the Kipchaks leagued together against them. A battle was
fought, but the victory remained undecided. The Mongols then
had recourse to craft, and persuaded the Kipchaks to desert their
allies, who were attacked and vanquished. After this the city of
Terki was sacked, and the Mongols invaded the land of the Kip-
chaks, who dispersed without offering any resistance. A great
number of them fled to the Russians; and the Mongols took
possession of their country consisting of vast steppes, and

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
143
advanced as far as the rich city of Sudac, 120 which was subject to
the Kipchaks.
In 1223 the Mongols undertook an expedition against the Rus-
sians, who had made a league with the Kipchaks. The united
host of the Russians and Kipchaks marched out to meet
the enemy before they had entered the Russian territories.
The Mongols employed their usual stratagem; they first retreated,
and after having been followed twelve days by the Russians and
Kipchaks, lay in ambush and suddenly rushed out upon the
enemy. A battle was fought with great slaughter, which con-
tinued several days; but finally the Mongols got the victory, the
Russians and Kipchaks being utterly defeated. 127 After that,
the Mongols entered Russia, and carried fire and slaughter over
the country.
At the close of the year 1223, the Mongols evacuated Russia
and invaded the land of the Bulgars. The host sent by the latter
to repulse the invaders was defeated with great slaughter. The
Mongols then took the route by Saccusin128 to join Chinghiz
khan.
59. The Russian annals (see Karamzin, vol. iii, pp. 221 sqq.)
give of course a more detailed account of the Mongol invasion of
Russia than the Mohammedan authors. Russia was at that time
divided into several principalities, of which the chief was that of
Vladimir, whose grand-duke, to a certain degree, was accepted as
feudal lord by the rest. The residence of the grand-duke was
first in Kiev, but after 1169 he dwelt in Vladimir. Amongst
the Polovtsy (thus the Russian annals term the Kipchaks) who
had fled to Russia, there was a prince Kotian (Kutan in the Hun-.
garian annals), who persuaded his son-in-law the prince Mstislav
of Galich of the necessity of taking measures against the Mongols.
Mstislav then assembled the princes of southern Russia, who
agreed to make common cause with the Polovtsy agains the Tatars
(thus the Mongols are always styled in the ancient Russian annals).
The princes of Kiev, Chernigov, Galich (all three had the name
Mstislav) and others, having rallied their troops, marched out
and first met the Tatars near the river Khortitsa (an affluent of
the Dnieper apparently). Having gained the victory, the Russians
120
Sudac or Soldaya, situated on the south-eastern coast of the Crimea,
and on the Khazarian sea (Black sea).
127
The author of the Kamil ut Tevarikh, from which the above account
is borrowed, means evidently the battle at the river Kalka (see further on).
128
The Persian geographer Bakuy (14th cent.) states, that Saccasin is a
large city in the country of the Khazars (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 346). The
Russian annals (Karamzin, vol. iii, p. 270) mention a people called Saxiny,
who in 1229 first informed the Russians of the approach of the Mongols. The
Saxi of Plano Carpini (p. 710) are probably the same.

144
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
crossed the Dnieper, and pursued the Mongols nine days to the
river Kalka. The prince of Galich with his troops joined the
Polovtsy, imprudently crossed the river and engaged the enemy.
They were defeated by the Mongols, who then rushed upon the
remaining part of the Russian army and completely destroyed it.
This is the famous battle of the Kalka, which took place in
1223 or 1224.129 The Mongols pursued the Russians as far
as the Dnieper. Some of the Russian princes, who had been made
prisoners were fastened to planks, upon which the Mongols sat to
perform a drinking bout.
The Russian annals mention also some other nations, who
had been subdued by the Mongols at the time they crossed the
Caucasus, namely the Yasy, the Obezy, the Kassogy, etc., seven
nations in all (Karamzin, vol. iii, pp. 542, 228). By Yasy
doubtless the Asi (Ases) or Alans are to be understood (see fur-
ther on, Part VI). Carpini (p. 709) has Alani sive Assi. The
Obezy of the Russian chroniclers are identical with Carpini's
Obesi sive Georgiani. But Carpini apparently commits an error
in identifying the Obesi with the Georgians; for his Obesi are the
same as the Abazi or Abkhazi (of the Byzantine authors), a people
found at the present day, in the western part of the Caucasus.
Comp. Klaproth's Asia Polyglotta, pp. 129, 131. The Kassogy
are the same as the Cherkess, who according to Klaproth (l. c. p. 130)
were formerly called Kassakh.
60. Chinese fragmentary accounts of the Mongol expedition
under Subutai and Chebé are found in the Yüan shi, in the bio-
graphies of two distinguished Mongol generals.
In the biography of Su-bu-t'ai, already quoted (see note 103) we
read (after the pursuit of Mohammed has been recorded) :-
"Su-bu-t'ai asked the favour to be allowed to conquer the country
of the Kin-ch'a (Kipchak). He conducted his army round
the sea K'uan t'ien-gi-sze, 130 and arrived at the mountains
129
It is strange that the Russian chroniclers are not in accordance with
respect to the date of this battle. The annals of Wossnessenske give the 16th
of June 1224; the annals of Novgorod, the 31st of May of the same year, as
the day when the battle took place. In other Russian annals, the battle is
recorded under the year 1223 (Karamzin, vol. iii, p. 545). This latter date
would agree with the year the Mohammedan authors give for the first inva-
sion of Russia by the Mongols. The river Kalka (some Russian chroniclers
write Kalak) is identified by Karamzin (vol. iii, p. 232) with the river Ka-
letsa near Mariupol (on the sea of Azov).
130
. The characters t'ien-gi-sze here are evidently
intended for denjhiz; for this was the name applied by the Turks to the Cas-
pian sea (Bibl. Orient., p. 152a). Denghiz means "sea." The character
k'uan in Chinese means "large;" but we cannot translate here, "the large
." At least the Chinese scholars, whom I have consulted in regard to
this phrase, agree that kuan forms part of a foreign proper name, and is not
sea."

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
145
Tai-ho ling, 131 through which an artificial road was
cut. On the other side, Su-bu-t'ai met the chiefs (of the Kin-ch'a it
seems) named
Yü-li-gi and
who had rallied their troops on the river
T'a-t'a-ha-r,
Bu-dsu. 132 The
son of Yü-li-gi was wounded by an arrow, and fled into the forest.
His slave came (to the Mongols) and betrayed his master. Subse-
quently all submitted; and after the country of the Kin-ch'a had
been conquered, Su-bu-t'ai penetrated as far as the river
A-li-gi, where he met the chiefs of the
Wa-lo-sze (Rus-
sians;-see further on, Part VI), and the great and the little
Mi-ch'i-sze-lao. A battle was fought, when the latter were
defeated and surrendered; 133 after which Su-bu-t'ai subdued the
A-su (the Asi or Alans), and then returned home, taking with
him the slave, who had betrayed his master.
When the emperor
had heard his story, he said to Su-bu-t'ai,-We can scarcely
expect fidelity from this man,'-and ordered him to be put to death.
On the proposal of Su-bu-t'ai, a special corps was formed, con-
sisting of Mie-li-k'i (Merkits), Nai-man and Kin-
ch'a (Kipchaks), who accompanied that general on his return
home. He proceeded by the way of
Ye-mi-li and
Ho-dji."134
61. In the biography of Ho-sze-mai-li,-Yüan shi, chap. cxx
(see above, 36),-the Mongol expedition to western Persia and the
countries near the Caucasus is also shortly recorded. We read
there (after the pursuit of Mohammed shah to Mazanderan has been
related): "The emperor (Chinghiz) sent Dje-bo (see note 66) to
attack the Kin-ch'a (Kipchaks), and Ho-sze-mai-li received orders
to be translated. Perhaps there is one character omitted in the Chinese text,
and Abgun denghiz was originally intended. Absukun or Abgun was an im-
portant port on the Caspian sea, which was known also under the name of
the sea of Absukun (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 255; and Bibl. Orient. p. 10). The
same name K'uan t'ien-yi-sze for the Caspian, occurs once more in the Yüan
shi (see further on, 68).
131
T'ai-ho ling, literally "the mountains of great peace," denotes evi-
dently the Caucasus.
132 According to the Russian annals, one of the khans of the Polovtsy
(Kipchaks), by name Yury Konchakowich was killed by the Mongols in
1223 (Karamzin, vol. iii, p. 228).
133 Perhaps the river A-li-gi denotes the Kalka; for it is certain that
the Chinese author, by the great and the little Mi-ch'i-sze-lao, means the
princes Mstislav. As we have seen, three princes of this name fought in the
battle of the Kalka.
134
Ye-mi-li denotes doubtless the city of Emil or Imil, repeatedly men-
tioned by the Persian authors. The name has survived in that of a river
(near Chuguchak). As to the place Ho-dji, I know nothing about it. A city
Hu-dji is mentioned in the itinerary of Ye-lü Hi-liang (see Appendix
to this paper) together with Ye-mi-li.

146
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
(from Dje-bo) to march against the
Kürte¹ 35 and
Shi-r-wan sha, 136 and to advance upon several cities,
summoning them to surrender. Ho-sze-mai-li then proceeded to
the country of the Gu-r-dji, 137 and marched against
another nation called A-su (Asi), capturing the city of
Hei-lin. 138 After this the Wa-lo-sze (Russians) were defeated
at鐵兒山 Tie-r-shan,13ºand their king 密只思臘 Mi-dji-
sze-la (Mstislav) was taken prisoner. Dje-bo ordered Ho-sze-mai-
li to convey Mi-dji-sze-la to the emperor's (eldest) son Dju-ch'i,
who put him to death. Subsequently the Kany-li¹ 40
were attacked, the city of
Bo-tze-ba-li was captured,
Ho-t'o-sze-handefeated.
and the king of this country
When the Kin-ch'a (Kipchaks) had been subdued, the (Mongol)
army returned and Dje-bo died.
PART V. EXPEDITION OF THE MONGOLS TO THE COUNTRIES
NORTH OF THE CASPIAN SEA AND WEST OF THE VOLGA,
A. D. 1235-1242.
62. In this chapter, I shall review the invasion of the countries
of the Kipchaks, the Asi and the Bulgars, as also the ravaging of
Russia, Poland, Silesia and Hungary by the Mongols; comparing,
western accounts with the statements of the Chinese and Mongols,
as I have done in the previous chapter.
After Chinghiz and his generals had ravaged Persia, the countries
of the Caucasus and southern Russia, A. D. 1220-1224, the war-
like enterprises of the Mongols towards the west were stopped for
some years; the armies being occupied in the east, with the
conquest of the Kin empire, in northern China. In the beginning
of 1234, the dynasty of the Kin was overthrown, and Ogotai khan
138 Probably the Kurds are meant. The Mohammedan authors report
(D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 327), that the Turcomans and the Kurds entered the
service of the Mongols; and when the latter invaded Georgia, the Turco-
mans and Kurds formed the avant-guard.
136
137
138
Perhaps the shah of Shirvan, who fled to Derbend, is meant (see 58).
Gu-r-dje is the Persian name for the Georgians (Bibl. Orient. p. 378).
Hei-lin in Chinese, means "black forest." But it may be, that here
a foreign name is rendered by Hei-lin. I can give no explanation regarding
this place.
139
As shan in Chinese, means "mountain," or "hill," the name may also
be read "the hill of Tie-r." I may observe, that the Mohammedan authors
mention a city Terki, north of the Caucasus, sacked by the Mongols at the
time spoken of here. On the Catalan map (see Yule's Cathay) a place Ter-
chi on the north-western shore of the Caspian, not far from the mouth of the
Edil (Volga), is marked. Astrakhan on the same map is termed Agitarchan.
The Kankalis;-see 64, further on.
140

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
147
(1229-1242) then resumed the conquest of the countries in the
west, commenced by his father.
The Tarikh Djihan Kushai states (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 15),
that already in 1229, Ogotai had sent an army of thirty thousand
men, under the command of the generals Gueuktai and Sunodai
(perhaps a clerical error for Subutai), to conquer the countries of
the Kipchaks, Saccasins111 and Bulgars. This expedition seems
to be alluded to in the Russian annals. Karamzin, vol. iii, p. 270,
states "After the battle of the Kalka, for six years nothing was
heard of the Mongols; but in the year 1229, certain Saxiny,
fugitives of the Polovtsy, and some Bulgars posted at the river
Yaik, arrived in Bulgaria, bringing the news that the Mongols
were again approaching; but they tarried, for it was not till six
years later that Baty appeared at the Volga and wintered near
the capital of the Bulgars."
63. The Yuan ch'ao pi shi says (Palladius' translation, p.149):
"The emperor ordered the valiant Subietai to subdue the eleven
nations (who were not yet subject to the Mongols), viz. the Kanglin,
the Kibcha, the Ubadjigi, the Ulusu, the Madjar, the Asu, the
Siesu, the Sierkesu, Keshimir, Bular and Lala,--to cross the two
rivers Djayakh and Idil, and to march directly upon the cities
Kiwamien and Kermien."
These eleven nations, and the cities against which Subietai
directed his host, are twice more mentioned in the Yüan ch'ao pi
shi (Pall. transl., pp. 152, 155) with some variations in the spelling
of the names. There appear also two new names, Miegie or
Meketmeng and Kelie. I will try to identify these names as far as
my acquaintance with the medieval geography of the regions here
spoken of may enable me.
64. The Kanglin of the Yüan ch'ao pi shi, are without doubt
the same as the Kankalis, or Kankly of the Mohammedan authors.
According to Rashid-eddin (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 197), this people
dwelt--at the beginning of the 13th century--on the steppes north
of the sea of Khorazm (Aral), and north-east of the Caspian sea.
The Kipchaks were their western neighbours.
Plano Carpini, after having quitted the country of the Comani
(same as the Kipchaks ;-see further on, Part VI), entered the de-
serts of the Cangite, by which name he means the Kankalis; page
749: "Post hoc terram intravimus Cangitarum quæ magnam habet
in pluribus locis penuriam aquarum; in quà etiam homines pauci
morantur propter aquæ defectum.
Et tàm
Comani quàm Cangitæ non laborant, sed tantùm de animalibus
vivebant; nec ædificabant domos, sed in tabernaculis habitabant.
141
See note 128.

148
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Istos etiàm Tartari deleverunt, et habitant in terram ipsorum; et illi
qui remanserunt redacti sunt in servitutem eorum."
Rubruquis terms the same people Cangle; p. 265-" Quidam
Comani qui dicebantur Cangle;" and p. 274" Cangle, quedam
parentela Comanorum."142
In the Chinese historical works of the Mongol period, the
Kankalis are repeatedly spoken of, but the information the Chinese
authors give about this people is very meagre. The name is
generally spelt there Kang-li or Kang-li,-sometimes
In the
also Hang-li. The K'ang-li were known to the Kin, as
early as the 12th century (see above, 31), a khan of that nation
being desirous of becoming a vassal of the Kin emperor.
Yüan shi the name K'ang-li occurs repeatedly, and especially in
the biographies. As they were a warlike nation, the Mongol
khans used to place them in their army, and many brave generals
of the Mongol empire belonged to the K'ang-li.
Bu-hu-mu, whose biography is found in chap. cxxx
of the Yuan shi, was a K'ang-li. It is stated there, that this nation
derived its origin from the K'ao-kü, 143a people mentioned
in the "History of the Han."
Bu-hu-mu's son
Kui-k'ui has
A-sha-
a separate biography,-in chap. cxliii.
In chap. cxxxvi, we find the biography of
bu-hua, who was a prince of the reigning family of the K'ang-li.
The armies of Chinghiz had ravaged the country of the K'ang-
li. When the king died, he left a widow, belonging to the tribe of
Shan-mie gu-ma-li; and owing to the ruined
state of her affairs, she was for a long time unable to leave her
country (she was evidently desirous to proceed to the Mongol
court). Subsequently however, through some miraculous agency,
she was surprised on one occasion by the appearance of some
richly laden camels. Consequent on this, she set out with.
her two sons Külü and Ya-ya for the residence of
the emperor; and after two years returned home, leaving her sons
with Ogotai. Thirteen years later she again proceeded to the court of
142
The Kankalis and the Kipchaks, or Comans, belonged indeed to the
same race (Turks).
143
The character is also read ché. The German orientalist Ham-
mer, who was scarcely aware of the Chinese form of the name here translat-
ed, also identifies the Kao-ché with the Kankalis (Ritter's Asia, vol. v, p.
595). Kao-ché in Chinese means "high cart ;" and in the "History of the
Wei" (in the 5th century of our era), the name of this people is explained by
the high wheels they used to put on their carts. Hammer was probably led
to his identification by a statement of Rashid-eddin (Berezin, l. c. vol. i, p.
18), that kankly in Turkish means "a cart," and that this name was applied
to these people because they had first invented carts.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
149
Mengu khan at Ho-lin (Karakorum), to see her sons. 144
A-sha-bu-hua, in whose biography these details are found, was the
grandson of this lady, and the son of Ya-ya. A-sha-bu-hua who
was a general in Kubilai khan's service, diel in 1301. His brother
T'o-t'o was also a distinguished officer in Kubilai's life-guard.
He had the title of Yün-chung wang. T'o-to's son
Tie-mu-r-ta was minister under the last Mongol emperor Shun-ti.
See his biography in chap. cxl. Ya-ya had also a son
Wa-t'o-man (Othman).
Besides this, the name of K'ang-li appears in the biographies of
the following distinguished personages, natives of that country:
Chap.cxxiii:艾貌 Ai-mo, belonged to the tribe 拔都康里
Ba-du Kang-li. He accompanied Su-bu-t'ai no-yen, when the
latter waged war in the country of the K'in-cha (Kipchaks). His son
Ye-su-t'ai-r distinguished himself at the conquest of
the Chinese province of Fukien, and at the expedition to Ji-pen
(Japan), and died in 1288.
Chap. cxxxiii: Ye-su-de-r, the son of Ai-bo Bo-ya-wu.
Chap. cxxxiv: Tu-hu-lu,-in the service of Kubilaï, was the
ninth son of A-li-tu-shi, who was a grandson of the K'ang-li prince
I-na.
Wa-lo-sze, 115
In the same chapter is the biography of
who was the secretary of Kubilai khan's successor. His father
Ming-li Tie-mu-r had held the same office under Kubilaï; and his
grandfather Hai-du had served in Mangu khan's army. His
great-grandfather Ha-shi Bo-yao146 had surrendered
in early times to the Mongols (probably when Chinghiz conquered
western Asia), and had been appointed superintendent of the herds
belonging to Kubilaï khan's mother. Wa-lo-sze's son K'ing-t'ung,
who served under the last Mongol emperor Shun-ti, has a separate
biography, in chap. cxlii. Thus the Kankali Ha-shi Bo-yao and his
descendants held office in the Mongol empire from the beginning
to the end.
Chap. cxxxv: T'a-li-ch'i,-served under Kubilaï; his father
144
Archimandrite Palladius states (Record of Eccles. Miss. vol. iv, p. 249),
that her adventures have furnished the material for a Chinese drama.
145
The name of this man is rendered by the same Chinese characters
which in the Yüan shi generally represent Russia.
146
The two characters Bo-yao are perhaps intended for Bayaut. This
was, according to the Mohammedan authors (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 197), the
name of a branch of the Kankalis, to which Turkan khatun, the mother of
Mohammed shah of Khorazm belonged. There were a great number of
Kankalis in Khovaresm when the Mongols first invaded the country. The
above-mentioned Ai-bo Bo-ya-wu was probably also a Bayaut.

130
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Ye-li li-bo having surrendered to Chinghiz. Ibid: Ming-an,-was
also a Kankali in Kubilai's service.
Finally, in chap. cev, is the biography of A Ha-ma, placed
under the rubric of "Villanous officers."
Mr. Schott, the well-known sinologue, in an article published in
1844, in the Abhandl.d.kgl. Akud.d. Wissensch. of Berlin, tries to
identify the Kankali with the K'ang-kü of the Han dynasty,
and the Kanggar of the Byzantine authors of the 10th and 11th
centuries. As to the latter identification he may be right; but
in regard to K'ang-kü there is no evidence but some similarity
of sound. In the "History of the T'ang," chap. cclviiib, article
"K'ang" or "K'ang-kü," we read that this country is also called
Sa-mo-gien, and the kingdom mentioned in the itinerary of
Hüan-tsang under the name of Sa-mo-kien is without doubt Samar-
cand (Julien's Mém. s. 1. Contrées Occid. tom. i, p. 18).
offer
65. As regards the other countries, cities and rivers, enumerated
in the above-quoted passages of the Yüan ch'ao pi shi, I may
the following elucidations.
Kibcha denotes Kipchak. Of this people more detailed accounts
will be given in Part VI.
Ubadjigi seems to be intended for Abkhazi; see above, 59.
The Ulusu (Orusze) of the Yüan ch'ao pi shi are the Russians.
The Asu (the name is sometimes written Asut, which is the
Mongol plural of Asu) are the Asi or Alans of western mediæval
authors.
The Madjar are the Magyars or Hungarians.
The Sierkesu are the Cherkess.
The Bular (the name is written also Pular and Pularman) are
the Bulgars.
The Siesu (termed also Sasu) are probably the Saxiny or Saxi (see
note 128), or perhaps the Sassans of the Mohammedan authors;-
the Saxon colonies in Transylvania (see further on, note 172).
The name Keshimir occurs also among the names of countries,
with the conquest of which Subutai had been intrusted. The
celebrated Cashmir lay far out of his way; and according to the
Yüan shi, it was only in 1253 that a Mongol corps was sent to
that country. I may however mention, that Plano Carpini,-whose
information was gathered in 1247,-in enumerating the countries
conquered by the Mongols, has noticed Casmir in his list (l. c. p. 708).
We meet further the name Lula among the eleven nations or
countries mentioned in the Yüan ch'ao pi shi. This name is re-
placed by Kelie, where the list is given for the second time (l. c.
p. 152). It seems to me that by Kelie, the Kelar of the Moham-
medan authors is intended. Thus they term the king of Hungary,

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
as we shall see further on.
151
By a misunderstanding, the chronicler
of the Yüan ch'ao pi shi may have taken Kelar for the name of a
country. Sometimes Rashid also takes Kelar for a country. Com-
pare Prof. Berezin's transl. vol. ii, p. 74:-"Ogotai khan conquered
Khatai and the countries of Kelar, Bashkurt, Pula, Desht Kip-
chak, Russ, Cherkess, As, etc." Again, l. c. vol. i, pp. 2, 51, Kelar
appears as the name of a country, and Rashid always associates it
with Bashkurt, by which name properly the Bashkirs are meant ;
but the same author applies this name to the Hungarians also
(D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 621). I cannot therefore agree with Prof.
Berezin, who suggests that Kelar may have been a country near
the Ural.
The Yuan ch'ao pi shi mentions two rivers which Subutai had
been ordered to cross, viz. the Djayakh and Idil. The Djayakh
is the Ural of our day, which discharges into the Caspian sea.
It is mentioned by Zemarchus (6th cent.) under the name of
Daich (Yule's Cathy, p. clxvi), and is called Geech by Constantine
Porphyrogenitus. Carpini (p. 743) styles the river Jaec;-Rubru-
quis (p. 274), Jagac; Haithon also writes Jaic; the Catalan map
terms it Jayech. Idil or Atel was the mediæval name for the
Volga. It is known that the ancients called this river Rha (Am-
mianus Marcellinus, 4th cent.) or Ra potamos (Ptolemy). Atel or
Idil is not a proper name, but means "river" in the Turkish dialects
(Klaproth, Mém. rel. à l'Asie, tom. ii, p. 374). The Mohammedan
authors write Atil; Rubruquis (p. 258) calls the Volga Etilia.
Carpini (p. 743) gives also the name Volga:-" tercium Volga,
istud flumen est valdè magnum, super quod vadit Bati."
Catalan map terms the river Edil. There was also a city Athel on
the Volga, in the 10th century, and the capital of the Khazars,
according to Massudi (Klaproth, Magazin Asiatique, tom. i, pp.
266, 276).
The
It remains to identify the three cities mentioned in the Yüan
ch'ao pi shi in connection with Subutai's expedition. Miegie
(the name is also spelt-erroneously it seems,-Meketmeng) is pro-
bably identical with the city of Mie-k'ie-sze or Mai-k'o-sze, mentioned
in the Yüan shi, among the cities north of the Caucasus captured
by Mangu khan (see further on, 71).
By Kiwamien (the name is also written Keibie and Kiwa; the
latter reading seems to be preferable) evidently the city of Kiev,
the capital of Russia up to the year 1169, is meant. Kiev was
taken by the Mongols in 1240. On the Catalan map, Kiev is
styled Chiva.
I am not prepared to say what place is intended by Kermien;
the name is written also Kerman.
66. According to the Tarikh Djihan Kushai and the Djami ut

152
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Tevarih (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, pp. 619 sqq), it was resolved at the
second kuriltai convoked under the reign of Ogotai, that a vast
army should be raised in order to subdue the countries of the Asi,
Bulgars, Kipchaks and Russians, all bordering upon the territories
allotted to Batu, 147the son of Chinghiz' eldest son Djuchi. Ogo-
tai designated the following princes to assist Batu in the command:
Kuyuk and Kudan, 148 sons of Ogotai; Mangu and Budjec, 149
sons of Tulei; Burii 50 and Baidar, sons of Chagatai; Kulkun, 151
brother of Ogotai; and Orda, Tangut and Shiban, 152 brothers of
Batu. The renowned general Subutai bahadur took part also in
this expedition, which was set in motion in February, 1236.
A. BEGINNING OF THE CAMPAIGN.
INVASION OF THE COUNTRY
OF THE ASI AND THE BULGARS, A. D. 1236-1237.
67. The Mohammedan authors report (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, pp.
619 sqq), that after having marched during the whole summer, the
Mongol army arrived in autumn at the ordo of the sons of Djuchi,
in the neighbourhood of the realm of the Bulgars, at the river....
(the name is illegible in the Persian MS. probably the Volga is
meant). In the winter of 1236-1237, the Mongol princes detached
Subutai bahadur to invade the country of the Asi and the Bulgars.
This general proceeded to the city of (the name is illegible in
Rashid's record, but the Tarikh Djihan Kushai states, that in this
campaign the celebrated city of Bulgar was first captured, and
its inhabitants massacred or dragged away in slavery). Rashid
mentions two chiefs,-apparently Bulgarian,-Bayan(?) and Chi-
ku, (?) who came in person to render homage to the princes, and
147
The Mohammedan authors call him always Batu. In the Yüan shi
his name is written Ba-du;-in the Yüan ch'ao pi shi, Batu.
To the
Russian chroniclers, the conqueror of Russia is known under the name of
Baty. Carpini also writes Baly.
148
Gui-yu and Ho-dan in the Yüan shi, chap. cvii,
Geneal. tables. Kuyuk was afterwards elected Mongol emperor (1246-1248).
Kadan is also called Kadan Ogul by Rashid (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 99).
Meng-k'o in the Yüan shi. Mangu was afterwards Mongol
emperor, 1251-1259. Budjie is termed
Bu-ch'o in the Yüan shi,
and Buigec by Carpini, p. 667.
149
150
151
Buri is mentioned in the Yüan ch'ao pi shi (see further on, 81).
Kuo-lie-kien in the Yüan shi, chap. evii, Geneal. tables.
Kulkan was killed in Russia (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 625).
152
Orda is termed
Wa-lu-do in the Yian shi. He is men-
tioned in the Annals of that work sub anno 1236, together with his brother
Ba-du. Shiban's name (E Si-ban) is met in Subutai's biography ;-see
further on, 80.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
153
were then released; but they afterwards revolted, and Subutai was
sent again to subdue them.
The Russian annals state (Karamzin, vol. iii, p. 270), that Baty
wintered near the Volga in 1236-1237, not far from the capital
of the Bulgars, which was destroyed in the autumn of 1237.
The Yuan shi says nothing about the invasion of Bulgaria. In
the biography of Subutai, where all the military doings of this
famous general are related, no mention is made of Bulgar. But on
an ancient Chinese map of the 14th century (see Part VI of this
paper), Bu-li-a-r is marked to the east of Russia.
B. EXPEDITION AGAINST THE KIPCHAKS, BOKSHAS AND
BURTASSES, A. D. 1237.
68. Rashid says (1. c. tom. ii, p. 623):-"The Mongol princes
after deliberation, determined to extend their army and to pro-
ceed in a vast line, as is generally done at a battue. Mangu,
who commanded the left flank near the (Caspian) sea, captured
Bachman, one of the most valiant chiefs of the Kipchaks, who be-
longed to the tribe of Olerlik, (?) and Kachar Ogola, who belonged
to the people of.... (probably Asi). Bachman, who had for a long
time evaded his pursuers, had collected a troop of robbers and fugi-
tives, and was a constant source of trouble to the Mongols, some-
times carrying off considerable booty from them. As he frequently
changed his abode, and hid himself in the forests bordering on the
river Atil (Volga), it was difficult to catch him. Mangu gave or-
ders to prepare a squadron of two hundred boats, and to put a
hundred men in each boat. The prince himself with one part of
the squadron, went along one bank of the river, beating the adja-
cent forests; whilst his brother Budjek, with the rest of the boats,
ransacked the opposite bank. At one place the Mongols found
vestiges of a recently abandoned encampment, and an old woman
informed them that Bachman had retired to an island. As
they had no boats near that place, they were unable to pursue
Bachman, when suddenly a high wind arose, causing the water to
go down.
The Mongol troops forded the river, and he was taken
à l'improviste; his men being either drowned or killed. The
Mongols returned with a large booty, without having lost a single
man. Bachman solicited the favour to be killed by Mangu's own
hand; but this prince ordered his brother Budjec to cut the
Kipchak chief through the middle; and Kachar Ogola, the chief of
the Ases was also killed. The Mongol princes passed the summer
of 1237 in that country. In the same year Batu, Orda, Barkai,
Kadan, Buri and Kulkan attacked the Bokshas1 53 and the Burtasses."
135
By Bokshas we have probably to understand the Mokshas.
This is

154
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
The Yüan shi also reports the capture of Bachman. In the
records of the emperor Mangu, in chap. iii we read:-
"In the 3rd month of 1237, Meng-k'o invaded
(Kipchak), and approached the sea called
Kin-ch'a
Kuan-t'ien-
gi-sze (the Caspian sea;-see note 130). The chief of the Kin-ch'a,
named Ba-ch'i-man fled with his family to an island in
the sea. Meng-k'o, when informed of this fact, proceeded imme-
diately with his troops to capture him. Happily a strong wind
arose, which caused the water to fall, so that it could be forded; and
Meng-k'o said-Heaven opens up my way.' Ba-ch'i-man's troops
were massacred, and he was made prisoner. Meng-k'o ordered him
to kneel down; but he replied-I have been myself a king, and
do not fear death; I am not a camel, that I should kneel.""
After this he put the Mongols in mind of the rising of the flood,
and advised them to think of returning; and indeed part of the
troops were obliged to reach the opposite shore by swimming. In
the biography of Subutai (Yüan shi, chap. cxxi) the same story is
reported, and there the merit of the seizure of Ba-ch'i-man is attri-
buted to this general.
C. INVASION OF NORTHERN RUSSIA, A. D. 1237-1238.
69, I may begin with the accounts found in the Russian annals,
which of course give the fullest information regarding these
events. Compare Karamzin, vol. iii, pp. 272 sqq. The following
are the chief events found in the Russian records regarding the
second Mongol invasion.
After the city of Bulgar had been destroyed, the Mongols ap-
peared, towards the end of 1237, on the frontiers of Russia, then
bounded on the east by Bulgaria. The cities of Pronsk, Bialgorod
and Ijestaivets were captured, and they arrived at Riazan, where
the prince Yury (George) had shut himself up. This prince was not
able to resist the Mongol arms; Riazan was taken by assault on
December 21st, 1237, when there was a general massacre of the
inhabitants, in which the prince Yury with his family perished.
The city of Kolomna, defended by Yury's brother Roman, shared
the same fate as Riazan. Vladimir the son of the grand-duke
Yury of Vladimir had been intrusted with the defence of Moscow;
but he was also defeated by the Mongols and made prisoner.
The grand-duke Yury now becoming alarmed, left Vladimir,
and posted his army on the banks of the Siti (an affluent of
the Mologa). He determined to wait there for auxiliary troops
promised by his brothers Yaroslav of Kiev and Sviatoslav; his
even now the name of a people of Finnish race near the Volga. The Bur-
tasses are probably identical with the Mordvins, living also on the Volga.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
155
sons Vsevolod and Mstislav having been left meantime to defend
the capital Vladimir. On the 2nd of February, 1238, the Mongols
invested Vladimir; and led on by the prince, they summoned the
city to surrender. One Mongol detachment had been sent to
Suzdal; and after having sacked this place, joined the main army
at Vladimir. On the 8th of February the city surrendered, and
according to the Mongol custom, the inhabitants were put to the
sword; the whole family of the grand-duke having perished on
the occasion. After this the Mongol troops were divided into
several corps, which moved about in different directions, sacking
the cities and ravaging the country. Thus in February, 1238, the
cities of Voljsky, Gorodets, Kostromskoi Galich, Pereslav, Rostoff,
Yaroslav, Yurieff and Dmitroff were plundered or destroyed.
The grand-duke Yury, still on the river Siti awaiting succour from
his brothers, was attacked by the Mongols on the 4th of March,
and killed with most of his troops. Another Mongol corps had
turned towards Novgorod, and after having taken Volok Lamsky
and Twer they invested Torjok, which city surrendered on the 5th
of March, after a siege of two weeks. When Baty had arrived at
a distance of a hundred versts from the rich city of Novgorod, he
suddenly marched back (the reason of his return is unknown),
and directed his host against Kozelsk (in the province of Kaluga).
This insignificant city was able to resist the Mongols for seven
weeks, owing to the heroism of its inhabitants. Finally they were
obliged to surrender, and suffered the common fate of those who
opposed the Mongols. The Russian chroniclers report, that Baty,
after having massacred all the inhabitants of the city, named it
"the bad city."154 After this the Mongols returned to the coun-
try of the Polovtsy (Kipchaks); and Yaroslav prince of Kiev, the
brother of Yury, who had been killed in the battle on the Siti,
went to Vladimir and was proclaimed grand-duke.
70. The above-related invasion of Russia by the Mongols is
spoken of in the following terms in the Tarikh Djihan Kushai
(D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 619):-
The Mon-
"After the city of Bulgar had been taken, the Mongol armies
invaded Russia, and conquered that country as far as the city of
Mocoss; the inhabitants of which were numerous as ants and
locusts. The army was obliged to pass through vast forests, so
dense that not even a serpent could penetrate them.
gol princes therefore ordered roads to be cut across, wide enough
for three carts to pass abreast. Catapults were set up to demolish
the wall of Mocoss; and after a siege of several days the place sur-
rendered, when immense booty was taken. Orders were given to
154
Probably he named it mao balik, as the Mongols-according to Ra-
shid-called a bad city ("mauvaise ville ;"-D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 430).

156
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
cut off the right ears of all the corpses; and thus it was found that
the number slain amounted to two hundred and seventy thou-
sand."155
Rashid-eddin gives a more detailed account of this expedition;
but it is to be regretted, that the names of the greater number of the
places mentioned in Russia cannot be ascertained, owing to the
want of diacritical marks in the Persian text. He says:-
"In the autumn of 1237, the Mongol princes marched all together
against the Russians. Kuyuk, Mangu, Kulkan, Kadan and Buri
besieged the city of Bun, (?) and took it after three days. They
then stormed the city of Iga, (?)-where Kulkan was mortally
wounded; and defeated and killed Urman (the prince Roman of
Kolomna) one of the chiefs of the Russians. The city of.... was
captured after a siege of five days (probably Moscow is meant) and
the emir Ulai-timur (Vladimir, who defended Moscow) killed.
It took eight days to capture the city of the great Yurki (Yurki
busurgh; probably Vladimir the capital of the grand-duke Yury
or George). The city of K...r Nikla (illegible;-D'Ohsson has
St. Nicolas), the capital of the country of.... (illegible;-D'Ohsson
has Venceslav) was taken after only five days' siege.
The sove-
reign of this country, the great Yurki, who had hidden himself in
the forests, was made prisoner and executed. 156 The Mongol prin-
ces now held a luriltai, where it was determined to proceed to the
interior of Russia by different routes; and the Mongols took all the
cities and fortresses they met with on their way. Batu besieged
the city of Kil Acaska for two months1 57 without success; but
when he had been joined by the princes Kadan and Buri, the city
was taken by assault in three days. After this the princes can-
toned their troops and took rest for some time."
The information found in the Yüan shi with respect to the
second invasion of Russia is very meagre.
In the records of the
emperor Meng-k'o (chap. iii) it is stated, that after Ba-ca'i-man,
chief of the Kin-ch'a, had been killed (see above, 68), Meng-k'o
accompanied Batu in the expedition against the
sze (Russians). At the siege of the city of
155
Wa-lo-
Ye-lie-dsan 158
D'Ohsson identifies Mocoss with Moscow. He may be right; I would
however observe, that Moscow at the time spoken of was not a large and po-
pulous city. It had been founded in 1147 by the grand-duke Yury Dolgo-
ruky, but was destroyed in 1176 by a prince of Riazan.
136
There is some confusion in these accounts regarding the names.
It seems Kozelsk is meant; which place, according to the Russian
annals, resisted for seven weeks.
157
158
It seems that by Ye-lie-dsan, Riazan is meant ; and I suppose that
by a mistake the character ye has been connected with the name; for Lie-
dsan would be just the proper Chinese spelling of the name Riazan.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
157
he fought in person, and it was due to his bravery that the city
was taken.
D. EXPEDITION TO THE REGIONS OF THE CAUCASUS,
A. D. 1238-1239.
71. Rashid reports, that "in the autumn of 1238.... and Kadan
marched against the Circasses, and in winter killed their prince
Tu-kan. (?) Shiban, Budjec and Buri made an incursion upon the
country of the Merims, a portion of the nation called Chinchak.
Barkai defeated the Kipchaks and made the chief of the Mekrits
prisoner.
"In the winter of 1238-1239,.... (probably Mangu's name is to
be supplied) with Buri and Kadan invested the city of Mangass (the
name may be read also Mikess), which was taken after six weeks'
siege. In the spring of 1239, Kukdai was sent to capture Timur
hahalia (lit. "the Iron gate;" Derbend on the Caspian sea is meant),
and to take possession of the adjacent countries.'
A corroboration of the above-mentioned account of the siege of
Mangass or Mihess seems to be given in the Yüan shi. In the
Annals, sub anno 1239, we read:"Meng-k'o (Mangu) invested
the city A-su Mie-k'ie-sze and took it after three
months' siege" It appears to me that by A-su Mie-k'ie-sze is to
be understood Mie-kie-sze, a city of the Asu (Asi or Alans).
The same name, or nearly the same, occurs several times in the
Yüan shi. Thus in chap. cxxii, in the biography of Si-li gan-bu
(a Mongol general of Tangut extraction, who took part in the
western expeditions under Batu), it is stated, that in 1239, in the
11th month, the city of A-su Mie-k'ie-sze was reached by the army.
It was well fortified and difficult to storm. In the spring of 1240
however, Si-li gan-bu conducted an assault, which was successful,
and the city was taken. In chap. cxxxii,-biography of Ba-du-r,-
the storming of a city Mai-k'o-sze by Meng-k'o is related.
A similar name of a city, Mai-kie-sze is also men-
tioned in chap. cxxviii, in the biography of the Kipchak prince
Tu-t'u-ha. We have seen, that the name of a city Mie-gie ap-
pears also in the Yüan ch'ao pi shi (see above, 63). I have little
doubt that the Mie-k'ie-sze or Mai-k'o-sze of the Yüan shi, and the
Miegie of the Mongol annals, are identical with the Mikess of Ra-
shid; but as to the position of this place I can give no informa-
tion. I may however quote a statement of Professor Grigorieff
(Russian Oriental Record, vol. i, p. 64), mentioning a city Mokhsi
or Molchshi in the dominions of the khans of the Golden Horde.
This may perhaps be the Mie-k'ie-sze of the Chinese authors. But
Professor Grigorieff says, that the existence of that city is known
only from some ancient coins struck there.

158
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
E. THE RAVAGING OF SOUTHERN RUSSIA BY THE MONGOLS,
A. D. 1240.
72. I may again begin with the accounts drawn from the Rus-
sian annals (Karamzin, vol. iv, pp. 6 sqq).
The grand-duke Yury of Vladimir and his sons had all perished
by the sword of the Mongols; and after the latter had retired,
Yaroslav of Kiev, the brother of Yury, took possession of the
throne of Vladimir, ceding Kiev to Michael of Chernigov. Baty,
after having reduced the Polovtsy, again invaded Russia, ravaged
the country of the Mordvins, plundered Murom and Gorokovets,
and threatened the grand-dukedom of Vladimir; but suddenly he
turned his host southward to the rich countries of southern Rus-
sia, and destroyed Pereslav. One corps of the Mongol army was
directed against Chernigov; which city, defended by the valiant
prince Mstislav Glebovich, the cousin of Michael of Kiev, was
taken by assault and destroyed. Mstislav however succeeded in
making his escape to Hungary.
After this the Mongols proceeded to Kiev, which Mengu khan
had previously reconnoitred. He had advanced as far as the city
of Piassochny on the Dnieper, and was much delighted on getting
sight of the magnificent city of Kiev, where his envoys had been killed.
When the Mongols approached, Michael fled to Hungary, and the
boyar Dmitry took upon himself the defence of the city; while
Baty arriving with his immense host, invested it on all sides.
I may here give the translation of a passage of the contemporary
Russian annals of Woskressensk (Karamzin, vol. iv, p. 285), refer-
ring to the siege of Kiev:-
"Like dense clouds the Tatars 159 pushed themselves forward
towards Kiev, investing the city on all sides. The rattling of
their innumerable carts, the bellowing of camels and cattle, the
neighing of horses, and the wild battle cry were so overwhelming
as to render inaudible the conversation of the people inside the
city. A Tatar named Tavrul had been captured, and he reported
that Baty himself was before Kiev ;-that his brothers (relations)
were all valiant captains; Urdiu (Orda, brother of Batu), Baidar
(son of Chagatai), Biriu (Buri, also a son of Chagatai), Kadan (son
of Ogotai), Bechak (Budjek ;-see note 149), Mengu (son of Tulei)
and Kiuyuk (Kuyuk, son of Ogotai). When the news of the
khan's (Ogotai's) death reached Kuyuk, he returned and became
himself khan.160 There was also Sebediai bogatyr,-who did
159
The Mongols are always termed Tatars in the Russian annals, as
well as by the Hungarian and other western chroniclers. The name Mongol
was little known at that time in the west.
160
The latter statement must have been added a few years later; for the

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
159
not belong to the khan's relatives, but who was considered his
first general, and another by name Burundai. These two had
conquered the whole country of Bulgar and Suzdal."1 61
Notwithstanding the stout resistance of the Russians, Kiev was
finally taken by assault and destroyed; the brave Dmitry was
made prisoner. Batu spared his life, but took him along with him.
Dmitry is said to have subsequently persuaded Batu to leave Rus-
sia and invade the rich country of Hungary; but before proceed-
ing thither, Batu sacked and plundered the cities of Vladimir in
Volhynia, Galich, Ladyjin (in Podolia) and Kamenets. At Krem-
nets however the Mongols suffered a defeat.
73. The account given by Rashid-eddin of the invasion of
southern Russia in 1240, is very confused, and some of the proper
names cannot be pronounced. The Persian historian states (1. c.
tom. ii, p. 627):-
"After the princes Kuyuk and Mangu had left the army in the
autumn of 1239, the prince Batu with his brothers, and the princes
Kadan, Buri and Buchek, marched against the Russians and the
Karakalpaks (black caps). In nine days they took the great
Russian city of Mingerkan, (?) and after this all the cities of Ula-
dimir (Vladimir). After having ravaged the land to a great extent,
and sacked all the cities on their way, they invested the city of
Uch-ogul Vladimir (in Turkish-"the three sons of Vladimir ")
with their united forces, and captured it in three days."
siege of Kiev took place in 1240, but Ogotai died only at the end of
1241, and Kuyuk was elected khan in 1246 (Chinese annals). There are
some discrepancies between the statements of western and eastern authors, as to
the date when Kuyuk was recalled by his father, and also respecting the
time when Ogotai died. Rashid states (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 118) The
princes Kuyuk and Mangu, having received orders from the emperor Ogotai
to return, left the army in the autumn of 1239. When they arrived in Tartary,
Ogotai had already departed this life." But this does not agree with the
Yüan ch'ao pi shi, which reports, with many details, Kuyuk's reception by his
father, when he had arrived from the west (see further on, 81). According
to the Annals of the Yüan shi, in 1240 Kuyuk was still with the army in the
west. We read there under this year The prince Gu-yu had conquered
the countries in the west; but there were still some nations who resisted,
and he dispatched a courier with a report." D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 155, quotes a
passage from Roger's Miserabile carmen, in which it is stated that the Tatars
suddenly left Hungary, owing to the arrival of a courier bringing the news of
the great khan's death. The precise date of the arrival of the courier is not
given, but it may be concluded that it happened in the winter of 1241–1242.
This agrees with the Chinese annals.
101
Sebediai bogatyr is Subutai bahadur, repeatedly spoken of in this
paper. I cannot understand why Karamzin will have the name Sebediai
to be read Sudai, and changes Burundai into Bastyr (l. c. vol. iii, p. 11).
Burundai of the Russian chroniclers is doubtless the general Buruldaï of
Rashid's record, who distinguished himself in Poland and Hungary (see
further on, 75).

160
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
As to the Chinese accounts of these events, they are also meagre
and unintelligible. In the biography of Subutai, in the Yüan shi
it is stated, that in the year 1241, 162the emperor Ogotai ordered
Batu and the other princes to attack
Ye-li-ban, king of
the Wu-lu-sze (Russians). They then proceeded to in-
vest the city of Tu-li-sze-k'o, which for a long time
could not be taken;163 but when Ye-li-ban had been made pris-
oner, the city was taken by assault. After this the Russians all
surrendered and the army returned.
F. EXPEDITION OF THE MONGOLS TO POLAND, SILESIA,
AND MORAVIA, A. D. 1240-1241.
74. The following outline of this expedition is drawn from
D'Ohsson, who quotes Polish and other European annals (tom. ii,
pp. 120 sqq). After the death of Boleslaus III, in 1139, Poland
was divided among his four sons; and when the Mongols pro-
ceeded from Russia westward, they found there four realms.
Boleslaus IV, pudicus, reigned over Krakow and Sandomir.
Conrad ruled Mazovia and Kuyavia; his residence being in Polotsk.
Henry II possessed lower Silesia and the provinces of Gnesen,
Posnania and Kalish; residing himself in Vratislav or Breslau. The
dukedoms of Oppeln and Ratibor belonged to Miecislav.
The Tartars first appeared in Poland in the year 1240, plundered
the province of Lublin, and then retired to Galicia. The next
winter, 1240-1241, they crossed the Vistula on the ice, ravaged
Sandomir, advanced to within seven miles of Krakow and returned
again to Galicia. Vladimir, palatine of Krakow, went in pursuit,
and succeeded in rescuing the prisoners and recovering a part of
the booty that had been taken; but after a short time the Mongols
reappeared, desvastating Sandomir, Lencise and Kuyavia. The
Polish army endeavoured to oppose them, but was defeated near
Szydlow, on March 18th, 1241. Boleslaus and all the nobles fled
to Moravia, Hungary and Germany; and when the Mongols arrived
at Krakow, they found it deserted.
After this the Mongols entered Silesia; and as the bridges over the
Oder had been burnt, they crossed the river at Bativor, swimming,
or on extemporized bridges. Miecislav retired to Lignitz, where
his cousin Henry rallied an army. The Mongols marched first
162 The date 1241 is a mistake for 1240; for the events reported in the
biography under the year 1241, are placed there before the expedition to
Hungary, which as is well ascertained, took place in 1241.
163 I can give no explanation about the king Ye-li-ban and the city of
T'u-li-sze-ko.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
161
upon Breslau, the city having been burnt by the inhabitants, who had
shut themselves up in the citadel. The Mongol army did not stay
there, but proceeded to Lignitz, where Henry of Silesia had suc-
ceeded in raising a host of thirty thousand men,-Poles and Germans.
Among the latter were the knights of the Teutonic order com-
manded by Poppo von Osternau. The commander-in-chief of the
Mongols is called Peta by the Polish chroniclers. D'Ohsson thinks
that Baidar, the son of Chagatai is meant. The Mongols were
superior in number to their adversaries. On a great plain near
Lignitz, subsequently called Wahlstatt, on the 9th of April, 1241,
that memorable battle was fought which terminated in the
complete defeat of the Poles and Germans, and in which Henry
was killed. The Mongols remained for some time in the country,
and then invaded Moravia, which belonged to the states of Ven-
ceslav of Bohemia. The latter sent five thousand men under the
command of Yaroslav von Sternberg to defend Ollmütz. This
valiant captain not only succeeded in holding out in the fortress,
but caused great damage to the Mongols by a sally he made.
Finally, they withdrew to join the main body of the army, which
had been directed to Hungary.
75. Rashid-eddin's account of this expedition is very incomplete
and confused (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 621). He states that Batu,
Shiban and Buruldai marched upon the Polo (Poles) and Bashguirds
(Hungarians; see further on, 78). The Polo were a very powerful
nation who professed the Christian faith, and whose territories
bordered on the country of the Franks. After this, Rashid describes
the expedition to Hungary, confounding the Poles with the Hunga-
rians.
An allusion to the Mongol invasion of Poland and Silesia is
found also in the Yuan shi, chap. cxxi, in the biography of Wu-
liang-ho-t'ai (the son of Subutai). It is stated there that Wu-liang-
ho-t'ai accompanied Batu, when he invaded the countries of the
Kin-ch'a (Kipchaks) and Wu-la-sze (Russians). Subsequently he
took part also in the expedition against the
Po-lie-r and
164
Nie-mi-sze. 164
I have little doubt, that by Po-lie-r the Poles are meant, and by Nie-
mi-sze the Germans. In the Russian annals, from the 11th century, the Ger-
mans are always termed Niemtsy. This name occurs first, in the annals com-
piled in the beginning of the 12th century, the authorship of which is attri-
buted to Nestor, the father of Russian history, who lived in the second half of
the 11th century (see Schloezer's Russian Annals of Nestor, Russian edition,
vol. i, p. 37). Nestor gives the names of the nations living in Russia and
around it in the 11th century. His information is partly drawn from Byzan-
tine sources. Even now the Germans are designated in Russia by the same
name, and it is a general belief there, that niemtsy (singular=niemets) is de-
rived from nicmoi, "dumb;" and that this name was originally given to the

162
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
G. THE INVASION OF HUNGARY, A. D. 1241-1242.
76. Compare D'Ohsson, tom. ii, pp. 132 sqq, for information
drawn from the Hungarian annals.
At the time the Mongols ravaged eastern Europe, Bela IV reigned
in Hungary. His states were bounded on the north by the Carpa-
thian mountains, and stretched southward to the gulf of the Adriatic.
In 1239 he sheltered in his dominions, Kutan, khan of the
Kumans, 165 with forty thousand families who had fled from the
Mongols. The princes of Russia, Poland, etc. who had escaped
the Mongol sword, had also emigrated to Hungary. Kutan had
embraced the Christian religion; but his people, unable to resist
their natural tendencies, having plundered the country they were
traversing, and thus irritated the Hungarians, Kutan being suspected
of collusion with the Mongols, was massacred by the mob in 1241.
The Kumans, thus brought into the position of declared enemies
of the Hungarians, withdrew to Bulgaria on the Danube, ravaging
the country on their way.
Whilst one part of the Mongol army devastated Poland, Silesia
and Moravia, the main army, conducted by Batu himself, marched
upon Hungary, in 1241. But previous to this he had dispatched
an exiled Englishman who was in the Mongol service, to
summon Bela to surrender. Batu entered the dominions of Bela
in March, 1241, by the so-called Russian gate, a defile in the
Carpathian mountains. Peta, who proceeded with his troops
from Moravia, reached Hungary some time later, by the defile
known as the Hungarian gate. The prince Kadan and the
general Subutai directed their corps at the same time through
Kumania (Moldavia) to Hungary. Bela sent his family to the
Austrian frontier, and remained himself in his capital. Batu made
Germans, on account of their ignorance of the Russian language. This view
has also been adopted by the eminent Russian scholar Dahl (see his Russian
etymological dictionary). But it seems to me, that such a derivation has no
foundation. The French might as well suggest that "Russe" is derived
from rusé. Niemets or Niemtsy is not a Russian word, and has no more mean-
ing in Russian than in German. It seems to be of Byzantine Greek origin.
Compare Sophocles' Greek lexicon of the Roman and Byzantine periods from
B. C. 146 to A. D. 1100. Boston, 1870. There we find on p. 770, "Nemitzi.
Austrians, Germans." Pseudo Theophyl. b. iv, 1217, c. The Byzantines
would hardly have borrowed from the Russians a name for designating the
Germans. I may observe that the Hungarians call a German Német;"
and to the Turks also, the Germans are known under the name of Niemesi.
Col. Yule in his M, Polo, vol. ii, p. 423, quotes the Masálakal-Absár, an
Arabic mediaeval geography, in which it is stated, that the country of the
Kipchak extended from the Irtysh to the country of the Nemej.
163
The Kumans are the same as the Kipchaks of the Mohammedan
authors, and the Polovtsy of the Russian annals. Kutan is terined in the
Russian annals, Kotian khan of the Polovtsy.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
163
directly for Pesth, ravaging the country through which he passed.
When he reached the capital, the Hungarians were not yet ready for
battle. The archbishop of Kolocha, however, ventured a sally from
Pesth; but was defeated by the Mongols, and escaped with diffi-
culty. When the archbishop of Varadin had arrived with his
troops, it was determined to attack the enemy again. According
to their favourite stratagem, the Mongols retired by the way they
had come; and the Hungarians then marched out. Bela pitched his
camp on the western border of the river Sayo, 166 near the place
where this river was spanned by a bridge. As it was believed
that this bridge was the only place where the Mongols could cross
the river, which was bordered by large swamps, a thousand men
were posted there for defence. But the Mongols, who at first had
encamped at a distance of five miles, suddenly arrived in the night.
One part of them waded through the river, while another forced
the bridge, by means of a battery of five catapults. At day-break,
the Hungarians found themselves attacked from behind; they were
defeated, and for the greater part massacred.
Bela however suc-
ceeded in escaping, and fled to the castle of Thurocz in the Carpa-
thian mountains. A few days later the Mongols took Pesth.
77. Whilst these events were taking place in the heart of
Hungary, the prince Kadan advanced through. Transylvania.
After marching three days through forests, he appeared suddenly
at Rudan, a German city situated in the mountains. 167
The city
was captured, and the count of Ariscalde and six hundred German
troops were made prisoners. After this, Kadan marched upon
Waradin, which was easily taken and destroyed. The Mon-
gols met some difficulty however in storming the citadel. Further
on, they reached St. Thomas, and then the great city of Perg, which
surrendered after a week's siege. The Mongols forced the captive
Russians, Hungarians and Kumans to take part in the assault. A
few days later Kadan took the monastery of Egresh. After this he
probably joined Batu; but the annals are silent on the subject.
The whole summer and autumn of 1241, the Mongols encamped
on the plain of Hungary, without undertaking any military operation.
The following winter, when the Danube was frozen, they crossed the
river, and attacked and destroyed the city of Gran; but they could
not force the citadel, which was defended by the count Simeon.
The thaw which then happened obliged them to withdraw. But
there was another reason for their retreat. While they were be-
sieging the fort St. Martin, a courier arrived, bringing news of
the Great khan's death, with orders for them to return to Mongolia.
166
The Sayo is an affluent of the Theiss. It is distant about a hundred
English miles north-east from Pesth.
167
A city of the Saxons settled in Transylvania. See note 172.

164
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Thus the Mongols left Hungary in 1242; only one corps, under
the command of Kadan, being left behind to pursue the king Bela.
The latter had quitted Thurocz and repaired to his family in
Austria. Thence he proceeded to Zagrab (Agram), where he passed
the summer of 1242; but when informed of the approach of
Kadan, he fled to Dalmatia, going first to Spalatro and then to
Trau. Finally, he hid himself on a small island situated near that
place.
Kadan hastened through Sclavonia and Croatia, appeared at
Spalatro, besieged the fort Clissa, and spent the whole month of
March (it seems of 1243) on the sea-shore opposite the island to
which Bela had retreated. After this the Mongols sacked the cities
of Cattaro, Suagio and Drivasto. Finally, Kadan went by the
route of Serbia to join Batu's army.
78. The author of the Tarikh Djihan Kushai, as well as Rashid,
and Casvini also in his geography, terms the Hungarians Bash-
guirds. But the name Madjar is also found in Rashid's record. It
was the generally adopted view apparently, in the middle ages,
that the Hungarians in Europe sprang from the Bashguirds or
Bashkirs, a people of Turkish race, who dwelt north-east of the
river Jaik or Ural, where they are found even at the present day.
I may quote the passages from the narratives of Carpini and Rubru-
quis, which refer to the Hungarians and the Bashkirs.
Carpini calls Hungary by the same name as it is now known to
us. On page 667 he enumerates the Mongol princes, who took
part in the expedition to Hungary:"Ordu, fuit in Poloniâ et in
Hungaria; Bati, Cadan, Syban, Burin, et Buigec, isti omnes fuerunt
in Hungaria." On pages 677, 708, he speaks of the Bascart (Bash-
kirs) near great Bulgaria, stating that Bascart is the same as
"magna Hungaria."
Ibid,
Rubruquis (p. 327) places the country of the Pascacier (or Pas-
catir), west of the Kerkis (Kirghiz) and the Orengai. 168
p. 231, we read:"Pascatir, que est major Hungaria ;" and on
p. 274 it is stated, that the great river Jagac (see above, 65) comes
from the country of the Pascatir in the north, which borders upon
"Major Bulgaria." Rubruquis states also:-"Ideoma Pascatur et
Ungariorum idem est." This latter statement conflicts with the
results of modern research regarding the languages of the Bashkirs
and the Hungarians; one being a Turkish, the other a Finnish
language. It is certain however, that the Hungarians were aborigines
of Asia. They arrived in Europe in the 9th century; and then
called themselves Magyar (to be pronounced Modjor) as they do
168
The Orengai, are the same as the Uranguites bishe (sylvestres) of Ra-
shid (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 421).

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
165
to the present time. It is difficult to explain the origin of the
names Hongarian, Ungar, etc. In the Russian annals of the
middle ages, they are always termed Ugry. The Persian geogra-
pher Yacut (13th century), in his Geographical dictionary, art.
Bashguirds," calls the Hungarians, Hongross. In the Chinese
and Mongol annals they appear under the name of L
Ma-dja-r.
"
I may finally observe, that there was also, in the 13th and 14th
centuries, a city of Madjar on the river Kuma, north of the Caucasus.
It is mentioned by Ibn Batuta (Yule's Cathay, p. 401), and by
Wadding in the 14th century (Ibid. p. 233). The latter terms it
Mager. M. Polo's Menjar (vol. ii, p. 421) seems to denote also
Madjar. A city of Modjary169is spoken of also in the Russian
annals (Karamzin, vol. iv, pp. 176, 404). The Russian grand-
duke Michael, executed by order of Euzbeg khan (of the Golden
Horde), in 1319, near Derbend, was buried in Modjary. Probably
Madjar was a city founded by the Magyars, who at one time dwelt
north of the Caucasus, but subsequently were forced by the Pechi-
negs to emigrate to the west. The ruins of ancient Madjar may
still be seen on the river Kuma. See Beiträge f. kennt. d. Russ.
Reichs, b. iv, p. 55.
79. The Tarikh Djihan Kushai describes the Mongol invasion
of Hungary as follows (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 620):-
"After the Russians, the Alans and the Kipchaks had been.
exterminated, Batu directed his hosts against the Bashguirds, a
considerable Christian nation, who are said to border upon the
country of the Franks. The expedition commenced in the be-
ginning of 1241, when an army of four hundred thousand men
marched to make head against the Mongols. Batu despatched his
brother Shiban with ten thousand men to reconnoitre the forces of
the enemy.
After a week Shiban returned, reporting that the
enemy had a superior force. When the two hosts faced each
other, Batu ascended a hill, where he retired for a day and a night
without speaking to anybody, imploring divine protection. He
had also ordered all the Mussulmans in his army to pray to Heaven.
Next day the troops prepared for the fight; the two armies being
separated by a large river (the Sayo apparently is meant). In the
night Batu detached one part of his troops, commanded by Shiban,
to cross the river and attack the enemy; but the attempt was un-
successful, on account of the great numbers on the defence.
The
main body of the Mongol army then rushed upon the Bashguirds,
and penetrated to the camp of the kelar, cutting the ropes of his
160 Modjary is the Russian plural form of Modjar. The Russians are ac-
customed to use the plural form for names of places.

166
tent.
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
When the Bashguirds saw the tent of their kelar falling
down, they took to flight; but only a small number of them escaped,
the whole country giving way before the invaders. This victory
is one of the most glorious exploits of the Mongols."
Rashid copies the Tarikh Djihan Kushai, concerning the war in
Hungary. Probably by a clerical error in Bashid's record, the
name of the Bashguirds is replaced by that of the Polo (Poles).
But further on Rashid speaks of both nations, distinctly stating
that though the countries of the Polo and the Bashguirds are very
large and have many fortresses, they have nevertheless been con-
quered by the Mongols. These nations however, subsequently
revolted, and in Rashid's time (about A. D. 1300) they were not
completely subdued; having still their own kings, whom they called
kelar. 170
Rashid gives yet another description of the Mongol invasion of
Hungary (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 627), with reference, it seems, to
Kadan's march through Transylvania (see above, the Hungarian
record) and the pursuit of Bela to the Adriatic; but the events are
confusedly reported, thus:-
mountains...
....
"In the spring of 1240 (rather 1241) the princes crossed the
and entered the countries of the Bular1 71 and the
Bashguirds. Orda, who marched on the right flank, traversed the
country of Ilaut, and vanquished Bezerenbam(?) who had ventured
to oppose the Mongol army. Kadan and Buri entered the country
of the Sussans, 17 and defeated them in three battles. Budjec
traversed the mountains of this country and entered the Kara-Ulag
(D'Ohsson understands that Transylvania and Walachia were in-
tended), vanquished the people of the Ulag (Wallachians), crossed
the mountains. and invaded the country of Misheslav,(?) who
was also defeated. The princes then marched by five different
routes upon the countries of the Bashguirds, Madjars and Sassans,
and the king Kelar took to flight. The Mongol armies passed the
summer on the river Tissa (Theiss) and Tonha (Danube;-in German
Donau). Kadan moved out with his troops, conquered the country
of Makut,(?) and pursued the sovereign of these countries,—the
In Hungarian király (to be pronounced kiral) means "king.
The author evidently does not mean Bulgaria east of the Volga (the
magna Bulgaria of Carpini's narrative, p. 708), but Bulgaria on the Dan-
ube, the inhabitants of which had formerly emigrated from their original
seats near the Volga. The Catalan map (of A. D. 1375;-see Yule's Cathay) is
quite in accordance with modern charts for the territories south of the lower
Danube, but locates a country Burgaria on the north of the same river,
where Wallachia is marked on our maps.
170
171
172
و"
Probably the Saxons in Transylvania are meant. As is known, the
Saxons from the lower Rhine had settled there in A. D. 1143. Michov, Cro-
nica Polonorum, states "Partem orientalem Hungariæ, quam Almani in-
habitabant, Cadan introivit et eam destruxit."

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
167
Kelar, as far as the sea. The latter embarked at the sea-
port....,173 and fled seaward. Kadan then returned; and captur-
ed.... and....-who had determined to resist,-in the city of
Ulakut. These events took place before he had received the news
of the khan's death."
80. Chinese accounts of the Mongol expedition to Hungary,
and even some details regarding the battle on the river Sayo, are
found in the Yüan shi, in the repeatedly quoted biography of Subu-
tai. After narrating the war against the Russians (see above, 73),
the biographer continues:--
Ha-ts'a-
L
"The (Mongol) army crossed the mountains
li,174 and attacked the K'ie-lien, 175 or king of the
Ma-dja-r;176advancing in five corps by five different roads. 177
Subutai was with Batu, and commanded the avant-guard. The
other corps were conducted by Hu-li-wu, 178E
Siban and Ha-dan. 179 The Kie-lien being reputed for
his valour, Subutai had recourse to stratagem (i. e. he turned the
enemy's flank). When the army had arrived at the river
Tun-ning, 180 the corps of prince Batu crossed the stream in its
upper course, where it was shallower, and where there was also a
bridge. Subutai, who had to cross it lower down, where the water
was considerably deeper, constructed a bridge by fastening beams
-
173
174
Evidently the name of the city of Trau is to be supplied. See above, 77.
The Carpathian mountains are obviously meant. I cannot however
explain the name Ha-ts'a-li. It may be, that "mountains of Galicia" is in-
tended, or perhaps Khazaria (Gazari of Carpini, p. 709). Rashid, it seems,
speaks of the same mountains mentioned in the Chinese record, but the
name is illegible.
175
K'ie-lien is evidently the same as Kelar of the Persian authors (see
note 170), and Kelic of the Yüan ch'ao pi shi (see above, 65), i. e. király, the
Hungarian name for "king."
176
The name of Ma-dja-r denoting Magyar or the Hungarians, occurs for
a second time in the Yüan shi, chap. cxxxiv, in the biography of K'u-o-li-
gi-sze, whose great-grandfather Ba-sze bu-hua is stated there to have taken part
in the expeditions against the Kin-ch'a (Kipchaks), Wa-lo-sze (Russians) and
177
Ma-dja-r.
Rashid also states, that the Mongols when marching upon Hungary,
entered the country by five different roads.
178 I do not know for whom this is meant. Rashid mentions a Mongol
general Ilaudar (l. c. tom. ii, p. 629). He may be the Hü-li-wu of the Chi-
nese authors.
179
Si-ban and Ha-dan are evidently identical with the princes Shiban
and Kadan in Rashid's record, and in Carpini's narrative, p. 667. Carpini
states, that the princes Bati, Cadan, Syban, Burin, and Buigec, were all in
Hungary.
180 As will appear from the subsequent narrative, the river Sa-yo must
be meant; although the name given to the river by the Chinese has no re-
semblance to the Hungarian one.

168
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
together. In the meanwhile Batu had been engaged by the enemy,
and had lost thirty men, and one of his adjutants, by name Ba-ha-t'u,
had also been killed. Batu began to get discouraged and proposed
to retreat; but Subutai said :-Prince, if you wish to retreat, I
cannot hinder you; but as for myself, I am determined not to return
before having reached the river Tu-na (the Danube;-in
German Donau), and the city (capital) of the Ma-ch'a, i. e.
Pesth. After this he advanced with renewed ardour, and Batu
also rushed upon the enemy, who was defeated in the struggle; and
the Mongol army reached the capital. Some time later, at a great
meeting, Batu ventured to reproach Subutai, saying:When we
were fighting together on the river T'un-ning, I lost my Ba-ha-t'u
owing to your tarrying.' Subutai replied:-'Prince, you know
well, that the river at the place where you crossed it was
shallow, and you had also a bridge ready-made before you. You
have forgotten that where I was obliged to pass, the water was
deep, and the construction of a bridge was necesaary.' At another
meeting, when Batu had drunk a great quantity of kumiss and wine
made from grapes, the same matter was again discussed; but then
Batu did Subutai justice, acknowledging that the successful issue
of the war against the K'ie-lin was to be ascribed altogether to Subu-
tai. After the death of Ogotai, a great meeting of all the princes
was convoked, in the year 1243. Batu refused to go, when Subu-
tai persuaded him, saying: You are now the eldest among the
princes; it is not wise to refuse.' Batu accordingly left next year
to attend the meeting. 181 When Kuyuk was raised to the throne,
in 1246, Subutai had arrived at court, and afterwards returned
to his native country on the river Tu-la, 182 where he died
in 1246, sixty years of age.
H. CONCLUSION.
81. After the Mongols had left Hungary, in 1242, they pro-
ceeded eastward and remained several months in the countries north
of the Caucasus; where some battles were fought with the Kipchaks.
Rashid states, that after passing a summer and winter on the
road, the princes arrived at their territories in 1243.
The Yüan ch'ao pi shi speaks of a quarrel which had broken out,
181
The Mohammedan authors also state (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 195), that
Batu, after the death of Ogotai, refused to attend the great meeting; for he
was on bad terms with Kuyuk, who was about to be placed on the throne
(see further on, 81, on their quarrels). Afterwards Batu consented to go,
but did not carry out his intention; nor did he ever again see his native soil.
He died on the banks of the Volga, about 1256.
182
The river Tura in northern Mongolia. The city of Urga is situated
on this river.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
169
at the time of the western war, between Batu and some of the other
princes. We read in Paladius' translation, l. c. p. 155, that Batu
sent an envoy from Kibcha to Ogedai with the following report:-
"By the favour of Heaven and an auspicious fate, Oh emperor
my uncle! the eleven nations (see above, 63) have been subdued.
When the army had returned, a banquet was arranged, at which all
the (Mongol) princes were present. Being the eldest, I drank
Buri and Guyuk
one or two cups of wine before the others.
were incensed, left the banquet and mounted their horses; at the
same time reviling me. Buri said Batu is not superior to me;
why did he drink before I drank? He is an old woman with
a beard. By a single kick I could knock him down and crush
him.' Guyuk said:-'He is an old woman with bow and arrows.
I shall order him to be thrashed with a stick.' Another proposed
to fasten a wooden tail to my body. Such is the language that was
used by the princes, when after the war with the different nations,
we had assembled to deliberate on important matters; and we were
obliged to break up without discussing the affairs. Such is what
I have to report, Oh emperor, my uncle."
Ogotai on hearing this report got very angry, and at first refused
to see Gayuk (who had in the mean time arrived from the west);
but when those around him interceded, Ogedai severely rebuked
his son, and gave him to understand, that the subjugation of some
tribes of Orusi (Russians) attributed to him, afforded no reason for
boasting; the whole merit being due to Subutai. As to Buri's case,
Ogotai ordered, that Batu should apply to Chahadai (Chagatai,
Buri's father) for judgment.
The conflict between Buri and Batu is alluded to also by Rashid-
eddin (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 269). The Persian historian states,
that Buri, who had taken part in the conspiracy against Mangu
khan, was delivered to Batu in 1252, who ordered him to be
executed; and thus took vengeance on him for some injurious
speeches once uttered against Batu in a state of drunkenness.
It may not be without interest to cite also what Rubruquis says
respecting this case. This traveller, who passed through Turki-
stan, in 1254, says (l. c. pp. 279, 280):-" Quesivi etiam de Talas
civitate (see note 59) in qua erant Teutonici servi Buri, de quibus
dixerat frater Andreas, de quibus etiam quesiveram multum in
curia Sartach et Baatu. Nihil poteram intelligere, nisi quod Buri,
dominus eorum, fuerat interfectus tali occasione: Ipse non erat in
bonis pascuis, et quadam die, dum esset ebrius, loquebatur ita cum
hominibus suis: 'Nonne ego sum de genere Chingis Chan sicut
Baatu? (et ipse erat nepos Baatu vel frater) Quare non vadam
super ripam Etilie sicut Baatu, ut pascam ibi? Que verba fuerunt
relata Baatu. Tunc ipse Baatu scripsit hominibus illus, ut adducerent

170
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
ei dominum ipsorum vinctum, quod et fecerunt. Tunc Baatu
quesivit ab eo si dixisset tale verbum, et ipse confessus est. Tamen
excusavit se, quia ebrius erat, quia solent condonare ebriis. Et
Baatu respondit: Quomodo audebas me nominare in ebrietate
tua? Et fecit ei amputare caput."
PART VI. EXPLANATION OF A MONGOL-CHINESE MEDIEVAL
MAP OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
A. PRELIMINARY NOTICES.
82. An interesting ancient document, shewing the geographical
knowledge possessed by the Chinese (or rather Mongols), in the
13th and 14th centuries, of the countries west of China, has come
down to us in the form of a rude map, which has survived from a
large work, treating of the institutes of the Mongol empire, and
published in the first half of the 14th century. It may serve as a
pendant to the curious Catalan map, of the year 1375, reproduced
in Col. Yule's Cathay, etc. The ancient Chinese map, which forms
the subject of my investigations in the present chapter, is given in
two forms in these pages. One is the true reproduction of the original.
The only change I have made, for the convenience of European
readers, is to represent it upside down; for in Chinese maps
anterior to the arrival of the Jesuits, south is always at the top and
north at the bottom. On the second sheet, the reader will find the
names of the places marked on the Chinese map, rendered in Euro-
pean spelling.
I have seen two copies of this ancient map. One is in manuscript,
in the possession of Archimandrite Palladius, and copied from the
original in the Chinese imperial library. It is made on a large
scale, being about five feet in length; but I fancy the original was
not so large. The other is a reproduction of the same original
apparently, and is found in the first edition of the
Hai kuo t'u chi, 1844, a modern Chinese work on the historical
geography of Asia. This map is about the same size as the Chinese
map accompanying this paper. In comparing the reproduced copy
in the Hai kuo t'u chi with Palladius' manuscript, I have found
some slight differences, owing evidently to clerical errors in both;
and the comparison has enabled me to correct the erroneous cha-
racters which have crept in, and to supply the omissions.
The Hai kuo t'u chi is a book well known to European sinologues.
Pauthier, in his M. Polo, quotes it frequently; and Julien, in his
Mélanges de Géographie Asiatique, tom. i, pp. 124 sqq. gives a long
review of it, and explains the numerous historical maps of Asia
found at the beginning of the work, with the only exception of
that curious map, upon which I am about to comment. Julien

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
171
in
passes it over in silence, although it is the only interesting map
the book; the rest of the historical maps the Chinese author pro-
duces being pure inventions of his fancy, without any value.
The great sinologue was apparently puzzled to know what to say
of this map; 183 and indeed, when seeing it for the first time, without
other indications, it is very difficult to guess what it is intended to
represent. I should never have been able to recognize in it a map
of central and western Asia, if my attention had not been drawn to
it by a short note of Archimandrite Palladius (Record of Eccles.
Miss. vol. iv, p. 435), in which the learned author states, that this
map, compiled about 1330, represents the dominions of the Mongols
in Turkistan and Persia. Palladius reproduces also the map in
Russian spelling, without however offering any identification of the
geographical and other proper names found in it.
More than a hundred names of places and countries of central
and western Asia, and even eastern Europe, are specified on the
map in Chinese characters; and we shall see that with the exception
of about five, all these names can be easily identified with the
geographical names of Asiatic places, as met with in the writings
of the Mohammedan authors of that period, or in the narratives of
European medieval travellers. I feel little doubt, that the names
for which I have not been able to find mediæval corroboration,
owing to the want of the necessary works, might be found in the
great geographical dictionaries of Yucut or other Mohammedan
geographers.
83.
The title of our ancient map is 元經世大典西北鄙
Yüan king shi ta tien si pei pi ti li t'u, or "Map from the
King shi ta tien of the Yüan dynasty, representing the countries to
the north-west (of China proper)." The King shi ta tien was an
extensive work on the institutes of the Mongol dynasty. It seems
that only fragments of it have survived. The library of the Russian
Ecclesiastical Mission was in former times in possession of one part
of this work (a manuscript copy), containing an enumeration of the
post roads and stations in China proper and a part of Mongolia,
during the Yüan dynasty. This copy is now in the possession of the
library of the (Rumiantsoff) Museum at Moscow. As the author
of the Hai kuo t'u chi states, the map from the King shi ta tien
which he reproduces in his book, is found in the gigantic cyclopædia
compiled by order of the Ming emperor Yung-le in the beginning
of the 15th century, and known under the name of
Yung le ta tien (22,877 books in the whole;-see Wylie's Notes
on Chin. Liter. p. 149).
183
I have heard that the map in question is omitted in the second and
third editions of the Hai kuo t'u chi; but Julien's review refers to the first
edition, which is the one I possess.

172
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
At the end of the geographical part of the Yüan shi, in chap. lxiii,
there is an Appendix entitled Si-pei-ti, i. e. "The coun-
tries to the north-west (of China proper)." It consists of an enume-
ration of names of countries and places. Occasionally some descrip-
tive details are added. Even a superficial comparison proves, that
the Si-pei-ti and the ancient map from the King shi ta tien cor-
respond, the former being an enumeration of the countries and
places marked on the map. There are however in the Si-pei-ti
some places, which are omitted from the map; and a few names
appearing on the map are not found in the Si-pei-ti. In my review
of the map, I shall mention all the geographical names found either
in the one or the other.
I feel little hesitation in claiming for my ancient Chinese map, a
higher antiquity than can be proved for any other medieval map
of Asia extant, constructed either in Europe or China. As to the
maps made in Europe however, my conclusion is only based upon
Colonel Yule's able review of ancient maps (M. Polo, pp. cli sqq.).
With respect to the Chinese, there is no doubt that they pos-
sessed maps of China, and even of the countries west of China,
in early times. Julien, in his Mélanges de Géographie Asiatique,
pp. 199 sqq. mentions several Chinese works of the 7th century,
treating of the countries west of China and accompanied by maps;
viz. the Sui Si yü t'u ki, "Description of the
countries in the west, accompanied by maps," published A. D. 606,
during the Sui dynasty. A similar work, entitled
Tang Si yü t'u chi, also with maps, was published A. D. 650; but
these treatises have long been lost, and only fragments of them
have survived as quotations in other works. I have not been able
to find in Chinese books of more recent date, any mention of the
existence of copies of these ancient maps. The historical maps of
western and central Asia presented by the author of the Hai kuo
t'u chi, are all his own invention, and therefore mere nonsense,
without any value. He used no ancient historical map; nor does
he even mention the above-quoted ancient works on western coun-
tries. Thus the map of the countries in the west, at the time of
the Yuan, as given in the Hai kuo t'u chi, and translated by Pau-
thier in his M. Polo, is not a genuine map of the Mongol period,
as he seems to believe, 104
184
Pauthier however does not represent the configuration of the original
map of the Hai kuo t'u chi; but adapts it to our geographical ideas. The
original map has not the slightest resemblance to the truth. Pauthier speaks
also (l. c. p. 170) of a genuine map of the Mongol Chinese empire, found in
the Ku kin chung wai t'u (+); but he is mistaken there
also, as the historical maps of that work are modern compositions.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
173
84. The Chinese medieval map on which I venture to comment
in this paper, although very interesting as an ancient document,
has no high claim to correctness and completeness. At first sight
it is even difficult to recognize that a geographical map (in our
We find no rivers,
modern western sense) has been intended.
lakes, or mountains marked. The whole sheet appears covered by
regular squares formed by straight rectangular lines. Some of
Besides the above-
these squares contain Chinese characters.
mentioned straight (fine) lines, we observe on the map also some
thicker lines, stretching irregularly, and intended evidently to mark
political divisions. Thus the map appears divided into three parts,
each of the parts being provided with a denomination in large
characters. In the same way the list of geographical names in the
Si-pei-ti is divided into three parts, with the same names respecti-
vely as on the map, viz:-the most eastern part has the characters
Tu-lai tie-mu-r; the north-western division is
termed Yüe-dsu-bu; the south-western,
sai-yin.
Bu-
I have stated above, that the map in question belonged originally
to the King shi ta tien, a work apparently corresponding to the
Ta tsing hui tien of the present dynasty, which
treats of the various institutes of the government. I find in the
Yüan shi, Annals, sub anno 1331, the following statement:-"The
emperor ordered the savants of the Han-lin yüan (National Acade-
my) and others, to collect all the documents referring to the insti-
tutes of the (Mongol) dynasty, and to publish a work on the model
of the Hui yao of the T'ang and the Sung (see Wylie's
Notes on Chin. Lit. p. 56), and to entitle it King shi ta tien."
This is all I have been able to gather respecting this work.
The
date of its publication, 1331, or a few years later, aids us to explain
the above-mentioned three names on the map, viz: Tu-lai tie-mu-r,
Yüe-dsu-bu and Bu-sai-yin, which can easily be recognized as the
names of the Mongol khans reigning, according to the Persian
authors, at the time spoken of, in Turkistan, Kipchak and Persia,
viz. Dure timur, Uzbeg and Abu said;185 and thus we are enabled
to see that the map is intended to represent the three Mongol
185
I may observe that Abu said Ilkhané of Persia, 1317-1335, is called
Bussay by the Archbishop of Sultaniah (The Book of the Estate of the great
Caan, 1330;-see Yule's Cathay, p. 238). Pegoletti, who wrote about the
same time, terms him Bonsaet. He is called Busaid by some Arabic writers,
and on some Mongol coins. The Pope in addressing him, calls him Boys-
sethan (i. e. Busain khan). Compare Yule, l. c. p. 299; D'Ohsson, tom. iv,
p. 716. Uzbeg, 1312-1342, is called Ozbiak in the Russian annals, and Usbech
by the Archbishop of Sultaniah. The Uzbegs of our day derive their name
from Uzbeg khan.

174
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
empires west of China, governed by the descendants of Chinghiz
khan. All the other names on the map,-written in smaller cha-
racters, denote countries or cities situated in these tracts, and we
meet especially with such names as are mentioned by the Moham-
medan authors in connection with the wars of that period. The
greater part of them do not appear in the Chinese or Mongol annals;
whilst others spoken of in these annals have been omitted from
the map.
If we take into consideration the time when this cartographical
attempt was executed in the far east, and the great distance from
China of the countries represented, we must of course be indulgent
of the topographical blunders which occasionally appear on the
map. Apparently it has been constructed in China, and that
only from hearsay. Hence the relative positions of the places are
not always in accordance with fact. It is remarkable however,
that the names, when compared with the same as given by the
Persian writers, show as close an approximation as the Chinese
language is capable of. It is needless to state, that the principal
value of the map consists in its high antiquity, and in the picture
it gives us of the geographical knowledge the Mongols and Chinese
possessed in the middle ages, of the countries west of China.
85. Before commenting upon the places and countries mentioned
on the map, or in the Si-pei-ti, it may be well to say a few words
on the origin and history of the three great Mongol monarchies in
the western half of Asia, which, together with the dominions of
the Great khan (China proper, Mongolia and Thibet), formed the
vast empire conquered by Chinghiz khan and his successors.
According to the instructions given by Chinghiz khan, his
empire, after his death was divided among his sons, Ogotai,
Djuchi and Chagatai. Ogotai, with the title of Great khan, then
reigned over China proper, Mongolia, Thibet, Annam, etc; Chaga-
tai in Turkistan and Transoxiana; whilst the countries north of
the Caspian and around the lake of Khorazm (Aral), Russia, with
Poland, etc. had been bestowed upon Djuchi, the eldest son of
Chinghiz, or, as he died before his father, these dominions fell
to the share of his sons. This dynasty is generally called the
Golden Horde (Russian annals) or Desht Kipchak (Mohammedan
authors). The khans resided in Serai, on the banks of the Akhtuba,
a branch of the Volga. The author of the Tarikh Djihan Kushai
states (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 2), that the dominions of Djuchi
stretched to the west, as far as the soil had been trodden by Tartar
horses. Tului, the third son of Chinghiz, obtained by inheritance
only an apanage between the mountains of Caracorum and the
sources of the Onan; and also his father's private property. But
after the death of Ogotai's son Kuyuk (Great khan 1246-1248),

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
175
Tului's son Mangu was placed on the throne of China, in 1251;
and thus the descendants of Tului became the reigning branch in
China. Ogotai had originally his apanage on the river Imil (south
of the present Chuguchak), but when the princes of this branch
had revolted against Mangu khan, they forfeited their possessions.
Kaidu, the grandson of Ogotai, however, subsequently conquered
a part of Turkistan, and for thirty years disputed the suzerainty
with the Great khan, Kubilaï.
The tract assigned by Chinghiz, in the distribution of his pro-
vinces, to his son Chagatai, embraced Mawar-al-nahar (Transoxiana),
and part of Khorazm, the Uigur country, Kashgar, Badakhshan,
and the province of Ghazna to the banks of the Sind. Bishbalik
(near the present Urumtsi) north of the Tien shan, was at first
the head-quarters of the khans; which was afterwards transferred
to Almalik (near the present Kuldja). At an early date however,
in the history of Chagatai's dynasty, the claims of Kaidu to the
supreme khanship seem to have led to a partition of the Chagatai
territory; for Kaidu, who as I have stated was of the lineage of
Ogotai, being a son of Kashi, 18 6 held under his own immediate
sway a large tract, the greater part of which belonged apparently
to the former apanage as originally constituted. It is not very
clear, what were the limits between Kaidu's territory and that of
the Chagatai khans; but it may be gathered, that Kaidu's domi-
nions included Kashgar and Yarkand, and all the cities bordering
on the south side of the T'ien shan as far east as Karakhodjo, as well
as the valley of the Talas river; and all the country north of the
Tien shan from lake Balkash eastward to the lake Chagan-nor
(somewhere in western Mongolia), and in the further north between
the Upper Yenisei and the Irtysh. During a great part of Kaidu's
struggles, he found a staunch ally in Dua, the son of Borak, whom
he had set upon the throne of Chagatai, in 1272. After Kaidu's
death, in 1301, his son and successor Chabar187joined with Dua
in rendering submission to Timur, the successor of Kubilaï; but
before long, the two former princes having quarrelled, Dua seized
the territory of Chabar, and thus substantially reunited the whole
of the original apanage of Chagatai, as it had been before the
schism of Kaidu (compare Yule's Cathay, etc. p. 522).
At the time our map was composed (1330), there seems to have
180
187
Kaidu is called Hai-du in the
Ho-shi (chap. cvii, Genealogical table).
Yüan shi, and his father,
Hai-du's name is met with
very often in the Annals of the. Yüan shi,-reign of Kubilaï.
Dua's name in the Yüan shi, reads
Du-wa; Chabar is called
Ch'a-ba-r there. The latter had the Chinese title
Ju-ning wang (Yüan shi, chap. evii, cviii, Genealogical tables).
I

176
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
been only one empire in central Asia, ruled by a khan of the lineage
of Chagatai; for the map, and also the Si-pei-ti include all the
places of Uiguria, Turkistan, Transoxiana, Kabul, etc., in the empire
of Tu-lai tie-mur (Dure timur, a son of Dua). Colonel Yule has
brought forward proofs (l. c. p. 524), that in the 14th century a new
schism took place, the middle empire (Chagatai) being again divided.
86. The countries west of the Djihun (Persia), conquered by
Chinghiz, were, after the death of the conqueror-at first considered
as common property by his sons, and accordingly governed by
mutual agreement (D'Ohsson, tom. iii, p. 104). When however
Hulagu, the brother of Mangu khan, had conquered the rest of
Persia, and overthrown the calif of Bagdad in 1258, he was
invested by his brother with the title of Ilkhan, and governed
Persia, Mesopotamia, Babylon and Armenia. He was the founder
of the Mongol dynasty known under the name of Ilkhani, which
maintained itself in those countries (partly at least) up to the time
when Tamerlane over-ran western Asia (end of the 14th century).
It may be concluded from the records of the Mohammedan
authors, that on the west the Chagatai or middle empire was
separated from the dominions of the Ilkhans by the Djihun or
Oxus, and the boundary seems to be thus represented also on the
ancient map; only there is a discrepancy respecting Kabul, Ghaz-
na and Badakhshan. The map assigns these countries to the
middle empire, whilst the Persian history of the Ilkhans seems
to point to the fact, that, at least in the beginning of the 14th
century, they were subject to Persia. We read in D'Ohsson,
tom. iv, p. 568, that in 1316 Oeldjaitu (of Persia) invested Yas-
sawur, a prince of the Chagatai branch,-who had emigrated from
Transoxiana, with the land between Balkh and Kabul. Subse-
quently Yassawur revolted and invaded Khorassan and Mazande-
ran, but was defeated.
87. Thus we have in the first half of the 14th century, three
great Mongol monarchies west of China. Nominally the khans of
these empires owned a supreme head in the Great khan reigning in
China; but practically they are generally considered to have been
nearly independent. We know however from letters of the Persian
khans Argun and Oeldjaitu, addressed to the king of France
in 1289 and 1305, that they continued to use the Chinese seals
of state, which the Great khan bestowed upon them (Pauthier's
M. Polo, pp. 777, 781). They stamped also the name of the
Great khan upon their coins (Yule's M. Polo, p. xli), and designat-
ed themselves merely as dariga or "governors" (D'Ohsson, tom. iii,
p. 410).
It is also worthy of notice, that the khans of Turkistan and
Persia, and even those reigning over the territories east and west

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
177
of the Volga (Golden Horde), had their apanages in China, and
that up to the 14th century, as we may fairly assume from the
evidence I shall produce from the Yüan shi.
In the Yüan shi, Annals, sub anno 1236 (northern China then
had just been subdued by the Mongols), we read:-"The emperor
granted to the empress dowager, the princes and princesses,
apanages in China (they are all enumerated, and also the apana-
ges, of which I will only mention three).
Wa-lu-do
and Ba-du (Orda and Batu, both sons of 1'juchi) received
the department of Ping-yang (in Shansi); and Ch'a-ha-dai
(Chagatai), the department of T'ai-yüan (also in Shansi).
Ye-lü Ch'u-ts'ai (the minister of Ogotai) presented a report, pointing
out the inadequacy of such a management; whereupon the emperor
ordered da-lu-hua-ch'i (daruga or Mongol 'governors') to be appoint-
ed over the places given as apanages, and that the princes and others
should merely receive the revenues from their lands." A whole
chapter in the Yuan shi,-xcv (Sui-sze), is devoted
to the pensions and revenues from apanages, which the princes,
princesses, sons-in-law of the emperor and meritorious offi-
cers, annually drew from the public treasury; and there we
find the names of princes of all branches of Chinghiz khan's
house. In chap. cviii, under the head of E Chu-wang, 188
we find again the names of the Mongol princes under different
reigns, and their apanages also enumerated. Sometimes they are
entitled wang (prince or king), sometimes I ta wang (great
prince). When they had an apanage in China, the name of it is
prefixed to the title wang, e. g. Ju-ning wang.
To elucidate the question of the dependency of the Mongol
khans,--of the Golden Horde,--of Persia, and of the middle empire,
I may quote some statements of Mohammedan and Chinese
authors, giving an insight into the relations between these rulers
and the Great khan in China, in the 13th and 14th centuries.
Wassaf records two embassies from the khans of Persia to the
emperor of China. We read in D'Ohsson, tom. iv, p. 320 :-"In
1298 Ghazan khan sent two ambassadors, the Melik Moa'zzam
Fakhr-eddin Ahmed and Bocaï Ilchi, to the court of the Great
khan Timur, his suzerain. They carried with them magnificent
presents, big pearls and other rare things of great value. They
brought also some hunting leopards (compare M. Polo, vol. i,
p. 353)......Ghazan provided the ambassadors with a large sum of
money to buy for him certain productions of China......They arrived
Chu-wang means "princes of the imperial family." Even the khans
reigning over Persia, Turkistan and Kipchak are always termed chu-wang in
the Yuan shi.
188

178
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
at Taidu and were kindly received by the Great khan, who
gave orders also to pay to the Persian khan in silk stuffs his share
in the imperial manufacture, which had not been paid since
Hulagu had left Mongolia (1253). Ghazan's embassy remained
four years in Taidu."
The Yüan shi also speaks of an embassy sent by Ghazan to the
emperor of China, but records it a few years later than Wassaf.
Another embassy may be meant. We read there, in the Annals,
sub anno 1304 "In the 7th month an embassy from the I
chu-wang (prince) A Ha-dsan in the Si-yü (western Asia;-
see above, 41) arrived at the court with tribute." Ghazan reigned
1295-1304. This is probably the embassy to which Monte Cor-
vino alludes in his letter of 1306 (see Yule's Cathay, p. 204).
Monte Corvino states in this document, that he had previously
sent a letter to the father vicar and the friars of Gazaria, by a
certain friend who was attached to the court of the lord Kathan
Cham (Ghazan khan), and who had come to his Majesty the Cham
(the friend had taken the letter when returning to Persia).
The second embassy of a Persian khan to the Great khan,
recorded by Wassaf, was sent about 1312 (see D'Ohsson, tom. ii,
p. 535). The Chinese emperor Ayur bali batra 189 after his acces-
sion to the throne, sent two ambassadors, Ayadji Chinksank and
Devlet shah, to Persia. They arrived at Bagdad,-where the
sultan Oeldjaitu spent the winter,-in February 1312, when they
delivered the presents of the Great khan with letters written in
the kindliest terms. Subsequently Oeldjaitu (he reigned in
Persia 1304-1317) on his part sent an embassy to the Great khan.
I may here quote D'Ohsson's original translation:-"Les ambas-
sadeurs que le sultan de Perse envoya en Orient, à cette occasion
furent chargés de vérifier la comptabilité des terres qu'il possédait,
comme part héréditaire de sa branche, et d'en percevoir le produit,
depuis plusieurs années."
The Annals of the Yüan shi record, sub anno 1332, an embassy
sent by Bu-sai-yin, prince (or king) of the Si-yü (EX
), to the emperor Wen-tsung (Tob timur). The name of the
ambassador was T Ho-dji k'ie-ma-ding. He brought
as tribute, seven precious stones and other articles. Bu-sai-yin is
Abu said, khan of Persia, 1317-1336, the same whose name
appears on the ancient map (see above, 84).
88. In the biography of Dju-ch'i, the eldest son of Chinghiz
(Yüan shi, chap. cxvii), it is stated, that his dominions were
189
Ai-yü-li ba-li ba-da in the Yüan shi.
His ancestral designation was Jen-tsung, 1312--1320.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
179
situated very far to the north-west, more than ten thousand li distant
from the capital (of China). One of Dju-ch'i's successors
Yue-dsi-bie, 190sent an embassy in 1336 to the emperor, soli-
citing the payment of the money due for his apanages in China,-
namely P'ing-yang (in Shansi), Tsin-chou (in Chili),
and Yung-chou (in Hunan),-this money being required for
the establishment of post-stations to facilitate the movement of the
troops. The ambassador also reminded the emperor that the post-
stations in Yüe-dsi-bie's dominions were not kept in repair by the
central government in China, but that he himself had to meet
the expense.
The Yüan shi, Annals, 1312, records that the prince
Ye-sien bu-hua sent an embassy to the Chinese court. This is
evidently Issen buca of the Mohammedan authors, who ascended
the throne of Chagatai in 1309. Under the year 1315, it is
reported in the Annals of the same Yüan shi, that the people in
the dominions of the prince
Tu-lie t'ie-mu-r
being afflicted with dearth, the emperor gave orders to assist them
with money. T'u-lie t'ie-mur is the same as Du-lai t'ie-mu-r on
the ancient map (see above, 84) and Dure timur of the Mohamme-
dan authors, khan of the Chagatai empire, about 1330. See
D'Ohsson's Genealogical table III. Dure timur's successor was,―
according to the Persian historians,-Tarma shirin. The exact
time of his reign is not given. In the Yüan shi, Annals, sub anno
1332, an embassy of the princes T'a-r shi-li and A
Ha-r-man to the Chinese court is recorded (by the first name,
Tarma shirin seems to be intended). They sent as tribute, fine
western horses, wine made of grapes, and gold-coloured
Ya-hu. 191 On the same page, the death of the prince
Ye-sien tie-mur is recorded. Here probably Issen timur
of the Mohammedan authors is meant, a grandson of Dua (see
D'Ohsson's list).
89. In the genealogical table of the Mongol imperial family
(Yüan shi, chap. cvii; compare also chaps. cviii and xcv), we find
the pedigrees of the branches of Djuchi and Chagatai, and of
Hulagu's dynasty in Persia. The greater part of the names we find
in these lists, can easily be identified with the names of the genealo-
gical tables, drawn up by D'Ohsson from the information given
by the Persian authors. I shall give the pedigrees of the above-
mentioned branches, according to the Yüan shi. The names in
By Yüe-dsi-bie, without doubt is meant Uzbeg khan of the Golden
Horde, 1312-1343; his name is spelt Yüe-dsu-bo on the ancient map.
Ya-hu means the precious stone yakut, on which see Notes on Chin.
Med. Trav. p. 95.
100
191

180
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
parentheses are taken from D'Ohsson's tables. There is some
confusion in the Chinese list regarding the degree of kindred.
Branch of
of Russia).
Ba-du,
Dju-ch'i (Djuchi,--Chinghiz'
eldest son). 192
E (Batu,-Djuchi's son, the conqueror
Sa-li-ta, E (Sartac,-son of Batu, 1256; Sartach
of Rubruquis).
Mang-k'o t'ie-mu-r, E (Mangu timur, 1265-
1280; grandson of Batu).
Tu-t'u meng-l'o, E (Tuda mangu, 1280-1287;-
grandson of Batu).
BEBE Tu-tu, E Ning-su wang, 1308 (Tuctuca, 1291-
1312; son of Mangu timur).
Kuan-sa, also Ning-su wang (perhaps the Conchi of
M. Polo, vol. ii, p. 410).
Bo-hu, (perhaps Tula buca, 1287-1291;-great-
grandson of Batu).
Yue-dsi-bie, E (Uzbeg, 1312-1342;-grandson
of Mangu timur).
*LE Dja-ni-bie (Djanibeg, 1342-1356;-son of Uzbeg).
Thus in this Chinese list, almost all the reigning khans of the
Golden Horde are enumerated, up to the year 1356.
Batu had many brothers. The Mohammedan authors mention
Orda, Tangut, Shiban, Shinkur, Barkai, Toca timur. Orda is
termed Wa-lu-do in the Yüan shi (see above, 87); Shiban's name
is there written E Si-ban (see note 179). The Moham-
medan authors report (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 251), that when
Mangu was elected Great khan, Batu sent his brothers Barkai
and Toca timur to attend this solemnity. We read in the Annals
of the Yüan shi, sub anno 1251:-"At the great meeting on the
river Wa-nan (Onon), in the sixth month, the princes
of the western side (西方諸王) were represented by別兒哥
Bie-r-k'o and Tu-ha t'ie-mu-r.
Branch of Ch'a-ho-t'ai (Chagatai,—
son of Chagatai).
192
second son of Chinghiz).
Ye-su meng-k'o, E (Yissu mangu, 1247-1252;-
In the biography of Dju-ch'i,-Yüan shi, chap. cxvii, and also in the
genealogical tables, some of Dju-chi's grandsons and great-grandsons are
erroneously represented as his sons.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
181
Ha-la hü-lie, E (Kara Hulagu, 1242-1247;--
grandson of Chagatai).
Chagatai).
Alu-hu, E (Algu, 1260-1266;-grandson of
A Ba-la, E (Borac, 1268 (?);-great-grandson of Cha-
gatai).
Mai-dju-han, E, 1310.
阿只吉 A-dji-gi, 威遠王.
Hu-du t'ie-mu-r.
* Ch'i-yin t'ie-mu-r.
禿刺 Tu-la,越王,1306.103
帖木而不花 Tie-mu-r bu-hua, 王.
Nan-t'a shi-li.
It seems that only the first part of the names found in this Chi-
nese genealogical table refers to the reigning branch of the Chaga-
tai lineage. As to the rest of the names, I find no corroboration
in D'Ohsson's list. But as I have shown above, note 187, Dua
the son of Borac, Issen buca, Dure timur and Tarma shirin, all sons
of Dua and reigning khans of the Chagatai empire in the first
half of the 14th century,-according to the Mohammedan authors,
are mentioned in other parts of the Yüan shi (see above, 88).
Branch of Hu-lie-wu (Hu-la-gu,
1258-1265, in Persia).
A-ba-ha, (Abaca, 1265-1282;-son of Hulagu).
FA-lu-hun, 19E (Argun, 1284-1291;-son of
Abaca).
Ha-dsan, E, 1300 (Ghazan, 1295-1304).
The rest of the names in this Chinese genealogical table cannot
be identified with the names of the Persian khans in D'Ohsson's
list. Probably the Yüan shi gives the names of a lateral branch of
Hulagu. Thus the name of Abu said, 1317-1335, repeatedly
mentioned in other parts of the Yüan shi (see above, 87), does not
appear in the Chinese genealogical table of Hulagu's branch.
103
104
See Tu-la's biography,-Yüan shi, chap. cxvii.
In the biography of Ai-sie,-Yüan shi, chap. cxxxiv, it is stated, that
Ai-sie was sent with a message to
I, i. e- to A-lu-
hun, prince (or king) in the north-west. In the Annals of the Yüan shi, sub
anno 1284, the name is A-r-hun.

182
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
B. IDENTIFICATION OF THE GEOGRAPHICAL NAMES
OF THE ANCIENT CHINESE MAP.
I. COUNTRIES AND PLACES EAST AND SOUTH OF THE
MIDDLE EMPIRE (Chagatai).
As the Si-pei-ti mentions only countries and places belonging to
the three empires of the descendants of Chagatai, Djuchi and
Hulagu, the following six names of the ancient map are omitted
from the list given in that work.
Sha-chou.
90. Sha-chou means "sand city," or "sand district," in Chinese.
It was a district city, situated in the western part of modern Kansu,
west of the gate Kia-yü kuan, in the great wall, and at the eastern
border of the great desert, known to the Chinese from remote
time as Liu-sha (lit. "moving sand"). M. Polo crossed
this desert when proceeding from the city of Lop to China (l. c.
vol. i, p. 180), and states (Ibid. p. 184):-"After you have travelled
thirty days through the Desert as I have described, you come to a
city called SACHIU, lying between north-east and east; it belongs
to the Great Kaan." In ancient times, the great highway from
China to central Asia passed through Sha-chou, and not only the
Lop-nor route, taken by M. Polo, but also the northern road leading
through Hami touches Sha-chou, as may be proved from ancient,
and even more recent Chinese itineraries.
The city of Sha-chou dates from A. D. 622, when it was founded
by the first emperor of the T'ang dynasty. But there was at the
same placo, or near it, an important out-post of China even in
the 2nd century B. c. The Han emperor Wu-ti, B. c. 140-86,
had established there a fortified town, and a district called
Tun-huang kün. This was the starting point of the early
expeditions of the Chinese towards the west. A city (hien)
Tun-huang is marked on modern Chinese maps, north-east of
U
Ku Sha-chou ch'eng, (the ancient city of Sha-chou); but
according to Archimandrite Palladius, who has special sources of
information, ancient Sha-chou was situated on the spot where the
present Tun-huang hien stands (see his Elucidations of M. Polo's
Travels, p. 5). The part of Kansu west of the gate Kia-yü kuan
is completely unknown to Europeans, and therefore all the infor-
mation we possess regarding this tract, is drawn from Chinese
sources.
In the Mongol period, Sha-chou was a lu, i. e. " circuit" or

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
183
"department." At the time of the Ming it was a wei, or
"military station" (Ming shi, chap. cccxxix, fol. 22).
Ko-mu-li = Kamul.
91. This is without doubt the Camul of M. Polo. That travel-
ler states (vol. i, p. 189), that this province belonged to the Great
Kaan, and thus corroborates the map, which locates Ko-mu-li
beyond the middle empire, but close to the frontier. Rashid-eddin,
who wrote about the close of the 13th century, when the middle
empire was for the greater part in the possession of Kaidu (see
above, 85), then engaged in a struggle with Kubilaï,-records
(Yule's Cathay, p. 275), that Karakhodjo (see further on, 111), a city
of the Uigurs, lies between the two states and maintains neutrality.
Karakhodjo is placed on the ancient map opposite Ko-mu-li to the
west, bnt inside the middle empire.
M. Polo is the first western author who mentions Camul, but he
did not himself visit the place. Marignolli was in Kamul in 1342
(Yule's Cathay, p. 390), and seems to have spent some considerable
time there. Kamul appears to have been the see of a Nestorian
bishop; for a bishop of Kamul is mentioned as being present at
the inauguration of the Catholicos Denha in 1226 (Yule's M. Polo,
vol. i, p. 190). The place is styled Camull on the Catalan map.
Shah Rokh's embassy, when proceeding to China, passed through
Camul (Yule's Cathay, p. cc), and the Persian merchant Haji
Mohammed, 1550, states (1. c. p. ccxvii), that from Succuir (Su-chou)
to Camul is fifteen days' journey. Colonel Yule is correct in refuting
the view of Foster, that Camexu (Camechu) in Pegoletti's notices
of the land-route to Cathay (1. c. p. 288) is to be identified with
Camul or Ha-mi chou (A) of the Chinese. Camexu denotes
Kan-chou in Kansu. In Chinese books, Kamul never appears as
Ha-mi chou; but in the "History of the Ming," chap. cccxxix, fol. 1,
it figures as Ha-mi wei (i. e. "fortified place Hami"). Benedict
Goez, in the beginning of the 17th century, proceeding from India
through central Asia to China, went from the fortified town Turphan
to Aramuth, 195 and then to Camul, another fortified town (7. c.
p. 578).
Kamul is the Turkish name of the place. In Chinese works it
105
I possess a detailed Chinese itinerary, of the 15th century, of the route
from Kia-yi kuan through central Asia to the Mediterranean. There I find
a city La-mu mentioned between Ha-mi (Kamul) and t
Tu-lu-fan (Turphan). La-mu may be the Aramuth of Goez.
ever the same Chinese itinerary also mentions a place
west of Turphan.
How-
4-la-mu

184
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
is generally termed Ha-mi, which name however appears
for the first time, not earlier than the Mongol period. In ancient
times it was known to the Chinese by other names. It is first
mentioned in Chinese history in the first century of our era, under
the name of I-wu-lu. See the "History of the later Han,"
chap. cxviii, Si-yü, where it is stated, that I-wu-lu was an important
place 1000 li north of the fortress Yü-men kuan (see above, 41),
and the key to the Si-yü, or "western countries." I-wu-lu, situated in
a very fertile country, belonged originally to the Hiung-nu
(the ancient inhabitants of Mongolia). It was taken by the Chi-
nese, A. D. 73; who then established military colonies there.
During the T'ang period and later (7th to 11th centuries), I-wu-lu
bore the name I-chou. Thus the place is termed also in the
narrative of Wang Yen-te, who in 981 went from China to Kao-
chang (see Julien's Mél. de Géogr. Asiat. p. 90).
In the Yüan shi we first meet with the present Chinese name of
the place Ha-mi. See the biography of the Uignr prince
Ba-r-dju a-r-té di-gin, chap. cxxii. But the Yuan shi writes the
name more generally Ho-mi-li (or Ko-mi-li;-see Annals,
sub anno 1286). The emperor bestowed money and cattle upon
the impoverished people of Ko-mi-li and Ha-la-ho-djo (Karakhodjo,
see 111). In the year 1289, the people of Ko-mi-li are stated to
have been again afflicted with dearth. The emperor then ordered
corn to be sent from Kansu to Ko-mi-li. In the biography of
Ta-ben (chap. cxxiv) we read, that he was a man from I-wu-lu;
the most ancient name for Kamul being used there. In the
biography of Bi-lan (chap. ccii), the name of the realm **
Kan-mu-lu (apparently Kamul is meant) is found associated with
Pei-ting (the present Urumtsi ;-see below, 108).
In the "History of the Ming," chap. cccxxix, fol. 1,
mi appears as a fortified place (wei), 1600 li distant from
Kia-yü kuan, situated on the most important road leading to the
western countries. The population is stated to consist of EE
Hui-lui (Mohammedans),
Wei-wu-r (Uigurs) and A
Ha-la (a people unknown to me). At the present day the Chinese
term Kamul also Ha-mi, as in the preceding centuries.
Ta-shi-ba-li= Tashbalik.
Ha-
92. Probably by these four Chinese characters, Tashbalik
(meaning "Stone city" in Turkish) is intended. The place is
marked on the ancient map, east of Kamul. I have not been
able to trace this name in any western or eastern author applied to
a city near Kamul. I may however mention, that the above-quoted

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
185
traveller Wang Yen-te (A. D. 981), proceeding from China to
Kao-chang, before arriving at I-chou (Kamul) passed through
Siao Shi-chou or "Little stone city."
Tu-bo-t'e=Tibet.
93. The Chinese characters here without doubt render Tubot,
which even now is the Mongol name for Tibet.
Mr. Hodgson ("The Literature and Religion of the Buddhists," in
The Phoenix, 1871, p. 94) states respecting Tibet :-"Bhot is the
Sanscrit, and Tibet the Persian name of the country. The native
name is Bod, a mere corruption of the Sanscrit appellation, prov-
ing that the Tibetans had not reached a general designation for
their country, when the Indian teachers came among them."
The names we use in Europe to designate the mountainous
country bordering upon China proper on the west (Tibet, Tibet,
Tebet), are all apparently derived from the Arabic; for the name
of Tibet among western authors first occurs in the narrative of
those Arabian travellers who visited China about the middle of
the 9th century. Compare Reinaud, Relation des Voyages faits
par les Arabes et les Persans dans l'Inde et à la Chine dans le
ixe siècle, p. 60, where it is recorded that Tibet and the Tagaz-
gaz are the western neighbours of China. Col. Yule (Cathay,
p. cx) quotes an Arabian geographer who was contemporary with
the earlier of the two compilers of the Relation, and who states
that China is bounded by the sea, by Tibet and by the country
of the Turks....
The most detailed accounts of the history of Tibet are to be
found in Chinese books, and especially in the histories of the
different Chinese dynasties. Father Hyacinth, in his "History of
Tibet and Kukonor" (in Russian, 2 vols. and a map, 1833), has
translated from Chinese authors, all the historical records respect-
ing these countries; but his history concludes with the beginning
of the 12th century.
In the most ancient times the tribes living west of China
proper, in the present Tibet and Kukonor, are comprised in the
general name Kiang or Si K'iang (western Kiang).
These names are met with in the Chinese classics. Since the 7th
century of our era, Tibet is termed Tufan in the Chinese
annals. This name in the "History of the T'ang" (Tang shu,
chap. cclvi) is applied to a powerful kingdom, which during the
T'ang period caused much trouble to China. The T'ang history,
in the beginning of the article T'u-fan, states that this people
originated from the K'iang, and especially from a tribe called
Fa Kiang; and then explains that the character is

186
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
very similar in sound to . Thus the T'ang shu tries to
explain the origin of the name T'u-fan (Hyacinth, 7. c. vol. i,
p. 125). According to Dr. Williams' Dictionary, was in an-
cient times pronounced bat, and bam. It seems to me that
the original Chinese reading of Tu-fan was Tu-bot. Perhaps the
second character of the name was originally written with another
radical e. g., which in the present day is pronounced bo, the
ancient sound being bot. The above-mentioned Arabian travel-
lers in the 9th century, heard of course the name Tibet from the
Chinese, who in their annals of that time spell the name of
the same country . In the history of the Sung, which ruled
over the greater part of China, 960-1280, Tibet is also termed
Tu-fan; whilst the historians of the Liao dynasty, in northern
China, and contemporary with the Sung, style the same country
Tie-bu-te. We read in the Liao shi, chap. xx, that in
1047, an envoy from the kingdom of T'ie-bu-te, arrived at the court
of the Liao, to solicit help against the Hia (Tangut empire).
Father Hyacinth (7. c. vol. ii, p. 164) quotes a passage from the
Sung history in which it is stated, that about A. D. 1060, the
emperor of the Liao bestowed a princess of his house upon the son
of the king of T'u-fan. The same event is reported in the "History
of the Liao," where that kingdom is termed
Tu-bo-t'e.
In the Yüan shi, Tibet is mentioned under different names.
Sometimes the Tibetans are called there Si-fan, which is a
Chinese name meaning literally the "western Barbarians." This
name occurs in the Chinese annals as early as the beginning of the
11th century. Hyacinth thinks, that the authors of the Mongol
period, by Si-fan especially understood the people of the Tibetan
province Amdo (7. c. Preface, p. ix, and vol. ii, p. 133). During
the Ming period, the southern part of Kansu, Kukonor, and the
northern part of Tibet, were comprised under the appellation Si-
fan. (See Ming shi, chap. cccxxx, fol. 1-12,
fan chu wei, i. e. "The fortified places in Si-fan," and
An-ting wei, which place is stated there to have been situated
1500 li south-west of Kan-chou; to the south, it bordered upon
Si-fan). In the Yüan shi, the name Si-fan appears in chap. ccii,-
biography of Dan-ba. He was a man from Tu-gan-sze dan-ma
in Si-fan.
Si-
Sometimes the Yüan shi uses the ancient name Tu-fan, to de-
signate Tibet. In the Annals, sub anno 1251, we read :-"Mangu
khan intrusted Ho-li-dan with the command of the troops against
Tu-fan." Sub anno 1254 it is stated, that Kubilaï (who at that
time was still the heir apparent), after having subdued the tribes of
Yünnan, entered Tu-fan, when So-ho-to, the ruler of the country

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
187
surrendered. Again, sub anno 1268-"The emperor ordered
Meng-gu-dai to invade Si-fan with six thousand men." Sub anno
1275"The prince A-lu-chi (seventh son of Kubilaï) led an ex-
pedition to Tu-fan." Tu-fan is further mentioned in the Yuan
shi, as the native country of Ba-sze-ba, the Lama priest
who invented Kubilaï's official alphabet (see chap. ccii,-his
biography). The Chinese text has
i. e. "a
man from Sa-sze-kia in Tu-fan," or perhaps by Sa-sze-kia jen, "a man
of the doctrine of the Sakia-muni (Buddha)" is meant. In chap.
cxxii, biography of An-dja-r, we find Tibet disignated by
T'o-bo; and in chap. cxxiii, in the biography of Djao-a k'o-pan, it
is stated, that he belonged to the people of土波思烏思藏掇
Tu-bo-sze wu-sze-dsang-do. In this name we recognize again Tibet
in Tu-bo. The name Wu-sze-dsang occurs once more
in the Yüan shi. In chap. lxxxvii, it is mentioned in connection
with the Mongol troops cantoned there. According to the Ming
shi, chap. cccxxxi, fol. 1, Wu-sze-dsang was situated west of Yün-
nan; and thus formed a part of Tibet, and belonged to the
Ta-pao fa-wang, which was the title of Ba-sze-ba and
his successors, as heads of the Lamaite church in Tibet.
At the present day, Tibet is termed Si-fan by the Chi-
nese; but it is more generally known under the name of
Si-dsang.
As I have stated above, Tibet was known to the Mongols in
In the
the middle ages, as it is now, under the name of Tubot.
Mongol text of the Yuan ch'ao pi shi (Palladius' translation,
p. 148), in one case, the valour and fierceness of the Mongols, are
compared with those qualities in the dogs of Tubot. 196
As to the Mohammedan and European authors, who mention
Tibet in the middle ages, I may quote,-besides the above-noticed
Arabian travellers in the 9th century, the Arabian geographer
Edrisi (middle of the 12th century), who calls the country Tobbat.
In Rashid-eddin's "History of the Mongols," the name of Tibet
appears repeatedly. The Persian historians also state (D'Ohsson,
tom. i, p. 82), that Singun, the son of Ong khan, after the latter
had been defeated by Chinghiz, fled to Buri-tibet. The exist-
ence of a similar name is corroborated, not only by Carpini (p.
658), who mentions the conquest of the country Burithabet by
the Mongols, but also in the Ts'in cheng lu, compiled from Mongol
documents, where we read (Palladius' translation, p. 176), that
196
The Chinese translator (14th century) renders "dogs of Tubot" by
Si-fan kou. Comparo M. Polo, vol. ii, p. 32, on the mastiff dogs
of Tebet as big as donkeys.

188
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Ong khan's son fled to the people of Bo-li t'u-fan (Bori Tibet ;-for
T'u-fan is the same as Tibet).
Rubruquis, after having spoken of the Tanguts, says also a few
words about the Tibetans; p. 289-"Post istos sunt Tebet, ho-
mines solentes comedere parentes suos defunctos, ut causa pietatis
non facerent aliud sepulcrum eis nisi viscera sua etc."-Ibid.
p. 329 Thebet scribunt sicut nos, et habent figuras valde
similes nostris."
In M. Polo's narrative, two long chapters are found concerning
the province of Tebet, in vol. ii, pp. 26 sqq. and in vol. i, p.
265, he speaks of the sorcerers of Tebet and Kesimur at the
court of the Great khan.
Col. Yule states (l. c. vol. ii, p. 29), that it is not very clear how
Tibet came under subjection to the Mongols, no conquest of their
armies being related by either the Mohammedan or the Chinese
historians. Indeed, it seems, that with the exception of the above-
quoted passages, in the Chinese annals, respecting Tibet, nothing
more is said of the warlike enterprises of the Mongols against
this country.
Tien-chu= India.
94. T'ien-chu is the name by which India was known to the
Chinese from the beginning of our era. See the "History of the
Posterior Han," chap. cxviii. But the most ancient Chinese name
for India is Shin-du. This name first appears in the Chi-
nese annals about B. c. 120, after the expedition of Chang Kien
to western Asia (see above, 39). The Chinese authors, of the
Mongol period generally call India Hin-du-sze (Yuan
shi, Annals, sub anno 1253), or Yin-du (see my Notes on
Chin. Med. Trav. pp. 35, 39, 89, 104, 117).
Ki-shi-mi-r= Cashmere.
95. Respecting Cashmere,-for evidently this country is intend-
ed, I have only a few words to say. It was known to the Chi-
nese under about the same name during the T'ang period. See
T'ang shu, chap. cclviiib, article K'o-shi-mi. Under
the name of Kia-shi-mi-lo it appears in the narrative
of Hüan-tsang, in the 7th century (comp. Julien's Mém. s. 1.
Contrées Occidentales, tom. i, p. 167). The Chinese traveller
Ch'ang Te (1258) also speaks of the Buddhist kingdom K'i-shi-mi,
to the north-west of Yin-du (India). See my Notes on Chin.
Med. Travellers, p. 81. With respect to Cashmere, see also
above, 65.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
189
II. COUNTRIES AND PLACES IN THE EMPIRE OF DU-LAI TIE-MU-R
(the Middle Empire).
Wei-wu-r= Uigure.
96. The map has only the characters Wei-wu-r; but in the list
of the Si-pei-ti, the character ti, "country" is added to the name.
There is also a short note, stating that in the year 1283, post-
stations were established in four places (cities) of that country, and
also a treasury was founded for the exchange of paper money
(交鈔庫)
The name Wei-wu-r was applied in the days of the Mongols to
the Uigurs, a nation who before the time of Chinghiz, had played
an important role in the history of central Asia. In the 7th cen-
tury they had their abode in the western part of Mongolia;
and in the 8th century, their capital was near the place where
afterwards Karakorum was built. It seems that at the time of
their greatest power, the Uigurs extended their rule far to the west,
and their dominions reached the Caspian sea. In the middle of
the 9th century, the power of the Uigurs in Mongolia was broken
by the Kirghiz, and they were dispersed. But some time later,
there were again Uigur kingdoms in Kan-chou and in the
country south and north of the eastern T'ien shan. In the latter
tracts especially, the Uigurs were known to the Mongols as
Weiwur. Very little is known about the western Uigurs. The
Mohammedan authors of the 11th and 12th centuries seem to com-
prise them under the general name of eastern Turks. The name
Uigur is first found in the writings of the Mohammedan authors
in the 12th century; and in the same period the name Wei-wu-r
first appears in the Chinese annals. Before that time, the Chinese
termed them J Hui-ho, by which, in the Mongol period, the
Mohammedans were generally designated. Thus the question
regarding the names by which the Uigurs and Mohammedans
were known to the Chinese is somewhat complicated.
As the Uigurs originate from eastern Asia, we have of course to
look for their history to the Chinese historical records, where
bulky articles are devoted to them. It is not my intention here
to give a complete translation of these accounts, which would be
very tedious to the reader. The history of the Uigurs from
Chinese sources has long been made accessible to European sa-
vants. A good translation of these accounts has been given by
Visdelou in the Suppl. à la Bibl. Orient. Father Hyacinth in
his work "The Nations of Central Asia" (in Russian), gives the
most detailed information on the history of the Uigurs; but his
accounts conclude with the 10th century. Besides these, Klaproth

190
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
has written several very able articles on the Uigurs (Mémoires
relatifs à l'Asie, tom. ii, pp. 301 sqq.-Tableaux Historiques de
l'Asie, etc.) in which ho proves convincingly, that the Hui-ho of
the Chinese authors (anterior to the Mongol period) are identical
with the Uigurs;-that the idiom of this people belongs to the
stock of the Turk languages;-and that the Mohammedan authors
are right in classing the Uigurs among the eastern Turks.
Thus I may confine myself to a brief summary of the leading
facts in the history of the Uigurs; but I shall occasionally dwell
longer upon topics not previously published, and upon questions
not yet satisfactorily elucidated.
97.
In the "History of the T'ang dynasty" (618-907), a long
article is devoted to the Hui-ho or Uigurs (chap. cclviia).
It is there stated, that at the time of the Northern Wei (386-558),
the same people were called Kao-ché (it may also be pro-
nounced Kao-kü). During the Sui dynasty (589-618), they were
known under the name of Wei-ho. They were sometimes
also termed
Wu-ho, Wu-hu and Yuan-ho.
Properly it was only one of the tribes of the Kao-ché, called
Yuan-ho, from which, according to the T'ang history, the Hui-ho
derive their origin. 197 They were at first tributaries of the
Tu-kie (Turks); but from the beginning of the 7th century
the Hui-ho formed an independent kingdom. Their dominions
were then situated north of the Sie-yen-t'o (another tribe
of the Kao-ché). They had their capital on the river So-
ling (probably the Selenga is meant, a southern affluent of lake
Baikal). It was distant 7,000 li from the capital of the T'ang
(Chang-an, the present Si-an fu in Shensi). Sze-gin was
the name of the ruler of the Hui-ho, who declared himself inde-
pendent. He had the title T'e-gien. 198 His successor
菩薩 Pw-su established his residence on the river 獨樂 Tu-le
(the Tura, an affluent of the Orkhon, which discharges into
the Selenga). In the year 629, he dispatched an envoy to the
emperor of China.
His successor Hu-lu-sze-li-fa-tu-mi-du subdued
the tribe of the Sie-yen-t'o (see above), crossed the mountains
Ho-lan shan,199 arrived at the Yellow river, and in
197
In the "History of the Northern Wei" it is said, that the
Kao-ché (these two characters mean "high cart" in Chinese; and the Wei
shu explains the name, by the big wheels of their carts) originally dwelt south
of the Mongolian desert, and west of the Yellow river; but towards the end
of the 4th century of our era, they emigrated to the northern verge of Gobi.
198 Teghin was in ancient times the title of the rulers of the Turks ;-
e. g. Alpteghin, Sebegteghin of the Ghaznevid dynasty (10th century).
The mountain of A-la shan near the left bank of the Yellow river,
109

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
191
630, sent an envoy to the emperor of China in acknowledg-
ment of his supremacy; whereupon the Chinese considered the
kingdom of the Hui-ho as a vassal state.
About twenty khans of
the Hui-ho are mentioned in the T'ang history, and many par-
ticulars regarding their wars etc. are given there. I shall only speak
of the most distinguished rulers.
P'ei-lo (or Ku-li Pei-lo) came to the throne in 742.
He destroyed the empire of the Tu-kie (Turks) in 744, and then
ruled over the territory of the ancient Hiung-nu (see above, 91).
His dominions stretched to the east, as far as Shi-wei, 200
and westward to the Kin shan (Altaï mountains), while
they were bounded by the desert on the south. The Chinese
emperor bestowed upon P'ei-lo, the title
Gu-du-lu Pi-kie-k'üe k'o-han. 201 P'ei-lo established his resi-
dence among the Wu-te-kien mountains on the river
Kun, 202 where previously the Tu-küe (Turks) had dwelt.
98. We learn further from the T'ang shu, that the Hui-ho
nation was divided into nine tribes, viz. Yo-lo-ge,--which was
the tribe of the family of the khan (JE)-Hu-du-go, A-wu-
ch'ai, Le-wu-go, Du-lo-wu, Go-sa, Hi-ye-wu, Mo-go-sze-go and Hu-
wen-so.
Mo-
The Hui-ho were at first on good terms with China, but subse-
quently when they grew stronger, they often disturbed the
Chinese frontier by their predatory incursions.
yen-djo, called also
Go-le k'o-han (perhaps gurkhan;-
see above, 33), the successor of P'ei-lo, came to the throne in 756.
He was a valiant warrior and gave assistance to the Chinese
emperor against the rebellion raised by An-lu-shan. The emperor
bestowed upon him a Chinese princess, by name Ning-kuo.
The princess was accompanied by a Chinese envoy to the court of
the Hui-hui, where she was handed over to the khan. Mo-yen-djo
visited a few years ago by Colonel Prezwalsky. On modern Chinese maps
this mountain is still termed Ho-lan shan.
200
201
A people of the same stock as the K'itan.
P. may
Kutluk, in Turkish means "happy," k'o-han is evidently intended
for khan, the title of the Turkish sovereigns in Asia. See Bibl. Orient p. 502,
where this term is translated by "Grand et puissant seigneur."
observe, that in the Chinese annals, the title khan appears for the first time
under the year A. D. 312. It is there stated that in this year the Han
I-li of the tribe T'o-ba (afterwards the dynasty of Northern Wei) gave assist-
ance to the Chinese against the Hiung-nu.
202
As we shall see further on, Rashid-eddin states, that the Uigurs dwelt
near the mountains of Karakorum and on the river Orkun. One of their
tribes was called Utekien. This latter name sounds like the Chinese Wu-te-
kien.
The Kun river of the Chinese authors may be identified with the
Orkun, or Orkhon river.

192
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Mou-yü l'o-han, A. D. 762.
died the year after this marriage, and the princess returned to
China; but her younger sister, who had accompanied her, became
the wife of Mo-yen-djo's successor
I-di-gien, called also
After the death of this
khan in 779, this princess lived for many years apart from the
court of the Hui-ho, and died in that country in 790. In 788
another Chinese princess, named Hien-an, was given as
wife to the khan of the Hui-ho. She lived twenty years at the
court, having been the wife of four khans in succession.
In the year 788, the Hui-ho solicited the permission of the
Chinese emperor to change their former name Hui-ho into
Hui-hu, which would better answer their warlike character (hu
means a falcon in Chinese). The emperor acceded to this request,
and some years later the Hui-hu assisted the Chinese in their war
against the T'u-fan (Tibetans ;-see above, 93), by expelling the
latter from Pei-t'ing (the present Urumtsi;-see further on, 108),
which had been previously captured by the Tibetans, while they
sent the prisoners to the emperor of China. Again, in the year
822, a Chinese princess, by name Tai-ho, was given in
marriage to a khan of the Hui-hu. His name and title were
登羅羽錄沒密施句主錄毗伽崇德可汗 Deng-lo yi-
lu-mo mi-shi Gu-dju-lu Pi-kie ch'ung-te k'o-han. 203 A Chinese envoy
accompanied the princess to the capital of the Hui-ho. She kept
her own court there and was assisted by two ministers. In the
year 840, the Kie-gia-sze (Kirghiz) destroyed the em-
pire of the Hui-nu. Their capital was taken and the khan slain,
while the people were all dispersed. One of the ministers of the
late khan, named P'ang-t'e-le, at the head of fifteen
tribes (of the Hui-hu) fled to the Ko-lo-lu (probably
the Karluks; see further on, 121). The rest of the Uigurs emigrat-
ed to the south, and finally established themselves near the moun-
tain T'so-tze shan, where they elected a new khan. After
this they frequently disturbed the Chinese frontier, and even
succeeded in taking Tien-te (see note 18),
chung (the present Ta-t'ung fu in Shansi), and
(also in Shansi). But in 847 the Hui-hu suffered a total defeat
by the Chinese army. The last khan fled to the west; and such
of his people as were left went over to Pang-te-le, who in the
mean time had taken possession of Kan-chou (in Kansu)
Yün-
So-fang
203 Gü-dju-lu in this long name and title is probably Guchluk, a name of
Turkish (?) origin. As we have seen (above, 34), the Naiman prince who
usurped the throne of Karakhitai, in the beginning of the 13th century, was
called Guchluk. Pi-k'ie seems to represent the Turkish Buku (see further
on, 103). Ch'ung-te is a Chinese honorary title meaning "Highly virtuous."

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
193
and of the cities west of the stony desert (). 204He was
finally recognized as khan by the emperor of China. The Hui-hu
however, could never again recover their strength. Such is a short
résumé of the accounts regarding the Hui-hu, given in the
Tang shu.
99. In the Wu-tai period (first half of the 10th century), the
Hui-ho of Kan-chou sent several envoys to the Chinese court.
In the Liao shi, chap. ii, it is stated, that when A-pao-ki, the first
emperor of the Liao, in 923, was encamped near the ancient
capital of the Hui-hu (see note 237), the khan of the Hui-hui
came to pay tribute (it is not said from what part; but further on
we read in that record, that in the same year, A-pao-ki captured
one of the governors of the Hui-hu of Kan-chou, and sent one
of his officers to the khan,-probably to summon him to submit).
In chap. xxx of the Liao shi, the khan of the Hui-hu of Kan-
chou is again spoken of. When Ye-lü Ta-shi, the founder of the
Si Liao dynasty (Kara-khitai), had quitted his native country, in
1221, Pi-le-ko, the khan of the Hui-hu of Kan-chou came to meet
him and made rich presents, etc. (see above, 25).
Mention is made also of the Hui-hu of Kan-chou in the "His-
tory of the Sung dynasty" up to the year 1126. In 1128 the
Hia, or Tanguts, took Kan-chou, and subsequently also other
cities of the Hui-hu; from which time this branch of the Uigurs
is no more heard of in Chinese history. It seems that in the
History of the Kin" (12th century), nothing is recorded of the
Hui-hu. 205
"
100. In the Yüan shi we read again of the Uigurs, but now
they are mentioned by another name and in another country.
204
205
See my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 28, note 53.
I may notice here a curious tradition recorded by Chinese authors,
that in the time of their power, the Hui-hu once made prisoner one of the
chiefs of the K'itan (Liao) and forced him to tend cattle. I do not remember
in what Chinese book I saw the original account; but allusion is made to
this tradition in the narrative of Wang Yen-te; who was sent by the Sung to
Kao-ch'ang (the present Karakhodjo) towards the end of the 10th century.
He notices a valley through which he passed (somewhere south-east of Kamul),
in which, according to tradition, the K'itan had tended the herds of the Hui-
hu (see Julien's Mélanges de Géogr. Asiat. p. 90). I notice this insignificant
record, because it seems to me that the story M. Polo relates in two chapters
(7. c. vol. ii, p. 9-12) about the Golden king taken prisoner by Prester John,
and forced to look after cattle, might perhaps be traced back to this old
Chinese tradition; M. Polo having merely changed the names.
It is impos-
sible to reconcile Polo's story with the history of the Kin. It is not without
interest to observe, that the Yüan ch'ao pi shi relates the same story; but the
Mongol tradition represents Wang khan (Ung khan, the same as Prester
John, according to M. Polo, vol. i, p. 204) as having been made prisoner,
together with his mother, by the Tatars, who forced them to tend their cattle
(Palladius' transl. p. 76).

194
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
They are termed Wei-wu-r in the "History of the Mon-
gols;" and this name was applied in the Yüan period, to the people
living about the present Urumtsi, Turphan, Karakhodjo, etc. 200The
accounts of the Uigurs found in the Yüan shi, consist generally of
fragmentary statements scattered over the whole work, but met
with especially in the biographies of distinguished Uigurs in
the service of the Mongol emperors. Interesting details of their
ancient history are given in chap. cxxii, in the biography of
Ba-r-dju a-r-té di-gin, 207 prince of the
Uigurs in the days of Chinghiz. As the traditions related there
show a remarkable coincidence with the accounts of the Moham-
medan authors regarding the Uigurs; and as the Persian historians
profess to have derived their information from the Uigur annals,
there can be no doubt that the biographer of the Uigur prince was
also acquainted with the historical records of the Uigurs. The
biography of Ba-r-dju a-r-té di-gin reads as follows:-
“亦都護I-du-hu2osis the title of the kings of 高昌 Kao-
ch'ang (see further on, 111, and note 220), who in former times
dwelt in the country called Wei-wu-r. There was in
that country (where the Uigurs originally lived) a mountain called
Fu Ho-lin,200 from which two rivers take their rise, the
Tu-hu-la and the Sie-ling-ho. 210It happened
once in the night time, that a stream of light fell from heaven
upon a tree standing between the two rivers; whereupon the
tree began to swell like a pregnant woman, and after nine months
and ten days, gave birth to five boys. The youngest received the
name Bu-ko-han. He was afterwards elected king, and
subdued the neighbouring countries. 211 The thirtieth of his succes-
208
It is not however in the Yüan shi, that the name Wei-wu-r appears
for the first time. In the "History of the Liao," chap. Ixix, the tribes tribu-
tary to that dynasty are enumerated, and among them we find
the city of the Wei-wu-r. In chap. xxx, where the wanderings of Ye-lu
Ta-shi are recorded, Wei-wu is mentioned among the seven cities,
which had sent their chief's to Ye-lu Ta-shi at Pei-t'ing (see above, 25).
Ch'ang-ch'un, when travelling to the west, in 1221, met the ruler of Djang-
balik, who was a
Wei-wu-r (see further on, 114, and also my
Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 31).
207
208
Compare note 198.
The same title reads Iduhut in the Yüan ch'ao pi shi (see note 245),
and Idicut in the Djami ut Tevarikh (see further on, 105). Compare also
98 supra, I-di-gien. Thus the T'ang shu calls one of the Uigur khans.
209 Ho-lin is the Chinese name for Karakorum. In speaking of the
ancient territory of the Wei-wu-r, the Chinese biographer means the country
about Karakorum.
210
211
Evidently the river Tura and Selenga are meant.
Bu-k'o-han seems to be the same as the Pi-kie k'o-han of the T'ang

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
195
sors 12 was called Yü-lun di-gin. He was valiant
and powerful, and frequently engaged in war with the T'ang
emperor, who tried to form an alliance with him by marriage. A
Chinese princess, named Kin-lien, was given in marriage
to
Go-li di-gin, the son of Yü-lun di-gin. She
lived near Ho-lin, at a place called
meaning "the hill, where the spouse lives.'
other mountain called
Bie-li bo-li da,
There was also an-
Tien-ko-li yü da-ho, 213
meaning "mountain of heavenly reason." South of it stood a
mountain Hu-li da-ho, 21 or "mountain of happiness."
When the envoy of the T'ang arrived at the frontier of the
Wei-wu-r, he was told, that the supremacy of Ho-lin depended on
the possession of the Mountain of Happiness;-if the T'ang could
destroy it, the power of the Uigurs would be broken. The Chinese
envoy accordingly asked from the khan of the Uigurs, merely the
Mountain of Happiness, as a price for the Chinese princess given in
marriage; to which the khan agreed. As the hill was big, the Chinese
made great fire around and then poured vinegar on it. After
it had been broken into pieces, it was placed on carts and carried
away to China. Subsequently beasts and birds began to utter
plaintive cries predicting mischief. Yü-lun di-gin died seven days
after, and the empire was troubled by the outbreak of rebellions
and calamities of all kinds. Several generations later, the dynas-
ty of the Wei-wu-r was extinguished, and the people were com-
pelled to emigrate. 215They removed their abodes to Kiao-
chou, which is the same as Huo-chou, and occupied the
whole country comprised under the name of Bie-shi-ba-li (Bishba-
lik). 216
Their dominions then stretched to the north as far as
A-shu (unknown to me), and south as far as Tsiu-
shu (see above, 97), and the Buku khan of the Mohammedan authors (103).
Thirty is probably a misprint.
212
213
Tengri, in all Turkish dialects means "Heaven;" tagh, means "moun
tain;" yuz, means "modus, ratio" (compare Klaproth's Mém. rel. à l'Asie,
tom. ii, p. 341).
214
215
K'ol in Turkish means "accident heureux" (Klaproth, 1. c.).
Comparing this Uigur tradition with the statements in the T'ang
history on the same subject, we find that they agree in the chief points;
although there are some differences between them respecting the names of
the khans and the Chinese princesses. Besides this, the Uigur accounts
present some anachronisms. Goli digin, who-according to Bardju's bio-
graphy-married the Chinese princess, is probably identical with the Go-le
k'o-han of the Tang shu.
210
遷于交州卽火州別失八里之地 On Bish-
balik and Huo-chou (Karakhodjo), see further on, 109, 111.

196
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
ts'üan;17on the east they bordered upon
Wu-tun and
Gia-shi-ha, 218 and on the west were contiguous to
Si-fan. 219 There they dwelt more than nine hundred and seven-
ty years, 220up to the time of Ba-r-dju a-r-té di-gin.
"Ba-r-dju was a vassal of the K'itan (Kara-khitai), but after
hearing (1209) that Chinghiz was about to move on an expedition
to So-fang, 221 he ordered the officers of the K'itan who
were stationed in his country to be slain, and sent to Chinghiz to
offer his submission. The emperor then sent envoys to the I-du-hu,
217
An ancient name for the present Su-chou, in Kansu. The district of
Tsiu-ts'üan was established during the Han.
218
It seems to me that by Wu-tun, the same country is meant as the
Hu-tun of the Kin shi (see note 24). Regarding Gia-shi-ha I may observe,
that, according to Rashid, the Mongols called the Tangut empire Ka-shi
(D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 95).
210
Tibet (see above, 93). At the time here spoken of (10th or 11th
century), the dominions of the Tibetans extended much further north than
they do now.
220
There seems to be a mistake again in the figure, owing to which
Klaproth has fallen into a historical error respecting the early history of the
Uigurs. Klaproth suggests, that, according to the Chinese authors, the country
of Ché-shi (pronounced also Kü-shi or Kü-sze), termed also
Ku-she (Ku-sze), first mentioned in the Han history before our era, and known
under the name of Kao-ch'ang at the time of the T'ang dynasty, was the
seat of the Uigurs two centuries before our era (see Mém. rel. à l'Asie, tom, ii,
pp. 321-351). Klaproth always considers Ku-sze and Kao-ch'ang to be iden-
tical with the Uigurs; but no corroboration of this view can be found in Chi-
nese works. The Chinese historians anterior to the Mongol period, call the
Uigurs Hui-ho or Hui-hu; and in recording the history of the Ku-sze and
Kao-ch'ang, they do not mention this people. As we have seen, the Yüan shi
clearly states, that the Uigurs emigrated to Kao-ch'ang, only after the ex-
tinction of their empire in Mongolia. Klaproth was misled by Chinese
statements of more recent date, that the country of the Wei-wu-r in the days
of the Mongols, was the same as the Kao-ch'ang of the T'ang and the Ku-sze
of the Han. This statement is quite correct, but it does not involve the
occupation of this country by the Uigurs at so early a date. Julien in his
Mél. de Géographie Asiat. p. 103, gives a translation of the history of Kao-
ch'ang, and always identifies this name with the country of the Uigurs. In
the Chinese text he translated (from the Wen hien t'ung k'ao) however, the
name of the Uigurs appears only once. Ma Tuan-lin, the author of the Wen
hien t'ung k'ao, who wrote in the 13th century, states, that Kao-ch'ang was
also called the country of the Hui-hu; for many Hui-hu or Uigurs were settled
there. But he speaks of a time posterior to the T'ang and the destruction of
the empire of the Hui-hu in Mongolia. At the time of the T'ang dynasty,
Kao-ch'ang belonged to China, not to the Uigurs; and the Chinese changed
the name into Si-chou (see article Kao-ch'ang in the T'ang shu,
chap. celviiib). There is no doubt, that in the 10th century, Kao-ch'ang
was inhabited by Uigurs. The "History of the Sung" records, under the year
965, that the khan of the Hui-hu of Si-chou sent a Buddhist priest with
presents to the emperor of China.
221
So-fang means "the northern regions (of China)."

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
197
who was much delighted, and dispatched another embassy to
Chinghiz with the following answer:-"Your servant has heard of
Your Majesty. I hate the K'itan, and for a long time I have en-
tertained the desire to submit to your power. Now that the
message of Your Highness has reached me, I am happy to have
an opportunity of accomplishing my desire; and I shall rejoice
to hear, that all nations have acknowledged Your Majesty's supre-
macy." Chinghiz then attacked T'ai-yang han (khan of the
Naimans) and T'o-to (khan of the Merkits).
"After the latter had been slain, his four sons (their names are
given in the text) fled with the head of their father to the river
Ye-r-di-shi (Irtysh). Then Ba-r-dju a-r-té di-gin
joined (the Mongol army), and defeated and killed the four sons in
a battle on the river Ts'an (Dsan). 222 After this he sent
envoys with valuable presents to the emperor; and when Chinghiz
was encamped on the river K'ie-lu-lien (Kerulun), the
I-du-hu arrived himself (in the spring of 1211, according to the Annals
of the Yüan shi), and solicited permission to make a present of
horses and dogs to the sons of the emperor. Chinghiz was mov-
ed by the I-du-hu's words; bestowed upon him his daughter
Ye-li an-dun, 22 3 and received him as his son.
sequently Ba-r-dju a-r-té di-gin accompanied Dje-bie no-yen (see
note 66) in the war against Han Mien-li so-tan
(Khan Melik sultan) the chief of the Mohammedans. 224 He dis-
tinguished himself at the siege of Ni-sha-bu-bi
(Nishabur), and (after returning from the west)
expedition to Ho-si (the Tangut empire).
crushed a rebellion of ten thousand men of his
been unwilling to submit to the new institutions.
the title of I-du-hu passed successively to his (eldest) son, grandson,
etc. (I omit the details regarding his successor)." 225
Sub-
took part in the
He had previously
troops, who had
After his death
101. There are many other biographies in the Yüan shi, devot-
ed to Uigurs of eminence in the service of the Mongol emperors.
I will give their names, as they may perhaps present some interest
222
223
See above, 34, and note 64.
The
Rashid-eddin calls this princess Altun bigui (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 111).
In the Yüan ch'ao pi shi, her name is written Ale altun (see note 245).
title bie-gi, occurs also in the Yüan shi as a title of princesses. Compare
chap. cix, Table of the princesses, where another daughter of Chinghiz is styled
Huo-chén bie-gi. Rashid terms the same princess Hu-djin
bigui (Berezin, l. c. vol. i, p. 152).
224
225
It seems that Mohammed, sultan of Khorazm is meant.
It is known, that after Chinghiz' death, the country of the Uigurs
belonged to Chagatai's dominions. The Uigur princes were probably ap-
pointed governors there, with the title I-du-hu.

198
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
in connection with the Uigur language, of which so little is
known.
Chap. cxxiv: Ha-la-yi ha-ch'i bei-lu. In this biography some
details are found concerning the country of the Uigurs and their
intercourse with the Kara-khitai. Ibid. A-lien t'ie-mu-r. Ibid. :
Ta-ta-t'ung-ko. He was at first, minister at the court of the Naimans.
His biography has been translated by Rémusat, from the Yuan shi
lei pien, and published in his Nouv. Mél. Asiat. tom. ii, p. 61. Ibid.:
T'a-t'a-t'ung-k'o's sons, Yü-hu mi-shi, Li-hun mi-shi, Su-lo-hai.
Chap. cxxv: Bu-lu hai-ya. His father Gi-t'ai hai-ya, and his
grandfather Ya-r-ba hai-ya.
Bu-lu hai-ya's son Lien-hi-sien has a separate biography in chap.
cxxvi.
Chap. cxxviii: A-li hai-ya. He distinguished himself at the
siege of Siang-yang fu in 1272.
Chap. cxxx: A-lu-hun sa-li. His grandfather A-ta'i sa-li.
His brothers Wei-u-r sa-li and Dao-wa-ch'i sa-li.
Chap. cxxxi: I-hei mi-shi. He was in the life-guard of Kubilaï,
and took part in the expedition to Java.
Chap. cxxxiii: Ye-sien-nai. His father Kien hai-ya. Ibid. :
T'o-li shi-guan. His father Tie-k'o-shu.
Chap, cxxxiv: Si-ban. His father K'üe-li-bie wa-ch'i. Ibid.:
T'ang-jen-dsu. His grandfather T'ang-gu-dji. Ibid. : Siao-yun-shi
Po-hu-lien. His son Ba-dan.
Chap. cxxxv: Ye-gü-lien-ch'i hai-ya.
Chap. cxxxvii: A-li hai-ya (not to be confounded with the
A-li hai-ya in chap. cxxviii). His father T'o-lie, and his brother
Ye-na.
Chap. cxcv: Bo-yen bu-hua di-gin.
Other names of distinguished Uigurs will be found further on
(see articles Bishbalik, Karakhodjo, etc.).
102. Let us turn now to the western mediæval accounts of the
Uigurs. As to the records of the Persian historians on this sub-
ject, I invariably depend upon the excellent translations of
D'Ohsson.
Assemani, the celebrated orientalist (1768), in his Bibliotheca
Orientalis Clementino Vaticana, states, that in the history of the
Nestorians, the name of Ighur or Iaghur is often mentioned, and
denotes the eastern Turks of Khatai (Klaproth, l. c.).
Abulfaradj or Bar Hebræus (1226-1286), in his chronicle
(written in Syriac, and published in Latin in the middle of the 17th
century at Oxford, under the title Historia compendiosa dynastia-
rum), p. 32, speaks of the prince of the Ighurs, who submitted to
Chinghiz, and adds, that the Ighurs are a numerous tribe of the
eastern Turks belonging to Khatai.

館書圖學大京燕
Yenching University Library
HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
199
It seems that the Uigurs were not known by this name in
western Asia before the beginning of the 13th century; but as Klap-
roth has proved, that long before this time they had extended
their power far to the west, it may be assumed, that by the Turks
and the khans of Turkistan,-who according to the Mohammedan
authors were often at war with the Samanids, Ghaznevids and Sel-
djuks in the 10th, 11th and 12th centuries, we are to understand
the western Uigurs. 226
In Deguignes' Hist. des Huns, tom. iii, p. 29, we read (he
translates apparently from Abulfaradj), that in A. D. 993, Bogran
Khan Harun, khan of the Turks, whose residence was at Bela-
sagun, who reigned also over Kashgar, Khoten and Taras, and
whose dominions stretched as far as the frontier of China,-took
Bokhara from Noe, sultan of the Samanids. His son Illik ilkhan
waged war with the Ghaznevids (who had overthrown the Samanids),
and in 1006, together with another khan called Cadar, advanced as
far as Balkh (Deguignes, tom. iii, p. 163). Finally, Deguignes
speaks (tom. iiib, p. 252) of a khan of the Uigurs, Illik, residing
in Bela-sagun, when the Kara-khitai arrived in 1125.227
It seems that the Persian and Arabian historians of the 13th
century applied the name Uigur,-which in Mohammedan writings
is first met with about this time,-only to that branch of the Uigurs
known to the Chinese and Mongols under the name of Wei-wu-r,
and established in the eastern part of eastern Turkistan (Urumtsi,
Turphan, etc.). The statements of the Mohammedan authors regard-
ing the Uigurs, are as we shall see, in substantial accordance with
what the Yüan shi records of the history of the Wei-wu-r.
103. The Tarikh Djihan Kushai gives accounts of the Uigurs
in great detail. I present in the following, an English version of
D'Ohsson's translation (tom. i, pp. 430 sqq.), omitting however, some
unimportant particulars. The author of the Tarikh Djihan Kushai
226
The Turks, mentioned by the Mohammedan authors of the 6th to the
8th century, are the Tu-küe. That nation, according to the Chinese
authors, was in power in Mongolia and central Asia from the 5th to
the 8th century. Their empire was destroyed by the Hui-ho or Uigurs,
and the T'ang shu records, that about the middle of the 8th century, the
Hui-ho conquered the land of the western Tu-kie and took their capital,
situated on the river Su-ye (Chu). Compare note 57, on Bela-sagun and the
Chu river.
227
Here, as usual, it is impossible to make out where Deguignes' in-
formation is drawn from. He feels no hesitation in asserting: "Illik khan
que les Chinois appellent Pi-le-ko." He means the khan of the Hui-hu, who
came to meet Ye-lü Ta-shi when he started from Pei-t'ing (Urumtsi) and
proceeded westward (compare above, 25). But the Liao shi, in the narrative
of Ye-lü Ta-shi's wanderings, seems to intimate that Pi-le-ko resided in Kan-
chou, not in Bela-sagun.

200
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
first states, in the introduction of the article, that his information
has been drawn from Uigur books; but signifies his disbelief in
these tales, which he quotes only as a curiosity. After that he
continues as follows:-
"The Uigurs have a tradition, that they originally dwelt on the
banks of the river Orkun, 228 which takes its rise in the mountains
called Karakorum, 229 whence the name of the city, recently built
by the khan (Ogotai), has been derived. Thirty rivers take their
rise among these mountains, and thirty tribes dwelt on their
banks. 30 These Uigurs, who had their abodes in the valley of
the Orkun, were divided into two tribes. After having consider-
ably increased in number they elected a king, and five hundred
years later Buku khan appeared. People say, that he is the same
as Efrassiab. 31 There is among the mountains of Karakorum
an ancient pit, called the pit of Pijen. 232 The vestiges of a city
and a
palace are to be seen on the banks of the Orkun. The
ancient name of this city was Ordu balik, but it is known now
under the name of Mao balik. 233 Before the palace are found
some stones covered with inscriptions, which we have seen. In
the reign of the khan (Ogotai) these stones were removed, when a
pit was discovered, in which was a great stone tablet with an
inscription. The emperor ordered it to be examined by people of
different nations; but no one was found who could read it.
"Finally, the khan sent to China for men, who are called (the
name is wanting in the manuscript;-D'Ohsson supplies kames;-
see further on, 104). The inscription, which proved to be in their
language and character, was as follows:-
"At a place called Kumlandju, situated at the junction of the
rivers Tugola and Selinga, 2 3 4 which take their rise in the mountains
of Karakorum, there were two trees close together; one of them a
fistul tree, resembling a pine, evergreen like a cypress, and with
cone-like fruit; 35 the other, a wild pine. Between these two trees
228
The Orkhon of our maps. Probably the Kun river of the T'ang
annals is the same. See note 202.
229
See note 209.
230 The mountains around Karakorum in fact abound in water. All
these rivers belong to the system of the Selenga.
231
Efrassiab is the name of a (mythical) king of the Turks, mentioned
by the ancient Persian authors.
232
Pijen is the name of a Persian hero, who was taken prisoner by
Efrassiab and kept for some time in a well. He was delivered by the famous
Rustem.
233
Ordu balik, means "the city of the ordu, or residence of the khan."
D'Ohsson translates Mao balik by "mauvaise ville,-ville ruinée."
The rivers Tura and Selenga;-see above, 97.
234
235
Fistuk, in Arabic means the "pistacia tree;" but the description given

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
201
a hillock appeared, upon which a stream of light descended from
heaven; whereupon the hillock began to grow, and marvellous
things were seen about it. Just after the lapse of the period of a
woman's pregnancy, the hillock opened, and five hillocks resembling
tents were seen. In each tent was a little boy; and to these boys
the people paid the greatest respect. The youngest of them, called
Buku tegin, was very intelligent, and subsequently the Uigurs
made him their khan. The reign of Buku khan was very prosper-
ous, and he was marvellously assisted by three ravens sent by
Heaven. They knew all the languages of the world, and brought
news whencesoever it was required. It happened once, that a
spirit under the shape of a maid appeared to Buku khan in a
dream, and conducted him to the mountain Kut tag. 236 There
they had conferences every night for seven years six months and
twenty-two days. On the last night the maid took leave, and
revealed to Buku that he would rule over the whole world. He
then rallied his troops and sent his brothers to wage war against
the Mongols, the Kirghiz, the Tanguts and the Khitai. All returned
to the river Orkun with great booty and a large number of captives.
After this the city of Ordu balik was built. 237 Buku khan had
here does not agree with pistacia vera. Besides, this tree is not found in
Mongolia.
236 Probably the same as the Hu-li da-ho or "Mountain of Happiness"
in the Chinese records;-see note 214.
237
In the T'ang annals it is stated (see above, 97), that Gu-du-lu P'i-k'ie-
k'üe k'o-han, in the middle of the 8th century established his residence on the
river Kun (Orkun of the Tarikh Djihan Kushai). I have no doubt that
Pi-kie ko-han is the Buku khan of the Persian records, and the Bu-k'o han
of the Yüan shi (see above, 100). The ancient map of Mongolia in the Yuan
shi lei pien (see above, 10), maiks
or the city of Bo-ko han
north-east of Karakorum. The existence of the ancient capital of the Uigurs,
near the place where Karakorum was built, and of the ancient inscriptions
there, is corroborated by the narrative of an expedition of the first Liao
emperor to the north, recorded in the Liao shi, chap. ii. We read there :-
"Tai-tsu (A-pao-ki, 916-925), in 923, undertook an expedition through
the ancient territories of the
Shan-yü (the khans of the ancient
Hiung-nu in Mongolia). On the first day of the 9th month he encamped
near the ancient city of the Hui-hu, where he ordered a marble tablet
to be erected, with the accounts of his victories engraved......... He gave
orders also to take water from the J Kin ho (Golden river), and stones
from the Wushan ("black hills;"-probably the Karakorum mountains),
and carry them home on carts to the river Huang ho (the Shara muren
in eastern Mongolia) and the mount *Mu-ye (a sacred mount of the
Liao, situated at the junction of the Lo-ha river and the Shara muren), to
build a monument for posterity, to prove that the rivers and the mountains
have come to offer tribute......... On the 29th of the same month (the emperor
sojourned still at the same place), he ordered the ancient monument of

202
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
another dream, in which he saw a man dressed in white, who gave
him a piece of jude, in the form of a pine tree, and said to him:-
As long as you are able to keep this piece of jade in your posses-
sion, you will rule over the four quarters of the globe. His
minister had the same dream. Buku khan then directed his armies
to the west, and arrived in Turkistan, where he established his
residence on a beautiful plain, abounding in water and pasture.
There he built the city of Bela-sagun, now called Gu balik (see
above, note 57). In the space of twelve years Buku khan suc-
ceeded in subduing the whole world. His armies advanced as far
as the regions where the people resembled brutes; and they were
informed, that no inhabitants were to be found beyond. The
kings of all the subdued countries were carried to Buku khan, who
received them with benevolence; with the single exception however
of the king of India, to whom an audience was refused, owing to
his extreme ugliness. All were allowed to return to their countries
after tribute had been imposed upon them. When Buku khan
had completed this great enterprise he left Bela-sagun and returned
to his native country.'
104. "As to the religion of the Uigurs at the time spoken of,
they had certain magicians, which they called kam. 238
The same
are found even now among the Mongols. These magicians say,
that they are possessed by demons, who inform them of every-
thing they wish to know. Even now the greater part of the des-
cendants of Chinghiz have the firmest faith in them. Nothing
of importance is undertaken without consulting the astrologers.
These kams also cure maladies. The Uigurs sent to the khan of
Khitai an idolatrous country-for the men called numi. These have
a sacred book called num, 2 39 which is their moral code,-a collection
of fables and tales interpersed with good precepts. Amongst many
things it is enjoined, to abstain from injuring other persons, or
even dumb animals. There are several sects of the numi, who
differ in their dogmas. The most wide-spread is the sect believing
in the doctrine of metempsychosis, etc. When the numi had ar-
rived from Khitai, the Uigurs arranged a discussion between them and
238
Pi-k'o han to be restored. Besides this, an inscription was made in
letters of the K'i-tan, Tu-küe and Chinese, to glorify the feats of P'i-k'o han.
There can scarcely be any doubt that by kam, the shamans are meant,
who up to this time sustain an important role in Mongolia and Siberia. As far
as I know, the term kam is unknown at the present day; it was probably a
Uigur word, and its existence at the period and in the regions here spoken of
by the Persian author, is corroborated by the "History of the T'ang. In
chap. cclixb, article K'ie-gia-sze (Kirghiz), we find a statement that in this
country the fortune-tellers (or diviners) are called Kan (H).
D'Ohsson renders numi, by "lamas." He may be right. In modern
Mongol, nom means "a sacred book."
239

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
203
the kam, in order to test the respective merits of the two religions;
but after the numi had read some chapters of their books, the kam
could say nothing in reply. The Uigurs thereupon embraced the
religion of the numi. Among all the idolaters of the east, these
are the bitterest enemies of Islamism. We have not given more
than the hundredth part of the absurdities found in the Uigur
books, in order to show the ignorance and stupidity of this people.
One of my friends told me, that he had read in a book, the above-
related story of the two trees;-with the explanation, that a man
had scooped out the trunks of these trees, put his boys in the
cavities, and placed a light in the vicinity.
"Buku khan was happy to the end of his life, and was succeeded
by one of his sons. Subsequently the Uigurs observed, that all
beasts, domestic as well as wild, and even the little children,
uttered the words ghech, ghech, 240 which means 'go away.' They
took this for a divine command and emigrated; but the same
sounds continued to be heard by the Uigurs, until they had arrived
at the plain, where subsequently the city of Bishbalik was
founded. 241 There they settled and established five divisions,
which they called Bishbalik (five cities). 242 From that time
the descendants of Buku khan have continued to rule over this
country, and their kings bear the title Idikut. The above-mentioned
trees were placed in their temples."
105. Rashid-eddin gives some new information in his account
of the Uigurs. The name Uigur, which means "allies,-auxi-
liaries" in Turkish, he explains by the tradition, that Oghuz khan,
the progenitor of all the Turk tribes, had bestowed this name on
some of his relatives, who adhered to him when he was attacked
by the others. Rashid states further :-
"It is reported, that in the (ancient) country of the Uigurs,
there are two ridges of mountains; one is called Bukeratu turluk;
the other Uskun luk tangrim. Between them are the mountains of
Karakorum, the name of which has been given to the city built by
Ogotai khan. Near the two chains there is yet another mountain
called Kut tag (see note 236). There is in these regions,-occupied
240
Ghech, in Turkish is the imperative of the verb ghechmek "to go
away" (Klaproth, Mém. rél. à l'Asie, tom. ii, p. 341).
241
It is not stated in the record of the Persian historian, at what time.
this emigration of the Uigurs took place; but as according to the Chinese
accounts of the Uigurs, Pi-k'ie k'o-han or Buku khan, lived in the middle
of the 8th century, and the empire of the Hui-hu or Uigurs was destroyed
in 840 by the Kirghiz,-they probably emigrated to the Tien shan after this
event.
242
I am not aware what D'Ohsson intended by,-"ils bâtirent cinq
quartiers auquels ils donnèrent le nom de Bishbalik;"-it is not clear whether
he means one city with five divisions, or five separate cities.

204
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
anciently by the Uigurs,-a country irrigated by ten rivers, and
another with nine rivers. Those tribes who dwelt on the borders
of the ten rivers were called On Uigurs; those who settled in the
valleys of the nine rivers, Tokuz Uigurs. 243 The following are
the names of the Ten-rivers tribes, called also On Orkun :244-
Ishkil, in some MSS. Ishlik.
Oniguer (perhaps the river Onghin, south of Karakorum).
Tukair.
Uzkaider, in some MSS. Askander (perhaps the Adsirga gol,
one of the sources of the Selenga).
Bular (Bula is the name of an affluent of the Khara gol, which
empties itself into the Orkhon). Berezin, vol. i, p. 125, however,
writes this name Tulu.
Badar (in some MSS. Tardar).
Ader (one of the sources of the Selenga is called Eder).
Ukh tabin.
Kamlandju (a place of the same name is mentioned in the Tarikh
Djihan Kushai, at the junction of the Tura and Selenga;-see 103).
Utikian (the name of a mountain Wu-te-kien, near the river Kun
or Orkhon is mentioned in the T'ang history;-see above, 97).
. Besides those tribes, who dwelt on the above-named rivers, there
were a hundred and twenty other tribes of the Uigurs."
In accordance with the Yüan shi, Rashid-eddin reports (D'Ohs-
son, tom. i, p. 109;--Berezin, vol. i, p. 127), that the Uigurs were
tributary to the gurkhan of Kara-khitai, who appointed his
governors in their country. But (in 1209) Bardjuk, Idikut of the
Uigurs (Ba-r-dju a-r-té di-gin in the Yüan shi) gave orders to kill
the Kara-khitai governor in the city of Karakhodjo (see further
on, 111), named Shukem, who was much disliked on account
of his extortions. When Chinghiz had heard of this event, he
dispatched two of his officers, Alb utuk and Derbay, to the Idikut.
Bardjuk then sent two envoys to Chinghiz. (I may here quote
D'Ohsson's original translation from the Djami ut Tevarikh):—
"L'Idicut fit partir deux envoyés chargés de dire à Tchinguiz-
khan que, sur la renommé de sa grandeur et de sa puissance, il
allait lui envoyer des ambassadeurs, pour l'instruire de ses nouvelles
243
On, in Turkish means "ten;" tokuz means "nine" (D'Ohsson).
244 My identifications of the rivers here, enumerated, refer to the excellent
map of western Mongolia in Petermann's Geograph. Mitth. 1872, tab. 17.
In the "History of the T'ang" (see above, 98) nine tribes of the Uigurs are
enumerated. As these names have no resemblance to the names given by
Rashid, it may be assumed, that the T'ang history records the names of the
tokuz, or Nine-rivers Uigurs. The Yi t'ung chi, or "Great geography of the
Chinese empire" states, that the Selenga has six sources and three affluents;
but only the principal sources and affluents are enumerated there.
system of the Selenga abounds in watercourses.
The

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
205
relations avec le Gour-khan de Cara-khitai, lorsque l'arrivée inatten-
due de ses envoyés lui avait causé la plus agréable surprise;-'que, de
même que les nuages laissent voir, en se dissipant, le soleil brillant
d'un nouvel éclat, ou que la glace, lorsqu'elle était brisée, découvrait
l'onde pure et limpide, de même son abattement venait de faire
place à l'allégresse la plus vive; qu'il lui livrait son pays et qu'il
aspirait à devenir son fils et son serviteur." "245
Chinghiz had been previously informed, that the Idikut had
refused to harbour the brother and four sons of Tucta (khan of the
Merkits), after their defeat on the river Djem (see above, 100), and
accordingly the envoys were kindly received. Chinghiz invited
the Idikut to come in person to render homage, and to bring as
presents the most precious things found in his treasury. When
Bardjuk arrived, he was received with the greatest cordiality by
Chinghiz, who promised him his daughter Altun bigui in marriage;
but the princess died before the marriage had been consummated.
Subsequently Ogotai khan intended to bestow the princess Aladji
bigui upon the Idikut, when the latter died; whereupon this
princess was given in marriage to his son Kishmain.
106. Abdalla Beidavi, in his "History of China" (see above,
note 10) terms the Uigurs, Igurs; and states that they are Bud-
dhists; p. 40: Xecmuni Berchan2 46 quidam erat. Hunc Indi, Kis-
mirani, Tibetenses, Chataji, Tangutani & Igurai pro Prophetâ
habebant." On p. 69, mention is made of the "Chronologi Igure."
245
I have quoted this passage, because it sounds like a literal translation
from the Yüan ch'ao pi shi, and furnishes evidence,-which indeed might be
fortified by many other examples,-that the author of the Mongol history of
Chinghiz, has drawn his information from the same sources as Rashid-eddin.
The Chinese translation of the Yüan ch'ao pi shi, regarding the Idikut's rela-
tions with Chinghiz khan runs as follows (chap. xi, fol. 4):-
與勒拜銀於你思五若水如俺黑惕委
了阿見珠是第說子得 - 雲聽等差吾
勒成子亦五你出恩般净得來使種
屯吉假都子來氣好見皇成臣的
名思匹兀也女力阿生日帝吉阿主
的遂等 惕教子者願喜冰的思惕亦
女將物將你也成做歡消聲處乞都
子阿來金做與吉第了見名說刺兀
240
Sakiamuni Burkhan, or Buddha. Burkhan, in Mongol means "God."

206
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
It is a curious fact, worthy of notice, that Carpini takes the Uigurs
to be Nestorian Christians. He states on pp. 650, 651, "Chingis
prædictus, præparavit se rursùs ad prælium et contrà terram Huiur-
orum processit ad bellum; isti homines sunt christiani de sectâ
Nestorianorum: quos etiam bello devicit; et illorum litteras acce-
perunt, nàm priùs scripturam aliquam non habebant; nunc autem
appellant eandem litteram Mongalorum."2 17
Rubruquis, pp. 282, 283, gives the following account of the
Uigurs, when speaking of the idolaters of Asia :-"Primi sunt
Iugures, quorum terra contiguatur cum predicta teria Organum, 248
inter montes illos versus orientem; et in omnibus civitatibus eorum
sunt mixti Nestorini et Saraceni, et ipsi etiam sunt diffusi versus
Persidem in civitatibus Saracenorum. In predicta civitate Caalac249
habebant ipsi tres ydolatrias, quarum duas intravi ut viderem stul-
titias eorum. In prima inveni quemdam qui habebat cruciculam
de atramento super manum suam, unde credidi quod esset christi-
anus, quia ad omnia que querebam ab eo respondebat ut christianus.
Unde quesivi ab eo: Quare ergo non habetis hic crucem et ymagi-
nem Jhesu Christi?' Et ipse respondit: 'Non habemus consuetu-
dinem.' Unde ego credidi quod essent christiani, sed ex defectu
doctrine omitterent. Videbam enim ibi post quamdam cistam,
que erat eis loco altaris, super quam ponunt lucernas et oblationes,
quamdam ymaginem habentem alas quasi sancti Michaelis, et alias
quasi episcoporum tenentes digitos sicut ad benedicendum."250
After this Rubruquis gives a detailed account of the worship of
the Uigurs.
Haithon (the historian) in his Historia Orientalis (edition of
Müller, Greiffenhag, p. 3), applies the name Tarsa 251 to the
country of the Uigurs, whom he terms Iogurs :-
247
With reference to the Uigur written characters, see Colonel Yule's
Cathay, p. 205.
248
The country of Organum, of Rubruquis, seems to be identical with
the present Ili. See my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 62.
249
I think Colonel Yule is right in stating (Cathay, p. ccxii) that Kaya-
lik or Cailac, may be placed near the modern Russian city of Kopal. See
also note 271.
250
These particulars, recorded by Rubruquis, of the idol-worship of the
Uigurs, explain Carpini's view, that they were Christians.
231
Tersa is a name applied properly by the Persians to the Christians.
Colonel Yule thinks that its application to the Uigurs indicates the extensive
prevalence of Nestorian Christianity among them. John of Monte Corvino, in
a letter written in the beginning of the 14th century at Peking, and refer-
red to by Rémusat in his Nouv. Mel. Asiat. tom. ii, p. 198, speaks of Tarsic
characters, meaning evidently Uigur letters. Archimandrite Palladius has
proved (Russian Oriental Record, p. 23) that the term Tie-sie, of
frequent occurrence in Chinese works of the Mongol period, is intended to
render the word Tersa. In Ch'ang-ch'un's narrative (Chin. Med. Trav.
p. 31), a chief of the Tie-sie is mentioned in the Uigur country.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
207
"In regno Tarsa sunt tres provinciæ quarum dominatores se
reges faciunt appellare. Homines illius patriæ nominantur Iogur,
semper idola coluerunt et adhuc colunt omnes, præter decem cogna-
tiones illorum regum, que per demonstrationem stellæ venerunt
adorare nativitatem in Betlehem Judæ. Et adhuc multi magni et
nobiles inveniuntur inter Tartaros de cognatione illa qui tenent
firmiter fidem Christi. . . . . . . Istud regnum Tarsæ ex parte
orientis suos habet confines cum regno Cathay, ex parte occidentis
cum regno Turquestan, ex parte septentrionis cum quodam de-
serto, 252 ex parte vero meridiei cum quadam ditissima provincia
quæ vocatur Sym, quæ inter regnum Indiæ et regnum Cathay
habet citum. Et in illa provincia inveniuntur lapides adamantis."
107. In the Ming period, 1368-1644, the Uigurs were known
to the Chinese under the name of
Wei-wu-r, as in the
days of the Mongols, and they then lived in the same countries as
in the 13th century. The "History of the Ming," in the section
on foreign countries, gives some particulars regarding their location.
They are mentioned as living in Ha-mi or Kamul (see above, 91),
in Huo chou and Liu-ch'eng (see further on, 112), and also as inha-
bitants of the three military stations or districts (wei)
An-ting, A-tuan and K'ü-sien. The position of these
three wei is indicated in the Ming shi (chap. cccxxx, pp. 12-16);
the first, 1,500 li south-west of Kan-chou; Kü-sien, to the east of
An-ting; and A-tuan, formed originally a part of An-ting. It is
further stated there, that An-ting at the time of the Yüan was called
Sa-li wei-wu-r. This name occurs only once in
the Yuan shi, in Subutai's biography (Yüan shi, chap. cxxi).
Carpini, on p. 615, mentions Suri-Huiur among the countries
conquered by Chinghiz.
It seems that even in our day, the Uigurs still live in the same
countries they inhabited seven hundred years ago. At least the
Yi tung chi of the present dynasty speaks of some begs of the
Yugur (see Klaproth, Mém. rel. à l'Asie, tom. ii, p. 346). These
countries are still unexplored; and all that we know of them is
from Chinese sources.
Bie-shi-ba-li= Bishbalik.
108. Respecting Bishbalik, we may infer from the statements
of Persian authors, as also from Chinese accounts, that there was a
city of this name in the middle ages; and at the same time it is
clear that during the Mongol period, Bishbalik was a general term
applied to the country of the Uigurs, comprising, as I have shown,
This desert, north of the country of the Uigurs, was crossed by Ch'ang-
ch'un in 1221 (see Notes on Chin, Med. Trav. pp. 28, 29).

208
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
the present Urumtsi, the cities of Huo-chou, Luktsin, and other
places south of the Celestial mountains. In the "History of the
Ming" however, chap. cccxxxii, fol. 9, Bie-shi-ba-li is spoken of,
in the 15th and 16th centuries, as a great kingdom in central Asia,
bordering westward on the kingdom of Samarcand, southward on
Yü-tien (Khotan;-see 129), eastward on Huo-chou (see 111), and
northward on Wa-la (the Eleuths). It comprised also Kara-
shar and Kuché. It is further stated there that Bie-shi-ba-li is
distant north-west from Kia-yü kuan (see above, 41) 3,700 li (here
probably the capital of the kingdom is meant). Bie-shi-ba-li, in the
Ming period, had frequent intercourse with China, and several
embassies of the khans of that kingdom are recorded.
By Bie-shi-ba-li on the ancient map, and in the list of the Si-
pei-ti, the city of Bishbalik seems to be meant;-not a country.
A note explanatory of this name is found in the Si-pei-ti as
follows:-
"In the year 1278, Ba-sa-ch'a-li received a tiger tablet, investing
him with authority to direct the military post-stations in Bie-shi-
ba-li, the (other) cities of the country of the Wei-wu-r (Uigur) and
Tze-li (a place unknown to me). In 1280 the wan-hu (com-
mander of ten thousand) Ki-kung-chi (see his biography, Yüan shi,
chap. clxv) was sent (by the emperor Kubilai) to guard the frontier
at Bie-shi-ba-li. In 1281, the prince A-dji-gi2 53 re-
quested, that thirty new post-stations might be established between
the mountains T'ai-ho ling2 54 and Bie-shi-ba-li. In
1283, the emperor appointed a governor for Bie-shi-ba-li, Huo-chou
and the other places (of Uiguria). 2 55 In 1284, the prince A-dji-gi
sent an envoy to the emperor with a memorial, stating that among
the twenty-four cities formely under the command of
*Dji-bi tie-mu-r, 256 there were two, namely Cha and
Dai, then governed by da-lu-hua-ch'i (daruyachi,-"Mongol gover-
nors") and annexed, not to (the province of) Bie-shi-ba-li, but to
113
Kuo-duan (probably Khotan;-see further on, 129). He
prayed that they might be restored to Bie-shi-ba-li; to which the
emperor acceded. In 1287, a military colony was established at
Bie-shi-ba-li formed of a thousand of the troops which had recently
253 A-dji-gi was,-according to the Yüan shi, Geneal. tables, chap. cvii,
cviii, a grandson of Chagatai, a son of Ha-la hü-lie (Kara Hulagu of Rashid).
Adjigi is not mentioned by Rashid.
234
In the biography of Subutai, the name T'ai-ho ling (Mountains of
Great peace) is applied to the Caucasus (see above, 60); but I do not think
that the Caucasus can be intended here.
256 立別失八里和州等處宣慰司
256
Dji-bi t'ie-mu-r,-according to the Yüan shi, chap. cvii, Geneal. tables,
-was a grandson of Ogotai, and a son of Kuo-duan (Cotan of Rashid).

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
209
surrendered; to which also the commandery in chief (F)
for the whole country (of the Uigurs) was transferred.
Bie-shi-ba-li is repeatedly mentioned in the Yüan shi. This place
it seems, played an important role in the war between Kubilaï
khan and the revolted prince Kaidu. Compare Yüan shi, Annals,
under the years 1278 and 1284. Sometimes we meet in the
Yüan history, the phrase, "Bie-shi-ba-li and the other places." It
seems, that the other cities of the Uigur country are meant, viz.
Karakhodjo, Lu-gu ch'en, Ch'ang-ba-li, Ta-gu-sin, etc. (see further
on). The term Wu-ch'eng (five cities), which is a literal
translation of Bish balik, meaning "Pentapolis" in Turkish, occurs
also occasionally in the Yüan shi, to designate this place or country.
Compare the note on A-li-ma-li, in the Si-pei-ti, where it is stated,
that six thousand li north-west of Shang-tu (Kubilaï's summer
residence, in southern Mongolia) is
Wei-wu-r wu-
ch'eng (five cities of the Uigurs), which at the time of the T'ang
was called Pei-t'ing, and was the seat of a governor-general
(F). The term Wu-ch'eng or "Pentapolis" is found also
in the biography of Tie-k'o-shu, chap. cxxxv.
109. Klaproth has already proved (Mém. rel. à l'Asie, tom. ii,
pp. 355 sqq.) from Chinese sources, that Bishbalik of the medieval
authors is to be identified with the present Urumtsi, a city situated
near the northern slope of the eastern Tien shan. But I think
this identification must not be taken à la lettre, for all that can be
proved is, that Urumtsi, a place still known only from Chinese
descriptions, lies not very far from the spot where ancient Bishbalik
stood. Klaproth's view is based upon a statement found in a
modern Chinese work, that Urumtsi and Pei-t'ing of the T'ang are
the same, and upon a passage in the Si shi ki, stating that the
Ulungur river is five hundred li north of Bishbalik (see my Notes
on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 69). It is corroborated by several ancient
Chinese itineraries. Wang Yen-te's narrative of a journey to Kao-
ch'ang permits us to determine the position of Pei-t'ing (see the
translation of this narrative in Julien's Mélanges de Géographic
Asiatique, pp. 86 sqq.). In A. D. 983, Wang Yen-te was sent by
the Sung emperor T'ai-tsung to the king of Kao-ch'ang. The
envoy, after crossing the desert, passed through I-chou
(Kamul; see 91), and arrived at Kao-ch'ang (Karakhodjo;
-see 111). The king of Kao-ch'ang is called E Shi-tze
wang in the narrative; and Ma Tuan-lin states, that in the language
of the country his name reads
A-sze-lan han. 257
237
Ma Tuan-lin, the author of the well-known work Wen hien t'ung
k'ao, where Wang Yen-te's narrative is found in chap. cccxxxvi, lived in the

210
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Owing to the great heat the king had retired to Pei-t'ing, and
Wang Yen-te was invited to visit him in his summer residence.
Before arriving at this place he had to cross a high mountain
covered with snow (Tien shan), by the pass called
Kin-ling. The traveller states, that Pei-t'ing is situated in a long
wide valley. In the time of Chinghiz khan and his successors, the
great highway from Mongolia to western Asia passed through
Bishbalik. Thus this place is mentioned by Ch'ang-ch'un in
1221, as a city on the northern slope of the Tien shan (Notes on
Chin. Med. Trav. p. 30). He was told by the people that its
ancient name was Pei-t'ing. Ye-lü Ch'u-tsui in 1219 (1. c. p. 112)
also passed through Bishbalik. He states that Huo-chou (Kara-
khodjo) lies five hundred li south of this place. Haithon's route
(1254) likewise led through Bishbalik (see Appendix to this paper).
Neither Carpini, Rubruquis, nor M. Polo speaks of it.
lay south of the country of the Uigurs; but the other two media-
val travellers probably saw the capital of that country. The name
of Bishbalik appears in Ibn Batuta's narrative (Yule's Cathay,
p. 506).
He states that when he arrived at Khanbalik, the khan
was absent; for he had gone forth to fight Firuz, the son of his
uncle, who had raised a revolt against him in the territory of Kara-
korum and Bishbalik.
Polo's way
The name of Bie-shi-ba-li is repeatedly mentioned in the biogra-
phies of the Yuan shi. Sometimes it appears under its ancient
name Pei-t'ing.
In chap. cxxiv, we read in the biography of Meng-su-sze that he
was a Wei-wu-r, and that his ancesters lived in Bie-shi-ba-li.
In chap. cxxxvii,-To-lie-hai-ya a Wei-wu-r, was from Bie-shi-
ba-li. Pei-t'ing is given as the native country of Bai-kiang (chap.
cxxxi), Ch'a-han tie-mu-r (chap. cxli), Bu-lia-dun (chap. cxcv),
and Bi-lan-no shi-li (chap. ccii).
110. I may finally say a few words on modern Urumtsi. This
is a Dzungar name which appears first in the Chinese annals in
1717. Compare the
San chou tsi lio, a topographical
and historical description of the three districts of Hami, Turphan
and Urumtsi. The Chinese write the name
Wu-lu-
mu-ts'i. After the army of the emperor K'ien-lung had conquered
Dzungaria, in the middle of the last century, Urumtsi became better
known to the Chinese; and the emperor built a new city at a
distance of eight li from the ancient capital. In 1775 it received
the Chinese name 1 Ti-hua chou, 258 On the great Chinese
12th and 13th centuries.
Arslan khan, in the Uigur
258 Compare the
Shi-tze wang in Chinese, means "lion king."
language, has the same meaning.
Si yü wen kien lu.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
211
map of the empire, Wu-lu-mu-ts'i bears also the Chinese name
Kung-ning ch'eng; but this seems to be a mistake, for
in Col. Wenyukoff's "Review of the Russian frontier in Asia," an
itinerary from Kuldja to Urumtsi is given (according to Russian
merchants), in which Kung-ning is located twenty-two versts north-
west of Urumtsi. On the same Chinese map, 1 Ti-hua
chou is marked about twelve li south of Urumtsi, and a third city
Ti-hua ch'eng, about twelve li south-east of Ti-hua ch'ou. There
may be some confusion about these names. Klaproth (l. c. tom. ii,
p. 356) gives the latitude of Urumtsi 43° 60' N. (sic!), the longitude
87° 1' E. Paris; but Biot (Dictionnarie des noms anciens et modernes
des villes etc.) has 43° 45' N. lat. and 86° 40' E. lon. Paris, for the
same place. In the great Manchu calendar published every year
in Peking, and also in the Ta ts'ing hui tien, published in 1818,
43° 27' is the N. lat. assigned to Urumtsi, and 27° 56' the W. lon.
Peking. I do not know from what source these figures are taken.
As far as I am aware, Urumtsi is not mentioned among the places
astronomically determined by the old Catholic missionaries.
Ho-la-huo-djo= Karakhodjo.
111. Karakhodjo is frequently mentioned by Rashid-eddin, as
શ place in the country of the Uigurs. Bardjuk, when he deter-
mined to submit to Chinghiz, gave orders to kill the Kara-khitai
governor in Karakhodjo (see above, 105). At the end of his
notices of Kathai, Rashid states (Yule's Cathay, p. 274), that one
of the bodies of troops protecting the frontier of the Great khan is
posted in the vicinity of Karakhodjo, a city of the Uigurs, which
lies between the dominions of Kubilaï and those of Kaidu and Dua
(the rebellious princes), and maintains neutrality.
The Chinese name of Karakhodjo in the Mongol period was
Huo-chou (fire city); sometimes the name is also written
Ho-chou or Ho-chou. In the Si yu ki, and also in
the Si yu lu (Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. pp. 29, 113), Ho-
chou is stated to be situated five hundred li south of Bishbalik
(beyond the T'ien shan), and is identified in the latter narrative
with Kao-ch'ang of the T'ang (see note 220). In the Yüan
shi, the same place is noticed several times under its different
names. In the Annals, sub anno 1286, it is recorded, that Kubilaï
ordered cattle and corn to be given to the people of Ho-la-huo-djo
and Ho-mi-li (Kamul), who suffered from dearth. Karakhodjo is
further mentioned in chap. cxxviii, in the biography of A-shu, who
was a grandson of the famous Subutai. A-shu had been sent, in 1286,
against a rebellious prince, and died in
Ha-la-ho-djou.

212
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
In the biographies of the following distinguished Uigurs of the
Mongol period, Kao-ch'ang (as I have stated, the ancient Chinese
name for Karakhodjo) appears as their native country:-
Chap. cxxxv, Tie-k'o-shu; chap. cxliv, T'a-li-ma; ibid. Dao-
tung; chap. cxcv, Ts'üan-p'u-an sa-li; ibid. Bo-lo t'ie-mu-r.
In the Ming shi, or "History of the Ming," chap. cccxxix, fol.
19, Karakhodjo is spoken of in the following terms:-
"Huo-chou or Ha-la (the characters huo-djo are
omitted in the text) is situated seventy li west of Liu-ch'eng (see
112), and thirty li east of Tu-lu-fan (Turphan). At the
time of the Han dynasty, this place belonged to the kingdom of
anterior Ku-sze. 259 During the Sui dynasty it belonged
to Kao-ch'ang. After the T'ang emperor T'ai-tsung (627-650)
had destroyed the power of Kao-ch'ang, the city of Si-chou
was established here. In the Sung period it belonged to the Hui-hu
(here the Uigurs are to be understood). At the time of the
Mongols it was known under the name of Huo-chou, and was com-
prised in the country of the Wei-wu-r (Uigurs)."
The embassy of Shah Rokh to the court of China (1419-1422)
passed through Turphan and Karakhodjo (Yule's Cathay, p. cc).
The city of Karakhodjo still exists; at least on the great Chinese
map of the empire, a place Ha-la-ho-djo appears about
sixty li south-east of Turphan.
Lu-gu-ch'en = Lukchak.
112. This name appears on the map east of Ho-la-huo-djo.
In the Yüan shi it is only once noticed, in the list of places
and countries of the Si-pei-ti. The "History of the Ming," chap.
cccxxix, fol. 18, gives a short note on this place, styling it
Liu-ch'eng (willow city) or Lu-ch'en. It is stated there,
that it is distant one thousand li from Ha-mi. At the time of the Han
it was called tẞ Liu-chung. 260 In the T'ang period Liu-chung
belonged to Kao-ch'ang.
It seems that in the repeatedly-quoted narrative of Wang Yen-te
(A. D. 982;-see above, 109), this place is also noticed; for the
traveller is stated to have passed through the country of Lu-chung
before reaching Kao-ch'ang.
289
The name of this kingdom is written also Ché-sze (pronounced
also Kü-sze) in the Han shu. There were two kingdoms of this name, an
anterior and a posterior. Compare note 220.
200
Compare "History of the Posterior Han," chap. cxviii, Si-yü, intro-
duction. Since the year A. D. 123, the Chinese military governor of the
Si-yü had his residence in Liu-chung.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
213
On the above-mentioned modern Chinese map, we find a place
Lu-ko-ts' in marked, sixty li south-east of Turphan and
thirty li north-east of Ha-la-ho-djo.
Further details on this place, which is properly called Lukchak,
may be read in Klaproth's above-mentioned article (l. c. tom. ii,
p. 342).
Ta-gu-sin = Toksun.(?)
113. I know nothing regarding this place, marked on the
ancient map between Kamul and Bishbalik. I may however
observe, that on modern Chinese maps a city termed
To-k'o-sun appears west of Turphan.
Djang-ba-li=Djambalik.
114. A city AJ Ch'ang-ba-la is mentioned in Ch'ang-
ch'un's narrative of travel in 1221, west of Bishbalik. The city
was ruled by a Uigur prince (see my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav.
p. 31). The name of a city Djang-ba-li appears also in the itine-
rary of Ye-lü Hi-liang (see Appendix). It is stated there, that it
was east of the river Ma-na-sze. The latter name is still applied to
a river and a city on the great highway from Urumtsi to Kuldja.
Haithon on his way from Karakorum to western Asia, passed
through Djambalekh, west of Bishbalik (see Appendix).
On modern maps we find between Urumtsi (ancient Bishbalik)
and Manass, a town Ch'ang-gi (on Chinese maps). Perhaps
this may be ancient Djambalik. It is known that balik means
city" in Turkish.
.
Gu-t'a-ba= Khutukbai.
115. Gu-t'a-ba on the ancient map is located west of Djambalik.
I have little doubt that this place is the Khutukbai on Wenyukoff's
map of western Mongolia (Petermann's Geogr. Mitth. 1872, map
17), the name of a river and a city west of Ch'ang-gi. The Chinese
write the name Hu-t'u-bi. It seems also that Gu-t'a-ba
is identical with Haithon's Khutaiyai, mentioned in his itinerary
between Djambalekh and Yankibalekh, of which I shall speak
presently.
Yang-gi-ba-li= Yankibalik.
116. On the ancient map, Yang-gi-ba-li lies west of Gu-t'a-ba.
A place Yankibalik appears in Haithon's itinerary, west of Khu-
taïya.. A city Yang balgasun is placed on Wenyukoff's map, west
of Khutukbai, and east of Manass. It lies also on the great

214
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
high-way from Urumtsi to Kuldja. I may observe that balgasun
(in Mongol) has the same meaning as balik, i. e. "city."
A-li-ma-li=Almalik.
117. A-li-ma-li, the Almalig of the Mohammedan authors, is
repeatedly spoken of by the historians of the Mongol era, and by
the travellers of the same period, passing from western Asia to
Mongolia or vice versa. With respect to this place therefore, I beg
to refer to my Notes on Chin. Medicev. Travellers, and especially
to pp. 33, 62, 71, 114, where some particulars about A-li-ma-li as
given by Chinese travellers, will be found. As I have proved in
that paper, A-li-ma-li in the 13th and 14th centuries lay on the
great highway from Mongolia to Persia, and was situated near the
place where modern Kuldja stands.
It seems, the Persian authors first mention Almalig in 1211, in
recording, that Ozar, prince of Almalig acknowledged the supremacy
of Chinghiz (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 111). This prince was after-
wards slain by Guchluk, gurkhan of Kara-khitai; and his son
Siknak tekin succeeded him on the throne, by order of Chinghiz,
who gave to Siknak in marriage, a daughter of his son Djuchi.
When the conqueror directed his army to western Asia, he was
joined by Siknak (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 212). We know nothing
more about Siknak and the fate of Almalik in the days of Chinghiz;
but afterwards this place seems to have been the capital of the
middle Mongol empire, or the empire of Chagatai. According to
the Tarikh Djihan Kushai (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 100), Chagatai
had his residence in the country of the Uigurs; but the same work
states also (l. c. tom. ii, p. 100) that he was in the habit of spend-
ing the summer in the country of Almalik, near the high mountains
Gueuk, 261 and the mount Kut, whilst he preferred to pass the
winter in Meruzik-Ila. Sometimes the residence of the khans of
Chagatai is also called Oluk iff (1. c. tom. iii, pp. 119, 122). When
Hulagu passed through Almalik (Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 62)
in 1253, he was well entertained there by the princess Organa,
the widow of Kara Hulagu, the son of Chagatai.
In the second half of the 13th century, Almalik sustained an
important role in the struggle between the khans of the different
branches of Chinghiz' lineage. When Kubilaï ascended the throne,
201 In the narrative of Tamerlane's warlike doings, a place Gheuk topa is
mentioned (between Kashgar and the Ili river) near the Issikul lake (De-
guignes, tom. v, pp. 8, 18). Again, l. c. tom. v, p. 31, we read, that in
1390, Tamerlane sent an army to the country of the Getes. It passed by
Tashkand, lake Issikul, Gheuk topa, the mountains Ardjatu, proceeded to
Almalig, etc.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
215
in 1260, his brother Arik-buga2 laid claim to the crown, and
collected troops in the north. After he had been defeated by
Kubilaï, he went westward with the rest of his host and attacked
Algu, who at that time ruled over the empire of Chagatai. Algu
had been allied with Arik-buga; but after the defeat of the latter,
had refused to assist him. Arik-buga's avant-guard, when first
meeting with the troops of Algu, suffered a defeat near the city of
Pulad (see further on, 122) and the lake Sult (Sairam lake).
Algu then returned to his residence on the river Hilé (Ili); shortly
after which Arik-buga's army arrived, advanced through the defile
called Iron-gate 63 and took Almalik; when Algu retired towards
Samarcand. In 1264, Arik-buga made peace with Kubilaï, and
in 1266, Kara Hulagu's son Mubarek shah became khan of the
Uluss of Chagatai. The above details are taken from the Persian
authors (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, pp. 340-356).
118. The Chinese annals record the war between Kubilaï and
Arik-buga, but not the struggle between Algu and Arik-buga.
Alimali is for the first time mentioned in the Yüan shi, Annals,
sub anno 1277, in connection with the war against Kaidu (see
above, 85). This war, which was continued for about twenty-five
years, caused much trouble to Kubilaï, who was obliged to main-
tain a considerable army at the north-western frontier against his
nephew. The expeditions against Kaidu are recorded in some
detail by the Chinese authors as well as by the Persian historians.
M. Polo also has devoted a chapter to the battles between Caidu
and the Great Kaan (l. c. vol. ii, pp. 389 sqq.).
According to the great traveller, in the year 1266, King Caidu
and another prince called Yesudar, 264made an expedition to
attack the Great Kaan's Barons Chibai and Chiban, sons of Cha-
gatai, and defeated them. 265 In 1268, Caidu attacked the Great
Kaan's son Nomogan, and George the grandson of Prester John,
who were at Caracoron. The battle was without victory on
either side; but Caidu hearing, that the Great Kaan was sending a
202
263
A-li bu-k'o in the Yüan shi.
Respecting the Iron-gate, situated in the Talki mountains north of
Kuldja, see my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 71.
264
The name Ye-su-da-r occurs repeatedly in the Yüan shi. In chap.
cxxix and exxxiii, we find the biographies of two persons of this name. I am
not however, prepared to identify the Yesudar of M. Polo.
205
Perhaps M. Polo means by Chibai the prince Chi-bie t'ie-mu-r; who
however, according to the Yüan shi, was a son of Ogotai. He is there men-
tioned as a general under Kubilaï, and in connection with the war against
Hai-du (Kaidu). As to Polo's Chiban, he may be identical with Rashid's
Sarban, a son of Chagatai, mentioned in the record of Kubilaï's war with
Kaidu (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 452).

216
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
large army to reinforce his son, retired to Great Turkey and
Samarcand.
There are some discrepancies between the records of these events
in the Chinese annals and those given by M. Polo; especially
respecting the dates. I may quote some passages from the
Yüan shi and the Yüan shi lei pien bearing upon this subject.
The Si-pei-ti (Yuan shi, chap. lxiii) gives the following account of
A-li-ma-li and the expeditions against Kaidu :-
"The prince Hai-du had his encampment, () in
A-li-ma-li and the other places. 266 Proceeding from Shang-tu
(Kubilai's summer residence) in a north-western direction six
thousand li, one reaches the Five cities (Bishbalik;-see above, 108)
of the Uigurs. Four to five thousand li further to the west lies
A-li-ma-li. In the year 1268, Hai-du revolted, raised an army
and went southward (evidently a mistake for eastward). Shi-tsu
(Kubilai) repelled his aggression near Pei-t'ing (Bishbalik),
and he was pursued as far as A-li-ma-li. Hai-du fled more than
two thousand li beyond A-li-ma-li, and the emperor gave orders to
discontinue the pursuit. At the same time he conferred the chief
command of the troops in the country of A-li-ma-li, on the
E Pei-ping wang. 267 The latter was assisted by the
minister An-t'ung. 268
200
Kaidu's apanage was originally, it seems, at Kayalik, a place or country
mentioned in the Tarikh Djihan Kushai (see further on, 121). It is the
Cailac of Rubruquis. In the Yüan shi, Annals, sub anno 1252, it is recorded,
that Mangu had ordered Hai-du to live in T, "the country
of Hai-ja-li."
207
208
Pei-p'ing wang was the title of
Pei-an wang.
Na-mu-han, the fourth
son of Kubilai. In the short biographical note devoted to this prince in the
Yüan shi lei pien, chap. xxx, fol. 16, we read that he was gazetted with this
title in 1266. In 1282 it was changed into
An-tung of the Yüan shi is evidently the Noyan hantum of Rashid
(D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 452). His biography is found in the Yüan shi, in
chap. cxxvi. It is stated there, that he was a great-grandson of the cele-
brated Mongol general Mu-hua-li, the conqueror of northern China. In the
year 1275 he went with Na-mu-han, who was sent by the emperor to defend
Ho-lin (Karakorum) against Hai-du. They passed ten years at the
northern frontier, were made prisoners by the revolted prince Si-li-ki,
and finally returned to China in 1284. Detailed accounts of the treason of
Si-li-ki and the seizure of Na-mu-han may be read in Du Mailla's History
of China, vol. ix, p. 389; and Rashid's report on the same subject is given
by D'Ohsson, tom. ii, pp. 452 sqq. Si-li-ki (Shircki of Rashid), a son of
Mangu khan was in the army of Na-mu-han, when he formed a conspiracy
against Kubilaï. Na-mu-han and An-t'ung were made prisoners by the
conspirators, who directed their forces towards Karakorum; but the latter
were defeated by Kubilaï's valiant general Pe-yen. According to the Yilan
shi, Na-mu-han was made prisoner by Si-li-ki in 1277, in the country of
A-li-ma-li; but it is not stated when he was released.

ces.
HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
217
It seems, that in the expeditions sent by Kubilaï against Kaidu,
the armies of the Great khan advanced sometimes to great distan-
Thus in the biography of Yü-wa-shi in the Yüan shi, chap.
cxxxii, this general is stated to have given battle to Hai-du in the
country of I-bi-r Shi-bi-r (Siberia;-Rashid also
speaks of the country of Ibir Sibir). Wassaf states, that in 1301,
the hosts of Kaidu and Dua met with the army of the Great khan
some days' journey distant from Kayalik; and adds, that this city
was situated on the frontier of the two empires (I understand the
empires of Dua and Kaidu). There Kaidu fought his last battle,
for he died soon after (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 516).
119. Mention is made of Almalik by most of the mediaval
travellers who traversed central Asia. As to the reports of Chi-
nese travellers respecting this place, I have already presented all
the information I could gather about it in my Notes on Chin.
Med. Trav. It remains to review the statements of western tra-
vellers regarding Almalik.
In the narratives of Carpini and Rubruquis, a name like Al-
malik does not appear; but it seems that Rubruquis applies the
name Organum to the country of Almalik, confounding the name
of the princess Organa, who ruled over that country when Rubru-
quis passed through, with the name of her dominions (see Yule's
Cathay, p. 522).
Haithon, the king of Little Armenia, calls the city Halualek.
He passed through it on his way home from Mongolia, before
arriving at Ilanbalek and crossing the Ili river, in 1255.
Almalik in the 14th century was a Latin missionary bishopric,
and it seems, also a metropolitan see of the Nestorian church
(Yule 1. c. p. ccxliv). Col. Yule (l. c. p. 231) reproduces a letter
from a Franciscan missionary, dated at Armalec, A. D. 1338, in
the empire of the Medes (the missionary means probably impe-
rium medium).
Marignolli was in Almalik in 1341, a year after the bishop and
six Minorites had suffered martyrdom there. He terms the city
Armalek (the capital) of the Middle Empire (Yule, l. c. p. 338).
Ibn Batuta (middle of the 14th century) speaks of Almalik as
situated at the extremity of Maver-al-nahr (Transoxiana), near the
place where Sin (China) begins (Yule, l. c. p. 503).
Pegoletti, in his notices of the land route to Cathay (first half
of the 14th century;-Yule, l. c. p. 288), reckons a distance of
forty-five days' journey with pack-asses, between Oltrare (Otrar;--
see further on, 139) and Armalec, and a journey of seventy days
from Armalec to Kamexu (Kan-chou)
.
Sultan Baber, who wrote in the beginning of the 16th century,
speaks of Almalik, as of a city which did not exist in his time;

218
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
having been previously destroyed by the Mongols or Uzbeks
(Klapr. Mém. rel. à l'Asie, tom. ii, p. 137).
That is all I have been able to gather respecting ancient Alma-
lik. As to its position, I find in the Russian translation of Ritter's
Asia (by Mr. Semenoff, now Vice-president of the Russian Geogra-
phical Society), vol. ii, p. 96, a note by the learned translator,
stating, that the ancient city of Almalik was situated forty versts
west-north-west of the present Kuldja (New Kuldja), also in the
valley of the Ili river. Mr. Semenoff speaks apparently from his
own observation.
120. Thus the ancient name Almalik, applied also to the
country by medieval writers, covers the territories which in our
day are known under the name of Ili,-I-li² 69 of the Chi-
nese; Kuldja being the capital of this province, conquered by the
army of the emperor Kien-lung, in 1755. In the year 1264, a
city was built by the Chinese on the right bank of the Ili river,
not far from the spot where the Uklyk discharges into the Ili.
It received the Chinese name Hui-yuan ch'eng, but in
Europe it is better known under its Dsungar (?) name, Kuldja.
There was probably a city of this name before the Chinese built
Hui-yüan ch'eng. On the Russian maps it is designated New
Kuldja, to distinguish it from Old Kuldja, located on the same
maps also on the right bank of the Ili, about a hundred versts
east of New Kuldja. The Russians call Old Kuldja also Tara-
chinskaya Kuldja; for soon after the conquest of Ili, the Chinese
transferred to this place the Taranchi, a Turkish tribe from
eastern Turkistan, who still live there. Old Kuldja is a small
city of about four thousand inhabitants, whilst New or Manchu-
rian Kuldja,270 the seat of the Chinese authorities, before the last
Mohammedan insurrection, numbered sixty thousand inhabitants
(compare Col. Wenyukoff's Review of the Russian frontiers in Asia,
pp. 258-262).
The earliest European account of Kuldja we owe to the Russian
269
The territories of Ili, Tarbagatai, Karkara usu, Urumtsi, etc. are
known to our geographers under the general name Dsungaria. Dsun-gar in
Mongol means the "left hand," and thus the Mongols designate the most
western branch of the Eleuths. The latter, as is known, constitute one of the
great divisions of the Mongol nation. They were known in the Ming period
to the Chinese under the name of Wa-la. In the Ming shi (chap.
cccxxviii, fol. 1); these are located to the west of the
Ta-ta or
Meng-gu (Mongols). In modern Chinese geographical works, they
E-lu-t'e and the Dsungars,
are styled
The Kalmuks belong also to the Eleuths.
270
Djun-gie-r.
Kuldja kure or Dziang-ghiun khoto (i. c. the city of the military
governor) according to Putimtseff.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
219
traveller Putimtsef, who visited the place in 1811 (see above, 40).
Country of the Ko-r-lu= Karluks.
121. Rashid-eddin,-who traces the origin of the Karluks
back to Oghuz khan, also the progenitor of the Uigurs, Kankalis,
Kipchaks and other Turkish tribes, gives the following historical
etymology of the name Karluk (see Berezin, l. c. vol. i, p. 19):―
"It happened once, that Oghuz khan, when returning from an
expedition, had to cross a high mountain. Owing to a great fall
of snow, some families could not follow, and preferred to remain
behind. Oghuz khan reprimanded them for their conduct, and
henceforth they were derisively called Karluks,-a name meaning
in Turkish inhabitants of the snow.' "
Rashid says nothing about the abodes of the Karluks; but it
may be concluded from a statement of the Tarikh Djihan Kushai,
that they dwelt not far from Kayalik. 271 It is there recorded
(D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 111), that Arslan khan, chief of the Turk
Karluks and prince of Kayalik, acknowledged himself a vassal of
Chinghiz, who gave him a princess of his house in marriage. 272
In the Yuan shi, Annals, sub anno 1211, it is stated, that
A-si-lan han from the Si-yü (western countries), the
chief () of the tribe Ha-la-lu, surrendered to Ching-
hiz.
In the Yuan ch'ao pi shi we read (Palladius' transl. p. 130):-
"Chinghiz sent Kubilai (of course not the celebrated emperor) to
subdue the people of the Kharluut,273 but their chief Arselan
surrendered voluntarily, and presented himself to Chinghiz, who
gave him one of his daughters in marriage."
The same is recorded in about the same terms by Rashid (Bere-
zin, vol. i, p. 132):-"In the days of Chinghiz, the chief of the
Karluks was Arslan khan. Chinghiz sent Kubilaï noyen, of
the tribe Berulass, 274 to subdue the Karluks, but Arslan surren-
271
Regarding the position of ancient Kayalik, compare above, note 266,
and Yule's Cathay, pp. ccxiii, 576. Col. Yule is correct I think, in placing
Kayalik near the present Kopal. Kayalik is also mentioned by Wassaf (see
above, 87). It is an interesting fact, noticed in the Transactions of the Rus-
sian Geogr. Soc. 1867, I, p. 290, that in a tumulus (kurgan) in Kopal, an
ancient gold ring with precious stones was found by a Tatar in 1857. This
ring which was sold by the Tatar for 250 rubles, bore the inscription "Arslan"
in Turkish letters.
272
The marriage of A-r-sze-lan with a Mongol princess is also mentioned
in the Yüan shi, chap. cix, Table of the princesses.
273
274
This is the Mongol plural form of Kharlu.
In the Yüan shi, chap. cvii (see also Yüan shi lei pien, chap. xxx,
fol. 1), the Berulass are termed
Ba-lu-la-sze. They were divi-
ded into the great and the little Ba-lu-la-sze.

220
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
dered voluntarily to Kubilaï; when Chinghiz gave him a prin-
cess of his house in marriage, and granted him the title Sart, 275
i. e. Tadjik, observing that it was impossible to give him the
title khan. Arslan khan accompanied Chinghiz in the expedition
to western Asia (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 212).
It seems that the Chinese annals mention the Karluks as early
as the 7th or 8th centuries. In the "History of the T'ang,"
chap. cclvii, there is a long 'article on the
Tie-le, a people
It was divided
The Hui-ho or Uigurs
inhabiting western Mongolia and central Asia.
into many tribes, which are all enumerated.
also are stated to belong to the Tie-le. One of these tribes is
termed Ko-lo-lu, and said to be descended from the
Tu-küe (Turks). The T'ang shu assigns to the Ko-lo-lu the
mountainous country north-west of Pei-t'ing (Urumtsi), near the
river Pu-ku-ch'en. There are in their country many
cross mountain ridges. We have seen, that according to the Chi-
nese history of the Uigurs (see above, 98), when that people
was dispersed by the Kirghiz in the 9th century, Pang-t'e-le with
fifteen aimaks fled to the Ko-lo-lu. It is very probable, that the
Ko-lo-lu of the T'ang period were the Karluks. Our ancient map
assigns to them the country north-east of A-li-ma-li.
I have no doubt, that the Corola mentioned by Carpini, p. 709,
among the nations and tribes of central Asia means the Karluks.
In the Yüan shi, the Karluks are generally termed Ha-la-lu.
In chap. cxxxiii, biography of Ye-han di-gin, the name is written
Hia-la-lu. Ye-han di-gin, who was a general under
Kubilaï, belonged to this nation. It is stated in his biography, that
his grandfather, by name Hia-ta-r mi-li, was in the country of
Wa-sze-gien (Uzgend ;-see further on, 133), with three
thousand troops of the Hia-la-lu, when Chinghiz invaded western
Asia. He came to the emperor to surrender, and presented a
great number of cattle and sheep. Ye-han di-gin's father was call-
ed Ye-mi huo-dji;-his sons, Ho-na-ch'i di-gin and Ye-su-sha.
These were all in the service of the Mongol emperors.
Sha-ts'üan (biography in chap. cxxxii) was also a Ha-la-lu or
Karluk. His father Sha-di had been a general under Chingiz,
and distinguished himself in the war with the Kin.
In chap. cxc, Ha-la-lu appears again as the native country of
Bo-yen (see note 74).
275
D'Ohsson, who translates the same passage (tom. i, p. 218), writes
Arslan Siriaki (le Syriaque), instead of Arslan Sart. There was probably a
clerical error in his text." We have seen above (41) that Sartol was the Mon-
gol name for the Mohammedan people. Thus they are always termed in the
Yüan ch'ao pi shi.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
Pu-la-Pulad.
221
122. This is without doubt the city of Pulad of the Persian
authors, mentioned in connection with the war between Algu and
Arik-buga (see above, 117), and situated near the lake Sult.
Haithon, when proceeding homeward from Mongolia, passed
through Pulad, and then arrived at the lake Sutkul (the lake
Sairam; see Haithon's itinerary in the Appendix to this paper).
Rashid-eddin, enumerating the countries and places inhabited
by Turk tribes, also mentions Pula (Berezin, l. c. vol. i, p. 2).
Rubruquis, when speaking of the Germans (Teutonici) in the
service of Buri (see above, 81) says (p. 280):-
"De illis Teutonicis nichil potui cognoscere usque ad curiam
Manguchan...... Quando veni in curia Manguchan intellexi quod
ipse Mangu transtulerat eos, de licencia Baatu, versus orientem
(they had been before in Talas) spacio itineris unius mensis a
Talas, ad quamdam villam que dicitur Bolat, ubi fodiunt aurum
et fabricant arma, unde non potui ire nec redire per eos."
As to the Chinese medieval authors who mention this place,
I may quote Ye-lü Ch'u-t'sai, who accompanied Chinghiz to
western Asia. He states in his narrative (Notes on Chin. Med.
Trav. pp. 113, 114), that "at a distance of more than a thousand
li (westward), after having crossed the han-hai, one arrives at the
city of Bu-la. South of this city is the Yin-shan moun-
tain.......On the top of the mountain is a lake.'
"
In the itinerary of Ye-li Hi-liang the name of the same city
Bu-la appears again (see Appendix to this paper).
The city of Bo-lo, through which Ch'ang Te came, before
crossing the defile Tie-mu-r ts'an-ch'a (in the Talki mountains),
seems also to be identical with Pu-lad (Notes on Chin. Med. Trav.
p. 70).
Pulad was situated evidently on the great highway from
Mongolia to Persia. As Rubruquis states expressly that Bulat
lay out of his way, his route was probably more to the north than
that of the Chinese travellers.
Ye-mi-shi= Emil (Imil).
123. Ye-mi-shi is placed on the ancient map to the north-east
of P'u-la; and I feel no hesitation in identifying it with Emil or
Imil, the name of a river and a city, repeatedly mentioned by the
Chinese as well as by the Mohammedan authors of the Mongol
period. There can be no doubt that the character shi in the
name is a misprint or clerical error; for the Yüan shi writes the
name Ye-mi-li. There is still a river Emil, south of Chuguchak,
emptying itself into the lake Alak-kul.

222
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
We have seen (above, 33) that the Kara-khitai on their pere-
grinations to the west, had founded a city in the country of Imil.
This explains Carpini's statements, p. 648:-
"In terrâ autem prædictorum Kara-Kitaorum Occoday-can filius
Chinghis-can, postquàm positus fuit imperator, quandam civitatem
ædificavit, quam Omyl appellavit."
Ibidem, p. 751:-"Deindè terram nigrorum Kitaorum fuimus
ingressi; in quâ tantùm de novo unam civitatem ædificaverunt,
quæ Omyl appellatur; ubi Imperator domum ædificavit, in quâ
vocati fuimus ad bibendum; etc."
I have been informed by Russian travellers, that in the valley
of the river Imil, famed for its pastures, the ruins of an ancient
city can still be seen.
The Mohammedan authors state (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 323), that
Chinghiz khan, when returning in 1224 from western Asia, passed
by the river Imil, where he was met by his grandsons Kubilaï
and Hulagu.
According to the Tarikh Djihan Kushai, Ogotai the second son
of Chinghiz had his apanage on the river Imil;27 6 and Ogotai's son
Kuyuk, Great khan, 1246-1248,-left the Mongol capital (Kara-
korum) in the spring of 1248, and set out for his apanage on the
river Imil, where he hoped the climate would better agree with
the broken state of his health; but he died when seven days'
journey from Bishbalik the capital of the Uigurs (D'Ohsson,
tom. ii, pp. 2, 234).
A place or country Ye-mi-li is mentioned three times in the
Yüan shi. In chap. cxxi, in the biography of Su-bu-tai we read,
that after having accomplished the conquest of the countries north
of the Caucasus (see above, 60), he went home by the way of
也迷里Ye-mi-li and 霍只 Ho-dji.277
In the Yüan shi, Annals, sub anno 1252, it is stated, that
Btt T'o-to 78 was ordered by the emperor Mangu to live in the
country of
27 6
Ye-mi-li.
I may observe, that in the Annals of the Yüan shi, it is stated, that
after the death of Chinghiz, his son Ogotai arrived from the country of
Ho-bo. It seems that this country was somewhere near Imil. At least in the
itinerary of Ye-lü Hi-liang, a country Huo-bu is mentioned after
Ye-mi-li (Imil).
277
Ye-mi-li, as I have stated is intended for Imil; but as to Ho-dji,
coupled with Ye-mi-li, I cannot identify it. I may however observe, that in
the history of Tamerlane, translated by Petis de la Croix, the royal (summer)
residence of Mogolistan (not to be confounded with Mongolia proper; here
the eastern branch of the Chagatai empire is meant), taken in 1389 by Tamer-
lane, is called Aymul Guja (Yule's Cathay, p. 524). This name has some
resemblance to the Chinese Ye-mi-li Ho-dji.
278
T'o-t'o, according to the Yüan shi, chap. cvii, Genealogical table,

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
223
The name of the country of Ye-mi-li occurs in the biography of
Ye-lü Hi-liang (Yüan shi, chap. clxxx). See Appendix.
I-la-ba-li= Ilibalik.
124. This name represents probably Ilibalik or "the city of
Ili." On the map it appears to the south-west of A-li-ma-li. Hai-
thon, proceeding from Almalik westward, arrived at Ilan-baleck
and then crossed the Ilan (Ili) river.
This seems to be the only instance, that any medieval author
mentions a city of this name. The city was evidently situated on
the Ili river, perhaps at that place, where on the Russian maps
Iliskoye (scil. Selenie), the borough of Ili, is marked, south-west of
Kuldja, on the river Ili.
In the "Ming History," chap. cccxxxii, fol. 12, 13, a country of
I-li-ba-li is mentioned west of the kingdom of Bie-
shi-ba-li. It is stated there, that in 1418, the ruler of the king-
dom of Bie-shi-ba-li had been slain by his younger brother, who
after this declared himself king, emigrated with his tribe to the
west, and changed his national designation to I-li-ba-li. 279 This
is probably the reason that the Ming yi t'ung chi, or "Geography
of the Ming empire" confounds I-li-ba-li with Bie-shi-ba-li.
也云赤 Ye-yin-chi.
125. It is impossible to identify this name, which on the an-
cient map is marked west of I-li-ba-li. I may however observe,
that a similar-sounding name appears, as that of a river, in the
Si shi ki (compare my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 74).
In this narrative, a river Yi-yün is mentioned in the
country of the Kara-khitai, somewhere near the river Chu.
Ku-ch'a Kucha.
126. Here the city of Kucha in eastern Turkistan is meant.
On modern Chinese maps the name is written Ku-ché.
Rashid-eddin records (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 105), that Guchluk,
the son of the khan of the Naimans, after having been defeated
by the Mongols, fled through Bishbalik and Kudja to the khan of
Kara-khitai. Under the article Sunit, Rashid mentions a corps
was a grandson of Ogotai and son of Ha-la-ch'a-r. The latter is mentioned
by Rashid (1. c. tom. ii, p. 99) under the name of Karadjar; but T'o-t'o, it
seems, is not spoken of by the Persian historians.
279
自立從其部落西去更國號曰亦力把里

224
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
of the Mongol army composed of Uigurs, Karluks, Turkmans, and
men from Kashgar and Kuchai (Berezin, l. c. vol. i, p. 46).
It seems that Kucha is not mentioned by the Chinese authors
of the Ming period. It is only since last century that the name
appears again in Chinese geographical works (see note 284).
Modern Chinese geographers identify K'u-ché with the
ancient Kui-tze, a kingdom in central Asia, first mentioned
in the "History of the Anterior Han," before our era.
Wo-chi-Uch or Ush.
127. This name is assigned on the map to a place between
Kucha and Kashgar. It may be identified with the modern city of
Uch (thus the name is written on Russian maps; on English maps
it is written Ush) in eastern Turkistan, west of Aksu, situated on the
great highway from Kamul to Kashgar, south of the Tien shan.
On modern Chinese maps the name is written
Wu-shi. The
emperor K'ien-lung,-who after-the conquest of eastern Turkistan
and Ili in the last century, bestowed Chinese names upon the
principal cities there,-named Uch,
Yung-ning ch'eng.
In
The ancient Chinese map and the list in the Si-pei-ti are, it
seems, the only instances in which Ush is mentioned in Chinese
works of the Mongol time; but there is a place with a name
sounding like Ush, in the "History of the Ming." There is how-
ever no doubt that Ush was known in the days of Tamerlane.
the narrative of his expedition to eastern Turkistan, in 1375, the
place is called Utche-ferman (Deguignes, tom. v, p. 8). It is stated
there, that it lies east of Kashgar. We read further (l. c. p. 30),
that Tamerlane, who was with his army at Yulduz, 280 sent his son
Omer Sheikh back to Andekan (written also Andidjan) in Fergana.
He went by the Kaluga (Iron-gate), 281 Couzan (probably Kucha
is meant) and Utche-ferman (Uch), and arrived at Andekan. The
modern Chinese geographers identify Uch with the kingdom of
Yu-t'ou mentioned in the histories of the Han (see further
on, note 284).
A
Ba-li-mang.
128. I can make nothing of this name, which is placed on the
map north of Wo-ch'i or Uch.
280
Yulduz is still the name of a river in the country north-east of Kucha.
It is an affluent of the Kaidu, which discharges into the Bosteng nor near
Karashar. Shah Rokh's ambassadors passed a place named Yulduz in 1420
on their way to Turphan and Kamul.
281
Not to be confounded with the defiles south of Samarcand and north
of Kuldja respectively, which in ancient records are also called Iron-gate.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
Hu-t'an Khotan.
225
129. Khotan, a city and country of eastern Turkistan, was
well known to the Chinese, as also to western people, in the middle
ages.
The most ancient notice of Khotan by Mohammedan authors
occurs it seems, in the Tarikh Tabari, the great chronicle written
in the 10th century. There it is reported, that Kataiba, the valiant
general of the calif Valid, 707-715, sent envoys to Khotan.
The king of this country dispatched four of his sons to Kataiba,
who carried with them much tribute, and also earth from Khotan,
upon which Kataiba might tread to make his oath.
I will not enter into details respecting the history of Khotan;
for a special pamphlet has been devoted to this subject by Abel
Rémusat (Historie de la ville de Khotan, tirée des annales de la
Chine). I may therefore confine my remarks to a brief notice of
what is generally known of the place, with the addition of some
new information from Chinese sources.
In the "History of the Anterior Han," chap. xevi, where Kho-
tan is first mentioned in Chinese works,-in the second century
before our era, this kingdom is styled Yu-tien; and Kho-
tan is spoken of under the same name in all the succeeding Chinese
dynastic histories up to our own day. Sometimes, and especially
in modern Chinese works, the name is written Yü-tien.
The first character means "jade" in Chinese, and was chosen
probably in allusion to the fame which Khotan has had from the
most ancient time for its fine jade, so highly prized in China.
Yü-tien or Khotan was visited by the Buddhist monk Fa-hien, on
his way to India, A. D. 400 (see Rémusat's translation of the
Foĕ kuoĕ ki).
In the "History of the T'ang," chap. cclviii, the following syno-
nyms for Yi-tien are given:瞿薩旦那Ki-sa-tan-na,澳那
Huan-na and Ku-tan. The first of these names is the Sanscrit
name of Khotan. Under this name it appears also in the narrative
of Hüan-tsang in the 7th century (Julien, Mém. s. 1. Contrées Occid.).
By Kü-tan, the Turkish (3) name Khotan seems to be rendered.
Besides this, the T'ang shu states that the northern nomades
() call the same realm Yü-tun, whilst western people
(胡) term it 豁且Huo-tam.
In the Yuan shi, Khotan is repeatedly mentioned, but seldom
by its Chinese name Yü-tien. The Chinese historians of the
Mongol period generally try to render the name Khotan, which
was in use with the Mongols.
In chap. cxx, in the biography of Ho-sze-mai-li, it is stated, that
after the khan of Kara-khitai had been slain (see above, 34), the

226
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
cities of JAK'o-shi-ha-r (Kashgar),
Ya-r-kien
(Yarkand) and O-duan (Khotan) surrendered. Ye-lü Ch'u-
tsai (see Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 113) writes the same name.
Wu-duan, and adds that this is the same as the Yü-tien of
the T'ang.
In the Annals of the Yüan shi, sub anno 1274, we read
閱鴉兒看兩城水驛十三沙州北陸驛二, “Thirteen
water-stations (on rivers of course) 2 8 2 were established (by imperial
order) between the two cities Yü-tien (Khotan) and Ya-r-k'an (Yar-
kand), and two land-stations north of Sha-chou (see above, 90).
On the same page, the Annals state, that the people of Yu-tien
were relieved from the onus of collecting jade.
Under the same year it is recorded, that the emperor bestowed
the sum of one hundred liang of silver upon each family of the
two hundred and forty-nine soldiers from 51 Ho-shi-ha-r,
Ya-r-k'an and Wu-duan (Khotan), who were.
killed at the siege of Siang-yang fu and Fan-ch'eng. 2.8 3.
Under the year 1271, Khotan is also termed Wa-duan.
Under the year 1288, mention is made of a military colony
composed of workmen from Ka-shi-ha-r and
O-duan.
On modern Chinese maps, and in Chinese geographical works
published in the last century, Khotan appears under the names of
Ho-tien and I-li-tsi. Ilchi or Elchi is indeed, as
we know from the reports of modern European travellers, the real
name of the capital of Khotan.
Khotan is frequently mentioned by the Mohammedan authors
of the middle ages.
It was famed in the west for its musk (Bibl.
Orient. art. "Khotan "), as well as for its jade (Klaproth, Mém.
rel. à l'Asie, tom. ii, p. 289).
In the beginning of the 13th, and probably also in the 12th
century, Khotan, Kashgar, Yarkand and the other cities of eastern
Turkistan belonged to the dominions of the gurkhan of Kara-
khitai (D'Ohsson, tom. i, pp. 170 sqq.). In 1218 the empire of
the Kara-khitai was destroyed, and the Mongols took possession of
eastern Turkistan, which after Chinghiz' death reverted to Cha-
gatai. It seems, however from the above quotations, selected from
the Yüan shi, that M. Polo may be right in stating (vol. i, p. 173),
that the people of Cotan are subject to the Great khair. During
the struggle between Kubilaï and the Great khan, the latter may
282
It seems that communication by water was established between Kho-
tan and Yarkand. Both places are situated on rivers, affluents of the Turim.
Or perhaps there was a direct watercourse connecting the two cities.
Siang-yang fu had been taken by the Mongols in March, 1273.
ch'eng is a town situated opposite Siang-yang, on the left bank of the Han.
283
Fan-

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
227
have taken possession of the eastern part of the middle empire.
Ko-shi-ha-r=Kashgar.
130. Kashgar also is often mentioned by the Mohammedan
authors of the middle ages. The earliest occurrence of the name
in their writings seems to be in Firdusi's "History of Persia "
(Deguignes, tom. ii, p. 333). Under the reign of Anushirvan
(531-579), Firdusi states, that a khan of China proceeded with
his host to Transoxiana and defeated the khan of the Turks, who
were in possession of this country. Anushirvan married the
daughter of the khan of China, who then retired to Kashgar. Of
course khan of China here is not to be taken à la lettre.
Deguignes further states (tom. iii, p. 219) on the authority of
the Mohammedan authors, that the king of Kashgar came to Ur-
kend (Uzgend) to render hommage to Malek shah of the Seldjuks
(end of the 11th century).
In Chinese works, the name Kashgar first appears in the Mongol
period, and as we have seen, in the Yuan shi, this name is generally
found associated with Khotan and Yarkand (see 129).
In the itinerary of Ye-lü Hi-liang (see Appendix), the name of
Kashgar is written JAK'o-shi-ha-li.
In the "History of the Ming," chap. cccxxxii, fol. 20,
Ha-shi-ha-r is mentioned as a small country in the Si-yu,
which used to send embassies to the Chinese court.
Yarkand, although repeatedly noticed in the Yüan shi (see
above), and the name of a city Ye-li-k'ien is also found
in the itinerary of Ye-lü Hi-liang,-has been omitted from the
ancient map; neither is it found in the list of the Si-pei-ti. It
seems that Yarkand is not spoken of in the Ming shi.
can.
I may finally mention concerning Kashgar and Yarkand, that
both names appear in the itinerary of M. Polo. Compare vol. i,
pp. 169, 173, on the kingdom of Cascar and the province of. Yar-
Col. Yule observes, that Yarkan or Yarken seems to be the
general pronunciation of the name, though we write Yarkand.
The Chinese medieval authors also write Yarkan .or Yerkien, as I
have shown. M. Polo reports, that in his time Yarcan belonged
to Caidu, whilst Cascar was subject to the Great Kaan. Col. Yule
justly observes, that this statement is not easy to understand.
Perhaps by the above-quoted fragmentary accounts from the Yuan
shi, some new light may be thrown on the subject.
Kashgar (Kashimgar) was, it seems, a metropolitan see of the
Nestorian church in the middle ages (Yule's Cathay, p. ccxliv).
On modern Chinese maps, Kashgar is styled
W

228
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
K'o-shi-go-r, and Yarkand, Ye-r-k'iang. Kashgar is identified
by the geographers of the present dynasty with the country
Shu-le, mentioned in the histories of the Han; Yarkand with the
ancient country So-kü. Although the modern Chinese geo-
graphers in their identifications generally draw on their imagina-
tion, they may perhaps be right respecting Shu-le; for in the
"History of the T'ang," chap. cclviii, where Shu-le is also spoken
of, it is stated, that at that time the capital of this country was
Kia-shi. This name has at least some resemblance to
Kashgar. 284
Tu-lu-ki=Turkey.
131. The name is placed on our map west of Uch and north
284
It is a curious fact, that up to the middle of last century, eastern
and western Turkistan were almost unknown to the Chinese of the present
dynasty, whilst the Yüan and the Ming were well acquainted with these
countries. At least this may be inferred from the geographical works
published during the present dynasty anterior to the time of K'ien-lung. The
Ta ts'ing yi t'ung chi, or great geography of the Chi-
nese empire under the present dynasty, was first issued in 1743; but it is
only in the second edition of this work, published in 1764 in 500 chapters,
that we find a description of eastern and western Turkistan. The Chinese
had again become acquainted with these countries,-well known to their
ancestors eighteen centuries ago, when the emperor Kien-lung's armies
made the conquest of eastern Turkistan and Dsungaria in 1755. In the new
edition of the Yi t'ung chi, the countries of Ili, Tarbagatai, Karkara usu,
Urumtsi, Kucha, Kharasha, Uch, Kashgar, Yarkand, Khotan, etc. and even
some places of western Turkistan are treated of at length. All these countries
in the Yi t'ung chi are comprised under the general name Sin-kiang,
"The new frontier." After the conquest of these countries, Kien-lung sent
some of the Catholic missionaries, namely Felix d'Arocha, Espinha, and Hal-
lerstein, to determine the position of the principal cities there, and to compile
maps of those countries. Thus the modern Chinese description of Dsungaria
and eastern Turkistan, set down by imperial order, dates from about the
middle of last century. Respecting our knowledge of central Asia, we are
for the greater part still obliged to draw from these Chinese accounts, and
our maps of central Asia are still based merely upon Chinese maps. It can-
not be denied, that the Chinese description of central Asia compiled in the
days of K'ien-lung, and translated into many European languages, contains
information of much value; I would however caution the reader against
placing too much reliance on the notes respecting the ancient history of these
countries, and their identifications with ancient names. Although some of
these identifications seem to be well founded, the greater part are merely the
imagination of the learned committee appointed by K'ien-lung;-the same
committee that corrupted the proper names in the Yüan shi. The views of
these savants were not founded on historical documents, and their identifica-
tions have much the same value as those of Deguignes. European sinologues
are accustomed to attach absolute credit to all that the Chinese in modern
times say regarding the ancient history and geography of Asia, without
attempting to discover what their views are founded on.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
229
of Kashgar. Although no indication is found either on the map
or in the list of the Si-pei-ti, that T'u-lu-ki is intended for the
name of a country, I am nevertheless inclined to suppose that
Turkistan is meant, or Great Turkey of M. Polo, vol. ii, p. 385:-
"Great Turkey lies towards the north-west (north-east) when you
travel from Hormos. It begins on the further bank of the river
Jon (Jihon or Oxus), and extends northward (?) to the territory of
the Great Kaan."
Friar Benedict, the Pole who travelled with Carpini, states,
1. c. p. 777 "Post terram Kangitarum (Kankali;-see above, 64)
venerunt Turkyami. . . . . habet autem Turkya legem Machometi."
Carpini calls the same region, the country of the Bisermans.
In the Si-pei-ti, the name Tu-lu-ki is put at the head of the
places and countries comprised in the middle empire, which, as is
known, embraced the whole of Turkistan.
I may also observe, that on the map in Yule's Cathay, showing
the metropolitan sees of the Nestorian church in the 14th century,
the name Tarak appears between Samarcand and Armalek. Col.
Yule explains:-"Turkish tribes beyond Samarkand probably."
A-te-ba-shi= Atapasha.
132. This name appears on the map north-west of Kasligar.
A place
A-t'e-ba-sheng is mentioned in the itinerary
of Ye-lü Hi-liang after Kashgar.
In the narrative of Tamerlane's exploits (Deguignes, tom. v,
p. 10) it is stated, that Camar-eddin of Kashgar encamped in 1376,
at Atbashi, a place situated towards the lake Pulkuti (Balkash),
into which the river Ili discharges its waters.
In accordance with the place assigned to A-t'e-ba-shi on the
ancient map, about ten years ago a river was discovered, the native
name of which is Atapasha. It is a southern affluent of the Naryn,
one of the rivers which form the Sir-daria, and can be found on
new maps of Turkistan. Baron F. von der Osten Sacken, late
secretary of the Russian Geographical Society, who if I am not
mistaken, was the first scientific explorer of the country of the
upper Naryn, has had the kindness to inform me, that he saw in
the valley of the river Atpasha, very interesting remains of an
ancient fortress of strong appearance. The place where Baron
Sacken crossed the Atpasha in 1867, is situated a little north of
41° N. lat. and about 75° 40' E. long. Greenwich.
My identification however, is not free from doubt. On the map
of Kokand and Turkistan, in Peterman's Geogr. Mitth. 1874,
tab. 11, a fortress Atbash is marked north-west of Kashgar, on the
route from this city to lake Chatyr-kul, about 40° N. lat. and

230
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
75° 40' E. long. Greenwich. It is difficult to say whether this or
the fortress on the river Atpasha is to be identified with the place.
nearly the same name, mentioned in the Yüan shi and on the
ancient map.
O-dsi-han 285 = Uzgend.
133. The place assigned on the map to O-dsi-han or O-dsi-dsien,
between Atpasha and Marghinan, points to its position in Fergana.
The name has some resemblance to Uzgend. A city of this latter
name still exists in the eastern part of the the khanate of Kokand
(see the afore-mentioned map in Petermann's Geogr. Mitth.). It
was also known in ancient times under the names of Urkend or
Aderkend and Awerkend. Ebn Haukal (10th century) speaks of
A werkend as of a city near the eastern border of Fergana; Edrisi
(12th century) calls it Aderkend; Abulfeda and Nasr-uddin (13th
century), Urkend (cf. Ritter's Asia, vol. v, p. 749).
Neumann (Geschichte d. Engl. Reichs in Asien, vol. i, p. 115) trans-
lates from the Kitab Jemini, that Ilek, khan of the Turks (Úigurs)
proceeded from Kashgar to Bokhara in 999, took the city and
sent Abdal melek, the last sultan of the Samanides to Urkend,
two days' journey from Khodjend.
The Bibl. Orientale, P.
453,-where is a record of the same events, apparently derived
from other sources, instead of Urkend, has "Dizyhend, place forte
qui est fort avant dans le Turkestan."
Deguignes (tom. iii, p. 219) translates from the Ben Elathir,
that Malek shah of the Seldjuks, in 1089, went to Uzkend, where
the king of Kashgar repaired to render homage. This passage
proves, supposing Deguignes has exactly rendered the name
as given in the manuscript,-that Uzkend was an ancient name
of the place.
I have not been able to find in D'Ohsson's "History of the
Mongols," that mention is made by the Mohammedan authors of
the Mongol period, of this city of Urkend or Uzgend. It is only
on the map appended to his work, and containing nothing but
ancient names, that a place Euzkend appears in Fergana. Besides
this, a city Ozkend is marked on the same map on the river Sihon
towards the Aral lake. This city is also spoken of in the Tarikh
Djihan Kushai, as having been taken by the Mongols in 1219
(see above, 49). It is of course out of the question, its being the
place O-dsi-han on the ancient map.
A city of Ozkend is mentioned by the Mohammedan authors as
a place, where the gurkhan of Kara-khitai had a treasury.
285
It was
The third character in this name is uncertain. It is written
dsien in the Si-pei-ti.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
231
plundered by Guchluk (D,Ohsson, tom. i, p. 167). In D'Ohsson,
tom. i, p. 182 we read, that in 1209, Mohammed Khorazm shah
invaded the dominions of the gurkhan of Kara-khitai and conquer-
ed Turkistan as far as Ozkend.
As I have stated in the article on the Karluks (121), the Yuan-
shi speaks of a city Wa-sze-gien (somewhere in Turkistan) which
sounds like Uzgend.
The unfortunate traveller, Professor Fedchenko, in 1871 visited
Uzgent (thus he writes the name) in the khanate of Kokand.
He speaks of the ruins of the tomb of Illik Mozi there, where he
saw also some remarkable buildings dating from the beginning of
the 12th century. The city is now in ruins, and from their extent
it may be concluded, that the ancient city was very large (see
Proceedings of Russ. Geogr. Soc. 1872, vol. viii, p. 8).
Ko-san Kassan.
134. The position assigned to Ko-san on the ancient map
permits its identification with the city of Kassan in Fergana.
Kassan is mentioned as early as the 8th century, as having been
taken by the Arabs (Deguignes, tom. ii, p. 497). Edrisi (11th
century) states that Kassan is situated in the northern part of
Fergana, in a fertile country (Ritter's Asien, vol. v, p. 748). Abul-
feda (13th century) calls Kassan a great city of Fergana, but des-
troyed in his days by the Turks (Bibl. Orient. p. 238).
Sultan Baber in his description of Fergana (Klaproth's Mém.
rel. à l'Asie, tom. ii, p. 145), written in the beginning of the 16th
century, speaks of the same place as a little town north of Akh-
sia, 280 and adds, that the river which passes by Akhsia comes from
Kassan.
Kassan is marked on Petermann's afore-mentioned map of Ko-
kand, etc. a little north of 41° N. lat. and about 71° 30' E. long.
A river passing near Kassan runs southward, and seems to discharge
into the Sir-daria near a place called Alchsy. On a Russian map of
Tashkand, etc. found in the Proceedings of the Russ. Geogr. Soc.
vol. ii, 1867, Kassan appears as a fortress.
巴補 Ba-bu.
135. The only corroboration I can adduce of the existence of
a city of this name, which is placed on the Chinese map between
Kassan and Marghinan,-is the mention of it in the Si yu lu.
286
Akchsia, called also Akhsiket according to sultan Baber. Under the
latter name it is mentioned by Ebn Haukal (10th century) as the capital of
Fergana, situated on the Sihon (Ritter 1. c. vol. v, p. 743).

232
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
(Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 115). The name is written there
Ba-pu, and associated with Khodjend, Kassan and Balan
(Badam).
Ma-r-i-nang-Marghinan.
136. This is doubtless the city of Marghinan mentioned by
Ebn Haukal in the 10th century, as a city of Fergana (Ritter, 7. c.
vol. v, p. 745), and spoken of also by sultan Baber, who states
that the city was famed for its pomegranates and other fruits and
flowers. The Bibl. Orient. records, p. 565, that Marghinan was
in former times the capital of Ilek khan (a khan of Turkistan).
Marghinan still exists. See Petermann's map, on which it is
termed Margijan.
In the Yi tung chi, or great geography of the present Chinese
empire, and on modern Chinese maps, the name is written
Mar-k'o-lang. Mir Izzet, a Mohammedan traveller
(1812), states that Marghinan is also called Margilan (Klaproth
Magaz. Asiat. tom. ii, p. 45).
P. Nazaroff, a Russian traveller to Kokand, 1813-1814, who
was detained three months in Marghilan, gives a detailed descrip-
tion of the city, which at that time was thirty versts in circum-
ference (Magaz. Asiat. tom. i, p. 53).
Hu-djan Khodjend.
=.
137. There can be no doubt, that by Hu-djan on the ancient
map, the city of Khodjend on the Sir-daria is meant.
The Mohammedan annals mention Khodjend in the 8th cen-
tury. Deguignes, tom ii, p. 497, states, that in 719 the Arabs
conquered Fergana, and captured the cities of Khodjend, Kassan
(see above, 134) and Shash (Tashkand;-see 138). When Chin-
ghiz' armies invaded Fergana, the valiant Timur-melik defended
Khodjend (see above, 49). Abulfeda in the 13th century, calls
the city Khojanda (Ritter, vol. v, p. 749). It is also mentioned
by Nasr-uddin, who has determined its latitude and longitude.
Sultan Baber (Klaproth, l. c. tom. ii, p. 143) speaks of Khodjend as
of a very ancient city in Fergana, and praises its excellent fruits,―
especially pomegranates,-stating, that the pomegranates of Sa-
marcand and Khodjend are proverbial. Ye-lü Ch'u-ts'ai, when
speaking of Ku-djan, also mentions the fine pomegran-
ates there (Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 115).
In the Yüan shi, chap. cli,-biography of Sie-t'a-la-hai, one of
Chinghiz' generals, who was with the conqueror in western Asia,-
the name of Khodjend is written
Hu-ch'an.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
233
The city of Huo-djan mentioned in the Ming shi, chap.
cccxxxii, fol. 29, among the twenty-nine small kingdoms of western
and central Asia, which used to send tribute every three or five
years, seems to denote Khodjend.
Philippe Nazaroff, sent in 1813 by the Russian government on a
mission to the khan of Kokand, (Klaproth, Magazin Asiat. tom.
i, p. 34) was, it seems, the first European, who saw Khodjend in
modern times. It is known that in 1866, Khodjend was taken by
the Russians, and belongs now to Russian Turkistan.
The river Sir-daria on which Khodjend is situated, the Sihon
of the Persian authors, the Yaxartes of the ancients,-is termed
Ho-ch'an or Hu-k'ien by Chinese medieval travellers
(Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. pp. 37, 75). This appellation may
be explained by the statement in the Bibl. Orient. p. 791, that the
Arabs call the Sihon generally Nahar Khodjand, "the river of
Khodjend." Thus the Sihon is also termed by sultan Baber.
Ch'a-ch'i= Chach or Tashkand.
138. A place of this name is marked on the map, north-west
of the afore-named cities of Fergana; and this position permits its
identification with Chach, which was as is generally believed, the
ancient name for the present Tashkand.
Sultan Baber (Klaproth, Mém. tom. ii, p. 147), when speaking
of Tashkand, states, that in books this city is generally called
Shash, and that some authors also write Tchatch. Julien (Mém.
s. 1. Contrées Occid. tom. i, p. 16) writes the name Tchadj.
Deguignes, tom. ii, p. 497, states on the authority of the Mo-
hammedan authors, that Shash was conquered by the Arabs in 719.
Ebn Haukal (10th century) mentions the city of Chaje as one
of the strongest places on the frontier of Turkistan.
The Bibl. Orient. has an article on Shash (p. 762), and another
on Tashkand (p. 866), but does not say that the two names denote
the same place. In D'Ohsson's "History of the Mongols," the name
of Shash or Chach does not appear. Tashkand is only once men-
tioned, under the year 1306 (tom. iv, p. 557). It is marked also
on D'Ohsson's map.
In the days of Tamerlane, Tashkand played an important role,
and frequent mention is made of this place in the Mohammedan
records of the conqueror's warlike doings (Deguignes, tom. v, pp.
26, 31).
The embassy of Shah Rokh to the Chinese emperor, in 1419,
proceeded from Herat to Balkh, Tashkand, Sairam, etc. (Yule's
Cathay, p. cc).
Ancient Chach or Shash has been identified by Ritter (Asien,

234
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
vol. v, p. 570) with the realm of Shi, 287 also called
Che-chi or Che-che, of which mention is made in the "Tang
History," chap. cclviiib. The accounts there given of this country
are very vague, but not in contradiction with Ritter's suggestion.
With respect to Shi, compare also notes 57 and 59.
The Buddhist monk Hüan-tsang, who visited Turkistan in the
7th century, travelled westward and south-westward from Talas,
and arrived at Che-shi or Tchadj (Julien, l. c. tom. i, p. 16).
I suppose he travelled by the great highway leading now from the
Talas river to Tashkand (see note 59).
The name Tashkand in Chinese works seems to occur as early as
the Mongol period; at least in the Annals of the Yüan shi, under
the year 1309, mention is made of the taxes which had to be ga-
thered from the cities of
Sa-ma-r-kan (Samarcand)
Ta-la-sze (Taras;-see note 59) and
yüan. I think the last name is intended for Tashkand.
In the Ming shi, Tashkand is termed
T'a-shi-
Ta-shi-kan
(chap. cccxxxii, fol. 8), and in the great geography of the present
Chinese empire, as well as on modern Chinese maps, the same
name is written
Ta-shi-kan.
Ritter states (l. c. vol. v, p. 543), that in 1759, the Catholic mis-
sionary Felix D'Arocha made twelve astronomical determinations
in Fergana, Badakhshan, etc. by order of the Chinese emperor.
I have not been able to find any particulars regarding this scienti-
fic mission. In the Mémoires concernant les Chinois, tom. i,
pp. 399, 400, where it seems the calculations of the missionaries,―
in the second half of the last century-were first published, not a
word is said as to their origin. The determinations given there
deviate most widely from the new Russian determinations in
those countries. Errors in the observations of the missionaries res-
pecting the longitudes would be explicable; but the so-called
observations of D'Arocha show a difference of from 1° 40' to
1° 52' even in the latitudes, when compared with the Russian
calculations. Thus the correct latitude of Tashkand according to
Russian observation is 41° 19', whilst D'Arocha carries this place
north to 43°, 3'. It is known that all the astronomical determi-
nations made by the Jesuit missionaries in China, even so early as
the beginning of last century are very correct. I therefore feel
some doubt, whether D'Arocha ever travelled from China to
Fergana.
I may finally mention, that for the first European accounts of
287
Shi in Chinese means "stone." Tash in the Turkish dialects has
the same meaning.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
235
Tashkand, based upon local observation, we are indebted to the
above-mentioned Russian traveller Nazaroff in 1813, who in his
narrative gives a good description of the city (Klaproth, Magaz.
Asiat. tom. i, p. 31). It is needless to say, that since Tashkand
was taken by the Russians in 1864, and made the capital of
Russian Turkistan, the city is as well known (in Russia at least) as
any other city of the empire.
TU-ti-la-r=Otrar.
I
139. The position of Otrar, seems to be erroneously marked
on the ancient map, in relation to Tashkand and Sairam.
have not been able to find in my books, any statements regarding
the position of ancient Otrar; and I cannot say whether it has
been ascertained. The name of Otrar does not appear on the
Russian maps of Turkistan which I have seen. But Dr. Peter-
mann, whose information is always drawn from the best sour-
ces, on his excellent map of western Turkistan, Chiva, etc.
(Mittheil. 1873, tab. 9), places the ruins of Otrar on the northern
bank of the Sir-daria, between Fort Perowsky and the city of
Turkistan.
This position agrees well with Pegoletti's notices of the land
route to Cathay, written in the first half of the 14th century
(Yule's Cathay, p. 288). This itinerary mentions Gintarchan
(Astrachan), Sara (Serai) and Saracanco (Sarachik on the river
Jaik). The distance from the latter place to Organci (Urgendj)
is estimated at twenty days' journey in camel-waggon, and from
Organci to Oltrarre (Otrar) thirty-five to forty days; but the direct
way from Saracanco to Oltrarre is stated to take only fifty days.
From Oltrarre to Armalee (Almalik), Pegoletti reckons forty-five
days' journey.
It seems that the name Otrar is first mentioned by the Moham-
medan authors in the 13th century. The Bibl. Orient. states,
pp. 313, 690, that this city was previously called Farab.
It was
at one time considered the capital of Turkistan. The Mohamme-
dan authors also state, that it was not very far from Bela-sagun
(see note 57). Ebn Haukal (10th century) describes Farab as a
large city in the western part of Turkistan.
The history of Otrar presents two remarkable events. Its cap-
ture by the Mongols, in 1219, was the commencement of the
conquest of western Asia; and it was at Otrar, that the great Ta-
merlane died, on the 17th of February, 1405, just when he was
about to move out on a great expedition against the emperor
of China.
Haithon the Armenian, in his Historia Orientalis, p. 4, calls

236
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Octorar (Otrar) the greatest city of Turkistan. Haithon the
traveller writes the name correctly Otrar.
Col. Yule states (Cathay, p. 288), that Otrar stood on the frontier
between the khanates of Kipchak and Chagatai (he does not say
from whom this is quoted). The ancient Chinese map places it
near the frontier of Kipchak, but as I observed above, this does
not seem to be its proper place on the map.
The name Ornas (or Orpar) in Carpini's narrative, p. 750, is
perhaps intended for Òtrar. There is however some confusion in
his statements about this place, which do not permit any identi-
fication (see note 91).
Concerning the siege and capture of Otrar, in 1219, by the
Mongols, which is recorded with more or less detail by the Mo-
hammedan authors, and also by the Chinese authors,-see above,
49. The Yüan shi spells the name
Wa-t'o-lo-r or
JO-ta-la. Yelü Ch'u-ts'ai also mentions O-ta-
la (Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 115).
Sa-ma-r-kan= Samarcand.
140. Samarcand,-in times past the capital of Maver-al-nahr
or Transoxiana, is one of the most ancient and celebrated cities
of Asia. The fertile valley of the Zarafshan, in which Samar-
cand was founded, is mentioned under the name of Sogdo in
the ancient traditions of Iran. The Zend Avesta enumerates it
among the places of abundance created by Ormuzd. From Sogdo,
the name Sogdiana of the Greek and Roman authors is derived.
It is not ascertained when the name Samarcand first appeared, but
it is generally believed, that the place Maracanda visited by
Alexander the Great (cf. Arrian's History, book III, chap. xxx), is
identical with Samarcand.
The Bibl. Orient. quotes some Mohammedan writers, who assert,
that Samarcand was founded by Kishtasp (Darius Hystaspes,
B. C. 521-485. It seems, that very little is known of the ancient
history of Samarcand. Before it was taken by the Arabs and
Islam carried to Transoxiana, Samarcand was in the possession of the
western Turks. In the 10th century it belonged to the Samanides,
who reigned over Transoxiana and Khorassan. In the 11th and
12th centuries it was comprised in the dominions of the Seldjuks;
and in the 12th century it seems that the rulers of Samarcand
were for some time tributary to the Kara-khitai. When Chinghiz
arrived in Transoxiana, Samarcand was subject to Mohammed
shah of Khorazm; and it was taken by the Mongols in April, 1220.
Samarcand in the days of the Mongols was repeatedly visited by
Europeans. There was a metropolitan see of the Nestorian church,

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
237
and also a Latin missionary bishopric there (Yule's Cathay,
pp. ccxliv and 192). The Christian missionaries in the middle
ages called it Semiscant. Marco Polo (vol. i, pp. 170 sqq.) devotes
a chapter to the great city of Samarcan. Haithon the tra-
veller terms it Semergent. Clavijo and Schildberger, who both
lived at the court of Tamerlane, at the end of the 14th and
beginning of the 15th centuries, have left behind some accounts
of the capital of Tamerlane. Clavijo states, that Samarcand was
also called Cimes-quinte (Yule's Cathay, pp. cxxxv and 192).
After Clavijo and Shildberger, for nearly four centuries no Euro-
pean visited Samarcand; so that Ritter in his Asia, could give no
information respecting it, during that period, except some ancient
Chinese historical accounts. For the first authentic accounts of
Samarcand, we are indebted to the members of a Russian scientific
expedition sent to Transoxiana in 1841. This expedition was
composed of the well-known orientalist Khanikoff and two
other savants, Lehmann (naturalist) and Bogoslawsky. They
visited Bokhara and Samarcand, and Khanikoff subsequently
published a "Description of the Khanate of Bokhara" (in Russian),
St. Petersburg, 1843. A good map of Transoxiana, and also
maps of the cities of Samarcand and Bokhara are appended. 288
The reports of this expedition are also found in Beiträge zur
Kenntniss des Russischen Reiches, b. xvii. In 1863, the well-known
traveller Prof. Vambery was in Samarcand; and in May, 1868,
the Russian army took possession of the city.
141. Let me now show what the Chinese report respecting
Samarcand. There can be no doubt that Sogdiana was known to
them as early as the 2nd century B. C., since the famous Chi-
nese general Chang Kien had visited the countries of the far west.
From the vague accounts found in the histories of the Han, it is
not easy to identify the ancient Chinese names applied to the
countries of western Asia; it seems however, that the country
of Kang-kü,-first mentioned in the "History of the An-
terior Han," before our era, included Sogdiana; for in the "His-
tory of the Northern Wei (386-558)," a country in the west,
Kang, is described; and it is further stated there, that the
people of K'ang are a branch of the K'ang-kü of the Han period.
In the "History of the T'ang," chap. cclviiib, the kingdom of
K'ang is again spoken of; and among the synonyms given for the
same country, we find Sa-mo-kien, which is intended
for Samarcand. This identification is corroborated by the narrative
288
Khanikoff states 7. c. p. 104, that he was not the first Russian who
saw Samarcand, the place having been visited towards the end of last century
by Yefremoff.

238
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
of Hüan-t'sang who visited Sa-mo-kien; and his itinerary leaves
no doubt, that by this name Samarcand is to be understood.
We find Samarcand again mentioned in the Chinese annals,
in the first half of the 12th century. As has been stated above (26),
Ye-lü Ta-shi, the founder of the dynasty of the Western Liao,
advanced as far as Samarcand, and even beyond it. In the nar-
rative of his expedition, Samarcand is termed
Sün-sze-
kan. The same name was also in use in the east during the Mongol
period. I have shown in my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. (cf.
pp. 23, 38, 48, 76), that Samarcand is repeatedly mentioned by
Chinese medieval travellers to the west in the 13th century;
sometimes under the name. of Sun-sze-kan, and sometimes
Sie-mi-sze-kan; the latter name is evidently intended
for Semiscant (see above). Ch'ang-ch'un states (l. c. p. 44), that
the same city was also called Ho-chung fu (the city
between the rivers) by the Kara-khitai. This Chinese term is a
literal translation of the Arabic Bein naharein. Thus,-according
to the Bibl. Orient. p. 738,-Samarcand was called in ancient times,
on account of its position between the Djihun and Sihon (Oxus
and Yaxartes).
An interesting explanation is given by Ye-lü Ch'u-ts'ai of the
name Sün-sze-kan (Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 116). He states,
that "western people say, that the meaning of this name is 'fat'
(fei), and as the land there is very fertile, the city received
this name."* Indeed semiz in the Turkish languages means "fat."
In the Annals of the Yüan shi, where Chinghiz' expedition to
the west is reported, both the above-mentioned Chinese names for
Samarcand appear (see above, 53).
In the Si-pei-ti, and on the ancient map, Samarcand is termed
Sa-ma-r-kan; and in the Annals of the Yüan shi,
sub anno 1309, the city is spoken of once more under the same
name (see above, 138).
Finally, I may mention respecting Samarcand in the middle
ages, an interesting ancient Chinese document translated by Archi-
mandrite Palladius, and published in The Chinese Recorder,
vol. vi, p. 108. An ancient monument in Chin-kiang fu comme-
morative of Ma Sie-li-ki-sze, a Christian and a native of Samarcand,
mentions Sie-mi-sze-hien as a country where the religion of the
Ye-li-k'o-wen (Christians) dominates; and speaks of a miraculous
It may be interesting to compare with this, the etymology given by
Clavijo. He says: "The city is so large, and so abundantly supplied, that
it is wonderful; and the name of Samarcand or Cimes-quinte is derived from
the two words cimes great, and quinte a town." (Narrative of the Embassy
of Ruy Gonzalez de Clavijo, p. 170).-ED. COм.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
239
temple there, one pillar of which was in a hanging position, etc.
This statement has special interest; for M. Polo (vol. ii, p. 139,
speaks of the Baron Mar Sarghis, a Nestorian Christian and
governor of Chinghianfu. Polo also records (vol. i, p. 171) the
miracle in the Christian church of Samarcan, where one of the
columns was without support.
The "History of the Ming" (Ming shi, chap. cccxxxii, fol. 1 sqq.)
devotes a long article to Sa-ma-r-han, from which it
appears, that in the days of Tamerlane, and also in the 15th and
16th centuries, active intercourse existed between China and the
countries in the west, as Samarcand, Herat and Fergana.
Na-hei-sha-bu= Nakhsheb (Karshi).
142. By Na-hei-sha-bu,-placed on the map south-west* of
Samarcand, and south-east of Bokhara,-only Nakhsheb can be
meant, which has the same position on D'Ohsson's map. This
name is not found on modern maps, but I read in the Bibl.
Orient. p. 664, that Nekhsheb, a city of Transoxiana, according
to Abulfeda and Arabshah is also known under the name of
Karshi, and that it is situated on the way leading from the banks
of the Djihun to the city of Kesh. 28 The country between the
Djihun and Nakhsheb is stated there to be a sterile. desert. As to
Karshi, this name appears on modern maps, south-west of Samar-
cand (see Petermann's map;-Mitth. 1873, tab. 9). This place has
been astronomically determined.
It seems, that Nakhsheb is spoken of in the "History of the
Wei dynasty (386-558)." At least, the name of
Na-
she-bo mentioned there, under the article K'ang (Samarcand ;-
see above), as that of a small realm dependant on K'ang, has a
strong resemblance to Nakhsheb.
Firdusi, in his "History of Persia" (Deguignes, tom. ii, p. 333)
relates, that at the time of Khosru Anushirvan, A. D. 531-579,
the khan of China invaded Transoxiana and defeated the khan of
the Turks, near Nakhsheb.
Nakhsheb is more than once mentioned in D'Ohsson's "History
of the Mongols." When the Mongol armies appeared in Trans-
oxiana, Mohammed shah of Khorazm left Samarcand and fled by
way of Nakhsheb (tom. i, p. 241). After the capture of Samar-
cand, Chinghiz encamped the whole summer of 1220, between
By a typographical error, NA-HEI-SHA-BU is placed about a inch too
much to the right on our transliterated map.-ED. COM.
280
Kesh, the native place of Tamerlane, lies south of Samarcand. Ch'ang-
ch'un, when proceeding from Samarcand to the Hindu-kush, in 1222, passed
through Kesh and the Iron-gate (see Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 41).

240
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
that city and Nakhsheb (tom. i, p. 262). See also tom. i, p. 315.
In the narrative of the exploits of Tamerlane, Nakhsheb is also
mentioned (Deguignes, tom. v, p. 9).
Bu-hua-la=Bokhara.
143. All Mohammedan authors agree in stating that Bokhara
is one of the most ancient cities in the world. Oghuz khan the
(half-mythical) progenitor of all the Turk tribes is said to have
resided in Bokhara. In the political changes, which have succes-
sively taken place in Transoxiana, Bokhara has generally shared
a common fate with Samarcand. Thus it was conquered by the
Arabs in the beginning of the 8th century. In the 10th century, it
was the capital of the dynasty of the Samanides. In 999, a khan
of the Turks overran Transoxiana and took Bokhara.
melek, the last Samanide ruler was made prisoner. Subsequently
a Seldjuk dynasty reigned over Transoxiana. When Chinghiz
arrived, Bokhara belonged to the shah of Khorazm. The place
surrendered to the Mongols in 1220 (see above, 49).
Abdal-
The Chinese annals, apparently, first mention Bokhara in the
7th century. In the "T'ang History" (chap. cclviiib), after the
description of K'ang (Samarcand), nine smaller realms are men-
tioned, which were dependent on Samarcand. One of them is
termed An, and also ffi Bu-huo or Bu-ho. Bu-ho,
which probably means Bokhara, is there stated to be bounded on
the west by the river Wu-hu. 290 In Hüan-tsang's itinerary
the kingdom of Bu-ho is also noticed. It is said to resemble Sa-
mo-kien or Samarcand (Julien, l. c. tom. i, p. 21).
The capture of Bokhara by Chinghiz is also recorded in the
Yüan shi, where the name is written Pu-hua, and also
Bu-har (see above, 53). Ye-lü Ch'u-tsai (Notes on
Chin. Med. Trav. p. 117) says Pu-hua is richer than Samarcand.
In the Ming shi, chap. cccxxxii, fol. 9, a short article is devot-
ed to
Bu-hua-r. The Ming emperors several times sent
envoys to Bokhara.
After Bokhara had been,-like Samarcand,-for long centuries
a terra incognita to Europeans, it was first visited, in 1833, by
Sir A. Burnes. In 1842, a Russian scientific expedition (Khani-
koff, Lehmann, etc ;-see above, 140) went to Bokhara and Sa-
marcand; subsequent to which several political missions have
been sent by the Russian government to the khan of Bokhara,
290
The river Wu-hu seems to be the Oxus. It is again mentioned in
the T'ang shu, in the articles Tu-huo-lo (Tokharestan;-see note 292) and
Ho-li-si-mi (Khorazm;-see further on, 161).

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
241
who finally lost the province of Samarcand, in warlike contest
with that empire.
Di-li-an. = Daran. (?)
144. Thus the name is written in the list of the Si-pei-ti;
but on the ancient map it is spelt Di-an-li. I am not
prepared to say which may be the correct reading. The map
places this name between Bokhara and Ko-ti (Kath). Perhaps
the city of Daran, mentioned in the Bibl. Orient. p. 513, among
the cities of Khorazm, is intended.
Ko-t'i Kath.
145. This name appears on the ancient map to the south-east
of the place where Khorazm (see 161) is marked. I think Kath
is meant, which according to the Bibl. Orient, pp. 241, 513,
was a city of Khorazm, at one time the capital of that country,
and situated on the eastern bank of the Djihun, eighteen parasangs
(16 French lieues;-D'Herbelot) distant from Hezarasp, which
lies on the western bank of the same river. Kath has disappeared
from the maps, but Hezarasp still exists, a little north of 41° lat.
west of the Amu-daria, about twelve English miles distant from
the river (see Petermann's Mitth. 1873, tab. 9).
It seems the city of Kath is not mentioned by D'Ohsson; but
in the relation of Tamarlane's war with Khorazm this name repeat-
edly occurs (Deguignes, tom. v, pp. 5, 7, 9). In 1388, Tamerlane
gave orders to fortify the city of Kath, and it was still in existence
in the middle of the 16th century (Deguignes, tom. iv, p. 472).
Termi=Termed.
146. Termed lies on the northern bank of the Amu-daria, north
of Balkh. This city was in existence in the 5th century of
our era. Deguignes states (tom. ii, p. 328), on the authority of
Firdusi it seems, that about A. D. 460, Firuz, the brother of Hor-
muz, king of Persia, asked auxiliary troops from the khan of the
Euthalites (Indo-scythæ) in Maver-al-nahr, to dethrone his brother.
They made an agreement that Firuz should cede to the khan the
cities of Termed and Vasjard on the Djihun.
Edrisi (12th century) states, that the river Wakhsh-ab (thus he
terms the Oxus) runs along the frontier of the country of Balkh,
reaches Tarmedh, etc. and finally discharges its waters into the
lake of Khorazm (Yule's Cathay, p. ccxxxv).

242
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Chinghiz khan took Termed by assault in the autumn of 1220
(see above, 51).
As to the Chinese authors who mention Termed, it seems that
the kingdom of Ta-mi in Hüan-tsang's narrative (Julien, Mém. s. l.
Contrées Occid. tom. i, p. 25) denotes Termed.
The Chinese annals Kang mu record the capture of
Tie-li-mi by Chinghiz (see note 94); and in the Yuan shi,
where the same fact is related in chap. cli, biography of Sie-t'a-la-
hai the name of Termed is written
Tie-li-ma.
Some particulars regarding Termed are also found in the
Ming shi, chap. cccxxxii, fol. 9. It is stated there amongst others,
that 迭里 Tie-li-mi is situated east of the river 阿木A-mu
(Amu-daria), south-west of Samarcand, and distant two thousand li
from 哈烈 Ha-lie (Herat).
Tu-sze=Thus.
147. The compiler of the ancient map has committed a grave
error respecting the position of Thus and Talecan; carrying the
first too far east (east of Balkh), and assigning it to Chagatai's
empire, whilst Talecan (see 169) is marked too far west (north-west
of Balkh). It seems these two places have simply been confound-
ed; for Talecan belonged in fact to the middle empire, whilst
Thus, at the time of the Mongols, was the capital of Khorassan,
a province of Persia.
Thus is a very ancient and celebrated city. The foundation of
it is attributed to Giamshid, a mythical king of Persia. The calif
Harun al Rashid died in Thus, A. D. 809. His tomb there was
destroyed by the Mongols in 1221 (see above, 51). Thus is the
native place of the celebrated Persian poet Firdusi (940-1020),
and of the great astronomer Nasr-uddin (1201-1274), for whom
Hulagu built an observatory near Meragha. Thus had much to
suffer from the Mongol invasion, being first sacked by Subutai, in
1220, and destroyed the following year by Tului. It was restored
in 1239 by Kueurgueuz, who had been appointed Mongol gover-
nor of Khorassan, and who established his residence there (D'Ohs-
son, tom. iii, pp. 116, 117). In 1256, Hulagu, on his expedition
to Persia, spent several days in Thus and its neigbourhood (D'Ohs-
son, tom. iii, p. 190). Haithon the traveller, on his way back
from Karakorum, passed through Thus. All the Mohammedan
geographers speak of this place. Ibn Batuta (middle of the 14th
century) calls it one of the largest cities of Khorassan.
Thus at an early day was an episcopal see of the Nestorian
church. Col. Yule states (Cathay, p. xc), that the existence of an

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
243
episcopal see in Merv and Thus A. D. 334 is ascertained. In 420
they were raised to the metropolitan dignity.
In the Yüan shi, the city of T'u-sze is twice mentioned. The
Annals record its capture by Tului in the year 1222, and its name
appears in the list of the Si-pei-ti.
Ba-da-ha-shang = Badakhshan.
148. Badakhshan, the mountainous country where the Oxus
takes its rise, so little known to Europeans in our day, is spoken
of by most of the ancient Persian and Arabic geographers. It has
always been famed for its rubies. An important trade route passes
by Badakhshan, crossing the high mountain chain of Bolor tagh
(the Tsung-ling or Onion mountains of the ancient Chi-
nese geographers), and connecting eastern Turkistan with the coun-
tries situated on the Oxus. Goës, on his journey from India to
China, in the beginning of the 17th century, followed this route,
which in the middle ages seems to have been of much greater
importance than it is now. M. Polo also, when proceeding from
western Asia to China, crossed the country of Badakhshan (l. c.
vol. i, p. 149).
Some of the ancient. Mohammedan geographers consider. Badakh-
shan to be a part of Tokharestan; others distinguish it from the
latter (Bibl. Orient. p. 870). Ebn Haukal, in the 10th century,
understood by Tokharestan, the province east of Balkh, compris-
ing Taikan (Talecan), Anderabeh, Badakhshan and Penjhir (Ritter,
1. c. vol. v, p. 701). 291
Edrisi (12th century) states (Yule's Cathay, p. ccxxxiv):
=
"The Djihun takes its rise in the country of Wakhan on the
frontier of Badakhshan, and there it bears the name of Khari-ab.
It receives five considerable tributaries, which come from the
countries of Khutl (see note 294) and Waksh......Badakhshan.is
built on the west bank, of the Khari-ab, the most considerable of
the rivers that fall into the Djihun. They bring to Badakhshan
the musk of the regions of Tibet, adjoining Wakhan."
D'Ohsson (tom. i, p. 272) quotes an Arabic geographical dic-
tionary, in which it is stated, that the trade route from Persia to
Tibet passes through Badakhshan. This country is twice again
mentioned by D'Ohsson;-in. tom. i, p. 172, it is recorded, that
Guchluk, the gurkhan of Kara-khitai was slain in Badakhshan
in 1218 (see above, 35); and in tom. i, p. 272, we read of the
Mongol invasion of the country in 1221.
201
Tokharestan seems to be a name of very ancient date, for Strabo and
Pliny mention the Tócharoi or Tochari. The Tochari were also known in the
2nd century of our era to Ptolemy, as a people among the mountains of the
Oxus.

244
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Badakhshan was known to the Chinese at an early date; not
at first by this name, but under the general appellation
Tu-huo-lo, which doubtless denotes Tokharestan (see above).
This name first appears in the "History of the Northern Wei,"
(A. D. 386-558). In the "History of the T'ang" we read, that
the country of Tu-huo-lo is situated west of the Tsung-ling
mountains (Bolor tagh;-see above), on the southern bank of the
river Wu-hu. 292 The name of Badakhshan is first met with
in Chinese books in the Yüan period, and it seems to be only
once mentioned in the Yüan shi, viz. in the list of the countries
situated to the north-west, where the name is written as on the
ancient map.
In the "History of the Ming," Chap. cccxxxii, fol. 17, some
information is given about
Ba-da-hei-shang. It is
stated there, that it lies to the north-east of An-du-huai
(Andkhui), and the (principal) city is ten li in circuit. In Ba-da-hei-
shang a great trade is carried on in products from the Si-yü; from
which source the people have become very wealthy. The country
belongs to the son of Sha-ha-lu, the king of A
Ha-lie. 293The intercourse of Badakhshan with China (in the
Ming period) began in the year 1408, when envoys from that
country arrived at the Chinese court, together with envoys from
Ha-shi-ha-r (Kashgar) and ẞ Ko-t'e-lang. 201
Badakhshan is spoken of also in the great geography of the
present Chinese empire. The name is written there
Ba-da-k'o-shan.
Badakhshan is quoted by Ritter (l. c. vol. v, p. 543) among the
places said to have been astronomically determined by Felix
D'Arocha (see above, 138).
JKo-bu-li Kabul.
149. Kabul, the capital of modern Afghanistan, 296-in times
202 By this name, occurring repeatedly in the T'ang shu (see note 290),
evidently the Oxus is meant; and it seems Wu-hu is intended for Wakh.
We have seen that Edrisi terms the Oxus Waksh-ab. See above, 146.
203
Sha-ha-lu denotes Shah Rokh; and Ha-lie is Herat. There is in the
Ming shi, chap. cccxxxii, fol. 13, a special article on Ha-lie, where the king
of this country is termed
Sha-ha-luba-du-r (Shah
Rokh bahadur).
294
In chap. cccxxxii, fol. 28, of the Ming shi, the same name is written
Ha-ti-lan. This is probably the country of Kotlan mentioned in
the history of Tamerlane (Deguignes, tom. v, p. 28), and the Kutl of Edrisi,
where the Oxus takes its rise.
295
The name of the Afghan nation appears first in history, it seems, in
the days of Tamerlane. Deguignes (tom. v, p. 41) states:-"Pir Mohammed,
the grandson of Tamerlane, who governed the provinces of Condoz, Baklan,

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
245
past the capital of Kabulistan,-bears an ancient name, which can
be traced back more than seventeen centuries; for Ptolemy men-
tions the city of Kaboura,-Kabur being the original Persian name
of it (Ritter, l. c. vol. v, p. 237).
Ebn Haukal (10th century) writes the name, Kabul. He
states that the castle is in the possession of the Mussulmans, but
the city is still in the power of the infidels. In the 10th century
Kabul belonged, it seems, to the empire of the Samanides, but in
the 11th and 12th centuries it was under the rule of the Ghaz-
nevids.
Chinghiz khan's armies probably entered Kabul, although the
Mohammedan authors do not expressly state it.
We have seen
(52) that Chinghiz was at Beruan, which is situated among the
mountains north of Kabul.
The Chinese probably knew Kabul in the time of the T'ang
(7th to 9th century). I am not however prepared to say, which of
the kingdoms in the west, mentioned in the T'ang shu, could be
identified with Kabul. The identifications of Ritter and Rémusat
are unfounded.
It seems, that the list of the Si-pei-ti is the only instance of the
mention of Kabul in the Yüan shi. I have never met with this
name elsewhere in Chinese books.
150.
Ko-dsi-ning = Ghizning, or Ghazna.
Ghiznin or Ghazna is also a very ancient city, and was
the capital of Zabelstan, a country contiguous to and south-west of
Kabulistan. It was celebrated in the days of Ebn Haukal; and
towards the end of the 10th century, it became the capital of the
Ghaznevid dynasty.
Ghazna played an important rôle at the time of the Mongol
invasion of Persia. It then belonged to the empire of Khovaresm
shah, and Djelal-eddin rallied his forces in Ghazna (see above,
52). It was destroyed in 1222, but was afterwards rebuilt.
the 14th century, the Mohammedan authors mention Ghazna
repeatedly.
In
I have stated above (86), that according to the Mohammedan
records, the countries of Badakhshan, Kabul and Ghazna seem to
have been subject to Persia in the Mongol period. The map
however assigns them to the middle empire. They may have
been for a time in the possession of the Chagatai branch, the
princes of which often passed the Djihun, invading the Persian
territories.
Kabul, Ghazna and Kandahar, received orders in 1397 to attack the Uganis
or Aghuans, who dwelt among the mountains of Solimankuh."

246
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
III. COUNTRIES AND PLACES IN THE EMPIRE OF YUE-DSU-BU
(Uzbek).
Kin-ch'a=. Kipchak.
151. The name of Kin-cha has been applied by Chinese authors,
since the year 1223, to the land of the Kipchals or Desht Kipchak,
as the Mohammedan authors term the tract of land situated north
of the Black sea, the Caucasus mountains, and the Caspian sea,
and covered by vast steppes. The Bibl. Orient. translates the
Persian word desht, by "campagne déserte, où il n'y a ni villes ni
villages."
The Kipchak nation belonged to the great stock of the Turks,
whose progenitor, according to the Mohammedan authors, was the
famous Oghuz khan. Rashid-eddin gives the following legend of
the origin of the Kipchaks (Berezin, vol. i, p. 18):-
"Oghuz khan, having been defeated by the tribe of Itbarak,
was forced to retire to an island between two rivers. At that time
it happened, that a woman whose husband had been killed in the
battle, was delivered of a child in the hollow of a large tree.
When Oghuz heard of this he said,As this woman has no
husband, I shall adopt her son.' The child received the name
Kipchak, which is derived from the Turkish word kubuk mean-
ing 'a tree worn hollow by decay.' All the people of Kipchak are
descended from this adopted son of Oghuz. After seventeen years
had elapsed, Oghuz succeeded in gaining the superiority over the
Itbarak. He conquered Iran and returned to his original country;
and afterwards when the Itbarak revolted, Oghuz settled the
Kipchak between their country and the river Jaik. Since that time
the Kipchaks have remained both in summer and winter in the
same country."
It is a curious fact that the people here spoken of were known to
their neighbours by quite different names. In the Russian annals
they are always termed Polovtsy; for as to the identity of these
and the Kipchaks of the Mohammedan writers, there can be no
doubt. The Polovtsy are first mentioned in Russian history in the
middle of the 11th century, as the southern neighbours of Russia,
inhabiting the steppes north of the Black sea, the Caucasus, etc.
(Karamzin, vol. ii, p. 67). Before that time these tracts had been
occupied by the Pechenegs. The Polovtsy are described as an
audacious, nomadic people and skilful horsemen. The Russians
were frequently at war with them, and it was only when the Po-
lovtsy had been defeated by the Mongols, that they made a league
with the Russians against them (Karamzin, vol. iii, p. 228).290
296
D'Ohsson (tom. i, p. 388) states,, that Polovtsy in Russian means.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
247
In the Hungarian and Byzantine annals, the same people bear
the name of Kumans. 29 7Their country was known also to Marco
Polo under the name of Comania (M. Polo, vol. i, p. 50; vol. ii,
p. 421). Carpini states, pp. 742, 743-
"Ivimus autem per totam terram Comanorum, quæ tota est
plana, et habet quatuor flumina magna: prinum Neper (Dnieper)
appellatur, juxta quod, ex parte Rusciæ, ambulabat Corenza (a Mon-
gol general), et ex parte alterâ, per illa campestria, Mauci, qui major
est quam Corenza; secundum Don, super quod ambulat quidam
princeps qui habet sororem Bati in uxorem, qui Cartan appellatur;
tercium Volga, istud flumen est valdè magnum, super quod vadit
Bati; quartum Jaec appellatur (see above), super quod millenarii
duo, unus ex unâ parte fluminis et alter ex alterâ parte, vadunt."
On p. 747 in Carpini's narrative, we read :--
"Comania verò habet ab aquilone, immediatè post Rusciam,
Morduinos, 298 Bileros id est magnam Bulgariam, Bascartos id est
magnam Hungariam (Bashkirs;-see above)."
Rubruquis, p. 246 describes his journey through the steppes of
the Comans, in the following terms:-
"Et tendebamus recte in orientem ex quo exivimus predictam
provinciam Gasarie, habentes mare ad meridiem et vastam solitu-
dinem ad aquilonem, que durat per xxx dietas alicubi in latitu-
dine, in qua nulla silva, nullus mons, nullus lapis, herba est
optima. In hac solebant pascere Commani, qui dicuntur Capchat."
(Thus Rubruquis identifies the Commans and Kipchaks.)
Haithon the historian also has a chapter on the kingdom of
the Comans.
The Mongols came first in contact with the Kipchaks in 1223,
when Subutai with his army crossed the Caucasus (see above);
but it was only about twelve years later their country was subdued,
when Batu undertook his famous expedition against the nations
north of the Caspian and Black seas. After Batu had returned
from Hungary, in 1242, he established his residence in Desht
Kipchak near the lower Volga. 299
"inhabitants of the plain;" but he is wrong, for the name has no meaning in
Russian; and Polovtsy can by no means be derived from polye, "field"
D'Ohsson intimates.
997
as
D'Ohsson (tom. i, p. 338) derives the name from the river Kuban,
which empties into the Black sea; but it seems more reasonable to bring the
Kumans into connection with the large river Kuma, discharging into the
Caspian.
298
290
The Mordwins still live on the Volga.
This capital of the Golden Horde was known in the middle ages under
the name of Sarai, and is mentioned in the Russian annals, as well as by
medieval travellers and Mohammedan geographers, c. g. Ibn Batuta (middle
of the 14th century) and Abulfeda (beginning of the 14th century)., Sara is
one of the principal stations in Pegoletti's itinerary to Cathay (Yule's Cathay,

248
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
152. Ye-lü Ch'u-ts'ai, who accompanied Chinghiz to western
Asia, is the first Chinese author, who mentions the country of the
Kipchaks, terming it JK'o-fu-ch'a. 300 He describes it
also as a country without cities, consisting of vast plains, where
many horses and much cattle are bred (see my Notes on Chin.
Med. Trav. p. 118).
The Yuan ch'ao pi shi calls the Kipchaks, Kibcha (see above,
63). The Yuan shi always spells the name
Kin-ch'a, as it
is rendered on the ancient map. I need not here repeat the
accounts given in the Yüan shi and the Yüan ch'ao pi shi respect-
ing the conquest of Kin-ch'a by the Mongols (see Part V).
The Chinese annals Kang mu, sub anno 1237, state concerning
Kin-ch'a, that this country is distant thirty thousand li from China.
In summer the nights there are extremely short; soon after the
sun has set it rises again. There are fine horses; and wealthy
people breed a large number of them. The people are skilful in *
working leather and metal. They are manly, valiant, strong and
impetuous. They have blue eyes and red hair. 301
In the biography of t±Tu-tu-ha(Yüan shi, chap. cxxviii),
who was a Kipchak prince, and general in Kubilai khan's army, the
following somewhat obscure accounts are given of Kin-ch'a :-
"The ancestors of the people of Kin-ch'a originally dwelt north of
Wu-ping, on the river Dje-lien, near the mountain
An-da-han. 302 Kü-ch'u emigrated to the north-
west, to the mountain called Yu-li-bo-li, and this
name was then adopted for the reigning family. K'ü-ch'u had a
son So-mo-na, who also had a son I-no-sze. They were all heredi-
tary princes of Kin-ch'a. When Chinghiz was at war with the
Mie-li-ki (Merkits), their prince Huo-du fled to Kin-ch'a, 303
p. 287). Carpini, who was at the court of Batu in 1246, and Rubruquis, in
1254, both speak of the residence of Batu; but the name Sarai does not
occur in their narratives. Marignolli passed the winter of 1339 at the court of
Uzbeg khan of the Kipchaks, but the name Sarai seems to have been unknown
to him also (Yule's Cathay, p. 321). M. Polo states, (vol. i, p. 4), that the
residences of Barca Kaan (a son of Djuchi, in 1257-1265) were at Sara and
Bolgara Towards the end of the 14th century, Sarai is enumerated among
the Latin bishoprics in Asia (Yule's Cathay, p 172). For further particulars
on Sarai and its position, see Yule's M. Polo, vol. i, pp. 5, 6.
800
301
Edrisi writes Kifchak (Ritter, l. c. vol. v, p. 702).
Evidently the Kipchaks are here confounded with the Russians.
302 All these names are unknown to me.
303
Rashid-eddin states, that Khudu, a Merkit prince attempted to flee
to Kipchak, but was slain by the Mongols (Berezin, vol. i, p. 73). In the
biography of Subutai (Yüan shi, chap. cxxi) also it is stated, that
Huo-du, chief of the Merkits fled to the Kin-ch'a. He was pursued by
Su-bu-tai, who vanquished the Kin-ch'a at Yü-yü. The Mohammedan

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
249
Chinghiz demanded his delivery, which was refused, when the
emperor gave orders to attack Kin-ch'a. When I-no-sze became
old, his realm was troubled by insurrections; and his son Hu-lu-su-
man then determined to send envoys to Chinghiz, and offered his
submission. Meng-l'o (Mangu,-subsequently emperor) received
orders to occupy Kin-ch'a. Hu-lu-su-man's son Ban-du-ch'a sur-
rendered with his people. Black-mare's milk-which was very
pleasant to the taste-used to be sent from Kin-ch'a to the court of
China; whence the Kin-ch'a were called also A
Ha-la-
chi. 304 Tu-tu-ha, whose biography is found in the Yun shi,
was a son of Ban-du-ch'a. He died in 1279. His son Chuang-
wu-r who died in 1322, was also a renowned general; and his son
Yien-tie-mu-r (see his special biography in chap. cxxxviii) was a
minister of China 1328-1333. Yien-tie-mu-r's brother San-tun,
was also minister; as was San-tun's son likewise.
The name Kin-ch'a appears also in the biographies of the follow-
ing persons, who belonged to that people.
Chap. cxxiii,-Shan-ch'e ba-du-r.
Ibid., Bo-tie-mu-r. Chap. cxxxiii,
Si-du-r. His father's name was 7"o-sun.
Chap. cxxxi,- Wun-djo-du.
Wan-djo ba-du-r. Ibid.,-
A-lo-sze = Russia.
153. A-lo-sze is the Chinese mode of spelling the Mongol Oros,
by which name the Russians are known to the Mongols even to
the present day.
The name of Russia is not of very ancient origin. We learn
from the Byzantine authors, A. D. 865, that under the reign of the
emperor Michael III, a heathen people, previously unknown,
arrived from Scythia at the Bosphorus in two hundred ships and
besieged Constantinople. The name of this people was Ross. The
emperor Michael, who at that time was at war with the Arabs in
Asia, made haste to return to deliver his capital; and the fleet of
the Ross sailed away. Subsequently Greek missionaries were
sent among the Ross, many of whom were converted. 305
It is a
remarkable fact, that about the same time, the name of Ross first
appears in the Russian annals.
The oldest Arabic author who mentions the Russians, is Ibn
authors also record the appearance of the Merkits conducted by their chief,
Tuk Togan, north of the Aral lake, and their pursuit by the Mongols
(D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 208).
304
Khara in Mongol means "black." Rashid-eddin terms one of the
five principal tribes of the Turks, -to which the Kipchaks also belonged,―
Kalladj.
305
Compare Photii Epistolae (Photius, 891), and Sophocles' "Greek
Lexicon of the Roman and Byzantine periods."

250
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Fozlan, who accompanied an embassy from the court of Bagdad to
Bulgar, A. D. 921. He gives detailed and very curious accounts of
them (compare Fraehn's Ibn Fozlan. St. Petersburg, 1823, p. 5),
stating among other things, that he never saw people of more per-
fectly developed form; they were tall as palm trees, and of ruddy
countenance; but at the same time the most uncleanly people 306
that God had created, drunken and frightfully gross in their
manners.
The Ross or Russians are spoken of by all the Arabic and Persian
geographers and historians, from the 10th to the 14th century
(Massudi, Edrisi, Ibn Alverdi, Yacut, Abulfeda, etc.); and of course
also by Ala-eddin, Juveni and Rashid.
We have seen from the records of the Russian, Mohammedan,
Chinese and Mongol chronicles (see above, Part IV), that the
Mongols first became acquainted with the Russians in 1223, when
Subutai invaded the countries north of the Caucasus. The Rus-
sians were then defeated, together with the Kipchaks on the river
Kalka. Fourteen years later, Russia was again attacked by the Mon-
gol armies (Part V). They appeared on the eastern frontier, ravaged
northern Russia in the winter of 1237-1238, and in 1230 devas-
tated the southern principalities. After returning from Hungary
in 1242, Batu established his residence near the lower Volga.
His dynasty is known to the Mohammedan authors under the
name of Desht Kipchak, whilst the Russian annals term it the
Golden Horde. Russia was for more than two hundred years
under its yoke. The Russian grand-dukes and all her other
princes were forced to repair to the court of the Golden Horde
to pay homage. Whoever attempted to disobey, or incurred the
khan's displeasure, met with death at the hands of the Mongol
executioner. Thus e. g. Michael of Chernigov, who refused to
bow before the Mongol idols, was executed in the ordo of Batu
khan in 1246. The tragedy is reported with some detail in
the Russian annals, as well as by Carpini (621), who speaks as an
eye-witness. Another cruel execution of a Russian prince, is re-
corded under the reign of Uzbeg khan. After the death of the
grand-duke Andrei of Vladimir, two Russian princes, Michael of
Twer and Yury of Moscow disputed the throne. Yury was defeated
by Michael, and the wife of the former, being a sister of Uzbeg, was
made prisoner and died soon after. Michael was then summoned
300
Rassmussen in his pamphlet, De Orientis commercio cum Russia et
Scandinavia medio avo, 1825, translates many details respecting the Russians,
from Arabic and Persian mediæval authors. One curious passage there, about
the uncleanness of the Russians reads as follows (p. 35):-"Omnium sunt
sordidissimi: neque se mundant post alvi dejectionem, neque post pollutionem
vel coitum se abluunt, ac si asini errantes essent."

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
251
to appear before the khan, who at that time was travelling towards
Derbend. Michael obeyed and was cruelly put to death in 1319.
His son Dmitry was executed in 1325.
154. After Russia was subdued by the Mongols, the grand-duke
Yaroslav II of Vladimir (1238-1247) appeared in person before
Batu, who acknowledged his supremacy over the other Russian
principalities. Yaroslav sent his son Constantine to Karakorum
to the Great khan Ogotai. Constantine returned in 1245, after
having been absent for two years (Russian annals;-Karamzin,
vol. iv, pp. 31, 295). A few years later, Yaroslav was again sum-
moned to repair with his family to Batu's ordo, and then forced to
proceed to the court of the Great khan, to exculpate himself
on account of some denunciations brought against him by one of
the Russian noblemen. After an audience with Kuyuk khan,
Yaroslav was allowed to return. He died on his way home however,
in September, 1246, and his body was carried to Vladimir. 307
307
Carpini, who spent more than three months (July to November,
1246) at the court of Kuyuk khan near Karakorum, saw Yaroslav there.
According to this traveller, the grand-duke had been poisoned, and died at
the court during his own residence there. He writes, pp. 761, 762:-"Eodem
tempore mortuus fuit Ieroslaus, dux magnus in quâdam parte Rusciæ quæ
Susdal nominatur. Hic modò fuit vocatus ad matrem Imperatoris, quæ
dedit ei manducare et bibere, quasi pro honore, de manu ipsius; et reversus
est ad hospicium incontinenti, et infirmatus, et fuit mortuus post septem
dies, et totum corpus ejus miro modo factum est glaucum; quare credebatur
ab omnibus quòd potionatus esset ibidem, ut suam terram liberè et plenariè
possiderent: et ad hoc est argumentum quòd incontinenti, nescientibus homi-
nibus suis qui erant ibi, misit nuncium festinanter in Rusciam ad Alexandrum
filium ejus ut veniret ad ipsam, quià vellet ei terram patris donare; qui ire
noluit, sed remansit: et medio tempore dabat litteras ut ipse veniret ut terram
patris sui haberet. Credebatur tamen ab omnibus quòd eum occideret si
veniret, vel etiam perpetuò captivaret." Susdal is the name of a city north
of Vladimir. It was in ancient times the capital of a considerable princi-
pality, belonging originally to the house of Yaroslav, grand-duke of Vladimir.
Carpini therefore is correct in calling him duke of Susdal. As to Yaroslav's
son Alexander, mentioned by Carpini, the latter speaks of the Russian hero
Alexander Nevsky, thus named on account of the victory he gained over the
Swedes in 1240 on the river Neva. Yaroslav is again mentioned in Carpini's
narrative, p. 771, in the chapter-De testibus qui in terrâ Tartarorum nos
invenerunt. "In reversione in terram Biserminorum (see above, 41), in
civitate Lemfine (?) invenimus Ugneum, qui de mandato uxoris Ieroslai et
Bati ibat ad prædictum Ieroslaum, et Cocteleban et omnem societatem ejus.
Isti omnes reversi sunt in terram Susdalensium in Rusciâ; a quibus poterit,
si oportuerit, veritas inveniri. Apud Mauci (?) invenerunt socios nostros
qui remanserant dux Ieroslaus et societas ejus; etc." On p. 749 he alludes
to the journey of some Russians, who went through the country of the Kan-
kalis to join Yaroslav (see above, 64):-"Post hoc terram intravimus Cangi-
tarum quæ magnam habet in pluribus locis penuriam aquarum; in quâ etiàm
homines pauci morantur propter aquæ defectum: undè homines Ieroslai ducis
Rusciæ, qui in terram Tartarorum ibant ad ipsum, fuerunt, propter sitim,
plures mortui in illo deserto.'

252
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Alexander Nevsky, prince of Novgorod, the son of Yaroslav, was
also obliged to undertake the painful journey to the Great khan;
in which he was accompanied by his younger brother Andreï.
They returned in 1249, and three years later he ascended the
throne of Vladimir.
The subjection of Russia to the khans of the Golden Horde,
referred chiefly to the tribute the Russians were obliged to pay.
At first the khans farmed out the tribute, due by the Russians, to
some Mohammedan merchants (called Bussurman merchants in the
Russian annals;-Karamzin, vol. iv, p. 329), and the tax-gatherers
collected the dues with the greatest rigour and cruelty. They
were assisted by Mongol officers, called baskaks in the Russian
annals (l. c. vol. iv, p. 97). 308 In the 14th century, the Russian
princes succeeded in obtaining permission to collect the taxes
themselves, and to carry the tribute directly to the khans. Besides
the heavy taxes, there was another duty imposed on them by the
Mongols. At the demand of the khan, they had to supply troops
and fight against the enemies of the Mongols. We shall see further
on, that in the time of Kubilaï, a division composed of Russian
soldiers was met with even in China. As to the administration of
Russia however, and its political relations, the Mongols did not
change the then existing state of things. The grand-dukes and
princes were allowed to rule their people as they liked, and the
Christian religion was also respected. Karamzin gives (vol. iv,
p. 179) the translation of a yarligh, or written patent, granted in
the beginning of the 14th century to the Russian clergy, by Uzbeg
khan. This patent exempted the clergy from taxation.
After the death of Uzbeg (1312-1342), the dynasty of the
Golden Horde began to decline. The first attempt to profit by
this debility of the Mongols was made by Dmitry, grand-duke of
Moscow, who in 1380 defeated the khan Mamai with great
slaughter. This memorable battle, known in Russian history as
the battle of the "field of snipes" (kulikowoye polye), was fought
at the place where the river Nepriavda discharges into the Don.
Dmitry received the surname Donskoi on this account. This
brilliant victory did not break down the Mongol power however;
for a few years later, Mamai's successor Tokhtamish unexpectedly
appeared at Moscow, and sacked and burnt the capital, when Dmitry
again became a vassal of the Mongols. At the end of the 14th
century, the khanate of the Golden Horde experienced a serious
shock by the invasions of, Tamerlane; and in 1395, when pursuing
Tokhtamysh, Tamerlane advanced as far as Yelets (near the river
308
Compare Carpini, p. 703-"Baschatos sive præfectos suos ponunt in
terrâ illorum quos redire permittunt; etc.'

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
253
Don, in the province of Orel), devastating the land adjacent to the
Don. After the conqueror left Russia, the grand-duke Vassily I
(1389-1425), refused to Tokhtamysh the payment of tribute;
but he had under-estimated the power of the khan, who in 1408
arrived with a great host, and imposed a heavy fine on Moscow
as indemnity. In the first half of the 15th century, the Mongol
empire of Kipchak was much weakened, owing to the rise of two
other khanates, viz. those of Kazan and the Crimea. The sub-
jection of Russia to the Golden Horde then became quite nominal,
and the tribute paid to the khans consisted merely in presents sent
from time to time by the grand-dukes, who were on good terms
with the Horde of the Crimea. The Mongol dynasty of Kipchak,
or the Golden Horde, was destroyed in 1502, by Mengli Girei,
khan of the Crimea; and in Russian history this date marks the
end of the period designated by the name "the Mongol yoke."
155. It seems that Russia was unknown to the nations of
eastern Asia before the Mongol period. In the Mongol and Chi-
nese annals, the Russians are first mentioned after Subutai's inva-
sion of southern Russia, in 1223. The Yüan ch'ao pi shi terms
Russia or the Russians Orus, as they are called even now by the
Mongols. The Chinese of the Mongol period write
Wa-lo-sze or
A-lo-sze, sometimes also
U-lu-sze.
All these names evidently render the Mongol appellation Orus. 309
In the Yuan shi, the name of Russia is frequently met with.
Regarding the Chinese and Mongol accounts of the conquest of
Russia, I beg to refer to Parts IV and V of my paper, where all
the information on this subject has been collected. I may notice
here some other instances, where the Russians are spoken of in the
Yuan shi.
We read in the Annals, sub anno 1253, that the emperor Meng-
k'o ordered
Bi-dje Bie-r-k'o to be sent to Wu-lo-
sze (Russia), in order to take a census of the people. 310
309
310
I may observe, that no word in Mongol begins with the consonant r.
Thus the Mongols in rendering the word Russ, prefix a vowel to the name.
This statement seems to be corroborated by the Russian annals, in
which it is recorded (but a few years later), that in 1257, Mongol officers
arrived at Suzdal, Riazan and Murom, to take a census of the people, and
special officers were appointed to collect the taxes, when none but the clergy
were exempt. In the year 1259, two Mongol officers, named Berkai and
Kassachik, arrived with their families and many Mongols on the banks of
the river Volkhov, in order to number the Russian people. This measure
caused a revolt in Novgorod (Karamzin, vol. iv, pp. 71, 74). I am inclined
to identify the Berkai of the Russian annals with the Bi-dje Bie-r-k'o in the
Yüan shi. Bi-dje, properly Bi-dje-ch'i, is a Mongol title, which
may be translated by "secretary." The dictionary appended to the new
edition of the Yüan shi (see above,-Introduction) explains the term by

254
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
It is an interesting fact, recorded in the Yüan shi, that there
was in the beginning of the 14th century, a settlement of Russians
near Peking. We read in the Annals, sub anno 1330, chap. xxxiv,
that the emperor Wen-tsung (Tob timur,-1329-1332,-the great-
grandson of Kubilaï) formed a regiment composed of U-lo-sze or
"Russians." This regiment, being commanded by a wan-hu (com-
mander of ten thousand of the third degree, received the name
Süan-chung U-lo-sze hu-wei ts'in-
kün, "the ever faithful Russian life-guard." It was placed under
the direct control of the council of war. Further on in the same
chapter it is stated, that one hundred and thirty king of land, north of
Ta-tu (Peking), was bought from the peasants and allotted
to these Russians, to establish a camp and to form a military
colony. We read again in the same chapter:-"They were fur-
nished with implements of agriculture, and were bound to present
for the imperial table, every kind of game, fish, etc. found in the
forests, rivers and lakes of the country where their camp was
situated."311 The Russian regiment is again mentioned in chap.
XXXV.
In chap. xxxvi of the Yüan shi, mention is made in three places,
of Russian prisoners sent to the emperor of China.
In the year 1232, the prince Djang-gi presented a hun-
dred and seventy Russian prisoners, and received a pecuniary
reward. 312 On the same page we read that clothes and corn were
bestowed on a thousand Russians.
Yen-t'ie-mu-31 pre-
In the same year the prince
sented fifteen hundred Russian prisoners to the Chinese emperor;
A. In modern Mongol, "a letter," is bichik. In Rashid's "History
of the Mongols," we often meet with the term bitikchis. D'Ohsson (tom. iv,
pp. 371, 380, 381, 410) translates it by "officiers du département des
finances." According to the Yüan shi, chap. lxxxv, there were in the hu-pu
or "board of revenue," seven bi-dje-ch'i. Cf. chap. xcix, on the emperor's
body-guard. There the emperor's secretaries are called bi-dje-ch'i (F
主文史者曰必闍赤)
311 It seems from this latter statement, that the Russian colony was
established somewhere about the southern border of Mongolia.
312
The prince Djang-gi here, is probably the Djinkshi of the Moham-
medan authors, noticed as khan of the middle empire between 1330 and 1333.
He reigned only a short time (see D'Ohsson, tom. iv, Geneal. tables). The
khans of the middle empire were often at war with the khans of Kipchak,
and thus it is not unlikely, that Russian soldiers had been made prisoners by
Djinkshi.
313
The genealogical table of Chinghiz khan's house in the Yüan shi,
chap. cvii, mentions a prince Yen-t'ie-mu-r, a descendant of Kubilai khan's
brother Bo-ch'o. It is however difficult to understand how he should have
captured one thousand five hundred Russians. The annals speak probably of
another prince of this name.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
and another prince,
255
A-r-gia shi-li, presented thirty.
Finally, in the biography of Bo-yen (chap. cxxxviii), he is
stated to have been appointed (in 1334) commander of the emperor's
life-guard, composed of Mongols, Kin-ch'a (Kipchaks) and Russians.
Such is all I have been able to find in the Yuan shi regarding
the Russians. It seems that no one of the Russians in the service
of the Mongol emperors in China has played a conspicuous part.
At least among the biographies in the Yüan shi the Russians have
no representatives, whilst many distinguished statesmen and cap-
tains of the Mongol-Chinese empire were from the Kipchaks, Kan-
kalis, Alans and other nations subdued by the Mongols.
I am not aware, that any mention is made of Russia by Chinese
authors of the Ming period. All that we know of the intercourse
between Russia and China during that dynasty, is the narrative of
a Russian embassy to the Chinese court, in the beginning of the 17th
century. In 1619, the prince Kurakin, Russian military governor
of Tobolsk, sent two Cossacks, Ipashka Petlin and Petunka Kusselep,
from Tomsk through Mongolia to Kalgan and Peking. Compare
Fisher's "History of Siberia," 1774 (in Russian), p. 267; and
Bergeron, Traité des Tartares, p. 106.
It does not come within the scope of this paper, to record the
political and commercial intercourse between Russia and China
during the present dynasty. An interesting pamphlet on this
subject was published a few years ago by my friend and colleague
Dr. J. Dudgeon. I may therefore confine myself to the remark,
that the present Chinese official name for Russia is
O-lo-sze; being in fact the same as in the Yüan period, only repre-
sented by other characters.
Bu-li-a-r = Bulgar.
156. Both copies of the map write this name
Bu-sze-a-r and place it east of Russia; but the list in the Si-pei-ti
has Bu-li-a-r, which is the correct reading; for it is evidently
Bulgar to the east of the Volga that is meant. According to the
Bibl. Orient. the Mohammedan authors call Bulgar also Bular.
Bulgar³ 14 was the name of a rich country situated on the Volga
and the Kama. The capital of it had the same name. It was a
renowned emporium in the middle ages, and also a centre of
Mohammedan learning. The Bulgars seem to have been a mixture
of Fins, Slavs and Turks (Fraehn). The ruins of the ancient city of
Bulgar still exist, and have been the subject of learned investigation
314
The name of the river Volga and Bulgar are probably the same word.
See Bibl. Orient. p. 305, art. "Etil," where it is stated, that some oriental
geographers call the Volga, "Bulgar."

256
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
by several Russian scholars (Pallas, Fraehn, Erdmann, etc.). In
1853, the Russian orientalist Prof. Berezin published an inte-
resting pamphlet," Bulgar on the Volga" (in Russian), in which
detailed accounts are given of the antiquities of the place. The
remains of ancient Bulgar are found on the spot, where now the
village of Uspenskoye (called also Bolgarskoye)stands, in the district
of Spassk, and province of Kazan. This village is six versts (four
English miles) distant from the Volga, on the east, and one hundred
and twenty-five versts from Kazan. Prof. Berezin proves, that
there is no reason for the view, suggested by some authors, that
the city of Bulgar in the 10th century was not on the same site as
the Bulgar of the time of the Mongols. According to a work
published in the Tatar language, in the first half of the 16th
century, and translated by Berezin, Islam penetrated to Bulgar at
an early date, in the 9th year of the Hegira. Massudi (A. D. 943)
however states, that the king of Bulgar embraced Islam in the
beginning of the 10th century (Klaproth, Magaz. Asiat. tom. i,
p. 270). Col. Yule thinks, that the Bulgars, before they had been
converted to Islamism professed Christianity; but the above-men-
tioned Tatar work, translated by Berezin states, that the Bulgars
were fire worshippers before they embraced Islamism.
Bulgar is of course mentioned by the Russian chroniclers at an
early date of Russian history; i. e. in the 10th century, and also by
the Byzantine authors; but the fullest ancient account of Bulgar
which we possess, is that of Ibn Fozlan, an Arabic writer, who
accompanied an embassy from the court of Bagdad to Bulgar,
A. D. 921 (compare Fraehn's translation of this narrative).
According to Ebn Haukal (10th century) and Edrisi (12th cen-
tury), Bulgar was the limit of the countries towards the north,
known to the orientals. Most of the old Arabic writers tell wonders
of the cold and the brief summer nights in Bulgar. Peltry, wax,
honey, hazel-nuts and Russian leather, formed the staple articles of
trade. The last item derived from Bulgar the name which it still
bears all over Asia (Yule's M. Polo, vol. i, p. 6).
According to the Mohammedan authors (D'Ohsson, tom. i,
p. 345), the Mongols first invaded the country of Bulgar at the end
of 1223 (under Subutai ;-see above, 58); and in 1236, when a new
Mongol expedition had been directed to the west, Subutai was
again detached with a division to sack the city of Bulgar, when
the country submitted (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 111). Colonel Yule
states (1. c. vol. i, p. 7) that Bulgar was first captured by the
Mongols in 1225; but he does not say whence his information is
derived. Prof. Berezin, in the afore-mentioned pamphlet (p. 61),
mentions a strange Arabic inscription very frequently met with,
not only among the ruins of Bulgar, but also in some other places

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
257
جباری بوو This inscription reads
in the province of Kazan.
meaning literally, adventus oppressionis. Berezin thinks, that this
inscription is an allusion to the Mongol invasion. The anagram
of the Arabic letters converted into numbers gives the year 623 of
the Hegira, or A. D. 1226. It does not appear however, from the
Mohammedan records above quoted, that the Bulgars had been
troubled in that year.
Berezin states further (p. 63), that all the ruins of Bulgar belong
to the Mohammedan period (10th to 15th century), and that the
most ancient inscriptions found there cannot be traced back earlier
than the Mongol invasion. The same writer proves also, that Bulgar
even in the days of the Mongols, had preserved its importance as
a place of trade and a centre of Mohammedan learning.
Carpini, in his narrative, mentions the Bulgars three times
(pp. 677, 708, 747) and always under the double name of "Bileri
id est magna Bulgaria."315
Rubruquis, p. 252, states:-"Post istos est Etilia (Volga), que
est major fluvius quam unquam viderim, et venit ab aquilone, de
majori Bulgaria tendens ad meridiem, etc."
M. Polo (l. c. vol. i, p. 4) states, that Barca Kaan (see note
299) was accustomed to reside at Sara and Bolgara.
The well-known Arabian traveller Ibn Batuta visited Bolgar in
the middle of the 14th century, in order to witness with his own
eyes the shortness of the northern summer nights. North of
Bulgar was the land of darkness (Yule's Cathay, p. 401).
In the Yuan ch'ao pi shi, the name of Bulgar is rendered by
Bular (see above). In the Yüan shi, Bulgar is only once men-
tioned, i. e. in the list of the Si-pei-ti. The Yüan shi does not
record the capture of Bulgar by Su-bu-tai.
The city of Bulgar seems to have perished early in the 15th
century, after which Kazan practically took its place (Yule, l. c.
vol. i, p. 7).
Sa-gi-la = Solgat.(?)
157. The identification of this name presents some difficulty.
On the map it is placed west of Russia. The only place, the
315
By Little Bulgaria in the middle ages, was understood, the country
inhabited by those Bulgars, who had emigrated to the Danube in the 5th cen-
tury. The Russian annals state, that in the second half of the 10th century,
Swiatoslav invaded the country of the Bulgars on the Danube. The Catalan
map applies the name Bulgaria to the country south of the lower Danube,
which even now bears the same name. Opposite Bulgaria, north of the
Danube, we read on the Catalan map the name Burgaria, whilst the original
country of the Bulgars, east of the Volga is termed there Borgar.

258
'
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
mediæval name of which has some resemblance to Sa-gi-la is Sol-
gat, which was an ancient appellation for the Crimea, on the
south-eastern coast of which Soldaya or Soldachia was situated in
the 13th century, the great port of intercourse with what is now
Russia. The place was called Sudak by the orientals. It was
taken by the Mongols in 1223.
The name of Sa-gi-la has also some resemblance to Sarkel, which
was an ancient fortress in the country of the Khazars, according
to Constantine Porphyrogenitus, who wrote in the 10th century;
but Sarkel is not noticed by the writers of the 13th and 14th
centuries.
A-lan A-sze = Alans or Ases.
158. This name is intended for the people termed "Alani sive
Assi" by Carpini (p. 709), and "Alani sive Aas" by Rubruquis.
The Alans, a people settled north of the Caucasus, have been
known to the Roman and Greek authors since the beginning of
our era. They are mentioned in the 1st century by Suetonius,
Lucan and Pliny. The Greek author Lucian (2nd century) terms
them Alanoi. Ammianus Marcellinus (4th century) gives a full
account of the Alans. Vologesus, king of the Parthians, is re-
ported to have called upon Vespasian (A. D. 69-79) for assistance
against this people. Arrian, when he was governor of Cappadocia
(2nd century), waged war with the Alans. In the 5th century,
the Alans accompanied the Sueves and Vandals, when they
invaded Gaul.
In the second half of the 6th century, Zemarchus the Cilician,
who had been sent by the Byzantine emperor Justin to the Turks,
on his way back visited the chief of the Alans (Yule's Cathay,
p. clxvi).
Constantine Porphyrogenitus (middle of the 10th
century) states, that the country of the Alans is situated beyond
(i. e. north of) the Caucasus mountains (Klaproth, Asia Poly-
glotta, p. 85). Klaproth in his Magaz. Asiat. tom. i, pp. 258-
302, gives a translation of Massudi's (A. D. 943) account of the
Caucasus and the countries on the confines of the Black sea and
the Caspian. Massudi calls the Alans,-Lan, and their resi-
dence-Maas. He states, that these people in former times were
idolaters. They embraced the Christian religion in the time of
the Abbaside califs; but in 320 of the Hegira (beginning of
the 10th century), they repudiated this faith and drove away the
bishops sent by the emperor of Constantinople. The same author
tells us, that in the middle of the country of the Alans, among the
Caucasus mountains, there is a fort, and a bridge spanning a large
river. The fort is called the castle of the Alan gate. It was

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
259
built in ancient times by a king of Persia, to prevent the invasion
of the Alans. 316
In the Russian annals, the Alans are always termed Yasy.
In A. D. 936, Swiatoslav is reported to have captured the city of
Bielowej on the Don, belonging to the Khazars, and to have
waged war with the Yasy317and the Kassogy. The Yasy are also
spoken of by the Russian chroniclers of the 13th century, as a
people near the Caucasus, beyond the river Terek (Karamzin,
vol. iv, pp. 119, 355).
The Mongols, when they had passed the Caucasus in 1223,
found the Alans living on the northern skirts of those mountains.
Fifteen years later, the Alans became subject to latu khan, after
they had made a stout resistance to the Mongols. The Moham-
medan historians, who report the expeditions against this people,
call them indiscriminately Alans or Asi (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, pp. 619,
620).
Carpini and Rubruquis, as we have seen, also identify the Alans
and Asi. The former mentions their settlements south of Comania
(p. 748). Rubruquis (p. 246) says "In hac solebant pascere
Commani, qui dicuntur Capthat; a Teutonicis vero dicuntur Va-
lani, et provincia Valania. Ab Ysidoro vero dicitur, a flumine
Tanay (Don) usque paludes Meotidis et Danubium, Alania."
On p. 252 we read "Habebamus autem ad meridiem montes
maximos, in quibus habitant, in lateribus versus solitudinem illam,
Cherkis et Alani, sive Aas, qui sunt christiani et adhue pugnant
contra Tartaros." On. p. 243 Rubruquis says "In vigilia Pen-
tecostes venerunt ad nos quidam Alani, qui ibi dicuntur Aas,
christiani secundum ritum Græcorum, et habentes litteras grecas
et sacerdotes grecos. Tamen non sunt scismatici sicut Greci, sed
sine acceptione persone venerantur omnem christianum, etc."
M. Polo (vol. ii, p. 421) mentions Alania among the coun-
tries conquered by the Mongols; and in another place (vol. ii,
p. 140), devotes a whole chapter to the history of the slaughter
of certain Alans, who were Christians, and formed a corps in
Kubilai's army. This slaughter took place in the city of Chingin-
ju (Chang-chou fu in Kiangsu).
Marignolli (middle of the 14th century) writes regarding the
Alans (Yule's Cathay, p. 373):-"They form at this day the
greatest and noblest nation in the world, the fairest and bravest of
310
Klaproth thinks that the Alan gate was at Darion on the river Terek,
not far from mount Kazbek, where the great road from Tiflis to Russia now
passes.
317
Deguignes (tom. iv, p. 344) tries to identify the Yasy, spoken of in
the Russian anuals, (misunderstood by him) with the Yazyges south of
Lithuania.

260
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
men. 'Tis by their aid that the Tartars have won the empire of the
east, and without them they have never gained a single important
victory. For Chinguis Caan, the first king of the Tartars, had
seventy-two of their princes serving under him, when he went
forth under God's providence to scourge the world."318
Klaproth (Asia Polyglotta, p. 82) identifies the Alans or Assy
(and the like) with the Ossethi, a people still found in the Cau-
casus, north of Georgia. He states, that they are known to the
Georgians under the name of Osi. Vivien de St. Martin however,
has adduced reasons against this identification; though he considers
both tribes to have been originally members of one great stock
of Asi, who by different routes and at times widely separated,
severally found their way from central Asia to the region of the
Caucasus. According to the same authority, the Georgians, who
always distinguished between the Alanethi and Ossethi, still recognize
a people of the former branch in the interior of the Abaz country
(Yule, l. c. p. 317).
159. Col. Yule states (7. c. p. 316):-"The Alans were
known to the Chinese by that name, in the ages immediately pre-
ceding and following the Christian era, as dwelling near the Aral,
in which original position they are believed to have been closely
akin to, if not identical with, the famous Massagetæ."
This statement, respecting the early knowledge possessed by the
Chinese of the Alans, brought forward by Col. Yule, probably on
the authority of Deguignes (tom. ii, p. 279), requires some eluci-
dation and correction. I may be allowed to show on what facts
Deguignes' identification is based. In the "History of the Ante-
rior Han (B. c. 202-A. D. 25)," chap. xcvi, a realm
Yen-t'sai is spoken of, 2,000 li north-west of K'ang-kü (Samar-
cand;-see above, 141). The people of this country are stated
to be nomades, and to resemble the people of K'ang-kü. It is
further stated, that Yen-t'sai is situated on a great lake (, pro-
perly a marsh), with flat shores, which is called the Northern sea.
In the "History of the Later Han (A. D. 25-221)," chap. cxviii,
Yen-t'sai is again mentioned, and it is noticed there, that the name
of the country had been changed to A-lan-ya (Deguignes'
Alans). In the "History of the Wei (386-558)," mention
is made of a kingdom Su-t'e, north-west of K'ang-kü, situ-
ated on a great lake, and anciently called Yen-t'sai and
Wen-na-sha. I am unable to decide, whether these vague accounts
318 As I shall show further on, Marignolli's statement about the pro-
minent position of the Alans in the Mongol-Chinese empire, is fully corrobo-
rated by the Yüan shi; but he is mistaken as to the Alans in Chinghiz khan's
service. As we have seen, the country of the Alans was only conquered under
the reign of Ogotai.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
261
of Yen-t'sai and the resemblance of the name A-lan-ya with Alania
are sufficient to establish the identity of these names.
At any
rate it cannot be ascertained that the Alans were known to the
Chinese by that name before the Christian era.
We learn from the Yüan shi, that during the Mongol period, the
Alans were not only well known in China, but their nation fur-
nished many able officers to the Mongol-Chinese empire. Several
of them held high offices, or distinguished themselves as valiant
captains. Among the biographies in the Yüan shi, more than
twenty meritorious Alans, some of them of royal blood, have been
immortalized, and besides these the names of many others are
mentioned there.
A-su, and sometimes also
They are generally termed
A-sze. The name A-lan occurs there only once, viz. in the Si-
pei-ti, where the name is coupled with A-sze, as it is on the map.
As we have seen, the Yüan shi mentions the A-su first in the
year 1223 (see above, 59).
I may give a list of the Alans, whose names appear in the bio-
graphies of the Yüan shi.
Chap. cxxxii, Hang-hu-sze (the name is also written
Ang-ho-sze). When the army of the emperor Ogotai had reached
the country of the A-su, the ruler of it, named Hang-hu-sze, sur-
rendered spontaneously; whereupon the emperor granted him the
title ba-du-r (bahadur), and a golden tablet of autho-
rity, confirming him as the ruler of his principality. Order was
given also to form a regiment of a thousand men of the A-su people
(for the life-guard of the khan). Hang-hu-sze had two sons,
A-t'a-ch'i and An-fa-p'u; the former of whom
took service in the emperor's life-guard. Hang-hu-sze, after he had
returned home, was slain in an insurrection, and his widow
Wai-ma-sze was then placed at the head of the govern-
ment. She put on armour, quelled the riot, and handed over the
power to her son An-fa-p'u.
Hang-hu-sze's eldest son A-t'a-ch'i, whose biography is found in
chap. cxxxv, was a valiant captain under Mangu and Kubilaï, and
distinguished himself in China in the war against the Sung. He
had a son named Bo-tu-r, who was the father of O-lo-sze, who had
two sons Du-dan and Fu-ding. All these were officers in the
Mongol army.
Yü-wa-shi,
In chap. cxxxii, is also the biography of
another Alan, who distinguished himself as captain during the
reign of Kubilaï. He was sent against the revolted princes in the
north-west (Kaidu, etc.), and carried the Mongol arms as far as
the country of I-bi-r Shi-bi- (Siberia;-see above, 118). The

262
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
father of Yü-wa-shi, by name
Ye-lie ba-du-r(Elias
bahadur, also a prince it seems) had surrendered at the same
time as Hang-hu-sze. Others of Yü-wa-shi's descendants are also
mentioned.
In chap. cxxiii, we have the biography of the A-su (or Alan)
Nie-gu-la (Nicholas), who is stated to have surrendered
at the same time as Ye-li-ya A-su (probably the
afore-mentioned Elias is meant) and others, thirty-eight in all.
Nie-gu-la was with the emperor Mangu, when he waged war
in China with the Sung. His son
A-t'a-ch'i (this name
occurs for the second time as an Alan) distinguished himself at
the siege of Siang-yang fu, and in the expedition against the
revolted prince No-yen. In the reign of the emperor Jen-tsung
1312-1321, he was still active. His son Kiao-hua held a high
office at court.
In the same chapter we find also the biography of the A-su
prince A-r-sze-lun. It is stated there that his city
was besieged by Mangu, when A-r-sze-lan together with his son
PA-san-djen repaired to the camp of that prince, and
offered his submission. The Mongol granted A-r-sze-lan a patent
to rule his people the A-su, but enrolled half of A-r-sze-lan's troops
in his own life-guard, whilst the other half was left to him, to pro-
tect his dominions. A-san-djen remained with Mangu, but was
subsequently killed, when fighting against the revolted troops of
She-r-k'o. 319 Mangu ordered his body to be embalmed
and sent back to his native country. When A-r-sze-lan had been
informed of the death of his son, he said-"My eldest son is cut
off in early life, before he could be of service to the emperor.
There is my second son Nie-gu-lai (Nicholas), whom
I offer to your Magesty." Nie-gu-lai was a valiant warrior, and
took part in Wu-liang-ho-dai's expedition to Ha-la-
djang (the Karadjang of Rashid,-Yünnan). He left a son
Hu-r-du-da, who, by order of Kubilaï accompanied
Bu-lu no-yen when he was sent to the country of
Ha-r-ma-mou.(?) Hu-r-du-da had a son Hu-du t'ie-
All these served in the emperor's life-guard.
mu-r.
In chap. cxxxii, we meet with the names of three Alans, who
surrendered when Mangu invaded their country, viz
Ba-du-r and his brothers
U-tso-r-bu-han and
Ma-t'a-r-sha. The latter was in the avant-guard of
the Mongol army when the city of Mai-k'o-sze was stormed
(see above, 71).
$19
I do not know whether this is the name of a man or a country.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
In chap. cxxxv, is the biography of
263
Kou-r-gi (George)
a native A-su, who served in the Mongol army during the
reign of Kubilaï. His father Fu-de-lai-sze had been in the life-
guard of the emperor Mangu. K'ou-r-gi's son was called f
Di-mi-di-r (Demetrius).
In the same chapter are the biographies of two other Alans, Shi-
la ba-du-r and Ch'e-li, both in Kubilaï's army. The father of the
latter, Bie-gi-ba, had accompanied the emperor Mangu in his
expedition against the Sung.
We may conclude trom some of the names of the Alans men-
tioned in the Yüan shi, that they were Christians.
The Yuan ch'ao pi shi terms the Alans-Asut, or Asu.
observe, that Asut is the Mongol plural form of Asu.
Sa-r-ko-sze = Circassia.
I may
160. There can be no doubt, that the name Sa-r-ko-sze is
intended for the country of the Circassians or Cherkess, as they
are termed by Rashid-eddin (Berezin, vol. i, p. 2). In the ancient
Russian annals, they appear repeatedly under the name Cherkassy,
a name still in use. Compare Karamzin, vol. iv, p. 304 (71), and
p. 466 (the people of the Cherkassy afflicted with plague).
Rubruquis writes (p. 252):-"Habebamus autem ad meridiem
montes maximos (Caucasus), in quibus habitant, in lateribus versus
solitudinem illam, Cherkis et Alani, sive Aas, etc." Some of the
manuscripts have Cergis or Kerkis instead of Cherkis.
Carpini speaks repeatedly of the Kerkis, but there is some con-
fusion in his narrative as to the application of this name. On
pages 678, 679 he seems to mean by Kerkis, the Circassians; for
in recording the Mongol conquests in the west, he states :-
"Chirpodan verò eodem tempore misit Occoday-can cum exercitu
ad meridiem contra Kergis, quos in bello devicit
Quibus
devictis, ad meridiem ivit contrà Armenos." But on page 659,
where the same name again appears, the Kirghiz seems to be
meant-
......
"Chingis can...... ivit in expeditione contrà Orientem (mis-
take for Occidentem) per terram Kergis, quos bello non vicit."
On page 708, where Carpini enumerates in a certain geographical
order, the nations subdued by the Mongols, he associates the Kergis
with the Bascart (Bashkirs), Sarracens, etc. not with the Alani
and Georgiani.
Hua-la-tze-mu = Khorazm.
161. Khorazm is a name of very ancient date. It has been

264
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
applied for long centuries to the country south and south-west of
lake Aral. The present khanate of Khiva covers for the greater
part ancient Khorazm. The name of Qarasmiah, written in cunei-
form characters, is found on the ancient monuments of Persepolis,
in the enumeration of the countries and nations of Iran (Ritter's
Asia, vol. vi, p. 100). Herodotus, the most ancient of the Greek
geographers (5th century B. c.) terms the same country Chorasmia
(book iii, ss. 93, 117).
When Chinghiz invaded western Asia, the sultan of Khorazm
was a powerful sovereign, ruling also over Transoxiana and Iran.
Haithon in his Historia Orientalis (13th century) states, that
Khorazm is bordered by a certain desert, 32 0 and stretches west-
ward as far as the Caspian sea. On the north it is bounded by
the kingdom of the Kumans (Kipchaks); on the south (evidently
a mistake for east) by Turkistan.
The ancient capital of Khorazm was Urgendj; which the Moham-
medan authors spell Keurcandje, or Orcandje; the latter being,
according to D'Ohsson (tom. i, p. 265) the Mongol appellation;
the Arabs write Djordjaniah. The city was situated on both banks
of the Djihun, i. e. on the ancient channel; for now Kunia Urgendj
(or Ancient Urgendj) is far west of the Amu-daria. The Mongols
took Urgendj in 1221, after a stout resistance by the inhabitants.
It was then destroyed (see above, 51); but it must have recovered
to some considerable extent in the next hundred years, according
to the accounts given by Pegoletti and Ibn Batuta. Pegoletti in
his itinerary (beginning of 14th century) calls it Organci (Yule's
Cathay, p. 294). A Franciscan missionary, in a letter dated 1338,
speaks of Urganth, a city at the extremity of the empire of the
Tartars and the Persians (l. c. p. 234). It is the Urghanj of
Marignolli, who visited the place in 1339 (7. c. p. 321). Urgendj
was destroyed by Tamerlane in 1378 (Deguignes, tom. v, p. 11),
but was subsequently rebuilt.
There is a curious ancient Russian geographical treatise extant,
compiled towards the end of the 16th century, entitled Kniga
bolshomu cherteju ("The Book on the Great Map;"-cf. Transact.
of Russ. Geogr. Soc. 1871, p. 110). In it some distances are given,
respecting the routes near the Caspian sea, lake Aral, the Sir-daria
and Amu-daria. There Urgendj is called Yurgens; the lake Aral
is termed Sineye more (blue sea); the Caspian, Hwalimskoye more
(the sea of Hwalim). 321
320
This desert is marked on Petermann's map (Mittheil. 1873, tab. 9)
as Desert of Khorasm south of the khanate of Khiva.
321
This name for the Caspian sea occurs in the Russian annals as early
as the 10th century. The lake Aral was known to the Persians under the
name of Lake of Khorazm.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
265
In 1603, the Cosacks of the Ural plundered the city of Urgendj,
and towards the end of the 17th century it was entirely destroyed
by the Kalmuks. In an article on the ancient channel of the Amu-
daria, translated from the Russian,-in Petermann's Geogr. Mitth.
vol. xx, p. 25, it is stated, that a remarkable tower, about two
hundred feet high, has survived from the ancient splendour of
Urgendj. 322
The Chinese knew Khorazm as early as the 7th century of our
era. In the "T'ang History," in the section treating of western
countries, we find the following accounts of
Ho-li-
si-mi, called also Hua-sin and Kuo-li:"This coun-
try is situated on the river Wu-hu (the Djihun or Oxus, as
has been proved in notes 290, 292). On the south-west it is
bounded by
as far as the
Tu-kie (Turks).
Po-sze (Persia); to the north-west, it extends
K'o-sa, 323 who belong to the stock of the
In this country (of Ho-li-si-mi) in the time of
the Han was the city of Ao-gien. 324 The ruler of Ho-li-
si-mi resides in
Tsi-to-pei-che.(?) Among the coun-
tries of the Hu (people of western Asia) this is the only one
where carts drawn by oxen are found. The merchants travel in
these carts to other countries. Several embassies proceeding from
Ho-li-si-mi to the Chinese court are recorded."
The Buddhist monk Hüan-tsang, also,--in his peregrinations
from China to India in the 7th century,-passed through Khorazm.
He writes the name of this country
Ho-li-si-mi-kia,
and states that this kingdom is situated on both banks of the river
Fo-ch'u, 325 extending from north to south five hundred li,
and from east to west twenty or thirty li. 326
322
323
Khiva, the present capital of Khorazm, or the khanate of Khiva, is
situated about one hundred English miles south-east of ancient Urgendj. It
became the capital of the Uzbek dynasty,-now ruling over Khorazm,-in
the 17th century. It seems that a place of that name already existed in the
days of Tamerlane. We read in Deguignes, tom. v, p. 5, that the cities of
Kath (see above, 145) and Kayuk or Kivak, in 1371, were in the possession
of the chief of the Kumkurats (there is probably a connection between these
Kumkurats and the city named Kungrat near the mouth of the Amu-daria).
In the article Fo-lin (the Byzantine empire) in the same
"T'ang History," it is said that this kingdom is opposite the country of
FJK'o-sa. I think that by Ko-sa or K'o-sa, the Khazars are meant.
In the "History of the Anterior Han," art. Kang-kü (Samarcand,-
see above, 141), Ao-kien is mentioned among the small realms dependent on
Samarcand, distant about one thousand four hundred li from the latter place.
325 Vatch or Oxus. See Julien's Mém. s. l. Contrées Occid. tom. i, p. 22.
Evidently the author takes into consideration only the cultivated
land in the valley of the Oxus. Even now the khanate of Khiva consists
properly only of the valley of the Amu-daria, the rest being deserts.
324
320

266
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
In the Yüan shi, the name of Khorazm occurs only once, i. e. in
the list of the Si-pei-ti. Urgendj is not marked on the ancient
map, but as we have seen above (53), the Yüan shi records its
capture by the Mongols, spelling the name
Yu-lung-
gie-ch'i. The Yüan ch'ao pi shi writes it Urungechi (Palladius'
transl. p. 147). Ye-lü Ch'u-ts'ai states (Notes on Chin. Med.
Trav. p. 117)" West of Pu-hua (Bokhara) there is a great river,
flowing to the west, which enters a sea. West of this river is the
city of U-li-gien, where the mother of the so-li-t'an 327
is living. This city is still more rich and populous than Bokhara."
Sai-lan-Sairam.
162. Sairam 328is still the name of a city in Russian Tur-
kistan, north-east of Tashkand. It was situated at the time of
the Mongols, as it is even now, on the great highway leading from
Almalik (Kuldja) to Samarcand; and thus it is spoken of by the
Chinese medieval travellers, who took this route (see my Notes on
Chin. Med. Trav. pp. 36, 75); and also by Haithon. In the
biography of Sie-t'a-la-hai,-one of Chinghiz khan's generals,-
(Yuan shi, chap. cli), the capture of Sai-lan by the Mongols
is recorded. The Mohammedan authors do not mention Sairam
among the cities taken by Chinghiz khan's army; but this place
is spoken of, it seems, by Rashid-eddin, in the chapter on the
Turkish tribes. Compare Berezin's translation, vol. i, p. 2, where
Talas and Sairam appear in the list of countries and places inha-
bited from ancient time by Turkish tribes. On page 13 of the
same translation, the same place apparently is called Kary Sairam,
and associated again with Talas. Rashid states that Kary Sairam
and Talas are said to be situated in the country, where Abuldja
khan 329 was in the habit of encamping in winter time. He states
further, that Kary Sairam is an ancient and very large city with
forty gates. To cross it takes a whole day. In Rashid's day
Kary Sairam was inhabited by Turk Mussulmans and was subject
327
328
Turkan khatun, the mother of sultan Mohammed of Khorazm.
I may obsorve, that there is in central Asia a lake and a city, which
on our maps bear the same or nearly the same name. The lake Sairam, of
which I have given more detailed accounts in my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav.
(pp. 32, 71, 114) is situated north-east of Kuldja and is termed
Sai-li-mu on modern Chinese maps. The city of Sairam (thus the name is
written on Russian maps) in eastern Turkistan is situated between Kucha and
Aksu, and marked on modern Chinese maps as
Sai-li-mu. The
name appears on English maps as Sailim or Sairim.
329
Abuldja khan was the ancestor of the famous Oghuz khan, the pro-
genitor of all the Turk tribes, according to Rashid-eddin.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
267
to Kaidu. Ibid. p. 17 we read again, that Oghuz khan, after
having got the supremacy over his relatives who had attacked him,
ruled over the whole country stretching from Telash and Syrym
(I think Talas and Sairam are meant) to Bokhara.
In the Ming shi, chap. cccxxxii, fol. 8, the following account is
given of Sai-lan:-"It is situated in the middle of a plain,
east (a mistake for north-east) of Ta-shi-kan (Tashkand), more
than a thousand li distant from Samarcand. The city is two or
three li in circuit (probably a mistake in the figures). The country
is fertile, produces the five kinds of grain and many fruits, and
is well populated. There is found in the grass, a little black
spider, 330 the sting of which is poisonous. The people cure the
wound from its sting with Po-ho."331
L
Ba-r-chi-li-han=Barkhalighkend.
163. I have no doubt that Ba-r-ch'i-li-han of the map is the
same as the city of Barkhalighkend, situated according to Rashid
on the Sihon, and taken in 1219 (or 1220) by Chinghiz khan's
eldest son Djuchi (see above). The Yuan shi states (see 53), that
Djuchi captured the city of Ba-r-djen. This name is
evidently intended for the same place. As I have proved in note
91, the name Barchin in Carpini's narrative (p. 750) refers also to.
this city. Haithon the traveller writes the same name Phartchin..
He also mentions however a city Barkant.
Djan-di-Djend.
164. Djend, according to D'Ohsson's map was situated on the
Sihon (Sir-daria, or Yaxartes) towards its mouth. The Bibl.
Orient. writes the name Giund.
It was near Djend that the troops of Mohammed Khorazm
shah had the first opportunity of fighting with the Mongols (see
above, 48), before the main body of Chinghiz khan's army had
arrived in Turkistan. In 1220, Djuchi captured Djend (see 49).
IV. COUNTRIES AND PLACES IN THE EMPIRE OF
BU-SA-YIN, PERSIA.
Ba-mou= Bamian.(?)
165. This name appears only in the list of the Si-pei-ti, as a
330
331
This is the karakurt of the Kirghiz,-latrodectes lugubris.
This name is applied in China to several species of mentha.

268
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
city belonging to Persia, without further notice. It is omitted
from the ancient map, so that it cannot be decided what place is
meant. Ba-mou may be intended for Bamian, a district and im-
portant fortress in the Hindu-kush, taken and destroyed by Chin-
ghiz khan in 1221 (see above, 52). A place of this name still exists,
and was visited by Burnes in 1832. I may however observe, that
there is also a place called Bam, south-east of Kerman, which
name also has some resemblance to Ba-mou, and is also of ancient
origin; for Bam is mentioned by Ebn Haukal (Ritter, l. c. vol. via,
p. 734).
Ta-ba-sin = Thabas Sistan.
166. This name also is not marked on the map, but is noticed
in the Si-pei-ti; which, as has been previously stated, is the list of
the proper names occurring on the original ancient map of central
and western Asia. I am inclined to identify T'a-ba-sin with Thabas,
a city occasionally mentioned by the Mohammedan authors of the
Mongol period (D'Ohsson, tom. iv, p. 679). The Bibl. Orient.
p. 856, states, that there are two cities of this name in Persia; one
of them, Thabas keilar, situated near Yezd, 3 3 2 whilst the other is a
city of Sistan; wherefore it is also called Thabas Sistan. Both
places are found on modern maps.
Bu-sze-t'e = Bost.
167. This name is placed on our ancient map south-west of
Ghazna (see 150), and this position agrees well with Bost, a city in
Seyistan (Sistan), on the river Hilmend. Compare Bibl. Orient.
pp. 779, 174.
Bost is an ancient city, which Isidore of Charax (1st century of
our era) calls Bis (Ritter's Asien, vol. vi, p. 120). Bost is frequently
mentioned in the ancient history of Persia. In the 10th century
it belonged to the Ghaznevids (Deguignes, tom. ii, p. 332; tom. iii,
p. 157). It is also spoken of by the Mohammedan chroniclers, in
connexion with Chinghiz' invasion of western Asia (D'Ohsson,
tom. i, pp. 195, 298), and is noticed in the relation of Tamerlane's
wars (Deguignes, tom. v, p. 20).
In the Ts'in cheng lu (see above, 57) we read:-"In the spring
of 1223, Chinghiz moved out with his army and proceeded north-
ward, following the course of the Sin-tze su. The third prince
reached the city of Bu-si-sze-dan, and asked permission of Chinghiz
to attack it; but the emperor recalled his son in view of the hot
season commencing."
332
About a hundred and twenty English miles north-east of Yezd.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
269
It seems that the Chinese characters Bu-si-sze-dan here represent
the combined names Bost and Sistan.
In the Yuan ch'ao pi shi, the invasion of Sisten by Tului,
Chinghiz' third son, is also recorded (see above, 56). Rashid-
eddin however states (see above, 52) that "Ogotai after having des-
troyed Ghazna, asked permission to attack the city of Sistan; but
Chinghiz objected owing to the excessive heat, and recalled his son."
Fa-yin Cain.(?)
168. This name also is met with only in the list of the Si-pei-ti.
Perhaps Cain is meant, a city south-west of Herat. Caïn in times
past, was the capital of the mountainous country called Kuhistan,
and belonged to the Ismaëlians, when Hulagu began the conquest
of Persia (D'Ohsson, tom. iii, pp. 158, 175). Tun was another
city of Kuhistan, M. Polo (tom. i, p. 79) notices Tunocain as a
kingdom of Persia.
Ta-li-gan = Talecan.
169. I have noticed above (147) the erroneous position assigned
to Talecan on the ancient map. This place seems to have been
confounded with Thus by the compiler of the map. 333
Talecan or Taikan was an ancient city in the region of the
sources of the Oxus or Djihun. The Arabic historians state, that in
the middle of the 7th century it was taken by the Arabs. Ebn
Haukal (10th century) mentions Taikan among the cities of
Tokharestan (Ritter, l. c. vol. v, p. 701). Edrisi (12th century)
gives a description of Talecan (Ritter, l. c. vol. v, p. 787). Nussret-
kuh, the fortress of Talecan, resisted the Mongols for seven months;
but was finally taken, when Chinghiz himself arrived, in 1221
(see above, 51).
M. Polo visited Talecan, which in his narrative bears the same
name as in Ebn Haukal's geography. Polo states (vol. i, p. 144):—
"After those twelve days' journey (from Balc) you come to a
fortified place called Taican, where there is a great corn market.
It is a fine place, and the mountains that you see towards the south
are all composed of salt."3 34
Göes on his way from India to China, in the beginning of the
17th century, halted for a month in Talhan. The place was also
visited about thirty-eight years ago by Wood.
333
There were three places called Talecan; the one here mentioned, in
Badakhshan; that in Khorassan; and a third in Dilem (see further on, 182).
334 Compare my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 46. Ch'ang-ch'un also
noticed the salt in the mountains on his way from Samarcand to the Hindu-kush.

270
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Talecan was known to the Chinese in the 7th century. The
kingdom of Ta-la-kien, described by Hüan-tsang (Julien,
1. c. tom. i, p. 35), can only be identified with Talecan. The Chi-
nese annals mention the capture of Talecan by Chinghiz (see above,
53). The Yuan shi writes the name
T'a-li-han.
Ba-li-hei= Balkh.
170. According to the Bibl. Orient. p. 167, Balkh is one of the
most ancient cities of Persia. Kai khosru, one of the kings of the
second dynasty (Kayanides) who lived in the 6th century B. c. is
said to have established his residence in Balkh. It has always
been considered one of the principal cities of Khorassan.
The country of Balkh is identical with the Bactris of the Zend
texts and the cuneiform inscriptions found on the ruins of Perse-
polis. To the ancient Greek authors, this country, and it is
believed especially the city of Balkh,-was known by the name of
Bactria or Bactriana. The Bibl. Orient. p. 151, explains this
name by bakhter, meaning "east" in Persian. It is known that
after Alexander the Great, on his expedition to India, had passed
through Bactria, this country was for many centuries under Greek
culture, of which the traces can still be found there.
Balkh suffered terribly from Chinghiz. Though the city sur-
rendered without resistance, the whole population was massacred
by the Mongols in 1221; and in 1223, when Chinghiz again passed
through Balkh, he ordered the slaughter of the inhabitants who
had meanwhile settled there (see above, 51, 52).
M. Polo says (vol. i, p. 142) " Bale is a noble city and a great,
though it was much greater in former days. But the Tartars and
other nations have greatly ravaged and destroyed it. There were
formerly many fine palaces and buildings of marble, and the ruins
of them still remain. The people of the city tell that it was here
that Alexander took to wife the daughter of Darius. Here, you
should be told, is the end of the empire of the Tartar Lord of the
Levant. And this city is also the limit of Persia in the direction
between east and north-east." 335
Balkh was in the middle ages a metropolitan see of the Nestorian
church (Yule's Cathay, p. 179).
335
This statement is in accordance with the ancient map; but as has
been stated on a former page, the frontier between Persia and the middle
empire has often changed (see above, 86, 150). We read further in D'Ohsson,
tom. iv, p. 268, that in 1300, Dua, khan of the middle or Chagatai empire,
invested his son Kutlug shah with the countries of Ghazna, Seyistan Badakh
shan, Balkh and Meru. Thus these countries seem then to have belonged
to the middle empire.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
271
Balkh was probably known to the Chinese at an early date; it
is difficult however to venture any identification upon the vague
descriptions of the countries of western Asia, as found in the his-
tories of the Han, Wei, etc. It is generally believed that the
kingdom of Ta-hia, reached by the Chinese general Chang
Kien (see above, 39) in the second century B. C. answers to Bactria.
Hüan-tsang in his accounts of western countries mentions a kingdom
Fo-ho-lo, bounded on the north by the river Fo-ch'u
(Oxus). Vivien de St. Martin identifies Fo-ho-lo with Balkh (see
Julien's Mém. s. 1. Contr. Occid. tom. i, p. 29; tom. ii, p. 289).
He may be right.
In the Yian shi, Balkh is repeatedly mentioned, and the name
is differently written. In the Annals, sub anno 1221, the capture of
Ban-le-ho by Chinghiz is recorded. In Subutai's biogra-
phy, the name is written Bi-li-han (see above, 54); in
Ho-sze-mai-li's biography, Yüan shi, chap. cxx, A-la-hei. 336
In the biography of Ch'a-han (Djihan), Ibid. chap. cxxxvii, the
name of Balkh reads Ban-le-ho. Ch'a-han was a native
of Balkh.
The Taouist monk Ch'ang-ch'un, on his way from Samarcand to
the Hindu-kush passed through the city of Ban-li, by which
name again Balkh is meant (see Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 47).
Ye-lü Ch'u-ts'ai (Ibid. p. 117) designates Balkh by the single cha-
racter E Ban.
Nai-sha-bu-r = Nishabur.
171. This name is found in the list of the Si-pei-ti, but not on
the map.
There can however be no doubt that Nishabur is meant,
the ancient capital of Khorassan; for Nishabur is repeatedly men-
tioned under almost the same name in the Yüan shi, in connection
with the Mongol invasion of Persia. In the Annals, sub anno 1221,
the name of Nishabur is rendered by
Ni-ch'a-wu-r
(see above, 53); in the biography of Ba-r-chu a-r-te di-gin, by
Ni-sha-bu-li (see above, 100); and in the biography
Ni-sha-bu-r.
of Ho-sze-mai-li, Yüan shi, chap. cxx, by
Compare also (51 above) the statements of the Mohammedan
authors respecting the siege and capture of Nishabur by the Mongols.
Nishabur is also an ancient city, and is generally believed to be
identical with the Nisaya of the Zend text, and the Nisaia or
336 It is an interesting fact, that in the ancient list of metropolitan sees
in the middle ages, Balkh is termed Halaha (Yule's Cathay, p. ccxlv).
This name has a great resemblance to A-la-hei.

272
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Nisaea of the ancient Greek and Roman authors (Ritter, 7. c. vol. via,
p. 56). The Bibl. Orient. however states, p. 659, that the celebrated
city of Nishabur was founded by king Sapor II (A. D. 310-380)
of the Sassanide dynasty, and that the name is derived from nei,
meaning "reed," and the name of its founder. The sultans of the
Seldjuk dynasty, in the 11th century, were accustomed to reside
at Nishabur.
Sa-la-ha-si = Serakhs.
172. This place also is only found in the Si-pei-ti, and not on the
map; and it seems, that Serakhs a city of Khorassan (Bibl. Orient.
p. 744) is meant. I know nothing about the history of this place;
but it is mentioned by the Mohammedan authors of the 13th cen-
tury (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 281); and the capture of a place
Si-la-sze by the Mongols, is recorded in the Yüan shi
(see above, 53). I think Si-la-sze, which in the Chinese text is
associated with Meru and Maruchak, also denotes Serakhs.
Ba-wa-r-di = Bavurd.
173. Ba-wa-r-di also is missing from the ancient map. In the
list of the Si-pei-ti, it is placed between Serakhs (172) and Meru
(174). The Bibl. Orient. states, p. 179, that Bavurd is a city of
Khorassan, where in times past the Seldjuks, after having crossed
the Djihun, remained for a time. With the capture of Bavurd,
Tamerlane began the conquest of Persia. I have not met with the
name of Bavurd in D'Ohsson's "History of the Mongols;" but it
seems that in the Yüan shi it is spoken of once more. In chap.
cxxiii, biography of A-la-wa-r-sze, we read, that he was a Hui-hu
(Mohammedan) from Ba-wa-r, a commander of a thousand
in his country. When Chinghiz' armies arrived at Ba-wa-r, A-la-
wa-r-sze surrendered, and subsequently entered the Mongol service.
I can give no information about the exact position of Bavurd,
the place not being marked, it seems, on modern maps. I may
however notice, that the Turkish admiral Sidi Ali, who in the
16th century travelled from India through Persia to Constantinople,
passed through Bawerd and then proceeded to Thus (Journal
Asiatique, tom. ix, p. 287).
Ma-li-wu=Meru or Merv.
174. Ma-li-wu is marked on the ancient map south of Bokhara,
and evidently denotes Meru or Merv, also a celebrated city of
Khorassan, and one of the four capitals of this province (Meru,

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
273
Nishabur, Herat, Balkh;-D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 245). The name is
of very ancient origin; for Meru is mentioned in the Zend Avesta,
as one of the places of abundance (Ritter, l. c. vol. vi, p. 52). The
province Margianè of Isidore of Charax, with the city of Antiochia,
is the same as Meru.
Both
The ancient Mohammedan authors (Ebn Haukal and others)
distinguish two cities of Meru; one of which is called Meru Shah-
jan (Meru, king of the world); the other Meru-al-rud.
are situated on the river Meru-rud (now Murgab). Meru-al-rud,
known also under the name of Maruchak, lies about one hundred
and forty English miles south-east of Meru Shahjan; which is
the more celebrated of the two cities, and belived to be the same
as ancient Antiochia, founded by the Greeks. It is praised by all
the ancient Mohammedan geographers. Ebn Haukal states, that
near this city is the mill, where Yezdejerd the last king of the
Sassanides was slain (Ritter, l. c. p. 232). Meru was for a time
the residence of the Seldjuk sultans.
The fate of Meru at the time of the first Mongol invasion, has
been recorded above (51). In the Yüan shi mention is made
of both cities of Meru. Meru Shahjan is termed there
Ma-lu, whilst Meru-al-rud is mentioned by its other name Maru-
chak, rendered by the Chinese characters
ch'a-ye-k'o (see above, 53).
Di-hi-sze-dan = Dahistan.
J Ma-lu-
175. Dahistan is still the name of the country bordering on
the south-eastern corner of the Caspian sea (Petermann's Geogr.
Mitth. 1873, tab. 9). Hammer derives the name from the Dáoi,
of Herodotus (book i, sec. 125), and the Daai, a people of Hyrcania
according to Strabo.
The Tarikh Djihan Kushai spells the name Dihistan, being
nearly the same as on the map (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 259). Turkan
khatun, the mother of Mohammed shah, proceeded from Urgendj
to Mazanderan through Dihistan. The name of Dihistan appears
once more in D'Ohsson's translations from the Persian historians.
In tom. iv, p. 685, we read that Hassan and Talish, the sons of
Choban, a revolted general of Abu Said, khan of Persia, in 1327
fled from Mazanderan through Dihistan to Khovaresm.
On the Catalan map, Deystam is marked on the south-eastern
corner of the Caspian sea.
Dju-li-djang = Djurdjan.
176. Djurdjan or Gurkang in the middle ages, was a famous

274
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
town situated on the river Giurgen or Gurgan, which discharges
into the south-east corner of the Caspian sea. According to Ibn
Khordad Bek (quoted in the "Transactions of the Russian Geogra-
phical Society," 1871, vol. iv, p. 103), in ancient times the trade
of Russia with Balkh, Rayi (near modern Teheran) and Bagdad,
passed through Djurdjan. Compare also note 85.
Djurdjan is mentioned by the Mohammedan authors as early as
the 7th century, in connection with the warlike enterprises of the
Arabs. Massudi and Ebn Haukal speak also of Djurdjan.
It is believed that Djurdjan or Gurkana is the Vehrkana of the
Zend Avesta, and that the Hyrcania of the ancient Greek and
Roman writers denotes the same name (Ritter, l. c. vol. vi, p. 61).
After Tamerlane had subdued Mazanderan, in 1392, he ordered
the magnificent palace of Shasman to be built near Djurdjan
(Deguignes, tom. v, p. 32).
The ruins of ancient Djurdjan still exist.
Mention is made of
them by Fraser, who in 1822 visited the Gurgan river and the
place where Djurdjan stood, of which a remarkable tower has been
preserved.
T'a-mi-she=Damegan.
177. This name is placed on the map between Djurdjan and
Simnan (see the following), and I have little doubt Damegan is
intended. The character she is probably erroneous.
Damegan, also an ancient city, was the capital of the country
known under the name of Cumuss (Bibl. Orient. p. 259). The
place, which still exists,-is repeatedly mentioned by the Persian
writers of the Mongol period (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 248; tom. iii,
pp. 22, 23).
Haithon the traveller calls this city Thamghain. Compare also
note 341.
Si-mu-niang=Simnan.
178. Simnan, also a city of Cumuss (Bibl. Orient. p. 249), is
frequently mentioned by Rashid-eddin and other Mohammedan
authors, speaking of the Mongol invasions of Persia (D'Ohsson,
tom. i, p. 248; tom. iii, p. 194; tom. iv, pp. 177, 675).
179.
Sa-li-ya-Saria or Sari.
Sari is still the name of a city in the Persian province of
Mazanderan. In the ancient Mohammedan records, this place is
generally styled Sari; but the biographers of Tamerlane write the

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
275
name Saria (Deguignes, tom. v, pp. 22, 33), and thus justify the
spelling Sa-li-ya on the map.
Sari is considered to be an ancient city. It has been identified
with Saulõe, capital of the ancient Persian province of Parthyene
(Ritter, l. c. vol. via, pp. 527, 118), mentioned by Isidore of Charax
in the 1st century. Firdusi and Ebn Haukal speak of Sari as a
large city, and call it the capital of Tabristan (Ritter, l. c. pp. 478,
529).
In the 18th century, Sari was for a long time the royal residence
of the Kadjar dynasty, now reigning over Persia.
In the "History of the T'ang dynasty," Sari is mentioned as a
city (capital) of Tabristan in the 8th century or earlier. We read
in the T'ang shu, chap. cclviiib, at the end of the article
Po-sze (Persia), of a country
To-po-sze-tan, 337 bounded
on three sides by mountains, and on the north by a little sea
(Caspian). The ruler of this realm has his residence in
Sa-li. 338
From ancient times these princes were commanders-in-
chief of the Persian eastern army (世為波斯東大將). When
Persia was destroyed by the Ta-shi (Arabs), T'o-po-sze-tan
refused to surrender. A prince of this country named **
Hu-lu-han, sent an envoy in 746 to the Chinese court. The
Chinese emperor granted him the title of king, and Hu-lu-han's son
Tze-hui-lo entered the Chinese service. The realm of T'o-po-sze-tan
was finally destroyed by the black-coated Ta-shi (Arabs). 339
A-mu-li= Amol.
180. Amol is correctly placed on the map west of Sari. It is
still the name of a city in the western part of Mazanderan.
Amol has also been in times past the capital of Tabristan.
Ebn Haukal mentions it as an important place of trade for silk,
337
Ritter, l. c. vol. via, p. 418, states, that in the Pehlvi or ancient
language of western Persia, Tabristan (Trafestan) means "a woody, moun-
tanous region," In Vuller's Lexicon Persico-Latinum, the name Thabristan is
derived from thaber, "a kind of willow." It has been suggested, that the
country of the Tapuri mentioned by Arrian, book iii, ch. 23, par. 3, 5,
denotes Tabristan. Amru, in the middle of the 14th century, in his list of
metropolitan sees of the Nestorian church, mentions Tabaristan together
with Rai (Yule's Cathay, p. ccxlv).
338 The Chinese text has in fact Po-li; but I feel no hesitation
in correcting the first character, which has evidently been confounded with
the very similar-looking character so, pronounced sa in ancient times
(Williams' Dictionary).
339
See my pamphlet On the Knowledge possessed by the Ancient Chinese
of the Arabs, &c. p. 9.

276
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
from which many routes diverge. It was a renowned trading-place
in the time of Harun al Rashid. The author of the Tarikh i
Thabrestan, who wrote in the 13th century, states, that in his time
Amol was a great emporium, where the nations of the west used
to meet, being frequented by the Saccasins (see note 128), Bulgars
and Russians, as well as the merchants of Hindustan.
In 1220 Amol was sacked by the Mongol troops under the com-
mand of Chebé, sent in pursuit of Mohammed shah (see above,
50).
Hu-wa-r= Khavar.
181. Hu-wa-r is marked on the map south of Sari, and is
without doubt intended for the Choarēnē of Isidore of Charax,-
the Choara of Pliny near the "Caspice Portee;"-Parthea amanis-
simus situs (Plinius, tom. vi, p. 15), or the Khavar of the Mo-
hammedan authors of the Mongol period. This latter name has
survived in that of a defile and a plain to the south-east of the
present Teheran, between fifty and sixty English miles distant from
the capital. The defile of Khavar or Khar, answering to the Portie
Caspice of Pliny, or the Caspice pyle of Arrian, leads through a
southern spur of the Alburs chain, which projects into the plain
country, separating the fertile plain of Veramin (situated towards
Teheran) from that of Khavar. I can speak of this region from
personal observation.
The Mohammedan authors translated by D'Ohsson, frequently
mention Khavar in connection with the Mongol invasions (tom.
iii, p. 193; tom. iv, pp. 177, 678, etc).
Di-lien Dilem.
182. Dilem is a name applied to a region situated in the Al-
burs mountains, south of Ghilan. The traveller, who crosses the
Alburs chain, on his way from Kasvin to Resht, has to pass
through Dilem, which in times past was an independent kingdom
with the capital Shaherek. 340
The kings of Dilem conquered a great part of Persia in the 10th
century. Their dynasty is known in history under the name of
Dilemits or Buyids.
When the Mongols first invaded Persia, Dilem was in possession
of the Ismaëlians, who had there several strong castles (Alamut,
see 183; Lembasser, see 184; Meïmundiz, etc). When Hulagu,
340
Ritter is wrong in identifying (l. c. vol. via, p. 418) Dilem with
Tabristan; but it may be that Tabristan at one time belonged to Dilem.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
277
in 1256, went to attack Alamut, he passed through Shaherek
(D'Ohsson, tom. iii. p. 197).
Oldjaitu, khan of Persia in 1307, was obliged to undertake an
expedition against the people of Dilem, who refused to acknow-
ledge the supremacy of the khan (D'Ohsson, tom. iv, p. 188).
PA-la-mu-t'e = Alamut.
183. The castle of Alamut, one of the strongest among the
Ismaëlian mountain castles, was built in 860 by a prince of Dilem,
on an inaccessible rock. In the 13th century it was the head-
quarters of the chief of the Ismaëlians or the "Old man of the
mountain," as the crusaders used to call him, and as he is termed
also by M. Polo (vol. i, p. 132). The siege of the castle of Ala-
mut by Hulagu's host and its surrender in 1256, are related by
D'Ohsson, tom. iii, pp. 197, 198. Mohammed of Nessa states,
that Kasvin is the nearest city to Alamut.
Colonel Monteith, who in 1832 visited the ancient country of
the Assassins or Ismaëlians, has rediscovered mount Alamut, north-
east of Kasvin. The river Shah-rud takes its rise in this region
(Ritter, l. c. vol. vi, p. 592).
Lan-ba-sa-r=Lembesser.
184. Lembesser was the name of another castle of the Ismaëlians,
also situated in Dilem. It is sometimes termed Lemsher (D'Ohs-
son, tom. iii, p. 191). On the siege of Lembesser by the Mongols,
see Ibid. tom. iii, p. 200.
The position of Lembesser it seems has not been ascertained;
we only know from ancient authors that it was in Dilem. The
position of Alamut and Lembesser as given on the map, is not
correct. 341
341
There is yet a third castle of the Ismaëlians, mentioned by the
Chinese authors of the Mongol period, the castle of Girdkuh, which according
to the Mohammedan historians opposed a strong resistance to the Mongols.
The siege began in 1253, but they could not take it till 1256. At least
D'Ohsson states, that in 1256 the whole country of the Ismaëlians had sur-
rendered, and they had been all exterminated. Colonel Yule however records
(M. Polo, vol. i, p. 140) on the authority of Rashid, that Girdkuh surrendered
only in 1270. Haithon (Historia Orientalis, chap. xxiv) states, that the
Assassins had an impregnable castle, called Tigado, and that the Tartars
besieged it for seven whole years, after which time the Assassins surrendered.
In the Yüan shi, chap. cxx, biography of Ho-sze-mai-li, the name of Girdkuh
is rendered by
Yu-r-gu. In the biography of Kuo Khan, Ibid.
chap. cxlix, where some details are given with respect to the capture of
Girdkuh, the name is written
Ki-du-bu, (see my Notes on Chin.
Med. Trav. p. 79), and it is stated there that this fortress was situated on

278
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
JK'o-dsi-yün = Kasvin.
185. K'o-dsi-yün on the map denotes the well-known city of
Kasvin, situated on the great highway from Teheran (Rayi in an-
cient times) to Tebriz, south of the Alburs chain. It is said to
have been founded by the Sassanide king Sapor II, A. D. 310-
380. Kasvin was taken by the Mongols (Subutai and Chebé) in
1221, and the inhabitants were massacred (see above, 58). Hu-
lagu in 1257, when attacking the castles of the Ismaëlians in
Dilem, had his head-quarters in Kasvin (D'Ohsson, tom. iii, p. 200).
Ghazan khan of Persia died near Kasvin in 1304 (l. c. tom iv,
p. 349).
Haithon the traveller terms this city Khezovin.
M. Polo (vol. i, p. 79) calls Casvin one of the eight kingdoms
of Persia.
Sa-wa-Sava.
186. On the map, Sa-wa is marked between Kasvin and Isfahan.
This position suits well the city of Sava, which still exists, fifty
miles south-west of Teheran. It is described by consul Abbott,
who visited it in 1849 (Yule's M. Polo, vol. i, p. 76). This is
the top of the mount
Yen-han. In the narrative of Ch'ang Te
(Ibid. p. 78) we read:-The realm of the Mu-nai-hi (Moulahida or
Ismaëlians; Ibid. p. 63, note 12) "had three hundred and sixty mountain
fortresses, all which had been reduced. There was however, west of
Tan-han, a mountain fortress
Ki-du-bu-gu on a very steep
rock, which could not be reached either by arrows or by stones (thrown by
catapults). In the year 1256 the imperial army arrived at the foot of this
fortress. The rock was so steep, that when one looked upwards his cap fell
off." After this Ch'ang Te gives some details with respect to the capture of
K'i-du-bu-gu, which occurred in the same year. In the Annals of the Yüan
shi, sub anno 1252, the siege of Girdkuh is also reported, and the name is
written there quite correctly Gi-r-du-kie. In my Notes on
Chin. Med. Trav. I suggested (p. 64, and p. 78, note 85), on the authority of
D'Ohsson (tom. iii, p. 189), that the castle of Guirdcouh was situated in
Couhistan (the hill country between Nishabur, Herat and Yezd). I was misled
it seems by D'Ohsson. Col. Yule writes (M. Polo, vol. i, p. 139):-"Gird-
kuh. has not, as far as I know, been identified by modern travellers,
but it stood within 10 or 12 miles of Damghan (to the west or north-
west)." I do not know where Yule obtained his information about the position
of Girdkuh; but it is in accordance with the map of northern Persia appended
to Buhse's Reise in Persien. It seems to be the only map which marks
Girdkuh (I possess only the map of this work). Mr. Buhse, a Russian bota-
nist, who travelled in Persia about twenty years ago, places Girdkuh, which
lay on his way, about fourteen English miles west-north-west of Damegan.
Now I have little doubt that in the above-quoted Chinese statement, about
K'i-du-bu-gu being situated west of Tan-han, the latter name denotes
Damegan.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
279
the city of Saba in Persia, from which according to M. Polo
(1. c. p. 73) the three Magi set out, when they went to worship
Jesus Christ. Sava was destroyed by the Mongols in 1224
(D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 349).
Ko-shang Kashan.
187. Ko-shang on the ancient map is placed between Khavar
(181) and Isfahan; the city of Kashan, north of Isfahan, being
intended.
Kashan is said to have been built by Zobeïde khatun, wife of
Harun al Rashid; but Ouseley in his Oriental Geography, proves,
that this city existed at a much earlier date (Ritter, l. c. vol. vib,
p. 35).
Kashan was for the first time plundered by the Mongols in
1224. D'Ohsson (tom. i, p. 349) states, that in the beginning of
1224, a Mongol detachment proceeded from Khorassan to Rayi,
plundered and destroyed this city, and then attacked Savé (Sava;
see 186), Kum and Kashan, which cities suffered the same fate.
Odoric (Yule's Cathay, p. 50) calls Cassan, which he passed
through, a royal city of great repute, the city of the three
Magi, 342
I-sze-fa-hang = Isfahan.
188. Isfahan or Ispahan is perhaps the same as the Aspadánë
of Ptolemy (tom. vi, ch. 4, fol. 150). All the Mohammedan
geographers agree that Isfahan is a very ancient city (Bibl. Orient.
p. 301). Kai kobad, the founder of the second Persian dynasty
(Kayanides), is reported to have established his residence in Isfa-
han; but the capital of Persia was subsequently transferred in
turn to Susa, Persepolis and Madaïn. When the Seldjuk dynasty
ruled over Iran, in the 11th and 12th centuries, Isfahan again
became the capital. At the end of the 12th century, Iran was
conquered by the sultan of Khorazm. When Chinghiz first in-
vaded Iran, his troops did not advance so far as Isfahan; nor
when Hulagu subdued the whole of Persia, did this city share the
common fate of the other cities of that realm. At least D'Ohsson
does not mention its name in connection with the Mongol invasion.
Under the reign of Shah Abbas the Great, 1585-1627, the court
of Persia was again established in Isfahan.
In the Annals of the Yüan shi, sub anno 1229,-reign of
Ogotai, it is recorded, that the "chief" () of the city of
342
Magi.
We have seen that M. Polo considers Sara to be the city of the three

280
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
I-sze-ba-la-na in the Si-yü (western Asia) surren-
dered. The Ts'in cheng lu (Palladius' translation, p. 196) states
under the same year, that the chief of the city of I-sze-ba-la-na
sent an envoy with tribute to the Mongol court. I am not pre-
pared to say, whether by I-sze-ba-la-na here, Isfahan is meant.
D'Ohsson relates (tom. ii, p. 92), that the brother of the prince of Fars
arrived at the court of Ogotai with valuable presents (see further
on, 205). If I am not mistaken, at the time here spoken of, Isfa-
han belonged to Fars. I may however observe, that there was in
Khorassan a city of Esferain (Bibl. Orient p. 302). This name
rendered by Chinese characters would also read like I-sze-ba-la-na.
In the "History of the Ming," chap. cccxxxii, fol. 20, a short
account of I-sze-fa-han is found, and some details are
given regarding the intercourse between that city and the court
of China.
AA-ba-ha-r=Abhar.
189. This name is marked on the map between Zendjan (191)
and Kasvin (185); and is intended, it seems, for Abhar, placed on
modern maps west-south-west of Kasvin, and south-east of Zendjan.
There is also a river of this name. Abhar (Bibl. Orient. p. 10),
or Ebher as D'Ohsson spells the name, is frequently mentioned by
the Mohammedan authors of the Mongol period. (D'Ohsson,
tom. iii, p. 49; tom. iv, pp. 8, 566, 706, 734).
It seems that in the days of the Mongols, the great highway
from Rayi (near the present Teheran) to Tebriz passed through
Abhar. The stations enumerated in Haithon's itinerary when
returning from Mongolia, are,-Hrei, Khezovin, Avakhr (Abhar),
Zanghian, etc. As I know from personal observation, Abhar lies
a little south of the present post-road between Kasvin and Zendjan
(resp. Teheran, Tebriz), which passes directly from Kasvin to
Sain kala.
Sun-dan-ni-ya = Sultaniah.
190. Sultaniah was the name given to the city founded in
1305 in Media (between Kasvin and Zendjan), by Oldjaïtu, the
grandson of Hulagu. For further details, see D'Ohsson, tom. iv,
p. 485. Oldjaïtu established his residence here, and his successor
Abu Said, resided also in Sultaniah. Thus at the time our map
was compiled, Sultaniah was the royal residence of Persia. Abu
Said, who died in 1335, was buried in his mausoleum at Sultaniah
(D'Ohsson, tom. iv, p. 720).
Odoric, who saw Sultaniah about 1320, says (Yule's Cathay.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
281
p. 49) "Departing from the city of Tauris (Tebriz), I travelled
for ten days and reached a certain city called Soldania, in which
dwelleth the emperor of the Persians in the summer season."
On the Catalan map, the same city is termed Sodania. It
was the seat of an archbishop about A. D. 1330 (Yule's Cathay,
p. 238).
Sultaniah was destroyed by Tamerlane, at the end of the 14th
century. The ruins of the city may still be seen south-east of
Zendjan, on the great caravan and post road from Teheran to
Tebriz. The magnificent ancient mosque there was described by
Chardin more than two hundred years ago, and is still admired by
travellers who pass that way.
The position assigned to Sultaniah on the ancient map, in
relation to Kasvin and Abhar, is not correct.
Dsan-djang = Zendjan.
191. I know nothing respecting the ancient history of Zendjan,
a city which also lies on the great trade route from Teheran to
Tebriz. It is often mentioned by D'Ohsson. Subutai sacked the
city in 1221 (see above, 58). It was near Zendjan, that sultan
Abu Said in 1319 defeated the troops of a revolted general
(D'Ohsson, tom. iv, pp. 635, 640).
Du-r-ben = Derbend.
192. Derbend is a very common name in Persian geography.
The word means, according to the Bibl. Orient. p. 267, "passage
étroit et fermé." By Du-r-ben on the ancient map,-a place
located in the north-western part of Persia,-only Derbend on the
western shore of the Caspian can be meant, a very important place
in the middle ages, and long before that period.
Massudi, who wrote in the middle of the 10th century, has left a
description of the Caucasus (Djebal ul Kaitak) and the adjacent
countries. His treatise has been translated by Klaproth, and
published in the Magazin Asiatique, tom. i, pp. 258 sqq. We
learn from it, that the Persian king Khosru Anushirvan,-A. D.
531-579,-in order to protect Persia against the invasions of the
nations north of the Caucasus,-Khazars, Alans and Turks,-
constructed a wall, which ran along the ridges of the mountains
for forty parasangs, and was prolonged into the sea for a mile. At
certain distances iron gates were placed in the wall, and troops
posted there to defend the passages. One of these gates (the
principal one) was called Bab-ul-avab (the gate of the gates) and a
city was built there which bears the same name.

282
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Bab-ul-avab is the Arabic name for Derbend. The Turks call
it Demir kapi or "Iron-gate."
There is also another oriental tradition, reported by M. Polo
(vol. i, p. 50), according to which the wall in question was
built by Alexander the Great, and therefore it was also known
under the name of Sedd Eskanderi (Bibl. Orient. p. 267). It is
possible that the Sassanian king only renewed the original wall,
which may have been of more ancient date. Moses of Chorene,-
who wrote a little after, A. D. 440,-on page 356 of his Geographia
Armena speaks of the Murus Darbandus.
About the end of the 7th century, Derbend was taken by the
Arabs. The place sustained an important role during the middle
ages, and is often spoken of by the Mohammedan writers who
relate the wars of the Persian khans with the khans of Kipchak.
As is known, a splendid artificial road, crossing the middle of
the Caucasus chain near the Kazbek, now connects Russia with the
Transcaucasian provinces; but it seems that in ancient times, the
only practicable road leading from Persia to the regions north of
the Caucasus, passed by Derbend. 343
We have seen (see above, 58) that in 1222 Subutai, who first
carried the Mongol arms to the countries north of the Caucasus,
passed through Derbend. He was not able to take the citadel,
where Rashid Shirvan shah had shut himself up.
In 1262 Barkai, khan of Kipchak, sent a host of thirty thousand
men under the command of Nogai against Hulagu. Nogai passed
through Derbend into the province of Shirvan. He was at first
successful, but was afterwards forced to retire, and Hulagu passed
through Derbend in pursuit of him. Some time after, Hulagu's
son Abaka was defeated by Barkai, and pursued as far as Derbend
(D'Ohsson, tom. iii, p. 379). 344
In 1266, there was another battle fought between Barkai and
Abaka near Derbend, in which the former was vanquished (D'Ohs-
son, tom. iv, p. 180).
In 1318, Uzbeg, khan of Kipchak, invaded the dominions of
Abu Said and attacked Derbend (Ibid. 613).
In 1325, Choban, one of the Abu Said's generals, passed through
Derbend and advanced as far as the Terek (Ibid. 666). Under the
date 1334, another invasion of Uzbeg through Derbend is recorded
(Ibid. 716).
The first European traveller who mentions Derbend, is the
Rabbi Benjamin of Tudela in 1170 (see the English translation of
his itinerary). He terms Derbend the Iron-gate of Alexander.
343
Edrisi however, in the 12th century, enumerates twelve defiles by
which the Caucasus could be crossed (Klaproth, Magaz. Asiat. tom. i, p. 260).
344 This war is also recorded by M. Polo (vol. ii, p. 424).

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
283
Rubruquis writes (p. 252):-"Post hos (Lesgos) est porta ferrea,
quam fecit Alexander ad excludendos barbaros gentes de Perside,
de cujus situ dicam vobis postea, quia transivi per eam in reditu."
On p. 381, Rubruquis relates his passing through the Iron-gate on
his way back. On p. 263, he also mentions the Iron-gate or
Derbend in the following terms:-
"Est alius qui dicitur Jerra (Berca), frater Baatu qui pascit
versus Portam Ferream, ubi est iter Sarracenorum omnium venien-
tium de Perside et de Turkia."
Haithon the traveller calls Derbend by its Persian name; M. Polo
terms it Iron Gate. In Turkish Derbend is still called Demir kapi
(Iron gate). The ancient Russian annals of the 13th century also
speak of the Jeleznya vorota (Iron gate), by which the high moun-
tains of the Yasy (Asi or Alans) and Cherkess might be avoided.
(Karamzin, vol. iv, p. 355).
In the days of Tamerlane, Derbend still retained its strategical
importance. In 1387, Tamerlane when encamped on the Araxes,
sent his troops against the Kipchaks who had passed Derbend.
Derbend, which since the year 1806 has belonged to Russia, is
now one of the finest cities in the region of the Caucasus, situated
very picturesquely on the Caspian sea, on the slope of the eastern
termination of the Caucasian mountains. A good view of Derbend
is given in Yule's M. Polo, vol. i, p. 53; and a detailed description
of the city is found in the great Russian encyclopædical dictionary.
As Col. Yule complains (l. c. vol. i, p. 51) that he was not able to
find any modern information of a precise kind regarding the ancient
wall of Derbend, I may translate a few details from the above-
quoted encyclopædia :-
"The city of Derbend is located on the slope of the mountains,
which descend toward the sea-shore. It is bounded on three sides
by walls, of which the northern and southern are about three versts
in length. These walls project into the sea; and to the south-
west they ascend a steep rock more than a thousand feet high, and
join the citadel called Naryn kalé. 345 Near Derbend, at the
village of Djelgan begins the famous Daghbary (mountain wall)
provided with towers and bastions at distances of from a thousand
to fourteen hundred feet. The ancient wall stretches towards the
mountains of Derbend. About the commencement it is in a demo-
lished state, but among the mountains it is well preserved. The
outer stones of it are well hewn, three feet and a half square and
nearly a foot thick. The middle of the wall consists of smaller
stones, which though not hewn are closely fitted in. At some
345
This citadel is the same as that which the Mongols were unable to
take (see above).

284
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
places the wall measures more than twenty feet in height, the
thickness being not less than seven feet. Trees of remarkable size
have grown upon the wall, and frequently these have caused it to
fall to pieces. This wall has been followed for ten versts from its
commencement. 346 It then ascends the high mountains of Tabas-
seran, and its existence there has not been ascertained; but thirty-
six versts from Derbend, at the village of Lidjili, a well-preserved
ancient gate can be seen. Remains of the ancient wall have been
also discovered not far from the river Alazan, on the frontier of
Kakhetia. At some places the ancient forts of the wall have been
preserved, e. g. the fort called Kedjeli kalé, which is twenty-eight
feet high, thirty-six feet long, and twenty-four feet broad."
Ba-r-da-a= Bardaa.
193. Bardaa was in ancient times a celebrated city in Armenia.
There is a tradition, that it was founded by Alexander the Great
(Bibl. Orient. p. 173). According to other Mohammedan sources,
Kobad, king of Persia,-A. D. 491-531,-was its founder (Bullet.
de l'Acad. de St. Petersbourg, vol. viii). Bardaa is mentioned in
connection with the war between the calif Harun al Rashid and
the king of the Khazars. According to Ebn Haukal, it was a largo
city of Aran, 347 situated in a fertile and pleasant country.
Bardaa is a city of special interest in Russian history; for the
ancient Mohammedan authors record, that in the 10th century it
was attacked by Russians. The celebrated Massudi in his "Golden
Meadows" states, that the Russians undertook an expedition against
Bardaa in the 10th century (Nouv. Journ. Asiat. tom. ii, p. 450;
Klaproth, Magaz. Asiat. tom. i, p. 276). Abulfeda records, that
the Russians crossed the Caspian sea, entered the river Kur and
carried fire and slaughter over Bardaa (Annales Muslemici, tom. ii,
p. 426). This warlike enterprise of the Russians has been the
subject of a bulky dissertation by a Russian orientalist (Erdmann,
De Expeditione Russorum Berdaam versus, Casani, 1828). It
seems D'Ohsson mentions Bardaa only once, tom. iii, p. 178. A
vizier of sultan Djelal-eddin sojourned there in 1228.
Bardaa was a metropolitan see of the Nestorian church in the
14th century (Yule's Cathay, p. ccxlv). This place is often men-
tioned in the history of Tamerlane. The conqueror encamped ten
days in the plain of Bardaa, which at that time was the capital of
the Karabagh (Petis de Lacroix, Hist. de Timour, tom. iii, p. 239).
348 The author of this article wrote in 1839. I have no doubt, that now
the Caucasian wall has been explored throughout its whole extent.
347 Aran was the name of a little realm in Armenia.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
285
Massudi states that the river Kuru (Kur) passes at a distance of
three miles from Bardaa (Klaproth, Mag. Asiat. tom. i, p. 300).
The ruins of ancient Bardaa can still be seen on the right bank of
the Terter (an affluent of the Kur), near the village of Bardeh,
which is situated on the left bank of the river, 40° 20' N. lat.
She-li-wang=Shirvan.
194. By She-li-wang, the compiler of the ancient map apparent-
ly means Shirvan, a small realm in the eastern part of Transcaucasia;
but he is mistaken respecting its position, locating the name too
far south.
Shirvan is, it seems, first mentioned by Massudi, who states
(Mag. Asiat. tom. i, p. 261), that after Anushirvan had founded
Derbend (in the 6th century), he established several kingdoms in
the region of the Caucasus. The ruler of the province of Shirvan
bore the name Shirvan shah. Filan shah reigned in Shirvan,
when the calif Vathek (A. D. 842-847) reached the country and
subdued it (Bibl. Orient. p. 772).
Shirvan was ravaged by the Mongols, and its capital Shamakha
burnt in 1221 or 1222. Rashid Shirvan shah had fled and shut
himself up in the citadel of Derbend.
In the Yüan shi, chap. cxx, biography of Ho-sze-mai-li,
Shi-r-wan sha is mentioned in connection with Su-
butai's and Che-bé's expedition to the region of the Caucasus
(see above, 61).
Shirvan is still the name of a province in Transcaucasia, having
for its capital Shamakha.
195.
So-li-mang= Takht i Soleiman.
The Si-pei-ti writes the name Sa-li-mang, whilst the map
has Sa-li-shi (). I have adopted the former reading, for it
seems to me that the name Soleiman is intended.
On modern maps we find a city Soleimania, midway between
Tebriz and Bagdad; but this place is out of the question, being
founded in 1788 (Ritter, l. c. vol. vib, p. 566).
I am inclined to identify So-li-mang with Takht i Soleiman.
The ruins of this name are considered by Sir Henry Rawlinson to
be identical with the ancient capital of Azerbaidjan (Ritter, l. c.
vol. vib, pp. 1040 sqq.). They are situated west of Zendjan
(So-li-mang, or Sa-li-shi of the map is placed north of Zendjan),
in the mountains, where the river Chagatu, a southern affluent of
the Urumia lake, partly takes it rise.
Rashid reports that Hulagu died in 1265, on the river Chogotu,

286
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
where he was accustomed to stay in winter. Ritter states (l. c.
p. 1041), it seems on the authority of Rawlinson, that Abaka
khan, the son of Hulagu had a palace at Takht i Soleiman, the
ruins of which can still be seen.
196.
Mao-si-li = Mosul.
Mosul, the celebrated city of Mesopotamia, situated on
the Tigris, near the place where ancient Nineveh stood, is first
mentioned by Mohammedan writers in connection with the first
conquest of the Arabs (Ritter, l. c. vol. viib, p. 176).
When Hulagu invaded western Asia, Mosul was a small
principality, governed by Bedr-eddin Lulu, who went in person to
Meraga in 1258, to offer his submission to the Mongol prince
(D'Ohsson, tom. iii, p. 258). Thus Mosul at first escaped
destruction by the Mongols, but after Bedr-eddin's death the
inhabitants revolted. The Mongols besieged the city for nine
months, and after its capture, in 1262, utterly destroyed it (l. c.
tom. iii, p. 372).
Mosul was a metropolitan see of the Nestorian church in the
middle ages (Yule's Cathay, p. ccxliv).
M. Polo devotes a chapter of his book to the kingdom of
Mausul (vol. i, p. 57). He states among other things:-"All the
cloths of gold and silk that are called Mosolins are made in this
country." It seems from this statement of M. Polo, that mosolin
or muslin had a very different meaning from what it has now.
I may observe however, that in the narrative of Ch'ang-ch'un's
travels to the west in 1221 (see Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 45),
it is stated that in Samarcand the men of the lower classes (on
the same page lower down it is said only the priests) wrap their
heads about with a piece of white mo-sze. There can be
no doubt that mo-sze here denotes "muslin," and the Chinese
author seems to understand by mo-sze the same material which we
now call "muslin."
Marignolli, speaks of Monsol (probably a clerical error for Mousul)
on the Tygris, a city built out of the ruins of Nynive (Yule's
Cathay, p. 351).
TEAU-ki-ba-la= Okbara:
197. U-ki-ba-la, placed on the map south-east of Mosul, is
without doubt the city of Okbara mentioned by Edrisi and
Abulfeda, situated at a distance of fifteen hours' journey from
Bagdad up the Tigris, on its eastern bank (Ritter, l. c. vol. viia,
pp. 208, 237).

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
287
Benjamin of Tudela (12th century) reached Bagdad from Okbara
in two days (Ritter, l. c. p. 256).
It seems that Okbara has disappeared from the maps.
A Ba-gi-da= Baydad.
198. This name has been omitted from the map, but is found
in the list of the Si-pei-ti.
As is well known, Bagdad was founded by Almansur, the second
of the Abbaside califs, A. D. 762, who before that time resided in
Anbar. 318 Originally a city was built on the western bank of the
Tigris; but some years later it was found more convenient to lay
out one on the opposite bank; and this then became the celebrated
city of Bagdad, where the calif established his residence. The
western city was afterwards considered only a suburb, and called
Karshi (D'Ohsson, tom. iii, p. 248).
Bagdad was taken by Hulagu in 1258, and some details respect-
ing its capture will be found in my Notes on Chin. Med. Trav.
p. 66. Subsequently the Mongol khans of Persia were accustomed
to pass the winter in Bagdad (Ghazan and Oldjaitu;-see D'Ohsson,
tom. iv, p. 172; tom. ii, p. 535).
Carpini (p. 710) terms Bagdad, Baldas or Baldach. The latter
spelling is also met with in Haithon's Historia Orientalis, and on
the Catalan map. Bagdad in the middle ages was a metropolitan
see of the Nestorian church (Yule's Cathay, p. ccxliv).
M. Polo devotes several chapters of his book to the great city
of Baudas (as he writes the name of Bagdad), the last calif, and
the end of its supremacy (vol. i, pp. 60 sqq.).
The Chinese mediæval traveller Ch'ang Te applies nearly the
same name to Bagdad as M. Polo, in styling it Bao-da.
He also gives many details about the calif and the capture of the
city by the Mongols (see Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. pp. 82 sqq.).
Ch'ang Te states, in accordance with the Mohammedan authors,
that ancient Bagdad consisted of a western and an eastern city, a
large river running between them. The western city had no wall,
whilst the eastern one was well fortified.
In the Yuan ch'ao pi shi the name of Bagdad appears several
times. It is spelt there Bakhtat, and the calif is termed
Khalibo (Palladius' translation, p. 148). In the unabbreviated
text of the Yuan ch'ao pi shi (see above, 11), a list is given of
articles, animals, etc. sent from western Asia to Ogotai khan.
They are there stated to be the productions of Bagdad. I may
give the names of these articles, and venture an identification of
Also situated on the Tigris, south-east of Bagdad.
348

288
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
some of them. The Chinese translation of the Yüan ch'ao, pi shi
(made as I have intimated in the 14th century) furnishes some
explanations of these names, which for the greater part may be
Persian or Arabic words. I add a translation of the Chinese expla-
nations in parentheses.
Shiramala.(?)
Nakhut (a kind of gold brocade).
Nachidut (a silk stuff interwoven with gold).
Dardas (a stuff embroidered in gold).
Subut (pearls).
Tanas (great pearls).
Tobichaut (horses from Bageda with long legs and long necks).
Gurin eleut (camels).
Duo-u-si.(?)
Kichidut (camels).
Khachidut (mules).
With respect to nakhut and nachidut I may observe, that these
words represent the Mongol plural form of nakh and nachid; and
the latter apparently represent the stuffs nacchi and nachetti,
spoken of by Pegoletti in his notices of the trade at Constantinople
(Yule's Cathay, p. 306). The stuff nakh is named several times
by Ibn Batuta, and explained by him as cloths of silk and gold.
Rubruquis tells us (p. 317), that Mangu khan made him a present
of nasic. M. Polo (vol. i, p. 60) speaks of "gold brocades, such
as nasich and nac,' woven in Baudas. I may finally mention,
that in the Yüan shi, chap. lxxviii (on official dresses) a stuff
na-shi-shi is repeatedly named, and the term is explained
there as or "gold brocade." In the same chapter we also
meet with the term Tsu-bu-du (evidently the same as subut
in the above list). It is explained as "pearls." Subut
even now is the Mongol name for pearls. There is also the term
t'a-na, explained as tung-chu. At the present day,
tung-chu is the name applied in Peking to the finest and largest
kind of pearls; but in modern Mongol ta-na means mother-of-pearl
(see Schmidt's "Mongol Russian German Dictionary").
As to the horses from Bagdad called tobichaut, they are also
spoken of by the Chinese traveller Ch'ang Te, who applies to them
the same name (see Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 84).
Kufa Kufah.
=
199. K'u-fa also is not marked on the map, but the name
appears in the list of the Si-pei-ti.
The city of Kufah was founded near the ancient city of Hira, in
638, during the reign of the calif Omar. The calif Abul Abbas

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
289
(A. D. 750-754) established his residence there, but afterwards
transferred it to Anbar. In the first period of Islam, Kufah was
a very celebrated city and a centre of Mohammedan learning. It
is known that the appellation of the most ancient Arabic characters
employed in writing is derived from the city of Kufah. Benjamin
of Tudela visited Kufah in the 12th century (Ritter, l. c. vol. viia,
p. 266).
The Mohammedan historians mention the capture of Kufah by
the Mongols in 1258 (D'Ohsson, tom. iii, p. 255). Ibn Batuta in
1325, found it in a ruined state, but calls it the mother of cities
in Irac (Ritter, l. c. p. 281).
The ruins of Kufah are marked on modern maps 32° N. lat.
west of the Euphrates.
Wa-si-di= Wassit.
200. This name also, occurs only in the list of the Si-pei-ti.
As it is associated there with K'u-fa, there can be no doubt, that
the city of Wassit is meant, founded also by the califs before
Bagdad existed. The year A. D. 702 is given as the date of its
foundation. It was situated midway between Kufah and Bassra, 349
and also between the rivers Euphrates and. Tigris; wherefore
it received the name Wassit, meaning "the middle" in Arabic
(Bibl. Orient. p. 901).
Wassit was sacked by Hulagu's troops in 1258, and its popu-
lation slaughtered (D'Ohsson, tom. iii, p. 255). Ghazan khan
(A. D. 1295-1304) was accustomed to hunt near Wassit (l. c.
tom. iv, pp. 200, 315).
On modern maps a city Wasset e Hie is marked, between the
Euphrates and Tigris, a little south of 32°. Ritter (l. c. vol. via,
p. 191) thinks, that the identity of this place with the Wassit
founded in 702, has not been established.
K'i-li-mang-sha-hang=Kirmanshahan.
201. Kirmanshah, a city situated on the great route leading
from Teheran to Bagdad, between Hamadan and the latter place,
is of ancient origin. It was founded by the Sassanide king
Bahram (Vararanes IV, 388-399), who, on account of his having
been governor of Kirman in the life-time of his father Sapor II,
had the surname Kirman shah. The newly-built city then became
the residence of Bahram; and Khosru Nushivan (539-572) and
Khosru Parvez (590-628) also held their courts at Kirmanshah.
349 Founded A. D, 636.

290
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
It is worthy of notice, that whilst the name of this place is
generally written Kirmanshah by the Mohammedan geographers,
Ebn Haukal styles it Kirman Shahan, which evidently is the name
rendered by the Chinese sounds K'i-li-mang-sha-hang. Rashid-
eddin also writes Kermanshahan (D,Ohsson, tom iv, p. 313).
Na-ha-wan-di= Nahavand.
202. Nahavand is placed on modern maps south of Hamadan
and south-east of Kirmanshah. According to the Mohammedan
authors, it is a very ancient city. Some geographers (as Kazwini)
assert, that it was founded by Noah, and that the name reads
properly Nuhawend (Ritter, vol. vib, p. 95).
This place is of historic celebrity; for it was at Nahavand,
that the famous battle was fought, A. D. 641, in which Yezdejerd
III, the last king of the Sassanides was defeated by the Arabs.
Lo-r-Lor or Luristan.
203. Lor, Lur or Luristan, is still the name of the moun-
tainous country situated between Kuzistan and Irac Adjem. When
the Mongols invaded western Asia, Lur was divided into two
principalities, Little Lur (to the west) and Great (or eastern) Lur
(D'Olsson, tom. iii, p. 261; tom. iv, p. 171). This distinction still
exists.
M. Polo (vol. i, p. 79) terms one of the kingdoms of Persia-Lor.
She-la-tze = Shulistan.
204. The position assigned to She-la-tze on the ancient map,
between Shiraz (205) and Kazerun (206), seems to point to Shu-
listan. The latter name is applied to the country of the Shuls, a
people who long occupied a part of Luristan, but were expelled by
the Lurs in the 12th century, and then settled in the country
between Shiraz and Kuzistan.
M. Polo names [Suolstan],-Cielstan (Shelstán), as a kingdom
of Persia (vol. i, p. 79). Ibn Batuta going from Shiraz to Kaze-
run, encamped the first day in the country of the Shuls.
Sie-la-shi=Shiraz.
205. The history of Shiraz, the capital of Fars or Persia
proper, does not begin earlier, it seems, than Islam.
calls Shiraz a new city (Ritter, l. c. vol. via, p. 854).
Ebn Haukal
At the time of the rise of the Mongol power, the dynasty of the
Salghar atabegs,-who were descended from Salghar, a governor

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
291
of Fars, reigned in that country. Salghar's grandson Sankor had
profited by the weakness of the Seldjuks, and in 1148 made
himself independent. His successors reigned under the title of
atabegs in Fars, and had their capital in Shiraz. When the
Mongols for the first time ravaged western Asia, they did not reach
Shiraz; and atabeg Abubekr, A. D. 1231-1260, who was anxious to
be on good terms with the Great khan, sent his brother with rich
presents to the court of Ogotai, and received the title of Kutlug
khan (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 92). When Hulagu passed the
Djihun in 1256, Abubekr sent his nephew to compliment the
Mongol prince. Thus Shiraz was spared by the Mongols until
1262, when the troops of the latter were sent to this city to punish
Seldjuk shah, who was guilty of several acts of violence. After a
stout resistance, the latter was made prisoner in Kazerun (see 206)
and executed. From that time a Salgharian princess, married to
a son of Hulagu, had the mere title of atabeg; but the province
of Fars was under Mongol administration (D'Ohsson, tom. iii,
pp. 400 sqq.).
M. Polo speaks of the kingdom of Serazy in Persia (vol. i, p. 79).
In the biography of Kuo Khan, found in the Yüan shi,.
chap. cxlix, and in the narrative of Ch'ang Te's travels (see Notes
on Chin. Med. Trav. pp. 88, 89), Shiraz is termed
Shi-
lo-tze, and the title atabeg of the princes of Fars, is rendered
there by 阿塔卑a-ta-bei.
In the Ming shi, Chap. cccxxxii, fol. 19, there is an article on
Shi-la-sze or Shiraz, from which it appears, that in the
15th century, envoys were repeatedly sent from Shiraz to the court
of China.
Ko-dsa-lung = Kazerun.
206. Kazerun, still the name of a city of Fars, is said to have
been founded by king Kobad in the 6th century. In D'Ohsson's
Hist. d Mongols, this place is twice mentioned, viz. tom. iii, p. 401,
in connection with the capture of Seldjuk shah (see 205); and
in tom. iv, p. 270, it is reported that Kutlug khodja, a Mongol
prince of the Chagatai branch, ravaged Fars in 1300, and proceed-
ed through Shiraz and Kazerun to Kuzistan and Guermsir.
Kie-shi Kish.
207. Kish or Kais is an island in the Persian gulf, on which
was "for a long time one of the chief ports of trade with India
and the East" (Yule's Polo, vol. i, p. 61). This place, believed

292
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
to be identical with the Cataea of Arrian, is the Kisi of M.
Polo, situated where the merchants coming from Baudas enter
the Indian sea. Opposite this island of Kish, was, according to
Ritter (l. c. vol. via, p. 752) the ancient sea-port of Siraf, flourish-
ing in the 9th century;-compare Reinaud's Relation des voyages
faits par les Arabes et les Persans dans l'Inde et à la Chine dans
le ix siècle, tom. i, pp. 13, 14. Ebn Haukal mentions Siraf in
the 10th century; and Edrisi, two centuries later, speaks of Siraf
still as an important place. Hamdallah Kazwini, who wrote in
the 14th century, attributes the decline of Siraf, to the rise of Kish
as a trading place in the 11th century (Ritter, l. c. pp. 774, 775).
208.
Ba-ha-la-yin=Baharain.
Baharain was, according to the Bibl. Orient. p. 158,-
in ancient times the name of a province of Arabia, stretching along
the western shore of the Persian gulf, and famed for the pearl
fishing on its coast. On modern maps, this name is applied
especially to an island in the Persian gulf near the coast of Arabia.
Baharain is well known also in our day, for the pearl-oyster beds
in its neighbourhood. Some Chinese mediæval accounts of pearl-
fishing in the Persian gulf, will be found in my Notes on Chin.
Med. Trav. pp. 88, 89.
Hu-li-mu-tze=Hormuz.
209. The name Hu-li-mu-tze is not found on the map. It
occurs only in the list of the Si-pei-ti. Probably Hormuz, the
celebrated emporium at the entrance of the Persian gulf is meant.
The name of Hormuz seems to be of very ancient origin, for
Arrian tells us, that Nearchus, the admiral of Alexander the Great,
when returning from India beached his fleet on the shore of Har-
mozia (Indian History, chap. xxxiii). A place Armuza appears
in Ptolemy; but it was only in the 10th or 11th century, that
Hormuz acquired its importance as a sea-port of Indian trade. It
had been preceded by Kish as the principal port of the Persian
gulf; and as we have seen, before Kish, in the 9th century Siraf
occupied the most prominent place among the Persian sea-ports.
The port of Hormuz, which before the Mongol era belonged to
the atabegs of Fars, originally stood upon the main-land. M. Polo,
who repeatedly visited this place, terming it generally Hormos
(once also Curmosa), states expressely, that it is situated on the
shore of the sea (vol. i, pp. 79, 101). It is known, that when the
great traveller, in 1293, returned from China by the sea route,

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
293
entrusted with the important mission of accompanying a Mongol
princess from China to the court of the Persian khan, he landed
at Hormuz.
The Ormes visited by Odoric in about 1320 (Yule's Cathay,
p. 56), was on an island some five miles distant from the main-land.
A few years later Ibn Batuta saw Hormuz, or New Hormuz as he
calls the city on the celebrated island (Ibid. p. 400).
Abulfeda reports that ancient Hormuz on the main-land had
been devastated by the incursions of the Tartars, wherefore its
inhabitants had transferred their abode to an island in the sea,
near the continent lying west of the old city.
When the Portuguese made their first appearance in the Persian
gulf, in the beginning of the 16th century, Hormuz was a rich
entrepôt of Indian trade. It was taken in 1509 by Albuquerque,
and in the 16th century, flourished as one of the richest ports of
the east. But in 1623 the Portuguese were expelled from the
island by the united English and Persian forces. Shah Abbas
destroyed the city of Hormuz and built another sea-port on the
opposite shore (north), which was named Bender Abbassi. In our
day Bender Bushir is the principal Persian port of the gulf.
We learn from M. Polo, that in the time of Kubilaï khan Chinese
vessels visited Hormuz. The Yüan shi mentions several sea-ports
of India as carrying on trade with China; but Hormuz is not
spoken of there. I may however quote from the "Yüan History,"
a curious statement which perhaps refers to this port. In chap.
cxxiii, biography of Arszelan, it is recorded, that his grandson
Hurdutai, by order of Kubilai khan, accompanied
Bu-lo no-yen on his mission to the country of
Ha-r-
та-тои. I am inclined to suppose that the character is a mis-
print for sze, and that the name should be read Ha-r-ma-sze or
"Hormuz." I do not think that by the no-yen Bu-lo, M. Polo
could be meant, for the title noyen would hardly have been applied
to him; but as I have already noticed, Rashid-eddin mentions a
distinguished Mongol, by name Pulad, with whom he was acquainted
in Persia, and who furnished him much information regarding the
history of the Mongols.
In the Ming shi, chap. cccxxvi, fol. 13 sqq. some details are
given regarding Hormuz. 350It is there stated that "
Hu-lu-mu-sze is a great kingdom, situated on the western sea north-
west of Ku-li (probably Kalikut); from which place it can
be reached in twenty-five days. In the year 1412, the emperor
350
I omit in my translation, some passages of the Chinese account of
Hormuz, being absurd statements, or of little interest.

294
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Yung-le sent F Cheng Ho to the countries of the western sea.
Gifts were bestowed upon the ruler of Hu-lu-mu-sze, his wives and
ministers, and subsequently he sent an envoy named T
I-dsi-ding, to the Chinese court. He brought a letter written on
gold paper, and presented horses and products of his country as
tribute. After this the embassies from Hu-lu-mu-sze were four
times repeated, and Cheng Ho was sent thither for a second time
in 1430. The kingdom was then ruled by T Sai-fu-ding.
Three years later, an embassy sent by this prince, reached Peking and
presented tribute, which was courteously received by the emperor.
"The country of Hu-lu-mu-sze is situated on the utmost border
of the western sea. The trading vessels of the southern barbarians
come thither, and the nations of the great western sea, as well as
the merchants of the Si-yü (western Asia) meet there for commer-
cial purposes; wherefore the country is very rich. Snow is un-
known there, but hoar-frost occurs; it seldom rains, and the soil
is sterile; so that corn has to be brought from abroad. The people
are wealthy. The women, when they go out of doors, veil their
faces. Every necessary is to be had in the markets; but wine
is forbidden, and whoever violates the interdict is severely
punished, and sometimes even put to death. The ruler of Hu-lu-
mu-sze, the officers and the people, profess the Mohammedan religion
(E). They wash and pray five times a day. The soil there
is covered with cien;351 wherefore grass and trees do not
thrive. Cattle and horses are fed on dried fish. 352 As regards
fruits, there are walnuts, ba-dan, 353 pine seeds, pomegra-
nates, grapes and dates. 354
"There is a great hill (mountain) in that country, which is
differently coloured on each of its four sides. One side consists of
red rock-salt, of which the people make vessels; and when they
put flesh in these, it is not necessary to add salt for its preservation.
Another side is of white clay, used for whitewashing walls. The
251
Kien in Peking is a kind of impure carbonate of soda, used for soap.
But in this case probably salt is to be understood.
352
M. Polo reports the same of Esher on the south coast of Arabia; and
Col. Yule (l. c. vol. ii, p. 379) states that "this custom holds more or less on
all the Arabian coast from Shehr to the Persian Gulf, and on the coast east of
the Gulf also." Compare Strabo's account of the Ichthyophagi on the coast
of Mekram (b. xv, par. 11).
358 Badam is the Persian name for "almonds."
354
Wan-nien tsao, "ten thousand year's jujubes, "-called
also Posze tsao, or "Persian jujubes." These names and others
were applied in the time of the T'ang dynasty to the dates brought from
Persia. See on this subject my pamphlet, On the Study and Value of Chinese
Botanical Works.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
295
third and fourth sides of the hill are of reddish carnation (5)
and yellow clay, which is also brought into use.
"The country produces lions,
l'i-lin, 355
t'o-ki³50
and
fu-lu ling yang. 357 Great pearls and various
precious stones are also found there."
V.
COUNTRIES AND PLACES MARKED ON THE MAP WEST OF THE
DOMINIONS OF ABU SAID.
Ki-sze-da-ni = Constantinah or Constantinople.
210. Constantinah was the name by which the Arabs, Persians
and Turks used to designate Constantinople (Bibl. Orient. p. 252).
The Mongol khans in Persia were generally on good terms with
the Byzantine emperors, and several marriages of Byzantine prin-
cesses with Mongol khans are recorded by the Byzantine chroniclers.
Hulagu demanded in marriage a daughter of Michael Paleologus,
named Mary, who was sent in compliance with this demand; but
when she arrived in Persia, Hulagu was dead, and she was married
to his son and successor Abaka khan. This princess is mentioned by
Rashid under the name of Tespina (D'Ohsson, tom. iii, p. 418),-
evidently the Greek Despoina. Andronicus the elder is said to
have given his natural daughter to Ghazan khan of Persia, and a
few years later his sister Mary to Oldjaitu khan (D'Ohsson, tom. iv,
pp. 315, 318). Other Byzantine princesses were married to the
khans of Kipchak.
Mi-sze-r = Misr or Egypt.
211. By Mi-sze-r, doubtless the original name of Egypt is
rendered, that being Misr in Arabic. Misr properly means "a
great city" (Bibl. Orient. p. 585). The Hebrew name for Egypt
is Mizraim.
In the Yuan shi, the name of
Mi-si-r, or Egypt, occurs
several times; e. g. the biography of Kuo Khan in chap. cxlix, and
355 Ki-lin is a fabulous Chinese animal,-the Chinese unicorn. Ki is the
appellation for the male, and lin for the female. It is known that the ancients
in the west also believed in the existence of the unicorn, or an animal with
one horn; and even now the people of western Asia and Africa still believe in
its existence. Some modern zoologists are of opinion, that the antelope, called
orye leucoryx, and found in Nubia, has given rise to the belief in the unicorn.
To-ki or "camel fowl" is the "ostrich." See Notes on Chin. Med.
Perhaps the foreign name of a bird or
With respect to ling yang this term is
350
Trav. p. 88.
357
I know nothing about fu-lu.
a beast is represented by this sound.
given in the Pen ts'ao kang mu (chap. 1, fol. 34) as a synonyme of
ta-wei yang or "broad-tailed sheep."

296
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Annals, sub anno 1353. Ch'ang Te in his account of the countries
of the west, gives some particulars respecting Mi-si-r (see Notes on
Chin. Med. Trav. p. 85).
The Ming shi, chap. cccxxxii, fol. 22, has also an article on
Mi-si-r. Several embassies from Egypt to the Chinese
court, in the 15th century, are there recorded. One was sent in
1441 by su-li-tan A-shi-la-fu. 358
Di-mi-shi-gi= Dimishik or Damascus.
212. The history of Damascus can be traced back to the nar-
ratives of Holy Scripture, where this city, the capital of one of the
kingdoms of Syria, is often mentioned. Dimishik is the Arabic
name of Damascus. It appears frequently in the Persian annals,
in connection with the wars of the Mongol khans of Persia with
the sultans of Egypt, in the 13th and 14th centuries.
In a letter addressed by Arghun khan of Persia to king Philip
of France, written in Mongol in 1289, and preserved in the French
archives, Damascus is termed Dimiski (Pauthier's M. Polo, p. 776).
In the Mém. conc. les Chinois, tom. xiv, Father Amiot has
translated a number of letters, sent by some sovereigns of western
Asia to the Ming emperors of China. On page 246, the transla-
tion of a letter by the sovereign of Ty-mi-shi is found. As Amiot
had sent to Paris a copy of the original text of the letters (written
in Persian), together with the Chinese translation, Rémusat was
enabled to ascertain that by Ty-mi-shi, Damascus was meant. 359
Dan-ya- Damiath or Damietta.
213. Although the position assigned to Dan-ya on the ancient
map (north of Constantinople) does not suit Damietta, I suppose
that this city was meant. At least there was no country or city
north of Constantinople bearing a similar name.
The original name of Damietta is Damiath (Bibl. Orient. p. 266).
The Catalan map has Damyat. This ancient city, situated on the
eastern mouth of the Nile, played an important part in the crusades.
The Mongol armies never advanced so far as Damietta, but of
course the name was well known to them.
358
350
Ashref was a favorite name among the Mameluke sultans of Egypt.
In my pamphlet, "On the knowledge possessed by the Chinese of the
Arabs etc." on p. 22, I stated that these letters had been addressed to the
emperor K'ang-hi of the present dynasty. I did so on the authority of A.
Rémusat (Mélanges Asiatiques, tom ii, p. 249). But now, when referring to
Amiot's original translation, I see that Rémusat misunderstood Amiot; for
the latter clearly says, that the letters in question date from the time of the
Ming.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
APPENDIX.
297
I may be allowed to review here, in completion of my notices of
the medieval geography of central and western Asia, two narratives
of Asiatic travel in the 13th century, to which frequent reference
has been made in these pages. The first comprises the journey of
Haithon, king of little Armenia, to Mongolia and back; the second
records the adventures of a Mongol officer during his peregrinations in
central Asia. These two itineraries mention many places marked on
the ancient Chinese map, which has been reviewed in the foregoing
part, and thus furnish corroborative evidence of its authenticity.
I. THE JOURNEY OF HAITHON, KING OF LITTLE ARMENIA,
TO MONGOLIA AND BACK, A. D. 1254-1255.
This narrative of the journey was originally written in Armenian,
by Kirakos Kaidzaketsi, who accompanied king Haithon to Mon-
golia. A manuscript copy of it, dated 1616, was found in the
monastery of Sanahin in southern Georgia, and was translated into
Russian by the Armenian prince Argutinsky, and published in the
Russian periodical Sibirsky Westnik, 1822, pp. 69 sqq. Klaproth
translated it from the Russian version into French :-see Nouv.
Journal. Asiat. tom. xii, pp. 214, 273 sqq.
I shall not here give a complete English version of Haithon's
narrative, but intend merely to review that part of the journey
bearing directly upon the subject of my investigations in this paper.
Haithon I (or Hethum as the name is written in the Armenian
text), son of Constantine Rupen, became king by his marriage with
Isabella, daughter and only child of Leon II, king of Little Arme-
nia. Haithon ascended the throne in 1224, abdicated in 1269,
in favor of his son Leon III, and then became a monk. 360The
narrative of his journey is entitled :-
TRAVELS OF HAITHON, THE PIOUS KING OF THE ARMENIANS,
TO BATU AND MANGU KHANS, IN 703 AND 704 OF
THE ARMENIAN ERA (A. D. 1254-1255).
Haithon, who resided in the city of Sis in Cilicia, sent (in
1246) his brother Sempad, commander-in-chief of his troops, to
Kuyuk khan, with presents. Sempad returned from the court
360
King Haithon I is not to be confounded with his kinsman Haithon,
prince of Gorhigos, who also became a monk, and is the author of the Histoire
des Pays Orientaux, written in 1307 by N. Salcon (Faulcon) in Poitiers, from
the dictation of Haithon. Compare Bergeron's Voyages en Asic.

298
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
of the Great khan,-where he had been well received,-bringing
letters from the monarch. 361
After Mangu khan's accession, the great basileopater and general
Batu, who had established himself in the north, on the borders
of a large river called Ethil (Volga), which empties into the
Caspian sea, sent to king Haithon, inviting him to come and
proceed to the court of Mangu khan. The king, who was in fear
of Batu, departed secretly and disguised; for he had to pass through
the dominions of the sultan of Rum, who hated him on account
of the assistance he had received from the Tartars. He arrived
safely at the city of Kars (north-east of Erzerum), where he saw
Bachu nuin, 36 2 the commander-in-chief of the Tartar army in the
east. After this, Haithon proceeded through the country of the
Aghovans, passed the gate of Darband (192) and the fortress
Djora, 363 and then went to see Batu, and his son Sartakh 364 who
was a Christian. 365 Both treated him with. honour, and sent him
on to the court of Mangu khan, by a very long route beyond the
Caspian sea.
Haithon (and his companions) started on the 13th of May, 1254.
After crossing the river Aiekh, 366 they arrived at Hor, 367 which
was midway between Batu and Mangu khans. Thence they pro-
ceeded to Erthidj, entered the country of the Aimani, 36 Band
then got to Khara-khitai. 369
301
Sempad was four years absent. We possess a letter from him written
on the journey. See Yule's Cathay, p. cxxvii.
362
363
304
305
The Baidju noyen of the Persian historians.
Perhaps Madjar. See above, 63.
See above, 89.
The Sa-li-t'a of the Chinese authors.
Rubruquis says however, p. 263:-"De Sartach autem, utrum credit
in Christum vel non, nescio. Hoc scio, quod christianus non vult dici, immo
magis videtur michi deridere christianos. Ipse enim est in itinere christia-
norum, scilicet Rutenorum, Blacorum, Bulgarorum minoris Bulgarie, Soldai-
norum (see above, 157), Kerkisorum (see above, 160), Alanorum, qui omnes
transeunt per eum quando vadunt ad curiam patris sui, deferentes ei munera,
unde magis amplectitur eos. Tamen si Sarraceni veniant, et magis afferant,
citius expediuntur. Habet etiam circa se nestorinos sacerdotes, qui pulsant
tabulam et cantant officium suum."
367
360 The Yaikh of the middle ages, now Emba, an affluent of the Caspian.
Judging from the position assigned to this place in the itinerary, we
must look for it somewhere near lake Balkash, or in Tarbagatai. I have not
been able however, to find such a name in other mediæval authors.
368
By Erthidj evidently the river Irtysh is meant, and Aiïmani is in-
tended for Naiman, a people to whom Rashid assigns the country near the
sources of the Irtysh. The Chinese authors term them Nai-man.
369
The country Haithon now passed through belonged indeed to the
Kara-khitai, before this people went to Turkistan (see Part I). Ch'ang-ch'un,
in 1221, saw the ruins of a city of the Kara-khitai somewhere between the
present Urga and Uliassutai. See Notes on Chin. Med. Trav. p. 23.

舘書圖學大京燕
Yenching University Library
HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
299
On the 13th of September, Haithon had an audience with Mangu
khan (in or near Karakorum I suppose), 370 and offered his gifts.
He was treated with all the honour due to his rank, and staid ten
days with Mangu khan's son. A diploma with the imperial seal
was granted him, insuring his safety throughout the Mongol states.
The party set out on their homeward journey on November 1st,
1254. They arrived in three hundred and thirty days 371 at
Ghumsghur, 372 went on to Berbaligh and then to Beshbaligh. 373
After this a desert is spoken of by the diarist, inhabited by naked
wild men, who have their heads covered with horse-hair. The
breasts of their women are extremely large and pendent; the people
being indeed veritable brutes. 37 There are also wild horses of a
yellow and black colour. They are bigger in size than common
horses and donkeys. Wild camels with two humps are also met
with there. 375
Further on, the way of king Haithon led through Yarlekh,
Kuluk, Henkukh, Djambalekh, Khutaiyai and Yankibalekh, 376
after which they entered Turkistan.
370
Rubruquis had left the court of Mangu two or three months before
Haithon arrived.
371
372
bash.
This figure is without doubt a clerical error.
A place unknown to me, but situated probably near the lake Kizil-
As the diarist states that Haithon passed through Bishbalik, it may
be assumed that he travelled by the same route as Ch'ang-ch'un.
373
874
Bishbalik, the present Urumtsi;-see above, 108.
The story of wild men in the desert of Dsungaria seems to have been
current in the middle ages. Carpini's report on the subject reads as follows
(pp. 648, 649):-"In terrâ autem Kara-Kitaorum Occoday-can filius Chingis-
can, postquàm positus fuit imperator, quandam civitatem ædificavit, quam
Omyl appellavit: prope quam ad meridiem est quoddam desertum magnum,
in quo sylvestres homines pro certo habitare dicuntur, qui nullo modo
loquuntur, nec in cruribus habent juncturas; et si quandò cadunt, per se
surgere sinè aliorum adjutorio minimè possunt; sed tantam discretionem
habent quod faciunt filtra de lanâ camelorum, quibus vestiuntur, et ponunt
etiàm contra ventum; et si aliqui Tartari vadunt ad eos et vulnerant eos
sagittis, ponunt gramina in vulneribus et fortiter fugiunt antè eos."
375
Wild horses, known under the name of tarpan are still found in the
steppes of Mongolia, as also djigetais, which are called "wild mules" (equus
hemionus). The djigetai is about the size of a mule, and is of a yellowish
color. Perhaps by "wild horses," the diarist means the djigetai. As to the
wild camels, their existence in our day in the deserts of western Mongolia, has
been ascertained by Col. Prczewalsky; and Col. D. Forsyth proves, that they
are found also in the deserts near Turphan (Proc. Roy. Geogr. Soc. No. xviii,
"Elias, on Prezewalsky's travels"). The embassy of Shah Rokh, sent to
China in 1419, fell in with a wild camel between Kamul and the Chinese
frontier.
376
As to the first three of these names, I cannot trace them in any
itinerary of other mediaeval travellers, nor can I find similar names on the
maps referring to those regions. With respect to Djambalekh, see above, 114.
Khutaiyai is probably the Gu-t'a-ba of the ancient map (115) and the Khu-
tukbai of modern maps. Yankibalekh is the Yang-gi-ba-li of the ancient

300
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
The next stations mentioned in the itinerary are,-Tsekopruk,
Dinkabalekh, Pulad, Sutkul,-the last name is explained by the
diarist by "Sea of milk,"-Halualekh and Ilan-baleck. 377 Further
on, they passed over the river Ilan su, 378 crossed a branch of the
Thoros mountains, 379 and arrived at Talas, 380 where they saw
Hulavu the brother of Mangu khan, who had taken the east as his
portion. 381
Thence they proceeded in a north-westerly direction, passing
through Kutughchin, Barkant, Sulghan, Urusoghan, Kayi-kant,
Khuzark or Kamots, Khendakhoir and Senghakh. There is the
mountain Kharchuk, whence the Seldjuks came; where is also the
beginning of the mount Thoros. Further on they reached Phar-
tchin, and turned aside in order to meet Sartakh, the son of Batu,
who was on his way to Mangu khan. They then returned to
Senghakh and continued their route to the large city of Savran,
after which they passed through Kharchukh, Yasun, Savri, Otrar,
Zurnukh and Dizal. 382
377
map (116), and Yangibalgasun of modern maps. All these places are situated
on the great highway between Urumtsi and Kuldja.
Dinkabalekh may perhaps be traced in modern Dsing-ho, the
name of a river and of a city situated on the great route from Urumtsi to
Kuldja, east of lake Sairam. Regarding Pulad, the Pu-la of the
Chinese authors, see above, 122. The name Sutkul and the appellation
"Sea of milk" have been satisfactorily explained by Klaproth. In the
language of the Kirghiz, Sutkul even now means "Lake of milk;" and this
name is applied by the Kirghiz to lake Sairam of our maps, north-east of
modern Kuldja. Sairam, or as Klaproth correctly writes Sairim or Chagan
Sairim nor (the white lake of tranquility) is its Mongol name.
Halualekh
is evidently a corruption of Almalik (117), situated near the present Kuldja.
Ilan-baleck is probably the I-la-ba-li of the ancient Chinese map (124).
378
Su or usu in Mongol means "river." By Ilan su probably the Ili
river is meant.
379
By Thoros probably the Alatau is meant, the high mountain chain
which stretches along the northern shore of lake Issikul. The traveller
proceeding from Kuldja to Tashkand has to cross the north-western spur of
the Alatau, by the defile of Kastek. The Chinese traveller Ch'ang Te in 1259,
after having left Alimali (Kuldja), and before reaching the country where the
Kara-khitai had dwelt (on the Chu river), mentions a place Yi-tu on the way,
situated between two mountains. I have little doubt, that the Chinese
traveller alludes to the Kastek pass. Compare Notes on Chin. Med. Trav.
P. 74.
380
381
383
With respect to Talas, see note 59.
By east here, western Asia, i. e. the Orient in our sense is meant.
Of the greater part of these names I can make nothing. They may
partly refer to obscure places not mentioned by other medieval authors.
Haithon left for a while the direct road leading from Talas through Sairam
to Samarcand, and went in a north-westerly direction to meet Sartakh.
Among the cities he passed through, Senghalch is noticed also by Rashid-
eddin. When Chinghiz' host had reached Otrar, it was divided into four
corps. One under the command of Djuchi was sent along the border of the

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
301
From Dizak they reached Semergend in thirty days. 383 Next
they came to Sariphuch, Kerman and Bokara;38 reached the
great river Djehun (Amu-daria); crossed it and then proceeded to
Mermen, Serakhs and Thus,385 the last place is on the border of
Khorassan, called also Raughastan. After that they entered Ma-
zanderan, 386 passed through Bestan and the country of Eraz,
situated at the frontier of the Mulhet, and then came to Thamghain
and the great city of Hrei. 387
Sihon downward, and the first city captured by the Mongols on this way was
Signac (see above, 49). After this Uzkend and Barkhalighkend were taken.
The latter, as has been pointed out on a previous page, is the same as the
Ba-r-ch'i-li-han of the map, the A Ba-r-djen of the Yüan shi, the
Barchin of Carpini, and the Phartchin of Haithon (see above, 163 and note 91).
The mountain Kharchuk, where the Thoros begins, is the mountain chain
stretching in a north-western direction between the river Talas and the Sir-
daria, and named Karatau on modern maps. The diarist of Haithon's journey
seems to comprise in the name Thoros, the Alatau, Alexander's chain, and the
Karatau. The great city Savran in the itinerary has been identified by
Klaproth with a place of a similar name situated on the Sir-daria; but Savran
on modern maps is located in the vicinity of the ruins of Otrar, whilst our
itinerary puts three stations between Savran and Otrar. I should rather
think that the great city Savran of Haithon is the same as Sairam (162), of
which Rashid-eddin also says, that it is a very large city. Supposing I am
right, then the diarist of the ancient itinerary would intimate, that Otrar was
situated on the way from Sairam to Samarcand. It is worthy of notice, that
our map also places Otrar between Sairam and Samarcand. On modern maps
we find the ruins of ancient Otrar marked north-west of Sairam, near the city
of Turkistan. I am not aware whether the position of ancient Otrar indeed
has been ascertained. In the books at my disposal, I find nothing with respect
to modern researches concerning the ruins of this city. Zurnulch of Haithon
is the same as Zernul of the Persian authors (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 227).
When Chinghiz proceeded from Otrar to Bokhara, Zernuk was the first place
he attacked. Dizak in the ancient itinerary is the Djizak of modern maps,
situated north-east of Samarcand.
383
There is a mistake again in the figure, for the distance between Dizak
and Samarcand is only eighty English miles.
384
With respect to Sariphuch I may observe, that Mr. Khanikoff, in his
itinerary from Samarcand to Bokhara ("Description of the Khanate of Bokhara,"
p. 98), mentions a place Shahri khatyn between Samarcand and Kerminé, the
latter being identical with the Kerman of Haithon. The same place is spoken
of in the Liao shi, under the name of
Ki-r-man (see above, 26).
385
Mermen is intended, it seems, for Meru Shahjan (see above, 174).
Serakchs is mentioned by Rashid (172). On modern maps it is found
about forty-six English miles north-east of Meshed. Concerning Thus,
see 147.
380 This is still the name of a Persian province, on the southern shore of
the Caspian sea.
387 Bestan or Bistam, as Rashid writes it, is still the name of a city on
the route from Meshed to Teheran. It is situated north-east of Damegan
(see above, 177), which is the Thamghain of Haithon. The name Eraz is
probably a mistake. Haithon really passed through the country of Cumuss,
of which Damegan was the capital. Mulhet denotes the Mulahida, Ismaëlians

302
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Further on, the itinerary mentions Khezovin (Kasvin;-185),
Avakhr (Abhar, 189), Zanghian (Zendjan, 191), and Miana; from
which place they reached Tavrej in twelve days. 388
Eight months after quitting the court of Mangu khan, Haithon
arrived at the frontier of Armenia, in July, 1255.
II. THE PEREGRINATIONS OF YE-LÜ HI-LIANG
IN CENTRAL ASIA, A. D. 1260-2162.
Translated from his biography in the Yüan shi, chap. clxxx.
Ye-lü Hi-liang was the great-grandson of Ye-lü
Chu-ts'ai (Chinghiz khan's and Ogotai's minister ;-see Notes on
Chin. Med. Trav. p. 108). The name of Hi-liang's father was
Chu. Hi-liang was born near Ho-lin (Karakorum).
Father and son were both distinguished scholars, and held offices
under Süan-tsung (Mangu khan). In the year 1258, when the em-
peror encamped among the mountains
Liu-pan shan, 389
Hi-liang was with him; and when Mangu subsequently directed
his host southward, Hi-liang and his father accompanied him.
or Assassins (see above, 183, 184). Hrei is the same as ancient Rayi, of which
the ruins may be seen about six English miles south of Teheran.
388
The city of Miana, famed for its poisonous bugs (argas persicus), is
only fifty English miles distant from Tavrej or Tebriz, the capital of Azer-
baidjan. The figures in the distances given in Haithon's itinerary are all
exaggerated, or perhaps Haithon travelled very slowly.
389
The mountain Liu-pan shan has still the same name. On modern
Chinese maps it is marked in the department of Ping-liang in Kansu, south
of the city of Ku-yüan chou. According to the Chinese annals Tung kien
kang mu, Chinghiz died near this mountain, in 1227, after having subdued
the Tangut empire. The Yüan shi however, implies that he died in northern
Mongolia. We read there in the Annals, under the year 1227, that "in the
5th intercalary month the emperor moved to the mountain Liu-pan shan in
order to avoid the heat of the summer. In the 6th month, the empire of the
Hia (Tangut) submitted. Chinghiz rested on the river Si-kiang,
in the district of Tsing-shui (in Kansu; it has still the same name).
In antumn, in the 7th month, on the day jen-wu, the emperor fell
ill, and eight days later died in his 'palace,' Aha-lao-t'u, on
the river Sa-li." The river Sa-li is repeatedly mentioned in the
Yüan shi, viz.-in the first chapter, in connection with the first military
doings of Chinghiz. Rashid reports (D'Ohsson, tom. i, p. 58) that Chinghiz,
in 1199, retired to his residence Sari kihar. The Yüan ch'ao pi shi (Palla-
dius' translation, p. 81) writes the same name Saari keher. Keher in modern
Mongol means "plain." On the ancient map of Mongolia found in the Yian
shi lei pien (see above, 10), Sa-li k'ie-r is marked south of the
river Wa-nan (the Onon of our maps), and close to Sa-li k'ie-r we
read the characters
; i. c. "here was the original abode of the

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
303
In the year 1259, the emperor died in Shu, 390 when Hi-liang
with the heavy baggage (of the army) proceeded northward to the
province of Shensi. In the next year, 1260, Shi-tsu (Kubilai)
was elected emperor, when
A-li-bu-ko 31 revolted
Hun-du-hai, 393
(against his brother). Kubilaï sent to
to require him to appear. Chu (the father of Hi-liang) tried
to persuade him and the other officers; but Hun-du-hai refused.
Chu thereupon left his wife and his sons, and made haste to Kubilaï
to offer his service. Hun-du-hai then became enraged and sent a
hundred horsemen in pursuit, but they could not catch him. Hun-
du-hai then arrested Hi-liang, his mother and his son, and forced
them to accompany him. They started from Ling-wu,393
passed through
Si-liang 395
and arrived at
Ying-gi-li394 and
Kan-chou. 396
Mongols." Thus it seems the above-translated passage in the Yüan shi
intimates that Chinghiz died in Mongolia, and not at the Liu-pan shan as is
generally believed. The Yüan ch'ao pi shi (Palladius' translation, p. 152)
and the T's'in cheng lu (Palladius' translation, p. 195) both agree in stating,
that after having subdued the Tangut empire, Chinghiz returned home and
then died. Col. Yule in his M. Polo (vol. i, p. 216) states, that Rashid-eddin
calls the place of Chinghiz' death Leung-Shan, which appears to be intended
for Liu-pan shan. It is strange that D'Ohsson does not mention this state-
ment of the Persian historian. In 1258, when Mangu khan waged war with
the Sung, and commanded his host in person, he had for a time established
his head-quarters among the mountains of Liu-pan shan (Yüan shi, sub anno),
and then proceeded to Sze-ch'uan, where he died.
390 Shu is the ancient name for what is now called the province of
Sze-ch'uan. There are some discrepancies in the reports of the chroniclers
respecting the death of Mangu khan. The Chinese annals Tung kien kang mu
records, that he died in the 7th month of 1259, before the walls of
Ho-chou, which city had been besieged without success for several months
(Ho-chou, a city in Sze-ch'uan still bears the same name;-30° S' N. lat.).
The Yüan shi gives the 13th of the 7th month as the date of Mangu's death,
and states, that he died after an illness of several weeks, near the hill
but it
Tiao-yi shan. This name is not found on modern Chinese maps;
appears from the Yüan shi, that this hill or mountain was in the vicinity of
Ho-chou. M. Polo (vol. i, p. 216) makes Mangu die by an arrow shot.
Haithon says, that he was drowned.
391
The Persian authors call him Arik-buga. He was the youngest brother
of Mangu and Kubilai; and when Mangu departed for China, Arik-buga was
intrusted with the regency. He had his residence in Karakorum, and after
Mangu's death and the election of Kubilai, laid claim to the supreme khanship.
After the death of Mangu khan, Kondukai was left at the head of the
Mongol troops in Shensi. He embraced the cause of Arik-buga (D'Ohsson,
tom. ii, p. 346).
392
393
An ancient city situated near the present Ling-chou, south-east of
Ning-hia fu in Kansu.
394
395
396
The present Ning-hia chung-wei 37° 40' N. lat.
Now Liang-chou fu.
The present Kan-chou fu.

304
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Meanwhile A-lan-da-r, the commander-in-chief
of A-li-bu-ko's troops, marched out from Ho-lin (Karakorum)
to effect his junction with Hun-du-hai, and arrived at the
mountain
Yen-chi shan. When he saw Hi-liang, he
inquired about his father. Hi-liang, answered, that he knew
nothing about him, and that if he could have known where he
was fleeing to, he would have been with him. Some while after,
they met the imperial army (of Kubilaï), and A-lan-da-r and Hun-
du-hai were both defeated and killed. The remains of their troops
went to the north, where they rallied under the command of
Su-chou, to
Hala bu-hua. 397 Hi-liang, succeeded in escaping, and
hid himself in the sha-t'o,398 north of Kan-chou, and east of
Hei-shui. Ha-la bu-hua passed there with his army, without
detecting Hi-liang; but some time after, when some straggling
soldiers arrived, looking for horses, an old woman betrayed his
retreat, and he was then arrested and brought to
the commander-in-chief. Ha-la bu-hua was related to Hi-liang's
father; they had served together in the last campaign in Shu
(Szechuan); and it had once happened, that Ha-la bu-hua fell ill,
when Chu sent him a physician and supplied him with meat and
wine. In grateful remembrance of these things, Ha-la bu-bua
released Hi-liang, saying:-"Your father did me friendly service,
I am happy to repay it now in granting you your freedom."
Hi-liang then proceeded to the northern river of Sha-
chou. 399 He was obliged to travel on foot with his brothers; and
they carried their own baggage, without eating cooked food for many
days. Being then winter time, they had to walk through the snow.
After crossing the Tien shan (Celestial mountains) Hi-liang
arrived at BF Pei-t'ing tu-hu fu. 100
In 1261 they arrived at the city of
In summer they crossed the river
397
398
309
The Karabula of Rashid.
Djang-ba-li. 101
Ma-na-sze, 102 and
The literal meaning of sha-t'o is "sandy downs." This is the name
applied by the Chinese to the sandy part of the great Mongolian desert.
Sha-chou in western Kansu (see above, 90). The Chinese text has
Sha-chou pei-chuan, "the northern river of Sha-chou." But
perhaps Pei-chuan is the name of a place.
400 The same as Bishbalik, or the present Urumtsi. See above, 109.
Hi-liang went, it seems, from Sha-chou to Pei-t'ing by the common routo,
leading through the desert, and then passing through Kamul, Karakhodjo, etc.
Djambalik, mentioned in Haithon's itinerary, and marked on the
ancient map (114).
402
Manass is still the name of a city in Dsungaria. It lies on the great
road from Urumtsi to Kuldja, on the river of the same name.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
305
finally reached
Ye-mi-li. 103 This city was the capital of"
the apanage given to Ting-tsung (Kuyuk khan) when he was
heir-apparent. 404 At that time the younger sister of the sixth
empress was queen regent (in that country). 105 She and the prince
Ho-hu106 were desirous of presenting themselves to the
emperor (Kubilaï). Hi-liang's mother, who was well aware of their
situation, was desirous that her son should see the queen regent,
but it was not possible. In winter of the same year Hi-liang
proceeded to the country of Huo-bu. 107
In 1262 the E Ta-ming wang, Ting-tsung's (Kuyuk's)
youngest son, 108 who commiserated Hi-liang in his misfortunes, in
that he was unable to return home, made him a present of silk
stuffs and a saddled horse. Hi-liang accompanied the prince to
the country of 忽只兒 Hu-dji-v. 409
At that time it happened that the prince
A-lu-hu110
gave orders to kill the officer appointed by A-li-bu-ko, and was
desirous of submitting to the emperor (Kubilai). Hi-liang joined
the two princes A-lu-hu and Ta-ming wang, who returned to
403
The city of Emil or Imil. See above, 123.
404
葉密里城乃定宗潛邸湯沐之邑也 Rashid-eddin
reports also that Imil was Kuyuk's apanage.
405 It seems to me that Organa is here meant, the widow of Kara Hulagu,
grandson of Chagatai. After the death of her husband, she was, according to
the Persian historians, for eight years (1252-1260) regent of the middle
empire and resided in Almalik. She was dethroned by Arik-buga, who set
upon the throne of Chagatai, another of his grandsons named Algu. Algu
subsequently married Organa.
400
Ho-hu was the third and youngest son of Kuyuk khan (Yüan shi,
chap. evii, genealogical table).
407
This country belonged also to the apanages of Kuyuk's and Ogotai's
descendants. In the Yüan shi, beginning of chap. ii, it is stated, that after
Chinghiz died, Ogotai came from the country of Ho-bo to attend the
funeral.
408 Ta-ming wang="prince of Ta-ming." The latter is the name of a
department in the province of Chili. According to the Annals of the Yüan
shi, sub anno 1236, Ta-ming was given as an apanage to Ku-yuk. It seems,
that the afore-mentioned prince Ho-hu and Ta-ming wang are identical.
409
In the biography of Subutai (see above, 60) a similar name of a place
or country is mentioned. It is stated there that Subutai, after having finished
the campaign in the west, went home by the way of Ye-mi-li (Imil) and
Ho-dji. There is a place Boro hudjir marked on the Russian maps
of central Asia, on the road from Kuldja to Kopal; but it may be questioned
whether this name occurs so early.
410
Rashid-eddin tells us (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 352) that Algu (see note
405), who at first was allied to Arik-buga, after having heard of the defeat of
the latter, declared himself for Kubilai khan, and ordered the three commis-
saries left by Arik-buga in Algu's states, to be put to death. Arik-buga then
marched against Algu.

306
NOTICES OF THE MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY AND
Ye-mi-li. The Ta-ming wang offered to Hi-liang a present of
pendants, consisting of two pearls as large as hazel-nuts and worth
a thousand liang, wishing that he might wear them in his ears.
But Hi-liang declined to receive the present, saying, that he dared
not injure the body received from his father and mother, and that
besides this he had no merits. The prince then unfastened his
own girdle richly adorned with gold, and gave it to Hi-liang,
saying "I hope this present will not injure your body."
In the 5th month (1262) they met the army of A-li-bu-ko and
were forced to retreat westward for fifteen hundred li. They
reached the country of Bu-lie sa-li, 111 and in the 6th
month the country of Huan-dja-sun. They passed through
the city of
Bu-la, 12 and proceeding westward for six
hundred li, arrived at the mountain
Ch'e-ch'e-li
tse-la. 113The queen regent and the heavy baggage were left
behind. Hi-liang's mother and brothers also remained there.
Hi-liang departed alone on horseback, and after riding more than
two hundred li, reached the city of
Chu-bu-r, and a
hundred li further on arrived at the city of
Ye-li-
kien, 114 where he met the host of Ha-la-bu-hua (Arik-buga's
general;-see above.) He then again joined the two princes, who
had rallied their forces, and returned to the city of Bu-la, where
a battle was fought with Ha-la-bu-hua, who was defeated and lost
his life. His head was then packed up and sent by a courier to
the emperor (Kubilaï). 415
In the 11th month they went to the country of
Yü-i-sze-kuan (Uzkend?), and in the year 1263, reached
411
K'o-shi-ha-li (Kashgar;-130). In the 4th month they
On this name and the next I can throw no light; but it may be noticed
that the name Sari occurs frequently on modern maps of the regions here
spoken of, c. g. Gurban Sari, Sari Bulak, etc.
412
The city of Pulad, situated as has been proved above (122), near lake
Sairam. It is the Pulad of Haithon.
413
414
I know nothing about this mountain.
Perhaps Yarkand is meant; but the indications in Hi-liang's itinerary
are so vague that it is quite impossible to venture any identification of the
places last mentioned.
415
This statement about the battle at Bu-la corresponds in a general way
with Rashid's record (D'Ohsson, tom. ii, p. 353). The Persian historian
reports, that Karabuka, who commanded the avant-guard of Arik-buga, met
the troops of the prince Algu, near the city of Pulad and the lake Sut (the
Sutkul of Haithon,-the lake Sairam). A battle was fought there and Kara-
buka was defeated and killed. Subsequently however Algu was attacked and
defeated by Assutai, who had arrived at the head of Arik-buga's forces. Algu
was forced to abandon his apanage and retreat to Khotan and Kashgar with
his right flank, and finally withdrew towards Samarcand.

HISTORY OF CENTRAL AND WESTERN ASIA.
307
were again attacked by the host of Ha-la-bu-hua, near the city of
A Hun-ba-sheng. At that time the mother of Hi-liang was
still with the queen regent, who spent the summer in the
mountains of
A-ti-ba-sheng. 116
Meanwhile Chu (the father of Hi-liang) had put the emperor
(Kubilaï) in mind of his son's being still in the countries of the
north-western frontier; whereupon the emperor sent letters to the
two princes, ordering them to dispatch Hi-liang as a courier. In the
6th month, the latter passed through the city of K'u-sien, 117
reached 哈刺火者 Ha-la-uo-djo118and 伊州 I-chou,410
crossed the ta-mo (great desert), and in the 8th month
presented himself to the emperor in Shang-tu, 120 and reported
on the state of things at the frontier etc.
410
Probably Atapasha is meant. See above, 132.
Probably Kucha.
See 126.
Karakhodjo. Seo 111.
417
418
410
Kamul. See 91.
420
-
Shang-tu, the summer residence of Kubilaï, in southern Mongolia.