ARTICLE V.
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA, FOR THE YEAR 1875.
BY ARCHIBALD J. LITTLE, F. R. G.S.
THE year just past has been marked by two events of great
the murder of Augustus Raymond Margary, assistant in H. B. M.'s
Consular service, and the death of the Emperor known by
the style of T'ung-chi. Both events created great excitement at
the time and promised momentous changes in the foreign relations
of the empire; but in the one case a mission of enquiry has staved
off the impending trouble, and in the other case the succession to
the throne has been peacefully transferred to the infant under
whose reign of KWANG-SU we are now living.
"
a sort of
The news of the death of Mr. Margary reached us on the fifth of
April by the mail steamer from India, but the news was known to
the Chinese in Peking some ten days earlier. The sad event occur-
red on the 21st February at a place called Manwyne, a walled
village in the Sanda valley in the "Shan" territory, called by the
Chinese, the land of the Pai (A) or "eight barbarian" tribes.
The attack is said to have taken place in the "Khyong'
temple and "guest-house" which exists in all these towns. 'The
Shans are feudatory to the Chinese. This city is often confounded
with Momein in the Chinese jurisdiction of Teng yueh chow in
Yunnan: the proper name for which is Teng-yueh-ting (UD)
a town registered in the "Tsin-shen" or Chinese Civil List, as a
residence of a "Ting" magistrate, under the prefecture of Yung
ch'ang foo (f). Mr. Margary had, after a long and adventurous
journey, already passed through both cities on his way westward;
and had joined Colonel Browne, who had been appointed leader
of the proposed expedition through the western provinces of
China in Bhamo. It was on his return journey while prospecting
in advance of the party that he was fallen upon and killed; report
1
"The
Vide "Memorial" from the Tsungli Yamên, 28th August 1875.
British Interpreter Margary and his party were proceeding from Burmah into
Yunnan, when, at a town fifty li southwest from the seat of government at
the Shan principality of Sanda, subject to the prefecture of Yung-chang they
were attacked by troops in the service of the government and [Mr. Margary
was] murdered," &c.

310
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
says under the direction of the high Chinese officials of Yunnan
without whose connivance the Shaus, a semi-civilised race would not
have ventured such an act: whether truly or not the investigations
of the commission now on its way thither, will ere long inform us.
The horror and disgust which this cold blooded crime inspired in
the breasts of poor Margary's fellow-countrymen, and indeed of all
foreigners throughout China, led people to look for war as the only
means of duly avenging the murder on the native officials who
were supposed to be its instigators, and on the literati class gene-
rally who are believed to approve it. As time wore on, however,
these feelings calmed down and the complicity of the mandarins
was no longer felt to be an absolute certainty. Meanwhile the
joint commission was determined upon by our minister at Peking;
and it was hoped and believed that the real truth would be ferreted
out, and the guilty brought to punishment. This commission was
composed, on the British side, of the Honourable T. G. Grosvenor,
second secretary of H. M. Legation at Peking and Mr. Baber, con-
sular interpreter; together with Mr. Davenport, the then vice-consul
at Shanghai, attached as a sort of legal assessor and accompanied by
Sung Pao hwa: on the Chinese side, of Li Han chang, governor-
general of the two Hu. They were preceded by Liu and assisted by
Chên, late judge of the Shanghai Mixed Court; altogether a body
so constituted as to ensure a fair hearing and a thorough investiga-
tion. This party started on the fifth of October from Hankow,
reached Shasi on the 25th November, Ichang on the 1st December
and Kwei chow fu on the 13th of that month. Li Han chang and
his colleagues arrived in Yunnan fu on the 13th November and
immediately sent a report to the Peking government; who published
an edict on the 9th day of December last, degrading the officials
concerned in the outrage, preparatory to their formal trial.
Six months thus elapsed from the time the news of the murder
was received to the final despatch of the commission to adjudicate
upon it. The interval was filled with negotiations between the
British government, represented by Mr. Wade, on the one part; and
the Peking authorities, who deputed Li Hung chang, viceroy of
Chihli as their plenipotentiary, on the other part. The agreement
was not arrived at without enormous difficulty; and the greatest
credit is due to Mr. Wade for his patience and pertinacity in
bringing the negotiations to a successful issue, without having
recourse to that force, which would have been the resource of a less
able diplomatist. People at the time, especially his fellow-
Liu Yo-chao, Governor-General of Yunnan and Kweichow had gone to
his native place in Hunan. He was now ordered to return and "cöoperate
with the Governor (Ts'en yü-ying) in selecting officials of intelligence and
ability to deal with the matter as justice requires.'

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
311
countrymen here in China, annoyed at the long delay in exacting
retribution, hardly gave Mr. Wade that full credit for his action
in the matter which time is beginning to award him; and which
his government has deservedly acknowledged with a K.C.B.
Mr. Wade, now Sir Thomas, had an extremely difficult task to
fulfil; and a slight sketch of the negotiations, as far as known,
will hardly be out of place; as showing the system pursued, and
at the same time the great difficulty of obtaining redress from the
Chinese government in dealing with foreign affairs.
News of the outrage reached Peking at the end of March;
and H. B. M.'s minister at once demanded the despatch of a
high Chinese commission to investigate the crime on the spot, and
bring the guilty parties, whatever their position, to punishment:
at the same time insisting that no one should be sentenced until a
commission of foreigners, appointed by himself, should have had
the opportunity of investigating the evidence and assuring them-
selves of the real guilt of the accused. The Chinese were long in
yielding a general compliance to this demand; until a threat of
hauling down his flag induced them to give way, and to ap-
point Li Han chang, viceroy of the two Hu and brother of
Li Hung chang as special commissioner. Meanwhile a memorial
was received at Peking from the governor of Yunnan, in which
the attack upon Margary was attributed to a popular outbreak,
and that the only blame due to the officials was an inability to
foresee the disturbance, or quell it in time. On the 19th June
the first notification on the subject appeared in the Peking Gazette;
viz. the appointment of Li Han chang to proceed to Yunnan
"to enquire into and settle a certain affair which had occurred
in that province," no notice of foreigners or foreign troubles
having been made. To this apparent disposition of the Chinese
authorities to gloss over the matter, and let it seem to their own
people one of comparative insignificance, must be attributed the hitch
which about this time occurred; and which led to a renewal of
negotiations and the postponement of the departure of the com-
mission. At the same time too, the strongest orders appear to have
been received from the home government by Sir Thomas Wade
ordering a firm stand to be made for all the points demanded; viz.
a full investigation, degradation and punishment of the guilty
however high-placed; acknowledgment of the status of British
subjects, and their right to travel in the country; the publication of
these facts in the Government Official Gazette; and the establishment
of direct intercourse with the Heads of Departments in Peking, in
lieu of being limited to the Tsung-li yamên or department of Foreign
Affairs as heretofore. Sir Thomas Wade spent the early summer
in Shanghai, presumably in order to remain in telegraphic com-

312
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
munication with his government, while these negotiations were
pending; and, it is said, to arrange with the Admiral of the British
fleet in these waters in the event of the situation demanding
ulterior measures. Colonel Browne who was in command of the
escort which was attacked by the Chinese militia on the frontier of
Yunnan was also present here. In August Sir Thomas, armed with
full powers, returned to the north, and in Tientsin met Li Hung
chang, who had been appointed as plenipotentiary on the Chinese
side. Lengthened negotiation ensued, and war, which at one time
was confidently expected, was prevented, it is reported, by Li's
firmness in pressing on his own government the true state of affairs.
For there is little doubt that in August last the Empress and her
entourage were eager to fight, and if possible, oust the barbarian
altogether; for which purpose they believed the Chinese army to
be now, both in equipment and numbers, fitted. Prince Ch'un, the
father of the boy emperor, is described as a rash man and fanatical
barbarian-hater; and to his influence is attributed the qualification
of Li's powers to the extent of not allowing him to concede the
arraignment of Liu Yoh-chao the governor-general of Yunnan.
This restriction was only made known apparently at the last
moment, and our minister then retired from Tientsin to Chefoo
in a gun-boat, threatening war. As the Chinese know that
Sir Thomas Wade is not a man to utter empty threats, Li
hereupon determined to apply once more to Peking; knowing
full well that the Chinese army was in no position to face a
foreign foe. He succeeded in impressing his views upon the
Empresses; and upon Sir Thomas Wade's returning to Tientsin with
Admiral Ryder, he met a messenger from Li conceding the point.
Thus, as ever, the Chinese, finding the foreigner to be in earnest,
gave way; and thus a second time has Sir Thomas by his tact and
firmness saved this unwieldy empire from plunging into war, and
probable self destruction. Such we believe to have been the main
steps in the negotiations, the details of which we must await the
publication of a blue book to confirm.
On the 28th September an edict appeared in the Peking Gazette
conceding intercourse with the Great Departments of State; and on
the 10th October appeared another ordering action to be taken by
Li Han chang in the matter of the murder of Margary; declaring
the right of foreigners to travel in the interior, and requiring the
officials to take cognizance of the provisions of the treaty in this
regard. Further in the Gazette of the 9th December, the failure
of the prefect of Yunnan-foo to control his lawless subjects, and the
neglect of the brigadier commanding the district to take cognizance
of the murder of Margary and the attack on Colonel Browne's
escort, and to arrest those concerned in it, is admitted, and both

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
313
officials (Wu K'i liang and Tsiang Tsung han) are temporarily
degraded from their posts, with a view to their examination. Here
the matter now stands. It remains to be seen whether the Chi-
nese hope seriously to palm off upon the British minister a tale
which requires him to believe the officials were ignorant and quies-
cent, and that such events as a spontaneous assembly of the militia
could have taken place. It may be that the British government,
anxious not to press the reigning dynasty too hard, may be satisfied
with the degradation of the officials and the execution of the im-
mediate murderers of Margary, if these can be discovered; and wink
at the subterfuges of the Peking government to conceal their dis-
honour. Such seems to be the present home policy; but we believe
that as in Turkey, the support given to an effete, corrupt and
obsolete system, is a mistake, and that it would be better to let
both governments collapse on the chance of something better
arising to take their places; as, without external props, they would
inevitably do from their own rottenness.
The accession of the Emperor, whose style or Kwo-hao is
Kwang-sü (), was announced in the Peking Gazette of 16th
January; and we learn from the North-China Herald, to which
able periodical, and notably to the translations of the Peking
Gazettes regularly published therein, we are indebted for many of
the facts of this Retrospect, that this name was selected from
a sentence occurring in a state paper of the Sung dynasty,
entitled "Memorial requesting the bestowal of a title of honour."
The sentence is as follows:-Kwang fuh-p'ei si i. e.
"gloriously renew the dynastic continuation," so that Kwang-sü
may be freely rendered as "Glorious succession." The boy's own
name is Tsai t'ien (), and he is a cousin of the late emperor,
styled T'ung-chi () or "Law and order," who had commenced
his reign in August 1861. He is the ninth of the line of the
T'sing or Manchu dynasty, inaugurated in the year 1644 by the
Tartar conqueror, Shun-che.
The late emperor, T'ung-che, was born on the 27th April 1856,
his death thus occurring in his 19th year. The death of his father
Hien-feng ("Plenty ") which took place at Jehol on the 17th August
1861, after his flight from Peking in the autumn of the previous year,
when the allied forces menaced the capital, left the guardianship
of the young heir apparent a prize to be disputed for by the powers
at court. The dispute which was naturally to be expected in an
Oriental palace took place. The princes Su-chun, Ts'ai-yuen and
Twan-hwa, members of the Blood Royal, strongly opposed to the
peace policy of which prince Kung was the foremost representative,
having proclaimed the emperor, endeavoured to seize the reins of

314
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
government and form a regency in which their own party should
have unlimited sway. The Empress Dowager ("Mother of the
State"), and the mother of the sovereign, were admitted to the
Council of the Regency, nominally as guardians of the boy emperor.
Prince Kung was excluded, and the empresses, being dissatisfied
with Su-shun's conduct, arranged a coup d'état with the former
prince. The three conspiring princes were arrested, tried and con-
demned to be cut to pieces: this sentence was commuted to the
decapitation of Su-shun, and the self-strangulation of the other two.
The young emperor ascended the throne, nominally at the com-
mencement of the year 1862, which is called the first of T'ung-che,
(the year in which one emperor dies continues to be called by his
style), the administration of the government devolving upon the
Empresses Dowager as Regents, with his uncle Prince Kung as
chief adviser. On the 16th October 1872, he was married; and on
the 23rd February following he assumed the reins of government.
We know little of the character or capacity of the deceased emperor;
but there are grounds for believing that he inherited some of the
energy which distinguished the earlier monarchs of the dynasty.
Opportunity of the crisis produced by his death was taken to make
Li Hung chang, a Chinese (native of Ngan-hui) senior of the Ta hio
sze or Grand Secretaries of State, a precedence hitherto assigned
to a Manchu. Speculations have been rife as to the likelihood of
this powerful viceroy overturning the Manchus and establishing a
native dynasty in his own person; but all we can learn goes to
show that no such disloyalty is felt either by Li or any other of
the high Chinese officials; and that the Manchu dynasty are no
more regarded as intruders than is the German family that now
sits on the throne of England. In both instances as long as the
government is carried on in accordance with the ancient principles
of constitutionalism on the one side, and of a democratic autocracy
on the other, no opposition is likely or even conceivable. No: the
danger to the Manchu dynasty is from without.
On the morning following the death of Tung-chi, which took
place on the 12th January, it was reported in Peking that a grand
child of his eldest uncle, the Prince of Tun had, in the absence of
a direct heir, been selected for the succession; but later in the day
it became known that the two Empresses (i. e. the Empress Dowager
and Empress Mother of T'ung-chi) had selected the only son of
the seventh prince, the Prince of Ch'un. This child, who was
born in 1871 and is thus five years old, was designated as a
successor to the throne in a decree of the Empresses, sanctioned, it
was said, in a valedictory manifesto of the departed sovereign. The
Empress Mother and the Princess of Ch'un are sisters, and are said
to be daughters of a Manchu functionary, formerly in office as

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
315
Tao-tai of the Kwei-sui district in Shansi, named Cheng-lin
The result shews that the empresses have known how to maintain
and exalt the position gained by their coup d'état in 1861, when
they seized the reins of power after the death of Hien-feng: and we
cannot but admire the vigour, and determination with which they
appear to dominate the rival parties, and bend princes and ministers
to their will. We believe that, in truth, the Empresses Regent aro
now carrying on personal government in a way hardly credited in
Europe. Placing themselves behind a curtain they receive the
numerous officials daily going up from all parts of the vast empire
to Peking for audience, and we are told that the Empress Mother
particularly shews no little discernment in judging of the character
of the officials brought before her, and in selecting them for appro-
priate posts.
The past year has witnessed the evacuation of Formosa by the
Japanese troops, who have been replaced by large bodies of Chinese
sent across to subdue the natives. Very little has been done
beyond organising the coast districts already in Chinese possession
and extending new roads. Of the actual operations of the troops
little is known with certainty, but the reports received state that
in their encounters with the aborigines they were regularly repulsed
as soon as they left the settled districts, notwithstanding that the
men were well armed with foreign rifles and equipped for the field
as no other Chinese force has yet been. At the recommendation
of Shen Pao chen, the Imperial commissioner, some wise edicts
encouraging the settlement of the country were issued, and the
Futai of Fokien was ordered to reside in the island. The show of
pacification over, the majority of the Chinese troops were with-
drawn and passed through Shanghai during the summer on the
way back to the districts north of the Yang-tsze, from which they
had been drawn, and disbanded. To cover the expenses of this
expedition and of that in the north-west against Kashgar, two
small loans, secured on the Customs' revenues, were privately
negotiated, one of two million taels with the Oriental Bank, and one
of one million taels with the British firm of Jardine, Matheson & Co.
The rate of interest upon these loans is ten per cent per annum, being
an increase upon the rate at which the first loan was borrowed in
the previous year through the medium of the Hongkong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation-£627,615 at eight per cent.
Turkistan has been another source of anxiety and expenditure
to China during the past twelve months. Not content with quelling
the rebellion in Shensi and Kansuh, the Peking government, it is
said, much against the advice of the high officials outside the
cabidet, desired to reduce the Mohammedan tribes beyond the wall;
and to reconquer the revolted provinces of Turkistan which have

316
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
been welded into a kingdom by Yacoob khan. These further
efforts have been, however, unsuccessful: indeed it is reported
that Tso Ts'ung t'ang's army of 100,000 men has been utterly
destroyed, all but the rear guard, which had not advanced far
beyond the wall, and with which was the general himself. It
has been obvious from the commencement that China was in
no condition to attempt the reduction of Kashgar; and the enter-
prise has only added to the many other heavy embarrassments of
the country.
The interests of the foreigners settled in the country have con-
tinued to retrograde, and although the Chinese may have no pre-
meditated policy of starving us out, they appear to be slowly but
surely doing so. The establishment of a subsidiary line of coast
steamers in the shape of the China Merchants' Steam Navigation
Company has proved a formidable blow to foreign shipping. In
this as in other instances the Chinese government has shewn itself
by no means unwilling to avail of foreign arts, but with the hope of
using them to keep foreigners at a distance. So of the Woosung
railway, built to connect Shanghai with its port of Woosung, ten
miles distant. The Chinese government possibly does not object to
railways in themselves, but solely as a weapon in foreign hands. It
is willing to buy and work the road itself, but not to permit foreign-
ers to introduce the thin end of the wedge, if it can prevent it.
Foreign machinery has been introduced to work the Keelung
(Formosa) coal-mines, but no foreign company is allowed to own
or work them. In the lower walks of trade the superior economy
of the natives is fast ousting foreigners from ground once their own,
such as storekeeping, printing, carpentering and blacksmith work;
whereby the number of foreigners able to make a living in China
is daily diminishing. This is but natural and hardly regrettable;
but that the field to foreign enterprise on a large scale should be
entirely closed against us is a sad disappointment to those who
have lived here in the expectation of sooner or later seeing the
country "opened up." That the Chinese have a right so to hold
us at a distance is, if we treat them as equals, undeniable, but our
existence here at all is a violation of this right, and most foreign
residents in China were of the belief that, in the interests of
humanity in general, and of the Chinese in particular, this supposed
right would continue to be violated. For what have we here but a
country, richly endowed by nature, filled with a frugal and
industrious population, yet decaying through absence of organisa-
tion and want of leadership. Every year a famine is recorded in
some portion or other of the interior of the empire, but the rich
crops of the more fruitful provinces are of small avail in allaying
Want of means of communication and accumulated
the curse.

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
317
taxation check the overflow of one province into the void of
another, and the starving people, no other resource left them, rise
in rebellion. The dry provinces of the north-west have to depend
on their own precarious crops for food, and are prevented as much
by the want of funds from paying for it, as by the want of roads from
importing supplies from a distance. The mineral resources at their
feet are untouched, and regions which, if report speaks true, are as
rich in the materials of wealth as any portion of the known globe,
vegetate in miserable poverty. If these things were as well known
to our rulers at home as they are to us here, less pusillanimity
would be shown in dealing with the position of foreigners in China;
for our prestige is sufficient to enable us to gain all that we can in
reason ask, and, should it fail for the moment, the first renewal of
a display of force would revive it. Properly administered the re-
sources of the country are ample; but as the government is now
managed, each province, in the memorials of its governors to head-
quarters, vies with the others in proclaiming its insolvency.
It is beyond the province of this retrospect to enumerate the mer-
cantile disabilities under which we labour; instanced by the tax-
ation of our goods, over and above the five per cent. Customs tax
levied on landing, even in this our own settlement; by the seizure,
without previous warning, of the Carisbrooke steamer off Hainan;
and by the nullification of Treaty Transit-passes at the outports,
and the attempt to starve out our colony of Hongkong by
a Customs' cordon surrounding it. Here in Shanghai we have
one of the most important sea ports in the world being gradually
closed up by what the highest official in the province was not
ashamed to call the heaven-sent (see Fu-t'ai's despatch to Consul
Medhurst) barrier of the Woosung bar. It is an astonishing
sight to see the rapid encroachments of the Yang-tsze mud, which
in fifteen years has narrowed our river by nearly one-third; and
in no other country but China would a river serving such a trade
as this be left to its natural devices. Mainly at the expense of
the foreign community, some Dutch engineers were summoned
from Japan to examine the bar; but their report has not yet been
published, nor when published is there any reason to hope that
action will be taken upon it. The condition of the settlement is
an abnormal one; and the governing powers of the Municipality
established by the foreign residents are being daily encroached
upon. To ensure a continuance of the prosperity brought to the
place by foreigners an extension of these powers is needed: the
jurisdiction of the foreign residents needs to be extended, as in
the time of the thirty mile radius, so that fresh roads could be
made, the conservancy of the river taken in hand, waterworks and
other appliances of civilisation established; in short power taken

318
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
from those who won't govern, and given to those who will.
At the time when war with Japan was imminent the govern-
ment of Fuh-kien, under whose administration the island of Formosa
is placed, saw the necessity of availing themselves of the telegraphic
facilities which the Great Northern Telegraph Company has pro-
vided on this coast. But Foochow, although the largest tea-port
in China, exporting annually nearly 100,000,000 lbs. of tea, has no
direct communication, the wire being landed at the neighbouring and
more accessible port of Amoy. To set up a wire overland between
the two ports, and thus put Foochow in direct communication with
the rest of the world was a very simple matter, but no permission
could be gained from the Chinese, and the affair was given up,
until in 1874 the difficulty with Japan induced the viceroy to
consent to the undertaking. The Great Northern Telegraph Com-
pany immediately set to work; but before the line was completed,
by the good offices of Mr. Wade, a peace was settled, and the wire
no longer needed. The Telegraph Company were forced to receive
payment for the work done, and the posts were pulled down. Thus,
in nothing but the direct appliances of war has the Chinese gov-
ernment shewn itself really progressive. In obtaining these they
have spared no cost, even in the face of the financial embarrass-
ment which is disclosed in memorials from every part of the empire.
Frigates and gun-boats of the most approved designs have been
constructed at the arsenals of Foochow and Shanghai, or imported
from abroad. Enormous orders have been sent to the Krupp
factory, and scarcely a steamer has arrived from Europe during the
year without bringing out a heavy consignment of war material of
some sort or another for the government. Powder-mills and
cartridge manufactories on a large scale have been added to the
Shanghai arsenal, and forts of the most approved modern type have
been erected at the mouths of the principal rivers, notably at
Woosung and Taku, and at the head of the more commanding
reaches of the Yang-tsze and the Min. This ceaseless activity in
the War Department has been in marked contrast with the apathy
and obstructiveness shewn in all other quarters, and bodes little good
for the pacific progress of foreign interests, which all who have
cast in their lot with this country are so anxiously watching for.
As an instance of the energy of our residents in the cause of
science we may mention, apart from the work accomplished by
the members of this Society, the establishment of an Astrono-
mical Observatory on a modest scale by Doctor L. S. Little;
whose labours we confidently expect will in time produce good
fruit. Opportunity has been taken of the determination of the
Longitude of Nagasaki by the American "Transit of Venus
expedition in 1874 accurately to fix the Longitude of Shanghai.
"

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
319
A first need of the American party, upon their arrival in Naga-
saki, was to determine the longitude of their observatory. The
cable to Wladivostock enabled them to do this by putting them-
selves in communication with the Siberian astronomers!; and last
year the cable between this and Nagasaki was placed at the dis-
posal of Mr. A. C. Taintor and Dr. Little for a like work here.
Another addition has been made to our local scientific resources
during the year in the shape of a "Chinese Polytechnic Institu-
"tion and Reading-Room." This institution has originated in
a desire, on the part of some of our foreign residents, seconded by
one or two enlightened Chinamen, to bring home to the natives
generally a knowledge and appreciation of foreign arts and sciences.
Mr. Fryer, who holds an appointment at the Chinese Arsenal as
translator of foreign scientific works, H. M. Consul Mr. Medhurst,
together with Mr. T. W. Kingsmill and the Chinese Hsü, Wang
and Tong-king-sing (the latter being the official manager of the
China Merchants Steam Navigation Co.), have been the prime
movers of the scheme and now form the Committee. A modest
building has been erected in the settlement in the Chinese style,
and the nucleus of a Library bought, and various models col-
lected. The cost has been defrayed partly by subscriptions from
the foreign community, but mainly by contributions from high
Chinese officials. The Prospectus states that the object of the
institution is to bring the Sciences, Arts and Manufactures of
Western Nations in the most practicable manner possible before
the notice of the Chinese; the means proposed being, 1st. an
Exhibition of machinery, apparatus, manufactured goods etc. 2nd.
Lectures and classes for scientific instruction; and 3rd. a Chinese
Library and Reading Room. It adds that it is hoped Foreign
Mercantile Firms in Shanghai and other ports of China will see
that it will be greatly to their advantage, not only to countenance
this exhibition themselves, but also to prevail on the Firms they
are connected with at home to render as much assistance as pos-
sible. In how far the very sanguine results aimed at in the ori-
ginal prospectus are likely to be attained it is hard to say: at
present Chinese officials appear to be mainly interested in foreign
science only in so far as it may aid them to keep foreigners at
bay. The best means in our opinion to enlighten the Chinese
people and open the country to foreign enterprise and capital is
the using of diplomatic pressure to remove the official obstructions
to our free intercousse. Left to themselves the Chinese officials,
however much we may teach them to appreciate the advantages
to be gained by the application of our mechanical arts to the
natural resources of the country, will fear to apply their know-
ledge, until such time as they feel themselves strong enough to do

320
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CAINA.
so without foreign aid; and we therefore are somewhat dubious of
the gain to ourselves in subscribing money for an institution
thus placed. The permission to a foreign company to rent and
open one coal-mine, and connect it by rail with the nearest port,
would teach the Chinese by practical experience that which, as
long as they are confined to books and models, they will never
really appreciate. The peaceful and profitable nature of such
undertakings would become obvious, and the absurd concession
to Chinese official prejudice, which denies to a foreigner the right
to rent land or occupy a house for business purposes outside the
limits of the treaty ports, be broken through. We have heard
Chinese officials say "we acknowledge your superiority in mecha-
nics, but we deny it in ethics or morals." Had we access to the
country they would soon see that, apart from missionaries whom,
wisely or not, our governments compel the Chinese to tolerate, in
improving their mechanical knowledge we should be quite content
to leave their superiority on this latter point undisturbed, while our
welcome from the wage-receiving class would be of the warmest
character.
The year 1875 has been almost barren of geographical discoveries
which might come within the province of this Society. The
practical withdrawal of diplomatic communication with Kashgar,
and the delay in taking effective steps after the murder of Margary,
have stood in the way of opening up two promising routes. The
unsettled position of affairs and the want of confidence thereby
engendered has prevented exploration in other quarters, so that so
far as any increase in our geographical knowledge of the outlying
portions of the Chinese empire is concerned, the year has remained
almost a blank. To this the only exception has been the mission
of enquiry sent into Yunnan. At the end of the year the mission
had hardly advanced beyond Hankow; whatever its results there-
fore, they will be for a future chronicle.
On the side of India geographical research likewise met with a
sudden check. It seems as if the fatal result of Margary's journey
had paralysed the Indian government; and as if, in lieu of urging
them to push on with greater vigour, and morally, if not physically,
to avenge such a disgrace on their own frontiers, they had submit-
ted to the check the Chinese had designedly imposed upon them.
The expeditions of the pundits under Colonel Montgomery still
continue, but scarcely with the energy which marked former years.
Not one well organised expedition had set out, and the frontiers
between India and Central Asia and China remain still practically
closed to intercourse. Yet the pundits did good work.
hitherto enigmatical district known vaguely as the Pamir steppe is
by degrees being conquered for geography. The hitherto unknown
That

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
321
highlands of Thibet have been to a certain extent explored, and
one of the pundits has passed round the Tengri nor and connected
those wild regions with the series of observations made at Yarkand
and Kashgar. Of Chinese Turkistan our knowledge has met with
no increase during the year, as the British government has deferred
taking advantage of the right of travel and residence stipulated for
by Sir Douglas Forsyth at Kashgar.
Little has been done during the past year towards the surveys
of the coast of China. An accurate re-survey of the mouth of the
Yang-tze would be invaluable both in commercial and scientific
points of view.
One of H. M. naval officers has been told off for
the duty but has since been invalided; but without ample assistance
the work he will be able to perform will be of little utility. The
rate of advance of the delta of the Yang-tsze is a matter of the highest
scientific interest, apart from the bearing it has on the future deve-
lopment, not to say existence, of our trade. Taken in connection
with Chinese statistics which, in a more or less trustworthy form,
reach back some twenty centuries, there is here afforded a means of
gauging the ancient condition of the eastern portion of the Asiatic
continent. The old coast-line is clearly marked and the area of the
alluvial plain can be accurately measured. A clue to the age of the
River Yang-tzse may thus be obtained, by measuring its present rate
of growth, and comparing it with such facts as we can gather from
the ancient records. The changes going on are so vast and rapid
as to have altered the face of the country during the stay of many
of our foreign residents, and it is much to be wished that permanent
measures should be taken for marking the changes as they occur
on a complete and accurate scale. No rapid currents exist in the
Yellow Sea, and their action on the growth of the delta has hence
been comparatively trifling, and not such as seriously to affect any
calculations based upon these measures.
While, however, Great Britain has been inactive in the west
and south-west, the Russians have made another great stride in
the north-west. The remaining portion of Kokand has been
overrun, and the Russian dominion is now conterminous with the
Tien-shan; that great range of mountains, whose flanks have, since
the beginning of history afforded the highway for nations east
and west.
The Khanate of Kokand comprises the richest basin of Central
Asia it is well watered by the Naryn and it produces all the
crops and fruits of temperate latitudes. Its climate is not marked
with the severity which generally characterises the plateau, and it
is abundantly supplied with mineral wealth in the shape of coal,
petroleum, iron, lead and most of the other useful metals. Already
one of the coal-fields has been opened and a coal of excellent

322
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
quality extracted. The importance of this supply, readily ac-
cessible to the Jaxartes and the Aral can scarcely be over-estimated.
Two mines have also opened in the Karatau; one near Khojend,
and another not far from Tashkand. If freedom of trade were
encouraged, or permitted, the future of central Asia would be
assured. The question of the feasibility of again connecting the
Aral and the Caspian seas by means of the old bed of the Oxus
has attracted attention during the year. The surveys and obser-
vations made appear to show that as far as levels go, no difficulty
would be experienced. The dessication of central Asia seems how-
ever to have been progressive, and there is not now a sufficient
supply of water in the upper Oxus to carry the stream across the
intervening tract. Partially, at least, this is due to the waste
incurred through the present system of irrigation, which allows
large bodies of water to run off uselessly into the desert.
Japan has shewn us an example of activity in providing in her
treaty with Corea, for a survey of the coast. It is to be hoped that
this useful work will shortly be put in hand. Our present charts
of the Corean coast are most defective. A farther survey of the
gulf of Tonquin and the coast of Cochin-China generally is also
much needed and now that the port of Kiung-chow in Hainan
has been opened, we hope soon to see the work taken up and our
knowledge of those seas extended. The French marine has sur-
veyed the approaches to the newly opened ports in Annam, and
has published charts of the entrance to the Caocam from the
sea to Haiphong, and of the river mouths and internal waters of
the provinces of Haichong and Quangyen. The Russians, on
their part have surveyed some 450 miles of the eastern coast of
Siberia from Imperial Harbour to Castries bay.
In our own Journal Dr. Bretschneider gives valuable notes of the
medieval geography of central and eastern Asia; and the Archi-
mandrite Palladius throws new light on the travels of Marco Polo
in north China. The Reverend Mr. Holcombe describes in pictu-
resque language a journey through Shansi and Shensi; which,
although passing over little actually new ground adds much to our
knowledge of these not easily accessible provinces.
The Chinese Review continues a series of valuable papers by
Mr. W. F. Mayers on Chinese explorations in the Indian Ocean,
while Mr. T. W. Kingsmill makes an attempt to explain the geo-
graphical puzzle of the Yu-king.
The Chinese Recorder and Missionary Journal completed during
the year the memoranda written by Dr. Bretschneider upon Chinese
Medieval Travels to the west, which has since been published in a
separate form; and which will remain a valuable aid to all engaged
in the study of Asiatic antiquities. Mr. G. Phillips contributes

RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
323
notes on the position of the Zaitun of Marco Polo, in reference to
which he has carried on an interesting discussion with Colonel
Yule. Of a more historical character was a paper read by Mr.
Clements Markham on the 26th April before the Royal Geogra-
phical Society giving a resumé of explorations in Thibet, and more
especially of the very remarkable journey of Mr. Bogle in 1774.
The trade routes to Southern China were likewise the subject of a
paper by Mr. J. Corryton. Major Herbert Wood, who accompanied
the Russian expedition to the Oxus, has made valuable notes on
his journey, which it is understood will shortly be published.
In the Berlin Geographical Society Baron von Richthoven read
some interesting notes on the population of China, which, contrary
to the general opinion of those calculated to judge, he rates at the
enormous amount of 415 millions. The publication of the Baron's
work upon China, more particularly upon the geology and mineral
resources of the country is still delayed. The cost of the Baron's
explorations, were, it will be remembered borne by the merchants
of China in the hope that a knowledge of her undeveloped resources
would lead to the throwing upon of the country to their enterprise.
Alas! It now looks as though it would be left to their posterity
to reap any reward of their enterprise. A Russian Traveller,
Mr. Sasnofelsy left Hankow on the 11th December, 1874 on a
journey overland to Siberia. He hoped to be able to pass through
Kansuh and thence by way of Ulia-sutai. An account of his
journey has not yet been received.
Upon the whole the geographical interest of the year has been
mainly retrospective; and but little really new has been added to
our stock of knowledge. It is to be hoped, however, that the
present state of stagnation may not long be allowed to continue;
that the check given to the Yunnan expedition will lead to a
strong rebound, and that the blood of poor Margary will not have
been shed in vain. It the Chinese are taught to respect and aid
foreign explorers as they can and should, there will be doubtless many
more capable men entering the field, and much of the remaining terra
incognita of China and Central Asia will be cleared up. The late edicts
on the duty of protecting men from the west, drawn from the autho-
rities at Peking will, we trust have due weight with the officials
throughout the country; for it is from the official class alone that
our obstacles come; the masses of the people are curious but
mostly inoffensive: they take their cue from the mandarins, and
if the authorities treat us with respect we shall hear no more of
mob disturbances impeding the progress of a traveller.
The condition of our settlement during the past year has, so far
as the general health of the foreign residents is concerned, been
eminently satisfactory. Indeed if we take 1875 as a standard we

324
RETROSPECT OF EVENTS IN CHINA.
may class Shanghai as an eminently healthy locality. The number
of foreigners, resident and non-resident, is estimated as about 3,000
and the total of deaths during the year was only 67, giving a
mortality of 22.3 per mille. Too much reliance must not, however,
be placed upon these figures, as many, who fall dangerously ill, are
sent home; it is consequently impossible to frame statistics of any
accurate scientific nature, except for the comparison of one year
with another: all we can positively state is that the mortality of
1875 was considerably lower than that of any previous year.
An outbreak of cholera occurred in the year, chiefly among the
non-resident (floating) population: the range of the epidemic was
limited, less than twenty persons being attacked by the disease, of
whom, however, more than half died. The disease was seemingly
not imported by sea; it would appear to be present among the
natives every year at certain seasons. It is noticeable that the
past year was remarkable for heavy rainfalls and higher maximum
temperatures than usual, and these phenomena may have influenced
the disease. It is to be expected that the settlements should
gradually become more healthy, as year by year the ground is being
raised and the drainage improved. Paddy fields are giving place
to cotton, and thus the unwholesome swamps of which the former
consist are rapidly being driven from our immediate neighbourhood.
In increasing the area of under-ground drainage, however, much care
is needed to have the drains constantly flushed and properly venti-
lated: for this reason in a place like Shanghai surface drains are
safer and can, we think, be make equally efficient.
In concluding our review of the scientific progress of the year in
this part of the world, we must not omit to chronicle the very
satisfactory progress of the Museum of natural history established
in connection with our society, a separate report upon which is in
this number.
Shanghai, 29th April, 1876.