ARTICLE II.
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI
WITH NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL
NOMENCLATURE.
BY O. F. VON MÖLLENDORFF, PH.D.*
HE last fifteen years have witnessed a great advance in our
knowledge of the zoology of China. Many, it is true, of
the more characteristic animals had long previously been noticed
and described by European naturalists, and the general descrip-
tions of the middle Kingdom like those of Abbé Grosier (1821),
Murray (1836), Williams, contained already a considerable stock
of general information on the animals of this vast field for
zoological research. Although knowledge of this branch had
kept pace with the increased intercourse between China and the
Western World, nevertheless the want of an exhaustive study
of the Fauna Sinensis had always remained unsupplied; and in
particular the subject of the zoological correlation between single
provinces, which present such widely different features both of
climate and geology, had hardly been touched upon. That
considerable progress has now been made in this respect, we
owe chiefly to the labours of the indefatigable explorers Swinhoe
and David. To them it is due that we possess now an almost
complete knowledge of some classes of the animal Kingdom of
China; while of some regions an accurate comprehensive survey
of the Fauna has been obtained.
One of the best known provinces, as far as Vertebrata are
concerned, is now that of Chihli, which has supplied science
with a number of interesting novelties; and which, as it geogra-
phical position and the nature of its climate would lead to sup-
pose, presents a peculiar combination of northern and tropical
types. The results, however, of the previous labours on this
head have not yet, as far as I know, been collated in a connected
form; and as I conceive that the performance of this task might
prove serviceable as a 'basis for future investigations, I have
endeavoured in the succeeding pages to give a brief sketch of
our existing knowledge of the vertebrata of this province.
Read before the Society, January 20th, 1877.

42
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
Within the limits of this paper I have included a list of the Chi-
nese zoological nomenclature, as far as it has been possible to iden-
tify-more or less definitively-the Chinese terms with zoologi-
cally determinate species. Although much has been already done
in this direction, even by the earlier sinologues, nevertheless the
difficulties in the way of the student of the native works on
natural history are still very great. The earlier Chinese works
on the subject show signs of considerable acuteness of observa-
tion; and this acuteness is still a characteristic of the people of
the present day, who in their colloquial language discriminate
even between very closely allied species. On the other hand,
the compilers of more modern works give evidence less of prac-
tical observation than of an extensive knowledge of ancient lite-
rature; and very often give rise to confusion by indiscriminate
use of the terms employed by the older books. Thus we find
in many instances that an article about an animal consists in a
meagre description together with a rough drawing, supplemented
by profuse quotations from old authors; the application of which
would appear to have been scarcely clearer to the compiler than
it is now to the European student. An especial difficulty arises
from the fact that the authors quoted wrote in different parts of
the empire and very often referred to quite different species
under similar terms, which is not taken into account by the
later writers. In order to attain the complete identification
of the nomenclature in use in Chinese zoology with that of
Western science two things are necessary: firstly, an exhaustive
knowledge of the Fauna Sinensis with especial reference to the
geographical distribution of the animals; secondly, accurate and
complete lists of the popular zoological terms in use in the
different provinces. To this end a very valuable contribution
was supplied by Mr. Swinhoe in a paper on Formosan zoology,
and I venture to hope that my present sketch of that of Chihli
may prove of some service.
I here insert a catalogue of the extant foreign works on the
zoology of Chibli.
In general.
David, G. A.-Histoire naturelle de Pékin et ses environs in
Nouv. Arch. du Mus. d'Hist. Nat. Bul. III. Paris, 1867.
Quelques renseignements sur l'histoire naturelle de la
Chine septentrionale et occidentale. Journ. N. Ch. Br. R.
As. Soc. VII. Shanghai, 1873, pp. 205-234.
Birds and Beasts from Formosa, in Journ. N. Ch. Br. R. As. Soc.
II. Shanghai, 1866, pp. 39-52.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
43
Many notes on zoology are further contained in the ac-
counts of Père David's voyages, which were printed in
French periodicals in Shanghai. A compilation of the same
was given by E. Blanchard in the Revue des Deux Mondes
for 1871; whilst a very superficial and often erroneous
English translation was published in Shanghai in 1873
(Natural history of North China, etc.).
Swinhoe, R.-Zoological notes of a journey from Canton to
Peking and Kalgan, in Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1870,
pp. 427-451.
Mammals.
Milne Edwards, A.-Note sur le Milou or Sseupusiang, mam-
mifère du nord de la Chine. Ann. d. Scienc. Nat. 5° sér.
Zool. V. 1866, pp. 880 pl.
Etudes pour servir à l'histoire de la Faune mammalogi-
que de la Chine, id. Recherches pour servir à
l'histoire naturelle des mammifères. Paris, 1870,
fol. plates.
Peters, W.-Uber ein neues Argalischaf, Ovis jubata, von Nord-
china. Monatsber. Berlin Acad. March 1876.
Möllendorff, O. von.-Uber die "Gemse" Nordchina's, Anto-
lope caudata. Mitth. Deutsch. Ges. f. Natur-u. Völkerkunde,
Ostas. July 1876.
Birds.
Swinhoo, R.-Birds observed at Tientsin. Proe. Zool. Soc.
1862, p. 815 pls.
-Catalogue of the birds of China. Ibid. 1863, pp. 259-829.
-A revised catalogue of the birds of China. Ibid. 1871.
David, A. Catalogue des oiseaux de Chine observés dans la
partie septentrional de l'empire. Nouv. Arch. du Mus.
d'Hist. Nat. VI, 1872.
Fishes.
Basilewsky.-Ichthyographia Chinae borealis. Nouv. Mém. de
la Soc. d. Natural. de Moscou. X. 1855, pp. 215 ss. 9 pl.
Bleeker. Mémoire sur les Cyprinoides de la Chine. Amster-
dam, 1871, 4° 91 pp. 14 pl.
On fishes from Peking. Nederl. Tijds. vor de Dierkunde 1869.
Insects.
Donovan.-Epitome of the insects of China. London, 1798.
2nd edition by Westwood, London, 1842. This excellent
work contains a very few notes about Pekin insects.

44
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
Faldermann.-Coleopterorum ab illustr. Bungio in China
boreali, Mongolia et montibus Altaicis collectorum descrip-
tio. Mem. Acad. Imp. d. Scienc. de St. Pétersb. II. 1835.
Bremer, O.-Beitraege zur Schmetterlings-fauna des noerdlichen
China's. St. Petersburg, 1853. 8° plates.
(Contributions
to the Fauna of Lepidoptera of Northern China).
Lucas, H.-Quelques remarques sur les Lépidoptéres du genre
Argynnis qui habitent les environs de Pékin, et description
d'une espèce nouvelle, in Ann. de la Soc. Entomol. de
France 4° sér. VI. 1866.
Many short zoological notes about North China are con-
tained in scientific serials. Of the landshells of Peking I
have given lately a short account in a German periodical
(Jahrbuecher d. Deutsch. Malacozool. Ges. 1875).3
The Chinese names I have gathered, besides those of the
colloquial language, the Su-'hua, from the follow-
ing works:-
1.-The Erh-ya. This ancient dictionary is quoted
frequently by the later writers; but it is very often necessary to
compare the work itself, because the quoted descriptions of the
animals are very short and meagre, but the drawings compara-
tively good,-far better at least than in all the other works I
know of.
2.-The San-ts'ai-t'u-'hui, a cyclopaedia of arts
and sciences of the time of the Ming dynasty: it is of very little
value as far as zoology is concerned. Although there are draw-
ings of a greater number of animals than in any other work,
still many of them are merely imaginary; none of them exact
enough for zoological purposes, and the descriptions consist in
extracts not very wisely selected and containing in many in-
stances the most ridiculous fables. In spite of these deficiencies,
however, it serves sometimes to elucidate difficult questions in
the confused nomenclature of Chinese Natural History.
3.-The Pén-ts' ao-kang mu, the well known
Materia Medica Sinensis, compiled by Li-shih-chên towards the
end of the 16th century, the text book for every student of Chi-
nese natural history. In its zoological part a fair attempt has
been made to classify all animals known to the author in s
system which is certainly equal, if not superior to, the systems
The well known Russian traveller and naturalist A. Bunge, the author
of "Enumeratio plantarum quas in China boreali collegit," 1833.
For a list of the works on the Natural History of the whole of Chins
see the Chinese Bibliography by P. G. von Möllendorff and myself. Shang-
hai, 1876, 8yo.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
45
of Ante-Linnaean Zoologists in Europe. It comprises six
classes, pu, which are each divided into several orders, lei.
I. ch'ung. Insects.
lan-sheng. Oviparous insects.
hua-sheng. Insects originating by metamorphosis.
shih-sheng. Water insects.
1.
2. 1
3.
1.
lung.
2. she.
8. yil.
II. lin. Scaly animals.
Dragons (including all Sauria).
Snakes.
Fishes.
wu-lin-yü. Fishes without scales.
III. chich. Shielded animals.
鱼
4.
1.
Shield reptiles.
2.
pang-ko. Shells.
1.
kuei-pick.
2.原
3. 林
4. 山
"
IV. ch'in. Birds.
shui-ch'in. Water birds.
yian-ch'in. Field birds.
lin-ch'in. Forest birds.
shan-ch'in. Mountain birds.
1.
ch'u.
2. shou.
3.
4.
V. shou. Quadrupeds.
Domestic animals.
Wild animals.
shu. Rats (Rodentia).
yi-kuci. Quadrumanous animals.
VI. A jen. Mau.
Of each species there is given an explanation of the names, a
short description and numerous quotations from other authors;
further an exposition of its medical qualities and use, prescrip-
tions, etc. Although the book contains many errors and absurd
fables, still there is a great deal of valuable information to be
got from it.
4.-The Sheng-ching-t'ung-chih, a topographical
account of the metropolitan province of Sheng-ching in Manchu-
ria, contains like most of the Chinese geographical descriptions
of provinces or districts, a short list of the natural productions

46
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
of the country. This list consists chiefly of names, descriptions
only occasionally being added; but I found it very useful because
in many instances the popular names of the animals are given,
which are mostly the same as those used in Peking.
5.-The Shi.fu-t'ung-chih or description of the
district of Peking is likewise furnished with lists of animals; which
are however less complete than those of the last mentioned book.
I have not been able to compare the Chih-li-t'ung-chih, which
undoubtedly contains likewise some zoological information.
Besides these works many other geographical and historical
Chinese books have furnished some notes on zoology. I have
also consulted the previous works of European sinologues on
the Chinese zoological nomenclature: Bridgman's Chrestomathy,
the dictionaries of Morrison and Williams, and many short notes
in the Chinese Repository, Notes & Queries, and other serials.
I. MAMMALIA.
Primates.
1. Macacus tcheliensis, M. Edw. Études pour servir à l'hist.
de la Faune mammal. de la Chine p. 327, pl. 32-33.-A. David,
Renseign. in T. N. C. B. R. As. Soc., 1873, p. 230. Journ. de
mon 8me. voyage, 1875, I. p. 41.
() 'hou (-erh) P.
Père David has made known the occurrence of a species of
monkey in the mountains near Tung-ling, the mausolea of
Manchu Dynasty, situated about 70 miles east of Peking. This
species, which belongs to the short tailed Macaques, and which
was recognised as new to science by Professor Milne-Edwards
in Paris, is probably the only one of the Quadrumana fitted to
endure a cold winter like that of Northern China; this it is
enabled to do from the fact of its being gifted with a peculiarly
thick winter fur. It is strange that no trace of the occurrence
of monkeys has been found in other parts of North China or the
neighbouring countries; and that none of the topographical and
historical works of the Chinese contain any mention of them.
But the Chinese assert that these monkeys live in a wild state
near Tung-ling, whence they are frequently brought to Peking,
and exhibited in the streets and fairs together with bears, etc.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
Chiroptera.
47
2. Vespertilio Davidi, Peters. A large species of bat, discover-
eed by David in the Western Hills.
8. Vesperugo abramus, Temminck. (Identified by Professor
IPeters, Berlin).
4. Vesperus serotinus, Schreb.
5. Nyctinomus Certonii, Savi. (Professor Peters).
In the Peking vernacular there is but one term for all kinds
of bats, namely yen-pien-hu-rh (the pronounciation
of the third character is properly fu, but it is now always pro-
nounced 'hu in Peking). The following names of the bat are
igiven in the Pên-ta'ao-kang-mu: Ju-i i. e. wing-concealer,
iso called from its folding up its wings during the day;
pien-fu, yeh-yen "night-swallow," t'ien-shu "sky-
mouse," féi-shu "flying-mouse," flhsien-shu "fairy-
mouse," the last term referring to the part the bat plays in
Chinese mythology.
6. Felis tigris, L.
Carnivora.
Bu or
lao'hu.
The Tiger, which is still of frequent occurrence in Chinese
and Russian Manchuria, has occasionally been met with in
Chibli, where it has been, according to the Chinese, not un-
common in former times. In Du Halde's description of China
the Laouhou or tiger is mentioned as being common in Mongolia
and Manchuria and occurring near Peking. In the records of the
Emperor Kanghi's travels given by P. Verbiest and P. Gerbil-
lon mention of the tiger is frequently made. During a chase
in the mountains of Liaotung in 1682, sixty tigers were killed
in one day; in 1691 a tiger was shot by Kanghi in northern
Chihli, etc.
The Chinese say that tigers still occur in the northern parts
of the province. Skins of a very large size-8 feet from snout
to tail-are often sold in Peking fur shops, and exhibit a much
longer and denser covering of hair than those of the tropical
race, and a difference is likewise to be observed in point of
colouring. But a careful examination of the skulls of the north-
ern and the Bengal tiger, lately made by Mr. Busk has shown
Du Halde Descr. de la Chine, IV. p. 219-224, etc.
Proc. Zool. Soc., 1874, p. 146 ss.

48
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
that there is no difference between the two which would justify
the establishment of a new species for the "Tiger of the Snows."
7. Felis Fontanieri, A. M. Edw. (North China Panther).
pao. pao-tsze.-chin-ch'ien-pao.
There occurs in Chilli a large species of panther which was
first sent to Paris by the late M. Fontanier and named after
him by Professor Milne-Edwards. Although the differences
between this and the common panther are not very great, they
are nevertheless sufficient to authorize the establishment of a
new species. It is not rare in the mountains of Chihli, and has
been met with even at as small a distance as 20 miles west of
Peking. I do not know whether the panther of southern China,
which Mr. Swinhoe records in his catalogue of Chinese Mam-
mals, has been sufficiently examined to decide the question
whether it is identical with the common Indian panther, Felis
pardus L. or with the Felis Fontanierii of northern China.
8. Felis irbis Ehrenberg-(Siberian Ounce, Irbis)-Chinese
names the same as those of the last species. The Irbis, the
"Panther of the Snows," which is easily distinguished by its
pale colouring and thick fur, and which is common in the greater
part of Siberia, Mongolia, Manchuria and the Amoorland, is not
rare in the northern mountains of Chihli, especially near Jehol.
The Chinese, as I have mentioned above, do not distinguish it
from the panther and call it likewise chin-ch'ien-pao. Europeans
often term it the ounce; and one of its scientific synonyms is
Felis uncia (Schreber), but as term "ounce" is more generally
applied to the American Juguar (Felis onca L.) and to other
feline animals in South America, this name will only lead to
confusion; and the Mongolian name "irbis," accepted by
scientific nomenclature, is to be preferred.
9. Felis microtis A. M. Edw. This is a species of wild cat
found by P. David in the hills of Chihli; I have neither seen a
specimen of the animal nor been able to compare the descrip-
tion of Milne-Edwards. I have however reason to believe that
it is a small species of the tigercat family, and probably the
t'u-pao of the Chinese.
10. Felis manul Pall.
yeh-li-tszě P.-li,
yeh-mao P. Ts. (ex parte).
The manul or "cat of the steppes" has only occasionally
been observed in the North of China, near Kalgan; it is com-
mon in Mongolia and Siberia, and its skin is frequently imported
to Peking. It differs from the European wild cat by its larger

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
49
size, longer legs and tail, and the colouring of the fur which is
yellowish white mixed with brown.
The manul is called Fyek-li or yeh-li-taad in the Pekinese
colloquial language, and under this appellation the fur is de-
signated in trade. In the Pên-ts'ao-kang-mu and other works
li or yeh-mao appears to be the general name for
smaller species of the Felina, including the civet, wildcat, etc.,
and it is doubtful whether the authors knew the manul at all.
In the south by yeh-li is certainly meant the Felis viverrina
(Bennet), the Asiatic wild cat or tarai.
11. Canis lupus L. Wolves are still of frequent occurrence in
Chihli, though more in the mountains and the northern plateaus
than in the plain. A very large male wolf was shot in 1874
near Nan-k'ou, about 30 miles N.N.W. of Peking. In Chinese
lang or ch'ai-lang.
12. Canis rutilus Pall. Only met with in the northern part
of the province, especially near Kalgan and Hsuan-'hua-fu.
This eastern representative of the Jackal shows much more
resemblance to the wolf, and differs from it only by smaller size
and certain red brown tints in parts of the fur.
The Chinese call it I hsiao-'hung-lang, "small red
wolf," but also ch'ai-lang.
In Chinese zoology there are described two species of the
wolf family, ch'ai and lang, one of which is certainly
the wolf, the other probably the Canis rutilus Pall.; but it is not
easy to determine the respective application of the two terms.
The descriptions as well as the drawings are not sufficient to
identify either of them quite distinctly. It seems, however, at
variance with the present use of the terms, that ch'ai not lang
should represent the wolf. I here insert the descriptions ac-
cording to the Pên-ts'ao.
1-"The ch'ai occurs everywhere in the mountains. It is
akin to the lang, the common name is ch'ai-kou . Its
aspect is like that of a dog, but is has white cheeks. It is low
in front, high behind, it has a long tail, a lean but vigorous and
strong body. Its hair is of the colour of yellow sackcloth
() and very bristly. The teeth are like awls and very
sharp. It runs in packs. Even the tiger is afraid of it. It is
fond of eating sheep. Its cry resembles that of a dog. Men
dread it because they believe that it attracts demons and is
therefore of bad omen. Its breath is fetid, and consequently
very disagreeable."
2° "The lang is akin to the ch'ai, it occurs everywhere; more
frequently in the north, and is eaten there. The people of the

50
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
south call it mao-kou J. It lives in caves. It is as large
as a dog, but has a pointed head and a sharp snout, white cheeks
and connected ribs (f). It is high in front, broad behind:
the feet are not very high. It can eat chickens, ducks and
rats. The colour is a mixture of yellow and black, there occurs
also an ashen grey colour. Its cry can be either loud or low; it
can weep like a child and deceives people thereby. The inha-
habitants of lonely villages dread its cry in winter. Its intestines
are straight; when it cries, the anus opens. Its dung is used
for signal fires, the fire made with it, rises perpendicularly and
does not slope. It has the habit of always looking round about;
when going to eat, it treads on its food and wallows on it.
When old, its dewlap grows as large as a bag; therefore 'he
springs forward on his dewlap or trips back on his tail,' mean-
ing that [the old lang] cannot freely move either forwards
or backwards. It belongs to the constellation of K'uei-hsing
(4E)."
Incomplete and vague as these descriptions are, they clearly
show that the ch'ai is the larger species of the two, and is more
probably the wolf, than a species of jackal. Also the drawing
of the ch'ai is not unlike the wolf, while that of the lang shows
more resemblance to a hyaena or a lynx than to a canine species.
This would lead to the supposition that the author had not seen
the lang itself but made the drawing from deseription; which
fact would tend to show that the lang was the rarer animal of
the two, and therefore most improbably the wolf. It is morever
a curious fact that the Erhya does not record the lang at all,
whilst the drawing of the ch'ai in that ancient work is a fair
representation of the wolf. It would appear therefore that the
name of the wolf was ch'ai in the older times, and that lang
meant another species of the same tribe. In later times the
terms were confounded; and as in the greater part of China
there occurs only one species, the Canis lupus, this was designated
by the combination of the two names, sometimes only by lang.
In the north, as I have mentioned above, the term ch'ai-lang
if used indifferently for both the wolf and the Canis rutilus.
How vague the use of these terms sometimes is, the following
instances of the application of the name ch'ai-lang will clearly
跋胡索尾,This is an abbrevinted quotation from the 詩經
Shih-king (Pt. I Bk. XV Ode VII, Legge's Chin. Class. Vol. IV pt. I p. 242).
The original verses are:狼跋其胡載其尾. “The fold] lang
springs forward on his dewlap, or trips back on his tail." Legge translates
lan, by wolf, but he gives the same signification for ch'ai (Class. Vol. IV
pt. II, p. 348).

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
51
demonstrate. According to Prezewalsky (Travels in the Ussuri-
land 1870, p. 251), Canis alpinus Pall. is called ch'ai-lang-tsze in
Manchuria. The
Hsi-yü-wên-chien-lu, de-
scription of Turkestan, unmistably describes the common jackal,
Canis aureus, under the name of ch'ai-lang. "The ch'ai-lang
occurs in the country of the Muhammedans; it lives in the
gorges of the mountains and is about one foot high and only
three feet long. Its aspect is like that of the wolf. They rau
about in packs of from ten to hundred, and form a hunting line
like men."
18. Canis vulpes L. Mr. Swinhoe has pointed out that the
fox of southern China differs from the European, and constitutes
a new species ("Canis hoole" Swinh. Catal. Mammals of China
in Proc. Zool. Soc. 1870, p. 631). But the northern Reynard
is quite identical with the European, displaying as much variety
of colouring as ours. It is very common all over Chihli, and
has often been seen even within the walls of the capital itself.
The name of the fox in written language is 'hu, in the
colloquial language tha combination 'hu-li is in more
general use.
The Chinese name of the fox has been applied both by Swinhoe
and David to denominate different species, Canis hoole Swinh.
of southern China, as I mentioned above, and Canis houly Dav.
a new grey fox of Szech'uau (David, Renseign, in T. N. Ch. Br.
R. As. Soc. 1873, p. 231). I venture to say that both of these
names should be changed, firstly because they are in fact identical
except in the matter of spelling, secondly because the word
'ku-li is not admissible as the appellation of a particular species
of fox. It is an open question whether it is advisable to intro-
duce native names into scientific appellations, which very often,
especially in Chinese, can only be imperfectly represented in
Latin orthography. But it is indisputably wrong to apply a
name which is given by the Chinese to foxes collectively, to
designate local varieties or species.
14. Canis corsac Pall. (Corsac, Fox of the steppes).
sha-'hu P. Sh. Ch.
The corsac is very common in Mongolia, but is indigenous
also to Chilli, confined, however, to the northern and north-
western parts of the province. Its yellowish grey fur is very
common in the Peking fur shops, and thousands of them are
imported from Russia by Kiachta. The Chinese name,
sha-'hu, "sand fox," by which it is called in Chihli, is not con-

52
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
tained in the zoological literature of the Chinese, but is men-
tioned is the Sheng-ching-t'ung-chih as a species indigenous to
Manchuria.
15. Canis (Nyctereutes) procyonoides Gray (Racoon Dog).
'ho W. 'ho-taze (or 'hao-tazē) P.
The "Racoondog," which ranges from Canton into Amoor-
land, and is found in Japan, is also an inhabitant of Chihli,
where it is however rather scarce, and as it seems, occurs only
in the eastern mountains. The Chinese value the fur very
highly and know it under the name 'ho-tsze or hao-tszi
which is also the book-name of the species. According to
Prezewalsky and Radde it has the same name 'hao-tsze on the
Ussuri and Amoor. On the Yangtszê however it is called
kuo-tad-li "fruit-cat" and in the southwo-'hu
"cave-fox," which terms are not known in the north.
16. Ursus tibetanus.
kou-hsiung, P.
A small black bear with a white patch on the breast is not
rare in the higher mountains of Chihli, especially to the west;
it is frequently taken about by showmen and made to dance
and to perform tricks at fairs in Peking. It is most probably the
Ursus tibetanus which has been observed in Shantung, Sze-
ch'uan and Formosa, and in Manchuria.
The Chinese distinguish several kinds of the bear, fhsiung
viz. fjen-hsiung "man-bear," fchu-hsiung "pig-bear,"
kou-hsiung "dog-bear," 'hou-hsiung "monkey-bear."
The species of the Peking mountains is the "dog-bear." What
bears are understood by "pig-bear" and "monkey-bear," I do
not know. The jen-hsiung of the Pekinese is the common brown
bear, Ursus arctos L. which is of very frequent occurrence in the
Amoorland, and has been shot in Chinese Manchuria. The
Chinese say that it occurs occasionally within the frontiers of
Chihli.
17. Meles leptorhynchus A. M. Edw. Etud. p. 190 pl. 25, 26,
f. 3, 4, 27, f. 84, 28, f. 3, 4.-Ann. d. Sc. Nat. 5° sér. 1867,
t. VIII, p. 374. Swinhoe, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1870, p. 622. David
Rens. p. 231.-Meles chinensis Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1868, p. 207'
chu-'huan "pig-badger."
The Chinese badger, which ranges from Manchuria to south
China, is not uncommon in Chihli, and is occasionally brought

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
53
to the markets of Peking because of the use to which its fat is
put in medicine.
18. Meles (Arctonya) leucolaemus A. M. Edw. Ann. d. Sc.
Nat. 5° sér. 1867, t. VIII, p. 874. Etud. Mamm. p. 195 pl. 25,
26, 27, 28.
kou-'huan "dog-badger."
There lives another species of badger in Chihli, discovered by
P. David; which however seems to be very rare, and of which I
have not been able to get a specimen.
19.-Lutra sp.-Chinese as well as Europeans assert that
there are Otters in the Peiho near Tientsin and Taka, and
David mentions that a French gentleman shot two otters near
Taku in 1865; but no specimen having yet been examined by a
zoologist, it is doubtful whether the species is the common otter
of Europe, Lutra vulgaris L., which has been found in Amoor-
land, or the Lutra sinensis (Gray) of Central and Southern China.
The skins that I have seen in Peking fur shops, exhibit no
difference from that of the European otter. The Chinese who
value the fur very highly, call the otter shui-t'a.
According to the Chinese the sea-otter would seem to occur
on the coasts of Chihli; but as the Enhydris marina Schreb. has
not been found farther south than the islands of Saghalien and
Yesso, it is very doubtful whether it lives in the Gulf of Pechihli.
The skins of the 'hai-t'a "sea-otter" or 'hai-lung
"sea-dragon," which is the most highly prized fur in Peking,
are probably all imported from Russia or Japan.
20. Martes foina L. (Beech Marten).
sao-hsich-shu "snow-sweeping rat" P (from its habit
of trailing the tail along the ground).
Rare in Chihli.
21. Putorius Fontanierii A. M. Edw. Etud. Mamm. p. 205
pl. 61, f. 1, (North China Polecat).
huang-shu-lang P. W.- yu-shu P. Ts.-
sheng-shu ibid.-ku-shu ibid.-ti-'hou "ground-
monkey" P. Ts.-Sh. Ch.-Ch. F. These names include
the following species.
22. Putorius sibiricus Pall. (Siberian Weasel, Chorok).

54
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
INSECTIVORA.
28. Erinaceus dealbatus Swinhoe. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1870,
p. 450 (Chinese Hedgehog).
ts'ze-wei S.-or wei W.-wei-shu-
Emao-ts'zě P. Ts.
The Chinese Hedgehog is the nearest ally of the European
species; differing from the latter by its much paler colouring, its
shorter and thinner spines which all set backwards and are pale
brown with whitish bases and tips, by its brownish paws and the
proportions of the skull. Although the hedgehog is common in
Peking and the environs, it is uot quite easy to get specimens,
because the Chinese consider it one of the Kwu-ta-chia,
"the five great families" i. c. fairies, and do not therefore like
it to be killed. The five are the fox ('hu-li), the rat (hao-tsze),
the polecat (huang-shu-lang) the snake (ch'ang-ch'ung) and the
hedgehog (tsz'e-wéi).
24. Scaptochirus moschatus A. M. Edw. (North China Mole).
This peculiar species of mole was for the first time discovered
by Mr. Swinhoe in 1860; but had not been described aud named,
when P. David sent specimens of it to Paris. Professor Milne-
Edwards pointed out its peculiarities and gave it the above
name referring to its strong musky smell, which even the skin
retains for a long time. The Peking mole, which is not of very
frequent occurrence, is of rather small size and of a greyish
black colour. The eyes are merely rudimentary, being quite
invisible from without, and consist simply of two very minute
black points attached to the skin, which latter is entire and
unprovided with eyeholes. The fore paws are very large and
furnished with very strong claws. The dental system is different
from that of all species of the genus Talpa, which fact has caused
it to be classed under the new genus Scaptochirus. I only once
obtained a living specimen, which died after a very short time;
its habits were exactly the same as those of the European mole.
The mole is described in the Pên-ts'ao as t'ien-shu
"field-rat," with the synonyms fen-shu, yen-shu,
yin-shu. These names, besides the various species of
moles in the different parts of China, include probably the mole-
rats as well. Our Peking species is called by the common peo-
ple ti-p'ai-tsze, for which name no Chinese was able to write me
down the proper characters, as is very often the case with
Su-'hua terms. But Mr. Arendt pointed out to me a passage of
the, the history of the Liao dynasty, written in the 14th

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
5
55
century, which contains this popular name of the mole; book
116 f. 14:
i. e. ti-p'ai is the name of the mole
(t'ien-sku). It is also called #fiti-p'ai-shut, which might
be translated by "ground-rat." The same work mentions that
moles were burnt on new year's day in order to avert influences
of bad omen.
"
RODENTIA.
25. Siphneus psilurus A. M. Edw. (North China Molerat).
ti-yang "ground-sheep" P.-
ch'ou-ti-p'ai-
tszě "stinking mole" P.-hsia-lao-shu "blind
rat" P. (in the hills).
This large molerat belongs to the family of the Georhynchi,
Rodents with the habits of the mole, and more or less rudimen-
itary eyes. Of the genus Siphneus only one; a Siberian species
was formerly known, but P. David has discovered the existence
cof no less than three new species, two of which occur in eastern
IMongolia, one in Chihli. The latter which is not rare in earthy
Ibanks in the neighbourhood of Peking, is an ungainly thickset
animal, more than one foot long and of uniform ashen grey
ccolour. It has scarcely any visible ears, large forepaws fur-
mished with lòng claws, and a very short tail. The eyes are
iindicated by rather large yellow spots, but are quite covered by
tthe skin. Its habits are like that of the mole: a living speci-
men which I kept for some time was sleepy in the day-time but
wery noisy in the night, always gnawing with its large yellow
incisors. It escaped by perforating the strong wooden box in
which it was kept.
26. Lepus tolai Pall. (Mongolian Hare).
(5) yeh-mao(-rh) P. T. t'u, t'u-taz, shan-t'u,
yeh-t'u. W.
The Mongolian hare, which occurs in Mongolia and northern
md central China, and is much smaller than its European con-
geener, is common all over Chihli. The Chinese are fond of
Suursuing it with háwks, for which purpose they commonly train
hhe goshawk (Astur palumbarius).
27. Dipus annulatus A. M. Edw. (Mongolian Gerboa).
t'iao-shu P.- t'iao-t'u "jumping hare." P. Ts., Sh.
Ch.- chuch-shu "nimble rat." P. Ts.- chuch E.Y.

56
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF OHIHLI WITH
When P. David discovered this gerboa, he took it first for the
Siberian Alactaga, the Dipus jaculus Pall. to which it is indeed
very closely allied. Professor Milne-Edwards however found
out that it presents specific differences, and described it as a
new species. It is common in the sandy tracts of Mongolia,
but occurs also in Chihli between Kalgan and Hsüan-'hua-fu.
Its hind legs are four times the length of the forelegs, the tail is
longer than the body and tasselled on the end, the head some-
what like that of a hare with long ears and large round eyes.
These different characteristics give it a slightly strange appear-
ance, although its grace and agility render it a very pretty little
animal. It uses the forelegs only when feeding quietly, other.
wise proceeds by jumps on the hindlegs; when in flight, its
speed is very great and is said to exceed even that of a horse.
It burrows large holes in the ground in which it sleeps during
the winter.
The description given in the Pênts'ao kang mu of the t'iao-t'u
leaves no doubt that the gerboa is meant. It is described as
having head, eyes, ears and colours like the hare; claws and feet
like the rat; the forelegs a little more than one inch, the hind-
legs nearly one foot in length, the tail long and shaggy at the
end; and as clearing several feet at one bound.
28. Gerbillus unguiculatus A. M. Edw.
29. Gerbillus psammophilus A. M. Edw.
sha-e-tszë P.
These two species of gerbillus, peculiar to North China, were
discovered by P. David near Hsüan-'hua-fu and Kalgan and in
Mongolia; they have not been observed in the Peking plain.
30. Spermolegus mongolicus A. M. Edw. (Mongolian Ziesel
or Suslik).
ta-yen-tsei-rh "large-eyed thief" P.-tou-shu
"bean-rat" P.-Sh. Ch.- nien shu Sh. Ch.
In the Peking plain, but more commonly in the plateau be-
tween Ch'atao and Kalgan, and abundantly in Mongolia, these
pretty ziesels or susliks make their burrows in sand or loess
banks, in which they live like the prairie dogs of North America.
Our species is about ten inches long of rather slender appear
ance, light yellowish brown above, cream-colour underneath and
along the sides. The tail is three inches long, with short red
brown hair on the root, which grows longer as it approaches the
end, expanding into a spatula shape, and rufescent in the centre

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
57
with a broad black and a narrow white border round it. They are
often brought alive to Peking and kept like squirrels; I had
therefore the opportunity of observing their habits in captivity.
They remained rather wild; at the approach of men or animals
they uttered a peculiarly shrill squeaking cry and were fond of
biting. They fed on nuts, grain, green beans, cabbage, salad,
etc.; in feeding they used to sit on their strong hind legs taking
the food with the forepaws. They were indefatigable in scratch-
ing and gnawing, and ran rather fast, but were not able either
to jump or to climb. They did not live very peacefully together
and a duel between two of them resulted in one of them receiv-
ing injuries which caused its death.
81. Pteromys xanthipes A. M. Edw. (North China Flying
Squirrel).
Ffei-shu ("flying rat") P.
This flying squirrel, which is closely allied to that of Siberia,
Pteromys volans Pall. is very rare in the woods of northern
Chihli; I have not been able to secure a specimen. The Chi-
nese call it fei-shu "flying rat." This name given in the
literature as a synonym of the bat, is in the present colloquial
language only used for the flying squirrel; besides which the
drawing of the fei-shu in the San-ts'ai-t'u-'hui represents unmis-
takeably a Pteromys, not a bat. The lei-shu (also),
also called 鼯鼠 20u-su,耳鼠 ére-su,夷由i-yu,飛生
fei-sheng, "flying-beast," féi-sheng-niao and
fei-lei, seems to include both the flying squirrels and the large
chiroptera, flying fox, kalong, etc. The descriptions say: "it is
like a small fox, has large wings like the bat and red brown
hair, the back is grey, the abdomen yellow, the face whitish,
the four feet short with large nails, the tail very long; it flies
in the night; the fur is used for making caps." Indeed, there
are skins both of flying squirrels and of flying foxes to be found
in the Peking and Tientsin fur shops, of which caps are made.
Probably some of the above names were meant only for the
different species of Pteromys, some only for the flying fox, but
as both these animals are rather rare in China, they have been
confounded.
82. Sciurus vulgaris var. nigra (Black Squirrel).
sung-shu ("pine-rat" P. (ex parte).
The black variety of our common squirrel occurs in Chihli
and Manchuria; near Peking it is rather rare and for want of

58
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
woods confined to the groves near temples or cemeteries. I saw
it several times in the lonely valley of the Shih-san-ling or Ming
tombs, in the majestic pine trees which surround the Mausolea.
38. Sciurus davidianus A. M. Edw. (North China Squirrel).
Asung-shu P.-sao-yang P.-'hui-shu P.
(in the hills).
Of uniform greyish brown colour with a long brown bushy
tail and whitish underparts. These pretty squirrels are not
uncommon in the western hills; they are much less arboreal in
their habits than our common squirrel, but are, like the fol-
lowing species, frequently seen among the rocks or in the low
wood.
34. Sciurus striatus Pall. (Striped Squirrel).
hua-shu (variegated rat")-
'hua-pu-lien-
tsze P.-wu-tao-mei-rh ("five-striped eyebrow")
P.-sao-nao-tszě P.
The range of this striped squirrel of Siberia and Mongolia
extends into Chihli, but it seems to be very rare near Peking.
It is common in the north-western part of the province and
occurs also in the western hills. I procured a couple of these
pretty animals during a trip to the Pai-'hua-shan; they are very
tame and show no great difference in their habits from the com-
mon squirrel. No mention of the present names of the different
squirrels is made in the Pên-ts'ao, but the term sung-shu occurs
both in the Shêng-ching-t'ung-chih and the Chi-fu-t'ung-chih.
In the latter work it is said that there are two kinds of sung-shu,
one of small size with stripes is properly called sung-shu, the
other of grey colour, fond of fruits, is called sao-shu.
The first would appear to be the Striped Squirrel, the other
Sciurus Davidianus, which has still the name sao-yang among
the mountaineers.
As it is very improbable that an animal as well-known and of
such frequent occurrence as the squirrel should not have been
recorded in the Pên-ts'ao-kang-mu, we have to look for it there
under another name. There is only one species in the order of
Rodents, , the description of which may be referred to
the squirrel; the shih-shu, of which she-shu "great
rat,”兒cho-su, 雀鼠ch'iao-shu “sparrow rat,” and 鼴鼠
chun-shu are synonyms. Its description is as follows: "The
shih-shu occurs everywhere, it lives in excavations of the ground
or hollow trees. Its appearance is like that of a big rat, its

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE..
59
head like that of a hare, the tail is bushy. Its colour is greyish
yellow () it is fond of squeaking, it can stand upright
liike men and dance with the forelegs folded, it feeds on grains
and is like the mole destructive to agriculture. The mole is
small and lives in the plain, but the shih-shu is bigger and lives
im the hills." In a note it is further mentioned that the shih-
shu furnishes hair for pencils.
This does not seem to be a very distinct description of a
squirrel, especially if we think of the habits of our European
sspecies; but it is to be remembered that the Chinese squirrels
aare much less arboreal in their habits. Especially the commonest
sspecies of the North, Sc. Davidianus, lives exactly as the Chi-
mese author says, in hollow trees or in holes under rocks, and
the striped squirrel seems to be quite confined to rocky hills.
The colour mentioned is that of David's squirrel, and of the
common species of central China, Sciurus Chinensis; the bushy
ttail and the harelike head agree likewise very well with the
Ssquirrel. This identification is confirmed by the remark, that
tthe shih-shu is a common animal and that its hair is used to
make pencils. There is no other Rodent to which this may be
referred.
35. Cricetulus griseus A. M. Edw. (Chinese Dwarf Hamster).
豆鼠兒 tou-shu-rh P.-ts'ang-shu-rh, 奢官兒
ts'ang-kua(n)-rh P. ("granary-rat" or "granary keeper"
from its habit to heap up grain in its burrows).-
pan-ts'ang-shu P.
The Peking plain abounds with this dwarf hamster, which is
conly 118 millimeters from snout to tail, the latter being 40 milli-
meters long; of light brown colour mixed with grey on the back,
wwith a darker line along the spine and whitish on the under-
parts. It is like its German ally, the hamster, very pernicious
tto agriculture, and in spite of its small size readily uses its teeth
in self defence. I obtained living specimens several times, they
wwere sleepy during the day, but very lively in the evening and
during the night. Their large black eyes, the expanding black
cears with a fine white margin, and their quick agile movements
render them very pretty little animals, while the large European
sspecies is of rather ugly appearance. In feeding they sit on the
lhindlegs and fill their large pouches by means of their forelegs ;
tthen retire to a quiet corner to take their meal. They are not
very sociable, on the contrary often fight fiercely; and I have
several times seen small ones killed and half eaten by their
companions. They seem to couple early in spring; I obtained

60
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
pregnant females in the middle of April, one of which produced
a rather large dead young one.
86. Mus humiliatus A. M. Edw. The common Peking rat
differs from our black rat, and has been described as a new
species.
87. Mus decumanus L. Père David does not record the com-
mon brown rat as indigenous to Chihli; it is however very com-
mon in Tientsin and occurs also in Peking.
Both the preceding species are called in Chinese
lao-shu or
'hao-tsze.
shu,
88. Mus plumbeus A. M. Edw. Discovered by P. David in
Hsüan-'hua-fu and Mongolia, I have never seen this rat.
39. Mus musculus L. According to David the mouse occurs
in Chihli; it seems to be very rare. I have never heard of it
in Peking and the Chinese have no special name for it.
The white mouse, often with brown and black spots, is fre-
quently kept by the Chinese and sold in the markets, but it is
certainly brought from the south. Its Chinese name is
pai-'hao-tsze and
EF 'hua-'hao-tsze.
MULTUNGULA.
40. Sus aper L. The wild boar is not very common in Chihli,
and those brought in the winter to Peking all come from the
north-east, especially from Jehol. In Chinese
"wild boar."
yeh-chu
RUMINANTIA.
41. Antilope (Nemorhedus) caudata A. M. Edw. David, Rens.
1. c. p. 233. O. von Möllendorff Mitth. Deutsch. Ges. Ostas.
July 1876, p. 19. Antilope crispa, David, Hist. Nat. de Pékin.
Ant. crispa, Schrenck, Prshevalski, Radde (nec Temminck).
ling-yang P.-shan-yang P.-**
ch'ing-yang P. Ch. F.
The subgenus Nemorhedus is constituted by a number of Asiatic
Antelopes which have the following characteristics in common:
a thickset goatlike body, rather shaggy hair of greyish brown
colour, short slightly curved black horns. The species first
known were the Goral, Antilope goral, of the Himalayas, and
the Japanese Antilope crispa; Père David added to these not
less than three new forms from the Chinese empire. Antilope
grisea M. Edw. from Kokonor, A. Edwardsii Dav. from Sse.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
61
ch'uan, and A. Caudata from Chihli and Shansi. All these
species live like the Alpine Chamois on the most elevated moun-
tains, and present in their general appearance a strong resem-
blance to the Chamois, so that they might well be called the
Asiatic Chamois.
The North China species is distinguished chiefly by the length
of the tail; not only does the number of caudal vertebrae ex-
ceed that of the other forms, but a brush of very long hairs
renders the tail one foot long from its root. The horns of the
buck are short and slightly curved, smooth and glossy black at
the points, and furnished below with ten to twelve irregular
transverse rings. The hair is dense and rather coarse, of a
brown colour mixed with yellow and grey, darker along the
spine and lighter on the underparts.
Our species agrees very well with the excellent description of
the chamois of the Amoorland given in Radde's Reisen im Süden
von Ostsibirien (I, 1862, p. 146, t. XII) which the author, how-
ever, identifies with the Japanese A. crispa. It is very im-
probable beforehand that the insular species should occur in
Manchuria, whilst in the neighbouring mountains of North China
a different form has been observed; and indeed, according to
Radde's description, the Manchurian chamois agrees with Anti-
lope caudata in all the peculiarities by which the latter species
differs from Antilope crispa. I have no doubt, therefore, that
the Antilope observed by the Russian travellers in Manchuria
is A. caudata, while Antilope crispa is confined to the Japanese
islands.
In the province of Chihli the species occurs in all the higher
mountains, but is confined to the most inaccessible rocks. It is
of frequent occurrence on the more elevated ranges of the Si-
shan, but has likewise been observed in the hills to the north
and north-east of Peking. The native hunters persecute the
animals chiefly for the horns, which are highly esteemed in
Chinese medicine. The meat is not valued much because of its
strong smell like that of a he-goat. The pursuit is described as
extremely difficult, not only from the wild character of the
animals' abode but also from their sagacity and wariness.
Of the present colloquial designations for this antelope ch'ing-
yang and ling.yang are in more general use; shan-yang is only
used in some parts of the province. The term ling-yang is of
very ancient origin. It was originally written ling and con-
sidered to be akin to the deer; it included probably all forms
of antelopes Chinese and foreign. The short description and
the drawing given of the ling-yang in the Pên-ts'ao points to
Antilope caudata, or at least, to forms of the group Nemorhedus.

62
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
It is said to have grey shaggy hair and short horns, to resemble
a goat and to live on high mountains. But from other works
it appears that very different antelopes were likewise called ling
or ling-yang, and the drawings of the ling in the Erh-ya and
San-ts'ai-t'u-'hui do not resemble the Goat antelope.
Foreign antelopes are up to the present time designated by
the same name; the horns, for instance, of the Saiga antelope of
the Russian and Siberian steppes (Cervicapra Saiga), which are
imported to China in large quantitios, and which I have seen
myself in Peking shops, are sold as ling-yang horns and are
considered the best sort. Under the same appellation the Saiga
horns are mentioned in P. Isaia's catalogue of goods imported
to China from Kiachta.
42. Antilope gutturosa Pall. (Dseren, Goitred Antelope).
'huang-yang P.
It is doubtful whether the Dseren or "goitred antelope" of
Mongolia forms part of the Fauna of Chihli or not; the asser-
tion however that it has occasionally been seen in the northern
part of the province is not improbable, as localities occur similar
to those in the adjoining parts of Mongolia. Also the Chi-fu-
t'ung-chih records the 'huang-yang as indigenous to the district
of Hsüan-'hua-fu. A great number of them are brought every
winter to Peking, a fact which has been mentioned already by
the Jesuits in the 17th century, who call this antelope "chêvres
jaunes," a translation of the Chinese name."
These "yellow goats" play a prominent part in the descrip.
tions of the Imperial chases in Mongolia and Manchuria related
by P. Gerbillon and others.
In the Imperial Hunting Ground South of Peking, the Nan-
'haitszè, a number of 'huang-yang are kept in a half wild state;
I have seen them several times quietly grazing on the wide
expanse of that large inclosure in small herds from five to ten.
They were not at all shy and let us approach within thirty paces,
then ran away a few yards and turned to stare curiously with
their pretty eyes at the strange appearance of foreigners on the
forbidden ground.
The Chinese name 'huang-yang is mentioned in the Pên-ts'ao,
but curiously in the class of domestic animals, the ch'i-lui:
fan-yang and mi-erh-yang are mentioned as syno-
nyms. The description says: "The 'huang-yang lives in the west
Du Halde, Descr. of China, German Edit. II, p. 164.
• Du Halde IV, p. 137, 142, 169, etc.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
68
of the frontier, in Hsi-fan, also in Kwei-lin; there are four kinds.
One is like a sheep in appearance but lower and smaller, yellow
coloured on the sides and underparts; its horns are (like a
ram's. It is fond of sandy tracts and lives in the desert,
it can run fast. It lives solitary. Its tail is black and it is
called black tailed huang-yang (). Another kind
lives on grassy steppes in herds of several scores, it is called
huang-yang. A third kind lives in Lin (, in Shansi) and
near the river T'ao (, in Kansu); it is very big and its tail
is like that of a roe or deer. This is called t'ao-yang ().
In the south, near Kwei-lin, there is another kind, of dark
yellow colour with black neck and white spots, which resembles
a deer." This description points evidently to the Dseren or
Antilope gutturosa, which is meant by the second kind; the
black-tailed huang-yang is the newly discovered Antilope sub-
gutturosa, found by the Russian traveller Prshevalski near the
Alashan mountains in southern Mongolia, which is smaller than
the Dseren and has a black tail. It is very curious, however,
that the Chinese author puts these wild antelopes in the order
of domestic animals; the fan-yang, which the Pen-ts'ao consi-
ders to be the same as the 'huang-yang, is likewise mentioned
among the domestic animals in the Erhya. Perhaps the Chi-
nese authors thought that these animals, which they probably
never saw in their wild state, were kept tame by the Mongols
like goats.
43. Ovis jubata Peters. (Wild Sheep or Argali of Eastern
Mongolia).
Ovis jubata Peters, Monatsberichte der Kgl. Academie der Wis-
senschaften zu Berlin. März 1876, p. 177-188, t. I-IV.-Ovis
Argali David (nec Pallas) Rens. p. 233.
The gigantic wild sheep of central Asia, called "Argali" in
the Mongolian, Manchurian and Kalmukian tongues, have from
a very early period attracted the attention of western and
eastern writers. Their deerlike body with a ram's head, and
enormous spiral horns which measure four feet in length, could
not fail to make a striking impression on the mind of the travel-
ler. Indeed, we find these animals mentioned by Marco Polo,
Rubruyk and other medieval travellers, as well as by the Chi-
nese writers of an early period. But the first scientific record
was made by T. G. Gmelin, who travelled in 1752 and 1758 in
eastern Siberia, and who examined some "Argalis" on the
upper Irtysh near the Altai mountains. He called the species
"Rupicapra cornubus arietinis" (chamois with ram's horns).
In 1766 Linnaeus published this species in his Systema under

64
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
the name of Capra Ammon, which however included several
other forms. An excellent description was given by the renown-
ed traveller Pallas in 1776, who observed the wild sheep in
Dauria. He, for the first time, introduced the name "Argali'
(Ovis fera sibirica vulgo Argali dicta); and considered all the forms
of Siberian wild sheep then known from the Altai, eastern
Siberia and Kamtschatka, to form the Siberian variety of the
European wild sheep or mouflon. In 1829 the Kamtschatkan
form was described as a new species, Ovis nivicola, which re-
sembles more the American big horn, Ovis montana, than the
argali. Later on wild sheep have been discovered on the Pamir
plateau and in the T'ienshan mountains, which differ from the
argali and have been described under new names.
The species
of the Pamir had been observed and very well described by
Marco Polo, and justly bears his name now: Ovis Poli (Blyth).
Other species are known from Tibet and the Himalayas.
The species of Gmelin and Pallas, now generally quoted as
ovis argali Pall., is therefore confined to the Altai and Daurian
mountains. But there lives a species of wild sheep in eastern
Mongolia and in the northern parts of the provinces of Shansi
and Chihli, chiefly on the Yin-shan range. This species has
been observed by P. David and Prshevalski, and it was generally
believed to be identical with the Siberian argali. In 1874 I got
a fine male specimen from the Yin-shan mountains near Kuei-
'hua-ch'êng (or Ku-ku-kho-tun), which I sent to
Berlin. Professor Peters found out that it differed sufficiently
from the argali to establish a new species, and gave a detailed
description in the Monthly Reports of the Berlin Academy under
the name of Ovis jubata. Its chief characteristic is the longer
hair on the neck, withers and throat, which forms a short mane.
Other differences are to be observed in the length and the spiral
direction of the horns, in point of colouring and the dimensions.
The new race, the Maned Argali, does not belong to the largest
forms of this tribe, but still is a very powerful animal. The
total length from muzzle to tail is 1.705 mètres or 5 feet, the
height 1 mètre or 13 feet, the length of the horns along the
curve 0.920 mètres or about 3 feet, the distance of the points
of the horns 0.540 mètres or 14 feet.
The geographical distribution of this new species and the true
Severtsoff in his work on the "Vertical and horizontal distribution of
the animals of Turkestan" (in Rep. Soc. Imp. d. Natural. Moscou, vol.
VIII, 2. 1873, p. 153) records 21 species of wild sheep,-9 of the sub genus
Musimon in Europe, Asia Minor, Persia and the Punjab; and 12 of the
subgenus Ovis,-2 in America, 4 in Central Asia, 2 in the Himalayas, 2 in
Siberia, 1 in Kamtschatka, 1 in Mongolia and the Altai.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
65
Ovis argali Pallas has to be studied yet. Probably the habitat
of the latter race does not extend beyond the Gobi, and Ovis
jubata probably occurs in the mountains of eastern Mongolia
and Manchuria.
The present Chinese name of the argali is p'an-yang
(p'an, a bowl, refers to the spiral curve of the horns). The
Erh-ya has a very good drawing of the argali under the name of
yüan-yang; the description is very short, and merely says
that the animal is like a ram, but has bigger horns which are
cylindrical (), and that it lives in the west (). In the
Pen-ts'ao the argali is described as shan-yang: *
yel-yang, wild sheep, and yuan-yang are recorded as synonymous
appellations, it is said to have big horns curved like a bowl
(). The yan-yang is likewise mentioned in the San-ts'ai-
t'u-'hui. In the Hou-ch'u-sai-lu, a description
of a voyage from China to Mongolia, written in the beginning
of the last century, the yüan-yang is mentioned as a wild sheep
of western Mongolia of enormous size, 300 catties weight, with
large spiral horns.
The name "argali" is as mentioned above, of Mongolian or
Manchurian origin:
golian dictionary a
word is translated
churian dictionary.
The Mongolian
name is mentioned by the travellers of the
13th century. It is not quite certain whether Marco Polo
understands the wild sheep by Erculin, which he mentions as an
animal of Siberia, but Rubruyk (1254) unmistakeably means
our species in the following passage: "I saw another kind
of beast which is called Arcali. Its body is just like a ram's
and its horns spiral like a ram's also, only they are so big
that I could scarcely lift a pair of them with one hand. They
make huge drinking vessels out of these."
means, according to Schmidt's Mon-
"wild mountain sheep;" and the same
by "wild goat" in Wassilyeff's Man-
44. Moschus moschiferus L. (Musk Deer).
hsiang-chang-tsze P.- she, she-lu, hsiang-chang W.
The musk deer has gradually become very rare in Chihli; its
extinction proceeding at the same rate as the diminution of
10 Yule's Edition II, p. 412.
11 Yule l. c. I, p. 414 note.-The latin text has the following: Vidi etiam
alind genus animalis quod dicitur Areali, quod habet recte corpus arietis et
cornua tortua ut aries, sed tantae quantitatis quod vix poteram levare una
manu duo cornua. Et faciunt de cornibus istis ciphos magnos.

66
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
woods, and it has retired to the most remote corners of the pro-
vince. It is recorded as still occurring in the mountains south-
west of Peking near the frontier of Shansi, and in the east to-
wards Manchuria.
According to the Chinese it was common formerly in the
western hills; and in a letter of one of the Jesuit missionaries
in the last century it was then frequently shot near Sang-yü.1
I have been informed by the French missionaries of Peking
that in 1870 a musk deer was killed in the mountains near
Sang-yü, and the people in the neighbourhood of the Po-'hua-
shan told me that musk deer are still seen, though rarely, in
those parts.
45. Cervus pygargus Pall.
The Asiatic roebuck is larger than ours and of lighter colour-
ing; a slight difference exists also in the shape and position of
the horns. Still, the establishment of the species is based on
not very decisive characteristics, and the opinion of some authors,
that the Cervus pygargus Pallas is only a geographical race of
our Cervus capreolus, is perhaps to be accepted.
In Chihli the roebuck is not of very frequent occurrence, and
I am not aware of any having been shot by European sports-
men; a small number of them however are brought to Peking
every winter, principally from the mountains to the north-east
and east. Mr. Swinhoe mentions the Cervus pygargus as being
kept in the Imperial hunting park on the Hsiang-shan, north of
Pata-ch'u.13
The roebuck has the following names in the Peking vernacular:
p'ao-tsze, p'ao-lu,
ehang-tsze, chang-p'as.
The name of the roedeer in Wên'hua is not to be indicated with
certainty, and about the names of the roebuck, muntjak, and
other small species of the cervine tribe, namely chang,
p'ao, chin, chi, ching, there seems to prevail a great
confusion among the Chinese themselves.
The chang of the Pên-ts'ao is said to be of a yellow colour,
to live on the banks of rivers, to have no horns but long tusks
and to be called in Su-'hua ya-chang. This description
would agree with the hornless river deer of the Yang-tszê de-
scribed by Mr. Swinhoe as Hydropotes inermis (Proc. Zool. Soe.
1870, p. 89 pl. IV, VII, ibid. p. 644), which is still called o
the Yang-tszê chang, chang-tsze or chang-lu and which European
sportsmen often erroneously term Roe-deer. But the drawing
1 Lettr. Edif. XXIX (new ed.) p. 188-191, 1717. Du Halde, Deser
German Ed. II, p. 183.
Proc. Zool. Soc. 1870, p. 434.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
67
of the chang in the Pên-ts'ao has horns very similar to those of
the roebuck or the muntjak. The muntjak of southern China
(Cerculus Reevesii Ogilby) is often called chang, or
-yen-
chang "four-eyed deer." In the Chi-fu-t'uug-chih and Sheng-
ching-t'ung-chih chang is also described as a small hornless
deer; but as there occurs no hornless deer in Chihli or Man-
churia except the musk deer, the compilers of those works pro-
bably gave that name only as a quotation from older writers
without having seen the animal itself. Chang would therefore
appear not to be the name of the roedeer in Wen-'hua, but to
include the muntjak and the hydropotes.
On the other hand, the chi of the Pên-ts'ao has also the
synonym ya-chang and the descriptions point likewise to the
hydropotes, which is called chi (ki) up to the present time in
Shanghai.ching is according to the Pên-ts'ao a large variety
of the chi; but in Canton the cervulus or muntjak is termed
huang-ching.
A further term is chin, often translated by roe, which is
more poetical and said to be the synonym of chang and a general
name (for small species of the cervine tribe.
I have accordingly been led to the following conclusion:-
chang and chin are general terms of small deer, being
properly applied to the muntjak, but including the river-deer
(hydropotes) and perhaps also the 1oebuck.
chi and ching are probably meant for the hydropotes.
The Chinese of the north, no species of muntjak occurring in
their country, identified the chang with the Cervus pygargus,
although there exists a proper name for the roebuck namely
p'ao. This character, often confounded with p'ao or
piao, is given in the Pên-ts'ao simply as synonym of chang, but
from other works it appears to be the roebuck. As I have
mentioned above p'aotsze is at present the popular name of the
roedeer at Peking.
46. Cervus mantchuricus Swinhoe.
47. Cervus mandarinus A. M. Edw. Etud. p. 184 pl., 22, 22 A.
E mei-hua-lu P.-yang-lu P.
As Professor Peters informs me, the above two species have
lately been declared to be identical by Sir Victor Brooke, their
only difference being a slight deviation in the curve of the
antlers. I have never seen the description of Swinhoe's Cervus
mantchuricus, but known only his short note given in his descrip-
tion of the Formosan Axis, Cervus pseudavis Eydoux et Souleyet,

68
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
(Proc. Zool. Soc. 1870, p. 644): "The C. pseudaxis is restrict-
ed to Formosa, North China produces a larger allied species,
the C. mantchuricus mihi." Cervus mandarinus, discovered by
David in North China, is considerably smaller than our red
deer, has rather slender antlers with four tynes each; its winter
coat is of greyish brown colour very much like that of a roebuck;
in summer the colour changes into reddish brown with pure
white spots. The traces of these spots are sometimes still visible
in the winter coat.
David's specimens have been got from the Imperial hunting
parks near Peking; and as Mr. Swinhoe mentions that his C.
mantchuricus occurs both in the Park north of Pa-ta-ch'u and
in the Nan-'hai-tszě, it is very probable that the two species are
identical, because in these parks there lives certainly but one
form of spotted deer. The name published by Mr. Swinhoe
would then have the priority.
The yang-lu is very rare in Chihli, and seems to occur only
in the north-eastern mountains, chiefly near Jehol. Those
brought to Peking in winter are said by the game dealers to
come from Jehol and from Manchuria.
48. Cervus elaphus var. xanthopygus A. M. Edw.
馬鹿 ma-tu P.
This large red deer is also kept in the
ching-i-yuan,
the Imperial park on the Hsiang-shan north-west of Peking.
It was described as a new species by Professor Milne-Edwards,
but recent investigations have resulted in showing that it is
merely a geographical race of the common red deer. Whether
it occurs still in a wild state in the province of Chihli, I have
not been able to ascertain; it is certainly very rare. In Man-
churia the red deer is still common.
49. Cervus (Elaphurus) Davidianus M. Edw. Ann. d. Scienc.
Nat. V. sér. Zool. V. 1866, pp. 380 pl.-Etud. Faun. Mammal,
1870. David, Hist. Nat. Env. Pékin (Cervus tarandoides);
Rens. T. N. Ch. Br. R. As. Soc. 1871, p. 233.-Swinhoe, Proc.
Zool. Soc. 1871, p. 434.
sse-pu-hsiang P.-Emi,
Emi-lu W.
The famous "Tailed Deer" of the Imperial hunting ground
south of Peking is the most remarkable of Père David's disco-
veries. The adult male measures 2.20 mètres from the muzzle
to the root of the tail; and is 1.20 mètres high at the shoulder.
The thick hair is of pale yellowish brown and grey colour,
darker on the back and lighter on the underparts. The feet,

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
69
rather large and clumsy in proportion to the slender legs, show
comparatively small hoofs; behind those there are broad callous
cushions. In walking the animal steps chiefly on the callosities,
only a small part of the hoofs touches the ground. The dew-
claws are well developed and nearly reach the ground, so that
the feet resemble somewhat those of the reindeer. The tail is
50 centimètres long, and like that of a donkey tasselled at the
end; the number of caudal vertebrae is fourteen. The most
characteristic difference from the other species of deer is to be
observed in the antlers of the buck. From a very thick base a
straight stem rises of about half a foot in length which divides
into two branches; a very long and strong one stretches back-
wards, and bears on its surface a number of perpendicular
parallel tynes. The other, the main branch, rises almost per-
pendicularly, but is very sinuous and terminates in a fork; one
of the secondary branches going backwards, the other projecting
outwards, and both ending in another fork. All these branches
and tynes are covered with a great number of smaller promi-
nences, sometimes only short knots. The horn is not very hard
and partly porous.
These peculiarities led at first to the establishment of the new
genus Elaphurus, which however is now considered to have
only the value of a sub genus.
As is well known, David's tailed deer has only been met with
in the Imperial hunting ground south of Peking, the Nan-yüan
for Nan-'hai-tsze ; the habits of the animal will
be more clearly seen from the nature of its home, and I will,
therefore, try to give a description of that large enclosure which
as yet has been visited by very few Europeans. Leaving Peking
by the central gate of the southern wall, the Yungtingmen, we
reach after a ride of about two miles a long brick built wall of
about ten feet in height, which extends to East and West as far
as eye can reach. Making many curves its general direction
is from East to West, and extending beyond the southern wall
of Peking on both sides, but far more on the East, it is more
than eleven miles long; there are two large gates on this northern
side of the Haitszě. The western side, which is likewise some-
what irregular but runs in general from North to South, is from
eleven to twelve miles long, and has three gates. The southern
wall inclines to the south-east, is nearly thirteen miles long, and
has two gates; the eastern is twelve miles in length, and has
also two gates. The space enclosed by this wall is therefore an
irregular square of about fifty miles circumference. The ground
is quite level throughout, and is irrigated by several small
streams; the Liang-shui-'ho which enters the wall in the North,

70
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
and leaves the park in the East near the village of Machüch'iao,
and two others which spring from marshes in the Haitszě itself
and run to the South. Neither these streams nor the marshes
in their neighbourhood are of any considerable extent, and do
not justify the name, which may be translated by "Southern
Pond" or "Southern Lake." Near the northern wall there
is an imperial residence or hunting seat, lately rebuilt for the
last emperor; in its environs several picturesque temples have
been erected. Near the Ta'hungmen on the North side stand the
buildings for the officials superintending the place, and between
the two gates there is a large camp. About the centre of the
park are situated two villages occupied by military colonists.
Besides there are some temples and farm-houses in the south.
The ground around the villages and near the gates is partly
cultivated, partly used as pasture land for herds of ponies and
sheep. The remainder of the place is uncultivated grass land
with a soil rich in alkaline salts (like most fields in the Peking
plain), very much like a steppe; there are no trees, no woods,
except the usual groves near the temples and villages, and
some avenues of trees on the roads which lead through the
enclosure. Numerous hares, flocks of the dzeren (Antilope
gutturosa Pall.), a few Cervus mantchuricus and the elaphuri
14
This name has been the reason that the place has been mistaken by
European Geographers for a large marsh or lake, and we find it marked as
such on European maps even of recent date. It seems the waters in it
have been of greater extent at earlier periods; the F*
(6. 74 p. 7) asserts that the uame Nan-'hai-tszě had been given because
there were five lakes (F) in it. At the time of the Yüan dynasty
the place was called i. e. the pond of falconry. The real na-
ture of the Nan-'hai-tsze might have been perceived from the descriptions
given during the last century by the Jesuits; Du Halde (Description de la
Chine, T. II, p. 23) gives the following account of it, which is copied from
one of P. Gerbillon's letters (Lettres édifiantes, Nouv. Ed. XXVIII 1832,
p. 35): "On y voit la maison de plaisance des anciens empereurs. Elle
est d'une étendue prodigieuse, car elle a bien de tour dix lieues communes
de France, mais elle est fort différente des maisons royales d'Europe.
"n'y a ni marbre ni jets d'eau, ni murailles de pierre; quatre petites rivi-
"ères d'une belle eau l'arrosent, leur bords sont plantés d'arbres. On y
"voit trois édifices fort propres et bien entretenues. Il y a plusieurs
"étangs, des pasturages pour les cerfs, les chevreuils, les mules sauvages et
"autres bêtes fauves; des étables pour les troupeaux; des jardins potagers,
"des gazons, des vergers et méme quelques pièces de terre ensemencées;
"en un mot tout ce que la vie champêtre a d'agrément s'y trouve. Cest là
"qu'autrefois les Empereurs se déchargeant du poids des affaires, et quit-
"tant pour un temps cet air de majesté qui gène, allaient goûter les dou-
"ceurs d'une vie privée." The wild mules mentioned there are perhaps
the Elaphuri, which in winter, being destitute of horns, present indeed
воmе vague resemblance to a mule or donkey.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
71
care the only denizens of this vast expanse, which is abandoned
tto them.
The latter live in herds of more than hundred head, and seem
tto prefer the damp ground. When I visited the place, we came
:across only one herd of about 150 head grazing near the
water. They let us approach within fifty yards, then started
off and galloped away with their tails in the air like cattle.
Their gallop seemed to be heavy, but although we chased
them at the utmost speed of our ponies, we were not able to
I keep up with them.
The hind carries about eight months, and brings forth in May,
the fawns have a coat of deep yellowish brown colour, spotted
all over with large white spots, which disappear in three months.
The buck first gets antlers in the second year; they are shed
annually in December, whilst our red deer sheds them in Fe-
bruary.
The question whether this interesting animal still exists in a
wild state, and where it has been brought from to its present
abode has not been settled yet. Notwithstanding all the ex-
plorations lately made in Asia no trace of it has been found;
and although there are regions of Central Asia which have not
yet been investigated by a naturalist, still a species of deer of
such striking appearance could not have failed to attract the
notice even of an unprofessional traveller. The present habits
of the elaphurus show sufficiently that it is an animal of the
steppes, not like other deer an inhabitant of mountain forests.
--As I will show further on, Chinese literature indicates that it
was once an animal of common occurrence in China proper,
and I should therefore deem it very probable that the elaphurus
was originally indigenous to the plains of northern and central
China, and that it has gradually been extinguished by the progress
of cultivation. In case this theory should be well founded, we
are indebted for the preservation of this most interesting species
to a whim of one of the Sons of Heaven, who little thought how
great a service he was rendering thereby to European science.
The preservation of the elaphurus in a half domesticated state
would then be an analogous case to the Ure (Auerochs, Bonassus
Bison) in the forest of Bialovicza in Lithuania, and that of the
wild cattle in Chillingham Park. 15
13
I have been informed lately that some years ago gentlemen from
Tientsin shot in the cast of the province a curious deer "like an Elk,"
very large, and according to the description most probably an Elaphurus.
I am not prepared to decide, whether the animal had perhaps run away
from the Haitszě or the species still exists in the eastern parts of the pro-
vince which have as yet been very little explored.

72 THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
The history of the Nan-'hai-tszě, which, as mentioned before,
can be traced back as far as the Yüan dynasty, does not en-
lighten us on the question of the introduction of the elaphuri
into the park. The Chinese works only mention that during
the Yuan, Ming and Ts'ing dynasties the place was used by the
Emperors for hunting purposes.
The present Chinese name is 1 sse-pu-hsiang i. e. the
four dissimilar sc. attributes; it is said to have the head of a
deer, the neck of a camel, the feet of a cow and the tail of a
mule. It is sometimes, though rarely, call mi-lu, and its antlers
are designated in the trade by mi-jung. The Pên-ts'ao-
kang-mu gives the following description of the mi :—
"The mi belongs to the tribe of the deer; the male has horns.
The deer (lu) is fond of mountains, it belongs to the yang (male
principle), and therefore sheds the horns in summer; the mi is
fond of marshes, belongs to the yin (female principle), and so
sheds the horns in winter. The mi is like the lu, but its colour
is grey (), it is as large as a small ox, the hoofs are
fleshy; below the eyes there are two holes which are called
night eyes (). Therefore 'Huai-nan-tsze (E) says
that if pregnant women see the mi, their children are born with
four eyes. The Po-wu-chih (f) says: In the South
from a hundred to a thousand head of mi form a herd; they feed
on marshy grass. The place where they graze gets muddy and
is called mi-chin; such a place is good for agricultural pur-
poses. The place where the lu dwells is called Elu-ch'ang.
At the present time, the hunters do not distinguish them, and
confound the mi with the la. The stags may still be dis
tinguished by the antlers, but the hinds are always called
BE (i. e. female lu)."
This description fully justifies the application of the term milu
to the Ssepusiang. The time of shedding the antlers, the pre-
dilection for marshes, the deep lacrymal pits, mentioned by Li-
shih-chên, are all peculiarities by which the elaphurus differs
from the other species of deer. The remark that the hoofs are
of flesh seems strange, but is explained by the nature of the feet
of the elaphurus, which indeed from the large callous cushions
referred to above appear to be fleshy when compared with the
hard hoofs of the common deer. We only miss in the descrip-
tion the mention of the long tail of the elaphurus; but in spite
of that omission I have no doubt that the animal described by
the compiler of the Pên-ts'ao is the Elaphurus Davidianus.
The character is often met with in Chinese literature,
even of the earlier periods. Mencius B. I. P. 1. ch. II: "The

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
78
king (of Leang) went and stood with him by a pond, and looking
round at the wild geese and deer (mi-lu), said," etc. 16 Mencius
B. I. P. 2. ch. II: "There was a park of forty square le, and
he who killed a deer (mi-lu) in it was held guilty of the same
crime as if he had killed a man."1 Ch'un-ts'ew, 17th year of
Duke Chwang (B. C. 675): "In winter there were many deer
(mi)."18 The êrhya does not give a drawing of the mi, not even
a description, but merely states that male, female and fawn
have especial name.
The above quotations from the classics do not, it is true, give
any indication of the nature of the mi, except that it is fond of
places near the water, and lives in large herds. But the Li-ki
observes that in the second moon of the summer, the lu sheds
the antlers, and in the second moon of the winter, the mi.20
The elaphurus being the only species of deer of which this dis-
crepancy in the period of shedding the antlers is known, we
cannot hesitate to conclude that the mi of ancient literature is
identical with that described in the Pên-ts'ao, and therefore the
Elaphurus Davidianus. From the above quotations it appears
that the species was once of frequent occurrence all over China,
and well known to the people, who applied different denomina-
tion to the different sexes and ages only of common animals.
Li-shih-chên's statement that at his time people were not
able to distinguish the mi and the lu, would find its explanation
in the gradual diminution, and final extinction of the species.
It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that Chinese works of
more modern date give descriptions of the which are not in
accord either with those of the older books or with the pecu-
liarities of the elaphurus. The E, of the same
period as the Pên-ts'ao-kang-mu gives an entirely fictitious
drawing of the mi, which has one stumpy horn on the forehead;
the description runs as follows:-"The says 'the
bear is the cleverest and strongest of all animals, the mi the most
stupid; therefore the Emperor shoots the bear, the feudal
1 Legge's Cl. II, p. 3: EL
Legge's Ch. II, p. 30:
殺人之罪.
21
BEHE.
+ME AS A
1 Legge's Ch. V, 1 p. 96. One commentator thinks that these creatures
appeared in such numbers as to be a plague.
19
爾雅 vol. III, p. 30:糜牡北其子
20
禮記脸 III, p. 65(仲夏)鹿角解III,p.89(仲冬)
1917.
21
The Pai-'hu-t'ung-i of the Han dynasty, first century of our era.
See Wylie Not. on Ch. Lit. p. 127. Mayer's Manual, p. 166.

74
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
princes the mi.' The mi is an animal of the water, of grey
colour, and has fleshy hoofs. The character is formed from
Eand, because the disposition of the animal is stolid()."
The Sheng-ching-t'ung-chih says under the heading of mi-lu:
"The lu is tall, the mi small. It is said in
that
the mi sheds the antlers in the eleventh moon (1), the lu
in the fourth moon (f), but according to present investi-
gations the mi as well as the lu shed their antlers in summer.
In the Imperial poem on the shedding of the antlers by the
deer,' it is stated that in the provinces of Shingking and
Kirin there occurs the mi, not the lu."24 It is evident from
this passage that the character was used by Kienlung to
designate the common deer, not the Sse-pu-hsiang; for, as it is
well known, the red deer as well as the axis are common in
Manchuria. The elaphurus, at that time, probably occurring
nowhere in China in a wild state, the quotations of older authors,
who by mentioning the exceptional time of shedding the antlers
unmistakeably refer to the species of the Haitsze, were misun-
derstood or overlooked, and the term mi used as a poetical
denomination for other kinds of deer.
A similar error has slipped into the topographical description
of Formosa quoted by Mr. Swinhoe, 25 in which work the name
mi is applied to the plain brown deer of Formosa, Cervus (Rusa)
Swinhoei.
Williams identifies the Chinese name chu with tke Cer-
vus Davidianus; he states that the Chinese description ascribes
a long tail to it and gives Tung-ch'uan.fu in Ssë-ch'uan as the
habitat. I have not been able to find out from what work this
information has been obtained, but according to the books to
which I had access, cannot be explained as a name of the
22
23
See the above quoted passage of the Li-ki.
, a collection of poems, published by the Emperor Kien-
lung, see Wyli'se Notes, p. 190.
24
The Sheng-ching-ching-t'ung-chih quotes at the same place another
passage from the poems of Kienlung, which refers to the Reindeer, and its
employment for domestic purposes, the only mention of the Reindeer I
have as yet met with in Chinese books. "In the neighbouring state of
Russia no cattle or horses are kept, but deer (E) are mostly used as
beasts of burden and draught."
26 Birds and beasts of Formosa, Journ. N. Ch. Br. R. As. Soc., Shang-
hai, 1865.
20
Syllabic Dictionary 1875, p. 88. Williams ascribes to the Elaphurus
the denomination of "Chinese Elk." Elk (or Moose) is the English name
of Cervus Alcesh L.; in America the Wapiti or Canadian deer (C. canadensis)
is sometimes called Elk; but the Chinese species cannot be compared with
either of these animals.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
75
Sse-pu-hsiang. The Pên-ts'ao-kang-mu says under the heading
of "A large stag is called chu, the herd following it is
guided by its tail. The tail can banish dust (); if felt is
dusted with it, there will be no worms; if it is put into madder
for dyeing silk, the red colour will not grow darker for a long
time." This passage is quoted from the
In the Kanghi dictionary chu is explained to be the deno-
mination of a large stag, also of a deer of the tribe of the .
The chu is further mentioned in the San-ts'ai-t'u-'hui; the draw-
ing given in that work represents the animal as a deer covered
with large spots like flowers, with a short tail, and one stumpy
horn. The description is almost verbatim identical with that of
the Pên-ts'ao.
From these notes I should conclude that chu originally does
not designate any particular species of deer, but is the term for
a large stag, especially the leader of the herd. This is con-
firmed by the present use of the term. I have seen the follow-
ing phrase in an official communication:
chih-ling-
chu-t'an, which may be rendered by: "I listen to your instruc-
tions by which I will guide my course. Chu-t'an lit. "phrases
of the leading stag," signifies the instructions, by which the
hearer will be guided as a herd of deer is guided by the leading
stag.
The Hsi-yü-wên-chien-lu mentions the chu as forming part of
the Fauna of Tarbagatai, and says, that several hundreds form
a herd. In smaller letters it is added by the editor that the
common name is ssé-pu-hsiang.27 Tarbagatai is now partly
Russian territory, and its Fauna has been well enough explored
to leave very little doubt that the elaphurus does not occur in
those regions. The author meant by chu probably the large
red deer of Central Asia, Cervus Maral; it was perhaps merely
the predilection of Chinese writers for uncommon characters
which induced him to ascribe the name to a species of deer.
Why the editor identified this name with the Sse-pu-hsiang,
cannot be seen from the explanations given for chu in Chi-
species of deer within his knowledge which lived in large
nese literature; perhaps because the elaphurus was the only
herds. Howbeit, his statement cannot invalidate the argu-
Iments given above for the theory that is the proper name
of Cervus Davidianus.
27
四不像
Chap. I, f. 13:
: 多座數百為藥俗名

76
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
II, BIRDS.
(In the following list the initials S. and D. indicate whether
the species has been recorded as occurring in Chinese by Swin-
hoe or David; + is added to a species which has not previously
been mentioned as forming part of the Ornis of the province).
1. Gypactos barbatus Cuv. (Bearded Vulture, Lammergeyer).
-D.
2. Vultur monachus L.-D.-This vulture does not occur near
Peking, but is not uncommon in the northern and north-western
parts of the province. It has been seen in the Nank'ou Pass.
In Chinese kou-t'ou-tiao i. e. dog-headed eagle.
3. Aquila chrysaetos Cuv. (Golden Eagle).-D. S.-IM
'hung-t'ou-tiao P.
Not rare in the western hills, but confined to the highest peaks.
4. Aquila bisfasciata Gray.-D.
5. Aquila amurensis Swinh. (Tawny Eagle).-D.-
ta-'hua-tsao-tiao.
6. Aquila naevia Briss.-D.-
hsiao-'hua-tsao-tiao P.
The general term for eagles in Chinese is tiao, which in-
cludes the vultures and sea eagles; ch'iu and t'uan are
synonyms. tsao-tiao is a general name of all species of
Aquila.
7. Haliaetos albicilla L. (Sea Eagle).-D. S.-
'huang-tsui-tiao P. chich-pai-tiao P. Sh. Ch.
This species, which is rather scarce in Chihli, is most pro-
bably the 'hai-tung-ch'ing, sometimes written #S
'hai-ch'ing-tiao or ch'ing-tiao or 'hai-ch'ing, which was in former
times trained by the Chinese for hawking purposes, especially
to catch deer. It was considered to be the best of all birds of
falconry. The Shêng-ching-t'ung-chih relates that the 'hai-
tung-ch'ing was used to catch roebuck by the emperor Kienlung
when he hunted in Manchuria. In a long list of birds of prey
trained for falconry, which is quoted from the T'u-ching-chih-
shu in the
Jih-hsia-chiu-wen-k'au the 'hai-
tung-ch'ing is the first mentioned. With these statements
agrees a passage in P. Du Halde's description of China (vol. I,
p. 34) which I here insert; "On compte avec raison parmi les
beaux oiseaux celui qu'on appelle Haitsing. On n'en prend
que dans le district de Han-tchong-fu, dans la province de
Chensi, et dans quelques cantons de la Tartarie. Il est com-
parable à nos plus beaux Faucons, il est cependant plus gros
et plus fort. On peut l'appeller le Roi des Oiseaux de proye de
la Tartarie et de la Chine, car c'est le plus beau le plus vif et

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
77
le plus courageux; aussi est-il si estimé que dès qu'on en a pris
un, on doit le porter à la cour, où il est offert à l'Empereur et
remis aux officiers de la Fauconnerie."
8. Haliaëtos pelagicus Pall.-D.-ku-t'ou-tiao P.
This giant sea eagle, which has been observed in Chihli by
P. David, is probably meant by the term 'hu-tiao, tiger
eagle, of the books; it is said to measure with outspread wings
one chang, or ten Chinese feet.
9. Archibuteo aquilinus Hodgs.-D.-hao-pao P.
The Su'hua name of this large buzzard in Peking, 'hao-pao,
corresponds to 'hua-pao and pai-pao mentioned as
popular names of birds of prey in the Shêng-ching-t'ung-chih.
The species is not of frequent occurrence near Peking.
10. Buteo asiaticus Lath. (Asiatic Buzzard).-D.
11. Poliornis polyogenys Temm.-D.
12. Pandion haliaetus L. (Fishhawk, Osprey).-D. S.-
yü-ying P. Ts.-é P. TI.-tiao-chi P. Ts.
I have never heard a popular term for the fishhawk; the
people in Peking as well in Tientsin apply the name yü-ying,
yü-ying-rh or yü-ying-tsze to the different species of gulls and
tern. The Pên-ts'ao-kang-mu on the other hand undoubtedly
describes the fishhawk by yü-ying. Amongst the synonyms of
yü-ying given there Etsi-chiu and Ewang-tsu are
doubtful; these appellations are explained in other works as
names of water birds, and more probably designate a gull or
skua.
P.
13. Falco peregrinus L. (Peregrine Falcon).-D. S.
14. Falco sacer Schl. (Gyrfalcon).-D. S.-pai-ying
15. Hypotriorchis subbuteo L. (Hobby).-D. S.-7
ch'ing-t'iao-tszě P.
16. Hypotriorchis aesalon L. (Merlin.-D. S.-to-tszě,
to-rh P. Sh. Ch.-to-rh Ch. F.
17. Tinnunculus japonicus Schl. (Japanese Kestrel).-D.S.—
Etu-hu-ying P.
18. Erythropus amurensis Radde.-D. S.- ch'ing-ying P.
19. Tichornis pekinensis Swinh. (Pekinese Kestrel).-S.
20. Pernis apivorus L. (Honey Buzzard).-D.
21. Milvus govinda Sykes. (Kite).-D. S-yao-ying,
P. Sh. Ch.- ch'ih P. Ts.-yan P. Ts.-Sh.
Ch. ch'iao-ying P. Ts.-(shih-ying P. pa-pa-ying T).
The Kite, everywhere in China the commonest bird of prey, is
now considered by Swinhoe to be identical with the Indian species,

78
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
whilst in former notes it was supposed to be the Japanese M.
melanotis Schl. It is abundant in Peking and Tientsin, feeding
on the refuse in the streets. The nests are mostly in the high
towers of the city wall, but I have also seen one on a tree.
22. Astur palumbarius L. (Goshawk)-D. S.-P. Ts.-
P.-T.-ying, ying-rh, ying-tszě.-huang-ying P.
23. Accipiter nisus L. (Sparrowhawk).-D. S.- yao.
tszě P.-hsi-hsiung. Sh. Ch.-P.
24. Accipiter stevensoni Gurney.-D. S.-5sung-rh
sung-tsze-ying P.-Sh. Ch.-sung-rh Ch. F.-
ch'ing-yen-tsze P. ("green-eyed hawk").
25. Micronisus soloensis Horsf.-D.
The Goshawk as well as the Sparrowhawks are used by the
Chinese for hawking purposes, also, but less commonly, the
Hobby, the Merlin and the Kestrels. The goshawk is trained
to catch hares; the smaller birds of prey to fly at small birds,
quails, etc. I have never seen the real falcon employed by a
Chinese falconer.
26. Circus spilonotus Kaup.-D.
27. Circus cyaneus L. (Blue Harrier).-D.-hui-ying P.
28. Circus melanoleucus Gmel.-D. S.
29. Circus pallidus Sykes.-D.
yao in Chinese
The harriers are included in the term
books. Of all species of Accipitrinao the Pên-ts'no distinguishes
only two kinds; the ying, which includes all the larger hawks,
buzzards and falcons, and of which the goshawk seems to be
the type; and the yian or yao which designates especially the
kite, but includes all the smaller birds of prey, sparrowhawks,
harriers, etc.
30. Athene plumipes Swinh.-D. S.
"
Swinhoe discovered this little owl near Ch'atao on the Nan-
k'ou Pass (Proc. Zool. Soc. 1870, p. 448). David gives as the
habitat Pékin, Mongolie." I have not been able to find the
species in the neighbourhood of Peking, but saw it once near
Kalgan.
81. Ninox japonica T. & Schl.-S.
82. Bubo maximus Sibb. (Horned Owl).-D. S.-1
chih-hsiu W.- chich-ch'ih P. Ts.-kuai-ch'ih ibid.
lao-t'u ibid. kou-ko ibid. (i. e. the bird which hooks
pigeons).
ku-lu-ying, 'hu-ku-ying P. Ts.
(onomatopoetic, ef. the Latin ulula, German Uhu, etc.).
貓頭鷹
夜食
yeh-shih-ying P. Ts. Shsin-'hu ibid. Dao-
tou-ying ibid., also P. (mao-rh-t'ou-ying).
Shen-'hu P.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
88. Scops sunia Hodgs. (Screech Owl).-D. S.-
yeh-mao-tsze P.
shih-tsze-ying P.
34. Syrnium nivicolum Hodgs.-D. S.
35. Otus vulgaris Flem. (Eared Owl).-D. S.
36. Otus brachyotis L.-D. S.
fu W.
79
A collective name for the two preceding species and other
smaller owls in Wên'hua is hsiao, of which the Pên-ts'ao
records the following synonyms:
hsiao,
hsiao-ch'ikshan-
t'u-hsiao. liu-li (i. e. the vagrant bird).
87. Caprimulgus jotaka T. & Schl. (Japanese Goatsucker).-
D. S.-ich-shu-p'i P.-t'ich-li-taze P.-kuei-
ajao P.
38. Caprimulgus stictomus Swinh.-D.
The name of the Goatsucker in Wên-'hua is most probably
Etu-chuan, which name has been explained in European
dictionaries (Morrison, Williams) as that of the Cuckoo. But
as I shall try to prove further on, the name of the Cuckoo is
, and the descriptions of the tu-chian evidently point to
the Goatsuker.
The Pên-ts'ao-kang-mu (6. 49 f. 14) gives the following syno-
nyms: tu-yü, Ftsze-hsi, tszě-kuci, ti-
kuci, its'ui-kuei, yang-ch'iao-(r),
yuan-
niao-chou-yen. The first five names are intended to imitate the
bird's note which, according to the Pên-ts'ao, is like
pu-ju-kuei-ch'u. I do not know exactly what the note of the
Chinese species is, but Jerdon mentions that that of Caprimulgus
indicus is tu-yo; this is very much like the Chinese name tu-yi,
and the first part of pu-ju-kuei-ch'u. Tne last of the above
names indicates the relation of the bird to the swallows, and
the Goatsucker is indeed placed near the swallows in European
systems. The description runs as follows:-
"The tu-chuan comes from Ssë-ch'uan and occurs also in the
South. It is like a sparrow but of a dull black and red colour
(1). It has a small crest on the bill. It cries in the
end of spring during the whole night, in crying it looks towards
the North. The ery is most powerful in summer, then it makes
no difference between day and night. The note is a very plain-
tive one. By hearing it the peasants know the time for their
work. It eats insects and grubs; it makes no nest but breeds
in the nests of other birds. In winter it becomes torpid."
The dark unattractive colouring, the habit of crying during
the night, the plaintive voice, the feeding on insects and the in-
capacity of building nests aro all well marked poculiarities of the

80 THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
Goatsuckers, and the description would not admit of any other
identification. The drawing of the tu-chüan given in the Pen-
ts'ao cannot be considered to be a very striking likeness of a
caprimulgus, but certainly does not offer any opposition to our
explanation.
The present popular name in Peking, kuei-niao, of Caprimul
gus Jotaka is perhaps an abbreviation of one of the above names
given in Pên-ts'ao, and would in that case add another proof
that tu-chan is the goatsucker, if there should be any doubt
left.
89. Cypselus pekinensis Swinh. (Pekinese Swift.-D. S.-
yeh-yen (yeh-ye'rh) P.
The Peking Swift is distinguished from our home species, to
which it is very closely allied, chiefly by the larger extent of the
white on the throat, the light brown colour of the rump, tail and
wings, and the deep purplish brown legs. It arrives in large
numbers in the beginning of May, and leaves in August.
40. Cypselus pacificus Lath.-D. S.
41. Chaetura caudacuta Lath. (East Asian Swift).-D. S.
42. Hirundo gutturalis Scop. (Eastern House Swallow).-D.
S.-chia-ye'rh P.
43. Cecropis arctivitta Swinh. (Chinese Striped-bellied Swal-
low).-D. S.-'hua-ye'rh P.
44. Cotyle riparia L. (Sand Martin).-D. S.-KA
shui-ye'rk P.
45. Ptyonoprogne rupestris Scop.-D. S.-shih-yen P. Ts.
46. Chelidon lagopoda Pall.-D. S.
ch'in-chiao-tsui
47. Halcyon pileatus Bodd.-D. S.-
P. ("red-pepper-bill," from the resemblance of the bill to the
husk of Capsicum annuum).-si-ch'uch-ch'ua 'n)-rk
T.
This large kingfisher is closely allied to the Turquoise king-
fisher, Halcyon smyrnensis, which latter species furnishes the
beautiful blue feathers for the well known female ornaments of
southern China. The Chinese books distinguish only two species.
of kingfisher, a larger one with brilliant plumage and a smaller
one. The latter is the li or Alcedo bengalensis; the other
the fei-s'ui, ts'ui-pi-niao, yü or ts'ui-yü is
the Turquoise kingfisher, but includes also the Halcyon pileatus,
although its plumage is less brilliant, and no use of its feathers
seems to be made. The popular name used in Tientsin, refers
to the black and white colouring of the neck and breast, which
presents some resemblance to the Magpie (hsi-ch'üch).

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
81
48. Alcedo bengalensis Gmel.-D. S.-ts'ui-ch'iao-rk
丑一柳翠 liu-tsui Pi魚狗 yiu-kow, 天狗 tien-kou,
yi-cou,天狗
冰狗 shiti-kou,魚虎yio-, 魚師yii-shih P. Ts.
49. Upupa epops L. (Hoopoe).-D. S.- chi,
teai-jen, tai-sheng E. Y.
pi, & 18
The above names are accompanied in the Erh-ya by a very
ggood drawing of the
designate that bird.
writers with the
Hoopoe, and there is no doubt that they
The names have been identified by native
ku-chao or ku-chou. The com-
poiler of the Pên-ts'ao expresses his doubts about the correctness
cof this identification; and it cannot be but erroneous because
the Erh-ya mentions the Ku-chou as a different bird, and gives
aa drawing of it which has not the slightest resemblance to the
Hoopoe. But what bird the ku-chou really is, I have not been
aable to find out.
50. Zosterops erythropleura Swinh. (Chinese White Eye).-
ID. S.- fin-ye(n)-rh P.
51. Sitta villosa J. Verr. (Chinese Nuthatch).-D. S.
52. Sitta amurensis Swinh.-D. S.
53. Certhia familiaris L. (Creeper).-D.
54. Tichodroma muraria L. (Wallcreeper).-D.
55. Troglodytes fumigatus Temm. (Wren)-D.
56. Rhopophilus pekinensis Swinh.-D. S.
57. Calamodyta orientalis Temm. & Schl, (Eastern Reed-
65parrow)-D.
This and the following reed birds are called by the Chinese
iin Peking wei-jung-rh i. e. vagabond of the reeds,
wei-ch'ua(n)-rh i. e. the bird which flits about through
the reeds, or wei-cha-tsze.
58. Calamodyta bistrigiceps Swinh.-D. S.- Ftsze-la-
tiszě P.
59. Arundinas addon Pall.-D. S.
60. Herbivocula flemingi Swinh.-D. S.
61. Calamoherpe concinens Swinh. (Roed Wren).-D. S.
62. Locustella certhiola Pall.-D.
63. Locustella lanceolata Temm.
64. Sylvia curruca L.-D.
65. Philacantha nisoria Bechst. (Babbling Warbler).-D.
66. Oreopneuste armandi A. M. Edw.-D.
67. Phyllopneuste fuscata Blyth.-hei-t'ou-ye(n)-
wh P.
68. Phyllopneuste coronata Temm. & Schl.-D.
69. Phyllopneuste xanthodryas Swinh.-D. S.

82
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
70. Phyllopneuste plumbeitarsus Swinh.-D. S.
71. Phyllopneuste borealis Blasius. (Willow Wren).-D. S.-
liu-ch'ua(n)-rh P.
72. Reguloides proregulus Pall. (pseudo Gold Crest).-D. S.-
shu-ch'ua(n)-rh P.-'huai-ch'ua(n)-rh P.
73. Reguloides superciliosus Gm.-D. S.-(Chinese names same
as last species).
74. Regulus japonicus Bp.
75. Ruticilla aurorea Pall.
'hua-hung-ye(n)rh P.
(Japanese Gold Crest).-S.
(Redstart).-D. S.-I
The Chinese consider most of the smaller birds with long tail
as akin to the swallow, and therefore form their names with the
character yen, see Chinese names of nos. 67, 76, 131, 152, 158.
76. Ruticilla fuliginosa Vig.-D.-yen-shih-ch'ing-
rh P.
77. Larvivora cyane Pall.-D. S.-lan-i-pa-
kén-tszě P. (blue tail's root").
78. Ianthia cyanura Pall.-D. S.-The Chinese name of last
species is sometimes likewise applied to this bird.
79. Erithacus akahige Temm.-D.
80. Cyanecula caerulecula Pall. (Redspot Bluethroat).-D. S.
-lan-tien-ke-rh P. T.
81. Calliope kamtschatkensis Sm.-D. S.-hung-
tien-ke-rh (mas.)
pai-tien-k'e-rh (fem.) P.
82. Saxicola leucomela Pall. (Wheatear).-D.
83. Pratincola indica Blyth. (Indian Whinchat).-D. S.
84. Accentor erythropygius Swinh.-D. S.
85. Accentor montanellus Pall.-D.
86. Parus minor Temm. & Schl. (Japanese Titmouse).-D.
S.- tsze-tsze-'hei-rh P.- Ftszě-tsze-
'heng-rh P-etszě-tsze-'hui-'hui Ch. F.
87. Parus pekinensis Dav. (Pekinese Titmouse).-D. S.-
Chinese names the same as those of the last species.
88. Poecile kamtschatkensis Bp. (Eastern Marshtit).-D.
89. Poecile cincta Bodd.-D.
90. Orites glaucogularis Gould.
Iyang-hung-rh P.
91. Orites ouratensis A. Dav.-D.
(Longtailed Tit).-D. S.-
92. Motacilla paradoxa Schrenek.-Ishan-shih-
'hua-rh P. (i. e. pied like marble).
This pied wagtail, probably merely an eastern variety of ou
motacilla alba, has formerly been observed in Amurland and b
P. David in Mongolia. It passes Peking in spring, where
secured specimens in April, 1874 and 1875.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
83
The above Chinese name is given to all pied wagtails. Wag-
tails in general have the name chi-ling in books (e. g. in
the Sheng-ching-t'ung-chih; the term is not mentioned in the
Pên-ts'ao).
93. Motacilla baicalensis Swinh. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1871, p.
363. Observed in the Trans Baikal, and by Swinhoe on the
Upper Yangtszë. I have obtained a specimen of this eastern
representative of our common pied wagtail, to which it is very
closely allied, near Peking in April 1875.
94. Motacilla ocularis Swinh.-D. S.-A third species of pied
wagtail, which differs from all other kinds by the black streak
through its eye.
95. Budytes flavus L.
ma-lien-'hua-rh P. (i. e.
used in medicine).
(Yellow Wagtail).-D. S.-
[yellow] like the malien, a kind of Iris,
96. Budytes cinereocapillus Sav.-D.
97. Budytes citreolus Pall.-D.-chin-hsiang-lu-.
rh P. (lit. "golden incense jar" referring to the golden yellow
crown of the head.)
98. Calobates melanope Pall.-D. S.
99. Limonidromus indicus Gmel. (Indian Wood Wagtail).-
D. S.
100. Anthus cervinus Pall. (Pipit).-D. S.
101. Corydalla richardi Vieill.-D. S.
102. Turdus naumanni Temm. (Thrush).-D. S.-
shan-'hua-mei P.-pei-'hua-mei P.
'Hua-mei, "painted eyebrow," is the famous song thrush of
southern China, Leucodiapteron sinense, which is frequently
kept in cages by the Pekinese, but does not resort to Chihli.
The above names refer justly to the relation of that bird to the
thrushes; they are given to most of the following species.
103. Turdus fuscatus Pall.-S.
104. Turdus ruficollis Pall. (Siberian Fieldfare).-D. S.-
ch'uan-ts'ao-chi P.-Ch. F.
105. Turdus musicus L. (Song Thrush).-D.
106. Turdus pallidus Gm.-S.
107. Turdus chrysolaos Temm.-S.
108. Turdus obscurus Gm.-D. S.
109. Turdus auritus J. Verr.-D.
110. Oreocincla varia Pall.-D. S.
111. Monticola saxatilis L.-D.
112. Petrocincla gularis Swinh. (Peking Forest Thrush).-D.
118. Petrocincla manilla Bodd. (East Asian Rock Thrush).
-D. S.-shui-tsui P. ("chatterbox").

84
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
114. Myiophoneus brevirostris Wagn.-D.
115. Pterorhinus davidi Swinh.-D.
116. Suthora webbiana G. R. Gray.-D.-hsiang-
sse-niao P. (i. e. love-birds).-li-fen-ch'iu-rh P.
This pretty little brown bird, in general appearance not un-
like a titmouse, is not uncommon near Peking in spring and
autumn. Being favourite cagebirds among the natives the
are caught in large numbers. Swinhoe states that they are
kept for fighting in Shanghai and in the South; I have never
seen them used for that purpose in the North nor could I observe
that they are of very pugnacious disposition. I kept a greaf
number together with many other small birds; they used to sit
always on the same stick and slept in a line touching each other,
thus justifying the popular name given to them: hsiang-sse-niao.
This name is, besides, given to several other birds, e. g. the
southern Leiothrix lutea (Scop.) and to the true love-birds, the
small green parrots (Psittacula).
117. Ampelis garulla L. (Bohemian Chatterer).-D. S.-
t'ai-p'ing-niao P.
118. Oriolus chinensis Gmel. (Chinese Oriole).-D. S.-
huang-li P. Ts.-Sh. Ch.-P.-T. etc.-ying P. Ts.-A
'huang-niao ibid.. or s'ang-keng P. Ts.—-Sh. Ch.-
ching-niao P. Ts.huang-po-lao ibid. ("the
yellow shrike")-li-'huang ibid. (i. e. the black and yellow
sc. bird).
la
119. Lanius lahtora Sykes.-D.
120. Lanius major Pall.-D.
121. Lanius sphenocercus Cabanis.-yün-nan-ch'ing
(i. e. the grey bird from Yunnan) P.-1 shan-'hu-po-
P.-'han-lu-rh (i. e. the bird which arrives at the
Han-lu [cold dew] period, about the beginning of October) P.
Père David mentions two species of the larger shrikes as
being rare at Peking, I have never seen either of them. But I
secured specimens of a shrike in April 1874 and September
1875, which was determined by Mr. Cabanis as his Lanius
sphenocercus. Perhaps David's L. major was also this species.
The ancient bird name po-lao, which is mentioned in
the classics, has been identified with the shrike; and I have no
doubt that this identification is correct. The bird at least,
which the Pên-ts'ao-kang-mu describes under that name, is
certainly the shrike. The following synonyms of polao are re-
corded there:博勞 po-lao,伯鷯 po-liao,伯趙 po-chao,
chi, chueh. According to Swinhoe the shrikes are still called

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
85
po-lao or chü in Formosa. In the North all shrikes are called
'hu-po-la (also 'hu-pu-la or 'hu-pa-la) which is most probably
derived from po-lao; 'hu, tiger, being added to describe the
fierce and cruel disposition generally ascribed to these birds.
122. Lanius magnirostris Less.-D.
123. Lanius bucephalus Temm. & Schl.-D. S.-man-
tsze T. ("Southerner," also applied to the three following species).
124. Lanius cristatus L.-D.
125. Lanius superciliosus L.-fu-ti-hu-po-la P.
126. Lanius lucionensis L.-D. S.-11 'hua-'hu-po-
la P. (also applied to the three preceding species).
Of the Redtailed Shrikes only L. lucionensis seems to breed
in Chilli; L. cristatus L. and L. superciliosus pass Peking
during their migration. The latter species had not previously
been observed in Chihli; I obtained specimens in May 1874
and 1875.
I have seen the smaller shrikes trained by natives to fly at
sparrows and other small birds; they were carried like hawks
with a rope tied to one of the legs. One of them, I believe a
Lanius bucephalus, caught a sparrow in my presence. The
Chinese asserted that it is much more difficult to tame and train.
a shrike than any hawk.
D.
127. Dicrurus cathoecus Swinh. (Chinese Black Drongo).-
S.-li-chi-rh P.-Sh. Ch.-chi-chiu P. Ts.-
E. Y.-ping-chi P. Ts.-E. Y.- p'i-chi P. Ts.-
鹎pi chia ibid.—鳩 chu-chiu ibid. 一烏鵙 wu-chū ("black
shrike") ibid.-ya-chu ("crow-shrike") ibid.-
chia-li, cha-yu-lang, t'ich-ying-wu (i. c. iron
coloured parrot), hsia-chi ibid.
Common in the hills near Peking during the summer; it
leaves in August.
128. Buchanga leucogenys Walden.-D.
129. Chibia brevirostris Cab.-D. S.
130. Pericrocotus cinereus Lafr.-D. S.
181. Pericrocotus brevirostris Vig.-D.-pin-hung-
ye(n)-rh P. ("the foreign red swallow").
A few of this pretty black and red flycatcher pass Peking
every spring during their migration. One was shot in the British
Legation in spring 1875.
182. Butalis sibirica Gm. (Siberian Flycatcher).-S.
133. Butalis latirostris Raffl.-D.
134. Erythrosterna luteola Pall.-D.
135. Erythrosterna albicilla Pall.-D.-'uang-
tien-k'é-rh P.

86
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIMLI WITH
136. Xanthopygia tricolor Hartl.-D.
137. Cyanoptila cyanomelaena Temm -D.-lan-
tien-kang-rh P.
The Chinese name means literally "the indigo jar;" the idea
is probably that, the plumage being indigo blue all over, the
bird looks as if it had been in a dyeing jar.
138. Tchitrea incci Gould. (Paradise-Flycatcher).-D. S.-
tsze-lien (male), pai-lien (female) P. T-
lien-ch'ich W.-to-pai-lien P. Ts.-Ch. F.-
tai-niao Sh. Ch.-to-wei-niao Sh. Ch.-shou-
tai-niao S. Ts.-hung-shou-tai P.
This beautiful bird, with elegant brownish red (male), or pure
white (female) plumage, and long tail, the two central feathers
of which exceed the body in length, arrives near Peking in May
and leaves again in September. It is not common, at least in
the neighbourhood of the capital; but is often to be bought in
the fairs from the Chinese, with whom it is a favourite cagebird.
The nomenclature of this species as given above requires
some explanation, as (not, as Williams has it) has
been identified with the red legged blue magpie, Urocissa
sinensis. (Williams' Diction., Bridgman's Chrestom.). In the
description of the lien-ch'ich given, in the Pên-ts'ao, it is said
that it has a long tail of white colour like white silken ribbon
() and that its popular name is t'o-pai-lien, i. e. the bird
which drags white silk. The latter name, a very good desigua-
tion for the long soft tail feathers of the Tehitren, occurs also
in the Chi-fu-t'ung-chih; and the present terms of the Peking
and Tientsin vernaculars, tsze-lien and pai-lien, are evidently
derived from that name. The San-ts'ai-t'u-'hui says that the
lien-ch'uch is like the shan-ch'ich (Urocissa sinensis, as
I shall show further on) but smaller, and that the popular
name is shou-tai-niao. is perhaps mistaken for silken
ribbon; in that ease shou-tai-niao would express the same ides
as t'o-pai-lien. The male Tchitrea is still called 'hung-shou-
tai in Peking. The Sheng-ching-t'ung-chih gives as synonyms
of lien-ch'üch t'o-wei-niao, i. e. the bird which drags a [long]
tail and tai-niao "ribbon bird." In all the books quoted above
ch'uch (or ch'io) is never written with the character for sparrow,
but with that for magpie , and indeed the tchitrea offers
some resemblance to the magpie; not only in general appearance
and habit, but also in its loud and chattering cry.
139. Garrulus brandti Eversm. (Siberian Jay).-D. S.-
sung-ya P.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
87
Very much like our European jay; it is very rare in the
neighbourhood of Peking, but of frequent occurence in the more
remote hills, especially in the East.
140. Urocissa sinensis L. (Chinese Blue Treepie).-D. S.-
ch'ang-i-pa-lien P.- shan-ch'ueh P. Ts.-S.
Ts.-such ibid.-shan-cho P. Ts.-
tsui-au ibid.
ch'ik-
In general appearance like a magpie with red bill and feet;
the deep black of the head and neck passes into dark blue on the
back; the wings and the long graduated tail are lighter blue
with white stripes. This elegant bird lives in wooded valleys of
the hills, and is therefore very rare near Peking, but frequently
met with in the Sishan as well as in the hills to the North and
East. Its shrill cry: pink, pink' of almost metallic sound is
relieved sometimes by chattering not unlike that of the magpie,
or a short melodious flute-like note. In the villages high up
the mountains the urocissa plays almost the part of the magpie,
crowding the groves which surround them.
As this species has been erroneously identified with the Chi-
nese lien-ch'uch, its proper Chinese names have not been correctly
explained. According to Williams, "may be the Pica vaga-
bunda(?), but it is more probably a sort of Garrulax or thrush."
The description of the hsuch or shan-ch'ich in the Pen-ts'no says
that it occurs everywhere in mountain woods; its appearance is
like that of the magpie, its colour is dark with stripes, its beak
and feet red, it cannot fly very far; it feeds on smaller birds.
The Sants'ai-t'u-'hui describes the hsich as similar to the mag-
pie, but having variegated striped plumage, red bill and red
feet. These descriptions and the drawing given in the last-
named work leave no doubt that hsüch is the Urocissa.
The use of the character in the present popular name
ch'ang-i-pa-lien has probably given rise to the erroneous identifi-
cation of lien-ch'uch with the Urocissa.
141. Nucifraga caryocatactes L. (Nutcracker).-D. S.-
Etsung-hua-rh P.
142. Pica media Blyth. (Eastern Magpie).-D. S.-1
hsi-ch'uch, ss-si-ch'uch W.-P.-T.-
fei-po-
niao P. Ts.-kan-ch'uch ibid.-shen-ni ibid.
Although the differences by which the Asiatic Magpie is distin-
guished from our home species in plumage and note are not
very great, it is now considered by Ornithologists to be a dif.
ferent species. It is the commonest bird in Peking, and one of
the small number which stay here all the year round.

88
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
The magpie is considered a bird of good omen by the Chinese,
and is therefore called hsi-ch'üeh "the propitious bird" or ssë-
hsi'ch'üeh i. e. the bird of fourfold joy. In Williams' dictionary
the name is translated "the joyous birds, so named from its
incessant bowing." But the Pên-ts'ao says: "it can announce
joy, therefore, it is called the bird of joy. 28
143. Cyanopolius cyaneus Pall. (Asiatic Blue Magpie).-D. S.
-shan-hsi-ch'uch P.-'hui-hsi-ch'uch P.
144. Corvus japonensis Bp. (Japanese Raven).-D. S.-
lao-kua (Kalgan).
This large Raven is not met with near Peking, but frequently
beyond the inner Great Wall; especially near Hsüan-'hua-fa
and Kalgan.
145. Corvus sinensis Gould. (Chinese Carrion Crow).-D. S.
-lao-kua P.-lao-kung T.
146. Corvus torquatus Less..(White necked Crow).-D. S.-
pai-po-lao-kua P.-'han-ya-rh P.-
yen-pai-tou-wu E. Y. (v. III, fol. 14, fig. 8 and fol. 20).-
當鶉 hsia-ya P. Ts. 鬼島 kuei-niao P. Ts.一白脖老公
Ts.-
pai-po-lao-kung T.
147. Frugilegus pastinator Gould. (East-Asian Rook).-D. S.
-lao-kua P.-shan-lao-kung T.
148. Lycos dauricus Pall. (Eastern Jackdaw).-D. S.-
小寒鴉兒 hsiao-"han-ya-rh P. 一舉yii,
p'i-wu E. Y. (v. III, fol. 14, fig. 2, fol. 20).
pi-chii,
149. Lycos neglectus Schleg. (Black Jackdaw).-D. S.
烏
"Closely allied to the European Jackdaw, but it has a much
smaller and slenderer bill, and no grey on the sides of the head
and neck." (Swinhoe). Very rare near Peking.
150. Fregilus graculus L. var. brachypus Swinhoe. Proc. Zool.
Soc. 1871, p. 888. (Short footed variety of the common Chough).
-D. S.-hung-tsui-ya P.-shan-eu P. Ts.-
iP. Ts.
Common in the hills; rarely seen in the plain except in winter,
when they resort to Peking in large numbers.
All species of the corvinae are included in the ancient terms
wu and ya. In the Pên-ts'ao four species are distin.
guished: first tsz'e-wu gentle or affectionate crow; small,
of uniform black colour with small bill, which returns to feed.
28
能報寫故謂之喜
20
fan-pu. This has been translated (Williams' Dictionary, p.
714) disgorge to feed their young." There is a proverb:

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
89
This is probably the Black Jackdaw, Lycos neglectus: second
鸭烏 ya-wu, also called 烏鴉 wu-ya, lao-ya, or 大嘴鴉-
tai-ya, larger than the last, with largo bill. This is probably
the common crow, including the raven and rook: third
yeu-u, pai-tou, kuei-niao or
hsia-ya, similar
to tho ya-wu, with a whito neck. This is the "Ringed Crow,"
Corvus torquatus. The Pen-ts'ao gives yen-wu and pai-tou as
two different names, but the Erh-ya writes yen-pai-tou-wu as one
name; the drawing of the bird given in the latter work is a
very fair likeness of the Corvus torquatus: fourth shan-
cor, like the ya-wu, but smaller and with red bill, - the
Chough, Fregilus graculus var. brachypus.
han-ya "cold crow" is mentioned in the Pên-ts'ao
without indication to which of the four kinds described it be-
longs; the term is now applied in Peking both to the white
necked crow and the pied Daurian Jackdaw.
'i-chi ory of the Erh-ya is according to the
drawing given of it unmistakeably the Daurian Jackdaw; the
Pen-ts'ao records the name as a synonym of wu-ya, without
mentioning to which of the four kinds it is to be referred.
151. Temenuchus dauricus Pall.-D. S.
152. Sturnus cineraceus Temm. (Eastern Starling).-D. S.-
yen-pa-ko-rh P.-kao-liang-t'ou P.
The first of these names means literally "swallow-pako; pako
is the name of the Mainah of southern China, Acridotheres
cristatellus, the above name thus justly referring to the relation
existing between the Starling and the Mainah. Yen, swallow,
is probably added to designate either the colouring or the smaller
size of the starling. The other name is perhaps given to the
bird because a yellowish spot behind the eye resembles some-
what a grain of the Kao-liang or Sorghum.
The starlings arrive in Peking in March, and are among the
carliest birds of passage in spring. Swinhoe records that they
breed in north China; but I have never observed the species
near Peking during the summer, only during a short time in
spring and autumn.
158. Fringilla montifringilla L. (Mountain Finch, Brambling).
-D. S.-yen-ch'iao-rh P.-hu-pi-rk T.
"the lamb kneels down to suck, the crow returns to feed,"
i. e. nature itself teaches filial piety. Fau-pu might therefore signify that
the birds feed their old parents in return for their being brought up by
them. The Pen-ta'no quotes
crow, as a synonym of tsz'č-wu.
hsiao-ya, i. e. the dutiful, filial

90
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
154. Chrysomitris spinus L.
huang-ch'iao-rh P.-T.
(Siskin).-D. S.-
155. Chlorospiza sinica L.-D, S.-chin-c'hih-rh P.
T. (“ Goldwing”).
156. Leucosticte brunneinucha Brandt.-D.
157. Aegiothus borealis Temm.-chu-tien-'hung P.
-Ch. F.
158. Passer montanus L. (Sparrow).-D. S.- ch'iao.-
chia-ch'iao-rh P.-T.-Sh. Ch.-Ch. F.-ma-
ch'iao-rh P.-lao-chia-tsze P.-wa-ch'iao-rh
P. Ts. Ch. F.-pin-ch'iao-rh P. Ts.
159. Coccothraustes vulgaris var japonicus T. & Schl. (Japanese
Hawfinch).-D. S.-hsi-tsui P.-Sh. Ch.-lao-
hsi-rh P. (the Pekinese nick-name for Shansi people, from which
province the bird is supposed to come).
160. Eophona melanura Gm.-D. S.-tsao-rh P.
161. Eophona personata Schl.-D. S.-wu-tung.
niao P.-la-tsui ("wax-bill," so called on account of
its yellow beak) P.-Ch. F.-Sh. Ch.-P. Ts.
The three preceding species of hawfinch are frequently kept
by the Chinese, especially the last: they are carried about on
short twigs, and trained to perform various tricks. A globule
(made of bone or ivory) is thrown in the air, the bird flies at it,
and after having caught it returns to the hand of his master.
Groups of Chinamen are often to be seen in the streets of Peking,
each carrying one or several of these clever "wutungs," and
competing against one another with their birds; frequently bets
are made. The bird very seldom misses the globule, but often
catches two in the same flight.
The hawfinches are, together with the Java Sparrow (Rice
bird), Bull finch, etc., collectively described in Chinese litera-
ture as sang-'hu or 'hu-niao. The Pên-ts'ao gives
some other names for it, viz: ch'ing-ch'iao, i. c. grey
sparrow, la-tsui-niao "wax-billed bird," chich-
ch'ih, and states that there are varieties with yellow, white,
grey, black and red bill, and that they are frequently taught
to perform tricks. La-tsui and hsi-tsui, still popular names
of the yellow beaked and the common hawfinch, are mentioned
as synonyms or varieties of the sang-hu in the Sheng-ching-
t'ung-chih. All the colours mentioned in the Pên-ts'ao occur
in the tribe of the Hawfinches and Bullfinches: the Java Spar-
rows have red, some varieties white bills, the Bullfinch a grey
one, the bill of the Eophona personata is yellow, etc.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
162. Pyrrhula griseiventris Lafr.
163. Carpodacus erythrinus Pall.-
P.-T. (male).
91
'hung-ma-liao-rh
(Eastern Bullfinch).-D. S.
51 ch'ing-ma-liao-rh P.-T. (female).
-hung-liao, ma-liao, ma-hung-liao Sh. Ch.-Ch. F.
164. Carpodacus pallasii Bp.-D. S.
165. Carpodacus davidianus M. Edw.-D.
166. Carpodacus mongolicus Swinh.-D. S.
167. Uragus sibiricus Pall.-D.
168. Lovia albiventris Swinh. (Chinese Crossbill).-D. S.-
hung-chiao-tsui, female:
male: I
chiao-tsui P.
'huang-
169. Euspiza aureola Pall. (Eastern Ortolan).-D. S.-
'huang-tan P.
170. Euspiza rutila Pall.-D. S.-tsze-pie-rh P.
171. Emberiza rustica Pall.-D. S.-hua-mei-tszě P.
172. Emberiza spodocephala Pall.-D.-ch'ing-t'ou-
rh P.
173. Emberiza elegans Temm.-D. S.-'huang-mei-
tszě P.
174. Emberiza chrysophrys Pall.-D. S.-ta-mei-rh
P-wu-tao-mei-rh P. ("five-striped-eyebrow;" re-
ferring to the yellow, black and white streak above the eyes).
175. Emberiza leucocephala Gmel.-D. S.
176. Emberiza tristrami Swinh.-D. S.
177. Emberiza castaneiceps Gould.-D.-san-tao-
mei-rh P.-Ch. Sh.-'hui-mei-tsze P.-T.
178. Emberiza pusilla Pall.-D. S.-'hu-t'ou-rh P.
("tiger's head," from the brown and black streaks on the
crown).shan-chia-ch'iao-rh T.
179. Emberiza passerina Pall.-D.
180. Schoenicola pallasii Cab. (Reed Bunting).-D.
181. Plectrophanes nivalis L. (Snow Bunting).-D.
182. Plectrophanes lapponicus L. (Lapland Bunting).-D. S.
188. Alauda arvensis L. (Skylark).-D. S.--
ta(n)-rh P.-Sh. Ch.-a-lan Ch. F.
The name is apparently intended to imitate the bird's note,
like our Alauda, Lerche, Lark; it is likewise applied to the two
following species.
184. Galerida cristata L. (Crested Lark).-D. S.-
feng-t'ou-e-la(n)-rh, feng-t'ou-rh P. féng-t'ou-niao Sh. Ch.
Feng is the male of the Phoenix, which is supposed to
have a beautiful crest; therefore fêng-t'ou occurs often in names
of birds which have a crested head.

92
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
185. Alaudula chiliensis Swinh.-D. S.
186. Melanocorypha mongolica Pall. (Mongolian Lark).-D.
S.-Pai-ling TTM, or pai-ling-rh.
Common in Mongolia, resorts to Chihli only in the winter.
It is the most highly priced cagebird throughout China; in
Peking its beautiful song is heard in every lane. The name
pai-ling meant originally the "hundred spirits" with reference
to the manifold notes of the bird; the other characters have
been formed afterwards. [A similar change is to be observed
in the name of the Antelope, ling-yang, see above].
is used as a general term for Lark and Wagtails; tho
latter are called chi-ling, the crested lark chuch-
ling. In Bridgman's Chrestomathy the name of the Skylark is
written -ling, singing lark; I do not know on what
authority. Perhaps the northern name of the Skylark, ê-larh
or êlirh has been thought to be a contraction of ê-ling. But as
I have mentioned above, this name is written fé-lan in
the Sheng-ching-t'ung-chih, and besides, ling would not be
contracted with rh; the name would be pronounced é-ling-rh,
as the name of the Mongolian lark is always pronounced pai-
ling-rh.
187. Otocorys alpestris L.-D.
188. Otocorys sibirica Eversmann.-D. S.
189. Picus mandarinus Gould. (Chinese Pied Woodpecker.
-S-hsiang-pen-ta-mu P.
This species, although not mentioned by David, and Gecinus
canus are the commonest woodpeckers near Peking. All other
species mentioned below are rare and confined to the hills.
All woodpeckers are called pên-ta-mu (pen-terh-mu) in Peking;
the general term for them in books is cho-mu-niao, of
which cho-mu and lich are synonyms. The Erh-ya
gives under this heading a fair representation of a pied wood.
pecker.
190. Yungipicus scintilliceps Swinh.-D. S.
191. Hypopicus poliopsis Swinh.-D. S.
192. Dryocopus martius L.
This must be the
ya of the Pên-ts'ao, which is
pecker with a red crown.
(Black Woodpecker).-S.
193. Gecinus canus Gmel.
Tch'on-pen-ta-mu,
shan-cho-mu orta-lao-
described as a large black wood-
(Green Woodpecker).-D. S.-
Thua-pen-ta-mu P.
194. Yuna japonica Bp. (Eastern Wryneck).-D.-
she-p'i-niao P.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
195. Cuculus canorus L. (Common Cuckoo).-D. S.-
k'o-ku P.-shih-chiu P. Ts.-chia-chi,
ku, ko-kung, pu-ku ibid.
98
ho-
Shih-chiu has been explained as a kind of woodpigeon or
turtledove (Bridgman's Chrestomathy, Williams' Dictionary;
Watters, Chinese Notions of Pigeons and Doves in Journ. of N.
Ch. Br. of R. As. Soc. 1867). But the description points ovi-
dently to the Cuckoo; more especially the mention of the habit
of that bird of not building nests, but laying its eggs in the nests
of other birds would not admit of any other identification.
Besides, Mr. Swinhoe asserts that chia-chi is still used in the
south to designate the Cuckoo.
196. Cuculus striatus Drapiez. (Striped Cuckoo).-S.
197. Cuculus indicus Cabanis.- 'hua-ko-ku P. ("Va-
riegated Cuckoo").
A specimen of cuckoo shot near Poking in July 1875 and
sent to Berlin, was identified with Cuculus indicus by Mr.
Cabanis.
198. Columba livia Briss. (Rock Pigeon).-D. S.- F
yeh-ko-tszě P.
199. Columba rupestris Bp.-D. S.
200. Turtur rupicola Pall. (Eastern Turtledove).-D.-JE N
pan-chiu P.
201. Turtur risorius L. (Barbary Dove).-D. S.
202. Syrrhaptes paradoxus Pall. (Sand Grouse).-D. S.-
sha-chi P.-T.-Ch. F.-Sh. Ch.- t'o-chiu E. Y.
-P. Ts. Sh. Ch.-Ch. F.-tu-chüch-ch'iao (Turks'
bird) P. Ts.- l'ou-chih (rebels' pheasant) E. Y.-P. Ts.
This grouse characterised by very low feet which are covered
down to the nails with thin hairlike feathers, and are destitute
of hindclaws, and with two long and pointed central feathers in
the tail, is common on the steppes of Mongolia and Siberia;
but resorts to northern Chihli in winter. It is renowned for its
long migrations, probably caused by extremely cold winters; in
1861 it was common all over the plain of Chihli, whilst during
my stay in Peking from 1873 to 1876, I have only seen one
specimen, shot in February in outer Chihli. 30
The species long ago attracted the notice of the Chinoso,
as it can be seen from the following description of the t'o-chiu
in the Erh-ya: "The t'o-chiu is as large as a pigeon, resembles
30
In 1863 the Syrrhaptes came in great numbers to Europe, and in
Germany, the "Stoppenhuhn" or Grouse of the Stoppes as it was called,
was common during the winter all over the northern plains.

94 THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
a female pheasant, has feet like a rat, no hindelaws, a bicus-
pidato tail; it is stupid and flies in large flocks."
The Pên-ts'ao repeats this description, and adds tu-chüch-
ch'iao as another name of the same bird. This name, "bird of
the Tu-chüch," and K'ou-chih, "rebels' pheasant," are referred
to the superstitious belief that the arrival of great flocks of the
syrrhaptes from the country of rebellious tribes indicated the
approach of the rebels. The Pen-ta'ao quotes a passage from
tho (History of the Tang Dynasty) "At the time of
Kao-tsung when the Tu-chüch invaded the country, flocks of
the syrrhaptes also passed the frontier; the people on the
frontier wero frightened, and said: these birds are called
Turks' birds and fly towards the south, the Turks will certainly
invade our country.' And so it really happened."
The present popular namo is sha-chi "sand-chicken," which
term is identified with t'o-chin both in the Sheng-ching-t'ung.
chih and Chi-fu-t'ung-chih. Abbé Hue mentions in his Travels
that syrrhaptes was called lung-kiao "dragon-foot," by the
Chinese in Mongolia.
203. Phasianus torquatus Gmel. (Ringed Pheasant)-D. S.
-ych-chi P. T-shan-chi P.- chik W. H.
Still common in Chihli, though not in the close neighbour.
hood of the capital. Some have been shot on the hills near
the Summer Palace, but the grounds where pheasants are still
plentiful, commenco only at about two days' journey from Pe
king. The best shooting is to be had in the hills to the north.
204. Syrmaticus reevesii Gray. (Reeve's or Longtailed Phea-
sant).-D. S.- chih-chi P.- E shan-chih,
chi, ti-chi, or ti-chik P. Ts.
shan
This magnificent pheasant has, as far as I know, never been
shot by Europeans within the province of Chihli, but a fow are
generally brought to Peking in winter, probably from tho south-
western hills. It is of more frequent occurronco in Shansi,
Shensi and Sse-ch'uan.
205. Pucrasia xanthospila Gray.-D.
206. Crossoptilon mantchuricum Swinh.
(Hoki Pheasant).-
D. S.-ho-chi P.-P. Ts.-Sh. Ch. Ch. F.-
'hei-chi Sh. Ch.- 'hei-chih P. Ts.- chich P. Ts.
--
The genus Crossoptilon or Eared Pheasant, which is peculiar
to north China, Manchuria and eastern Central Asia, is at once.
distinguishable by its largo size, brond bushy tail and the
whito tufts of feathers on both sides of the rod face. There
are three or four species known: first, Crossoptilon auritum,
already described as Phasianus auritus by the Russian Natu-

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
95
ralist Pallas in the last century. In the succeeding period the
knowledge of its habitat had been lost, but P. David discovered
the species again in Kokonor. He took it for a now species
and described it as Crossoptilon caerulescens, but the identity
with Phasianus auritus Pall. has since been pointed out. (cf.
Swinhoo Proc. Zool. Soc. 1871, p, 899). The second species is
Crossoptilon dronynii Milne-Edwards, discovered by David on
the eastern frontiers of Tibet, perhaps the same as Crossoptilon
tibetanum Hodgson. The third species is spread over north
China and Manchuria. It was at first also taken for Phasianus
auritus Pall., but is justly described as a new species, Cr. man-
tehuricum, by Swinhoe (Proc. Zool. Soc. 1862, p. 287). It is
a fine bird; nearly as large as a turkey, with dark blue almost
black plumage, with which the bushy greyish white tail, the
white tufts on the head, the red face and red legs contrast
beautifully.
The Crossoptilon lives on wooded hills, and is for that reason
very rare near Poking. The nearest place where they are to
be found, is the country round the coal mines of Chaitang, west
of Peking; from those hills which are still well wooded, P.
David got his first specimens. The Crossoptilon is of more
frequent occurrence in the north, in the part of Chihli outside
of the Great Wall and towards Manchuria; European sports-
man havo several times succeeded there in bagging this remark-
able game bird.
There is no difficulty in tracing out the name of this species
in Chinese literature; the present popular name, 'ho-chi ('ho-ki)
is the same as in the books; and comparing the de-
scription of this as given in the Pên-ts'ao or Sants'ai-t'u-'hui
one cannot but wonder why Williams explains it as "a variety
of Reeves' pheasant, Phasianus superbus." The Pên-ts'ao says
that it is like a pheasant but larger, of yellow and black colour,
and has horns of feathers (10) on the head, and gives 'hei-
chih "black pheasant" as a synonymous appellation.
207. Perdix barbata J. Verr. & Desm. (Grey Partridge).-D.
-pan-ch'ih ("half winged") P.-sha-chi P.
Common on the baro hills northwest of Peking, especially
beyond the inner branch of the Great Wall.
208. Caccabis chukar var. pubescens Swinh. (Chinese variety
of the Himalayan Chukar Partridge).-D. S.-shih-chi
P.-Sh. Ch. or shih-chi-ts: P.
Common in the hills near Peking.
Partridges are designated in the books by ché-ku or
yüich-chih.

96
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
209. Tetrastes bonasia L. (Hazelhen, Hazelgrouse.-D.-
sung-chi P.
The European Hazelgrouse (Haselhuhn), which is common
all over Siberia to the Amur, has been observed by David in
northern Chihli. Specimens are sold in Peking occasionally;
some are said to be kept in the Nan-'hai-tszě.
210. Tetrao urogalloides Pall. (Siberian Capercailzio).-D.
Observed by David in northern Chihli.
211. Coturnix communis Bonn. (Quail).-D. S.-an-
ch'un.
212. Hemipodius viciarius Swinhoo.-shui-an-ch'un P.
213. Otis tarda L. (Bustard).-D.-ti-pu P.-Sh. Ch.
-pao P. T.-tu-pao ibid.
The Great Bustard is getting very rare now in Chihli. In
1860 and 1861 foreigners used to have very good sport after
this bird near Tientsin; and in the later years specimens were
often sold at the markets, but during the last years I have never
seen a single one either in Peking or in Tientsin. The natives,
however, asserted that there are bustards still in the northeast
of the province.
214. Grus cinerea Bechst. (Common Crane).-D.-
'hui-'hao P.-Sh. Ch.-Ch. F.- ch'ing-hao P.
215. Grus monachus Tomm.-D.-hsian-'hao P. Ts.
216. Grus leucauchen Tomm.-D.
This greyish white crane with red legs, which occurs in Japan,
Amurland, Siberia and Mongolia, has been observed by David
near Süan-'hua-fu, together with the preceding and following
species.
217. Grus viridirostris Vicill. (White Crane).-D. S.-1
hsien-'hao P.-pai-'hao P.-Sh. Ch.-Ch. F.-'hao,
flhsien-ch'in, t'ai-ch'in W. H.
This beautiful whito crane with black wings and a red crown
is sometimes brought alive to market for sale at Poking, but it
is doubtful whether those specimens were caught within Chihli
or perhaps brought from Liaotung.
218. Grus virgo L.-D.
Breeds in Mongolia, and has been seen in the north-western
part of Chibli.
219. Glareola orientalis Lath. (Swallow Plover).-D. S.-
ttu-yen-tsze T. ("ground swallow").
Common near Tientsin in summer; the Chinese name justly
refers to the swallow like appearance of the bird and to its habit
of nesting in the ground.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
97
220. Vanellus cristatus Mey. & Wolf. (Peewit, Lapwing).-D.
-wa-tsze P.- shui-chi P.-T.
221. Chettusia cinerea Blyth. (Grey Lapwing).-D. S.
222. Squatarola helvetica L.-D.
223. Charadrius fulvus Gm. (Golden Plover).-D. S.-
chin-pei-tszě T.
Rare at Peking; uncommon round Tientsin in spring.
224. Eudromias veredus Gould.-D..
225. Aegialites mongolus Pall. (Mongolian Plover).-
ch'iao-rh-cha T. ("sparrow-plover").
This little redbreasted plover occurs near Tientsin in spring;
it is not mentioned by David.
cha (in Tientsin tsa) or shui-cha is now in Tientsin a
general name for smaller water-birds, including snipe, plovers,
sandpipers, redshanks and the like. In the books shui-cha de-
signates the snipes.
226. Aegialites hartingi Swinh. (Chinese Ringed Plover).-D.
227. Aegialites cantianus Lath. (Kentish Plover).-D.
228. Aegialites hiaticula L. (European Ringed Plover).-D.
229. Aegialites dubius Scop. (Sand Plover).-D. S.
230. Haematopus osculans Swinh. (Chinese Oystercatcher).
-D. S.
231. Recurvirostra avocetta L. (Avoset).-D.
232. Himantopus candidus Bonn. (Long-legged Plover).-D.
Để t ng ch 'ang-tri-nang-sse T.
Only one seen by P. David at Peking; I got several speci-
mens at Tientsin in May 1876.
233. Totanus glottis L. (Greenshank).-D.
284. Totanus fuscus L. ("Spotted Snipe ").-D. S.
235. Totanus calidris L. (Redshank).-D. S.-I
’hung-t’ui-cha T.
236. Totanus glareola L. (Wood Sandpiper).-D. S.
237. Totanus ochropus L. (Green Sandpiper).-D. S.
238. Totanus incanus Vieill.-D. S.
239. Tringoides hypoleucus L.-D. S.
240. Terekia cinerea Gmel.-S.
241. Limosa uropygialis Gould. (Eastern Godwit).-D.
242. Limosa brevipes G. R. Gray.-D.
243. Pseudoscolopax semipalmatus Jerdon. (Snipe-billed God-
wit).-S.
244. Scolopax rusticola L. (Woodcock).-D. S.-***
ta-shui-cha T.
245. Gallinago solitaria Hodgs.-D.

98
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
246. Gallinago megala Swinh. (Eastern Great Snipe, "Double
Snipe ").-D. S.
247. Gallinago horsfieldi Gray.-D. S.
248. Gallinago scolopacina Bp. (Common Snipe).-D. S.-
shui-chi-rh P.-shui-cha P. T.-(also applied
to the two preceding species).- an-ch'un-tsa T. ("Quail-
Snipe").
249. Limnocryptes gallinula L.-D.
250. Rhynchaca bengalensis L. (Painted Suipe).-D. S.
251. Tringa tenuirostris Horsf.-D. S.
252. Tringa canutus D. (Knot).-D.
253. Tringa damacensis Horsf.-D. S.
+254. Tringa salina Pall.
This "Little Stint," the eastern representative of Tringa
minuta of Europe, has not previously been recorded as forming
part of the Fauna Pekinensis. It arrives with the snipe in
spring, and is not uncommon on the marshes near Peking.
255. Tringa subarcuata L.-D. S.
256. Tringa cinclus var. chinensis Gray.-D. S.
257. Tringa temminckii Leisl.-D. S."
258. Numenius phaeopus L. (Whimbrel).-D. S.-J.
hsiao-kou-lou-rh T. perk-perk-kou-lou-rh T. (perhaps to be written
511, both kou-lou-rh and perh-perh are imitations
of the cry of the curlews).
259. Numenius tahitiensis Gmel. (Eastern Curlew).-D. S.-
kou-lou-rh T.-chang-chi P.
260. Ibidorhynchus Struthersi Vig.-D.
261. Ibis nippon Temm. & Schl. (Japanese Ibis).-D.
262. Tantalus leucocephalus Gmel.-D.
263. Ciconia alba L. (Common Stork).-D.-kuan,
pai-kuan P. Ts.-? ch'ing-chiu P.
The stork resorts to Chihli but occasionally; P. David saw it
once near Taku, and I have only once seen a small flock near
Peking in summer 1875.
The Chinese name kuan has been identified by Swinboe
(Birds and Beasts of Formosa, Journ. N. Ch. Br. R. As. Soe.
1865), and Williams with the Heron; and it is very probable
that, the stork not occurring in southern China, the term is
applied there to the different species of Ardea, but in the books,
at least in the Pên-ts'ao, kuan designates undoubtedly the stork.
The description given by Li-shih-chên says: "The kuan is
like the crane but the crown of the head is not red; the neck is
long, the bill red, the plumage is ashen grey and white, the
wings and tail quite black. It nests mostly on high trees."

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
99
Another author, quoted in the Pên-ts'ao, says that the kuan
does not cry, but produces a noise by flapping the bill together,
and that it chiefly nests on roofs.
The Tien-ching-fu-chih quotes a passage from the ***
about the kuan in which it is described as being like the
crane but without a red crown, having red legs and nesting
on high trees or on roofs. These notes mention all the well
known peculiarities of the stork: its clattering noise, its nesting
on roofs and trees, its red bill and feet. The name kuan is not
in general use now at Peking, but in the hills the people called
the black stork hei-kuan, and told me there was a pai-kuan which
was very rarely seen, and which according to their description
unmistakably was the common stork.
In Peking the stork is sometimes called ch'ing-chia, the grey
heron 'hui-chiu, the egret pai-chiu; I have not been able to find
out the meaning of chiu (in the third tone) nor was any Chinese
able to write the proper character for it.
264. Ciconia nigra L. (Black Stork).-D.-wu-kuan
yang-wu P. Ts.-hei-kuan P.
The black stork is less uncommon in Chihli than the white
stork. P. David mentions that it nests on rocks in the moun-
tains near Peking; I saw it myself several times in the western
hills in summer.
265. Ardea cinerea L. (Common Heron).-D. S.-
ch'ing-chuang P.-Ch. F.-Sh. Ch.- ch'ing-chang Sh. Ch.
hsin-t'ien-yüan ibid.-wa-tsze T.
The present popular name of the common heron ch'ing-chuang,
i. e. the grey serious sc. bird, occurs in the Chifu-t'ung-chih
and Shông-ching-t'ung-chih; in the latter work this name is
identified with ch'ing-chang and haien-t'ien-yuan (i. e. the bird
which confides in providence. The Pên-ts'no records hsin-t'ien-
yuan, to which ching-chuan is added as a synonym, after the
description of the Pelican (b. 47, f. 5). The name is said to be
given because the bird stands the whole day immoveable near
the water, and waits till a fish passes by. This would very well
agree with the habits of the heron; but that the heron should
be classed with the pelican, would appear strange even in a
Chinese zoological system. It is doubtful, therefore, whether
these names have the same signification in the Pen-ts'ao as
they have now.
The Chifu-t'ung-chih on the other hand identifies ch'ing-
chuang with chiao-ching. Of this the Pên-ts'ao gives the
following description: "The chiao-ching is as large as a duck
but has long legs and a long bill, it is fond of pecking; on the

100
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
crown it has a red tuft. The plumage is spotted with green,
the bill red, the legs grey (F), it can be trained to perform
tricks." The drawing of the chiao-ching is not unlike a heron,
but the description does not seem to admit this identification.
266. Ardea purpurea L.-D.-tien-kuo-niao T.-
hua-wa-tsze T.
Passes Tientsin in spring and autumn.
267. Egretta modesta Gray. (Eastern Egret).-D. S.-
pai-chuang P.-lu-sse P. Ts.-S. Ts.-Sh. Ch.-Ch. F.-
pai-lu E. Y.-P. Ts.-sse-ch'in P. Ts.-
hsuch-k'o ibid.-pai-niao ibid.-ch'un-ch'u E. Y.-
P. Ts. (i. e. the bird which arrives at the time of the spring
hoeing).-pai-chiu P.-pai-wa-tszě T.
268. Garzetta egretta Briss. (Little Egret).-D.-N7
pai-shuang-wa-tarẻ T.- chu-yü P. Ts.
The popular term wa-tsze, applied in Peking to the peewit,
means probably "marsh bird," and would best be written as
above. In Tientsin it is applied to several birds of the Heron
tribe.
269. Nyctiardea nycticorax L. (Night Heron).-D. S.-
'hui-wa-tsze T.
270. Botaurus stellaris L. (Bittern).-D. S.-
shui-
lo-t'o P. Ts. (i. e. water camel, from the peculiar cry of the
bittern which presents some resemblance to that of a camel).
271. Ardetta cinnamomea Gmel. (Little Bittern).-
hsiao-shui-lo-t'o P.-(?) kén-chi-tsze P.-shui-
chi-tszě T.
Near Peking and Tientsin in summer.
272. Ardetta sinensis Gmel.-D. S.-Chinese names the same
as those of the last species.
Common near Peking and Tientsin in summer.
278. Gallinula chloropus L. (Moorhen).-D. S.
274. Porzana erythrothorax Temm. & Schl.-D.
275. Porzana pygmaea Naum. (Little Crake).-D. S.
276. Rallus indicus Blyth. (Asiatic Water Rail).-D. S.
277. Fulica atra L. (Coot).-D. S.-Au-ting-chi
P.-T.-Sh. Ch.-T ku-ting (T'ien-chin-fu-chih).
ku "orphan "has evidently been chosen merely to express
the sound of the popular name. Ku ought perhaps to be written
i. e. swollen, tumid; ku-ting-chi would then signify "tumid-
crowned hen," thus justly describing the white fleshy excrescence
on the head of the coot.

部交外
NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURES
278. Podiceps philippensis Bonn. (Eastern Little Grebe
D. S.-'huang-pei-ya P
279. Mergellus albellus L. (Smew).-D. S.
280. Mergus serrator L.-D. S.
281. Mergus castor L.-D.
282. Cygnus musicus Bechst.-D.
283. Cygnus minor Pall.-D.
101
酵
284. Cygnus davidi Swinh. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1870, p. 480.-D.
-Of this little white swan with orange-red bill and legs only
one specimen is known, which P. David obtained in the market
of Tientsin; it is preserved in the collection of the Roman
Catholic Mission at Peking.
All swans are called t'ien-, of which ku is a syno-
nym. In the Pên-ts'ao several species are distinguished: the
ta-chin-t'ou-e "great golden-headed swan," hsiao-
chin-t'ou- little golden-headed swan," Jhsiao-"hua-é
"little variegated swan."
285. Anser segetum var. serrirostris Gould. (Bean Goose).-D.
286. Anser albifrons Gmel.-D.
287. Anser eygnoides L.-D.
Wild Geese are yen or
hung in Chinese; in Peking
they are called ta-yen or ta-yen, -rh.
288. Anas boschas L. (Mallard).-D.-fu, Fyel-ya,
yeh-mu, shih, ch'en-fu W. H. (wild duck in
general)-Dil-t'ou-ya P. Ta.-Sh. Ch.-P.-*
shui-ya-tsze P.-hung-chiao-ya-rh P. ("red footed
duck")-ta-hung-t'ui-ya P.
289. Anas zonorhyncha Swinh.-D. S.
290. Tadorna cornuta Gmel. (Sheldrake).-D.-kuan-
ya T.-kuan-fu P. Ta..
Tientsin in spring.
+291. Casarca rutila Pall.-
'huang-ya P.
Peking and Tientsin in spring, very rare.
292. Spatula clypeata L. (Shoveller).-D.-pi-
pa-tsui-ya T. ("guitar-shape-billed duck").
Rare near Peking, common near Tientsin in spring.
293. Dafila acuta L. (Pintailed Duck).-D. S.-
ch'ien-wei-ya P.-Sh. Ch.-P. Ts.
294. Mareca penelope L. (Widgeon).-D.
+295. Cyanopterus querquedula L.-pai-mei-ya P.
("white-eyebrowed duck").
Not mentioned by Swinhoe or David as occurring in China;
I obtained one specimen at Peking in spring 1874.

102
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
296. Querquedula crecca L.
hsiao-shui-ya-rh P.-T.-
(Teal).-D. S.-J
hsiao-pa-ya P.-T.-
'huang-lien-ya P. ("yellow faced duck")-VE PT SL ni-kua-
ta-rh P. (i. e. the duck which gaggles in the mud).
297. Aix galericulata L. (Mandarin Duck).-D. S.-#
yuan-yang.
298. Eunetta formosa Georgi. (Anns glocitans Pall).-D. S.
-hua-lien-ya P.
299. Eunetta falcata Pall.-D. S.-Xlo-wên-ya T.
(i. e. the duck striped like network).
300. Harelda glacialis L.
Taku (David).
301. Fulia cristata L. (Tufted Duck, Scaup).-D.-
feng-t'ou-ya-tszě P.
302. Phalacrocorax carbo L. (Cormorant).-D. S.-
lu-tsz, shui-lao-ya (water crow "31) W. H...
303. Pelecanus philippensis Gmel. (Pelican).-D.
+304. Pelecanus rufescens.-I bought two specimens of a Pelican
at Peking in 1874, which were determined as P. rufescens at
Berlin.
The pelicans are called
805. Larus niveus Pall.-D.
t'ao-'ho in Chinese.
806. Larus crassirostris Vieill.-D.
307. Larus cachinnans Pall.-D. S.
808. Larus occidentalis Aud.
809. Chroicocephalus brunneicephalus Jerdon.-D.
310. Xema kittlitzii Licht.-D.
311. Sylochelidon caspia Pall.-S.
812. Hydrochelidon nigra L. (Black Tern).-D. S.-
Fhei-t'ou-ying-tszě T.
Fy-ying-tszě "fishhawk" is a general term for terns
at Peking and Tientsin, especially applied to the common tern. In
forming special names for the different species yü is often omitted.
313. Sterna hirundo L. (Common Tern).-S.-yü-ying-tsze
P.-T.
814. Sterna fuliginosa Temm.-D.
315. Sternula minuta L. (Lesser Tern).-D. S.-T
'huang-tsui-ying-tszě T.
+316. Diomedea albatrus Pall.-'hai-e.
Seen near Taku.
31
"Water Crow" corresponds to the European terms of the Cormorant.
German: wasserrabe, seerabe, French: cormoran, contracted from the Latin
corvus marinus, i, e. sea raven.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
III. REPTILES.
103
1. Clemmys reevesi Gray Syn. Rept. p. 73, Cat. of Shield
Rept. p. 18, t. V.-Strauch, Verth. d. Schildkröten über d.
Erdball St. Peterb. 1865, p. 65.-Emys sinensis. David Rens.
p. 228. kuei.
A small marsh tortoise peculiar to China, where it has been
found in various provinces. I am not aware of its occurrences
near Peking, but it is not uncommon at Tientsin.
2. Trionya sinensis Wiegmann Nov. Act. Acad. Leop. XVII,
p. 189. Strauch, Verth. Schildkr. p. 129. (=T. Schlegelii
Brandt, T. japonicus Schlegel, T. perocellatus Gray, T. tuber-
culatus Cantor, teste Strauch).-Gymnopus perocellatus. David
Rens. p. 228.-chia-yü P.-T.-pich, t'uan-yü
P. Ts.
The genus trionyx, of which there are several species known
from Africa, America and India, is distinguished by the soft
cartilaginous covering of the body, the protracted nose like a
short proboscis and the very long neck. In China, "Snapping
Turtles" occur in all provinces, which have been described as
different species under the above names. One of the best
authorities on shield reptiles, Dr. Strauch of St. Petersburg,
considers not only all the Chinese forms to belong to the same
species, but also to be identical with the Japanese trionyx.
The Chinese trionyx is common in the rivers of Chihli, even
in the small streams near Peking; it often reaches one foot in
length, without the neck.
The Chinese call it at present chia-yü, "scaly fish ;" its book-
name is pieh or t'uan-yü "lump fish." The description of
the pieh unmistakeably points to the trionyx: "The pieh is a
scaly animal, which lives in the water but is bred on land. Its
spine and ribs are connected like those of a turtle, but it has
on all sides a fleshy rim. Therefore it is said the turtle (kuei) has
the flesh within the shell, the pieh the shell within the flesh.'"32
3. Eremias argus Peters Monatsber. Berlin Acad. 1869, p.
61, f. 8.-Steindachner Sitz. Ber. Wien. Acad. LXII. 1. p. 336,
t. II, f. 1, 2.-Swinhoe Proc. Zool. Soc. 1870, p. 410.-Er.
variabilis David Rens. 1. c. p. 227.-Podarces argus (Peters).
Strauch in Prshevalski's Mongolia and the country of the
Tanguts II (1876) p. 32.-ma-she-tszě P.
Pên-ts'ao-kang-mu B. 45, f. 12:
Why Williams translates pich by Sea Turtle, is not easily conceived; all
turtles are kuci, and there is no species of the Chelonae in the Chinese
waters without a hard covering.

104 THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
The common lizard of the cultivated fields about Peking,
especially near the hills. The same species has been found
around Chefoo, in Mongolia and in the Ortous country. How
far it ranges to the south is not known yet.
4. Phrynocephalus caudicoleulus.-David Rens. 1. c. p. 227.
All lizards are called 石龍子 shih-lung-tszě or 山龍子
shan-lung-tszě in the books.
5. Gecko japonicus Dum. & Bibr. (Japanese Gecko).-
shou-kung P.Ts.-pi-kung,
壁虎
(grub tiger"), Eyen-t'ien ibid.
Common in Chihli and all over China.
pi-'hu, 'ho-'hu
蝎虎
6. Elaphis taeniurus Cope.-Günther Rept. of Brit. India, p.
242.-Swinhoe Proc. Zool. Soc. 1870, p. 410.
This snake had formerly been observed at Shanghai and
Ningpo; I captured a very large specimen in the monastery of
Ta-chio-sse, northwest of Peking, which measured about 7 feet.
7. Elaphis dione Pall.-Strauch, Schlangen des Russ. Reich.,
p. 82. Prehevalski's Mongolia II, p. 46.-David, Rens. 1. c.
p. 227. huang-ch'ang-ch'ung P.
The commonest snake near Peking, and very variable in
colouring. I got a specimen also from Manchuria. It is com-
mon in Mongolia and Siberia.
8. Coluber mandarinus Cantor.-
riegated girdle ").-T.
'hua-tai-tsze (“va-
A black water snake with orange-red marks.
9. Tropidonotus tigrinus Russel.-Amphiesma tigrinum David,
Rens. 1. c. p. 227.-
yeh-chi-po ("pheasant's neck ")
P.− Đề thi ching-chang-chung P.
North China and Japan. Greyish olive green with red marks
on the neck, and black spots on the sides.
10. Masticophis spinalis Ptrs. Monatsh. Berl. Acad. 1866,
p. 91. Strauch in Prshovalski's Mongolia II, p. 46 (Zamenis).
This pretty snake, brownish black with bright yellow marks,
had been described by Professor Peters some time ago, but the
habitat of the species was hitherto unknown. I discovered it
in the western hills near Peking. Prshevalski found it on the
Alashan mountains in Mongolia.
11. Halys blomhoffii Schlegel.-Günther Rept. of India, p.
393.-Swinhoe Proc. Zool. Soc. 1870, p. 412.-Trigonocephalus
blomhoffii Strauch in Prshevalski's Mongolia II, p. 52. David,
Rens. 1. c. pp. 227-228.
This spotted brown viper has been observed in Japan, For-
mosa, Mongolia, Sse-chu'an and Kiangsi; it is the only venemous
snake in north China. Near Peking it is not of frequent occur.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
105
部病
of Chihli I
have come across only two specimens. A very fine one was
captured near the temples of Patach'u by gentlemen of the
British Legation in 1875.
renee, and during all my rambles through the hits ?
The Chinese dread this viper very much and callit
fai-shang-ts'ao i. e. the snake which flits on the grass, or
ch'i-ts'un-taze i. e. the snake of seven inches.
E
12. Rana reinhardti Peters. (Edible Frog).-tien-chi
(field chicken ") P.-P. Ts.wa W.-ching-chi
(green chicken") P. Ts.-tso-yü ("sitting fish") ibid.
hsia-yi ibid.
The edible frog of Peking was determined as R. reinhardti
by Professor Peters. Besides this species there occurs another
forog in the waters of Chihli, very much like our common frog,
FR. temporaria; which, however, I cannot properly classify, the
mecessary literature not being at my disposal.
13. Hoplobatrachus davidi A. Dum.-David, Rens. 1. c. p. 227.
14. Bufo vulgaris Lat. (Common Toad)-ha-ma,
lai-ha-ma.
Ha-ma has often been translated by frog (e. g. by Williams,
Morrison), but it is always applied to the toad in Peking. In
the books, at least in the Pên-ts'ao, 'ha-ma or hsia-ma means
ocertainly the toad, not the frog. Frogs are called wa or t'ien-
echi in Wen-'hua as well as in Su-'hua.
IV. FISHES.
The subjoined list embraces only the fresh-water fishes of the
province; I have had no opportunity yet of studying the marine
Fauna. The scientific nomenclature will be found imperfect in
many instances; the only literature available for me consist-
ed, besides some general books of reference, of Basilewski's
Ichthyographia Chinae borealis and Bleeker's Mémoire sur les
Cyprinoides de la Chino (Amsterdam 1871).
1. Siniperca Chua-tsi (Basilewski).-Perca Chua-tsi. Bas.
Lc. p. 218, t. I, f. 1.-
'hua-chi-yü P.
This peculiarly coloured perch, called "Mandarin Fish" by
foreigners, is very common in the fish markets of Peking and
Tientsin.
2. Siniperca chuan-tsi (Bas.)-Perca chuan-tsi. Bas. 1. c. p.
218, t. II, f. 1.-huang-chi-yü P.

106 THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
The perches of variegated colouring are described in the Pên-
ts'no as kuei-yü (chich-yu) or chi-yü,
shih-kuei-yi.
The character
identified with
is not mentioned in the Pên-ts'ao, but it is
in the Tien-ching-fu-chih.
3. Labrax luyu Basil. (Chinese Sea perch).-Labrax ly-iuy
Basilewski 1. c. p. 219.-lu-yü P.-T.-W.
The Labrax, although a marine fish, comes up the river as
far as Tientsin; I have seen myself fresh lu-yü caught in the
Pai-'ho. The Pên-ts'ao-kang-mu asserts that it occurs in the
Sung-kiang T, the upper Wusung river], and does not
mention at all that it is found in the sea. The description
is too short and insignificant to make it at all sure that the
lu-yü of the Pen-ts'ao is the same as the lu-yi of the colloquial
language; but the fact that the different species of labrax aro
called lu-yü in Canton as well as in the north renders this
identification very probable. Besides, Li-shih-chên says that
the species of the Sung-kiang is like a perch (5) of white
colour with black spots. It would be very interesting if
European naturalists could ascertain whether there lives in the
Sung-kiang a kind of spotted fish which does not exist in other
Chinese waters.
4. Ophiocephalus argus Cantor.-Ophioc. pekinensis. Basil. l. c.
p. 225, t. XI, f. 3.-'hei-yi P. ("black fish ")-
li-yü P. Ts.-li-yu, 'hei-li, hsüan-li, wu-li,
tung-yu, wén-yü ibid.
The Chinese Ophiocephalus or Snakefish, for the first time
discovered by Cautor on the inland of Chusan, has afterwards
been observed all over China, and is common in the rivers of
Chibli.
Williams justly identifies the li-yi of Chinese literature with
the Ophiocephalus; I subjoin the description given in the Pên-
ts'ao-kang-mu which is remarkable for its correctness: "The
body is long, head and tail round, the scales fine, the colour
black (); it has spots and variegated stripes (有斑點花文),
and is somewhat like a snake, it has a tongue and teeth, and a
stout back and belly; the dorsal fin is connected with the caudal
one, the latter is not forked."
5. Polyacanthus opercularis (L.)
A small species of the Labyrinthici which I discovered in the
small rivulet formed by the discharge of the hot spring of Wen-
ch'üan-sse north-west of Peking. The same fish occurs in the
waters near the hot springs of T'ang-shau. It has not yet been
observed in other localities of the province.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
6. Gasterosteus sinensis.-David, Rens. 1. c. p. 227.
107
A new species of stickleback discovered by David, of which I have
nnot been able to obtain specimens or to ascertain a Chinese name.
7. Salmo sp. an nova?
Neither Basilewski nor David mention the occurrence of a trout
iin Chihli, and I have not myself been able to discover a species
oof salmonidae in the rivers of our province. In autumn 1875,
hhowever, Mr. E. L. B. Allen of H. B. M.'s Consular service brought
mme kindly a specimen of trout which he caught during a sport-
iing expedition to the northern part of Chihli. Although not
ffull grown and not very well preserved, the fish was unmistakably
Strout, of reddish grey colour with small black spots. Mr.
AAllen told me that the species lives in great numbers in a river
inn outer Chihli, about four or five days' journey north of Peking,
Hprobably an affluent of the Luan-'ho, and that he has seen
Especimens of one foot and a half in length. Whether this trout,
wwhich does not agree with any of the European trouts I know,
is a species hitherto undescribed, or perhaps identical with a
#trout already known from Manchuria or the Amoorland; I am
Inot prepared to decide.
The Chinese call the trout 'hua-yü, i. e. variegated
(or spotted) fish.
8. Silurus asotus L. (Sheatfish).-Basil. 1. c. p. 241, t. III,
f. 4.-nien-yü P.-T.-P. Ts.- t'i-yi P. Ts.-
yen-yu ibid.
Common, up to five feet in length.
9. Pseudobagrus fulvidraco Richardson.-Silurus calvarius
Basil. 1. c. p. 241, t. IX, f. 1.-ka-yü or ka-rh-yü P. (imi-
tation of the curious creaking sound this fish produces).-M
huang-sang-yu (yellowforeheaded-fish).-
'huang-
chang-yü,
huang-chia-yü (yellow-cheeked fish.- BL
yang-ya, L'huang-ya P. Ts.
A kind of sheatfish, peculiar to China, greenish brown above
and bright yellow underneath. It is smaller than the common
sheatfish, but sometimes attains the length of three feet.
The above quoted booknames have been otherwise explained
as the "Goby" (Williams' Dictionary p. 1068), but it is clearly
seen from the following description that our species is meant:
"The 'huang-sang-yü is a fish without scales, the body and tail
like a small sheatfish (nien-yu), the underparts are yellow, the
back greenish yellow (). On the gills there are two
transverse bones (? 33); the two cirri have. It swims
* 兩有胃
腮下有二橫骨
34

THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
108
in flocks, it makes a noise like ya-ya35. It has a very tenacious
life." (Pên-ts'ao b. 44, f. 15).
10. Misgurnus anguillicaudatus Günth. (Chinese Loach).-
Cobitis anguillicaudatus McCl., C. bifurcata McCl., C. pectoratis
McCl. (teste Bleeker Mém. Cypr. p. 17).-Cobitis psammismus
Richardson.-Cobitis decemcirrosus Basil. 1. c. p. 239, t. VII, f. 2.
-ni-yü P. ("mud fish ").- ch'iu-yü P. Ts.-
ni-ch'iu ibid.- Asi E. Y. (vol. III, f. 3)-P. Ts.-
ni-ch'iu-rh T.
Père David records a Cobitis pavonaceus (Rens. 1. c. p. 227) from
Peking, which is probably the same as Basilewski's species; I
have never seen but one cobitis in Peking. Dr. Williams ex-
plains the ch'in-yü as an eel, "the large mud or conger eel."
The conger eel is called 'hai-man-li, as Williams
himself mentions (Syll. Dict. p. 575); the identity of ch'iu-yü
with the cobitis can easily be seen from the drawing given in
the Pên-ts'ao, or still better from the very correct illustration of
the hsi or ch'iu in the Erh-ya.
11. Carpio vulgaris Rapp. (Carp).-Cyprinus chinensis Basil.
1. c. p. 227, t. II, f. 8.-Cyprinus obesus Basil. 1. c. p. 228, t. I,
f. 2; t. V, f. 2.-li-yu.
The Carp, common all over China, is no other than the Euro-
pean species. The various species described by Basilewski from
Peking (C. chinensis, obesus) and by Richardson from southern
China (C. atrovirens, flammans, acuminatus, sculponeatus, hybis-
coides) are all forms of the Cyprinus carpio or Carpio vulgaris,
slightly different in colouring or dimensions. (cf. Bleeker, Mém.
sur les Cyprinoides de la Chine 1871).
12. Carassius auratus L.-Bleeker, Mém. Cypr. de la Chine
1871. p. 7.-Carassius pekinensis, caeruleus, discolor Basil. 1. c.
p. 229, t. III, f. 8; t. IX, f. 2.-Cyprinus auratus, macrophthal-
mus, quadrilobatus Basil. 1. c. pp. 229-230, t. V, f. 1, 2, 4, 5.-
Cyprinus gibelioides Cantor, C. abbreviatus Rich., C. carassioides
Rich., C. langsdorfii Val., C. lineatus Val., (testo Bleeker).-
Normal form: ẞchi-yü P.-T.-P. Ts.- fu-yü.-
Golden variety: 1 chin-chi-yü P.-T.-chin-y.
According to Bleeker all the species of "Bastard Carp" or
Carassius described by various authors from China belong to the
"Gold Fish" or the Cyprinus auratus of Linnaeus. The nor-
mal colouring of the species is greenish-brown, and the "Gold
Fish" is a variety which has been developed by domestication.
It is even doubtful whether golden-coloured fish occur at all
$ 5
Lya, a creaking sound.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
109
in a state of nature. 36 I must mention, however, that in Tien-
tsin a golden-coloured carassius was brought to me which had
been caught in the Pai-'ho; it was considered to be a great
curiosity, and to be different from the gold fish kept in captivity.
The common form here is that called Carassius pekinensis by
Basilewski; it attains about one foot in length, and its colour-
ing is brown above, greenish brown on the sides. Forms of
bluish-silvery colour (C. caeruleus Bas.), or of a lustre changing
from silvery to blue, green and golden (C. discolor Bas.) are
found singly among the typical ones.
All these forms are called chi-yü in Peking and Tientsin, and
the one specimen of golden-coloured carassius-a "wild gold
fish" as we might style it-was designated by chin-chi-yü.
chi-yü is likewise the name of the carassius in the Pen-
ts'ao.
The numerous monstrosities and varieties of the gold fish
kept in confinement have all different names; the fishes furnish-
ed with trilobous or quadrilobous tail, and large prominent
globous eyes are lung-chin-yü, those without a dorsal
finya-tan-yü etc.
13. Pseudogobio rivularis Basil. (Chinese Gudgeon).—Gobio
rivularis Basil. 1. c. p. 231.-Gobio sinensis Bleeker.-Pseudo-
gobio sinensis Günther Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus. VII, p. 175.-
Pseudogobio rivularis Bleeker Mém. Cypr. Chine, pp. 8-23, t.
VIII, f. 1.- 'hu-t'ou-yi P. (tiger-headed fish."
Uncommon near Poking and Tientsin, has likewise been
observed at Shanghai.
14. Leuciscus aethiops Basil. 1. e. p. 288, t. VI, f. 1. Bleeker
Mem. Cypr. Chine, pp. 10-45, t. XIV, f. 1.-
'hei-tien-
yü "Black-spotted fish" P.-Ech'ing-chuang-yü T.
A dark coloured "Bleak," about one foot loug, peculiar to
north China.
15. Leuciscus idellus Val., Richardson, Bleeker Mém. Cypr.
p. 47, t. X, f. 2.-Leuciscus tschiliensis Basil. 1. c. p. 238.-
'hou-yü P.-T.
Not uncommon at Peking and Tientsin; it has likewise been
found in the Yang-tszě-kiang and near Canton.
16. Elopichthys dauricus Basil.-Nasus dauricus Basil. 1. c.
p. 234, t. VII, f. 1.-(?) 'huang-tsuan-yü P.
According to Basilewski this fish is only brought to Peking in
winter from Mongolia and Manchuria, but I have seen quite
fresh specimens, and the Chinese assert that it occurs in the
30
cf. Darwin, The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestica-
tion I, p. 296.

110
THE VERTEBRATA OF THE PROVINCE OF CHIHLI WITH
rivers of Chihli. It attains the length of about four feet; its
flesh is yellow and resembles in colour and flavour somewhat
that of the salmon.
17. Squaliobarbus curriculus Richardson.-Leuciscus curriculus
Rich. Ichth. Chin. p. 299.-L. teretiusculus Basil. 1. c. p. 232,
t. IV, f. 1.-Squal. curr. Bleeker Mém. Cypr. Chin. pp. 12-48,
t. XIII, f. 8.-Prshevalski's Mongolia II. Fishes p. 19.-
tsun-y P. Ts.-P.-pi-yi ibid.-
chih-yen-yü "red-eyed fish" ibid.
The most widely distributed species of the Chinese leuciscini;
it has been observed in Canton, Ningpo, Shanghai, Kiukiang,
Sse-ch'uan, Tientsin, Peking, and lately by Prshevalski in
Mongolia.
The Chinese names as given above probably include several
other species of the same tribe.
18. Xenocypris macrolepis Bleeker Mém. Cypr. de la Chine
pp. 14-58, t. V, f. 2.-Leuciscus argenteus Basil. 1. c. p. 282.-
hsiao-pai-yü P.
19. Culter recurviceps Richardson.-Leuciscus recurviceps Rich.
Ichth. Chin. p. 295.-Culter alburnus Basil. 1. c. p. 236, t. VIII,
f. 3.-Culter recurriceps Bleeker Mém. Cypr. Chine p. 15.-
ch'iao-t'ou-yü P. (i. e. the fish with the head bent up-
wards).
20. Culter erythropterus Basil. 1. c. p. 236, t. VIII, f. 1.-
Bleeker Mém. Cypr. Chine p. 15.-ho-pai-yü P.
The genus Culter is peculiar to China as well as the allied
genera of Pseudoculter and Semiculter; its chief characteristic
is the prominent inferior maxilla which bends upwards. There
are eight species known, one of which, the C. recurviceps, has
been found all over China, whilst the C. erythropterus is pecu-
liar to north China, and six other species have only been
observed in the Yang-tszě-kiang.
All forms of this group are included in the term pai.
yu or chiao. The latter name is explained in the Pên-ts'ao
as formed from fish and curved, because "head and tail are
bent upwards" (L).
21. Pseudoculter pekinensis Basil.-Culter pekinensis Basil. 1. c.
p. 287.-Pseudoculter pekinensis Bleeker Mém. Cypr. Chine p. 14.
-lien-tsze-yü P.-T. ("sickle-fish")."
22. Pseudoculter exiguus Basil.-Culter exiguus Basil. 1. c. p.
237.-Pseudoculter exiguus Bleeker Mém. Cypr. Chine p. 14.-
huang-'hua-t'iao-tszě P.-
'huang-ku-yü
P. Ts.

NOTES ON CHINESE ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
111
From the entrails of this little fish the Chinese distil a yellow
eil of rancid smell used in lamps.
23. Parabramis pekinensis Basil. (North China Bream).-
. Abramis pekinensis Basil. 1. c. p. 239, t. VI, f. 2.-Parabramis
ipekinensis Bleeker Mém. Cypr. pp. 15-80.- pien-yü P.-
T- pien, fang W. (including all species of Bream).
24. Hemiculter leucisculus Basil.-Culter leucisculus Basil. I. c.
p. 238.-Hemiculter leucisculus Bleeker Mém. Cypr. pp. 15-76,
it. II, f. 1.
25. Anguilla pekinensis Basil.-Muraena pekinensis Basil. 1. c.
IP. 246, t. III, f. 2.- pai-shan-yü P.-T.-P. Ts.-
man-li-yü P. Ts.- shé-yü ("snake fish").
Tne Pekinese eel although very much like our common eel
i in appearance is considered to be a different species.
26. Monopterus javanensis Lacepède. (Mud Eel).-Apterigia
saccogularis Basil. 1. c. p. 247, t. VIII, f. 2.-Apterigia nigroma-
eculata Basil. 1. e. p. 248, t. II, f. 2,-Apterigia immaculata Basil.
Il. c. p. 248.-shan-yu P.-T.-W.- 'huang-tan P.
Ts. huang-shan T.
The three species of "Apterigia" described by Basilewski
sare to be combined into one, the latter two forms being rare
vvarieties slightly diffrent in colouring. This mud eel, common
sall over China, is identical with the species known from India.
27. Ophidium aculeatum Basil. 1. c. p. 248.
Another species of the eel family mentioned by Basilewski; I
Ihave never seen this fish.
'huang.
28. Acipenser mantschuricus Basil. 1. e. p. 250.-
gyü P.-T.-W.-shan-yü P. Ts.-la-yü ibid. ("wax
fifish," from the yellow colour of the flesh).-Iyu-pan-
wy ibid. ("jade-slab fish," from the hard bony scales of the
Esturgeon).
The large sturgeons sold at Peking and Tientsin in winter
aare mostly brought from the Amoor, but also from the Yellow
IRiver, and the Chinese assert that the sturgeon occurs likewise
tithough rarely in the rivers of Chihli. The Pên-ts'ao contains
aa fair drawing and a very good description of the sturgeon, and
says that it lives in all the great rivers of China, and the T'ien-
cching-fu-chih mentions the shan-yü as forming part of the Fauna
cof the Tientsin prefecture.
BIO:B