ARTICLE III.
ONN THE STYLE OF CHINESE EPISTOLARY COMPOSITION."
A REVIEW.
IN
BY THE REV. W. A. P. MARTIN, D.D.
N no other language is the style of private correspondence so
widely separated from that of official or public documents
ass in the Chinese. The latter, simply and direct in expression,
esechews ornament and aims chiefly at clearness and force; the
former, artificial to the last degree, bristles with trite allusions
which are rather pedantic than elegant.
With us, in this as in so many other things, the reverse is
naot far from the truth. It is the official despatch that is cast
inn iron moulds; and the familiar letter is left free to take any
shape the easy play of thought and feeling may impress upon
it.. Authors accordingly sometimes choose to throw their com
poositions into the convenient form of epistles, when they wish
too invest them with the double charm of clearness and vivacity.
By employing the form of letters, Pascal imparted to polemic
discussion the grace and humour of the comic drama; while
Swift and Junius availed themselves of the same weapon in
their terrible attacks on the government.
Not so the Chinese: while necessity leads to the discussion
obf grave topics in the form of letters, and the teachings of some
off their ancient philosophers were communicated in the way of
ceorrespondence, among them no modern author ever thinks of
throwing his ideas into such a shape. Neither does any author
treat a grave subject under the form of the modern prize essay;
aand thoughtful men denounce the regulation essay as utterly
unseless; but they never denounce the conventional style of
leletter-writing, though both have a family likeness. The reason
isis, that the letter of friendship or business is a social necessity;
aand the literary ornament with which it is tricked out is deemed
eessential to save it from vulgarity.
Read before the Society
on the 8th December, 1876.

114 ON THE STYLE OF CHINESE EPISTOLARY COMPOSITION.
In friendly correspondence the opening paragraphs are always
consecrated to the expression of high-flown sentiments, real or
assumed, and not unfrequently, the falsetto pitch of the ex-
ordium is painfully sustained to the very close. Nothing is
more offensive to our taste, or less calculated to encourage the
labour of acquisition.
If a letter contains any serious business, the foreign reader,
if he does not as in most cases, rely on a native teacher for
explanation, finds that he can arrive at it by a process of
elimination, i. e. by leaving out of account all the unintelligible
rhetoric.
But this is not merely unscholarly: it limits the use of cor-
respondence, and shuts out the student (he does not deserve
the name of student if willing to be shut out) from a department
of literature which more than any other presents us with pictures
of individual character and social life.
The student who desires to enter this field will find numerous
private collections of more or less celebrity, soliciting his atten-
tion.
If any of them were from the pens of gifted women; and if
the canons of Chinese taste, (for the fault is not in the language)
permitted them, like their sisters of the west, to write as they
talk, he might, even in this department, verify the quaint old
maxim, "the sweetness of the lips increaseth knowledge." But
alas! there is no Sévigné who by her brilliant gossip can shed
the dews of immortal youth over the ephemeral intrigues of a
Court, and by her wit give a value to things that are worthless,
as amber does to the insects which it embalms: there is no
Wortley who chats with equal charm of literature and love: no
Lady Duff Gordon, who by her genius and enterprise puts us
in love with boat-life and Bedouins.
The paths of epistolary literature, where the choicest flowers
are dropped from female hands, are in China all untrodden by
female feet; and a reason gravely given for with-holding from
women the key of knowledge is, that men are afraid they will
learn to write letters. It is not nature but man that is ungenerous
to the daughters of the East.
"Knowledge to their eyes her ample page
Rich with the spoils of time did ne'er unroll;
Chill jealousy repressed their noble rage,
And froze the genial current of the soul."
Nor, it must be confessed, is there any such indemnity in store
for our student, as the epistles of a moralizing Seneca, or the
correspondence of a malignant and intriguing Walpole, which
lifts the veil, from the mysteries of contemporary politics, and

ON THE STYLE OF CHINESE EPISTOLARY COMPOSITION.
115
frirom the writer's own bosom; so that Macaulay ingeniously
ecompares the flavour of the letters of the great minister to that
off patés de fois gras, because derived from a disease of the liver in
the animal that produced them.
But as some of our most eminent poets, such as Dryden,
GGray and Cowper, have left behind them letters that are pre-
Served as models of elegance in which fancy and feeling are no
leless happily blended than in their poetical works: so we find
tthat in China the list of distinguished letter-writers is headed
bby the names of poets; showing that they enjoyed the favour
oof the musa pedestris as well as of her winged sisters.
The earliest collection of letters, or at least the most famous
oof those that are accepted as models of epistolary style, came
fifrom the pens of two celebrated poets of the Sung dynasty,
Su-tung-p'o
and Hwang-t'ing-kien
under
tthe joint name of Su-Hwang-ch'i-tuh R. Though not
Eproperly a brief-wechsel or correspondence between the two
aauthors, it has ever since the battle of Hastings given law to
#this species of composition.
Though the stream of time, like that which floated the bor-
1rowed axe of the prophet, usually carries down the weightier
1 matters, and deposits the less important as sediment; yet in
this instance we have reason to regret that like natural rivers
it has only brought down to us the lighter material on its
I surface.
Both writers held high offices: and one of them was especially
honoured at the imperial court; but their letters have little to
do with state policy; and the selection has obviously been made
on the principle that if one of their merits is in the elegance of
their form, another ought to be in the absence of facts. Still
even these shining husks if carefully sifted, will be found to yield
some grains of valuable information.
A book of letters of more modern date and scarcely inferior
in reputation, is the Ch'i-tuh of Siao-ts'ang JERK
or of Sui-yuen R, as it is variously styled.
The author, Yuen-mei, a native of Che-kiang, won a
seat in the Imperial Academy in the reign of Kien-lung; and
declining office, passed his life at Nanking, chiefly engaged in
scholastic pursuits, boasting that for thirty years he never ap-
peared at court.
Known mainly as a professor of belles-lettres, with pupils dis-
persed over several provinces, instead of collected into one
lecture-room, and communicating by post, instead of viva-voce,
this worthy man has not merely left models of composition, but

116
ON THE STYLE OF CHINESE EPISTOLARY COMPOSITION.
Bet an example both as scholar and instructor, which is much
admired though little followed.
A poet of refined taste, and not without talent, it is interest-
ing to know that he gave instruction in the art of poetry to
numerous ladies of high family and culture, making from time
to time the circuit of the cities where they resided-a fact, the
rarity of which, rather supports than invalidates the view above
given of the deficiencies of female education.
There are numerous works passing under the general name
of Ch'i-tuh, which were prepared expressly for form books, and
will repay perusal for that purpose. Of these I may mention
the Yen-chi-mu-tan H, Hai-shang-hung-ni
E
E, Liu-ts'ing-tsi ; but they have not the merit of
a history.
It is however, with a view to drawing attention to a more
recent collection that this article is written.
The Taze-yuen Ch'i-tuh R published at Peking a
few years ago in four thin volumes, consists of a selection from
the letters of Liu-kia-chu 劉家柱
This is a name which being unknown, carries no weight;
and our author, like Hawthorne in one of his earlier works,
might speak of himself as enjoying the distinction of being one
of the obscurest men of letters in all China. A native of Hunan,
he passed many years in the Yamen of the Governor of Can-
ton; a representative of that nameless but influential class who
transact the business while their superiors enjoy the honours
of official station.
During this period he wrote, he tells us, heaps of papers
higher than his head, among which one might play hide and
seek in more senses than one. Most of them were of course
sent forth in the name of others, and the writer facetiously
compares himself to a milliner who prepares the clothing for &
bride, or a go-between who arranges for her nuptials. Of these
he gives us none, unless indeed by surreptitiously changing
their address, and adapting them to his own use.
The most of his papers bear unmistakable marks of having
been culled from his private portfolio; affording such incidental
glimpses of life and manners, that one is compelled to accept
them as a genuine record-a portion of the writer's autobiogra-
phy. This gives the work an element of interest of no mean
order, and a value of its own, as a mirror held up to the face of
Chinese life by the hand of a native. So frank indeed are its
disclosures, so little care is taken to draw a veil over things
that are deemed discreditable, that one might almost regard

ON THE STYLE OF CHINESE EPISTOLARY COMPOSITION.
117
the work as belonging to the category of confessions'-ori-
ginated by St. Augustine, and rendered popular by Rousseau.
As to the literary merits of the performance, it is sufficient
to cite the names of the two sponsors under whose patronage
the author comes before the public-Kwo Sung-tao, minister to
England, and Hang K'ai-tai, the late enlightened governor of
province of Fohkien :-each of them having filled the post of
governor of Canton, and employed Liu-kia-chu as a confidential
secretary.
Other great names are invoked in a long list of laudatory
notices; and some that we meet with incidentally in the course
of the correspondence, such as Tseng Kwo-fan, Tsiang Ih-li,
Li Hung-chang and Liu Ch'ang-yiu, the present viceroy of
Yunnan and Kweichau, impart to it an air of historical truth
that is much in its favour.
Without pausing longer to discourse about the book, let us
open its pages, and see what we shall find there.
To begin; we shall find a meteoric shower of allusions. This
is the most prominent characteristic of this species of writing;
and its primary object is to hide the nakedness of common-
place. Employed in excess, or handled clumsily, it aggravates
the evil by exposing the poverty of the writer, or substitutes the
igraver faults of pedantry and cant: used with skill and taste,
iit throws over the page a glitter of iridescent hues; or it may
Ibe, contributes largely to the significance and force of language.
These allusions are of various kinds. Some suggest whole
chapters of history; others bring up the words or actions of real
or mythical personages; while others still, by a single word or
Iphrase cast a beam of light on some poetical tableau, which
brings its entire effect to bear on the subject in hand,-for
instance when Dryden says of Thais that
"Like another Helen she fired another Troy."
-what a crowd of teeming associations he condenses into the
Espace of a single line! How much is expressed by such brief phrases
cas "a Barmecide feast," "a Bellerophon letter," "a Judas kiss!"
The Chinese language-I do not say literature, abounds in
such; and no one can be said to understand the language who
iis not in some degree familiar with them.
Then there are curt allusions of a purely literary kind, catch
cor refer to thousands of well-known passages in later literature.
vwords which suggest any one of the three hundred classic odes,
To these we may add a vocabulary of metaphorical words and
Ephrases, the use of which is de rigeur in a certain style which
Thus the poet or the elegant letter-writer never speaks of copper
makes it a point of taste not to call things by their right names.

118 ON THE STYLE OF CHINESE EPISTOLARY COMPOSITION.
cash, but calls them "green beetles:" a sheet of paper ho calls
"a flowery scroll:" an epistle is "a wild-goose." Husband
and wife are Ch'ang-sue, bass and tenor: K'ang-li, strength
and beauty; Yuen-yang duck and drake, and a hundred other
pretty things, at the poet's option. A man is a prince and his wife
a princess; his house a palace, and his children a phoenix brood.
To repay the kindness of parents is to emulate the stork: to
return a borrowed article is to restore the gem; and a man of
genius employed in a work of drudgery-as Charles Lamb in
the India Office-is a race-horse in a salt-waggon.
These are but a few specimens of a sort of dialect that has its
own dictionaries without number or limit; and of which every
reader of Chinese is under the necessity of knowing something,
if he does not master it. Perhaps the best key to it for any
student, native or foreign, is a collection of wen-chang or of
well-written letters such as those of our obscure friend Liu-
kin-chu.
In dictionaries and cyclopædias, or in such a useful hand-
book as Mr. Mayers' Chinese Readers Manual, he will find
gems arranged as in a mineralogical cabinet; but in these com-
positions he meets them in their proper setting. The object of
such works is to aid, not to supersede the reading of difficult
authors-as a certain learned Dutchman proposed to do for
Homer by presenting the Homeric archaeology in a tabulated
form.
We now proceed to the substratum of facts underlying the
gold and tinsel of which we have been speaking. Of little im-
portance in themselves and not by any means thick-sown through
these pages, they are still not devoid of interest, as illustrations
of character personal and national.
It was from the letters of Cicero that Mr. Middleton drew the
principal materials for his admirable life of the great Roman
statesman.
But even the letters of Chu-fu-taze or Su-tung-p'o would
furnish scanty materials for a history of their lives; and meagre
indeed are the outlines of biography which we are able to ex-
tract from the sentimental effusions of Liu-kin-chu.
Our author first drew his breath, and with it what poetic
inspiration he possessed-amid the mountain scenery of south-
ern Hunan, about the middle of the reign of Kiaking (circa
1810.) Born in a rustic village not far from the city of Sin-
hwa, he came of a family distinguished for scholarship;
-a fact, of which he never ceases to remind the reader; and
there can be no doubt that he inherited talent, though his patri-
mony included little else.

ON THE STYLE OF CHINESE EPISTOLARY COMPOSITION. 119
Boasting somewhat of his early precocity, he hints at youth-
fifal dissipations as having proved fatal to his career as a scholar,
sand planted the seeds of unending regrets. He failed, probably
ffrom a defective chirography as many a worthier man has done,
to win the first or lowest degree in the civil service examina-
itions; and about the age of thirty he removed with his family
ito Canton, forgetting, it seems, to liquidate certain debts of
I honour.
Concerned in the conduct of a charity school, Liu, thinking
that charity ought to begin at home, "borrowed" a portion of
the funds to meet his own necessities. Arrived at Canton he
I learned with much regret that the slight liberty he had taken
with its capital was likely to occasion the dissolution of the
school. Against this he protests with much eloquence; but has
nothing more substantial to encourage the good work than
"promises to pay."
In this connexion, his reference to himself as a good example
of the benefits of education, is to say the least a little naif.
After this, we are not surprised to find many epistles filled
with complaints of poverty. He has work enough, but scant
remuneration. Great men admire his genius and load him
with compliments; but like virtue, which he does not much
resemble in any other respect-laudatur et alget.
From one friend he begs the loan of a "few hundred pieces
of gold," and from another he borrows a suit of decent apparel.
Good models these letters for one who has much to do in the
line of begging or borrowing!
All this time, Liu's family is increasing at a rather alarming
rate; not that he has any children born, but from time to time
he takes a new beauty into his harem in the hope that children
will follow. One is presented to him by a friend; another, not
unnaturally runs away, or as he euphemistically term it, "car-
ries her guitar to another door."
A correspondent of comparatively severe morals, expostulates
with Lin on this seeming abandonment to a life of sensuality;
and the latter replies by drawing an affecting picture of an aged
father who cannot die in peace without the joy of embracing a
grandson!
At length his hopes are awakened only to meet with disap-
pointment; one of his wives presenting him with a daughter.
The little creature appears not to be altogether unwelcome; and
in fact makes for herself a warm place in her father's heart;
though he frequently alludes to her in terms borrowed from one
of the odes of which the following couplet gives the leading
idea:-

120
ON THE STYLE OF CHINESE EPISTOLARY COMPOSITION.
A girl is born; in coarse cloth wound
With a tile for a toy, let her lie on the ground, &c., &c.
The spell broken, another of his ladies crowns his desires by
giving him a son; whose advent is duly hailed by a flourish of
trumpets, and further quotations from the Book of Odes,-
A son is born; on an ivory bed,
Wrap him in raiment of purple and red,
Gold and jewels for play things bring
To the noble boy who shall serve the king.
In a few months this child of many hopes sickens and dies.
The disconsolate father mourns deeply, and fills many sheets
with melodious tristia.
About this time, the doors of official preferment, before which
he had been so long waiting-(having failed to find the key in
his earlier youth), began slowly to open before him. Appointed
magistrate of a sub-district in the country, called Toh-kang, he
contrived to send some one to act in his stead (perhaps sub-
letting the profits of the position) whilst he remained at the
capital, in midst of the literary society which he loved so much.
Another time, appointed to Kowloon on the main opposite to
Hongkong, Liu finds excuses for not repairing to his post, and
the governor offended by his tardiness cancels the appointment.
After due penance he is restored to favour, and offered another
post, such as Caesar himself would have preferred to being the
second man at Rome. Taught by experience, he lost no time
in installing himself in his new yamen. Its roof leaks, its walls
are crumbling, and all its apartments filled with rubbish; but
to compensate for all this, it contains a throne, which if he had
read Milton, he might have compared to that of the "anarch
old" who ruled the realms of chaos.
Here he finds a new order of talents called into requisition:
he has to deal with facts instead of words; and is evidently
proud of the success with which the performs the functions of
a judge, favouring us with one of his judgments as a model
of its kind. It betrays however the fact that his right hand
has not forgotten its cunning; that he continues to be a rheto-
rician in spite of himself, and is more at home in reading a
lecture than in pronouncing a sentence.
Unique among the rose-water productions of his epistolary
pen, his report of this law-suit reminds us that Liu has also
given us a few specimens of another species of composition.
In the course of his career, he is sometimes assistant examiner,
and sometimes appears in the character of a competitor ;-not
indeed in the ordinary examinations, but in those special trials
which expectant officers are required to pass at the provincial

ON THE STYLE OF CHINESE EPISTOLARY COMPOSITION.
121
ccapitals. On one of these occasions Liu's essays were endorsed
Eby the high authorities in terms which placed them on a level
with the best productions of the classic ages.
These eulogies he not only repeats in many of his letters, but
fifavours his friends with copies of the fortunate papers, that
they may judge for themselves whether the praise is merited;
Hpleasing himself with the reflection that but for the injustice of
the lower courts, he might long since have worn the highest
Ehonours of the literary arena.
Liu's literary ability is also duly recognized by a host of junior
aaspirants, who solicit copies of his MSS., send presents on his
fiféte days, and institute theatricals in his honour.
His moral character is more doubtful. A polygamist on prin-
exiple, he disclaims the virtues of an ascetic philosopher in order
tdo emulate the libertinism of certain dissolute poets. Had he
indeed done nothing worse than fill his own cage with bright-
wwinged songsters he would have been walking too closely in the
footsteps of saints and sages to attract attention. To vindicate
aa poor spirit-one that spurns what he denominates the "minor
Innorals "he mingles occasionally with the "soiled doves" of
tlihe street.
For this, his best apology is found in the fact that the silly
ccccupants of his own dove-cot are incapable of appreciating his
ggenius; while some of these unappropriated, like the hetaerae
oof Greece, had their claims enhanced by the advantages of educa-
tition. He gives us a letter which he wrote to one of this class,
with hypocritical morality recommending her to take refuge in
aa house of religion.
But in an epistle to another friend, he gives us reason to
Suspect that even the vestals of Buddha were not sacred in his
eyes; and that with him sacrilege was necessary to give the
highest flavour to license.
Freely unfolding his inner life, and trenching often on for-
bbidden ground, it is something in his favour that he is always
eklegant and never indecent.
After this account of his morals it would be useless to inquire
fdor his religion. He says indeed very little on the subject. He
alalludes to a "creator" more than once, but in language of
ststudied levity, shewing that to him the author of nature was
not a "living god."
As to outward observances he conforms to popular usage; he
believes in fate, and impatient to know its decrees, applies to a
Pprofessional fortune-teller; in all these points only too true a
type of the average literati of his country.
Our hasty sketch may serve to indicate the range and variety

122
ON THE STYLE OF CHINESE EPISTOLARY COMPOSITION.
of this correspondence, which, with all its finish resembles a
Chinese garden, where artis est NATURAM caclari by twisting flower
and plant into the grotesque shapes of bird and beast.
The boundary line between friendly and official correspond-
ence is not easily to trace. It is to the former that we confine
ourselves in the present communication; but it will not be amiss
to remark that much of the best writing in the Chinese language
may be found on intermediate ground between formal business
documents and friendly letters.
In this class of compositions vaguely described as official
letters the grace of the polished epistle is often added to the
directness and force of the despatch style; a happy combination,
of which some of the best specimens may be seen in the publish-
ed correspondence of Hu-lin-yeh, canonized under the title of
Hu-wen-cheng-kung.