ARTICLE V.
CHINESE EUNUCHS.*
By G. CARTER STENT.
UCH has been said and written about eunuchs at various
MUCH
times, but very little seems to be really known concerning
them, save that they are unnaturally mutilated, and that their
duties chiefly consist in attending on the inmates of harems.
In fact, everything relating to them is described so vaguely that
one is almost tempted to believe that eunuchs exist only in the
Arabian Night's Entertainments and other eastern tales, or in
the imaginations of the writers, rather than actually belonging
to and forming no inconsiderable portion of the human race.
Curiously enough, with one trifling exception, eunuchs are
only to be found in eastern despotic countries, the enlightening
influence of Christianity preventing such unnatural proceedings
being practised in the countries of those who profess it. This
serves to shew at least one beneficial result of the spread of
Christianity; for while we are free from the baneful practice, it
is a vile blot on less fortunate countries; too palpably shewing
in what a low estimation the women of these countries must be
held, when their husbands or masters conceive it necessary to
resort to such horrible mutilations of one sex to keep the other
pure-for it is but sophistry to say that eunuchs are merely
kept to mark the rank of the owner, to add to the dignity of his
establishment, and other balderdash of a like nature. There
can be no other motive in using them than the suspicion, dis-
trust and jealousy of eastern potentates and others, of the fidelity
of their wives and concubines; and the dread that if men were
employed, licentiousness and profligacy would run riot in their
harems.
Eunuchs are generally represented as being vindictive and
revengeful in disposition; this, if true, cannot be wondered at,
for if they have been made eunuchs in their childhood, and
against their own inclination, the injustice and barbarity per-
petrated on them, as they grow up and fully perceive its great-
ness, must naturally rankle in their minds and tend to breed
and develop all those vices for which we give them credit. On
"
Read before the Society on 26th March, 1877.

144
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
the other hand, should they have arrived at a period of adole-
scence, and have enjoyed intercourse with the opposite sex
previous to castration or mutilation-either with or without
their own consent-no punishment can be conceived more hor-
rible than that which they daily and hourly endure-that of
seeing women in their most abandoned moments, and knowing
at the same time they have for ever lost their virility, and conse-
quently, all power of the greatest enjoyment in life. They may
be, and are, at the time, physically dead to all feeling of sensual
pleasure, but it is impossible their minds and memories can be
dead or oblivious of what had been or might still have been
theirs, but for their mutilation. Those, therefore, who have
indulged in sexual intercourse previous to castration, must feel
the loss of their virility much more keenly than those who have
been made eunuchs before they felt or experienced those myste-
rious workings of nature which accompany the adolescence of
both sexes; and this also would tend to embitter and envenom
all their after lives, and fill them with but ill-concealed envy
and hate.
I shall not endeavour to give a detailed account of the origin
of eunuchs-particularly those of other countries-but, with the
exception of a short extract or two, shall only give a brief sketch
of here and there one known to Chinese history, a few of their
peculiarities, and the mode of depriving them of their pro-
creative powers, which would seem also to deprive them of every
virtue, leaving them the vile and contemptible beings they are
generally depicted.
In "Smith's Bible Dictionary" we find the following remarks
regarding eunuchs :-
"The origination of the practice is ascribed to Semiramis
(Amm. Marcell. xiv. 6), and is no doubt as early, or nearly so,
as eastern despotism itself. Their incapacity, as in the case of
mutes, is the ground of reliance upon them (Clarke's Travels,
part ii. §1-18; Busbeq. Ep. i. 33). By reason of the mysterious
distance at which the sovereign sought to keep his subjects
(Herod. i. 99. comp. Esth. iv. 11), and of the malignant jealousy
fostered by the debased relation of the sexes, such wretches,
detached from social interests (especially when, as commonly,
and as amongst the Jews, foreigners), the natural slaves of
either sex (Esth. iv. 5), and having no prospect in rebellion
save the change of masters, were the fittest props of a govern-
ment resting on a servile relation, the most complete organa
eupsycha of its despotism or its lust, (but see Esth. ii. 21), guardi-
ans (Xenoph. Cyrop. vii. 5. § 15: Herod. viii. 105) of the
monarch's person, and the sole confidential witnesses of his un-

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
145
guarded or undignified moments. Hence they have in all ages
ffrequently risen to high offices of trust, etc."
To quote again from "Smith's Bible Dictionary," in speak-
iing of eunuchs, we find the remarks:-
"The moral tendency of this sad condition is well known to
be the repression of courage, gentleness, shame and remorse,
#the development of malice, and often of melancholy, and a
disposition to suicide.".
"The operation itself, especially in infancy, is not more dan-
gerous than an ordinary amputation. Chardin (ii. 285), says
that only one in four survives; and Clot Bey, chief physician of
the Pasha, states that two-thirds die. Buckhardt, (Nub. p.
329), is mistaken, when he says that the operation is only fatal
in about two out of a hundred cases."
I shall have occasion hereafter to call the attention of my
hearers to some of the preceding remarks, and see how far they
agree with the facts as they stand regarding Chinese eunuchs.
The Cyclopedia (Penny) gives the definition of eunuch as "one
who has care of a bed;" and goes on to say in regard to the
custom of making eunuchs:
"This peculiar species of barbarity was a Persian practice
(Herod. vi. 32). It appears however that the Greeks sometimes
carried on the trade of making eunuchs, whom they sold at
Ephesus and Sardis to the Persians for high prices; the Per-
sians considering that eunuchs generally were more trustworthy
than other men.
(Herod. viii. 105). Tavernier tells us that in
the kingdom of Bootan twenty thousand eunuchs were annually
made in his time, to sell to other nations; and the seraglios of
the east are principally served and guarded by them to the
present day."
"The Christian emperors of Rome forbade the practice of
making eunuchs, particularly Constantine; and Justinian im-
posed a law of retaliation upon such as exercised this inhumanity.
In Italy however the process of castration is still practised upon
children intended to supply the operas and theatres of Europe
as singers. The council of Nice condemned those who from
excess of zeal made eunuchs of themselves. Persons so muti-
lated were not admitted into holy orders."
"Certain heretics of the third century bore the name of
Origen, not only to castrate those of their own persuasion, but
Eunuchs, who had the folly or madness, after the example of
all whom they could lay hands on. They were also called Vela-
sians, from Velasius, an Arab, who was their chief. (See Epi-
phanius and Baronius' Annals, under the years 249 and 260)."
In an able article in Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine,

146
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
(Vol. lxxv. p. 60) named "The Past and Future of China," we
find :-
"The evils of polygamy, however, were aggravated by the
monarchs of the 'Han dynasty raising eunuchs of the court to
important offices in the State. In China, these men, emascu-
lated in everything save craftiness and ambition, came to exercise
a pernicious influence on the government; but, forming an
association for mutual aid among themselves, they were the
means of ruining many successive dynasties without themselves
being displaced."
"Long experience has shewn, in China as in other empires,
that the energetic founders of a dynasty are by-and-by succeeded
by men who give themselves up to pleasures-betaking them-
selves to the harem, and resigning the reins of government in
many cases to crafty and ambitious eunuchs-a class of men
who, as we have seen, have proved the bane of almost every
dynasty for the last sixteen centuries."
Herodotus (iii. 49), informs us that "Periander had selected
the sons of the Corcyræan nobles, and sent them to Sardis to be
emasculated, in revenge of an insult offered him; for the Cor-
cyræans had first committed an outrageous deed against him."
Again, we find (Herod. vi. 32), that when the Persian generals
"had made themselves masters of the cities they selected the
handsomest youths, and castrated them, and made them eunuchs
instead of men."
Further on, (Herod. viii. 105), we are told that Panionius
"whenever he purchased boys remarkable for beauty, having
castrated them, he used to take and sell them at Sardis and
Ephesus for large sums; for with the barbarians eunuchs are
more valued than others, on account of their perfect fidelity."
Eunuchs, in all generations and in all countries appear to
have been objects of hate and fear, and often not without
reason; for, strangely enough, when in possession of power,
they have almost invariably presumed on it; the result has
been that the whole class has often suffered through the fault of
one person. There have been periods when the hatred against
them, through their overweening arrogance, has reached to such
a pitch that a general massacre of the eunuchs has taken place
ere the hatred of the populace could be appeased.
Our earliest impressions of eunuchs-and those that cling
longest and most tenaciously to the memory of most persons
belonging to western nations- are derived from tales of eastern
In these the eunuch seems almost a mythical person-
age; he appears occasionally on the scene, generally entrusted
with some death-dealing commission, which he proceeds, scy-
romance.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
147
1 meter in hand, or provided with bag, cord, box, or poison to
execute; we follow his actions with awe; when he disappears
we know no more of him-his further life is shrouded in mystery.
Some eunuchs, I doubt not, could tell strange tales of eastern
Ilicentiousness and despotism in the harem, had they the oppor-
ttunity of doing so-safely.
In the bible eunuchs are variously spoken of as eunuchs,
officers, chamberlains, etc. (See note at end), and we see that
ithey have often risen-like those in China, formerly-to high
irank, both in civil and military capacities: that they have
coften been the possessors of great power, which they have wield-
ed to their own benefit, have had, at times, undue influence
with their employers, and have been entrusted with duties which
could not conveniently have been given to others. Indeed, there
iis a great similarity in the history of eunuchs, in no matter
what time or country they may have belonged. We notice this
Iremarkable difference, however, that whereas in other eastern
(countries any wealthy persons can employ eunuchs in their
ffamilies, in China they can only be used by certain members of
ithe imperial family, and in the families of the high hereditary
Iprinces whose ancestors assisted in establishing the present
dynasty. These eight princes possess-in some cases-more
ithan royal privileges; their rank is hereditary. In brief,
eunuchs, to all intents and purposes are, in China, an appanage
of royalty only.
ORIGIN OF EUNUCHS B.C. 1100.
As far as I can ascertain, no mention is made of eunuchs in
Chinese history previous to the Chou dynasty, or about 1100 B.c.
At this period we are told that Chou-kung, A, the younger
Ibrother of Wu-wang, E, the first monarch of the Chou
idynasty, framed a code of laws for China, and among the five
Imodes of punishment he introduced, we find castration. Al-
tthough I can find no actual law where the criminal, after being
2
Members of the collateral branches of the imperial family, each gene-
Tration becoming a degree lower in rank, (and it may be added, poorer in
Ipocket) till eventually they become mere members of the family, with no
Frank whatever, wearing however the "Yellow Girdle," and receiving a
ttrifling allowance from government. These persons are known as "Yellow
Girdles," and some of them may be found in the lowest walks in life-beg-
gars and thieves, even.
2
These are, mo,, pi,,ych, ung, &, and ta-p'i,
IBranding on the forehead, cutting off the nose, maiming, by cutting off
t the ears, hands, or feet (chiefly feet), castration, and capital punishment.

148
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
castrated, was made to serve the members of the royal family,
yet both history and tradition says that such was the case, and
there can be very little doubt but that it was really so. Indeed,
the very name of the punishment is proof sufficient-kung-hsing,
. (Palace punishment); while one of the common terms
for eunuch is also another convincing proof-if one were need-
ed-lao-kung-yén, A-the centre character meaning
both palace and castration.
It may be presumed that the system of employing eunuchs in
the palace was found to answer; and gave such satisfaction,
that finding, in the lapse of years and the increase of licentious-
ness, the supply of criminals to be made eunuchs not being
equal to the demand for their services, other means were resort-
ed to to obtain them. Boys were either bought, sent by their
relatives, or obtained from other sources, and castrated to fill
the various posts in the palace, caused by keeping up establish-
ments, rendered necessary by the increasing style of splendour
and luxury in which each succeeding monarch lived; till what
had been originally a punishment only, became by custom or
necessity an established rule.
In other dynasties eunuchs generally possessed great power
and influence, in this, they fortunately possess little or none;
consequently we do not hear much of them or their doings; and
a foreigner might live in China-even in Peking-for years, and
scarcely know there were such persons in the country, unless
indeed, he was familiar with the language and casually heard
the word "eunuch" applied to another as a term of abuse."
But little is mentioned of eunuchs in Chinese History, save
of those who have distinguished themselves in some form or
other; as a rule they are spoken of vaguely, as if not worth
mentioning. I will select a few from amongst those who have
come prominently before the Chinese world; tracing one or
more from the dynasty in which they commence, through suc-
ceeding ones, down to the present time, giving a slight account
of each, and finishing with a brief sketch of the eunuchs of the
present dynasty and reign.
Having said thus much I shall now proceed to introduce each
eunuch in turn, and will commence with one named Ch'in-yen,
who lived about 720 B.c.
In the reign of Chou-'huan-wang, ME, of the Chou
dynasty, the country was split up into a number of petty states:
In the south is commonly used.
* To be found in the 列國.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
149
one of these was governed by a prince named Sung-kung,
*4.
This prince was holding his court one day, when a minister
named 'Hua-fu, , had the daring to kill a rival minister
in his actual presence. The whole of the officers were naturally
indignant, and concerted measures to slay the obnoxious 'Hua-
fu on the following day. Their plan, however, was frustrated
by the eunuch, who secretly despatched a letter to 'Hua-fu, in-
forming him of the conspiracy against his life.
The next day 'Hua-fu entered the court, bringing with him
eight hundred soldiers, and slew not only the ministers but the
prince himself. Ch'in-yen, the eunuch is spoken of as the one
who "spoilt the affair" by his officiousness.
An instance is given in the Lieh-kuo, J, where a eunuch
was employed as a minister of death, which gives one an idea
that-like eunuchs in other countries-they were employed as
"private executioners" occasionally.
.
Chin-hsien-kung, A, of the Chou dynasty (B.c. 650),
instigated by a favourite concubine, ordered a eunuch named,
Kuo-chi, , to go and slay his second son Chung-érh,
The eunuch departed on his mission, but the prince, being
secretly informed of this design, jumped over the wall of his
palace and fled; so closely, however, had he been pursued, that
the eunuch in making a cut at the prince while he was getting
over the wall, cut off a portion of his sleeve, which he carried
back to his royal master to shew that he had done his utmost
to effect his object.
About the same period (B.c. 651), we have the following tale,
which shews how a eunuch, to gratify his hatred, succeeded in
setting a father against a son:
The king of Chi (E), had a favourite concubine, named
Ts'ou, , with whom he was much infatuated. He also had
a favourite eunuch, named I-li, f.
This eunuch had an intense hatred to the heir-apparent, on
account of having been kicked by him for his insolence on one
occasion. He was too cunning to report the conduct of the
prince to his father, as investigation might elicit facts which
imagined, ensured the destruction of his enemy by a more
would not redound to his own credit. He therefore, as he
certain means; this was by playing so on the feelings of the
concubine as to cause her to influence the king to destroy the
The eunuch set to work by representing to the concubine that
the prince constantly spoke of her in a disrespectful manner,
prince.

150
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
implying that her conduct was no better than it should be. His
account inflamed the anger of the concubine to such a pitch
that she determined to have revenge on the prince; scratching
her own face, therefore, and disordering her robes, she ran to
the apartments of the king in this state, declaring his son had
done it in the struggle to take liberties with her.
The king readily believed the tale of his favourite, and flying
into a rage, immediately ordered the eunuch to behead the
prince; but the latter, being informed of his intended fate, fled.
Wandering about at night the prince was taken up as a vagrant
and brought before a Censor, who discovering his rank and the
danger he was in, concealed him in his own house.
The eunuch, meanwhile, taking with him a number of soldiers,
instituted a strict search through the houses of the officers of
the court-feeling positive that the prince must be secreted in
one of these; at length he came to the Censor's house, which
he searched, the prince escaping only by being disguised as a
woman, and passing off as one of the female members of the
family.
The prince afterwards fled the country, and on the death of
his father some years later, he returned to his home and be-
headed his old enemy the eunuch.
I shall now skip over a period of some 400 years and bring
my subject down to the Ch'in dynasty, about 250 B.C.; where
casual mention only, in the Hsi 'Han, , goes to prove
that eunuchs began to be largely used in excess of those who
might have been punished by emasculation.
5
We are told in the book above quoted that Ch'in-shih-'huang,
, built a palace, which he named, O-'huang-kung,
the walls of which were 15 li in circumference.
Within this enclosure at every fifth step was a tower, and at
every tenth an enclosed pavilion. Within the walls, also, were
gardens filled with rare flowers and plants, and a crystal stream,
spanned here and there by marble bridges, meandered through
the gardens, adding to the beauty of the scene.
In this delightful place the emperor kept three thousand
beautiful concubines who were attended by innumerable female
servants. After he had dismissed his court, the emperor loved
to come hither and enjoy himself in the society of the ladies,
drinking with them, listening to their music, or strolling with
them through the beautiful gardens.
But as it was impossible to keep so immense a place in order
This palace was burnt down by Pa-wang, E, B.C. 206.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
151
with women only, and as he feared the ladies would give way
to licentiousness were he to employ men to do the necessary
work, the emperor selected a great number of lads who were
made eunuchs for this purpose.
Mayers' "Chinese Readers' Manual" gives a short account
of a eunuch named Chao-kao,, who existed during the
same dynasty. It says there that he was a "eunuch in the
service of Ch'in Shih-'huang-ti, on whose death,
B.C. 210, he conspired with the minister Li-ssu,, in fabri-
cating a false testament, by which the sovereignty of the empire
was bequeathed to the Emperor's second son 'Hu-'hai,
the heir apparent Fu-su,, having previously been sent
into banishment. Chao-kao ingratiated himself with his Im-
perial protégé by yielding boundless compliance with the latter's
wishes, but his ambition still aimed at a more entire control of
power. In furtherance of this secret design he sought to remove
from his path all possible antagonists; and in order to discover
who were boldest among the courtiers he, on one occasion, pre-
sented a stag to the young sovereign, saying This is a horse
for your Majesty.' Some of the courtiers, on being asked by
the Emperor what the animal was, remained silent; others re-
plied This is certainly a stag.' Of all these, whom he regarded
as daring to oppose his will, Chao-kao speedily effected the
destruction. Trusting at length in his supposed power, he
deposed the Emperor, B.c. 207, and put him to death, but was
shortly afterwards assassinated by the youthful heir to the
Throne."
This little episode shews the daring of the eunuch, and that
he scrupled at nothing to obtain his ends, even going to the
length of regicide.
A hundred years later, or about 100 B.C., we find an instance
of castration as a punishment. Wu-ti, it, of the former
'Han dynasty despatched a general named Li-ling, , with
defeated, however, and fearing to return to his own country,
a large force to subjugate the Hsiung-nü Tartars. He was
voluntarily gave himself up a prisoner to the enemy.
fthe whole of Li-ling's family to be beheaded. One of his minis-
On this being reported to Wu-ti, the enraged emperor ordered
Vwith the emperor, telling him that Li-ling was loyal, and that
Geven if he had submitted to the Tartars he had good and suf-
fters, named Ssu-ma Ch'ien, , however, remonstrated
ccastrated and thrown into prison, where he lingered for a while,
CCh'ien for daring to take the part of a traitor, ordered him to be
fficient reasons for doing so.
The emperor, angry with Ssu-ma

152
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
but was eventually taken into the palace and did duty there as
a eunuch. (He completed his great work "Historical Records,"
, after castration). His punishment is spoken of as
"palace punishment," J.
I now take another leap of 200 odd years, or to about A.D.
170, at the time of the 'Han dynasty, before Liupai ascended
the throne.
The emperor Ling (), had ten favourite eunuchs.
These managed, not only the affairs of the palace, but the more
important business of state; without scruple, making use of
their influence and power to extort wealth from all ranks and
classes; and those who failed to comply with their rapacious
demands were invariably made to feel the power of the eunuchs
by being stripped of office and honours, as well as having their
wealth squeezed out of them.
When the emperor died the ten eunuchs conspired together
to establish his second son on the throne, in preference to the
eldest who was weak and delicate; but 'Ho-chin, f, the
uncle of the two princes, expressed his intention of going against
the wishes of the ten eunuchs, and of supporting the eldest son
as the rightful heir to the throne.
The eunuchs, hearing of this, persuaded 'Ho-chin to enter
the palace and discuss the matter over with them-they having
previously concealed assassins there with instructions to murder
him. 'Ho-chin entered the palace alone and without suspicion,
his followers, numbering above five hundred, remaining outside
waiting to hear the result of the discussion.
After waiting a long time, and finding their master did not
return, they grew impatient and clamoured for his appearance,
when to their horror, the head of 'Ho-chin was flung over the
palace wall into their midst-he having fallen a victim to the
daggers of the assassins.
'Ho-chin's followers were so enraged at the sight of their
master's bloody head that they vowed vengeance; bursting
open the gates, therefore, they rushed into the palace, set it on
fire, and slew every eunuch they encountered. Among the
victims were the ten eunuchs who had brought the attack on
by their treachery.
The empress and her eldest son made their escape out of the
back gate of the palace, but were afterwards sought for, and
brought back; for the followers of 'Ho-chin, having glutted their
vengeance on the eunuchs, hastily extinguished the fire they
had themselves ignited, and order was once more restored in
the palace; the eldest son succeeding to the throne.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
153
Some sixty years later (A.D. 280), mention is made of a
eunuch, named 'Huang-'hao, f, who lived during the
reign of A-tou, is, the son of Liu-pai.
This eunuch, out of revenge to a general who had vainly
endeavoured to persuade A-tou to take his life, supressed de-
spatches sent to A-tou entreating reinforcements, on two oc-
casions, when the general was beaten by the enemy.
Seventy more years brings me to the Chin () dynasty, or
about A.D. 300.
The emperor 'Huai, (), of that dynasty had a minister
named 'Ho-tao-an, J, whose daughter was one of his
concubines. Both father and daughter were ambitious; and
enlisting the services of Chia-yü, , a eunuch, they
conspired together to kill the emperor and place the son of the
concubine on the throne.
In furtherance of this scheme the eunuch concealed an assassin
in the palace, with instructions to watch his opportunity and
kill the emperor; the man was, however, seized in the attempt
by the guard and at once consigned to prison.
The eunuch, fearful that the prisoner would confess who his
instigator was, caused him to be secretly poisoned; and although
the jailors and many others suspected the eunuch of having
done so, yet none dared accuse so powerful a person of the act
and he escaped.
Another leap of 800 years brings us to the emperor Yang
G), of the Sui () dynasty, about A.D. 600. We are
told that this licentious emperor caused subscriptions to be
raised in every province under his sway, to enable him to build
six palaces. When these were built, he selected three thousand
women whom he placed in them as concubines. These were
all entrusted to the charge of a eunuch, named Hsü-yüan, f.
This eunuch was very covetous and avaricious, and the women,
knowing his weak points, used to bribe him with money or pre-
sents to induce him to recommend them to the favourable notice
of the emperor; each one doubtlessly hoping that she might
eventually aspire to be raised to something higher than a mere
concubine-perhaps even to share the imperial throne.
Among the ladies was one who had never even seen the om-
peror, as she had no money to bribe the eunuch with. She
grew melancholy, and the thoughts of her hard lot preyed so
San-kuo-chih,
In the Sui T'ang,隨唐

154
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
much on her mind that she committed suicide by hanging
herself.
The eunuch reported her death to the emperor, and he taking
into his head to look at the corpse, found, to his surprise, that
she had been more beautiful than any lady he possessed. He
bitterly reproached the eunuch for not having introduced so
lovely a creature to him while she was living, but must needs
wait till she was dead and then tell him of it. Some of the
ladies, gathering courage, now related a few of the eunuch's mal-
practices to the emperor, who immediately ordered him to be
beheaded.
Tradition says that the emperor was so smitten with the
charms of the lovely corpse, that he wept over and embraced it,
regretting that he had never had an opportunity of doing so
while it was living; and finally, tired out with unavailing
lamentations and caresses, he felt asleep with the corpse of the
beautiful concubine in his arms.
During the same emperor's reign (A.D. 605), it is related that
a southern tribe sent tribute to him; among the tribute bearers
was a lad, eighteen years of age, named Wang-i, E.
Wang-i was a dwarf, but was smart in appearance, well-
behaved, and naturally very intelligent. The emperor noticing
this, took him into his service, employing the lad as one of his
personal attendants.
When the emperor paid visits to the apartments of the ladies
Wang-i, to his astonishment, was never allowed to enter; on
enquiring the reason from a eunuch, he was told that none but
eunuchs were allowed to see the ladies. On further enquiry
Wang-i expressed a wish to become a eunuch, and succeeded in
persuading his informant to perform the necessary operation on
him, which the eunuch did shortly after while Wang-i was in a
drunken stupor.
When the emperor was informed of his attendant having
voluntarily become a eunuch, he shewed a greater partiality for
him than ever, and made him chief favourite. Wang-i, how-
ever, did not make use of this to further his own ends, but used
all the influence he possessed to promote the welfare of the
people; and shortly afterwards, when there was a rebellion, he
boldly-in a memorial-taxed the emperor with having brought
it on by bad government.
The emperor was enraged at the temerity of his favourite,
and ordered him to be brought into his presence immediately;
but Wang-i, having conscientiously performed what he consi-
dered to be his duty, and anticipating the death that was in
store for him, committed suicide by cutting his throat-hoping

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
155
rremonstrances and death would have the effect of causing his
Imaster to abandon his evil courses.
Yang-ti was much grieved at the death of his favourite, but
sstill continuing to oppress his people, he lost his empire and his
lilife ere the year was completed. He was put to death by a body
oof conspirators A.D 618.
Nearly a hundred years later (A.D. 713), in the T'ang ()
dilynasty, during the reign of the emperor Hsüan Tsung,
(for as he is more commonly called T'ang-ming-kuang,),
mention is often made of a eunuch, named Kao-li-shih,
wwwho faithfully followed the fortunes of his master for nearly
fififty years.
He was chief eunuch and privy counsellor of the emperor,
aand has the credit of assisting this licentious monarch in many of
this voluptuous orgies. Some historians also give him the credit
cof strangling the beautiful Yang-kuei-fei, e, by the
corder of the emperor who was compelled to sacrifice her life to
Ssatisfy the hatred of his mutinous soldiery.
Whatever the faults of this eunuch mgiht have been, he was
aat least faithful to his sovereign, and followed him in adversity
aas well as in prosperity. He died A.D. 762.
In the same dynasty and reign was a eunuch, named Li-fu-
kuo,, who attained to exalted rank and power, but
wwho was eventually assassinated. Mayers thus briefly gives his
Hhistory: "A eunuch of the household of T'ang Hüan Tsung,
sand the latter's most trusted counsellor during the closing years
cof his reign. When Hüan Tsung abdicated the throne in favour
cof his son, the emperor Suh Tsung, the latter was similarly led
tto repose unbounded confidence in Li-fu-kuo, under whose in-
ffluence he raised to the rank of empress the lady Chang, one of
tthe chief inmates of his seraglio (A.D. 757). From this period
tthe control of State affairs was almost wholly engrossed by
Li-fu-kuo, who was advanced to the post of minister, and for a
ttime his influence with the empress (), who virtually
ruled the State, was unbounded. She began, however, to
wweary of his dictation and sought to compass his death; but
ther consort died before she was able to accomplish the project,
aand in the ensuing confusion, Li-fu-kuo caused the empress
Hherself to be put to death in her own apartments. On the
aaccession of the heir apparent (the emperor Tai Tsung), Li-fu-
kuo was for a time treated with marked respect and continued
in the discharge of his high functions; but the emperor, fearing
Hhis encroaching disposition, caused him shortly afterwards to.
Ebe secretly assassinated." This was in A.D. 762.

156
CHINESE EUNUCHS,
Progressing onwards for some 300 years we come to the Sung
() dynasty, or about A.D. 1000.
In the reign of Ch'ên-tsung, , there was a chief eunuch,
named Ch'ên-lin, . He was one day going out of the
palace gate, when he encountered a female slave, named Kou-
ch'eng-yü, EE, bearing in her arms a small box.
The eunuch stopped the slave, and making her open the box,
found that it contained an infant. He at once taxed her with
being the mother of it, and demanded to know what she was
going to do with it. The slave told him that the child was not
hers, but that it was a prince, the son of the lady Li, (R),
and that her rival the lady Liu (), had secretly ex-
changed her female baby for the prince, and had ordered her to
throw him into the river. 8
The eunuch could scarcely credit the slave's story, but on her
repeating it and solemnly swearing to its truth, he believed her,
and taking the box from the slave, he determined to save the
prince; he therefore bore him out of the palace into that of the
emperor's uncle, to whom he told 'the tale, and who secretly
brought up the child as his own.
Meanwhile the slave returned to her mistress, and told hor
that she had disposed of the child by throwing it into the river.
The lady Liu congratulated herself on having so easily got rid
of her rival's child. She had reason afterwards, however, to
suspect that the child still lived, and resolving to ascertain the
truth, she ordered Ch'ên-lin to flog the slave girl till she con-
fessed what had really become of the babe and who had saved it.
The eunuch was compelled to flog the slave for his own sake,
but the brave girl bore it without flinching, and allowed herself
to be flogged to death rather than confess; she encouraging
the eunuch in flogging her and making him understand that
she would not divulge, he feeling as much anguish in flogging
the heroic girl as she did in receiving it, but each knowing that
discovery must ensue were they not both resolute to carry out
their role. Thus the prince was saved at the sacrifice of the
girl's life.
We now take another leap of about 350 years, to the reign of
Yüan-shun,, the last monarch of the Yüan dynasty (from
A.D. 1333 to A.D. 1341).
8
Tradition also has it that the lady Liu shewed the emperor a skinned
kitten, which she asserted was the child of the lady Li. The emperor was
so revolted at her giving birth to such a monstrosity, that he consigned her
to the Cold Palace, A, i. e. disgraced her. The tale from which this
incident is taken is not unlike one in the Arabian Night's Entertainments.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
157
This monarch had a daughter, known as Po-'hua,
who was not only very beautiful, but was also skilled in all
manly exercises. She had a eunuch to wait upon her, named
Pa-la, , who having a hatred against a young student,
and wishing to compass his death, invited him into the palace,
where he supplied him so plentifully with drink that the young
man got intoxicated, and in this state was led by the eunuch to
the sleeping apartment of the princess and left asleep on her
couch.
When the princess returned to her chamber for the purpose
of retiring, and drew back the curtains of her bed, she was much
astonished at seeing a very handsome youth sleeping there.
She at once drew her sword and was about to kill him when
he awoke, and throwing himself at the feet of the princess
entreated her to spare his life; explaining how he had been
invited into the palace by the eunuch, had been made into-
xicated, and that he must have been conducted hither while in
that state.
The princess was charmed with the young fellow's appearance
and ingenuous manner; and instead of killing him, as she at
first intended, she became deeply enamoured of him, and kept
him concealed in her chamber.
This did not suit the views of the treacherous eunuch, and he
informed the emperor of the princess having a young man con-
cealed in her room. Yüan-shun, hereupon, ordered the eunuch
to search his daughter's chamber and slay the person concealed
there; but the princess, hearing of the intended search, giving
her lover a sword as a keepsake (2), bade him fly-she,
herself, assisting him over the wall.
The search was in vain, and the eunuch in a fright now
entreated the princess to save his life from the anger of her
father. As she could not do this without implicating herself
she sternly refused. The emperor, disgusted at having listened
to the tales of a eunuch impeaching his daughter's honour, and
conceiving he had been made a fool of, ordered the wretched
eunuch to be instantly beheaded.
We now skip to the commencement of the Ming (J) dynasty,
or about A.D. 1410.
Yung-lo, c, the founder of Peking, had a favourite
general, named Kang-ping, J, and knowing him to be
brave and loyal, on one occasion when he went out hunting, he
left the general in charge of the palace.
Kang-ping was much gratified by the confidence shewn in
him by his royal master in giving him such an important trust.

158
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
Fearful, however, that some enemy might endeavour to do him
an injury by reporting some imaginary irregularity on his part
among the ladies of the palace, which he might have difficulty
in refuting, he determined to guard against it by castrating
himself.
As the general had anticipated, when Yung-lo returned, one
of the ministers reported that he had had improper intercourse
with some of the palace ladies. In reply to this accusation
Kang-ping briefly related how he had made a eunuch of himself,
and as a proof that he had done so, shewed the emperor the
parts emasculated, to the utter confusion of his detractor. The
emperor was so struck with the general's loyal conduct that he
made him chief eunuch.
When Kang-ping died the emperor deified him, giving him a
niche in a large temple he had built to the God of War ().
He also bestowed a large piece of ground to be used as a ceme-
tery for eunuchs. The temple and cemetery are outside the
Ping-tzu-mên, MP, about twelve li distant from Peking,
at a place called Ching-en-chuang, E. Since the death
of Kang-ping and his deification by the emperor all eunuchs
consider him as their patron saint or deity, and worship him
accordingly.
The eunuchs, during the reign of Chien-lung of the present
dynasty, also built a temple, which they named after and
dedicated to their patron deity; calling it Kang-ping's temple
(), they also enclosed a spot of ground for a cemetery.
These are on the large plain called the 'Hai-tien, E. Both
temples are used as hospitals for sick eunuchs; and most eunuchs,
when they die, are buried in one or the other of the cemeteries.
When eunuchs are seventy years of age, or are rendered unfit
for duty through sickness, etc., they are allowed to retire on a
pension varying from two to six taels per month, and those
who wish to do so, have the privilege of living in the temples
rent free.
As eunuchs, after death, cannot be sacrificed to by their
children-they have none, the government allows a yearly
sum to enable a certain number of eunuchs to go to the ceme-
teries in the spring and autumn to burn paper money, and offer
sacrifices at the tombs of those who have been buried there.
With this slight digression I will now resume my narrative
chronologically. A hundred years later brings it down to the
reign of Chêng-tê, E of the same dynasty.
In the reign of this monarch there was a eunuch, named Liu-
chin, who attained to extraordinary power. This eunuch

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
159
was a great favourite with the empress-dowager, and was raised
by her to the rank of "Nine thousand years;"
:": lhis greatest
recommendation to her favour apparently being, that he could
write equally well with either hand.
Liu-chin was very rapacious by disposition, and stopped at
nothing-even to the ruin of his country-so that he could fill
his own coffers. One instance will suffice for present purposes
and I will briefly relate it :-
To the west of Peking is a hill, named "Ten Prospect Hill,"
In this hill a spring rises which flows eventually
into the Yellow River. Liu-chin employed workmen to cut out
and enlarge the spot from whence the water sprung, thinking
by this means its volume would increase to such an extent that
it would inundate the country about Peking; when he would, in
consequence, have the disposal of ample funds from government
to repair the damage caused by the floods which he himself had
originated. In this instance, however, he was doomed to be
disappointed; for after squandering immense sums of his own
money in the undertaking, he was compelled to give it up as a
failure.
Liu-chin built the celebrated stone road leading to the Lu-
k'ou bridge, and many other works of a like nature owe their
origin to him. He died a natural death.
In the same reign was another eunuch, named Wei-chung-
hsien,, who ranked as a prince (F). This eunuch
was also of a rapacious disposition, and generally succeeded in
compassing the destruction of those who thwarted his wishes.
His ambition was such that he even dared to raise his eyes to
the "dragon throne," and plotted to obtain possession of it.
Wei-chung-hsien stealthily kept a concubine, and so desirous
was he of having a son that he secretly sent in search of the
Ling-tan,, or any other medicine that would cause his
procreative powers to re-develop themselves. A doctor told
him that if he extracted the brains from seven living men and
ate them, his genitals would return to their original state and
his impotency be cured. He therefore procured seven criminals,
had their heads split open, the brains extracted from them, and
devoured the revolting mess. Tradition does not inform us
whether this horrible remedy produced the desired effect or not.
Princes are styled "thousand years," the em-
Iperor is addressed as "ten thousand years," consequently this
eunuch was next in rank to the emperor.

160
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
This eunuch built a tomb for the emperor.10 He also built
a temple for himself at Hsin-chuang-'rh,
L, a place
seventy li to the west of Peking. This temple he constructed.
rather as a place of refuge where he could fly to in case of
danger, or where he could carry on his malpractices without
interruption or dread. It was strongly fortified, and resembled
a walled-in city more than a temple, being surrounded by a
lofty stone wall, so broad, that a carriage might be driven on
the top of it; while at each corner was a watch-tower. In the
enclosure were numerous buildings, and in the centre was a
lofty tower or keep, which had seventy-two circular entrances.
There was only one gateway to the temple, within which was a
deep well covered with a revolving trap. Every one entering the
gateway must cross this trap, which could be so arranged that
the persons crossing could be easily deposited in the well. To
render the entrance additionally dangerous, on either side was
a niche where men might be concealed and thrust at any one
entering. The temple is still standing, but is now called Hsüan-
ching-kuan, W.
In the succeeding reign, that of the emperor Chia Ching,
, who came to the throne A.D. 1522, we have an interest.
ing account of a eunuch and the mode of disposing of him.
Chia Ching, we are told, had a daughter who had such an
inordinate liking for lichees (), that, partly to gratify her
liking, and partly to reward a deserving officer, a native of
Kuang-tung, ; (Canton) named Tao, J, was selected by
the emperor to be her consort (5).
Tao returned to his native place, taking with him his bride,
a large establishment of servants, and a eunuch, named Hsü,
; who was sent by the emperor expressly to wait upon the
princess.
The eunuch was an arrogant, overbearing sort of person, and
was both feared and hated by the Cantonese who had any deal-
ings with him, and the upper seat was invariably given to him
wherever he went as a guest. This coming to the ears of Tao,
he determined to humble the pride of his follower; and repre-
senting to his informants that the eunuch was merely a slave,
he desired them not to make so much of him for the future.
To set them an example, Tao shortly after gave a large party
and ordered the eunuch to wait upon the guests. This humi-
liating treatment so exasperated the eunuch that he vowed
10 All emperors have their tombs built for them while they are yet
living. Curious that the "Lord of ten thousand years," should have his
tomb prepared while he is, perhaps, not twenty years of age.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
161
revenge, and at once secretly despatched a messenger to Peking
with a letter to the emperor, in which he stated that Tao was
on the point of rebellion.
Fully believing the eunuch's tale, the emperor sent an officer
to order his son-in-law back to Peking, and the latter, not
knowing of what crime he had been accused, committed suicide
out of sheer fright. The princess, however, was not of so timid
a disposition, and having gathered all the information she could
concerning the eunuch's plot, she hastened to Peking, and ex-
plained everything to the emperor, who, enraged at the eunuch's
treachery, ordered him to be rolled up in cotton well saturated
with oil, and then suspended from a beam, heels uppermost.
While in this position the wretched eunuch was set fire to from
the top-where his feet were-and in this state remained,
slowly burning downwards, till death put an end to his suffer-
ings. This mode of death was called "Lighting the human
lamp,”點入油燈:
A hundred years later and we come to the last year of the
last emperor (Ch'ung-chên, ), of the Ming dynasty
A.D. 1628.
In the stirring times which preceded the fall of the Ming ()
dynasty, a eunuch named Tu-shih-'hêng, tt, comes into
prominent notice. This eunuch was governor of the nine gates
of Peking at that exciting period, and it was he who opened the
city gate and admitted Li-tzu-ch'êng, , the rebel
chief and his horde, who speedily overran the city and palace,
committing all sorts of atrocities.
As is well known, the rebel-chief reigned as emperor eighteen
days, having a dynastic title (j), and even casting cash
having these characters on them during that brief period. One
of the first acts he did was to behead the eunuch for opening
the city gate, so that he reaped the reward of his treachery in
a manner different from what he anticipated. This eunuch is
spoken of with execration even to the present time.
In contrast to the above-mentioned eunuch was one who,
living at the same time, was equally celebrated for his loyalty.
This eunuch's name was Wang-cheng-ên, E; he re-
11 This gate was the P'ing-tzu-mên, P. On the accession of
Shun-chih,, the first emperor of the present dynasty, he caused a
flower resembling a peony to be cut into one of the bricks on the left sido
of the gate-branding it, in fact, as a thief would be on the left temple.
The gate is known as "The Rebel's Gate" (F) to this day. By a
curious coincidence, on the arrival of Shun-chih, Li-tzu-ch'êng fled out of
the city by the same gate he had so recently entered.

162
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
mained faithful to the last. Such was his devotion, that when
his imperial master hung himself on Prospect Hill, he also
committed suicide.'
Another hundred years brings us to Chien-lung,
the present dynasty, A.D. 1736.
KE, of
In Chien-lung's reign the palace eunuchs were very arrogant
and overbearing, and were detested by every one: knowing this,
it seems strange they did not assume a more conciliating atti-
tude; such, however, was not the case, and the following sketch
shews that they suffered for it in a very remarkable manner.
President Liu (J) was noted for bringing the delin-
quencies of officials to the notice of the emperor, by sending in
written reports of their misconduct; so that every one stood in
dread of him and his mischievous pen, except the chief eunuch,
who thought he and his eunuchs were beyond the reach of the
president's predilection for reporting; and not content with
thinking so, must needs tell him as much. One day he stopped
Liu's carriage, and insolently told him he knew he was fond of
reporting others, but that as the eunuchs never misconducted
themselves they could laugh at him, as he was unable to report
them. Simply remarking that he would do so on the morrow
Liu went on his way.
1
The next day the president was as good as his word, and sent
in a memorial to the emperor, in which he stated that "although
the eunuchs had originally been castrated, yet the mutilated
organs must, in many cases, have grown to such an extent as
to render re-castration necessary. He had heard such a thing
had occurred in the Ming dynasty, and the result had been
licentiousness and disorder in the palace between the eunuchs
and ladies. This coming to the emperor's ears, he had ordered
an inspection of eunuchs, when it was found necessary to re-
emasculate many of them. To prevent such a scandal occur-
ring again the memorialist begged that the whole of the eunuchs
might at once be inspected, and that those whose organs had
partially grown might have them swept clean,' ().
Chien-lung assented to this proposal, and immediately issued
orders for the whole of the eunuchs to be examined and re-
emasculated, if necessary, lest they should presume on their
position and the facilities afforded them, to cause licentiousness
in the palace.
13
See "Lamentations of Ch'ung-chen," "The Wry-necked Tree,"
and "The Cursed Temple." China Review, IV, 294; 255.
13 This did not actually occur; the president was drawing on his
imagination.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
163
This order was strictly carried out and many of the eunuchs
underwent another operation at the hands of the "knifers."
Many of the eunuchs died shortly after the operation, or as the
Chinese tersely express it, were "swept dead," (E); others
recovered, but there can be no doubt that they must have suf-
fered severely. All this death, suffering, and consequent shame
on the part of the surviving eunuchs originated entirely through
the insolence of the chief eunuch to president Liu, who took
this strange method of punishing it.14
In the 18th year of Chia-ch'ing, (A.D. 1814) a great
many of the palace eunuchs were implicated in a plot to over-
turn the Manchu government. These eunuchs were members
of a secret society, called "The White Feathers,"-numbering
only a few hundred men:-
"The little society had the audacity to attack the Imperial
palace at Peking, succeeded in effecting an entrance, and but
for the bravery and determination of one of the princes, who
effectually opposed and destroyed the rebels, this little rising
might have had a startling influence on the future destinies
of the empire."15
On the discovery of the part played by the eunuchs, those
who were implicated in the conspiracy were apprehended, and
upwards of a hundred of them were beheaded.
To come nearer to our own times, we find that castration has
not altogether been discontinued as a punishment. The follow-
ing facts are in the memory of thousands of Pekinese :-
In the 1st year of Hsien-feng, (A.D. 1851) a yamên or
court, known as the Hsün-fang-chu, B, was instituted
in Peking, expressly to try and punish all rebels who were un-
fortunate enough to be captured and brought before it. It is
needless to say that very little mercy was shewn to the prisoners,
death being the invariable sentence.
In the 7th year of Hsien-fêng, some rebels were brought in
prisoners; among them were seven boys, none of them over ten
years of age. The full-grown rebels were all decapitated at
once, but the law not allowing children to suffer death-or till
they are fifteen years of age, when they are considered adults-
the boys were sent to the Board of Punishments, for that tri-
bunal to decide what was to be done with them.
As the Chinese notion is that the sons of rebels must breed
rebels, and as the boys were of too tender an age to suffer death,
14
It is said that the emperor ever afterwards felt compunction for
having ordered the re-emasculation of the eunuchs.
See The White Feathers,"-China Review, vol. IV., pp. 361-364.

164
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
the Board decided that they should all be emasculated and sent
to the frontiers to become slaves of the troops stationed there.
This sentence was carried into effect.
The most notorious and powerful eunuch of the present times
was An-te-'hai, whose adventures and tragic end
will probably from the theme of many a tale, play, or poem,
when this dynasty shall be succeeded by another; for till such
an event takes place, historiographers, poets, and play-writers
will not dare relate his deeds, under penalty of losing their
heads. The following brief sketch of his life and death may,
however, be received as correct; as I obtained the particulars
from one who knew him personally, and who was familiar with
his history.
An-tê-'hai was brought up in La-ku (k) lane, 16 just out-
side the Ti-an gate () of the palace. His parents,
who were very poor, compelled him, at the age of twelve (1855),
to become a eunuch,-this was in Hsien-fêng's reign. The
young eunuch was very handsome, and on that account was
selected by Hsien-feng's empress (the mother of Tung-chih) as
one of her personal attendants; and the lad displayed so much
intelligence and activity in his duties that she took a great
fancy to him, and had him constantly about her.
While Hsien-feng was living, the partiality of the empress for
her favourite eunuch did not excite much attention; but after
the emperor's death, her infatuation for An-tê-'hai daily in-
creased, and she treated him more like a son than a slave; and
although he held no office, the empress made him a "white
button," supplied him liberally with money, and indulged his
every whim.
Some idea may be formed of his extravagance and the money
required to keep it up-money which could only be procured
from the empress-when the reader is informed that An-tê-
'hai, a mere eunuch, had a large establishment outside the
palace, where he kept sixty of the finest horses procurable,
numbers of hunting-hawks and badger-dogs, with their keepers,
and a large retinue. He had also a wife-an unnecessary ap-
pendage to a eunuch-but one which he conceived his riches
and power entitled him to indulge in.
As An-té-'hai grew in years' and in favour with the empress,
so also his arrogance increased; his conceit and insolence knew
1. He was born in the 23rd year of Tao-kuang (1843), was emasculated
in the 5th year of Hsien-fêng (1855), and killed in the 6th year of Tung-
chih (1867).
17 At this time Hsien-féng was dead and Tung-chih quite a child.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
165
no bounds, and so great was his presumption, that on one
occasion he actually rode his horse round the courtyards of the
palace, a thing the emperor, only, was entitled to do. Prince
Kung was so enraged at the eunuch's audacity that he ordered
him to be bound and taken to the Shên-hsing-ssu,,
for instant punishment. The favourite was saved, however,
for a eunuch ran off and informed the empress, who at once
dispatched a messenger to the yamên ordering his immediate
release, as she had important business for him to do. Even
prince Kung dared not detain the eunuch after this mandate,
and he was accordingly released.
Among the many marks of favour shewn by the empress to
this eunuch may be mentioned one which finds no parallel in
the annals of China. On the death of his father (1866)18 An-tê-
'hai applied for and obtained a hundred days leave to perform
the necessary mourning ceremonies. During the whole of this
time the empress ordered him to be supplied with food from her
own kitchen; and every morning eunuchs bearing covered
dishes might be seen issuing from the palace gates. This
hitherto unheard of proceeding attracted much attention, and
many queer remarks were made at the time of a not very com-
plimentary nature; high and low expressing their wonder at
the empress so publicly displaying such an interest in a slave.
The young emperor, Tung-chih, is also said to have disapproved
of his mother's strange partiality for a eunuch, and there is no
doubt he would have put a stop to An-tê-'hai's career when he
grew up.
An-tê-'hai spent a great deal of his time beyond the precincts
of the palace, visiting all the temples and places of note in the
vicinity of Peking, and invariably accompanied by a large
retinue, consisting chiefly of loose characters, who imposed on
and ill-treated the inhabitants. He even, on one occasion,
extended his peregrinations as far as Tientsin, and squandered
upwards of 3,000 taels during his trip; this money-indeed the
money for all his extravagancies, being supplied by the empress.
In the sixth year of Tung-chih (1867), An-tê-'hai went on a
pleasure trip to Shantung, taking with him above thirty fol-
lowers. On this occasion he even went so far as to use the flag
of his imperial mistress; his followers, taking their cue from
this, gave out that he was on a special mission for the empress;
and on the strength of this, imposed on people of all ranks
however, was brought to an abrupt termination,
governor of Shantung, Ting-pao-chên, T, the
In the 5th year of Tung-chih.
The expedition,
for the

166
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
present governor (1877)-who it is said had received private
instructions from prince Kung-sent soldiers to seize An-tê-'hai
and his party, and the whole, after some resistance, were seized
and thrown into prison.
The governor now sent a despatch to prince Kung in which
he stated that the eunuch and his followers had so grossly mis-
conducted themselves on their arrival in Shantung that he had
been compelled to place them in prison, and he wished to know
what should be done with them. Prince Kung is said to have
written in reply that he was to behead the whole party. The
governor carried out these instructions almost to the letter; one
man alone, a carter, being spared, and he only by proving that
he did not belong to the party but had been engaged at a road-
side village.
The governor afterwards reported what he had done, and gave
as his reason for doing so, the abduction of two girls by An-tê-
'hai's party, and the subsequent death of one of them. Whether
the party were guilty of the crime, or whether it was a tale
concocted to give a plausible excuse for executing them all, no
one appears to know; but one thing is certain, pamphlets were
sold in Peking giving an elaborate account of the abduction and
its consequence.
When the news of An-te-'hai's death reached the empress, she
is said to have repudiated all knowledge of his journey to Shan-
tung, and whatever she may have felt, she wisely held her peace.
The eunuch's property was confiscated, but the empress ordered
her brother, Duke Chao, , to support An-te-'hai's
mother in his own palace, which he did till the old lady died.
Having thus briefly given the history of a few of the more
celebrated eunuchs, from the Chou dynasty (720 B.c.) to A.D.
1867 of the present dynasty, I shall endeavour, as briefly as
possible, to describe them as they now are; and give, as well as
I can, a few of their distinguishing traits, the mode of emascu-
lation, the rules they have among themselves, the duties they
undertake and other details. Without farther preamble, there-
fore, I shall commence-giving first a list of those ranks which
entitle the possessor to employ eunuchs, and the number of
eunuchs each is entitled by his rank to employ. It will be seen
by the following that (with one exception) the employment of
eunuchs is strictly confined to the imperial family.
The emperor ought to have 3,000 eunuchs to perform the
various duties of the palace; at the present time there are not
above 2,000 employed.
Princes of the blood (Ch'in-wang, E), sons of the emperor,
may use thirty eunuchs in their establishments.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
167
Imperial princesses19 (Kung-chu, E), daughters of an
emperor-who have been bestowed in marriage on high officials,
or on Mongolian or Tartar princes, are also entitled to use thirty
eunuchs.
Chun-wang, E, nephews or younger sons of the emperor,
may use twenty eunuchs.
Pei-le, , grandsons of the emperor, may use ten.
Pei-tzu, F, sons of Pei-lê, may use six.
Kung-yeh,
sons of Pei-tzu, may use four.
The exception spoken of previously, is the hereditary prin-
ces. (Hsi-wang, E,20) descendants of the eight Manchu
chiefs who assisted Shun-chih in establishing the present dynasty.
These are entitled to employ twenty eunuchs, but must employ
some in their service, or they are liable to be reported and lose
their rank for failing to keep up the dignity of their station.
The above-mentioned, only, are entitled by their rank to
employ eunuchs in their establishments, and they are all com-
pelled to do so.
Having, in the above list, given the titles of those who are
privileged to use eunuchs, I shall now proceed to relate how
eunuchs are procured for the imperial palace, from whence they
are procured, and who furnish them, etc.
Every fifth year each prince is required to furnish, for the
use of the palace, eight young eunuchs. These must have been
previously well trained, and before they enter on their duties
in the palace, must be inspected and guaranteed to be pure
eunuchs-i. e. properly emasculated, clean in person, and free
from all disease. The sum of 250 taels is paid for each of these
eunuchs to the princes who send them, to recoup whatever
expense they may have incurred in purchasing and training
them. This system is adopted to ensure a constant supply of
handy and faithful servants, as they have served a long proba-
These are supposed to be given in marriage before they reach the age
of eighteen. It is related of Taokuang that he disliked his fifth daughter,
on account of her lachrymose disposition. One day the emperor became
so much annoyed at her bursting into tears when summoned before him,
that he swore he would marry her to a beggar; and actually carried out
his threat, for he married her to a common soldier, a bannerman, earning
only four taels a month. The man, however, was well-connected and was
a fine looking fellow. When he became the husband of the princess a
palace was given to him with an allowance suitable to his rank. The
princess lived with him ten years and died childless.
20
These are also called Tich-mao-tzu-wang, E, lit. Iron-
capped princes, figurative for the durability of their rank-never wear out-
hereditary.
21
The Chin, Chun, and Hsi-wangs, only.

168
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
tion before entering the palace; and, moreover, each prince is
responsible for his quota of eunuchs sent.
But as this system does not nearly supply the number of
eunuchs required, they are obtained from other sources as well;
large numbers of boys, and even grown up men-either pur-
chased from their relatives, or voluntarily offering themselves-
being constantly emasculated, and when recovered from the
operation, drafted into the palace.
Most eunuchs are natives of Chihli, (indeed all eunuchs are
supposed to be natives of that province, though it is probable
here and there one may be found who is not) and of these again,
by far the greater number are from a place named 'Ho-chien-fu,
, some 350 li to the south of Peking: this has been
the case ever since the Ming dynasty. Chinese say that the
natives of the place like to be eunuchs, but it would be more
reasonable to suppose that compulsion had a good deal to do
with it in the first instance, and it has gradually grown into a
"custom," which (in China), like the laws of the Medes and
Persians "cannot be altered."
Among the reasons why persons become eunuchs at the pre-
sent day may be enumerated the following:-
Compulsion:-This one reason will account for at least seven-
eighths of the number of eunuchs made; as in the case of boys
of tender age, who are compelled by their parents or relatives
to become eunuchs, either for the sake of the money which will
accrue to them by the sale of the boys for that purpose, or from
the desire of seeing them provided for in life.
Poverty-In the case of those who are grown up, and who,
having no means of getting an honest livelihood, prefer be-
coming eunuchs to beggary or theft.
Choice or rather laziness-As in the case of those who
become eunuchs on account of the high duties they will have to
perform; which, with good board and lodging, together with the
certainty of a comfortable provision for old age, renders the
prospect of a eunuch's life one to be envied and desired.
Other reasons might be given, but I shall content myself with
the three already specified. In the first case-compulsion;
every one in China is aware that a parent's word is law to his
child, so that the boy would submit implicitly to whatever fate
his parent might choose for him. In the second case-poverty;
men of twenty years of age or upwards may, in many instances,
be their own masters, and have their destiny in their own hands.
When these desire to become eunuchs they must first find a
security as to their honesty and general character. When this
is obtained, they have the operation performed; wait till they

CHINESE EUNUCHS..
169
are recovered, and are then drafted into the palace, where they
are employed as gardeners, cooks, or in some other menial
work which does not necessitate their entering the private apart-
ments of the ladies.
Cases have been known of middle-aged men becoming eunuchs,
and there are at the present time in the palace several eunuchs
who are married and have families. These, of course, were
made eunuchs after their marriage, being driven to it, some,
by poverty, and it is even said, some, by the tongues of their
better-halves. Those of the palace eunuchs who have wives
and families are allowed to go out and spend a few days with
them occasionally.
In regard to the latter reason, "Choice or Laziness," an
illustration or two will serve to shew that such reasons can be
assigned. I'll first briefly relate an instance of a failure:-A
few years ago a newly-married young man expressed a strong
desire to become a eunuch, as he said he should then have
nothing to do but eat, drink, and sleep. His relatives endea-
voured to dissuade him from so insane an idea, and refused to
become surety for him; whereupon he attempted to perform the
operation on himself, but did it so clumsily that no one would
employ him. He, therefore, had mutilated himself for life
without gratifying his desire of living the easy life of a eunuch.
To quote another case:-There is at the present time in the
palace of prince Su (Ef opposite the British Lega-
tion, Peking), a young man who became a eunuch from choice.
He had been married only a year when he mutilated himself
with a common butcher's knife; this occurred about five years
ago. When he recovered he was employed in the Su-wang-fu,
where he has remained ever since; going out occasionally to
spend a day or two with his wife and daughter. In the case of
this young man no other reason can be given except that he
did it from choice. His friends are well to do, he is blessed
with youth, a wife and child, and all the comforts of a home,
and yet he voluntarily becomes a eunuch by performing the
operation on himself!
A curious case occurred in the 3rd year of the reign of Hsien-
fêng (1853) which is worth recording as shewing to what an
extent a Chinese will go to obtain his ends, and at the same
time have revenge:-A poor man entered a pawnshop one day
and wanted to pledge his coat for a small sum. Seeing that it
was worthless, the pawnbroker refused to advance anything on
it, whereupon, the man in a rage pulled out a knife, emasculated
22
Prince Su is one of the hereditary Tartar princes.

170
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
himself on the spot, threw the parts emasculated on the counter,
and insisted on pledging them for thirty tiao, (about $4). The
pawnbroker was naturally much alarmed and at once reported
the circumstance. Strange as it may appear to foreigners, the
pawnbroker was compelled for his own sake to send the man to
a temple, and furnish him with food and medical attendance till
he recovered, when he sought for and obtained a situation for
the self-made eunuch in the palace of one of the princes; for
had the man died, his death would have been laid at the pawn-
broker's door, or having recovered, and not being satisfactorily
provided for, he would have been a source of endless annoyance
and persecution to the unfortunate pawnbroker.
Having given some of the reasons why persons are made
eunuchs, I shall as briefly as possible endeavour to describe
where the operation is performed, by whom, and how it is done.
The place where men or boys are made eunuchs is just out-
side the inner Hsi-'hua gate (F) of the palace, and
within the imperial city. It is a mean-looking building, and is
known as the Chang-tzu, F, the shed. Within this build-
ing reside several men recognized by government, yet drawing
no pay from it-whose duty consists in emasculating those who
are desirous of becoming, or are sent to become-eunuchs.
These men are called tao-tzu-chiang, JE, "knifers,"
and depend entirely for their living on making eunuchs. They
get a fixed sum-six taels-for every operation they perform on
boys sent or brought to them, and for keep and attendance till
the patients are properly recovered.
Grown up men desirous of becoming eunuchs, but who are
too poor to pay the necessary fees, make arrangements with the
"knifers" to repay them out of their salaries. But in any case
the "knifers" dare not operate on them unless they (the can-
didates) have securities to vouch for their respectability.
The "knifers" have generally one or two apprentices to learn
the profession; these are almost invariably members of their
own families, so that the profession may be said to be hereditary.
When the operation is about to take place, the candidate or
victim-as the case may be-is placed on a kang in a sitting-
or rather, reclining position. One man supports him round
the waist, while two others separate his legs and hold them
down firmly, to prevent any movement on his part. The ope-
23
Among the reasons given might be mentioned the following:
Having "thoroughly seen the world "-disgusted with it, used up
blasé; antipathy to women, having had too much of them: and some be-
come eunuchs because they think it a sin to indulge in sexual intercourse.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
171
rating "knifer" then stands in front of the man-with his knife
in his hand-and enquires if he will ever repent. 24 If the man
at the last moment demurs in the slightest, the "knifer" will
not perform the operation, but if he still expresses his willing-
ness, with one sweep of the knife he is made a eunuch.
The operation is performed in this manner :--white ligatures:
or bandages are bound tightly round the lower part of the belly
and the upper parts of the thighs, to prevent too much hæmor-
rage. The parts about to be operated on are then bathed three
times with hot pepper-water, the intended eunuch being in the
reclining position as previously described. When the parts.
have been sufficiently bathed, the whole,-both testicles and
penis are cut off as closely as possible with a small curved
knife, something in the shape of a sickle. The emasculation.
being effected, a pewter needle or spigot is carefully thrust into
the main orifice at the root of the penis; the wound is then
covered with paper saturated in cold water and is carefully-
bound up. After the wound is dressed the patient is made to
walk about the room, supported by two of the "knifers," for
two or three hours, when he is allowed to lie down.
The patient is not allowed to drink anything for three days,.
during which time he often suffers great agony, not only from
thirst, but from intense pain, and from the impossibility of re-
lieving nature during that period.
At the end of three days the bandage is taken off, the spigot
is pulled out, and the sufferer obtains relief in the copious flow
of urine which spurts out like a fountain. If this takes place.
satisfactorily, the patient is considered out of danger and con-
gratulated on it; but if the unfortunate wretch cannot make-
water he is doomed to a death of agony, for the passages have
become swollen and nothing can save him.25
In spite, however, of the rough mode in which the operation
is performed, it is rare that a death occurs; one case, only,.
having come to my informant's notice during many years,-the
victim being a man of thirty years of age. This is entirely op-
posed to Chardin, who says that "one only in four survives,"
and to the chief physician of the Pasha, who states that two-
thirds die. It would seem that Buckhardt was nearer the mark
when he says that the operation is only fatal in about two out
of a hundred cases. (See page 145).
24
Boys are not asked the question, the consent
cof their friends being amply sufficient.
23
It must be borne in mind that the Chinese have not foreign appli-
aances in the shape of catheters or bougies to facilitate the free passage of
arine.

172
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
When thoroughly cured-which he generally is in about a
hundred days-the eunuch is sent into the palace of one of
the princes, to learn his duties; at the end of a year, or so, he
is transferred from thence to the imperial palace and appointed
to wherever his services may be required. If a number enter
the palace at one time, the ladies who require additional eunuchs,
select from them according to their rank.
Newly joined eunuchs, previous to entering on their duties,
are closely inspected by an old eunuch to see that they are bona
fide eunuchs. They are then instructed in the duties of their
respective posts till they are considered proficient in them.
The parts emasculated are called the "precious," ; these,
having been prepared by some process, are carefully kept by the
"knifers" in common pint measures hermetically closed, and
placed on a high shelf. This is called high promotion ()
-figuratively that the owners of them may rise to high rank.
Those, however, of the newly made eunuchs who demand their
precious," or who have relatives who claim it for them, are
allowed to retain it in their own possession; these are likewise
placed in pint measures on high shelves, being treasured with
the utmost care.
"
The "precious" are kept for two reasons; the first of which
is, should a eunuch be promoted to any grade he must shew one,
or he cannot obtain his rank-the possession of a "precious"
rendering him eligible. It is inspected by the chief eunuch;
this is called "inspecting the precious" (). This inspec-
tion is a source of profit to the knifers," for those eunuchs
who have, through ignorance or carelessness, neglected to claim
their "precious," when emasculated, are often, on promotion,
compelled to pay a large sum for one-sometimes as much as
fifty taels: It often occurs, too, that a eunuch loses his "pre-
cious," or has it stolen from him, and then, in the event of his
being selected for promotion, he is either driven to the necessity
of buying one from the "knifers," or has to borrow or hire one
from a friend, so that it may well be termed "precious," for on
these occasions it is really so.
The second reason why the "precious" are so much prized
is, that each eunuch, when he dies, has his own particular one
placed in his coffin and buried with him-or if he cannot obtain
his own, that of some one else. This is done, partly because
the eunuch wishes to be as complete as possible when departing
2
This applies chiefly to persons who are emasculated when grown
up; boys up to twelve or fourteen years of age may be taken to the imperial
palace immediately they are cured.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
173
into another world-for Chinese have a horror of being mutilated
-and partly to hoodwink the King of Hades (E), who is
supposed to transform defunct eunuchs into she-mules; and by
having his "precious" with him, he hopes to evade this fate.
It would take up too much time and space to specify particu-
larly all the duties eunuchs have to perform in the palace. They
may be summed up in a few words; as regards out-door employ-
ment, they are water-carriers, watchmen, chair-bearers, gar-
deners, etc., while their in-door work is such as would be per-
formed by cooks, chamber, parlour, scullery maids, and persons
of that class in our own countries. In short, they do every-
thing in the palace. 27 I shall speak_more_particularly of two
or three special employments of eunuchs as I am on the subject,
the first of which may be styled of a religious nature, so I give
that the precedence.
In the palace are eighteen Lama priests, who are also
eunuchs. These priests are supposed to represent the Lo-'han, 28
and are kept expressly to attend to the spiritual welfare of the
ladies of the palace.
When a vacancy occurs in the eighteen it is speedily filled up
by selecting a eunuch who has either a desire to become a
priest, or fancies he has a vocation that way; so that, indepen-
dent of not having been trained to the priesthood from child-
hood, many of them know nothing whatever pertaining to their
craft when they join; some of them, too, can neither read nor
write, and we can readily imagine the amount of ignorance and
superstition to be found among these eunuch priests, and the
spiritual benefit likely to accrue to the employers of their services.
These eighteen Lama priests draw a double allowance of
salary, receiving an allowance as priests in addition to their
salary as eunuchs; this is a strong temptation to many eunuchs,
and any vacancy in the ranks of the priesthood is-under these
circumstances filled without difficulty.
The next "special employment" of a number of eunuchs is
theatricals. That the ladies of the palace may be gratified in
27
It must not be imagined by this that there are no female servants in
the palace. Every third year a certain number of girls, between the ages
of fourteen and sixteen, are selected from the families of Bannermen to
perform such light duties as embroidery, etc., in fact, they are called
"embroidery girls" (x). These girls all dress in male attire; they
remain in the palace for five years, when they receive a small bonus and
are sent back to their respective families. There are also matrons for per-
forming such duties as can only be performed conveniently by such persons.
羅漢 These deities, eighteen in number, are the attendants of
28
Kuan-yin,, the goddess of mercy.

174
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
their taste for theatrical entertainments, and as no outsiders
can enter the palace, a dramatic corps is kept up especially for
that purpose. This corps numbers over three hundred, and is
composed entirely of eunuchs, the whole of them under the
control of a chief eunuch. They live in a building within the
Imperial city, but outside the palace, called the Nan-fu, f
These eunuchs have no other duties to perform but those of
playing in the palace, and the rehearsals necessary to render
them proficient.
Within the palace is a theatre, known as the T'ung-lo-yüan,
In this, it is customary to have one performance.
every month. This is entirely independent of representations
given in honour of officials who may have distinguished them-
selves; and have therefore been deemed worthy of witnessing
what may be termed a "state performance."
In addition to these the emperor or empress often orders a
particular performance to be given. Both the present empresses
are said to enjoy farces or domestic dramas, in which the homely
lives of the poor are depicted, and of which they can learn but
very little, or witness in any other manner than by these sources.
On the other hand an emperor would invariably select pieces of
an historical nature. It is related of Hsien-föng that he was
once so frightened at the "make up" and acting of a dramatic
player, that he ordered the unfortunate eunuch to receive twenty
blows for daring to startle him. This mode of complimenting a
player would rather astonish some of our dramatic performers,
and would not have a tendency to develop "native talent," one
would imagine. These players draw the same salaries as other
eunuchs, but often get a largess bestowed on them by the emperor
or empress when they are particularly pleased with a per-
formance.
The following brief sketch, although somewhat trenching on
another subject, serves to shew one more special duty which
some of the eunuchs have to perform, so I will relate it :-When
the emperor wishes for the presence of any particular concubine
in his bed-chamber, he gives a label or tally, on which he has
written the name of the lady, to the eunuch in waiting, who
takes it to the lady in question and she is borne in a chair by
eunuchs to the emperor's sleeping apartment, which is named
the Yang-hsin-tien,
On retiring to rest the lady does not dare get into the empe-
ror's bed in the usual manner-that is, from the head, or rather,
2 Ladies do not attend these representations.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
175
side-but it is etiquette for her to crawl in from the foot till she
comes in a line with her imperial bedfellow.
Two eunuchs keep watch outside the door, and before break
of day they arouse the concubine and she is borne back again
to her own apartment. The circumstance of the concubine
having slept with the emperor is then recorded in a book, with
the name of the lady, and the date of the visit. The entry is
signed by the emperor, and the book is referred to to substantiate
the legitimacy of the child, in the event of the concubine giving
birth to one. It is considered of the utmost importance that
this book should be strictly kept; and the visit of every lady to
the emperor's sleeping apartment is consequently carefully re-
gistered and attested.
For the better management of the eunuchs, and that the work
of the palace may be carried on systematically, it is (in the
present dynasty) divided into forty-eight departments (+
A): each one having its own particular class of duties con-
nected with it, and staff of eunuchs to perform those duties;
thus, there is the department for looking after gardens, court-
yards, cook-houses, armoury, chairs, etc., etc. Each depart-
ment has a superintendent ()-who is generally of the
sixth grade, or having a "gold button." Over the whole of the
departments is a chief eunuch, or general supervisor (B);
this officer is usually of the third grade and wears a "red
button."
If any eunuch by reason of dislike to his duty, through hard-
ship, ill-treatment, or other causes, should run away from the
palace, his absence is immediately reported to the
E
a species of police corps, whose duty it is to capture runaway
eunuchs. The men composing this force are not eunuchs them-"
selves, but know all the eunuchs of the palace; and it is rare
that one of them succeeds in escaping, for no sooner is the flight
of one reported, than the members of the force-(who are adepts
at disguises, and may be considered detectives) spread them-
selves all over the city, and speedily recapture the deserter; who
is then conveyed to a yamên-appointed for the punishment of
eunuchs known as the Shen-hsing-ssu, j, where he is
tried and punished according to the nature and degree of his
offence.
For a first case of desertion, the culprit is imprisoned for two
months; at the end of that period he receives twenty blows and
is sent back to his duty in the palace. For the second offence,
he is put into the cangue for two months; at the end of which
he is again returned to his duty. For the third offence, he is

176
banished to Moukden
completion of his term
duty, as usual.
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
for two years and a half, and at the
of banishment, he is returned to his
Theft is punished by banishment to Moukden; but if the
property stolen should be anything prized by the emperor, such
as curios, jewellery, or other valuables, the offender is taken to
Chin-shan-k'ou, -a place about forty li distant from
Peking-and there beheaded.
Trifling offences, such as neglect of duty, laziness, etc., are
punished by the bastinado. When a eunuch commits an offence
of this kind, it is dealt with summarily. The chief eunuch
summons the attendance of a eunuch from each of the forty-
eight departments, each eunuch being armed with a baton-made
by glueing together two slips of bamboo, with the rough side
outwards-and the culprit receives from eighty to a hundred
blows. When the beating is finished he is sent to the surgery,
where the doctor-who is also a eunuch-dresses the wounds
by rubbing in ointment, and after three days the culprit is again
flogged to render the punishment more severe. This second
flogging is termed "raising the scabs" (0.
Sometimes, when two eunuchs have been implicated in a
similar offence, each has to flog the other in turn. This is
amusing, for the one who flogs first does not dare strike lightly,
lest the chief eunuch, who is looking on, should detect it; while
the second hits hard to have satisfaction for the beating he has
just received from his present victim. This is called "flogging
in turn" (0.
(倒打板).
Palace eunuchs are rarely dismissed, they must be incorrigible
before that event takes place. When once they are driven from
the palace they cannot be employed as servants by any one,
and as they are fit for nothing else, they become beggars and
eventually die of starvation. On the other hand, if a prince
dismisses a eunuch it is not of so much consequence, as he
may obtain employment in the family of some other prince or
noble who is entitled by his rank to employ eunuchs.
The actual salaries of common eunuchs vary from two to four
taels per month; twelve taels being the highest salary any one
receives, no matter what his rank may be. It is not to be sup-
posed, however, that eunuchs are different from other Chinese
in one thing "squeezing:"-and many of them make large
sums in various ways, such as by pretending to facilitate, or
really facilitating the business of those having audience; making
Sheng-ching. ; also called Feng-t'ion-fu, ff-the
capital of Manchuria.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
177
them comfortable while waiting, by supplying them with tea,
pipes, etc., and the thousand and one other ways by which a
true Chinaman knows how to "turn an honest penny." The
salaries of eunuchs are paid monthly, whereas, other officials
draw theirs half-yearly.
Each eunuch, in addition to bis pay, is supplied with a
certain quantity of rice monthly; and to economize their sala-
ries, as well as for convenience sake, the eunuchs form messes
amongst themselves, subscribing so much each to supply
meat, vegetables and other kinds of food, which is cooked in
the palace.
Every courtyard in the palace has its colony of eunuchs, who
live in small houses, called "Menial's houses" (T),
at the sides of the main building in which their particular em-
ployer resides; so that they can be readily summoned when
wanted.
The palace gates are shut at dusk, and opened shortly after
midnight, for the admission of such officials as have business
with the emperor. Should any eunuch be out of the palace
when the gates are closed he is compelled to stay out all night,
and is sure to be severely punished the next day. Official hats
have to be worn on all occasions by eunuchs, no one being
allowed egress or ingress without a hat on; consequently one
mode of punishing a eunuch is by taking his hat from him, and
by this means confining him to the palace.
All eunuchs are considered pure (chên, or ch'ing, )
but boys who are made eunuchs when under ten years of age
are termed "thoroughly pure" (t'ung-chên, ). These are
specially prized, and are employed by the ladies of the palace
with as much freedom as if they were girls; performing such
offices as ought only to be done by women-some of them of a
nature it would be impossible to describe here. These boy-
eunuchs are supposed to be free from the least licentiousness
even in thought;-in fact, they are considered to be devoid of
all feeling of that kind whatever. They are commonly called
"little eunuchs" (Hsiao-t'ai-chien, J); as they grow up
they are not allowed such freedom of intercourse, being replaced
by others younger than themselves, while they are employed in
such duties as do not bring them into the more private apart-
ments of the ladies.
Eunuchs, in common with other Chinese, are not excluded
from worshipping in temples, burning incense, fasting, etc., but
at the end of a prescribed period of fasting (which generally lasts
about fifty days) they are not allowed the privilege of ascending

178
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
the tai-chieh, In this, however, they are not worse.
off than many others, for no cripple or deformed person, no one
short of an eye, finger, or any portion of the body, nor any
woman in her courses, etc., can ascend the dais. In, this we
have a marked resemblance to the Mosaic Law, as laid down
in the book of Deuteronomy, XXIII.
Eunuchs may be known by the voice, want of hair on the
face, cringing manner, hangdog, bloated appearance (in some),
and an indescribable je-ne-sais-quoi, which those who have not
been emasculated do not have. To enable a better idea, how-
ever, to be formed of them, I will enter somewhat into detail,
and describe, as well as I can, some few of their more striking
peculiarities.
In the first place, eunuchs, in China, invariably dress in
sombre coloured garments (bought by themselves), such as an
ash-coloured long coat (p'ao-tz, F), and over this a dark-
blue shorter coat (kua-tzu, 7), trowsers of some dark ma-
terial, and always the official hat and boots when on duty or
out walking;-the boots are more square at the toes than those,
generally worn by officials.
In walking, eunuchs lean slightly forward, take short steps,
keep the legs close, at the same time turning the toes outwards;
they may be recognized by their gait for a long distance. In
riding, they do not "grip" the saddle, but "ride on the stir-
rups," which are very short-leaning forward and rising up
and down in them, "jockeying; "-in fact, depending entirely
on the stirrups regardless of either "equitation" or "grip.".
Eunuchs, taken as a whole, may be considered repulsive
looking, but young eunuchs are often very handsome and femi-
nine in appearance; indeed, one can almost imagine some of
them to be young women dressed in men's clothing. As they
grow older there is something painfully comical in their appear-
ance; on seeing them one cannot help fancying they bear a
resemblance to old women, who forgetting their age and sex,
are masquerading in male attire. One is positive, therefore,
on encountering a specimen of this sort, that it is either a bona
fide eunuch, or else a masquerading old lady-the latter not
being very probable.
31
This is a raised dais, stage, or platform, on which the priest sits,
and at the end of a period of fasting--which has been previously announced
-he examines and receives the confessions (kao-ch'eng, ), of those
who have prepared themselves by fasting, etc., for the ceremony, and after
having done so he absolves them (fang-chieh, ). This is remark-
ably and like confession and absolution in the Roman Catholic religion-
the dais being actually the confessional.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
179
All eunuchs, when they are emasculated, lose their natural
voices, those who underwent the operation when children can
scarcely be distinguished from young women by the voice;
while those who had the operation performed on them after
arrived at maturity speak in a cracked falsetto-as a Billings-
gate fish-fag might. In fact, there is something grotesque- if
I may be allowed the expression-in their voices, not by any
means pleasant to listen to.
Actors, who personate eunuchs on the stage, such as attend-
ants who usher in a prince, emperor, or lady of the court, etc.,
always make a moaning, whining noise, as 'hu-u-u-u, such as a
dumb person might make if in pain or distress.
Chinese, in general, are not celebrated for a very liberal supply
of "hirsute honours," but all eunuchs are utterly devoid of the
nearest approach to a hair on the face: should one have had
hair on it when emasculated, in a few months every sign of it
disappears, the hairs coming out gradually and imperceptibly
till. the face is as bare of hair as a billiard ball. It is needless
to say that hair in its most incipient form never appears on the
faces of those who were emasculated in their childhood.
Young eunuchs, for a long time after they are emasculated,
"wet their beds." This is not noticed for a time, allowance
being made for the recent operation they have undergone, but
a long continuance of it results in a severe flogging to the culprit,
which is continued till he either breaks himself of the habit or
outgrows it. This habit has originated the expression-which
Chinese use when wishing to convey in forcible language how
their olfactory nerves have been offended when speaking of
them "He stinks like a eunuch" (A). Chinese
also speak of them as "stinking eunuchs" (A), and,
aver that they can smell a eunuch for half-a-li.
When emasculated young, eunuchs often become stout, but
their flesh is soft and flabby; they have no strength whatever,
and most of them lose their flesh as they grow older, when they
speedily become outrageously wrinkled. It is rare to see a stout
elderly eunuch, those who are so look puffy and bloated. Chi-
nese call this sort of corpulency "empty stoutness" (M).
Emasculation seems to take all manhood away from eunuchs;
they age rapidly, looking sixty when only forty; they are like
children; will burst into tears at a trifle, or give away to
ungovernable rage for what another person would scarcely
notice, and are as quickly pacified as they are to become angry.
They are not by any means bloodthirsty-as eunuchs are usually
represented to be-but exactly the reverse, being harmless and
conciliating in manner, as if they sought to ingratiate thom-

180
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
selves with those stronger than they are, by confessing-in their
fawning demeanour-their own weakness and inferiority.
Eunuchs who had no voice in their own emasculation-that
is, those who were mutilated while children at the instance of
their friends-invariably hate their fathers as being the cause
of their life-long degradation, impotency and misery; they will
often, in after years, refuse to hold any intercourse with them,
though at the same time they may be dutiful and affectionate to
their mothers.
They are very clannish in disposition, and will always assist
one another against those who are not eunuchs, even to the
extent of fighting.
Eunuchs are very shy of persons seeing them perform the
necessary operations of nature, and will suffer any inconvenience
till they can find a place to do them in unobserved. This is a
praiseworthy trait in their character, as Chinese, generally, are
utterly careless who sees them at such times.
Any allusion, either direct or implied, to their deficiency is
considered by them a great insult, and resented as such-if
possible. If a person, when in company with a eunuch, sees a
dog without a tail, or with one that has been docked, he must
not speak of it as tail-less or dock-tailed, but as a "deer-tailed"
dog (J). If a teapot is minus a handle it must
not be noticed or mentioned. When speaking of cutting one
must not use the character ko,, (which is also used to
signify "castrate") but la, , or one of the other characters
meaning "to cut."
Most of the eunuchs smoke opium, and to enable them to in-
dulge in this habit without quitting the palace, seven or eight
opium dens are opened in its precincts; this is not only a con-
venience for them, but for officials who may have business in
the palace, but are compelled to wait about the outer court-
yards. These opium dens are called "smoking establishments;
(); the fact of their being in the palace is notorious, but
no doubt it is considered policy to shut the eyes-officially-to
their existence.
All eunuchs gamble, and spend most of their leisure time
in that cccupation. It is their greatest source of enjoyment;
as they say, if we do not like gambling we have no pleasure'
(不愛賭錢沒有樂)
"
As a class, eunuchs are considered to be very honest, it being
a rare occurrence to hear of one having committed a theft.
Another good trait in their character is that they are charitable
to the poor, and generally carry loose cash about them to bestow
in alms on those they conceive deserving.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
181
Eunuchs are much liked by the small tradesmen with whom
they have any dealings, for, unlike other Chinese, they do not
care to haggle over a bargain; a seller, or workmen, knowing
their peculiarity this way, has only to say "give me what you
please," and for a trifling job, or for goods not worth half-a-
dozen cash, he is sure to receive a handful; so that this class
of people generally trust to a eunuch's generosity, and invariably
get the best of the bargain. In paying for small articles too,
they rarely take back any change,-indeed it is seldom one of
them is ever known to be mean or stingy.
A great freedom of speech and manner is allowed to eunuchs
on account of their deprivation; language and conduct that
would not be tolerated in others being looked over in them with
the remark, "he is only a eunuch."
老公,
The most common and vulgar name for eunuch is Lao-kung,
*A, which will bear translation either as "Old Earl" or
"Old Cock"-the latter translation being the one intended.
To call them or address them as Lao-kung is an unpardonable
offence; they are only spoken of as such when they are not
present. When addressing them the proper way is to style them
太監,内侍,老爺,裏面兒or內監爺 The term
"eunuch"), applied to others-particularly amongst
southerners-is a most insulting epithet.
33
When a person becomes a eunuch he is spoken of as "quitting
home" (H)-the same expression which is used when a
layman becomes a priest. Like the priest, too, when a eunuch
dies, he is not buried with the rest of his family, so that both
priests and eunuchs may be reckoned "outsiders"-beyond the
pale of home influences or feelings before death; and separated
from his kindred after death.
As regards eunuchs being subject to melancholy and a dispo-
sition to suicide (See page 145), close questioning elicited the
answer that suicide is almost unknown amongst them, my in-
formant never having heard of a single case during a period of
forty years; and that melancholy is not more prevalent amongst
them than it is amongst Chinese generally. In short, to sum
up in a few words what has already been stated, eunuchs, as a
class, love mirth and gaiety-anything conducing to amuse-
ment being eagerly sought after by them. That a little amuses
32
The real character should be .
These terms are all in common use now; in former times they were
called A, or A. There are many other terms for eunuchs,
but those quoted have been deemed sufficient, as being those used.

182
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
them, while on the other hand, a mere trifle will make them
shed tears. That they love gambling, every one of them being
gamblers. That they are affectionate to women and children,
and are fond of pets-particularly small dogs-almost every
eunuch having one. They are not by any means revengeful,
but are extremely timid, and have a dread of others who are not
as they are. An-tê-hai's great dread was that some one would
murder him; this is an exceptional case, but his dread was
realized. They are irritable and excitable; will give way to
bursts of rage and squabble like women, but they are easily
pacified. Cases sometimes occur where they become insane
when ill-treated or stripped of their rank for some fault, but
their insanity is generally of a harmless nature. They are very
clannish and will stick to one another through thick and thin.
They are honest, generous, and charitable as has been shown.
Putting, therefore, their good traits against their bad ones, I
think they will shew up favourably with the common run of
Chinese; and when one reflects on the awful deprivation they
have suffered, one is more inclined to overlook many of their
failings and to think them objects of pity rather than execration
and contempt.
NOTE.
From the foregoing pages it may easily be gathered that the
emperor is the only man who resides in the palace at Peking.
One man, only, in that vast enclosure! Well may he be styled
the "solitary man!" (A). What a life, too, for the ladies!
Incarcerated; shut out from the world, what is the palace but
a gorgeous prison for them! Seeing none of their male rela-
tives, and only at long intervals their female ones, all their
nearest and dearest home ties must be severed; the most sacred
feelings of the heart must become withered and parched up for
want of the nourishment necessary to foster them. Hearing
nothing from the outside world, but what is filtered through the
lips of eunuchs for all they can gather of what goes on beyond
their prison walls must come to them through that source-
what wonder is it that we hear of heart-burnings, palace intri-
gues, and struggles for supremacy; each one striving to be
favourite so that she can forward her own interests or those of
her never-more-to-be-seen relatives. And, lastly, what a life
for the eunuchs! Their position must be worst of all. One is
at a loss to know which to pity most, the emperor in his solitary.

CHINESE EUNUCHS.
183
grandeur, the ladies in their gorgeous imprisonment, or the
eunuchs in their deprivation of all that constitutes what may be
essentially termed manhood.
From everything we can learn regarding eunuchs, but one
conclusion can be drawn as to their origin, and that is, polygamy;
were it not for that eunuchs would be as rare as unicorns.
With this fact in front of us, the question naturally arises in
our minds "how about polygamy in the west? If the Mormons,
who are polygamists, are left to themselves, will they not here-
after introduce eunuchs?" Revolting and painful as the idea
may be, one cannot avoid the reflection that they are gradually
trending in that direction; that there is but a step between
them and the eastern polygamist, and unless they awake to the
error of their ways, or are compelled to reform, that step-in
the common course of events-must eventually be taken. Let
us hope that this foul blot on civilization may be "wiped out"
one way or another, by common sense and humanity, if possible,
by compulsion, if necessary.
Our bible makes frequent mention of eunuchs; to facilitate
comparison of dates, etc., I have given below a short list of
texts, in chronological order, in which eunuchs are variously
mentioned, commencing with the first mention of them, which
dates as far back as B.c., 1729.
Genesis xxxvii, 36. "And the Midianites sold him (Joseph) into Egypt
unto Potiphar an oflcer of Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard."
Genesis xxxix, 1. (Same date) "And Joseph was brought down to Egypt,
and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian,
bought him out of the hands of the Ishmaelites, which had brought him
down thither,"
I. Samuel viii, 15, B.c. 1140. "And he will take the tenth of your seed,
and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants.
II. Kings viii, 6, B.C. 892. "So the king appointed to her a certain
officer," etc.
II. Kings ix, 32, B.c. 884. "And he (Jehu) lifted up his face to the
window, and said, 'Who is on my side? who?' And there looked out to
him two or three eunuchs."
II. Kings xviii, 17, B.C. 725. "And the kings of Assyria sent Tartan
and Rabsaris (chief eunuch) and Rabshakeh from Lachish to king Hezekiah
with a great host against Jerusalem."
II. Kings xx, 18, B.C., 810. "And of thy sons that shall issue from
thee, which thou shalt beget, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs
in the palace of the king of Babylon.,'
II. Kings xxiii, 11, B.c. 624. "And he took away the horses that the
kings of Judah had given to the sun, at the entering in of the house of the
Lord, by the chamber of Nathan-melech the chamberlain."
II. Kings xxv. 19, B.c. 588. "And out of the city he took an officer that
was set over the men of war."
Esther i, 10-12, 10 (B.c. 521). "On the seventh day when the heart of
the king was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona,

部交外
室
CHINESE EUNUCHS.
Digha and Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcas, the seven chamberlains that
served in the presence of Ahasuerus the king"
11. "To bring Vashti the queen before the king with the crown royal,
to shew the people and the princes her beauty; for she was fair to look on."
12. "But the queen Vashti refused to come at the king's commandment
by his chamberlains."
Esther ii, 3, B.C. 519. "And let the king appoint officers in all the
provinces of his kingdom, that they may gather together all the fair young
virgins unto Shushan the palace, to the house of the women, unto the
custody of Hege the king's chamberlain, keeper of the women." See also
verses 8 to 21.
Esther iv, 5, B.C. 510. "Then called Esther for Hatach, one of the
king's chamberlains, whom he had appointed to attend on her," etc.
Isaiah, lvi, 3, 4, 5, B.C. 712. "Neither let the eunuch say, Behold I am
a dry tree."
"For thus saith the Lord unto the eunuchs that keep my sabbaths, and
choose the things that please me and take hold of my covenant;
"Even unto them will I give in mine house and within my walls a place.
and a name better than of sons and daughters; I will give them an ever-
lasting name that shall not be cut off."
Jeremiah xxix, 2, B.C. 596. "After that Jeconiah the king, and the
queen, and the eunuchs, the princes of Judah, and Jerusalem, and the car-
penters, and the smiths, were departed from Jerusalem ".
Jeremiah xxxiv, 19, B.C. 590. The princes of Judah, and the princes
of Jerusalem, the eunuchs, and the priests, and all the people of the land,"
etc.
Jeremiah xxxviii, 7, B.C. 590.
one of the king's eunuchs," etc.
Jeremiah xli, 16, B.C. 588. "Then took Johanan the son of Kareah, and
all the captains of the forces that were with him, all the remnant of the
people whom he had recovered from Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, from
Mizpah, after that he had slain Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, even mighty
men of war, and the women, and the children, and the eunuchs," etc.
"Now when Ebed-melech the Ethiopian,
See also verses 8 to 13.
Jeremiah lii, 25, B.C. 588. "He took also out of the city an eunuch,
which had the charge of the men of war; and seven men of them that were
near the king's person," etc.
Daniel i, 3, B.c. 607. "And the king spake unto Ashpenaz the master of
his eunuchs," etc. See also verses 6 to 18.
Matthew xix, 12, A.D. 32. "For there are some eunuchs, which were so
born from their mother's womb; and there are some eunuchs, which were
made eunuchs of men; and there be eunuchs, which have made themselves
eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake."
Acts viii, 27, A.D. 34.
Ethiopia, an eunuch of
etc.
"And he arose and went; and behold, a man of
great authority, who had charge of all treasure,"
Acts xii, 20, A.D. 44. "And Herod was highly displeased with them of
Tyre and Sidon; but they came with one accord to him, and having made
Blastus the king's chamberlain their friend, desired peace; because their
country was nourished by the king's country."
Romans xvi, 23, A.D. 60. "Gaius mine host, and of the whole church,
saluteth you, Erastus the chamberlain of the city saluteth you, and Quartus
a brother."