JOURNAL
OF THE
NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF THE
ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.
ARTICLE I.
FORT ZELANDIA, AND THE DUTCH OCCUPATION
OF FORMOSA.*
BY H. E. HOBSON, ESQ.
CONSEQUENT on the Japanese expedition to the island in
1874, the Chinese authorities have thought fit to pull down
the old fort Zelandia constructed by the Dutch at Anping
dluring their occupation of Taiwan in 1630, and have replaced
itt by a more elaborate structure in the shape of a European
fcort built after plans prepared by a French Engineer. During
a recent visit to Taiwanfoo it was found that but little of the
olld fort remained standing: and as its site will soon know it no
more, the thought suggested itself that probably some account
garbled or otherwise-might be obtained from Chinese annals
respecting its original constructors and their doings in the
eighbourhood, prior to their expulsion by Coxenga or Koxinga
Cheng cheng kung the celebrated Chinese pirate.
As a result of researches made with this object in view the
Following translation is submitted; in the hope, that whilst it
may not be found uninteresting as a Chinese record,-in fact it
s to a remarkable extent truthful in detail and comparatively
reee from reference to supernatural agency as affecting the
events treated of,-it may form a slight tribute to the prowess
isplayed under most adverse and disheartening circumstances
**Read before the Society on 3rd April, 1876.

34
FORT ZELANDIA AND THE DUTCH
by a portion of the earliest pioneers of European exploration in
the far East. Attention is drawn in foot notes to such points
as are touched on, or receive corroboration in Ogilby's annals
of the Dutch East India Company's proceedings.
The Dutchman Lang-peih-tseih-li-ho (?) after his unsuccess
ful raid on the coast of Fuhkeen, made sail for Holland; and
throwing himself on the mercy of the King, was pardoned.
Kwei yih, a younger brother of the King's, burning with
anxiety to avenge the honour of his country, was allowed to
organize the next expedition which consisted of veteran troops,
and which embarked in fifteen transports. Favoured with
southerly breezes the flotilla progressed, until on a certain day
high land hove in sight, which caused Prince Kwei to enquire
whether the China coast was not being approached.
An old
soldier, one who had served under Lang-peih-tseih-li-ho, on
being appealed to replied, that judging from the colour of the
water he surmised that they were on the coast opposite to China;
whereupon the Prince ordered the spuadron about so that they
might determine their position.
An anchorage having been discerned, the Prince was able to
make out through his telescope that there were no towns or
cities on shore: therefore the ships were anchored in line, guns
were run out for use in case of need, and the Prince's son,
Tung-lan? landed to reconnoitre; being accompanied by a guard
of one hundred men, each armed with musket, pistol and sword.
Nothing but some old ruins being observed at Kwen shen the
party returned to their boats and crossed to the other bank of
the river, where after traversing a li or so a native came in sight
who was armed with a bow and arrow, and who was destitute of
clothing. His language proved unintelligible, but by signs he
led the way to where his tribe were living. It so happened
that at the time one Ho pin, a linguist, was lying sick in the
encampment of the tribe; and on the approach of the Dutch he
came forward and explained that the country they had reached
was called Tai wan. He further explained that there were no
rulers in the island and that people settled here and there at
their pleasure. On learning this the Dutch were delighted be-
yond measure and took Ho pin on board ship with them to see
Kwei yih. As the record progresses it becomes evident that the Prince
referred to was none other than Frederick Cojet, the spirited Commander
of Fort Zelandia.

OCCUPATION OF FORMOSA.
85
Prince Kwei. After questioning the linguist the Prince was
mighly pleased with him, engaged his services, and made him
mis right hand man generally.
In due course he came to enquire as to the distance from
Taiwan to China; and on being informed that the Pescadores
could be reached in four watches, and Amoy in seven, he replied
That he was eminently satisfied, as in the absence of any fixed
government in the island he intentled to colonize.
From morning till night therefore he proceeded to busy him-
eelf with Ho pin in surveying, and in laying out sites for cities;
Ill with a view to permanent occupation.
Substantial city walls were run up at Tseih kwen shen, the
ricks being well faced, and cemented together with a compound
off ground rice and lime; and outside these again a fort was
rected. On the opposite shore at Chih khan a smaller fort was
uilt. The soldiers of the expedition were directed to take
women of the Sinkiang aboriginal tribes to wife; whilst three
rransports were despatched to Holland to convey despatches,
md to obtain supplies generally for the new colony.
The land works being completed, attention was next paid to
e approaches to the position from the seaward; and as these
were found to be comparatively easy, six or seven of the old
ransports were filled with stones and scuttled in such positions
: to render it necessary for a vessel entering port to pass under
e guns of the fortifications: otherwise she ran a great risk of
Eriking on the sunken vessels. The above precaution having
even taken, the position was deemed to be impregnable.
'
In the 18th year of Shun chih (A.D. 1667), Ho pin, the lin-
ist, having embezzled several tens of thousands of dollars
oom Kwei yih's treasury, and fearing lest he be called on to
mder an account, had recourse to a stratagem. He managed
1find out about the intricacies of the river navigation; and,
wing engaged two vessels to lie in wait for him he prepared
flight. A feast was arranged to which he invited Prince
wei and his staff; and whilst lamps were blazing on all sides,
ecrackers were being let off, puppet shows, dancing, and
sting were in full swing, he waited for the turn of the tide;
il then, feigning to be the worse for liquor, and to have a
liic, let himself out by a back entrance, and reaching his
sssels made good his escape to Amoy."
Ho pin was a merchant, the story of whose flight and embezzlements
coorroborated by Ogilby. "A great Chinese trader Pin e qua, being not
yy much in the East Ind a Company's debt, but also several merchants
Tayooan, ran away privately; which was not only prejudicial, but dan-
Cous, because they knew the whole estate and condition of Formosa; so

36
FORT ZELANDIA AND THE DUTCH
Arriving there he called on Cheng cheng kung; and whilst
unfolding to him all the advantages to be reaped by the posses-
sion of Formosa, he drew from his sleeve, and presented him
with a plan of the whole Dutch position.
Cheng was highly delighted with all he heard, and after a
deep consultation with his several Commanders he put to sea
with his whole fleet on the 3rd of the moon, bound for Tai wan.
On the morning of the 4th a look out man at the mast head
discovered the Pescadores and little after mid-day the expedi-
tion reached Neang ma kung in safety. On the 6th oblations
were offered to the sea gods, and a thorough reconnaisance of
the adjacent islands was made.
On the 8th the fleet weighed anchor; and on Luh urh mun
being descried in the distance, Cheng made prayer for a favour-
able tide to carry his vessels safely into port. Prayer ended he
directed leadsmen to take a line of soundings, and these returned
with the news that the tide had risen fully ten feet higher than
on the previous day.
On receiving this intelligence Cheng fired a gun; and, hoisting
signals for a general advance, was followed by his whole fleet.
The linguist Ho pin was posted in the prow of the leading vessel
to point out the passage as laid down on the chart he had pro-
vided and eventually, after much poling, sounding and mano-
euvring, the fleet came to an anchor with great uproar off the
city of Chihkhan.
The Commandant of Chih khan, Meaou-nan-ting? no sooner
beheld the martial appearance of Cheng's landing party than he
despatched Lang ho ke (?) to Kwen shen for reinforcements,
and at the same time opened fire on the fleet from all his guns.
On the 10th Cheng having directed each soldier of the force
to provide himself with a bundle of straw, laid close siege to
Chihkhan, and sent two interpreters to the front to inform the
Commandant that unless he capitulated the whole place would
be set on fire. This menace had the desired effect; as Nan
ting? being terrified to a degree, surrendered, and the position
was at once occupied by the assailants.³
Here it is necessary to pause for a moment in order to men-
tion that on the occasion of Ho pin's feast Prince Kwei had not
the slightest idea but that the Linguist's retirement was con-
sequent on his having imbibed too freely. Nay, not until the
second day, when efforts to find him proved fruitless, could he
that it very much troubled Cojet, who well knew that he would relate the
whole condition of the Fort Zelandia to Coxinga."
Evidently the Fort Provincia, reported by Cojet to the authorities at
Batavia as "having yielded upon the first assault of the Chinese."

OCCUPATION OF FORMOSA.
87
be brought to believe that he had absconded. Even then he
continued to attribute his flight to the embezzlement which he
had been guilty of, and could not believe that he would so far
turn traitor as to guide an expedition whose ambition was to
dispossess the Dutch of their settlements.
To resume-On the 18th a heavy gale sprang, up, the waves
breaking on shore with a roar which was at once deafening and
appalling, and this state of affairs continued till midnight.
At daylight the Prince and his officers mounted the city wall
to reconnoitre, and on looking seaward they observed a whale
swimming to and fro with a human figure seated on his
back. The figure was clad in red garments, and its locks were
dishevelled:
From Luh urh mun the fish started, and, after indulging in
a variety of gambols, finally passed Chih khan city and disap-
peared. The Prince and his staff stood staring at one another,
until, finding their tongues, they concluded that they had either
been in a trance or had seen a vision. Their ears were now
greeted with the sound of heavy guns from the direction of Luh
urh mun, and on mounting a look out they discerned through
their glasses a whole fleet of vessels approaching with their
ensigns and banners floating in the sun light.
On seeing the vessels the Prince burst out laughing, and
remarked, that the Chinese in invading his position in this
fashion must have little regard for their lives; and he at once
gave orders for the batteries to be in readiness to treat the fleet
to a broadside on its nearer approach. Thus he expected to
annihilate the invaders at one stroke.
Whilst still chuckling to himself the tactics of the leading
vessel, which were being carefully followed by the rest, came
under notice. First she tacked to the north, then went about
to the eastward, and again altered her course to the north;
until finally she and her consorts came to an anchor without
passing under the guns of the batteries. The Prince turning
to the staff observed that heretofore the channel which the
Chinese fleet had come through was thoroughly impracticable
and it was strange that they had not shoaled and come to utter
grief. Whilst pondering over these matters he still gave the
order to open fire; but, owing to the long range, the firing was
ineffectual. His next move therefore, was to direct one of his
subordinates, Li-ying-san? to thoroughly man the Dutch ves-
sels in port, and to proceed to dispute the advance of the
enemy.
By the time the Dutch troops were in order night was draw-
ing on apace; and as the tide was flooding Li-ying-san soon

38
FORT ZELANDIA AND THE DUTCH
became aware that a whole fleet was investing Chih khan, and
that a landing party had been disposed on shore in fighting
array. At this juncture, the Prince Kwei, fearing lest his own
position would be assailed, recalled the force he had sent on
ship board, and directed Li to advance via Kwen shen to the
assistance of the Chih khan garrison. On reaching San kwen
shen, Li was met by Lang-ho-ke who stated that the force he
was advancing with was too small to be of any material avail;
and who proceeded to report to the Prince that the enemy were
such a soldier-like lot that before attacking them it would be
advisable to call in, and hold in readiness, all auxiliaries.
In reply, the Prince, after enquiring as to where the enemy
had come from, called out all his infantry, aud made preparation
for marching on the morrow. At daylight Cheng became aware
from the bugling and drumming which was audible in the
direction of An ping that the Dutch were about to advance: so,
sending for his several Commanders, he informed them that
the Dutch would rely principally on their artillery, and he
disposed of his forces as follows:-
500 infantry armed with muskets, and 200 heavy gingals were
formed into three divisions under a Commander, who had orders
to march on Kwen shen wei and engage the Dutch as they
advanced: 500 shield bearers under another Commander were
ordered to take up their position to the left of Kwen shen and
to attack the enemy's flank when opportunity offered: another
body of troops manned some 20 small junks, and were directed
on observing the Dutch to have passed Tseih kwen shen, and to
be about to open fire, to wave their flags and shout vigorously;
at the same time making a feint of attacking the city by heading
their boats in its direction. This proceeding it was hoped would
be noticed by the Dutch force, and throwing them into a state
of perturbation, would cause disorder in the ranks; thus render-
ing their defeat comparatively easy.
The above disposition of forces having been made, the balance
of Cheng's force was drawn up as as a reserve.
Whilst
In due course the Dutch force arrived at Tseih kwen shen wei,
and were about opening fire when they were horrified by
noticing a movement amongst the junks, which appeared to be-
token an attack on the An ping position from the water.
still in doubt as to what steps to take, the shield bearing force
commenced its flank attack, the result being that the Dutch
gave way, and with a loss of half their numbers retreated on the
strong hold whence they had issued.
To this close siege was now laid; but the defenders worked
their guns so well, and by constant sallies inflicted such loss on

OCCUPATION OF FORMOSA.
39
the besiegers, that an advance, or an attempt at storming was
impossible.1
Cheng continued to hold the only road which communicated
with the fort, however; and he now, in order to protect his peo-
ple, commenced the erection of earth works and of a battery.
During the 8th moon the Dutch Prince organized two expedi-
tions; the one being despatched in the direction of Chih khan by
water; the other against Kwen shen by land. In opposition to
these Cheng commanded afloat in person, whilst the shore
forces were handled by one of his generals, Hwang gan.
The battle raged the whole day; until the Dutch having lost
one ship and three boats, retreated on the fort, which they con-
tinued to defend most stoutly.
In the 11th moon the N.E. monsoon having now set in, Cheng
ordered his subordinates Cheng seuen and Cheng chung to load
some ten old boats with saltpetre and other inflammables; and
to attempt the destruction of the Dutch ships, whilst a general
attack from the shore was simultaneously made on the fort.
In this engagement the Dutch lost three more ships and a
number of men, which event caused Prince Kwei to be much
cast down.
Taking advantage of the victory Cheng sent a linguist named
Li chung into the Dutch lines with a message.
It was to the effect, that the position now held by Kwei yih
was no Dutch possession; nor, owing to the distance from Hol-
land, could be possibly hope to maintain a lasting occupation of
it. The neighbourhood had been originally occupied by an
Imperialist garrison, and it was Cheng's firm intention to re-
gain possession, Having some pity for the defenders of the
fort who had come from afar, he had no desire to injure them,
and in consideration of the surrender of the treasury chest,
stores. ammunition, &c., he was willing to afford them a loop
hole for escape with their private effects and valuables.
Failing acceptance of the terms now offered, it was his inten-
tion to renew the attack on the morrow from all sides. Their
vessels would then be burnt, their strong hold reduced, and
their personal annihilation must follow.
See Atlas Japanensis page 59. "Yet Cojet (though much troubled at
the loss of so many of his countrymen) stoutly defended the fort against
all their forces."
This ultimatum is almost word for word corroborated in Ogilby's work:
The articles were these:-That the besieg'd might in safety go aboard
their ships: That whatever prisoners were taken since the massacre on
both sides, should be exchanged; and the Fort Zelandia, with all the
treasure, ammunition, and whatever else belong'd to it, to be deliver'd."

40
FORT ZELANDIA AND THE DUTCH OCCUPATION OF FORMOSA.
Prince Kwei yih and his staff on receiving the above message
were much moved, and offered to surrender if supplied with
provisions for the homeward voyage.
The linguist returning to Cheng gave the reply to the ultima-
tum, and the surrender was at once completed; the victors
taking over, as per list, the contents of the government chest,
the military stores, &c.
The surviving Dutchmen were then allowed to remove their
personal effects on board ship; and on the 3rd of the 1st moon
they took their departure for their native land.