ARTICLE IV.
ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR
WITH REMARKS ON THE CHINESE USE
OF THE MARINER'S COMPASS.*
By J. EDKINS, D.D., Peking.
(the first boats, parting planks, and sharpening and
YONFUCIUS in his part of the Yi-king says that Fuhi made
pplaning wood to be used as oars.
In this he acted, adds Confucius, in accordance with the idea
cof the Kwa called Hwan , which consists of the symbol of
wind above and of water below.
Boat building, like every thing else, finds its place in the
55ystem of symbols of which the Yi-king consists; and this is a
ceonspicuous example of the manner in which Confucius aided
to maintain the position of the old divination of Cheu-kung and
VWen-wang. All the useful inventions of sages and their think-
ings on nature and man were supposed to be included in the
YYi-king in a symbolical form.
As far back as the Han dynasty, we are told, that the Chinese
painted the figure of a water bird called Yi-8-ngik in the
Iprows of their boats. This is stated by the commentator on
IHwai-nantsï, who mentions "dragon boats with what he calls
!NGIK prows."
At that time, as we learn from Panku's history, emperors
were rowed in boats on the Yang-tsi-kiang, with oars resting
on pivots far in the front and a rudder at the stern.
We are also told that in ancient times boatmen worshipped
the spirit of the boat under the name Meng-kung and Meng-mu
(孟公 and 孟姥). This is said to be an impersonation of the
spirit of water under the name hinen-ming, from identity
of sound. Hinen-ming means "dark" Ming and Meng were
both formerly mang.
This little circumstance is worth noting in illustration of the
growth of the worship of the San-kwan, that is oft,
Read before the Society on the 8th December, 1876.

124
ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
, t'ien-kwan, ti-kan, shui-kwan. The third of these is
the boat god here referred to. See article on boats in
ke-chi-king-yuen.
The dying day of the river god ho-pe was avoided as
unlucky for navigation, as our sailors like to avoid Friday.
The ancient Chinese sailors had a reason to give for their objec-
tion to a special day; but I have never heard that our sailors
have any cause to assign for their prejudice against Friday.
Native writers say that boats were made from seeing falling
leaves float on the water. Hwai-nan-tsi ascribes the first idea
of a boat to wood being seen floating. Another account is that
men first made rafts, and then the conception of a boat occurred
to them.
Chinese authors attribute this and other inventions to one
and another of the mythical sages without much discrimination.
It may have been Fu-hi or Hwang-ti; or Hien-yuen or Heu-tsi,
or some ancient officer of Hwang-ti. It does not strike them
that the idea may have been brought to the country from the
west by early travellers or colonists. To me the most probable
origin for boats is in the knowledge that the earliest Chinese
acquired in countries farther west. They would come to China
with this as an element of their civilization. At the same time
boats were possibly possessed by the aborigines who preceded
the Chinese in this country.
The two principal words for boats and ships are fi cheu and
c'huren, of which I take the old sounds to be tok, dun. Chis
a late letter preceded by t or d. The final k occurs in several
words commonly applied to boats such as san, li, ti,
su, to which a final k is natural; and in which the initial
letters s, 1, are regularly interchangeable with ch. These words
may have had different origins of course, but some of them at
least should be referred to the dialectic changes of the old root
tok. Tappears as d, as s or as I according as habits of pro-
nunciation, growing up in different parts of the country, led to
their adoption. Thus t became s by a common law of change.
Tok then was heard as sok and the k being dropped this became
su or sau. After this a character was invented for the new
sound as required.
We have then tok, and dun, as two roots for boat. I now
proceed to mention others.
We find hang, hang, hwang, kung, I hang,
kang. The common root of all these words I take to be gam. By
a law for the proof of which I may here refer to my "Introduc
tion to the Study of the Chinese Characters;" final ng comes from

ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
an earlier m.
125
But we also have 4 kh'in used in Sichwen for
a boat, and hien, or gam. Perhaps this root means "that
which moves." Some of the words may have originated from
arbitrary circumstances now beyond recal, but the most suit
well with the idea of common origin in one root gam.
The characters
them a root ka.
ko, ko, and kia make up between
A very common root is bake. It is found in fpe,
fu, boli,
fu, pok, mu, mok, mek. Here we may have come in
place of p, as often happens, the original letter being b.
In these cases we come in contact with families of words which
are multiplied by the effect of dialectic change, just as c'hwen,
"boat" is called zen in Shanghai, zhon at Wu-si, chun at Amoy.
Chinese dictionaries are defective in not explicitly recognizing
the identity of words which are one in reality, but different in
the mode of writing them. Thus for Yü-hang, the name of a
place near Hangcheu, Kanghi gives two modes of writing;
means the ferry, or ferry boat, of Yü: that is, the great emperor
Yü whose tomb is at Shau-hing near this spot. But it is usually
written yü-hang, as if to say, "the surplus of Hang-
cheu." This is, says Kanghi, a modern mode of writing; evi-
dently as it would seem, introduced since the time when Hang-
cheu became a great city.
Another common root is bat or bot. For this are used,
fu 1 pot fu 8 bot po 1 po a large boat fa 8 bat,
"raft," "ferry boat." fu 1 pot "raft," "ferry boat." Tho
radical conception of this group is in fu 5 bot, "to float."
That which floats.
Eminent modern philologists say that the time has not yet
come for comparing Chinese roots and those of the Indo-Euro-
pean family. When it does come, this will be the most obvious
among the Chinese roots, to be compared with our English
boat and float.
ed.
Another common root is tap c'ha, tie 8 dip, c'ha
tsi 4 tsip. The old form of this root, or of these roots, is tap
or tip. An oar was called tip from its being planed and sharpen-
Hence boats were also called tip or tap. At least the last
of these four words is used for boat as well as oar. Perhaps
the first three rather belong to a root dap to "pass over." For
the final p in the first and third words see my "Introduction to
the Study of the Chinese Characters."
Long and narrow boats are called ting probably from
their resemblance to a long and thin pole or staff.

126
ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
OAR.-There are three groups of words for oar. They are
(1) chau, cho, tok . . This and the next mean "the shaker."
(2) tsiang, tong, tom. (3) tsi or tsip. It is also written
機
SCULL. L 6. In Chinese boats the scull rests on a pivot
near the stern on the right hand side of the boat. Three or
four men work the scull. This root seems also to mean "the
shaker." The pivot in which the scull revolves is called Lu-
chwang. The word chwang is used for piles driven into the
ground. But ch is changed from t and the word is probably
nothing more than ting a "nail," a variation of tang to "beat,"
"strike."
Words for RUDDER. chu 8 dok. The commentator on
Yang-hiung's work on dialects says this word was used for rud-
der in Kiang-tung i. e. the modern Kiang-su.
The chief word is Eto, 6 dap, or E. The etymology of
the root is perhaps found in "dropping." The rudder going
straight into the water suggests a connection with c'hui 5
dop, to "drop vertically." Also and .
shan 1 shok. Every one who has travelled in boats at
Shanghai has heard the term pan-shau or pan-só and t'ui-shau
or te-so. Shau properly means the raised part of a boat at the
stern, the upper part of a thing. But it is used also for the
rudder, says Williams, or for the tiller, as says Douglas. Pan
is to pull to. Tui is to push away. In other words pan-shau
is "push to the left," and "t'ui-shau" to the right or "port"
and "starboard" respectively. How old this word pan is, in
the sense of pulling the rudder may be judged by the character
its first representative.
This character pan is rendered in our dictionaries, "class,"
"sort." It is formed from cheu boat and one of the radicals for
hand, and was probably first used for the act of the steersman
when pulling the rudder towards him. It was afterwards used
for pan "kind of," "sort," pan to remove" from one place
to another, p'an "a platter," p'an "to revolve," "to wind," and
other words each with an appropriate radical. Thus pan 1
"remove," p'an 5 "grindstone," p'an 5 "platter," tub."
In Canton man is used for pan "port," "pull." This I take to
be changed from pan by transmutation of the initial letter.
At present the hand radical shiu is added to pan and with-
out this addition it has no longer the signification "pull to."
The right hand n is added I believe simply as one of the hand
radicals. According to the Shwo-wen it means however to

ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
127
turn round," in allusion to turning the boat round by means
oof the rudder.
The word shau referred to above seems to be the handle of
the rudder: such is the statement in Douglas' dictionary. Yet
ifit is said in the dictionaries Cheng-tsi-t'ung and Tsï-hwei that
sahau is the tail of the rudder. Can there be a mistake in these
dictionaries? Shau meaning the upper part of anything, it
wwould seem that there is.
A sail is fan 5 bam or if peng 4 pang, feng, p'eng
55 bam. The sails mentioned in old Chinese books are of bamboo
matting made in horizontal strips, which are drawn up and
odown like the folds of a fan.
The loadstone is not mentioned in accounts of Chinese boats.
IBut it is expressly referred to very early as being used for di-
Irecting carriages. Mr. Mayers has drawn attention to the
comission of any account of the mariner's compass, in early
Ibooks; but it is of course possible that Chinese junks may have
Tused the compass for centuries before it was explicitly chronicled.
In the long ocean voyages made by Chinese junks, for example
Iby Fahien, the Buddhist pilgrim in the fifth century, it is dif-
fficult to understand, well acquainted as the people of this coun-
try were at that time with the loadstone, why they should not in
any case use it for sea voyages, when they were accustomed to
employ it for land carriages. Yet, proof is entirely wanting
except in the instance of boats on the ornamental waters of
imperial gardens till the Sung dynasty.
The loadstone is used in geomancy, in land travelling, and
recently in sea voyages. A sedan chair carried by two or more
bearers has, when fully equipped, a small magnetic compass;
this is placed, if I remember rightly, on a cross bar in front of
the person sitting. In junks that go to sea a fang-p'an is used
containing a magnetic needle and the points of the compass.
In books on geography the direction of sailing is given for
foreign ports visited by Chinese junks. It was in the Ming,
Yuen and Sung dynasties that this custom began to prevail.
In the work
Tung-si-yang-kau, a chapter of sail-
ing directions for parts adjacent to China is given. This book
belongs to the reign Wan-li in the 16th century.
In Cheu-ta-kwan's work on Cambodia A.D. 1296, the direc
tions for reaching that country from Wencheu, (just made an
open part, September 1876) are expressed by the words
hing-kwun-shen-chen "sail with the needle pointing to
Further back, in the journal of Sü-king, sent as ambassador
k'wun-shen" or 225° to 240° of the compass.

128
ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
to Corea, A.D. 1122, it is stated that he left the capital Kai-feng-
fu, proceeded to Ningpo and from thence by sea to Corea. On
the voyage he describes the use of the floating needle to learn
the north and south points of the horizon at night time, in the
absence of the stars. According to his account, when the stars
could be seen the navigators proceeded by the stars, and other-
wise by the needle.
No indications of the use of points of the compass occur in
this work. Geomancy with its minutely divided compass had
been commonly used at that time in the country for more than
two centuries. It is only reasonable to infer that since they
used the floating needle of the geomancers, they would also use
their division of the compass then, as in the time of the traveller
to Cambodia referred to above. Even when shaping their course
by the stars navigators would inevitably employ the compass to
assist them in fixing the direction of sailing.
The Chinese compass is in fact an azimuth instrument which
might be used in a rough way for fixing the position of the
heavenly bodies at a given time; and for taking the bearings of
mountains and islands as seen from a ship, in the way com-
monly followed on European vessels with our own compass.
The chief opponents of the antiquity of the knowledge of the
magnet are Dr. Legge and Mr. Mayers. To the former of these
scholars we owe a valuable collection of passages bearing on the
subject, Shoo-king, vol. II, p. 535. The result at which Dr.
Legge arrives is that the story of Cheu-kung having given south
pointing chariots to the ambassadors of the Yue-c'hang (Et-dong)
to the south of China, must be false. Mr. Mayers accepts this
conclusion and gives in Notes and Queries, February 1870, a
passage shewing that a south pointing chariot was really made
by Ma-kiun in the Wei dynasty, A.D. 222-239.
I will now made some observations on the origin of the know.
ledge of the loadstone. In the work Ku-kin-chu
of
the Tsin dynasty by Tsui-p'au it is added, after the passage
given by Legge, "the officers who accompanied ambassadors
to their country then returned. They came back in the same
carriages in a direction opposite to that towards which they
pointed, and occupied a year as the journey out had done. The
axles and protruding axle ends were originally of iron, which
was completely rusted away when they returned. The chariots
Since this paper was read before the Society, Mr. Mayers, on reconsida-
tion of the claim of the Chinese to an early knowledge of the magnet, has
recognized it on the ground that they found it in the course of their early
mining and smelting operations in north-eastern China.

ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
129
wwere entrusted to officers to be kept for the use of the envoys of
subject states located at a distance. The method of construct-
ing these chariots was lost in the confusion that attended the
ddownfall of the Han dynasty. Ma-kiun renewed the knowledge
obf it; and it is his method that is followed in making the pre-
scent south pointing chariots." So far the Tsin author, writing
aut a time when south pointing chariots were a regular part of
the imperial equipages.
Iron was extensively worked in Shensi B.c. 220, for at that
time a heavy excise duty was levied on it by T'sin-shi-hwang.
Ma-twan-lin says in his account of salt and iron taxes, that
they were first levied by Kwan-chung, made in n.c. 685 prime
nminister of T'si-kwan-wang. He cites the book ascribed to
Kwan-tsi. That book says that every person must eat salt, and
every woman must use a needle. Hence the advantage of lay-
ining a duty on these two material products. The duty is at once
uuniform and universal.
Yet the part of Kwan-tsi referring to iron has in it traces
aapparently of Han dynasty origin. A sentence in it speaks of
crasting iron money which, say some, was not done before the
T'sin dynasty. This anachronism betrays a pen later than that
cof the supposed author.
If we were to rely on Ma-twan-lin's citation, treating the
Ssentences just referred to as a gloss, iron must have been exten-
ssively worked in Shansi B.c. 700, or only four centuries after
(Cheu-kung. Magnetic iron is found abundantly at T'si-cheu, a
ocity of Chihli close to the Honan border, and in the same system
cof iron stone mountains to which the Shansi iron belongs.
The city of C'hü-fu was at once the home of Confucius, and
#the capital of the principality of Lu, which was assigned, as a
Ireward for his great services, to Cheu-kung. It was within
1200 English miles of the loadstone district, so that there was
every opportunity for his possessing a special knowledge of the
1 south pointing property of the magnetic needle. Any one in
1 that neighbourhood might know it.
The first mention of the tradition was, as pointed out by Mr.
Mayers, in the works of Kwei-ku-tsï in the fourth century be-
1 fore Christ. I take this as an indication that magnetic iron was
known in north China at that time. The real question here is
not whether the Chinese borrowed the magnetic needle from
India; but when the iron stone was first worked in which mag-
netic ore is found. I cannot but think the supposition of the
two eminent investigators, my two friends already cited, that
India had anything to do with teaching the Chinese the use of
the mariner's compass an entirely gratuitous one. The name.

130
ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
of India does not occur among the countries possossing the
loadstone.
The name t'si-shi means the "stone of the city of
mercy." The word t'si "mercy" was applied to the city'
for some centuries before it was changed to . The city
gave its name to the loadstone, and then the loadstone gave its
name to the city.
Mencius speaks of agricultural implements as made of iron;
and though there is one authority who mentions that weapons.
of war were made of copper till the time of T'sin-shi-hwang,
when they were made of iron, he must surely be in error. The
remarkable passage in Kwan-tsi speaks of agricultural imple-
ments being of iron in his time. Thus he gives the following
reason why a duty should be levied on iron. Every farmer
must have his iron ploughshare, his hoe and his rake; and, as
above mentioned, every woman her needle.
As to the extensive smelting of iron in the Shansi district it
was then certainly in active operation B.c. 200, and possibly
B.C. 700. As to the loadstone, Ma-kiun, A.D. 200 (about) made
use of it in constructing for court usage "south pointing cha-
riots;" and legends then existed of its use for this purpose under
the direction of Cheu-kung, B.c. 1100.
The polarity of the magnet and its power of attracting iron
filings might be discovered at any time in the manufacture or
use of sewing needles. The use of it for directing land travel-
ling was soon thought of. Its application to voyaging at sea
was not made till long after. A late authority says, indeed, that
the sailors of Kiangsu, Chekiang, Fukien, Canton, etc., learned
the habit of using the "dry" mariner's compass in the Ming
dynasty from the Japanese. Yet in this case the loadstone
being Chinese, and the idea of applying it to navigation and to
carriages being also Chinese, it was specially the application
of the dry compass to sea voyaging that was made by the
Japanese, imitating the practice of European navigators. The
use of magnets in pleasure boats is mentioned in the Tsin
dynasty. The account of the emperor's palaces and pleasure
gardons in the Tsin dynasty, says the Yuen-kien-lui-han, men-
tioned a boat named chi-nan-cheu which floated on
the lake called
ling-chi-c'h, lake of the plant of im-
mortality."
K'ai-hwang-shi-nien A.D. 591.
Kwang-to A.D. 763.
Before this they used the floating compass.
The dry compass appears to
have been imitated by them from the Europeans in the way here stated.

ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
131
In the fourth century therefore, the magnetic needle was used
in boats as in carriages. There is no need then to suppose
that the idea of the mariner's compass was borrowed from
the Japanese. They simply extended an improvement in its
: use when communicated to them probably by the Portuguese.
The cause which prevented the use of the dry compass by
Chinese junks in early times appears to have been that they
i found it easier to construct a water compass. The needle float-
ed in water. When the Japanese pirates infested the Chinese
coasts, their vessels were all supplied with a compass in the
stern, and the needle was in a dry box resting on a pivot.
1 From them the Chinese first learned the use of a dry compass
1 for sea voyages.
But on proceeding to make it they found that
iin the process of smelting, the loadstone was apt to lose its
polarity. 但其用砂石制氣過則不靈 It was
Enot equal to the water compass, says the native author, who is
Hhowever not sufficiently explicit in his statement.
4
The words used for mariner's compass are fang-p'an
box of the quarters," and lo-king, a term properly ap-
Eplicable to the compass of the geomancers. I cannot find these
Inames in the Yuen-kien-lui-han. The reason is probably that
tthey do not belong to the Confucian system. The term lo-king
wwas however early used by the geomancers.
The anchor of a boat is mau . It may be of wood, stone,
cor iron. The word probably means "that which is cast" by
cchange from p to m, the root being p'au, "to cast," "throw,"
cast anchor."
The pole with its spike and hook of iron or spike only is
kau 1 kok. It may be derived from k'au 3 k'ok "to rest" or from
kken 1 kok to hook." The first is the more probable.
The words for mast are t'siang 5 dzung, and wei 5.
Since we have sung as a common root for "high," and since
tthe phonetic portion of wei is ngok, which is also a root for
high," both words may have grown out of the idea of "high."
The word for "fathom" in describing depth of water is t
''o 4 t'ok, a measure got by stretching the arms in opposite di-
applied to navigation occurs
rrections.
The word for needle 指南針456
in the Ming dynasty work referred to above. It treats partly of sea
voyaging in the vicinity of China, and is called Tung-si-yang-k'au
See yü-chi-t'ang-t'an-k'wei by si-yün-lin
ekhapter 28, where the passage is quoted from a work called
4
wwhich I have not seen.

182
ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
The preface dates 1619. This was in the cen-
tury following that of the Japanese raids. The book is a sort
of guide book for the Chinese navy of that age, as well as a
geographical compendium for conntries bordering on China.
In indicating a ship's course the 24 points made up from the
cycles of 12, 10 and 8 are used. The cycle of twelve is the basis;
and to this are added eight of the cycle of ten, and four of the
cycle of eight. Tsi 7 is the north point; and the rest, c'hen,
etc., follow the order east, south, west, as the Roman Numerals
on the dial of a clock. For example
yung-k'wun-
shen-chen or 225 to 240 degrees; Et yung-keng-yeu-
chen or 255 to 270 degrees. Thus there are twenty-four points
to the Chinese compass. In addition to cases where two cha-
racters combine, the characters of the compass are also used
alone as points, as in
yung-tan-hai-chen. "Take
the needle of hai alone "-that is 330 degrees.
Distances between one place and another at sea are counted
by watches. A day is divided into ten watches, and the distance
is estimated by the time occupied when the wind is fair. A
watch then keng, is two hours and twenty-four minutes,
when used as a measure of distance in voyages at sea.
The larger junks of the Chinese in the Ming dynasty are said
to have been 86 feet wide and more than 100 in length. The
smaller were 20 feet wide and 70 or 80 feet in length.
Ibn Batuta, A.D. 1350, when describing Chinese junks says,
each of the greater ships (jonuk, singular junk) has from twelve
sails to three. More details may be seen in Yule's Marco Polo.
In the year A.D. 417, Fa-hien a Buddhist priest came back to
his native country, China, from Ceylon after visiting the Budd-
hist holy places. He describes his voyage in a vessel contain-
ing more than two hundred persons. Behind the large vessel
was a smaller one to be used in case of disaster to the larger
one. They had a good wind taking them east for two days, the
phrase for good wind is hau-sin-feng. They then met
with a tempestuous wind, and the vessel beginning to leak
(c'hwen-leu-shui-ju) the merchants wished to trans-
fer themselves to the smaller vessel. This was prevented by the
crew of the small craft cutting the connecting hawser from fear
of their being swamped by numbers. The passengers threw
bulky cargo into the sea, and Fa-hien threw in his staff and
bathing vessel with other things. Then fearing lest the sailors
should threw his Sanscrit books (Fan-king) and holy images
into the sea, he prayed to Kwan-shi-yin and all the Buddhist
priests, who had safely reached China, in the following words:

ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
133
"I have travelled far in search of the law, and desire that you
powerful spirits may smooth the sea, so that I may arrive at
the country to which I am voyaging." After the tempest had
lasted 13 days and nights, they reached an island where they
anchored. On the tide retreating they found the leak, filled it
up and proceeded on their voyage. In the midst of the im-
mense and shoreless ocean, they could not distinguish east from
west. They could only proceed by observing the sun, moon and
stars. In dark and rainy weather they were driven by the wind
without any certainty as to their direction. Nor could they bring
the vessel to a stand by throwing out their stone anchors. They
were forced to sail on till fair weather came, when they would
know east from west. After 90 days they reached Java.
In stating that in the deep sea it was impossible to anchor,
Fa-hien says there was no place where they could send down
stones and stop the ship. Here the meaning is large stones
that were used as anchors. The French translation misses the
1 meaning and refers the word "stone" to rocks underwater.
From Java, after remaining there for five months among
1 Brahmans who opposed Buddhism, the voyager proceeded in a
sship to Canton, called in Fa-hien's narrative Kwang-cheu, its
present name. He left Java on the 15th of the fourth month.
Near the end of the fifth month, he and his fellow voyagers,
more than two hundred in number, met a tyfoon, the first on
rrecord. It came on, says the traveller, at the 2nd watch (
ya-ko-ni-zhi) of the night. He calls it a black wind
anttended with heavy rain. Fa-hien prayed again to Kwan-shi-
yyin and all the Buddhist priests (who had safely reached China
inn former voyages). By the help of these powerful spirits
anrei-zhin; they were preserved till the morning.
I now mention a striking coincidence with the voyage of Jonah
in the Mediterranean. The merchants and other passengers
were much alarmed. In the morning a number of Brahmans
cconsulted together respecting this Shamen (Buddhist recluse)
who was sitting with them on board. It is he they said, that
barings us this misfortune. "We ought to take this Bik-shu
and throw him into the water beside this island. It is not right
that we all should be endangered on account of one man."
A patron of Fa-hien said to them "If you throw this Bik-shu
into the sea you must also throw me in. Or I will on arriving
ina China speak about this matter to the king, who is a great
friiend of the Buddhist recluses." They then desisted from their
Snitention. The ship was afterwards driven up the coast of
Sii-ngan-fu, then the capital.
China to Shantung.
Here Fa-hien landed and proceeded to

134
ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
NOTE ON THE MARINER'S COMPASS.
The name used for the mariner's compass by Sü-king in A.D.
1122, who saw it in use on board his vessel when going to
Corea, and who speaks of it as what was customarily employed,
is
chi-nan-fu-chen. He does not speak of the card.
The name when the card or round pointed platter is referred
fang-p'an, "platter of the quarters," another name
lo-p'an or lo-king . This name is frequently appli-
ed to the geomancers' compass. In the work Tung-si-yang-
k'au, composed at the time when the floating compass was
already changed for the modern one, the name chi-nan-chen is
used, the word fu floating being omitted.
to is
is
The Lo-king is said to have been first made by a T'ang dynasty
geomancer named K'ieu. When the twelve points Tsi, Ch'eu,
Yin, Mau, etc., were adopted from the old astronomical division
of the horizon, more were found necessary. The ten counters
Kia, Yi, Ping, Ting, etc., were applied and used according to
their distribution among the five elements. Thus according to
the geomancers, and the Han authors before them, Kia, Yi be-
long to the east, and they are therefore placed one on each side
of Mau. Ping, Ting belong to the south and are placed one on
each side of Wu. Wu, Ki belong to the centre and are there-
fore not used. Keng, Sin belong to the west and are made
supporters of Yeu. Jen, Kwei belong to the north and support
Tsi. Both cycles are arranged from east to west.
A space has to be filled up in each quarter at its middle
point. Four of the eight symbols of Fuhi are used for this
purpose. The Han dynasty writers and perhaps those of Cheu
were accustomed to place the eight symbols, Pa-kwa, in a circle
in a certain order called the Pa-kwa of Wen-wang, or the Heu-
t'ien-pa-kwa, the "Eight symbols of the later heaven."
The Heu-t'ien order is ch'ien, tui, l'wun, li, sun, chen, ken, l'an.
These correspond in position to NW, W, SW, S, SE, E, NE, N.
The 1st, 3rd, 5th and 7th are used in their places in the order
from west to east; and in an order opposite therefore to that of
the cycles of 12 and 10.
These are all the points necessary according to Chinese notions
for the mariner's compass. They called them the twenty-four
Fang-wei or twenty-four shan "mountains."
For the use of geomancers many additions are made. The
twenty-eight constellations form a circle. Seven imaginary
moving stars perhaps of Indian origin form another. The
Feng-chen and Chung-chen form two more circles. A circle of
twenty-four selected stars distinct from the twenty-eight, form

ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
185
another. There is a circle of nine fictitious stars, one of seventy-
two dragons and another of sixty dragons.
The arrangement called Feng-chen was added by Yang-yi near
the end of the T'ang dynasty, A.D. 900. He noticed that the
magnetic needle was variable and that it varied to the extent of
half a point to the west of south and east of north. He there-
fore added a circle of twenty-four points corresponding to the
intervals between the twenty-four points of the circle of his pre-
decessor K'ieu. He called the circle of K'ieu the cheng E
chen and his own the Feng-chen. Feng is "seam," "interval."
Each point in Yang's circle is 7 degrees to the left of each
point in K'ieu's circle.
Later on in time, towards the end of the Sung dynasty, about
AD. 1200, another author on geomancy invented a circle called
the Chung-chen "central needle." It begins to the right
of tsi and continues its twenty-four points in all cases to the
right of the corresponding points in Kieu's circle. This repre-
sents western variation, which appears to have been observed by
Lai-kung, the author here referred to. It represents 7 degrees
as in the case of Yang's new circle.
I append the passages in geomancers' books which imply an
early knowledge of the variation of the compass. As Columbus
is one of those who are said to have first noticed the variation
of the compass in Europe, the Chinese must have been ac-
quainted with it about five centuries sooner, for Columbus, as
all the world knows, discovered America in 1492.
In the account given in lo-king-kie, "explanation
of the compass," page 2 it is said, "the meridian line of (the
daily revolution of) the heavens differs by half a point from the
line of the floating needle."
An attempt is made to explain this variation by the analogy of
the pole star. The present pole star was observed to be between
k'ien and hai or about between 30 and 45 degrees from the pole
of revolution. Not knowing why the pole changes its place
: among the stars, nor why the needle points to the south, the
: ancient Chinese imagined a connection between the two things.
If the polo star was then several degrees from the pole (say 8
degrees in the Sung dynasty) why should not the magnetic
: needle vary in a certain proportion? The time was not come
1 for learning that the causes of these peculiarities are hidden in
the earth itself, and are not even yet fully known. The geoman-
.cers simply looked the variation of the needle as a marvel,
i indicating that heaven and earth are under the control of the
.
: same laws.
on
In page 28, the same author describes the north pole as

136
ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
inclined to the north-west, and the sun's shadow at noon as
inclined to the south-west. The two positions of the needle.
introduced by Yang and Lai are therefore, he adds, not with-
out reason and ground in nature. Where there is li (under-
lying reason or law) there will be c'hi (moving influence,
active physical power), and where there is c'hi there will be a
phenomenon representing it (siang, image ).
He goes on to say, pp. 23-24, that because the needle varied
at its northern end to the eastward, and at its southern end to
the west, Yang-kung added the Feng-chen, and the addition of
the chung-chen is described in a similar way.
In p. 16 the author specially notices that the first point of the
Feng-chen does not intrude on the second duodecimal division
of the Cheng-chen. This I think means that in the time of
Yang-kung, A.D. 900, eastern variation was not more than 15
degrees as observed by that writer.
The state of the case is this. The division ts
occupies
15 degrees on each side of the north point. The second
c'heu ocenpies 15 degrees on each side of our 30 degrees. Yang-
kung made a subdivision of 120 parts or 10 in each member of
the duodecimal division. In doing this the ten parts proper to
Tsi did not intrude upon the domain of C'heu, i, e. were not
more than 15 degrees east of the north point. Just before it is
said that the ancients used a wooden gnomon to fix the north
and south point by the sun's shadow, and whether on the long.
est or shortest days, it was found that the floating needle varied
7 degrees. I suppose the variation to have been something
within 15 degrees on each side, and that the geomancers took
7 degrees as a convenient average.
NOTE ON TERMS FOR "MARINERS."
Fa-hien used
uses
term is
fi hai-shi in the sense of seamen.
Sü-king
kau-shi, "pole men" in the same sense. The modern
shui-sheu, "water hands."
ON THE VARIATION OF THE COMPASS AS OBSERVED IN CHINA IN THE
VIIITU, IXT, XIT, XIITH AND XVIITH CENTURIES.
In the above paper on Chinese navigation and the use by the
Chinese of the mariner's compass, I gave evidence of its employ-

ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
137
ment at sea in the year A.D. 1122. An ambassador from China
too Corea went in a vessel, and by this the mariners shaped their
ecourse in cloudy weather when out of sight of land.
The origin of the mariner's compass was traced to the Feng-
skhni superstition which grew up in the T'ang dynasty and was
extended throughout China in the Sung.
In the compass used by the geomancer a magnetised needle
was always included. Like the wooden horizon round a globe
the compass of the Chinese is inscribed with several cycles.
AA general description of these cycles was given, and it was point-
eed out that the existence of two of them is due to the curious,
bbut very natural circumstance that the variation of the compass
wwas noticed by those who early used the instrument.
Since the paper was presented I have been able to bring for-
wward some new instances of the declination of the needle being
known anciently by the Chinese. One of them is found in the
wwritings of a man who was not a professor of Feng-shui, and
who says nothing about the geomancer's compass. His name
Twas Shen-kwa. He was an eminent Sung dynasty author. He
wwatched the experiment carefully as a thing interesting in itself,
tthough not admitting of explanation.
He has carefully recorded the mode in which he suspended his
ineedle by attaching it with wax to a silk thread, and the compiler
of the Pen-t'sau or Materia Medica of China has in describing
the loadstone, had apparently before him this very passage.
This statement is earlier by about forty years than the voyage
to Corea in which the floating needle is recorded as having been
used.
On mentioning to Mr. W. F. Mayers my desire to find more
passages in old authors bearing on this subject, he kindly made
search in several works of the Sung and Ming dynasty. What
be found he communicated to me. The first was from
of the Ming. It mentioned the record by Shen-kwa
about A.D. 1080 of the western variation of the needle, and pro-
ceeded to say that in Europe it varies to the east **
丁位. This information is ascribed to 舶商 Pe-ahang
"merchants from Ocean ships."
This knowledge of eastern variation must have been derived
from Roman Catholic missionaries who would know that
in an ancient name of Western Asia and Europe, or rather of
the Roman empire. It is added by the author of Wu-li-sinu-
shi to the extract from the Sung dynasty author. Pe-shang
"ship merchants," would be perhaps the commercial agents on
board the vessels by which the missionaries came to China.

138
ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
The Si-hai, "western sea" will be the Atlantic Ocean.
The first edition of his work was published in 1631. The
introduction of western science in the reign of Wan-li is men-
tioned in the preface.
I am indebted to Mr. Wylie for the knowledge of the other
instance which is found in the life of Yi-hing, a Buddhist priest
and imperial astronomer at the beginning of the 8th century.
I use Mr. Wylie's translation (in North-China Herald, March
15th, 1859) "on comparing the needle with the north pole, Yi-
hing found that the former pointed between the constellations
hi and wei. The pole was in just six degrees of hü, from which
the needle declined to the right 2° 95'." Since the right is
west, and reference is here made to the south point of the hori-
zon, the declination was eastern in reference to the north point
of the horizon. Let it be here noted that the circle was divided
in and previous to the Yuen dynasty into 365 and a quarter
degrees; and each degree into 100 minutes and each minute
again into 100 seconds.
It will be readily understood how much more convenient it
was to measure the amount of declination from the south point
of the horizon if it is remembered that on the ancient measur-
ing spheres of the Chinese made before the time when the
Jesuits were in Peking, the additional five degrees and a quarter
are added in two equal portions at the north pole. This mode
of dividing the circle may be seen on the machines for observing
the stars constructed by Kwo-sheu-king, and now standing in
the large court of the Imperial Observatory in Peking. Last
summer at Mr. Wylie's request I examined the marking of
degrees on those instruments, and found it was so in each case.
On the instruments which stand on the terrace the marking of
degrees and minutes is invariably according to the European
method.
Yi-hing, who observed the variation of 2° 95' was a contem-
porary of K'ieu-yen-han, inventor of the compass of 24 points.
For the latter was living in A.D. 713, as we learn from a notice,
in the catalogue of the Emperor C'hien-lung's four libraries, of
his work t'ien-ki-su-shu. It is in that section of
the catalogue which treats of the works of geomancers.
Possibly then Yi-hing may, since he was living at the time of
the invention of the floating compass of 24 points, have had
something to do with that invention. Tradition however clearly
ascribes it to K'ieu-yen-han, who does not seem to have been
aware of any declination.
In other extracts with which Mr. Mayers has kindly furnished
me it is said that geomancers are in the habit of rubbing

ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
139
tithe point of a needle with a magnet to give it south-pointing
Epower. But the needle does not point due south. Without
eexception it prefers to point a little to the east of south (west of
north).
We know from the books of the geomancers that in the latter
Epart of the T'ang dynasty the variation was eastern, for the
Enoted writer on Feng-shui, who is known as Yang-yi, then in-
ttroduced into the Geomancer's compass a new circle on which
tthe first of the twelve hours is placed at 7 degrees east of
Enorth. We find western variation to the same amount denoted
Hby another circle introduced by Lai-wen-tsiün in the time of the
Esouthern Sung dynasty.
The place of the observation of Shen-kwa is between these.
IHe was born in A.D. 1030 and died in A.D. 1094. Hence we
Ilearn that the variation was eastern in China in A.D. 713, and
aat about A.D. 900. After that time it became western, and was
Eso at about A.D. 1080, and nearly a century later in the time of
ILai-wen-tsiün.
These three statements of the variation of the compass are
Ilong anterior to any made in Europe. Columbus was astonish-
ed to notice it in 1492. There is an uncertain notice of it as
I known in 1269; and it is said that a Chinese compass was taken
ito Europe in A.D. 1260.
Shen-kwa proceeds to say in the
that "the
I needle floating on water takes a long time to settle and is very
I liable to shake. It can be made to revolve on the edge of a
finger nail or the rim of a basin, and will then settle more
quickly. But it is so apt to fall in such circumstances, that the
best mode is to suspend it by a silk thread. Let it be taken
: from a new cocoon and fastened to the middle of the needle by
: means of a little wax. If hung away from any current of air
the needle will always point south."
"There are needles which when rubbed point north. I
possess some needles which point south, and some which point
north. The pointing to the south of the magnet is like the
pointing to the west of the juniper and cypress. It cannot be
explained." Mr. Wylie has also published a translation of this
passage.
Shen-kwa adds in a supplement to the Meng-hi-pi-t'an (Pencil
talk of the brook of dreams) that "the north pointing and south
pointing powers resulting from rubbing the point of a needle
with a magnet are perhaps caused by differences in the nature
of the magnetic stone made use of. In summer the small deer
casts its horns. In winter the large deer does so. There should

140
ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
be some cause for this opposition in time, but it has not yet
been deeply investigated."
The first tables of declination of the compass were made in
1599, by the Dutch.
The following notes of variation of the compass in Europe
are here added:-
Paris A.D. 1541, E 7 degrees; 1550, E 8; 1580, E 11};
1630, 4; 1663, nothing.
London A.D. 1580, E 11° 15'; 1622, E 6; 1660, nothing;
1692, W 6; 1730, W 13; 1818 W 24° 41'; 1850, W 22° 30'.
These data show how in Europe eastern variation prevailed
from the time when magnetic phenomena began to be closely
observed till A.D. 1660, when western variation began to be the
law in England; as it has continued to be till the present time.
In the present century the line of no variation passes from the
Arctic regions through the United States, and the South At-
lantic Ocean to the Antarctic part of the world. From that
region it comes by Van Diemen's Land, and the Indian Archi-
pelago into Asia. Here it parts into two branches. The one pro-
ceeds by Cape Comorin and Persia to Lapland and the Icy Sea.
Another traverses China, and makes its exit from the Asiatic
Continent by Eastern Siberia.
The result of the observations of the geomancers and others
is that we acquire the knowledge of the fact, that as a part of
the present century is a time of small or no variation in China,
so was also a part of the tenth century and also of the eighth.
But further, the circumstance that no later geomancer has
made an unconscious register of a new change observed by him
from west to east variation or vice versa, by adding a new circle
to the compass, must not be taken as indicating that the line of
no variation has not passed through China during the interval
between the tenth century and the present. They may have
often observed it, but their compass was complex enough. Why
increase its many circles? It is cumbersome as it is. Why
make it more so?
Mr. Wylie pointed out in his paper of 1859, that the observa-
tion of Yi-hing was taken at Chang-an, the present capital of
the province of Shen-si, and that that of Shen-kwa is to be
supposed to have been taken at Pien-liang, the present K'ai-
feng-fu. He also cites a passage from Sü-kwang-k'i which says
that the direction of the needle differs from the line of the meri-
dian. There is a variation for each place. In Peking the
variation is 5° 40' east. This is found in his work Li-yi.
Mr. Wylie also gives from the celebrated mathematician Mei-

ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
141
wu-ngan, who lived in the middle of the 17th century the fol-
Ilowing observed variation. At Nanking the variation was three
degrees east. At Sucheu it was two and a half degrees east.
Mei-wu-ngan was astonished to find that Adam Schaal stated
the variation to be seven and a half degrees, and expresses his
doubt of the fact.
Schaal was probably speaking of the amount of variation in
Europe at the time.
Mei-wu-ngan was an elderly man when the emperor Kang-hi
was a young man, and received from that monarch high marks
of respect.
Mr. Wylie adds that at Canton in 1817 there was no variation,
and that at Peking in 1829, the variation was one degree forty-
eight minutes west.
We see by the London and Paris observations, that between
1541 and 1850 there was a change from eastern to western
variation, and that the western variation had begun to decline
I between 1818 and 1850.
The following table is extracted from Ganot's Physics as
translated by Atkinson, 1871.
[Observations at Paris.]
1580, E 11° 30'
1825, 22° 22'
1663, 0
1830, 22 12
1700, W 8 10
1835, 22 4
1780, 19 55
1850, 20 30
1785,
22
1855, 19 57
1805, 22 5
1860, 19 32
1865, 18 44
1814, 22 84
It appears therefore that in 1663 the line of no variation
passed through Paris. It reached the greatest western variation
151 years later. It is possible then that the interval between
the maximum eastern variation, and the maximum western
variation is about three centuries.
The needle consequently may in China since the Tang dynasty
I have had western variation, and exchanged it again for eastern
two or three times.
In the above mentioned work
Shen-kwa is
quoted as saying that in the place where he was writing the
needle persistently pointed to ping-wei. This means on
the Chinese compass fifteen degree east of south. Transferred
this is the same as fifteen degrees to the west of
north. The writer of this Ming dynasty book when he adds
that merchants who have travelled in ships say that in the
European ocean the needle points to the T ting-wei, means
to our compass

142
ON CHINESE NAMES FOR BOATS AND BOAT GEAR.
fifteen degrees of eastern variation. European missionaries
about A.D. 1580, when at Paris it was actually fifteen degrees
and a half, may, as already hinted, have given the author
this information.
The time at which Yi-hing and K'ieu-yen-han lived, was
about A.D. 713.
The catalogue of Ch'ien-lung's library states that Yang-yi is
reported to have been called to court about A.D. 1041.
Another passage in the same catalogue, in a notice of Han-
lung-king a work of Yang-yi, says, he was living about
A.D. 880, and is doubtfully reported to have been an official
geomancer in connection with the observatory.
The chronology of Lai-wen-tsiün who marked western vari-
ation needs still to be determined. The catalogue of Ch'ien-lung
says of him that he wrote a book containing the reign Shan-
hing in its title. This reign extended from A.D. 1131 to 1168.
We must suppose that he lived at that time.
Let me add in conclusion that while the observation by Shen-
kwa about A.D. 1080 of the variation is free from the supersti-
tion of the Feng-shui, and therefore more scientific than the
observations of Yang-yi and Lai-wen-tsiün; yet that the ob-
servations of these two geomancers, although clouded with much
false science, have in them a real value as being the result of
an actual knowledge of the variation, at the times and in the
places (K'ien-cheu in Kiangsi, and C'hu-cheu in Chekiang) in
which they lived.
A passage already cited above says that the floating needle is
found to vary half a division westward from the south point
of the compass. This is said in the midst of a statement of the
theories of Yang-yi, and can only be referred to him.
Further, the fact that the variation was western in 1080 in-
directly confirms the opinion that it was the observed western
variation of the needle that led Lai-wen-tsiün, about 1160, to
place on the compass a new cycle beginning from 7 degrees
west of the north point.