ARTICLE I.
ON THE STONE FIGURES AT CHINESE TOMBS AND THE
OFFERING OF LIVING SACRIFICES.
BY WILLIAM FREDERICK MAYERS,
Chinese Secretary of Her Britannic Majesty's Legation at Peking.*
THE practice of adorning the approaches to tombs of sovereigns
and dignitaries of State in China with an avenue of stone fi-
gures of various kinds is well known, and has frequently formed a
subject of speculation among European enquirers; but no attempt to
assemble the data to be found on this subject in Chinese literature
appears as yet to have been made. It may be useful, therefore, to
collect for purposes of reference such information as has been met
with by the writer in connection with the usage.
The most striking instance of the practice in question, and one
which is annually brought under the notice of visitors to the neigh-
bourhood of Peking, is the extraordinary avenue of colossal figures
by which the Mausoleum of Yung Loh, the great emperor of the
(*) This paper was read before the Society on the 12th March 1878. Mr.
Mayers died at Shanghai on the 23rd. The Editorial Committee feel they
cannot allow the occasion to pass without an expression of the deep regret
felt by all classes at his early death. As a deeply read and accurate scholar
Mr. Mayers had won an honourable position, and students of Chinese owe
him a debt of gratitude for the thorough manner in which he opened up
many of the most abstruse fields of Chinese literaturo and practice.-Ed.

2
ON THE STONE FIGURES AT CHINESE TOMBS
Ming dynasty, (died A. D. 1424), is approached. In his paper on
the Architecture of China, read before the Royal Institute of Bri-
tish Architects on the 1st December, 1873, Mr. William Simpson
describes this avenue in the following terms:-
"Then began one of the noted features of the Ming Tombs, that
is, a long dromos with colossal stone figures on each side. This
strange approach is nearly a mile in length.-There are thirty-two
figures in all, twenty of them being animals, and twelve are hu-
man. They are in pairs, opposite each other, and facing the road-
way. First are two griffins couchant, then two standing; two
camels recumbent, and two standing: then elephants, asses, and
horses grouped in the same way. The human effigies seem to be
those of warriors and priests. They are all of stone, and although
not executed in what we understand by rude art, yet they are not
of a high class of work. I felt in looking at them how superior
the conventional forms of Egyptian art were for such purposes."
The description given by the Rev. Dr. Edkins, in his chapter
on Peking, forming an Appendix to the Rev. A. Williamson's
Journeys in North China, (Vol. II, p. 387), of the avenue of
figures at the Tomb of Yung Loh, is somewhat more minute and
accurate than that of Mr. Simpson above quoted, and the liberty
may be taken of reproducing it here. Dr. Edkins says:
"There are two pairs of lions, two of unicorns, two of camels,
two of horses. One pair stands, and the other pair sits or kneels.
The elephants are thirteen feet high, by seven wide, and fourteen
feet long. Beyond the animals come the military and civil man-
darins, of whom there are on each side six. Each figure is also
one stone. The military figures are carved to represent coats of
mail extending to the knees with tight sleeves. A round cap
covers head and ears, and hangs to the shoulders. The left hand
holds a sword, the right, a bâton or ju-i. The civil officers have
long hanging sleeves, with a sash round the waist, which falls to
the feet before and behind with a long tassel. They wear a square
cap under which their long ears are exposed. The girdle consists
of embroidered squares. The square embroidered breastplate is
fastened by a sash round the neck which hangs down the back."
The avenue at the Ch'ang-ling, or tomb of the emperor
Yung Loh, described above, is the most imposing in style and the
most perfectly preserved (*) of all that is open to view of this
(*) Mr. Simpson is in error in remarking in his paper that "as the
Ming dynasty ended in 1628 [this is a mistake for 1643] their tombs have
had no one since that period to discharge the necessary services,"-i.e. the
performance of religious rites. An officer of the Court is, on the contrary,
sent twice a year from Peking to offer sacrifices at the tombs of the Ming

AND THE OFFERING OF LIVING SACRIFICES.
3
description of statuary work in China. A similar avenue leading
to the tomb of Hung Wu, the founder of the Ming dynasty (died
A. D. 1398), near Nanking, has suffered from the ravages of both
time and war, but it still preserves enough of its ancient dignity
and proportions to furnish an interesting sight to the visitor.
In the neighbourhood of the cities of Shanghai, Amoy, Chefoo,
and probably others among the Treaty ports also, the tombs of
deceased servants of the present dynasty are to be seen, at which
figures of the same description, although less in number and of
smaller size, than those which keep watch over the burial places of
the departed Sovereigns near their respective capitals, are erected.
In the vast walled enclosures containing the tombs, sacrificial halls,
and other buildings which, collectively, form what is known as the
Mausoleum of each emperor of the dynasty now occupying the
throne of China, similar avenues of colossal figures exist, but the
jealous manner in which these sacred places are guarded against
the intrusion of visitors makes them inaccessible to Europeans.
The Hwang Ling (*) or Imperial tombs of the present dynasty are
situated in the mountain range to the north of Peking, occupying
two separate tracts, which lie respectively east and west of the
capital, at a distance of about 100 miles on either hand. Suc-
cessive sovereigns and their consorts should be interred, according
to the system originally contemplated, in alternate order at one or
the other of these sites; but the eligible spots in the Western Hills
having now been almost entirely occupied, recent interments have
taken place at the Eastern Mausolea only. The Ta Ts'ing Hwei
Tien, or Collected Institutes of the reigning dynasty, furnishes
some information relating to the avenues of figures with which the
earlier Mausolea are provided. On the subject of the Imperial
tombs, as upon every other detail of the Chinese administration,
prescriptive rules are placed on record, with an astonishing mi-
nuteness of detail, for execution by the department severally con-
cerned; and, although the actual dimensions and precise style of
adornment of each Imperial tomb are not immutably prescribed,
dynasty; and all existing tombs of former rulers are carefully watched over
in theory at least, by the present occupants of the Throne.
(*) The use of the term ling, properly signifying a high mount
or peak, in the sense of a burial mound or tumulus, dates from a period of
remote antiquity. Perhaps the earliest special notice of the expression is
that contained in the Fêng Suh Tung, the well-known antiqua-
rian treatise by Ying Shao, who wrote about the middle of the 2nd century
of our era. He remarks that the tomb of Hia How Kao (B C. 1848) is
mentioned in the Tso Ch'wan under the name of Nan Ling; and he adds
that in his own day the tumuli under which princes and nobles were buried
were all designated as Ling. (Féng Suh Tung, Book 10).

4
ON THE STONE FIGURES AT CHINESE TOMBS
being left to the filial piety of the succeeding sovereign and to the
management of the high Commissioners appointed, whenever ne-
cessary, for the execution of such works, the details of the build-
ings heretofore constructed are minutely recorded in this official
compilation. (*) At the Hiao Ling or tomb of the emperor
Shun Che, the first sovereign of the present dynasty, it is recorded,.
there are placed in front of the grand gateway, called the Lung
Feng Men, 龍鳳門, a row of stone figures representing living
beings (i.e. statues) as follows, namely: 3 pairs
each of figures of civil and military officers of State, in court dress
and in helmet and armour respectively, and 1 pair each of recum-
bent and of standing Ki-lin, lions (she), elephants, horses
camels, and swan-ni, (+) making eighteen pairs in all, beside two
wang chu or pillars, measuring two chang, two ch'ih, seven
ts'un in height.
The embellishment of the avenue leading to the tomb of K'ang
Hi is somewhat different. Here, it is noted, there are one pair
each of statues of civil and military officers of State, clad as above
described, and three pairs of standing figures of horses, elephants,
and lions, making five pairs in all with two pillars as above. The
tomb of Yung Chêng is guarded in a precisely similar way, but a
variation occurs again at the last Mausoleum of which a description
exists in print, that of the emperor K'ien Lung. Here, in addi-
tion to 1 pair each of human figures, six kinds of animals are re-
presented, all standing, viz., horses, Ki-lin, elephants, camels,
swan-ni, and she, making eight pairs of figures in all.
As has already been observed, no precise regulation appears to
be in force respecting this mode of decorating the approach to an
Imperial tomb, and in some cases the avenue of figures may be
altogether omitted. The emperor Tao Kwang, it is reported, ex-
(*) Cf. Book 711, p. 6, under head of,
Ior Board of Works.
(+) The swan-ni and the lion are recognised by the Chinese as
one and the same creature, although the designation she is most com-
monly given to the real animal, and, as is to be seen above, distinct con-
ceptions exist in relation to the objects which bear the two separate names.
The Swan-ni is usually depicted in the shape of a lion, but with uplifted
head, as though in the act of roaring. The Chinese appear to have obtain-
ed their earliest knowledge concerning the lion under the name swan-ni,
which is found in the Muh T'ien Tsze Chwan, the Urh Ya, and other an-
cient works; but in the second century after Christ a live lion was sent by
way of tribute from Su-léh (Kashgar) to the court of Shun Ti of the Han
dynasty, and the name She appears then to have been devised for it,
as signifying the Lord of Beasts,

N
AND THE OFFERING OF LIVING SACRIFICES.
5
pressly forbade the erection of such figures in front of his own
place of sepulture, but whether this prohibition was inspired by a
desire to obviate a lavish expenditure or by superstitious ideas is
not generally known. Some eminent professors of the science of
Feng Shui, which deals so largely with the aspect and construc-
tion of tombs, are opposed to the placing of lines of upright objects
along the Shen Tao or Spirit's Road, i. e. the avenue lead-
ing to the tomb. Whatever may have been the ground of the
objection entertained by the emperor Tao Kwang, this did not
prevail with his son and successor Hien Fêng, (died 1861), at
whose Mausoleum the customary stone figures are known to have
been erected; (*) and the same course is reported to have been
followed at the mausoleum of the emperor T'ung Che, his son and
successor (died 1875), the works upon which are barely completed
as yet.
The license which appears to be taken in connection with the
adornment of imperial tombs is not extended to that affecting the
burial places of the most distinguished nobles and public functio-
naries. The Ta Ts'ing Tung Li or Ritual Orlinances of the pre-
sent dynasty (†) contains some regulations on this subject which
are worth noting. The text is as follows:-
"For officials of the first rank, the burial ground shall measure
90 pu (of about 6 feet cach) from the centre of the grave-mound to
each side of the quadrangle, and the tumulus shall be 1 chang 6
(*) As the method by which the material for these colossal effigies is
conveyed to the spot at which they are hewn into shape is doubtless the
same at present with that employe in remote antiquity, it may be useful
to include some account of it here from personal observation. The lime-
stone quarries of the Fangshan district, situated about 50 miles from Pe-
king, furnish the blocks which are carved into the shapes traditionally con-
secrated to the guardianship of the tombs; and for the completion of the
mausoleum of Hien Fêng it was necessary to transport masses of stone,
estimated as weighing not less than six tons each, to a distance of about
90 miles eastward from Peking, or about 140 miles in all. The huge square
blocks are so quarried out as to be allowed, when finally detached, to sink
to rest upon two longitudinal beams, which are subsequently raised to a
sufficient extent to allow two pairs of wheels, consisting of solid blocks of
wood roughly hewn into a circular shape, to be placed beneath them and
connected by axles. From these axles are suspended two enormous pa-
rallel hawsers, hanging but a few inches above the ground, and extending
for many yards in front of the truck. On either side of the hawsers there
are fastened, at short distances apart, transverse lengths of drag-rope, to
each of which a pony, mule, or donkey is harnessed, and by these means
some hundred or hundred and fifty animals may be brought to bear on the
task of conveying the monolithic mass to its final destination. Special
roads are prepared, when necessary, to facilitate the removal.
(†) Cf. edition of 1824, Book 52, p. 16.

6
ON THE STONE FIGURES AT CHINESE TOMBS
For
ch'ih high. For the second rank, the dimensions shall be 80 pu
and 1 chang 4 ch'ih.......and for the seventh rank, 20 pu and 6
ch'ih. The ground shall be walled in......Stone effigies shall be
erected, to wit: for individuals from the first order of nobility
(kung) down to the second official rank, there shall be set up one
pair each of human figures, horses, tigers, goats, and pillars.
the third rank, the pair of human figures shall be omitted. For
the fourth rank, the human figures and the goats shall be omitted;
and for the fifth rank; the human figares and the tigers shall be
omitted. At the gateway of the tomb, a tablet shall be erected,
setting forth the rank and name of the deceased (or, in the case of
females, the title bestowed upon her by imperial patent and her
maiden family name). For the first three orders of nobility (kung,
how, péh) the tablet shall be 9 ch'ih in height and 3 ch'ih 6 ts'un
wide, crowned with a dragon border and supported upon the back
of a tortoise. (*) The crowning border is to be 3 sh'ih 2 ts'un high,
and the support 3 ch'ih 8 ts'un high......A similar style of tablet,
but of somewhat smaller dimensions, is accorded in the case of an
official of the first rank; whilst for those of the second the crown-
ing border is to represent the head of the Ki-lin instead of that of
the dragon."
(*)-li show kwei fu-lit. dragon-headed and tortoise
crouching. Monumental tablets thus adorned and supported are familiar
to the eye of most residents or travellers in China. The tortoise, kwei, in
one of its mythical developments is regarded as the type of strength and
endurance, and hence it appropriately supports on its back the tablet in-
tended to perpetuate a record. With reference to the dragon-headed orna-
ment, Chao Yen-wei,
an author of the 12th century, in his
Collectanea entitled Yün Li Man Ch'ao
(Bk. 1, p. 7) states
that in the palaces of the sovereigns of the T'ang dynasty the carving of
the balustrades of the stone staircases was in this shape; and that in his
own day it was commonly to be seen in Buddhist temples,
In this connection it may not be out of place, as an illustration of the
rise of Chinese architectural fancies, to quoto from another collection of
miscellanies of the same period, the Meh Keh Hwei Hi
A,
by P'eng Ch'êng, an account of the introduction of the figures of
fishes which, with curved, uplifted tails, are to be seen crowning the roofs
of most large Chinese temples. The author says (Bk. 5, p. 6):-
"Owing to the frequent conflagrations of the palaces of the Han dynas-
ty, the soothsayers gave counsel that figures should be made representing the
'fish-tail constellation' in the Heavens, and placed upon the tops of houses,
as a talisman against the evil. At present, since the days of the T'ang
dynasty, one sees upon the roofs of old temple buildings figures which
resemble a fish in the attitude of flying, with its tail pointing upwards:
I know not when the name became changed to that of ch'ih wen
The tail is not like that of a fish."

AND THE OFFERING OF LIVING SACRIFICES.
7
Such being the state of the case as regards custom and ordi-
nance in connection with this practice, the principle or tradition
underlying the system may now be investigated so far as available
means permit. The only recent Chinese author who is known to
have occupied himself with the question is Wu Yung-kwang, in
his treatise upon the laws and institutions of the reigning dynasty,
published by him while holding office as Governor General of Hu
kwang in 1832. (*) In Book 17, p. 3, under the head of Fune-
real Rites, the following note is appended to the extract given
from the Ta Ts'ing Tung Li on the subject of the Shih Siang
Sheng or Stone Figures at tombs:-
"With reference to the usage of erecting these stone effigies, the
Feng Suh Tung (†) has the following statement: "The wang
siang () was a thing which was addicted 'to devouring the liver
and brains of the dead; and for this reason [the functionaries
termed] the fang siang she were used, on the day of interment, to
go into the vault to drive away these things. Beside this, a fang
siang was set up at the side of the tomb; and as the wang siang
stood in awe of cypresses and of tigers, cypresses were planted
and [figures of] tigers erected in front of the tomb. At the tomb
of Chao K'i, the Governor of Tsing-yang under the Han dynasty,
stone columns were erected; and at the tomb of Hoh K'ü-ping (§)
stone figures of men and horses were arrayed.' The work entitled
Chih Kuh Tsze () says: 'Since the times of the Ts'in and the
Han dynasties, stone figures of human beings, goats and tigers,
and pillars of stone, have been erected, like the procession of at-
tendants who waited on the deceased during life.' The above
(*) The work is entitled Wu Hioh Luh Ch'u Pien,
and consists in a compilation of the ordinances and statutes contained in
the Ta Ts'ing Hwei Tien and Ta Ts'ing Lüh Li, etc., with explanatory
notes and historical illustrations.
(+) The work of Ying Shao of Han Dynasty, already referred to in a
noto above. The passage quoted above is not to be found in two separate
editions of Ying Shao's work in the possession of the writer, but it may be
traditionally ascribed to his pen in some repertory consulted by Wo Yung-
kwang, which has not been identified.
This term, with that of fang-siang-she, it,
will be explained farther on.
(S), the famous general of Wu Ti of the Han dynasty,
who is believed to have brought back to China from a campaign in Kash-
garia the first image of Buddha seen in China. He died in B. Č. 117.
(II)炙榖子,the work of a writer named Wang Jui 王睿 of the
T'ang dynasty. It is described in the Chih Chai Shu Luh, a catalogue
dating from the Sung dynasty, Book 10, p. 16, as being a compilation from
some earlier collections of Miscellaneous jottings.

8
ON THE STONE FIGURES AT CHINESE TOMBS
indicates the origin of the practice of erecting these effigies of men
and animals. The statues of human beings are sometimes called
arêng chung, (*) and the stone pillars are similarly called by the
alternative name hua pino 華表”
Before going farther, some explanation may be given with re-
gard to two of the terms comprised in the extract attributed to the
Feng Suh Tung. The wang sing is an imaginary monster
of which mention is not unfrequently found in Chinese works.
Sze-ma Ts'ien, in his life and history of Confucius ( F F
speaks of the "monstrous dragons and wang siang which
exist in the waters;" and Hwai Nan Tsze is also quoted as declar-
ing that the wang siang is a product of the waters. (†) Although
this is not explicitly stated by any Chinese authority, there is
reason for believing that the wang siang is the same with that
elsewhere described as the yün , a creature mentioned in the
apocryphal work entitled the Shuh I Ki, which in its
present form is supposed to date from the period of the Tang dy-
nasty. In this work the following passage occurs: () In the
reign of Muh Kung, sovereign of Ts'in (died B.C. 621), a certain
man of Ch'ên Ts'ang was digging in the ground, when he found
a creature which was something between a goat and a pig in shape.
No one was able to give it a name; but he met on the road two
youths who said to him: this is called the yün. It devours the
brains of the dead underground; but if you pierce its head with
pines and cypresses it will die. For this reason cypresses
are planted now upon graves, in order to ward off this danger."
So much for the wang siang monster and the practice of plant-
ing cypresses in the neighbourhood of tombs,-one of the many
usages in which the ancient Chinese are seen to have been impress-
ed with the same ideas in relation to their burial customs as were
(). The P'ei Wên Yün Fu (Book 61) gives the following ex-
planation of this term: "In the history of the Wei dynasty, the annotation
to the reign of Ming Ti states that in the first year of the reign King Ch'u
(A. D. 237), a great supply of copper was given out, wherewith two statues
were cast, which were named Wêng Chung. They were seated without the
Sze-ma gateway of the palace."
(f) P'ei Wen Yün Fu, Book 52.
(+) Cf. Shuh I Ki, Book II, p. 12, in Vol. 35 of the Han Wei Ts'ung
Shu. The passage as printed in this place is slightly different from that
quoted, as from the Shuh I Ki, in the She Lui Fut, book 25, art
, but the variation is unimportant. It consists principally in the addi-
tion of the words rendered above as: "no one was able to give it a name,"
in place of the words "Muh Kung," which stand by themselves in the
other text.

AND THE OFFERING OF LIVING SACRIFICES.
9
entertained by the nations of the West. The fang siang she who
are found mentioned in connection with this monster, in the pass-
age cited by Wu Yung-Kwang as above quoted, were functionaries
who, according to the Chow Li or Official Ritual of the
Chow dynasty (Book 31), were specially charged with the duty of
exorcising evil influences from dwelling houses and tombs. Biot
(Le Tchéou Li, Paris, 1851, Vol. II, p. 225), translates the pass-
age in question as follows:-"Lorsqu'il y a un grand service funè-
bre, il précède le cercueil jusqu'à la tombe. Quand on entre le
corps dans le caveau, il frappe les quatre angles avec la lance. Il
chasse le Mang liang." (*)
From the extract assigned to the Fêng Suh Tung, as quoted by
Wu Yung-kwang, it would appear that in times posterior to the
Chow dynasty, an image of the exorcist or fang siang was erected
by the side of the tomb, from whence it would seem the inference
is left to be drawn, the practice arose of placing figures such as
those called wêng chung (the images of warriors and civilian func-
tionaries) in the same position. Something remains to be said,
farther on, with reference to these statues of human beings; but
before proceeding to the second portion of the present enquiry,
the meaning probably attributable to some of the other figures
placed at the approaches to tombs may be briefly touched upon.
As has already been noted above, the cypress tree and the tiger
were believed at a very early period to exercise a special power of
guardianship against the attacks of goblins or ghoul-like monsters
upon the remains of the buried dead; and these are the earliest
among the objects which are recorded as having been planted or
represented in the neighbourhood of tombs. We find them in
company there at the present day, and with them the traces also
of other creatures believed to be invested with supernatural pow-
The monumental tablets erected in honour of a deceased
person are crowned, as has been seen above, in some cases by the
head of the li or "harmless dragon," and in others by that of the
Ki-lin, or beast of happy omen. For personages of a still lower
degree-the third grade of official rank-the regulations provide
ers.
-Mang-liang or Wang-liang, a name in which an obvious rela-
tionship with the Wang-siang may be noticed. The more orthodox way of
writing this name, however, is Fany-liang, as is seen in accepted
editions of the Thirteen Classics. In K'ang Hi's dictionary the term Fang-
liang, as above, is defined as synonymous with Wang-liang,
and this expression is explained as signifying "a goblin or sprite of the
woods and rocks." The explanation, quoted in the same place, of Chang
Hêng's poem entitled Tung King Fu, (2nd century A.D.), gives the meaning
of fang-liang as "a spirit of the lakes and meadows."

10
ON THE STONE FIGURES AT CHINESE TOMBS
that the crowning border is to represent the t'ien luh
and
the pih-sich. These two fabulous creatures, the meaning of
whose names, translated literally, is "the good fortune of Heaven"
and "a charm against evil," were anciently represented in full
effigy, according to the authorities quoted by Wu Yung-kwang,
in front of tombs. The notes in explanation of the Si Yih Chwan
or Description of the countries of Central Asia, forming
part of the History of the Han dynasty, are cited as defining the
t'ien luh as an animal like a deer, (*) but with only one horn,
and the pih-sieh as having, on the contrary, two horns. The
Tsih Ku Luh by the celebrated historian Ngow-yang
Siu, (A.D. 1017-1072), and two other ancient works, are quoted
as mentioning these beasts, the Tsih Ku Luh stating, in particular,
that their effigies, carved in stone, were set up in front of the tomb
of Tsung Tsze of the Han dynasty. At the present day,
the name t'ien luh is given to the small couchant figures of non-
descript animals which crown the wang chu or monumental pillars
forming part of the array on either side of the pathway leading to
the tomb. The wang chu themselves are considered as the tokens
by which the spirit, when wandering (+) from its earthly resting-
place, finds its way back again to the tomb.
It might be possible, were the subject more akin to the subject
of the present enquiry, to trace to these conceptions, prevalent, as
we see, among the early Chinese, the origin, in part at least, of
the heraldic blazons of griffins, unicorns, and other more or less
fabulous animals which found their way into Europe, it is believ-
ed, among the results of the Crusades. Leaving, however, this
attractive subject on one side, we may pass on to examine the
data which Chinese literature affords with reference to the period
at which imperial or other tombs may be considered to have first
been placed under the tutelage of the stone figures to which the
present paper relates.
Owing, probably, to the fact that no classic author has found
occasion to make special mention of this practice and that, for
this reason, allusions to it have not been considered admissible in
verse making and the composition of elegant essays, the ordinary
works of reference contain little information on the subject. The
* The substitution of luh, good fortune, for luh, a deer is a
well-known play upon sound in Chinese usage.
+ The same idea is connected apparen ly with the pillars which adorn
the court yard in front of the main gateway of the palace city at Peking.
The animal figures by which these are crowned are popularly designated
Wang Kün Kwei, i.e. "watching for the sovereign's return."
They are supposed to guard the palace during the emperor's absence.

AND THE OFFERING OP LIVING SACRIFICES.
11
most explicit passage relating to it which the writer has met with,
of comparatively ancient, date, is contained in Ma Twan-lin's
Wên Hien Tung K'ao, (Book 125). This is sufficiently note-
worthy and interesting to merit translation in full. It is as fol-
lows:-
"T'ai Tsu, the founder of the Posterior Chow dynasty, (*) was
buried at the Sung Ling. In times before his death he
had repeatedly admonished [his adoptive son and successor] the
Prince of Tsin, saying to him: When I was advancing at the
head of my army toward the West, I saw the eighteen imperial
tombs of the T'ang dynasty, every one of them broken open and
despoiled. The only reason for this was the great treasure they
contained in gold and gems. When I am dead, do thou wrap me
in paper grave-clothes, and enclose my body in an earthern coffin.
Use no stone to line the vault, but only brick. Let all the arti-
ficers and the people stationed near my tomb be employed of their
own free will: let no oppression befall the people for this matter.
When the burial is completed, let thirty householders, of those
.who dwell near the tomb, be engaged to watch over it, with ex-
emption granted them from all other forms of State service. Build
no mausoleum over the tomb, nor allot any of the inmates of the
palace to dwell beside it, and set up no stone figures of goats,
tigers, human beings, and horses. Let there be only a stone plac-
ed in front of the grave-mound, with an inscription declaring that
'the Son of Heaven, Chow, in his lifetime loved frugality and mo-
deration, and, dying, commanded that his grave clothes be of pa-
per and his coffin be of baked earth. His successors will not ven-
ture to depart from this rule! If thou depart from it, my son,
I will send no blessing unto thee."
From the foregoing passage it is clear that in the middle of the
10th century of our era the practice of placing stone figures, as at
the present day, in front of tombs, was known and reprobrated as
a needless pomp; and from what has been handed down respect-
ing the gorgeous style of decoration introduced by the emperors of
the T'ang dynasty for the surroundings of their tombs, it is more
than likely that the avenues of figures which She Tsu of the Chow
dynasty is shewn above to have forbidden in his own case were
included among the appurtenances of the imperial mausolea of the
8th and 9th centuries. The special reverence displayed for ances-
tral places of sepulture, and the custom of visiting and decorating
the restingplaces of the dead in particular, are known to have re-
ceived their first legitimation in the reign of Hüan Tsung of the
*Named Chow Kwoh-wei,-died A.D. 953.

12
ON THE STONE FIGURES AT CHINESE TOMBS
dynasty above-mentioned. In the 20th year of the reign K'ai-
yuan (A.D. 732), it is recorded, (*) the festival of the tombs at
the Tsing Ming period (the beginning of April), now uni-
versally celebrated throughout China, was for the first time en-
rolled among the ordinances of State; and acknowledgment was
made at the same time that the usage did not ascend beyond the
period of the Ts'in and Han dynasties, some 800 or 900 years
earlier. All indications point, in fact, to the rulers of the Ts'in
dynasty as the introducers of a style of funeral magnificence un-
known to earlier Chinese tradition, and mingled with practices of
immolation which came near to taking root among the imperial
ordinances of the State. To this rite of sacrifice of domestic ani-
mals, among other "accompaniments of death"-ts'ung sze E
-we may probably attribute the appearance in later times of the
effigies of such creatures beside the sepulchral avenue.
The most striking historical instance of the sacrifice of living
creatures, other than human beings, at the obsequies of the impe-
rial dead, is preserved in a passage to be found in the work of
more than one author, and derived by all, most probably, from the.
History of the Han dynasty. Ma Yung-K'ing, in his Lan Chén
Tsze, (+) observes that:
"In the time of the Han dynasty, the practices connected with
the rites of interment were lavish in the extreme. When the
obsequies of the emperor Wu Ti took place (i.e. in B.C. 86), his
successor, Chao Ti, being still of tender age, the Regent Hoh
Kwang, regardless of proper teachings, took coins of gold and other
treasures, birds, beasts, fishes, tortoises, oxen, horses, tigers, and
leopards, in all one hundred and ninety living creatures; the whole
of which he caused to be slaughtered and buried at the same time.
He also compelled the inmates of the deceased emperor's seraglio
to constitute themselves the attendants destined to reside at the
sepulchral park ; and hence arose the custom of having
'concubines of the mausoleum,' which succeeding genera-
tions followed without change. Peh Kü-yih (A.D. 772-846)
has among
his poems an ode, which cannot be read without a sense
of sadness, entitled Yuan Ling Ts'ieh or 'the consorts of
the tomb'."
The lavish magnificence affected on the occasion described above
* Cf Yüen Kien Lui Han淵類函, Book 171,上陵
+ 娴眞子, by馬永卿,。
an author of the first half of the 12th
century. His Collectanea, under the above title, from Vol. 39 of the Pai Hai
collection of reprints. See Book 4, p. 8.

AND THE OFFERING OF LIVING SACRIFICES.
13
was, however, but a feeble copy of that which attended the fune-
ral of She Hwang-ti, the founder of the Chinese imperial system
toward the close of the third century before Christ; and it is to
his remote progenitors (if indeed, in his case, the illegitimacy of
his birth being considered, that expression be allowable), the
early princes or Kung of Ts'in, that the practice of immolating
sacrifices at the interment of the dead is historically traceable.
Among the few incidents of the early history of this remote west-
ern principality which Sze-ma Ts'ien, the renowned chronicler of
the second century before the Christian era, has handed down in
his invaluable work, it is recorded that (in the year B. C. 678)
"on the death of Wu Kung it, in the 20th year of his reign,
he was buried at P'ing-yang in the region of Yung; and then, for
the first time, human beings shared the fate of the deceased sover-
eign. The number of those who accompanied him in death was
sixty-six." (*) Such is the laconic record which stands out in
history with reference to this occurrence; but it will be noticed
that explicit mention is made of the fact that the sacrifice of
human victims, and this apparently of a voluntary nature, took
place for the first time on the occasion described. The next
instance to be adverted to is conspicuous as the subject of one of
the "ballads of Ts'in" in the Book of Odes. In the year B.C.
659 a grandson of Wu Kung ascended the throne of Ts'in, and
became famous in history under the title of Muh Kung A.
At his death (in B.C. 621), Sze-ma Ts'ien relates, "the number of
those who shared his fate was one hundred and seventy seven per-
Three devoted servants of the House of Ts'in, belonging to
the family of Tsze Yü 7, were of this number. Their names
were Yen-sih奄息, Chung-hang 仲行, and Kien-hu 虎”
To this passage Ying Shao, in his annotations to the History of
the Han dynasty, adds the following explanation: "Muh Kung
was feasting once with his courtiers, and being drunk with wine
addressed them saying: 'In life we share this enjoyment toge-
ther, and in the sorrow of death we should not be divided.'
sih, Chung-hang, and K'ien-hu agreed in this saying; and when
Muh Kung died, they followed him to the tomb." The three
self-sacrificing heroes became celebrated as the Three Worthies-
San Liang -and their burial-place was pointed out in sub-
sequent ages in the district of Yung in K'i Chow. Their
posthumous fame was doubtless in large measure owing to the
sons.
Yen-
*辈雍平陽;初以人從死。從死者六十六人。
(Cf. L, Book 5).

14
ON THE STONE FIGURES AT CHINESE TOMBS
balled of the She King in which their fate is touchingly bewailed.
It may be read in Dr. Legge's translation (the She King, Chinese
Classics, Vol. IV, Part I, Book VI. Ode 6). The note appended
by the translator to this ode erroneously attributes the first intro-
duction of the practice of sacrificing human victimes to duke Ching,
or Ch'êng Kung, instead of Wu Kung, as stated by Sze-ma Ts'ien.
In the ballad, the name given by the historian as Tsze Yü, is writ-
ten Tsze Ki子車
Ac-
One more instance, but this the most celebrated and the most
circumstantially narrated, of all in connection with the practice of
human immolation by the sovereigns of the Ts'in dyuasty, remains
to be dealt with. On the death of the mighty conqueror She
Hwang-ti, in B.C. 210, his son and successor caused, it is related,
his interment to be effected in a great cavern artificially hollow-
ed out in the depths of the Li Shan (situated in the mo-
dern Lin-t'ung district in Shensi), which She Hwang-ti had pre-
pared during his lifetime as the resting place of his remains.
cording to the record preserved by Sze-ma Ts'ien, an army of more
than 70,000 labourers, gathered from all parts of the Empire, was
employed in excavating the bowels of the earth at this spot, down
to "three fold depths;" and in the heart of the cavern thus form-
ed "palatial edifices were constructed, with positions duly allotted
to each rank of the official hierarchy, and these buildings were
filled with marvellous inventions and rare treasures of every kind.
Artificers were set to work to construct arbalists ready strung, with
arrows so set that they would be shot off and would transfix any
one who should penetrate within their reach. Rivers, lakes, and
seas were imitated by means of quicksilver, caused to flow by me-
chanism in constant circulation. Above, the configuration of the
heavens, and below, the outline of the countries of the earth, were
depicted. Lights were made with the fat of the man-fish, (*) with
the design of keeping them continually burning. Urh She (the
young Emperor) said: It behoves not that those of my father's
female consorts who have borne no children should go forth into
the world; and he required of them, hereupon, that they should
follow the dead Emperor to the tomb. The number of those who
consequently went to death was very great. When the remains
had been placed beneath ground, it chanced that some one said:
The artificers who have made the enginery know all that has been
done, and the secret of the treasure will be noised abroad. When
the great ceremony was over, the central gate of the avenue of ap-
proach having already been closed, the lower gate was shut, and
⚫ See below.

AND THE OFFERING OF LIVING SACRIFICES.
15
the artificers came out no more. Trees and herbage were planted
over the spot, to give it the appearance of [an ordinary] mountain."
Thus far the obscurely worded and, in many respects, unmis-
takeably fabulous account which is given by the Father of History
with regard to the tomb of She Hwang-ti. The commentators
upon his work have expressed such widely differing opinions with
reference to more than one of the passages it contains that the
subject is best left in its visible uncertainty. The "Man-fish,"
which is spoken of as supplying the oil whence lamps were fed,
with the object of securing a perpetual illumination, is defined by
Sü Kwang, the renowned editor of the 4th century, as "a fish
resembling the Nien , with four legs. This explanation, how-
ever, which is probably based upon a resemblance in sound bo-
tween the character Nien and that of (jen or nyen,-man), em-
ployed in the text of Sze-ma Ts'ien, leaves the passage shrouded
in no less darkness than before; and the point is not of sufficient
consequence to be worth pursuing farther.
What has appeared of most importance to the writer is the
reproduction here, in connection with the practice of erecting stone
figures at the tombs of deceased great personages, the three
authentic passages which are to be found in Chinese history res-
pecting the immolation of human victims in connection with
funeral rites. (*) It will be seen that, whatever may be thought
of the prehistoric origin of the rulers and population of the State
of Ts'in, and close as their proximity unquestionably was to the
territories of the Hiung-nu and other Central Asiatic nations, the
records that have come down to us confer little warranty upon the
assumption that the practice of causing human attendants to share
the fate of the deceased was necessarily derived from an external
source. The expression placed in the mouth of Duke Muh, on
the contrary, seems more closely allied to traditional Chinese
notions respecting the bonds of loyalty and friendship than to the
more primitive ideas to which, among nations such as the Hiung-
*The only remaining instance of human sacrifices in connection with
funeral rites that the writer has met with in Chinese literature is a passage
in the Wu Yuch Ch'un Ts'iu X, a well-known ancient work,
in which it is recorded that Ho-lü Wang, the Prince of Wu, who reigned
from 514 to 496 B.C., having lost a favourite daughter, prepared for her a
magnificent Tomb without the Ch'ang gateway of his capital, (the modern
Soochow), and sacrificed, to "accompany her in death," a large number of
men and women, together with a white stork, which had been used to in-
veigle the crowd of sightseers to advance into the tomb. The act, it is
added, was reprobated by his subjects. Cf. Yuan Kien Lui Han, Book
181, p. 5.

16
ON THE STONE FIGURES AT CHINESE TOMBS
nu or their ancestors and successors, (*) the practice of human
sacrifice is to be attributed. That a certain substratum of fact, in
the shape of lavish preparations for an interment adequate to a
conqueror's renown underlies the tradition preserved by Sze-ma
Ts'ien respecting the burial of She Hwang-ti, is in itself essen-
tially probable; and the celebrity of his tomb is vouched for by
the numerous legends concerning it which are to be found in
writings of the centuries immediately following his decease. In
little more than a hundred years after the death of She Hwang-ti,
the intercourse between China under the House of Han, and the
nations of Central Asia, had become frequent and intimate; and it
is reasonable to ascribe to the introduction at this period of alien
ideas the magnificence with which, according to the passage already
quoted above, the obsequies of Wu Ti were conducted in B. C. 86,
and the sacrifice which then took place of a multitude of animal
victims. There may be room for the belief, moreover, that with
the practice, seen to have been followed at least on the occasion
described, of honouring the obsequies of the dead with pro-
digious animal sacrifices, a portion of the symbolism connected
with the stone images set up at tombs is to be identified. It has
been shewn above that the placing of effigies of "goats, tigers,
human beings, and horses," beside the sepulchral approach, is
explicitly mentioned in a historical document, with reference to a
period not earlier than the middle of the 10th century, and that,
in all probability, the mausolea of the T'ang dynasty, two or three
hundred years before this date, were decorated in this manner.
The quotation from the work entitled Chih Kuh Tsze, indeed,
which has already been embodied above, declares that since the
times of the Ts'in and the Han dynasties, such effigies had been
*In this connection, the following incidents, which the writer has
found recorded in a work of the Sung dynasty, may be thought worth
citing. Chao Yen-wei, in his collectanea entitled Yun Li
Man Ch'ao, (book 1), dating from the latter half of the
12th century, when describing the siege of Tang-t'u (in T'ai-ping Fu in the
present province of Ngan-hwei) by the Kin invaders, in A.D. 1130 and 1131
(the author's father having been employed in fortifying the city during the
previous year), states that the enemy, irritated at the long resistance of the
beleaguered garrison, after slaughtering thousands of the country people
whom they had made prisoners, drove 12 pregnant women to the foot of
the walls, and there, after ripping them open, devoured the unborn infants.
Shortly afterwards, when the Chinese had set fire to the besiegers' works,
and were favoured by a strong easterly wind, the enemy chose out from
among the prisoners in their hands some of the most stalwart and un-
blemished individuals, whom they arrayed in gorgeous attire and then, driv-
ing them to the bank of the river, ripped open their bodies and tore out
their hearts to offer them in sacrifice for a change of wind.

AND THE OFFERING OF LIVING SACRIFICES.
17
in use; and the comment made by Wu Yung-kwang upon this
passage admits the validity of the assertion. As the author quoted
from observes, the stone figures of human attendants and domestic
animals may be regarded as obviously symbolical of the train of
servitors during life; whilst the guardianship of the tomb from
unseen influences of a malign nature is committed to the effigies
of tigers and other creatures endowed with supernatural powers.
The influence of Buddhism, since its introduction into China,
whilst it would operate as an effectual check against the slaughter
of living beings to swell the magnificence of an Imperial funeral,
would doubtless, by the image-worship it entailed, lend increased
significance to the guardian figures placed sentinel-wise before the
tomb; and it was probably to Buddhistic teachings that the statues
or wêng chung mentioned as having been erected in A.D. 237 out-
side the gateway of an imperial palace owed their origin. As a
general conclusion, it may be observed that the avenues of stone
figures, to an elucidation of the significance of which the present
paper has been devoted, are connected primarily with the ancient
Chinese superstitions relating to invisible powers of evil and the
means of controlling them, in fact, with fetish worship-and
secondarily with the honours paid to deceased great personages in
the sacrifice of domestic animals to attend them in the world of
shadows.