ARTICLE IV.
THE STORY OF THE EMPEROR SHUN.
FOLL
BY THоs. W. KINGSMILL.
NOLLOWING the example of the Canon of Yaou that of Shun
begins in a very similar manner-"According to tradition
the ancient emperor (Ti) Shun was called Ch'ung-hwa."
This name is equally inexplicable with the title similarly be-
stowed upon Yaou, if we simply look at the Chinese characters
made use of. Taking them, however, as simple phonetics, and
following the usual rules of phonetic change, we find that it is
in correspondence with Sanscrit Surya-the Sun in its glory.
Shun's own name tells us a similar story. He was introduc-
ed to Yaou (Varuna) as an unmarried man of the lower people
called in, modern Chinese, Yu-shun; but the phonetic element
in the former character points to Wu or Vu as the original
pronunciation; and for the latter we find the sound shun, in,
pure, to wash, for instance, Sanscrit sna; and, to accord,
complaisant, Sauserit au to flow, etc., representing the inverted
combination sn. WUSNU or VU-SHNU we may, therefore, con-
clude was the most ancient pronunciation of the name, in other
words Vishnu-the Lord of the Sun,-the wide-stepping, whose
three paces comprehended in their fulness the earth, the atmos-
phere and the sky, in the successive forms of Agni, Vâyu and
Surya.
How this corresponds with the mythical elements of the story
I shall show further on.
The Chinese legends give us small information as to Wu-
shun's antecedents. He was the son of Kúsow, literally,
the blind old man, but whether to look upon this word as an
1 Cfr. sur, to shine, in Chinese c'hang, to illuminate, refulgent;
shwang, light, sunny, pleasing. Hwa is simply phonetic representing ya.

124
THE STORY OF THE EMPEROR SHUN.
appellative or a simple phonetic, neither the text or analogy.
seems to point out. According to Mencius,-a good authority
on the ancient myths of China, Wu-shun was born at Chú-fang.
(? Turvar), removed to Fu-hia (Harivartha), and died at Ming-
t'inou, (Mandara of the Indian legends) the site also of T'ang
ch'eng's battle in the Shang story. He was said to have been
a man of the eastern tribes (1), as was Man-wang of the
western.
The name Wu-shun has, of course, by the Chinese, been
divided, and he is generally known as Shun of Yu or Wu; but
apart from the violence done to the legend, which calls him
distinctly one of the common people, there is no need to have
recourse to this interpretation. The older commentators, in-
cluding the preface to the Shoo-king, apparently speak of
him simply as Wu-shun. Occasionally, as in the Shu-king,
V., xx. 8, he is called simply Wu, so that it was a matter of
accident which portion of the name would eventually become
his personal appellation.
We may, therefore, content ourselves with receiving him as
of concealed or unknown ancestry, and thereby save ourselves
the necessity of enquiring, according to the fancy of the native
commentators, by how many degrees of relationship he was
removed from his predecessor Yaou. In this respect he re-
sembles his analogue Vishnu in the Rigveda, who is as yet
scarcely more than an abstraction, not having clothed himself
with the personality of deity attributed to him in the Puranas.
It was later in the Brahmanas that Vishnu came to be classed
with the Adityas or sons of Aditi, as great an abstraction ap-
parently as Kusow.
Like so many other manifestations as the solar deities, Wu-
shun was not allowed to come into the world without molesta-
tion. His parents, we are told, hated him. Like Herakles he
was to be set aside in favour of his half brother Siang (the
Duplicate), and their main anxiety is to get rid of him. He is,
2 The Shi ki invents a genealogy for Shun. His father was Kû sow
瞽叟, Kû sow's father was 橋 牛 Kiu ngo, K'iu ngo's 句望 Ko mong,
Ko mong's King k'ang, King k'ang's K'ung shan, Kung
shan's the emperor Chwan huk from whose father
Ch'ang i to Shun were thus seven generations. The genealogy is of the
same value as that of the Hiung nû from Yü or the kings of Wu from T'ai
Wang-zero.

THE STORY OF THE EMPEROR SHUN.
125
therefore, ordered to plaster a granary, to which fire is sot.
Escaping from the fire, he is directed to dig a well, when at the
bottom they attempt to fill it up. From these dangers he is,
as becomes his character, miraculously preserved. His brother
designs to possess himself of Wu-shun's peculiar attributes.
"Let my parents," he says, "have his oxen and sheep; let
them have his stone houses and granaries. His shield and his
spear shall be mine; his lute shall be mine; his bow shall be
mine; his two wives I shall make attend me to my bed. Siang
then went into Shun's hall, and there was Shun on his couch
playing on his lute."s
Wu-shun is set to plough in the channelled fields by the Lik
shan, the word Lik itself denoting the path of the heavenly
bodies. His parents oppress him, and he cries in agony to
High Heaven. His filial piety attracts notice. The emperor
(Ti as before) Yaou sends his nine sons and his two daughters
to wait on him, and multitudes of the scholars of the empire.
flock to him. He plays the potter (t'ao) at the Thunder
(Lui) Lake, or rather performs service (yao) as the text
apparently indicates. "His four limbs had not even a tempo-
rary rest, for his mouth and his belly he could not find pleasant
food and warm clothing-sorrowfully came he to his death. Of
all mortals never was one whose life was so worn out and
embittered as his."
Such was the life of the hero whose fame now fills the pages
of Chinese tradition."
He was, according to the orthodox tradition, called upon by
Yaou when the latter was failing in power and influence to
assist him in ruling the empire; but we find that he has little
connection with the inundating waters, the management of
which is still left to K'wan or Yü.
Other traditions differ from that generally accepted as to the
relations between him and his predecessor. According to ver-
sions still current in the latter periods of the Djow dynasty he
was rather the superseder than the simple coadjutor and helper,
as finally the descendants of Herakles supersede the successors
of Eurystheus on the throne of Mykenai. Ouranos, as repre-
senting the older gods has to give place to Kronos, so Yaou,
his correlative has to yield the sceptre to Wushun. The Tso-
3 Mencius V. I. II. 3.; Dr. Legge's translation.
4 Cfr. Sanscrit laksh, videre, observare; lakshana, nota,
signum.

126
THE STORY OF THE EMPEROR SHUN,
chuen more than hints at the contrast between the two. The
ancient emperors Kaou-yang and Kaou-sin had each eight worthy
descendants who offered their services to Yaou; who was not
able, adds apologetically the chuen, to raise them to office. No
sooner did Wushun become Yaou's minister than he placed
them in high positions, to reduce the earth to order, and to aid
the influences of Heaven; to promote the proper duties of rela-
tionship, "so that in the empire was order, and beyond sub-
mission." Four villains also lived in his time, apparently
corresponding to those mentioned in the Shi, Hwantan,
K'ung k'i, To ngat and T'o t'it, villains, slanderers, obstinate
and greedy. Yaou could not find it in his heart to put them
away, but when Wushun became minister and received the
nobles from the four quarters, he banished these four wicked
ones, thrusting them out into the four distant regions to resist
the (goblin) Limî.
The Chinese euhemerists go beyond this. Some of them
make Wushun dethrone Yaou and keep him a prisoner; raise
Tanchu for a time to the throne, and then depose him, and
thereafter allow no intercourse between father and son.
Turning to the Shûking we find in rough archaic metre,
mixed with more modern prose, the orthodox account of Wu-
shun's doings.
"Setting forth the excellencies of the five Canons
"The five Canons came to be observed
"Entering on the hundred rules
"The hundred rules were punctually administered.
"Receiving his guests at the four portals.
"The four portals shone majestically.
"Entering on the great Loka
"The impetuous winds, thunder and rain did not bewilder him.
"To him appertained the Siuenki (Chakra or Discus) and the jew-
elled Wang (Cangkha or Conch)
"By means of which he regulated the Seven Directors.
"He sacrificed to the gods aboves
"He offered to the six Honoured Ones
"He sacrificed to the hills and streams
"He visited the host of spirits.
5 Ch’an t’siu VI. year 18.
Kwei is the equivalent of Gr. Karpos, occasio, opportunitas tem-
poris.
7 The great Lokata lok) seems the equivalent of the Loka-
loka of the Vishnu Purana surrounding the golden mountain Meru.
8
Shang ti .c. dei superi, used later for emperor, in old

THE STORY OF THE EMPEROR SHUN.
"In the second month eastward he performed his circuit
"As far as Tai tsung
"He offered burnt sacrifices to the hills and streams
"He did homage to the Regent of the East
"Ho harmonised the seasons and months, and regulated the day.
"He put in accord and fixed the meridians and parallels
"He regulated the five ceremonies."
127
Similarly at the other seasons he proceeded to the three other car-
dinal points represented by the remaining three Yoks, finally arriv-
ing at Ngai tsu he sacrificed? (yung) a bullock. "He laid the
foundations of the twelve islands, piled up the twelve mount-
ains, dug out the rivers."
He arranged the code of punishments "What reverence," adds
the author, "that compassion should temper punishment.". He
banished Kung kung to the Dark Island (Yao or Yew-chow);
drove Hwantow to Tsung-shan; hid Sam-miaou (Çambara) at
Samwei; killed Kwan (povos) at Mount Yu. The number of
the villains here agrees with that in the Tso chuen, and some
resemblance is evidently indicated in their names; Hwantan (cfr.
Sans. Vandi captivus) is in the Tso-chuen made a descendant of
Hwangti, K'ungk'i (cfr. Sans. garh maledicere) of Shaou haou; T'o
ngat of Chuen heuh; and To t'it of the officer Tsin yun. So in
Indian legend Indra attended by his faithful comrade Vishnu
"hurries off to encounter the hostile powers in the atmosphere
who malevolently shut up the watery treasures in the clouds.
These demons of drought called by a variety of names as
Vrittra, Ahi, Çushna, Namuchi, Pipru, Çambara, Urana, &c.,
&c., armed on their side also with every variety of celestial
artillery, attempt, but in vain, to resist the onset of the gods."
But Çambara has a personal history connecting legend with
myth. Rigveda VII, 99, &c. describing the powers of Vishnu
connects him with the overthrow of Çambara, as does the
Chinese legend Wushun with that of Sam-miaou, in a manner
throwing much light in the Chinese myth. "No one, O
divine Vishnu, who is being born, or who has been born,
knows the furthest limit of thy greatness. Thou didst prop up
the lofty and vast sky; thou didst uphold the castern pinnacle
Chinese had the value of deus, Sans. deva, with which it is etymologically
connected. There is no trace in the Chinese classics of the form
being used in the sense of Deus Supremus.
9 Muir's Original Sanscrit Texts, Vol. V. 94.

128
THE STORY OF THE EMPEROR SHUN.
of the earth. Vishnu, thou didst prop asunder these two
worlds; thou didst envelope the earth on every side with beams
of light. Ye (Indra and Vishnu) have provided ample room
for the sacrifice, producing the sun, the dawn and fire. Ye, G
heroes, destroyed in the battles the wonderful powers of the
hostile Vrishaçipra. Indra and Vishnu ye smote the ninety-nine
strong cities of Çambara; together ye slew, unopposed, a
thousand and a hundred heroes of the Asura Varchin."10
Çambara besides his mythical existence had moreover a
legendary one, accounting for the second portion of his tradi-
tional name in Chinese. The Chinese commentators ac-
knowledging the individuality of the object of the legend make
him the prince of the Three Miaou, missing the phonetic form
of the word as disguised by the Chinese characters. In the
Indian legend, then, Çambara assumed flesh and blood as an
ancient aboriginal king, a dark-skinned enemy, who dwelt forty
years on the mountains and possessed a hundred impregnable
cities. These cities were desired by Divodása who attacked
them in vain; Indra came to his help and with Vishnu smote
the cities and killed their ruler. In both legends exists the
remembrance of a prehistoric combat with aboriginal tribes.
Çambara lived in Udavraja, a country "into which the water
flows" as Samwei, the latter syllable apparently correspond-
ing to Vraja of the other, is mentioned in connection with the
Yokshui, the Weak, or rather Dead Water of the Yukung.
To Greek mythology we must apparently go for the analogue
of another portion of the story. The Canon of Yaou seems to
hint at Kwan being the son of Yaou, as was Kronos of
Ouranos. The jealousy evinced by Yaou of the other is not
concealed. Kwan is grudgingly set to work to reduce the
swelling waters. Kwan's rule, like that of Kronos, is not suc-
cessful and he, like his analogue, is deposed in favour, tradition
tells us, of his son; who finally succeeds in the person of Yu to
the government of the Summer, Hia region, or rather
apparently Hia the Bright, the kingdom of the gleaming Hari
or Vishnu.
After twenty-eight years, i.e. passing through the twenty-
eight lunar mansions, and so making a complete circuit of the
heaven, the Emperor (Yaou) departed, the people mourning him
for three years. Wushun proceeded to (the temple of) the
10 Id. Vol. IV. 86.

THE STORY OF THE EMPEROR SHUN.
129
accomplished ancestor on the first day of the first month.
Assuming the power in his own person.
"He traversed the four Yok
"Burst open the four gates
"Permeated the four intelligences ().
"O, you twelve Herdsmen said he
"Provide our food in due season
"Be courteous to the distant and control the near.
"Honour the virtuous, confide in the good;
Oppose the artful men,
And the Man and I will follow submissively."
He following the example of his predecessor enquires of
thoso around him for a capable minister. Bak, Lord, (Sanscrit
puja honor, etc.) Yü (or Manu) is presented to regulate the
waters and land. Yü does obeisance and wishes to decline in
favour of Dsik (Daksha), Sit (Çesha), or Kaou yaou (Kuvera),
but Wushun charges him to take the office.
He appoints Dsik to sow the ground for the Limin, (Agricul-
tural or Aryan men ;) Sit to instruct them in their civil duties;
Kaou yaou to punish the evil doers. Siu to be superintendent
of works; Yik (Vaksh) his general supervisor; I (? Sara) to
preside over ceremonies; K'wei (? Garga) over music; Sung to
be his mouth-piece.
The emperor said "O, ye twenty-two men be reverent
according to the season, trusting to the merits of Heaven."
For thirty-three years Wushun occupies the throne, when
the legend shows a diversity from the corresponding Indian
story. Wushun desires to be relieved and calls on Yü to lead
the people. In the Indian legend Manu is saved from the
inundating waters by the interposition of Vishnu, who as a
fish tows the ark in which the sage has taken refuge to the
northern mountains, thence to descend and populate the earth.
In Chinese story Yü or Manu himself takes an active part in
draining off the water.
Yü declines the proposed honour in favour of Kaou-yaou, as
one in whom the Li (Aryan) men have confidence. Wushun
praising Kaou-yaou's administration as minister of justice
insists on Yü's acceptance, stating that in due time the appoint-
ment of Heaven will fall on him. Yü still declines and wishes
to refer the matter to divination, but Wushun, having previously
consulted the tortoise and the grass, refuses. Yü after pressing
11 徇 rather than詢.

180
THE STORY OF THE EMPEROR SHUN.
accepts, and receives the appointment at early dawn on the
first day of the first month.
Wushun charges him to attack the chief of the Miaon (Çam-
bara). For thirty years he carries on the contest but does not
succeed, till Yik (Vach) advises Yü to withdraw his troops and
try persuation. In seventy days the prince comes to make
submission,
Scarcely inferior to Yü in the legend is the place occupied by
Kaou yaou, and here the Greek version of the legend again
comes to our assistance. Plouton the king of Hades cannot
be separated from Ploutos the wealthy. So in the Indian
story Kuvera is the god of wealth. "Hence," says Cox (Aryan
mythology II. 319) "as containing the forms of all future har-
vests this unseen region becomes at once a land of boundless
wealth, even if we take no thought of the gold, silver and other
metals stored up in its secret places." Its king is the
"wealthiest of all monarchs, and must be addressed not as
Hades the unseen, but as Plouton the wealthy, the Kuvera of
the Ramayana."
In the Chinese version we are not reminded of the wealth of
Kaou-yaou, but the Shûking is full of his uncompromising
justice. He employs, as minister of Wushun, the five pun-
ishments, and the five banishments with their several places of
detention, for which three localities are assigned. He is closely
associated with the Sze-yok; apparently the Ruler of Hades,
though from similarity of sound seemingly confounded with the
Sze-yok, the four sacred mountains.
Wushun in many other particulars recalls the legends of the
west. Like his analogue he must be wived, and accordingly
Yaou bestows on him his two daughters; a proceeding which
seems unaccountable to the Chinese, but readily explained
when we find that the legend is but one of a series, each
marked by the same peculiarity. These names, we are told,
were Wo wang the literal equivalent of Sanscrit Ahar athe
12 Yik, the correlative of Vach the goddess of speech, equivalent to the
Greek Peitho, appears here in his natural character. Like Vach Yik has
other parts to fill. He is, above, the lieutenant of Wushun, calculating
and selecting, and having authority over all living things (grass, trees,
birds and beasts). In a somewhat similar capacity, while Yü drains off
the waters Yik teaches the people to eat flesh. So Vach is instrumental
as the helpmate of Prajapati in the creation of all things, traversing and
pervading the universe.

THE STORY OF THE EMPEROR SHUN.
131
day, and Nüying apparently connected with Núš, Nakta,
the night; both naturally daughters of Ouranos, the overarch-
ing heaven. So Herakles is matched with the fifty daughters
of Thespius, and Appollon pursues the gentle Daphne nor is
constant to her. The Hindoo legends of Krishna and the
maidens recall the same tale of the ever vivifying sun.
The Chinese myth is, however, broken off abruptly by the
entrance of Yü on the scene. The celestials (Ti) give place to
the human progenitor of the race, and Yü and his successors
appear as simple Wang's. Hence Wushun's son Shang K'iuen
retires into obscurity.
The halo
Nor do we learn much of the death of Wushun.
surrounding the departure of Herakles is not here repeated.
He ascended, we learn, to the upper regions and there died.
Before his death he dwelt in Ming ti'aou, i. e. Mandara one of the
buttresses of the golden mountain Meru, and died in Mount
Tsang-wu, the Sringi of the Indian cosmogany.
Indeed nothing is more conclusive as to the extra-Chinese
origin of the early legends than the evident coincidence of the
geography of the Chinese stories and that of Indian tradition.
The Vishnu Purana gives a scheme of cosmography in which
we can detect many resemblances too close to be occidental. In
the centre of the universe is the golden mountain Meru, the
Mûng of the Yükung. North lie mounts Nila, Sweta and Sringi,
the latter the place of Wushun's decease. South we have
Himavat, Himakata and Nishadha. Between the ranges we
have the different varthas; Bharata; Kunpurusha; Harivartha,
Fuhia of Wushun; and north of Meru, Ramyaka; Hiranyuga
and Uttarakuru.
Butressing Meru are to the east Mandara, Mingti'aou of the
legend, famous again as the site of T'ang ch'eng's great battle;
south, Gandhamaduna; west, Vipula; and north Saparvça,
from which flow respectively the four rivers Çita, Alakananda,
Chaksu and Bhadra.
The attributes of Wushun are equally clear. The Siuen-ki,
revolving disk, and the Yuk hang, gemmous balance, tell them-
selves of the discus and conch of Vishnu. His shield and
spear, lute and bow are as characteristic of Appollon or Krishna
as of the Chinese hero. Strangely enough he is absent from
the Book of Poetry. Wu wang and Chow kung in it adorn the
dawn legends of the conquering race. Wushun in fact appears
to have belonged more especially to the elder Aryan tribes who

132
THE STORY OF THE EMPEROR SHUN.
had effected a settlement before the battle of Mûkye gave the
opportunity of founding the first Chinese kingdom; and the
legend was probably worked into the tangled net of so called.
Chinese history, when the policy of the Chows dictated an
amalgamation of all the immigrant tribes to found the first
Chinese empire.
If any trace of legend, characterizing by that term the first
remembrance of actual events as opposed to myth, still sur-
vived at that period, it has long disappeared. The tale of Wu
shun affords no historic ground to assist in building up the
fabric of history. Our messenger sent forth most fain return,
for the swelling waters of forgetfulness still prevail, and in the
words of the Shuking overtop the mountains.
Next, however, to reconstructing history is the advantage of
shattering falso beliefs. The unquestioning faith placed in the
credibility of the so called early records of China has not a
little tended to confuse our notions of early history. It is at
least something to know that beyond a certain point we cannot
go. The very knowledge that the early stories were myths, and
the experience gained in comparing them with their analogues,
will serve us in good stead when we come to enquire what light
is really thrown on the early history of mankind by the archaic
records of China.