ARTICLE III.
館書學大菜麵
Yenching University Librar
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE,
AND ITS COMPARATIVE RELATIONS
WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
By P. G. von MÖLLENDORFF, Esq.
THE following essay on tt scientifically a furt of Chinese law.
HE following essay on the Family Law of the Chinese is the
The reason which led me to choose the family law was that in
making extracts from Chinese works I found this portion of the
law first completed. It may, therefore, serve as an introduction
for a work to be compiled, viz., the Laws and the Legal Proce-
dure of the Chinese.
The interesting work (in German) of Dr. Samuel Mayer on
the laws of the Israelites, Athenians and Romans has furnished
me with many comparisons, ideas and quotations, as have also
other works on Roman law. I have in addition, found of con-
siderable use the essays anonymously published in the China
Review, Hongkong, vol. V. (1877) p. 404-7; vol. VI, p. 64-66.
Some sentences have been taken from Maine's Ancient Law,
6th edition, 1876, and from John Fergusson McLennan's studies
in Ancient History, comprising a Reprint of Primitive Marriage,
an Inquiry into the origin of the form of Capture in Marriage
Ceremonies. London, 1876, especially chapter II., p. 13 ss.

100 THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE, AND ITS COMPARATIVE
I am especially indebted to my friend E. H. Parker, Esquire,
of H.B.M.'s Consular Service, for some valuable notes relating
to the subject.
Of the extensive Chinese literature on law, I have principally
consulted the following works :-
Ta-ch'ing Lü-li, the statute law and the ordinances
of the present dynasty. 40 vols., 1866. The statute laws and
some of the ordinances have been translated by Sir G. T.
Staunton; see Manual of Chin. Bibliogr. No. 201.
Shuo-t'ich Lei-pien, collection of decisions from
the years 1821-34 (Taokwang). 32 vols. 1835. 8vo.
Ta-ch'ing Li-li An-yü, collection of deci-
sions from the reigns of Yungcheng, Kienlung, Kiaking and
Taokwang, 1724-1847. 80 vols., 1847. 8vo.
A manuscript collection in 14 large volumes; containing
decisions from the reign of Yungcheng till Hsien-feng (1723-
1851), compiled by law secretaries () of the Governors of
Hunan.
Collections like this are extremely rare and valuable.
In the arrangement of the subject before me, I have taken
as a basis the Roman law; as owing to its logical structure and
general completeness this law has become a typical system, and
has formed the foundation of the jurisprudence of all European
nations.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Introduction.
A.-On Marriage.
General Remarks.
Requirements for concluding marriages.
Betrothal.
I
II
III
IV
Marriage.
V
VI
Relation of husband and wife to each other.
Dissolution of marriage.
VII Polygamy.

RELATIONS WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
101
VIII Second nuptials, and violation of the time of
B.-On Patria Potestas.
I
II
III
IV
V
mourning.
General Remarks.
On the rights of both parents with regard to
their children.
On the rights of the husband with regard to
his wife.
On the duties of children towards their parents.
Acquisition of patria potestas.
a By Marriage.
b By Procreation.
c By Adoption.
1 General requirements.
2 Special requirements of
aa Arrogation.
bb Datio in adoptionem.
3 Effects of arrogation and of adoption.
VI Termination of patria potestas.
a Without the will of the father.
With the will of the father.
C.-On Guardianship.
INTRODUCTION.
THE Chinese expression for "family" (chia) embraces, like "
the Attic olxos, all members of the same household, which
stand under one head or pater familias (chia fu), without
distinction, whether they have entered the family through mar-
riage or adoption. It is obligatory that all members of the
family bear the same family name (hsing). Even with
adoption a kind of quasi relationship is formed with the acqui-
sition of the clan-name.
At the oldest time of Chinese history the number of families
may have been the same as the number of clans; the idea
that there exists a kind of relationship between families bear-
ing the same name, has lived to the present time (see below-
Impediments to Marriage).
1 As in India, Greece and Rome, McLennan, 1.c., p. 217.
2 S. Wells Williams in his Syllabic Dictionary, p. 1242, dates back the
beginning of family names to over 3000 years, without, however, quoting
any authority.

102 THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE, AND ITS COMPARATIVE
A family is founded with the consummation of marriage and
the expression ch'eng chia means to marry as well as to
found a family.
Within the family the Chinese distinguish four grades of re-
lationship, which follow according to the proximity of descent,
without distinguishing thereby between consanguinity and
affinity. A genealogical table is given in the
vol. I., fol. 1-6.
#
The slaves are also counted as belonging to the family, and
their name chia shen-tzu has almost the same mean-
ing as the Greek olaérne (compare also the Latin familiaris
and the French maison with the same sense).
As a relationship is always indicated by having the same
family name, it may here be stated that the Manchus, whose em-
perors have reigned over China since 1644, have not used their
family names (Ehsing, Manchu hala) since the reign of the
emperor Kanghi (1062-1728), but only their personal names
(ming, Manchu gebu). The family names are, however,
known within the clans, and the law concerning family names is
the same for the Manchus as for the Chinese.³
A. ON MARRIAGE.
I.-GENERAL.
MARRIAGE is regarded by the Chinese as something necessary
and indispensible: and the best proof of this is furnished by the
fact that, excluding those of the priests who are not allowed to
marry, it is scarcely possible to find a bachelor; and an old
maid is an extraordinary rarity. Chinese law further re-
cognises the importance of marriage by giving a long list of
marriage laws. We must add, however, that marriage is not
absolutely compulsory, nor is celibacy punished, as was the case
under Jewish law and the Attic Code of Solon.
The Chinese distinguish between two kinds of marriage
which, not uncorrectly, may be termed connubium and concubi-
natus. In the first case they are obliged to be content with one
wife (chi), who is chosen by the head of the family from a
3 See Williams 1.c. p. 1243.
4 See Mayer 1.c. vol. II, p. 286: Among the Israelites each man was
obliged to marry and could be forced by the authorities to fulfil this duty
until he had a son and a daughter, compare Pollux III., 48. VIII., 40.
5 Like the Roman law, § 7. J. de nuptiis 1, 10.-L. 2, C. 5, 5.

RELATIONS WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
103
family of the same position and circumstances. Concubinage
is, however, at the same time permitted, and marriage with
several concubines (ch'iek) is allowed. The number of these,
besides the one wife, is not limited by law, but only one wife
is permitted.
Whilst the marriage with the wife (ch) is concluded by
the parents of the two parties, the man is allowed to choose
himself the concubines, who may be of low rank, even slaves.
The concubines, without regard to priority of marriage, have
amongst themselves equal rank, but are subjected to the wife.
The husband has not the right of degrading, without sufficient
reason, his wife to the rank of a concubine; nor of raising a
concubine to the rank of a wife while the wife is alive.
The wife is considered the mother of all the children born in
the family?: and the reason for the greater number of marriages
with concubines is barrenness of the wife.
II-REQUIREMENTS FOR CONCLUDING MARRIAGES.
a.-ABSOLUTE IMPEDIMENTS TO MARRIAGES.
THE attainment of puberty required by the Roman and the
Canon law, or of a certain age, as prescribed by modern
legislation, as a pre-requisite for concluding marriage is not
known to Chinese law. It is, however, an established custom,
that men marry when over twenty years of age, and that girls
are rarely given in marriage before their fifteenth year. But
as there are many exceptions in the laws for the benefit of per-
sons under fifteen years of age, we may consider the latter as
the age required for concluding a marriage. Non-attainment
of puberty, disease, or other defects (as insanity, deafness and
dumbness, etc.) are considered impediments, if when entering
into the marriage contract, no notice had been given of them.
The right of having eunuchs is granted, besides to the em-
peror, only to the highest members of the imperial family; and
6 See Impediments of marriage.
7 The same in Jewish law, see Mayer 1.c. II. p. 339 and in Moham-
medan law, see G. Rosen in Zeitschr. d. Deutschen Morgenl. Ges. XXII.
(1868) p. 543.
8 Compare the Jewish custom, Mayer l.c. p. 339: as it was considered a
disgrace, if a wife had no children, the wife in such case induced her hus-
band to take a maid-servant as concubine, the children born by such.
concubines were hers, so that she was not childless.
9 Pr. J. de nuptiis 1, 10,-1. 14 D. 23, 1, 1.-4 D. 23, 2.
10 Tit. X., 4, 2. Lib. sext. Decretal, 4, 2.

104 THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE, AND ITS COMPARATIVE
as eunuchs only serve in the palace, it is, for this reason,
impossible for them to conclude a marriage.
There exist, however, eunuchs at Peking, who have had
children before their castration, and who are allowed to visit their
families from time to time. Cases may occur in which an eunuch
who, by intrigues in the palace, has arrived at a position of
honour may take a wife pro forma.11
It is forbidden to take a second wife (ch), as long as the
first one is living.
b.-RELATIVE IMPEDIMENTS.
1.-ON ACCOUNT OF RELATIONSHIP.
MARRIAGE between relatives of all grades of relationship, is
prohibited, no matter whether the relationship be one of con-
sanguinity or of adoption. For the latter, however, in con-
tradistinction to the requirements of the Roman law, the
prohibition does not hold good after the first adoption has been
dissolved by a new adoption.
It may here be observed that there exists no relationship be-
tween the husband and his wife's sister, as is the case accord-
ing to the canonical and, after it, the English law. Altogether
there exists no relationship between the relations of the husband
and those of the wife.">
6.6
In the Institutes of Menu it is laid down that a twice-born
man (i.e. one belonging to the sacerdotal, military, or commer-
cial class, Menu X., 4) might elect for nuptials a woman not
descended from his paternal or maternal ancestors within the
sixth degree and who is not known by her family name to be of
the same primitive stock with his father." Menu III. sec. 5, in
McLennan p. 84. They (the American Indians) profess to consider
it highly criminal for a man to marry a woman whose totem
(family name) is the same as his own, and they relate instances
when young men, for a violation of this rule, have been put to
death by their own relatives, eod. p. 97.
Relationship is always implied by the fact of having the same
family name,
Tung hsing pu wei hun yin
people of the same family name do not intermarry. Consider-
ing that for a population of 400 millions only about 350 family
names exist, this impediment appears severe in the highest
11 See G. C. Stent, Chinese eunuchs, Journal of N.-C. B. of the R. A. S.,.
Shanghai, 1877, New Series, No. XI., p. 143 ss.
12 As in the Jewish law, see Mayer 1.c. II. p. 284.

RELATIONS WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
105
degree. In the course of ages it happened, that whole
communities in China were composed of people who had the
same family name; so that men desirous of marrying had to
look elsewhere for wives, and had to undertake for this
purpose voyages often expensive. An expedient to mitigate
this law had, therefore, to be found. During the reign of
Yung-lo (1403-25) those families, who took part in the grain
transport to Peking, received the name of military families
(Chin-chia), the others being called Min-chia
families of the people. Since that time the distinction between
Chin and Min has been maintained and marriages be-
tween a Chin and a Min family bearing the same family
name is permitted as the only exception from the above men-
tioned prohibition.
2. ON ACCOUNT OF AFFINITY.
MARRIAGE is not allowed with one's step-daughter, with the
father's or the mother's sister-in-law, with the cousin, with the
sisters of the son-in-law, cr of the daughter-in-law, with the
sisters of the grandson's wife, or with nieces.
Further, marriage is forbidden with female relatives outside
the fourth degree of relationship, with widows of a relative of
the fourth degree or with the sister of the widowed daughter-
in-law. Marriages with widows of relatives of a nearer degree
are considered incestuous.
Decapitation is the punishment for marriage with the father's
or grandfather's former wives, or with sisters of the father.
Whoever marries his brother's widow is strangled.15
3.-ON ACCOUNT OF OTHER REASONS.
To CONCLUDE marriage is prohibited during the legal time of
mourning. This is
1-For near relatives of the 1st degree: 8 years.
دو
other",
2- relatives
"
دو
"
"
3-
4-
,,
1st
8-5 months.
"
2nd
9
"
"
"
8rd
5
"
"
"
دو
4th
3
"
"
Marriage with concubines, is, however, in this ease not pun-
ished, unless either the bride or the bridegroom is in mourn-
13 The prohibition occurs in books as early as the Tso-chuen and
論語 Len-yk.
14 As in canonical law, cap. 8. X., 4., 14, Walter, Kirchenrecht § 310.
15 In contradistinction to the Jewish law.

106 THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE, AND ITS COMPARATIVE
ing for a parent, or the bride for her late husband. It is
considered a time of mourning for children or grand-children
if father or mother, or grand-parent is confined in prison for a
capital crime. In accordance with the principle of Chinese
marriage, that the pater familias makes the marriage contract,
marriage is in this case permitted, if the head of the family in
prison gives his assent. The usual ceremonies and festivities
are in such cases to be omitted.
Marriage is forbidden with a woman who has committed a
crime and has fled for fear of punishment. In this prohibition
is included marriage between an adulteress and her seducer.'"
Whoever forces the wife or daughter of a free man to mar-
ringe, either with himself or with a son, grandson, younger bro-
ther or nephew, i.e. with a filius familias, is to be strangled.
According to Roman law marriage could not be concluded
between persons, who stood to each other in the relation of
guardianship, as tutor and pupilla. In China tutor and
pupilla are near relatives, as only relatives or adoptive parents
are able to exercise the right of guardianship and to acquire
through it the patria potestas. A runaway female slave is not
allowed to marry, as she can be lawfully given into marriage
by no one except her master.
A widow cannot remarry without consent, as she always re-
mains under patria potestas and as somebody is required to
whom the purchase money may be paid.
A widow, who has received an imperial reward for her faith-
fulness to her late husband, is not allowed to marry again.
Officials cannot hold office in their native province, perhaps
for the reason that by this measure greater impartiality is
secured. For the same reason it is not allowed to them to
marry a woman under their jurisdiction, or out of a family that
has an interest in the performance of their official duty."
16 The same in Roman law 1. 1, 11 § ult.-1. 12, 1. 13, pr. D. 3, 2-const.
2 C. 5, 9. Widows and their new husbands were punished, if remarried
before the end of the time of mourning.
17 Also prohibited by Roman law, 1. 26. D. de ritu nupt. (23, 2).-1. 13,
D. de his quae (34, 9).. Nov. 134 si quis autem c. 12,-by Attic law L.
11 § 11. L. 40 D. ad leg. Jul. de adult. (48, 5), and by Jewish law, see,
Mayer l.c. II p. 320.
18 L. 59, 1. 62 § 2, 1. 66 D. de ritu nupt. (23, 2), C. 5, 6.
19 A similar thought prohibited in Rome marriage between a praeses
provinciae and a woman of his province; 1. 57 pr., 1. 63 D. de ritu nupt.
(23, 2); Cod. Th. 3, 11, Cod. Just. 5, tit. 2, 7.

RELATIONS WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
107
On account of inequality of rank marriage between officials
and actresses and singing girls is prohibited. Such marriages
are also forbidden to the sons or grandsons of officials of nobility
with hereditary rank (disparagium, mesalliance), the punish-
ment in this case is degradation to a lower class of nobility and
eventually loss of nobility, 10
Buddhist priests (Ho-shang) and nuns (Ni-ku),
and those Taoist priests (Tao-jen) and nuns (Tao-ku)
who do not shave their heads, are not allowed to marry. Only
those Taoist priests (Tao-shih, also called py Men-
chu), who shave their heads and plait their hair like other
Chinese, may conclude marriages.
A priest who obtains a woman under the pretence that she
shall marry another, and who then marries her himself, is
severely punished.
Marriage is impossible between slaves and free women. 21
Note. It is not considered decent in China for a widow to
marry again. Should the head of the family try to force her
into marriage, she is not obliged to obey his patria potestas,
but may remain with the family of her late husband. Should
however the marriage be concluded, she shall live with her new
husband, the marriage presents, or rather the purchase money
paid for her being forfeited to the Government.
20 There are in China 5 classes of nobility (chileh):
kung, duke,
hou, princo, Po, count, tzu, baron, nan baronet. When the
nobility conferred is not "perpetually hereditary" each descendant takes
one rauk lower than his father; so that the son of a kung becomes hou, the
son of a hou becomes po, and so forth, nobility ceasing altogether with the
son of a tzu. hou (I may be permitted to remark here) has generally
been translated by marquis. But this title is of limited use and does not
express the rank of a hou as well as prince; as in former times the
諸侯
chu-hou were feudal princes and not feudal marquises.
21 See Mayer 1. c. II p. 301. According to the laws of the Longobards
parents had the right to kill or sell their daughters, if they married one
in socage. Leg. Long. lib. II tit. 9, § 2; L. Rothari c. 222.
22 Puchta, Instit. des röm. Rechts. III p. 177: it was decent according
to the Roman national feeling, that a widow should remain single, univira
meant the same as castissima. She was highly esteemed and received the
wreath of chastity. Val. Max. II c. 1 Propert. IV eleg. 12. The Israelites
however were much in favour of a second marriage of widows, see Mayer 1.
с. ІІ р. 322.

108 THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE, AND ITS COMPARATIVE
c. EFFECTS OF THE IMPEDIMENTS TO MARRIAGE.
Axy impediment to marriage renders the marriage, as, in
the time of Justinian, though already concluded, hull and void;
the impedimenta are always dirimentia. Ignorance of them ex-
empts the parties from punishment, but the marriage is dissolv.
ed. According to the sense of the marriage contract the parties
who signed it are punished, if the marriage laws are transgres-
sed; but the husband and wife, are not punished unless they are
sui juris. If the father, grandfather or uncle signed the contract,
they alone are punished; if it was another relative, he is punish-
ed as principal, and the husband and wife as accomplices. The
purchase money is in each case forfeited, except when the
parties were ignorant of the existence of the impediment.
A dispensation in cases of impediments to marriage is not
admissible."4
Difference of religion has in China no influence upon mar-
riage.
III.-BETROTHAL.
a.-THE CONTRACT.
THE conclusion of a justum matrimonium has to be preceded by
a contract, in which the amount of presents (arrhae sponsali-
tiac) and the latest day for concluding the marriage is fixed. This
contract is made, and if in writing, is signed by those persons,
in whose patria potestas the bride and bridegroom stand; the
latter never sign it, unless both have no older relatives; this
latter condition, and the fact of the son holding office, being the
only cases, in which a filius or a filia familias becomes sui juris.
This is the chief distinction between the Chinese and the Ro-
man marriage.
In Chinese marriage there cannot exist the animus ma-
trimonii, the intention of husband and wife to form a connec-
tion for life, which is the chief requirement in the Roman mar-
riage. According to Roman law the assent of the pater familias
was required, but could only be refused for special reasons;
husband and wife, however, were allowed free choice.
23 § 12 J. de nupt. (1, 10). Cod. 5, 8.
24 The Israelites also did not know of such dispensations, see Mayer 1.c.
II, p. 315.
25 Known by the Romans, Dig. 23, 1.-Cod. 5, 1; and by the German
law, Eichhorn, Rechtsgeschichte § 54, § 183, § 321.

RELATIONS WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
109
Among the Chinese the heads of the families choose alone, and
the inclination of the principal parties is not asked.
Before the signature of the marriage contract by the heads.
of the two families, both parties convince themselves of the truth
of the statements regarding the persons of the bride and bride-
groom, that they are sound in body and mind, and that they are
not too old. The festivities of the betrothal then commence. As
lies in the nature of the case, the age of the betrothed parties
is of no consequence. If often happens, that a betrothal is
made between friendly families at a time, when the bride and
bridegroom are not over three or four years of age.
b. EFFECTS OF BETROTHAL
THE contact of betrothal gives both parties a right to sue for
the conclusion of marriage. The party who refuses to keep
the contract is punished with fifty blows, and the court enforces
the marriage. Inacase in which the contract was not made in
writing, the acceptance of presents is taken as an agreement to
the contract.
The betrothal may even be maintained, if the family of the
bride enters a second betrothal; and only in case that the
family of the bridegroom waives its claim, may the bride marry
the second bridegroom. The presents are, in the latter case, to
be returned.
A forcible abduction of the bride before the time fixed for the
marriage, is punishable; as is also a delay on the part of the
family of the bride beyond the term fixed for concluding the
marriage.**
A singular situation arises, if a filius familias enter a be-
trothal during his absence from his family, his grandfather,
father, uncle or older cousin, i.e. a person in whose patria
26 Not so in Roman law, 1. 14 D. de spons. (23, 1): in sponsalibus con-
trahendis aetas contrahentium definita non est, ut in matrimoniis-si non
sint minores quam septem annos.
27 The same according to canonical law, but in contradistinction to
Roman law 1. 2 § 2 D. de div. et repud. (24, 2): in sponsalibus discutiendis
placuit renuntiationem intervenire oportere-const. 2 C. de spons. (5, 1)-
1. 134 D. de verb. oblig. (45, 1)-const. 2 C. de inutil. stipul. (8, 39); actio
ex stipulatu.
28 The Roman law punished this with infamy, 1. 1, 1. 13, pr. § 1-4 D. de
his qui not. inf. (3, 2); const. 18. C. ad leg. Jul. de adult. (9, 9).
29 According to Roman law an action could be entered for delay of mar-
riage without reason over 2-3 years, const. 16 C. de episc. aud. (1, 4)-const.
2, 5. C. de sponsal. (5, 1). const. 2 C. de repud. (5, 17).

110 THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE, AND ITS COMPARATIVE
potestas he stands, having, in the meantime, chosen a bride for
him, and having signed the contract. If the son have conclud-
ed marriage, the betrothal made by the head of the family is
dissolved. Otherwise the contract made by his family takes.
precedence over the other made by him.
c. DISSOLUTION OF BETROTHAL.
Ir after signing the contract it appears that false statements
have been made by the family of the bride, then the contract is
void, the presents are returned and the pater familias of the
the bride receives eighty blows. The punishment for a like
frand on the part of the bridegroom's family is more severe,
and the bride keeps the presents. Should the fraud be dis-
covered after marriage has been concluded, an action for divorce
can be entered.
If the betrothal be dissolved before the conclusion of marriage,
either through the death of bride or bridegroom, or through with-
drawal of both partios (repudium voluntarium), or through an
impediment to marriage just arisen, or only just come into no-
tice, then the presents have to be returned. If the marriage be
not concluded through the repudium of one party, the party
innocent of the dissolution of the betrothal gets back or even-
tually keeps the presents.
The fact of bride or bridegroom having been punished for
thefts or fornication gives a right to cancel the contract.
IV. CONCLUSION OF MARRIAGE..
In Chine the church has nothing to do with the conclusion.
of marriage; neither are the usual ceremonies and festivities ab-
solutely necessary for the conclusion of a justum matrimonium,
as long as the consensus matrimonialis exists between those
persons who sign the marriage contract.
At the time of the conclusion of the marriage the bridegroom
gives to the father of the bride the so-called marriage presents,
which sometimes amount to thousands of taels. The conclusion
of the marriage is therefore preceded by a purchase, which is no
mere sham transaction like the Roman coëmtio, but corresponds
to the purchase of the ancient German laws and to that of the
Jewish law. By accepting the purchase money, the father
of the bride sells and manumits his daughter to the bridegroom.
30 The talmud says: the matrimonial purchase money belongs to the
father. See Mayer l.c. II., p. 326.
31 See Mayer 1.c. II., 353.

RELATIONS WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
111
When the marriage is celebrated; the wife leaves her family for
ever (ch'u chia) and belongs from this time to the family
of her husband, i.e. she considers the parents of her husband
ás her own, and mourns for them legally a longer time than for
her own parents.
Whilst the purchase of a wife is called marriage (ch'u-
ch'i) the expression for the purchase of a concubine (or
li or mai chich) points to the inferiority of the action. The
union is concluded without festivities: The punishments for
transgressions against the marriage laws in the case of concu-
bines are less severe than in the case of a wife.
V.-RELATION OF HUSBAND AND WIFE TO EACH OTHER.
Through the marriage the wife becomes, as was the case accord-
ing to the law before Justinian³ not only uxor, but also comes
into the manus mariti. "She therefore ceases to be sui juris, if
she was it, and leaves the patria potestas, if she stood under it.
At the same time she enters the aguatic union of her husband
like an adopted daughter; and especially comes into the position
of an agnatio sister to his agnatic children."
It is in consequence of the way in which the wife comes into the
power of her husband that she acquires very few rights with
the marriage. Though she shares the rank and the position of
her husband (as the Roman wives shared the dignitas mariti),
she has no right to ask conjugal fidelity from her husband;38
whilst she, by sinning against it, commits a heinous crime.""
It is a cause for divorce, if the wife beats her husband, but
the husband has the right to inflict corporal punishment on
her. He is however punishable, if by doing this he inflicts a
wound; but he comes off with a mulct, if he and his wife are
willing to divorce.
32 According to the Jewish law, the family of the mother is not called
family. See Mayer 1.c. II., p. 283.
33 The same with the Israelites wives with nuptials and with marriage
bond, concubines (pillegesh) without either; the same holds good for tho
Greek pallax; it is different, however, with the Roman pellex, 1. 144 D. de
verb. signif. (50, 16.)-Nov. 18 c. 5.
34 Mackeldey, Lehrbuch des röm. Rechts, 14th edition, vol. II., p.
266; comp. Gaj. Inst. § 49, § 108 ss., II § 86 ss.
35 Mackeldey, 1.c. II., p. 274, note; Gaj. Inst. III. § 14, 24. Coll. XVI.,
§ 6.
36 Unlike the Romans, Nov. 117 c. 9 § 5: liceat mulieri propter hanc
etiam causam matrimonium dissolvere.
37 See Mackeldey 1.c. II., p. 274.

112 THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE, AND ITS COMPARATIVE
The wife owes the husband implicit obedience, and is not al-
lowed to leave the house without his permission. If she act
against this, her husband may sell her to another as concubine.
Even after the death of her husband she remains in his
family. 38
The wife cannot possess property of her own, "everything she
possessed before entering into the manus passes into the hands
of her husband," so that even property inherited by her re-
mains with the husband after the marriage has been dissolved. 10
The questions therefore of dos, parapherna, pacta dotalitia
and donatio inter virum et uxorem exist in Chinese law just as
little as in the ancient Roman law.
As the power of the husband is transferred after his death.
to his wife, the Roman donatio propter nuptias, and the Jewish
Ketubah (marriage bond) are excluded from Chinese law.
With all his power the husband is not allowed to hire out his
wife to prostitution, although it sometimes happens that
a man whose wife has not born a son and does not allow him
to purchase a concubine, hires for a time the wife of another
to get a son by her.
VI. DISSOLUTION OF MARRIAGE.
Besides death and maxima capitis diminutio of husband or
wife, divorce may be the cause of dissolution of marriage.
a. A divorce must take place, if there exists an impediment
to marriage or if the wife commits adultery. The husband has
in this case the right to kill both adulterers, if he surprises
them in flagranti. If he does not kill the wife, she is punish-
ed according to law and then sold as a concubine, the purchase
money for her being taken by the government. If the adulterer
kills the husband, the wife is strangled. 13
43
38 Similar the Roman law, 1. 22 § 1 D. ad municip. ét de incol. (50, 1):
vidua mulier amissi mariti domicilium retinet.
39 See Mackeldey 1.c. II., p. 275; Gaj. Inst. II. § 86 ss. III. § 82 ss.
Ulp. XIX, § 18.
40 Gaj. Inst. II. § 98: si quam in manum ut uxorem reciperimus, ejus
res ad nos transeunt.
41 In Rome lenocinium facere was punished with infamy, 1. 1, 1. 4 § 2, 3
D. de his qui not. inf. (3, 2)-1. 43 §6-9 D. de ritu nupt. (23, 2).
42 Compare Leviticus 20, 10.
43 L. 43 § 12, 13 D. de ritu nupt. (23, 2).

RELATIONS WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
b. A divorce may take place
113
1. If both husband and wife are willing to dissolve the
marriage;
2.-If the wife leaves the house against the will of the
husband. Should she marry whilst absent, she is to be
strangled;
3.-If the wife boats her husband;
4.-If the marriage contract contained false statements;
5.-If the wife has one of the following seven faults: bar-
renness, sensuality, want of filial piety towards the
husband's parents, loquacity, thievishness, jealousy
and distrust, incurable disease.
The husband is, however, obliged to keep her in spite of one
or several of the above faults; if she has kept the full term of
mourning for three years after the death of his parents, or if
his family, having been poor at the time of the conclusion of
marriage, has since become wealthy, and, lastly, if the wife has
no other relatives to whom she may return after divorce.
The effects of the dissolution of the marriage are the follow-
ing: the marriage is considered as having never been concluded;
the wife returns to her family, the children remain with the father
and the purchase money is given back to the husband, except in
the case that the latter was the cause of the divorce.
Nothing is to be found in the Chinese laws regarding any
offence on the part of the husband which gives to the wife tho
right to enter an action for divorce.
VII. POLYGANY.
As mentioned above the wife who maliciously leaves her hus-
band and marries another in the lifetime of her husband, is
strangled.
If in the lifetime of his first wife (chi) the husband marries
another ( ch'i, not a concubine ch'ich, as he is allowed to
have as many concubines as he likes), the marriage is void; the
wife returns to her family and her father keeps the purchase
money, unless he knew of the existence of the first wife. In
this case the money has to be paid to the government.
VIII. SECOND NUPTIALS AND VIOLATION OF THE TIME OF
MOURNING.
Remarriage of the husband is permitted oven without
delay after the death of the first wife. The widow, however,

114 THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE, AND ITS COMPARATIVE
against whose remarrying custom generally is opposed, has to
mourn three years for her husband.
If the husband has abandoned his wife, she has at the end of
three years to give notice to the competent magistrate, who may
then give her the permission to marry again.
B. ON PATRIA POTESTAS.
I. GENERAL REMARKS.
As was the rule according to the Roman law of the time
before Justinian, all persons, who depend on a pater familias,
either grandfather, father, uncle, mother or husband, stand in
China under patria potestas; such persons are therefore either
the wives of the pater familias or his sons and daughters or
more distant descendants on the male line. The patria potestas
is the same as the domini potestas, the power of the master
over his slaves, according to the ancient Roman law.
If a man has got a girl with child, he must marry her; in
the case of his already having a wife, he must take her as a
concubine. But in any case, even if he is prevented by death
from marrying her, the child is considered his legitimate
offspring.
Illegitimate children, who are not made legitimate per sub-
sequens matrimonium (ssu-tzu) and children of prostitutes
(tsa-chung-tzu, vulgo quaesiti) stand under the power
of the mother, whose family name they bear.
II. ON THE RIGHTS OF BOTH PARENTS WITH REGARD TO
THEIR CHILDREN.
The patria potestas over children, whether legitimate or adopt-
ed, is unlimited. The father, or after death the mother, 44
can do with them as he likes; he may not only chastise, but
even sell, expose or kill them. 45 The latter occurs often
enough, especially with girls, if the family is too poor to bring
them up. Infanticide is not prohibited, but whenever it spreads
too far, the officials issue proclamations against it. Moreover it
is generally considered as blamable and the voice of the people
44 Therefore not like Gaj. Inst. I. § 104.-§ 10 J. de adopt. (1, 11):
femine-nec naturales liberos in sua potestate habent; but the same as
the law of the Visigoths, Mayer 1 c. II. p. 416.
45 The same power was given the father by the Romans (§ 2 J. 1, 9;
Gaj. Ins. I. § 55,) by the Gauls (Cesar de Bell. Gall. VI., 19) and by the
Visigoths (Mayer Le. II. p. 416, Lex Wisig. IV., 213).

RELATIONS WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
115
is raised against persons, who carry the abuse of the father's
power thus far.
The power of the father over his son does not cease as long as
the father lives, unless the son enters the government service.
The father, wanting to exercise his rights over him, has to ob-
tain first the assent of the Emperor. Over the daughter the
power of the father exists until she comes into the manus of a
husband.18 If the marriage is divorced, the daughter returns
into the power of her father; as widow, however, she remains
in the family of her husband.
III. ON THE RIGHTS OF THE HUSBAND WITH REGARD
TO HIS WIFE.
THE wife follows her husband, wherever he likes to go and may
not leave the house without his permission. The husband has
the right to chastise his wife, but not to wound her (see above,
the causes for a divorce). 49 He has not the right to kill her,
except in the already mentioned case, that he surprises her in
flagranti delicto.
IV. ON THE DUTIES OF THE CHILDREN TOWARDS
THEIR PARENTS.
As LONG as the parents live it is the duty of the children to show
them reverence and obedience (hsiao-shun) and if neces-
sary to nurse and support them. The son shall, if father,
mother or grand parents, are over eighty years old or feeble
and ill, remain at home, unless another son over sixteen years
old lives with them. This command is specially in force for
officials. As long as parents, grandparents, or husband are in
prison on account of a capital crime, the children, grandchildren
and wife are not allowed to participate in festivities and amuse-
ments of any kind. Disobedience towards parents and grand-
46 In publicis locis atque muneribus atque actionibus patrum jura cum
filiorum qui in magistratu sunt potestatibus collata interquiescere paululum
et connivere, etc., Aulus Gellius, Noctes II, 2, see Gibbon, Rome, chapt.
XLIV. (ed. 1815 vol. VIII p. 54.)
47 The same according to the ancient German law, Mayer 1.c. II. p. 443.
48 The same we find in the Israelitic law, Mayer 1.c. II. p. 440.
49 According to the Mosaic law the husband was not allowed to cruelly
illuse his wife, Mayer 1.c. II. p. 382.
50 According to the Talmud (Kidushin 31a., Joreh deah 240 § 1 and 4)
the children are obliged to honor, next to God, their father and mother
the most, and to nurse and support them.

116 THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE, AND ITS COMPARATIVE
parents and deficient support of them is on the motion of the
concerned severely punished. Descendants are not allowed
to enter an action against ascendants; they are not obliged to
denounce crimes committed by them or to appear as witness
against them. This exemption extends to all members of the
same household, even to servants and slaves.
After the death of the parents it is the chief duty of the
children to strictly keep the term fixed for mourning and to
rigorously perform the sacrificial ceremonies on their graves.
The coffin has to be buried, if at all feasible, in the native
soil,
V. ACQUISITION OF PATRIA POTESTAS.
Patria Potestas may be acquired (a) through marriage, (b)
through procreation, (c) through adoption, or (d) through pur-
chase. If the person who acquires patria potestas in one of
these four ways, stand himself under patria potestas, then he
acquires it for his pater familias.
a.-By Marriage. The wife belongs after marriage to the
family of her husband, and stands in his, or in the manus of that
person, under whose patria potestas the husband stands.
b-By Procreation.-Children come under the patria potestas
of their father, whether born by a wife or by a concubine.
c.-By Adoption.-To explain this institution, most important
in Chinese law, we take the Roman law as a type.
A man may adopt a person as son or daughter; or if
he formerly had sons, as grandchild, but not as brother, wife,
or concubine. 53 Ninety-nine per cent of all adoptions in
China take place in childless families, and among these seventy
per cent are adoptions of sons. Fifty per cent of all families
in China possess adopted children (E. H. Parker).
The
51 According to Deuteronomy 21, 15; Leviticus 20, 9 and V. Moses
27, 16 even disesteem of the parents is to be punished by death.
52 How difficult this duty may sometimes be, was shown by the case of the
late Taotai Fung, who went as far as Kansu in the North-west of China to
fetch the coffin of his father and to bring it overland to Canton, his native
province. The difficulties of this voyage, on which many ceremonies had
to be performed, exhausted the son to such an extent that he succumbed
when only half the voyage was completed. His brother took his place and
continued, after the short delay prescribed by law, the voyage to Canton
with the two coffins.
53 L. 37 pr. D. de adopt. (1, 7).
54 Compare the law of Menu IX., 127, 159; the Hindu considers it his
religious duty, to have a son, by whose means he may pay off his debt to
his forefathers. If he remains childless, he must adopt one.

RELATIONS WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
117
same that is said with regard to the adoption of the ancient
Greeks, holds good for the Chinese: "the dying out of a family
was to be prevented, as by the desolation of the house the dead
lost their religious honour, the gods of the family their sacrifices,
the hearth its flame and the forefathers their name among the
living."
Adoption, like marriage and the acquisition of slaves, rests in
China upon purchase, about which a contract is made, in which
only the words wife, son, daughter or slave are differently insert.
ed. The most frequent case is the adoption of nephews by the
childless uncle. But besides this direct adoption there is another
way to procure descendants to such uncle. The nephew marries
a concubine, and the children born by her are regarded as grand-
children of the uncle; whilst the children of the nephew's wife
are the grandchildren of the nephew's father. The Chinese
call this method shuang-t'iao.
It being prohibited in China for officials to hold office in their
native province, adoption becomes the means of avoiding this re-
striction. The official in question is adopted into a family of
another province, acquires a right of domicile in the province of
his adopted parents, and may now hold an office in his original
native province. In the same way confiscation of property is
prevented by adoption, if such confiscation of property is immi-
nent on account of the crimes of near relatives.
1-General Requirements of Adoption.
As the main idea of Chinese adoption may be stated, that
only children may be adopted out of families, who bear the
same family name; as otherwise, as the Chinese express it, the
difference between families would soon cease to exist.
No special requirements are prescribed for the adopter, and
the law fixes no age under which one may not adopt, 55 al-
though it is usual, that the adopter is older than the person to
be adopted. Foundlings under three years old may be adopted
without further ceremony.
55 As is the case in Roman law, § 4 J. de adopt. (1,11): minorem natu
non posse majorem adoptare placet; adoptionem enim naturam imitatur
et pro monstro est, ut maior sit filius quam pater. Debet itaque is qui
sibi per adoptionem vel arrogationem filium facit, plena pubertate, id est
XVIII annis praecedere. L. 40 § 1 D. de adopt. (1, 7).

118 THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE, AND ITS COMPARATIVE
It is permitted to emancipate the adopted, and to adopt him a
second time, 0
The wife, acquiring after the death of her husband his patria
potestas, has therefore the right of adopting; she has, how-
ever, to ask the consent of the nearest male relatives of her late
husband, for adoption as well as for datio in adoptionem. She
has further the right of preventing the legitimate or adopted
sons of her husband, from giving themselves into arrogation
against her wish.
It is not allowed to adopt one's younger brother or one's
uncle, even if the latter is younger than the nephew;
same reason the uncle may not adopt a nephew, who is older
or of the same age as he is.
2.-Special Requirements. aa.-Of Arrogation.
Whoever wants to give himself into arrogation, must ask for
the consent of the nearest male relatives of his former pater
familias. If he has elder brothers alive, their consent must be
asked. In the lifetime of his father the son may give himself, even
without the consent of his father or his relatives, into arroga-
tion, if the father is insane and poor, so that the son by the
arrogation acquires the means to support him. If the father is
far away, the son is allowed to be arrogated, but the father
may, on his return, claim back his son.
bb. Of the datio in Adoptionem.
According to its nature the datio in adoptionem is properly
speaking a sale (venditio), to which only the consent of the pater
familias is required; the person to be adopted is not asked ex-
cept he be a son holding office. In practice however it never
happens, that an adult married son is sold into adoption
against his own free will. The wife of the adopted follows her
56 Not so in Roman law, 1, 37 $1 D. de adopt. (1, 7): eum quem quis
adoptavit emancipatum vel in adoptionem datum iterum non potest
adoptare.
57 The Roman wife had not this right, $10, J. de adopt. (1, 11): feminæ
quoque adoptare non possunt. Const. 5, C. de adopt. (8, 18); mulierem
quidem que nec suos filios habet in potestate, arrogare non posse certum est.
In Egypt this right was conceded to the wife, see Mayer 1. c. II p. 427.

RELATIONS WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
119
husband, but the children remain in the family of the pater
familias,
58
A man having sons of his own may not adopt a stranger as
their elder brother, but he may adopt grandchildren as sons of
his legitimate or adopted sons. After his death the latter have
the right to dissolve such adoptions.
Brothers may, after the death of their parents, give their
elder or younger sisters into adoption, but not without their
consent.
Even after death a filius posthumus may be adopted for a
person by his relatives or friends, in case that this person died
without leaving male descendants. By special grace the Em-
peror may do this for princes or high dignitaries, but in all cases
with the consent of the male relatives of the deceased. 59
3.-Effects of Arrogation and of Adoption.
The effects are in either case the same. 60 The adopted be-
comes agnate of all agnates of the arrogator or of the adopter.
The adopted son has altogether a better position than the
natural one, as he cannot be sold without the consent of his
natural parents, unless a second adoption be of real benefit
to the child. He has all the rights of a son or a daughter. In the
case of inheritance, natural as well as adopted sons take pre-
cedence before all daughters. Should the adopter get sons
born after the adoption so that the original cause for the adop-
tion no longer exists, he may retrograde the adoption, if the
parents are willing to take back the child. The child must be
kept, however, if no member of his family lives, to whom he
can return; only officials may thus be left without family.
61
58 According to Roman law the children of an arrogated person followed
their father, the children of an adopted person remained with their grand-
father, 1. 2 §2 D. de adopt. (1, 7): is qui liberos in potestate habet, si se
arrogandum dederit, non solum ipse potestati arrogatoris subjicitur, sed et
liberi ejus in ejusdem fiunt potestate tamquam nepotes. 1. 40 pr. D. de
adopt. (1, 7): quod non similariter in adoptione contingit, nam nepotes ex
eo in avi naturalis retinentur potestate.-1. 26, 27 D. ibid: ex adoptivo
natus adoptivi locum obtinet in jure civili.
59 This adoption after death was also known to the Greeks, Demosth.
c. Makartat 1053, 12; Isæus e.d. Hagnias 298, Is. e. d. Apollod. 179 (Mayer
1. c. II, p. 429).
60 Not so in Roman Law, 1. 1 1. 23 D. de adopt. (1, 7).-§2 J. de adopt.
(1, 11).-const. 10 pr. §5 C. de adopt. (8, 48).-pr. J. de adopt. (1, 11).-
§13 J. de hered. (3, 1).

120 THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE, AND ITS COMPARATIVE
The adopted child being regarded as the real child of his adopt-
ed parents, these must give their consent, if the child wants to
commence a three years' mourning after the death of his natural
parents. An official is not allowed to mourn twice three years,
but only for his adopted father, as mourning means in this case
withdrawing for the time from the official life.
VL-TERMINATION OF PATRIA POTESTAS.
With the death of the father, his power passes over to the
mother, and after her death to the eldest son, who then has also
power over his younger brothers and his elder and younger
sisters.
a.-Without the will of the Father.
The father's power does not cease to exist in the lifetime of the
father unless the son holds office. Except with the special permis-
sion of the emperor the father in this case cannot exercise his
power over his son. As mentioned above, the son becomes
quasi sui juris, if the father is insane and at the same time poor.
b.-With the will of the Father.
(Excepting the case of the father giving himself into arroga-
tion, so that his children come under the power of his arroga-
tor) the father's power may cease with the will of the father:-
1.-By sale into adoption, by which the son acquires agnate
rights in the family of his adopted father;
2.-By sale of a daughter into marriage, she becoming an
agnate in her husband's family and coming into his manus;
3.-By the permission to enter a religious order. The
children then lose their family name and leave the family
connection altogether (ch'u chia);
4. By exposing the children in the tender age. The finder
may lawfully adopt them, if they are under three years of age.**
If they are older than three years, it is prohibited to expose them;
and only the ways mentioned under No. 1 and No. 3 are left to
the father to rid himself of his child.
In contradiction to the Roman law the father may dissolve
his power even against the wish of his children.
61 See Alabaster, the law of inheritance, China Review vol. V p 191-195.
62 Const. 2, 4 C. de infant expos. (8, 52). Nov. 153 c. 1 (non gloss.)
63 Nov. 89 c. 11 pr.: solvere jus patriae potestatis invitis filiis non per-
missum est patribus.

RELATIONS WITH THAT OF OTHER NATIONS.
121
An emancipation in the Roman sense, by which the eman-
cipated person becomes sui juris, does not exist in China.
After the death of the father, the daughter becomes sui juris,
if she is widow and has children, the son only in case he has
a family.
C. ON GUARDIANSHIP.
If at the time of the parents' death the children are still very
young (under 7 years), and no head of the family exists who
has eo ipso a right to the patria potestas, the fathers' power
devolves upon one of the male relatives of the same name
(tung hsing ch'in ch'i), if no testamentaria tutela
has been ordered. If no such relative exist, then one among
the male relatives of a different family name (5
wai hsing ch'in ch'i) is chosen. To be without any such re-
lationship, is in China an impossibility. If after the father's
death the mother is unwilling to take the responsibility of the
patria potestas upon her, such guardian has to be appointed.
The guardian has the full patria potestas and keeps it, like.
the father, as long as he lives (with the above mentioned ex-
ceptions). The property of the child, of which the guardian
has the full usufruct, continues to be the child's.