JOURNAL
OF THE
NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF THE
ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.
ARTICLE I.
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.*
BY
BY A. A. FAUVEL, Esq.
Imperial Chinese Maritime Customs,
Bachelier ès Sciences de l'Université de Paris and Honorary
Curator of the Shanghai Museum.
we consult the oldest of all Chinese records, the Classics, in
I which most of the natural productions of the country aro
noted, we find in the twenty-sixth chapter of the Doctrine of the
Mean (1) a curious enumeration of the wild animals living in the
waters. In Dr. Legge's translation it runs as follows:-"The
water now before us appears but a ladleful; yet extending our
view to its unfathomable depths, the largest tortoises, iguanas,
iguanodons, dragons, fishes and turtles are produced in them."
(45) (Yuan t'o chiao lung yi
Read before the Society on the 13th December, 1878.
(1)中庸,二十六章九饰,

2
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
pich sheng yen.) The Chinese commentary (t) on this
passage defines the Yian as the first produced of the
chelonia’(介蟲之元);
chelonia (2); the Lung as the chief of scaly
animals'; the Pich as being a kind of Yüan'; the Chiao
as being a kind of Lung '; while the T'o has scales
like a fish, feet like a dragon, and is related to the Yüan.' From
this we may infer that the T'o is an amphibian with feet and
scales and allied to the chelonians.
The Li Ki (L) says: "in the ninth moon they kill the
Chiao and capture T'o" (to be sent to the palace of the Emperor
where drums are made from its skin, according to the com-
mentators.)
Proceeding further, we find in the 4th stanza of the eighth
ode of the Shik King, decade of King Wang (2) the following
sentence-To ku peng peng, translated by Dr. Legge
"The lizard-skin drums rolled harmonious." The commentary
is the same as the preceding one, indeed we find it in every
book quoting the T'o.
In the Doctrine of the Mean, Dr. Legge translates To by
Iguana, and in the Shih King, he gives Lizard. Not knowing,
probably, of the existence of crocodilians in China he was left
with Chinese dictionaries to determine the exact meaning of
the character To (), and I must say that the ambiguity of
their statements is such as to render it difficult to get at their
exact meaning.
Now, according to Choo's commentary quoted by the tran-
slator (Dr. Legge), the great drum was eight cubits in length
and four cubits in diameter at both ends. Other Chinese au-
thors say that it was made with the skin of the T'o. How
could it be covered with the skin of the Iguana, which never
exceeds five feet in length, or with the skin of a lizard which
is far too thin and too small for even the smallest of drums?
Besides the Iguana cannot be said to be produced in the waters.
with fishes, chelonians, turtles, etc., for it is not an amphibian
animal, and I have never heard of it being found in China.
could say the same of Iguanodons. The To then is not an
Iguana; let us now try to make out, with the help of the Chi-
nese dictionaries, the exact meaning of the character.
One of the oldest, the Shao Wen () says: The T'o is
an aquatic reptilian (K)(3) resembling the lizard (f)
((2) 詩經.大雅三、靈臺 四章
(3) Dr. Legge translates chelonian (see above.)

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
3
and measuring over ten feet in length. A lizard of this sizo can
only be a kind of crocodile or Alligator.
In Kang Hi's dictionary () we find, besides the
above quotation of the Shao Wen, thint the To has scales as hard
as iron and a very thick skin good for making drums. Then
quoting the Shih King it explains how the sound of drums
() peng peng resembles the call of the To. This is cer
tainly an example of onomatopoeia as anybody who has heard
the cry of the Alligator can testify. Indeed we believe that the
very name T'o is an imitation of the explosive noise made by
the Alligator. The word resounded would be a far better tran-
slation than the rolled harmoniously of Dr. Legge's. Whatever
might be the idea of Chinese commentators about music it is dif-
ficult to find much harmony in the noise generated by striking
a huge drum with a mallet. The Chinese had observed the
similarity of the two sounds as the Po Wu Chih (1)(4)
quoted by the Kang Hi's dictionary, says: "The To is ten
feet long; it makes a noise like a drum." Cheng Chi
() considers the cry of the To as far from harmonious,
indeed he says, it is very terrible. "It cries (at night) at each
watch (5); thence the phrases: strike the watches To keng, beat
the drums T'o ku." (See Pen Tsao Kang Mu).
The Great Materia Medica (Pen Tsao Kang Mu (6)
being a scientific work will probably give us a better descrip-
tion than any dictionary. It gives To dragon, M
鼉龍
To fish and earth dragon as synonyms. It says: "Tho
nature of the T'o resembles that of the dragon. It measures
10 feet in length and belongs not to the family of fishes but to
the family of dragons." According to Li Shih-chen the character
is an old graphic representation of the head, body, feet and
tail of the animal. The oldest form of this character we find
figured like this in Morrison's Dictionary. It is composed
of the two characters tan alone and min a frog. Ac-
cording to the Po Wu Chih the T'o is a land dragon and the
To a fish."
The author Cheng Chi () quoted by the Pen Tsao says
that the To is of a sleepy nature, often closing its eyes. It is
(4) Written in the latter part of the 3rd century.
(5) These watches were struck every two hours with a drum, now a gong
or a hollow bamboo is used.
(6) Written by Li Shih-chen under the Ming dynasty.

4
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
$
gifted with great strength and can burrow in the banks of rivers.
Sung () writing under the Ming dynasty says that they are
extremely numerous in the lakes and rivers. According to this
author it resembles the Gecko and the Pangolin (Manis pen-
tadactyla) but measures from ten to twenty feet in length, its
back and tail are covered with an armour (). It cries at
night and the mariners are much afraid of it. Li Shih-chen
says that its burrow is very deep. The sailors catch it with a
rope made of bamboo, at the end of which is an iron hook
baited with flesh. The animal, having swallowed it, is pulled
out of its hole little by little. It can move to either side, but
cannot jump. It lays a considerable number of eggs, some-
times as many as a hundred, but it often devours them. The
people of the south are very fond of its flesh and serve it (as a
delicacy) in every marriage feast. Lu Tien (1) pretends
that the flesh of the body is as good as that of cattle, but that
of the tail is unwholesome.
The Kuang records of Kuo Yi Kung (3) say that the
fish T'o is three feet in length, and about one in height. Besides
four feet it has a tail resembling that of the Yen-ting (E)
(Lacerta muralis or Chameleon) but much longer. It is the
custom of the people of the south to eat the flesh of the To
when they celebrate a marriage ceremony.
A little further it is related that at the time the Emperor
Wei Wu (t) was returning from Hupeh into Honan a To
was found underground by a man who was digging in the fields.
Here we find the measurements a great deal more accurate
(though perhaps the exaggeration is the other way) as the
. Alligator actually living in China is from five to six feet long.
The height given is sufficiently accurate and the comparison
with the lizard leaves no doubt concerning the nature of the
To.
With the exception of the sentence concerning the flesh of
the tail, all the description given by the Pen tsao and the
Kuang records agrees wonderfully with all that we know of
the nature and habits of the Alligators of the Mississippi and
Guyana, as described by Audubon, Whatterton and Bose. Even
the way of catching the animal is similar, only the Indians use
an iron chain fastened to a tree as a substitute for the bamboo
rope. Indeed we cannot doubt the identity of the To with
the Alligator when we consider the somewhat quaint but suffi-
ciently characteristic picture which illustrates the text of the
Pen tsao. As may be seen by this reproduction of it.

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
龍
鼉
We have here the head of a crocodilian pretty well brought out.
In the Japanese edition of the Shih King a figure of a Gangetic
gavial is given for the To but it is very curious to notice that
the artist represents it as being in a glass jar! (7)
After examination of the testimony given by the Chinese
dictionaries, commentaries and scientific works we come to the
conclusion that the To must be an Alligator.
Let us now see what the foreign dictionaries say on the
subject.
One of the oldest, Gonçalvez, translates To: Crocodilo. De
Guignes, who is now said to have copied B. de Glemona gives
T'o a crocodile and Chiao a crocodile.
(7) Probably as he had seen it in some museum.
5

6
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
Morrison, whose dictionary is anterior to Legge's classics,
gives the following description, evidently translated from native
works: To a large sca (?) animal, upwards of ten feet long,
a species of fish, its skin was formerly used to make large
drums (8). To Lung; an animal resembling an Alligator.
Medhurst's dictionary printed at Parapattan, Batavia, in
1843, translates the Kang Hi Tsze Tien and gives: A species of
Guana or Iguana, about ten feet long. In this he evidently
trusts his imagination as we have already proved that it cannot
be that animal.
Finally, the best of all Chinese-Foreigu dictionaries, Dr. W.
William's work gives To "A large triton, gavial, or water-
lizard, found to the South of China." Then he translates the
Imperial Dictionary (the Kang Hi Tsze Tien) and far from finding
the melody of the sacred drums harmonious he translates the
famous quotation of the Shih King by the less poetical but far
more sensible phrase: "The bass roar of the drums" in which
by the way T'o is not translated at all.
So much for the character T'o and its menning, but this old.
ideographic sign is not the only one by which the crocodile or
Alligator is designated in Chinese books.
If we search the Tai-ping Yü-lan (9) for this character
(10) we find a long chapter headed:
Ngo yü.-The fish Ngo.
Quoting the "Chronicles of Foreign Countries under the Wu
Dynasty (222-277 A.D.)," (11) it says:-The fish Ngo measures
from twenty to thirty feet in length, it has four feet, and re-
sembles the warden of the palace (a poetical name for
the Gecko), and can swallow a man. Speaking of those found
in the kingdom of Lin Yi (Southern Cochin-China), it
says in shape they look like the T"o. They have four feet and
their jaws, which are six or seven feet long, possess, on each
side, teeth as sharp as daggers. They devour every deer, stag,
or even man they can get hold of. According to the encyclo-
pedia of Yü Hsi () Alligators are found in the south,
their jaws are eight feet long. They are very terrible in
(8) Said to breathe a vapour from its mouth, which forms a cloud and
cause rain.
((9) 太平御覽卷九百三十八
(10) Formed from a fish and frightening abbreviated.
(11)吳時外國信

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
7
When they see men on a ship's side they raise their
heads above the water, seize and devour the mariners, who, in
consequence always provide themselves with spears for defence.
The P'o Wu Chih (), description of all productions,
says that they are found in the Canton district and resemble
the tortoise. If the head is cut, and the teeth knocked out,
they will grow again, as many as three times. We find the
same description and measurements, as quoted above, in the
records of the curiosities of Kuang-chou (province of Kuang-tung),
but the story of the teeth growing again is more sensibly told,
"If the teeth are knocked out, they can grow again in the space
of ten days."
The book called "Lin Piao Li Yi" () is the only
one that gives the colour of the body, an earthy yellow. It
also compares it to the gecko, but says it is more rapid in its
movements. All pretend that men and animals fear it equally.
It seizes deer and tigers when crossing the water and tears them
to pieces.
All these characters are common to the , and as we will
yet demonstrate later on, the animal described under the four
characters一期,鯔鳄鮀 is the Alligator.罹 being the old.
est form of the character, which by the way is not found in
the classics; and or are the common forms of character
now used. Gonçalvez translates: and Crocodilo, and E
by Cação. De Guigues gives Crocodilus as signification of the first
and second character, and quidam piscis for the third. Morrison
has:鯔 =鰐 or 愕魚 a large fish of the lizard species
which lurks by the shore and devours men and animals; the
Alligator.
In Medhurst's dictionary we find :-
Go. The Alligator or Crocodile. They are found in the
South seas of China(12). The natives say that after the head has
been cut off and dried, if the teeth are knocked out, they will
appear again three times in succession. The Alligator is about
twenty feet long with four legs, and a head three feet in length,
with a very pointed nose. It has tiger's teeth, and can bite in
two large stags, that attempt to cross the water. Han Wen-
kung () published an essay to drive the Alligators from
(12) This is probably a misconstruction of the Chinese which
stands also for
Nan-hai-hsien, the district of Canton, as it is
well-known that Alligators do not live in sea-water.

8
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
the coast of Canton, and the natives say those beasts have not
been seen there since.
Go.-An Alligator described as having the form of a
fish, with a dragon's neck, tiger's claws, crab's eyes, turtle
scales, a tail several feet long, and very rugged along the spine.
It abounds on the banks of rivers, where it frequently takes off
men and animals. Medhurst then quotes Han Wen-kung.-
All this is evidently translated from native works.
Tho. Another account says that it is found near the
banks of lakes, where it burrows in the mud; its form is like a
lizard upwards of ten feet long, and its back and tail are covered
with scales.
Evidently the Alligator again (same article in Morrison's
dictionary).
Morrison's dictionary explains this last character
Keaou
to mean:-A kind of Crocodile, found in the Yang Tsze Kiang,
said to weigh two thousand catties, etc., as above. Gonçalvez
calls it also: esp. de Crocodilo.
In Dr. William's dictionary we find :-
-From yü fish and ngo alarming, as the phonetic.
The crocodile and the Gangetic gavial; the former is said to
have existed at one time in the River Han, near Swatow,
whence they were exorcised in the Tang dynasty; metaphori-"
cally rapacious cruel, for example:
LF.
"The rapacious gentry and unscrupulous underlings make a
worthy union of rascals."
Ngo y: an Alligator, cayman, or crocodile; it seems
to be sometimes wrongly applied to fresh water dolphins."
Also written Ngo from yü fish and ngo, to startle, to
strike the drum at intervals of singing. This reminds us of
use of the skin of the animal.
According to Dr. William's To would be a species of bull-
head which burrows in the mud, and he gives :-
Chiao. "The dragon of thickets and morasses, which has
scales, but no horn; the description size and figure correspond
very nearly to the fossil Iguanodon, and possibly a large kind of
Salamandra or Amblyrinchus was at first intended." To this,
we can say, that an Iguanodon with scales and without horn
looks very much like a crocodile poorly drawn; besides the
Iguanadon belongs to the inferior cretaceous formation which
as far as we know has not yet been found in China.
We have indeed seen large collections of fossil teeth in the
medicine shops of Shanghai and we have a pretty good num-

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
9
ber in the R. A. S. museum, still the very characteristic tooth
of the Iguanodon has never been met with.
The crocodile being larger than the Alligator we understand
the differences of weight and measurements given by Chinese
authors, putting aside some misstatements or wrong descrip-
tions. The crocodile being more ferocious than the sleepy and
harmless Alligator we understand also why they used to capture
the latter and kill the former.
It is also evident from all these native descriptions that the
Chinese had heard of, and some of their travellers to India
probably had seen the Gangetic gavial and crocodile, hence
their conflicting statements. Even in Europe unscientific peo-
ple often confound the crocodile with the Alligator more vul-
garly known as cayman, the name given to it by the Indians
and negroes in America.
As a resumé and conclusion of this philological discussion
which we now bring to a close, having Chinese dictionaries
and encyclopedias in one hand; old records, natural history
and Chinese and Foreign dictionaries in the other I propose to
translate To by Alligator as well as or its abreviated
form
will mean the crocodile or the gavial class of animals.
The classical quotation of the Doctrine of the Mean:
... Yuan, t'o, chiao lung, ya pich
sheng yen I should translate:
"The great tortoise, the Alligator, the crocodile, the fish and
the turtle are produced in the water."
The phrase of the Shih-King:
To ku peng peng, should be understood as: "the
alligator-skin drums are resounding," and these words of the
Li-Ki:
were
季秋之月伐蛟取鼉
would mean: "About the time of the ninth moon they kill the
crocodile and capture the Alligator."
II. HISTORY AND LEGENDS.
In the works of Han Wen-kung (13) also called Han yü
, a celebrated statesman and poet who lived under the
(13) 韓女公詩增註

10
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
dynasty of the Tang (A. D. 768-924) we find this. When
Han yi was banished and sent to fill the post of governor in
the semi-barbarous region of Chao chou (H) in the modern
province of Kuang-tung (), he enquired of the people as to
the state of the country and the miseries of the inhabitants.
They answered him that at a place in the east of the city there
was a small lake or marsh not far from Chao yang hsien
()(14) called the "Chiu waters" (k). It was
full of Ngo fishes hatched from eggs and some ten to
twenty feet long, which devoured the cattle and other domestic
animals, thus gradually exterminating them to the consequent
impoverishment of the people. A few days after Han-yä went
to this place and calling his officer Chin chi ordered him to
have a pig and a sheep thrown to tho Ngo fishes which he then
addressed as follows:-
Under former rulers you have been allowed to remain here,
but under the reign of our virtuous emperor you cannot be to-
lerated and you must leave his empire. How could you be
permitted to live here in peace when you are molesting the
people fattening on their domestic animals and increasing daily
in number? I have come to rule this country in the name of the
sovereign and as I am myself much afraid of you we must part
company. At the south of this place is an immense sea in
which fishes as large as whales as well as those as small as
shrimps and sprats can live in peace. You can easily go
there in a day but I give you from three to seven days to
go. If after that period you are still found here I shall be
compelled to bring with me some good archers with strong
bows and poisoned arrows and declare against you a merciless
war.
In the afternoon of that very day a violent wind arose ac-
companied by thunder and lightning. The storm raged for a
few days driving the waters sixty li eastwards leaving the lake
perfectly dry. Since this the Ngo fishes have disappeared and
the people of Chao chou live in peace.
On the native maps of the province of Canton we find still
to the west of Ho Yuan haien (f)110 miles west of
Chao chou a small lake called Ngo hu, i. e. Alligators'
lake.
This story we have also found slightly abridged in the An-
nals of the province of Kuang-tung (L).
(14) Opposite Swatow.

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
11
According to Mr. W. F. Mayers(15) this is simply a legend
symbolizing the efforts made by Han Yü in civilizing the rude
inhabitants of the country. But it was during the reigns
of the Tang, far from the mythological times, and this
story agrees with what we know of Alligators, and as
they are still found in the province of Canton, as this
paper will show before concluding we think it quite possi-
ble that they were really in existence there, and then,
and even before. Indeed, the Ngo are mentioned in the
"Annals of Foreign Countries during the Wa" (222-277 A. D.)
where we find them sufficiently well described to leave no
doubt of their crocodilian nature. The book of the Liang dy-
nasty (502-556 A. D.) says that in the kingdom of Lin Yi
()now southern Cochin-China, crocodiles (Ngo) are reared
in the moats of the capital as well as in the enclosure where,
outside the gates of the city, the wild beasts are kept. Crimi-
nals are thrown to them. If during three days they are left.
unharmed by the animals, they are considered innocent and
restored to liberty. These crocodiles measure twenty or more
feet in length and resemble the To (Alligator). There is no
mistake possible here, as crocodiles are still found abundantly
in Siam. They belong to a variety only known there, thence
their name Crocodilus Siamensis. The Chinese book adds that
they are very ferocious and that they are also found in Tsang
Wu ()(southern Kuangsi ?) as well as in foreign countries.
The Annals of Foreign Countries" (222-277 A.D.) also
narrates that the King of Fu Nan (i) by name Fan Ch'un
() had crocodiles (Ngo) brought to him and kept them in a
pond. Rebels and criminals were thrown to them and released.
as innocent if left unharmed by these saurians. The kingdom
of Fu Nan is probably Tonquin where crocodiles are still found.
In the Annals of Annam (Chiao chou) we find that
crocodiles like to come out from the waters on to the sand where
they lay eggs about the size of those of a goose and good to eat.
They seize tigers, deer and stags when they cross the water,
tear them to pieces and devour them. They even attack man
now and then. If their teeth are knocked out they will grow
again in the space of ten days.
We now come to China proper. In old times, says the book
called Ling Piao Li Yi (), a military mandarin
(called in the Kuang-tung Annals) was coming to Chao chou
(H). As his boat was passing the Alligators rapid ()
(15) The Chinese Readers' Manual article Han yü.

19
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
it struck on a rock and was wrecked. All the accumulated
treasures of this officer, his books, vases, pictures and maps
were lost in the deep. He called his mariners and ordered them
to dive in order to recover them if possible. But these men
saw so many Alligators under water that they did not dare to
rescue the lost treasures, believing that they had come to the
private residence of the monsters. So it is not only Han Yü
who saw Alligators near Chao chou.
The Canton province is not the only one mentioned as
producing the To or Ngo. In the chapter headed Imperial
audiences (王會) of the Shi Chia Chou Siu (汲家周書) that
is: Discoveries made in tombs, we find that the people of Hang
chou fa in Chekiang send the To as a tribute to the Emperor,
to make the court drums with the skin, as the commentator
explains.
With this we will close our quotations from Chinese history.
and give a few of the legends concerning the crocodiles or Alli-
gators.
THE Chinese have an idea that the Alligator is wonderfully
tenacious of life. The Canton annals say that the head can be
cut and dried, before the animal dies, the muzzle can be broken
into pieces and all the teeth pulled out and still it lives.
The history of the Wu dynasty tells us that in the first year
of the reign of Sun Liang () white barking Alligators or
crocodiles were found in Kung An (). It is a common
belief there that when the To barks and the back of the tortoise
becomes flat, a dreadful calamity is surely impending from
which people can only save themselves by fleeing to Nan Chun
(B), now the city of Nan Cheng in Kiangsi. And indeed
in the second year of Sun Liang a rebellion arose in Kung An
and a mandarin called Ch'u Ko-ch'üch (1) was defeat-
ed by the rebels; his younger brother Ch'u Ko-jung()
mandarin in Kung An was taken prisoner by them. His seal
of office was made of gold cast in the shape of a tortoise. In
his grief he scraped the back of the tortoise and swallowed the
gold so obtained, which gold caused his death.
The book of Chuang Teze (F) says that as Confucius was
visiting the bridge of Li Liang (in Shantung) the water rose
twenty-four chang and rushed with great impetuosity over
thirty li of country. The Yuan and the T'o did not dare

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA
13
to risk themselves in the waters but the sage saw a man swim-
ming across some hundred pu (about a mile). When he came
out Confucius asked him how he had managed. The man an-
swered: "my nature does not fear, my destiny is certain I will
follow the strength of the waters. It was because I had no
fear that I succeeded in crossing the waters, I really had no
other means."
In the Chun Chiu of L Shih () we read that
the emperor Chang Hai (3) ordered Fei Lang () to
make a musical instrument of eight sounds (a kind of mouth
organ) for the ceremonies of the cult of Shang Ti. When this
instrument was used for the first time a T'o which was near the
place kept measure with the melody by striking his tail against
his body.
The records of So Shen (2) narrate that in Honan
a man named Chang Fu (), being one night in his boat,
saw a woman coming in a small canoe. When she came near
him she said: "When night comes in I dare not go out as I .
fear the tiger." Chang Fu at first laughs at her then he invites
her to come and spend the night with him on his boat. About
midnight as the moon was rising in the sky, Chang Fu (wak-
ing) saw a white To sleeping on his arm instead of the wo-
man. Greatly afraid he rose up and the animal fled, the man
saw then that what he had taken for a small boat was simply
an old wooden log.
In the book on foreign countries written by the Buddhist
priest Cheh Seng (f) we find that in the kingdom of
(Seu Ho Tiao) on the mountain called Ch'uan Tao
Leao () is the temple of Pi Ho Lo (J); there a
stone figure of a T'o is adored. This image is said to possess
a supernatural power and when provisions are scarce at the
monastery the priests address to it their prayers and their
stores are soon replenished.
The records of Hai Shih (E) narrate the following
story: A Buddhist priest, by name Yao, being a sorcerer and
an exorcist was once called in (the city of) Kuang Lin to exor-
cise a woman named Wang who was possessed. Upon enter
ing her house Yao knew that she was possessed by the spirit of
a T'o, so he scolded this spirit insulting it and asking it why it
had entered the body of that woman. Wang answered "a
man wants to kill my husband." The devil who was near her
answered: "I am exceedingly sad for I know that to-day I
must die." It wept and moaned. To this Yao said "I know

14
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
it is a spirit and cannot fight with it." The neighbours heard
these words and then saw a 7"o coming out, it was killed by
Yao.
In the book called Yu Min Lou () we find the fol-
lowing legend:-
At the time of the emperor Yung Chou of the Sung dynasty
a mandarin named Chang Chun () being in office (Che
fu) at Wu Chang (t) in Hapeli was marrying his daughter.
Just as she was getting into her carriage she went mad and on
the road struck every man she met declaring she would not
marry. A countryman, who was a sorcerer, saw the young
lady and understood her to be possessed by the spirit of the
tortoise (). He said that he could cure her by taking her
to the bank of a river and there beating a drum. Chang Chun
having heard of this believed that the man was an impostor
(was lying) so he ordered him to bring the tortoise (Kuei.) A
green snake came first and was transfixed with a nail by the
sorcerer. Towards midday a great tortoise was seen issuing
from the waters, the sorcerer taking a vermilion pencil traced
on its back a mystic character and ordered the animal to re-
turn to the waters. At evening time a large white T'o was seen
in the middle of the river rising and plunging as the tortoise
pursued it. The To died, the damsel wept bitterly on what
she called the death of her husband and little by little she re-
turned to her senses. As people were questioning which of
the three animals had caused the sickness of the lady the sor-
cerer said: "The green snake was the messenger who inform-
ed me, the turtle is a lover and the T'o was the husband of the
woman." He then brought the three animals to Chang Chun
who saw that he had not been false (made a lie.)
In the Pen Tsao we find that it requires just the same num-
ber of men to pull a T'o out of its hole as would be needed to
dig it out; otherwise it is impossible to capture it. When it
cries the country people know that rain is coming. The same
book gives a rather curious method of killing and flaying the
Alligator. The mode is as follows: pour boiling water down
its throat; after a certain time (rather long I fear) it will die
then you can peel off the skin.
Of course such a curious animal akin to the dragon must be
used in the materia medica of the Chinese. The scales are
found in most of the druggist shops under the name of Lin Yü
Chia (). It is mostly procured in the district of Can-
ton where according to the Pen Tsao it can always be found.

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
15
These scales are said to be sour, slightly warm and a little
poisonous, though this last is denied by some authors. They
are supposed to cure heart and intestinal diseases, fever and
female disorders, diseases arising from fear, nose bleeding,
tooth ache and they are also used as a vermifuge and as a re-
medy for goitre and skin diseases.
The recipe is as follows: roast the flesh, pouring wine over
it, burn the skin and bones to ashes and mix them with warm
wine. The scales are good to make a soup which is said to
cure madness. The fat and liver are also used as medicines
in different diseases.
The Chinese have a wonderful idea of the length of time an
Alligator can live. Indeed they use it as a term of comparison
for old age and if we say as old as Methuselah they write:
(a friend of mine informed me) "older than the To" pi t'o lao
They also believe that this animal is gifted with
greater strength and vitality than any of the known animals,
the elephant included and as a Chinaman jocosely remarked
to me: "if you foreigners give nine lives to the cat we must
give at least twelve to the Two."
III. FOREIGN LITERATURE.
HAVING now well-nigh exhausted the Chinese literature on
the subject of the To and Ngo let us investigate what foreign
books on China can say on the subject of Crocodiles or Alliga-
tors in this country.
Thanks to the kindness of the Jesuit Fathers who placed
their valuable library at Sicawei at my entire disposal, and
even provided me with written copies of the Great Imperial
Encyclopedia quoted above, I was able to consult all the works
written on China by their eminent predecessors at the Court of
Kang-Hi.
The valuable collection of books on China found in the library
of the North-China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society was
also carefully consulted.
It is curious enough to notice that out of such a considerable
number of works written on this country four or five only, and
those in the first part of the 17th century speak of the Croco-
dile or Alligator. And yet, after a careful comparison of the
texts, they are found to copy each other so that the original
sources of information are reduced to two, namely:-

16
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
Marco Polo the Venetian who writes in the 18th century,
and evidently speaks from hearsay, and Father M. Martini who
no doubt got his information from Chinese works.
I was much surprised to find nothing on this subject in
Duhalde, Grosier, and others who seemed to have described
everything worthy of note in the Empire. It was also in vain
that we consulted, the more modern works on this country.
Even those pretending to give the natural history of China are
silent on the subject of crocodilians.
In Wells Williams' Middle Kingdom we find :-The larger
lizards have not been noticed in China, though the Crocodile
is found both in India and Siam on nearly the same latitude as
Kuangtung. It may, however, have inhabited once the rivers
of the Middle Kingdom, for the character Ngoh is evidently an
original word, and Marco Polo describes a huge serpent wbich
he had not seen himself, but which seems to have been in-
tended for the Crocodile.
Here is the text of the Venetian traveller. Marco Polo
(1280), Vol. II, p. 62 and seq., speaking of Province of Cara-
jan, the actual province of Yunnan, says: "In this province
are found snakes and great serpents of such vast size as to
strike fear into those who see them, and so hideous that the
very account of them must excite the wonder of those who hear
it. I will tell you how long and big they are."
"You may be assured that some of them are ten paces in
length, some are more and some less. And in bulk they are
equal to a great cask, for the bigger ones are about ten palms
in girth. They have two forelegs near the head, but for foot
nothing but a claw like the claw of a hawk or that of a lion.
The head is very big, and the eyes are bigger than a great loaf
of bread. The mouth is large enough to swallow a whole man,
and is garnished with great (pointed) teeth. And in short they
are so fierce-looking and so hideously ugly, that every man
and beast must stand in fear and trembling of them. There
are also smaller ones such as of eight paces long, and of five,
and of one pace only. The way in which they are caught is
this: You must know that by day they live underground be-
cause of the great heat, and in the night they go out to feed
and devour every animal they can catch. They go also to
drink at the rivers and lakes and springs. And their weight
is so great that when they travel in search of food or drink, as
they do by night, the tail makes a great furrow in the soil as if
a full ton of liquor had been dragged along. Now the hunts-
men who go after them take them by a certain gyn which they

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
17
set in the track over which the serpent has past, knowing that
the beast will come back the same way. They plant a stake
deep in the ground and fix on the head of this a sharp blade
of steel made like a razor or a lance-point, and then they cover
the whole with sand so that the serpent cannot see it. Indeed
the huntsmen plant several such stakes and blades on the
track. On coming to the spot the beast strikes against the iron
blade with such force that it enters his breast and rives him up
to the navel, so that he dies on the spot (and the crows seeing
the brute dead begin to caw, and then the huntsmen know
that the serpent is dead and come in search of him.")
"This then is the way these beasts are taken. Those who
take them proceed to extract the gall from the inside, and this
sells at a great price; for you must know it furnishes the ma-
terial for a most precious medicine. Thus if a person is bitten
by a mad dog, they give him but a small pennyweight of this
medicine to drink, he is cured in a moment. Again if a wo-
man is hard in labour they give her just such another dose and
she is delivered at once. Yet again if one has any disease like
the itch, or it may be worse, and applies a small quantity of
this gall he shall speedily be cured. So you see why it sells
at such a high price. They also sell the flesh of this serpent,
for it is excellent eating, and the people are very fond of it.
And when these serpents are very hungry, sometimes they will
seek out the lairs of lions or bears or other large wild beasts
and devour their cubs, without the sire and dam being able to
prevent it. Indeed if they catch the big ones themselves they
devour them too; they can make no resistance."
As Col. Yule remarks: "It cannot be doubted that Marco.
Polo's serpents here are crocodiles (or Alligators) in spite of his
strange mistakes about their having only two feet and one
claw on each, and his imperfect knowledge of their aquatic ha-
bits. He may have seen only a mutilated specimen. But
there is no mistaking the hideous ferocity of the countenance,
and the "eyes bigger than a fourpenny loaf" as Ramusio has
it. Though the actual eye of the crocodile does not bear this
comparison, the prominent orbits do, especially in the case of
the ghariyal (gavial) of the Ganges, and form one of the most
repulsive features of the reptiles' physiognomy...And there is
some foundation for what our author says of the animals' ha-
bits, for the crocodile does some times frequent holes at a dist-
ance from water, of which a striking instance is within my
own recollection (in which the deep furrowed track also was a
notable circumstance.")

18
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
"The Cochin-Chinese are very found of crocodiles' flesh and
there is or was a regular export of this dainty for their use
from Camboja, I have known it eaten by certain classes in In-
dia. The term serpent is applied by many old writers to croco-
diles and the like, e.g. by Odoric, and perhaps allusively by
Shakspeare (Where's my serpent of old Nile.")
"Matthioli says the gall of the crocodile surpasses all medicines
for the removal of pustules and the like from the eyes. Vin-
cent of Beauvais mentions the same, besides many other medi-
cal uses of the reptiles' carcase, including a very uusavoury
cosmetic."
For the French text of Marco Polo we consulted, "Le livre
de Marco Polo par M. G. Pauthier, chapter exviii, page 393."
There we find in a note that Klaproth (in his "Nouveau
Journal Asiatique Février 1828, page 118,") is of opinion that
the animal in question is a boa, a kind of snake he says com-
mon in Yunnan. He ought to say a python, instead of a boa,
as we have now at the Shanghai museum skins from this im-
mense snake sent from Yunnan. But we think it more pro-
bable that the Venetian traveller mixes the python and Alliga-
tor in his somewhat obscure statements. H. Murray quoting
Marco Polo in his Historical and Descriptive Account of China
adds a few lines to explain that the animals in question are
evidently crocodiles.
If we also compare the description of Marco Polo with those
given by Bose and Audubon of the Alligators of America, we
will find many points of similarity. According to these authors,
the Alligators, which are found as far north as the thirty-
second degree of latitude, bury themselves in deep burrows, int
the banks of the rivers where they pass the whole of the cold
season, and even the entire day in summer. They fall into a
lethargic state before the setting in of the frost and their sleep
is so profound that they may be almost cut to pieces without
manifesting any sign of life. They seldom travel except during
the night. They can fast long, live on frogs, fish, aquatic birds,
on dogs, hogs, cattle, and any animal they can catch. Slow on
land they can move with great velocity in the water. Though
usually met with on the edges of the rivers they are sometimes
also found in ponds in woods. The Indians eat the tail only, and
their eggs are prized by the natives, though they partake of
the musky smell of the animal, which when strong is insupport-
able, but it is not perceptible when they are in the water. So
disinclined are they to attack the human race that Mr. Audu-
bon, and his companions have waded waist deep amongst

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
19
hundreds of them. They are caught with a strong hook baited
with a bird or a small quadruped, and connected to a tree by a
chain. They avoid the salt-water and proximity to the sea.
When angry or fighting they swell themselves and utter a dull
bellowing sound not unlike a blacksmith bellows. Stones or
concretions are often found in their stomachs. They generally
lay from fifty to sixty eggs which they deposit in the sand. In
Alligator palpebrosus, the eyebrows form large knobs of the size
of a man's fist (the great loaf of bread of Marco Polo).
After Marco Polo the oldest work in which we find a men-
tion of the crocodiles in China is the Atlas Sinensis of
M. Martini Amstelodam, 1656. In the description of the city
of Gucheu of the province of Quangsi we find: "Ad urbis
"ortum est lacus parvus Go, in quo olim Rex Pegao de-
"cem aluit crocodilos, quibus, ut devorarentur objicere solebat
"reos et sceleratos; ab iis innocentes nunquam læsos fuisse.
"narrant, adeo que, quos crocodili non occiderent, liberi eo
"ipso, tanquam vacantes omni culpa abire jubebantur."
That is to say: "At the entrance of the city there is a small
lake called Go (crocodile lake) in which the King Pegao used
to keep ten crocodiles. It was the custom to give them the
accused people and the criminals to devour.
It is said that the innocent were never hurt by them, so that
those who were not killed by the crocodiles were free from this
very fact and ordered to go as if they were entirely innocent."
These saurians did not appear to be so good criminal judges
in the province of Kuang-tung as the same author describ-
ing the city of Chingkiang (in the district of Chaochou)
says:
"Ad ortum urbis Ço amnis est, quem incolunt crocodili
"etiam hic hominibus infesti." i.e. At the entrance of the
city is (found) the river Ço inhabited by crocodiles, which are
a great plague to the people.
In the description of the Province of Huquang, P. M. Martini
speaking of the city of Siang Yang, says:
"Siang flumen ad urbis Barrolybicum est, in quo animal
nascitur equo non absimile nisi quod squammosum sit, &
ungues ut figris habeat, ferox est, quod et homines ot animalia
caetera aggrediatur id præcipue autumni tempore tentat, quo
frequentius ex aquis egressum terram pervagatur. (Novus
Atlas Sinensis a Martini Martinio versus 1654. 7a. Provincia
p. 76)."
This we find copied by Serlinus in a very curious old book
printed at Francfort on the Mein (1165) and called "Artificia

20
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
hominum miranda naturæ in Sina et Europa. Willelmus
Serlinus & Georgius Figwich. Caput XVI p. 1188. But as
it was the custom at that time the authority is not quoted and
the latin is cramped or badly copied. Leaving altogether the
Barrolybicum he writes only Siang flumen alit animal, etc.,
and ungues is badly enough transformed in angues which has
no meaning.
The following sentence of M. Martini: "At Chaocheu (Pro-
vincia Kuangtung) in amne Go incolunt crocodili etiam hic
hominibus infesti" is also copied by Serlinus, but he puts
degunt instead of incolunt thinking it probably a more elegant
latin. This statement of Martini is confirmed on his map
where we find the river Go flowing near Chao cheu.
Father Athanase Kircher, in his "China Illustrata, Amstelo-
dam 1667," prefers to copy the description of these animals from
Marco Polo.
Then comes the book "L'Ambassade de la Compagnie
Orientale des Provinces Unies vers l'Empereur de la Chine,
etc. ... Leyde 1665." This is the description he gives,
in quaint old French, of the Crocodile.
"On trouve aussi force Crocodiles près la ville de Chao chen
(province de Quantung) dans les eaux du fleuve de Co (Go?)
les quels molestent et tüent beaucoup de monde.(16) Cet animal
a cinq choses fort considérables; il devient le plus grand du
plus petit principe et commencement, maximus existit ex minimo,
parce qu'il est produit d'un oeuf; il remue la maschoire d'en-
haut ayant la basse immobile; il croit tout le temps de sa vie ;
il n'a point de langue selon plusieurs, ou l'a courte, ou inutile
selon d'autres; et il fait devant les personnes qui le poursuivent,
ne courant qu'après celles qui témoignent de la peur en s'éloig-
nant de luy.
On dit qu'il peut vivre quatre mois
Les brebis et les hommes font ses
plus friands morceaux.
On le prend avec des
hamegons attachés au bout d'une corde fort déliée faite de
cannes, en mettant quelque méchante brebis ou chèvre pour
amorce que ces monstres avalent comme une pillule, et ainsi
ils se trouvent attrapés.
sans manger.
"Les Chinois et les autres peuples Orientaux font bonne
chère de leur chair qui est blanche, d'un gout de chapon et
d'une odeur très agréable. Ils tiennent que l'eau, dans laquelle
cette chair, aura boüillie, a la force de guérir les morsures des
araignées, et que leur sang éclaircit la veuë, et remedio aux
(16) This is evidently taken from Martini.

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
21
blessures des couleuvres. Leur peau estant brulée et mêlée
avec de la lie d'huile engourdit les membres de telle sorte qu'ils
ne sentent point la piqure."
This description is also accompanied with a curious engrav-
ing intended to represent a crocodile, but it is evidently drawn
a great deal more from imagination than from nature. The
body which is covered with oval scales, very distant from each
other, does not rest on the ground and the tail has only one
ridge of scales instead of two.
From these times 1280 and 1667 we find no books mentioning
the existence of the crocodiles in China except Williams in his
Middle Kingdom as above quoted and Morrison who says posi-
tively in his dictionary that crocodiles are found in Yang-tsze-
kiang. We have searched carefully the old files of the Shang-
hai newspapers and it was not until the year 1869 that we
found the first reliable modern notice on the existence of croco-
diles in China.
Under the title Crocodiles in China, the Shanghai Evening
Courier of the 17th of March 1869 gives the following:-
"A little time ago, before the rise in opium and the feverish
but profitable speculation in rags to arrive, engrossed the ac-
tive foreign mind of Shanghai, we were interested in a report
that a real true dragon had been imported and was to be seen
by the curious in the Shanghai tea gardens. Naturally re
ports magnified the appearance and attributes of this extraor-
dinary creature; nothing of the kind had been seen before; it
had come out of a cave in the wild Kiangse mountains; could
devour a child without distressing its thorax; and was emi-
nently calculated to perform that supreme act of Chinese pa
triotism exterminate the barbarian. A goodly crowd of fo-
reigners went to see the monster. Armed with ten cent pieces
or whatever small coins the ingenuity of bank compradores in-
duces us to accept as quarter dollars, and unmindful of sundry
bad cases of confluent small-pox and other forms of infectious
disease with which the entrance to the Chung wang miao (17)
is ornamented, we found ourselves amidst the wonders of that
most curious ground known as the tea gardens. Passing
through the festive crowd who were spending their loose cash
with mountebanks, peep shows, story tellers, and sweetmeat
vendors, we came upon a large space surrounded by a strong
net in the middle of which was a canvas screen about two feet
in length, and behind this was concealed the dragon. A no-
tice at the entrance informed the public that he weighed so
(17) Temple of Chung Wang.

22
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
many catties and was a real horrible mountain dragon. Above.
the canvas screen could be seen the manly form of a coolie
armed with a bamboo, who every five minutes appeared to be
engaged in a kind of Pootung outrage (fight) with the monster
within, and every five minutes by the gesticulations and cries
of this gentleman it would appear that the dragon had got the
better of his antagonist, who disappeared defeated behind the
canvas for a time before recommencing the performance.
Truly there must be a "pucka" (proper) demon inside! so
feeing the attendant, in we went, with a fore knowledge that
we were going to be "done" and "done" we were. In an or-
dinary washing tub about three feet long was to be seen a poor
miserable half dead common Crocodile, or Alligator as learned
discriminators of species declare it, who resembled his congener
of the Nile about as much as a monkey does a man. He had
a curious despairing look in his wicked little eye and seemed to
be thinking of that feed of fish which he sadly wanted, but
would never get. The attendant, he of the bamboo lately en-
gaged in the terrific struggle, took the wretched thing from his
tub, turned him upside down, opened his mouth in the gentle
way a parish doctor does a pauper's, shewed his teeth, and
with a broad grin informed us that he was very terrific. Then
the poor beast was returned to his wash tub and instantly went
into a stupor! It had most likely come up in a ship from Siam,
the crew of which forgot to feed it, and was not comparable as
an object of interest to our late friend the salamander. That
brute at all events redeemed a long life of the most uncom-
promising indolence, by turning sharp round on his master
and biting his hand severely causing him at once to respect his
captive and be more careful in future. The party assembled,
among whom were the learned both in law, language, medi-
cine and science felt that they had come a long way to see
nothing, but to console themselves, agreed that this wretched
little crocodile having thirty-two teeth must be a new species,
and that consequently both time and coin were well spent."
This is the first mention of a probable new kind of Alligator or
crocodile in China and though the article was written in jest
some of the scientific men who were with the writer (Mr. Good-
win, an able scholar and great ægyptologue) declared from their
cursory investigation that this was a new species as we will see
later on by Mr. Swinhoe's note in the Proceedings of the Zo-
ological Society.
This paper was written and going to the press when hearing
that Mr. E. A. Reynolds had seen Alligators in the Yang-

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
23
tsze long before that I enquired from him on the subject, and
he very kindly favoured me with the following note:-
"In April 1853, I lent my house-boat to T. T. Meadows,
H.B.M.'s Consul, and accompanied him in her to Nanking,
where we were towed by H.M.'s steamer Hermes, having on
board Sir Sam. Geo. Bonham, Governor of Hongkong. On
approaching Silver Island, we noticed what appeared to be
human bodies floating near the shore in the eddy tide; but on
nearing there were found to be wooden idols, which the rebels
had thrown into the river from the joss-houses on the Island.
Not seeing anyone moving about Meadows and myself pro-
ceeded in my boat and landed. We found all the pavilion,
priests' dwellings, etc., burnt down; but all the temples at the
landing were perfect. I found one priest, to whom I asked, if
there were no small josses about, he took me to a ditch into
which a number of brass, bronze, and other metal idols had
been thrown. I carried away quite a number. He took me to
a pond or a small lake, taking a small bowl of rice and a switch
with him, with the latter he beat the water crying 'ado, ado,"
presently an Alligator or Crocodile came towards here we were
standing, and while still in the water opened his mouth into
which the priest throw the contents of the bowl: the Alligator
backing himself into the water again. I was quite unprepared
for such a sight, and was a little alarmed at first. I should
say the animal was of a good size, but as his open mouth only
came out of the water, I could not see how long it really was."
"Returning to the temple, I noticed a very fine etching, of an
Alligator, also a long inscription cut in the slate tablet, I dug
this out intending to bring it away, but on getting it to the
ground it was found it would require several men to carry it
off, so I had to abandon it. I, however, think it would have
been replaced by the priests, and may be now in the wall, from
whence I removed it. I should think one could get a full
description of this Alligator from the inscription.
"The officers of the Hermes, who landed shortly after were
much struck with the correctness of the etching, being a
departure from Chinese rude pictures of all animals. Doubt-
less this correctness may be attributable to the fact of the
priests having daily opportunities of watching their pet when
basking in the sun.
"A friend of mino, Captain Elsworthy, who was in the Taou-
tai's fleet blockading the river, told me he had frequently been
shown this same Alligator by the priest some months after;
and they told him it went away in the winter (more likely only

24
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
buried itself deep in the mud at the bottom of the pond), and
returned in the spring and remained on the Island during the
hot months.
"I since made enquiries about this Alligator, and was told
that one of the captains of a Portuguese lorcha, employed also in
blockading the river, had fired at it with his rifle while the ani
mal was in the pond; but whether he killed it or not, I did not
learn; probably not, or else, we would have heard more of it.
"Three years ago (1876), while ascending the Yangtsze in
my steamer, being some miles below Nanking, my people were
alarmed at a strange to them looking fish, which was close to
the shore not more than ten feet from the steamer. I imme-
diately ran to the side, and then saw an Alligator about eight
feet long floundering in the wash caused by the paddle-wheels
I stopped the steamer with the view of capturing it, but it had
disappeared. I am led to believe this same Alligator was since
seen at Chinkiang, no doubt having drifted down by the current."
Highly interested by this communication I took the earliest
opportunity of repairing to Chinkiang, and on the 2nd of Ja-
nuary 1879 I found in the Hai Shen Miao, Temple of the Spi-
rit of the Sea, at the eastern extremity of Silver Island, the ta-
blet in question. It is a heavy marble slab, six feet in height
by two in breadth, standing against a wall and bearing in two
vertical lines the following inscription :—
江南河道總督長白麟公放擺處
| 道光十六年歲次丙申六月穀

道(挛歲次丙申六月榖旦
江南河道總督長白麟公鼉處
FIGURE OF THE T'O FOUND ON A STONE TABLET IN SILVER ISLAND, CHINKIANG.

ENTURE OF HE

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
25
That is to say: "Lin of Chang Pai,(18) Governor-General of
the Yellow River of Kiangnan released the Alligator at this
place on a lucky day of the 6th moon of the 16th year of Tao-
Kuang (July 1886). Below the inscription is a very good en-
graving of the To Alligator, of which the accompanying wood-
cut is a reduced facsimile. It was obtained by a direct im-
pression or rubbing(19) made on the stone. A little further on I
saw the pond in which a living Alligator is still kept; this spe-
cimen has been there for two years. But as it was lying tor-
pid in the mud at the bottom I was unable to catch a glimpse
of it.
From the priests I heard that these saurians are often found
in the Yangtsze by the native fishermen in whose nets they be-
come entangled. As they are no use to them they are killed by
blows on the head and their carcases are thrown back into the
stream. Sometimes however they are presented to or purchas-
ed by the priests of the Hai Shen Miao, where for years past
one at least has been kept in the pond. According to my in-
formants at Chinkiang these Alligators come from the Tung
Ting and Po Yang lakes being driven in the swift stream of
the Yangtsze at flood times.
From the above inscription we understand that the Alligator
released from captivity by Lin was probably the first seen
there. It is a common practice amongst Buddhists to buy
living animals and set them at liberty. This is held as a very
(18) There were formerly two high functionaries superintending the
course of the Yellow River, one for the southern course in the old province
of Kiangnan (now Nganhui and Kiangsu) and one for the northern course
in the province of Shantung; thence the two names of Kiang Nan Ho Tao
Tsung Tu 江南河道總督 and Tung Ho Tao Tsung Tu 東河道
(o is often employed in Chinese language as meaning the
river par excellence the Yellow River).
Chang Pai stands for Chang Pai Shan, the name of a celebrat-
ed mountain in the north-east of Manchuria, not far from the northern
frontier of Corea. Here it must be translated by the adjective Manchu-
rian, as it appears that the whole of Manchuria is often designated by the
name of the mountain, a practice often resorted to in Chinese literature.
The governor general Lin of Manchuria must have been the last but one
of the functionaries in charge of the meridional course of the Yellow River,
as this charge has been since abolished, most probably on account of the
change of direction which took place in the course of this river in 1851.
(For this information I am indebted to the kindness of my friend Mr. J.
de Bielke, interpreter of the French Consulate.)
(19) To obtain those rubbings a thin paper slightly wet is applied on
the stone and pressed into the cuts, a cake of black wax is then rubbed
upon it and the characters on drawings appear in white on a black ground.

26
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
meritorious act and according to one of the Buddhistic rules its
value is enhanced by the comparative rarity of the animal.
On the Yangtsze, this ceremony, called Fang-sheng releasing
the living, is often resorted to in order to propitiate the god of
the waters. Turtles are often bought for this purpose and li-
berated in the great river with a small piece of metal, fastened
to the shell, bearing the date with the name of the pious per-
former.
In the case of the To, the Governor-General of the Yellow
River wanted evidently to commemorate the event of re-
leasing such a rare animal which he most likely had seen then
for the first time; accordingly he chose a lucky day for this
performance and caused the commemorative tablet to be
erected.
It now stands under the guardianship of some Hunan braves
as a part of the temple has been transformed into a fortress,
foreign guns having taken the place of the wooden images
which floated down the river in 1858 to the great amusement
of the rebels.
IV. NATURAL HISTORY.
Ir we now consult the modern scientific works written on the
Natural History of China, still very few, we find that no
scientific traveller, nor naturalist has found the crocodile or
Alligator in this country. In the Expédition du Meikong
which crossed Yunnan, I expected to find something on this
subject, but was sorely disappointed. The Abbé David confines
himself to geology and birds describing also some new kinds of
Mammalia, but of crocodiles he does not even mention the
name. The Novara Expedition round the globe which men-
tions some of the Shanghai new birds did not go far enough.
into the interior. Baron von Richtoffen confines himself to
geology. The Jesuit naturalist, Father Heudes, has made a
name for himself in the conchology of China, but it is curious
enough that in dredging for shells in the rivers of Chinkiang
and Ningko fu districts he never came upon an Alligator, though,
he tells me, he has often heard of the existence of what he calls
crocodiles in these districts, where, he says, the natives use
them for medicine. Once he lost a good opportunity through
the saving propensities of his servants, who refused to buy a
skin of this animal because the merchant wanted a few hundred
cash more than they thought proper to give.

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
27
Thinking that some navy doctor, a temporary resident in
China, might have per chance discovered these animals and
reported upon them, I searched the Proceedings of or the Zoo-
logical Society of London and the Nouvelles Annales du Mu-
seum de Paris. I found some new species of crocodiles describ-
ed in the former, but none were of China. At last, I came
upon a list of Reptilians and Batrachians collected in various
parts of China by the late Mr. Swinhoe and with great interest
read the following:-
"No. 3.-Crocodilus sp.?
"In February, 1869, some Chinese were exhibiting, in the
native city of Shanghai, what they called a dragon, which they
declared had been dug out of a hole in the province of Shense
(Mr. Goodwin puts Kiangse). It was a young crocodile about
four feet long, which they kept in tepid water. They made so
much money by showing it that they refused to sell it. I can-
not, of course, guess at its species; but I, nevertheless, think the fact
worth recording, as evidence that a species of this group does occur
in China."
Having heard that some two or three years ago a crocodile
had been seen in Chinkiang, I asked our President, Mr. T. W.
Kingsmill, to write to the person who had seen it for information.
and this is the reply of Mr. T. W. Duff:-
"In 1875 there was an Alligator caught in the Yangtsze, off
the British Concession at Chinkiang, but well out in midstream.
It was not particularly lively, although summer time, but this
may have arisen from the rough handling it got while being
caught. No one could account for its presence in the river,
although it was surmised that it might have escaped from some
temple; but as there are few of these places near Chinkiang at
all likely to hrave such an animal in them, I do not think it at
all reasonable.
"It lived some days in a pond until a deputation of Chinese
purchased it for fifteen dollars and presented it to the priests
on Silver Island. Whether it lived there or what became of it
after this I am unable to say."
Having failed to procure it for the Shanghai Museum an
Australian Crocodile brought from Australia to Chinking in
1868 by the celebrated entomologist, Dr. Martin (who died in
America this year), was sent instead to the Museum, where it
was gazed at, for a few years, as a Chinese crocodile until the
perpetrator good naturedly confessed his joke.
Nothing more was heard of the crocodiles until April this

28
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
year, when a member of the Chinese Customs service, Mr. Lloyd
E. Palm, Acting Deputy Commissioner at Wuhu, bought from
the natives, a specimen which had been apparently dug from
the ground in the neighbourhood. When it reached us on the
15th of April, it was still in its torpid state, and could be
handled easily without danger. Having no books of reference
in the Shanghai Museum, I took the animal with me to the
Jesuits' Museum at Sicawei, and there with the assistance of
the curator, Father C. Rathouis, M.D., of Paris, studied and
dissected the animal comparing it carefully with the plates of
Cuvier, Duméril and other works on reptiles, especially those of
India. The skin was then prepared and mounted by our native
taxidermist of the Shanghai Museum where it can now be seen.
From this study we came to the conclusion that it was proba-
bly a new species of Alligator, and I took care to state the fact
in the North-China Daily News of the ninth of May, (20) when
acknowledging the contributions of the preceding month. I
added a few words asking for another specimen to be forwarded
to Paris, in order to have this species named.
This appeal was duly responded to on the 3rd of October
last, when we received a second specimen from Chinkiang. It
appears that it had been seen coming down the stream in a
half torpid or exhausted state, and some Chinese fished it up
just opposite the Custom House.
The capture, made without difficulty, was witnessed by the
two Customs employés, Messrs. C. W. de Ste. Croix and J. C.
Günther, who conjointly bought it on the spot and presented it
to the Shanghai Museum, where it arrived on the 4th of Octo-
ber, and where it is still alive in a state of lethargy having only
eaten twice since its arrival.(21)
I now had well-substantiated cases before me. In the first
some of the mud in which the Alligator had been buried could
(20) The museum has also received two new and important specimens:-
A beautiful Albatross (Diomedea Derogata?), shot by Capt. A. Croad near
the Chusan Group; and a living Alligator (Alligator Lucius ?) sent by Mr.
J. L. E. Palm from Wuhu, where it was captured in the hills. Père
Heudes having also seen Alligators near Ning-ko-fu, there is no more
doubt about the existence of this saurian in the Yangtsze waters. It
differs considerably from the two species described in Cuvier and Duméril,
and will likely prove a new variety. If any friend of science can succeed
in sending us another live specimen, it will be forwarded to Paris for
examination.
A. A. FAUVEL, Hony. Curator.
(21) It died on the 24th of December, apparently from aneurism of the
heart, as the pericardium was found full of blood. It was an adult female,
with sixteen amature eggs in the ovaries.

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
29
be still found in the mouth and anal aperture, so it must have
been found not far from Wuhu, and the capture of the second
specimen in the Yangtsze waters proves that these two Alliga-
tors were natives of China. About September I saw two live
specimens, which Dr. O. F. von Möllendorf, the interpreter of
the German Consulate at Tientsin, had bought in the Chinese
city of Shanghai for the sum of ten dollars a piece. The
weather being then warm, they were very lively and rather
dangerous to haudle, uttering, when approached their charac-
teristic bellowing sound. The natives who sold them said they
had come from the Poyang lake where they were to be found
in numbers.
Upon inquiry I soon learned that some had been shown from
time to time in the native city, and Dr. Little told me he saw
two in Chefoo this summer, where they were exhibited as a
great curiosity. They measured about five feet in length.
Finally, I myself lately procured in the Chinese city of Shang-
hai, a skin with the complete skull attached.
One was also procured in the same place by Mr. Löczi, the
geologist of the Austro-Hungarian scientific mission. I was
then able to study the generic characters from four good speci-
mens and from this study I came to the conclusion that we
were in the presence of a real Alligator of a new species or at
least not described in Cuvier, Duméril, Bibron or other authors
I could consult. Unhappily as I was unable to find here the
last work of Professor Vogt of Geneva on the crocodilians I
cannot be quite sure that this species has has not been found
elsewhere.
However the article on Alligators in the very last edition of
the Encyclopedia Britannica clearly states that all the species.
of Alligators known are found in America and with one excep.
tion only (The A. Lucius found up to the 32° lat. in the Missis-
sippi) are confined to its tropical parts Brazil, Guyannas, etc.
Cuvier, says the same Encyclopedia in a former edition
thinks it most probable that Alligators have their repre-
sentatives in our hemisphero although it does not seem to
be yet ascertained whether any true Caïmans are found in the
old world. This is perhaps a little far fetched as the words of
Cuvier are "Il serait possible que l'on découvrit par la suite
dans l'ancien continent quelque espèce appartenant à la subdi-
vision des Caïmans."
It is probably with still less accuracy that the same edition
of the Encyclopedia says, speaking of Crocodilus Biporcatus
the same as C. Porosus: "This species is the common croco-

30
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
dile of India and its archipelago, frequenting the. Ganges and
other great rivers which empty themselves into the ocean, as
also those of Corea (?) and China (?), Ceylon, Java, Timor, etc."
Upon what authority this statement is based the Encyclopedia
Britannica does not say. Though real crocodiles may be one
day found in Southern China I have great doubt about the pos-
sibility of their being discovered in cold Corea. At all events
I never saw this last country mentioned for its crocodiles else-
where.
Thinking that our Alligator might have its representative in
Annam and Cochin-China I went to see some of our French
missionaries who had lived many years in these countries and
from their descriptions made sure that the crocodilians found
there are the Crocodilus Siamensis C. Porosus and the gavial
of India. They saw our specimens in the Museum and declared
them entirely new to them. I insist upon this point, because
of the crocodiles in Saigon being called caïmans, a name which
belongs only to the Alligator.
The flesh of the Alligator does not now seem to be eaten in
China as that of the crocodiles is in Annam, but its skin is
found in medicine shops where it is often used in place of a
sign board. Two were procured in the native city of Shanghai
and the natives who sold them told us they came from Canton.
All the natives here called these skins sea dragons' skins
Hai Lung p'i, and seemed considerably astonished when I told
them that the Alligator was never found in the sea. In other
districts, Chinkiang and Wuhu, the name for it is Ngo Yü or
Tu Lung, Ngo fish or earth dragon.
With this I shall close my disquisition on the history of the
Alligator and shall now proceed to the description of the ani-
mal.
V. DESCRIPTION OF THE ALLIGATOR.
As a great many people easily confound the Alligator with
the Crocodile we will give first the generic characteristics of the
two from Cuvier's book. "Les Ossements Fossiles." 1.-
CROCODILE. Muzzle oblong; the upper jaw has a notch on
each side to allow the fourth tooth of the lower jaw to pass,
the hind feet are fully webbed and fringed or denticulated on
the outer margin. The teeth are at least 15 on each side in
the lower jaw and 19 in the upper one. The first ones of the

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
31
inferior jaw perforate the upper one at a certain age and the
nuchal plates as well as the dorsal differ greatly in number,
shape and position from those of the Alligator. The post-orbi-
tal holes are very large and always present.
2. CAÏMAN or ALLIGATOR (the names are synonyms. Caïman
being the one given by the negroes in Americà to the A.
Lucius.) The muzzle is broad and short. The superior jaw re-
ceives the fourth tooth of the lower jaw in a particular hole or
foramen which conceals it entirely; the hind feet are only se-
mi-palmated and do not possess the fringe or denticulations.
The length of the head is to its breadth as two to one. The
teeth are very unequal in length and there are at least 19 and
sometimes as many as 22 on each side of the lower jaw; at
least 19 and often 20 on each side of the upper jaw. The post-
orbital holes, in the species which possess them, are very
small, in one species they are entirely absent. There are about
6 species of Alligators known. Cuvier describes three with one
variety viz: Alligator Lucius, A. Sclerops, A. Palpebrosus 1st va-
riety and 2nd variety. Since Cuvier's book was written two
more have been added to the list: A. Cynocephalus and A. Nigro-
punctatus.
I will now compare the Chinese Alligator carefully with the
five described by Cuvier and with the two others as described
by Duméril and Bibron.
At first glance it looks very much like the A. Lucius, the
pike-muzzled Alligator. Its head and muzzle are flat, the sides
nearly parallel and uniting in front in a parabolical curve.
The internal edges of the orbits are slightly elevated. The
nasal aperture is, even in the young, divided in two by a bony
bridge. A small hole in the bones of the palate corresponds
to the nasal aperture but it is covered by skin in the living
animal.
All these characteristics also belong to the pike-headed Alli-
gator but it differs in this way that the snout of the Lucius is
comparatively longer. Its length is as 1 and to its breadth
taken in front of the orbits. The total length of the cranium
(taken from the base of the skull to the point of the snout) is
as 2 and to its breadth taken at the same place. In our
Chinese Alligator, the length of the snout is nearly equal to its
breadth and the length of the cranium is a little less than
twice the extent of the snout, so that the head forms an isosceles
triangle shorter than the one figured by the head of the Lucius.
A greater difference exists in the appearance of the bones
which are deeply honey-combed or vermiculated in ours and

82
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
smooth in the other, whose snout is also more flat. Other dif-
ferences exist in the shape and direction of the post-orbital
holes. Their external aperture is ovalo-elliptical with the
great axis sensibly parallel to the axis of the skull; in the Lu-
cius they are smaller, the perforation being a small one at the
bottom of an elliptical fossa whose great diameter forms an an-
gle with the axis of the head; the aperture of the angle being
in front towards the snout.
The vermiculated appearance of the bones is also possessed
by the crania of the A. Sclerops and A. Palpebrosus, but the shape
of the head is far different and the post-orbital holes very small
in the first are altogether absent in the second.
Nor does it possess the characteristic crest between the orbits
which gives its name to the Sclerops, i.e. spectacled.
But it is very curious to notice that however different the
shape of the head from the Palpebrosus it possesses like it the
bony eyelids from which the specific name is derived.
21.21
The teeth formula of the Alligators is from 19 to 22 on each
side of each jaw (the one for the Sclerops is 19.19-80, as well
as for the Palpebrosus). In our specimens I find 18.18 = 74,
so it has fewer teeth than any species but the Lucius, whose
formula is 18.18 = 70.
17.17
19.19
Thus by the shape of the head, the weavy edges of the snout,
the bony bridge of the nares (possessed by no other species than
the Lucius), and by the post-orbital holes it is nearly allied to
the Pike-headed Alligator. By the honey-combed appearance
of the bones of the skull and the bony eyelids it approaches the
A. Palpebrosus.
By the shape, form and number of the teeth it differs from
all as well as by the size and general dimensions of the differ-
ent parts of the body.
But those are not the only specific characters of the Alliga-
tors and we must now look to the disposition, form and num-
ber of the nuchal and dorsal plates, and also compare the di-
mensions of the various species.
The nuchal plates of the Lucius are 8 in number, oval-shaped
and distant from each other, disposed in 4 rows of 2 each.
the Sclerops there are 14 square plates, disposed in five rows
and close to each other, being 2 in the 1st, 4th and 5th rows
and 4 in the two others. In the Palpebrosus we count 10 plates
in rows of 2 close to each other, they are separated from the
skull by a line of 4 plates of good size and distant from each
other. The disposition of the nuchal plates in the A. Palpe-

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
33
brosus 1st variety is very nearly the same as the one found in
our specimens when we see six conspicuous nuchal plates
closely packed in three rows with a short space of separation
from the plates of the back not found in the other species.
Two small round isolated plates are found in front of the nu-
chal shield and between them and the skull is a semi-circular
row of six conical plates. These characteristics I have found
constant in the six specimens I have been able to study and
constitute by themselves a new species.
The number of the rows of dorsal plates is 17 from the
shoulders to the base of the tail, they correspond exactly to the
number of vertebræ. They are disposed as follows:-
3 rows of 4 plates
7
6
"
"
"
4
"
"
"
7
17
In the other species I find the number of rows varying from
18 to 19. The number of the plates in each row is also at-
variance with the number of those in our specimens. The dif-
ference is still more perceptible in the number of the single or
double crested bands of the tail.
The length of our adult Alligator is about 5 feet and 8 inches
whilst the Lucius measures 6 or 7 feet, some go even to 14.
(The head is included about 8 times in the length of the body
of the Chinese Alligator).
The Sclerops measures from 11 to 14 feet (8 heads 1.) The
other species measure from 6 to 9 feet. So our Chinese Alli-
gator seems to be the smallest of all known.
Its colour above is a greenish black, speckled with yellow
vermiculated lines only apparent when wet. The underparts
are of a greyish colour, on the tail bands of faint yellow and
green are visible.
This colouration is also peculiar to the Chinese Alligator.
The colour in the other species being: a deep greenish brown
above and a white tinged with green in the Lucius; or a blue-
ish green above and an irregularly marbled green and yellow
below in the Sclerops. In both the A. Cynocephalus and A. Ni-
gro-punctatus the back is greenish with black spots. The hind
feet of our specimens are very slightly palmated as may be seen
by the plate. In this it resembles A. Palpebrosus, the least pal-
mated of all.
In conclusion I find that the Alligator of China differs great-

34
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
ly from all the described species; at least from all those de-
scribed in Cuvier, Duméril, Bibron, etc. Its position appears
to be between the A. Lucius and the A. Palpebrosus, so until it
has been more carefully studied at home, we propose for it the
distinctive name of Alligator Sinensis and append herewith the
final description of it as a base for further and more complete
study.
ALLIGATOR SINENSIS.
Distinctive qualities and habits drawn from six specimens, of which
one is a male and one female.
The Chinese Alligator appears to be a small species measur-
ing from 1.45 to 1.74 mètro; though longer specimens may
still be found.
General Dimensions.-In the largest specimen studied the
measurements are as follows:-
Length of the head (from the snout to the articulation of the jaws)..0m. 240
Breadth of the head at the same place
Breadth of the head in front of the eyes
Body from base of cranium to the beginning of the tail
Length of the tail....
.0m. 135
..0m. 115
..0m. 638
..Om. 863
Total length....1m. 741
The length of the head is contained about 8 times in the
length of the body, and it is double its breadth in front of the
orbits.
The measurement round the middle of the body gives 50
centimètres.
The edges of the snout, which is short and slightly concave
are very weavy, a great deal more so than in the Lucius.
seems a little broader in the male than in the female.
19.19
It
Teeth. The formula of the teeth is 18.18-74 with some-
time a small difference of one or two teeth in either of the jaws.
It seems also to change with age as in a young specimen we
found the formula to be 17.17 = 71.
18.19
These teeth vary much in size. They are, with the excep-
tion of the back ones (molars !) sharp pointed with a slight cur-
vature directed inwards. Being symmetrically disposed we will
give their respective number and disposition only for half of
each jaw, beginning from the snout:-

1st.-Upper Jaw.
Incisive? 2 small teeth.
2 longer ones.
Sharp
and
pointed
canines?
Short
and
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
3 medium size.
2 large teeth, the
2nd one being
the largest of
the upper jaw.
4 small teeth.
rounded
molars ?
5 medium size.
18
19
2nd.-Lower Jaw.
85
1 long tooth fitting in a deep
foramen in the palate.
2 small teeth, fitting each in
a small foramen hardly
apparent in the bones of
the skull.
1 long canine, deep foramen.
7 very small teeth.
3 large teeth (the middle one
longest.)
5 large rounded teeth (mo-
lars.)
All of them overlap those of the lower jaw.
There seem to be at least three generations of teeth, as in the
oldest specimen I found smaller teeth always present within
the others.
Cranium.-As may be seen from the annexed plate the skull
presents the general appearance of an isosceles triangle whose
base measured at the articulation of the jaws is contained 1.7
in the length; otherwise the head is very nearly twice its
breadth.
Dimensions of the cranium: length from base to
snout. The base taken on the line of articu-
lation of the jaws.
Breadth at base
.. Om. 284
..... Om. 147
Breadth in the middle, just in front of the orbits Om. 105
Length of snout from this place .......
.. Om. 117
Height of the head at the thicker place (behind
the eyes) including lower jaw
......... Om. 105
Total length of the head including the lower jaw Om. 264
The sides of the snout are nearly parallel to the axis of the
cranium, they are joined in front by a parabolical curve be-
ginning at the upper canine tooth at which place it is much
enlarged. The snout is concave being enlarged at the nares.
Nares. The nares are separated from each other not by a
bony septum as in the Lucius, but simply by a bony bridge.
The ridge is slightly elevated and the shape of the opening in
the bones of the snout is quite semicircular.
Bones of the Skull.-The bones of the cranium are deeply

36
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
honey-combed or vermiculated, in some places perforated as
orund the margin of the palate in which there is a small open-
ing immediately under the nares, but it is covered by skin in
ihe living animal.(22) There are two large bow-shaped openings
to the back of the palate just under the eyes, they are also co
vered by the skin of the palate; they measure five centimètres
in length and one and a quarter in their greatest width.
Eyes. The orbits are very near each other, the distance be-
tween them being only one centimètre, the inner edges are
slightly elevated and there is a marked depression in front of
nine millemètres deep, where the ridges slope down on the
snout. In the thickness of the upper eyelid are lodged one or
two thick bony plates irregular in shape.
Ears. The tympanum of the ear is simply covered by a
thick flap of skin which closes more or less upon it; there is no
external vestibulum.
Post Orbital Holes.-They are very apparent ovalo-elliptical
in shape and can be felt even through the skin. They are si
tuated immediately behind the orbits and in the same line with
them. This line which passes through them according to their
grand axis is parallel to the axis of the skull and also passes
through the middle of the nasal aperture, so that the post-or-
bital holes, the bony eyelids and the nares are situated on two
lines parallel to each other and to the axis of the cranium.
The line forming the basis of the skull is slightly convex to-
wards the body with a very small notch in the middle.
Under the lower jaw near the throat there is on each side a
tubular gland containing a musky substance, when the animal
is angry these are projected outwards by a kind of telescopic
motion like two horns or tubes about two centimetres in length.
The Chinese Alligator appears very slow in his movements
being nearly always in a half torpid state, in the summer time
when molested he is inclined to bite but is never first in the
For the general colouration of the body see above
page 88 and page 82 for the disposition of the nuchal and dorsal
attack.
plates..
(22) Not always present.

Autogr. de la Mission Cathol. Je Zi-ka-wei (You-se-we), 1878.

Alligator
sinensis.

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
36a
After this paper had been printed I found some curious notes
about the Alligators in different works and received further
valuable information of which the following are the most im-
portant items:
L-PHILOLOGY AND CHINESE RECORDS.
In the China Review of March and April 1879, Vol. VII No. 5
I read among the notes and queries: CROCODILES. "Raise
the Crocodile means "deluges" or "disastrous floods." The
question as to what the really is has already been discussed
of recent date both in this journal and elsewhere. The watery
phenomona known as "crocodiles" are said to occur only in
the interior Provinces, and to be especially frequent in Honan.
The "crocodile" takes several years to incubate, and during
this period lies concealed deeply in a gently undulating mound,
which is never covered with snow. If, therefore, it is observed
that any given spot is not covered with snow when the rest of
the ground is covered, notice is taken of the fact, and persons
are sent annually to make examination of the spot, and observe
if the absence of snow is repeated. If the spot be uncovered
during three successive years, the "crocodile" is unmistakably
there, and must be dug out. At a great expenditure of time
and labour this is accordingly done, and the animal (whose
appearance as described answers to that of a small Alligator) is
carefully conveyed to the sea. If he is not dug out, when he
himself comes forth and "rages," he speeds like a blight all
over the land, cutting through every obstacle, and carrying
behind him a huge "tidal ware." All this too in the interior!"
This may explain why the natives made such a demonstra-
tion at the finding of an Alligator underground some time ago
near Chinkiang. The event was commemorated by a small
article in one of our local Chinese newspapers, the Shen Pao
and the following is the translation published by the
Shanghai Courier of the 11th March, 1879-
"A short time ago, a party of workmen were engaged in
clearing out a small canal close to Chinkiang, when they came
upon an Alligator which had buried itself in the mud, its scales
being distinctly visible. They immediately stopped work and
reported the matter to the authorities. The mandarins came
down to the place in a body and burnt incense to the beast, in
the hopes of inducing it to go, which, however, it refused to do.
A large number of people came over from Yang-chow to see

36b
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
the creature. Its appearance is said to presage a great rise in
the river this year."
In March 1879 I also found a notice of the T'o in a beautifully
printed and illustrated Chinese work called:
Í
Hung-hsieh-yin-yuan-tu-chi, written by Lin, of Chang Pai.
This book (2nd edition) was published in the city of Yang-chou
of the province of Kiangnan in 1849 and is the best illustrated
Chinese book I know. The work is in six volumes of about one
hundred pages each and having a fine double page engraving
after every two pages of printed matter. These two pages are
an explanation of the picture. In the second volume of this
beautiful work we find a picture of Silver Island at Chinking
of which the opposite wood engraving is a facsimile. The
picture and explanatory notes are headed:
Chiao
shan fang t'o, that is: The release of the Alligator at Chiao-shan.
After giving the exact position of the Island, explaining its
name, etc., the author describes the temples and nunneries-
found there, and mentions the name of the great writer of the
Ming dynasty who traced the four large characters
now deeply graven on marble slabs at the entrance of the main
temple.
Now he comes to the subject and says: When first I received
a government appointment, and had to leave the city of Chin-
kiang, I saw in the neighbourhood, some distance off, a man
standing at the door of a tent, beating a drum to attract the
attention of the crowd, and inviting the people to come in
and admire an extraordinary object. I sent one of my military
officers to see what it was and report to me. He returned with
a picture of an animal, which I recognised to be the T'o. I im-
mediately bought this Alligator for ten taels of silver and con-
veyed it to Chiao-shan in my assistant's boat. Later on, (at
leisure) I gave orders to have it set at liberty in the great River
(the Yang-Tsze-Kiang). But as the animal was continually
returning to the Island, I had it placed in the pond called
Fang sheng chih; that is:-Pond for the liberation of
animals. It seemed delighted with its new place and disap
peared (in the mud). I then composed a piece of poetry in its
honour and showed it to the Abbot of the monastery. It runs
as follows:-
In the vast seas was once an old Alligator. It possessed a
square head and four feet like a dragon. Its back was marked
like that of an immense tortoise. This animal was evidently
of the dragon family. It could fly through the air, the clouds,
the mists and fogs. Alas, by an accident it lost its liberty, and

鼉放山焦

became t
pity at it
I was the
I took it
Mountai
and orn
Tu pu.
the spin
to have
whose
place,
deposi
first
Swam
ming
light
wher
the
pro

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
36c
became the laughing stock of a little child. Being moved with
pity at its miserable condition, I bought it for a thousand cash.
I was then making a tour on the great Yang-Tsze-Kiang. Still,
I took it with me to the place called Kua pu. On the Golden
Mountain stands an old monastery, whose numerous buildings
and ornamented temples are rendered famous by the tomb of
Ta pa. Knowing well for a fact, as old records will prove, that
the spirit of the brute was that of King tu, I resolved at once
to have it set at liberty, on the very tomb of the great man
whose spirit it possessed. Badly directed, I could not find the
place, so I took it with me to the Island of Chiao shan, where I
deposited it in the midst of the waves. The animal looked at
first much pleased and happy; but soon turning its head it
swam back to the jetty, now gliding on the waves, now swim-
ming with great vigour. Having placed it again in a small and
light boat, I reached the Elephant Hill, on the opposite shore,.
where I placed it once more in the midst of the waters. From
the very moment of its new liberation, towards the Silver
Island it directed its way. Some one said that it had been
probably weakened and that it could not contend with the
mighty stream. Another one explained that the spirit of the
man, with which it was possessed, was evidently anxious to go.
and rest on the hill of the sacred spirits. Although the Bud-
dhist priests pretend to know all things, the head of all of them,
the wise and old Abbot could not account for it or give an ex-
planation. I had the brute placed in the pond of liberation,
where it soon found shelter in the muddy bottom, feeling happy
and at home I have not a doubt. This charitable deed, I per-
formed with great hope of bringing good luck to my future
career. And another song was made, rhyming with mine, by
two of the Buddhist priests of the sacred shrine. Two learned
students from two different places wrote also a long memorial
telling of the circumstances. Four other litterati from four
distinct cities engraved a perfect picture of the Alligator on a
large stone tablet on which they also wrote that Mr. Lin of
Chang pai set free the Alligator at this place. This monument
can be seen on the bank of the pond.
II-FOREIGN LITERATURE.
Having also heard from my friend Doctor Bretschneider of
Peking that a mention of Caimans as existing in Corea was

36d
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
made in an old book called "Histoire des naufrages," I search-
ed for it in the libraries at my disposal. I found that a certain
Dutchman by name H. Hamel von Gorcum had written a book
on Corea under the title:
"Journael van de ongelukige Voyagie von t'Jacht de Sperwer
"gedestineert na Tayovan in t'jaar 1653, hoc t'selve Jacht op
"t'Quilpaarts Eyland is gestrant: als made een pertinente
"beschryvinger der Landen, Provintien, Staten ende Forten
"leggende in t'Coningryk Coree. Rotterdam 1668, 4to."
That is Journal of the unfortunate voyage of the yacht
"The Hawk" destined for Formosa, how the same yacht was
stranded on Quelpaert Island, with a pertinent description of
the countries, provinces, towns and forts in the Kingdom of
Corea."
This book, of which a French edition is also known (Paris
1670, 12mo.) I could not find, but I was able to read the
French translation in the "Recueil des voyages au Nord, con-
tenant divers Mémoires très utiles au commerce et à la naviga-
tion, Amsterdam," Jean Fréderic Bernard, 8 vols. 12mo. 1782
and other dates, which is in the Library of the North-China
Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society.
In the fourth volume, pages 310-311, we read:
"Nous n'y avons point vu d'éléfans, mais on y voit des Kay-
mans ou crocodiles de différente grandeur, qui se tiennent dans
les rivières. Leur dos est à l'épreuve du mousquet, mais ils
ont la peau fort tendre sous le ventre. Il s'en trouve qui ont
dix-huit à vingt aunes de long, la tête large, le groin de pour-
ceau, la gueule fendue jusqu'aux oreilles, l'oeil perçant, mais
fort petit, les dents blanches et fortes, rangées comme celles
d'un peigne. Ils ne remuent en mangeant que la machoire
d'en haut. L'épine du dos de cet animal a soixante vertèbres,
et il a de longues griffes aux pieds, sa queue est aussi longue
que le reste de son corps. Ils mangent également la viande, et
le poisson, et sont friands de chair humaine: les Corésiens
nous ont souvent dit qu'on avait trouvé une fois trois petits
enfants dans le ventre de l'un de ces crocodiles." Now this
Hamel von Gorcum was a man of some education, being the
secretary of the ship. Made prisoner after the wreck of his
ship with the fifteen sailors who had not perished (August
1653) he was taken to the mainland of Corea where he was
kept in captivity, first in the capital then in the southern districts,
and had ample opportunities of studying the country. With
,seven of his companions he, at last managed to seize a native
,fishing junk and reached Nagasaki where he found his com-

ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
96e
patriots after a captivity of thirteen years and twenty eight
days (1652 to 1666). With the exception of some letters from
the Roman Catholic missionaries which can be read in "L'his-
toire de l'Eglise de Corée par Ch. Dallet, 2 vol., Paris 1874,"
this is the only reliable description of Corea we possess from
foreign sources. I searched through this last book, but could
not find any mention of the Caïmans amongst the productions
of the country therein described.
However, Monseigneur Ridel, the well-known bishop of Corea,
who has resided many years in the country and has just escaped
for the second time from the prisons of this unhospitable land,
tells me that he has often heard the Coreans speak of a huge
kind of lizard living in the rivers. It is fond of coming out on
the banks to bask in the sun's rays. He has also read of these
large saurians in Corean books, but he does not remember that
any of his missionaries, of whom five are still in the country,
have seen them. Not having his books with him he was un-
able to give me the Corean names and characters by which
these animals are known.
It would be exceedingly interesting to find out what kind of
Alligators these are. Judging from the high latitude in which
they are found they probably belong to the same species as the
one here described. Though they have not yet been found in
Japan it is not impossible that they should be discovered there
one day, and, if so, it would not be perhaps too wild a theory
to suppose that North-Eastern Asia and North-Western America
have been connected at some very ancient period. This theory
could also be supported on other grounds. For instance, some
of our Chinese Unionidæ are also found in Northern America,
and some rare birds, plants and animals are also common to
both countries.*
III. NATURAL HISTORY.
In Wallace's "Geographical distribution of animals, 2 vols.,
London, 1871." Vol. II., page 406 we find:
"Alligatorid, 1 genus, 10 species.-The Alligators which
are distinguished by having both the large front teeth and the
canines fitting into pits of the upper jaw, are confined to the
Some people even pretend to find an ethnological connection between
the Red Indians and the Chinese.

36f
ALLIGATORS IN CHINA.
Neotropical and southern part of the Neartic regions from the
lower Mississippi and Texas through all tropical America, but
they appear to be absent from the Antilles. They are all placed
by Günther in the single genus Alligator."
This book is the latest authority on the subject so we are
now sure that up to now Alligators were unknown in the old
continent.
Now, one of our Roman Catholic missionaries, Reverend
Father Seckinger tells me that Alligators are quite common in
his district (Ning kuo fu, Wuhu, Chinkiang). Children play
with the young ones and larger specimens are captured in a
long and narrow box. They are then killed, and the skin, with
head attached, is sold for medicine. The local name for them
is Tu Lung i.e. Earth Dragon.
In conclusion I may state that the specimen sent to the
Paris museum arrived in good order. I have just received a
letter from the learned director, Mr. Fremy, who considers the
animal as a new and exceedingly interesting species for which
the name proposed by me of Alligator Sinensis (Chinese Alligator)
has been accepted.