ARTICLE III.
SIAMESE COINAGE.
BY JOSEPH HAAS.
The country known to us as Siam is by the natives called
Muang Thai (Kingdom of the free). Its ancient name was
Sajam (tawny race), whence that of Siam has been derived.
Beyond the scanty and somewhat mythical information which
is to be found in the collection of the sacred books of the Thai,
called Trai-pidok i.e. the three vehicles by which we have to
traverse the great Ocean of this world, little is known of the
ancient history of Siam.
The collection above referred to is divided into three series:
viz., p'ra-vinai (rules), p'ra-sut (sermons and histories) and p'ra
baramat (philosophy). It forms a total of 402 works in 8688
volumes. These are written in the Pali language, but a great
many of them were translated into Siamese.
Some contribution to the knowledge of the ancient history of
Siam may also be gained in searching the Annals of the country
which are divided into two parts: the first, in 3 volumes,
entitled Phongsavada-Muanguua, or History of the Northern
Kingdom, gives the origin of the Thai, but is also full of fables
and myths. The second part Phongsavada-Muang Thai, His-
tory of the Kingdom of Thai, or as it is called officially Phong-
savada-Sajama Rahcha, History of the Siamese Kings, in 40
volumes, begins with the foundation of Ayuthia, and carries us
down to the present time.
When we consider that Siam is almost the equal of China on
the scale of civilisation and that she even boasts of a more per-
feet system of coinage than her sister country, this paucity of
numismatic records is remarkable.
Some time ago our Honorary Member, Marques A. Pereira,
Consul General of Portugal in Siam, in a pamphlet, produced
some valuable, but unfortunately incomplete, notes upon the
subject; and to this source I am indebted for information regard-
ing the stamps on the former Siamese coins. I have also con-
sulted with advantage the "Siam Directory," compiled by Mr.
Moedas de Siam por Marques A. Pereira-1879-Lisboa-8vo. 30 pag.

36
BIAMESE COINAGE.
Samuel J. Smith, for the chronological table of the Kings of
Siam.
With the knowledge obtained from these various sources,
together with the results of personal investigations during my
recent visit at Bangkok, which I may remark have not been
entirely fruitless, I make bold to appear before you with this
essay on Siamese coins,
As in the numismatics of every country, so also in that of
Siam the knowledge of her history is essential. Unfortunately,
however, the earlier history of Siam is shrouded in an almost im-
penetrable mythical veil, and only from the time that Ayuthia
was built we step into real historical facts.-We are informed
that the original capital of Siam was Sangkalok, then Picheluk,
and at last Ayuthia, which was built in the Chula Era 712, cor-
responding with A.D. 1350. With this era we commence our
chronological tables-extending over the last 600 years.
The Siamese distinguish two eras, either of which is mention-
ed when quoting dates, namely, the sacred and the civil era.
The former is called P'utt'a-sakaraht (or Buddha's era), and is
reckoned from the reported death of Buddha. At the full moon
of the sixth Siamese lunation, i.e. April 23rd, 1880, the era will
have closed its 2423rd year. It antecedes the Christian era 548
years, and as the term given it implies, its application is entirely
confined to religious matters. Every time a Siamese priest reads
or recites one of his homilies, he is very particular to state the
number of year Buddhism has existed up to date, and how long
it will continue to exist, which Buddhists believe will be 2577
years after the date above mentioned.
The other is the Civil era, or the Chula-sakaraht. It begins
from the time when King P'ra Ruang established it in A. D.
638. On the last day of the fourth Siamese lunation, ie. March.
10th, 1880, it will close its 1241st year, thus corresponding with
the 638th year of Christian era.
Some events in Siam's history before Ayuthia was built, say about
500 B.C.-Bathamarat a grand son of Sachanalai and Sithimong-
khon built the city of Savan-thevalok, or Sangkalok, and there-
upon ho was proclaimed King. In short succession three more
cities sprang up under his creation: viz., Haripunchai, Kam-
phochana, and Phetchabun, and each received as King one of his
sons, of whom he had Sokha-kuman, Thama-kuman, and Singha-
kuman.
This dynasty flourished for abont 500 years, during which
period no mention is made of troubles or wars in the country.

SIAMESE COINAGE.
87
About the year 950 of the era of P'ra-khodom there reigned at
Haripunchai the King Ap'ajakha Muni whose son Arunnarat by
marriage was elevated to the throne of Sangkalok under the
name of P'ra Ruang.
At this time the country of the Sajam was under the rule of
the King of Kamphocha-Nakhon who gradually drifted into the
vasallage of Pira Ruang. When the latter monarch attained the
fiftieth year of his age he established the Civil era or Chula-
sakaraht. His reign is also marked by the first clash of arms
with China; and here also we hear of the first settlement of Chi-
nese in Siam.-
The succsssion fell to his son P'raja Sucharat, during his reign
great wars were raging between the Thai and the Lao.
Then Thama-Trai-Pidok builds the city Phitsanulok, makes
Chao-Kraison, one of his sons, King of Lophaburi, and the other
one Chat Sakhon, King of Chieng-mai.
Khota-Thevarat takes refuge at the borders of the Menam,
and Praga-Krek ascends the throne.
Pira-Chao-Uthong builds on an island the city Krung-Thep-
Maha-Nakhon-Si-Ajuthaya which becomes afterwards famous
under the name of Ayuthia.
THE KINGS OF SIAM.
FROM THE TIME THE OLD CAPITAL AYUTHIA WAS BUILT.
Name.
1st Dynasty.
Chula Ascension
Era.
A.D.
Lenght of
Reign.
1.-Sómdëtch P'ra Rahmah Ti
baudee 1st
2. Sómdëtch P'ra Ràhme-súan
1st, son of the 1st and King
of Lophaburi .....
8.-Sómdetch Pira Boroma-Rah-
ch'ah Tiraht, brother of
the 2nd
Years. Ms. Days.
712
1850 20
-
I
-
732
1370 1
I
732 1371
13
-
4.–Chóu-Oö, Tuang làn, son
of
the 3rd....
744 1383
I I
7

98
Name.
SIAMESE COINAGE.
Chula Ascension
Era.
A.D.
Length of
Reign.
Years. Ms. Days.
5.-Sómdëtch P'ra Rahme-súan,
the 2nd, assassinated the 4th,
his brother
6.-Sómdëtch
P'rayah Pra
• Ràhm, son of the 5th......
7-Sómdötch P'ra Nak'aun In...
8.-Sómdetch Pira Boroma Rah-
ch'ah Tiraht, son of the 7th
9.-Sómdötch P'ra Boroma Trai
Lohkanáht, son of the 8th.
10.-Sómdötch Pira Boroma Rah-
ch'ah, son of the 9th......
11.-Sómdütch P'ra Rahmah Ti
baudee, tho 2nd, son of the
10th.....
12.-Sómdëtch P'ra Boroma Rah-
ch'ah Maháh Pat-t'ang
son of the 11th....
13. P'ra Ratsat'a T'irath, son of
the 12th, 5 years old....
14.-Sómdëtch Prá Ch'ai Rah-
ch'ah Tiraht, son of the
12th........
......
15. P'ra Yáut Fah, son of the
14th, aged 11 years.......
His mother Si-Suda-Shan,
was Regent of the kingdom.
Her lover Kun Wara-
wongsáh T'iraht slew the
15th king and usurped the
throne, reigning only 5
months. Being an usurper,
his name is not allowed to
appear in the annals of the
Siamese Kings. He was
assassinated by K'un Pi
rena-t'ep. The high digni-
taries of the kingdom then
744 3188
16
-
759
1398
5
763
1402
18
-
780
1419
17
796 1485
16
-
811
1450
22
I II I I
| ||
|
||
1
832 1471
1471 40
871
1510
875
1514
-
875 1514
ст
1514 15
889 1528 21
-
-
ст
I
I
| I
-

Name.
SIAMESE COINAGE.
39
Chula Ascension
Era.
A.D.
Length of
Reign.
Years.
Ms. Days.
1.
I
I
I
1.
I J
placed on the throne Pira
T'cean Rahch'ah, an uncle
of the late king. His name
was
16.-Sómdötch Maháh Chakra-
p'atdi Rahch'ah T'iraht... 891
17.-Somdetch P'ra Mahint'a Rah-
ch'ah Tiraht, son of the
16th....
The capital of the kingdom
was taken in 918 by the
King of Kóngsáh-wadee or
Pegu.
18.-Sómdëtch P'ra Maháh T'ama
Rahch'ah T'iraht...........
19.-Sómdětch P'ra Nare-súan,
son of the 18th
20.-Sómdötch P'ra-Ekah-Totsa-
rot, a younger brother of
the 19th
21.-Chóu Fah Sri-sawa-p'ahk,
son of the 20th,
called the "one-eyed," suc-
combed to a conspiracy.
Here closes the dynasty of
Sómdetch Pra Rahmah
Tibaudce, comprising 21
different kings and one
usurper.
2nd Dynasty.
22.-P'ra Chóu Song T'am, uncle
of the 21st
acquired a great name by
his pretended discovery of
Buddha's footprint at Pra-
baht.
1530
27
27
917 1556
1
918
1557 28
940 1579 6
945 1584 19
964
1603
11
964 1603 26
I

40
Name.
SIAMESE COINAGE.
Chula
Era.
Ascension
A.D.
Length of
Reign.
Years.
Ms. Days.
23.-P'ra Ch'etáh Tiraht Otarot,
an elder brother of the
22nd
The Prime Minister Chou
Praya Kalahome Sri-suri-
wrong assassinated the 23rd
and placed on the throne.
24. P'ra Aht'itaya-wong, a bro-
ther of the 23rd, 9 years
old..........
Here ends this dynasty of 3
reigns, the 2nd and 3rd of
which, however, were mere-
ly nominal, the power be-
ing actually held by Prayal
Suriwong, the Prime Minis-
ter.
3rd Dynasty.
The former king was driven
from the throne by the Siamese
Nobles and Lords, and his place
filled by the Prime Minister above-
mentioned, who assumed the title
of
989 1628
1 7
-
992 1630
25.-P'ra Chóu Prasäht T'aung... 992 1630
26. Choú Fah Ch'ai, son of the
25th.......
27.-P'ra Sri-sut'ama Rahch'ah,
1017 1655
killed his nephew, the 26th 1018 1656
28.-Sómdëtch P'ra Narai, son of
26
92
the 25th, killed the 27th... 1018 1656 82
under his reign Constantin
Falcon, a native of the
Jonian island Cophalonia,
originally a sailor, becomes
Prime Minister. Christian-
ity makes rapid spread,
5
|
-
9
231
-

Name.
SIAMESE COINAGE.
Chula Ascension
Era.
A.D.
Length of
Reign.
41
and foreign factories are
established in Siam; a
great development of trade
between Siam and foreign
countries takes place and
several embassies between
France and Siam are sent
and received.
29.-P'ra P'et Rahch'ah
is called an usurper, and is
not allowed to rank with
the legitimate kings.-
Constantin Falcon becomes
the victim of his murderous
designs, and all the seeds
of civilisation introduced
by his predecessor are root-
ed out. Notwithstanding,
this sovereign sends an em-
bassy to France.
30.-P'ra P'utt'a Chóu Tu'a, son
of the 28th
31.—Pra Chóu Yu Hua Túi Sai,
son of the 30th......
1050 1688
Years. Ms. Days.
6
1059
1697
10
-
1069
1707 26
1732 26
-
1120 1758
32. P'ra Chóu Yü Hua Boroma-
Koht, brother of the 31st... 1094
33.-Choù Fah Däuk-madü'a, son
of the 32nd
Taking to the vocation of
Buddhist priest abdicates in
favour of his brother
34.-P'ra Choú T'inang Suriya
Marintara....
with him ends the dynasty
of Prasäht Taung, repre-
sented by 9 kings, the
usurper being excluded.
The reigns of the above named
1120 1758
1
6
1119
| |
I
I
-
10

42
Name.
SIAMESE COINAGE.
Chula Ascension
Era.
A.D.
Length of
Reign.
34 kings extend in the
aggregate over a period of
417 years, so that on an
average 123 may be coun-
ted to each.
In 1767 the Burmese plun-
dered and looted the capital,
after a siege of two years,
and carried away many
captives. The king suc-
ceeded to escape from
Ayuthia, but, finally aban
doned by everyone, he lost
himself in the forests, and
there died of hunger and
misery.
The chief of the Siamese
army Prayah Tahk rallied
the Siamese at Tonaburee
(now the site of H. R. H.
Toon Kramäum Ong Yai's
place), where he built the
city of Bangkok, and reign-
ed as the
'
35.-King Pirayah Talk-sin... 1129
This is one of Siam's
most glorious reigns on re-
cord. Towards its end,
however, the king became
insane-through poison, it
is supposed, administered to
him by jealous statesmen.
He spent the eve of his
life in a Buddhistic monas-
tery and there ended, as-
sassinated by his successor.
Years. Ms. Days.
1767 15

Name.
SIAMESE COINAGE.
Chula Ascension
Era. A.D.
Length of
Reign.
43
Years. Ms. Days.
The 4th and present Dynasty.
The Prime Minister, also a
General of great celebrity
under Prayah Talk-sin as-
cended the throne under
the name of
36.-Sómdetch P'ra Boroma Rah-
ch'ah P'ra Putt'a Yaut
Fah....
87.-P'ra Putt'a Lo't-láb, son of
1144 1782 27
the 36th .....
1171
1809 15
-
38.-P'rabaht Sómdëtch P'ra Nang
III
III
Klów, son of the 37th...... 1186 1824 27
39.-P'rabaht Sómdëtch P'ra Pa
ramendr Maháh-mongkut,
brother of the 38th......... 1213
1213 1851
17
40.-P'rabaht Sómdëtch P'ra Pa-
ramendr Maháh Chulah-
long-korn Klów, the pre-
sent king, son of the 39th.. 1230 1868 12
I
I
-

44
SIAMESE COINAGE.
These chronological tables, with the addition of some of the
most important events, may be said to give us a fair general
outline of the history of the country, in which we are thus
enabled to distinguish two prominent and important Epochs:
viz., one from the time the old city Ayuthia was built, A.D.
1850, up to the time of its destruction by the Burmese, A.D.
1767, and the second, or new epoch, beginning with the rise of
the city of Bangkok, as the Capital of Siam, or say A.D. 1782, to
the present time.
Proceeding to the next and important subject, that relating
to the description of Siamese money, I append the following
table:-
Name of
Money.
Bi'ah
Description.
-
Sea shells, known as
the cowry,
existed
previous to and during
the reign of the 38th
king, 1824-50. Their
value varied according
to the supply in the
market, sometimes
there would be 1,500
Bi'ah to a Fu'ang, and
at other times more
or less. The legal
value fixed by the Go-
vernment was 800
make.
Bi'ah for one Fu'ang. 50 Bi'ah......1 Solot
Solot. Copper ...
At..........
ditto...
See-o or Pai ditto...
Seek.......
ditto...
2 Solots
1 At
2 At1 See-o or Pai
200-450 Bi'ah 1 ditto.
2 See-o or Pai1 Seek
2 Seel
1 Fu'ang
1 Seek
32 Saga or red
beans
Fu'ang...$0.075,
2 Fu'ang1 Salu'ng
=$0.075, Silver 2 Fu'ang..

ال
SIAMESE COINANE.
45
Name of
Money.
Salu'ng
...
Tical
Description.
8 0.15, do. -the
equivalent of one Chi-
nese Tael, so that 5
Siamese equal 8 Chi-
nese Taels...
Since the last reign-
$0.60, or 5 Ticals are
equivalent to 3 Mexi-
Make.
4 Salu'ng......1 Baht or Tical
can Dollars-Silver. 4 Baht or Tical 1 Tamlu'ng
Tamlu'ng...$2.40, Silver ... 20 Tamlung or
Chang
=$48, but this deno-
mination only repre-
sents a weight; the
same with the two
following. The Chang
is equivalent to two
Chinese Catties, or 23
English pounds
Hahp
=$2,400
Parah $240,000
80 Baht ...1 Chang
50 Chang......1 Hahp
100 Hahp 1 Pakrah

1 Chang
=20 Tamlu'ng 80 Tical 320 Salu'ng =640 Fu'ang
=1280 Songpei=2560 Pai
=5120 At
1 Tamlu'ng
= 4 Tical = 16 Salu'ng
= 32 Fu'ang
=
64 Songpei=128 Pai
= 256 At
1 Tical =
4 Salu'ng
=
8 Fu'ang
=
16 Songpei=
32 Pai
=
64 At
46
SIAMESE COINAGE.
The above table condensed gives the following schedule, viz :-
1 Salu'ng
==
2 Fu'ang
4 Songpei=
8 Pai
16 At
1 Fu'ang
2 Songpei
4 Pai
8 At
1 Songpe
2 Pai
4 At
1 Pai
==
2 At

SIAMESE COINAGE.
47
It will be seen from the foregoing tables that the denomina-
tion of the coin determining the weight thereby indicates the
value, and such is the case with most coins of East Asiatic
countries.
The Siamese standard of weight is double that of the Chinese.
The equivalents of Siamese weights are:
4 Ticals make 1 Tael,
20 Tael
دو
1 Catty 2 lbs. 9 oz. 44 dwts. av.
=
50 Catties or 80 Tical make 1 Picul-129 lbs. av.
I have been unable to trace any coins from the first and second
dynasty, and it still remains an open question whether such
existed.
The oldest coins, of which specimens remain, date from the
3rd dynasty (1630-1780) and were made at Ayuthia, then the
capital of the kingdom."
Until the reign of the 4th king of the present dynasty, silver
coins, with but one exception to which I shall refer latter on,
had the shape of bullets or that of a Buddhist wooden fish (*
Mu-yü.) It is not at all unlikely that the Cowry Shell, the original
medium of exchange in the country, suggested the adoption of
of that odd shape.
The black appearance of some of the oldest coins is caused by
the frequent practice that prevailed among the people in times of
war, especially so during the invasion of the Burmese in 1787
-of burying their treasures in the earth which is said to be im-
pregnated with sulphur.
The exception above mentioned occurred during the reign of
the 2nd king of the present dynasty, when the Fu'angs were
made flat and round.
The former or bullet-shaped coins bear two impressions (Kra,
stamps), the upper one represents a "wheel" or a "star" and
is the stamp of the mint, while the lower one represents the
stamp of the reigning king.
Although the names of some of these stamps are known, it is
impossible to deduce therefrom the year of their mintage.
The stamps (Kra) indicating the reign of the different kings
are classified as follows:-
I. COINS OF AYUTHIA.
Kra-Chang, the "Elephant " Stamp;
Kra-Bet, the "Fish-hook " Stamp;

48
SIAMESE COINAGE.
Kra-Dockmei, the "Flower" (Lotus)
Stamp;
Kra-Kri, the "Three-pronged Spear" Stamp, called also
Kra-Son, "Fork" Stamp, which originates from the
reign of Pirayal Takk-sin the regenerator of Siam
and the founder of Bangkok.
II. PRESENT DYNASTY.
1st King.
Kra-Bua, the "Lotus Flower" Stamp;
Kra-Chak, the "Sling" Stamp.
2nd King.
Kra-Krut ok-san, the "Large King of Birds " Stamp;
Kra-Krut ok-yau, the "Small King of Birds" Stamp.
3rd King.
Kra-Keng, the "Royal Pavilion" Stamp;
Kra?
THIT
4th King.
Kra-Kunto, the "Gobblet" Stamp;
Kra-Mongkut, the "Crown" Stamp.
Besides the above mentioned flat silver-coins, made during the
reign of the second king, others of the same shape, for general
circulation, were issued for the first time by order of the 4th

SIAMESE COINAGE.
49
king of the present dynasty in two different coinages; on the
first the avers shows the Royal crown between two Parassols,
(Seal of the First King, representing the Royal crown and the
Parassols), and the reverse bears an elephant within the crest;
the second coinage is of the same design, but is of a superior
workmanship. These coins were made also at the beginning of
the reign of the present (5th) king, while under the tutelage of
the Regent.
I have next to review the present coinage which is superior to
anything of the kind yet produced in Siam. This marked
progress, however, is principally due to the dies having been

50
SIAMESE COINAGE.
made in London. With the silver coin the obverse bears the
portrait of the young king, the reverse the Siamese Arms, and
for the first time we see a Siamese coin with an inscription and
a properly milled border.
M
PRINTS
For general use minting is at present confined to silver and
copper coins; of the former there are pieces of the value of 1
Tical, 1 Salu'ng, and 1 Fu'ang; of copper coins: pieces of 4, 2, 1,
and At.
Gold is only coined for the King, who on great state occasions,
such as cremation-ceremonies, coronation etc., distributes gold
coins together with silver coins of 4 and 2 Tical, 2 Salu'ng,
Songpei, Pei and At;-the former are therefore rare and highly
prized by the people. In other respects the gold coin does not
differ from that of silver and copper, it bears the same stamp and
is named after its weight.
The value of coined gold is fixed at 16 times its weight in silver.
The Kingdom of Siam has at present one Mint where coins of
precious metals are made, namely at Bangkok. Siam has a
number of gold mines, those at Bang-tapahn, "are said to
contain the very purest gold of the country. Most of the nativo
gold of Siam is used in manufacturing those gold vases, water
gobblets, teapots, cigar boxes, and other costly utensils, which
the Kings of Siam usually present to the distinguished men
whom they honour with high official positions. A considerable
amount of gold leaf is impórted from China mostly to bo
manufactured into jewelry."
"Heretofore the Siamese have not known that silver could be
obtained from their many and varied mines in the country. They
depended entirely on Foreign silver or silver money which theo
Siamese Government remelted and then manufactured into
Ticals, Salu'ngs and Fu'angs."
The export trade of the country is greatly in excess of the im-
port trade, and foreign merchants must import foreign coin to

SIAMESE COINAGE.
51
effect their purchases. To this drawback was added the unwill-
ingness of the people to accept foreign coins in payment for their
commodities; hence the importer of such coin had to apply
to the Government to effect an exchange for native money.
Supposing Dollars were presented at the Mint, they were passed
over the fire sufficiently to obliterate all marks of their origin
and then a Siamese Mint officer placed 80 Ticals of a given
weight on the scales and received in exchange the same weight
of defaced Dollars-less 4 Ticals Mintage money. When the
Siamese mint people remelted these Dollars, they added lead
enough to make up for any loss that might result from remelt-
ing.
This was the usual method for exchanging Dollars for Ticals
till the reign of H. M. Sómdëtch P'ra Chaun Klow, the late
King. He established the standard of 5 Ticals to 3 Mexican
Dollars, and ever since importers exchange their "Mexicans"
without difficulty. The mint officers fire the dollars, and if
found genuine, five silver Ticals are given for every three Dollars
without any further loss of time.
The fineness of the precious metals is expressed as in China
by toques or touches, 100 denoting purity. They are weighed
by the Tical of 236 grs. troy. The new Tical is to be of the
standard purity. Its intrinsic value is about 57 cents or from
29d to 30d; formerly its purity was from 11 oz. 4 dwts. to 11 oz.
12 dwts. fineness.
As already mentioned the small sea-shells, known as the
Cowry, were formerly used as Small-Currency, and still are in
some provinces of the Kingdom, generally 800 of them go to a
Fu'ang. Owing to the total want of a governmental small coinage
of suitable shape, they grew into great demand, which was
further enhanced by the special requirement of the gambling
class.
In the same way as opium, salt, and several other mercantile
articles form Government monopolies, which are yearly given
over to the highest bidders, so are the public lotteries and the
establishing of gambling houses farmed out by the authorities.
The farmer of these houses devides the region over which he
holds the monopoly, into districts, and subfarms these again to
others. These sub-farmers, called "Akuhns," are mostly owners
of one or two more houses specially adapted to their business,
and are also entitled to sublet such houses or parts therein ad
libitum for gambling purposes. Consequently gambling in Siam
is confined to licensed houses, except when a general permission

52
SIAMESE COINAGE.
to gamble is in force during the first three days of the Chinese
and Siamese new year.
The method of gambling in Siam is the same as in China-
Archdeacon S. H. Gray in his excellent and learned work
"China" describes the gambling as follows:-
"Gaming houses are of various kinds. Those which are
called Tan-koon are conducted by a joint-stock company, consist-
ing either of ten or twenty partners. Such houses consist of two
apartments. In the first of these is a high .table, on the centre
of which is placed a small square board. The four sides of the
board are marked respectively one, two, three and four. For
the game played in this apartment the presence of three of the
partners is necessary, The first is called Tan-koon or the
croupier; the second the Tai-n'gan, or shroff, who sits by the
side of the former, with his tables, scales, and money drawers,
to examine and weigh the money which may be staked; and the
third, the Ho-koon, who stands by the table, keeps account of
the game, and pays over the stakes to the rightful winners.
The gamblers stand round the high table, and the Tan-koon or
croupier, places a handful of cash on it before him. Over the
heap he immediately places a tin cover, so that the gamblers can-
not calculate the exact number of the cash. They are now
called upon to place their stakes at any of the sides of the
square board in the centre. When this has been done, the Tan-
koon removes the cover, and using a thin ivory rod a foot long,
proceeds to lessen his heap by drawing away four cash at a
time. Should one cash remain, the gambler who placed his
stake on the side of the small square board which is marked
one, is declared the winner. If two cash remain, he saves his
stake; and in the case of three remaining he is allowed the
same privilege. If, however, four cash remain, he loses his
stake. The game is called Ching-tow, and the gambler, as the
reader will perceive, has one chance of winning, two of retaining
his stake, and one of losing it."
"A second game played at the same table is called Nim. At
this game the gambler has one chance of winning double the
amount of his stake; two chances of losing it, and one of re-
taining it. Should he place his stake on the side of the board
marked two, and two cash remains, upon the Tan-koon removing
his heap by four at a time, his winnings are double the amount
of his stake. If three cash remain of the Tan-koon's heap, the
gambler retains his stake; if either one or four romain, ho loses.

SIAMESE COINANE.
53
A third game played at this table is called Fan. In it the
gambler has one chance of winning three times the amount of
his stake, and three chances of losing it. A fourth game at this
table is called Kok. The rule observed in it, is to place the
stake at one of the corners of the board, that is, between any two
of the numbers. Should the croupier's remainder correspond to
either of the number between which the stake is placed, the
gambler wins à sum equal to his stake. Should the remainder
correspond to one of the other two numbers, he loses."
In Siam gambling is practised on a large scale; not only is it
sanctioned by the authorities, but it actually forms a source of
revenue to the Government.
As gambling became more and more a recognised institution
the bullet-shaped small coins-Salu'ng and Fu'ang-were found
inconvenient to handle; namely, the gambler squating down
on an oblong mat, at one end of which the cashier or croupier
was seated in a kneeling attitude, the coin had often to be
thrown to a considerable distance to reach the croupier, and it
was very apt to roll off into a wrong direction. To remedy this
inconvenience the owners of gambling establishments introduced
special Counters, made of porcelain, glass, or lead, and representing
various shapes, such as stars, cash, butterflies, door-tablets, etc.,
and on which were inscribed, in Chinese characters, the name of
the Hong, the value, and some favorite motto or classical quotation,
and also in Siamese characters, again, the value which the
counter is suppose to represent. With very few exceptions
these gambling houses are farmed by Chinese and the majority
of the customers are of the same nationality.
Among the names of the gambling Hongs we find such as:-
王合公司,美利公司,和順公司,興隆公司如意公
司,順源,和記,永盛,玉記,和合,享,玉順王 順 宋源,
etc. I need hardly remark that the Chinese above alluded to
are from the Southern parts of China.
Examples of mottos are:-*,,, etc., of
other inscriptions: 一同治寶,萬利欽記 etc.
As designations of value there appear :-
For 1 Salu'ng or, in Siamese +
1 Fu'ang
"
in Do. gt
1 Songpei
"
"
1 Pai一派

54
For 1 At 百女
SIAMESE COINAGE.
"Songpeior, in Siamese g
These counters being issued under authority granted in the
gambling licence or concession, they rapidly became a favorite
medium of exchange, and were found to fill a long felt want of
small money so well, that the circulation went much beyond its
legal sphere.
Such a facile field for foreigners was, however, not long to be
left unexplored by the enterprising Celestials. Gradually a large
quantity of imitations were thrown into circulation, and in self-
defence, the gambling Hongs were compelled to call in and
exchange for money their counters, which they continually
substituted by new ones of varied colours and shapes.
In this way originated the great variety of counters consisting,
as far as I can ascertain, of about 890 different kinds. The con-
trol by the Government became naturally more and more
difficult, and at last in 1871, it became necessary to prohibit and
stop completely all circulation of these counters. They are how-
ever still to be seen in some parts of the country.
Even since the counters made their first appearance-about
in 1760-there existed in circulation some bronze coins of the
value of 1 Salu'ng and of 1 Fu'ang. They were made by hand,
and some of them are remarkable for the extremely artificial and
tasteful formed workmanship displayed thereon. But the quan-
tity issued was very limited and inadequate to the requirements.
During the reign of the 4th King of the present dynasty
small coins were made of copper, bronze, and tin, representing a
value of ' and 'Fu'ang. They were coined in the
same manner as the second issue of the flat silver coins. The
circulation of both the copper and bronze money was never very
large, while the tin cions, issued considerably below their
nominal value, were in consequence of the numerous forgeries
soon put out of circulation. Chinese residing in Siam ordered of
such coins from Hongkong, where they were manufactured on
an extensive scale, and thence exported to Siam.
Hereupon, in substitution of the tin coin, a great improve-
ment was introduced. Copper money was ordered to be minted
in England, first issue of which came in circulation under the
reign of the present King, in February, 1875.
It consisted of four different sizes:-viz 4, 2, 1, and At.-

SIAMESE COINAGE.
55
The obverse of the coin bears the Siamese Crown with the King's
signature and the reverso in Siamese characters the value.
ยาล
Bumans
តាក
อันเฟือง
E34
N
There is also to be mentioned here an issue of paper money,
which, however, remained but a short time in circulation. Its
value was one At.
To recapitulate:-During the first period, when AYUTHIA was the
Capital of the Kingdom, there were only silver coins with the first
mentioned stamps, while during the second period, with BANGKOк as
Capital, the flat coin took the place of the bullet-shaped one, and
after various trials, a small currency was successfully introduced.
II. TRIBUTARY STATES OF SIAM.
Siam is bounded in the North by the many principalities of the
Laos, all tributaries to Ava and China; on the East by Annam;
on the West by the sea and by the British Possessions on the
Malay Peninsula, and in the South by the small states of Pahang
and Perak.
The Tributary States of Siam are:-1, in the South:
the Kingdom of Ligor; 2, on the Malay Peninsula: Tringano,
Kalantan, Patani and Quedah, 3, Cambodja and Korat, and 4.,
the principalities of Laos, viz., Chieng-mai, Laphun, Lakhon,
Muang-P're, Muang-Nan, Luang-p'ra-bang and Muang-long.
The first, Ligor, called by the Siamese Muang-Lakhon, but the
correct name of which is Nakhon-si Thamarat, is a Kingdom,
founded by one of the Kings of Ayuthia, 450 years ago. It is
situated between the parallels of latitude 7° and 9°, and is fifty
leagues long and over thirty wide, Thalung and Song-khla are
two provinces forming part of the Kingdom, and are governed
by two princes, relations of the King of Ligor. The populations
of Ligor may be estimated at 150,000 inhabitants, of which three

56
SIAMESE COINAGE.
fourths are of the Siamese race, and the remaining portion is
composed of Chinese, Malays, and aborigenes, which latter live
in the forests.
1.-COINS OF LIGOR (LAKHON).
1.-Fu'ang of old origin, now only used as talisman, in the
globular shape, bears only one stamp, which is, however, in-
distinct.
2.-Pewter Picki (1256-1840/1) with the Arabian inscrip.
tion: Khalifa el mumenia (Ruler of the believers), the Reverse
bears also in Arabian: Shehr Ligur derba (?) sene 184 (City
of Ligor, in the year 1256 ?)-283 mlm.-on both sides it has
a walled border and a hole.
3.-Pewter Cash of which about 40 are equal to $1,-of the
former Governor, the Obverse bears: the Reverse;
-40 mlm.-both sides have a walled border and a
hole.
4.-Pewter Cash, of which about 40 equal to $1- of the
present Governor; the Obverse same as above, the Reverse:
M-40 mlm.-both sides have a walled border and a hole.
Song-khla (Singgora, Sangura.)
Pewter Caab, of which 400 are equal to $1-1 Fu'ang-bears
a Chinese inscription:
T, coin of the epoch Chen
hsing. Its Reverse bears in Arabian, above: Nagri (Kingdom),
below: Sanggura, and in Siamese 4/3, Song-khla,-39-41mlm;
it has a round hole and a walled border and hole.
振
通
V617
2. THE OTHER STATES OF THE MALAY PENINSULA.
Before the Portuguese took possession of Malacca the sove
reignity of Siam extended over the whole Malay Peninsula, as

SIAMESE COINAGE.
57
far as Singapore. The states of Johore, Pahang and Peral,
were subsequently severed from the dominions of the legitimate
sovereign, and placed under British Protectorate, so that the
Kingdom of Siam, properly speaking, only begins from T'ringano
-being situated between the parallels of 4° aud 22° of north
latitude.
These provinces are administered by native governors, who are
nominated by the King of Siam, and who hold the, power to coin
small money and to fix its value within their respective province
over which they rule. This prerogative is exercised by all pro.
vincial administrators of Tringano. But further south the chief
currency is the copper coin of the Straits Settlements. On the
West coast, whereas formerly the governors issued their own
money, we find at the present day Indian money (Rapees, Anas)
circulating freely. The currency differs in every province and
its denomination is fixed by the prerogative of the Governor.
The larger coins found on the Eastern part of the Peninsula are
the Mexican Dollars and the Dutch 2 Gilders-pieces, which
both pass at the same value. In the interior of the province of
Kalantan the only means of effecting payment is in gold-dust.
The state of Tringano, situated in latitude 14 North, is a
mountainous, but fertile country, wherein vast forests abound.
Its population is placed at about 50,000, not including 10 or
12,000 Chinese. The river beds are said to be rich in gold and
tin, which is mostly exploited by the Malays in the most primi-
tive way, but the yield is sufficient to make it an important
article of commerce in the country.
The city of Tringano, the residence of the Rajah, consists of
some 1,500 houses, including Chinese quarters, is situated at the
mouth of a small river, and an unpretending fort commands the
approaches to it from a neighbouring hill.
Coins:
1.-Silver-Real-bears an Arabian inscription: Soltha-
the Reverse is also inscribed in Arabian: Adil (Shah)-13 mlm.
both sides bear a dotted circle.
2.-Powter-Pichi-has an Arabian inscription: Melik jel
adil..... (the just king) 24 mlm.
8.-Copper-Kepeng (1/400 Peso, 1251-1885/6)-Arabian:
Nagri /Tringganu/; the reverse bears also Arabian inscription:
Satu Kepengl DI (1/one Kepeng/1251) 21 mlm.
The state of Kalantan is situated in the north-east of Tringano,
from which it is separated by the small river Batut, and extends
to another river called Banara on the confines of Pa-ta-ni.

58
SIAMESE COINAGE.
The population, including the Chinese, consists of 65,000 souls.
The country is divided into fifty destricts.
Pewter Cash of which there are 980 to $1 bears an Arabian
inscription which, however, is so effaced as to render its decipher-
ing on all the specimens in my collection, next to impossible-
25 mlm., has a round hole, and a walled border.
Thani or Patani, situated to the North-west of Kalantan, is &
rich and flourishing state, more fertile, has had more intercourse
with the outside world than any other Malay state. It is cele-
brated in the annals of ancient navigators for having been the
emporium of commerce between Siam, Cambodjia, and China.
The population is computed to 100,000 souls, principally
Siamese, and the country is divided into five provinces.
Under this heading there is, as far as my knowledge goes,
only one coin, viz.
Pewter-Pichi (1261-1845) with Arabian inscription: Ajin Pitis
Belancha Rach Patani (this is a current Pitis of the Racha of
Patani.)-Reverse also in Arab. Khalifa el-mumenin sene 41
(of the ruler of believers, year 1261)-80 mlm-with a round hole.
Quedah, which the Siamese call Muang-Sai, lies between the
parallels of latitudes 5 and 7. A high range of mountains of a
granite formation, varying in hight from 4,000 to 6,000 feet,
and said to be rich in tin, separates it from Songkhla and Patani.
Gold is also found here but in small quantities.-The country is
irrigated by thirty rivers of which six are navigable, and, it is
divided into 105 districts containing a population of some 60,000
souls, chiefly Malays.
Sultan: Mohammed China Zeinal Aladin Ma Alem Shah.
(1192
1778 A.D.)
Silver Real-1154-1741/2-Arabian inscription; Face: Solthan
Mohammed (b) China (1) Khalifa er-nahmen (Sultan Mo-
hammed Chiwa, representative of Clemency). Reverse: Bibelad
Qedah Idar el man/ sene E (in the country of Kedah, the
sit of peace, year 1154) 21mlm.
Sultan: Tach ed-din Alem Shah.
(1219-1287 Hj.
1804-1821 A.D.)
(last Malay ruler, was dethroned by the Siamese in 1821, and
his kingdom incoporated to Siam, himself died 1846.)
Pewter Trah. Arabian inscription; Obverse: Belad Kedah
dar al-man (country of Kedah, the seat of peace)-Reverse:

Takin alif K
round hole.
SIAMESE COINAGE.
59
year, (of the cycle, Alif, 1224); 22+ mlm.
Tuanku Anum, Malay Governor of the Siamese.
Pewter Trah. Arabian inscription: Belad Kedah (dar) el-man
(country of Kedah, the seat of peace)-Reverse: large six-rayed
star; 22 mlm; round hole.
Pewter Trak. Arabian inscription: Belandshah belad kedah
dar el-man (current in the country of Kedah, the seat of peace.)
-Reverse large 12 rayed star; 18 mlm; round hole.
IT
Pewter Trah (1262-1846). Arabian inscription: Belandshah
belad el-Perlis Kedah sene
(current, [in the capital] Perlis,
of the Kingdom of Kedah, year 1262.)-Reverse: Lotus flower;
24 mlm, round hole.
Pewter Timma. Cock standing on two rings. 43 mlm.
3.-SIAMESE CAMBODJIA.
Cambodjia, anciently known as Kamphuxa, whence it derived
the name of Cambodjin, is now called Khmer.
Not later than 300 years ago this was a great kingdom, as
compared with its present condition, then extending from 8°
30 to 20° N. lat. Its dominions comprised a great portion of
the territory now forming part of Laos and even Siam.
Harassed on all sides, by Siam and Cochinchina, Cambodjia
gradually lost one province after the other, and with them
vanished her grandeur and splendour. The kingdom now
embraces but few provinces which cover an area of only some
40 leagues, viz., Photisat or Poursat, Kampong-suai, Kampong-som,
and Kanpot; the last two of which border on the sea.
Korat, a small state, was in olden times but a city serving as
boundary between Siam and Cambodjia, whence it became the
name of Nakon-raha-sema (frontier city.)
From the province of Battambong (13° N. Lat., North of
Photisat) we possess an oval shaped copper coin, of small size,
covered with a poor silver coating; the face shows a cock
steping to the right, and over it the Chinese character [or,
to strenghten]; the reverse is blank; 15 mlm.-1,15 gr.-
Value: 64 to 1 Tical.
In the Northern provinces there is the Tical, being the
largest coin in circnlation, while in the Southern provinces
extensive payments are effected in silver bars which bear a
stamp as proof of having been examined and of the touch ;-
and brass bars in the value of 2 At take the place of small money.

60
SIAMESE COINAGE.
Other Cambodjian coins are :-
1.-Silver Fa'any-cock steping to the right, 13-16 mlm,
23, 70 gr.
2.-Copper At M below cock turned to the right, 14 mlm.
M+V
3.-Pewter-Pagoda with one tower: Cambodjian inscription
in two lines; Reverse: on branches 00 (100) 20 mlm.
4.-Silver Tical (1208-1846) 3-towered Pagoda with Cam-
bodjian inscription in 8 lines. Reverse: Cambodjian inscrip-
tion; cock turned to the right-Ayo (1208)-35 mlm.
14, 70 gr.
5.-Pewter (Ounce 8 Tical, 1208-1846) 5-towered Pagoda
with Cambodjian inscription in 8 lines.-Reverse: cock turned
to the right, inscription, at its feet (1208),-35 mlm. 14, 70 gr.
$5
53933
M.
MXG
29/7.8
6.-Silver Tical (1208-1840) 3 towered Pagoda with Cam-
bodjian inseription in 3 lines. Reverse: cock turned to the
right, inscription, and (1208)-30 mlm. 15 gr.
7.-Silver Tical (1208-1846) Pagoda with 1 tower. Re-
verse: Cambodjian inscription in 3 lines, cock turned to the
right and (1208)-20 mlm. 3, 60 gr.
8.-Pewter Tical (1208-1846) Pagoda with 1 tower.
verse: Cambodjian inscription in 3 lines, cock turned to the
right and (1208)-20 mlm.
I shall not treat here the 22 different coins of Cambodjia
issued since her protection under France.
4. THE LAOS STATES.
The city of Chieng-mai lies in a fertile and picturesque plain
to the east of a lofty mountain. In the annals of Siam we can

SIAMESE COINAGE.
61
trace its age back to the fifth century of the Christian era. At
the time of Pra-Ruang, the king of Siam married a Princess of
Chieng-mai to his brother, whom he then placed as ruler over
that country.
Laphun is a petty state, governed by a prince of its own and
stands under the vassalage of its neighbour, the ruler of Chieng-
mai.
Lakhon not to be confounded with the kingdom of Lakhon
(Ligor)-a city of about 25,000 inhabitants, is situated in a rich
and fertile plain, through which flows a great river.
Muang-Pre.-The capital of this small kingdom is described
as being situated in a well cultivated, small valley between two
chains of mountains; a river which below the capital precipi-
tates its waters in many cascades over a rocky bed, provides for
ample irrigation. The population of this city does not exceed
15,000.
The kingdom of Nan, both as regards population and size,
ranks above the three foregoing states, its capital alone contain-
ing at least 60,000 inhabitants. This country is bounded ou the
north by the territory of the Laos tribe called the Lu.
Luang-Pra-Bang.-Not very long ago there flourished along
Cambodjia's largest river, the Mekong, three Laos kingdoms,
viz., Yen-shan, in the south, Muang-P'uen in the north, and
between these two Luang-Pra-Bana. The Siamese after com-
pletely devastating it annexed the first to their kingdom, and
carried into captivity the greatest part of the population of
Muang-Puen. But Luang-Pra-Bang was considerably extend-
ed to the north and gradually grew to what it is to-day a flour-
ishing country, having an extensive commerce with the Siamese,
the Lolos and the Chinese. The population of the capital is
estimated at about 60,000 souls.
Muang-Long.-A month's journeying down a river which flows
into the Menam in Ayuthia, that petty state, called Muang-Long,
is reached. It is completely incased in a system of mountains
and has a capital of scarcely more than 9,000 to 10,000
inhabitants.
In the South of the Laos States the ordinary Siamese money
is in circulation, in the north, however, that of British India
(Rupees, Anas etc.), whilst at the frontier of Burmah we meet
also with coins of that country. In all the Loas States, besides,
the so-called "Sapeques," the tin cash of Anam and Cochin-
china, serves as a medium of exchange.

62
SIAMESE COINAGE.
For numismaticians these States are of a certain interest on
account of the particular coin with which the fines are paid.
This is in the shape of a shell, made of silver alloy. Each one
of these coins bears three stamps, viz., two of the maker, the third
in Laos-letters is the name of the temple, nearest to which the
mint issuing the coin is situated.-Each piece, which accord-
ing to law must contain a Rupee in silver, is issued at the value
of three Rupees, and is paid-as above stated-only for certain
purposes, such as fines, court-fees, and tributes to temples. In
cases of smaller fines, as those of breach of discipline, the
peasant pays 6, the lower official 12, the higher 24, and a chief-
tain 83 pieces. The benefit accruing to the Government from
these peculiar coins amounts to the difference between the contents
of silver to the value at which they are issued.
Older silver coins of the Laos are in the shape of bars, lobsters,
and two clumsy horse-shoes joined together, with stamps in Pali,
not yet deciphered.
Not to be omitted here are Medals lately coined, of which
there are six, viz.
1-A gold medal in memory of the sixtieth birthday of the
late (4th) King-weight 4 Ticals;
2-the same medal in silver;
3.-A large silver medal, coined in memory of the coronation
of the present King,-weight 8 Ticals;
4.-Copper medal in commemoration of the same event;
5.-Copper medals coined on the 17th birthday of the present
King;
6.-A large silver medal in memory to the festival of the
inauguration of the royal palace at Bang-paling,-weight 8 Ticals.
Although coined in France, but issued in commemoration
of an event in Siam's history, the following medal is the most
interesting.
The medal is of copper; the Obverse bears: LUDOVICUS.
MAGNUS. REX. CHRISTIANISS. with King Louis XIV.'s
profile looking towards the right, clothed in Roman toga (below
an R.-On the reverse we read: FAMA. VIRTUTIS. and see
the Siamese Ambassadors before the King sitting on his Throne).
and below the inscription: ORATORES. REGIS. SIAM.
[M.D.C. LXXXVI.] MAUGER. F.

SIAMESE COINAGE.
63
The history of this Siamese Mission is briefly as follows:-
Under the reign of King Somdetch Pira Narai (1657-1688)
Constantin Falcon through the favour of his sovereign rose to
the office of Prime Minister of the Kingdom. Upon his
instigation the king sent an embassy to France, which were,
however, shipwrecked near the Cape of Good Hope. Meanwhile,
by the exertions of Falcon, trade with the outer world flourished
more and more in Siam, The Dutch, French, English, and
Portuguese had their commercial factories there." Falcon
persuaded the king to send another embassy to France. His
Majesty appointed Nai Pahn as first Ambassador, and two
others, one as 2nd and the other as 3d Ambassor. This embassy
reached happily its destination. King Louis XIV. gave audience
to the Ambassadors on several occasions and was offered the
cession of Sangora in consideration of his sending a small army
of French soldiers to Siam.-In memory to their visit to France,
and more especially to the first audience-obtained from the King
the above medal was coined, but in a very limited number.
Two of these medals are kept in the Musé du Louvre; the hereto
annexed impression I was fortunate enough to obtain from the
original one, now preserved at Bangkok; it has a radius of 78
Millimeter and 172 gramms of weight; a small one had a
radius of 41 Millimeter
AGNUS REX.Ch
UN CHRISTIAN AL
R

64
SIAMESE COINAGE.
VIRTUTIS
ORATORES REGIS SIAM
M DC LXXXVI.
NANCEARL
Although the description of Siamese coins given in this essay
has been well considered and is based upon most careful en-
quiries, it lays, as little as the author himself, no claim to in-
fallibility-nor must it be considered as perfectly complete.-All
I hope is that the notes above given may prove a useful guide
and lead to further knowledge, and may they assist future
collectors in entering upon profounder researches of the numisma-
tics of that most interesting part of the Far East.