ARTICLE II.
ROCK INSCRIPTIONS AT THE NORTH SIDE OF
YENTAI HILL.
-
(BY J. RHEIN, Esq.)
On the North slope of Yentai Hill lies,-often unheeded by passers
by, one of those curious acts of Nature, not seldom seen in mountainous
countries where volcanic eruptions, coupled with influence of rain and
weather, have shaped the aspect of hills and dale. It is simply an
obelisk-shape granite standing perpendicular in the hill-side and in its
front another horizontal-lying broad flat stone in the form of a table.
The latter seems like a piece sliced off from the top of the standing Rock
and deposited at its foot on another mass of granite, keeping balanc-
ing on them like the loose board of a huge table. This rock is known
by the Chinese under the name of Shih-Chu'an
.
On these two stones are chiseled the following characters, dating
from the 36 year of K'ang-hi (1697).
CHARACTERS ON THE TABLE ROCK.
雖無椉舵勢悠 難供利客奔南北 止詐高人宴夏秋
誰將石璧劈成舟 屹立山腰海上頭 縱有風禱驚不到
郤笑膠舟遊水 問王空自動齊
康熙丁丑秋
交虹劉九標題幷

ARTICLE II.
ROCK INSCRIPTIONS AT THE NORTH SIDE OF
YENTAI HILL.
(BY J. RHEIN, Esq.)
On the North slope of Yentai Hill lies,-often unheeded by passers
by, one of those curious acts of Nature, not seldom seen in mountainous
countries where volcanic eruptions, coupled with influence of rain and
weather, have shaped the aspect of hills and dale. It is simply an
obelisk-shape granite standing perpendicular in the hill-side and in its
front another horizontal-lying broad flat stone in the form of a table.
The latter seems like a piece sliced off from the top of the standing Rock
and deposited at its foot on another mass of granite, keeping balanc-
ing on them like the loose board of a huge table. This rock is known
by the Chinese under the name of Shih-Chu'an Z.
On these two stones are chiseled the following characters, dating
from the 36 year of K'ang-hi (1697).
CHARACTERS ON THE TABLE ROCK.
雖無椉舵勢悠 難供利客奔南北 止高人宴夏秋
誰將石璧劈成舟 屹立山腰海上頭 縱有風濤驚不到
m郤笑膠舟遊梵冰 問王空自動齊候
康熙丁丑秋
交虹劉九標題幷

32 ROCK INSCRIPTIONS AT THE NORTH SIDE OF YENTAI HILL.
CHARACTERS OF THE OBELISCAL ROCK.
康熙丁丑仲夏之吉
造化奇觀
関中崔巖祁國祚題幷書
The following are the characters of later date chiseled under the
preceding on the Obeliscal Rock:-
不藉人工
歸安沈丙瑩
同安萱山蔣長庚
同治五年正月十七日
上杭笏初丁錦堂題
京返棹之罘觀石船題句
同治壬申年冬月由
泿片石巍峩參造化天工端
一帆里乘長風壯志雄添
桐城李經
吳縣潘賡宸
大興李鍾陽
海甯陳光綬同遊至此
徐照徐立言
薛珍
洪 鈞後至

ROCK INSCRIPTIONS AT THE NORTH SIDE OF YENTAI HILL.
Translation of the Inscriptions on the Obeliscal Rock.
33
"A Phenomenon of Creation wonderful to behold."
"On an auspicious day of the fifth month of the 36th year of
Kang-hi (1697), composed and written by Ch'i-kwoh-tsu sur-
named Ho-yan from Kwan-chung (Shensi)."
Inscriptions of Later Date, under the Preceding.
"A said for 10,000 li driven by wind, firm and brave to the
utmost amidst the waves of the sea (meaning the vessel in which
the composer of this verse returned from Peking; speaking of the
stone at the North side of Yentai Hill called the stone-junk,
he says): A stone so high and lofty may be considered creation;
it is Heaven's work, whereby the work of man has not been
invoked." "
"In 10 month of the 11 year of Tung-chi (November 1872)
on his return with a vessel from Peking to Chefoo and seeing
the 'Stone Junk' this verse was composed by Ting Chin-tang
surnamed Hu-chu from Shang-hang-hsien (Ting-chow-fu in
Fuhkien); and written by Chiang Chang-keng surnamed Hsuen-
shan from Tung-an-hsien, (Chuen-chow-fu in Fuhkien)."
Names of Visitors to the Rock, although of Earlier Date, Written
to the Left of the Preceding.
"On the 17th day of 1st month of the 5th year of T'ung-Chi,
Hsü
(3rd March, 1866). Shen Ping-ying; Hsü-Chaŭ and Hsu Li-
yen from Kwei-an-hsien (Hu-chow-fa in Cheh-kiang). Li-
ching, from Tung-cheng-hsien (An-ching in An-hwei). Pan
Chang-heng from Wu-hsien (Soo-chow-fu in Kiang-su). Li
Chang-yang from Ta-hsing-hsien, (Shun-tien-fu in Chihli) and
Ch'en Kwang-shou from Hai-ning-hsien (Hang-chow-fu in Choh-
kiang) have together visited this place."
"T'au Hwai-kao, Hsueh Ying-chen and Hung chün, from
Wu-hsien (Soo-chow-fu in Kiang-su) have visited it afterwards,"

34
ROCK INSCRIPTIONS AT THE NORTH SIDE OF YENTAI HILL.
Translation of the Transcription on the Side of the Table-Rock or
"Stone Junk," Written in the Autumn of the same Year as
the Large Characters on the Obeliscal Rock.
"Who took this stone wall and tore it asunder making this
vessel and depositing it in the slope of the hill above the sea?
Although wind and waves may roar she cannot be terrified;
although without oars or rudder she can keep her course for
ever. Although gain seeking merchants cannot travel in her
from North to South, yet the Poet can feast on her in Summer
and in Autumn, and forsooth laugh at the glued ship which
wandered in the waters of Tsu, where the Marquis of Ts'i mado
in vain enquiries for his King."
"In the Autumn of the 36th year of Kang-hi (1697), com-
posed and written by Liu Chiu-Piao, surnamed Chino-hung."
*This has reference to the glued vessel which the Prince of Tsu (at pre-
sent the provinces Hunan and Hupeh) treacherously provided for Chao
Wang, the fourth King of the Chow dynasty (who reigned from 1052-1001
B.C.), when he came over to the Kingdom of Tsu for a pleasure-trip, and
was drowned by the foundering of the glued vessel. This was kept secret
for the Princes of the different feudal Kingdoms, but the Marquis of Ts'i
(now the Northern port of Shantung and Southern port of Chihli),
made enquiries after the King and accused the people of Tsu of that
treacherons act. (Annals of Confucius, commentary of Tso Ch'iu-ming, 4th
year of Lu Hsi-kung 春秋左氏傳僖公四年昭王南征句註)
Mayers Chinese Reader's Manual.