JOURNAL
OF THE
CHINA BRANCH
OF THE
ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.
ARTICLE I.
ANIMAL, FOSSIL, MINERAL & VEGETABLE
PRODUCTS.
Consular District of Ichang in the Province
of Hupeh, China.
BY
CHRISTOPHER THOMAS GARDNER, Esq.,
H. B. M.'s Consul.
I-ANIMAL PRODUCTS.
THE Ichang Consular District produces few animal
I-The Ateuchus or Tumble Dung beetle, used
as medicine.
II. Bones of Tiger.-The Tiger is rarely found in
this district. The bones are much valued by natives as
medicine. The beast is welcomed here as it keeps down the
number of wild pigs which are a great pest to the mountain
farmers.
III.-Cicada.-The cast pupal shell of the Cicada
is used as a medicine.
IV.-Furs of Leopards, the Golden Monkey, Fox, &c.,
are occasionally to be bought. A trade might be done in
skins of Otters, which abound here, and are bred and
domesticated for fishing purposes.

2
ANIMAL, FOSSIL, MINERAL
V.-Feathers here are thrown away; a trade might be
done in them both for bedding and ornaments. Among
beautifully plumed birds, I may mention the Reeves and
Golden Pheasants, Tremminck's Tragapan, the Mandarin
Duck, (aix galericulata), Kingfishers, the Urocissa Sinensis,
&c.
VI.-Fish. There is a great variety; I have only
identified the carp and sturgeon.
VII.-Gallnuts of two kinds are produced here: 1. K
Gallnuts produced by an insect which feeds on the
Rhus Succedanea. 2. 五倍子 Gallnuts of an insect
feeding on the Sumach Rhus semi-reata; of the latter a
large quantity is exported, viâ Hankow, to England.
VIII-Hides.-The trade may extend. Till lately hides
were wasted or sold for a trifle. Recently the demand for
them in Hankow for the home market has caused them to
be looked after.
IX.-Honey of very good quality is produced in this
district, and sells for two pence to three pence a pound. It
may become an export.
X-Honeycomb used by the Chinese as a medicine.
XI-Horns.-The trade in the horns of buffalo and
oxen may extend if local markets develop.
XII-Leather is prepared fairly well by the natives
here. The export trade may increase.
XIII.-Musk from the Musk Deer is produced in small
quantities at Ho-feng-chow.
XIV. Magpie Dung -A medicine made of is
prepared in this district. It is prized by the Chinese.
XV. Pigs' Bristles.-A trade in this article might be
developed.
XVI.-Porpoises abound. The natives do not attempt
to utilize either the skin or oil.
XVII-Scales of Pangolin
The Manis
Javanica exists in Ho-fêng-chow where a medicine prized
by the Chinese is produced from the scales.
XVIII-Silk.-The production both of Silk and Silk
Piece Goods is tolerably active here. Of the piece goods
almost all are locally consumed. Raw Silk, Waste Silk and
Silk Cocoons from this district are beginning to be exported
to England. Till lately Waste Silk was only used for
caulking vessels, &c. The climate here is favorable both to

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
the mulberry and to the silk worm.
8
The outturn of Silk,
especially in the lowlands, might be increased.
XIX. Snake Skins are here made into medicine.
XX-Wax Yellow or Bees Wax might form an export.
XXI.-Wax White, made by an insect of the family of
the Fulgoride of the Homoptera. A curious point in the
production of White Wax is that the insect producing it has
at different stages of the existence to be reared on two
distinct trees. Most of the White Wax exported from this
place is produced in Szechuan; a small quantity, which
could be increased, is produced here.
XXII. Wasp Nest-Used by Chinese as a medicine.
II. FOSSILS.
Three kinds of Fossils produced in this district are
staples of trade.
1.
2.
3.
Orthoceras.
Ammonites.
Not identified.
The Chinese call the first "Pagoda Stone." That found
in slate at Nanchiehah, about 40 miles N.E. from the
Consulate, is cut and polished, and is either framed as a
picture or made into ornamental furniture.
The same holds good of a certain Fossil ammonite which
is called "Kosmos Stone" from its resemblance to the
Chinese symbol for the kosmos
.
These Fossils do not appear in the trade returns.
The third kind of Fossil is called by the Chinese
"Stone Swallows,"-it is ground down and used as a
medicine.
III. MINERAL PRODUCTS.
I. Agates are found in many places near Ichang.
They are very plentiful at Fêngpaoshan about 12 miles
East of the Consulate. There is no industry here either in
finding or polishing them.
II. Antimony.-I have obtained this metal from two
places, J in Changlo on the Hunan border about 150
miles S. by W. of the Consulate, and from
in
Hofêngchow not far from the first-named place. It is found
in the form of nuggets in the clay.

4
ANIMAL, FOSSIL, MINERAL
III.-Barytes.-150 miles S.W. of Consulate.
IV. Calcareous Spar
ground for making medicine.
K, Chang-yang.-It is
V.-Coal. It would be more difficult to name hills in
this Consular district where coal does not exist than where
it does. It is only when the coal is exactly suited to the
natives' requirements, or where the mine is favourably
situated, that the coal is worked to any extent.
There is a light, greenish-coloured coal said to be of
excellent quality produced in Siangyangfu on the Han River.
In many places the shafts are left open and coal
extracted as people in the neighbourhood require it either
as fuel or for burning lime.
It
VI.-Copper has been sent me from four places in
Chang-lo, viz:九台山,楊家台,小溪路抵溪
doubtless exists elsewhere. The ore from
to yield 20 per cent of pure metal.
is said
VII-Gold must exist in the neighbourhood. During
winter there is a little washing for gold dust below Chih
keang, 45 miles S.E. of this; gold in bars is exported con-
cealed about the person. The silver of Szechuan and
Yunnan contains a certain percentage of gold, and there is
an importation here, in native boats, of sulphuric acid to
extract it. Further veins of quartz exist in the lime stone,
some of which are said to be auriferous.
VIII.-Granite and Syenite exist about 20 miles up
the river at Nanto, where they are chipped into mill stones,
mortars, cattle troughs, &c.
IX.-Iron exists in various forms in this Consular
district. I have found iron ore at Chingshuiwan, 95 miles
S. by W. of the Consulate (near Chingshuiwan there are
small smelting works). On the banks of the Yangtsze, 20
miles above the Consulate, I found iron ore under the granite
boulders. At Itu, 30 miles below the Consulate, I found
Iron Pyrites. I found iron ore and iron stone at Chin
kangshan, about 20 miles N.W., and also at Nan chiehah,
40 miles N.E. of the Consulate. Mr. Tsêng, a native
engineer, found iron nodules at Hsiangchi, 50 miles above
here, and red oxide of iron at Wantan, about 160 miles to
the S.W. Iron exists almost all over the district. Iron
cauldrons and rude agricultural implements are to a certain
extent exported in native vessels.

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
5
X.-Lead and Lead Ore.-I have obtained from three
places in the Ichang Consular district:-
Hsingshan
......
70 miles N. by W.
160
دو
دو
S. by W.
S.
Hofengchow .....150
Chiutaishan
Plasters made of lead E are produced in Hofêngchow
and are exported in native vessels.
XI-Lime.-Burning lime is a large industry here;
all over the country there are large and small lime kilns.
XII. Lime Stone is much used for foundations of
houses and walls. In the quarries at Kwangmeushan on
the Ching river, 10 miles above Itu, over 500 men are
employed. At the quarries at Hoaitsze, some 18 miles
above Ichang on the Yangtsze, over 100 men are employed.
The rough stone costs at the quarries about two pence half
penny per foot, and can be delivered at Ichang for three
pence per foot.
XIII.-Marble is said by the Ichang gazeteer to exist
at Hsiangchi. I have not seen any.
XIV. Mercury is said to be found in small quantities,
95 miles S.E. of the Consulate near Shasze.
XV.-Oolite exists in many places.
XVI. Rockeries.-The water trickling over lime stone
covers stalks and leaves of plants with a thick coating of
lime and forms stones of curious shape, which are cut out
and planted with ferns, cineraria, &c. About £350 worth of
these rockeries are sent from this yearly by the steamer to
Hankow.
XVII. Saltpetre is found in caves in the lime stone;
being contraband of trade it is only exported in native
vessels.
XVIII. Sandstone exists in a belt of country running
west. It is not much quarried.
XIX.-Silver.-The mines of this metal are principally
situated in Yunnan, which belongs rather to the Chungking
than to the Ichang Consular district. There is reported to
be a silver mine at Hushui, about 100 miles N.E. of
the Consulate.
XX. Slate.-Shaly slate is found running for miles
under the red clay and white lime stone of the coal-
producing hills. A solid slate is found at the top of the
white lime stone cliffs of the Ichang gorge.
At this spot

6
ANIMAL, FOSSIL, MINERAL
many of the houses of the natives are roofed with slate.
There used to be quarries in the caves near for obtaining
slate to make native ink palettes, but they have been
recently closed for fear of the roof of the caves giving way.
IV.-PLANTS AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
The following are the plants and vegetable substances
produced in the Ichang Consular District as far as I have
as yet been able to ascertain and identify them.
Monsieur Fauvel, of H. I. M. Customs, has been kind
enough to go over the list and to make some corrections.
I.-Acacia.-The Acacia Concinna [Mimosa Saponaria
Roxburgh]. This tree produces a reddish-tinged flower
and a black seed from which soap is made; other kinds of
Acacia (among which is the Acacia Ferox) grow in this
district, but they are not as far as I know put to any use.
II. Aconite -The roots of various Aconites
are used as heroic remedies. I know of three varieties
produced in this district:-
1. Aconitum Sinense
2. Aconitum Lycoctonum
3. Aconitum variegatum
III.-Acorus. One species
(monk's hood.)
(wolf's bane.)
is used as a tonic,
and the root of another as a nutritive.
IV.-Adenophora verticilluta
-The root of this
campunalaceous plant is supposed to have the restorative
effects of ginseng.
V.-Ailanthus Glandulosa -The leaves of this plant
are used as an astringent.
VI.-Alder is said to grow in the Chang-lo
district.
VII.-Aloes Lign. (Aquilaria Agallocha Roxburgh) t
is said to grow in Hsing-shan.
VIII.-Amaranth
(Love lies bleeding) is eaten
as a vegetable, as is also or
Amaranthus
Oleraceus (goosefoot). Portulaca is also eaten. The root of
the Amaranth pupalia geniculata 4 is prescribed for
rheumatism and syphilis. There is another variety of
Amaranth here 黃花蒿 or 草蒿
IX.-Amaryllis
-The native gazeteer classes
this plant among fruit bearing shrubs.

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
X.-Amomum
7
-The paste made from this plant
is used to cure wounds. The Rhizome of another variety of
Amomum is used as a restorative and sells for a high
price.
XI. Anchusa Tinctoria (Borage wort)
root is used in small pox.
XII. Andrographis paniculata
from this plant is given to new born infants.
.-The
-A drug made
XIII. Angelica -The root of the Archangelica
Officinalis is given as a tonic, as is also the root of the
a plant very sensitive, perhaps a species of Angelica.
XIV. Anise Af-The growth of this plant in this,
district is probably recent as it is not mentioned in the
native gazeteer.
XV. Apricot (Amygdalus).-Four varieties s grow in this
district. The Silver, Golden, Sand and Plum Apricot
XVI. Aralia Palmata -A tincture made from
this plant is prescribed for rheumatism and syphilis.
XVII. Arbor Vitæ.
XVIII. Arbutus (Myrica Sapida)
See Starch.
Arrowroot.-
XIX. Artemisia Abrotanum (Southern wood)
A decoction from this is given for colds. The Artemisia
Moxa (Mugwort) is used as a counter irritant. The
Artemisia Dracunculus (wormwood) in skin diseases,
and the Artemisia Leonuris Sinensis in puerpeval fevers
益母草
XX.-Arums, Aroids and Aracious plants.-The num-
ber of these in this district is considerable. I have identified
the the Arisæma triphyllum and Pythonium used as
an anesthetic, the Arum Pentaphyllum given in
apoplexy the Arum ophioglossum, and the
Arum Lily.
XXI.-Ash. I fancy I have seen the Ash in Chang
yang and Chang lo. They call it there a name given
to the Tamarisk Tree.
XXII. Ash Mountain
(Grewia elastica).-I fancy
I have seen this plant, but Mons. Fauvel thinks I must
have mistaken another plant for it.
XXIII. Asparagus.-A species of *.
XXIV. Aster M.

S
ANIMAL, FOSSIL, MINERAL
XXV. Atractylodes rubra ft is used as a tonic.-A
lotion is also made from it for sore eyes.
ful.
XXVI-Araucaria Imbricata ?-Identification doubt-
XXVII.-Autumn tree (Catalpa Bungei) -Of
the leaves of this tree a lotion is made for wounds.
XXVIII.-Azalea pontica and Azalea procumbens
山黃or黄杜鹃and映山紅or紅杜鹃
XXIX-Balsam (Impatiens Balsamina)
-The seeds are given to women in child birth.
or
XXX.-Bamboo.-Of the 60 kinds of Bamboos known to
Chinese botanists, 20 grow in this Consular district :-
1. Southern or Giant Bamboo used for
masts, water pipes, buckets, &c.
2. The kwei bamboo. The sprouts are eaten
as a vegetable, the sticks are used as boat hooks,
scaffolding, fencing for gardens, carrying poles,
and the bark is made into strong rope.
3.
4.
5.
The water bamboo. Sprouts eaten, and
a fine matting made from the fibre.
The hill bamboo. Sprouts eaten.
The bush bamboo has long intervals
竹
between joints; is used for making opium
pipes. The fibre makes good paper.
6. Black bamboo.-Used for ornamental
basket work.
8.
7. E Spotted bamboo makes stems of tobacco
pipes, fan handles and various ornaments.
The love bamboo is largely grown in Chang
lo, Changyang and Itu for making paper.
9. The flavourless bamboo. From the leaves
of this bamboo an emollient decoction is made
which is prescribed for diseases of the head
and chest.
10. Dwarf bamboo, from which the shafts of
arrows are made.
11. Bambusa latifolia, from its leaves sails,
hats and waterproof clothing are made.
12. 羅漢竹 Bhodisyatta bamboo is used for fan
handles.
13. The fern bamboo.
14.
The blue field bamboo.

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
15. The thorny bamboo.
9
16.
The true bamboo.
17.
The wind bamboo.
18.
The cold bamboo.
19.
20.
The soft bamboo.
The dragon head bamboo.
Bamboo celestial or flowering,-see nandina domestica.
XXXI. Banana (Musa Sinensis)
or .
XXXII. Barberry (Berberis Lycium) and
-The root and bark are used as astringents.
XXXIII.-Barley (Hordeum Vulgare).-Sown
in October and November and reaped in April.
XXXIV.-Bead tree (Melia Azedarach). The
fruit of this tree is used as a disinfectant and febrifuge.
XXXV.-Beans. I know of 18 varieties of beans and
peas in this district.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Dolichos Soja White.
Dolichos Soja Yellow.
Dolichos Soja Black.
Dolichos Soja Red.
Phaseolus Angulata and Vicia Sativa.
Pisum Arvense.
June Bean.
8. 九月豆October Bean.
9.
10.
11.
Perennial Bean.
Dolichos Lablab.
Dolichos Lablab.
Faba Vulgaris (Horse Bean).
French Bean.
Tiger claw Bean.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16. I
Kang Bean.
17.
Huo Bean.
18.
Huo Bean.
Ngo Mei Bean.
Tubs and jars of pickled beans line the bank of the
river just above Ichang for export in native boats to Shasze
and other places down river.
XXXVI.-Beet 甜菜 or莙莲菜
is
XXXVII.-Bell wort (Platycodon Grandiflorum)
used as a tonic. Out of the root an imitation ginseng is
made.

12
10
ANIMAL FOSSIL, MINERAL
XXXVIII. Bignonia
or
the flowers are
given in puerperal fevers and certain female disorders.
XXXIX. Birth wort (Heteropa Asaroides) -The
root is used for rheumatism.
XL-Blackthorne .
XLI.-Box tree (Buxus Sempervirens)
-Of the
wood combs are made, and of the leaves a cooling medicine.
Borage wort.-See Anchusa Tinctoria.
XLII.-Buckthorne [Zizyphus Jujuba] is grown
largely in Tangyang; are kernels of this plant and of
the Rhamnus Zizyphus (see China Date); they are made into
wine.
XLIII.-Buckwheat (Polygonum Fagopyrum).
XLIV. Burr (Xanthum Strumarium)
as a tonic.
XLV. Cabbage (Brassica)
species of Cabbage in this district
is used
-There are several
Brassica Sinensis
from the seeds of which oil is made; the Giant Cabbage and
others.
XLVI.-Cactus (local name A Calladium)
-See Amaryllis.
XLVII.-Camelia Olifera.-Two varieties grow wild in
this Consular district, from which oil is extracted, and
the 山茶
XLVIII.-Camphor tree (Laurus Camphora) grows
in Changyang and Kweichow; the wood forms a staple of
native trade.
XLIX-Camphor.-A drug resembling Camphor
or Eis produced here.
L.-Capsicum.-Two species grow here, the
the 山胡椒
IS
and
LI. Cassia (Saphora Japonica) grows in Chang lo.
The buds are used for curing sores behind the ears, and a
dye is made from the bark.
LII-Caragana Flava
confer longevity.
LIII.–Carrots 胡蘿
-The root is supposed to
LIV.-Cart track (Plantago Major) -The
seeds are used as a diuretic.
LV-Castor oil plant -The seeds are used for
making Castor oil.

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
LVI. Cedar; the
probably a species of Cedar.
11
which grows in Chang lo is
LVII. Celery (Apium Graveolens) and perhaps
1.
LVIII-Centaury is used as a cooling
medicine.
LIX. Chamomile (Chrysanthemum Indicum)
花 or 長春花·
LX-Charcoal of excellent quality is produced in this
district, especially in Chang lo, Itu and Hsingshan. It is
made both of Chestnut and Oakwood, and is largely exported
in native vessels.
LXI. Cherry (Cerasus, Pseudo Cerasus) E.-The
fruit is ripe in the end of April and beginning of May,
樱桃 Mountain Cherry fruit not edible 棠棣 or郁李 is
the Wild Cherry (Cerasus Communis) and the is the
Cornelian Cherry (Cornus Officinalis), the fruit of which is
used as an astringent.
LXII. Chestnut (Castanea).-The produces
produces small
large fruit which is exported. The
fruit, its timber is used for cart beams and knees of boats,
besides being burnt into charcoal.
LXIII. Chickory (Cicorium Intybus)
LXIV. Chimonanthus Fragrans
are used as a cooling medicine.
LXV.–China cineraria 虎耳草
or
-The leaves
and
LXVI.-China date (Rhamnus Zizyphus)
another species -The dried fruit resembles the dried
fruit of the Palm date. See Buckthorne.
LXVII. China grass (Boehmeria Nivea).-The
fibre and a coarse cloth made from it is an article of the
native, trade of this district.
LXVIII.-China Mahogany (Cedrella Odorota) is
much used for furniture, building sides of canoes, &c. The
young 'shoots are eaten as a vegetable.
LXIX. China Olive (Canarium)
or
-The
fruit is prepared as the true olive.
LXX. China root (Smilax Sinensis)
*-A
decoction is made from the roots.
LXXI.-China Skullcap (Scutellaria Viscidula) *
is used as a febrifuge.
LXXII.-China spinach (Chenopodium Rubrum)
-

12
ANIMAL FOSSIL, MINERAL
The boiled leaves of this plant taste like spinach. (See
convolvulus).
LXXIII.-Chrysanthemum .-A lotion for the eyes
is made of the flowers.
LXXIV.-Cicuta (of the Umbelifer)
a stimulant.
.-Used as
LXXV.-Cinnamon is an article of local trade.
LXXVI.-Citron.-Two species of Sarcodactylis Odorata
and the
香櫞or枸櫞 The fruit is much prized by the Chinese,
who place it in vases for ornament.
(Buddha's hand) grow in this district, the
LXXVII-Convolvulus. Convolvulus Reptans,
sometimes called the China Spinach.-There is another
edible Convolvulus, which I have not been able to
class. A Convolvulus out of the root of which
an
imitation ginseng is made, and two the and
from which drugs areprepared.
LXXVIII. Convalaria -Out of this a
much-prized Chinese drug is prepared.
LXXIX.-Clematis Vitalba -Wood used as a
laxative.
LXXX.-Cloth, Cotton is made in Tunghu, Chang
yang, Patung, Tangyang, &c. Cloth, Hemp, coarse in
Ho fêngchow; Grass cloth and Bamboo Fibre cloth in
various parts of this district; cloth made of the Fibre of the
Dolichos Trilobus is an important article of the trade of
Hsingshan and Patung.
LXXXI.-Cockscomb (Aloysia Cristata).
LXXXII.-Colt's foot
prescribed for coughs.
LXXXIII.-Coriander.
LXXXIV. Cotton Raw. The principal staple
of Ichang, extensively cultivated over all the plains and low
hills; largely exported to Szechuan.
LXXXV.-Crab Apple (Pyrus Malus) and *
-A preserve made of the crab apple is much eaten by
the Chinese.
LXXXVI.-Crape Myrtle (Lagerstræmia Indica) *
or.
f
LXXXVII-Cydonia Japonica
LXXXVIII.-Cucurbitaceous plants. Of these I know
of 18 varieties growing in this district:
1. Sweet Calabash.

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
18
Sweet Double Gourd.
2.
Bitter Calabash.
3. 匏瓠 Long
4.
5. 若壼
Bitter
6. 菜
7.
or
Medicine
دو
"
Cucurbita Pepo [Tallow Gourd]
and the Benincasa Cerifera (Pumpkin).
8. 越瓜or楇瓜or菜瓜Giant Cucumber.
9. 胡瓜 or黄瓜 Common Cucumber [Cucuuris
Melo].
10.絲瓜or蠻瓜 Cucumis Longa.
11. 苦瓜 or錦荔瓜or癩葡萄 Momordica
Balsamina.
12. Citrullus [Water Melon].
13. 香瓜 or 八輪金瓜 Musk Melon [Cucumis
Melo].
14. Southern Melon [Cucurbita Melopepo].
15. A
16.
Crab Melon.
Iron Melon.
17. 入月瓜 or 八月麥 October Melon.
18. Water Winter Melon.
LXXXIX. -Cynaraceous Plants
-Circium Lan-
ceolatum is prescribed as a tonic and for diarrhoea, Jis
taken internally as an antiscorbutic, and the is made
into poultices to apply to boils.
XC.-Cypress -Biota Orientalis,
Thuyoides Cupressus Funebris.
XCI.-Daisy. The Chinese word
and many other of the compositæ.
Cupressus
includes daisies
XCII.-Dandelion is used as a tonic.
XCIII. Daphne Gensykwa T.-Two species, one
white and one yellow.
XCIV.-Deodar [Cedrus Deodara ?]-Identification
doubtful.
XCV. Digitalis [Fox Glove).-Dianthus, see Pink.
XCVI. Dogbane [Apocynum Juventus] J.-The
root of this plant is supposed to confer long life and
posterity.
XCVII.-Dolichos Trilobus .-This is a much valued
plant here.
The flower is eaten as a vegetable. The root
is given in fevers, and from it a starch is made. The fibres

14
ANIMAL FOSSIL, MINERAL
are woven into cloth. It forms an important item in the
domestic trade of the district.
XCVIII.-Duckweed [Lemna and Riccia] .
XCIX.-Dyes Vegetable
-A red dye is pro-
and are made
duced here and exported, made from the Tournefortia
Arguzina. Two green dyes
from the barks of the Rhamnus Infectorius and Cassia.
Also Indigo (q. v.).
C.-Egg Plant [Solanum Melongena].
CI.-Elecampane [Inula Chinensis]-Tonic
and Stomachic.
CII. Elm [Ulmus Chinensis or Microptelea Sinensis]
楡梓樹
CIII.-Endive [Cicorium Endiva] ***.
Epiphyte, see Mulberry.
Equisetum, see Horse tail.
Euonymus, see Spindle Tree.
Euphorbia, see Spurge.
CIV.-Everlasting flowers of three varieties, red, yellow
and white, 千年紅千年黄千年白
CV-Fennel [Feniculum Dulce] is given in
dyspepsia.
CVI.-Ferns -This district is very rich in
Ferns. Of the Aspidium, Nephrodium, and Pteris, called
by the Chinese by the same name the young fronds are
used as food, and of the roots starch is made. A species of
fern probably the Niphobulus Lingua (classed by
Chinese among sedges) grows in Chang yang; it is used as
an astringent and is exported from here in native vessels.
Captain Yankowski has collected about seventy species
of ferns here, and has identified the following:-
1. Adiantum Acthropicum.
2.
"
Capilla Veneris.
3. Adiantum Pedatum.
4. Asplenium Fontanum.
5. Asplenium Trichomanes.
6. Cheilanthes.
7. Cysopteris Alpina.
8.
Fragilis.
9. Davalia Canarinsis [Hare's foot].
10. Dicksonia.
11. Lastroa Oreopteries.

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
15
12. Pteris Aquilina.
13. Scolopendrium Hemionitis.
14.
15. Woodsia Glabella.
16.
17.
دو
دو
Vulgare.
Hyperborea.
Iloensia.
CVII. Fig [Ficus Sinensis]無花果or文光果
CVIII.-Fir tree [Pinus Sinensis].
CVIX. Fumitory [Fumaria Officinalis and Fumaria
Racemosa] ET are given for jaundice. There is
also a yellow variety ET resembling Corydalis
Lutea.
CX.-Fungus.-The peasants in this district employ
their spare time in gathering various species of Fungi
which are used as food and medicine and form an important
item of the domestic trade. The Pachymas Cocos is
used as a febrifuge and pepsic. 18 other Fungi of this
district are commodities of trade-1
Polyporus
Agarics and
Ignarius, 2 other Polypori, 3
Amanitas, 4香菌 Boletus, 5 火靈芝 or 中筋草 the
life giving Boletus, 6木耳,7百合,8松菌,9茅草菌,
10羊肚菌,11凍菌12黃絲菌,13獅毛菌,14重陽
菌,15凉傘菌,16包穀菌,17灰色菌,18鷄冠菌
CXI. Forget-me-not.
CXII. Gardenia Florida and another Gardenia
with small flowers.
CXIII.--Garlic [Alium Sativum].-Two species and
野虎蒜
CXIV-Gentian [Erythrcea Gentianacea].―The Chi-
as the
nese call this plant by the same name
Centaury and employ it in the same manner.
CXV. Ginger.
CXVI. Gingko Yew [Salisburia Adiantifolia].-The
fruit is used as a peptic.
CXVII. Ginseng Bitter [Robinia Amara] -Root
is used as a tonic.
CXVIII.-Groundsel.-A plant somewhat resembling
Groundsel,, used as a vegetable.
Greengage. See Plum.
CXVIX-Grape -Two varieties are grown in
this district, long and round.
CXX.-Haitang [Begonia Discolor].

16
ANIMAL FOSSIL, MINERAL
CXXI-Hedysarum [Bird's foot]
wounds and as an astringent.
-Given for
CXXII. Hemp Arbutilan [Sida Tilicefolia] --The
fibre of this hemp is an important item of the domestic
trade.
OXXIII.-Hermodactyl [Uvularia Grandiflora] : is
used as a febrifuge, and to increase the milk of women
nursing.
CXXIV. Hibiscus.--There are 5 varieties--1
Hibiscus Esculentus, 2 芙蓉 and 木芙蓉 Hibiscus
Mutabilis, 3 and 4 two varieties of Hibiscus Syriacus,
white and red. The first is used in skin diseases and to
hasten parturition. The second and third for tumors and
pulmonary diseases, and the 4th as a diuretic. 5
Hibiscus Rosa Sinensis.
CXXV.-Honey suckle [Lonicera Xylostenm].-There
are two varieties here, the 忍冬藤 and金銀花. The
tendrils of the former are used to purify the blood.
CXXVI.-Holyhock
CXXVII-Holly.
CXXVIII.-Hornbeam -A tree resembling the
Hornbeam grows in Chang yang.
chow.
CXXIX.-Horse Raddish.
CXXX.-Horse Chestnut grows in Ho fêng
-
CXXXI.-Horse tail [Equisetum Hyemale]
Stems are powdered and used as astringent. Another
variety is given to purify the blood (see Mare's tail).
CXXXII.-House Leek [Umbillicus Malocophyllus)
is used as a cooling medicine.
CXXXIII.-Hoya Carnosa i U.
CXXXIV. Hydrangea 洋繡球
CXXXV.-Indigo E is produced here from two plants,
the Polygonum Tinctorium and the Janother
species of Polygonum. It is a staple of the domestic trade.
CXXXVI.-Incense [Joss stick] is manufactured in
Tung hu and Chang lo.
CXXXVII. Iris實 or馬
is used in puerperal
子
fevers; the Rhizome of the Paidanthus Chinensis is
used for sore throat. Another species the
wild all over the hills here.
grows.

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
17
CXXXVII.-Ivy.-Two species, one long one broad-
leaved. They are neither the same as our home Ivy.
CXXXVIII.-Ipomoea (?)
doubtful.
here.
CXXXIX.-Jasmine
Jasminum Sambac.-See Moli.
--Identification
grows wild on the hills
CXL.-Job's Tears [Coix Lachryma] -The
seeds are given in lung diseases.
CXLI. Judas Tree [Cercis Sinensis].
CXLII. Juncus
-The pith of this plant is
used to absorb pus from sores.
CXLIII. Kaoliang [Andropogon Sorgho, or Holcus
Sorghum] is sparsely grown on hill lands. Another
species grows in Kweichow.
CXLIV. Kweihwa [Olea Fragrans]
-Making
scent bags of this flower is one of the minor industries of
Chang yang.
CXLV.-Lacquer Tree [Vimicefera Croton]
CXLVI.-Lacquer made of above tree is an article
of the domestic trade of Tunghu, Chang yang, Hsing shan,
Patung, Hofêng chow and Changlo.
CXLVII. Lampwick.-The pith of the Scirpus
Scapularis is used as lampwick. It is extensively produced
in this district, and is exported hence to Hankow in large
bales packed in matting, which are heaped up (in the form
of a hay stack) on the top of two or three boats joined,
together by planks, and is thus drifted down the Yangtsze.
CXLVIII.-Lespedezza? [or Pucrasia Thumbergiana]
-Root; sedative:
CXLIX.-Lettuce.
CL.-Libanotis -Prescribed for colds.
CLI-Lichen.
CLII. Lily.-1. The Hemerocallis Graminea
, or, is eaten as a vegetable, and is exported
from this in native boats. 2. The is another
species of the same plant. 3. is the Tube Rose
Lily. 4. is a red variety of the same. 5. 旱蓮花
a lily not identified. 6. Lilium Bulbiferum, the bulbs
are eaten to purify the blood. 7.
a much prized
Chinese tonic is prepared from the Aneilema Commelyna
Medica and other plants. 8. Lilium Candidum is

E
18
ANIMAL, FOSSIL, MINERAL
given as a tonic. The above lilies are mentioned in the
native Ichang Gazetteer. I have in my rambles seen
several other varieties of lilies.
CLIII.-Liquidambar -This is the tree which
in my last consular report I said resembled the plane tree.
The sap is made into gum for fixing gold leaf, and paper is
made from the bark.
CLIV. Levisticum J.-The root of this plant
sliced and whole is largely exported as a medicine from
Szechuan. It forms an important item in the Ichang
trade returns.
CLV. Lophanthus.-Two kinds
given as medicine to women.
CLVI. Lysimachia
and,
-This is a plant belonging
to the Primula tribe; identification doubtful. It is
prescribed for skin diseases, and for women in childbirth.
CLVII.-Madder -Rubia Cordifolia and
Rubia Angustinum.-Given in syphilis.
CLVIII.-Magnolia 辛夷,玉蘭, and 迎春 are the
Magnolia Yulan. It is used as a stimulant. The bark of
the Magnolia Hypoleuca is used as a tonic.
CLIX.-Maize [Setaria Glauca] or E-Two
varieties are grown here. Out of the smaller variety spirits
are distilled.
CLX.-Mangel Wurzel 甜菜or莙莲菜.
CLXI. Mare's-tail.-The word is applied to
Equisetum Hyemale, Hippuris, and Ruppia Rostellata.
CLXII.-Marsh Plant grows in Ho fêng chow; it
has large cordate leaves.
CLXIII. Marigold [Calendula]
is given as
a diuretic. A lotion made from the flowers is used as an
eyewash.
CLXIV.-Melanthium is perhaps a species of
Melanthium P-A prized tonic is prepared from the
Melanthium Cochin-Chinense and other plants [see Lily].
CLXV.-Melissa -Cultivated, and
given as a stomachic.
wild,
CLXVI. Millet [Panicum Miliaceum] -Of two
varieties; a millet I have not identified.
CLXVII.-Mint [Mentha Piperita] is given as
an anti-spasmodic.
CLXVIII.-Moli [Jasminum Sambac]

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
19
CLXIX.-Mulberry [Morus Alba and Nigra] -The
liber of the mulberry root
is prescribed for
convulsions. The paper mulberry [Morus Broussonetia
Papyrifera]. Mulberry Epiphyte
prescribed for women in child.
CLXX. Muricia Cochin-Chinense
CLXXI.--Mustard [Sinapis Alba]
The last is
CLXXII.-Mylitta Lapidescens -The seeds are
given in itch.
CLXXIII. Moss 青草漫
CLXXIV.–Nan Muh
or竹葉栅 or楠木-There
are many varieties of this tree, none of which I have been
able to identify. The wood is much prized for making
ornamental furniture.
CLXXV.-Nandina Domestica [Flowering or Celestial
Bamboo] 南天竹
CLXXVI. Nettle [Urtica Tuberosa]-The
tubers are given for rheumatism.
CLXXVII.-Narcissus Tazetta k fill.
CLXXVIII.-Oak.-There are several varieties of Oak
in this district. 1. The Quercus Serrata or Sinensis
(commonly called the silk worm Oak) on which in other
parts of China the Ailanthus silk worm (Attacus Cynthia) is
reared here as far as I know this oak is only used for
burning into charcoal. 2. The is the Quercus Ilex
and Salix. 3. E Quercus Mongolica. 4. a species
of oak extensively grown in Itu, Chang yang, Chang lo,
Kweichow, &c. The bottoms of the canoes in several of
the smaller rivers are made of the wood of this tree.
CLXXIX.-Oats -I have seen a few oat fields on
the hills. Oats here are used as medicine and not for
feeding cattle.
CLXXX.-Oil tree (Dryandra Cordifolia).
CLXXXI.-Oil.-Several kinds of oil are made in this
district.
1.蔴油 Oil from Sesamum seeds.
2. 菜油
Tea and Camellia seeds.
"
3. 豆
4. 茶油
دو
دو
دو
دو
وو
5. 木油
"
"
Beans.
Brassica Sinensis seeds.
Jatropha Curcas.
6. 木
Fruit of Tallow Tree.
"3
"3
7. 棉
Seeds of Cotton Plant.
"
33

20
ANIMAL, FOSSIL, MINERAL
8. 桐淮 Oil from Dryandra Cordifolia.
دو
دو
Castor Oil Plant.
9. 草蔴油,
The immense amount of oil made in this district is
locally consumed. Oil forms a large item in the food of
the people. It is almost their only means of light at night.
It is their only preservative for the wood of their
innumerable boats and of the frames of their houses. It is
also necessary for water-proof clothing, as a lubricant, &c.,
animal fats not being used for these purposes.
CLXXXII.-Oleander
E
CLXXXIII.-Onion (Allium Cepa).
CLXXXIV.-Orange.-Several varieties are grown
here. They are the best oranges I have ever tasted. We
have among others 1. the golden nutmeg orange
(Citrus Japonica), 2. the golden orange, another
variety of the Citrus Japonica, 3. Citrus Aurantiaca
(Tangier Orange), 4. Citrus Margarita or Mandarin
Orange, 5. Citrus Nobilis (red orange), 6. or
Citrus Aurantium (Coolie Orange), 7. Citrus
Bigaradia (Thorny Orange), 8. Citrus Trintera
(another species of Thorny Orange), 9. Citrus Fusca.
The cultivation of the orange is extending, and the export
is increasing. As yet they pass duty free. They do not
appear in the trade returns. The dried oranges of the
Citrus Fusca and the peel of the Citrus Nobilis are taxed on
exportation and importation. They are used as tonics.
CLXXXV.-Orchids.-There are several varieties in
this district. 1. Dendrobium Ceraia used as a tonic. 2.
經枝牡丹not identified. 3.蘭薹 are the stalks of
various orchids when eaten as a vegetable. 4. A pretty
little orchid, somewhat like the bee orchid, grows wild on
the hills here; it is not mentioned in the native Ichang
Gazetteer. It is called locally. There are three
kinds, red, yellow and white.
CLXXXVI. Palm (Chamærops Fortuni). Hemp or
Coir Palm (Chamaerops Sinensis), and
Dwarf Palm.
CLXXXVII.-Pawlonia Grandifolia.
CLXXXVIII.-Pansy (Viola Tricolor)
CLXXXIX-Paper of a coarse kind is made in Itu,
Chang lo, Chang yang, Tunghu, Ho fêng chow, &c., by
mills worked by water power.

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
21
CXC. Parsley (Apium Graveolens), and another
variety 香菜
CXCI. Peach (Amygdalus Persica) E.-I know of 10
varieties of Peach trees cultivated in this district,-six for
the fruit and four for the blossoms. The fruit is poor.
CXCII.-Pear (Pyrus) -I know of 8 varieties
cultivated here,-seven for fruit, one for blossom. Fruit poor
but largely exported.
CXCIII. Pepperwort (Xanthoxylon Alatum)
-The leaves are used as stimulants.
CXCIV. Persimmon (Diospyros Kaki) -The fruit
is of very good quality.
CXCV. Phytolacca Octandra -Used as an
emetic.
CXCVI. Peony Peonia Moutan.-The
Peonia Albiflora is used as an astringent; the
Peonia
Rubra as an alterative, and Peony bark is prescribed
for female disorders.
CCXVII. Pine
(Cunninghamia Sinensis) is the
wood most used for buildings and firewood.
CXCVIII. Pink or () Dianthus
Sinensis Fischeri, and a Dianthus not identified.
CXCIX-Pipa (Eriobotrya Japonica)
poor.
-Fruit
CC.-Plumbago Zeylanica 老少年,鳳凰衣,雁 來
紅, and漢宮秋—Used as a sudorific.
CCI. Plum.-I know three species in this district,
each of which has several varieties, the,, and; fruit
poor.
CCII Polygonum Hydropiper -The juice is
prescribed for itch.
CCIII. Pomelo (Citrus Decumana) .
CCIV. Pomegrante (Punica Granatum)
CCV-Poplar (Populus Spinosa)
.
CCVI.-Poppy-Much grown in this district.
The cultivation is increasing. To still further encourage the
growth the Likin (octroi) on the export of native opium
has been recently reduced.
*.
CCVII. Potamogeton?
. Identification doubtful.
CCVIII.-Potato (Solanum Tuberosum) or *
CCIX. Pride of India.
.

22.
ANIMAL, FOSSIL, MINERAL
CCX-Pride of Peru.
CCXI. Primula.
CCXII. Pterocarpus Flavus (?)
-The bark is
used as a tonic.
Identification doubtful.
-Leaves
CCXIII.-Pucrasia Thumbergiana
used as a vegetable. A coarse cloth is made from the fibre.
The root is eaten as a vegetable.
CCXIV Quince [Pyrus Cydonia] *.
CCXV.–Radish紅蘿
CCXVI.-Raspberry [Rubus Idæus]
used as astringent and opthalmic.
--Bark
CCXVII.-Reeds and Rushes.-1. Cat tail rush
(Typha Latifolia]. 2. or Arundo Phragmites. 3.
Sundry reeds and rushes.
CCXVIII.-Rhubarb
CCXIX.-Rhus Spinosa
.
CCXX.-Rice.-I know of seven varieties grown in
this district. 1. White rice. 2. Red rice grown on
hills. 3. 麻粘 Brown rice. 4 and 5. 早糯and晚糯,Rices
from which sweets are made; the first is ripe in July the
second in September. 6. a rice that matures in
three months. 7. a rice peculiar to Chang lo. When
Chang lo was governed by native chieftains, i.e., before A.D.
1740, this rice was sent to the emperor of China as tribute.
It is still produced in the high valleys of Chang lo. I
there saw it; the grain is whiter and longer than the
ordinary Chinese rice.
CCXXI.-Rose.-There are many varieties here such
as 玫瑰 Red rose,薔薇 Cinnamon rose,月季 Rosa
Semperflorens, and 木香 Dwarf rose,茶, &c.
CCXXII.-Rottlera Japonica grows in Patung,
and has been called by travellers the "China Birch."
CCXXIII.-Rouge Plant
E-This is a species of
Carthamus; from it is made the Chinese rouge used as a
cosmetic.
CCXXIV. Ruppia Rostellata.
CCXXV.-Safflower [Carthamus Tinctorius]
exported from this place.
is
CCXXVI.-Sage [Salvia Plebeia] 荆芥 Used
medicinally as a restorative.
CCXXVII.-Sandal wood [Santalum Album]
.
CCXXVIII.-Sedges.-Several varieties exist here,

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
23
Carex, Cyperus Esculentus, another Cyperus,
Scirpus Scapularis, from the last lamp wicks are
CCXXIX.-Sesamum Indicum.
made.
CCXXX.-Shallot [Allium Ascalonicum] or 7.
CCXXXI.-Shancha [Crataegus Cuneata] or
-A preserve prized by the Chinese is made from the
fruit.
CCXXXII.-Shepherd's Purse [Capsella Bursa Pastoris]
地米菜薺菜, or 帝密菜 is eaten as a vegetable here.
CCXXXIII.-Shoddy -A fabric made here of a
mixture of silk and cotton.
CCXXXIV.-Siegesbeckia Orientalis
an emetic.
-Used as
CCXXXV.-Silene Saponaria E-The seeds
.
and shoots are made into medicine for wounds.
CCXXXVI.-Soap Tree [Gleditschia Sinensis]
This is the tree which in my last report I said resembled the
Egyptian Lentil. It is a leguminous tree; from the seeds
the Chinese make soap.
CCXXXVII.-Solanum.-Besides the Solanums before
and after mentioned, many Solanums grow in this district,-
such as the , the leaf and fruit of which is used as a
vegetable, the, &c.
CCXXXVIII.-Spiderwort [Commelyna Medica] f
葉菜 and 淡竹葉 Infusion of leaves is given as a
sedative.
CCXXXIX.-Spindle Tree [Evonymus Japonicus]
1. Is used as a tonic.
CCXL.-Spurge [Euphorbia]
toothache.
-Root is given in
CCXLI.-Starch is made,-1, of the Mealy Taro; 2,
Pachyrhizus Trilobus; 3, Dolichos Trilobus; 4, Pucrasia
Thumbergiana; 5, Aspidium root; 6, Pteris Esculentum; 7,
Nephrodium Esculentum; 8, Yam; 9, Potato; 10, Rice; 11,
Wheat; &c.
CCXLII. St. John's Wort.
CCXLIII-Stone Crop JE is used as a vulnerary.
Two other Stone crops are called 佛甲草 and鷄眼草
CCXLIV.-Straw.-A coarse straw braid for hats is
made here. It is very bad. Straw too is largely used for
making sandals.

24
ANIMAL, FOSSIL, MINERAL
CCXLV.-Sugar Cane [Andropogon Saccharatus or
Sorghum Saccharatum] -I have seen very little here.
CCXLVI.-Sun Flower [Helianthus Annuus] H
or -The seeds are used as a vegetable.
CCXLVII.-Sweet Potato I.
CCXLVIII.-Tallow Tree -This is a most
beautiful and useful tree; from the seeds Chinese extract
vegetable tallow. In autumn the leaves are of a brilliant
red, and as these trees are plentiful here, they add greatly
to the beauty of the scenery. They are hardy plants, and
grow from seed. They might, I think, be acclimatized in
Cornwall, Devonshire and South Wales.
CCXLIX.-Tamarisk Tree [Tamarix Sinensis].
CCL.-Taro [Caladium] .
CCLI.-Tea is produced in small quantities all over
this district. In many parts the peasants grow their own
tea, as our peasants grow their own potatoes. Tea of a fine
quality grows in the gorges of the Yangtsze and tributary
rivers. There are large tea plantations in the Chang-lo
district. A tea firing establishment was set up at Yü-yang-
kwan (80 miles from this) to prepare this tea for
the English market. A small quantity was sent to England
and realized a good price, but the firing establishment did
not pay and was moved to Ni-sha-ho
just within
the Hunan border. The tea is now sent to Hankow by way
of the Tung-ting lake. The largest tea plantations of
Chang-lo are at Nan-p'ing-ho. A very fine tea is
produced in Yunnan, called P'u-erh-ch'a . It is
not exported to England; it is made up into small bricks
about half a pound each, and packed in baskets made of the
leaves of the Bambusa Latifolia. Eight bricks go to the
basket.
In Chang-lo, tea is carried in canvas bags placed in
square crates which are attached to the porter's back by
bamboo thongs, while in Kweichow the tea is packed in
oval crates, lined with oak leaves, which are carried on a
bamboo.
CCLII-Thalictrum Rubellum -Given in
female disorders.
CCLIII.-Timber.-A large trade might be done in
timber here, were it not for the obstacles placed in the way
by the Chinese authorities. The reason alleged for dis-

AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
25
couraging the trade is that the inhabitants of the forests
are wild and lawless, and trade might lead to riots; perhaps
the real reason is that they fear the country would be
deforested. The taxes and cost of carriage for bringing
down timber from places under forty miles distance add
several hundred per cent to the prime cost. Forests with
fine timber exist in Itu, Chang-lo, Chang-yang, Kwei-chow,
Patung, and other places in this Consular district.
CCLIV. Toad Flax.
CCLV.-Tobacco [Nicotiana Sinensis] is largely grown
all over this district.
CCLVI.-Tournefortia Arguzina.
CCLVII.-Tricosanthes and -The
powdered roots are given as a febrifuge.
CCLVIII. T'ung Tree [Jatropha Curcis].
CCLIX.-Turmeric [a species of] .
CCLX. Turnip
prepared here from turnip seeds.
-There is a medicine
-A wine some-
CCLXI.-Uncaria Procumbens
what resembling tincture of Catechu is made from this plant
and is prescribed for infantile maladies.
CCLXII Valisneria is given by the Chinese the same
name as Mare's tail.
CCLXIII. Varnish Tree [Rhus
Gallnuts are produced on this tree.
CCLXIV.-Vermicelli
wheat and barley.
CCLXV. Vervain
Succedanea]
-
-Bad and dear; made from
CCLXVI. Vetch [Vicia Satival is given by the
Chinese the same name as the Phaseolus Angulatus.
CCLXVII.-Viburnum Opulus is given by the Chinese
the same name as the Hydrangea.
CCLXVIII Vipers Grass [Scorzonera] is given the
same name as the Ancilema Commelyna Medic.
CCLXIX.− Violet;貫頭,or紫金花 紫荆花
CCLXX. Walnut Tree .
CCLXXI.-Water Caltrops [Trapa Bicornis] .
CCLXXII. Water Chestnut [Scirpus Eleocharis Tube-
rosus]薺, or凫茈
CCLXXIII.-Water Lily.-Of the Nelumbium Specio-
sum there are two varieties used as food, the and the

26
ANIMAL, FOSSIL, MINERAL AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
Another species of Water Lily [Euryale Ferox]
T is used as a tonic and astringent.
CCLXXIV.-Water Shield [Hydropeltis].
CCLXXV.-Wax Tree [Ligustrum Lucidum]
and Ligustrum Japonicum Obtusifolium 冬青 or萬年枝
-It is on these trees that the insect, belonging to the
Fulgorida family of the Homoptera, which produces white
wax feeds.
CCLXXVI.-Wheat J.
CCLXXVII.-Whin [Ulex]
CCLXXVIII.-Willow [Salix Alba and Salix Pen-
tandra]楊
CCLXXIX.-Wine made from Indian corn.
CCLXXX.-Yam [Dioscorea Sativa]
CCLXXXI.-Yarn Cotton.
CCLXXXII.-Yew and the Dwarf Yew [Podo-
carpus Thuja] -Besides these there are 92 plants
or varieties of plants mentioned in the Chinese Gazetteer of
the Ichang prefecture which I have not been able to
identify.