ARTICLE II.
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG..
BY
E. H. PARKER, ESQ.,
Of H. B. M.'s Consular Service.
N the 11th November, 1883, I started from Wênchow,
with tide and wind in my favour, upon a visit to
Hangchow, by way of Ch'u-chou, Yen-chou, and Kin-hwa
Prefectures. There had been no rain to speak of for six
weeks previous to the 9th of November, on which and the
following days the weather was wet and gloomy; but it
cleared up on the 11th, and thus my boats had the advantage
of the recent rain in shallow places, whilst I had the imme-
diate personal benefit of the sun; so that the start was in
every way of good augury. The river for ninety miles takes
a zig-zag course alternately West and North. At the town
of Yüe-ch'i (Wên-chi), 30 miles from Wênchow, it
entirely changes its characteristics, and, from a compara-
tively deep, muddy river, changes to a clear, shingly
bottomed, but still broad stream, impeded as regards
navigation by a succession of shallow rapids. The wind
was so favourable that the boatmen of their own accord
sailed on late into the night, in consequence of which we
reached a suitable mooring nook two miles below the city
of Ts'ing-t'ien in nine hours, doing nearly 40 miles in
all. I heard the boatmen several times make use of the
expression carry over the rapids, and was somewhat
puzzled to imagine how that could be done with a boat
40 feet long, and capable of carrying 10 tons of cargo at
least. A yoke of bamboo is fastened across the bows of
the boat, and two of the three boatmen jump into the water:
placing the ends of the yoke across their necks, they thus
guide the boat up the rapids, any other available hands
meanwhile poling vigorously with the pikes. There is very
little level land to be seen between Wênchow and Ts'ing-
وو
*Read before the Society on the 28th March and 16th April, 1884.

28
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
t'ien, or even Ch'u-chow ; the river is enclosed on
either side by hills ranging up to 1,000 feet high, with
occasional spits or valleys of flat land between them. The
general aspect of the scenery is not unlike that of the
Foochow River, but terrace cultivation of the hills here is
not so general, probably on account of their more precipitous
nature. Only paddy land is taxable. The rapids are caused
by the river running across broad shingly beds, and through
them finding its way to the lowest levels; they resemble
very much the rapids of the Ho-chou River, which
runs from the Shen-si frontier down to Ch'ung-king; but
the water being usually shallow here, they can hardly be
called in any way dangerous. There seems to be almost
everything necessary provided by nature to encourage the
development of foreign trade as far as Ch'u-chow; for the
cost of boat-carriage is exceedingly low (say one shilling
and six-pence a day for a good-sized barge manned by three
men), and our own experience shows that, with a fair wind,
Ts'ing-t'ien can be reached in a single afternoon. Travellers
must content themselves with the rudest of flat-bottomed
barges, protected from the weather by nothing but a strong
coarse mat-housing, which, however, is tolerably water-
proof; there is nothing available at all resembling the
comparatively luxurious travelling boats of the Canton and
Yangtze Rivers. Ts'ing-t'ien is a picturesquely situated
district city, subordinate to the Ch'u-chow Prefecture, and
is built on a small area of slightly elevated ground,
occupying the corner of a sand-bank between the hills.
From its position it commands the river approaches in all
directions, and of course the most prominent edifice is the
Lekin Station, a sort of elevated watch-tower sweeping the
river. A gunboat lies below, so that the chances of
running the barrier successfully are reduced to a minimum.
Here are levied dues on the timber rafts, bamboo wares,
and fuel which come down the river, and on imports,
especially salt, from Wênchow. There is a very pretty
glen about 75 miles above Ts'ing-t'ien, called Shih-mên
Tung or "Stone Gate Hollow." Part of the waterfall, of a
type much resembling the average Scotch or Norwegian
foss, can be seen from the river, and a quarter of a mile's
walk brings the visitor to the foot of the fall, where are to
be seen numerous tablets and inscriptions commemorating

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
29
the visits of distinguished persons. The most prominent
amongst the trees observable on the way from Wênchow to
Ch'u-chow are the "feathery" bamboos, the fir, the vegetable
tallow tree, (here called Chung-tsz and la-tsz or "wax berry"),
the camphor tree, (from which camphor is not here extracted),
and occasionally the wood-oil tree. The banks present the
same style of scenery all the way up, but above Ts'ing-t'ien
the shingle beds are pleasantly relieved by turf, in places
almost as smooth as an English lawn. The dialects of
Ts'ing-t'ien and Ch'u-chow differ from that of Wênchow
about as much as the broad Hunan dialects differ from
ordinary Kwan-hwa. The dialect of Wênchow is the
broadest, and the divergencies of the Ts'ing-t'ien or Ch'u-
chow dialects are generally nearer approaches to the
standard sounds. There seemed to be very little valuable
cargo upon the river. Most of the upward-bound boats
carried a very large package of salt, of the fine or local
Wênchow manufacture. The Foochow salt, which costs four
cash a catty at Wênchow, is loosely stowed in larger boats,
and after being washed and ground down at Ch'u-chow,
circulates in the Prefecture at about 10 to 12 cash. The
downward craft seemed to be usually laden with firewood,
charcoal, bamboo-wares, and other homely articles. Should
this part of China ever become freely open to foreign trade,
the way to utilize this river to the best advantage would be
to construct light-draught steam-launches, with sufficient
power to draw, each, half a dozen flat-bottomed junks,
carrying, say, ten tons apiece. At this time of the year,
when the autumn rice, (of which there has been an unusually
plentiful crop), is all gathered in, there is nothing much to
be seen in the way of cereals. The boatmen said, however,
that the poppy is on the increase in Li-shui K (Ch'u-chow
central) and Ts'ing-t'ien districts, as well as around Wênchow,
and that the price of wheat (the once usual winter crop)
has gone up in consequence. The young wheat, I noticed,
was just appearing above the ground in many places.
The fifty miles from Ts'ing-t'ien to Hia-ho FJ, a mile
below Ch'u-chow, occupied us four days, the weather being
wet, and the rapids strong. There is no place of any
importance on the way, unless the village of Hai-k'ou
thirty miles above Ts'ing-t'ien, deserves to be singled out
for mention as a larger village than the others.

30
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
There is river communication between the mountain
district of King-ning (Ch'u-chow Prefecture) and
Tsing-t'ien by a river, locally called the "Small Stream,"
which joins the Wênchow river a mile or two above
Tsing-t'ien. Hia-ho is the point of departure from
Wênchow and Ch'u-chow for the Kin-hwa and Hangchow
Prefectures, etc. On the afternoon of my arrival, I took
a walk to and through the city of Ch'u-chow Fu and back.
Though the examinations were going on, I passed along
almost unnoticed, and the people I addressed were all very
civil. A good deal of Kwan-hwa or Official Chinese is
spoken here, as at Wênchow. The city is prettily situated
on a spit formed by a bend in the river, which winds round
the southern end of a small plain bounded on the other
three sides by a range of hills.
The walls enclose an elevation surmounted by a showy
temple. The interior of the city is a miserable collection of
ruins and shanties, and there seems to be only one busy street
or centre. The Yamêns are in the usual dilapidated con-
dition. The circuit of the walls is three miles.
The porter and chair-bearer organization at Hia-ho
appears to be excellently managed, and though I only
gave notice of my intended departure after dark, I was on
the road by nino o'clock next morning, with a written
contract in my pocket, an official guild list of bearers'
names, and an escort of police and soldiers.
We cut across the plain in a northerly direction for
about five miles, and then commenced an ascent in the
same direction for a second five miles to Yin-ch'ang Tang
(Ngiang Dziae Doa), where we refreshed ourselves.
Continuing our ascent for another six miles, by a good
road paved with round stones, we reached a height of 2,000
feet, and put up for the night at K'ioh-king Kwan
. The bearers were a dissolute-looking but good-
humoured crew, and appeared anxious to give information.
They were all very well posted in opium matters, and declared
with one voice that Malwa (hsiao-t'u) was almost the only
kind of opium smoked, by those who could in any way afford
it, in the prefectural neighbourhood. The better quality
costs a dollar for 2.4 Chinese ounces, and the inferior quality
a dollar for 2.6 ounces. It all comes from Lan-ch'i and
Hangchow, that is, from Ningpo. There are several porters

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
31
regularly employed in conveying this opium from Lan-chi
蘭溪
The local poppy has been
the
grown during
past five
years in several of the ten districts under Ch'u-chow, but
in Ts'ing-t'ien and Tsin-yün more
especially. In
Li-shui and the more western districts it does not appear
to have been so successful, as the people are said to be
unskilled in lancing the capsule.
The crops in the ground in the plain were buckwheat,
"hairy" beans (just being gathered), excellent cabbages, and
occasional patches of tobacco, hemp, mustard, brinjals,
peanuts, flax, etc. The maize and rice had been harvested.
The mountain-road passed through scenery of the same
kind as that enclosing the river we had ascended. By far
the commonest tree was the tallow tree, and beyond this,
with the bamboo, coir, fir, and pine, other trees were
exceptional. All the villages were small, but the people,
though poor-looking, were uniformly civil; in fact, I have
never yet been in any part of China where less hostility
was shown in the bearing of the people. No coal is burnt
at Ch'u-chow, and I saw nothing and heard little of iron,
which, however, is undoubtedly smelted at Ts'ing-t'ien
and Yün-ho districts.
There is river communication for rafts with Tsin-yün
district city by a river which joins the Wênchow River, two
miles below Ch'u-chow.
On the second day of our journey across the T'ao-hwa
E range, we again travelled 50 li, or sixteen miles, our
highest point being at T'ao-hwa Tung, or "Peach-flower
Gap," 2,600 feet above Ch'u-chow. I estimated the height
of the river at the last-named place at not more than
100 feet above the sea. There are villages with passable
accommodation for man (but not beast, for there are none)
every three miles across the pass, and sometimes oftener.
The mountain scenery is decidedly fine, but hardly to be
called grand. The river at the unwalled district city of Tsin-
yün is, according to the aneroid barometer, 600 feet higher
than where it joins the Wênchow River, but, as the rapids
are stated to be very "fierce," and no boats can navigate the
stream, whilst the timber rafts for which it is available of
course only descend, these 600 feet in 33 miles may be
satisfactorily accounted for, always assuming that meteoro-

32
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
logical changes have not again disturbed barometrical
calculations, as they did on the river.
The Taipings seem to have made great havoc with this
neighbourhood, and possibly the rickety aspect of every-
thing means only that recovery is yet incomplete. Near
the junction of the Li-shui and Tsin-yün districts, on the
south side of the Peach-flower Gap, there is a mountain
tomb, where are promiscuously collected the bones of rebels
and slaughtered innocents alike which were found lying
unidentified around the spot. Prayers are offered at the
grave thrice a year.
The Ch'u-chow Prefecture appears to supply itself with
tobacco and tea, of which latter article, and tallow, it
exports a certain quantity. The Ts'ing-t'ien tea is the best.
Tobacco is also imported from Fu-kien; and cotton, of
which the local supply is insufficient, from T'ai-chow Fu.
Silk is produced, but not so as to form an industry, and
supplements are imported from Hangchow. I doubt, how-
ever, if many people can afford this luxury. Bees' wax is
produced, and used for greasing shoe-thread,-a hawker
showed me a cake; and I bought excellent honey at Tsin-
yün. The people eat a good deal of the sweet potato, and
make a sort of cheap "bean"-curd out of the wild chestnut.
The wayfarers corroborated the statement that no tax was
paid on land other than wet, levelled, or paddy-lands, and
gave as a reason that Liu Pê-wên (one of the
worthies whose reminiscences we saw at the Stone Gate
waterfall), had begged the Ming Emperor Hung Wu to
remit it in perpetuity. This Liu, known as Kwoh-shih, or
Kuin-shih, or appears to bear the same sort of
repute here, as the local hero of antiquity, that the famous
Chu-ko Liang does in Eastern Sz-ch'uen.
Ch'u-chow is the seat of a Brigadier, who has under
him 1,200 soldiers, garrison and active. There are no
"braves," or fighting soldiers. It appears to be the custom
of respectable small landowners to become garrison soldiers,
and even to buy the position, for the sake of the pay,
but to arrange for substitutes in the rare event of being
called out for active service.
The 25 miles from Tsin-yün district,-the water-shed
of several rivers,-to Yung-k'ang district city were
over an almost level plain, very richly cultivated and watered

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
83
by a river which rises somewhere in the Tsin-yün district:
it is navigable for small boats from Yung-kang down to
Kin-hwa Fu, and there for good-sized junks to Hang-
chow.
The chief productions of Tsin-yün are tea, coir, and indigo,
of which last we saw numerous pits and dyeing establish-
ments. The rice crop had been plentiful this year, and rice
was selling for a penny a pound. Cotton, silk, and opium
are grown, but not in sufficient quantity for local requirements.
We met cotton and lampwick grass coming overland from
Tai-chow, and large quantities of native cotton cloth
from Yü-yao district, near Ningpo. Iron-wares are
obtained from Yün-ho district, and salt via Ch'u-chow.
Malwa is smoked by all opium smokers who can afford it:
it all comes via Lan-ch'i, and its prices are slightly lower
than at Ch'u-chow. Native opium is also imported from
T'ai-chow. The land-tax collected is over Tls. 20,000, and
for this purpose the people are made to pay in large cash
at 2,480 the tael, the market rate being 1,800 cash the tael,
or 1,150 the dollar. The unit of land measurement is 10,
which means 100, i.e. 10 fathoms or part of a mu of
land, one mu being acre. The statement about the
freedom of certain places from tax on Ti cr non-paddy
land was qualified by the assertion that the exemption was
confined to the district of Ts'ing-t'ien.
The city of Tsin-yün is a mere village of 1,200 houses,
hemmed in at each end of the gulley in which it is situated
by gates, and two morsels of wall, 100 yards long. It has
two very fine stone bridges of nine and thirteen arches
respectively, crossing the river at the south end of the town;
-the river which communicates with Ch'u-chow, and takes
its rise near the town of Hu-chên in the Tsin-yün district,
60 li to the east. It has also a smaller stone bridge at the
north side, spanning the stream which runs down to Yung-
k'ang. There are villages every ten miles, between Tsin-
yün and Yung-k'ang, and they grow more considerable as
the latter city is approached. Tsin-yün is said to have been
terribly ravaged by the Taipings, and since the anarchy
the people have become less tractable; but I saw no sign
of hostility or sullenness anywhere. I found the dialects of
Ch'u-chow and Tsin-yün sufficiently near that of Wênchow
to enable me to follow tolerably well the conversation of

84
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
the bearers and villagers, and to make myself understood in
cases where Kwan-hwa was unintelligible to them.
Hu-chên is 60 li or 20 miles east of both Tsin-yün and
Yung-k'ang; it is thence 80 li to P'an-t'an-chênh,
which communicates by river with T'ai-chow, by way of
Sien-chü district city. Tsin-yün is distant 150 li
by mountain-road from Ts'ing-t'ien.
Yung-k'ang is a wall-less district city under the Kin-
hwa Prefecture. It was occupied for several years
by the rebels, who utterly destroyed it. At present it
consists of about 2,000 houses, many of which have a well-
to-do aspect. It is distant from the prefectural city
40 miles by land, or 50 by water. Agriculturally,
the district has fairly recovered from the effects of
the rebellion, which carried off about 70 per cent
of the population, but as yet its commerce and productive-
ness go no further than supplying local wants. Exactly the
same account of opium was given as at Ch'u-chow and
Tsin-yün. Malwa and T'ai-chow are both smoked, and a
little is grown locally. The district supplies itself with
grain, tea, and tobacco; imports salt from T'ai-chow and
Ch'u-chow, and native and foreign piece goods via Lan-ch'i.
Its land tax is considerable, and 2,300 and 1,700 large cash
respectively are the official and business values of the tael.
The clean dollar, which is current throughout Chêkiang,
is worth 1,130 cash. As at Tsin-yün, the popular unit of
land measurement is 10.
A very striking feature in Yung-k'ang is its two bridges;
one, a short one of three spans, is entirely built over with
houses; the other, built on eleven strong stone piers, is
about 200 yards long, and is roofed in and battened in on
both sides with palings which give it a most unusual and
picturesque aspect. I was told that inside it is provided
with stalls for the use of hawkers and bamboo merchants,
and that all the bridges in Ch'u-chow prefecture to the
south-west were built on the same principle.
The Yung-k'ang river takes a tortuous but due westerly
course for 150 li to Kin-hwa Fu. To the south is a well-
wooded range of hills, but to the north and west the country is
more undulating and level. The willow, (hitherto rarely
seen since leaving Wênchow), and fir line its grassy banks,
and cover the country in great profusion, and, with the

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
35
autumn-red tints of the tallow-tree, give a singularly
warm and park-like aspect to the neighbourhood. The
river is shallow, and frequently unnavigable for anything
but bamboo rafts; it is beset with harmless rapids, and
after heavy rain runs very swiftly. There were great
numbers of geese, duck, teal, wild cormorants, herons, and
other waterfowl to be seen at every moment, and a sports-
man would doubtless have pleasant experiences here. The
same story was everywhere told about the T'aipings;
everyone had suffered in some way; had either been forced to
labour, beaten, or kidnapped; had had his house burnt; his
relations killed; or had seen his family starve to death.
T'ung-k'in is a considerable village on the left bank,
six miles from Yung-k'ang under the joint jurisdiction, or on
the joint borders of Yung-k'ang and Wu-i districts.
Thence it is 10 miles by land to Wu-i district-city, which
the river passes to the west at Ting-siang, a distance of
two miles, and with which it communicates by a branch
stream navigable for rafts and small boats up to the city.
Immense rafts of pine are floated down from Wu-i to
Lan-ch'i and Hangchow. Wu-i, which I could not see
from the river, is said to be a walled city, smaller than
Yung-k'ang, with no particular industry, having, as usual
here, suffered much at the hands of the rebels.
The boundary between Wu-i and Kin-hwa districts, (the
latter the head prefectural district of Kin-hwa Fu), lies 10
miles further down at a place called Ts'iao-ngan The
river abounds with rapids and wild-fowl, and runs through
a richly-wooded hilly country. In many places the current
is guided by weirs thrown across the stream, into a narrow
channel just large enough to admit one boat or raft. The
rafts are often 200 yards long, but never more than 12 feet
wide, and are so constructed that they can be divided or
moored at any joint, and turned by long bow or stern sweeps
in any direction. The boatmen said that there was plenty
of opium grown in Wu-i, and that natives of T'ai-chow (the
great opium-producing region) were usually engaged to
manage the crop. Sugar of the red kind is produced in
both Yung-k'ang and Wu-i, but the grey cane so common
in Kiangnan is not found south-west of Lan-ch'i. All the
raftmen and boatmen whom I addressed spoke excellent
"southern" Kwan-hwa, but they conversed with each other

86
A JOURNEY IN CHERIANG.
in a local dialect akin to those of south Chêkiang; but at
last differing so much that both my servants and myself
had to abandon the latter, except every now and then where
an uncommon word had to be uttered in the two extremes
in order to arrive at an uncertain mean. Salt from
T'ai-chow at Wu-i costs from 24 to 30 cash the catty, six
times the price of salt at Wênchow. As far as I could
follow the tortuous course of the river, it trends rather
northerly than westerly after entering the Kin-hwa district.
Raft cargoes of cotton from Shao-hing by way of Siao-shan
and I-ch'iao; also brine blocks (for bean curd) or the
curdling lees of salt from Hangchow; piece goods from
Yü-yao; grain for wine manufacture, &c., were met as we
advanced. I tasted excellent wine of local distillation at
various of the districts through which I passed.
Kin-hwa Fu is a finely situated city approached from
the south by a venerable and lofty sandstone bridge of
fifteen arches, which, for solidity and graceful construction,
might compare not altogether unfavourably with the
London bridges. In style it is precisely like the Roman
bridges, such as one still sees in certain Spanish and French
towns. I failed to gather the history of this monument,
which must be interesting, but the fact that its construction
is popularly ascribed to genii vouches for its age. The
interior of the city was not much damaged during the rebel
occupation, but the suburbs were destroyed, partly by the
inhabitants themselves, in order to have a clear range from
the walls; yet the exterior of the town has not been much
rebuilt. Kin-hwa is celebrated all over the empire for its
hams, fermented eggs, bean-curd, and sauce. I was told that
it also produces ginseng for the Court. The only taxing-
station in the prefecture appears to be at Lan-chi, where
there are three stations guarding the exits and entrances of
the trifurcated river.
The 20 miles by water, (50 li by land), almost due west
from Kin-hwa to Lan-ch'i, lie through a rather flat and not
very visible country. A branch river runs south-west to
Kin-hwa from I-wu and Tung-yang , which two
districts, like Wu-i, send down quantities of indigo and lumber
to the great mart of Lan-ch'i. A small river, available
for rafts, also runs south to parts of T'ang-ch'i district,
from a point half way between Kin-hwa and Lan-ch'i.

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
37
I managed to solve here the knotty question of land
measurement, which is after all simply a question of words.
A pa or "span" is simply the local word for the tenth of a
kung or "fathom" of 5.6 to 5.8 Chinese feet. Sixty
"hundreds " (i.e. six thousand pa) make 2 mu, or half an
acre, i.e. twenty four "hundreds" make one mu. But at
Wênchow the mu consists of 24 kung. Hence it is evident
that the pa is of a fathom. In Wênchow the common
tenures take 5.8 Chinese feet to the fathom, whilst reclaimed
shore-lands take but 5.6.
South-east of Kin-hwa, at a distance of eight or ten
miles, the Fowl's-claw Hill stands out prominently
as a landmark, and enables one to fix the bearings of I-wu,
Yung-k'ang, and Wu-i, which are respectively about north-
east, south-west by west, and south-west of Kin-hwa.
I-wu is distant by land 160 li from Yung-k'ang.
The great mart of Lan-ch'i, the Ch'ung-k'ing of
Chêkiang, both as to size, situation, and wealth, is the true
key to the trade of the province. The city was utterly
destroyed by the rebels, who wreaked their vengeance on
this town and Yung-k'ang more especially on account of the
resistance offered. Large junks are first seen at Kin-hwa,
to which place and Lan-ch'i the produce of T'ang-ch'i,
Tung-yang and the other districts just named is brought
down on rafts or in boats. The prefecture of K'ü-chow
sends immense quantities of paper, grain, indigo, lumber,
bamboos, &c., down to Lan-chi; in good sized boats from
Chang-shan 常山, Lung-yu龍游, and Kiang-shan 江山,
or in rafts from K'ai-hwa 1, whence there is land
communication with Hwei-chow Fu in An-hwei
province. It is a significant fact that elsewhere in Kin-hwa
Fu there are no tax-stations; hence it is, probably, that the
Lan-ch'i traders, who import by excellent water routes from
Hangchow and Ningpo, are enabled to sell to the Ch'u-chow
prefecture so cheaply as to check the development of
Wênchow. In any case, the T'ao-hwa range is sufficient
to confine the sphere of Wênchow's trading ventures, as far
as Chêkiang -is concerned, to the two prefectures of
Wênchow and Ch'u-chow. The pawn-shops and banks at
Lan-ch'i are chiefly in the hands of An-hwei men, the
"foreign goods" and native cloth shops are kept by Shao-
hing men; the sugar, dates, fruit, and "south goods" trade

38
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
is in the hands of Fukien men; the pottery in those of
traders from Kiangsi. The salt consumed at Lan-ch'i comes
via I-k'iao from Shao-hing, and sells at 30 cash, or, further
up at K'ü-chow, for about 35 cash. Lung-yu is 90
li distant from both Lan-ch'i and K'ü-chow Fu, which is 90
li trom Ch'ang-shan, distant again from its subordinate
town Hwa-pu 60 li.
Lan-ch'i seems to have quite recovered from the effects
of the rebel devastation. I walked through the chief street,
and was greatly struck by the solid aspect of everything
around me. I also walked along part of the wall, and down
several cross streets; everywhere the town seemed to be
rebuilt or rebuilding. I noticed here the poles of the
telegraph line between Hangehow and Foochow. As at
Ts'ing-t'ien, Ch'u-chow, and, in fact, nearly all Chinese towns,
a pagoda stands at the corner hill which one must fetch in
approaching the town. A pagoda may be said to have
something like the same effect in regard to the rank of a
Chinese town that a Russian church has in distinguishing a
selo from a derevnya,-a parish-town from a market
village.
In leaving Lan-ch'i and taking a northerly direction
we have on our right the range of hills which shelter
Kin-hwa on the north; the K'ü-chow prefecture is, I am
told, comparatively level. There is from this point a
marked difference in the aspect of the hills, which now
become thinly wooded, and account for the large lumber
export from the west. The boundary between Lan-ch'i
district and Kien-têthe pref ctural district of
Yen-chow Fu, is at Shang-ho, a village 50 li distant
from Lan-ch'i, and 40 from Yen-chow. This and other
villages passed have a well-built and comfortable
appearance. After entering the Kien-tê district, the left
bank becomes mountainous, and the river is once more
enclosed between hills.
The opening of Wênchow has greatly interfered with
the revival of Lan-ch'i. The small steamer Yungning
carries 300 tons of cargo and 100 passengers, both ways,
thrice a month. Taking 10 tons as an average junk cargo,
she may be said to divert from Lan-ch'i thirty junks. But
as a junk would not make its average round voyage westward
under a month, she may be said to divert the trade of 90 or

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
89
100 cargo junks, and the same number of passenger junks.
The largest cargo junks on this river can carry 300 tui
or 900 peculs, say 50 tons, but this is only when the water
is at its greatest flood height, during three or four uncertain
months (usually spring) out of the twelve.
Yen-chow Fu is a well-situated town on the left bank
of the river which communicates to the west with Hwei-
chow Fu in An-hwei; it is also on the left bank of the
Hangchow river, but a mile to the west. The distance by
land to the great An-hwei mart of T'ên-ch'i is 400
li by land, or 500 by water, and the land distances are 160
li to Shun-an district-city, 60 to Wei-p'ing, 20
to the frontier Kai-k'ow, 50 to Sing-tu, 50 to Hwei-
chow, and 50 to Tên-ch'i. The Sui-an and Shou-
ch'ang rivers are navigable for rafts only.
My escort being several days behind me, preparing
despatches, &c., I took the prefectural city by surprise, and
walked round part of the wall, up the main street, and round
to a second gate. There are no foreigners in this part of
Chê-kiang, and probably few have ever appeared in this city
dressed in western clothes; at any rate, my advent created
some sensation, but not a single hostile word was uttered
within my hearing, though I was unattended by any
one but my own servants in unofficial dress, and
though the people had not the remotest idea who or
what I was. The area of the city is three parts in ruins,
having been razed to the ground by the rebels; the business
quarter at and near the Great South Gate, and the main
street are well built and prosperous looking. I should
estimate that there were 3,000 or 4,000 houses in the town,
not counting the "villages" and farms, dotted about
amongst the ruins and sheets of water. I believe the
minimum circumference of a Fu city is fixed by law at 10
li, or 3 miles, so that the vacant spaces often met with in
them are by no means conclusive evidence of decay.
The exports from the interior districts to Yen-chow are
bees' wax from Sui-an, and indigo, lumber, and paper, from
the same and the other districts. The prefecture is said by
the boatmen to be hilly throughout.
At Yen-chow, I was told at the Kin-hwa guild that
there were, besides, Kiangsi, Hwei-chow, Fukien, and
Shao-hing guilds in the city. Malwa opium was quoted at

40
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
2.4 oz. the dollar, but the city practices adulteration
(ch'ung) of the drug for interior consumption. Pistachio
nuts are extensively produced in the Kien-tê
(prefectural) district, and the Ts'ih-li Lung
region
yields lime, charcoal, fuel, and excellent Samlai fish.
There is no terrace cultivation of the rocky hills from
Lan-ch'i northwards; they are covered with small brush-
wood, and have the appearance of having been stripped of
their timber.
The trade on the river, I should think, was equal to
half that between Ch'ung-k'ing and Sha-shih ii, but the
junks are smaller, run shorter distances, and take much less
cargo at a time. Most of them are comfortably provided
with passenger bunks. The reason why the Ch'ung-k'ing
trade seems so enormous to many appears to me to be that
the whole trade of Sz-ch'uan, and part of that of Yün-nan,
Kwei-chow, Hu-nan, and Hu-peh with the east, is forced
into one single channel between Fu-chow
and
Sha-shih, a distance of 400 miles, whilst here it is better
circulated.
A remarkable feature about the boats all along this
river is that they are drawn by thin hemp cord, almost as
slender as whipcord, instead of the bamboo lines so common
in other parts of China. Two or three cords, each not more
than the eighth of an inch in thickness, made out of the
Boehmeria nivea or grass-cloth hemp, are sufficient to draw
a large junk up the rapids.
A small stream, navigable at certain seasons for small
boats and rafts, enters the Hangchow river at Si-k'ou
西口
I saw fishing with cormorants going on at several
places. Two or three boats form a triangle, and, beating
the water between them, with yells drive their cormorants
down; in a few seconds they rise, some with a fish in the
mouth, which, on account of their throats being tied tight,
they cannot swallow. The boatman grasps the fish, and
rewards the bird with a morsel. It is a singular thing to
find that here the heron (lu-su) is called the cormorant,
and the cormorant (ga-ng) the heron. But I believe
there is a classical name lu-tsz for the cormorant
which may perhaps be confused with lu-sz, a heron.
The boundary between Kien-tê and T'ung-lu

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
41
districts is at the Lu-sz Mên (or exit from the gorge
enclosing the Tsil-li Lung fishery), a small fishing village
on the right bank, 50 li from Yen-chow Fu. At this point
we met a fleet of forty I-wu and Kiang-shan junks, bound
upwards with cargoes of salt, cotton, beche-de-mer, &c. The
country here opens out a little, and the river, when the
water is low, divides for a few miles into two streams,
enclosing an islet between them. A small rivulet from the
interior of the Kien-tê district also joins the Hangchow
river here.
T'ung-lu district city is unwalled, and appears to
contain almost as many houses, and to be as well built as
Yen-chow Fu; further, to have almost recovered from rebel
ravages. A branch stream, joining the Hangchow River on
the north side of Tung-lu, brings down grain, charcoal,
firewood, &c., from Fên-shui and Ch'ang-hwa
districts.
A little coal appears to be produced in Kiang-shan,
whence it is brought to Lan-ch'i. Some is also produced in
Kien-tê, where it is locally used in the lime production.
As far as I could gather no iron is obtained anywhere
in the south, north, or west parts, except in the Ch'u-chow
prefecture.
The lime is used here in pounding away (ch'ung or t'ao)
the second shelling of paddy after the first husk has been
ground off (lung). Gypsum is used for the same purpose at
Shanghai, and oyster-shell lime at Canton; rice-husk ash
is used at Wênchow; hence it is, perhaps, that rice is
always so carefully washed before cooking. Yet in the
north, I believe, rice is only once shelled by a process
called nien, and no lime is used, though washing is still
needed.
The boundary between the Yen-chow and Hangchow
prefectures is at Tsa-ch'i (30 li from T'ung-lu), a
considerable village on the right bank. The Tsa-ch'i river,
opposite, is navigable up to Sin-ch'êng district
town.
About 20 or 30 li further down, at some undefined spot
near where the river takes a bend eastwards, is the
boundary between the Sin-ch'eng and Fu-yang districts;
and a small stream on the right bank gives access to parts
of P'u-kiang district when the water is high. The

42
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
boatmen say that a few li of land inwards on the right bank
belong to the Fu-yang district.
Fu-yang city is also unwalled, and appears to
have recovered even more than Tung-lu from rebel
devastation. It has no special features distinguishing its
trade. As at T'ung-lu, there is a salt likin office. It
appears that salt pays a loading tax at Hangchow, a small
examination fee at places en route, and likin at the place of
consumption. General taxing stations are only found at
Tung-kwan, (Yen-chow Fu), and Lan-ch'i on the way
to Kin-hwa city, and at K'ü-chow Fu and Kiang-shan in
the west.
Below Fu-yang, a small stream from the country joins
the Hangchow river, and a few miles further east the latter
widens out into what looks like a beautiful lake six miles
in width. The river then narrows and turns suddenly
west at Wên-chia Yen K.
Before reaching the true outskirts of the provincial
capital by water from the south, a straggling suburb of two
miles in length is passed to the left; then there is a
miserable apology for a wharf, whence it is another mile to
the nearest gate. From this wharf a free ferry, consisting
of a score or so of large boats, runs every few minutes to
the opposite bank, about a mile across.
The famous western lake, a mile or two outside the
north-west gate is, in spite of recent devastation, a beautiful
spot, and the eccentric Admiral and General P'êng Yü-lin
has fitted up an island in the midst of it where he lives a
sort of hermit-priest life when not on circuit. The area
enclosed by the walls of Hangchow must rank with the
areas of Peking and Nanking, though the walls are not
nearly so substantial. The main street runs between three
and four miles in an almost straight line. The circuit of
the walls is variously estimated at from 20 to 25 miles.
Previous to the rebellion, it is said, even the enclosed hills
were covered with houses, but, though rebuilding is rapidly
going on, scarcely a third of the area is yet filled in, and
there is a filthy slovenliness about municipal and sanitary
arrangements. Notwithstanding this, I think that Hangchow
as it stands must, (with perhaps the exception of Ningpo,
which I have only touched at), be the most populous city
in Chêkiang. The Europeans seem to be congregated in

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
43
the northern or least recovered portion, called the "lower"
city, and during my walks and rides there I never heard an
uncivil word. When paying my official visits, however, in
the Tartar quarter, (a small walled enclosure at the north end),
and in the upper city, or busy portion, I heard the words
Yang Kwei-tsz pretty often. Though the missionaries say
that a local brogue is spoken, I heard nothing but Kwan-
hwa, nor could I distinguish the language of the local
bannermen from that of the Chinese. Both seem to
have merged into an impure sort of "southern
mandarin." There are 3,000 opium dens in the town; and
about 20 wholesale opium houses. The daily trade in the
drug, I was told, reached $20,000 a day, and is apparently
nearly all in Malwa, some coming from Shanghai, but most
from Ningpo.
Though this is a country of silk, it seemed to me that
very few had silk on their backs, and indeed the city is
poor. The Yamêns are little better than our lumber-rooms
or out-houses.
I noticed the Shên-pao being taken into several
Yamêns and hawked in great numbers about the streets;
this paper has made itself a high reputation throughout the
northern, western, and central provinces.
From the opposite bank a raised path runs 10 li to the
market town of Si-hsing, under the Siao-shan district.
Thence a "blind" canal passes through Siao-shan city (10 li)
and Ch'ien-ch'ing Chên (40 l) to Shao-hing Fu
(60 li), in all 40 miles. There are various branch canals to
I-ch'iao, 60 li, Wên-chia Yen, 30 li, and Pai-ho
Ch'ang, 35 li. Before approaching Hangchow, I
had noticed we were getting into a mulberry region, and I
rode through some very dense mulberry groves on the
Western lake. The country quite changes on the Shao-hing
side; for the first ten miles, there is hardly anything to be
seen but rice, for which (and its wine) the prefecture is
famous. No opium, accounts tend to shew, has been grown
in the five northern prefectures; Ningpo finds cotton to
pay better; Shao-hing, rice; the others, silk. Yet, during
the past two years, the poppy has been planted in Shang-
yü district.
The district-city of Siao-shan is traversed by the canal
which passes in and out by water-gates under the walls, and

44
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
has a very picturesque effect. Thence to Shao-hing Fu is
100 li, and branch creeks intersect and irrigate the country
in every direction. This is without exception the fattest
stretch of land I have ever seen in China or elsewhere.
The autumn crop of rice is gathered in two relays, called
the early and late kinds, one six weeks or two months later
than the other. Strange to say, the quality of the land in
the Shan-yin district differs so much from that in
Siao-shan, that there the rice crops are again reaped
considerably later. Shan-yin and Kwei-chi are the
.prefectural districts, and seem to reek with richness.
Substantial villages and market-towns, many as large as the
more Western district-cities, succeed one another at distances
of half-a-mile, and are to be seen thickly dotted over the
country. There being no danger of drought, husbandry is
mathematically exact and minute, cultivation being carried
to the very water's edge. With the exception of the
substantial stone pathways between the cities, there seems
to be little means of intercommunication except by boat,
and these boats are externally adorned with such consummate
art that they have the appearance of being made of fine
porcelain. Large and small, they are all fitted up with rain-
proof telescope mats, and can be used as dwellings, cargo
boats, or passenger and pleasure barges; they fully merit the
name of gondola; many of the small ones are worked with
the feet, and thousands are passed during a day's travel.
The country realizes to the full the "willow pattern" idea
of China. Stone bridges of elegant shape are seen or passed
every few moments; remarkable arches and monuments are
thickly strewn about; the willow, tallow, soap, and camphor
trees adorn the graves and villages; and all the ideal
Chinese scenes, such as goose and duck breeding, weir and
basket fishing, &c., recur at every moment. The country is
flat, but the graves (which waste a great deal of good land)
and village-clusters deprive the landscape of monotony.
Towards Shao-hing the hills to the right are approached
more closely, and it is thence that the excellent stone is
obtained which seems so cheap and plentiful. The highroad
canal runs both round and through Shao-hing, and the
passage of 10 li through the busiest part of the town affords
an excellent opportunity of inspecting it at ease. I noticed
the words "Holy Protestant Chapel" largely painted upon

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
45
a prominent corner house, and I was surprised to see a
"Widow's arch" of the purest type dedicated in French to
Lieut. Le Brethon de Caligny, of the French Navy, and
about 20 of his compatriots, who "died in delivering the
Province" in 1862, 1863, and 1864. Shao-hing is 45 li in
circuit, but only the north portion seems to have recovered
from the occupation of the rebels, who were here and at
Siao-shan for three years, probably the three above
enumerated. It is said that the southern portion furnishes
enough paddy to feed the city for three years. There is
little about here beyond the dilapidation of cities to shew
that the Taipings damaged the country, unless it be that
great potential wealth and comfort are accompanied by a
maximum of rickettiness and filth in household arrangements;
yet some well finished temples, ancestral halls, and even
houses are to be seen. The boats are the most desirable
resting spots for a European, and next to them (if they
were only dry) would be the open paddy fields, notwith-
standing the way in which they are fertilized. The winter
crops are beans, vegetables, and wheat. The land-tax is
very heavy, about 330 cash (in practice) the mu, with
a pint of rice, commuted for 35 cash.
of
Cultivators' rack-rents range from 250 to 300 catties of
paddy (equals half the weight of rice) a mu, that is, nearly
one half of an average harvest. The landlord pays the tax,
and tenant pays for the beasts and implements.
It is a remarkable thing that the rebels have nowhere
succeeded in destroying the pagodas; every city I have
visited has one or more, those of Hangchow and Shao-hing
being the finest; in many cases great damage has been done,
but this only gives them a quainter appearance of antiquity.
Shao-hing produces large quantities of cotton and tea
for export, but is of course chiefly noted for its wine; and I
noticed several wine-jar potteries. Its trade with Lan-ch'i
is by way of I-ch'iao, and of course the canal leads to
Ningpo. The telegraph wires are laid double between
Ha gchow and Shao-hing, but only single between Shao-hing
and Ningpo. I observed an advertisement by a telegraph
agency in a village near Shao-hing, offering codes at 20 cents
each, and undertaking to send messages as far South as
Swatow, besides Nanking, the Northern towns, and foreign
countries; the wires are along the canal the whole way,

46
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
invariably passing to the rear of villages, and apparently
avoiding as far as possible private land.
The northern shore of Shao-hing produces excellent
salt, which (apparently) is both sun-dried and boiled before
it is consumed; the flats are under official management, and
the local price varies from 20 to 30 cash the catty, according
to weather. Ningpo salt which is only dried in the sun
seems partly to command the more eastern markets.
About 70 li from Shao-hing there is a canal to the
south, which leads 20 li to, and ends in, a market-town
called Hao-pa, under the Shang-yü district; at the
other end of the town a creek joins the tidal river running
down to Pê-kwan Chên
near the coast (20 li), from
Ch'êng district city (120 li). In a very few moments the
broker at Hao-pa provided me with a boat and a written
contract. This broking system in Chêkiang seems to work
very well and advantageously for all parties. The rice
crops of Shang-yü district are liable to destruction by high
tides, wherefore the pint of commuted rice tax has been
remitted for many generations.
The reason why a canal is not cut through the few
hundred yards which separate the tidal river and the canal
might seem to be that the level of the former was originally
much higher, and as the sea water, which is not usually
found above Pê-kwan, occasionally breaks the dykes, it might
ruin a fine rice country. Yet it seems that Ningpo boats
can struggle over the two banks which separate the
Shang-yü and Kwei-chi water systems, and that there is
still no risk of tidal floods there. On the other hand, the
Si-hsing end of the canal is higher than the river at
Hangchow. The problem of the respective levels is one
which, therefore, I am compelled to abandon; further
enquiry is necessary. Small steam launches could do
excellent service on these canals.
The river which runs from Ch'êng district passes
through a hilly country, in the low parts of which the
tallow and mulberry trees are the most prominent objects.
The young wheat was everywhere springing up between
the latter; the hills are fairly wooded with pine, fir,
willows, bamboo, and camphor wood. As far as I could
make out, the water level is at times both much higher
and much lower than when I was on it. The breadth is

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
47
very irregular, and there are numerous loops, islands, and
short creeks. Judging from the amount of scum and
débris, and the facts that the country is muddy and that
the rains have been incessant for a month, I presume that
I witnessed a moderate freshet. Thore was water enough
everywhere for good-sized steamers. Tall fresh-water
grass is here cultivated as fuel; the same sort, grown on
salt-water land, is used as string for packing, &c.
Chêng district produces large quantities of a vegetable
called pai chut, eaten when young as food, and
used as a drug when old; also pears, silk, tobacco, and
tea, all of which are exported. The imports are "South
goods," salt fish, rice, and pulse. The city is walled, and
has been almost entirely rebuilt since the rebel occupation.
There are numerous prosperous villages and market
towns on the banks, amongst which may be named
San-kai on the joint frontiers of Kwei-chi, Shang-yü, and
Ch'êng districts.
Navigation, except for a few rafts, ceases at Ch'êng
city, but in advancing South-east towards T'ai-chow we
kept one branch in sight up to Pan-chu E, a mountain
village 40 li further on than Sin-ch'âng city, to which
district it is subordinate. Another branch runs down from
somewhere in the Tung-yang district, and meets the first
mentioned just below Ch'êng city. The Sin-ch'ang branch
is crossed by a ferry by travellers leaving the town of
Ch'êng hien in a southerly direction, and again, about 25 li
further on, shortly after passing the Sin-ch'ang border.
Sin-ch'ang is a snugly situated city looking like a flat
square box set down between the spurs of two hills; our
road skirted the walls, over which we could see that the
town was fairly well filled with buildings. We were told
that not much opium was grown in the neighbourhood, and
that barely two ounces of Malwa were purchasable for a
dollar. The paddy crop was in, and the young wheat
rapidly coming up in its place; the millet (here seen for
the first time) was gathering; here also for the first time
in China, and subsequently in Hwang-yen district, I saw
the water-chestnut (Eleocharis tuberosus) growing in large
quantities.
The mountain scenery, which is constant in its kind
throughout the province, becomes exceptionally pretty

48
A JOURNEY IN CHERIANG.
between Sin-ch'ang and Pan-chu; the latter place is 500
feet above the plain. The fêng or maple tree in its autumn
yellow was an especially ornamental feature in the landscape.
There was nothing of particular interest to note en route,
except that lampwick grass was being taken from and
cotton to T'ai-chow in large quantities, the latter partly for
distribution, perhaps, in the Kin-hwa prefecture.
I should mention that just after entering the Sin-
ch'ang district I saw a proclamation ragarding the new
telegraph line, issued in the joint names of the magistrate
and lieutenant in command: it stated that the object was to
facilitate the transmission of military intelligence for the
better security of the people's hearths and homes.
and private property would not be disturbed.
Graves
The road which leads in a south easterly direction
from Pan-chu over the hills to the plain of T'ien-t'ai district
crosses three ridges, the highest of which is not more
than 1,200 feet above the plain. A manifest difference in
the appearance and character of the people is perceptible the
moment the limits of the T'ai-chow prefecture, to which
Tien-t'ai is subordinate, are reached. They are both sturdier
in build and manlier in bearing than any other of the
inhabitants of Chê-kiang amongst whom I have been.
At
the same time they are inclined to be curious and insubor-
dinate, and I should think would require but little provo-
cation to conduct themselves disagreeably.
A small but, at least after the rain, rapid river emerges
from the hills and runs through Ts'ing-ch'i, (the port
of T'ien-t'ai), where it is crossed by a very substantial stone
bridge perhaps 200 yards in length, directly after which it
joins the Sien-chü fill river. I saw no opium, and was
told that the district of Hwang-yen
was the one
which produced most in T'ai-chow Fu. The plain seemed
to be planted everywhere, with wheat and winter vegetables.
The distance from Tien-t'ai by land to Tung-yang is
160 li: the distance between T'ien-t'ai and T'ai-chow Fu is
officially and really 90 li, but popularly 120. I find that
one hour is average good time for travelling 10 li by land
in China, and I was here on the move uine hours. Ten li
are often called a p'u, which term may be compared with
the German Stunde, as often meaning the time occupied by
the traveller irrespectively of the actual distance traversed.

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
49
A mountain "three miles high" may be a mountain from
1,000 feet to 10,000 in height, and from a quarter of a
mile to three miles along the usual road from the foot to
the summit, but which takes a man an hour to mount on
foot.
The journey from Tien-t'ai to T'ai-chow may also
be made by water, but the river was so swollen that
no boats could get up to the town during the two days
I was there. Sien-chü district, 100 li further up, is to be
reached by two-ton boats, and P'an-t'an (previously men-
tioned when at Tsin-yün), 50 li still higher, by rafts.
The river scenery, hilly and well wooded, is very pretty, and
the ferry has to be used twice on the way. Sien-chü
appears to be distant by land only 45 li from Ta-ching
and about 120 li from Yo-ch'ing. This town (T'ien-t'ai)
imports silk from Ch'êng and Sin-ch'ang districts; it
appears to be the extreme limit to which Malwa opium
reaches, and even then it is barely known to be purchasable
in the town. T'ai-chow salt, which costs 3 cash on the
coast, and 7 at Hwang-yen, sells at 15 or 16 cash a catty
at Tien-t'ai. Tea seems to be the chief production
I was told that iron was obtained from
of the district.
Chu-chi 諸暨
T'ai-chow Fu is a finely situated city, the houses of
which are built round one side of a hill whose toe almost
cuts the town in two; the walls enclose part of the heights
behind. The rebels did no damage during the first year
of their occupation, as the inhabitants had opened their
gates to them and offered supplies of food; but disputes
arose later on; plundering took place in the villages; and
the Eastern part of the town was subsequently partly
destroyed. The rebels by all accounts do not seem to
have much injured the country parts of Tien-t'ai and Lin-
hai, (the T'ai-chow prefectural district); at all events
these have now the appearance of being very thickly
populated with (for China) well-to-do communities. The
river at T'ai-chow is crossed by two bridges of boats, and
then takes a bold sweep north, after which its course down
to Kiang-k'ou (the port of Hwang-yen) is exceedingly
tortuous, as it passes through pleasant hill and village
scenery. The effect of the tides is felt up to within 20 li of
Tai-chow; 40 li below T'ai-chow I moored whilst the tide

50
50
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
ran suddenly and rapidly up
for three hours, rising perhaps
12 feet during that time, after which it carried us down 16
or 18 miles in three hours. The next tide took us up from
Kiang-k'ou to Hwang-yen. Steam gunboats can at all times
get up to Kiang-k'ou, but except when swollen by floods,
the river between Kiang-k'ou and T'ai-chow is only navi-
gable by small boats. The Hwang-yen river is hardly navi-
gable at all 10 miles above the town.
The notorious bandit Chin-man who is often
known by his adopted surname of Hwang, is still in the
mountains, although he has nominally given in his
submission, and draws $300 a month from the Prefect's
chest for the support of himself and his immediate followers.
At the same time he now refrains from plunder, and has
nominally surrendered, and keeps the bandit class well in
hand. As he is a sort of Robin Hood in his ways, and
always treats the poor kindly; the rich and official classes
are the only ones who in the least fear him.
There is an extensive and rich plain between Hwang-
yen and the boundary of Yo-ch'ing, after which two
ridges, each of a few hundred feet in height, have to be
crossed. It was too early for opium, (which is planted a
month later than in Sz-ch'uan), but large tracts of land were
being prepared for it. Wheat, rape, and vegetables of all
sorts were springing up, and water chestnuts, tallow-berries,
and rice were stored or storing. Hwang-yen is famous for
its oranges, and it also produces an inferior sort of silk
stuff. The celebrated Wênchow tribute oranges are grown
from slips of one kind grafted on to trees of another dwarf
variety.
It is 75 li from Hwang-yen to the walled town of
Ta-ching (under Yo-ch'ing district), which place is
distant from T'ai-ping district city 80 li. Hwang-yen
city is also distant from T'ai-ping 80 li. Hung-ch'iao
or is 60 very long li from Ta-ching, and Chu-hsü
(on the coast) is half the way from Hung-ch'iao to
Ta-ching, which in all is 30 li. Ta-ching and a place called
Wu-yung, farther south, produce considerable quantities of
iron, but no coal. Tea, however, is the chief staple, and
"tea-tax assistant sub-prefect" is the title of the civil
official at Ta-ching. Later on, I was informed, the whole
country would be covered with the poppy.

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
51
Three inconsiderable ridges have to be crossed between
Ta-ching and the city of Yo-ch'ing; the road skirts the coast
inlets, and a considerable river has to be crossed 20 li to
the north of Hung-ch'iao; this river appears to communicate
with Wu-yung, the iron-producing spot above mentioned,
30 li distant eastwards from the ferry.
The fine range of mountains known as the Yen-tang
Hills is left on the right, and either Yo-ch'ing or
Ta-ching may be made the base of an exploring trip amongst
the numerous temples and remarkable crags which have
obtained a holiday seeker's celebrity in this region. A
great portion of the coast-land about here has been enclosed
by strong dykes, and reclaimed for agricultural purposes.
Considerable tracts are also given up to mussel, cockle, and
clam breeding. Both these descriptions of land add largely
to the revenue collection of the district, and are exceedingly
profitable to the owners. A creek leads from Hung-ch'iao
to Yo-ch'ing, but, as it is interrupted in several places by
banks and dams, it is not of much commercial importance.
From Yo-ch'ing to Kwan-t'ou , a small town
belonging to Yo-ch'ing, and situated on a loop of the Wên-
chow river, it is 30 li to the city of Wênchow. This journey
from Yo-ch'ing may be made either by canal or road, but
the canal is blind at the Kwan-t'ou or port end, and is only
used by small boats.
Yo-ch'ing city is finely situated near the end of a tunnel-
like valley, and at the foot of the Yen-tang range of hills.
The circuit of the new city is double the size of the old
walls, which occupy another site a mile further to the
north, and are inhabited only by a few stragglers. The
country here abounds with handsome women, who are
very neatly dressed, and all wear a comely apron made
out of a sort of "Scotch" plaid. No traces whatever of the
rebel occupation are now visible at or near Hwang-yen, Ta-
ching, or Yo-ch'ing. Prosperous villages succeed each other
along the road with great frequency.
Wênchow city itself was never entered, although the
suburbs were partly in rebel hands. The numerous canals,
which intersect the city and communicate with the river and
tidal creeks, enabled the inhabitants to obtain external
supplies of food on the one hand, and to keep the besiegers
at a harmless distance on the other.

52
A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
We did not enter the T'ai-p'ing district. This produces
rice for export, opium, tea, and a small quantity of silk.
The stretch of country between T'ai-chow Fu and Wên-
chow Fu is still a good deal harassed by local bandits. On
the road I met the Hwang-yen magistrate, who turned
out to be an old Kewkiang acquaintance. He was escorted
by 30 soldiers armed with rifles, and informed me that
the country was so thickly populated that the improvident
classes had scarcely any resource but plunder.
It is 80 li from Yo-ch'ing city by land and water to the
island and sub-prefectural city of Yü-hwan . It is 60
li by either land or water to Kwan-t'ou; and 90 li by land
to Fêng-lin 楓林
To sum up: it will be seen from the above account
that the province of Chê-kiang is or might be almost self-
supporting in all commodities except coal, iron, and opium,
of which last two she still imports perhaps a good half of
her total consumption: coal she does not much use, nor
perhaps require, being specially rich in lumber. The western
half has recovered from the effects of the rebellion, whilst
the eastern half still requires time.
My journey was so arranged that I actually visited all
the prefectural towns, except the two to the extreme north,
and one to the extreme west. These I propose to visit on
future occasions. In addition there remain to be inspected
the communications with Fukien in the south, and Kiang-
si and Anhwei in the west. I wish also, if possible, to
examine the Zik'a tribes of western Ch'u-chow prefecture.
It will be seen that at least a glimpse has been obtained at
all the arteries of the province, with the exception of those
named, and that the command of Ningpo, Shanghai, and
Hangchow (including Lan-ch'i) over all but the Ch'u-chow
and Wenchow prefectures is quite natural and legitimate,
as the T'ao-hwa range to the west and the Yen-tang range
to the east are sufficient to exclude Wênchow from
competition with Ningpo in the K'ü-chow, T'ai-chow, and
Kin-hwa prefectures.
Under the head of Ningpo, a map of Chêkiang will be
found in the Annual Customs Trade Reports for 1881 and
1882. In this there are some important errors and
omissions. The river which runs from King-ning
to T'sing-t'ien is not given. The city of Yung-k'ang

A JOURNEY IN CHEKIANG.
53
is omitted, and the river which runs from Yung-k'ang
past Wu-i to Kin-hwa is made to end in the
sand. There is no such branch river as that given south
of I-wu ; it should branch off at Kin-hwa; and it
is to be doubted whether the left and right bank river
boundaries of Yen-chow Fu and Kin-hwa Fu respectively
are correctly given. The space distances of places between
Hangchow and Shao-hing are disproportionate, and the
vast vacant space south of T'ai-chow exists not, or
belongs to the northern part of Wên-chow Fu, the towns
of which have been cramped into an excessively reduced
area. The Hwang-yen tidal river is of no size or
importance above Hwang-yen, and is only navigable for
small boats as far as Ta-chi a few miles above that
city. Hou-so is not south, but a mile to the north
of Yo-ch'ing (not Lê-ch'ing).
Comparing the size of Chê-kiang with that of England,
and considering the comparatively small number of large
towns in the former, I am inclined to think that the
population of 11,000,000, officially reported by the governor,
is not far from the mark; more especially as, in the east
portion at least, quite half the population must have perished
during the rebellion. Unlike what is the case in An-hwei,
no influx of immigrants from other provinces has taken
place.
933