26 30
118
F
普圖學大京燕
ing University Library
120
INLETS
N KIANG
ISTRICT
INLET RUNNING TO
LIEN KIANG
EMA
MA-TS
118
120
109
TJ
R

ARTICLE III.
I
A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
BY
E. H. PARKER, ESQ.,
Of H. B. M.'s Consular Service.
with its
(with a
LEFT the Prefect's Bridge of Wênchow on the 11th of
January 1884, bound for the south. Poling the boat for
half a mile through a noisome liquid which looked like dye-
wash or ink, we emerged at the water-gate adjoining the Small
South Gate of the city, and followed the wall to the Great
South Gate. Then, turning once more south, we continued
in this direction past the Shan Chien Hill
inclined pagoda, known as the Sun T'a, for twenty li,
as far as the market town of Pai-siang
pagoda), after which we turned south-west, passed through
the hills which encircle Wênchow to the south, and
continued ten li due south to Wang-yu, the last town
in the Yung-chia district, and found ourselves in a
small valley surrounded by rather bare but picturesque
hills, ranging up to 1,000 feet in height. The country is
very thickly populated, and admirably provided with fresh
water canal intercommunications: it is not unlike the rich
flat stretch between Hangchow and Shao-hing, but hardly
so teeming with fatness. The most striking novelties are
the innumerable orange groves, producing the celebrated
Ou kan, or bitter tribute-orange. The fruit of the
Cantonese Kêm kuêt (cumquot) is sown in the
ground, and slips of the Kan or Citrus Margarita are
grafted upon the young roots: the result is the large bitter
orange, no higher than a gooseberry bush. If encourage-
ment were given to this trade by the steamers, and care
taken in transhipping the fruit at Shanghai, and getting it
to Tientsin before the close of the river, an enormous trade
with Mongolia would inevitably follow; but the speculators
have been discouraged by the carelessness of their agents,

26/30
118
普圖學大京燕
ing University Library
120
ANU
INLETS
F
N KIANG
ISTRICT
SINL
INLET
RUNNING TO
LIEN KIANG
118
120
MA-TS
R

118
26 30
27
27 30
28
28 30
118
119
PU CH'ENCO
SHIH
TRA
MA LAN
FU LING
CHWA
TSIEN
YANG
TA SHIH CHT
石大
CHIU KWAN
OSHUI CHT
YING TOU 縣溪水
1縣溪松
OSUNG-OHI
KIEN-YANG
YEH FANG
TAI-PING
KIEN NING
府寧建
MUTU
SUI-CHANG
LUNC CHUAN
保龍
泉
H
KING YUAN
OSUAN PINQ
AZ
松陽00
縣
OSUNC YANG
CHUO TS'UN
bYÜN-HO
雲
FRONTIER
LINE
I
E N.
舘書圖學大京燕
Yenching University Library
120
LI TO TSIN YUN CUER FASSO
TSIN YUN
W紆雲
K
府州處
CHU-CHOW
顾河下
STATION FOR CHAIRS
HIA HO
I
A
OTSING TIEN
SIEN-CHU
N
居
縣
FENG LING
At th
G.
110 LI TO TA-CHINO
頭沙
SHA TOU
頭管
KWAN
CLIND CANAL TO TO CH
KING NING
WEN CHOWE
府州温习了。
JOU
OLD CITY
OU RIVER
WANG-YUBRA NCH
FALLS OE
OF I.M. CUSTOM
TAI SHUN
TA HENG-
發
DYEN-PING
(延平府
金沙
F
U
KIN SHA
KUTIENO
CHING-FENO
風青
NGO YANG
田黄
HWANG TIEN
SHUI-KOU
水
FEI LWAN
917
田蕴
1
YEN TIEN
A JOURNEY OF 180 LI
SEA
OR 60 MILES
SYSTEM
OF
UNEXPLOREO
ISLANDS
AND
INLETS
MIN-CHING
CHU CHỈ
HWAI AN
119
福州府
FOO CHOW
TAN YANG
SHITH
LIEN-KIANG
LIEN KIANG
DISTRICT
INLET RUNNING TO
LIEN KIANG
120
SIEN-YEN
MA-TOU
JUGAN
PAGODA
所定海
HAI-AN SO
OR SHWANG SUI CHANC
搞雙
SALT FLATS
CHANNEL
穗
10PING YANG
縣陽平
PUNAN
山雞金
KIN-KISHAN
山村唐
LIND
TANG TSIN SHANTSIEN TSANG
SIAO CHIATOR
溪
LING CH 70
門陡椴
K'IAO TEU MEN
FEN-SHUI KWAN
HICH
EN
前
LOWLAND
江龍飛
AND FEILUNG RIVER
KIN-VANCH
BANKS
KU-AO TOU
江陽機
HENQ YANG RIVER
ATSIEN YU
LIU SHOWU SHIH FASS
OCHOW
SAQ
CHI
石价
ALUNI
HAL
FRONTI
PASS
RANGE KIN-HIANG
領軍將
TAX-STATION
OF TA-YU
NUE
CHIH CHI
縣片福谷
FU TING
店
頭
CHIANO CHIA
*
WAN
CHENG PUMEN
LET
TIEN TOU•
PAILIN OR LIN-CHIA TU
PAKLUM
NSURVEYED INLETS
YANO-CHIA-
FU-NING
INLETS.
MA-TOSKANO
FUNING BAY
BITTERN ISLANO
DOUBLE
PEAK ISLAND
121
26 30
27 30
W
m
a
n
t
e

IN YUN
細
//SKANO
121
26 30
121

A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
55
who have more than once left large speculative consign-
ments to rot in Shanghai. At Wênchow the oranges cost
about a penny a pound, but the Mongols (and indeed the
northerners generally) have so high an opinion regarding
the febrifuge effect of this fruit that they will pay
even sixpence apiece at times. The stalks are often
lime-washed to keep off the insects, and straw is frequently
inserted in the fork of the tree as an encouragement to
spiders to spin there, and not about the leaves, which the
web causes to wilt.
The canals swarm with innumerable small craft, and
besides there are fairly comfortalbe hwa ch'uan i.e.
passenger or "pleasure" boats, and hang chuan, or
cargo boats, carrying also passengers between Jui-an
and Wênchow at 40 cash, or twopence, a head. These last
invariably run at night, and during the busy or winter
season four leave each end every evening with the greatest
regularity. One centime or less a mile is certainly cheap
travelling. The chief cargo from Jui-an is P'ing-yang
tea of very excellent quality.
A considerable amount of fishing is done on these
canals in the same way as at Ich'ang A dozen small
boats, each worked by a lad, move to a position in Indian
file; they then wheel across; a man in the bow of each
casts a large net into the water, and several other boatmen
occupy themselves further down with beating the water;
the roach-like fish rush towards the barrier of nets, and are
taken in great numbers.
South-east from Wang-yu lies Shwang-sui Ch'ang
, a salt-producing district from which a superior kind
of fine white sea salt is obtained: it sells for about 16 cash
a catty at Wênchow. Wênchow, Shwang-sui, and Jui-an
are all 70 li from one another. Convenient free-ferries,
consisting of a flat square barge, large enough to hold a
dozen men, with ropes attached to each bank and
to each end of the boat, enable passengers to pull
themselves across from village to village. Boats going
south have to be poled or "yuloed" to a point about
10 li from Wênchow, after which there is an admirable
embankment and towing-path all the way to Jui-an. The
canal looks more like a broad clear river than anything
else. Not much is to be seen at this time of the year in

56
A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
the way of crops, as, except where occupied by orange
groves, the land is all ploughed up in readiness for seed.
Splendid old specimens of banyan trees are passed at
intervals, some of which are deeply rooted into the stones,.
and have the appearance of being many centuries old.
Thirty-five li from Wênchow, and about a mile from
the main canal, is the picturesque town and congeries of
monasteries called Sien Yen fill, or "Fairy Rock." This
name is derived from a picturesque grotto and waterfall
behind the town. I walked through the town with two of
my own servants only in plain dress as escort, and the
people behaved very well: only a few boys (as they do even
at Wênchow) shouted out Fa Nang (Fan Jên, A).
Shortly after passing Sui-fêng, 40 li from Wênchow,
the canal or river takes a turn to the right or south-west;
then a pagoda looms out from a hill to the west, and the
canal bends sharply round in that direction, pierces the hills,
and runs through water-gates into Jui-an city. The canal
also passes round by the East Gate to the South Gate, where
it ends: twenty yards further is the sea. I had a
particular reason for passing through and staying at Jui-an;
for no one had, at least for some time, actually spent a night
in the town. I put up at a small inn conveniently situated
on the narrow strip separating the end of the canal from the
bay, and was very hospitably received. In other respects
the choice was undesirable, for passengers arriving by canal
and river or sea clamoured all night long for admission in
the first instance to our inn, and kept us all awake. There
had been an attempt made by some boys to get up a hooting
as I removed from my house-boat to a small sampan outside
the first water-gate, but this display of emotion was promptly
suppressed by the elders.
The Magistrate had evidently taken satisfactory
precautions to prevent any mobbing in my case. Though I
walked along the street, and stood prominently in the high
stern of the ferry-boat, the large concourse of people uttered
no uncivil word in my hearing.
The Fei-yün Kiang L, or Jui-an river, runs down
from T'ai-shun district city, 400 li to the west, and
broadens out into an arm of the sea below Jui-an. The
breadth of the river opposite the city is half a mile, and a
rapid tide renders the passage of the huge clumsy ferries

A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
57
It
a very tedious operation, except at low or high water.
took us an hour to cross. Seventy li below the city is
Hai-an So, the territorial name of the salt-pro-
ducing flat Shwang-sui Ch'ang. Fine salt from the dépôt
sells for 8 cash in Jui-an, and Fukien salt (which only costs
one cash where it is produced in Fukien) for 6 cash.
Jui-an seems to produce for export nothing but water-
chestnuts, fruits, and of late opium, which is of superior
quality, and was quoted to me at four ounces the dollar.
Foreign opium is purchasable, but very little known or
smoked. The mountain district of T'ai-shun sends down
nothing but bamboo, lumber, fuel, &c. Jui-an is of course
supplied with foreign goods from Wênchow, with which
place its water and land communications are perfect. The
Ping-yang teas also come this way, but the vast alum export
is from Ch'ih-ch'i a port further south. The boat-
men I spoke to at Jui-an said that no steam gunboats had
ever been up the river to the city, but at high water I think
large steamers could undoubtedly come up; that is, supposing
that bars and banks lower down would not prevent or
hamper navigation. The water is so muddy that there must
be a great deal of silt.
Walking half a mile from the ferry, we care to another
blind canal at Ma-t'ou Pu, and took sampans to Ping-
yang city (30 li). The small valley between the two cities is
surrounded by considerable hills on all sides but the East,
and is quite the characteristic Chêkiang picture, an
enclosed valley ten or twenty miles in diameter. It would
not be too bold to describe the whole province as a succession
of these, each one being a district or a well-defined fraction
of one. The P'ing-yang valley is a repetition of the country
from Wênchow,-flat, hedgeless, rich fields, and perfect water
communications. We made the journey in open sampans
in three hours. The city is prettily situated at the foot of
two lofty hills which slope down on each side to a col or pass,
surmounted by a pavilion or pagoda to the south of the
town. The walls do not appear to be more than a mile or a
mile and a half in circumference. The dividing line
between Jui-an and Ping-shan districts is at T'u-shan T'ou
t, almost a mile from the tidal river at Jui-an.
Barley (for making sugar-cake) and rape were the chief
crops just sown; the boatmen said that the cultivation of the

58
A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
poppy was rather on the decrease, as it did not pay very
well; cotton had once been the rule, but that also had not
been found to pay, on account of the heavy spring rains
and strong autumn winds. As usual throughout Chêkiang,
the tallow tree (the berries of which had been gathered
at this time) was the commonest tree, whilst, for
ornamental trees, fine specimens of the banyan relieved the
monotony of the flatness here and there.
We passed in our sampans round the walls to the east
side of P'ing-yang, and crossed another gap in the hills to
Pu-nan, a busy-looking suburb, a mile distant from
the city. Here we witnessed the uncommon spectacle of a
pagoda undergoing repairs. A blind canal communicates
with Ku-ngao-t'ou to the south-east, and Tsien-
ts'ang to the south-west, both 30 li from P'ing-yang.
The former place is the centre of the Ningpo alum trade, and
is the port of Ping-yang. The sea-going junks load at
Ch'ih-ch'i on the other side of the arm of the sea, cross
over to Ku-ngao-t'ou, where the Ningpo merchants have
their guild and establishments, and thence clear for Ningpo.
The alum export by this route reaches 200,000 piculs, or
quite 12,000 tons a year.
We took the Ts'ien-ts'ang route, passing at the village of
Jui-yang (20 li) under the very prominent and savage-
looking peak known as Kin-chi Shan, a little to the
north-west of which is the almost equally prominent peak of
T'ang-ts'un Shan I, and again to the west the
considerable Ts'ien-ts'ang Hills. These three may be
considered as the southern limit of the lofty Yen-tang range
RELI, which runs from T'aichow south to the sea.
Indeed, the P'ing-yang teas are known as South Yen-tang,
just as the Yo-ching teas are known as North Yen-
tang.
The boatmen on these canals have an ingenious way of
passing the tow-rope under the numerous bridges. A ball of
twisted bamboo is attached to the end of each tow-line. This
is flung in a direction contrary to that in which the boat is
moving, and, by a jerk, made to come up on the other side,-
thus saving delay.
Considering the importance of the alum trade, it
is astounding how little of the country is known at
Wênchow, or even at P'ing-yang. The maps and charts at

A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
59
hand also appear hopelessly at sea as to the exact configura-
tion of the country. At Ts'ien-ts'ang I succeeded, by dint
of cross-questioning boatmen and porters, in eliciting the
following information, which, coupled with the fact of my
having visited most of the places named, shews that, far
from being (as is supposed at Wênchow), a hazardous and
difficult journey, it is actually almost as short and easy to go
to Foochow by way of the alum mountain as not. We
travelled comfortably 60 li from Ts'ien-ts'ang, with the tidal
river which runs past Ts'ien-ts'ang to Ku-ngao-t'ou, south-
west to Liu-shih in four hours; thence we travelled
south-west, through a series of very fine gorges, past Sao-
chi (10 li), over two ridges 1,000 and 1,500 feet high, 30
more li to Fan Shan I or alum mountain, the valley at
the foot of which is about 750 feet above the sea. From Fan
Shan to Ts'ien-ch'i it is 30 li by land, and a tidal river
takes you from Ts'ien-ch'i to Tung-shan (as Fuh-ting
city, the first district in Fukien, is usually called,
from the name once given to the whole region). The main
road from P'ing-yang to Foochow also passes Tsien-ts'ang,
and thence the ferry-towns of north and south Siao-tu
(10 li), Lin-k'i (30 li), K'iao-tou Mên BE P (30
li), Fên-shui Kwan 30 li, to Fuh-ting (30 li), 130 li
in all, nearly all by land, instead of 160 li by Fan Shan, of
which all but 70 li can be done by boat. The forty li
between Liu-shih and Fan Shan are, however, often called,
and are certainly in labour equal to 60 li, and the people,
though not hostile to strangers, are unsophisticated and
very independent. Near Sao-ch'i we witnessed an instance
of this. The sound of cannon and gongs attracted our
attention to the movements of certain villages: passing
through one, we saw an assembly of yokels going through
some formal act, with rough policemen-like hats on their
heads, outside the temple grounds; then we met a file of
twenty more villagers marching with spears and match-locks
towards the first group; in the far distance we descried
another army of about 50, similarly armed, and advancing
rapidly in martial style. One account was that two rival
surnames had decided to fight out at an agreed spot some
question connected with a theft, and that the custom oft he
country was to have "trial by combat" in this way, and to
report then first to the authorities when the dead bodies had

60
A JOURNEY IN FURIEN.
been counted. Another account was that a handsome empty
coffin had been stolen from the ancestral hall of one surname
and sold by a man of another surname, and that the thief had
been made by his own elders to point out the receiver of the
coffin, whose house was going to be pulled down formally
by an armed body made up of the two surnames, though he
was admittedly ignorant of the source whence the coffin had
been derived, and though the thief, on confessing, had been
dismissed. Whichever way it was, it shews that the people
have a will of their own. Meanwhile, the women and
children seemed to be watching with equanimity these
warlike operations, and the passers-by talked of the matter
as if it were a daily and unimportant occurrence. It was as
though the village blacksmith, grocer, tailor, doctor, cobbler,
&c., of rival English villages were to assemble in their working
clothes, put on "chimney-pot hats" for the sake of formality,
and sally forth to fight on the village green or manor
common. Probably the fighting in the Chinese case would
consist largely of yells and pirouettes executed by the older
and wiser heads, until a couple of young simpletons on each
side would get sufficiently excited to poke each other with
spears; the wounded would then be rushed upon and butchered
by the enemy; the armies of both sides would run away; the
bodies would be left alone, or conveyed to the nearest temple,
and the timid magistrate be asked to come with his "coroner'
to hold an inquest. Some one, however, must be killed on
each side, just to leave a salutary impression of awe as a
warning to future thieves or ill-doers.
Another way to the alum hills is by way of Ku-ngao-
t'ou (10 li east or south-east lower down the river than
Ts'ien-ts'ang), 40 li by either land or water to Wu-shih Ling
, and 20 li thence to Sao-ch'i. Or Ch'ih-ch'i, which
is 80 li to the west of Fan Shan, can be made the base of
operations, as appears to have been the case with the only
foreigner (apparently Mr. Gutzlaff) who has hitherto visited
the mines. His description is quoted in the Ningpo Customs
Report for 1868. As far as I could learn, Ch'ih-ch'i is about
60 li, or "one tide" (that is the time taken to run up or down
with the tide) from Ku-ngao-t'ou by sea, or by another blind
canal or river. The alum export used to be by way of
Liu-shih, but the land journey to Ch'ih-ch'i was found easier.
At a point called locally Ngie-lung K'ae (which probably is

A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
61
in official Chinese Yen-lung K'êng ), halfway between
Liu-shih and Fan Shan, a road runs (30 or 40 li) south to
Chih-chi.
There are three places marked on the map published
with the Ningpo Customs Trade Reports for 1881-2:
namely, Ch'ien-k'u, P'u-mên F, and Chin-hsiang
I was told at Ts'ien-ts'ang that it was 30 li from Ku-
ngao-t'ou (also known as Wu-shih T'ou
or Ho-ts'ao
T'ou, locally U-zö diu), and that Chin-hsiang was
25 or 30 li south-east from Ku-ngao-t'ou, and also 30 li from
Tsien-ts'ang. P'u-mên was said to be 40 li from Ch'ih-ch'i
and 70 from Chin-hsiang, and Sha-ch'êng 40 li
south of P'u-mên. Ku-ngao-t'ou is also 30 li from the two
Siao-chia Tu (north and south), and Sha-ch'êng 70 li from
Fan Shan.
At Liu-shih there is a prominent hill called Wan-ching
Shan, and this with one or two other peaks near are
visible from the 1,000 and 1,500 feet elevations above alluded
to, and lie exactly north-north-east of Fan Shan, which is
therefore south-south-west of P'ing-yang, Jui-an, and
Wênchow.
A mile nearer Fan Shan than Ngie-lung K'ae, a road
branches off to Ts'ien-k'i, (40 li).
I hope this dry enumeration of names and distances will
be of use to any European who may in future make what is
undoubtedly an interesting visit.
Between Liu-shih and Fan Shan we passed through
many tea plantations, most of them on flat land, which, if
there were water enough, would be given up to rice. Except
the prominent and rocky peaks alluded to, and the hills
enclosing the gorges, most of the hills south of P'ing-yang are
terraced for cultivation to a greater extent than is usual in
Chêkiang, and look very like parts of Eastern Sz-ch'uan.
The alum is taken in stone blocks (first split with fire,
not with powder, and then broken with a sledge hammer) out
of the bowels of a mountain perhaps 10 miles round at the
base, the top of which may be 1,000 feet above the valley.
This mountain is honeycombed and turned up in every
direction. It seems to consist of earth, grit, and yellow
sand-stone, interstrewn with huge boulders of alum-stone,
like plums in a pudding. The stone is carried to covered
kilns, and there stowed for two days and two nights law lin-

62
A JOURNEY IN FURIEN.
them
like stacks at each side of a mild furnace of brush wood. A
long pole like a battering ram is held by three men: lumps of
stone are placed on the end of the pole lying inside the
furnace door, and are swung up in layers or walls on each side
by a sudden thrust and turn. After being thus heated and
softened, the stones are placed in a sunken vat or hole, and
slaked for a few minutes; they are then placed in a shallow
pit, and brcken into small pieces. The next step is
to place them in other sunken vats, and soak
with water for three days and three nights. Then.
this smoking lime-like mess is placed in a huge mud boiler
(at the back of the kiln) with a tiny iron pan or base at its
bottom or apex, and boiled by the same furnace which softens
the stones. Another flue-like fire runs round the mud boiler,
half way up. This thick soupy decoction is then placed in
The pure
other sunken stone pits, and allowed to cool.
alum crystallizes about six inches thick in beautiful stalactital
form, and adheres to the sides; it is then sawn off in blocks of
50 or 100 pounds weight, and carried straight away down to
Chih-ch'i by an army of porters. The cooled water
which collects in the centre is used again for slaking.
The grit, which sinks, is thrown outside. The alum
thus purified (the factor told me) fetched about a dollar a
picul at Chih-ch'i. He said he boiled from 20 to 40 piculs
a day, but never reached quite 10,000 a year; he also said
there were 24 boiling establishments now working, all of the
same size; this supports the independent total estimate of
200,000 piculs a year given to me by another man. Each
establishment employs about 100 hands in all, and there are
about 5,000 porters, of whom half are Zik'a women.
Thus about 10,000 people at least are locally supported by
the alum trade.
from
Water for tea-making and drinking has to be brought
a distance, so impregnated with alum is the local fluid.
I met three Zik'a women. The Hunan braves at once
called them Yao, probably from some resemblance to Hu-
nan tribes. They looked to me something like the Miao-tsz
women I once saw in Kweichow, but were rather more Chinese,
possibly
on account of their dress. This was very like that
of Chinese women, except that the ornaments were some-
what barbaric. The hair was collected and twisted into a
at the top of the head, and the feet were natural.
point

A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
€3
As the three fresh and rosy ladies I met were as curious
to inspect me as I was to examine them, we had a good
stare at each other. The men of the Zik'a race as a rule
live at their ease at home, and even lie abed (it is I think
said) when their wives have children; but here they join
in the alum porterage business. They wear the queue,
and dress as usual with Chinese. I am not quite sure that I saw
any, though some faces decidedly looked barbarian, i.e. not
rusés.
From what I was told of their language, I think these
people at least must be the same race as the Sia-poof
Foochow, of whom, however, I have not hitherto met
specimens. The Chinese in Chêkiang call them Kou-t'ou-
fan or "dog-head barbarians," from some pecu-
liarity in their head-dress, or from the ridiculous notion
that they are the offspring of dogs and human beings.
The road from Fan Shan to Fuh-ting city (which as
I have said is usually called by its military divisional
appellation of Tung-shan), goes off to the west, and from
it shortly branches off to the south a road to P'u-mên, the
distance of which was variously stated at 40 and 60 li. A
curious livid-green-coloured rivulet runs down to Fan Shan
in a picturesque gulley to the left, and two descents and
one ascent of 250 feet amongst the mountains bring the
road to the Fukien frontier (Fuh-ting district), 25 li from
Fan Shan. Five li further on is the busy market town of
Tsien-k'i, apparently at the head of one inlet in what is
called "Gordon Bay" in the Admiralty Charts. We just
caught the last of ebb at this point, sailed down in a south-
westerly direction past two islands, forming ("Tau-mun
") a sort of triple gate southwards from the sea; then west
to another arm of the sea said to lead to the Fukien port of
Sha-ch'êng (120 li), and then north-west to a point one
mile distant from the tiny walled city of Fuh-ting, where a
small river runs into the arm of the sea. I enquired
after Pei-kwan Hill, which is said on the charts to be
prominent, and, from the indications given, conclude that it
is, as printed, somewhere on the left bank of the sea arm
which runs down to Sha-ch'êng. Pu-mên was said to be
30 li to the east of Sha-ch'êng, and 95 li from Ts'ien-k'i.
The members of our party spoke half a dozen leading
dialects between us, but we found communication with the

64
A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
rustic natives utterly hopeless, though I could clearly
detect in the few words identified a regular passage from the
Wênchow to the Foochow dialect; for instance the fa of the
former became at last distinctly hwang in the latter, as the
epithet fan applied to me, and the dji of Ts'ien-k'i
became clearly k'ia . Opposite this island gate, a third
arm of the sea runs north to Ta-ho (in Fukien).
distance round the bay from Ts'ien-k'i to the point above
mentioned is 35 li, but a land journey of 30 li is alternative.
The
The authorities at Fuh-ting were extremely civil to me.
The colonel in command, the captain, and the magistrate
all called in person, and the last-named posted a proclamation
outside my inn, worded in very gratifying terms. As I
was on this occasion travelling without uniform, in fact
walking, I excused myself from the disrespectful act of
receiving them thus attired, but we interchanged small
presents and many compliments. The people were of course
curious, but (herein differing from the people in P'ing-yang
and Jui-an) wore no sullen air of suspicion; in fact I had
been astonished at my hearty though boisterous reception
by the alum miners, whose children even were not afraid to
stand by and have their cheeks pinched, whilst along the
road, almost up to the Fuh-ting frontier, the expression on
the majority of faces was one of patronising good nature.
The fishing and coast populations were not, however, very
nice to look at, I thought.
At Ts'ien-k'i I noticed large quantities of oysters ready
shelled and sold in a liquid mass; shrimps, cockles, and
innumerable other things of a fishy nature and smell; also
quantities of very pungent smelling sea grass, used for
dyeing; and loads of gypsum, which is found amid the
"rotten rocks" (as my informant put it) in the neighbouring
hills, and simply washed with water before being sold; it is
extensively used in the bean curd manufacture as a rennet.
Previous to the reign of K'ien-lung, (say that of our
King George the Third) the modern Fuh-ting Hien was, I
at last found, called T'ung-shan "Chên," or so to speak
"unchartered borough." It produces for export tea and
tobacco, and of course fish. Over two thousand tons of
alum are said to come annually through the town or district
into Fukien, but I saw nothing of it. The climate became
perceptibly milder, and the hills softer in every sense, lower,

A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
99
65
and more cultivated from the moment we crossed the
Chêkiang and Fukien frontier.
Only Tls. 3,000 of land
tax (and this is a fair gauge of a district's importance) are
collected. Patna, or "great earth," is the only foreign
opium smoked, and its local price is 22 clean or 26 average
value chopped dollars a ball. Chopped dollars are the
currency of Fukien as clean are that of Chêkiang, and
clean are as exceptional in the former as chopped in the
latter. "Juice," as native Opium is simply called, runs
considerably under four ounces for the local dollar.
We left the city in a southerly direction, and if that
course is continued 10 li a boat can be taken 30 li round by
the inlets from Chiang-ka蔣家 to Lin-ka-tu 林家渡,10
li from Pai-lin .
We went by land the whole 50 li to Pai-lin, and as our
general direction was south-west, by way of Ngan-ch'üan
(10 li), no doubt both these first named places are at
the heads of the great inlet, or of the two inlets, the mouth
or mouths of which are given in the chart.
There is a large fishing village named Tien-t'ou
30 li from Fuh-ting, and here a tea-tax is collected on the
leaf coming south. We crossed two unnavigable streams
before arriving at this place. As we approached Pai-lin,
which on account of the poverty of (even from a Chinese
point of view) decent inns must perforce be made a terminus,
we passed through some very extensive red-soiled tea hills,
looking very much like the coffee hills of Ceylon, and drained
by a network of deep diagonal channels; some tea also
occupied furrows in the fields, between narrow stretches of
cereals or vegetables. The chief of these for the day were
rape, saffron-flower, wheat, beans, mustard, and peanuts.
At Tien-t'ou I was met by a simple and wild looking
official emissary from Ha-p'u Hien, (Fu-ning Fu).
He created a great deal of hilarity amongst my followers in
making them understand (with difficulty) that the kaing
(hien) had sent him; as ye is the Wênchow form of this
word, and hsüan that of Hunan, the transition to kaing
was altogether too bold for them all, nor did the addition of
the prefix ti (chih) facilitate matters. He produced his
papers, which shewed that the border authorities were taking
most considerate steps to secure my safety. At Tien-t'ou
also I was interested to see a Zik'a woman with her head

66
A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
dress, which indeed looks very like a dog's snout made of
felt, a red tassel behind representing the ear.
The
The journey of seventy or eighty li from Pai-lin (the
celebrated Paklum) to Yang-chia-ch'i
once more
lies through a magnificent mountain country, the road passing
over two ridges 1,500 feet above the sea, and whilst
incessantly twining, and ascending or descending a few
hundred feet, keeping on the average at an altitude of 1,000
feet. Some of the mountains in the neighbourhood must
have been close upon 4,000 feet in height, but the cultivation
of tea and poppy in slopes and terraces was carried wherever
practicable to the very tops. Notwithstanding this, the
country has an unkempt look, and is not neatly tilled,
whilst the villages are as filthy as any I have seen in China.
On the whole the inns, however, though sorry quarters,
compare favourably with those of that much overrated
province Sz-ch'uan; neither in Chêkiang nor Fukien are
pigstyes placed in such close proximity to the best rooms as
is usually the case in Kweichow and Sz-ch'uan.
places passed are Wu-p'u-ling San-shih-liu Ngao
卅六 均 (or Wan) (or 灣) Tsiang-yang 蔣洋, Tu-chia 杜
, and Lung-t'ing, and the first part of the road is
considered dangerous, on account of the predatory habits of
the people, who look dirty, hungry, and sullen. The
proclamations show that the authorities are obliged to
compromise with them a little in matters of local interest.
At Tsiang-yang I saw a very interesting proclamation, too,
upon the subject of opium, stating that it was all Patna, all
came from Foochow, paid there in a single lump sum Tls.
2.496 a ball, (Tls. 100 a chest), should not be further taxed;
that rogues were in the habit of selling en route, and then
conveying inferior and illicit opium under cover of their
warrants; and that in future only 12 days would be allowed
within which the warrants or passports issued at Foochow
must be surrendered at Fuh-ting.
A tea-tax is collected at Pai-lin, which becomes a
very busy place indeed during the influx of tea-purchasers
in the spring.
At
Opium, though not much, is grown in both Fuh-ting and
Ha-p'u, but the authorities discourage its cultivation.
Tsiang-yang there was also a long telegraph proclamation,
from which it appears that the K'üchow route was

A JOURNEY IN FURIEN.
selected in preference to the T'aichow
67
and Wênchow
route on account of the unsettled state of out-of-the-way
coast districts of T'aichow.
The road to Foochow descends from the hills, and crosses.
at Yang-chia-ch'ia rivulet navigable for rafts; and
I think from its appearance that probably a very strong
current runs during the rainy season. The Ha-p'u district is
entered about half a mile before arriving at Lung-ting. All
the hills are either cultivated or covered with brushwood,
but we did not see many trees, except bamboo, fir, and pine,
until we reached Yang-chia-ch'i, 300 feet above the sea.
Our next day's journey from Yang-chia to Funing
Fu consisted of, first, a 20 li mount of 1,600 feet to
Hu-p'ing F (1,900 feet); then a winding about for 20 l-
among paddy fields and tea and coir plantations to Tsaoi
kêng ; and lastly a gradual descent to the Funing
plain, which is only a few feet above the sea level. At a
village called Shui-mên-k'êng K, a mile to the north
of Tsao-k'êng, we passed within a mile of sea water, and got
a beautiful glimpse through a fine gorge or gulley (from
which the place evidently takes its name) at what appeared
to be a lagoon or enclosed sea, possibly the "Li-shan".
channel of the charts. The ascent and descent were as fine
from a scenic point of view as anything we saw the day
before, but the plateau was somewhat tame. Several
enormous banyan trees attracted my attention. One must
have measured 50 feet in circuit, and cast a shade of at
least an acre. Foochow is poetically called the "Banyan
City," probably on account of the marked magnificence of
these trees in the province.
I noticed a proclamation by the judge jupon the
subject of coolies fraudulently changing tea-boxes en route
and adulterating tea intended for export abroad. I also
observed notices in each village fixing the weight of official
salt at 240 catties; the price at Yang-chia-chi was 5 cash
a Chinese pound, and it was stated to come from Ch'üan-
chow (Chinchew) and Hinghwa
At Yang-chia-ch'i, Wênchow opium is smoked (which
is singular, seeing that chiefly Patna is smoked at Fuh-ting),
and fetches a dollar for three ounces. I saw a field or two
of poppy coming up very well in both Fuh-ting and Fu-ning.
Funing Fu is a very small city, and is not seen in

68
A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
approaching it from the north until you are upon it, as the
foot of a hill juts out and conceals all its suburb (called
locally Ni-ki-a T) but one or two houses which
look like a small village. There are here opium and salt
lekin collectorates. A mile to the south-east is T'a-t'au-nwi
, the port of Funing, with a pagoda. Shortly before
reaching Funing, the road from the north appears to be
leading to T'a-t'au-nwi, the two hills commanding the sea-
exit from which stand out very prominently. Large junks
and steam gunboats cannot, it is said, get nearer than
within 10 li of the port, but I noticed junk masts at the
port itself.
Funing Fu is a long narrow town, in some places not
more than 200 yards across from wall to wall. At one
time the sea came up to the walls, but now the intervening
plain is securely laid out for paddy. At one time, and, it
appears in a measure, even until recently the city was a
port of some importance, but Wênchow seems to have done
a humble stone in killing its sea-trade. Notwithstanding
this, the city looks fairly prosperous and busy, and the
yamêns are unusually imposing as viewed from the outside.
Funing is the seat of an admiral, who has under him 1,000
"braves," besides about 3,700 men, in seven divisions or
ying, of regular troops or "yeomanry" (as I think they
should be called).
The best evidence of the fact that the maritime trade
of Funing is on the decline is the circumstance that
Fukien (Hinghwa) salt is brought overland from Yen-
t'ien, 40 li nearer to Foochow, and costs 12 cash a
catty, or double the price of the same salt at Fuh-ting.
Opium is grown in most of the five districts under Funing,
but accounts vary as to how far the poppy cultivation is
discouraged; the local drug is said to be superior to that
of Wênchow, but the presence of the latter proves that, as
there is a demand for both that and Patna, any local supply
must fall short of local needs.
The road from Funing to Foochow leads for a few miles
up a narrow valley to the west, and then across a ridge 800
feet higher than the plain. The most interesting feature in
this part are the Sia-po (the Wênchow Zik'abu) woman.
Hundreds of these were met carrying loads of produce on
poles. They are an extremely hardy-lookingrace, and all the

A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
69
married women wear a most peculiar head-dress, consisting
first of all of a felt cap, cocked forward like a malt-factory
stack, covering the twisted knot of hair at the back part of
the crown. Over this is worn a lofty tiara or helmet,
ornamented with small plates of silver in front; it is
square as far as half-way up, and triangular at the top; a
sort of fringe of red thread hangs on each side of this
helmet, which seems to be supported behind only by the
felt cone it half covers. The earrings are usually coarsely
fashioned in silver, and broad gold or copper rings are worn
on the fingers. The clothes in shape are not unlike those
worn by the Tan-ka women of Canton, except that
they are invariably made of an evidently homespun sleazy
material, looking like an extremely fine coat of mail. The
few Sia-k'a, or male Sias, I met were at first to me
undistinguishable from the Hans or Chinese, the majority
of whom wear a turban about here. However, it was
pointed out to me that most of them had their back
hair cut moderately short, and twisted into a half knot
instead of a queue; it seemed to me also that their hair was
rather very dark brown than black. All accounts agreed
that they ate, married, buried, and lived generally like the
Chinese, and were not at all averse to intermarrying with
them, but that they did not marry persons of the same
surname amongst themselves. There were only four
surnames in Funing,-Pwang, Lang, Loui, and
Chung, but no Pwangs in Lo-yüan district.
I have pointed out elsewhere that the Hak-kas
near Canton often call the Puntis Sha-p'o and Sha-lao
, and that the Miao-tsz I met in Kweichow call
the Chinese Shwa. Now, though different characters are
locally used, there is one character 1, "a snake," which
hits off from every etymological point of view the Hak-ka
Sha, the Wenchow Zi, and the Foochow Sia; and it would
therefore seem possible that the old race anciently occupying
the hills of Yueh were once called by some such name.
From the few examples given to me of their language, it is
evident that they are essentially of Chinese stock, and that
they speak a sort of mandarin dialect flavoured with that of
Foochow, just as the Hak-kas speak a corrupted mandarin
dialect flavoured with that of Canton. Owing to the
suspicions which would have arisen had I endeavoured to

70
70
A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
personally cross-question a woman, I was obliged to content
myself with second-hand evidence.
We now descended a few hundred feet, and kept on
an average high level, passing no place of any size, but
winding through charming glen scenery, after which we
descended once more into a small plain, crossed to the west
a low ridge, and found ourselves at the port of Yen-t'ien,
up to the very houses of which good-sized junks can moor.
Since, some years ago, the mountain road from Funing by
way of Ning-tê district city (160 li) to Lo-yüan
district city (65 li) was infested by bandits, the sea route
of 180 li from Yen-t'ien to Fei-lwan-tu, and 40 li
thence to Lo-yüan, has become a permanent institution;
yet the literary chancellor on his rounds still takes the
regulation land-route. I enjoyed immensely my five hours'
voyage in a regular sea-going junk, though, owing to our
having nothing on board but a few tons of stone ballast, I
must say I felt relieved whenever a reef was taken in. We
had such a magnificent breeze that we made what is called
a day and a night's voyage between the hours of 4 and 9
p.m., and I was thus able to watch the configuration of the
land. First we went south-west for about ten miles, past a
lorcha gunboat lying at anchor, down a beautiful bay a mile
to two miles broad, lined on both sides by hills prettily
wooded and cultivated, passing small islets to the north and
west. Then, for about twenty miles, we sailed down a
broader bay due south, past a solitary rock and a consider-
able inlet running in or out due east. The weather was not
now so clear, so that the hills on each side were not
distinctly visible in detail, but the breadth of the bay
appeared to be from 5 to 10 miles across. An island about
two miles long formed a sort of gate to this bay, one narrow
strait giving access to the south-east, and another which we
took, much broader, to the south. Having got clear of a
headland and a small island to our right, we turned south-
west for about 10 miles having land at a distance of two or
three miles on each side. Then we turned west, and land
was only visible in the darkness to the left. Next morning
when looking back from the heights ashore, I found we
had come from the north-east in rounding our last
promontory, and that, between this promontory and our
land, there was still another inlet to the north, apparently

A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
71
full of shallows at low water. I think this must lead to
Ning-tê city. We were high and dry on the bank of a small
tidal creek when I woke, lying off the market town and
military picket station of Fei-lwan, belonging to Ning-tê
district. The "official" price of a fifty-ton junk, worked
by five men, for 60 miles was 600 cash, or, say, half-a-crown,
but I added a dollar. These junks are admirably clean
inside, and are fitted with very strong bulk-heads and water-
tight compartments.
Very shortly after leaving Fei-lwan, we soon again
began an ascent of the beautiful mountain pass bearing that
name. We had a most superb view of the valley below, and
of the sea route by which we had come, from a height of
1,750 feet. All along this pass there were, amongst other
trees, some very fine specimens of the Pinus Bungeana (the
same tree as the "Big Trees" or Wellingtonia gigantea of
California), some of them twelve feet in circumference. It
is a curious thing that the vulgar name for üng, "banyan,"
is pronounced süng in Fukien, and the süng or fir tree is
distinguished from it only by the addition of the word pa
(vulgar for paik) "a cedar." There were still 150 feet to
mount before we reached the highest point of 1,900 feet,
shortly after which we commenced a descent into the lovely
plain (as seen from above) of Lo-yüan, even steeper than
our ascent on the other side. We found the Sia-po of this
district somewhat different from those of Funing.
clothes were much alike, except that the women wore neat
coils of cloth from the knee (and possibly higher) down to
the ankle; these coils were often adorned at the lower end
with a turn of gay ribbon or braid. Many of the women
were bare-legged, but I was informed that they wore short
trowsers beneath their skirts; but anyhow the knee is often
bare. The unmarried girls here and elsewhere wear no head-
gear over their twists or plaits, which appear to vary in
style according to the taste of the subject. But the head
dress was something really outrageous.
The hair was
The
gathered into a sort of long roll, projecting beyond the forehead
and lying in a filigree silver boat, like a nutmeg grater.
A stick or pin formed a sort of horn forward of this, to
which was attached a small red flag or tassel. Above the
boat was what looked like a red heel-less shoe reversed.
Another arrangement of sticks extended nearly a foot behind,

72
A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
and supported a hollow silver horizontal half-moon or
crescent, also of filigree, tapering at each end, and as thick
as a man's thumb in the middle; and behind this, again,
hung a red flag or curtain of cloth about four inches square.
Possibly the bow is the origin of the crescent, and the
quiver of the slipper. The women were very nimble in
their movements as soon as they saw me, and gave me
very little opportunity of examining them closely. At one
spot we came across a Sia-po and Sia-k'a going through what
looked like the gambols of Venus and Adonis on the high-
road. She was doubled up in his lap, with her pointed
head lying affectionately pillowed on his breast, and he was
sitting down, clasping her with one hand and patting her
hard little back with the other. She had just fallen and
hurt herself badly, he said, and he was her husband. It
was rather a touching sight, and though even a Chinaman
could not have avoided assisting his wife in public had she
met with a similar accident, there would hardly have been
the same straightforward simplicity of attitude.
The Sia-k'a or male Sias twist their cloth above the
ankle, like the women, round the shins, whilst the Chinese
porters wear a much shorter cloth bound just round the
ankle, as in Hukwang and Sz-ch'uan. The material out
of which the men's clothes are made is often of the same
sleazy stuff as that worn by nearly all the women.
The coats are usually shorter than those worn by the male
Chinese, and a very short pair of trowsers, scarcely bigger
than bathing-drawers, is worn over the ordinary loose knee-
breeches. Most of the men wear a sort of fillet or ring of
cloth embracing the head and the coiled queue.
A mile east of Lo-yüan city there is a small river
which runs in to the sea at Wu-li-k'ou, 15 li away.
Lo-yüan is supplied with Hinghwa salt brought in junks
hither. The monopolists join interests with the likin
offices, and charge 12 cash a catty in the city, though it is
delivered at the port for 6 cash. Patna opium seems to be
that most smoked, and its price runs very high, from Tls.
18 to Tls. 20 a ball, and less than an ounce for a dollar if
bought retail. The Fukien authorities have evidently a
closer grasp on taxable commodities than the people will
submit to elsewhere. At Lo-yüan there is a very neat
Roman Catholic Chapel just outside the north gate, and I found

A JOURNEY IN FUKIEN.
78
later on that a still more extensive Protestant establishment
was building next door to it inside the walls. There are
about 1,000 Protestant converts in the neighbourhood, of all
ages and both sexes, and as yet only 30 at Funing Fu. Not
much native opium is grown in Lo-yüan, at least for sale,
and Wênchow opium fetches a dollar for three ounces.
Fu-ch'ing district is (it was stated) the one in Foochow
Fu which grows the most. It was explained to me that
the people are not yet expert at cultivating the drug, and
that the services of P'ing-yang (Wênchow) men are usually
requisitioned. Lo-yüan is, like Funing, a long narrow city
at and round the toe of a hill. On the south and west,
very fine mountains 2,000 and 3,000 feet high shut in the
city; the east is open, and the north covered by the low hills
ever which we passed. The colonel in command has under
him 300 troops.
At and from Funing the dialect, which had hitherto been
mixed and unsatisfactory, developed into almost the pure
Foochow tongue; but here the lisp is so strong that such
words as sing, sik, are pronounced by many precisely like
the English words thing, thick. Those peculiarities which I
have explained elsewhere, under which the vowels, finals,
and tones of all words radically change in combination
according to fixed though locally unknown rules, exist in
full force here. For instance, paök in the entering tone
is "north," but pöpieng (if uttered quickly) in the even
tone is "the North." This, as I have endeavoured to show, is
nothing more nor less than the Sandhi, Vriddhi, and Guna
of Sanskrit, as explained by Professor Max Müller. The
Foochow dialect, though full of localisms, archaicisms, and
vulgarisms, is one of the sweetest to the ear, even more so
perhaps than the Pekingese; the tones and the lisps seem
to impart to the speakers a somewhat languid or effeminate
air, which, however, is not in accordance with their
character.
On the whole the mountain scenery of this much of
Fukien (except near the border) must be given a place
distinctly ahead of that in any part of Chêkiang. It is
more varied, more accidenté (as the French say), or
strongly marked; not so much heaped together; it is bigger,
and rougher. Perhaps a circuit of 20 miles radius round
Lo-yüan city would comprise the finest portions. I am

74
A JOURNEY IN FURIEN.
told that the road to Ning-tè crosses mountains 3,500 feet in
height. The road from Lo-yüan, past the Lien-kiang
boundary (30 li) and Tan-yang (20 l) in the
Lien-kiang district, to Tai-shih 30 li), 80 li in all,
keeps at an average height of 500 feet or so above the
plains; never more than 800. But this stretch very
strongly resembles the inland parts in the immediate
neighbourhood of Ch'ungk'ing. There are few even small
plains, and very little level ground. On all sides are to be
seen fine mountains a dozen miles or so away, but the
intervening space is an irregular congeries of mounds,
terraced and given up to paddy, amongst which the road
winds, ascends, and descends at every instant. The peculiarity
of Chêkiang scenery, a small valley surrounded by hills,
ceases almost as soon as the frontier is crossed, until
Foochow is thus nearly approached. At Tan-yang there is
a large tea-tax office in charge of a deputy; apparently each
district fattens on exported tea, of which even at this time
numerous loads were being carried to Foochow. The crops
in the ground, which was as a rule not yet cleared of its
paddy roots, were rising wheat and vegetables. The tallow
tree, here called 'öüng or k'üng-ch'eu, which had almost
disappeared since we left Chêkiang, began to grow common
once more; also coir, maple, firs, pines, many kinds of
bamboo, and a great many trees of which even the Chinese
names were doubtful, such as p'ieu, koä, &c.
and Ku-t'ien
Leaving T'ai-shih the road runs for 10 li along a valley
of the Chêkiang type surrounded on all sides by hills. At
P'an-tu a river is crossed, which runs down over 300
li from parts of the Ping-nan
districts to Lien-kiang city (30 li), and is navigable for
mastless boats for a hundred li up. We followed the right
bank of this river for a few miles west, and then left it to
continue south-west and ascend the Hia-hu-ling. This
pass runs at an average height of 1,500 feet for several miles
to Pê-ling, whence from an elevation of 1,750 feet, a
superb view of Foochow, Ku-shan, Pagoda Anchorage,
Disraeli Rock, &c., &c., is obtained.
134