ARTICLE VI.
TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN CHINA."
BY
ALEX. HOSIE, Esq.,
Of H.B.M.'s Consular Service.
ARON F. VON RICHTHOFEN in his valuable letter
Baddressed to the Committee of the Shanghai General
Chamber of Commerce in 1872 devotes an occasional page to
the subject of Trade Routes in Western China, more especially
in the province of Yünnan; but, as that distinguished
traveller was, owing to an unfortunate accident, compelled
to abandon his projected journey from Ssu-ch'uan into
Yünnan, and his descriptions of the trade roads in the latter
province were therefore derived from hearsay, it may not be
out of place for one who has recently performed the journey
which he abandoned, and who has traversed four trade roads
to Yünnan, to endeavour to supplement his remarks.
I shall not, however, confine my attention to the
province of Yünnan; but I shall endeavour briefly to
point out the existing trade routes to Western China, and
to examine their relative advantages.
By Western China I mean the provinces of Ssu-ch'uan,
Kueichou, and Yünnan.
I.-SSU-CH'UAN.
The great trade highway into Ssu-ch'uan is the River
Yangtsze and its numerous tributaries.
By the Agreement of Chefoo facilities were granted for
the navigation of the Upper Yangtsze by the opening of the
port of Ichang and the permission to ascend by steamer as
far west as Ch'ungk'ing, the great commercial centre of the
province of Ssu-ch'uan.
Advantage has been taken of these facilities to navigate
as far as Ichang; and, except during the winter months
when shallows interfere with vessels drawing more than six
Read before the Society on the 25th March, 1884.

104
TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN CHINA,
feet, a steamer runs regularly between Hankow and Ichang;
and I understand that a Company has recently been formed
whose object it is to run a couple of steamers between these
two places at all seasons.
No attempt has yet been made, however, to steam as
far west as Ch'ungk'ing; and one would naturally assume
that obstacles bar the way. All the year round native
boats navigate the waters between Ichang and Ch'ungk'ing,
and we hesitate to be driven to the conclusion that obstacles
surmountable by native craft are insurmountable by steam.
The obstacles to native craft are the rapids and the
strong current, the former when the river is low, that is,
during winter and spring, and the latter during the rest of
the year when the river is flooded. Many of the larger
boats have a draught of more than five feet, and insufficient.
depth of water has never been adduced as an obstacle to
steam. In ascending from Ichang these boats, except in
the gorges where the current is sluggish, are tracked by the
river's bank; and when the river is low, they are dragged
over the rapids by sheer human strength. I say, when the
river is low, for during summer and autumn the rapids
disappear under the great rise of water, and then there
exists no obstacle to prevent a steamer of sufficient power
from ascending as far as Ch'ungking and even as far as
Hsüchou Fu, better known as Sui Fu, which for all practical
purposes is the highest navigable point on the River
Yangtsze.
We have said that the Yangtsze is the great trade
highway into Ssu-ch'uan, and from and to it goods are carried
by land and water, principally the latter.
The Kia-ling, which enters the Yangtsze at Ch'ungk'ing,
supplies the north and partly the east; the T'o, which enters
the Yangtsze at Luchou, supplies the centre; and the Min,
which joins the Yangtsze at Sui Fu, supplies the capital and
the west of the province. These streams also bring down
to the Great River, as the Yangtsze is called between
Ichang and Sui Fu, the products of the districts which they
drain.
In addition to these three streams which enter the
Yangtsze from the north, are several others which join it
from the south; but they are more concerned with supplying
goods to and bringing produce from Kueichou and Yunnan

TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN CHINA,
105
than the south of Ssu-ch'uan, and will be noticed when we
come to deal with these provinces.
The time and labour required to carry the goods by
native craft from Ichang to Ch'ungk'ing and to distribute
them throughout the province, seriously raise the value of
the goods and necessarily limit their consumption; and
there cannot be the least doubt that, were the facilities
granted by the Agreement of Chefoo taken advantage of,
goods could be laid down economically and without risk in
Ch'ungking, and a great development of the trade in
substantial foreign manufactures would be the result.
The province of Ssu-ch'uan contains a population some
five or six times greater than either Kueichou or Yünnan,
and a population wealthy as compared with the populations
of these smaller provinces; and the energy of the foreign
merchant instead of being wholly diverted to supplying the
requirements of Yünnan-requirements insignificant when
those of Ssu-ch'uan are considered-should be devoted to
availing himself of the advantages conceded by the
Agreement of Chefoo, and thereby open up to foreign trade
the largest province in the Empire with its population of
about thirty millions.
But let not the foreign manufacturer and merchant
think, as some recent writers would have then believe-that
these millions of Western China are waiting to array
themselves in foreign piece goods. No such thing. For the
ordinary working classes, such as agriculturists, carriers
and coolies, which form a large proportion of the population,
these goods are altogether unsuited; and to supply their
wants Ssu-ch'uan annually imports from the Hukuang
provinces raw cotton and manufactured goods, the value of
which cannot be placed at less than two millions sterling.
These cottons are warm and substantial; and when the wear
and tear of years have reduced them to rags, they are
converted to numerous other uses.
The foreign manufacturer and merchant may well be
content if they can supply that percentage of the population,
such as shopkeepers and the wealthier classes, which has
not to earn its livelihood by hard manual labour.
In a word, the trade highway into Ssu-ch'uan is the
Upper Yangtsze. For conducting and developing this trade,
facilities have been granted by the Agreement of Chefoo;

106
TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN CHINA.
but hitherto they have not been taken advantage of, owing
to certain obstacles which sooner or later will be found to
be more imaginary than real.
Is the trade of Ch'ungk'ing, which now falls little
short of forty million taels a year, to be left undeveloped?
I leave the answer to the foreign merchant. That no other
trade route can possibly compete with the Yangtsze route I
shall endeavour to show anon.
When the Yangtsze is flooded the greater part of the
junks are laid up, the owners preferring to relinquish
freight rather than expose their property to the numerous
risks which threaten unwieldy craft during summer and
autumn; and since at these seasons no obstacles exist to the
navigation of the Upper Yangtsze, almost the entire carrying
trade would fall to a steamer.
There is a trade route from Canton to Ssu-ch'uan-
before the opening of the Yangtsze a most important route
-a great part of which can be accomplished on the inland
waters of the provinces of Kuangtung, Hunan, and Ssu-
ch'uan. The trade along this route is now insignificant,
consisting for the most part of peddlery, and is of no
interest to foreign commerce with which in these pages we
are more immediately concerned. For the same reason I
pass over without remark the great northern trade road to
Ch'êng-tu, the provincial capital of Ssu-ch'uan, and the
road from the latter city to Thibet by way of Lithang and
Bathang.
II. KUEICHOU.
The River Yangtsze is also the basis of trade routes.
to the province of Kueichou. These we shall discuss in
order, beginning from the east.
(1). One of the most important trade routes to
Kueichou begins at Hankow, crosses the Tung-t'ing Lake, and
ascends the Yüan River as far as the city of Chênyian Fu,
the highest navigable point in Kueichou, and distant seven
days' journey from Kueiyang Fu, the capital of the pro-
vince. This is well known as the route followed by the
late Mr. Margary on his way to Yünnan.
Goods intended for the east of Kueichou are mostly
carried by this route, which, although occupying more time-
at least two months-than the Great River route to Ch'ung-

TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN OHINA.
107
king and thence overland to Kueichou, is preferred to the
latter for various and some of them obvious reasons. The
whole journey into eastern Kueichou can be performed by
water without a single transhipment; the imposts, leviable
in Ssu-ch'uan on goods passing through the province are
avoided; and, although there are numerous rapids which
seriously interfere with the navigation of the Yüan River,
they are not so dangerous or formidable for native craft as
the rapids on the Great River.
For northern and western Kueichou other routes are
followed; and, with one exception, they all lie to the west
of Ch'ungk'ing. This exception is the
(2). Kung-t'an River or Wu River route.
The Kung-t'an River, which enters the Yangtsze at
Fuchou, seventy-two geographical miles to the east of
Ch'ungk'ing, derives its name from a place called Kung-t'an
near the Ssu-ch'uan-Kueichou border, and distant four
hundred and fifty li from its mouth. This river, which
rises in the west of Kueichou and crosses the pro-
vince, is known as the Wu River until it reaches the
frontier. It is also called the Fuchou River from the city
at its mouth.
It is not navigable the whole distance from Fuchou
to Kung-t'an, for goods have to be transhipped at a place
called Yang-ko-chi, 120 li from Fuchou, and carried
overland a distance of about a mile. The chief places on
its banks are Yang-ko-ch'i, Chiang-k'ou, P'êng-shui Hsien,
and Kung-t'an, distant respectively 120, 210, 330, and 450
li from Fuchou.
The up trade is insignificant; but the down trade is
important, consisting principally of wood-oil, bean-cake,
opium, hemp, indigo, charcoal, firewood, Indian corn,
potatoes, cereals, and drugs.
The river is shallow, and only boats of light draught
attempt the up-journey, which occupies some five days.
(3). The Chungking overland and
(4). Ch'i-chiang River routes.
These are virtually one route, as the Ch'ungk'ing
overland route passes Chi-chiang Hsien from which the
The overland journey from
river derives its name.

108
TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN CHINA.
Ch'ungk'ing to Ch'i-chiang Hsien occupies three days,
while four days are required to accomplish the journey by
boat from the mouth of the river to the district city.
Above Ch'i-chiang Hsien the river is very shallow and is
navigable only by the smallest craft as far as Hsin-chan
in Kueichou, another two days' journey. From Ch'i-
chiang Hsien goods can be carried to Kueiyang Fu, the
capital of Kueichou in twelve days or even less.
This is an important trade route, and by it north-
eastern Kueichou is supplied with salt from Ssu-ch'uan.
Ch'i-chiang Hsien is distant 360 li from the river's
mouth; and the chief places on its banks are Pei-tu, Kuang
hsing-ch'ang, Wu-ch'a-'ho, Chia-hsi-ch'iao, Chên-wu-ch'ang,
Jên-shih-'to, and Chiang-k'ou at its junction with the Great
River.
(4). The Jên-'huai River or Chih-shui River route.
This river which in its upper waters is known as the
Chih-shui, flows past Jên-'huai Ting in northern Kueichou
and enters the Great River at Ho-chiang Hsien, 95 geo-
graphical miles west of Ch'ungk'ing, and a three days'
journey by river.
A glance at a map of China will show that at this point
the Great River is no great distance from the Kueichou
frontier; and the up-river journey from Ho-chiang Hsien to
Jên-'huai T'ing occupies only a couple of days. Between
these two cities there are only two places of any importance,
namely, Li-ch'i-tzu and Ch'uan-shih. The up trade consists
almost entirely of Ssu-ch'uan salt; the down trade in pine
trees and in pine boards, bamboos, wood-oil, rape-seed oil,
indigo, charcoal, firewood, lump coal, paper, cereals, and soot
for the manufacture of ink.
(5). The Luchou and Yung-ning River Route.
With the exception of the Tung-t'ing Lake and Yüan
River route, this is the most important trade road to Kuei-
chou; and, in my opinion, it is the best line of communica-
tion with Yünnan, from the Yangtsze.
Luchou is a city of great commercial importance on
the north bank of the Great River at its junction with the
To River, 129 geographical miles west of Ch'ungking. It
is the great salt depôt of Ssu-ch'uan. Thirteen miles west

TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN CHINA.
109
of Luchou and on the opposite bank of the river is the
district city of Na-chi, a place of no importance in itself;
but it lies on the right bank and at the mouth of the
Yung-ning River, a waterway of the highest commercial
value, for by this route the total salt supply of western
Kueichou finds its way from Luchou. It is navigable
as far as the district city of Yung-ning,-from which it
derives its name, and which is distant a three days'
journey from the Kueichou frontier. From the frontier
another three days are required to reach the flourishing
district city of Pi-chieh, which, although one of the most
important commercial cities in Kueichou, is not to be found
on the ordinary foreign maps of China. This city is distant
seven days' journey from Kueiyang Fu and fifteen days
from Yunnan Fu.
The whole journey from Yünnan Fu to Luchou can
thus be performed in twenty-two days, for the Yung-ning
River can be descended in a single day, although during
last year I was, owing to certain mishaps, detained a
couple of days on it. On the up journey from Luchou to
Yung-ning Hsien, boats have to be tracked the whole way,
and a week or more is required to accomplish it according
to the state of the river. The overland journey between
these two places occupies four days. In many places the
river is very narrow, and it has a fair number of rapids.
The road from Yung-ning Hsien to Yünnan Fu is one
of the best I have seen in China. It is paved and in good
repair throughout its whole length. Before the rebellion it
was the chief outlet for the copper from the numerous mines
in the west of Kueichou; and an attempt is now being
made by the provincial authorities concerned to induce
trade to revert to this channel. Unfortunately, however,
there are three great obstacles to a swifter means of
communication between the Yangtsze and Yunnan Fu.
They are the valleys of the K'o-tu, Ch'i-hsing, and
Chih-shui Rivers respectively. Were these three deep and
broad chasms bridged, as doubtless they could be, but at an
enormous expense, we should not despair of seeing Yünnan
Fu connected with Shanghai by steam.
As I have said above, the salt supply of western
Kueichou follows this route, which is also followed by
piece goods manufactured in Ssu-ch'uan from Hukuang

110
TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN CHINA.
cotton. I was surprised that the trade with Yünnan by
this route was not more extensive; but the reason is not far
to seek. Goods intended for Yünnan by this route have to
pass through the province of Kueichou and thus incur
additional taxation. It is only natural, therefore, that
merchants should prefer to carry their goods into Yünnan
by the Sui Fu route, of which I shall speak anon.
III.-YÜNNAN.
I pass now to the province of Yünnan which has
occupied so much of the attention of recent writers.
The trade routes to this province are
(1). The Nan-kuang River route;
(2). The Ta-kuan River route.
These two rivers enter the Yangtsze the one below and
the other above Sui Fu; and they constitute what may be
called the Sui Fu route to Yünnan. These two roads
converge and meet at the town of Lao-ya-t'an-usually
known as Lao-wa-t'an-which lies on the left bank of the
Ta-kuan River within the Yünnan border in the prefecture
of Chaot'ung. Lao-ya-t'an is distant from Chaot'ung Fu,
Tungch'uan Fu, and Yünnan Fu, six, eleven, and nineteen
days' journey respectively. From Lao-ya-t'an to Sui Fu
the Ta-kuan River route is preferred because boat can be
taken at Lao-ya-t'an; whereas the Nan-kuang river is not
navigable until the town of Huang-shui-k'ou, more than a
three days' journey from Lao-ya-t'an and within the
province of Ssuch'uan, is reached. Neither of the two
rivers is navigable throughout; rocks bar the Nan-kuang
River at its very mouth, while on the Ta-kuan River goods
have to be transhipped and carried overland a distance of
fifteen li near the Yünnan-Ssu-ch'uan frontier. The road
from Yunnan Fu to Lao-ya-t'an is difficult beyond description;
it is infinitely inferior to the Luchou route; and it may
safely be predicted that it will always remain what it is-a
very bad horse road. By this route northern Yünnan is
supplied with foreign piece goods, salt, and Hukuang
cottons, while lead, copper, sugar, and P'u-êrh tea are the
principal exports.
(3). The Chien-ch'ang valley route to Yünnan.
(4). The Chien-ch'ang valley route by way of

TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN CHINA.
111
Ningyuan Fu, Yen-yüan Hsien, and Yung-pei Ting to
western Yünnan.
Goods are carried from Sui Fu up the Min River to
Chiating Fu on its right bank and at its junction with the
Ta-tu River. Here they are transhipped into smaller boats
which carry them up the Ya-chou River, which enters the
Ta-tu before its junction with the Min, to Yachou Fu, an
important city four days south west of Chêngtu. From
Yachou Fu they are conveyed overland south through
Ching-chi Hsien, Yüeh-hsi Ting, Ningyüan Fu, and Hui-li
Chou to Yünnan.
It is a fourteen days' journey from Yachou Fu to
Ningyüan Fu, and from the latter city nine more days
are required to reach the Yünnan frontier.
The hopes which the traveller in search of trade routes
clings to with tenacity are rudely and summarily blasted by
a glance at the mountainous country through which this
road passes; nor is there any improvement when as a last
chance he turns west from Ningyüan Fu in the desperate
attempt to reach western Yünnan.
This latter route (No. 4) was described to Baron von
Richthofen as the great trade highway from Tali Fu to Ch'êng-
tu previous to the Mahommedan rebellion. I wish he had
seen it! I was told the same story, and doubtless there is
some truth in it; but the vestiges of this great highway
are few indeed-a yard or two of unburied pavement may
be discovered occasionally on a mountain side-but the
greater part of it between Ningyüan Fu and Tali Fu is a
mere bridle path winding up and down mountain sides.
As evidence in support of the "great highway" theory I may
state that I met a Thibetan caravan between these two
places.
(5). Instead, however, of striking west from Ningyüan
Fu the traveller may proceed south to Huili Chou, and
thence turn south west to Tali Fu. Of this route, which is
described as difficult, I have no personal knowledge; but
knowing the routes from Tali Fu to Yünnan Fu, and Tali
Fu to Ningyüan, Fu I can easily imagine what the inter-
mediate route is like. The journey by it occupies twenty-
three days, as against twenty-one days by route (4).
Before entering Shang-kuan ("Upper Pass"), which
guards the northern approach to Tali Fu, the Thibetan

112
TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN CHINA.
road, which joins the Ch'êngtu road to Thibet at Bathang,
strikes the Tali Fu road. Of this road I know nothing,
and will say nothing. It is the route followed by the
Thibetans who flock to the fair which is held annually
outside the west gate of Tali in the third Chinese moon.
(6). The Bhamo route by way of Têngyüeh Chou
and Yungchang Fu to Tali Fu.
This journey has been so frequently described that it
is probably the best known route to Yünnan. The
difficulties of the road have been carefully pointed out; and
those travellers who have performed the whole journey are
agreed that these difficulties are a barrier to a swifter means
of communication.
At present the journey between Tali Fu and Bhamo
can be performed in some four-and-twenty days; and, as
the result of inquiry at the former place and at Hsia-kuan,
the great trade depôt of western Yünnan through which the
highway passes a few miles to the south of Tali, I believe
I am near the mark when I say that the total annual value
of the trade between Bhamo and Tali amounts to about
half a million sterling.
Yünnan.
(7). The Songkoi or Red River route to Southern
Anyone wishing to obtain information regarding this
important trade route to Southern Yünnan would do well
to turn to the "China Review" for May and June, 1881,
where he will find an interesting article, entitled "The
Province of Yünnan," which contains a translation of the
Trade Report for 1879 of Comte de Kergaradec, then
Consul for France at Hanoi. In addition to careful
statistics of the trade between Yünnan and Tonquin he
will find desirable information regarding the navigation of
the Songkoi. Here we are told that the total value of the
trade between Yünnan and Hanoi during 1879 amounted
to 3,225,000 francs, or £169,000; and that "in ordinary
times thirty to forty days are occupied in the voyage
from Hanoi to Lao-kai, and ten or twelve from Lao-kai to
Man-hao."
If this river, as some French writers have asserted, is
capable of steam navigation in its upper waters, it is

TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN CHINA.
"
113
without doubt a very valuable trade route to Southern and
South-eastern Yünnan. But these writers disagree as to how
far it is navigable; and M. Rocher, in his work "La Province
Chinoise du Yünnan," says "There is every reason to
believe that Lao-kai, considering the propinquity of
Yünnan and Tonquin, will become the extreme point of
steam navigation, and the entrepôt of Yünnan.' If M.
Rocher had said "the entrepôt of South-eastern Yünnan,"
we should have been disposed to agree with him; but we
cannot for a moment accept the conclusion that the trade of
Western and Northern Yünnan would be affected by the
opening of the Songkoi to steam navigation. Le Comte de
Kergaradec sums up his Report in the following words:
"In conclusion we are compelled to admit that under the
most favourable circumstances, under conditions very
different from those of to-day, the trade by the Red River
could hardly attain a total of twenty million francs," say
£800,000; but the writer of the article thinks that "if free
access were obtainable via the Red River, the neighbouring
provinces would also benefit, and take advantage of this
outlet." I fear that those acquainted with the physical
characteristics of Western China will think otherwise.
there is one point on which I wish to put this writer
straight. He says in his next sentence, " Passengers from
Yünnan might then reach the capital, Peking, in 30 days
instead of 100 days, the time it now occupies via the
Hankow route." By Yünnan I presume the provincial
capital is meant, and by the "Hankow route"
"the Tung-
But
t'ing lake and Yüan River route." Whether by this route,
or by the Sui Fu or Luchou routes, passengers can in point
of fact reach Peking from Yünnan Fu in less than half a
hundred days.
(8). The Canton and West River route to Yünnan.
The West River is navigable by native craft from
Canton to Pêsê, a prefectural city in the west of the
province of Kwangsi, whence goods are carried overland to
Yünnan Fu. The journey by this route is long and
tedious; but it has one advantage over the Yangtsze routes
to Yünnan Fu, namely, that the overland journey from
Pêsê can be performed in several days less than by the
Sui Fu or Luchou routes. But so far as foreign manufac-

114
TRADE ROUTES TO WESTERN CHINA.
tures are concerned, the Yangtsze routes at present do not
compete with the Canton route to Yünnan Fu; they are
more concerned with the supply of northern Yünnan.
When steamers run to Lao-kai or Man-hao on the Songkoi,
and to Ch'ungk'ing, Luchou and Sui Fu on the Upper
Yangtsze, this trade route must inevitably suffer the fate of
the once important trade route from Canton through Hunan
to Ssu-ch'uan, which has, as I have already stated, become
insignificant since the opening of the Lower Yangtsze to
steam navigation.
(9). The route to Yünnan by way of Kueiyang Fu.
This route is too far from water communication to be
of any importance. Yünnan Fu is distant. twenty-one days'
journey from Kueiyang Fu, whence another seven days are
required to reach Chênyüan Fu, which is, as I have already
mentioned, the highest navigable point on the Yüan River.
Kueiyang is also distant thirteen days from Yung-ning
Hsien on the Yung-ning River, twelve days from the Ch'i-
chiang River, and fifteen days from Ch'ungk'ing. The road
from Kueiyang to Yünnan Fu, with the exception of the
last five stages, is exceedingly mountainous and difficult,
and the little trade there is consists principally of opium
from Yünnan.
I have thus endeavoured briefly to point out the
existing trade routes to Western China. I have not in a
paper like the present entered into the details of trade, for
they would fill a volume. Nor have I spoken of the
attempts that have recently been made to find a trade route
to South-western Yünnan. But the foreign merchant in
China may rest assured that were a dozen trade routes to
Western Yünnan found to-morrow they will not affect the
Yangtsze routes which supply Ssu-ch'uan, Kueichou, and
Northern Yünnan. On the other hand, he may be assured
that the present trade, great as it is, is capable of enormous
expansion, and that the first step to ensure such expansion
is to open the Upper Yangtsze to steam navigation. Let
not the words 'rapids' and 'gorges' dissuade him from the
attempt.