ARTICLE IV.
A JOURNEY FROM FOOCHOW TO WENCHOW,
THROUGH CENTRAL FUKIEN.
I
BY
E. H. PARKER, Esq.
LEFT the Foochow bridge on the 29th of January 1883,
and, passing through the well known and beautiful
scenery of the Min, with its olive, lungan, and pear orchards,
reached in one hour the picturesque old bridge called
Hung-shan Ch'iao which, like the celebrated
Foochow bridge, is occasionally partially carried away by
the floods. At Hwai-an, ten miles from Foochow, a
navigable branch river connects the Min with Ch'ang-loh
district. The next place of any size passed is
Chu-ch'i (40 li), and we anchored at Ta-muh-k'i
40 li further up, having made 110 li in all during the
half-day of six hours. The scenery was very pretty all the
way. From Ta-muh-k'i the river winds in a general
north-westerly direction past An-jên-ki
(70 li) to
Shui-k'ou (40 li). This place is in the Ku-t'ien
district, but the left bank a mile below is still in the
Hou-kwan (Foochow) district, and the opposite or
right bank belongs to the district of Min-ch'ing.
Some short time ago passenger steam-launches were allowed
to run daily as far as Shui-k'ou, up to which place there
seems to be plenty of water at all times, and very little
obstruction from sand-banks; but above this progress is not
so easy. The banks are exceedingly pretty, even in winter,
though the hills are seldom more than 200 or 300 feet high.
A stream, navigable for small boats, runs down from near
the Min-ch'ing district city to the river Min, which it joins
at Min-ch'ing-k'ou, 30 li below An-jên-k'i, (where
there is also a rivulet), and 70 li below Shui-k'ou. There
does not seem to be very much trade on the river, except in
tea and firewood coming down from the country, and in salt
going upwards; in fact (apart from tea) the effect of foreign

76
A JOURNEY FROM FOOCHOW TO
influence, whether in trade or otherwise, is confined to a
comparatively small area around Foochow, which appears to
have been an unimportant provincial capital until filliped
into activity by the advent of foreigners.
The road to Hwang-t'ien (50 li), the first of the
four short stages to Yenp'ing Fu, crosses at
Ch'ao-tien-k'iao (10) the unnavigable rivulet
which runs down from Ku-t'ien city. A ridge called Siu-ling
700 feet above the river level, is then crossed, and
at Ngo-yang, 30 li from Shui-k'ou, the road again
descends to the main river side. Here I met Messrs. Bann
and Gandil, Danish gentlemen superintending the erection
by Honan braves of the poles and wires belonging to the
new telegraph line, which had advanced thus far from
Foochow and was proceeding at the rate of about a mile a
day. Another constructing party was gradually meeting
them from the north. They had had a little trouble with
the people at one place a few miles lower down, but on the
other hand there were here no explanatory proclamations
posted up on the poles as was the case in Chêkiang. The
line is double, and seems to follow the left river-bank where
this is fairly straight; otherwise cutting across the hills.
From Ngo-yang it is 20 li past Ku-k'ou (10 li) to
Hwang-t'ien. The river is very rocky all the way from
Shui-k'ou, and in winter its channel is usually confined to
a very small portion of the catchment area, which looks as
if during the spring rains the navigation of it must be very
intricate, full of rapids, and dangerous. Gunboats are then
stationed at intervals along the banks in order to protect the
tea-purchasers and tea-cargoes from robbers. The porters
with me quoted Patna opium at $19, $24, and $25 the ball
at Fouchow, Yenp'ing Fu and Kienning Fu respec-
tively. At Shui-k'ou they paid 1,100 to 1,200 cash the
ounce for the prepared drug, and 600 for native "juice."
Fu-an district, they said, produced by far the most opium
in the province (which statement corroborates what the
missionaries had told me), and the price there was 300 cash.
Likin was charged, and confiscation the penalty for evasion.
Some opium was also grown in Min-ch'ing and Ku-t'ien,
but not much in the last-named district. Salt all comes
from Fu-ch'ing district (Foochow Fu), and costs 16,
18, 24, 28, and 32 cash respectively at Foochow,

WENCHOW THROUGH CENTRAL FUKIEN.
77
Min-ch'ing, Shui-k'ou, Yenp'ing and Kienning. The hill
country between Shui-k'ou and Hwang-t'ien did not strike
me as being much or carefully cultivated, and had in many
places barely been cleared of brushwood; tea, however, is
produced in Ku-t'ien district, and the porters said paid
taxes amounting to $9 for fine and $4 for coarse the load,
irrespective of distance. This hardly corresponds with the
Tls. 2.2 and Tls. 1.6 of a previous informant, but the
exchange tricks of tax-gatherers may account for the
difference.
The second stage of 50 li between Hwang-t'ien and
Ching-feng lies through the same class of country,-
hills covered with brush, and little in the way of cultivation
but paddy in the hollows. The places passed are Yün-ting
(13 li), San-tu-k'ou (7 li), Ts'ang-hsia-t'ang
(10 li), and Wu-pu-k'ou (10 li), which last
is 10 li from Ching-feng, where the district of Nan-p'ing
begins. Malwa opium is smoked as well as Patna at
Hwang-tien, and was quoted at 600 cash the ounce
(unprepared); prepared Patna cost 1,100 cash. I do not
quite understand why this hill country is so thinly inhabited
and little cultivated; possibly the production of fuel is found
as profitable as tea, for little coal is used at Foochow, and
large cargoes of fire-wood go down the river. The land-tax
of Ku-t'ien district is about Tls. 18,000, though nothing of
commercial importance is produced. The road between
San-tu and Ts'ang-hsia skirts the river, which is now more
than ever beset with savage black rocks standing upon very
white sand. There are eighteen rapids in this short stretch;
but, though one or two are dangerous to unskilful boatmen,
they are trifles compared with those of the Yangtsze.
Here, as on the Kung-t'an River which runs from
Kweichou province to Fuchou, the use of enormous
stern sweeps, 80 to 100 feet in length, worked from a high
bridge, is found necessary for steering. Near Wu-pu an
unnavigable stream runs into the main river. The ten li
thence to Ching-fêng are called "long," and are indeed
equal to twenty. There are no hang-chia or road
agents in this province as in Chêkiang, and the engaging
of porters by private persons is not conducted on satisfactory
principles. Fortunately for me the excellent wei-yüan sent
from Foochow had authority to demand bearers at official

78
A JOURNEY FROM FOOСшоW TO
rates at each stage, and to lodge me in the hsing-t'ai f
, or "Dâk bungalows," used by the literary chancellor,
otherwise I should have found considerable difficulty in
getting along without delay, annoyance, and extortion.
The next 50 li march to Kin-sha 金沙 was a
comfortless plod in heavy rain, but as long as it is possible
to induce porters to travel, the weather may well be given
secondary consideration, for a whole day's stay in any
possible Chinese lodging-house is just as comfortless as a wet
journey. Fêng-ch'ing is 1,500 feet above the river, and the
places between it and Kin-sha are Lung-yüan (10 li),
Pai-sha白沙 (107i), Ngo-ki岳溪(5 li), Cha-yang 茶洋
(10 li), and Hu-lu-shan (10 li), which is 5 li from
Kin-sha. These stages are always called p'wo (Pekingese
p'u), or the German Stunde, and the word tang is usually
suffixed to the official territorial name. In the latter half of
the journey we followed the left river-bank. There was
nothing new to notice either on land or river, except that the
current of the latter looked very rapid, probably the more so
by reason of the last night's steady rain. An unpleasant
incident occurred to me on the way. As I was walking along
amongst the hills, I observed an abandoned-looking dog
crouching suspiciously by the road side, and whilst I was
speculating upon his sanity, he deliberately walked up and
seized me by the leg; fortunately for me I was sufficiently on
the alert to save my skin at the expense of my trowsers and
of my only weapon, an open umbrella, the sudden trans-
formation of which at one swoop into rags and splinters
served to mystify the dog until the coolies drove him off.
There are no Sia-po anywhere along this route, nor
are there any of those fine large-footed Han, or Chinese,
women who are employed in such large numbers as public
scavengers in and about Foochow. These, like the Sia-po,
are somewhat extravagant in their head-dress, and their ear-
rings especially, but, though bizarre, the head-dress has
nothing essentially non-Chinese about it. It has, and they
have, the appearance of having been toned down from
Sia-po to Han. The views previously expressed by me as to
the snake" origin of the Sia received a remarkable con-
firmation at Foochow. I was enquiring of an official (who
had of course never heard of the Shwa, Sha, and Zi of the
Miao-tsz, Hakkas, and Wênchow people) whether the

WENCHOW THROUGH CENTRAL FUKIEN.
79
scavenger women were in any way related to the
"heterodox" women or Sia. He said "No; they are stated
"to be Sie , or snakes (not Sia-po), the ancient race which
"dwelt in Wu-chu country during the Han times."
Now this striking if not quite correct impromptu statement
appears to me to confirm the speculative view I expressed
regarding the generic application of the word snake, the
identity of the Shwa, Sha, Sia, and Zi, and the historical
reasons for the deduction.
The fifty li to the ferry opposite Yenp'ing Fu are
over comparatively level ground, the places passed being
Kih-ki吉溪,An-tsi 安濟,Ma-li麻梨, and Shih-li-an
十里 The scenery became more beautiful as we
advanced, until it reached a climax at Yenp'ing, grandly
situated at the foot of lofty (then slightly snow-clad)
mountains, at the junction of the two rivers running down
from Kienning and Shaowu ẞt prefectures. I could
not have believed, had I not witnessed with my own eyes,
the difference one single night's rain could make in the river.
From a clear narrow stream winding its way through a broad,
sandy, and rocky bed, it had changed to a broad muddy
sluice, filling every inch of space, covering the highest rocks,
and absorbing all rapids into one great current running six
miles an hour at least. No doubt up-country rains must
have had a greater effect than local ones in producing this
metamorphosis. At Kih-k'i a mountain stream which could
be jumped over at ordinary times had to be crossed in boats
amid the branches of a forest of tall trees.
Yenp'ing Fu is a rustic sort of city; unpopulous, and
apparently without anything artificial of striking interest
or value, either inside the walls or outside amongst the
villages. Two pagodas as usual crown the nearest hills.
The main street had just been partially rebuilt after a fire,
and the river was now up to the walls; the rest of the town
appeared to be the usual collection of tumble down shanties
and pigstyes. I occupied the best room at an inn which
for filth, darkness, and intimacy with pigs reminded
me of Szechuan experiences. The neighbourhood seems
to produce nothing in particular of commercial value;
but a few miles north, on the way to Kienning, dense
tea-plantations begin to occupy the mountain sides, the
land having now become more suitable therefor. Patna

80
A JOURNEY FROM FOOCHOW TO
opium was quoted at Yenp'ing at Tls. 24 the ball, or at
the rate of nearly £200 sterling the chest. Retail, the
prepared drug cost 1,200 cash, or of a tael, the ounce,
or at the rate of £370 the chest. Malwa, which on
enquiry turns out to be "false Malwa from Wênchow,"
was quoted at 520 and 800 cash the ounce unprepared and
prepared respectively. Salt from Foochow by boat was about
20 cash the catty. Cotton was imported from Foochow,
and the women spun no yarn. Silk goods also came from
Foochow. So far, Fukien strikes me as being (apart from
tea and salt, which are its great wealth and tax-producing
commodities) quite as poor a province as Kweichow.
The road from Yenp'ing to Kienning crosses the
river again at the east end of the town (Shui-tung)
and once more at Kiu-tun (10 li), taking a north-
easterly direction past Shang-king (10 li) and Kau-tung
(10 li) to Ta-hêng (10 li). The local brogue of
Yenp'ing was quite incomprehensible to me, but the Foo-
chow dialect seemed to be pretty generally understood.
The commonest tree along the road thus far from Foochow
is the maple, which is usually called pieng (Pekingese
pien) in this province. Just at this time the peach and
plum blossoms were coming out, and occasionally we saw a
fine camphor tree, but the hills generally are covered with
bamboos, fir, pine, long grass, and scrub.
The second 40 li stage between Ta-hêng and T'ai-
p'ing was again travelled in the wet; the direc-
tion was still north-east; the places passed were Wu-
li-p'ai (the frontier village of Kien-an district
); then across a creek to Fang-ts'un (10 li), with
a likin office, Lü-k'ou (10 li), and Pa-sien All,
which is 10 li from T'ai-p'ing. All these places are
poverty-stricken villages of the third or fourth order, like
all others without exception between Foochow and Kien-
ning. Nearly opposite Pa-sien, however, there is a very
large village called Ta-ma-k'ou (?), and I had also
noticed one equally large opposite An-tsi; indeed I saw
several away on the right bank. This road is the highroad
to Peking, but with the exception of the official hostelries,
which are at the disposal of any one with money or influ-
ence, there is no decent accommodation for man,-beasts
there are none,-of any kind on the highroad, i.c., the

WENCHOW THROUGH CENTRAL FUKIEN.
81
bridle path. I could not get flour or sugar when I enquired
for some, and even pork is only occasionally seen. Opium
dens abound everywhere, and as in Chêkiang seem to sap
the wealth and life of the lower orders. The idleness,
delay, thriftlessness and poverty induced by opium-smoking
is much more apparent here than in Szechuan, for of course
800 and 1,200 cash an ounce is a very different thing from
200 and 300,-not to mention the different physical effects
of the foreign and native drug. The absolute want of
everything else in the way of pleasure, comfort, amusement,
quiet, privacy, and luxury is quite sufficient to account for
the charm which this indulgence, coupled with that of
gaming, exercises upon the Chinese imagination. Except in
such great centres as Canton, Foochow, Hankow, &c., I have
never seen in China anything so nearly approaching house-
hold comfort as is to be met with in the villages near Peking.
There was still nothing of novelty to remark during
the day's journey, except that the deep red-soiled tea-plan-
tations became more numerous, and that the river bed was
not so completely covered over by the freshet. Judging
from the height of the villages above the river, I think
the level must occasionally be 20 feet higher than it is now,
but the flood disappears as quickly as it comes, and this
fact points to a very rapid fall in the ground level. I made
out Yenp'ing to be between 400 and 500 feet higher than
Foochow (400 li), whilst Ch'ungk'ing (4,500 li) is only 800
feet above Shanghai. The people along the road are only
moderately curious; they seem ignorant; resigned, if not
contented; quietly and (for Chinese) kindly disposed;
rather spiritless, and lacking in intelligence; but not so
greedy for gain and so quarrelsome as is usually the case.
The road for the 40 li from T'ai-p'ing to Kienning Fu runs
nearly all the way along the right bank of the river, which
is very tortuous just here. The places passed are Sie-k'êng
(10 li), Pau-ên (10 li), Liu-k'êng (10 li), and
Ch'eng-si (10 li), which is just opposite Kienning.
The scenery improves, whilst remaining of much the same
character as heretofore; the snow on some of the higher
mountains near the city sets off the red tea slopes and the
dense masses of young fir and scrub. At Pau-ên I noticed
a proclamation calling for strong, non-opium-smoking
braves for the defence of Foochow,-payment Tls. 4.2 a

82
A JOURNEY FROM FOOCHOW TO
month. The usual telegraph proclamations were to be seen,-
one by the Tartar-general, viceroy, and governor, a second
by the trade board and special board, and a third and fourth
by the local civil and military authorities.
Kienning Fu is situated on the point formed by the
two rivers running down from Sung-ki (180 li) district
city, and from P'u-ch'êng (about 350 li) and Kien-
yang (120 li) district cities. The excellent quarters
allotted to me were on the right bank of the latter, and
were apparently the embryo offices of the new telegraph
company, as coils of wire and busy clerks seemed to testify.
All the way from where I met the Danes, tarred poles were
lying at intervals in readiness for erection, but here they
were already up, though the wires were not yet attached.
An extra proclamation hurrying the workers on was posted,
and inn-keepers were ordered to turn out all other guests
in favour of the telegraph cavalcade.
The largest sized tea-boats do not go higher than Kien-
ning, above which another class of barge travels. All
boats on this river are of a gingerbread character, and
appear to be constructed in a curve, probably in conse-
quence of the frequent bumps they get. There is a saying on
the river, Chai sung t'ie(k) sao (k)ung, which at
once illustrates the popular view of the boats, the importance
of the stern "sweep," and the irregularity of the language.
In this dialect not only are all tones and vowels subject to
what may be called grammatical inflection, but all initials
and finals may, under certain circumstances, be left out.
We crossed the river on starting from Kienning, and
again at Pei-tsin (20 l), passing Si-chên-ts'un
(10 li). Thence we cut across a bend to Yeh-fang
(20 l), passing Kiao-k'i (10 li). These absurdly
short stages of 40 and 50 li a day shew that the Fukienese
are no travellers. The scenery consisted of the usual fir
and brushwood clad hills, interspersed with red patches
devoted to tea. One of the chair-bearers, a scarred veteran
who had fought under General Tso Tsung-tang in ten
provinces, gave me some valuable general information. He
said that the four districts under Funing Fu, namely Fu-
an, Siu-ning 修寧,Ning-tê 寧德, and Ha-pu 霞浦 were
the only ones in North Fukien which seriously produced
opium, and that Fu-an was a long way the first. In the South,

WENCHOW THROUGH CENTRAL FUKIEN.
83
Changchow and Ch'üanchow (Chinchew) prefectures
grew the poppy successfully. He said that the soil in the
rest of Fukien was too "salt", and that opium would never
succeed unless human ordure and urine (the chief Chinese
fertilisers) were withheld for three years, and the ground
sweetened at the same time with lime. Chêkiang native
opium was the only home sort imported into Fukien, but
Kiangsi and Hukwang took the Szechuan and Shansi
drug. The T'ai-p'ing rebels had only ravaged three pre-
fectures in Fukien, the seven district cities under Chang-
chow in the south (but not Amoy), the four under Shao-
wu in the west, and five of the seven under Kienning,
the two which escaped being Ou-ning and Kien-an,
the two prefectural districts. The rebels surrounded the
city for 32 days, and blew breaches into the walls several
times, but never succeeded in getting in. In Chêkiang
the prefectural city of K'üchow escaped, as well as those
of T'aichow and Wênchow.
Kienning is the seat of a brigadier, who has under him
a colonel stationed at Yenp'ing Fu, the seat of the Taotai.
The city is, and looks from the outside, better built and
more populous then Yenp'ing, but seems to have no impor-
tant trade (apart of course from salt and tea); but consi-
derable business in done in lotus-seeds, bamboo shoots, and
mushrooms. The double telegraph line is complete from
Kienning northwards, and runs along the right bank as far
as Kien-yang. This portion does not seem to have been
so carefully laid as the Foochow section.
We accomplished 80 li in one day between Yeh-fang
and Kien-yang district city; the aspect of the country was
the same, still very little cultivation, and the hills some-
what lower. The river is not as a rule more than 100
yards broad, and it is, as before, very full of rocks. In
leaving Kienning we walked over a soft mud road 20 feet
above the river, which had been but the day before flowing
over it. The places passed between Yeh-fang and Kien-
yang, at distances of 10 li, are Nan-ling, Fêng-loh
豐樂, Chung-hêng 中横,Hwang-kou 黄口,past the
boundary to Ch'ang-t'wan Wu-tun and Pai-
ch'a
Between Hwang-k'ou and Ch'ang-t'wan there
is a large village called Kin-p'an with an official
resting house.
I should have been greatly at a loss for both

84
A JOURNEY FROM FOOCHOW TO
lodging and porters had it not been for the wei-yüan.
Kien-yang was partly destroyed by the rebels, but has now
a closely-built appearance from the outside. It is situated
on the left bank of the river which runs down from Ma-
sha sub-district city (60 li), and on the right bank
of a river running from Ch'ung-an
district city
(120 li). The first river is crossed by a most picturesque
roofed bridge, nearly a quarter of a mile long, and well
paved with stones: the city is on the spit formed by the
two rivers, and a bridge of boats attached to each bank and
to each other by two strong iron chains then crosses the
Ch'ung-an river. A brook running westwards joins this
latter river a few hundred yards further up, and the
telegraph poles, with the high road to P'u-ch'êng, follows
this brook up for about 20 li. Our direction was north-east
for 50 li, and then east for the remaining 20 li of the day's
journey. The places passed were Pai-t'a (15 li), Ts'ih-
ku-tien七姑店(15),Ma-yuan 麻源(30), An-kou 安口
(10 li), Jên-shan (10 li); and between Ma-yüan and
An-k'ou, where the Ou-ning district is again entered, a
ridge about 500 feet higher than the adjacent plains is
crossed. From the other or north-east side of this ridge
a rivulet takes its source and runs east: we crossed shortly
afterwards at An-k'ou another forming itself more from the
north. This last joins the river which runs down from
P'u-ch'eng at Ying-t'ou, our journey's end (70 li in
all). Opposite Ying-t'ou is a very large village containing
4,000 or 5,000 houses called Shui-chi K, and the distance
by river from this place to Kienning is only 120 li, 70 li
shorter than the official high road travelled by us. No
trouble seems to have been taken northwards from Kien-
ning to avoid interfering with private rights in setting up
the telegraph poles, which are again posted with proclama-
tions, and are stuck right in the middle of the paddy-fields
between the hills on each side. At Kien-yang the floods
had swept down several posts carelessly planted too near
the river, and the wires were twisted together and lying
across the road. Both here and at Kienning, where there
is usually also a bridge of boats at the place we crossed by
ferry, the bridges are unsafe when the river is much swollen,
and they are then swung back along the banks for safety.
There were of course a great many tea hills to be seen,

WENCHOW THROUGH CENTRAL FURIEN.
85
but not so many as I expected; a large proportion were
abandoned or unsuccessful. It appears that the plant
becomes exhausted after 20 years, and that its seventh year
is usually its best. The trade has not flourished lately, as
the supply has been greatly in excess of the demand. At
An-k'ou I saw a notice issued last year by the tea-hongs
stating that both foreigners and natives had lost on the new
season's teas, and threatening with a fine of Tls. 1,000 any
storing-house which should pay duty for any planter or
owner after the 8th moon, by which date all bonds must
be handed in. The meaning I take to be this. The
supercargo does not pay duty en route, but gives a bill,
which is taken up by the tea guild at Foochow and
honoured on arrival and claim of the tea. If the tea be
lost on the voyage, of course no one applies to (so to speak)
take it out of bond. The finest tea comes from Ch'ung-an
(Bohea Hills ), and the commonest from Shaowu.
The country prices for the fine teas range from Tls. 10 to
Tls. 35 a picul, and there are "two payments and two
examinations, " on the way. The accounts
differ as to the amounts per picul for which bills are given at
each paying station, and as to which those places severally are,
but they agree that an average of about Tls. 2 a pecul is what
in effect is charged for duty and likin on tea,-say a penny a
pound; the effect of this penny is probably quite as onerous as
the sixpence levied in England. The telegraph should be
of great value to the planters in future.
North of Yenp'ing periodical markets are held in the
villages every three, five, or ten days. The larger ones are
called hui, and perhaps resemble the Pekingese hui .
The ordinary ones are called hü, as around Canton,
the same as the ch'ang of Szechuan. Even in England
legal sale in market-overt can only take place on certain days
of the week, unless ancient charter allows of daily market-
overt, as is the case in the City of London.
From Ying-t'ou to Ma-lan we followed pretty
closely the telegraph poles along the tortuous right bank of
the P'u-ch'êng River, which is here not so rocky nor so beset
with rapids as I expected to find it; the main direction was
north-east. The places passed were Kung-tun (6 li),
Hwui-lung (10 li), and Hu-chow (10 li), which
is 15 li from Ma-lan, all in the Ou-ning district. I noticed

86
A JOURNEY FROM FOCСHOW TO
of
that in this part of Fukien the graves are often dug
horizontally in the sides of the hills, and resemble the much-
talked of but far more elaborate Man-tsz-tung
Szechuan, which it now strikes me for the first time must
have been graves rather than residences. There seems to
be plenty of sport in the country, but I never saw any water
fowl. At Kien-yang we met a party of hunters and dogs
with three wild pig; at one place we saw a (?) wild cat,
said to be good eating, exposed for sale, and I started several
pheasants, and bought a (?) capercailzie T . At Kung-
tun we saw a huge performing black bear caught in the
neighbourhood of Tsinan Fu; my servants recognized
the Shantung man in charge as an old acquaintance, he
having previously exhibited at Wênchow.
The boundary of the P'u-ch'êng district is crossed at a
distance of 20 li from Ma-lan, the direction being still north-
east, and the village of Tsiang-ki (10 li) being passed
on the way. The road then turns north-west, and follows
up a branch of the P'u-ch'êng River, navigable for small
boats for another 30 li. The main stream comes from
P'u-ch'êng (80 li) past Chiu-kwan, a little north-east
from the junction, and the road then quits it for a while.
At a place called Yü-lin-kau, 10 li higher up the
branch from the junction, still another, but unnavigable,
stream joins it from the west, and the road crosses this
stream and then follows the main branch as far as the
considerable village of Shih-pi-kai 1, 50 li from
Ma-lan. Large villages are thickly dotted over the small
and now better cultivated bits of plain enclosed between
the hills, and both road and river are said to be very busy
during the tea season, when thousands of Kiangsi
labourers cross the frontier to aid in picking and rolling
the leaf, which is purchased in driblets in the villages by the
Cantonese dealers from Foochow. Though filth and dilapida-
tion are as much the rule here as farther south, yet the
country appears more prosperous the more north one travels
from Yenp'ing. Innumerable telegraph proclamations
were here again everywhere seen, some explaining that
the line was intended to defeat the aims of outsiders.
In one or two places tariffs were already published:
ten cents a word to Lan-ch'ior Kienning; 11 to Shao-
hing and Hangchow; 12 to Nan-zing, Wu-si, Ch'üan-

WENCHOW THROUGH CENTRAL FUKIEN.
87
chow, Ningpo, and Soochow; 13 to Shanghai, Chin-
kiang, and Changchow ; 14 to Swatow and Yang-
chow; 16 to Tsi-ning 17 to Nanking and Tientsin;
18 to Taku and Wusung.
When the whole line was open,
messages would be conveyed gratis for ten days. All the
way from Foochow there were posted proclamations against
gaming, especially at hwa-hwei, and frequent notices
warning tea-dealers not to travel without an escort of braves,
which the authorities would always detach free of charge.
Certainly the government appears to take pains to foster the
tea trade, which now embraces all Fukien north of Shui-k'ou.
The eighty li from Shih-pi-kai to P'u-ch'êng were the
most interesting of this on the whole rather uninteresting
route. The level of P'u-ch'êng is over 1,000 feet above that.
of Foochow and over 250 feet above that of Shih-pi. The
gradual rise is manifest from this last point to Pai-chia-
shih (20 li). A ridge 500 feet high called Ta-hu-
ling is then crossed, and the villages of Shih-ling
(10 l) and Lin-kiang (15 li) are passed. A second
steeper and very beautiful ridge covered with tall firs called
Lin-kiang or Si-yang-ling is then ascended and descended.
The next places are Yü-hwei (10), Hia-sha F(10),
and Kiu-ts'iu JL (8 li), which is 7 li from P'u-ch'êng.
At Kiu-ts'iu we came upon the river which we had left
at Ma-lan, and which is navigable for one and two ton boats
up to the city. The two sources of this river enclose P'u-
ch'êng on the east and west, and are both crossed by
good bridges. The villages passed during the day were
very much larger and more prosperous-looking than any-
thing yet seen in Fukien; the people seemed well-fed and
healthy; more of the flat land, of which there were
larger stretches, was under cultivation, and P'u-ch'êng,
though damaged by the rebels, is as considerable a town
as either Yenp'ing Fu or even (as regards area, at least,)
Kienning Fu. It is well situated in a small plain sur-
rounded by fine hills; has a striking pagoda, and is
generally a place of importance. The products are tea
(of which, however, we saw almost none on the hills), lotus-
nuts, bamboo-shoots, &c.
At Lin-kiang and Hia-sha we crossed two good-sized
rivers, rising west and running into the P'u-ch'êng river
farther to our east. The very fine covered-in Lin-kiang

88
A JOURNEY FROM FOOCHOW TO
bridge was used as a market. We must have crossed or
seen on the day's journey at least twenty roofed bridges over
creeks and gulleys. The road from Shih-pi to P'u-ch'êng is
excellent, though the stones are somewhat rough for walking;
indeed from Kienning northwards the road ceases to be the
rambling path-way which it is further south. The rice crops
over a large tract of north Fukien had failed last year for
want of rain, and were still standing withered in certain
places; instead of being planted with wheat, vegetables, or
hemp, the paddy-land in Fukien seems to lie idle during the
winter; from a pecuniary point of view, therefore, it would
be advantageous to introduce the poppy, that is, if the ground
would stand it. The people all the way from Foochow to
P'u-ch'êng were quite as quiet and civil as in Chêkiang, and,
though perhaps more thriftless and ignorant, struck me as
being more confiding and warm-hearted than any Chinese I
had met before. I had no escort but the wei-yüan for any
part of the way except for 40 li north from Yenp'ing Fu,
and I doubt whether I should have been in any way
unpleasantly molested even without the wei-yüan. I had
always heard and read of Fukien and Chêkiang as the
places where the people were most "ferocious," and I have on
the contrary found them the least offensive.
Patna at P'u-ch'êng costs $8.20 a catty raw, and $1
for 1.2 oz. prepared. Malwa costs $1 for 1.85 oz. raw, and
for 1.2 oz. or 1.4 oz. prepared, accordingly as it is or is
not adulterated with Patna dross. Both sorts come from
Foochow alone. Wênchow drug is not allowed to be imported
or sold. Tea passing into Chêkiang pays Tls. 2.8.8, or, with
scale charges, $5 a pecul duty and lekin, and this even though
its original cost be only $1 a pecul, as it in fact is. Tea used
until very recently to pass through P'u-ch'êng from Ch'ung-an
to Chêkiang, but now the heavy taxation completely
drives it away.
I ascertained at P'u-ch'êng the exact charges
on tea for Foochow per picul. They are as follows:-
Tls. 0.135
Likin
Duty
Scale
Rations
Extra Likin
0.332
ور
0.072
plus 2 cash a
"
0.628
box for the Or-
ور
0.700
phanage
at
Yenp'ing.
Tls....... 1.867

WENCHOW THROUGH CENTRAL FUKIEN.
plus 14.4 % on duty added,-say 30 % on Tls. 1.2.
16.6 % on likin
89
Fukien salt (known as Chêkiang salt) brought from
Fukien by sea to Wênchow, and by river thence to Ch'u-
chow and Lung-ch'üan, is charged 2 cash a
catty on crossing the Fukien frontier, and sells at P'u-ch'êng
for 22 cash. The same salt, brought through Fukien, and
inferior in quality or adulterated, is called "clandestine,"
and sells a little lower. Thus the Fukien authorities hold
salt, tea, and opium in an iron grasp.
The next day's journey was a complete puzzle to me,
and it appears that, owing to the imperfection of maps, I
have wandered far out of my way. I might have gone
from Kienning 180 li by land or river to Sung-k'i
district city, and thence 80 li across the border to K'ing-
yüan district city of Chêkiang. Instead of this, I
went 360 li from Kienning to P'u-ch'êng, and found that
this place was distant 160 li from Sung-k'i, 180 li from
Lung-ch'üan, and 220 from King-yüan. So little is known
of the border, that I only found one man (the veteran
chair-bearer previously mentioned) all the way from Foo-
chow who even knew the bare names of Lung-ch'üan and
King-yüan. At P'u-ch'êng the magistrate declined and
the wei-yüan, knowing which way I had resolved to go,
perforce accepted the responsibility of sending me to such
an out-of-the-way place as Lung-ch'üan; and when we
actually did start, not one of the bearers, soldiers or police
escort had ever been to either city. Yet I found a thickly
populated and prosperous country, and an excellent level
road through the mountains.
Passing round the wall of the city, and leaving to the
north the telegraph and high road to K'üchow H,
we turned east, and crossed by a long plank bridge,
ingeniously built on piers consisting of simply two crossed
trees, a river (5 li) which runs down from Fêng-ling
the military border station 60 li to the north. Five li fiom
the last named river, we crossed at So-p'o another
river running down from Fou-lou-k'iao
; these
rivers join at the south gate of P'u-ch'êng. Five more li
brought us to the low ridge called Mu-ling-t'ou
and 15 li further on south-east we came to the sub-district
town Fu-ling a salt likin station, where we crossed

90
A JOURNEY FROM FOOCHOW TO
a river which enters the P'u-ch'êng river 80 li below
P'u-chiêng, at a place called Ta-shih-k'i
which is
60 li above the point where we had left the river two days
previously near Chiu-kwan . Leaving Fu-ling, we
followed the left bank a little, and again crossed twice,
reaching the village of Kwan-chwang E, 15 li from
Fu-ling. Then the river divides at Nan-k'ou-t'ang
the last (or first) Fukien salt station; the main branch,
running down from Ts'ien-yang. , disappearing to our
left. We cross the smaller stream, running from Chêng-k'eng
at the Nan-k'ou likin station, and continue to keep
pretty close to the left bank as far as Ts'ien-yang, 70 li from
P'u-ch'êng, and 15 li from the Lung-ch'üan frontier.
Thus it is evident that the provincial boundaries are fixed
by the watersheds. The mountain scenery throughout.
this day's journey was exceedingly fine; the people sturdy
and healthy looking; and the flat parts of the country"
closely cultivated, and thickly dotted with villages.
Shortly after leaving Ts'ien-yang the road to Lung-
ch'üan branches off to the north, the road to K'ing-yüan
continuing south 160 li from Tsien-yang. K'ing-yüan is
only 80 li from Sung-k'i in Fukien, which is 180 li from
Kienning; there is, I was assured, no water communication
of any sort at, K'ing-yüan with any place whatever. K'ing-
yüan is 180 li from Lung-ch'üan, and 180 li also from
Pa-tu the end of our second day's journey from
P'u-ch'êng, and 60 li from Ts'ien-yang. The frontier of
Fukien and Chêkiang is at Hwa-k'iao, 15 li from
Tsien-yang. All on one side of the bridge belongs to
Fukien, and all on the other to Chêkiang, the right bank of
the brook belonging to Lung-ch'üan and the left to K'ing-
yüan. Hwa-k'iao is 1,500 feet above the sea, and uninter-
rupted raft navigation is possible from thence to Foochow.
An ascent instantly begins as far as Kung-ts'un H, 2,000
feet (5 li), in the King-yüan district, and 5 li further is the
considerable village of Wu-tu-liu, belonging to
Lung-ch'üan, 1,750 feet. We now follow one of the
earliest sources of the Wênchow River for 15 li, and,
crossing a low ridge, suddenly find ourselves upon a large
town called Mu-tui-k'ou, situated on the left
bank of a good-sized stream navigable for rafts. We
cross and re-cross this last several times, and follow

WENCHOW THROUGH CENTRAL FURIEN.
91
i down 15 li as far as Pa-tu which is the highest point
to which the Ch'uchow salt boats can come. About
a mile above Pa-tu, another stream from the north-west
joins the Lung-ch'üan river, and gives it volume sufficient
to carry one-ton boats. The mountain scenery even sur-
passed that of the day before, and I was more than ever
surprised at the populousness of the district, many of the
villages in which are larger, I am told, than K'ing-yüan city,
which, like all of the ten districts subject to Ch'uchow Fu,
except the prefectural (Li-shui ) district and that of
Tsing-t'ien, is unwalled. Four rivers take their rise
from the range of hills forming what is known as the Sien-
hia-ling A man can take his choice whether he
will go thence, in a boat or on or raft, direct to Kewkiang,
Foochow, Wênchow, or Hangchow.
From Pa-tu, where we crossed the river, to Lung-ch'üan
it is 60 li, still in a north-westerly direction, but before the
road reaches the first considerable village, Pu-t'ou (15
li), it leaves the river bauk and does not meet it again until
the city of Lung-ch'üan is entered. At Sung-k'ü,5
li beyond Pu-t'ou, a small stream, which we cross, runs down
to the main river from the north-west. For 5 more li, as far
as Kau-ta-mên, we follow up a second tributary
rivulet, which runs down from the north-east, and mounting
gradually, pass Yüan-k'êng 5 li and Sin-ling
5 li, 2,000 feet. At Niu-k'ou-ling
1,700 feet, 5 li
further, we come across a new stream from the north-west,
and follow the right bank down to Lung-ch'üan (15 li) where
we cross it by a beautifully paved, roofed, and panelled
bridge, elegantly supported on untrimmed trees. A short
distance above this bridge, yet another river joins the Niu-
k'ou tributary, which meets the main river at Lung-ch'uan,
where there is now a considerable volume of water, the result
of all these contributions. Lung-ch'üan city is (subject to
meteorological change affecting the aneroid) 1000 feet above
the sea.
The district produces almost nothing for export
beyond lumber and a fine hard bamboo, which is taken in
bundles of slips all the way to Shaohing for making into fans.
Nothing comes from Fukien, for the simple reason that
everything is so highly taxed that the object is rather to keep
out or to tax Chêkiang produce. Malwa is the only opium
smoked in the district, and of course it comes from Lau-ch'i

92
A JOURNEY FROM FOOCHOW TO
via Ch'uchow; it was quoted to me at $19 the 50 ounces raw,
or 600 cash an ounce prepared. Two sorts of salt are
brought from Wênchow, the grey (evidently unrefined
Fukienese) at 11 cash, and the white at 16 cash.
In this country the singular custom exists of building
the pigsty on the street at the front of the house, just like a
a dog kennel. I saw none of the Zikas, who I had
heard are very numerous in this district, but the present
mention of them reminds me of an interesting discovery I made
with reference to the Hakkas of Canton. The wei-yüan, who
came from Fuchou in Kiangsi, used some expres-
sions which were purely Hakka. On examining him as
to the dialects of Kiangsi, I found that the peculiar
aspirates and pronunciation were almost exactly like those
of the Hakka, and he quite understood me when I spoke to
him in the Hakka dialect. As the only tradition I could
find in Canton was that the Hakkas had fled from Kiangsi
for some political reason several centuries ago, I think these
two pieces of evidence may be taken to definitively explode
the idea that there is anything "non-Han" in the Hakkas.
At the lower end of Lung-ch'üan, there is a magni-
ficent roofed bridge at least a quarter of a mile long partly
occupied by shops and hawkers' stalls, and forming a con-
tinuation of the high street. A fleet of 5,000 or 6,000
sampans, each carrying about a ton of salt (2,000 catties),
is regularly employed in carrying Fukien (Hinghwa)
salt from Ch'uchow and Wênchow. At the latter place,
the salt costs 3 to 4 cash; at Ts'ing-t'ien it pays 1.3 likin;
at Ch'uchow 1.9; and Lung-ch'üan 1.5 cash a catty;
here it sells for 11 to 12 cash, so that a profit of 4 cash or so
remains. Each boat worked by one man averages a round
journey a month, so that 72,000 tons of salt give employ-
ment and $7 a month to 5,000 men. The boats are very
much like a gig in shape, size, and framing, but the ends are
pointed; each costs about $10 new; and each carries a tunnel-
like matshed cover, which costs about $1. They move in
fleets of 10 or 20, for mutual aid is required in getting over
the shallows and rapids. The sail of T'aichow cloth ($1),
mast, pike, stove (12 cents) and pan are all on exactly the
same patterns, and they may be said to march, bivouac and
manoeuvre like companies of soldiers. I came down in one
of these boats all the 200 miles from Lung-ch'üan to

WENCHOW THROUGH CENTRAL FUKIEN.
93
Wênchow. Rapids succeed each other every half mile or
so for the first 50 miles, and small streams help to
swell the river at intervals, but none of them are navigable
even for rafts; these salt boats bring down cargoes of paper,
bamboo-ware, dried edible bamboo-shoots, &c.
The Yün-ho boundary is entered at Wei-ning-k'ou
(60 l)? on the right bank, and Mu-ch'i (90
li) on the left. This district is one of the few in Chêkiang
which produces iron, an article not mined anywhere in
Fukien. Yün-ho city is on the right bank, and not on the
left as marked in the map published in the Customs Reports;
it is 15 li from the river, and is reached thence by raft only.
The port of Yün-ho, very beautifully situated, is called
Chüo-ts'un J, 135 li from Lung-ch'üan, and 150 li from
Ch'uchow by land. The boundary between Yün-ho and
Li-shui (Ch'uchow Fu) districts is at Chih-tsi-t'ing ***,
35 li below Chüo-ts'un. Ten li further down is the em-
bouchure of the Sung-yang river, the only tributary
above Ch'uchow, navigable by even one-ton boats; thence it
is 60 li to Ch'uchow, and 70 li to Sung-yang city. Sung-
yang and Sui-ch'ang cities are both 180 li overland
from Lung-ch'üan. The mountains become bare, and the
country opens out for a while after the Yün-ho district is
quitted. The river, which was as clear as crystal down to
Chüo-ts'un, is muddied for a certain distance by the Yün-ho
creek. I only saw one single specimen of the Zika women
walking along the bank,-which was very disappointing, as
my chief object in coming to Lung-ch'üan was to find out
more about them.
Ten li above Ch'uchow a river, navigable for rafts, and
even for boats at the freshet period, joins the main river from
Süan-p'ing district city.
8889144

ARTICLE V.
A BUDDHIST SHEET-TRACT,
Containing an Apologue of Human Life.*
Translated, with Notes, by Bishop MOULE of Hangchow.
TE
THIS tract, one of very many circulated as an act of
meritorious devotion, is printed in clear woodcut on
a sheet of thin white paper about twenty-five inches by
eleven.
The upper half presents a symbolical picture in outline,
the blank spaces filled with inscriptions in metre.
In the upper corner to the right is Buddha, a nimbus
round the head, and throned on clouds.
Immediately below is a group consisting of Buddha,
The Venerable One,' conversing with king Udâyana who is
followed by an attendant. They are observing an elephant
standing near a well, its head raised with threatening
tusks towards a man, who clings to a wild-vine, pendulous
in mid-air. From the well emerge three dragons. Around
it are four serpents. They all threaten the man who hangs
above them.
The man regards them not, intent on watching bees
that flit around him. On the branch from which his vine
depends, are a black and a white rat gnawing so as gradually
to sever the branch. But the man takes no notice of the
rats either.
Inscription below the enthroned Buddha (pentasyllabic).
Kind parents and kinsfolk
Are short lived as a puppet-show:
When King Yen (2) has once called thee,
None of them whatever can be thy substitute.
Read before the Society 22nd January, 1884. A specimen of the
Tract described accompanies this paper.
(1) Yen, Yama, the Indian Pluto.

個

人命無常呼吸間
落西山
實山力盡空間手一失
身萬劫難
恩親與眷属
暫如傀儡戲
開君一聲
誰也不能替
閑觀捕紙蝇笑痴 生障碍静看詳巢鵲歎
稱英雄看破有盡之身萬境塵緣自息
悟入無壞之境一輪
境一輪心月獨 獨朗世事如棋不著
才是高手人生似是盆打破方見真空
雲烟影中現真身 始悟我相 枷鎖
-開自性 方知情識是戈矛
静夜之鐘聲 唤醒夢中之
觀水中之月影看
見身外之身
勸君學道莫貪求
萬事 無心道合頭
無心是體
無心道體
得無心
無也休

اب اجبد
兵
门:
心

A BUDDHIST SHEET-TRACT.
Couplets (heptasyllabic) in front of Buddha.
*Man's life is inconstant depending on his breath;
95
Heap a mountain of treasure with might and main, yet empty
wilt thou leave off.
Let the eye watch the ruddy sun sink below the western hill;
(2) Once lose the human form, then a myriad kalpas of
misfortune!
Phrases in long lines partly rhythmical.
Idly as I watched the capture of the fly settled on the paper, I
smiled at idiot-man who raises obstructions in his own way.
In quiet, as I gazed at magpies wrangling for the nest, I sighed
to think of (3) Kieh and Chow vainly boasting themselves
heroes.
Phrases of six syllables.
If you see through (so as to be undeceived by) the finite body,
The worldly entanglements of the myriad conditions cease of
themselves!
A wake and enter the unfading condition!
The moon of the heart, a whole disc, alone is brilliant.
Worldly affairs are like chess;
Not to play is the test of true skill.
Human life is as an earthen vessel;
Break it, and at once you see its emptiness.
Couplets (heptasyllabic).
Amidst the show of cloud and vapour appears (4) the true body;
Then I am aware that my likeness is that of a felon in the
pillory!
Amidst the cries of the birds is heard the original nature
(Svabhava. Eitel);
Then know I that sensual knowledge is as spear and dart!
Couplets (hectasyllabic).
Hark, in the stilly night, the voice of the bell
(5) Calls to awake the dream within the dream!
Behold in the water the moon's reflection;
And see the body external () to the body!
My teacher reads these four lines in the alternate order thus,
1, 3, 2, 4.
(2) Kalpa, (See Eitel's Handbook of Buddhism sub voce) a vast
measure of time.
(3) Kich, of the 18th cent. B. C., Chow, of the 12th, infamous tyrants:
See Mayers's Chinese Reader's Manual.
(*) The apotheosis of Buddha (?)
(*) Query? "the dream within etc-"- the man within the material
world, or (Professor Cowell) "the real self within the external self; this
real self being itself non-existent in the last resort."
() Is this the, spiritual and immortal body "that accompanies
us in our transmigrations" (Cowell), or is it Buddha present in this world
by reflection?

96
A BUDDHIST SHEET-TRACT.
Couplets (heptasyllabic).
(7) I exhort you Sirs to learn the (true) doctrine and leave off
covetous quests.
The doctrine of No-mind sums all things.
The negation of mind (? or He who renounces will) is in
harmony with the doctrine of No-mind.
When in harmony with the no-mind doctrine (8) negation too
ceases. (? or there is negation and resi).
The lower half of the Sheet presents the Avadana, or
Apologue of the man taking refuge in the tree from the
pursuit of the mad elephant-followed by Gâtha on the
same subject, prose exhortations, the admonitions of the
Kuŏh-sze of Chung-fêng, and an extract from another sheet-
tract on Patience.
Title. (Translation of) An illustrated discourse on the
causes and affinities of misery and happiness extracted from
the Canonical Books of Great Thibet.
Once on a time Udâyana Rajah (King of Kaus'ambi.
Eitel) put a question to the Venerable One, Pinteulu (9),
saying: In the law of Buddha what is the principle of
religious (ascetic) observance?
The Venerable One answered and said:-Figure to
yourself a man journeying in a wilderness, surrounded by a
conflagration, and pursued by a mad elephant.
He sees a well, beside which stands a tree. On the
tree grows a wild vine drooping over the well. The man
to escape the elephant seizes the vine, and climbs up above
the well. In the well are three venomous dragons, and
without it, four venomous serpents, together watching (for
prey). In the tree are a black and a white rat gnawing at
the wild vine in order to sever it. There are venomous
bees, too, which sting the man. But the bees from time to
time distil a tiny drop of honey into the man's mouth.
The man in his craving for the honey straightway
forgets his peril!
Is the man wretched, say you, or happy?
(1) I have no (Buddhist) data by which to fix the meaning of these
metaphysical lines. I suspect that "will" would fit them better than
"mind" as the equivalent of, but am not sure.
() (?) Negative and positive alike are gone.
() Pinteulu does not occur in Eitel as a name of Buddha, so far as I
can find.

A BUDDHIST SHEET TRACT.
97
The King made answer: This man's condition is
wretched wholly, what happiness hath he?
The Venerable One proceeded; All knowledge (? or
all the wise) needs parable to unfold it.
Thereupon he spake a sacred rhythm (gâtha. See
Eitel) as follows: The attack of the two rats on the vine is,
verily, the hundred miseries. The four serpents around the
well are, too, the thousand cares. When on a sudden the
vine-root is gnawed asunder, down plunging, when can he
raise his head again?
The wilderness is the (10) three worlds. The tree is the
human body. Man, in the midst of all miseries, sins
nevertheless beyond possibility of computation. The vine
is the root of destiny (or life). The Elephant is the man-
slaying demon, Wu-ch'ang (11). The two rats are the
two discs (? or orbits) of the sun and moon, which in their
revolution urge on the man. The well is the path of the
(12) yellow pool. The three venomous dragons are Con-
cupiscence, Wrath, and Insane Desire; whose threefold poison
results in the three evil ways (or conditions) of Tartarus,
the Starving Ghosts, and Brute Beasts. The four serpents
are Earth, Water, Fire, Air, those four great (elements);
or Wine, Beauty, Wealth, Envy, those four mischiefs; or
Birth, Age, Disease, Death, those four gates (of life).
The hand that clings to the vine is the covetous
hankering of the foolish and insane mind after the world's
entanglements. The bees' honey is the dear love of
husband and wife, the infection of the heart by the lewd
lust and sensual love of animate beings. The heart is a
fire; the body a tenement. The man in his burning house
perceives not that it is being day and night consumed by
the crowd of miseries combined. He covets but that dear
love (till) one morning the stem of destiny cut through;
down for evermore he falls into perdition, and his human
form once lost, he shall hardly recovor it in a myriad of
Kalpas.
I exhort all men (therefore), whilst still this body of
(10) The three worlds (Trailoka) of desire, of form, and of formless
ness (See Eitel).
(1) Wu-ch'ang-"Transitory,"-the messenger of Hades.
(12) The Grave.-Mencius (iii, 2, x) speaks of the worm that "feeds
on the dry dust and drinks of the yellow pool."

98
A BUDDHIST SHEET-TRACT.
form is hale and strong, in the midst of business to snatch
some leisure, and daily at dawn and dusk recite, with
single heart, NAMA AMIDA BUDDHA! (13) This done a
thousand or a myriad times in the present world will add
to your happiness and diminish calamity. And when you
reach the end of life, you will assuredly migrate by (14) a
birth to the most blissful world of the Western clime. (15)
There is a Hymn (16) that says:
The wild-vine (as it severs) hurries us down into the pit.
Elephant, rats, serpents assail us; the hand must needs hold
fast!
Our self-nature Mita waits (longing) that we may awake
betimes, (17)
And not be suffered to incur (18) the three paths of misery.
The rich sweetness of wine and flesh are honey in arsenic. (19)
Dearly loving spouses, a dagger hidden in smiles.
Let me exhort all men to awake in good earnest and not let
to-morrow be added to to-day (? in delays).
(20) ADMONITORY SAYINGS OF THE KUOH-SZE OF CHUNG-FENG.
A year and yet a year! Alter by degrees form and feature.
At first you played, a child. See, see, your hair is all white,
Do not brew troubles for the hereafter. Be converted and plant
the field of bliss.
Wait not for Wu-ch'ang's coming. Go forward betimes in
religious observance.
A month and yet a month! The shadow (on the dial) is like
melting snow.
Sun and moon both have no delays. In their mystic changes
are life and destruction.
A little reality excels much emptiness. Better is simplicity than
cunning craft.
When King Yama sends his message, he is not afraid of thy
eloquence.
(1) "I take refuge in thee Amidabha Buddha!"
(14) i.e. by metempsychosis.
(1) This Paradise is the characteristic substitute for Nirvana in the
system of Northern Buddhism.
(1) Sung Geya (see Eitel)
(17) Mita, (qu) abbreviation for Amidabha, seems identified with our
self-nature (Svabhava).
(18) Hell, Ghosts, and Brute Existence, the last three of the six ways
(conditions) of existence.
(1) One would have expected "arsenic in honey."
(0) Kuoh-sze, Teacher of the nation, title of a famous Monk of (qu:)
one of the Monasteries on Tian-muh Shan in Chêkiang; of which
Chung-fêng seems to be one of the peaks.

舘書學大家燕
Yenching University Library
99
A BUDDHIST SHEET-TRACT.
A day and yet a day! In the morning he goes forth, in the
evening he returns to set (i.e. the sun, but [qu:] the man-
to die).
From vain fancies canst thou not cease? When wilt thou leave
off thy covetous loves f
Just like a fish in too shallow water-quickly shouldst thou
leap out!
Don't wait till the water in the pool is dry, and then, vain
labour cry out on your wrongs.
An hour and yet an hour! move forward step by step.
(1) The fine folks, thoughtless of treading the high road, are their
own misleaders.
We exhort you, masters, yet you give no heed, only caring for
the rich morsel in the mouth.
Some day when Wu-ch'ang is come, then indeed repentance will
be too late,
A minute and yet a minute, so day and night hurry each other
on.
Bewildered, men turn not the head. (22) The heart may verily
grieve at it.
Let me exhort all men living in religious observance surely to
use might and main..
How many in old times and now, once gone, left no sound
behind!
From a Tract on Patience published at the same place :-
Yield a pace! 'Tis the true road of religious observance among
men.
Give a move (at chess)! Don't, for your life, wrangle about who
is the best man.
Put up with a (rude) word! You thereby leave no place for
mischief to breed in.
Endure an hour! The pit of fire shall be thus transformed to
the white lotus pool!
(Signature.)-Printed for general circulation at the Sacred Book
Shop of the Agate-stone (23).-Teh-chung, a vowed Ascetic of Shan-
tung reverently caused it to be engraved.
On the tract, translated above, Professor Cowell of
Cambridge, in a letter acknowledging the receipt of this
and three other tracts, accompanied by versions into English,
says: "The third tract particularly interested me. I mean
(21) An obscure line. Possibly is not the high but the broad
road.
(22)
(23) A large Depôt for Sutras (Ching) and Buddhist and Taouist works
of all sizes, at Haugehow.
the Spirit-stage, a phrase for the heart.

100
"
A BUDDHIST SHEET TRACT.
"the one that contained the Apologue of the Man and the
"Well. I have always been extremely interested in this
"story. You may remember that Abp. Trench quoted it
"in a note at the end of the 4th chap. of his Introduction
"to The Parables' (p. 60). He quotes it from Deslong-
"champ's Fables Indiennes, but I do not think it has ever
"yet been found in any Sanscrit original, though we
"doubt not it will be found in some yet unpublished Pali
or Northern Text. I found it in the early medieval
"romance of Josaphat and Barlaam which Max Müller
"has shewn to be only a Christian adaptation of the
"Buddha legend, and I have also read it in the great
"Persian mystical poem of the 13th century, the Masnavé.
"But I think you will be most interested to hear that
"Julien gives it in his 'Avadânas ou Contes et Apologues
"Indiens,' translated from the Chinese. He gives two
"versions of it-Nos. xxxii and liii. The former he says
"is an extract from 'l'ouvrage intitulé Fo-pi-yu-king, ou
"Livre des Comparaisons, exposé par le Bouddha. Section x.'
"The latter is an extract from l'ouvrage intitulé Tchong-
"king-siouen-tsi-pi-yu-king, ou Choix de Comparaisons
"tirées des livres sacrés.'"
"The first agrees very closely indeed with the version
"in the tract.
"Those Chinese lines seem to me really very beautiful,
"Hark in the still night the bell's voice calleth to awake
"the dream within the dream.' 'Behold in the water, etc.,'
"though I am not sure that I understand it aright."
The Professor (who has been for some years a student
of Buddhism in the Thibetan Mss. preserved in the University
Library) proceeds to give his view of the meaning in a
sentence or two which I have quoted above, p. 2, notes.
In a subsequent letter he has sent me an extract in
Greek from the Legend of Barlaam and Josaphat curiously
like our tract, which I subjoin.
An interesting account of the Legend will be found in
Col. Yule's Marco Polo, Vol. ii, pp. 305-sqq. John of
Damascus, in whose works it is (apparently) first given,
flourished in the 8th Century A.D.

A BUDDHIST SHEET-TRACT.
101
The Greek extract is as follows:-
τὰς δὲ ψυχὰς ἐῶντας λιμῷ κατατήκεσθαι
καὶ μυρίοις ταλαιπωρεῖσθαι κακοῖς, ὁμοίους εἶναι δοκῶ ἀνδρὶ
φεύγοντι ἀπὸ προσώπου μαινομένου μονοκέρωτος, ὃς μὴ
φέρων τὸν ἦχον τῆς αὐτοῦ βοης και τὸν φοβερὸν αὐτοῦ
μυκηθμὸν, ἀλλ᾿ ἰσχυρῶς ἀποδιδράσκων τοῦ μὴ γενέσθαι
τούτου κατάβρωμα, ἐν τῷ τρέχειν αὐτὸν ὀξέως μεγάλῳ τινὶ
περιπέπτωκε βόθρῳ· ἐν δὲ τῷ ἐμπίπτειν αὐτῷ, τὰς χεῖρας
ἐκτείνας, καὶ φυτοῦ τινὸς δραξάμενος κραταιῶς τοῦτο κατέσχε,
καὶ ἐπὶ βασεώς τινος τοὺς πόδας στηρίξας, ἔδοξεν ἐν εἰρήνῃ
λοιπὸν εἶναι καὶ ἀσφαλεία. Βλέψας δὲ ὁρᾷ δύο μύας, λευκὸν
μὲν τὸν ἕνα μέλανα δὲ τὸν ἕτερον, διεσθίοντας ἀπαύστως
τὴν ῥίζαν τοῦ φυτοῦ, οὗ ἦν ἐξηρτημένος, καὶ ὅσον οὔπω
ἐγγίζοντας ταύτην ἐκτεμεῖν. Κατανοήσας δὲ τὸν πυθμένα
τοῦ βόθρου δράκοντα εἶδε φοβερὸν τῇ θέᾳ, πῦρ πνέοντα
καὶ δριμύτατα βλοσυροῦντα, τὸ στόμα τε δεινῶς περι-
χάσκοντα καὶ καταπιεῖν αὐτὸν ἐπειγόμενον. Ατενίσας τε
αὖθις τῇ βάσει ἐκείνῃ ἐφ᾽ ᾖ τους πόδας εἶχεν ἐρηρεισμένους,
τέσσαρας εἶδε κεφαλὰς ἀσπίδων τοῦ τοίχου προβεβληκυίας
ἐφ᾽ οὗ ἐπεστήρικτο. Ανάβλεψας δὲ τοὺς ὀφθαλμούς ὁρᾷ
ἐκ τῶν κλάδων τοῦ φυτοῦ ἐκείνου μικρὸν ἀποστάξον μέλι.
Κάσας οὖν διασκέψασθαι περὶ τῶν περιεχουσῶν αὐτῷ
συμφορῶν, ὅπως ἔξωθεν μὲν ὁ μονόκερως δεινῶς ἐκμανὲις ζητεῖ
τοῦτον καταφαγεῖν, κάτωθεν δὲ ὁ πικρὸς δράκων κέχηνε
καταπιεῖν, τὸ δὲ φυτὸν ὃ περιεδίδρακτο ὅσον οὔπω ἐκκόπε
τεσθαι ἔμελλε, τοὺς δὲ πόδας ἐπ' ὀλισθηρᾷ καὶ ἀπίστα
βάσει ἐπεστήρικτο·—τῶν τοσούτων οὖν καὶ τοιούτων φρικτῶν
θεαμάτων ἀλογίστως ἐπιλαθόμενος, ὅλῳ νοὶ μέλιτος ἐκεινοῦ
τοῦ μικροῦ γέγονε τῆς ἡδύτητος ἐκκρεμής.
Barlaam and Josaphat, p. 112.

102
A BUDDHIST SHEET-TRACT.
A version of the Greek extract, which however does not
pretend to be accurate, may be of service to some of my
audience.
"I consider those who allow their souls to be wasted
with hunger and distressed with a myriad evils to resemble
a man flying before a raging unicorn (rhinoceros), who, not
enduring the sound of his roaring and his frightful bellow-
ing, but running off with might and main to avoid becom-
ing a meal for him, in his swift course has fallen into a
vast pit. But as he falls, extending his hands and grasping
a shrub he clings to it with all his strength, and steadying his
feet on some support fancies himself, for the rest, in peace
and safety. He looks and sees two mice, the one white the
other black, ceaselessly eating through the root of the
shrub to which he has attached himself, and going on so as
only not yet quite to sever it. Then he considers the
bottom of the pit and perceives a dragon terrible to see,
breathing fire and grimly awe-inspiring, gaping fearfully too
and eager to swallow him up. Once more fixing his gaze
on that support on which he has his feet planted, he sees
four serpents' heads projecting out of the wall on which he
has got his support. But casting his eyes upwards he sees
from among the branches of the shrub a little honey
distilling. Giving up at once the consideration of the
calamities that surround him,-how that from without the
unicorn awfully raving seeks to devour him, and from
beneath there is the savage dragon yawning to swallow him
up, and the shrub he has grasped is going, only not yet, to
be severed, and that he has planted his feet on a slippery
and unsafe support,-most unreasonably, I say, forgetting
all these great sights of terror, with his whole mind he
becomes enchained by the sweetness of that mere drop of
honey."
The Professor gave me the following explanatory note.
"In the explanations the unicorn is said to represent Death,
the pit is the world, the plant is our life consumed by
day and night, the four serpents are the four elements
which compose the body, the dragon below is Hades, and the
honey is the sweetness of the pleasures of the world, by
which it deceives its friends, and will not let them take
thought for their own salvation."