NOTES AND QUERIES.
Trans-
literation.
In the Journal for last year (1908) no less than three
new systems for the transliteration of Chinese words are
referred to, while, if we are not mistaken, four or five other,
older, systems are used in the pages of the same volume.
Transliteration is required for at least two distinct purposes. First,
for the printing of Chinese books in roman letters for the use of the
Chinese. And for this purpose it seems almost inevitable that a system
representing approximately the sounds of the locality where a book is to be
used will be employed; that there must be, that is to say, a large number
of systems of transliteration used in the printing of Chinese books.
But the transliteration with which we are now concerned is that
required for the representation of Chinese words in dictionaries, grammars,
and other books written in European languages and destined for European
and American readers in any part of China or of the world. For this
purpose it seems needless to say that there ought to be and might be only
one system-theoretically needless; but in practice we find, as has been said,
seven or eight systems used or incidentally referred to in a volume of 200
pages, and the whole number of systems now or lately in use must be very
much larger than seven or eight.
No improvement seems to be likely until people will realize that no
conceivable system can really describe the sounds accurately to one who has
not heard them; that no system will suggest quite the same sounds to
different persons; and that, granting a system which could describe sounds
accurately to everyone, it would do so only for a few years, since the sounds
themselves are changing in a word, that the intrinsic scientific excellence
of a system is of infinitesimal value compared with its simplicity and the
fact of its actual use. What we want then is to make up our minds that the
detection of a few flaws in an old system shall not tempt us to publish a new
system which may appear to us to represent more accurately, in some cases,
the particular sounds with which we happen to be familiar. For example, the
scathing criticisms which are hurled, however justly, at Wade's system do
not affect the great claim to be universally adopted which it derives from its

NOTES AND QUERIES.
109
simplicity and its long use by so many students and scholars. The essential
thing is that we should all use one and the same system, which should be
also, if possible, simple, since few of us can say seriously with Mr. Punch
"the more arrow-marks there are over the tops of the letters the better I
am'pleased."
The scientific accuracy with which our system represents the Chinese
sounds will be at best a matter of degree, by no possibility attaining
perfection, and of supremely little importance. "What is wanted is not a
multiplying of Chinese romanizations but a simplifying of them "; and so
every one who invents a new or uses an unusual system is only helping to
make confusion worse, confounded, and retarding the progress and popularity
of Chinese studies.
But one of the new systems mentioned above (that of the English
version of Richard's Geography) "has been adopted by the Chinese Imperial
Postal Service, and . . . will doubtless be widely availed of." Although
the reviewer, from whom we quote, does not avail himself of it even in his
review of the Geography, if we are right in thinking that the Cheos are the
Djows of his earlier writing, and the Chow of the new system. And so one
or two remarks on the system as explained by Father Kennelly himself
(pp. iv-vii of the Geography) may not be quite superfluous.
First we note "Pekingese spoken only at the Capital and in a small
portion of Chihli and Honan Provinces," and "Nankingese is spoken by
two-thirds of the whole population of the Empire, and is everywhere
understood." But is it not more accurate to say that the main dialects of
Manchuria, Chihli, W. Shantung, Shansi, Shensi, Szechuen and parts of
Honan, have characteristics which distinguish them from Nankingese and
ally them more or less with Pekingese; and that the dialects of Central
China, if roughly speaking Nankingese, are very far indeed from being free
from variety? Not that there seems to be any serious objection to the use
of Nankingese-the dialect represented being after all as of little importance
in itself as the exact method of its representation, though the ideal for
literary purposes would surely be to represent some Chinese literary standard
of sounds, as is done in Couvreur's Dictionary, in preference to that of any
colloquial dialect.
We note next with pleasure "the aspirates, a most essential element of
the Chinese language, are indicated" (p. iv), and "the Mandarin dialect
lacks the initials bdgqrvx and z," (p. vi). Turning to the actual table of
sounds (pp. vi, vii) we find :-
A dialect which requires the final has, however, some slight disadvantages both
for the general reader and for the accurate student.

110
NOTES AND QUERIES.
"ai-as in aye," "ei-as in height." This would make nine Englishmen
out of ten say lai as English lay, and lei as English lie (the exact opposite of
what is intended), and the tenth would say lie for lai and lei alike.
"an-as ow in how but prolonged," i.e. the a prolonged. "ao-as ow in
how," "eu-as ou in souse." "ow-as ow in how (see eu) "-three spellings for
one sound apparently, but meant to give two sounds, Wade's ao and ou or the
French aou and eou. But at any rate why two spellings, eu and ow, for one
sound, and that not very much like ow in how and quite different from the
Chinese ao?
"cul-as ll in hull."
than this in excluding
readers.
"English and American writers" have done better
from their transliterations-at least for English
"i-as in pin," "as in machine" might have been better-the short
final i (which is not even in Peking "as in pin ") being here represented by ik.
"in-as the vowel sound in chin." Why not "as the in in chin"?
"io-i as y in yawn." But what about the o?
"o-as o in long." Would not lord be better than long?
"ü-as u in abuse." This u in abuse is commonly in or ew, rarely co
(French ou) but very rarely ü (French u or German ); but the Chinese sound
is more like the French iu "ui- " the explanation involves the same error as
above in the sound of height-weight would have been better. But why is this
much abused and, to an Englishman, most confusing old spelling retained!
It shows incidentally that e should be excepted from the statement that the
vowels have their Italian value. Yet, if not ue, why not at least uei? and
why in the course of the book does hwei appear instead of hui?
The note on aspirates (p. vi) mentions two initials, kw and shr,
which do not appear in the following list of initials. But instead of
inserting these, why not omit chw, hw, and w from the list of initial
consonants, since w in all these cases is a pure vowel (Italian u) coming in
aspirated words after the aspirate? To an Englishman w looks more
familiar as an initial or final, but grant (as we are bound to do) an
elementary knowledge of Italian vowels, and uan is as easy to say as
wan* and ou as easy as ow.
"j-as in the French jaune, jamais "-a most inadequate explanation
of this difficult initial-more like French r than j, but by no means like an
English r.
The euphonic initial ng does not appear in the list, but is retained in
practice to the great discomfiture of English readers. The principle on
There is no question here of the difference of sound or tone which in some dialects is
most easily expressed by using both u and w-uang and wang.

NOTES AND QUERIES.
111
which initial n and land final in and ing (so much confused at Nanking)
have been distinguished is not described. The two improvements on
Wade from a "scientific" point of view appear to be the distinction of s and
hs, ts and ch, but were there two hundred improvements they might fail to
compensate for the great evil (from a practically scientific point of view)
of having added another new system of spelling.
Father Kennelly's system is still young enough to be altered and
improved, or at least to be better explained on future occasions, and so
criticism, which is ridiculous in the case of an old system, may hope to be
forgiven here. Of the actual spellings the duplicates eu and ow, and w and u,
seem as if they might well receive attention; and most of the errors in the
explanations would be removed by a slightly better acquaintance with the
sounds of English words.
C. M.
Translation
This Journal has published so many translations of
Chinese poetry into English that it will be of interest
to read the following translation from English into
Chinese made by Mr. Ting Mien-ying, a teacher in the Tungchow Normal
into Chinese.
School.
Little drops of water,
Little grains of sand,
Make the mighty ocean,
And the pleasant land.
Little deeds of kindness,
Little words of love,
Make our Earth an Eden,
Like the Heaven above.
大粒滴
如世
登界
煦煦仁言
涓涓 善 行
上樂 仁善 其大 相相
天園
造乎其極
海粒滴
陸積承

112
NOTES AND QUERIES.
The Moments.
The moments fly,-a minute's gone;
The minutes fly,-an hour is run;
The day is fled, the night is here;
Thus flies a week,-a month,-a year.
月奔 間滅 兮 剎
無
月無歲時
逝混 滅 那
無
涅
過夜兮也分
也瞬詞
剎那 詞
息
相時 馳 去
Autumn.
The autumn winds are sighing,
Sighing in the trees;
The ripened corn is waving,
Waving in the breeze.
The harvest moon is shining,
Shining in the night;
Over hill and valley,
In floods of silver light.
The swallows come together,
Together from the eaves,
Waiting for the falling,
The falling of the leaves.
They know the time is coming,
The time when they must flee
Away to brighter sunshine,
Far, far across the sea.
洋亦知樓哀 山烟秋熟秋秋
兮乘簷哉 川银月麥 風詞
時彼前羣 光皎飄
遷落秋
秋風噫兮噫樹間
言遠
信燕
浪兮
涉天草遲
重我遲
兮照風
遍寒前間

Exhibition of Old
NOTES AND QUERIES.
113
This Exhibition was inaugurated by this Society
for the purpose of gathering together antique Chinese-
Chinese
porcelain and works of art from various collections
Porcelain and
for the purpose of making them accessible to public
Works of Art.
view. It was decided that the articles which would
be admitted to the Exhibition were to be as follows:-Porcelain and
Pottery of the Han, Tang, Sung, Yuan and Ming dynasties, and the
following periods of the Ta Ching dynasty, viz:-Kang Hsi, Yung Cheng,
Chien Lung, Chia Ch'ing, and Tao Kuang reigns; also antiques in
Chinese agates, crystals, glass, enamelled ware, lacquer and jades. The
Exhibition was held on the top floor of the new building of the Shanghai
Mutual Telephone Company during the second and third weeks of
November, 1908. There was a large attendance each day, both of foreign
residents and of Chinese, and although it had been decided at first that the
Exhibition should only be open for five days, there was such a general
demand for the time to be extended that it was kept open for two weeks.
A very large collection of representative specimens was brought together.
Where so many excellent specimens were to be found, it would be invidious-
to select any as most worthy of notice, but it is safe to say that the unique
collection of antique Chinese pottery kindly loaned by H.E. Viceroy
Tuan Fang, together with the 40 specimens of Kang Hsi and Ch'ien Lung
ware, loaned by H.E. Ching Kwang, Provincial Judge of Kiangsi, formed
the chief centres of attraction. A general description of Chinese porcelain
had been prepared by Mr. Wilkinson and was on sale during the Exhibition.
Photographs were taken of many of the best specimens, and these are to be
reproduced in a catalogue which the Committee has requested the Honorary
Secretary, Mr. A. W. Bahr, to publish. It is expected that this catalogue
will be ready early in 1910. The General Committee which had charge of
the Exhibition was appointed by the Council of the North-China Branch of
the Royal Asiatic Society, and was composed of the following persons!:-
C. O. Liddell, Esq., Chairman, Mrs. Ayscough, F. E. Wilkinson, Esq.,
M. Chapeaux, Esq., T. W. Kingsmill, Esq., G. H. Thomson, Esq., Toatai
Hoo Erh Mai, Kung Sin Ming, Esq., Taotai Shen Tun-ho, Tzung Sung Ching,
Esq., Dr. S. M. Cox, Dr. A. Stanley, Dr. J. C. Ferguson, Honorary
Treasurer, and A. W. Bahr, Esq., Honorary Secretary. The balance of the
proceeds from the Exhibition was turned over to the Society for the
purchase of books for the Society's Library. The following is a Statement
of Accounts :-
9

114
NOTES AND QUERIES.
cts.
1,291
00
ACCOUNTS-EXHIBITION OF OLD CHINESE PORCELAIN AND WORKS OF ART.
RECEIPTS.
By Cash collected at door
$
$
DISBURSEMENTS.
cts.
To Sundries at Hall...
115
50
"
Pamphlets sold
Hoo Erh Mai
"
211 00
Hoo Erh Mai
111
95
...
142 50
Wong Kia Zur
154
30
"
Wong Kia Zur
Count du Monceau
H. E. Hobson
Yen Ching Suk
Astor House
190
00
Municipal License, Tls. 15
20
55
16
11
00
30
11
00
C. O. Liddell
15
Shen Tun Ho
56
00
W. C. Murray
5
Hotel des Colonies
1
A. W. Bahr
22
00
888888888
China Printing Co.
32
00
Tong Hing, printer
36
95
Sandwich Boys
21
20
"
Public Band, Tls. 50.00 @ 73
68
49
Police Services ...
243
00
"
S'hai Mutual Telephone Co., Ltd., Tls. 200.00
Scott, Harding & Co., fire insurance 57.00
273
97
78
08
"
Do.
do.
"181.70
217
92
Tại Chong & Co.
5
00
Hall and Haltz, Ltd., Tls. 75
103
50
"
"
"
"
Balance to Credit
Printing and Advertising
Shanghai House Furnishing Co.
Gardener, plants, etc.
265
38
16
00
7 00
200
71
Audited and found correct,
JOHN C. FERGUSON.
2,001 50
2,001 50
SHANGHAI, 25th March 1909.
A. W. BAHR,
Honorary Secretary.

East Asiatic
Society of
Boston.
NOTES AND QUERIES.
115
This Society was organized more than a year ago
for the purpose of encouraging the study and discussion
of questions relating to the Far East. Mr. Thomas R.
Wheelock was elected first President and Mr. E. B. Drew
the first Vice-President. Regular meetings of the Society are held each
month from November to April. The list of members includes many
persons who have been connected with China or Japan in former years.
The Bird Collection
in the Shanghai
Museum.
The interesting contribution which we publish
in this volume will furnish some idea to the
members of the Society of the large amount of
work done by Mr. J. D. La Touche. Owing to the
impossibility of securing expert services, the collection of birds was in
a very undesirable condition when Mr. La Touche, in 1907, came to the
assistance of Dr. Stanley, the Honorary Curator. A new register of the
collection has been made and new labels attached to the old specimens.
Mr. La Touche also succeeded in obtaining the services of efficient collectors
and taxidermists, who have done most praiseworthy work. In addition
to what he has done in connection with the collection of birds, Mr. La Touche
has also given attention to the collection of mammals. Dr. Stanley has
called attention, in his Report for this year, to the valuable assistance
rendered by Mr. La Touche, but his work has added so much to the value of
the Museum that it has seemed advisable to call especial attention to it.
[*8061 XXXX
]