THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON
(Niitaka Yama).
By Julean H. Arnold.
In the heart of the savage territory of the Island of
Formosa rises Mt. Morrison, the highest mountain in the
Orient east of the Himalayas. Extending along practically
the entire length (255 miles) of the Island is a heavily
timbered range of mountains varying from 7,000 to upwards
of 12,000 feet in altitude. The northern part, the home of a
race of head-hunter savages, has successfully withstood all
attempts at exploration. In the central part, with the
northern slopes of its summit pierced by the tropic of Cancer,
rise the lofty peaks of Mt. Morrison.
This mountain was so named to commemorate the
memory of the Reverend Robert Morrison, the first protestant
missionary to China, by Captain Collinson of Her Brittanic
Majesty's Navy, during a survey cruise to the Pescadore
Islands in the year 1842. To the Chinese in the Island, the
mountain has always borne the name "Gek Soa," Jade
Mountain, a name probably suggested by the likeness of the
snow-capped peaks to hugh crystals of white jade. When
Japan took possession of Formosa in the year 1895 she
re-christened the mountain Niitaka-yama, which means new
high mountain; Fuji-yama, sacred to the heart of every
Japanese, being thus relegated to the position of old high
mountain. As the mountain is still best known to the outside

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
45
world as Mt. Morrison, I shall take the liberty in this paper
of using that name.
During the whole of the Chinese regime, the greater
part of the savage territory remained unexplored and we
have no records of any ascents of Mt. Morrison previous to
the Island's coming into the possession of Japan. Although
the mountain still lies in the heart of the savage territory,
the ascent can now be made in comparative safety. There
are but a few months in the year during which the ascent is
practicable. These are either October and November or
April and May. The heavy summer rains swell the streams
threading the mountain gorges which lead up to the summit
to such an extent as to make the ascent during the summer
months impossible, while the snows of the winter render the
journey impracticable during that season. The first party to
ascend the mountain was that of Lieutenant Nagano of the
Japanese army in the autumn of the year 1896. This party
ascended from Bokkusekikaku on the East Coast. Since
that time six Japanese parties have climbed the mountain.
The only foreigner besides our party to have reached the
summit is a German, Herr Steibel, who ascended South peak
in the autumn of the year 1898.
Our party consisting of Mr. and Mrs. Arnold and
Messrs. Hall, Mather, and Stark decided to ascend from
Toroku () via Rinkiho (E) and the Tanuran
River (because this is the most direct as well
as the most interesting route. We planned, however, to
make our return through the forests of Mt. Ari ()
to Kagi (). Preliminary to making the ascent, one
must secure an escort of police, as the route lies for the most
part in savage territory and all savage affairs are in charge
of the Government Police Department. Accordingly
Mr. Kobayashi, Police Inspector in charge of the district of

1
46
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
Rinkiho, was despatched along with policemen Kunitomi,
Hompo, and Saegi to accompany our party.
A ten hours' journey from the capital city on the
government railway took us to Toroku, where we spent the
night in a Japanese hotel. The next morning, October 28th,
we rode to Rinnai Station (J), and after an hour and a
half on coolie push cars landed at Rinkiho ready to begin our
tramp to the summit of Mt. Morrison. As donkeys and
ponies are not in use in the Island, we were obliged to go on
foot. The gentlemen of the party exchanged their foreign
foot-gear for the Japanese tabi and waraji. We had with us
a twelve days' supply of provisions and blankets and bedding
suited to high altitudes; in addition to which, we were
obliged to take from Rinkiho goods to be used in payment
for the services of savages which we would require en route.
From Rinkiho to Namakaban (5), a distance of
thirty-five miles, we planned to use Chinese coolies to carry
our baggage, while from there on to the end of our journey
savages were to be utilized.
Leaving Rinkiho at 2.30 p.m., a ten miles' walk over a
splendid country road lined on both sides with teeming fields
of rice brought us to Sharyo (L), a native village on the
banks of the Dakusui River (k). As the name
Dakusui suggests, the waters of this river are dark although
it is fed by clear, transparent streams. With a further
journey of four miles along the cultivated fertile low lands,
bordering on the Dakusui, we arrived at Banshiryo (1)
Police Station. From the elevated bit of ground upon which
this station stands we could view the plains of Chip-chip
() on the opposite banks of the river and Shiu-shiu-tai-
zan (14) which rises to a height of 5,000 feet. On
this plain the Suisharen tribe of the Vonuum savage race
now peacefully cultivates the soil, instead of hunting human

"Our cavalcade, numbering thirty-seven in all, started on its journey over
the rocky bed of the Tanuran" (page 47).
"The savages, during the dry season, mark a trail over the broad, expansive
river bed by piles of stones" (page 47).

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
47
heads as their ancestors had done. We were considerably
delayed at this station as the police experienced some
difficulty in securing enough coolies to venture from
Banshiryo to Gyuonroku after dark, for the road traverses a
bit of the savage territory. A torch-light procession
composed of five Americans, five Japanese, two Chinese
servants, and twenty native coolies laden with baggage
wending its way along the banks of the Dakusui River over
ledges of precipitous rocks and across frail bamboo bridges,
being obliged at times to ford a stony bedded river, may be
picturesque but to the members of the party it was a bit
trying. We arrived at Gyuonroku village at 11 p.m. and
were told that we had walked but seventeen and a half miles
since leaving Rinkiho and that we were at an altitude of
but 300 feet.
It is at Gyuonroku that one feels that he is really beginning
the ascent of Mt. Morrison, for it is here that one enters the
valley of the Tanuran River whose broad rocky bed gradually
narrows into a precipitous mountain gorge as the stream
approaches its source fifty miles beyond upon the plateau
of Hattsukwan (A) at the base of the summit.
Moreover, this is the last native Chinese village en route.
Next morning (October 29th) our cavalcade, numbering
thirty-seven in all, started on its journey over the rocky bed
of the Tanuran, crossing and recrossing the stream many
times during the day. The savages, during the dry season,
mark a trail over the broad expansive bed by piles of stones
placed at intervals of every thirty or forty feet, but this path
is entirely obliterated during the summer months because of
the heavy rains. In fact, all communication between
Gyuonroku and points beyond is entirely cut off during this
rainy season. When about seven miles out of Gyuonroku
the trail turns from a south-westerly to a south-easterly

48
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
direction affording the mountain climber his first glimpse of
the peaks of Mt. Morrison. Upon this occasion, however,
clouds obscured our view. Several miles before reaching
Namakaban the path steals away from the river bed and,
after running through a stretch of tall bamboo grass, leads
up the side of a hill on to a beautiful bit of plain. Here, at
an altitude of 2,800 feet sits the Namakaban police station, a
low, oblong, wooden building with tiled roof, established only
since June 1906. In the vicinity of this station, the
Namakama savage tribe has its headquarters. It may be
well, before proceeding further, to describe briefly the location
and relation of the tribes inhabiting the country surrounding
Namakaban.
For a stretch of twenty miles along the west bank of
the Tanuran, extending from Namakaban to the mountain
regions beyond Hosha (L), there dwells the Rokushu
() Great Tribe, of which Hosha is the greater
and Namakama the lesser tribe. These two tribes with their
branches belong to the Tsou Race, whose thirty-nine clans
with an aggregate population of 3,000 are scattered over the
mountain regions of the three prefectures of Toroku, Banshoryo
() and Kegi, with Mt. Ari as their center. To the
Chinese this group is known as the Mt. Ari savages.
Although the Tsou savages are distinctly warlike in nature,
yet they are no longer addicted to the vicious practice of
hunting human heads, a custom which obtained among their
ancestors a century ago.
Along the East bank of the Tanuran, extending from its
junction with the Dakusui River over the Gundai ()
mountains to the plateau of Hattsukwan, are scattered tribes
of the Vonuum group. Of the Gundai mountain tribes, the
Tompo is the largest and the most important. Although the
majority of the Gundai tribes of the Vonuum group are now

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
49
no longer addicted to head-hunting yet, of the 144 tribes of
this race, with an aggregate population of 16,000, there are
still many hunters of human heads. On the east bank of the
Tanuran, below Namakaban in the Randai mountains, dwells
the Randai tribe of the Vonuum race. Up to January of the
year 1907, this tribe caused much anxiety in these regions by
its insatiable desire to collect human heads. Since that time
it has been forced to discontinue the practice. Although the
Randai tribe is no longer to be feared, a brother tribe, the
Shibukun, which dwells in the mountains east of Mt. Morrison,
embraces every opportunity to descend into the Tanuran and
Mt. Ari regions for the purpose of securing human heads.
The tribes of the Tsou and Vonuum groups have been hostile
to one another from time immemorial, but, during the month
of September of the year 1907, the police at Namakaban
succeeded in effecting a conciliation between the Tompo and
the Namakama and Hosha tribes. At that time they indulged
freely in the cup of peace and these tribes appear now to be
upon friendly terms. The Japanese are doing splendid work
toward the peaceful subjugation of the savages in the Island.
It was at Namakaban that we were obliged to secure
savages to carry our baggage during the rest of our journey.
As the savages in this section of the country were at this
time engaged in celebrating their rice harvest festival, it was
only by promises of liberal payment that a sufficient number
could be induced to forego the pleasures attendant upon the
drinking of their freshly fermented wines. Their wine is
made by the women of the tribe who take rice or millet and, f
after chewing it until it is reduced to a pulp, place it in a
vessel where it is allowed to ferment. Although the rice
festival is not as elaborate or as important as the millet
festival, for the savages raise but little rice in comparison
with the amount of millet grown, yet custom decrees that
5

50
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
none of the braves leave the village during these festivals.
Apparently, however, customs even among savages are
amenable to a monetary consideration. Our savage caravan
when completed included six Namakama, seven Juhaichokei
(a branch of the Tompo tribe) and thirty-nine Tompo savages,
about one-half of which were women. While the more.
civilized savages, the Namakama, would have been willing
to accept money in payment, the Tompo and Juhaichokai had
never learned its value. The goods we brought from Rinkiho
as payment for their services consisted of cheap cotton flannel
shirts, black and red cotton cloths of inferior texture, matches,
salt, chinese wine, small white buttons and beads; the total
aggregating an expenditure of thirty-three dollars gold.
Owing to the rice festival we were obliged to duplicate this
amount. Thus each savage received for five days' labor
presents to the amount of one dollar and twenty-five cents
gold. One of the interesting features in connection with
the distribution of these presents was that each person
considered himself or herself entitled to receive as much
and no more than the others. Thus a man assigned to
a load of seventy pounds was quite contented to receive
the same amount as that paid to a woman carrying but
thirty.
The next morning we descended from the plain and
crossed the Namakaban creek to the bed of the Tanuran
River. An hour's walk over the rough rocky river bed led
us to a clear trail on the east bank and we were soon at the
junction of the Tanuran and Hosha streams.
The country
here presents a wild mountainous aspect. It was at this
point that we had our first glimpse of Mt. Morrison, the
clouds which had been hovering about the peaks for the past
few days had now cleared away sufficiently to present us a
splendid view. Our path now took us up and along the side

"At noon we were at the Tompo savage village" (page 51).
"The Tompo woman is short and plump" (page 52).

"The Hosha village presents quite a different picture from that of the
Tompo tribe" (page 61). (See also page 51).
"In the Hosha village, the club house or "konkai " is the center
of a group of ten houses" (page 61).

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
51
of Gundai mountain, and at noon we were at the Tompo
savage village at an altitude of 3,400 feet.
We were informed by Mr. Kobayashi that, as recently as
the year 1902, the Tompo tribe were head-hunters. The
Formosan savages are, according to Mr. Ino, a prominent
Japanese ethnologist, of Malay origin. None of the tribes
in the central part of the Island tattoo as do the northern
Atayal head-hunters, but in common with the savages
throughout the Island the men knock out their canine teeth.
The Tompo man is not large, weighing about one hundred
and thirty-five pounds. He wears a sleeveless, deer-hide
coat; his chest is covered with a diamond shape bit of cloth
tied about the body and often decorated with small white
buttons; a bag made of shirting or savage cloth hangs from
his neck over the lower part of the body and around his
waist he wears a light wooden band about four inches wide
and tightly laced. A loin cloth is also worn. Strapped
about his body is a belt of woven grasses which carries the
wooden sheath for the knife which is his constant companion.
This knife with a blade about a foot long and about two
inches wide serves him as a knife, as an axe, and as a bolo.
With this knife he whittles the chips to restart last night's
fire, cuts the rushes and timbers to build his hut, strips the
rattan to make his rope, harvests his millet or Indian corn,
cuts his way through the jungle, skins the deer and prepares
its hide for his coat, kills the wounded boar, and, if he be a
head-hunter, it is with this knife or bolo that he will secure
the trophy which is to bring him into special favor with his
tribe and perchance win for him the hand of the belle of his
or an allied tribe. Suspended from a string about his neck
is a small stone which is used to keep the edge of his knife
ready for an emergency. His hat is a skull cap made of
deer hide with a flap hanging down the back of the neck

52
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
partially concealing his long black hair. Often a few
feathers adorn his cap somewhat after the fashion of the
American Indian. His legs and feet, the color and toughness
of leather, appear to serve him better unclad than otherwise.
Some of the braves adorn themselves with necklaces of bone,
which they prize very highly.
The Tompo woman is short and plump with a much
darker skin than that of her brother. Like the women of
most of the savage tribes throughout the Island she utilizes
much of the wearing apparel of the Chinese woman which
has found its way into the tribe by barter. Her coat is more
often that of the Chinese woman than otherwise. She wears.
a short tight-fitting shirt which reaches to the waist. Her
skirt is made of cheap cotton cloth hanging loosely from her
waist. A black cloth wrapped about her head somewhat in
the fashion of a turban distinguishes the married woman.
The Tompo woman displays her cheap Chinese bracelets and
finger rings with as much pride as that of a little girl
exhibiting her new doll.
The women do most of the work in the fields and care
for the pigs, chickens and ducks which may belong to the
tribe, while the men engage in hunting and trapping the deer,
wild boar, monkey, wild cat and smaller game. Although
head-hunting is no longer practiced by this tribe, yet a peep
into the skull shed showed us a large number of human
skulls arranged in rows on shelves. These are kept in
reverence of the bravery of their ancestors. Their weapons
consist of the gun, the spear, the bow and arrow, and the
knife or bolo. The thirty houses of this tribe are scattered
over the side of the mountain with a central group of eight or
ten dwellings. The better class houses are constructed of
slate stone, but the lazier families in the tribe content
themselves with houses of bamboo and rushes.

"A peep into the skull shed showed us a number of human skulls arranged in rows upon shelves" (page 52).

"A person to ride upon this board must sit side-wise with at least one foot on
the shelf and an arm through a strap fastened to the top" (page 53).
"A splendid view of the Tanuran River flowing down a mountain gorge
from the plateau of Hattsukwan above which rise the
peaks of Mt. Morrison" (page 53).

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
.53
Before leaving Tompo village we arranged to have a
savage carrying-board to serve as a chair for Mrs. Arnold,
that she might be carried over the rougher places from
thereon. This board or chair is attached to the back of its
bearer by straps, one passing over and around each shoulder
and the third around the forehead. Naturally, the bearer must,
when carrying a load, incline his body well forward. A person
to ride upon this board must sit sidewise with at least one foot
on the shelf and an arm through a strap fastened to the top.
As the rapids cannot be forded at the junction of the
Tanuran and Sharisen (1) Rivers, to go from
Tompo to Laku-laku, a distance of one mile by water, one
must cross the side of Gundai Mountain and cover in all five.
miles. We found the trail along the side of the mountain so
steep in places that we were obliged to cling to the grass to
secure a footing. The ravines and sheltered spots on the
sides of this mountain are forested with oaks and hinoki
(chamæcyperis Formosanus), while the steep exposed slopes
are covered with a heavy growth of grass through which peep
in no small numbers bright red azaleas and wild yellow
chrysanthemums. The highest point on this trail, 6,000 feet,
commands a splendid view of the Tanuran River flowing
down a mountain gorge from the plateau of Hattsukwan,
above which rise the peaks of Mt. Morrison. Descending,
we crossed the Tanuran on an improvised bridge across huge
bowlders about which the water rushed in surging torrents.
A ten minutes walk along a trail which cuts its way through
a thicket on the west bank brought us to a level open spot
studded with massive bowlders, a spot which during the
summer months is covered by the waters of the Tanuran.
We pitched camp here.
As it was raining the following morning, we were unable
to resume our journey. Leaving our escort in camp we

54
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
up
ascended a narrow trail through a dense jungle on the west
bank of the river, and after a twenty minutes' climb the
mountain emerged into a bright, open spot marking the site
of a savage village, the home of the Laku-lakus, a branch of
the Tompo tribe. We were hospitably received by the savages
and accorded accommodation.
The village consists of but a few houses. The central
house is admirably constructed and is quite similar to the
better dwellings in Tompo village. It measures about twenty
feet in length and fifteen feet in width. The walls which are
about two feet in thickness are made of slabs of slate laid one
on another, with facings remarkably even. A central ridge
pole about eight feet above the ground supports rafters which
extend well over the sides of the house, the eaves being about
five feet from the ground. Fastened to the rafters with rattan
cords is laid a roof made of large pieces of tree bark. These
are weighted with stones to guard against storms.
Light is
admitted by slides on the roof, opened and closed from the
inside. The only entrance to the dwelling is in the center
of one side. The floor is made of large slabs of slate well laid.
Inside, built up against the wall directly opposite the entrance,
is the grain bin which is opened only at intervals determined
by dreams. Thus, when the supply of millet runs short the
tribe must feed on some substitute until a favorable dream
permits of the opening of the grain bin. Occupying a space
between the granary and the end of the building on either
side are bedrooms partitioned off by walls made of reeds.
The beds are square bamboo platforms elevated about two feet
above the floor. A hole in the floor, to the left of the entrance,
marks the fireplace. In the right hand corner there is a store
room and against the right wall stands an oven. The tribe's
crude farming implements and household utensils are distri-
buted about the room, some suspended from the rafters, others

"We were hospitably received by the savages and accorded
accommodation" (page 54).
"It is here that the millet and other grains are poun lel, preparatory to cooking,
in large wooden mortars by the children of the tribe" (page 55).

The Tsou Skull Shed (See page 55).

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
55
piled in corners and still others placed on shelves. Dried
venison and boar meat hang from the rafters. Stuck between
the rafters and the roof we noticed numbers of boar tusks and
the teeth and jaw bones of various animals, undoubtedly
souvenirs of hunting expeditions. In spite of the varied uses
to which the dwelling is put, the whole interior is remarkably
clean. An outside pavement about fifteen feet wide made of
slate slabs and surrounded by a low stone wall extends along
the entire length of the house. It is here that the millet and
other grains are pounded, preparatory to cooking; in large
wooden mortars by the children of the tribe and much other
work performed.
The other dwellings in the village, less pretentious in
structure, are covered with thatched roofs and serve, one as a
dwelling house, one as a detention house for sick members,
several as work sheds where the skins of animals may be
prepared for clothing, and one as a repository for human and
animal skulls. This tribe now contents itself with collecting
the skulls of the wild boar and the monkey. Hunting the
wild boar is the favorite pastime of the young braves. A
number proudly exhibited scars which they claimed to have
received in personal combat with the wounded boar. The
chickens, pigs and dogs belonging to this village are all well
fed. In addition to millet, taro, Indian corn, dry land rice
and tobacco, this tribe grow the marigold flower which is used
for making wreaths to wear about their heads during the
harvest festivals.
Like the other Gundai tribes, this tribe elects a chieftain
who acts as referee in all disputes. One of the interesting
characters in this village is a Chinese who informed us that he
had married into the tribe more than twenty-five years ago.
He still clings to the Chinese dress, queue and manners, and goes
about smoking a little Chinese pipe with an air of peace and

56
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
contentment. He has probably been very useful to the tribe
as a counsellor and go-between. In speaking, the members
of this tribe roll their "r's" and have a distinct German accent.
They, however, prefer words ending in vowels. For instance,
they persisted in calling our cook "Cookoo." Unlike the
Amis savages on the east coast, they are not naturally
musical. Beyond a sing-song call or rather crow which the
braves give utterance to at various intervals while carrying
loads up the sides of hills, they indulge in no singing unless
well under the influence of wine. We were impressed by the
good-natured fellowship which prevails among the members
of this tribe. So far as we were able to judge, they appeared
to be remarkably responsive to kind treatment, leading us to
believe that Christian missionaries might be able to do much
toward civilizing them.
Although our police guard and the rest of our party were
at the camp on the banks of the river we decided to spend the
night in the savage village. The weather having cleared we
were ready the next morning to resume our journey. We
arranged to take Arimun, the Laku-laku chieftain, as
Mrs. Arnold's chair bearer. Besides being strong and sure-
footed, he was very careful and remarkably good-natured. For
hours at a time, I followed in the steps of this savage chieftain
and marvelled at the skill as he carried Mrs. Arnold over
the narrow ledges of precipitous rocks, across streams, on the
wet and slippery trunks of fallen trees, through forest trails
with trees and vines over-hanging the path, up the sides of
steep mountain slopes over loose broken shale, unsafe even
for a person without a load, up and down the sides of huge
bowlders and across streams whose stony beds were decidedly
slippery. Yet not once during the four days in which he
acted as her bearer did he slip or stumble. And when she

"We arranged to take Arimun, the Laku-laku chieftain, as Mrs. Arnold's
chair bearer" (page 56)
[Mrs. Arnold is the only woman who has ascended Mt. Morrison.]
"On the wet and slippery trunks of fallen trees" (page 56).

"At the base of a noble cedar, in the neighborhood of several springs, our
Bavages constructed tent-shaped huts from the branches of the firs
which they had slached from the trees near by" (page 57).
"We reached the summit at 11.30
the rocky seats which
nature here provides" (page 59).

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
+8
57
walked, he was as gallant as a cavalier in assisting her up and
down rough and rocky places.
From Laku-laku to Hattsukwan the way is decidedly
rough. Oft-times it was impossible to follow the Tanuran
river bed as the rapids were too swift and the banks too pre-
cipitous, so we were obliged upon these occasions to take our
path along the sides of the heavily-timbered mountains.
Fortunately, an advance party, kindly despatched by Mr.
Oshima, the Chief of Police, had cut a trail for us and had
strung wire and rattan along the steeper inclines, thus greatly
facilitating our progress. We stopped at the head-waters of
the Tanuran at an elevation of 8,500 feet for luncheon.
From this spot an hour and a half's climbing brought us out
upon the grass-covered plateau of Hattsukwan. The recesses
and sheltered spots of this plateau are thickly timbered with
firs, cedars and pines. At the base of a noble cedar, in the
neighborhood of several springs, our savages constructed
tent-shaped huts from the branches of the firs which they had
slached from the trees near by. A few yards to our east the
road or trail, built more than thirty years ago by the Chinese
General Wu Kwong Liang (), threads its way
through a dense thicket. This remarkable path leads from
Rinkiho over Mt. Ho-o to Namakaban, thence to Tompo, to
Laku-laku, then across to the Gundai Mountain up to
Hattsukwan; from Hattsukwan it follows the Shinburokei
valley down to Bokkusekikaku () on the east coast,
a total distance of two hundred and fourteen miles. It was
built to assist in the work of subjugating the savage tribes
but, sometime before the Japanese occupation, this road was
closed and the presence of head-hunter savages along parts of
its course has prevented its being opened since.
The next morning (November 2nd) at six o'clock the
thermometer stood at forty degrees Fahrenheit and frost

58
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
glistened on the grass. At seven we were ready for our
journey to the summit. Our party decided to ascend North
Peak, for the reason that this peak had been ascended but once
before; moreover, our one-eyed Tompo savage guide claimed
to be able to show us a short route which would require a
day less than the regular route taken by previous parties to
the summit. From our camp, at an altitude of 9,250 feet,
looking in a westerly direction at what might be called a
disappointing distance away, we could see the south and
central peaks of Mt. Morrison. North Peak was hidden
behind an intervening hill.
Our path to the summit, for the first two hours, led over
slippery, grass-covered hillsides, then descended into the
Shinburo river valley and, after crossing and recrossing this
river, began the final ascent up a steep incline covered with
firs and pines alternating with bits of grassy expanse. When
we reached an elevation of about 11,700 feet, we hailed with
delight the discovery of a sweet water spring, almost
hidden from view by the grass and trees which clustered
about it. Previous parties to the summit mention the
difficulty experienced after leaving the river bed in securing
a sufficient supply of water to meet the needs from there on.
From this spring it is but an hour's climb to the top. As we
passed through the bits of forest which thrive luxuriantly in
the sheltered spots almost to the very suummit, our guide
hacked the trees with his knife as he had been doing all the
way from Hattsukwan to mark the trail for succeeding parties.
Many pines and junipers have ventured out into the steep,
unsheltered spots on the slopes approaching the summit and,
in their struggle for existence against the storms which sweep
these regions during certain seasons of the year, have suffered
the loss of much of their foliage, presenting a very tattered
and torn appearance. The ascent of the last few hundred feet

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
59.
is over a steep hard sandstone formation, but is not
difficult.
We reached the top at 11.30 filled with that peculiar sense
of satisfaction which every mountain climber must experience
when attaining the summit of a high mountain upon the
ascent of which he had set his heart weeks before. The first
thing to greet our eyes as we threw ourselves upon the rocky
seats which nature here provides was a ship's bell suspended
between the rocks. We subsequently learned that this bell,
part of the wreckage of a ship tossed upon the west coast of
Formosa, had been carried to the summit from the Prefectural
office at Toroku by Mr. Ozaka's party. Henceforth, instead
of ringing out the silent watches of the night aboard a ship, it
will furnish to the occasional pilgrim to the summit of this
highest mountain in the Japanese Empire a means by which
he may announce the glad tidings of the completion of his
ascent.
Fortune favored us with a beautiful day. Our view was
perfect in all directions. Standing on the summit of Mt.
Morrison, one does not readily appreciate the fact that the
vast expanse of sea which greets his eye far out to the east
and west lies 13,000 feet below, for intervening mountains
help to fill the gap. Much less is the altitude realized by the
views to the north and south for so far as the eye can see in
these directions mountain crests appear to rise and fall like
massive ocean waves. Our aneroid registered 13,460 feet.
A year before, Mr. Ozaka's glass showed an elevation of
13,480 feet. Official figures give the elevation of Central or
Taito Peak as 13,020 feet; this is the highest of the three
peaks, North or Toroku Peak, the second highest, being
somewhat lower. In their relative positions these may be said
to represent the apexes of a triangle. Measured on an air
line, Central Peak appears to be about one-half mile from.

60
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
North Peak, while South Peak appears to be about three times
as far. However, to go from one peak to another it is
necessary to descend a depth of 3,000 feet into the Shinburo-kei
valley which these three peaks embrace, and ascend from the
head waters of the Shinburo River, a two days' trip. Although
there was no evidence of snow on the summit or in any of the
ravines on the sides of the mountain, ten days after our ascent
the police at Namakaban reported the peaks covered with
snow. Mr. Kawakami, the Formosan Government Botanist,
informs me that there have been found growing upon the
slopes of Mt. Morrison, above an altitude of 12,000 feet,
sixty-four different species of plant life, and that between
Tompo (altitude 3,400 feet) and the summit, four hundred
species have been discovered. Among these Mr. Kawakami
found fifty new species.
While we were having our luncheon on the summit, the
clouds began to rise from the lowlands and from out of the
mountain recesses and the landscape was transformed into
a vast ocean of clouds studded with islands made by the
mountain peaks which projected through. At 1.30, the
time we began our descent fleecy detached cloud masses
hovered about the peaks. At five o'clock we were back in
camp.
The next day we descended to Tompo and spent the
night in grass huts in this savage village. As
we had
planned to ascend Mt. Arion our return, we were obliged
to change our course at Tompo. The following morning we
crossed to the east bank of the Tanuran and took a short cut
over the hills down to the Hosha savage village, which lies
on the Hosha River at an altitude of 3,200 feet. Here we
were obliged to exchange our savages for those of the
Hosha tribe, as the Tompo men would not venture further
.into the territory of the hostile Mt. Ari tribes. Chinese

The Hosha Village Club House (see page 61).

The Hosha Village- See page 61.

"This Spartan training accounts for the presence in the tribe of many handsome,
stalwart young braves (page 62).
"The cup of peace was freely indulged in by the chieftains of the
two tribes (page 61).

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
61
wine was distributed among the Hosha and Tompo men
men and
the cup of peace was freely indulged in by the chieftains of
the two tribes.
The Hosha village presents quite a different picture.
from that of the Tompo tribe. Instead of houses constructed
of stone, their dwellings are built of bamboo and rushes
fastened together with rattan. A heavily thatched roof
radiates from a central pole and descends to the eaves in
octagonal fashion, thus giving to the house a circular or
octagonal appearance. As a rule their houses are larger
than those of the Tompo tribe. They content themselves
with earthern floors, but in other respects the interior is
quite similar to that of the Laku-laku dwellings and likewise
remarkably clean. The most interesting difference between
the customs of the two races lies in the club houses
maintained by the tribes of the Tsou group, although it
appears that the Vonuum savages at one time provided for a
similar institution. In the Hosha village, the club house
or "konkai" is situated in the center of a group of ten
houses. It consists of an elevated floor set on poles about
four feet high. It is covered with a heavily thatched roof
but the sides are open. Suspended from the roof, on the
inside, is an oblong rattan, woven basket containing about
one hundred human skulls, the trophies of generations gone
by. Bones of various animals also decorate the interior.
In former times, when head-hunting was practiced by this
tribe, the club house was the scene of the festivities attendant
upon the celebration of the securing of a head. No females
are ever allowed to enter this structure. It is on the hard,
rough, bamboo floor of this club house, amid the trophies
of deeds of valor and exposed to the cold winds of the winter
that the young braves are required to sleep from the time
they reach their thirteenth year until they are married.

62
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
This Spartan training accounts for the presence in the tribe
of many handsome, stalwart, young braves.
The Hosha women are darker skinned and smaller than
those of the Tompo tribe. They exhibit more animation than
the latter and vie with one another in decorating themselves
with cheap jewels and gorgeously colored bits of cotton tape.
We noted a number of the younger women in the tribe
arranging their hair before little hand-mirrors which seemed
to be very popular with them.
After having exchanged our savages for Hosha men
and women, we followed the bed of the Hosha River which
gradually narrowed into a mountain stream almost lost
among hugh bowlders. The mountains on either side of the
river became so precipitous that we were obliged to make
our trail around and over the bowlders in the river bed,
many of which were ten and twelve feet high. At dusk we
decided to pitch camp on a bit of level ground on the east
bank of the river at an altitude of 3,800 feet. After a night
in grass huts, we began the ascent of Taiko ()
Mountain, the trail threading its way through a dense forest
covered with a heavy undergrowth. Occasionally an arrow
of sunlight pierced through the dense foliage and, in one
place shooting down the side of a partially decayed tree
trunk, illumined a mass of delicately tinted yellow fungi.
Even the savages stopped in admiration. When we came
to an open spot in our path, the walls of the mountains on
the opposite bank of the river were seen to rise up in hugh
ragged piles like the massive ruins of some ancient castle.
By noon we had circled up and around the summit of the
mountain and at an elevation of 7,000 feet above sea-level,
amid the dampness of a bit of forest which never receives a
ray of sunlight, we had our luncheon. After crossing a
ledge which joins this mountain to peaks beyond, we des-

"We were obliged to make our trail around and over the bowlders in the river
bed, many of which were ten and twelve feet high "(page 62).
"We energed from the dark trail out onto the light, grass-covered summit
of Mt. Ari at an elevation of 8,200 feet" (page 63).

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
63
cended about 1,000 feet and were then ready for the final
ascent.
Gradually our cavalcade wound its way up the steep,
circuitous forest trail which at times resolved itself into a
series of steps made of the projecting roots of the oak,
camphor, cedar and pine through a virgin forest which
might well be termed the naturalist's paradise.
At three o'clock we emerged from the dark trail out into
the light, grass-covered summit of Mt. Ari at an altitude
of 8,200 feet. Banzai peak loomed up a short distance to the
west, one mass of trees. Off to the east, enthroned between
mountain crests, rose the peaks of Mt. Morrison, Kagi and
Toroku peaks in the foreground with Taito peak in the rear.
We were met here by a party from the Fugita Lumber
Company's camp and escorted to their mountain head quarters
about a thousand feet below. A refreshing hot bath followed
by a dinner cooked upon a stove and served upon a table
were indeed luxuries and made us feel that we were once
again in civilization.
This company has a concession from the Formosan
Government to 36,000 acres of timber lands in the Ari
regions. This means more than one billion board feet each
of soft and hard woods. To work this concession they are
now engaged in constructing a narrow-guage railroad from
Kagi City to the company's mountain headquarters forty
miles distant. To bring this road from sea level to an
elevation of seven thousand feet will involve the construction
of ninety mountain tunnels and a total expenditure of two
million dollars gold. We were pleased to note that the
company has already planted nurseries to provide for the
preservation of these forests.
From the summit of the mountain to the lowlands we
expected to have one continuous descent, but in this we were

64
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
disappointed. After leaving the company's headquarters
on the morning of November 5th, we descended along the
road bed of the proposed railway through one continuous
forest to Jujiro +), a construction station, where we
had luncheon. At about five o'clock we arrived at the
company's way house at Funkiko (E), where we were
given accommodations for the night. Our glass showed
us to be still 5,000 feet above sea level. The next morning,
after a climb of 1,000 feet, we found that the road from there on
made a continuous descent. The vegetation along the way
now assumed a more tropical nature. In approaching
Karapin, the site of the Fugita's hotel and stores, we passed
through many bamboo groves. The company's buildings at
Karapin (F) are constructed entirely of bamboo, even
to the roofing. The hotel windows command a splendid
view of the forest-covered hills of Mt. Ari. Shortly after
leaving Karapin we arrived at a Chinese village, the first
indication of Chinese life since leaving Gyuonroku nine days
before. Many of the Chinese here are engaged in making
paper from bamboo pulp, which is obtained by rotting the
bamboo in reservoirs of lime water. Beyond this village the
hill becomes very steep. Beginning at an elevation of about
2,000 feet a series of stairs made of large, irregular stones
unevenly laid lead down into the plain below.
After we reached the plains a walk of five or six miles
along a country road, across fertile lands dotted with native
farm houses hidden from view behind tall, circular, bamboo
hedges above which often peaked clusters of beetle-nut palms,
brought us to Chikutosaki (f), a small country town.
Here the Fugita Company's engineer had in readiness for
us several cars which were to convey us to Kagi, a distance
of nine miles. We were glad indeed to be riding on
a car, even though it was but a small platform on wheels

"The hotel window commands a splendid view of the forest-covered
hills of Mt. Ari" (page 64).
"The first indication of Chinese life since leaving Gyuonroku
nine days before" (page 64).

"We descended along the road bed of the proposed railway
through one continuous forest" (page 64).
"The vegetation along the way now assumed a more tropical nature (page 64).

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
65
with the motive power furnished by native Chinese push
coolies.
With a Japanese dinner at the Kagi Hotel, we
concluded a one hundred and seventy mile journey (from
Toroku), covering eleven days and taking us over a bit of the
most interesting and most picturesque country in the beautiful
Island of Formosa.
NOTES.
1. Rinkiho ()-Mr. Ino, a Japanese ethnolo-
gist who has spent some years studying the savage tribes of
Formosa, tells us that the country about Rinkiho was
originally inhabited by savages of the Vonuum race. During
the first year of the reign of the Emperor Kang Hsi, a Chinese
general, Rin Ki (E), drove the savages up into the table-
lands and established himself with two hundred men upon
the present site of Rinkiho. A few years later the savages
attacked his headquarters and Rin Ki and about one half
of his garrison were killed. Descendants of Rin Ki afterwards
succeeded in driving the savages to the east and established a
colony, naming it Rinkiho, after General Rin Ki. This
village now contains about eight hundred inhabitants.
2. Sharyo G), Guild Quarter. -We are informed
by Mr. Ino that, twenty or thirty years after the savages
were driven from Rinkiho, a peace was concluded with them
by which a barter guild was established on the guard line at
the present site of Sharyo. It was here that the savages were
permitted to come to barter with the native Chinese and as
a result the village of Sharyo gradually grew up.
3. Gyuonroka (4).-Up to the middle of the last
century the entire country surrounding this village was under
6

66
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
the complete control of the Vonuum tribes. About that time
a Chinese colony was established and has succeeded in with-
standing the attacks from the savages, now having a population
of two hundred.
4. Tsou Savages.-In Mr. Ino's account of the Tsou
race we are informed that the tribes of this group surrendered
to the Chinese authority two hundred years ago, at which
time they gave up head-hunting. During the year 1786,
when the whole Island was a scene of revolt and insurrection,
the Tsou tribes assisted the Government troops and captured
the rebel leader. For this meritorious service they were
rewarded by the Peking Government.
5. Namakama.-The Namakama is the most civilised
tribe of the Tsou group.
It was in the year 1887 that the
progressive Chinese Governor, Liu Ming Chuan, was
attempting to subjugate the savage tribes of Formosa by
peaceful methods. He conceived the idea of opening a
string of schools along the road built by General Wu
Kwong Liang. The first of these proposed schools was
established at Namakaban and twenty savage lads enrolled
as pupils. A Cantonese teacher was placed in charge and
proceeded to drill his pupils in the obstruse Three Character
Classic. The savage lad did not take readily to memorizing
the rudiments of Chinese philosophy, hence the rod was freely
used. The teacher was obliged to resign as the pupils ran
away to avoid punishment. Thus ended what with a bit of
tact might have been a very successful experiment. All
traces of the school have since been obliterated.
6. Hattsukwan (A)-A gate or pass communicating
with all the points of the compass. Arches and gates are
common complements to Chinese road construction, thus we
are not surprised to learn that General Wu in building his
road across Formosa should have erected a gate at what

THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
67
may be termed the natural cross-roads on the plateau of
Hattsukwan. This plateau may be reached by six different
routes, namely, from the east coast by the Chinese road;
from Banshoryo, in the south, by the river Rono; from Kagi,
in the west, by Mt. Ari and the Sharisen River; from
Rinkiho, in the north-west, by the Tanuran River; and from
Horisha, in the north-west, by a mountain stream west of the
Gundai Mountains.
7. Head-hunting.-In Mr. Ino's and Mr. Ozaki's accounts
of head-hunting among the savage tribes of Formosa, it is
stated that this practice is pursued for two reasons:-first, as
a proof of bravery, the degree of which is measured by the
number of heads secured; second, as a means of bringing the
young brave into favor with the maidens of his or an allied
tribe. Thus if two men are suing for the hand of the same
girl, the winner is declared to be the one who has taken the
greater number of human heads.
From the accounts of the Dutch missionaries who worked
among the savages of South Formosa during the middle part
of the 17th century, it appears that head-hunting was connected
only with actual warfare. When two tribes were at war,
that tribe which succeeded in taking the first head was
announced the victor. Even during the early years of the
Chinese occupation head-hunting appeared to be practised
more as defensive warfare than otherwise. The persecutions
and treacheries practised by certain of the Chinese in their
dealings with the savages incurred the enmity of the latter
and the Chinese head came to be more highly prized than
all others.
Mr. Ozaki, in his account of the celebration of the taking
of a human head, states that the brave who succeeded in
securing the coveted prize returns to his village in company
with fellow tribesinen, all triumphantly singing and shouting.

68
THE ASCENT OF MT. MORRISON.
He is met by the villagers with acclamations of praise and
joy. The bleeding trophy is washed, placed on a tray on the
trunk of a tree and then surrounded by decorations of
branches and leaves of certain plants.
"
you
have a
In the presence of all
the members of the tribe who are now gathered around the
head, the tribal chieftain declaims, You are now fortunate
to come and be the recipient of our treatment. If
spirit, go, bring your parents and brothers here immediately."
Following this declamation he opens the mouth of the head
and puts into it a piece of meat and some wine. The wine
thus mixed with the blood is drunk by the members of the
tribe and grand festivities ensue.