Archæological Survey
of the
Environs of China's Ancient Capitals.
By V. Alexeieff,
of the University of St. Petersburg.
When some two years ago I lived in Paris I had an
opportunity of attending the course of lectures on the
history and archæology of China delivered by M. Chavannes,
Member of the French Academy, at the Collège de France.
This institution being intended for those professors who
desire and are qualified to do some leading researches in
science without being restrained by any programme, I have
had a very rare opportunity of following up the method of
scientific researches in Chinese subjects, as it has been
explained with a fulness that does honour to this famous
French sinologist.
When, in May 1907, M. Chavannes, entrusted by the
French Academy with a scientific mission for the exploration
of historic and archæological China, passed through Peking,
I had much pleasure in joining him in this mission. I must
say that both the itinerary and the programme of what
were to be seen had been made after the best authorities,
especially Chinese, exclusively by M. Chavannes.
If my subjects were simply "A visit to the two ancient
capitals of China," I would be very scarce of information.
It looks very strange to make a statement of this kind,
2

2
ARCHEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE ENVIRONS
i.e. that the two ancient capitals of China will not give us
any revelation in Chinese archæology-but it is so, and I
am very sorry to say it. There are two reasons which may
explain this fact, although this explanation has no pretension
of being exhaustive.
The first reason is a general fact in Chinese archæology
that we observe with astonishment, especially when comparing
both the pretended and real antiquity of China with that of
Greece and Rome.
Strange that a country with such proud pretensions
to hoary ages of civilisation has no real remains previous to
the Han dynasty of which the authenticity might be
sufficiently proved by historical criticism! I may apply
this last remark to some old Chinese bronzes, of which the
Chinese antiquaries are very proud, their historical creed
taking the place of an experienced and sober criticism. If
this strange fact does not seem to justify my former
statement, there will be perhaps some leading points in
second remark which, to my thinking, are better qualified
for being called a reason.
my
The second reason of this strange scarcity in antiquarian
remains at the two ancient capitals of China is the peculiar
character of the country. The hard loess formations, which
cover nearly the whole surface of historic China, do not
favour the preservation of such monuments. That unstable
stuff is practically devouring every monument, and there
is nobody in China who takes care of them; thus I
regret to think that every monument in this large loess
area is destined to ruin. For example, I saw one day a
pailou of a virtuous woman which, although erected only
some hundred years ago, is now in a ruinous condition, being
already half buried in loess. If so, what then have we to
expect from more ancient monuments?

OF CHINA'S ANCIENT CAPITALS.
3
This fact explains, I hope, why only in rocky parts of
historic China, such as Shantung or rocky valleys of the
region I am speaking about, we may find some antiquities of
a comparatively ancient date of the first Han dynasty, but
not older than that. Why not?-That is what I am unable
to explain, and is what deprives the first reason of my above
statement of its authoritative character.
There is nothing in Chinese records of travel nor in their
archæological works about the antiquities at Ho-nan-fu, the
ancient Eastern Capital of China formerly called Lo-yang.
This ancient Lo-yang of which the name is preserved
in the name of the district (), is in no way
interesting to the explorer, except perhaps the graphic
etymology and a significant peculiarity of its name.
The authors of the best foreign Chinese dictionaries do
not seem quite to understand the value of the word yang.
Thus Giles, in his Chinese-English Dictionary, translates this
word by "the south of a hill, the north of a river."
P. Couvreur [Dictionnaire classique de la langue chinoise]
the very best authority for the scholar says: "
(E) L'Empereur tourné vers le midi.
(E) Côté occidental d'une montagne. (ibid)
Côté oriental d'une montagne.
Au nord de
la rivière Ho. The same definition occurs in Palladius'
Chinese-Russian Dictionary. What can we understand from
these various definitions? I got from a learned Chinese the
following explanation of this peculiar puzzle.
The word "
"yang "has to be taken in the sense of
"turned to south as to a bright point." Thus, if we take a
river, its "yang" bank will be the northern bank, as it is
turned to "yang," while just the opposite will be the case of
a hill. We can understand now why the names of
are to be translated by "on the northern bank

4
ARCHEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE ENVIRONS
of the Lo, Ching, Wei rivers" and the name of Hwayin
() by "on the northern slope of the Hwa." Names
like (if they are names) which have a preceding
definition (,) do not, of course, admit the aforesaid
meaning. If we imagine a place which is situated on the
northern bank of a river and on the southern foot of a
mountain, we ought to say this place is "on the yang side
of both." That is the explanation of the term Hsien-yang
the ancient name of Tsin Shih Huangti's capital
and modern name of Hsien-yang-hsien (), a district
near to Si-ngan-fu.
From this place we proceeded directly to the south of
Ho-nan-fu (Lo-yang-hsien), our point of interest being some
Buddhist sculptures at the Dragon Gate of Honan (
P). On our way there we visited a place called *M
Kwan-lin-miao, i.e. grave of Kwanti (B*2
). That is a big place with some huge temples, the
most interesting of which is perhaps one where the divinity
is represented as reading with respect the Annals of Confucius
() on one side of the temple and sleeping quietly
in his bed on the other. Some huge panels introduce you
to the mystery of this religious conception. One of them
says:, i.e." tremblingly reading." Another announces:
"reposing a little!" To those who are acquainted with
the style of the Chinese treatment of their religious subjects
there is nothing particularly remarkable in this temple.
In the province of Shansi, where the cult of Kwanti is
predominant, one may see sometimes a household of Kwantis
represented like some true bourgeois with their numerous
progeny in the hands of nurses, with kitchen fully provided
with utensils and implements, with scribes, porters, etc. etc.
This is common to the Chinese religion in general, and there
is nothing else to be noticed at this place if we except

OF CHINA'S ANCIENT CAPITALS.
perhaps the unexpected discovery of the tomb of the
*,i.e. of the Great Man of Shansi, in Honan.
5
When we came to Lung-men (Dragon Gate) we saw two
rocky sloping hills, of the general Chinese and Siberian outline,
that seem to climb up as if they did it against their will.
Both slopes of these lazy hills that are turned towards the
river Yi, which runs between them, are honeycombed with
grottos in which are sitting quietly some Buddhist figures,
the centre of our attention. I cannot say very much about
the figures that are most frequently met with inside of these
grottos, although they betray sometimes the influence of real
Indian art. The great majority of them represent a very
well known group showing Buddha with his two bare-headed
disciples, buddhisatras ad libitum in number and the four
"celestial kings," ugly and fearful creatures, trampling
under their feet demons or evil-doers.
The real gem of artistic work is not, however, to be found
in these figures. We have to go farther on, and discover it
in two or more grottos which are of an old date and require a
patient investigation. In these grottos we see a symmetrical
row of nicely shaped niches. Inside of each of them is
sitting a buddhisatra, represented as a beautiful female figure
with graceful form. These are worked out so boldly and
finely as to fill you with aesthetical enthusiasm. You admire
in these figures the fine conception of the human body,
perfectly proportioned, postured and set to the movement
of life. The waist is rather too slender, but you will see
something more akin to our idea of proportion if you climb
up to the top of the hill. You will see in a grotto two
sculptured figures, which will impress you at once, and you
will ask yourself immediately: But where is the "ovoxon"?
To find the Greek style of sculpture in China, is in no
way usual for an archæologist.

6
ARCHEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE ENVIRONS
The inscriptions at the sides of the statues in these niches
tell you that such or such an Empress, General or somebody
under their command, bearing very often a foreign name
(Hun, Turk or Tartar), employed an artist to cut an image
of this or that buddhisatra. Together with some very
interesting bas-reliefs, which represent religious ceremonies
at the early epoch of the real triumph of the Chinese
Buddhism, these figures illustrate to us most brilliantly
the period of Chinese Art for the 5th and 6th centuries of our
era (Northern Wei dynasty). The importance of these
sculptures will be duly illustrated and explained in the course
of two or three years by M. Chavannes. This future book on
the History of Chinese Sculptural Art (as a supplement in a
new edition of his Notes sur la sculpture sur pierre en Chine)
will give us a complete treatise on this subject, provided with
data and facts. It will give us also numerous reproductions
of photographs and rubbings that have been taken during
our travels in Shantung and our stay at the Dragon Gate of
Honan.
Perhaps not every one of my readers is acquainted
with what I should call "religious vandalism" in China,
so let me introduce you to this peculiar form of the
earnest zeal of Chinese people. Suppose that there is an
ancient statue in process of ruin: a religious eye looks at it
compassionately and then decides to cover it with a mask of
painted clay, as it will certainly "look better." Buddha
will be transformed into Laochün or somebody else, it does
not matter whom, and all traces of the ancient work will be
buried under this barbarous disguise. This sort of thing we
notice everywhere in China.
The rocky country around the Central Sacred Peak
of China (I) has very few remains of antiquity.
These are represented by six stone gate pillars of the Han

OF CHINA'S ANCIENT CAPITALS.
7
epoch, engraved with most interesting bas-reliefs. These bas-
reliefs give us a supplementary illustration to the series of Han
bas-reliefs that are known to us, thanks to M. Chavannes and
Dr. Bushell, and that are to be found in the country of
Chia-tsiang-hsien belonging to the district of
Chi-ning, of the Shantung province. We find in them
the same bold and fine picture of the everyday life of that
period as in those of Shantung. Moreover, here too we
notice immediately a peculiar set of mythological images of
the same epoch of Han, produced by a very original and
unfettered imagination, and treated with a remarkable
simplicity and vigour. These bas-reliefs are of prime
importance for the students of Chinese Art and ancient folk-
lore, although the latter subject is
difficult to cope
with. We do not, indeed, understand in the subjects of these
Han bas-reliefs many of the images, figures, allusions, but
the time has now come for working out the material by
very
a scientific method from the facts and data as well as from
reproductions of genuine specimens.
Faithful to my purpose of giving here only an archæo-
logical survey of the country around Loyang and
Ch'angngan, I must not speak about what I should call
"modern antiquities" in that country, such as the temple of
the Central Peak (); which like nearly all of the
temples of China is built according to a common architectural
recipe. It is certainly built after the model of the famous
temple of the Eastern Peak (東嶽廟)
"temple of
Another temple of this kind is
Imperial Longevity," which is situated, like the temple of the
Eastern Peak, at the foot of this mountain in the same district
of "Sacrificial Ascension (). The name of this
temple (not its modern name, which is, the palace
of the god who bestows the highest point of happiness [see
"

8
ARCHEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE ENVIRONS
Legge, Sheking, Pt. III, Bk. 2, ode 4 § 4]) shows us that it
was built in memory of a fine incident of Chinese historical
lore, viz. that when the Warrior Emperor of the Han dynasty
was ascending the Central Peak for the purpose of sacrifice
(), all the people around heard the mountain shouting
"Myriad years!" to the Emperor (F). As to the
antiquities, there is but one thing of importance to the
students of Chinese history, i.e. a decree of Genghis Khan in
favour of the Taoist priests, written in a peculiar Mongol-
Chinese style and cut on a stone which we found half buried
in the earth.
There are many interesting things to be seen at the
monastery of the Young Forest ()situated on one of
the side slopes of the Peak. Such are, for instance, the
images of buddhisatras, a supernaturally-taken image of a
most renowned guest of this place-Budidharma, but nothing
of especial interest to an archæologist.
The route from Loyang (Ho-nan-fu) to Ch'ang-ngan
(Si-ngan-fu) illustrates the sure position that has been the
happy destiny of the rulers of this country "Inside of
Barriers" (B). The road passes between two high walls
of hard loess formation and is quite inaccessible to invasion
from the outside.
Before reaching Ch'ang-ngan we pass by the temple of
the Western Peak, which is situated on the northern foot
of this mountain (Hwa-shan ). Its huge buildings
are not of more importance than those in the temple of the
Central Peak. I believe too that they are likewise built
after the plan of the Eastern Peak temple in Shantung.
The Western Capital of China, the modern city of
Si-ngan-fu, is likewise of some little importance for the
archæologist, but it is, of course, very interesting in itself as a
big city with its famous travelling palace (1), in which

OF CHINA'S ANCIENT CAPITALS.
9
the Emperor and Empress Dowager took refuge in 1900; with
some traces of the Manchu dominion, etc. etc. A kind of
Epigraphical Museum () by the side of the Confucian
temple affords some interesting inscriptions, some of which
M. Chavannes has already published in the Bulletin de
l'Ecole Française d'Extrême Orient. The most important of
the figures and inscriptions found at the neighbourhood of
Si-ngan-fu are the six horses of the second Emperor (*),
of the Tang dynasty a nice specimen of a fine and artistic
Chinese work, and some curious inscriptions of foreign
dynasties in China.