LITERARY NOTES.
Yunnan, the Link between India and the Yangtsze.
For writing a book of travels it has been often said that imagination
is the chief requisite. There are many well-known works of descriptive
journeying which owe a large proportion of their popularity to the posses-
sion by their various authors of this talent. In the work now under review,
we have on the other hand, a specimen of the method which is ready to
sacrifice everything to absolute accuracy: to omit matters of lighter interest
in order to record scientific, philological, and linguistical facts, as also to
put before the reader a minute and detailed statement of many months of
toilsome survey and engineering exploration. It is, I fear, not difficult
to say which of these two classes of work finds most favour with the
present day public. For one reader who can find the time, or who has the
inclination to store his brain with figures relating to latitudes and
longitudes, the heights of mountains and the density of populations, there
are many more who prefer a more general résumé of any work which
pretends to be technical; witness the many so-called "popular editions"
which are now prepared to feed the 20th century reader.
But having said so much which might be considered to be in favour
of the lighter side of books of travel, before proceeding further to investigate
the work under notice, let us examine for a moment the other point of view
as exemplified by Major Davies' most instructive and interesting volume.
In his preface Major Davies refers to the fact that his present book is
the record of work performed so long ago as in 1894, and to the general
reader it may be presumed that this is a decided drawback. Other and
lighter works of much more recent date can supply such information about
portions of Yunnan as the general reader may thirst after, and French
interest, and more than interest,-their successful penetration into the heart
of Yunnan, has thrown an altogether different complexion on the present
situation in that far distaut province. Be this as it may, however, Major
Davies' work still remains of unusual value, especially that portion of his
book which refers to the western and northern portions of Yunnan.
Starting in the year 1894 the author made the various journeys
recorded in his itinerary in Appendix X, the last of which brings the reader
up to the time of the Boxer outbreak in 1900. What may be taken as the

LITERARY NOTES.
117
original motive of these journeys and surveys was the endeavour to ascertain
if any practical route could be discovered by which Burmah could be
connected with the Yangtsze River by railway. In this connection the
the French line through Tonquin appears to have solved the railway com-
munication of Yunnan-fu, the capital of the province, with the outside
world, and the same line will possibly in the future link the upper reaches
of the Yangisze by rail with the sea coast. Major Davies has much to say
that is interesting of the more or less still unknown tribes of Yunnan
province and the Thibet eastern border. A sad incident in the history of
the intercourse of the Lo Lo tribes with foreigners has been the recent
murder of Mr. Brookes. Special reference must be made to the numerous
appendices in the volume under review. These contain a perfect mine of
information on almost every subject connected with the people, climate,
products, commercial prospects, and languages of the province of Yunnan.
It is somewhat faint praise in these days of universal amateur
photography to say that the photographs which Major Davies' volume
contains are good. Such a word does not in any sense do justice to some
of the beautiful reproductions which adorn these pages. The pictures of
the Wan-Wien-Chuang valley, facing page 78, of the iron chain bridge over
the Salween River, facing page 56, as well as those which face pages 144, 54,
52, and 44 are only a few which must appeal to every reader who is a lover
of nature, whether he be an amateur photographer himself or not. Finally,
let me call the attention of all bona fide travellers to the excellent map of
the province and its adjacent boundaries which must be a source of no little
pride to its gallant author.
One of the main inducements to exploration, among those who are
built that way, is to be found in the very human desire to fill in by their
own exertions those blank spaces which are still left on the map of the
world. That the author and his companions have written their names large
on the map of Yunnan province no reader will deny, nor, I feel assured, will
any one after reading this book grudge their praise of the pluck and
devotion to duty which carried Major Davies and his fellow travellers
through such arduous and difficult journeys.
C. D. B.
A Chinese-English Dictionary. By Herbert A Giles. Shanghai:
Kelly and Walsh, Ltd.
When the first edition of this Dictionary was issued, in 1892, Mr.
Giles called attention to the longfelt need that there had been for a new
dictionary, and in expressing the wonder whether or not his volume would

118
LITERARY NOTES.
fill the void, stated that it was the best he could do with the forces at his
control. The value of Mr. Giles's Dictionary has been proved by its
universal use among students of Chinese. The sale of the Dictionary was
so satisfactory that the author has been encouraged to undertake an entire
revision. This is now being published and we have been favoured with an
advance copy of the first 312 pages.
The text is being printed with different type from that used in the
former edition. On the first page there has been no addition to the number
of phrases quoted under the first character, but the type is so much larger
that there are three more phrases in the former edition in this column than
in the present one. Only 258 pages in the former edition were used up to
character No. 2511, but for this 312 pages have been used in the present
edition.
The advance circular states that there are 20,000 new entries in the
new edition, which are intended to illustrate a great variety of subjects.
This will make a very bulky volume of 1,800 pages, as it is printed on
heavy paper. The last edition of the Standard Dictionary has more than
2,500 pages, but being printed on thinner paper it is only slightly larger than
the first edition of Mr. Giles's Dictionary. It is to be hoped that the new
edition of this Dictionary may be printed on two classes of paper, one
heavier and one lighter, so that those who desire to have a less bulky
volume may purchase one printed on paper of lighter weight.
In the first edition, Mr. Giles stated that "an attempt has been made
to arrange the entries according to the order of the definitions in the
heading. The result has only been partially successful, though perhaps
successful enough to justify the attempt." It would have been a decided
improvement in the present edition if Mr. Giles had carried his original plan
into execution, and made his various entries under the particular meaning of
the character. For instance, under the character Ch'en: "A subject; a vassal;
a servant." "A minister of state; a statesman,"-it should have been possible
to give a list of phrases under the first heading: "A subject; a vassal; a
servant," and other phrases under the heading: "A minister of state; a
statesman." The objection that this would make it impossible to bring
together sentences containing the same combinations of characters is by no
means sufficient to offset the advantage which would come to the student by
finding his illustrations attached to the meaning of the character which he was
seeking to find. It would also have been of great advantage to have indicated
phrases which have a colloquial meaning, and thus to have distinguished
them from phrases which are quotations from books. It is probably too
much to expect that the source from which quotations are taken should be

LITERARY NOTES.
119
mentioned, but by a judicious use of small type this would also have been
possible without adding to the bulk of the volume. These three suggestions
would have brought this new edition in line with the usage of modern
dictionaries, and would have made it of much greater service to students.
As it is, Prof. Giles has unquestionably reached the high water mark of
Anglo-Chinese scholarship, and since his work has been done so well it is
the greater pity that it had not been done better. We know that, before
issuing the first edition, Mr. Giles received many valuable suggestions from
other scholars which he gratefully acknowledged in his preface. If before
issuing this new edition he had sent out a few proof sheets to others who are
working on similar lines, we are sure that he would have received many
suggestions which might have been incorporated with profit into the present
edition. There is a very long list of phrases, partly borrowed from
Japanese literature and partly old phrases used in new senses, which are now
current, not only in Chinese newspapers, but also in Government despatches.
We find no trace of these phrases in the pages which have come to us, and
yet the present student of Chinese must be able, from some source, to find
out their meaning. A new edition of a dictionary, issued at the present
time, cannot be based solely upon the reading of standard authors, but must
include also a reading in the literature of the last ten years. This lack is
the most serious blot upon this new edition, and it is all the more regret-
table because Mr. Giles has shown, by the addition of such a large number
of entries, that he has continued his extensive reading of Chinese literature.
Present-day students will regret that his reading did not also include
recent writings.
J. C. F.
Studien und Schilderungen aus China. No. 1, Der T'ai-schan
und seine Kultstätten. Von P. A. TSCHEPE, S.J., Jentschoufu.
1906.
For those who read German this volume will form an almost ideal.
guide to the great mountain of Shantung. The print is large and wonder-
fully clear, the illustrations, with hardly an exception, are excellent, the
size of the book is handy, and the arrangement of the subject seems to be
the most reasonable and convenient possible. There are five chapters :-
(1) Geographical and historical, discussing the name of Shantung and the
history of the mountain worship. (2) Of the history of the city of T'ai An,
and of the mountain temple; with a description of the ante-temple, Yao
ts'an t'ing. (3) A description of the great mountain temple, Tai Miao.

120
LITERARY NOTES.
(4) The ascent of the mountain, describing the temples and other points of
interest along the road from the T'ai tsung fang up to the Nan t'en mên.
(5) The mountain top, describing the half mile of comparatively level road
from the Nan tien men to the actual summit. These chapters are again
divided and subdivided into sections, each with a number and clear heading,
so that the book is altogether extremely easy to use. And the value of the
work to a student is immensely increased by the careful addition of the
Chinese characters wherever a native word occurs. Father Tschepe has not
only arranged his book well, but has also made it within certain limits
singularly complete. Even a resident at T'ai An will find few points of
interest within those limits which are not mentioned here.
The author's knowledge of the subject is derived partly from personal
observation during two visits to Tai shan, and partly from the perusal of
Chinese books; and as long as he describes what he saw, and the received
opinions of the natives, he may be regarded as a fairly safe guide. But
when slight inaccuracy of observation or of memory, or a too hurried
study of his authorities leads him into independent speculation his opinions
must be received with more caution. For example, on p. 3 it is implied
that the most moderate native estimate of the height of the mountain is
"14 li and 82 paces." The figures quoted (p. 2) prove that the reference is
to an account of the measurement of the mountain in the Ming dynasty.*
The method of levelling was correct in principle, but the instrument
employed (an horizontal arm moving up and down on a graduated vertical
staff) was not likely to give a quite accurate result. Ignorance of
trigonometry seems to have falsified part of the result still further. In any
case the result, as recorded, was that the length of the road up the mountain
was over 14 li (as Father Tschepe seems to be half aware), while the vertical
height of the mountain (from a point well above the city of T'ai An) was
736 paces or 3680 Chinese feet-i.e. perhaps from 300 to 450 English feet
less than the height given by modern European authors. Again on
pp. 36, 37 we are told that the old stone monument (shown at Plate 7)
in the Tai Miao is a genuine relic of Chin shih huang. The description
begins with an unfortunate misprint,
Sche tung for
Sche
tsch uang. The age of the thing seems to be based largely on the fact that
it is square, and that such monuments inscribed on all four sides have not
been erected since the beginning of the Christian era. Unfortunately there.
are within a stone's throw of our monument two square ones erected in
Yüan and Ming dynasties respectively, one, if not both, inscribed on all four
This account will be found in Tai shan lao li chi,, fol. 2.

LITERARY NOTES.
121
sides.
But worse than this the Shih chuang or "stone flag staffs,"
commonly built by the Buddhists in the Tang and Sung dynasties, are
generally octagonal, and the Tai Miao specimen, though very large and
seemingly very old, is otherwise not exceptional; it is in fact not square
but octagonal. It was perhaps left unfinished, at any rate uninscribed as
its vulgar (not "official") name Wu tzu pei
testifies. No
hint of its connexion with Shih huang is found in the commoner
topographies and guide books, which merely say it is "extremely old."
A very definite tradition, however, connects Shih huang with the other
wu tzu pei, the great monolith on the mountain top, to which Father
Tschepe devotes two pages (115-117) near the end of the book. We
gather that he thinks this was erected within the last two centuries to
replace a stone which is known to have been set up and inscribed by Shih
huang in the third century B.C. If this is the original stone, how is it that
the characters are all gone, he asks in effect, while much of the polished
surface remains? What are the facts? Ssu-ma Chien tells us that Shih
huang set up a stone on T'ai shan and afterwards cut an inscription on it,
and that later still his son Erh shih added an inscription to the same stone.
This stone was measured (it was not half the size of the present stone)
and the legible parts of the inscriptions were transcribed in the Sung
dynasty. It stood then some distance from the summit and it remained
unmoved until 1730. At this time or rather earlier twenty-nine words were
still legible. In 1730 it was moved into a neighbouring temple, and in 1740
it was lost, the temple having been destroyed by fire. Two small fragments,
which may be genuine, are now kept in the Tai Miao. Ssu-ma Ch'ien
also says that Wu Ti (c. 110 B.C.) sent up a stone to be erected on the
mountain top, but in this case he mentions no inscription. In the Sung
dynasty "The stone without inscription of the Ch'in period" (秦無字碑)
is put down as a thing to be seen on the top of Tai shan. Late in the
sixteenth century the stone is drawn and named (4) in a map of
T'ai shan; and topographies which together cover the period from that
time to this all describe the stone without confusing it with the other
(inscribed) monument and without any misgivings as to its great antiquity.
Tradition is persistent too that the stone was not quarried on the mountain
(a point which it ought soon to be possible to verify), and experts incline
to the belief that it is the actual stone sent up as well as set up by Wu ti,
a belief which will probably seem preferable to Father Tschepe's un-
supported conjecture which takes no account of the fact that two stones,
one with legible inscription and the other "uninscribed," stood within
sight of one another at least from the twelfth to the eighteenth century.

122
LITERARY NOTES.
Two great metal water jars in the Tai Miao (p. 38), presented, by the
way, by a Pilgrims' Club and not by the Emperor, raise a curious question
for experts in metallurgy. Our author says "bronzene Gefässe." The
Chinese call the metal iron, and iron in colour and appearance it is; but
why after eight centuries of neglect in the open air is there hardly a sign
of rust?
Once more in his description (p. 66) of the wonderful valley of the
classic-covered rock," Z, Father Tschepe seems to have read his
books rather hastily. The original inscription in 18-inch characters, was
the text of the "Diamond Sutra,"
An inscription near by,
dated 1572, says that the Confucian Ta hsieh,, had then lately
been cut over (some of) the older characters; but a most laborious
antiquary of the eighteenth century declares that these later characters
had in his day quite disappeared. Whether this was so or not, we can
vouch for the fact that parts of the older Buddhist text are still perfectly
legible.
Misprints do not seem to be many or serious; but one curious slip is
worthy of notice. Plate 3, facing p. 16, is described as the Temple of the
goddess Pi hsia yüan chun, and is referred to as such on page 23. But
it really shows the approach to the principal building of the Tai Miao, the
Temple of the god Tai shan, with the Fu sang shih,, (p. 37) and
Ku chung pai, 1, (p. 38) in the foreground.
In warmly recommending Der T'ai-schan for its many conspicuous
and undoubted excellencies, we cannot but express regret that the learned
author, in dealing with a subject of such great interest, should have let his
anxiety to give the public a useful and attractive book make him too little
careful of his own reputation for accurate scholarship.
C. M.
Sir Robert Hart. By JULIET BREDON. London: Hutchinson & Co. 1909.
The interest of this book is that attached to the most distinguished
foreigner who has ever lived in China. Miss Bredon sketches the important
events of Sir Kobert's life from the time he entered the Consular Service
in China until his return to the homeland last year. There is no attempt to
discuss the political questions with which Sir Robert has been connected,
nor to give a faithful impression of the conditions in China under which
Sir Robert worked. The romantic side of his life has been depicted and
sidelights thrown upon his character. The slips which have been made in
the narration of facts will not detract from the charming tribute of a niece-
to her distinguished uncle.
J. C. F.

LITERARY NOTES.
123.
"Historic Shanghai." By C. A. MONTALTO DE JESUS. Author of
Historic Macao, etc.
When Mr. J. W. Maclellan gave to the world his "Story of Shanghai "
he did so in about 46,000 words. That was twenty years ago. Mr. de Jesus
adds another nine or ten thousand, and so, if the matter be taken as one of
ratio, his work in words is to that of Mr. Maclellan as eleven is to nine.
Maclellan has an introduction and eight chapters, Mr. de Jesus an introduction
and ten chapters, treating of the opening of Shanghai, the rise of the foreign
settlements, Shanghai under the rebels, fiscal reform and municipal short-
comings, the Taipings at Shanghai, the thirty-mile radius, "from Burgevine's
fall to Gordon's master-stroke," the fall of Soochow, Municipal evolution,
and "halcyon times." Four of the ten chapters, therefore, deal with the
Taipings, and it is here, perhaps, that the history runs somewhat wide of its
mark. Credit must, however, be given to the author for the manner in
which he has performed his self-imposed task. The tale of the Taipings is,
to him, the Shanghai Iliad. "The pride of Shanghai," he tells us, "rests
more upon the memorable struggle which proved to be an empire's
deliverance." We might possibly consider the Settlement's share as
something less heroic, but our author is a hero worshipper and Gordon, to
whose "imperishable memory" the work is dedicated, is his divinity.
The ancient history of Shanghai is well told in the xxviii pages of the
introduction, and there is much pleasant gossip respecting the early days of
the settlement. If we remember rightly the trouble over the raising of the
American flag began, not with Griswold but with his predecessor at the
American Consulate, Wolcott. The details of the story are highly interesting.
So are the accounts of the tea-clippers of the early days. We pass over the
Taiping narrative. It has been told and retold many times, and there can
be little to add that is new until all the inner archives are revealed. The
chapter on "Halcyon Times" opens with the severest commercial crisis ever
known to the Far East, but that over, the settlements gradually shake down
into their accustomed routine, making or losing money as times are good
or bad, but always managing somehow or other to attend to the development
of the increased area which from time to time they induce the native
authorities to grant.
There is necessarily much left untold. No book of 257 pages,
generously printed as this is, could enter upon the details of many things
worth telling, the early Consular difficulties, the rise of the Customs and
what happened before the I.M.C. came into existence, the personal histories
of such men as Alcock, Lay and Sir Robert Hart, the growth of Protestant
mission work-Mr. de Jesus has given a sketch of some admirable resulat

121
LITERARY NOTES.
achieved by the Roman Church-the inner working of the Municipal
Council, the history of Shanghai shipping, the story of Shanghai sport, the
development of historic hongs, and so on. All this would need vastly
greater space than our author had allowed himself. Readers will find,
however, that within the limits laid down, Mr. de Jesus has told an
interesting tale in fluent English. Only here and there is one reminded that
the writer is not using his own mother tongue. The book is admirably
printed and illustrated, and is in every way a credit to its publishers, the
Shanghai Mercury, Limited. The price is $7.50.
G. L.
America and the Far Eastern Question. By THOMAS F. MILLARD,
New York Moffat, Yard and Company.
The scope of this large and handsome volume is much wider than its
title might at first sight seem to indicate. It is true that in the writing of
the book the author's eye has been directed chiefly to the political aspects
of his subject, but at the same time the industries of the countries treated
of-Japan, Korea, Manchuria, China and the Philippines,-their finances,
Bociological conditions and general interests and activities have by no means
been overlooked; and the entire work presents a picture of the Far East,
which, while it may not be in exact accord in every detail with what other
observers perceive in the same regions, is nevertheless a faithful, informative
and conscientious one. Mr. Millard has studied the questions which he
discusses closely and carefully, and, if his opinions are tinctured with
prejudice occasionally, they have the merit of being stated frankly and
without malice; and let us add, in clear and fluent English which it is
always a pleasure to read.
His book sets out with a general review of the political situation in
"The Waking Orient." special consideration being paid of course, here
as in every other part of the work, to America's interest in the matter.
"Japan's New Economic Regime" and "Japan's Foreign Trade Policy"
furnish themes for two important chapters, and the general bias of the
author's opinions is pretty accurately indicated by the attention which he
devotes to such matters as "the illegitimate promotion of Japanese trade
in China." Japan's foreign relations are then discussed, and next follows a
deeply interesting and significant chapter on the relations subsisting between
America and Japan. The review of Japan's military and naval position
occupies two long chapters, and the political tendencies and fiscal situation in
the same country take up two chapters more.
Having finished with the Island Empire Mr. Millard crosses the narrow
seas and takes a survey of affairs in Korea, the results of which he presents

LITERARY NOTES.
125
to the reader in a series of engrossing chapters on such themes as "The
Subjugation of Korea," and "The Open Door in Korea," the prevailing tone of
which is sufficiently indicated by the following statement "The plain truth
is that as rapidly as circumstances will permit Japan is turning Korea, as-
she has already done with Formosa, into a Japanese commercial and
industrial closed preserve."
"The Balkans of the East" is the somewhat fanciful and significant
heading of Mr. Millard's opening chapter on Manchuria, and he has many
shrewd and well balanced observations and conclusions to make to
illustrate the analogy implied in this caption. In this division of the work
he concerns himself with conditions in Manchuria during the evacuation
period, with property rights and with the "Open Door" in Manchuria.
An interesting account of the progress that has recently been made in
Manchuria, and especially in Moukden since the close of the Russo-Japanese-
war, is given in the chapter dealing with political issues in Manchuria; and
although a great advance has been made in the past couple of years, since,
in fact, the conditions which our author describes existed, still the picture-
which he presents may fittingly be reproduced here as reflecting something
of the appearance and the life of the ancient capital of the Manchus at a
very memorable period of its development.
"Moukden now has paved streets, a horse tram-line, a telephone-
system, many new private and public buildings and electric light, and
waterworks probably will be supplied within a year. There are now five-
foreign consulates; an international club which, by the way, is the first
foreign club in China to admit Chinese, and has a dozen or so members
among the higher officials; an 'Astor House' hotel; a permanent industrial
exhibition, and several foreign commercial firms. I noticed many foreign
articles in the shops which were not formerly to be seen, among them
automobile masks and goggles. These are excellent protection to the eyes
during dust storms, and I think I was the first to wear them in Moukden
several years ago, for I remember the attention I then attracted. There is
even a Chinese Company which erects billboards and rents advertising
space. The old city has been discovered by the tourists (for Moukden is
now a railway centre) who may be seen rummaging about the Chinese
shops, where alongside of wares of the country are now displayed picture-
post-cards of palaces, tombs and execution scenes. Some shop signs are in
English. A regrettable result of progress is that in grading and draining the
wider streets it was necessary to remove many of the huge shop signs
which are peculiar to Manchuria, and which formerly gave the city such a
unique and distinctive appearance."

126
LITERARY NOTES.
Russia's position in East Asia is discussed at considerable length, and
then the writer proceeds to the consideration of affairs in China.
Practically every manifestation of latter-day activity to be observed here,
every phase of life, every public interest, Chinese and foreign alike, is
described and weighed and considered with a degree of acuteness and of just
and impartial appreciation of its relative importance in the general scheme
of things which stamps Mr. Millard as an exact and judicial observer-as
a reporter largely gifted with the capacity of seeing and understanding the
passing show, even when the stage is set in strange, foreign lands. The
reform movement is discussed lucidly enough, but in a manner which
occasionally betrays a want of precise information regarding its progress.
Mr. Millard is on surer ground when he describes the tremendous advances
which have been lately made by China in the industrial field, or the magnitude
and prospects of American trade in China, or the political relations which
exist between China and the United States, and we can heartily commend
these important divisions of the book to the earnest attention of all
inquirers. The latter part of the work is devoted to the discussion of
Philippine problems, and the closing chapter is a very able and exhaustive
summary of America's position in the Pacific. The book is copiously
illustrated with photographs of a high standard of merit, and contains an
excellent map of Japan, China, the adjacent parts of the Russian Empire,
India and Burma.
J. O'S.
Railway Enterprise in China. By P. H. KENT. London: Edward
Arnold.
This account of the origin and development of railways in China gives
the latest available information on a subject which is possibly of greater
interest to Westerners than any other single phase of China's modern life.
The commencement of railway enterprise in China, with which the names
of Sir MacDonald Stephenson and Mr. G. J. Morrison will always be
connected, is sketched in the first two chapters. The contrast between the
present conditions of railway expansion and those of 1877, when the railway
between Shanghai and Woosung was torn up, is very great. Shanghai is
now not only connected with Woosung but with Nanking, and before the
end of the present year will also be connected with Hangchow. A trunk
line between Hankow and Peking forms the first stage of a long line of
railways which reaches across two continents. The traveller starting from
Hankow can now go by rail not only to every European country, but also
down to the northern part of Persia. The chapter on "The Battle of
Concessions" has added interest in view of the recent international struggle

LITERARY NOTES.
127
concerning the loans for the Canton-Hankow and Hankow-Szechuen
Railways. The chief criticism of the book is its apparent lack of apprecia-
tion of the difficulties of the Chinese Government and Chinese officials in
inaugurating a railway system. Disrespectful references to the Chinese
officers in charge of railway enterprises detracts from the value of a book
which should confine itself strictly to a narration of events. This blot is
most conspicuous in the chapter on "The Hankow-Canton Railway,"
although it is by no means absent from other chapters. The seven valuable
Appendices give the contracts between various foreign companies and the
Chinese Government for the construction of railways. The Agreement for
the building of the Canton-Hankow Railway is not given, although it
formed the basis of the later Agreement for the Shanghai-Nanking Railway.
There can be no doubt that the present lines of railway will be extended
in the near future, and as a guide to foreign investors in railway bonds
Mr. Kent's book will have a unique place. The map illustrating railways
in China and Manchuria at the end of the book is a valuable addition.
J. C. F.
Notes on Chinese Porcelain. By F. E. WILKINSON. Shanghai:
Kelly & Walsh.
These Notes were prepared for the information and guidance of
visitors to the Exhibition held under the auspices of this Society last
November, and are confined to the description of specimens which could be
found in the Exhibition. After defining the meaning of "porcelain," and
placing the date of the invention of porcelain at no earlier time than the 7th
Century, A.D., Mr. Wilkinson gives a chronological classification of Chinese
porcelain. His description of Chinese porcelain in Europe, and also hints as
to the method of distinguishing old china, will be found useful to those who
are commencing the study of this interesting subject. These Notes do not
pretend to be exhaustive, but they will be found to contain much valuable
information in the smallest possible compass. The book can be purchased
for 50 cents.
Hand-Book of China. By A. VON LANDESEN. 1909.
J. C. F.
This interesting book, published in the Russian language, contains
many Tables and Lists which will be of value to Russians resident in China
or Manchuria. A genealogical table of the present members of the
Reigning House in China is given, evidently modelled after the Table found
in Mayer's "List of Higher Metropolitan and Provincial Authorities of
China." Other lists, similar to those found in the Appendix of Giles's
Dictionary, are also given.
J. C. F.