The Principles of Chinese Law and Equity.
By E. H. Parker.
Since the excitement caused by the Russo-Japanese war,
the notices which have appeared concerning projected reforms
in the administration of Chinese law have attracted but little
attention; yet the subject, which is rapidly developing, may
be fraught with tremendous consequences in the near future.
A Chinese imperial decree of April 24, 1905, recited how the
throne had been advised to recast some of the laws in accor-
dance with the spirit of the age, and how it had been resolved
to abolish at once the cruel lingering punishment of hacking
the body. It is apologetically explained that the Manchus,
previously to their assuming control of the Chinese Empire
250 years ago, knew no punishment severer than simple death;
but that, contrary to their own merciful inclinations,' they
had been induced to take over this and other exaggerated
forms from the laws of the preceding dynasty. In future,
therefore, decapitation and strangulation, either immediate or
after a period of revision and delay, were to be the only death
punishments; the branding of criminals on the face, the
exposure of decapitated heads, and the decapitating of dead
bodies in the case of criminals not taken alive, were also
NOTE. The chief authorities for the following are the legal chapters in
the dynastic histories, eked out by occasional allusions to causes célèbres in
other chapters of the same histories. The legal chapters are as follows:-
Han Shu, 23; Tsin Shu, 30; Wei Shu, 111; Sui Shu, 25; Tang Shu, 56;
Old Tang Shu, 50; Liao Shu, 61; Kin Shu, 45; Old Wu-tai Shu, 147;
Sung Shi, 199; Yüan Shi, 102; Ming Shi, 93; and the Tung-hwa Luh of
the present dynasty.

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
11
abolished. A later decree foreshadowed the abolition of
torture during trial; and apparently this is intended to
disappear too, for shortly afterwards one of the stipendiary
magistrates at Peking was dismissed from his post by the
Emperor for disobeying the new law in a civil case brought
before him.
Two memorials from the Board of Punishments to the
Throne at once set about reforming the laws on robbery with
violence, and providing funds for the proper conveyance of
prisoners and witnesses at the public expense: in this connexion
the laws of England, France, Germany and Belgium were
compared, and reference was made to the Chinese code laws
which prevailed 500 and 1,000 years ago. The matter is still
(1908) in a transition state.
The fact that Chinese law is in need of practical reform
in no way involves the admission that China is devoid of a
legal history and equitable principles; nor must it be forgotten,
when we criticize Chinese severity, that until ninety years ago
Englishmen guilty of treason were cut down from the gallows
whilst alive, and had their entrails taken out and burnt before
their eyes: women were burnt alive for treason until 1790;.
and even until 1870 men convicted of treason were supposed
to be quartered after execution. Until William the Fourth's
time, highwaymen and other notorious criminals were gibbeted
in chains and handed over to surgeons for dissection; and the
late Mr. Justice Fitzjames Stephen, in his Digest of our
Criminal Law, himself alludes to the atrocious severity of our
former larceny laws: hanging for sheep-stealing, for instance,
was common enough in Dr. Johnson's time. I believe I am
correct in saying that up to the beginning of the late Queen
Victoria's reign there were 200 offences for which a man
might be hanged; and even now our floggings, though rare,
are as brutal and torture-causing as any flogging the Chinese

12
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
ever administered, and can only be justified on the grounds
upon which the Chinese justify themselves. We must
therefore make reasonable allowances for other nations;
and in any case it must be conceded that a peaceful
industrious civilization, containing within it such enormous
powers of passive resistance to foreign aggression as China
does, necessarily possesses many an occult virtue, the secular
value of which our own ignorance may have hitherto failed to
bring properly to light.
As a matter of fact China possesses a very extensive and
perfectly consecutive legal history: throughout all the changes
of dynasty appeal has been made unswervingly to the same
ancient principles, and there has been almost no borrowing
at all from foreign sources. The foundations of existing
legal principle are nearly all to be found in the old classical
literature, the same literature which suggested to Confucius,
and to the other Chinese philosophers and legists, both before
and after him, the various types of political religion: in fact,
ritual, law and religion are simply different expressions of the
single all-pervading principle of filial piety, which is the
kernel or root-motive of all Chinese ethics.
Sir James Stephen has pointed out that, even in our own
time, the conception of the word Law as meaning nothing
more than a series of sovereign commands is only gaining
ground very slowly. A command,' and a 'sanction
wherewith to enforce the obligation born of that
command, are the precise definitions laboriously worked
out by the great jurist Austin. This idea is clearly brought
out from the very beginning of Chinese legal history, except
that the automatic sanction and the command of nature seem
to form at first one indivisible unit. Sir Henry Maine, in his
Ancient Law, has pointed out that Austin fails to provide us
with a motive for command; but the Chinese view that all

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY. 13
government must accord with the smooth workings of nature
supplies the missing motive. 'Punishment laws' rather than
'laws and their punishments' is the idea as conceived by the
Chinese mind. But the most original thing of all to our
European minds is the inseparable connexion between making
war and enforcing the law under the head of the 'greatest
punishments' come making war and putting to death; the
'secondary punishments' included castration, cutting off the
feet, slicing off the knee-cap, and branding; the 'minor
punishments' flogging and the bastinado. The object of law
was to keep the feudal states in order, to make officials do
their duty, and to restrain the people from excess. Thus it
will be seen that the Chinese conception of law is pre-eminently
criminal law. The Emperor as sole lawgiver is the Vice-
gerent of Heaven, and it is his duty to govern directly and
through his agents in accordance with the harmonious order of
nature if he fails to do so, and persists, he is liable to be-
overthrown. The law of nature is that life perishes in the
autumn; hence that has always been the time for executions.
Unjust judgments shock the smooth workings of nature,
and call down various disasters. So far as man is concerned,
his five natural relations are those of subject, father, husband,
brother and friend. But, so long as the Emperor governs
with reasonable integrity, he is entitled to the absolute-
obedience of all his lieges. The Emperor is to the State on a
large scale exactly what the paterfamilias is to the family on a
small scale, the function in either case being that of maintain-
ing order. Our saying 'Spare the rod and spoil the child' is
therefore well expressed in ancient Chinese by The lash may
not be relaxed in the family, nor punishments in the State,
nor arms in the Empire.' The laws are compared to the bit
and the rein; to the axe for lopping off evil growths; they are
the supports of academical teaching, like the stings used by

14
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
insects for self-protection; beginning with war and ending
with rules of propriety; instruments for maintaining an even
level; and so on. The government in no way interferes with
the management of the family; on the contrary, the whole
resources of the State are placed at the service of each family-
head, on condition of his being politically responsible in return
for the loyalty and order of his family. The whole Chinese
administrative system is based on the doctrine of filial piety,
in its most extended signification of duty to natural parents
and also to political parents, as the Emperor's magistrates are
to this day familiarly called. China is thus one vast republic
of innumerable private families, or petty imperia, within one
public family, or general imperium; the organization consists
of a number of self-producing and ever-multiplying independent
cells, each maintaining a complete administrative existence
apart from the central power. Doubtless it is this fact which
in a large measure accounts for China's indestructibility in the
face of so many conquests and revolutions. The very name for
'the Government' is still the State Family'; and the
very name for the people' (of China) is still the
Hundred Surnames.' The function of the paterfamilias is to
maintain harmony in the family; that of the Emperor to
preserve order amongst the mass of families: evil rule outrages
the inspiration, or, as the Chinese call it, the 'benign afflatus'
of nature, and calls for correction; failing which the 1
Five Elements go wrong. Hence there is really no human
'command'; the sanction of outraged nature is automatically
applied by nature's executive officer, the Emperor.
The Chinese idea of law thus being castigatory, it is not
to be wondered at that there is no science of civil jurisprudence
in the European sense. Moreover the executive and the
judicial powers have always been wielded by the same hand.
All matters of what we should call Family Law are left entirely

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
15
to the family or clan; the government in no way concerns
itself at least so far as taking the initiative goes-with births,
marriages, deaths, burials, adoption, legitimacy, divorce,
mourning, testamentary dispositions, division and transfer of
property, joint ownership, mortgages, sanitation, medicine,
midwifery, sobriety, or morals; so long as these matters
proceed in a normal way, and do not infringe the interests of
the Board of Revenue, the licence laws, the principle of
ancestral continuity, the currency laws, the revenue laws, and,
above all, the Five Cardinal Relations. These are all
questions for the family council, and it is only on the
comparatively rare occasions when the council actively and
spontaneously seeks the assistance of a court that the officials
take cognizance: even a murder may be quietly ignored if the
clan concerned decides not to complain. In the same way,
commercial jurisprudence lies within the private ken of the
different trading guilds; banking questions are decided by the
marvellously close and effective organization of bankers;
junkmen, fishermen, pawnbrokers, post-offices, squatters,
money-lenders, doctors-in short, all industries-manage their
own affairs and pay the fees with the minimum of government
interference, if any; and even then the official action is taken
in the interests of public order rather than to assert a legal
principle and although a few laws concerning marriages,
inheritance, land transfer, usury, brokerage, etc., are laid
down in the codes, these rather express what is the universal
custom than impose any fresh command.' There is, strictly
speaking, no contract law at all except as touches the supreme
contract of marriage. Thus, take the rate of interest that
pawnbrokers may charge, and their licences; or the permits
to sail in and out of port: in the one case the needy classes
are protected from extortion; in the other travellers are
protected from pirates. Should it happen that any family or

16
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
any industry see fit to claim the sanction of a court of justice,
it does not at all follow that such court would announce, still
less create, a law for itself: on the contrary, it would do
exactly what our courts do, and what they did to a greater
extent before statute law largely replaced common law-it
would declare the law, or adopt the customary law, local or
general, as ascertained on evidence. This is only another
way of saying that in most matters China is governed by the
customs of ancestors, or common law; that the common law
is administered by the people themselves; and that the State
(unless when specially invited) only steps in to prevent a,
breach of the peace, such interferences rarely extending
beyond persons holding official rank for any other reason
than this last. It is a question whether liberty in any
country, even in our own, has ever advanced beyond this
stage. An eloquent prelate about twenty years ago created
some sensation by his remark in the House of Lords that he
would rather see England free than England sober': there
is in the same way a certain free trade in morals and religion
in China (except where the ancient filial and ancestral duties
are concerned), and her rulers have always preferred to 'see
China free than China educated,' so far as interference with
family life is concerned.
According to cherished tradition-which, however, the
best-informed Chinese do not take too seriously-the most
ancient monarchs maintained order by inculcating the
principles of propriety, only introducing punishments occa-
sionally even then it was usually found sufficient to imagine
the punishment, and to attire prisoners in a singular garb
supposed to correspond with this or that penalty: thus those
by way of being branded wore black hats; those to be deprived
of their noses, red trousers; those condemned to sliced knee-
caps, black coats; those to be castrated, coloured shoes; those

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
17
to be decapitated, petticoats and no collar; and so on. From
the very earliest times banishment was resorted to. Under
extenuating circumstances the principle of ransoming punish-
ment for a money payment was admitted; and to this day the
same thing is allowed, at least in theory, though in practice
it has a good deal fallen off. But even so far back as
230 B.C. a well-known Chinese philosopher, Hsun-tsz
alias, who took a pessimistic view of human nature,
exposed in his chapter on Law the fallacy of this view of
ancient leniency: he said :-
It is evident crime went on then as now, else there
would have been no prisoners liable to these severe nominal
punishments. The principle is a false one, moreover. If you
are going to abolish death for murder, and mutilation for
injuries done, how are you going to make the people dread?
The great thing is to prevent crime; to condone it is to nourish
wrong-doing. All this nonsense about pictorial punishments
is but a latter-day protest against the cruel and capricious
excesses of modern times. Rewards for good, punishments
for evil, the principle is the same; uncertainty and
inconsistency are the only bane. Consequently a good
government is always a strict one and a bad government
is always a lax one. The real meaning of the much-quoted
ancient tradition about pictorial chastisements is that punish-
ments were always figured or pictured after the tao of
Heaven.'
Here we have a Chinese philosopher, whose works are
still extant, laying down 2,200 years ago what is practically
Jeremy Bentham's doctrine of pleasures and pains. He also
alludes to the principles of justice recommended by the great
Taoist apostle Lao-tsz who lived three centuries before him,
and in such a way as to suggest that he must have been
familiar with Lao-tsz' writings.
3

18
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
or
in
Although competent critics are agreed that precise dates
in Chinese history cannot be ascertained further back than
841 B.C., there is no reason to doubt the main facts recorded
in their chronicles, especially when these same facts are
persistently cited in various connections, in works of different
classes, and by each successive dynasty. Thus about 950 B.C.,
150 years after the establishment of a new dynasty, but when
times had become degenerate once more, the King, Muh
Wang, Edecided that law reform was necessary in order
to maintain proper order amongst the hundred families,' as
the Chinese people are still collectively termed. Dr. Legge
gives a full translation of this ancient code
the fifth section of his Chinese Classics (History Book, or Shu-
King). As to the second historical code, during the lifetime of
the rival philosophers Lao-tsz and Confucius, that is towards
the end of the sixth century before Christ, at a time when
imperial China was about to break up into a collection of
warring vassal states, the prime minister (Tsz Chang
alias of Cheng ) of one of these states, who was
a near relative of the reigning duke, and also an acquaintance
of Confucius, for the first time in history had the laws cast in
metal for the information of the people. The premier of a
neighbouring state (Shuh Siang of) disapproved of
this action as a dangerous innovation calculated to make the
ignorant people look to the fixed letter of the law instead of
abiding by the ancient principles of propriety, as declared on
the merits of each case after each case had occurred; in other
words, instead of accepting the themis, diké, or inspired judg-
ment of the magistrate. Even the radical philosopher Lao-tsz
had always preached the doctrine of keeping the machinery
or 'implements' of State concealed from the vulgar eye; and
in this particular instance he was supported by Confucius,
who argued that the standard of right and wrong would

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
19
henceforth infallibly be transferred from the ruler's conscience
to the written law. He was full of admiration for the
innovator on other grounds, but not on this one; and he
outlived him seventeen years. This event of defining the law
publicly was considered so important that dates were at that
time occasionally calculated from the year of the casting of
the laws'; just as the Romans used to count juridically from
the year of the Twelve Tables,' which were cast or engraved
upon metal about eighty years later than their Chinese
prototype. These laconic Western laws, the written founda-.
tion of Roman jurisprudence, just as the Chinese tripod laws
may be termed the remote basis of existing Eastern codes,
exemplify very plainly the two different casts of mind in East
and West. The Roman laws dealt with proceedings in a civil
suit; action by wager; slavery for debt; the absolute power
of fathers over children and slaves; inheritances, testaments,
women's position, and tutorships; ownership, prescription,
and transfer; easements; crimes against person and property,
the lex talionis, lampoons, the rate of interest, and false
witness; appeal from the judge to the people; cost of funerals;
caste marriages; pledges for sacrificial debts, and so on.
Nearly all these matters were either abandoned to the
jurisdiction of the family, or were ignored by the earliest
Chinese legislators, though several of them find a place in
later codes. So far as we can judge by more modern
categories of the quality of ancient Chinese offences, they
seem to have been in the great majority of cases treason,
robbery, theft, arson; or official pilfering and bribery; and
the only questions for the judge were whether to execute,
mutilate, or flog; for the ruler bow to secure justice, see that
the punishment fit the crime, and stave off Nature's wrath by
making it the interest of his judges to be just. In those days
there was a popular saying that 'coffin-makers always like a

20
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
plague,' meaning that 'the policeman likes a good case'; and
in the same way it was argued that if the central government,
in its anxiety for tranquillity, encouraged those local
authorities who exhibited the greatest zeal in securing
convictions, the inevitable result would be to discourage the
upright men who worked honestly for the people's interest.
As with our own law, no child under seven years of age could
be held guilty of, or be punished for, a felony: this merciful
provision was extended by the ancient Chinese legislators to
old
persons of eighty and upwards.
He also
There were two other prime ministers of the fourth
century before Christ who made for themselves lasting reputa-
tions as legislators. One (Li-kwei of instituted
a new land system, very like that proposed for China by
Sir Robert Hart several years ago, under which every available
acre was worked out for adequate but fair taxation.
collected into six books or main heads all that was best in the
laws of the different feudal states, and composed therefrom
a work styled the
Legal Classic,' which may be
compared with the Roman Institutes of Gaius discovered at
Verona about a century ago by Niebuhr. Most of these
Chinese laws were connected with robbery, the lighter offences
being roguery, getting over city walls, gambling, borrowing,
dishonesty, lewdness and extravagance, transgressing the
king's commands, etc. This work was carried to the powerful
kingdom Tsing (), which 150 years later conquered the
whole of China, by Wei Yang,衛鞅 (or公孫鞅 of),
a young man who, like an ancient Bismarck, reorganized,
developed, and became premier in that kingdom, where it was
adopted as a kind of code, but with considerable additions in
the direction of cruelty. It is really this code which, in a
modified form, is at the root of all later Chinese law of the
positive kind. In spite of his great services to this rising

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
21
State, the chancellor in question made enemies by his
unrelenting thoroughness, and was in the end put to death on
the accession of a new king he had offended whilst yet a
mere prince or heir-apparent. The other man
is
often called the Chinese Draco,' on account of the extreme
severity of his laws; in addition to which he was a
philosopher of the Taoist school; and, indeed, at this time
there can be no doubt that such precise philosophical notions
as the Chinese were beginning to have upon the political
branch of law were drawn from the stern and radical Lao-tsz
rather than from the courtly and conservative Confucius: but
that does not mean very much, for it was then the complaint
of both these philosophers that men went on fighting for
power and personal interest, totally oblivious of the prophets
who were crying out in the wilderness for man's salvation
through propriety and right.
Yet another Taoist philosopher and severe lawyer (who
has left some of his works behind him) Han Fei-tsz
sought office under the same powerful revolutionary State one
century later than the above two events: this was just when
the conquest of China was beginning; but the jealousy of the
then chancellor Li Sz of that rising kingdom, who
poisoned his guest and rival, prevented the lawyer in question
from having any permanent practical influence upon China's
destinies. It is curious to notice, however, that most prime
ministers of minor kingdoms were introduced from other
states; and this fact may possibly have something to do with
the modern rule that no civilian can serve in his own
province.
All that has preceded refers to the period anterior to the
great revolution of the third century before Christ, to the
destruction of literature in 213 B.C., and to the founding of
centralized absolutism much as it exists to-day. In those

22
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
good old days, though the punishments were cruel, there
were none of the more modern lingering tortures; nor were
relatives of a criminal punished with him, though it appears
that in very ancient times at least a threat of this kind had
been made. Doubtful cases were tried in public, and the
benefit of doubt was conceded. Moreover, even mutilations
were coupled with, or excused by, a kind of compassionate
utility thus the branded were made gate-keepers; those
deprived of a nose sent to serve as frontier pickets; those
without feet, and therefore unable to chase, looked after
valuable wild game as park-keepers; those whose virility was
cut off tended the female apartments; whilst the unmutilated
convicts performed gang-work. It was one of Sir James
Stephen's favourite sayings in 1876 that, as material civiliza-
tion advanced and we became more comfortable, men grew
less and less inclined to make their fellow-creatures, and even
their animals, more miserable than was absolutely necessary.
Without in any way attempting to palliate cruelty, I may
point out that in primitive conditions it is difficult to make
wrong-doers more uncomfortable than ordinary folk without
causing pain or shame. A naked savage cannot be deprived
of anything but the means of gratifying his appetites. Only
twenty-five years ago the Foreign Office called upon His
Majesty's Consul at Canton for some remarks about torture,
and these remarks are still on record in the China Department.
They were in effect :-
When a free man lives in a putrid atmosphere on
repulsive food, eaten up by vermin, his body notched and
distorted by painful labour, without comforts, pleasures,
or distractions of any kind, as indeed from our point of view
actually do the majority of the Chinese poor, it is difficult
to make a prison more uncomfortable for the convict than

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
23
is his own house, except by imposing still greater discomforts
than he is born to upon his person and freedom of
movement.'
But there are abundant maxims and sayings, notwith-
standing, that prove the existence of merciful feeling in the
ancient rulers. One, quoted century by century to this
day, was 'Rather let a rogue escape than risk killing an
innocent man.' Whilst moderate justice was considered
appropriate for a normal political condition, it was held
a good political maxim to apply the law in a simpler and
easier way when new systems of rule were being introduced;
and, on the other hand, it was a wise precaution to be
exceptionally severe when the State showed signs of anarchy.
Perhaps the oldest maxim of all is: In punishment be
intelligently compassionate.' In hopelessly degenerate times
the radical philosopher Lao-tsz was in favour of the fewest
and simplest laws; but he insisted on prompt, secret, and
effective application of punishment by properly qualified
officials. Confucius (a little later) has left several striking
remarks on record. He says: 'As to convicts, I go with
the rest; we must necessarily condemn, if only in order to
avoid condemning still more of them later on.' Again,
The ancients understood better than ourselves the art of
preventing crime; now the best we can do is to avoid
punishing crime unjustly. The ancient magistrates always
hoped to save a prisoner's life: now we seek to prove it
forfeit. Better let a real criminal go free, however, than
slay an innocent man.' 'I allow one generation to a new
dynasty for the gradual introduction of benevolent rule,
and I allow a hundred years to abolish killing and mutilation
altogether.' 'A benevolent ruler must have courage too;
his rectitude manifests itself in preventing crime.' 'Unjust
punishment damages the administration, and a bad

24
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
administration touches each man's person.'
"Government
must strictly execute its own terms.' Two centuries later
than Confucius, Mencius has a few remarks to make he
allows considerable latitude, and even indulgence, to a ruler
so long as that ruler keeps in sympathetic touch with the
people; but he says: 'No truly benevolent ruler will slay
an innocent man, even to make secure his own rule.'
It
The great Chinese revolution of 2,100 years ago
introduced several new crimes as well as many monstrous
punishments. The chief intellectual agent in it was the
chancellor, mentioned above, who poisoned his visitor.
was, at his recommendation, made an offence punishable
with death to conceal books, or to own any except the few
agricultural and scientific works which were not on the
'Index Prohibitory'; fearful tortures were introduced, and
three generations of relatives were involved in one man's
political crime. The name for 'Emperor,' now still in use,
was then first introduced, and a homogeneous system of
administration in all important matters was effectively
established all over China. But though this powerful
innovator Ts'in Shi Hwang-ti was an able man,
his methods were altogether too tyrannical, and after his
death in 210 B.C., and then after eight more years of very
chivalrous and picturesque fighting, a new and permanent
dynasty was founded on practically the same lines: ever
since that things have remained very much in statu quo,
even down to our own days.
In accordance with one of the ancient politico-legal
maxims just mentioned, the new dispensation began by abolish-
ing the whole network of harassing law, and by enacting
three simple rules for the orderly government of the Empire;
to wit, death for homicide; compensation and imprisonment
for wounds and robbery; all else being left to the people

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
themselves. This was called the
25
Tripartite
Bargain with the Elders of the People,' and the 'all else left
to the people' still holds good, whether intentionally or no, in
a measure to this day. The frank and tactful geniality of Han
Kao Tithe new ruler's personality has probably
more to do with the credit his memory still enjoys than the
intrinsic wisdom of his summary legal methods; but, however
that may be, his three short rules' have established. a
reputation in China little short of that achieved by King
John's Magna Charta amongst ourselves. But the Chinese
are and always have been very grateful to their rulers for
small mercies, and they have always been found ready to
idealize any gracious sovereign acts. The Emperor, under
the guidance of Siao Hof, an astute chancellor, rightly
refrained from introducing new measures, and was probably
only giving fuller effect to ancient laws and customs when he
granted this short charter; which was apparently all that
King John did, except that, unlike the Chinese ruler, the
English king had only the grace to do it under compulsion.
The vicarious punishment of relatives was abolished, but official
superiors and witnesses were obliged to denounce offenders.
But the much-vaunted three simple rules were soon found
insufficient for practical use when things quieted down;
when the sword gave way to the ploughshare; and when
the new dynasty felt secure in its power. The chancellor
Tsao Ts'an who (as also his successor in office)
professed the masterly inactivity' principles preached 300
years before that by the great Taoist philosopher Lao-tsz,
found it necessary to re-introduce vicarious punishment
for treason, and to select as many of the general laws of
the revolutionary dynasty just ousted as were suited to the
people's old traditions, and also to their changed position;
he proceeded to construct therefrom a code in nine

26
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
heads (being in effect the six heads of the Legal
Classic' plus three new ones), which code, subject of course
to extensive alterations, has from dynasty to dynasty always
served as the basis of Chinese law; just as the Corpus Juris
of the Christian Emperor Justinian forms in a way the
practical basis of European law as a whole, affecting
indirectly even the English and Scotch statutory laws, and
in some instances the decisions under our common law. We
have already seen that revolutionary China had borrowed
its Institutes of Law from an active legal author in one of
the feudal states; and thus we have an unbroken historical
chain extending back from our own time for about 3,000
years, with no admixture whatever of foreign notions, or,
at all events, of foreign law. The revolutionary law against
concealing books was abolished by the founder's son, and
literature was soon restored to its former influence, after
a quarter of a century of extinction.
Now we come to a very prominent turning-point in
Chinese legal history. The founder, his usurping empress,
and his strictly legitimate son by her had all passed away;
the obnoxious law against concealing books had, as we have
said, been repealed, and another son, born in less honourable
wedlock, sat on the imperial throne. On account of his calm,
philosophic, and humane temperament, Han Wen Ti **
is often styled by Europeans the Marcus Aurelius of China.
His first act was to issue the following edict: 'Enforcements
of the law are executive acts, the object of which is to prevent
violence and assist the well-disposed to visit the sins of
convicted criminals on innocent parents, spouses, brothers,
sisters and children seems to me most unreasonable.
for a report. His counsellors, after due deliberation, advised
that it had hitherto been found good policy to make people
feel uncomfortable in advance by visiting upon them the sins
I wish

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
27
of their kinsmen after crimes committed, and that it would be
better not to make any change. A second decree ran:
When the law is meet, the people are honest; when
punishment is appropriate, the people accept it without
murmur. Moreover, officials are supposed to act as guides:
if, instead of guiding the people, they punish them irregularly,
they become tyrants. I wish for a further report.' On this
the counsellors gave way: Your Majesty's merciful will
covers far more ground than we can presume to understand
the necessity for.' To illustrate the continuity of Chinese
history, it may be mentioned that this edict of 2,100 years
ago is still on record; is quite intelligible to modern ears;
and still forms part of the stock legal diction, just as does the
celebrated declaration of the English barons upon the subject
of legitimacy 'We will not change the laws of England
which have hitherto been accepted and approved by our
ancestors.'
:
But, if we inquire closer into Chinese history, we find
that this picturesque event is another case of idealizing: not
to mention his grandson Han Wu Ti
and most
illustrious successor, whose financial straits and palace
intrigues led him to enact many hasty and cruel laws, that very
'Marcus Aurelius' himself was, during a subsequent rebellion,
unfortunately induced to depart from his own noble principles.
There was, however, one other cause célèbre during the reign
of this humane Emperor: it happened after he had been on
the throne for nearly twenty-five years, and the anecdote is as
well known in China as the story of Brutus and his condemned
sons Titus and Tiberius is known in Europe. A Chinese
physician and local official Ch'un Yü Yi was summoned
to court for peculation, a crime which rendered him liable,
under the new code as under the older ones, to the penalty of
mutilation having five daughters, but no son, he bewailed.

28
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINKSE LAW AND EQUITY.
the luckless fate which deprived him of a representative
capable of sacrificing himself upon the altar of filial duty in
accordance with the maxim A father's debt the son repays.'
His youngest daughter stung by these reproaches, and
knowing that her father was the victim of private spite,
insisted on accompanying her parent to the imperial court,
where she pleaded his case before the Emperor with such
eloquence and effect that his Majesty at once decided to
abolish as barbarous the punishment of mutilation. Hard
labour at the Great Wall, shaving the head, the collar or
yoke, bastinado and flogging, these were substituted for
mutilation, and really form the nucleus of the modern
system.
These and similar imperial orders were, it must be
confessed, often rather symptoms of growing change than
definite registrations of permanent radical improvements; for,
owing to China's enormous size, and to the apathy of local
rulers, satraps and magistrates, the imperial decrees, unless
repeated and persisted with, seem often to have remained a
dead letter, especially where only the interests of the masses
were concerned, and where no powerful influence was at work
to insist on following up the order. The first Sz Ma Ts'ien
of Chinese true historians (whose great work has
recently been translated into French by Professor Chavannes)
was himself cruelly deprived of his manhood by the grandson
just mentioned of this humane Emperor, and this for the
purely technical offence of remonstrating with the monarch in
favour of a defeated general; and he leaves on record a
pathetic letter to a friend bewailing in resigned terms his
miserable fate, and characterizing himself as 'what's left from
the knife and the saw.' It was this Emperor, Wu Ti, t
who encouraged informers and delators, and developed the
idea of forcing out confessions under torture, a process which

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
29.
Still,
I cannot find to have existed in more ancient times.
notwithstanding the caprice or weakness of this or that ruler,
the progress in the direction of reason and mercy was now
fairly steady: doubtful cases were reheard at the capital; the
local authorities were urged to use prompt dispatch, and not
to confine people too long upon mere suspicion; steps were
taken to check the bribery of officials and the corruption
of clerks and police; a growing disinclination to extort
confessions under the lash or rack was manifested; fasting
and solemn formalities were enjoined when the time for
carrying out death sentences approached; the number of
bastinado strokes administered was more than once reduced
along the whole line of offences; in spite of the ever-growing.
additions to the law categories, earnest endeavours were made
to simplify the law as much as possible: and generally, it may
be stated that during the 400 years of Han dynasty rule
(200 B.C. to A.D. 200) a steady advance took place in the
direction of mildness. For many centuries after that the
question of reintroducing the mutilation punishments came up.
for discussion; dynasty after dynasty secured the stag' (as
the Chinese poets say when they refer to the contests for
empire); and each reigning house naturally had its own
special code, but always based on the same old general
principles, modified to suit the exigencies of the times. There
never were any surprises or rival doctrines in China, such as
our Gavelkind in Kent, and Borough-English in other parts
of England, which flatly contradict the ordinary laws of
descent and inheritance. Referring back now for light, we
may be disposed to ignore the codes of the minor dynasties
1 Local rules of inheritance, etc. belong to private and patriarchal family
customs, which very rarely come before the imperial jurisdiction. See the
present writer's 'Comparative Chinese Family Law,' 1878 (out of print),
originally published in the China Review for 1878.

30
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY
:
which only reigned for a generation, in favour of those of
renowned houses which maintained the throne for centuries;
but that would be a mistake each new dynasty of course
assumed (and hoped) that it would continue, so to speak, for
ever-for wan sui (the Japanese banzai), or for ten thousand
years. Consequently we find that many of the most far-
reaching and even best improvements were often introduced
by short-lived reigning houses which only endured a lifetime
or two. The general tendency of change ran in the direction
of sparing life, facilitating appeals in doubtful cases, lightening
the load of fetters, flogging on parts of the body less
susceptible of vital injury, and sparing the modesty of
females. The principle was laid down, moreover, that women
were only responsible for the crimes of the family into which
they married, and not of that which they had quitted. In the
middle of the third century of our era there were thirty-seven
groups () of punishment for ordinary offences ranged under
the following heads: death three, shaving four, uninjured ()
three, hard labour three, ransomable eleven, fines six,
miscellaneous satisfaction seven; and the chief heads under
which offences were arranged were, as of old, robbery (not
including terrorizing or trafficking in human beings), thefts,
cheating, defrauding, trespassing, falsifying royal acts of
state, etc. Treason was still punished by cutting in two at the
waist, but responsibility did not extend to grandparents and
grandchildren; for rebellion the whole three generations
suffered; their bodies were pickled for exposure in the
market-place, and their dwellings razed to the ground. In
homicides the principle was recognized that relatives might
take vengeance, but not after an imperial amnesty had been
granted to the murderer. In the whole history of China
I have not come across a single case of civil jurisprudence in
the strict sense where any abstract rights between individuals

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY. 31
has been threshed out with considerations touching relevancy
of evidence, damage to character, equitable set-off, nice
definitions in contract, and so on. All cases brought before
the Crown are, so to speak, brought up by special reference,
because the family or commercial court below cannot settle it
and applies for assistance.
For three centuries, 280-580, North China was under
Tartar Hiung-nu; then Wei, Pei Ts'e L, and Chow
rule, and the native dynasties for the first time had to cross the
Great River (or Yangtsze Kiang, as we usually call it) and
fashion the best empire they could out of Chinese colonists and
southern races only half Chinese. The march of law and order
was about the same in both halves of China: for if the literary
classes had carried part of their civilization over the river with
them, the Tartars remained in possession of the old civilized soil;
and thus both empires based their legal principles and humane
improvements upon the same old classics and unshakable
ideals. Strangling is now heard of for the first time as a
death penalty; less grave than decapitation, because the body
remains undivided for reappearance in the next world: the
ancient punishment of tearing the body to pieces by means of
horses is formally revived by both dynastic groups. No new
legal principle of any kind is introduced by the Tartars, but
one or two droll punishments certainly suggest foreign
origin; for instance, wizards were condemned to carry a ram
on the back, embrace a dog, and jump into a pond. In
China proper, though the laws against inciting the people
with baseless talk are severe, I have never discovered any
law against wizardry or religion. Both in the north and
south the grievance drum' was introduced, so that persons
having a grievance could call forcible attention of the
Emperor and his officers to an unredressed wrong. The
native procedure of the Tartar dynasties was of course quite

32 THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
summary, the tribe chiefs disposing of causes in a rough and
ready way in front of the Khan's or sub-Khan's tent; as
nomads they possessed no fetters or prisons, and being
destitute of any native system of writing, they made arrests
and recorded judgments by means of wooden tallies: most
homicides could be ransomed with cattle and horses, like our
own weregild; but all treasons were punished with pitiless
extermination of the family. Yet just as the rude Goths at
exactly the same date carved kingdoms and made excellent
codes out of the débris of Roman civilization and law, so did
the Tartars rapidly acquire at least a veneer of Chinese
refinement; and some of their adapted Chinese codes are as
much entitled to respect, when compared with the codes of
the
pure Chinese dynasties, as are the Edict of Theodoric the
Eastern Goth or the Breviary of Alaric the Western Goth,
which did excellent duty in North Italy, France and Spain.
Curiously enough, the great Chinese statesman Ts'ui Hao,
who acted as premier, codifier and historian to the Tartars of the
fifth century, was put to death with his three generations for
telling the plain truth about the Tartar origin in his history.
It is now that we first begin to hear of the characteristic
Chinese punishment known to us as the cangue, or wooden
collar, a kind of portable stocks. A good deal of the
legislation consists in defining the weight and size of this
instrument, the thickness and smoothness of the whip and
bastinado, ameliorating the lot of prisoners, arranging the
rate of ransom in copper and silk, and so on. Flogging on
the back was abolished because the Emperor had chanced to
see a picture of the human anatomy, and had discovered that
the bowels were perilously near the spine. There is even one
solitary instance in which the Buddhist desire to save life is
coupled with an appeal to old classical principles as a reason
for extending the system of ransoming crimes.

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
33
The second great turning period in Chinese legal history
was the seventh century of our era, when, after many
centuries of interminable civil strife and foreign war, China
was once more permanently reunited under a vigorous native
dynasty. Even before the sixth century was out, China had
been reconquered by a native house () of great intelligence
and energy; but excessive ambition soon led to its premature
supersession. Judgments had now to be written; law
students were for the first time trained; the punishment of
family members was abolished; the triple reconsideration of
death sentences was introduced; and, generally, some far-
reaching reforms were ordered, if not actually made. The
principles of Buddhism had by this time been thoroughly
examined; and moreover Christianity, the Persian religions,
the teaching of Mohammed, had all been introduced into
China therefore there was some opportunity to compare
notes and to soften away the asperities of the old punitory
codes, though it must be confessed that none of the foreign
systems is honoured by the least mention. Amongst the
distinguished officers who received a commission to reform
the laws on the basis of the improvements introduced by the
short dynasty just mentioned, but minus its severities, was Siao
Yu (), who was a strong supporter of Buddhism; and
yet curiously enough he was one of those who pleaded for the
retention of mutilation as a merciful respite from death. But
the Emperor was firm, and from this date the ancient Five
Punishments, as they have been previously described, were
firmly established almost exactly as they now are; that is to
say, death (decapitation and strangling); three degrees of
banishment with or without flogging and hard labour to
remote provinces; five degrees of penal servitude with or
without flogging to places in one's native province; eight
degrees of the greater bastinado, and five of the lesser
4

34
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
bastinado; twenty punishments in all-although even so late
as 1078 the question of reintroducing nose and foot cutting
was unsuccessfully mooted again. Permission to commit
suicide at home now appears for the first time amongst the
favoured official classes. Offences were grouped under twelve
heads statutory definitions, or qualifications of the ancient
statutes; protection of the Emperor; questions of official
duty; marriages; imperial mews and stores; independent
political action; theft and robbery; litigiousness; cheating
and falsifying; miscellaneous statutory offences; deserters
and escaped prisoners; trials. There were, as in ancient
times, eight grounds upon which special privileges might be
claimed after sentence, but not in the case of the 'ten odious
crimes,' of which we now first hear. Nothing could be more
unsatisfactory or indefinite from our juridical point of view
than this clumsy classification, which with slight variation
seems to have remained almost unchanged for 1,400 years;
of course it can only be made even partially intelligible to us
by examining one by one the specific crimes ranged under
each heading; but even on the face of it as it stands, it will
be apparent, in spite of vagueness, that political offences
occupy the chief place in the Chinese legislator's imagination,
and perhaps that may be the reason why the Chinese, as a
people, have always been obstinately inclined to leave politics
.to those whose business it is to run the machine of state, and
have always managed their own private affairs with the
minimum of application for state assistance: so far as I am
aware, there has never been asserted a claim for popular
rights beyond the mere right of being left with a bare
competence for wife and family. The people of China have
never cornered' their sovereigns.
It is to the seventh century that belongs another great
principle which has possessed great vitality, and that is what

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
35
we called the triple applications for a death-warrant. The
Emperor, having had reason to regret the fact that he
had hastily ordered the execution of offending courtiers or
statesmen, gave peremptory instructions that in future his
commands were to be ignored until he had repeated them
three times at decent intervals extending over at least two
days; so that, to use our expression, his Majesty could sleep
upon his wrath: moreover, warrants for execution were not
to be forwarded any longer by express messenger, the idea
being that the prisoner should enjoy every possible chance of
a reprieve. There are some grounds for supposing that in
very ancient times this triple appeal to conscience existed in
the form of a thrice-repeated pardon, the last cry of which
was by a legal fiction supposed to be too late to overtake the
prisoner.
A few special instances of Crown Cases Reserved may be
mentioned as illustrating the concurrent effect of scriptural
injunction and ever-changing legal precept in evolving the
principle of a judgment, or what our lawyers call, in imitation
of the Roman jurisconsults, the ratio decidendi.
A youth
deliberately murdered his father's enemy, and was, on the face
of it, liable to execution. But, it was argued, the ancient
Book of Rites says that a son cannot live under the same sky
with his father's enemy; whilst Confucius's annotated history
asserts in general terms the duty of a son to avenge his
father's wrong. The law nowhere actually lays down that
such homicide is specifically excusable; if it did, it would
appear to encourage murder and family feuds: still, the law
is confessedly based on the general principles of the classics;
hence in this case there is apparent conflict between general
legal principle and specific law. It was decided that each
such case must be separately reported and judged upon its
merits. Another case occurred of a youth killing a man

36
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
whom he saw in the act of attacking his father, and then
voluntarily giving himself up to justice. It was argued from
Confucius's history that the motive of an act should be taken
into account in proportioning a sentence; here the youth gave
himself up, so that escape or concealment were not in
question: he therefore received a reduced punishment. In
one case the Emperor had not the heart to execute a corrupt
official at Canton, who at an earlier stage in his career had
done him good service. The Emperor said: 'I am supposed
to carry out impartially on behalf of Heaven the rewards and
punishments that may be due. In this case I am afraid I am
manipulating the law to the discredit of Heaven. Put up
a matshed in the southern suburb for three days so that
I may do penance at the Altar of Heaven there.'
(This
singular compromise with Heaven recalls the expression
colpo di stato di Domeniddio used apologetically by His
Holiness Pope Pius IX to excuse his appointment to
Westminster of Archbishop Manning.) The same romantic
Emperor once in a fit of generosity sent to their homes
390 prisoners whose names were down for execution,
ordering them to come up for judgment after the autumn.
Not a man failed, and so all were pardoned.
In another instance the T'ang Emperor declined to
sanction the death of an elder brother serving at a distance
when the younger brother was found guilty of rebellion:
eleven hundred years later a Manchu Emperor took exactly
the same step. Another Manchu Emperor had a father's
enemy case on appeal brought before him, and reversed the
decision of the T'ang dynasty. But in the later case the
circumstances differed: a son killed the son of the convicted
murderer of his own father; the murderer being in the hands
of the law, the son had no vengeance to satisfy, for the
murderer was legally dead moreover, by killing the

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
37
murderer's son, two lives were taken from one family in
satisfaction of one life in the other. Hence the murdering
son was sentenced to decapitation, subject to the chance of a
general amnesty taking place before his name should be
finally ticked off for execution. In the case of an escaped
murderer, who delivered himself up on hearing that his father
had been arrested, a conflict of opinions arose it was argued
that at no period of Chinese law had murderers been let off
death; however, the Manchu Emperor considered the man's
behaviour closely approaching nobleness,' and respited the
decapitation for banishment and a flogging. But to go back.
After the wars and revolution which accompanied the fall of
the great Tang dynasty there was only one copy of the laws
to be found; but this was enough, and it formed the basis
from which the next group of short-lived dynasties fashioned
their codes. To this period belongs the abolition of confisca-
tion of property and of the responsibility of relatives in all
cases but treason; the cleansing of prisons, medical treatment
of prisoners, decent conduct towards mere witnesses, and
regular tabulation of the rates of ransom; but the anarchy
was too great for these important reforms to be properly
consolidated; however, in any case they were symptoms of
healthy progress.
A law of the year 977 (Sung dynasty) made the murder
by a stepmother of her husband's earlier son punishable
as an ordinary homicide. In 1729 the Manchu Emperor `
made the offence punishable as before by strangulation
if the murder deprived the husband of heirs. If the husband
was dead, the stepmother must not have the privilege of
ransom accorded to women, but her own favourite son, if
any, must be strangled. If no son, then she must quit the
family and go back to her own family, her husband's property
being given to the murdered son's brothers and sons in

38
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
equal shares. It is about 900 years ago that the lingering
death punishment (abolished in 1905) first appears both
in South China and amongst the Kitan Tartars: it seems
to have been reserved for the Mongols (1260-1368) in North
China to introduce it on a regular scale.
Instead of plodding on from this point with the
somewhat monotonous history of Chinese legal changes, it
may be more interesting to start back from the position of
to-day, and to work our way in a reverse direction to the
point where we have broken off. The present Manchu
dynasty has now reigned without a break for over 260 years,
and the very first thing the new Emperor did on his
accession in 1644 was to ordain that the laws of the
Ming dynasty-which had governed China for 300 years
(1368-1643) should be modified so as to include Manchu
customs, and should be re-issued as the Laws of the Manchu
Dynasty. In dealing with the question of general amnesties
on joyful occasions, the responsible statesmen of the day
gave signal proof of the continuity of legal history by
quoting the dictum of a codifier 1,050 years before them:
he had asserted that the states which find pardons
unnecessary are the states which have just laws'; he
also cited a second codifier of 600 years back, who had
quoted the classical saying that appeal to principle was
sufficient for the good, even though chastisement might
be the sole effective appeal to the bad man.' The Emperor
in justifying what may be styled benefit of clergy,' or
special trials in favour of officials, and the exemption of
Manchus from certain punitory degradations, referred back
to the eight privileges introduced about 1200 B.C., i.e. the
privileges of blood, friendship, virtue, ability, service, rank,
zeal, and hospitality (the last referring to ambassadors). In
another instance reference was made to the plea used by the

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
39
girl who tramped after her father to the court of the Chinese
Marcus Aurelius, namely, that 'a man once judicially slain
can never come to life again, however innocent he may be.'
The second Emperor K'ang Hsi likewise made
many appeals to classical principles, and, like his successor,
laid down very definite rules exempting women from the
necessity of appearing before the courts: all female witnesses
and persons concerned in a case (provided they were not
themselves accused) were to be examined on commission
in their own houses. The treason laws of the present
dynasty, it must be confessed, are as ferocious as they have
ever been in China at the worst of times: all the odious
punishments abolished by the decree of April 1905 were
in full swing when the Manchus took over their predecessors'
code, and have remained so; that is to say, slicing to
pieces, and decapitating the dead; besides responsibility of
relatives to the third generation both ways, slavery of the
women and young boys, and so on. The fourth Emperor
Ch'ien Lung in 1740 issued a new edition of the Manchu
Code, alluding in his preface to the supposed pictorial
punishments of extreme antiquity, and to the first real
code of 960 B.C., mentioned above as translated by
Dr. Legge. In addition to justifying several of his specific
decisions in Crown Cases Reserved by referring back to
the classics, the Emperor cites two cases a thousand years
old, specially named in the Chinese legal records, in order
to amend two decisions connected with the justifiable murder
of a father's enemy by that father's son.
These two cases
have already been alluded to under the T'ang dynasty.
The same principle is repeatedly laid down by the Manchu
Emperor that was asserted by the Roman Emperors, namely,
that though above the law, they considered themselves
bound to live within the law.'

40
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
The punishing of mandarins ex post facto for not having
foreseen, or for not having punished, a crime is also an
extension of the responsibility theory which seems to have
grown up under the Manchu dynasty.
Legal activity at headquarters in China seems to have
fallen off with the advent of Europeans of course ordinary
routine business has been submitted to the Throne and
disposed of in the usual way; and of course special
legislation as for instance in the matter of opium-has
been sometimes found necessary. Curiously enough, the
falling off in Manchu jurisprudence coincides in date with
the translation of the Manchu Code by Sir George Staunton,
who was with the Lord Macartney mission of 1793. At
present our knowledge of Chinese law, as presented to us
in its most recent or Manchu form, must be in a large
measure gathered from that work, which is now quite out
of print; but it must be mentioned that Staunton only
translated the original kernel or ancient statute' part of
the law, much of which is obsolete; he left entirely un-
translated what may
be termed the judge-made or case-law,
which really forms the most important part of the work. The
close corporation of law secretaries, who have quite a
monopoly of the law clerkships in all Chinese courts, are
the real persons who manipulate the latest decrees, fashion
the judgments, and hold a balance between the Emperor
and his judicial officers. By them the judge-made law is
really created and applied. It is another instance of a trade
worked with the utmost secrecy. Even so far back as 800
years ago, it was complained that all law now depended on
the clerks' memories.'
The legal records of the purely native dynasty of Ming,
which occupied the throne during the reigns of our Houses
of Lancaster, York, Tudor, and Stuart, distinctly state that

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
41'
all jurisprudence to their date is based upon the Nine-
Chapters of 200 B.C. (Han dynasty), as subsequently
expanded and codified in A.D. 630 (Tang dynasty). In 1373.
this Ming dynasty published its code, which is confessedly
based on that of 637, and has exactly the same twelve divisions.
The Mongol dynasty, which practically began, so far as China-
was concerned, with Kublai Khan in 1260, is much better
spoken of by the historians than one would expect, considering
that it was a completely foreign government ruling China by
pure force.
from
Kublai is spoken of as quite a benevolent prince
a juridical point of view, and even his less capable-
successors are charged rather with a certain slipshod
carelessness than with wanton injustice. Special features of
this dynasty were the abolition of strangulation, and the
creation of legislative privileges in favour of Buddhists, and
at times of other priests. The Chinese both in the north and
south seem to have had nearly all the benefits of old Chinese
law ; but the Mongols, mostly of course military men or
officials, were under a special dispensation. For three
centuries previous to the Mongol conquest, China was under
two concurrent governments, that of the Tartars (and
in the north, and that of the pure Chinese dynasty in
the south the space at our disposal will not permit of our
saying more than this: the whole legal history is on record;
progress can be traced step by step; and no considerable
departure was at any time made from the accepted principles
handed down from ancient times. A celebrated novel, so
immoral that even in China it is prohibited, gives a powerful
and vivid account of the corruption of those days.
On the whole it may be said, continuing our way
backwards, that the southern dynasty was as shifty and as
merciful in laws as it was literary and unusually weak in
But officials were now obliged to study the law, and
arms.

42
THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
scholars began for the first time to hold judicial posts. For
fifty years previous to this north and south rule, China was split
up into innumerable contending local dynasties, (+)
and it need hardly be said that during this welter of anarchy
no startling advance was made yet each dynasty-at least
each of the five successive central ones, which are the only
ones usually recognized by standard historians-naturally
took for granted the possibility that it might endure for ever;
and thus the very first step taken by each founder was to
issue a code of his own, based, of course, upon the old codes
already described.
Previous to that the great Tang dynasty, to which we
now return, ruled the whole of China with great glory for
300 years, these 300 years roughly covering the period of
our Saxon kings: the legal history is very minute, and
the special decisions are both amusing and interesting: as
already stated, some of them are at this day just as medieval
authorities may be quoted in England. So great was the
reputation of the T'ang dynasty, that in the south of China
to this day the Cantonese invariably describe themselves in
colloquial speech as 'men of T'ang.'
On the other hand the general name for Chinese in the
north is 'men of Han,' 'language or writing of Han,' and
so on, having reference to the glorious period described in
the earlier part of this that is from 200 B.C. to A.D. 200,
paper,
when three successive branches of the Han family sat upon the
Chinese throne. During the 300 years between A.D. 280
and 580 China was ruled by Tartars in the north and native
houses in the south: there is plenty to say about legal
development in both, but this is not the place for saying it.
To sum up, the two great law dynasties of China are
the Han (200 B.C. to A.D. 200) and the T'ang (600 to 900),
and they alone of all purely Chinese dynasties (i.e. not

THE PRINCIPLES OF CHINESE LAW AND EQUITY.
43
counting the Mongols and the Manchus) succeeded in
extending Chinese influence to Persia and India: hence to
this day the pure Chinese are proud to call themselves 'men
of Han,' and 'men of T'ang.'