THE GREAT SUMMER FESTIVAL
OF CHINA AS OBSERVED
IN FOOCHOW:
A STUDY IN POPULAR RELIGION.
By LEWIS HODOUS.
The festival which takes place upon the fifth day of the fifth
moon, corresponding to the first part of June, is one of the most
popular and generally observed throughout China. Among the
foreign residents of the East it is known as the dragon boat
festival. We shall see later how far this name may be applied to
this festival. It is the summer festival and dates back to very
ancient times. It may be called the festival of the summer solstice,
which takes place a few days after the festival. For some reasons
now obscure the festival was placed on the fifth day of the fifth
moon instead upon the day of the summer solstice. The names
applied to the festival clearly indicate that it is the festival of the
summer solstice, however. A common name applied to the festival
is 'duang ngu. This means the precise point of resistance. The
Shuvo Wen, a dictionary published 100 A.D. says: "Ngu means
to resist. In the fifth moon the female principle in nature resists
and opposes the male principle." The sun represents the male
principle yang, which at the summer solstice attains its highest
power and then begins to weaken. On the other hand, the yin or
female principle begins to grow and wax strong until the winter
solstice. Another name applied to the feast is 'duang yang.'
This means the extreme point of the yang. Another name is the
heaven middle festival.' These names all clearly point to the
summer solstice as the great reason for the feast.
The customs observed at this feast may be divided
conveniently into those which take place within the home, and
those which take place outside the home. In Foochow on the
first day of the fifth moon early in the morning every householder
fastens on each side of his door a small bouquet of sweet-flag and
mugwort tied with a red paper band. These plants are picked
69

70
THE GREAT SUMMER FESTIVAL OF CHINA
with roots before daylight. Their strong odor, which represents
the male principle, is able to resist disease and specters which
proceed from the female principle. On the lintel of the door the
people paste very powerful charms. The charm of Chang Tien
Su, the Taoist pope, is of course the most efficacious. The charm
with the Thunder-god wielding his lightning weapon is quite
common. Another with a Buddha holding a mosquito brush by
means of which he sweeps away disease and noxious vapors is very
popular. These charms are made of paper four inches wide and
eight inches long. They are printed from blocks and are sold on
the streets for two cash a piece. In certain sections the care-taker
of the local temple furnishes his constituency with the proper
charms for a small consideration. These charms are also placed
over the bed. After a few weeks they may be taken down and
burned and the ashes mixed in water and the concoction given to
the children who have stomach trouble. Many householders paste
five colored slips of paper with charms on them above the lintel.
These slips are about three inches wide and five inches long. The
dark color is for the north, the white for the south, the red for
the east, the blue for the west, and the yellow for the middle
direction. According to popular tradition the five spirits of
poison descend to earth on the first day of the fifth moon and
scatter destructive vapors abroad and these charms on the doors
keep them out.
These customs have the sanction of highest antiquity. The
Small Regulator of the Hsia dynasty, an abbreviated calendar
giving directions as to what should be done in different months,
and dating probably to about 2000 B.C., has this note regarding
the fifth moon: "This month gather medicine and therewith
oppose poisonous vapours." In the books of the Later Han-25-
220 A.D.-we find the following statement: "On the fifth day
of the fifth moon hang above the door a red cord with seals of five
colors to expel noxious vapours." These seals were made of peach
wood which has great demon expelling power, no doubt due to the
fact that it blossoms very early in the spring and hence is supposed
to be endowed with a large portion of the male principle. In the
Leang dynasty-552-555 A.D.-there was written a popular
calendar of customs observed in King and Tsu, now Hupeh and
Hunan. In this work we find this statement regarding the fifth
day of the fifth moon : "Bind grass into the shape of a man,
hang above the door, and so escape noxious vapours." These
quotations suffice to show how intimately the customs observed
at the present day in Foochow are related to those of remote
antiquity.
On the fifth day various customs are carefully observed by
every household. About twelve o'clock or soon after is the
sacrifice to ancestors. The cabinet with the ancestral tablets

AS OBSERVED IN FOOCHOW.
71
occupies a small room back of the main reception hall of the house.
Before this the sacrifice is spread. In the middle of the table
toward the cabinet is an incense burner with three sticks of
incense. On each side is a candle, then a row of bowls with
chicken, duck, fish and the glutinous rice dumplings. Of these
viands there are six, or eight, or ten bowls. The number depends
upon the wealth and station of the family. Before the bowls
arranged in a row are ten small cups of rice wine. The head of
the family comes, lights the sticks of incense, holds them in both
hands and raises them thrice up to his forehead, puts them into
the incense burner. Then he kneels and bows thrice. Sometimes
he utters a short invitation to the ancestors to partake in the joy
of the feast. This ends the sacrifice. The food is left before the
cabinet for half an hour or so, and then spread before the members
of the family and eaten. Those who have some particular reason
go to the temples with candles and incense on this day and kneel
and bow before the idol from whom they expect to receive some
blessing.
On the fifth day of the fifth moon the house is carefully
burned over with sulphur squibs. The burning squibs are applied
to the chairs, legs of the table, under the bed, in the dark corners
of the bedrooms. This is done to drive snakes out of the house.
A few days before the fifth a drink is made of sweet-flag root, also
of a reddish sulphurous substance imported from Loochoo Islands.
The former is poured into the well, the latter is used as a wash
for the body. The children's nose and ears are smeared with it
to escape the poison of insects. The three cornered dumplings of
glutinous rice wrapped in bamboo leaves are characteristic of this
feast. The work called Permaneni Ideas in Popular Customs,
belonging to the second century A.D., has this note on this point.
"On the day before the feast wrap up rice, chestnuts, and dates
with leaves, boil with juice of limes till done. For this resembles
the yin and yang as they enfold one another."
The children are provided with a new apron on the fifth day.
This is a very useful article of dress. It covers breast and
stomach and ties at the back. During the hot days of summer it
is the only article of clothing worn by young children. On it are
embroidered, or painted a tiger, or the five poisonous insects,
namely, the snake, the spider, the lizard, centipede, and green
frog. Such a stomacher with the insects is a powerful protector
against disease.
A few days before the fifth, street vendors sell all sorts of
little toys filled with strong perfume. The shapes are numerous.
There are tigers, frogs, the eight diagrams, watches, deer, peaches,
an abbreviated calendar and many other shapes which fancy
suggests. These are hung by variegated colored silk cords from
the button of the child's garment. They are sold for a few cash.
10

72
THE GREAT SUMMER FESTIVAL OF CHINA
The better ones sell for a few cents. They are made by girls and
women who are enabled in this way to help in the support of the
family. The Chinese believe that pouches of perfume resist the
disease dormant in the body and prevent disease from entering the
body. The shapes are all powerful resisters of evil. The
abbreviated calendar, for example has the same power against
disease and specters which the original possesses. The peach and
the tiger are noted as evil expellers. The perfume is a strong
variety. Strong odors belong to the yang or male principle and of
course possesses power to resist disease. The campholine ball has
been added to the list of these disease opposing weapons in recent
years. The women take mugwort and sweet-flag root and make
it into a shape resembling human form and wear it in the hair.
Of silk cocoons tigers are made and stuck into the hair of boys
and girls to avert disease.
The past throws much light upon these practices. The
Small Regulator of the Hsia dynasty gives this direction for the
fifth moon: "Stew gynandrous flowers for the purpose of washing
head and body." The work, Permanent Ideas in Popular
Customs (second century A.D.) says: "On the fifth day of the
fifth moon by hanging variegated colored silk threads from the
arm will enable one to escape death by hostile powers of the
female principle, and specters, and avoid disease." The work on
the popular customs of King and Tsu (552-555 A.D.) says:
"Bind five colored silks on the arms to escape evil and repress
demons. This enables people to escape disease. Repeat frequently
the following phrase, Dangerous devils playing in the light.
When one knows the name of these devils they will flee far away.'
These few extracts from the works of different periods show us
that the customs observed at present are not different in principle
and very little different in form from the customs practised in
north central China several thousand years ago.
The festival is observed in less obvious ways by the higher
classes. The Book of Rites, an acknowledged authority today,
says regarding the fifth moon: "This is the month when the day
is longest. The female principle and the male principle struggle
together. Life and death are separated. The superior man
practices abstinence inward and outward. He retires within his
home. He must not be hasty. He avoids all things which
captivate the ears and stir up the sexual passion. He partakes
lightly of delicacies and must not take highly seasoned foods.
limits his appetites. He quiets his heart and spirit. The officials
reduce their business. They do not inflict severe punishment.
In this way they aid the female principle to exert its influence.'
The principles enunciated in this quotation have influence upon
the literary families today. The officials diminish their punish-
ments, they inflict fewer blows upon culprits. Many, especially
He

AS OBSERVED IN FOOCHOW.
73
women, abstain from meat on the fifth day of the fifth moon.
The people of Foochow speak of the "Abstinence promoting long
life." There are fewer plays by theatrical companies. The small
meat stands on the street find business dull. Buddhism has
emphasized the same line of conduct.
"
Before leaving this part of the subject it may be interesting
to quote another authority, namely, that of the holy man Song, who
wrote (627-650 A.D.). He says: This month (i.e. the fifth)
the vital principle of the liver is dormant (the liver belongs to
wood and hence is dormant, wood having at this time attained its
growth). The vital principle of the heart is active (the heart
belongs to fire). At this time sour things should be avoided and
the consumption of bitter things should be increased. Sour makes
the liver more active and hence should be avoided. This helps
the kidneys. This also fortifies and stores up the vital spirit.
One should retire early and rise early. Sexual intercourse should
be avoided. On the fifth day practise abstinence and quietly
nourish the body and in this way put yourself into harmony with
the season of heaven." These doctrines have become diffused
among the people and are acted upon by force of habit long
established.
Not only are these observances to be carried out, but certain
things are to be religiously avoided or tabooed. People should not
stay in damp places, should not lie with their naked body exposed
to the light of the moon and stars, should not ask about sick
persons. These are all connected with the principles already
explained. Damp places abound in noxious vapours, the moon
belongs to the female principle.
On this day presents are also exchanged. The bride's family
present summer clothing to the newly married bride, also the three
cornered dumplings of glutinous rice and fans. The fans are
distributed among the members of the husband's family. The
origin of this custom of distributing fans is attributed to Emperor
Tai Cung of the Tang dynasty (627-650 A.D.). This note is found
in a work called the Origin of Things. "Tai Cung said to U Ge
(U Ge belonged to the family of the emperor's wife), 'On the
fifth day of the fifth moon people present each other with trinkets.
To-day I shall present a fan with characters written on it. With
it the fresh air will be set in motion and the people's virtue will
be increased.'"
Turning now to the customs performed outside of the home
we note that herbs picked on this day have great medicinal value.
We have already quoted from the Calendar of the Hsia dynasty
that "this is the mouth to gather medicine and therewith oppose
poisonous vapours." There are numerous references to the
efficacy of medicines prepared upon the fifth day of the fifth moon.
We shall quote a few typical ones. Cung Caik, a hermit who

74
THE GREAT SUMMER FESTIVAL OF CHINA
lived about 420-477 A.D., and gathered herbs for the purpose of
making medicine says: "Formerly on the fifth day of the fifth
moon before cock crowing, while picking herbs, a plant in shape
like a man was seen. When it was plucked and used to cauterize
with, it had effect. The chief musician Knong, of the Chow
dynasty, was of the opinion that in a year of much sickness the
grasses grew earlier." Ko Hung, who lived during the fourth
century of our era, a famous physician, writes: "On the fifth day
of the fifth moon draw a very powerful charm with cinnabar, wear
it before the heart, and so escape demons, drive away disease, expel
many sicknesses. This is the charm that controls a hundred
diseases." In a monthly regulator written by the holy man Song
above quoted (627-650 A.D.) he gives this information: "On the
fifth day of the fifth moon take the moss from the tile roof, or
ashes of many plants, and salt. This is good to rinse the mouth
with. Boil Szechuen pepper in vinegar. This preparation is
able to heal all kinds of diseases of the teeth." This is made to-day
in Foochow.
A few extracts from the great Materia Medica of the Ming
dynasty called the Pun Tsaow Kang Muh, will give us the highest
medical opinion of modern times on this matter. The author
spent thirty years on his work, made extracts from over eight
hundred preceding authors from whom he selected 1,518 different
medicaments and added 374 new ones, thus making in all 1,892.
Regarding picking herbs he says: "On the fifth day of the fifth
moon pick a hundred kinds of herbs and dry by exposing to the
air, burn, mix with lime, make a paste, bake and then grind to
powder. Smear over wounds to stop the flow of blood. Also
plaster over bites by dogs. Mix with fresh water, make a dough,
heat till it becomes white, add sharp vinegar and make small
cakes. Take a cake under each armpit and squeeze. When the
cakes are dry change. This treatment will take away general pain
in the body and stop eruptions. Wash eruptions with urine.
After three washings the eruptions will heal."
Another recipe reads as follows: "On the fifth day of the
fifth moon about the noon hour, if it is raining, quickly split a
bamboo pole. In the bamboo there will be found a very powerful
liquid. Take it out to use as medicine. This will heal heart and
stomach troubles, keep the vital spirits from congealing and
collecting. It will also cure worm troubles. Mix with otter's
liver and make into tablets. When this is drunk it drives away
fever, destroys phlegm, quiets fears and soothes the spirit." This
bamboo sap is used in Foochow to-day as medicine. The tablets
which requires otter's liver are rare because it is difficult to find
otter's liver.
Here is another choice bit of medical wisdom from the same
author. "Take water from a wheel rut, or from the imprint of a

AS OBSERVED IN FOOCHOW.
75
cow's hoof to wash scrofula on the neck." The bilge water in the
dragon boats is eagerly dipped out and used as a wash.
These quotations might be multiplied, but we have now
sufficient data before us to explain all the customs connected with
this summer festival. As we have seen, the various customs have
a functional value. They are directed against specters and
disease. The Chinese are fighting demons all the year round, but
the fifth moon is associated with a great activity of the demon
world. There are two reasons for this. One reason is that at
this time disease is very prevalent in China and always was.
The
climate is hot and sultry, the houses are crowded, the streets are
narrow. Sewerage systems exist, but the sewers are clogged. All
refuse and dirty water are dumped into the street. The water for
household and cooking purposes is drawn either from shallow
wells, or canals reeking with filth. The bedrooms are dark, and
damp, and poorly ventilated. These conditions are the same in a
small hamlet as they are in a large city. Every year during this
time cholera, plague, all sorts of bowel troubles and numerous
other diseases afflict the people. This has probably been the case
from earliest times. Demons produce disease and hence this
battle with charms, and spells against these arch enemies of
mankind. This is probably the practical reason for the popularity
of the festival of the fifth moon. This prevalence of disease at
the approach of the summer solstice was probably very early
connected with this event in nature. The yang, the male
principle, represented by the sun, is beneficent, health giving. It
is now about to be overcome by yin, the female principle, which is
represented by the earth and is dark producing disease and death.
Specters belong to it. Naturally with its advent demons and
disease are rampant and men must resort to all means to overcome
them.
DRAGON BOAT RACES
There is another side to this summer festival which the
foreigners living in China enjoy, and usually associate with this
time. In fact, among the foreign community, this festival is
known as the Dragon Boat festival.
Near Foochow every village situated beside a canal, or
stream, or a large sheet of water owns a dragon boat. This is
stored in a long low shed next to the village temple. In the
fourth moon, corresponding to May, the committee connected with
the local temple call upon each householder and receive a contribu-
tion toward the boat races. The amount of the contribution is
fixed by custom. Everything in China goes by custom.
Foochow City and suburbs two boat women go from shop to shop
In

76
THE GREAT SUMMER FESTIVAL OF CHINA
with a shallow bamboo basket, a flag representing the particular
boat for which they are collecting, and a drum, and receive small
contributions for the boat races.
Toward the end of the fourth moon the dragon boat is pulled
out from the shed, the cobwebs are swept out and the necessary
repairs are made. The dragon boats are made of pine. The
skeleton is made of well seasoned wood. The prow and stern
are curved up like a bow. The prow has a dragon's head and
fins. In northern Hunan, where these races originated, the boats
are 115 feet, 95 feet, and 75 feet long and have a complement of
80, 60, and 40 men respectively. In Foochow the boats are 40
to 60 feet long and have 28 to 36 men. The boats are narrow
allowing for two men to sit side by side.
Each boat had a captain selected by the committee above
mentioned. In the region around Changsha, Hunan, they usually
choose a wealthy man and one expert with his fists. Quite
frequently an aquatic victory is followed by a fistic contest on
shore. The captain selects his crew from among the boat people.
He with his assistant stands in the prow of the boat. In the
middle is a drummer and a man who beats the gong, to keep the
rowers together, in the stern is the steerman who wields an oar
about twenty feet long which enables him to turn the boat very
quickly. The rowers are seated on each side and propel the boat
by means of short paddles resembling the paddle of the Indian.
The paddles of the different boats have different colors. From
the first to the fifth day the sound of drums and gongs resounds
from afar.
Various customs are observed before the boat enters the
water for the final races. Near Changsha, Hunan, a Wu or
Exorcist is invited. The night before the races the captain
prepares meat and wine. The exorcist makes somersaults from
prow to stern. He scatters buck wheat in the boat and with fire
illuminates it. While he is doing this there is a continual
beating of drums. These performances prevent another exorcist
from placing his spells on the boat and encompassing its defeat.
On the day of the races when the rowers are in their places, the
exorcist takes a small quantity of oil and lights it. If the flame
blazes high and red it means victory. If the blaze is dark and
low it means defeat. The exorcist relies upon a spirit called the
holy Sak of the western river. The spells which he employs are
called "Savage Thunder," "Fierce Fire burning up Heaven.'
He performs various tricks which bear the high sounding names
of "Gathering the dragons before him," "Stopping the soldiers of
yin, the female principle," "Causing mountains to be moved into
the sea." The exorcist rolls up his skirt, takes off his shoes and
leaps into the air seven times. He lights the fire before mentioned,
the boat pulls from the shore, he repeats his spell which is as

AS OBSERVED IN FOOCHOW.
77
follows: "Heaven's fire burns the sun, Earth's fire burns the five
directions, the thunder fire with its customary fierceness burns up
all calamities. The dragon boat may ply the light water (a
dangerous water in Kan Su), the five lakes, the four seas going
where it will." When the boat is in the middle of the stream he
brushes it out with a wisp of white grass in order to cleanse it of
all evil influences placed into it by enemies to bring about defeat.
The boatmen throw a peach into the river with a pot of rice and
beans. The present purpose is to ensure victory. The original
idea was to sacrifice to the river gods for rain. These elaborate
ceremonies take place in northern Hunan. They are described in
a work called The Record of Boat Races in the Wu Ling region.
The Wu Ling district is subject to Ch'angteh in northern Hunan.
The customs around Foochow resemble these in many respects.
A table with viands, incense, and candles is spread on shore near
the boat. The exorcist recites incantations and rings his bell
and burns idol paper. In certain places, just as the boat
is about to pull away from shore the exorcist takes a wisp of rice
straw of the first harvest-this is supposed to have a good deal of
the yang principle because it grows so rapidly and lights it and
burns out the evil in the boat from prow to stern. In certain
places the rowers go to the local temple and the incantations, and
sacrifice take place there. The spells are very similar in character
to those mentioned above.
Each boat is under the protection of a guardian god. In the
Diong Loh district near Foochow the village of Wo Siong has the
monkey god as protector of its dragon boat. This god used to be
popular among literary men because he helped them to obtain a good
place in the examination halls. In Hunan temples are devoted to
the gods presiding over the boats. Quite a famous one is Liong
Uong. He has a hat on and full dress. His attendants are
armed with arms and staves. He was a man of the Eastern Han
(58-76 A.D.) who led the army of Ma Seu against the savages of
Ngu Ka. An image of this idol is carved on the prow of the
boat. Quite generally the guardian deities are men who were
drowned under some peculiar circumstances.
The races present a picturesque spectacle. The fifth of the
fifth moon is the great day in Foochow and vicinity. The long narrow
boats with the brown dusky rowers, the spray from the paddles
glistening in the sunshine, the rhythmic motion of the rowers
responding to the sound of gong and drum, these once scen are
not soon forgotten.
The races are rather informal. The starting point and goal
are not clearly marked out. There is a general understanding,
however, that when a boat gets ahead of another and keeps its
place it is considered the winner. The general impression upon
the onlooker is that of a free for all, promiscuous contest. This

78 THE GREAT SUMMER FESTIVAL OF CHINA
informal and indefinite character of the races naturally gives rise
to many tricks and disputes. Each boat tries to get a position in
the middle of the stream. A very common ruse is to roll up the
flag, stop beating gong and drum and pretend to quit the race.
When the opponents are off their guard, then the boat starts up
and thus gains an advantage. Another trick is to start forward
and then stop and keep on with this proceed until the opponents
are weary. Another common resort is to wait around until they
can get a tired crew to race with. Still another method is to lift
up the heavy steering oar out of the water and thus lighten the
boat. There are no judges except the rowers and their friends
and enemies and no umpire. Such officials, could they be induced
to act, would find life miserable whatever their decisions might be.
Handicaps are given. These are usually figured in boat lengths.
We can readily imagine that the uncertainties of the contest,
the chance for a good fight would attract certain elements of
society who are weary with the monotony of Chinese village life.
Every year a number of people are drowned and some are killed
and injured in the fights which follow the races. In certain parts
of China the officials interfere and try to stop the races. This
interference is desultory, however. The officials fear that the
people might ascribe drought or flood or bad crops to the fact that
the races were not held, and so the law is very lax.
"
In northern Hunan, when the races are over, the boatmen
place into the boat meat, and wine, and gold idol paper. The
paper is burned, a little wine is poured into the water at the stern
and the following incantation is repeated: Malady, disease,
death, plague, may they all with the water flow away." This
done the boat with the flag furled, drum and gong silent, rows to
the shore, is drawn up and placed into the shed till the next
season.
Of course the races would not be complete without a bounti-
ful feast and present to the participants. The feast takes place in
the temple of the guardian god. There are usually two bowls of
everything on the table and the bowls are extra large. Among
the presents the fan is quite prominent, no doubt following the
example of the monarch of the Tang dynasty.
As we have been retailing these details the question has
arisen, "What is it all about?" If we should ask a Chinese he
might laconically answer, "Yes, the dragon boat races." If he
is more genially disposed he might tell us that it is in the
memory of Kok Nguong. In the history of Su Ma Chien, the
Herodotus of China, treating events to 122 B.C., in chapter 84
the story of Kok Nguong is given in substance as follows. Kok
Nguong was privy counsellor of prince Hwai of the state of Tsu
about 314 B.C. He was a very efficient man and was held in
high esteem by his prince. The prince ordered him to make

certain regulations.
AS OBSERVED IN FOOCHOW.
79
The rival of the counsellor desired to obtain
a copy of the same before publication. Kok Nguong would not
give it to him. Piqued at this the rival denounced Kok Nguong
to the prince. The prince became angry and estranged. Kok
Nguong became sad and distressed. He consoled his sorrowful
spirit by composing a poem called the Dissipation of Sorrow. He
then went to the Mi Lo river in northern Hunan, clasped a large
stone and jumped into the river and was drowned. Thus far the
story of Su Ma Chien. The commentary to the history adds that
it took place on the fifth day of the fifth moon. Also it adds that
the people of Ts'u, which was located in what now is northern
Hunan, observed the day yearly as a festival. At this festival
they raced with dragon boats, and cast offerings of rice into the
river in memory of the day when the fishermen sought for the
body of Kok Nguong.
His
This is not the only story explaining this ancient festival.
Another legend tells of a maiden Ts'ao Ngo. Her father, a
wizard by profession, was drowned on the fifth day of the fifth
moon about 180 B.C. His body could not be found.
daughter, then fourteen years old, wandered along the bank of the
river where her father disappeared for seventeen days. Then she
threw herself into the water. After a few days her body arose to
the surface and in her arms she clasped her father. On this
account a pillar was erected for her and the races were held.
This occurred in Shao Shing Fu in Chekiang.-Mayer's Chinese
Reader's Manual, 247.
These stories show that the Chinese are not agreed in
explaining the origin of the boat races. On the face of it, it is
improbable that the suicide of a man in a district in northern
Hunan should be the cause of a festival quite general throughout
China. He appeals to no patriotic feeling. He was an un-
fortunate good man and of such there have been many in China.
Still his name is attached to the races, but undoubtedly in quite a
different capacity from a disappointed privy counsellor and the
composer of a poem.
An explanation of the cause of the festival is suggested in a
work called Suk Ca Hai Ge, a record of marvels dating from
502-506 A.D. This work has a note on the races as follows:
"Kok Nguong on the fifth day of the fifth moon jumped into the
Mi Lo river. The people of Ts'u lamented for him. When this
day arrived they filled small bamboo baskets with rice and threw
them into the water and so sacrificed to him. In the reign of Giong
U (25-58 A. D.) in the place Diong Sa (northern Hunan) Eu
Keuk in his dream saw a scholar who said that he was Sang Lu
Dai Hu (official title of Kok Nguong). He said to Eu Keuk, 'I
have heard, sir, that you have sacrificed very bountifully. In
former years the dragons of the swamps and the other dragons
11

80
THE GREAT SUMMER FESTIVAL OF CHINA
have secretly taken it away. To-day if you favor me again you
should close the top of the basket with leaves and tie it with
variegated silk. These two things the dragons abhor.' Keuk
obeyed his words. To-day on the fifth day of the fifth moon the
people make dumplings and bind them with variegated silk."
This extract shows that the festival is no memorial, but that Kok
Nguong stands for a beneficent force in nature to whom sacrifice
must be made in order to obtain certain benefits. The father of
Ts'ao Ngo in like manner became a water-god able to dispense
gifts. There is a little snatch from an old dragon boat song
which I cannot trace to its origin. This says: "When the gay
boats win we get a good year." Another song composed by Su
Guong Hi of the Tang dynasty (713-756 A.D.) goes on as follow:
"If you wish to make the autumn bountiful, the sound of drums
and trumpets should resound from afar." The sound of drums
and trumpets refers to the drums in connection with the boat
races.
These indications are confirmed by local customs in different
parts of China. The history of Chihli Province reports that in
the district of Bing Gok on the fifth day of the fifth moon in case
of drought the women go to the bank of the river and wash the
sieves and thereby pray for rain. The history of Shansi Province
notes that in the district of Sek Ciu all the villages sacrifice to
the Dragon Lord and hang idol paper on gardens and fields on
the fifth day of the fifth moon. The history of the Loochoo
Islands, lying between China and Japan, says that in the fifth
moon the people sacrifice to the spirit presiding over rice.
In Foochow the people say that the races bring the great
peace. The great peace means absence of disease and good
harvests. In all parts of China peace is associated with a
bountiful harvest. Rebellion and trouble frequently follow bad
harvests. Seu Kuong Ke, a disciple of Jesuit Missionaries, who
wrote a work on agriculture published in 1640 A.D. says, "If
rain comes on the fifth day of the fifth moon there will be a
good harvest in the succeeding year." Thus we must conclude
that the moving force in this festival which has survived the
viciscitudes of several thousand years is the universal desire for a
good harvest and for rain upon which a good harvest depends.
The legends are not the cause of the festival, but were probably
produced by the festival to explain customs whose origin was lost
in remote antiquity.