CHINA'S MONUMENTS*
By FREDERICK MCCORMICK.
"So fleet the works of men
Back to their earth again
Ancient and holy things
Fade as a dream."
The monuments in China, more than under any other civili-
zation, perhaps, receive their form and dimensions, as well as
approval of their symbolism, from the kings and emperors. This
is true of all architectural and other monumental remains save,
perhaps, only pagodas. Nearly every other structure has been
subject to Imperial statute.
What we call a great monotony in architecture in China and
the infrequency of structures that stand out, has not only been
due to the fact that China has but one style or motive of
architecture but to precedent and law. The largest buildings in
China are sacrificial halls and palaces of the emperors.
other Imperial buildings they may be said to be the only ones that
possess color and they vie with China's immense walls in
separating themselves, for the spectator, from everything else.
With
The austere regularity in the plan of Chinese palaces finds its
explanation in the literature and laws of the country, by which
the balance "golden mean "--and all the relations of life are
maintained.
The classical volume, the Shuking, untangles the whole
subject of the structures of the palaces and capital city as well as
the outlying cities and structures. The location of the Capital
was always the center of five concentric squares of different sizes
enclosed one within the other. The greater region was the Wild
Domain ; the next was the Domain of Restraint; the next the
Region of Tranquil Tenure; the next the Noble's Tenure
and the innermost surrounding the capital itself, the Royal
Domaint. Peking the present Capital of China has its Five Cities,
harmonizing with these divisions. The center of these is the
Forbidden City, which is the real Capital and the seat of the
Court. All are rectangular. The prevailing principle is symmetry
and balance, and even the pagoda, the only conspicuous alien
structure of China, has been adapted to extending this original
Copyrighted 1912. All rights reserved.
Pott.

130
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
principle. These inspiring and originally religious structures as at
Peking and Mukden have been set at the four cardinal points of
the cities in obedience to both the laws of good and evil influences
(Feng-shui) and uniformity and beauty.
The most notable structures within the cities of China, even
within the walls of Peking, the Drum and Bell Towers, trace
their origin to the first regular Chinese Dynasty, the Hsia, (2197
B.C.) if not earlier. It has been handed down by legend that
Wu who founded this Dynasty "caused a drum, a gong, a
triangular musical instrument of sonorous stone, and a rattle to be
suspended outside the walls of his palace" as a means of keeping
in touch with his people. These were the electric buttons of the
people of China of somewhat more than forty-one centuries ago.
He who wished to discuss the virtues of becoming a monarch
struck the drum. He who thought he could suggest improvements
in the monarch's life struck the gong. He who brought tidings
of famine or rebellion struck the triangular instrument and he
who had been wronged in court struck the rattle. The drum,
gong and bell are conspicuous objects in every important official
building and temple, and are provided for in the building of every
city in China.
The T'ai Miao, or ancestral temple, of the Manchu Dynasty,
in the Forbidden City at Peking has been called the largest
building in China though some others approach it in dimensions,
notably the sacrificial hall at the Ming Tombs, near Nan-kou.
The former is a characteristic specimen of a fine building in
China. Being Imperial it is of the best materials of marble,
brick, Imperial tiles, and the largest tree trunks. Its outside
walls are red and it has a double roof of Imperial yellow tiles.
As perhaps the most noteworthy building in China and one of the
important monuments, it is interesting to remember that a shell
from the cannon of the Allies entered the building in 1900 but
without doing any noticeable damage.
In China all buildings worthy of note, including temples,
impress the observer as much by the extent and number of inner
courts that separate them as by the general style of architecture
which they all follow. In the palaces, tombs and temples, steps
and balustrades are frequently of finely carved marble, leading to
halls of massive wood columns and enclosed by massive walls.
All this give the architecture a very heavy effect; but this effect
is accentuated by what has been called "the excessive development
of the roof," which roof is supported by the pillars mentioned
and not by the walls which are merely enclosing walls.
To some the buildings appear "crushed" by these roofs
which, however, have a most pleasing effect upon the eye
Thatch, mortar, and slate are used but tiling is the almos
• Pott.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
131
universal roof covering of China. It is usually laid in alternate
rows of roll and pantile. The Chinese roof suggests a tent from
which legend says its form was derived. Smaller buildings-
pavilions, suggest the Chinese hat. The glazed yellow, green,
azure and black tiling seen at Peking and among the temples of
China have Imperial significance. The right to use them has
been Imperially conferred on Buddhist and Taoist temples and
belongs to Confucian temples, as well as memorial temples to
other distinguished men, and for the tombs of princes and other
personages.
There are perhaps no other emblems peculiar to the Imperial
architecture except perhaps the dragon motif used in large
designs. The palaces therefore have nothing of originality to
claim over such collections of buildings as may be seen for
example on the Island of P'u-t'o where is one of China's sacred
mountains. Outside, massive and stately roofs single, double and
sometimes triple appear above equally massive walls enclosing
courts. The interiors show massive lacquered pillars, carved and
painted beams or rafters, or paneled decorative ceilings-all
within as well as without expressive of the chief architectural
motif of China, the roof.
The buildings of the palaces are distinguished by the
grandeur of their extent and associations. The emperors of
China have lavished labor and treasure upon their palaces. The
most noticeable instance of recent times has been the appropriation
of the naval funds by the late Empress Grand Dowager to rebuild
the Summer Palace, one of the contributory causes of the revolt
against the Manchus.
Extravagance in building was rebuked in ancient times by
the Emperor Yang Chien, (Tang Dynasty) who disapproved of
the needless expenditure and cruelty in forcing the inhabitants
during famine to labor upon a huge and magnificent palace called
the Hall of Long-lived Benevolence," which one of his generals
had built for him during his absence on a penitential pilgrimage
to the sacred mountain T'ai Shan. In a yet more remote era the
Emperor Shih built palaces from a motive which may explain the
origins of the ideas which the Chinese have that huge dimensions
and greatness are synonymous. Though a great statesman, this
Emperor was superstitious and when he was told by a magician
that he was pursued by evil spirits by night, he built an enormous
palace in which he could hide and which for the number of
sleeping rooms for the Emperor's own use must have surpassed
anything thitherto thought of. Chinese history says several
hundred thousand convicts were engaged on the work and an
incredible sum of money expended, ostensibly for the purpose of
hoodwinking evil-minded demons.
* Pott.

132
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
As in all other lands much of the monumental remains in
China are traceable to the extravagance of the rulers and have
left their impressions upon the customs of the people. When
Yuan Shih-kai was inaugurated President of China in the
national Foreign Office building at Peking at the end of
winter 1912 paper flowers were tied on the leafless trees and
shrubbery. This practice is mentioned at the beginning of the
VIIth century as one of the extravagances of the debauchee
Emperor Yang Ti who squandered large sums of money on his
palace and pleasure grounds at Chiang-tu, the modern Yang-chow.
A glimpse of palace life and the palace interiors is given
in the account which describes the trees in this park as
decorated in winter with flowers and leaves of silk. While the
trees were thus clothed, the birds were made naked to supply
the down for the Imperial pillows.
The tendency in the Chinese to reverse the laws of nature
accounts for much of the grotesque in their monuments. The
palace grounds contain innumerable pleasure pavilions and include
such a curious object as for example, the stone boat, specimens of
which are to be seen in the Summer Palace of the Manchus
near Peking, as well as in the palace grounds at Jehol. The
palaces are distinguished by the lavish multiplication of the
characteristic architectural features of the country, and are filled
with antiquities.
Faint echoes of China's inscribed, sculptured and wrought
memorial wealth have reached the world through travelers' tales
and the whisper of erudite researches by sinologues. Hitherto the
image in the popular mind of the monuments of China has had for
its center some poetical structure like the "stately pleasure dome"
of Kublai Khan, imagined by Coleridge in his poem "Cambaluc;"
"In Xanadu did Kubla Khan
A stately pleasure dome decree
Where Alph, the sacred River, ran
Through caverns measureless to man
Down to a sunless sea.
So twice five miles cf fertile ground
With walls and towers were girded round.
And there were gardens bright with sinuous rills
Where blossomed many an incense-bearing tree;
And here were forests ancient as the hills,
Enfolding sunny spots of greenery."
More than a dozen famous capitals are mentioned in Chinese
history, famous for their architecture and monuments. Vast and
solemn remains of these capitals at widely separated points may
still be seen. Shangtu, the "Cambaluc" of Coleridge, is
accurately located on new maps of North China to the west
of the important Mongol market, Dolonor, on the little river
Shangtu. Here the remains of the walls of Kublai Khan's

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
133
summer capital may still be seen. Dr. Bushell, the Orientalist,
has mentioned inscriptions found there, and it is possible that the
future antiquary studying the spot with scientific scrutiny may
make discoveries of value. Marco Polo, the most distinguished
traveler among Europeans to visit China, gave to the world the
only existing record of the wonders of Shangtu, of which
Coleridge dreamed and wrote striking words not hitherto regarded
as facts. It has been stated that Coleridge knew nothing of
Shangtu and that he derived the images of his poems from a
dream, the figment of which he coined into golden measures
when he had risen from his couch.
It is interesting in connection with these rythmic fancies
that in 1908 two American travelers, Mr. Straight and Commander
Gillis, described ruins in the neighborhood of the old Manchurian
capital of Tung-king, Kirin province, which they found to
correspond to the image of Coleridge's poem. A mazy river flowed
through matchless scenes and disappeared; there were wells in
which ice could be seen although it was July; the foundations of
a summer house on an islet that at one time cast its shadow over
the Water, were reached by a ruined bridge; there was a
waterfall and rustics about told a legend of a hapless maiden
princess, buried beneath. There was also in the neighborhood
a legend concerning a venerable tortoise which lived under the
waters surrounding the islet. In fact the coincidences of the
features of the poet's city with the site of this ancient Manchurian
capital were so striking as to have part convinced the travelers
that Coleridge had reproduced a description of a place which he
had erroneously assigned to Shangtu.
The extent of China's archaeological relics and monuments is
something that remains to be determined. From what the traveler
can see, they appear to be immense and in keeping with the dimen-
sions of her history. There is probably nothing older in China than
the remains of cities (unless it be tombs). These remains exist
now as tumuli which are the most durable buildings of man.
They may be seen in the form of walled enclosures in all stages of
preservation or decay, often perched on mountain tops, where they
were once cities of refuge. In all the older and more populous
parts of China such remains may be seen silhouetted against the
sky. Near Hsu-yen in southern Manchuria is such a remnant of
the urban past called the Nü-ch'eng or "Woman's City." Accord-
ing to local tradition it was a refuge inhabited by women and
children for protection while the men were engaged in warfare.
Manchuria has the remains of three ancient capitals very well-
defined, and innumerable deserted cities and fortifications, together
with pyramids and inscribed stones.
Of all China's famous capitals only Nanking, Hsian-fu and
Peking express in any measure what their art and architectural

134
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
glories were before China became accessible to western peoples.
Some, like Lo-yang, are little more than names. Of the living
capitals Hsian-fu was brought out of obscurity in 1900 when it
became the refuge of the late Empress Grand Dowager and
Emperor and the Manchu Court, after their flight from Peking,
and was again the capital. Kaifeng-fu has been resurrected by a
railway. Mukden has been immortalized by the battle between the
Russian and Japanese invaders in 1905. Nanking the home of
the Mings became the capital of the first Provisional Republic of
all China while Jehol came under the calcium light as the possible
refuge of the down-fallen Manchus.
Of the ancient capitals of note only Shangtu and Karakorum
have been described for us by our own travelers. Perhaps a com-
posite of the foreign accounts of these two places with what we see
of Peking, Nanking, and Hsian-fu, together with the fragmentary
accounts from Chinese history and literature will afford approx-
imate pictures of what must have been the aspect and substance of
Yang-hsia, Po, Yin, Hao, Lo-yi, Hsien-yang, Chang-an and Lo-
yang or even of Hang-chow.
The Capital as already indicated has left its impress upon the
temples and all religious buildings. The Confucian temples of
which there is one in every Hsien (magisterial district) of China
have Imperial yellow tiled roofs and have received Imperial bene-
fits. They do not as a rule contain images but instead have
tablets to the Great Sage and his disciples, with altars and the
sacrificial vessels belonging to the shrines. The temples at Ch'u-
fu, Confucius's birthplace, and at the sacred mountain T'ai-shan,
are said to be almost the only exceptions. They possess images.
The Buddhist temple in its furnishings is quite otherwise and
is packed with sculptured images of the deities and dignitaries of
its pantheon, in bronze, stone, wood and earth. In the first hall
are found the Maharajas or "Four Great Kings of Devas" (Ssu
Ta Tien Wang). Their Sanscrit names may be translated: "He
who has heard much" (To Wen); "Prolector of Kingdoms" (Ch'i
Kuo) "Increased Grandeur" (Tseng Chang); and "Large
Eyes" (Kuang Mu). Between these and the South wall are some-
times seen the two Generals Heng and Ho (Heng Ho Erh Chiang).
The spectator commonly sees the Heng Ho Erh Chiang located in
the gatehouse as he enters such a temple. Facing the entrance in
the first hall is Maitreya (Mi Le Fo). He is very stout with a
laughing expression. Behind him is Wei T'o, the "Deve Who
Protects the Buddhist Religion." He is clad in armor. The
shrines of the last-mentioned images screen a door which opens
into a court of the Ta Hiung Pao Tien, or principal hall.
the central figure is Sakyamuni seated on a lotus leaf dais with
Ananda and Kashiapa on either side, while ranged along the east
and west walls are the eighteen Lohan. Various images such as
Here

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
135
Chan-teng, Pu-hsien, etc., sometimes occupy the north wall, while
Kwan-yin is placed behind the central image looking northward.
Dr. Edkins who gives this description of the general type of
Buddhist temples describes also an intermediate hall frequently
occupying a space between the two above described, sometimes
dedicated to Kwan-yin of the Southern sea, with Ti Tsang behind
looking northward." Sometimes it is called a "Hall of Lohans,"
with small images of the 500 Arhans occupying the east and west
walls. Various lien, or chapels, are found at the sides of or be-
hind the central structure. These are dedicated to special deities.
such as O-mi-to Fo. Tsang p'u sa and so on.
There are many
variations to this arrangement, but with the Imperial impress this
is the type in religious buildings.
The Buddhist church has received in China the sanction of
a government based on Confucianism. Chinese rulers have
conferred upon many of its temples and shrines the right of
employing the palace architecture and colors. This is the reason
why yellow tiled roofs often with green tiled trimmings, otherwise
seen only in the palaces at Peking and where there are Confucian
temples, greet the eye of the traveler wherever important Buddhist
shrines are found.
Other churches such as the Mongolian branch of the
Buddhist faith, and the Taoist sect have enjoyed Imperial
patronage. One of the last acts of the Manchu Dynasty was to
ask the provinces, the first part of September 1911, to send a list
of temples that were entitled to sacrificial offerings from the
Government and a report of the number of Buddhists and Taoists
under their jurisdiction. When it is remembered that the beauty
of man's surroundings in China owes more to the Buddhist
religion than to any other thing it will be seen how important is
the connection between the church and the Capital.
In the Liang Dynasty A.D. 502-557 Confucianism centering
in the Capital had a revival and large sums of money were
devoted to building Confucian temples. From a time whose
identity is lost in past ages the rulers of the Chinese people have
preserved an Imperial shrine to Shang Ti, the God of Heaven, now
represented in the Altar of Heaven at Peking, perhaps the most
beautiful and impressive shrine the Chinese have ever built to
Shang Ti. It is one of the most notable of China's monuments,
and perhaps the simplest altar to deity existing, as it is one of the
most impressive, man-made, places in the world. The Altar is of
white marble, circular, perhaps 200 feet in diameter, and con-
structed in its details with reference to the plan of the Universe.
It stands amid ancient and solemn junipers which, according to
the Chinese, are the most stately and dignified objects of the
vegetable kingdom. This altar is a fitting monument to the
religious aspirations of man and to what a French writer has
18

136
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
called "The painful cries of the soul, torn from its center and
separated from its object." The entire enclosure is commonly
called "The Temple of Heaven." Only the Emperor worships
there, making New Year's and solsticial sacrifices to the one God.
The earliest reference I have to the altar to Shang Ti is with
regard the Duke of Chin, who in the VIIIth century B.C.
violated established custom by building such an altar and offering
sacrifices, the right of which belonged to the Emperor alone.
As may be inferred from the fact that the Buddhist and other
churches in China have enjoyed Imperial patronage their sacred
places have often been the objective and refuge of the exalted.
They took possession, so to speak, of the mountain tops much as
does the church in western lands. It was the Emperor Yang
Chien, who, during a famine 595 A.D. for which he thought
himself responsible, journeyed to the sacred mountain T'ai Shan,
in Shantung, confessed his sins and prayed for forgiveness. This
was the occasion that gave opportunity for one of his powerful
Generals to commit the extravagance of building a palatial hall
for him provoking his denunciation of conducting such enterprises
when the people were starving. The picture of China's emperors
in their devotions upon her mountain tops, and the elaborate
shrines erected there, show that Buddhism turned the eyes of the
people Heavenward.
Buddhism has lighted with the light of past ages, darkest
China. "We must honor Buddhism," says the French traveller
Grenard, speaking of Tibet, the most forlorn regions of China,
"for abolishing human sacrifices, for spreading respect for science
and books, for setting a noble moral aim before a few chosen
souls, for kindling a flame of ideality, feeble though it be, on the
mountains of Tibet, which but for that flame, would have remained
dark and devoid of glory." Buddhism has done this work from
Tibet to Saghalin and it has done it with beauty and art, the most
conspicuous product of which is the pagoda. The pagoda is the
most conspicuous architectural feature of China. Coleridge could
not have selected a phrase more apt than stately pleasure dome"
had he intended to call attention to the best-known form in
Chinese architecture. Pagodas are altogether picturesque, stately,
inspiring and pleasurable. Of all the wrought beauty to the credit
of the Buddhists the pagodas are the most pleasing and lasting.
Denizened by birds and often dotted with vegetation they stand
for generations like sentinels after the temples to which they have
belonged have disappeared. Perhaps none are older than 900 years
and most of them have been built in the Ming Dynasty. They
are of various shapes, some round and others square or octagonal,
and they vary in height from 20 to 200 feet. They always have
an odd number of stories ranging usually from seven to nine,
sometimes possessing eleven and thirteen. The stories are

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
137
distinguished by cornices, sometimes developed into balconies.
The number of pagodas in China has never been ascertained
and perhaps the only estimate ever made is that by S. Wells Williams
who placed the number at "nearly 2,000," for the Empire. This
estimate appears to have been based on the figures 1,400 which is
the number of walled cities in China. Assuming that a city with
a wall was a community sufficiently opulent to possess a pagoda
and that the Buddhist monasteries and temples in the hills and
country possessing pagodas would make up the balance, the total
round number of 2,000 could be arrived at. No other basis for
the estimate is visible.*
The most beautiful specimens of pagodas are in the Yangtse
Valley where also they are perhaps most numerous. Buddhism
moved eastward through Tibet, Burmah and Central China to Korea,
Japan and Manchuria. No pagodas were found north of the
neighborhood of Kaiyuan in Central Manchuria until a small one
was built a few years ago near Petuna. But every important city
south of this region is garlanded with them. From the walls
of Peking a dozen pagodas and towers may be counted within the
city, and with a good glass half a dozen famous ones may be seen
rising from the surrounding plain.
Materials of sacred import are incorporated in these structures.
Part of the stones of the famous White Pagoda and of the White
Pagoda Hill in the palace enclosures adjoining the Forbidden
City in Peking were brought from a mountain in Honan province
by the Kin Tartars. Their structure and composition is easily
studied on account of their state of decay. As Buddhism is
in a state of arrested development nearly all are lapsing into ruin.
At the same time the ruin in modern times has been signally
assisted in China by vandals, the most notable of whom have been
the European armies that have invaded China in 1844, 1860.
1900 and 1904.
March 9, 1905, the Russian army south of Mukden blew up a
small pagoda in order to erase a landmark useful to the Japanese
artillery. The Japanese troops moved up and used the debris for
mending the military road. September 1900 troops of the Allied
Powers destroyed the White Pagoda in the Western Hills near
Peking. It was found to have been constructed of stamped
bricks, many of which had this inscription: "The Buddhist
doctrine comes from the Cause. I say there is a Cause. The
Cause vanishes? I do according to this saying." The last
sentence has been interpreted by a Chinese scholar as meaning
"When the Cause is vanished still I make this declaration."
The loss of this beautiful pagoda has been lamented perhaps more
"It was just like my Father to make that estimate of the total number. There is no
basis, of course, for its accuracy beside a shrewd guess, but it was a pretty careful reckoning
of probabilities made at a time when foreigners had hardly seen more than a third of the
towns and regions of China."-F. W. Williams.

138
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
by foreigners than by Chinese. The Revolutionist soldiery 1911
used an ancient tower on the lower Yangtse as an artillery target.
Like the church spires of western lands China's pagodas
beckon the beholder to their shrines or temples frequently
associated with them. Yet other reasons than those of religious
devotion have inspired the erection of these graceful objects. It
is a curious and interesting fact that the Chinese have appropriated
the pagoda as a counterpoise to evil and wherever possible have
made it a tool of their arts of geomancy. Though of Buddhist
origin the Chinese adopted pagodas in the expansion of their ideas
of "Feng-shui" (Good and Evil influences). Pagodas erected on
city walls have attributed to them the power to enable students to
obtain literary distinction. At Tungchow in the Peking plain, a
region in past years visited by earthquakes, there is a conspicuous
pagoda about which the people have this story: There is a water-
owl living underground. When he shakes his tail it causes earth-
quakes. Geomancers located the end of his tail and the pagoda
was built on it to hold it down. However, this did not prevent
the water-owl from winking his eyes, and as his eyelids have not
been accurately located no other pagoda has been built and as a
result tremblings of the earth still occur.
The Tung-chou pagoda at one time had more than 1,000
bronze bells suspended from its cornices, most of which are still in
place. To foreigners it is a landmark associated with the first
foreign embassies to China's Capital which were delayed here by
the Peking officials.
To Chinese their pagodas begin to appear as landmarks of a
stage of civilization to be discarded. On the eve of the rebellion
of 1911 the native press at Shanghai was adverse to the continued
use of the Lunghwa pagoda, six miles away and one of the best-
known in China, with its buildings, for the purposes of supersti-
tious worship. The disposition of The Republic" appears to be
to convert the temples into modern schools, in which case the
pagodas will become monuments to the age of geomancy and to
the period of the revival of Buddhism.
An
Along with much painting, porcelain and bronze art, pagodas
are a monument to the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644 A.D.)
interesting fact in connection with this Dynasty, which produced
most of the pagodas in China, is that Hung-wu its founder razed
to the ground a lofty tower or pagoda in Peking erected by one of
the Mongol Emperors. He attributed the downfall of the Mongol
Dynasty 1368 A.D. to the fact that its rulers squandered the
public moneys and his act of destruction was in the nature of a
protest against extravagance.
The height of this tower was not known, but possibly it
compared with the one in Hung-wu's own capital Nanking, which
suffered a similar fate at the hands of foreign soldiers in 1841.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
189
The Porcelain Pagoda at Nanking was 261 feet high. It was a
mass of colored tile and has been immortalized in Longfellow's
poem "Keramos." The part pertaining to the Porcelain Pagoda.
which is no less beautiful than Coleridge's "Cambalue" is as
follows:
"And yonder by Nanking, behold
The Tower of Porcelain, strange and old,
Uplifting to the astonished skies
Its ninefold painted balconies,
With balustrades of twining eaves.
And roofs of tile beneath whose eaves
Hang porcelain bells that all the time.
Ring with a soft melodious chime:
While the whole fabric is ablaze
With varied tints all fused in one
Great mass of colour, like a maze
Of Flowers illumined by the sun."
There is but one architectural object to be found in China
that may be said to compete in grace and beauty with the pagoda.
This is the p'ai-lou or commemorative arch. Paleologue, the
French authority, calls the p'ai-lou in front of the Confucian
Temple at Peking the most remarkable of these structures, but
there are several such at Peking, one in the Western Park
adjoining the Forbidden City. They are both built of yellow.
green and azure tiles with white marble foundations and have
three openings or arches surmounted by double roofs of tile. But
these do not surpass the magnificent p'ai-lou of five arches and all
of stone that forms the entrance to the Ming tombs near Nau-kou.
This form of monument has been forcibly impressed upon
the attention of the stranger in China by the circumstances of the
splendid stone p'ai-lou in expiation of the murder of the German
Minister von Ketteler, erected in the Hata Men Great Street in
Peking, 1902. The p'ai-lou are almost exclusively erected in honor
of deities, sages, and of brave men and virtuous women. None
are more impressive than those erected at great cost to faithful
virgins or to devoted wives symbolised in Chinese legends and art
by the fabled phoenix that having once selected her mate never
changes. These memorials represent a national expression of that
regard for women which the Indian King manifested in the Taj
Mahal. They exist at the entrances to tombs, temples,-notably
of ancestral temples-and in the open streets and highways.
They are said to be the only structures in China wholly of stone.
This is often handsomely carved. Perhaps the fact that p'ai-lous
are so often built by Imperial decree and to virtue may account
for the fact that the best materials are so often used in their
construction. But they are also built of wood as elaborately
ornamented in carving and colors and roofed with ornamental
tiles. Inscriptions over the arches set forth the purpose for which
they have been erected.

140
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
Among China's most characteristic monuments also are her
bridges, the greatest display of which is perhaps along the Grand
Canal. They have been described by one spectator as "hump-
back, horseshoe, spectacle, camel-back and needle-eye; their
openings rising often forty and fifty feet in the air," they are
ornamented with dragon-head gargoyles, balustrades, guardian
lions, and sealed as it were, with lettered tablets. The
"camel-back" bridge of China is not less graceful nor less
beautiful than the pagoda or the p'ai-lou. It is one of the most
frequent objects that as a background in Chinese scenes served
the western artist and engraver in conveying to the peoples of
western countries the first impression of what China is like. It is
the "pole vault" in bridges, springing from the banks of narrow
canals and clearing the masts of the canal vessels.
The camel-back bridge abounds from one end of China to
the other. The region of Peking has two, one of which is in the
Summer Palace grounds and is one of the best-known on this
account. China has also many massive stone bridges of more
durable type and which in fact appear indestructable. The great
age of some of them lends emphasis to this impression. China
has bridges and remains of bridges with an antiquity of 2,000
years and more. Shih Huang Ti who built the Great Wall.
era of 214 B. C., built at the same time roads "in all directions
and bridges. The so-called "Marco Polo" bridge (Liu-kou-chiao)
twelve miles from Peking is perhaps the most famous to
foreigners. It has eleven arches and was built in the XIIth
century. A longer and more striking specimen having seventeen
arches exists in the Summer Palace enclosure and has been greatly
admired by travelers. An equally beautiful specimen exists in
the Western Park adjoining the Forbidden City.
China's bridges are often approached through p'ai-lous
commemorating their construction. The arches often increase
in size from the banks to the center and the sections of balustrades
are distinguished by sculptures of tigers, dogs, monkeys and
other apocryphal animals. In western China, notably in Yunnan
and Szechuan, there are many beautiful suspension bridges.
Some of them are built of great wrought iron chains passing
through pagoda-like towers. This division in China's architecture
forms a rich contribution to her monuments.
In connection with bridges ought to be mentioned among
China's monuments the Grand Canal which next to the Great
Wall is the best-known monumental work of the Chinese. It
had its origin in a merging of minor canals in a grand trunk
line giving direct communication from Hangchow and Yangtse
basin with Peking, and connecting with all the waterways
between. It was as magnificent a scheme in its time as is the
Suez Canal or the Panama Canal to-day.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
141
In modern times long stretches of the Grand Canal, especially
in Shantung are almost unused and are in a state of desuetude.
But for the most part it is an active waterway crowded with
traffic. In some places it is harnessed, swiftflowing rivers, and
in others still water confined by locks. It leads in places through
sunken channels and again is lifted by embankments high above
the level of the surrounding country. It forms an inland
connection with nearly the whole of China's great inland water
system.
The use and value of canals was recognized in China a very
long time ago. The debauchee Emperor Yang Ti, already
mentioned, at the beginning of the VIIth century made a
journey from Lo-yang (near the modern Honan-fu) his Capital,
to Nanking, on canals which he had constructed. At intervals
the emperors have improved and extended the canal system of
China. The great Kublai Khan (1280-1295 A.D.) reconstructed
the Grand Canal from Hanchow the whole distance to Tientsin.
In the period 1465 to 1506 the Mings deepened it between its
Tientsin connection, the Pei River, and Tungchou. What it
means in the lives of the people, and what it meant in the
past, unlike the forgotten cities and capitals that were once its
contemporaries, and unlike its centers of art and learning, only
fragments of whose monuments remain, may be seen and
realized to-day.
The wonder inspired in the breast of the traveler who visits
China's vast remains of abandoned capitals, extensive temples
ranged in successive courts and on terraces of the mountains,
its pagodas, p'ai-lous, bridges and canals is equaled by the awe
inspired by the silence and splendor of the tombs of China's
emperors. The tombs of the Kings of the "Six Kingdoms" in
Shantung, though now only earthen pyramids terraced with
little fields, have the air of the pyramids of Egypt.
The most famous of existing tombs in China in our time
are those of the Mings near Nankou. They are best known to
the West because they are relatively in a high state of
preservation and are accessible to travelers. The avenue of
stone animals by which the tombs are approached, nearly two
miles in length, has been the inspiration of many travelers. One
often sees rhymed invocations on this theme of which the following
from the foreign press of China is a suitable illustration:
"Far in the fairy distance, beneath the pearly sky
Across the land, through fields and graves to where the low hills liv,
Beyond the mists and the dreaming we rode as pilgrims ride,
Into the plain and the silence where the solemn great tombs hide."*
These sacred buildings are placed on the southern slope of
the mountains and nearly enclosed by their encircling spurs,
From North China Daily News,

142
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
The Mings were great tomb-builders. They fixed the
height of graves for all classes by a law which is observed even to
this day. By its provision graves range in height from four feet
for the common people to sixteen feet for officials of the first rank.
Second rank is fourteen feet and Sixth, seven feet. The Mings
thought the matter very important and this can be readily
understood from the fact that in China the dead have from the
remotest times received at least Imperial consideration on an
equality with the living.
The Manchus from the moment when they assumed control
in Peking in 1644, and buried the last Ming Emperor, who had
suicided, have followed the Chinese custom. They rebuilt and
have kept in a state of comparative splendor the tombs of their
ancestors and founders of the Ching Dynasty at Mukden. The
most noted of these is the Pei-ling-Northern Tomb. A solemn
juniper forest encloses this sepulchre which is approached through
a magnificent marble p'ai-lou and preceded by stately buildings.
The spot figured in the great battle of Mukden 1905. So also
did the Tung-ling or Eastern Tomb, equally fine, though not so
extensive, seven miles east of Mukden.
What their tombs have meant to the Chinese can best be
comprehended when it is remembered that this is the people of
ancestral worship, where the desecration of a tomb is the most
terrible and heinous of all offences. China is a country of
practical immortality where, in a sense, men never die and tombs
unlike in less blessed countries are the habitations of the living.
The burial places of China all. follow the form of those of
the Emperors. Sacrifices are bestowed at ancestral tombs in
China throughout hundreds of years. Perhaps the oldest tombs,
or sepulchral shrines, at which the last emperors of China
worshipped, were those of their Mongolian kinsmen in the region
Hsuan-hua. The great immortal of China, whose tomb has been
a magnet to scholars and moralists since the third century before
Christ, is Confucius. The Emperor Kao Ti set the example of
Imperial sacrifice there in the latter part of the 5th century A.D.
The spot was celebrated a few years before the abdication of the
Manchus, by an Imperial rescript authorizing the founding of a
University of Confucian learning there.
In form Chinese tombs are no different from those of other
lands. The Chinese can do no more than the Egyptains, the
Persians, and the Greeks, which is to build a mound. Their
burial practices the emperors in China follow very closely. The
tumuli marking the graves of great Chinese emperors are about
the height of the mound which Achilles erected over the remains
of his friend Patrocles, say about 100 feet. The Ming tombs are
evidently built after the plan of the mausolea of the House of
Han (202 B.C.-220 A.D.) and the same is undoubtedly the case

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
148
with those of intermediate dynasties, giving a good idea of all
Chinese mausolea.
The Mings, in fixing the height of graves and the amount of
land that might be employed to contain them, merely modified the
laws of previous times which found their origin in remarkable
practices. Something of what the archaeological remains of
China may be is indicated by a historical note to the effect that
the Emperor of the Three Kingdoms," following the Han
Dynasty, ordered his son to build for him seventy-two tombs so
that his enemies would not know which contained his tablet.
Perhaps the Chinese, who have performed the greatest of
engineering feats, have surpassed the Egyptians, Persians and
Greeks, in this direction, as well as in the achievement of another
ancient emperor who selected a site for his tomb which he
constructed and then built nearby, peopled and garrisoned, a city
for its protection.
Next to the tomb of Confucius, at his birthplace in Chu-fu Hsien
in Shantung, doubtless the most interesting are the tombs of the
last Manchu emperors, namely the Tung-ling, sixty miles
northeast of Peking, and the Hsi-ling a similar distance southwest
of Peking. These places in which the emperors are buried,
alternately, are in a progressive state of construction where all the
methods of workmanship are to be observed and where on occasion
can be seen the Imperial burial practices of the Chinese as they
have endured for at least 3,000 years.
The tablet stands out as testimony to the fact that China is a
land of monuments. Architecturally insignificant compared with
the forms of monuments already mentioned, the tablet is yet to the
historian the most valuable and to the antiquarian the most
satisfactory of all. It is the kernel within the nut of Chinese
archaeology.
Tablets are found everywhere in China and perform the
service of commemorating every kind of deed, doing honour to
deity, performing the offices of libraries, preserving history, and
instructing the wayfarer. The usual form and structure is that of
a single slab of stone with its crest of the heads and curved backs
of four dragons and mounted on the back of a tortoise carved from
a separate stone. They vary in height from say eight to fifteen
and twenty feet. Before the invention of the art of block printing
in China-Later Tang Dynasty A.D. 923-926 and the printing of
the Nine Classics" by Imperial order from wooden blocks, the
classics were extensively engraved on stone. At Lo-yang the
Emperor Ling Ti (A.D. 25) had the "Five Classics" engraved on
stone and set up at the door of the Imperial College. Libraries
existed in China that for the most part were composed of manu-
scripts and books written by hand. When the warrior Emperor
T'ai Tsung (A.D, 627-650) applied himself to learning and amassed
19

144
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
a library of 200,000 volumes, a large number of them were made
from rubbings taken from engraved stone tablets, and not a few
were written catalogues of these inscriptions.
The "Peking Gazette" which itself may be called one of the
monuments of China, as it is the oldest newspaper in the world,
was not established until 785 A.D., the year that also saw the birth
of the Hanlin Academy. Four years before is dated what is to
Christendom the most interesting tablet in all China. This is the
Nestorian tablet at Hsi-an-fu, in the oldest part of China. It gives
in 2,000 Chinese characters, only one of which is illegible, a record
of the earliest known Christian mission. It has been carefully
treasured by Christian missionaries since the Christian church
became aware of its existence through the Roman Catholic Fathers,
1625. Not less curious are two tablets at Kai-feng-fu province of
Honan, commemorating the ancient and now extinct Jewish colony
at that place.
That the Chinese treasure their ancient monuments is shown
by the fact that they never wilfully destroy them and by the
existence in most centers of learning of sanctuaries for their
preservation. In Pao-ting-fu, south of Peking, is the pavilion of
ancient monuments in the Imperial "Traveling Palace." At Hsi-
an-fu is the Pei Lin, or "Forest of Tablets," perhaps the most
remarkable collection of tablets in all China. It was to this place
that the Governor of Shensi 1908 carried the Nestorian tablet to
prevent threatened depredations, by a foreign adventurer, and there
it remains honored by the yet more ancient company in which it
stands. There is a catalogue of these tablets and their inscriptions
in existence compiled by Chien Ta-hin, that comes down to the end of
the Yuan Dynasty 1368 A.D. There are many others of less extent.
Tablets greet the traveller at every yamen, temple, bridge,
mountain pass, by the roadside and before the tomb, and in the
faces of walls where they are incorporated. In eastern China
pavilions are built over them while in the west of China they are
framed in brick-like doors. A curious one recorded in Chinese
history was that erected by the Emperor Kang Hsi in Nanking
reproving the inhabitants for their extravagance and prodigality.
In Manchuria near the Yalu River is a tablet more than eighteen
feet high standing in the neighborhood of several pyramids.
Although little is known of it, it is interesting especially in this
time of Japanese expansion on the continent because of the fact
that the inscription on it mentions the Japanese by a nickname.
Another interesting tablet of Manchuria is now used to cover a well
under Golden Hill, Port Arthur. It bears an inscription recording
the fact that a Chinese envoy passed that point during the Middle
Ages on a mission to the court of one of the Manchurian kings of
the period. Tablets have been erected to the late Empress Grand
Dowager commemorating her journey to Hsian fu in 1900.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
145
At Chu Yun Kwan the traveller is struck by the inscription
over the gateway "First Gate of the World (Nation)" this being
the principal barrier in the great Nankow Pass. But within the
entrance through the pedestal of what was once a great pagoda
there are tablets bearing inscriptions in seven languages, some of
the latter long since dead.
The historical value of the inscriptions in China has not yet
begun to be realized in the West. At Hangchow, one of the two
cities which according to Chinese proverb reconciles the soul to
this world until Heaven is reached, there was until recent years
an invaluable iron plate of the Xth century with an inscription
recording the circumvallation of the city by the feudal Prince
Chien whose descendants still reside there. Incidentally it may
be mentioned that it is an heirloom of the Chien family, warred
over by opposing factions.
But of all stone monuments in China, valuable for the
antiquity of their inscriptions, the Stone Drums of Peking are the
most remarked. They are preserved in the Confucian Temple
there and are supposed to record the hunting exploits of King
Hsuan (B.C. 827) making them more than 2,700 years old. The
translations of their inscriptions are generally made from rubbings
made in the Sung Dynasty-A.D. 960-1127-for the inscriptions
are almost wholly illegible now, only here and there can a
character be traced.
One can only guess what may be the buried monumental
wealth of China, among which there must be innumerable tablets
of great historical and archaeological value, as well as other
objects. For ages in Central China, in regions subject to flood
and to burial by alluvial deposits, antiquities have been dug up,
the latest discoveries occurring where excavations have been made
for railways. These include sculptured figures showing ante-
queue fashions.
About the middle of the last century eleven bells
two thousand years old were dug up in Kiangsi province, and are
said to be in the Forbidden City.
When excavations were made in Peking for the new Foreign
Office building large hollow bricks were dug up measuring nearly
four feet in length by twenty inches in width and five inches in
thickness. They had a clear ringing tone when struck and were
known to the natives as "Music stand bricks." They were said
to have originally come from the region of the Yellow River and
to have been used as stands for musical instruments. But they are
ornamented with a geometrical pattern and may probably have
been used for friezes.
Among the weird monuments of the past in China are the
buried cities of Chinese Turkestan which have yielded manuscripts
of the IInd century and inscribed bricks of the VIIth century, and
the dismantled and abandoned cities elsewhere. Paintings and

146
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
books have been found, and from Kansuh in 1908 a complete
library of the 10th century was taken from a sealed cave where it
had not been disturbed since 1035 A.D.
As universal as her temples, p'ai-lous and Imperial buildings,
and almost as universal as her tombs and tablets, are China's
sculptures, which take an important place among her monuments.
The most striking and varied are the religious ones. As the
Buddhist church has been the builder of most of the temples and
pagodas, the maker of the gardens, and the protector of flowers
and trees, it has been the promoter of art and the inspiration of
China's best sculptures.
The most notable sculptures are in the rock walls of
mountains, in caves, and are found in all the more inhabited
portions of China. The largest pieces are those of Buddha.
Rockhill describes one of these, a Buddhist colossus located at
Kuei-hua-cheng, northwest of Peking. The largest and most
notable colossus of Buddha in China known to occidentals is that
described by S. Wells Williams. According to him this image is
said to have been cut by one of the Emperors of the Tang
Dynasty, in the IXth century. It is of sandstone, the cutting of
which left it in a cave. "Its height is 56 feet, the figure as well
as the garments are richly covered with color and gilt." It "is
lighted from above, after the manner of the Pantheon, a single
round opening in the vaulting. Sixty feet over the rock temple
rises a tiled roofing, and upon the hillside without the cavern are a
number of minor temples and statues."
Some of China's mountain walls are honeycombed by quarried
and sculptured recesses made to leave religious statues in relief.
The crowning example of this is the famous Lung Men-dragon
door-that was the entrance to the grounds of the palaces of the
Emperors of the Wei Dynasty at Lo-yang. The Lung Men is a
channel for a river cut through a limestone mountain. At the
sides of the river, roadways are left for men, horses and carts,
wheelbarrows, and chairs. In the sides of the cloven range
wrought the sculptors, who, like the Greek masters of the chisel,
are unknown.
The place is in the province of Honan about ten miles to
the south of Honan-fu. It is reached by rail to Honan-fu and
thence by native means of travel. In 1908 it was visited by the
French sinologue Chavannes who reproduced its marvels in
engraving and print, and two years after by Charles L. Freer
of Detroit well-known in one way as the collector of the best
existing gallery of Chinese paintings.
The wonders of Lung Men consist of a remarkable series of
cave temples filled with marvelous sculptures. They represent
with great power the Buddhist Guardians of the Gates and the
benign countenance of Buddha, as well as the members of the

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
147
Buddhist pantheon. The decorative quality in these sculptures
has never been surpassed and they strike in the beholder the same
wonder that is inspired by the anonymous art of Ancient Greece.
In some places the figures in these caves are of unusual
dimensions, several times the height of man, with chased
vaulting and walls covered with bas-reliefs and recesses with
smaller Buddhas and shrines. The effect of these sculptures
and decorations is heightened by the "cathedral" light of the
caves which animate the shadows with innumerable beings.
The only other sculptures in China on a scale with the rock
images of Buddha and the members of the Buddhist pantheon
are the stone animals before the tombs of the Mings and Chings,
notably near Peking and Mukden. Those at Nanking are also
well-known. They consist of stone representations of men,
elephants, cainels, horses and unicorns. At various times in
China similar objects have been built of metal as well as of other
materials. There is a beautiful bronze sculpture of a cow in a
lying posture, beside the lake of the Summer Palace, Peking.
In the Western Park adjoining the Forbidden City is a
life-size bronze statue of a bonze holding a bowl on his head
and set upon a marble pylon sculptured with clouds and dragons.
In this connection may be mentioned the seated figure of Marco
Polo in a temple at Canton before which the Cantonese make
offerings to the shade of the famous traveller. So far as I know
there is no piece of sculpture in China with which the sculptor's
name is identified.
The best-known monument of China is the Great Wall, built
in the IIIrd century, B.C. and by far the most extensive and
formidable single structure ever devised by man. It has never
been surveyed but it is believed to have an extent of 1500 miles.
Built by the Emperor Shih to protect the peaceful inhabitants of
the plains from the hill barbarians of Tartary, it served a
useful purpose in defence, at intervals of time, for ages, and
successfully defended China from the Manchus. For hundreds of
miles it remains intact, an almost complete monument built
with a brick or dressed granite shell filled with earth and
covered with an impervious paving of brick laid in lime, carefully
drained. It is protected by crenalated parapet and fortress
towers. It seems to rock upon the mountains, spurs and
ridges like a great serpent. It must be one of the most
marvelous results of man's handiwork. The wonder and
magnificence of its physical aspects make it the best monument
to the matchless qualities of the Chinese race. Where did
the Chinese get the labor? Where did they get the materials?
Where did they get the water to make the mortar and how did
they get this material up the mountain heights? These amaze more
than do the same questions asked respecting the Pyramids of Egypt.

148
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
The innumerable tablets and inscriptions which it bears
recording its construction and subsequent repair would form a
curious and instructive history. It was last repaired by the
Mings, with the efforts of 50,000 soldiers, in the XVth century,
almost a hundred years before the Manchus passed it.
There is one other form of monument of historical and
romantic interest dating from the earliest ages and intimately
associated with the deeds of the builder of the Great Wall.
This is the watch tower. The valleys and plains in front of the
Great Wall are sown with watch towers and they still stand
like petrified sentinels along the Imperial highways of all China.
The most notable chain of them extends from Mukden to Peking
and Hsi-an-fu and thence to Chia-yu-kuan, thirty-six days'
journey beyond Hsi-an-fu and beyond the end of the Great Wall.
These towers vary in size from very large ones outside the
Great Wall measuring forty or fifty feet square, to twenty feet
square or less within the Great Wall, and twenty to forty feet in
height. They are built of brick filled with earth and the summits
are reached by an interior stair. Here is a story giving a glimpse
of the place of these picturesque objects in the lives of the
Chinese Nearly 2700 years ago (781 B. C.) the Emperor Yu,
desired to cause a smile on the face of one of his haughty
beauties, Pao Ssu, of whom he was very fond but who had led
him into many follies. On this occasion he adopted the following
expedient: He commanded that the beacons on all the watch-
towers in the Empire be lighted so that the feudal princes
thinking the Empire was in danger would rush to the defence of
the Capital. They did so and Pao Ssu laughed at their chagrin.
The conditions in the Empire indicated to the hostile Duke of
Hsin that this was a favorable time to invade the Kingdom of Yu
and he did so. The Emperor ordered the beacons again to be
lighted on the watch towers but the feudatory princes refused to
respond to the summons and the capital fell, the Emperor was
slain and the haughty Pao Ssu carried into captivity where she
strangled herself.
We cannot claim to know much about China's monuments
until a more careful examination has been made of the writings of
China's antiquaries. Of these there have been many as is
testified by the wonderful series of archæological treatises, or
"Annals" of archæological remains, of the provinces. The
scholars of the Empire have celebrated the beauties of its
monuments and China's prose and poetical literature is undoubted-
ly filled with references to them. The Government also has for
ages regarded it as a responsibility to protect monuments, and men
of the literati have preferred this occupation to that of the common
duties of the mandarin. Tu Fu (A. D. 712-770) one of China's
most famous poets and whom his countrymen called the God of

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
149
Verse, found in his appointment to the post of Restorer of Ancient
Monuments the one congenial appointment of his life. He had
previously been appointed governor of a province. The regard
with which he received the honor as compared with his office
as Restorer of Ancient Monuments is shown by his conduct on the
day of his installation. He immediately took off his insignia of
office before the astonished nobles, laid it on the table, and
making it a profound reverence quietly withdrew. *
No doubt an investigation more thorough than has been
made by western observers in the past, with the aid of Chinese
annals and the writings of the Chinese poets and essayists, will
result in contributing one of the most brilliant chapters to the
records of the world's antiquities. It is a subject that is one of
the interests of man universal, and of nations in their aspects as
clay in the hands of the Universal Potter which is a figure
Longfellow used and which affords the connection between
China's monuments and ourselves.
"Turn, turn, my wheel. The human race,
Of every tongue, of every place,
Caucasian, Coptic, or Malay,
All that inhabit this great earth,
Whatever be their rank or worth,
Are kindred and allied by birth,
And made of the same clay."-Keramos.
See "Lute of Jade "-Byng.

150
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
THE CHINA MONUMENTS SOCIETY.
Bishop Moule
Partial List of Initial Members;
Dr. John Fryer
Dr. Hunter Corbett
M. Casenave
Le Legation de France
G. E. Morrison
W. E. Soothill
J. A. Thomas
Charles W. Fairbanks
Prof. H. A. Giles
Frederick Hirth
Sir Walter Hillier
Baron Grenier
Jeremiah W. Jenks
Edmund Backhouse
Sir Fredk. Lugard
Bishop Bashford
C. W. Campbell
Miss Scidmore
Prof. A. Forke
Francis D. Millet
Sir Robert Bredon
W.A.P. Martin, LL.D. E. T. Williams
Gilbert Reid
General Waters
Timothy Richard
and others.
H. P. Fletcher
E. Krebs
Fredk. Wells Williams
China Monuments Committee:
E. Babst
J. Korostovetz
L. di Giura
Sir John Jordan
H. Ijuin
W. J. Oudendijk
E. G. Hillier, Honorary Treasurer
Frederick McCormick, Honorary Secretary.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
151
THE CHINA MONUMENTS SOCIETY.
The China Monuments Society was organized as a Committee,
in Peking, 1908, with the object of preventing foreign vandalism
in China. It acquired more than one hundred and fifty contri-
butors who were registered as members. Part of the whole funds
collected, a nominal sum, was employed for printing and postage,
and for framed notices which were posted in foreign hotels and
other public places in the foreign settlements and elsewhere. These
posted notices informed the foreign public of the Society's object
and warned offenders against the consequences of acts of vandalism.
The Society has received warm support from the foreign
legations in Peking and from foreigners resident throughout eastern
Asia, as well as Chinese, and from scholars and other interested
persons in Europe and America. Leading journals throughout the
world have noted it.
Aside from the work of preventing acts of vandalism by
foreigners an effort has been made to identify and locate the
principal monuments of China for the information of the foreign
friends of China and their authorities, as well as in the interest of
history, science, and research. The task is formidable on account
of the lack of accurate information. Foreign authorities disagree
about most simple and important facts, and the native Chinese
sources, principally the wonderful series of Chih () of the cities
and provinces remain to be explored and translated.
It is apparent therefore how imperfect must be any catalogue
of China's monuments made under existing disadvantages for the
investigator. As a matter of fact such a one must further depend
upon future contributions to make it completely representative of
China's real archæological wealth. At the same time so much
that is curious, interesting, and valuable has been found available
that it has been possible to make the accompanying general
presentation of the subject.
In arranging the catalogue I have culled from as wide a
range of sources as my opportunities have permitted. In doing so
I have been aided in my researches by contributors in various
parts of China and especially by the compilers, Miss Margaret
McKim of New York and Mrs. Rose Sickler Williams of Peking,
to all of whom grateful thanks are hereby extended.
THE SECRETARY.
20

152
Fr. Gregoris Arnaiz
Mrs. Ayscough.
Jos. Bender.
Samuel Cochran.
Brother Constant.
Rev. A. R. Crawford.
S. A. Ellerbeck, M.B.
Charles L. Freer.
M. L. Griffith.
A. F. Groesbeck.
G. W. Hunter.
Rev. J. W. Inglis, M.A.
C. D. Jameson.
Frederick McCormick.
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
CONTRIBUTORS
F. A. Murphy.
B. C. Patterson.
H. S. Phillips.
Neil Poulsen.
Thr. de Preter.
J. H. Reeves.
T. A. S. Robinson.
Ernest C. Searle.
Rev. Father G. R. Spadn.
T. N. Thompson.
W. R. T. Tuckey.
Mrs. H. E. Noss.
E. T. Williams.
W. Perceval Yetts.
COMPILERS
Margaret McKim.
Rose S. Williams.
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
1. The Middle Kingdom-Williams.
2.
Peking-Favier.
3. Yule's Edition of Marco Polo.
4.
5.
Chinese Buddhism-Edkins.
The Land of the Lamas-Rockhill.
6. China, the Long-Lived Empire-Scidmore.
7. The Great Wall of China--Geil.
8.
The Eighteen Capitals of China-Geil.
3. China Under the Empress Dowager-Bland and Backhouse.
(Map)
10. Through the Yangtze Gorges-Little.
11. Gleanings from China-Little.
12. The Face of China-Kemp.
13. China, Its Marvel and Mystery-Liddell.
14. The Changing Chinese-Ross.
15. China; the Country and Its People-Brown.
16. Ling-Nam-Henry.
17.
Across China on Foot-Dingle.
18. The Back Blocks of China-Jack.
19. Mukden, the Manchu Home-Scidmore. (In "National
20.
Geographical Society's Journal," April 1910.)
L'Art Chinois-Paleologue.
21. Chinese Language and How to Learn It-Hillier.
22. Guide to Peking-Fisher.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
23.
Annals of Cheng-te Fu.
24.
Annals of Chou-Chih Hsien.
153
25. Article by Max von Berchen, in "Le Journal Asiatique."
26. The Wei Shu; (Chap. 14, p. 8.)
27.
Le Journal Asiatique; (Vol. 20, 1902, p. 133.)
28. Voyage Archæologique dans la Chine Septentrionale-
Chavannes.
29. Diary W. W. Rockhill
30. Peking Newspaper Article.
31.
Bushell's Chinese Art.
32. Journeys in North China-Williamson.
33.
34.
Tea Country of China-Fortune.
The Coming China-J. K. Goodrich.
35. Encyclopædia Brittanica.
36.
37.
Short History of China-Pott.
La Sculpture Sur Pierre en Chine au Temps des Deux
Dynasties Han-Charannes.
38. Geography of China-Richard.
39.
40.
Chinesische Kunstgeschichte-Munsterberg.
Tibet and the Tibetans-Grenard.
41. Tibet the Mysterious-Holditch.
42.
43.
Across America and Asia-Pumpelly.
Mann's Map of Shooting Districts lying between Hangchou,
Nanking, Wuhu and Shanghai.

154
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
MONUMENTS
CHIHLI
Peking City Walls and Gates.-The wall of the Manchu City
of Peking is held to be the finest city wall in the world. Together
with that of the Outer City it incloses an area of 26 square miles.
The length of the Manchu wall is 14.25 square miles and that of the
outer city about 10 miles. The Manchu walls over 50 feet
high, 40 feet wide at the top and 60 feet at the bottom. It
has a crenellated parapet. At intervals of 60 yards square
buttresses project 50 feet, with the exception of every sixth one
which is twice as large as the others. In the Manchu wall there
are nine gates, three in the south wall and two in each of the
others. Each gate is surmounted by a tower and protected by
a circular curtain wall with one to three openings, and there are
towers at the corners. Ramps are found at and between the gates
for convenience in mounting from the inside to the top of the
wall. The old Yuan Dynasty walls of earth were covered with
brick early in the Ming Dynasty. 1.
Tzu Ching Cheng (Forbidden City).-Palace buildings in
the center of the Tartar City of Peking, surrounded by wall and
The wall is pierced by four gates-the Wu Men to the
south, the Shen Wu Men at the north, the Tung Hua Men at
the east and the Hsi Hua Men at the west. 1, 2, 9.
moat.
Approaching through the Wu Men from the south, the gate
T'ai Ho Men gives access to :-
T'ai Ho Tien (Hall of Highest Peace).-This is the great
throne hall about 200 feet long by 90 broad, with 72 pillars. It
is the chief audience hall, used in the celebration of Imperial
birthdays, the New Year, etc.
Chung Ho Tien (Hall of Central Peace).-This has a
circular roof. It is pre-eminently the hall of ceremonies.
Pao Ho Tien (Hall of Secure Peace).-A council hall, also
serves for the examination of candidates for the Hanlin. To the
north of this, one passes by way of the Chien Ching Men to the
Chien Ch'ing Kung.
Chien Ching Kung (Palace of Heavenly Purity).-Here the
Emperor gave audiences to the Grand Council.
were received here after the Peace Protocol.
of Kuang-hsu lay in state for some months.
of this is the
Foreign diplomats
Here, also, the body
Directly to the north
Chiao T'si Tien.-The Imperial marriage hall.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
155
Huang Chi Tien (Throne Hall of Imperial Supremacy).-
This is in the eastern part of the inclosure.
The Empress
Dowager sometimes received her officials here, and here her body
lay in state for nearly a year.
Tai Miao (Temple of Imperial Ancestors).-In front of the
Wu Men, to the right, is a gateway leading to the T'ai Miao.
This is in the midst of a grove of cypress inclosed by a wall about
four thousand feet in circuit. It contains the tablets of deceased
emperors and empresses, and also those of loyal and meritorious
officers. Williams calls it "The most honored of religious structures
next to the Temple of Heaven." 1.
She Chi Tun (Altar to the Gods of Land and Grain).-The
entrance to this is in front of the Wu Men to the left, opposite
the entrance to the T'ai Miao. The altar is unique. The north,
east, south and west sides are respectively black, green, red and
white, while the top is yellow. The spirits worshipped here are
those of Kao-lung, Minister of Works, B.C. 2500 and Hou-chi,
an ancestor of Chou Kung. 1.
Ching Shan (Prospect Hill).-Also known as "Mei Shan"-
Coal Hill. To the north of the palace, outside the Shen Wu Men.
There are five artificial mounds, the highest in the center, each
surmounted by a pavilion. The central and larger pavilion is
square with yellow tiles; the two next it are square with yellow
and green tiles, while those at either end are round with
green tiles.
The hill dates from the Yuan Dynasty, but the
pavilions were first constructed under the Ming. 1. 2. 9.
Ning Shou Kung (Palace of Peaceful Longevity).-A little
to the north of the Huang Chi Tien. The Empress Dowager
lived in it during the siege and buried her treasure there.
Yang Hsin Tien (Throne Hall of Mental Growth).-A little
to the north of the Chien Ching Kung. The residence of Tung
Chih during his entire reign.
Chang Chun Kung (Palace of Perpetual Spring).-In the
north-western part.
Residence of Tzu Hsi during the reign of
Tung Chih.
Tzu Ning Kung (Palace of Maternal Tranquility).-In the
north-eastern part. Residence of Tzu An during the co-regency.
Nei Wu Fu (Department of Imperial Household).-Near
the Hsi Hua Men.
Palaces for the chief Imperial Concubines:-These are located
at the north-eastern corners of the enclosure.
Hsi Yuan (Western Park, also called San Hai (Three Seas).-
These are Imperial pleasure grounds occupying the entire western
part of the Imperial City. The Three Seas" are artificial
lakes Northern, Central and Southern. In the Northern Lake
is an artificial hill, probably made of earth thrown up in forming
the lakes. There was a pleasure garden here under the Kin

156
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
Dynasty (1115-1224 A.D.), but the spot was outside their city
to the north. The lake was constructed (or probably only
improved) under the Yuan. 1. 2. 9.
The principal buildings are:-
Ying Tai (Ocean Terrace.)-This is in the southern lake
and can be entirely isolated by means of a draw-bridge. Here
Kuang Hsu was kept imprisoned after the coup d'état of 1898,
and here he died.
Ching Cheng Tien (Throne Hall of Diligent Government).-
Used for audiences with the Grand Council when the Court was
at the Lake Palace.
Li Yuan Tien.-Palace of the Empress Dowager, built for
her in the early part of Kuang Hsü's reign. Here she gave a
valedictory address just before her death.
Old Catholic Church.-Converted by the late Empress
Dowager into a museum with a collection of stuffed birds.
Tzu Kuang Ko (Hall of Purple Effulgence).-The hall in
which the Emperor used to receive the feudatory chiefs. Foreign
envoys were also received here previous to 1900.
Pei Ta (North (?) Dagoba).-On the artificial hill in the
northern lake. It is sometimes called the Finger Dagoba, as it
is said to contain a finger of Buddha preserved as a relic. In front
of the dagoba is a bronze pavilion, with an image in bronze,
horrible in appearance but well-constructed and having a collar of
sculptured skulls about its neck.
Yu Ho Chiao.-A splendid marble bridge which connects
the central and northern lakes.
Ta Hsi Tien (Great Western Temple).-A famous Buddhist
shrine built during the reign of Kang Hsi.
Lama Miao (Lama Temple).-A Buddhist temple in the
extreme north of the enclosure where the Empress Dowager
frequently worshipped.
Pai-lou and Screen.-A fine p'ai-lou in green and yellow
tiles, behind which is a famous dragon screen in the same colors.
Bells. Eleven bells. In a building in the Hsi Yuan,
Peking. Chow Dynasty. These bells, 2,000 years old, were
found buried in Kiangsi in the XIXth century, and were removed
to Peking.
66
END OF WESTERN PARK."
Ta Kao Tien (Hall of the Most High).-Just outside
the Forbidden City to the north west. Constructed by the
Emperor Chia Ching of the Ming, afterwards embellished by
Yung Cheng and Chien Lung. A magnificent yellow-tiled temple.
At the entrance are two pavilions of noticeable architecture,
their four or five tiers of yellow-tiled roofs being curiously inter-
laced. Here the Emperor goes to pray for rain, using in the

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
157
ceremony an iron tablet from south Chihli, which is brought on
each occasion for that purpose and received by the Emperor with
great honors.
Temple of Heaven.-Peking.-S.E. part of southern city.
Two large marble altars, on one of which is a three-roofed
pavilion. These altars are connected by a raised terrace intersected
by gates and buildings, all situated in a grove of junipers and
enclosed by a high wall several miles in length. 1. 2. 22.
Temple of Agriculture.-Imperial buildings and altars in a
park adjacent to the South Wall of Peking, where the Emperor
or his representative conducts the ceremonies respecting
agriculture. 1. 2. 6. 22.
Altar of the Sun.-Enclosure with Imperial buildings and
shrines or altars. Outside east wall of Peking. Tablets of the
stars are placed on this altar, which is a sanctuary of annual
Imperial worship. 2. 6.
Altar of the Moon.-Enclosure with Imperial buildings and
shrines or altars. Beyond the west wall of Peking. Tablets of
the stars are placed on this altar which is a sanctuary of annual
Imperial worship.
Temple of the Earth.-Enclosure with Imperial buildings,
and an altar with sculptures representing the lands and waters,
outside the north wall of Peking, a sanctuary of Imperial
worship. 2. 6.
Confucian Temple.-Temple and Pavilions. Peking. A great
red temple on a high terrace reached by two flights of stone
steps, between which is a finely carved, sloping, dragon slab.
These steps rise from a long, flagged quadrangle where are
yellow-tiled pavilions and stone tablets, shaded by ancient cedars.
Inside the main temple, which has teak columns and panelled
ceiling, are the tablets of Mencius and others and the small,
sacred tablet of Confucius in a red wooden shrine behind the
altar table. 1. 2. 6. 13. 22.
Stone Drums.-Peking-in Confucian Temple. Ten drum-
shaped stones, bearing inscriptions supposed to record the
hunting exploits of King Hsuan (B. C. 827). 21.
Pi Yung Kung (Hall of Classics).-Peking. Adjoining
Confucian Temple. It contains 300 stone tablets on which the
authorized texts of the classics are engraved. On the grounds
are pavilions, marble bridge and pond, an ancient sun-dial,
and opposite the south gate a p'ai-lou of brick and stone, three-
arched, part covered with glazed tiles. 1. 2. 6. 22.
Kung Yuan (Examination Halls).-Peking. An enclosure
filled with tiled sheds. Built by Yung Le. Contained ten
thousand cells. Razed in 1909 to make room for a proposed
modern school. At the entrance are "Tottering yellow p'ai-lous
and dilapidated gates."
2. 6.

158
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
The Observatory.-Peking. Bronze astronomical instruments
on the east city wall with buildings below. Some of the finest
instruments date from the Yuan Dynasty; others were designed
in 1674 by Father Verbeist. There is, or was, also an old
water clock, or clepsydra 1. 2. 6. 22.
Ku Lou (Drum Tower).-Peking. Built by the Yuan
Dynasty. A dual-roofed tower on an immense base built of
masonry covered with red plaster. An old Mongol keep rebuilt
by Ch'ien Lung. It contains a great barrel drum that "bangs
the hours." 2. 6. 22.
Chung Lou (Bell Tower).-Peking. Built by the Yuan
Dynasty. A short square tower with double roofs set on a large
square base. Similar to the Drum Tower. It was the center of
Cambaluc and was repaired by Yung Le when he bricked the
walls of Peking. Having been burned it was rebuilt by Chien
Lung.
Roof of
All the internal
Yung Ho Kung (Lama Temple).-Temple buildings. Peking.
Manchu Dynasty. Formerly palace of Yung Cheng. Changed
into a temple by Chien Lung. A fine p'ai-lou in front.
yellow tiling. Immense bronze lions in court.
arrangements of a complete lamasery. Gilded wooden statue of
Maitreya 70 feet high. Some remarkable altar vases in old clois-
sonne and enamel. 1. 2. 6. 13. 22.
Pai-lou (Erected to "The Myriad Faithful.")-Near Con-
fucian Temple, Peking.
Hui Tze T'a (Mohammedan Mosque).-Dilapidated buildings.
Peking-south-western angle of Imperial City. Just opposite,
inside the walls of the Imperial City, is the Wang-chia-lou or
"Looking Homeward Pavilion." The mosque contains a circular
tablet of sculptured marble-a Buddhist monument. 22.
Pai Ta (White Dagoba).-A Dagoba near the Ti Wang
Miao. First built about 1100, repaired by Kublai Khan and
rebuilt in 1819. Has a great copper umbrella on the top.
Contains beads or relics of Buddha. 1.
Lung Fu Ssu (Temple of the Glorious Buddha).-In the
eastern part of the Tartar City. Founded by Ching Tai of the
Ming, and richly equipped and served by numerous priests under
that Dynasty. A popular fair is now held there three times each
month. The place is in a dilapidated condition. 2.22.
Tu Ti Miao (Temple of the Local Divinity).-This is in the
western part of the Chinese City near the Chang I Men. It
existed before the Ming, but was completely rebuilt under Wan
Li in fulfillment of a vow made by the Empress-Mother for the
healing of her eyes. It is in charge of the Taoists. A fair is
held here on the 3rd, 13th, and 23rd of each month. 2.
Pao Kuo Ssu.-Near the Tu Ti Miao and one of the oldest
temples in Peking. An Empress of the Ming constructed it for

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
159
her brother, who was a priest. There is here a porcelain image of
the Goddess of Mercy which is regarded as quasi-miraculous. 2.
Fa Yuan Ssu. A very old temple in the western part of the
Chinese City. Built by the T'ang to replace an older one dating
from the Sui. 2.
Li Hung Chang Memorial Temple.-In the Tsung Pu
Hu'tung, Peking, on the site of the former residence of Li Hung
Chang. It was erected by Imperial order after his death. In the
main court is a white marble tablet bearing a eulogy and recording
his services. Behind is the usual sacrificial hall. Similar temples
were ordered to be erected in all places where he had served the
State. One of the finest is in Tientsin. Connected with it are
a fine garden and a magnificent theater.
Pai-lou (The von Ketteler Monument).-Hata Men Great
Street, Peking. Fine marble p'ai-lou built 1902 by order of
Kuang Hsu as a memorial to Baron von Ketteler, German Minister
who (1900) was murdered at the instance of Boxer leaders. The
p'ai-lou marks the spot of the murder.
Tombs. Outside Ping-tze Men, Peking. Tombs of, and
memorials to, Ricci, Verbiest, Schall, and other Christians of the
XVIth and XVIIth centuries and later. Desecrated by the
Boxers 1900. Restored under Kuang Hsü by Bishop Favier and
the memorials incorporated in the walls of the Roman Catholic
Chapel there.
Summer Palaces.-A large number of palace buildings at the
foot of the Western Hills near Peking. 1. 2. 22.
Chang Chun Yuan (Garden of Perpetual Spring).-This
was the summer palace of Kang Hsi.
Yuan Ming Yuan.-A little to the north of the latter.
Presented to Yung Cheng by Kang Hsi. All were united by
Chien Lung under the name of Yuan Ming Yuan. Frere Attiret
(1743) says there were more than two hundred palaces, without
counting the houses of the eunuchs. A palace in European style
was constructed under the direction of the Jesuit Fathers. The
hydraulic works, constructed by Pere Benoit were a striking
feature. This place was burned in 1860 and is
now in
ruins. The most noticeable ruin is that of the European palace
building.
Wan Shou Shan (Hill of Longevity).-Seven miles north west
of Peking. This is the present Summer Palace. Also known as
the I Ho Yuan. It was part of the original Yuan Ming Yuan.
The buildings are modern and inferior in construction to the
Yuan Ming Yuan. Some of the objects of interest are: the
Temple of Myriad Buddhas on the summit, faced with green and
yellow tiling, each bearing an image of Buddha, many of which
were defaced by foreign soldiers after the Boxer troubles; a fine
bronze pavilion, marble junk, bronze cow, three beautiful bridges,
21

160
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
and a Temple to the Dragon King (Lung Wang Miao) on an
island in the lake.
Yu Chuan Shan (Jade Fountain Hill).-A hill, within a
mile of, and to the west of the Wan Shou Shan, with a magnificent
spring of water at its foot. The Emperor Chang Tsung, of the
Kin (1190) first built a palace here. Additions were made under
the Ming and later by Kang Hsi, who built several fine temples
of which only ruins now remain. There are still three beautiful
pagodas, the finest being in varnished tile of fine workmanship.
A paved road led from here to the Pi Yun Ssu, which was also
an Imperial pleasure resort under the Yuan and Ming, and later
under Ch'ien Lung.
Shang Tu (Xanadu).-Ruins of the summer palace of
Kublai Khan, 26 miles north of Dolon Nor and about 800 li in a
straight line north from Peking. Marco Polo gives a glowing
description of the palace as it appeared in his time. The walls of
earth, faced with brick and unhewn stone still stand, and one of
the gates-an arch 20 feet by 12 feet-is intact. Foundations of
temples and palaces can be traced, and in the inclosure are blocks
of marble and fragments of stone animals. A broken memorial
tablet was found some years ago with an inscription in old
Chinese "Seal" characters, erected by Kublai Khan to a Buddhist
ecclesiastic in 1288. 3.
Lions. Two gilt bronze lions. Peking. At the Zoological
Museum, outside the Hsi Chih Men. Once the property of a
temple in the Western Hills. Buried on the approach of the
allied troops in 1860. Afterwards found and removed to their
present location.
Po-yun Kuan (Hundred - Cloud Monastery).- Temple
buildings. Peking-one li outside the Hsi-pien-men. A leading
temple of the Taoist sect. Built by the Yuan and called by them
the Tai-chi Kuan. 2. 6.
Huang Ssu (Yellow Temple).-Temple buildings and marble
dagoba of exquisite construction and design, outside the north
wall of Peking. Construction begun by Shun Chih (1652),
completed by K'ang Hsi, embellished by Yung Cheng, and
repaired by Ch'ien Lung, who built the dagoba. The latter a
beautiful white marble cenotaph-was erected to the memory of
the Teshu Lama, who died here 1780 A.D. 1. 2. 6. 22.
Ta Chung (Great Bell).-Outside Peking in the Great Bell
Temple. Made by Yung Le about 1400 A.D. Covered with
characters-extracts from Buddhist classics. Said to be the
largest hanging bell in the world. Weight about 87,000
lbs. 1. 2. 6.
Wu Ta Ssu.-Building with five pagodas on its summit.
Peking, five li outside the Hsi-chih-men. Built by Cheng Hua of
the Mng, about 1470, to con ain five statues of Buddha brought

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
161
by a priest from India. The structure is Indian in form.
Repaired under Ch'ien Lung.
Pagoda. At the village of Pa-li-chuang near Peking. Built
by a Ming Dynasty Empress. Thirteen storied. A prominent
and beautiful landmark. A golden image of Kwanyin was once
enshrined there. Of the original temple buildings nothing remains
but the pagoda. 2. 6.
Tien-ning-ssu.-Temple with thirteen-storied pagoda. Out-
side Peking. Dates from the VIth century. Begun by the Sui
and completed by the Tang. Contains a colossal statue of Buddha
with a gilded face. 2. 6.
Pi Yum Ssu (Azure-Cloud Monastery).-A remarkable tower,
p'ai-lous, temple buildings, etc. Near Peking-west of the
Summer Palace. Begun under the Yuan and embellished by Wan
Li of the Ming and Chien Lung of the Ching Dynasty. The
tower is of Indian architecture. There is a gallery containing the
500 Lohans.
Wo Fu Ssu (Temple of the Reclining Buddha).-Temple
buildings. Near Pi-yun-ssu. Founded by the T'ang.
Contains
a recumbent statue of Buddha 50 feet in length. This statue was
founded under the Yuan. 2. 6. 22.
Pa Ta Chu (Eight Famous Places).-Twelve miles west of
Peking in a cleft in the Western Hills. Eight Buddhist temples of
the time of the Ming Dynasty. In 1900 a famous White Pagoda"
was destroyed here by the Allied troops. 2.
Tan Chih Ssu-Seventeen miles west of Peking in the hills.
Described by Edkins as a typical Buddhist temple. Famous for
the beauty of its location and buildings. Often visited by
foreigners from Peking.
Liu Ko Chiao.-Bridge. Outside Peking spanning the
river Hun. Built by Ming Chang of the Kin, 1189-1194.
Composed of eleven great stone arches, Its carved parapets
guarded by stone lions." Called the "Marco Polo" bridge, from
the mention he makes of it. 2. 3. 6. 22.
Pa Li Chiao (Eight Li Bridge.)-A bridge of carved marble
outside Tungchow. During the expedition of 1860 a memorable
battle took place here between the allied troops and the forces of
San-ko-lin-sin. After this victory General de Montauban obtain-
ed the title of Count of Pa Li Chiao. 6. 22.
Grave. At Wangtu. Grave of the mother of the Emperor
Yao, 60 feet in diameter and 30 feet high, surmounted by a tablet.
There is a memorial temple and several stone tablets two of which
mark the traditional well of the Yao family. 32.
Ta Fo Ssu (Temple of the Great Buddha.)-Cheng-ting Fu.
A temple or pavilion containing a figure of Buddha of unusual
size, perhaps 60 feet high, the head of which has for years projected
above the ruins of the roof.

162
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
Pagodas.-Cheng-ting Fu has several pagodas in a state of
ruins. They are attributed to the Tang Dynasty.
Pagoda. At Ting Chou. Repaired by Wan Li about
1600 A.D.
Pagoda. At Tungchow. Six-sided. When new more than
1,000 bells were suspended from the cornices, most of which are
still in place. Built to hold down the tail of a water owl, which,
according to popular superstition lives underground here and has
caused the earthquakes of the past in this region by shaking
its tail.
Ming Ling (Ming Tombs.)-Tombs, sacrificial buildings,
p'ai-lous, stone images of animals, men, etc. Nankow-30 miles
north of Peking. Ming Dynasty. A finely carved white marble
p'ai-lou marks the approach. Beyond a red-walled gate-house,
with marble pillars on either side, opens into the famous avenue
of marble and stone monoliths of beasts and men, in double pairs.
Beyond a triple set of p'ai-lous lie, on the slopes of the hills, the
yellow-roofed temples and the thirteen Ming tombs, the principal
of which is that of the Emperor Yung Le. 1. 2. 6. 13. 22.
Hsi Ling (Western Tombs.)-About sixty miles southwest
of Peking. Burial place of the Ching (Manchu) Emperors. A
place of unusual beauty arranged in the style of the Ming Tombs
near Nankow. The body of Kuang Hsu reposed in a temple here
awaiting the completion of his mausoleum. The Ching emperors
were buried alternately here and at
Tung-ling (Eastern Tombs.)-About sixty miles northeast
of Peking in the Imperial Hunting Park (Wei-chang.) Here the
late Empress Grand Dowager is buried in a mausoleum which she
finished in time to receive her remains.
Pagoda. At Tai-ming Fu. Beautiful and in excellent ·
preservation, marking the ruins of an ancient capital. 23.
Chu Yung Kwan.-(See Stone Tablet, Kansu) Gateway.
In the Nankow Pass. Ming Dynasty-XIVth century. Outer
arches elaborately sculptured. Inner side lined with carved tablets
on which a Buddhist inscription is repeated in six languages. 6. 7.
Pa Ta Ling Gate (see Wan Li Ch'ang Cheng).-Gateway.
In the Great Wall at the top of the Nankow Pass. 6. 7.
Ku Pei Kou Gate (see Wan Li Chang Cheng).-In the
Great Wall 70 miles northeast of Peking. 6. 7.
Tablet.-Chi Ming Yi (outside Great Wall), in a temple on a
hill. Erected by Emperor Kanghsi, early XVIIIth century or
last of XVIIth century. Memorial inscription in verse.
6.
Lama Miao.-Temple. Chaoyang. Very near the temple,
on the Teng-huang Mountain, is a beautiful pagoda. 23.
Summer Palace, Cheng-te Fu (Jehol)--An immense garden
studded with pavilions. Summer palace of earlier Emperors of the
Ching Dynasty. 23.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
163
Potalimino (A Lamasery.)-Jehol. Built after the manner
of the Potala at Lhassa. 23.
Pai-ta (White Pagoda).-A pagoda and some ruins. Cheng-
te-fu. 23.
Chu Chia Fen (Tombs of the Chu Family).-Groups of
tombs. Nan-ho-hsien, ten li northeast Chu Chia Ying. They are
official tombs dating from Wan Li of the Ming. There are many
carved stone objects, viz. deer, sheep, tigers, lions, horses, civil
and military officers, sacrificial tablets, incense bowls, etc., in fine
preservation.
Grand Canal (Yu ho, or ") Imperial River;" Yun Ho, or
"Transport River:" Cha Ho, or Lock River").-A canal
connecting Hangchow and Tientsin-a distance of about 1,000
miles. It was begun in the VIth century B.C. and finished in
1283 A.D. The central portion, from the Yangtse to Ching
Chiang P'u, is the oldest. It has a strong current and is difficult
of ascent. The southern portion was constructed 605-617 A.D.
It has an easy slope and good water supply. The upper portion
was the work of Kublai Khan. (The above is drawn from
Richard's Geography. Williams gives the length of the canal as
only 650 miles, and he includes the portion from Tientsin to
Peking. He says that it was begun under the Han, repaired by
the Sui, kept open by the T'ang, improved by the Sung, and
finally completed by the Yuan.) 1. 38.
Watch Towers.-A line of watch towers, or signal towers,
extends from Peking to Shan-hai Kwan and on in the direction of
Mukden. Another extends from Peking to Hsi-an Fu, and
thirty-six days' journey northwest, ending in the altitudes beyond
Chia-yu-kuan the terminus of the Great Wall. The building of
these towers is attributed to the Mongol Khans.
Tang Dynasty Towers.-Many of these are found in the
foot-hills near Peking. They appear to have served as a barrier
to the plains people against hill robbers.
Wan Li Chang Cheng (Great Wall).-A wall, varying
greatly in style and dimensions, extending from Shan-hai Kwan
to Chia-yu Kwan, about 1,145 miles in a straight line and about
2,500 miles in actual length. It had once about 25,000 towers
and 15,000 watch towers: now has about 20,000 towers and
10,000 watch towers. In the main it is the work of Chin Shih
Huang-Ti, who joined and extended portions already in existence.
Finished B.C. 204. Extensive repairs were made under the Ming.
The portion most frequently visited is at Nankow in the Chu-yung
This is a later addition and not a part of the old wall of
Ch'in Shih Huang. The Pa-ta-ling Gate has been mentioned.
Ku Pei K'ou (Old North Gate) is another noted gateway. The
first gate in the wall, Tien Hsia Ti I Men, is at Shan-hai Kwan:
the last is the west gate of Chia Yu Kwan. The highest altitude
Pass.

164
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
reached is attained by the southern loop of Kansu, in the pass
between Liangchow and Lanchow. It is 10,000 feet in round
numbers. A tablet at the eastern end bears the inscription :-
"Heaven formed the Sea and the Mountains." Another at Chia
Yu Kwan: "The Martial Barrier of All Under Under Heaven."
1. 3. 6. 7. 20. 31.
SHANTUNG
Tai Shan (Temples and Shrines).-Tai Shan is the first of
the Wu Yoh, or Five Sacred Mountains of China. Famous from
the dawn of history, as it is recorded that here the Emperor Shun
made a burnt offering to God and sacrificed to the Mountains and
Rivers. Many temples and monasteries are scattered over the
peaks, every sect being represented, and pilgrims are numerous.
A paved way of 6,600 steps leads to the summit, the last flight of
1,000 steps being very steep and narrow. Iron chains at the
sides assist the pilgrim in mounting. On the top is a Confucian
Temple with images, as in the temple at Ch'ufu, and also a
temple to Yu Hwang. Perhaps the most interesting relic is a
rough block of granite said to have been erected by Ch'in Shib
Hwang. 12.
Confucian Temple.-At Chufu, the home of Confucius.
The buildings are only about 200 years old, having been several
times destroyed by fire. They are in a large inclosure approached
by the famous avenue of cypresses. In the courts are many
interesting stone tablets and bronzes. In the great yellow-tiled
central temple is an image of the Sage with Mencius and Tze Ssu
on either side at right angles and six other disciples against the
walls at either side. There are also temples for the worship of
the parents of Confucius and for that of various sages. In one of
the courts is a series of engraved plates descriptive of the life of
Confucius. As these were in danger of being defaced rubbings
are no longer permitted. 12.
This does not appear to be
Confucian Temple.-Chefoo.
different from the Confucian temples of other cities but has been
considered of importance by Paleologue, and is of note as a tribute
to Confucius by his fellow-provincials. 20.
Tomb of Confucius.-Chufu-outside the town. A series of
gateways along avenues of cypresses leads to a tablet on a low
pedestal. Simple and dignified as befits a sage." Near by are
graves of members of the family of Confucius. That of his
grandson, author of the Doctrine of the Mean, has two curious
stone figures of servants on either side. 12.
Tomb of Mencius.-Near Tsou-hsien (The City of Mencius).
A double row of cypresses and yews in which is a slab of marble
engraved with the words "The Holy Mencius Cemetery " leads to

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
165
a small building containing some Ming Dynasty tablets. Beyond
is a mound inclosed in a square wall on which is a tablet erected
1733 A.D. by the Emperor Yung Ching. 32.
Temple of Mencius.-South of Tsou-hsien. A series of
buildings inclosed by a wall. The roof of the main building is of
yellow and green tiles and the building has finely carved marble
pillars. Tablets erected here to the memory of Mencius date
from the Han, Sung and other dynasties-a fine one was erected
by Emperor Kang Hsi.
Tablet. Outside the South Gate of Tsou-hsien. A tablet to
the memory of the Mother of Mencius.
Tablet. Outside the South Gate of Tsou-hsien. A tablet to
Tze-ssu, grandson of Confucius and author of the Doctrine of
the Mean.
Yu Lu An (Jade-Dew Monastery).--Temple buildings.
Outside of Chi-ning. Noted Buddhist monastery and center of
Buddhism for the district.
Monastery of Lu.-Typical Buddhist temple, with pagoda,
about fifty miles from Ch'ufu. 12.
Tieh Fo (Iron Buddha).-Statue of Buddha, Chi-nan Fu.
VIth century. Of iron. Sixteen feet high, on a pedestal. In-
scription. Unearthed by Presbyterian missionaries when breaking
ground for a building. 8.
Tich Ta (Iron Pagoda).-Pagoda. Chi-ning. Sung Dynasty
(960-1127 A.D.) Nine stories high, on a stone pedestal 25 feet
high. Four stories of the iron pagoda are said to be buried in
the pedestal.
Pagoda
150 feet high.
glazed brick.
Near Lin-ch'ing Chou. Nine stories and about
The basement is of granite and the other stories of
Each story is engraved with the words, "O-mi-t'o
Fo." It is in good repair.
1.
Tombs of Kings of the Sir Kingdoms."-Date 420 to 750
A.D. Near Hsien-tien on the line of the Tsing-tao-Chinan-Fu
Railway. These consist of vast and numerous mounds covering
a very large area. Three near the railway appear the largest.
All are terraced with little fields. The traveller looking from the
car window may count a score of these tumuli. Ruins of two
cities of refuge are seen on hill-tops in the neighborhood. The
spectator is reminded of Egypt.
Palace. Tsing-chow Fu. An old palace of the Ming
period. 12.
Tomb of Emperor Shao Hao (?).-At Chu-fu. In an oblong
inclosure with a high wall. Behind is a curious pyramid built
of blocks of granite and surmounted by a porcelain-tiled
pavilion. 32.
Tablets. At Hsiao Tang Shan about 60 li north west of
Fei-cheng Hsien. Ten bas reliefs used to decorate a palace.

166
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
They are among the few remaining examples of the most
primitive style of Chinese sculpture. 20.
Tablets. Eight slabs of stone found at Hsiao T'ang Shan,
about 60 li northwest of Fei-Cheng Hsien. Ist century B.C.
The original inscriptions record no date, but this has been
determined by the added inscriptions of early pilgrims. The
carvings show mythological animals and historical and legendary
episodes. Among them may be found the earliest known
representations of the Dragon and the Phoenix. 31.
Tablets.-Ten li south of Chia-hsiang Hsien, in Shantung.
147 A.D., Han Dynasty. These stones are from the ancient
cemetery of the Wu Liang-tzu family, which claimed descent
from Wu Ti. Three tombs have been unearthed and the stones
are preserved in a building erected 1787. In front of the
building are two stone pillars in their original position, one of
them bearing an inscription which fixes the date. This
inscription also refers to some "lions" which have not yet been
discovered. The stones represent such traditional scenes as
"Fu Hsi and Nu Wa," The Discovery of a Bronze Tripod,"
"The Visit of Mu Wang to Hsi Wang Mu," etc. 20. 37.
"
Tablets. At Chi-ning on the Grand Canal, in a Confucian
temple. These tablets are very much defaced. 30.
Sculptures. At Hsien-yang Hsien. Mortuary figures of
winged and other apocryphal animals.
39.
Grand Canal.-See under CHIHLI.
SHENKING
Chin Lan.-Imperial Palace at Mukden. Smallest of the
Manchu palaces. Dates from 1655. Rebuilt by Ch'ien Lung,
1750, and repaired 1908 by the late Empress Grand Dowager and
Kuang Hsu. This ancestral palace was said to contain the finest
single collection of Imperial porcelain and Chinese art works in
China. These objects were sold 1912 coincident with the
abdication of the Manchus and were dispersed. One of the
buildings of this Palace is the famous Imperial Library. 19.
Ku-lou (Drum Tower).-Chang-lou(Bell Tower).-Mukden.
Both these towers are three-storied, with faded red columns and
green-tiled roofs. Their foundations are buried so that vehicles
and caravans can no longer pass under their arches. 19.
Tung Ling (Eastern Tomb).-Seven miles east of Mukden.
Tomb of Nurhachu, ancestor of the ruling section of the Manchu
Imperial House. Imposing mound, buildings and tablets.
Surrounded by a grove of cedars and approached through p'ai-lous
by a picturesque avenue along sucessive elevations. 19.
Pei Ling (Northern Tomb).-Two and one-half miles north
of Mukden, Tomb of the Emperor T'ai Tsung.
In a grove
of

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
167
cedars approached by an avenue through woodland to a fine marble
p'ai-lou marking the entrance to an avenue of stone ani-
mals and a series of courts and pavilions inclosed with high walls
guarded by towers. A pavilion contains the Imperial tablet with
the grave mound behind it. The spot is very beautiful and
figured in the Battle of Mukden. 19.
Yung Ling.-90 miles east of Mukden. Imperial tombs of
the Manchu kings or chieftains-ancestors of the Manchu
Emperors.
Shing-king. About seven miles south of Yung Ling. Ruins
of the First capital of the Manchu nation after the confederation
of the tribes, and seat of Nurhachu until he moved the capital
to Mukden.
Liu Cheng ("Willow Barrier") (Palisades.)-This formerly
separated Mongolia from Manchuria. It extended from north
of Kirin City to Shan-hai-kuan, with a spur running into the
Liao-tung Peninsula. It was built by the Manchus. Remains,
consisting of a trench, a low earth barrier and a line of trees may
still be seen at K'ai-yuan. 38.
Pagoda. In the center of the city of Chin-chow Fu. Said
to have been built in the reign of Cheng Kuan of the Tang. It
is octagonal in form. Round its base, high above the ground, are
images of Buddha, or Indian divinities.
Pagoda. A small pagoda at Yi-lu, 70 miles northeast of
Mukden.
Pagoda. At Liao-yang. A landmark. It figured in the
Russo-Japanese War.
Nu Cheng. (City of Women.)-The remains of a city. 30
li northeast of Hsuyen. This city is said by the natives to have
been inhabited by women. It was probably a place of refuge for
women and children in time of war.
Ku Pei (Ancient Tablets.)-Three tablets, near the Yalu
River, eight li north of Tung-kon, which is the district city of Chi-an
Hsien. The inscription mentions the Japanese by a nickname.
Characters mostly ordinary Chinese but difficult of interpretation.
There are several pyramids in the neighborhood.
Watch Powers.-See Under CHIHLI.
KIRIN
Ruins. Near A-shi-ho are ruins of old cities.
Pagoda. At Lung-wang-cheng, north of Petuna. The
northern-most pagoda in Eastern China.
22
Palisades. See under SHENG KING.

168
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
HSI-LUNG-CHIANG
MONGOLIA
Capital. Urga. Metropolitan temples, monasteries, and other
sacred structures of the Mongol Buddhist church.
Karakorum.-On the Orkhon. Mongol capital during the
days of the Mongol Empire. Now called Erdenitso and embraced
in a Buddhist temple and ruins of palaces and monuments built
in the VIIth and VIIIth centuries by the Uigur rulers.
Monument. At Erdenitso (Karakorum ?) To
Khan, with bilingual inscriptions.
SHANSI
a Uigur
Wu-tai Shan.-The sacred mountain of Shansi. Its shrines
date from the Ist century A.D. Favorite burial place of the
Mongol population; the summit is crowned with a large Mongol
Lamasery "the most revered lamasery in China" and one of the
most noted. It is especially dedicated to the worship of Wen-shu
(The Sanscrit Manjusiri), who is said to have frequently appeared
here in the form of an old man. 4. 5.
Yung Kan.-A Cave Temple near Ta-t'ung Fu. Believed
to date from the Wei Dynasty (A.D. 386-532). Famous for a
colossal stone statue over 60 feet high. 5.
Temple of Heaven and Hell.-At T'ai-yuan Fu; said to be
the finest temple in the city. The roof and walls are covered
with turquoise-colored tiles peculiar to Shansi.
12.
Psin-ssu.--Temple southwest of T'ai-yuan Fu. Fine speci-
men of old temple with "Remarkable golden dragons twisted
round the pillars of the facade." A pagoda adjoins it. 12.
Pai-lou. A few miles south of Ping-yao Hsien, 212 li from
T'ai-yuan Fu. "Of lime-stone delicately chiseled and polished."
Unusually fine workmanship. 5.
Ling Shih (Spiritual Stone.)-At Ling Shih.
A slab of iron
ore five feet by four feet opposite the entrance to a temple where it
has rested for two centuries credited with spiritual powers.
32.
Bridge. At Chao-cheng Hsien, over the Chiang Ho. Of
stone with parapets of sandstone slabs about five feet long by three
feet high, set between pillars. The slabs are covered with comic
bas reliefs, mostly of monkeys. Tops of pillars are cut into cubes,
pyramids, cones, drums, monkeys, etc. At the north end of the
bridge is a bronze or iron cow something like the one near the
Summer Palace at Peking, but inferior. 5.
Pagoda. At Ping-yang Fu. Said to date from Tang
Dynasty (631-897 A.D.) of brick with green tile ornaments. 32.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
169
Tao Pei (Road Tablets).-Slabs of stone eight or ten feet
high and about three feet broad, set in small brick structures with
tile roofing.
These are erected to commemorate the eightieth
birthday of a parent, official promotion, a favor received, etc.
They appear to be particularly numerous in this province. 5.
Great Wall.-See under CHIHLI.
Watch Towers.-See under CHIHLI.
SHENSI
Walls of Hsi-an Fu.-Comparable with those of Peking.
Date early part of the Ming Dynasty, 1368-1399 A.D. Length
twelve miles.
Pei-lin (Forest of Tablets).--Hsi-an Fu. "A collection of
more than fourteen hundred historical records in stone, running
back twelve centuries." The greatest collection in the country.
The most famous of these tablets is the Nestorian. 14.
Stone. In the Manchu City, Hsi-an Fu. A famous stone
with the impress of the hand of the Empress Wu Tze-tien.
The Nestorian Tablet.-Hsi-an Fu. 781 A.D. It gives in
2,000 Chinese characters, only one of which is illegible, a record
of the earliest known Christian mission in China. In 1908 the
Governor of the Province placed it in the Pei-lin for protection.
1. 3.
Mosque. At Hsi-an Fu. One of the most ancient mosques
in China. 30.
Mound of Tsin.--A mound in an area of 918 acres
surrounded by ruined walls. Near Hsi-an Fu. This is the burial
place of Ts'in, the originator of the Great Wall. 7.
"
Big Tower."-Nine li south of Hsi-an Fu. Four-sided,
seven-storied, each story of smaller dimensions than the one
below. 8.
Ta-fu-ssu (Monastery of the Big Buddha).-Northwest of
Hsi-an Fu. Tang Dynasty-IXth century. The colossus is 56
feet high, in a cave hewn out of the rock. Covered with color and
gilt. The cave is lighted from above by a round opening in the
vaulting. Round about are minor temples and statues. 1.
Bridges. Outside the North Gate at P'ing-yang Fu, the
capital of the ancient State of Yao, is a bridge of unknown
antiquity.
Ku Ta (Ancient Pagoda).-Outside southwest corner of
Chou-chih Hsien. Date unknown. Of brick.
24.
Tao Te Ching Pei (Tablets of the Classic of Wisdom and
Virtue). Two stone tablets. 30 li southeast of Chou-chih Hsien.
Date from the Yuan Dynasty. One of the tablets has the
inscription in "Seal" character. 24.

170
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
Lao Tzu Mo (Tomb of Lao Tzu).--30 li outside Chou-chih
Hsien, to the southeast. Enclosed by a wall in the twelfth year
of Ch'ien Lung. 24.
Great Wall.-See under CHIHLI.
Watch Towers.--See under CHIHLI.
KANSU
T'a-erh Ssu (Convent of the Dogoba).-Lamasery at
Kumbum, to the southwest of Hsi-ning Fu near the Kansu border.
Possesses a "Living Buddha" and some 3,000 lamas. There is a
"Golden-roofed" temple in which the principal image is that of
Gautama Buddha. To the right of this is the temple of Tsong-
kapa, the great reformer. This has green tiling and the image
is said to be of pure gold. In the inclosure is the famous "White-
sandal-wood" tree, whose leaves are said to bear images of Tsong-
kapa. A treasure-house contains many pieces of gold, silver and
bronze, beautifully illuminated manuscripts and cloisonné vases.
This is "one of the most important lamaseries in the Empire."
First mentioned in the early XVIIIth century but probably built
much earlier. 5.
Lamasery. At Labrang. D'Ollone, the French traveller,
describes this lamasery as surpassing that of Kumbum.
Cave Temples.-At Tuen-huan. Here 1908 the French
sinologue and explorer Pelliot found a library of ancient manu-
scripts in a cave where it had been walled in since A.D. 1035.
Chin Shan T'a (Golden Hill Pagoda).-Eight-storied pagoda
at Lanchow. 8.
Wo Bridge.-Cantilever bridge over a small stream just west
of Lanchow. It is 70 feet in span, roofed, with an entrance
pavilion at either end. It is used by pedestrians only. 8.
Colossus. Forty-five miles south of Ninghsia on the left bank
of the Yellow River. Figure of Buddha, in a cave. 29. 5.
Tablet. Inscribed stone A.D. 1348-a representation of
Avalokita with inscription of the "Om mani padmi hum"
consecrated to him, in six languages, the Devanagari, the Tibetan,
the Uigur Turk (derived from the Syriac and parent of modern
Manchu and Mongol), the Bashpa Mongol, the Tangut and the
Chinese. This was inscribed three years later than the Chu Yung
Kuan archway, (see Chihli) and bears the same six script.
Tablet. At end of Great Wall. Inscribed "The Martial
Barrier of All Under Heaven." (see GREAT WALL).
Great Wall.-See under CHIHLI.
Watch Towers.-See under CHIHLI.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
HONAN
171
Shao-lin Ssu. Buddhist Monastery at the foot of the Shao-
shih Shan (which with Ta-shih Shan forms the "Chung Yoh,"
or Central Sacred Mountain, of China). It is in the District of
Teng-feng, southwest of Honan Fu. The monastery was founded
in the last quarter of the Vth century of our era, in the reign of
Hsiao Wen Ti, of the Northern Wei Dynasty (477-499). It was
once very large but now is in a semi-ruinous condition and has
only a few monks. There are many monuments bearing interesting
inscriptions, some as early as the Wei Dynasty. Historically the
monastery is one of the most famous in China, having been the
residence of Ta-mo, the first Buddhist Patriarch of China.
he is supposed to have sat in silent meditation for nine years,
gazing at the stone. The stone, which is believed to have
miraculously retained the imprint of his shadow, is shown here in
one of the decaying pavilions. It has natural markings which
roughly resemble the human figure. The monastery used to be
noted for its school of boxing, and the Japanese are said to have
learned the art of ju-jitsu from the monks of Shao-lin Ssu.
Here
The Lung-Men Sculptures.-Thirty li south of Honan Fu, in
the defile known as the Lung-Men, or "Door of the Dragon."
Tradition says that this defile was cut by the Great Yu, with the
aid of a Dragon, in order to drain the waters of the Yellow River.
In the walls of this defile are cave temples filled with marvellous
sculptures. The sovereigns of the Wei and Tang Dynasties thus
caused to be created, at the entrance to the Loyang Plain where
stood their Imperial residences, perpetual monuments to their
memory. The sculptures, which betray Indian influence, are
practically entirely Buddhistic. There are thousands of figures, in
varying height from two feet to 60 feet and representing all the
members of the Buddhist pantheon. A group which occurs with
great frequency is that of Buddha attended by his two favorite
disciples, Ananda and Kashiapa, and two Bodhisattwas. The
Devarajas, Guardians of the Gates, are rendered with great power.
These sculptures are counted worthy to rank with the great works
produced in any age.
In addition to the religious figures there are several bas-
reliefs which, in the opinion of Prof. Chavannes, are representa-
tions of donors who have contributed to the extension of this great
decorative work. These afford an interesting study of costumes in
China in the VIIth century of our era. 26. 27. 28.
Pai Ta (White Tower).-Tower. South of K'ai-feng Fu.
Built of tile and stamped with the image of Buddha.
Tieh Ta (Iron Tower).-Northeast part of K'ai-feng Fu.
Tang Dynasty-rebuilt and repaired during the Ming.

172
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
Tablets. Two tablets. K'ai-feng Fu. They commemorate
the ancient Jewish colony which once existed in K'ai-feng Fu.
Lung Ting (Dragon Pavilion).-Temple buildings, etc.
Kai-feng Fu. A high hill with a temple at the foot and one at
the top. Two large stone lions at entrance and an old archway
with the inscription: "Ten Thousand Ages." Up the middle of a
flight of steps leading to the summit temple is a row of dragons.
In the temple is a large black stone on which is carved nine
writhing dragons. 8.
Pai-lou. At Chu-yang-kuau. Date 1345 A.D. Famous
for its sculptures of Hindu style. 35.
Lu Wang Fen.-Near Wei-hui Fu. A tomb, similar in
construction to the Ming Tombs.
KIANGSU
Tablets.-Nanking. Early part of XVIIIth century. This
tablet was erected by K'ang Hsi after a visit to Southern China.
The inscription is a reproof to the inhabitants for their
extravagance and prodigality.
Ku Lou (Drum Tower).-In Nanking. Built by Hung
Wu. It is a large rectangular structure with three arched
openings. On the summit is a temple which contains a tablet
with address by K'ang Hsi already referred to.
Ta Chung (Great Bell).-In a temple north of the Drum
Tower. Cast during the reign of Hung Wu. It is about eighteen
feet high and seven feet across the mouth.
Confucian Temple.-In Nanking. Notable from the fact
that Nanking is the traditional seat of Confucian learning.
Relic of Porcelain Pagoda.-At the Nanking Arsenal,
outside the South Gate, is kept the bronze cap which once
surmounted the famous porcelain pagoda of Nanking. 42.
Wo Fu Ssu.-In Nanking. Contains a large image of the
Dying Buddha, and a fine Buddhist library of about 7,000
volumes.
Viceroy's Yamen. At Nanking. Was once the palace of
the T'ai-p'ing Emperor.
Tomb of Hung Wu.-Outside the northeast angle of
Nanking. Approaching from the city one first reaches a p'ai-lou
with inscription ordering the traveler to dismount. Near this is
a ruined pavilion and farther on a large pavilion containing a
tablet on a tortoise, with inscription recording the achievements
of Hung Wu. This is succeeded by a row of animals: elephants,
Chi-ling lions, horses, etc. Beyond these are two lofty pillars,
then stone images of military and civil officials. Then come the
ruins of the temple buildings, and the tower in which originally

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
173
stood the tablet bearing the posthumous name of Hung Wu.
Behind this a huge artificial hill, overgrown with trees, covers
the vault which contains the remains of Hung Wu, his Empress
and his eldest son.
(In 1912 an impressive ceremony took place here when the
representatives of the new Republican Government announced
to the shade of the first Ming conqueror that the country had
once more been rescued from the hands of the aliens.) 1. 6. 30.
Imperial Tombs.-About six li north of Nanking, outside
the T'ai-ping Gate, is an Imperial tomb probably of the Liang
Dynasty about VIth century A.D. The approach is marked by
two stone winged lions. Between this and the city are other
tombs with approaches guarded by monoliths. One is that of
Prime Minister of Hung Wu.
Ling Ku Ssu (Spirit Valley Monastery).-Ruin about two
miles east of the Ming Tombs. It is said to have originally
occupied the spot selected by Hung Wu for his grave, and to have
been moved by him to its present location. The principal building
is the Wu-liang Tien, or Beamless Hall. It is of large brick,
originally with an arched roof which has now fallen in. The
walls are about ten feet thick. It consists of a nave and two
aisles. The only light is from windows with frames of stone
high up in the nave.
Fei-lai-chien (The Flying Scissors).-Nanking. Near Ling-
ku Ssu. "A mass of cast iron something like a damaged X,
reputed to have fallen from heaven." Each bar is about fifteen
feet long. It was probably used in some building. Near by are
upright stones for supporting a pole. 8.
She Shan.-About 50 li east of Nanking. On this hill
are many interesting relics of the Sui, Tang, Ming and Ching
Dynasties, but all have been more or less devastated by the
T'ai-pings. There is still a beautiful tower of marble dating
from the Sui, which has exquisite carvings in bas-relief.
On the face of the hill are many grottoes filled with images,
on which the T'ai-pings have wreaked their vengeance. In a
cave temple is a colossal Buddha 40 feet high. In a temple
called the Chi Hsia Ssu is hung a portrait of Hung Wu.
Many legends are connected with this place. Ch'ien Lung made
several visits to it and rest-houses of great beauty were built
for him.
Pagoda. Nanking, at She Shan. Dates from the Sui
Dynasty. Of stone with life-sized bas-reliefs. Near by is a
with seated figure of Buddha, about 40 feet high.
(See above).
cave
Leaning Pagoda.-On the Fang Shan, or Table Mountain,
about ten li south of Nanking. Leans at an angle of about ten
degrees.

174
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
Lunghua Pagoda.-Six miles from Shanghai near the bank of
the Huang-p'u River. Seven storied, with much curved and pointed
roofs. Temple buildings adjoining. 13.
Ward Memorial Temple.-Temple erected to General Frederick
Ward, at Sung-chiang Fu. It is a small building standing in
front of his grave and containing his tablet.
Old Tea-House.-This old building, built on piles and
surrrounded by water, is reached by a bridge of zig-zag pattern.
It has many curved gables, and roofs and windows of oyster shell.
It is famous as being the original of the "Willow Pattern" plate.
Has also figured as a type in school geographies. In the court-
yard of a temple near it is an old bronze said to be over 2,000
years old.
12. 13.
Tsiao Shan (Silver Island)-and Chin Shan (Golden Island).
-In the Yangtse off Chinkiang. Covered with temples, pagodas,
terraces and carved gateways. These sacred islands were famous in
Marco Polo's time. They once enjoyed Imperial patronage and
great prosperity, but were largely destroyed by the T'ai-p'ings. 6.
Pagoda and Tower.-Pagoda at Wuhu. Five-storied, with
trees growing out of its roof. At Wuhu there is also a large and
very old octagonal tower. 18.
Confucian Temple.-At Soochow. Mentioned by Marco Polo.
A plan of Soochow engraved on marble has been preserved in this
temple since A.D. 1247. 3.
The Great Pagoda.-Soochow. About 250 feet high 60 feet
diameter at base, tapering to 45 feet on the upper floor. The
highest pagoda in China and one of the best proportioned and most
beautiful. 8.
South Gate Pagoda.-Soochow. Date about A.D. 242.
Torn down 1119 and replaced. Original pagoda thirteen-storied,
present one seven. 8.
Twin Pen Pagodas.-Soochow, adjoining old Examination
Hall. Date about 900 A.D. Seven-storied and spiral-topped.
A scholar built the Pen Pagodas to attract the luck which insures
good scholarship to the town. This failing he was told that
obviously an Ink Pagoda was needed. (See Ink Pagoda.) 8.
Ink Pagoda.-Soochow, near the East Wall, 120 feet
high. Rectangular, with a curved and pointed roof. (See Pen
Pagodas). 8.
The Leaning Pagoda.-Soochow, on the Hu Chou Shan
toward the northwest. 8.
Tsang Lang Pavilion.-Soochow, "Five worthies are carved
in stone in the gardens of this pavilion." 8.
South (Water) Gate.-Soochow : "The city has five such
gates, beautiful and interesting." 8.
Bridge of the Golden Rock.-Soochow, three miles south of the
southeast corner of the city. At the north end of the bridge is a

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
175
Buddhist temple. (Among other fine old bridges in Soochow are
the "Customs Bridge" and "South Horse Road Bridge") 8.
Cheng Wu Miao.-Temple buildings. Northern suburbs of
Such'ien. This temple contains some tablets of the early Tsing (?),
a large bell and much of the property has been appropriated by the
new school.
Tang Ancestral Hall.-Suchien (northeast of city). Manchu
Dynasty. This temple was built by the people for Tang, a
Viceroy, because of a remark made to him by the Emperor Ch'ien
Lung while on a visit to Such'ien, to the effect that the people
owed him a temple.
Great Southern Monastery.-Temple buildings, south of
Suchien. Tang Dynasty. This temple is on the site of the old
city of Such'ien which was destroyed by a flood of the Yellow
River. It has large iron urns and an incense burner cast early
in the Ming Dynasty, and a tablet referring to its Tang Dynasty
history.
Hsiang Wang Ssu.-Temple buildings, south of Such'ien.
This temple was built to do honor to Hsiang Wang, of Three
Kingdoms fame, a native of Such'ien. It is one li south of the
site of his old home. It contains a figure of his famous wife,
Yu Hsi.
Tablet. Tablet resting on a headless turtle. South of
Such'ien. Manchu Dynasty, during the reign of K'ang Hsi. It
marks the site of the old home of Hsiang Wang.
Tablet. 55 li north of Such'ien. Sung Dynasty. This
tablet is on the original site of this magistracy (Such ien ?)
2,000 years ago.
Temples. A number of temples. Hau-chou Fu. Tang
Dynasty. There are also two temples of "Adam and Eve" here,
relics of Nestorianism.
Well. Hsu-chou Fu. This well is said to have been dug
by Peng Tsu, the Methuselah of China.
Tablet. On a bridge in P'ei-chou. This tablet marks the
spot where Chang Liang (chief counsellor of the founder of the
Han) is said to have acquired his great wisdom.
Tablet. At Pei-chou. On Yang Shan. Early Ming.
Bell. Large bronze bell. In an old temple at P'ei-chou on
Yang Shan, Early Ming. It is apparent that the original old
raised characters cast on this bell have been chipped off, leaving
only the date, to make room for the carved inscription which
falsely asserts that the bell was cast for the temple on Yang Shan.
Pagoda.-Wu-sieh. Six-storied.
Grand Canal.-See under CHIHLI.
Pagodas. At Feng-hsien, Sung-kiang (two), Kin-shan,
Tsing-pu, Tsie-sing, Ku-lung-chun, Tai-tsang, Kun-shan, Wu-
kiang, Kwang-fung, Soo-chow (three, outside City, at Wu-tu-kung,
23

176
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
Hu-shu-kuan and another five miles to the west), Chang-chow,
Li-yang, Kin-tan, Tan-yang, Tan-tu and Nin-kan-san.
ANHUI
Chen Feng Ta (Wind-Moved Pagoda.)-An-king-outside
East Gate. About 1,000 years old. Seven stories high. Said
to be the finest in the Yangtse Valley. 8.
Temple build-
"Welcome to the River" Temple.-An-king.
ings connected with the above-mentioned pagoda. 8.
Ming Tombs.-Avenue of statues. Feng-yang Fu-Feng-
yang Hsien. Ming Dynasty. An avenue of stone figures similar
to those at Peking and Nanking. Feng-yang was the home of
Chu Yuan-chang, the founder of the Ming Dynasty. The tomb
is said to be that of his mother.
Ming Capital.-Near Feng-yang Fu and Lin-hwai-kwan.
A city said to have been intended by the Emperor Hung Wu
(Chu Yuan-chang) for the Ming Capital. Empty except for a
guardian who looks after the sacredotal remains of Hung Wu's
ancestors.
Pagodas. At Ho-chou, Wu-hu, Kieu-hsien, Fan-chang, Tsi-
kiang, Tung-ling-hsien (five miles to the north), Kiang-shan-ki,
Ning-kuo-fu and Ning-kuo-hsien.
HUPEH
Pagoda. At the western extremity of Sha-si, the trading
suburb of Ching-chow Fu, is an ancient pagoda of seven stories,
with monastery adjoining. On each of the eight sides of each
story is a recess containing a stone Buddha. 10.
Pa-tung Pagoda.-A seven-storied pagoda on the left bank
of the river a mile below Pa-tung. Under construction when
Little made his journey (1883). He observes that in this part
of the country new pagodas are frequently built to correct the
"Feng-shui" of a place. They are usually a little below the port
on the left bank, and are meant to prevent the wealth of the place
being swept by the rapid current down to the next town.
"
"
10.
Feng-shui" Temple.-At Hanyang on the hill of Hanyang
which is regarded as a tortoise. A fine three-storied temple stands
on the head of the tortoise holding it in place.
Serpent, Pagoda and Tower.-The curves of a serpent are
traced in the walled city of Wuchang, and a pagoda stands on the
tip of its tail (Serpent Hill.) Its snout faces the tortoise head of
Hanyang and had once a four-storied tower dating from the Ming.
This was burnt in 1884. 10.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
177
Pagoda. At Wuchang on Serpent Hill. Three-storied and
looks like a Tibetan chorten. 8.
Memorial Temple.-A Memorial Temple to Tseng Kwo-fan is
built on a high hill in Wuchang the scene of his labors.
Lao Kuan Miao.-Temple. Upper Yangtse-above I-ch'ang.
Near this temple, which is built on a terrace, are five white stone
monuments, which once used to show fire-beacons to travelers
on the river. 6.
Diamond Shrine.-Temple. Upper I-ch'ang Gorge. On a
high pinnacle built of white stone.
6.
Cave Temple. In the San Yu Tung Ravine, in the gorge
two miles above I-ch'ang. "The cave arches back in a great
vault with a central column, or supporting mass; and in the
further darkness there is a sanctuary full of gilded images guarded
by carved dragons, gnomes and fantastic bird-like creatures that
peer out from dark corners. Poems and other inscriptions are
carved on the walls." 6. 10.
Ta Ta (Great Pagoda).-Wuchang.
Pai-lou. Hanyang.
Ruins.
Hsiang-yang Fu. Ruins of a temple with some
inscriptions. Dates from the Sung Dynasty.
Palace. Hsiang-yang Fu. Dates from the Three Kingdoms.
Chih Fu Shan.-Buddhist Monastery near I-ch'ang. On
the top of a pinnacle rock which is joined by a bridge to a
palisade wall, 1,000 feet high. 6.
Huang Ling Miao.-Temple. Upper Yangtse above I-
ch'ang. This Temple has a columned hall with a "gilded
shrine guarded by carved dragons." 6.
HUNAN
Tomb.-Li-ling.
Two Pagodas. Li-ling.
Bridge. Li-ling.
KIANGSI
The South Pagoda.-At Nan-ch'ang, seven-storied, octagonal.
Finished off with a wooden torch nine feet high, plated with brass
and gilded. 8.
Hsiao Ku Shan (Little Orphan Rock).-Lower Yangtse,
about on the boundary of Anhui and Kiangsi. Pagoda and
temples. A steep pinnacle rock topped by a small pagoda and
one side covered with Buddhist temples and monastery walls. 6.

178
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
CHEHKIANG.
Lin-yin Monastery.-Hangchow. About A.D. 600. Here
is the "Pagoda of the Classics," seven-storied. In the grotto are
many carved images and over a stream the beautiful "Monks
Rest" Bridge. Founded by a monk from India. 8.
Mohammedun Mosque.-Hangchow. On "Protection Square."
Tang Dynasty about VIIth century. There is an ancient sundial
in the yard of the mosque. 8.
Lei Feng T'a (Tower of the Thunder Peak).-Pagoda at
Hangchow, dating from about A.D. 950. Much ruined but still
a solid structure. Four stories remain, height about 120 feet.
The legend of the White Snake is associated with this tower.
1.
Yoh Miao.-Temple at Hangchow. Contains the tombs of
the patriot general Yoh Fei and his son of the Sung Dynasty
(1125) who were unjustly put to death as traitors.
1.
Liu Ho T'a (Six Harmonies Tower).-Pagoda at Hangchow.
Original structure probably Sui or Tang. "The building of the
present Liu Ho T'a after repeated destruction by fire, is recorded
on a fine tablet of the Sung period, still standing." 3.
Pagoda.-Pagoda at Hangchow, dating from the Sung. It
is octagonal, each face 28 feet wide. The wall at the base is
eighteen feet thick. Height 170 feet. 1.
umbrella
These are
They have
Umbrella Columns.-Two stone "Chwang," or
columns, at Hangchow, dating from the VIth century.
all that is left of the ancient Temple of Brahma.
curious Buddhist inscriptions and retain the name of the Temple. 3.
Ting-tse Ssu.-Monastery near Hangchow. At the time of
the "Dutch Embassy" this is described as in good repair. Near
the entrance are "two guardian monsters more than 30 feet
high." In the temple are 500 images of the Buddhist Arhans,.
and miniature bronze pagodas of fine workmanship.
1.
Colossus. At Sin-chang Hsien. A colossus of Buddha 70
feet high sculptured in rock. VIIIth century.
Colossus. At Hangchow. A colossus of Buddha sculptured
in rock, 40 feet high. VIIIth century. Paleologue, 1887, says
of this and the one at Sin-chang Hsien that they are the most
ancient statues known to exist in China. 20.
13.
Pai-lou. At Hangchow, in front of the Imperial Library.
Tien Feng Ta (Heaven-Conferred Pagoda).-A hexagonal,
seven-storied pagoda at Ningpo. According to the annals of
Ningpo first erected over 1,100 years ago, destroyed since, rebuilt
several times. Constructed before the city itself and intimately
connected with the "Feng-shui" of the place. 1. 15.
Temple of Ma Tsu-pu.-Temple at Ningpo, outside the
walls, between the East and Bridge Gates, dedicated to the marine

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
179
Goddess, Ma Tsu-p'u. It was founded in the XIIth century, the
present structure having been built in 1680. Richly ornamented.
1.
Pu-to-Shan.-One of China's famous sacred mountains. On
a small island to the east of Chusan, specially dedicated to the
worship of Kwanyin (the Sanscrit Avalokiteshwara). It was
taken possession of by the Buddhists about A.D. 915. There are
many temples on the island, the two finest being imperially
endowed. 4. 11.
Temple of Tinghai.-At Chusan. A square building sur-
mounted by a three-storied pagoda with images in its walls.
15.
Bhota Pagoda.-Haining. About A.D. 900. Built to secure
a favorable "feng-shui" for Haining. Near by is an ancient bronze
cow, the only one left of fifty placed there to protect Haining
from the great tides.
6.
Temple. Haining. P'ai-lous and "Lions of Fo" at the
entrance. Chief object of interest is a chart of the bay and river
cut in stone and set in the wall. 6.
Pagodas. Two single pagodas detached from other sur-
roundings? Ping-yang Hsien, village of Chien-ts'ang. Said to
have been built in the Han Dynasty. They are not of great
height but are said to be in fair preservation.
Pagoda. Lung-chuen. Sung Dynasty.
Stone Tomb.-Sung-yang, Chuchow. Possibly Ming Dynasty.
Door. The door of a school-house. Nan-chin, Chuchow.
Ming Dynasty.
Pai-lou. Sung-chiang. Ming Dynasty.
Stone Tomb.-Chuchow. Ming Dynasty. This tomb lies
on the side of a hill with small stone columns to mark it.
Graves. Chuchow. Old graves marked by stone animals.
Monoliths.-Chuchow. An avenue lined on each side with
monoliths.
Grave. Pa-tu, Lung-ch'uan Hsien. Sung Dynasty. Group
of stone animals and men. Grave in the background under an
old tree.
Grand Canal.-See under CHIHLI.
Pagodas. At Cha-pu, Ka-shan (two), Ka-shing (two),
Hai-yen, Sia-shih, Hu-chou-fu, Pi-san (near Hu-chou-fu), Hang-
chou (one outside east wall and one at West Lake), Lin-ho
(southwest of West Lake).
FUHKIEN
Wan Shou Chiao (Myriad Ages Bridge).-Bridge-over the
Min River, Foochow. Dates from the XIVth century A.D. 8.

180
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
Starry Tower Pagoda.-Foochow-Pagoda Anchorage. 8.
Pao Ta (Precious Tower) (Also called the White Pagoda).-
Foochow. Tang Dynasty-IXth century A.D. Built of brick
and plaster, 261 feet high, seven-storied, in good condition. 8.
Black Pagoda.-Foochow. Tang Dynasty-VIIIth century.
Built to celebrate the birthday of an Emperor (Te Tsung) who
reigned in A.D. 780. 8.
Monastery of Yuan-fu.-Foochow. Built on the side of a
precipice 200 feet high overlooking the River Min. Reached by
a long flight of stone steps.
15.
Hua-yen Monastery.-Foochow-on "Ku-shan" or Drum
Mount. Original building dates from A.D. 784 but this has been
twice replaced. It stands in a grove of pines. 14. 15.
Bridge. At Foochow, dating from the XIth century. It is
of stone and granite with granite pavement. About 400 yards
long by five yards wide. This bridge is considered a great feat of
engineering.
1.
Tieh Ting.-Chien-ning Fu-Tu-yu-pin. A large iron
pan, seven feet across and six feet deep but now partially filled in
with stones. Probably Sung Dynasty. It is of thick iron in
good preservation and occupies an open space surrounded by
houses said to have been once used for troops.
Kao Ting (Ancestral Hall).-In the village of K'ao-t'ing,
Chien-yang Hsien, Chien-ning Fu. The House in which Chu
Hsi lived. A battered, ill-kept building.
Grave of Chu Hsi.-At Huang-k'an, in Chien-yang Hsien.
(May be that of his wife). The stone is in a grove of trees and
bears only the three characters "Chu Fu-tzu."
Tomb of Lien Fu-jen (The Lady Lien).--Chien-ning Fu.
A stone grave faced with a small shrine. Dates from the Five
Dynasties. This lady, who was the wife of the Prefect, saved the
city from rebels in the absence of troops by collecting the women
and others with lanterns on the walls.
Arabian Mosque.-Chuan-chou Fu-Chuan-chin A.D. 1010.
Built by the Arabs. First Arabian mosque built in China.
Ch'uan-chou is the famous Zaitun of Marco Polo. 3. 25.
Two Pagodas.-Chuan-chou Fu (?)-Chuan-chin. XIIth
century. Built entirely of stone.
Tung Men (Eastern Gate).-Chuan-chou Fu (?)-Chuan-chin.
Tablet.-Chuan-chou Fu (?)-Chuan-chin. XIIIth century.
Commemorative of two "enselevis." (Self-immured holy men)?
Loyang Bridge.-Near Ts'wan-chow. Of great age and
called the most celebrated bridge in China. 3.
Pagoda.-Kimoi Island, near Amoy. 33.
White Stag Temple.-At Amoy. 34.

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
KIANGSI
181
Pagoda.-Seven-storied. At Kiukiang.
15.
Pagoda.-On Big Orphan Island. The Yangtse, near P'o-
yang Lake. 6.
KUANGTUNG
Temple of the Five Genii.-Round pagoda and temple
buildings. Canton. This temple contains an image of Marco
Polo and a gilded image of Chieng-lung. 6.
Clepsydra.-Water-clock in a temple on the city wall.
Canton. Dates from A.D. 1321 and is still in use. It consists
of four large earthen jars, ranged one above another on shelves. 6.
Tower. Five-storied, rectangular tower. On Canton city
wall, north gate. 8.
Flower Pagoda.--Canton.
Lower Honam Pagoda.-On the island of Honam, near
Canton. 8.
Kwang T'a (Plain Pagoda).-Canton-about A.D. 800. It is
"an angular, tapering tower" of brick, about 160 feet high. It
was built by the Mohammedans and was formerly used as a
minaret, but is now in decay. 1.
Mosque of St. Souvenir.-At Canton. Date A.D. 629.
Burnt down in 1341, rebuilt shortly after and completely restored
in 1699. Built by maternal uncle of Mahomet.
20.
Hun-ling Ssu (Flowery Forest Monastery).-Canton. Contains
the 500 Lohan. 6.
Tablet. Stone tablet bearing a sonnet by Su Tung-p'o. He
first wrote it on a wall and it was afterwards cut in stone. At the
Cascade of the Sweet-Rush Brook in the White-Cloud Hills near
Canton. 16.
P'i-pa Ta (Lyre Pagoda).--At Whampoa. In ruins.
Pi-lai-ssu. Buddhist Monastery. Lu-pan near Canton on
the Pei Chiang. Broad stone steps lead from the river to a gate
about half up to the monastery on which is the inscription in gold
letters, Hsueh Shan Miao." 15.
"
Po-lo Temple.-On Fu-sui Hill near Canton. Erected to
Hung Shing. It has also an image of a black man, supposed to
have come from Borneo with the seeds of the po-lo, or pineapple.
16.
Monasteries of the Lu-fu Hills.-In the hills 60 miles
from Canton is a group of six Taoist and six Buddhist temples.
One of these, particularly rich and fine, is largely patronized by
rich merchants from Hongkong. The Chung-hue Monastery is
the oldest of the group and was founded more than 1,750 years

182
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
ago. There is a Chinese history of the place in twenty volumes.
16.
Hsien Niang Miao (Fairy Maiden Temple).-At San-ui.
This is believed to be inhabited by the spirits of maidens who,
dying unbetrothed, are here betrothed to the spirit of some man.
16.
Ni-tzu-Ta (Pagoda of the Mud-Children).-At San-ui.
Built a thousand years ago to keep away the crocodiles (children
of the mud), who are believed to be held in bondage under it.
16.
Pen-kuang Tai.-Single pagoda. Chao-yang Hsien. Sung
Dynasty. Octagonal. Seven storied. Height 120 feet.
Hua-feng Chiao.-Bridge. Chao-yang Hsien, over river ten
miles above the city. Sixteen spans-nine feet wide-600 feet long.
The builder has been deified and his worship is popular. His
followers form a benevolent society which furnishes coffins for the
poor and for criminals.
Tung-p'o Ting. A square porch and a pagoda. Hui-chou
Fu, Kuei-shan Hsien. Sung Dynasty. (Su Tung-p'o was once
banished to Hui-chou Fu, and the story of this place, is probably
connected with him.)
Hing-wan Ssu.-On the Teng-hu, or Summit Lake,
Mountains. One of the finest monasteries in south China;
accomodates 300 priests. Having sheltered the last Ming Emperor
in his flight; the character "Teng," meaning "Summit," was
changed to one of similar sound meaning "Tripod." Only places
that have lodged an Emperor may bear this name. This place is
distinguished as the "New Teng-hu." At the "Old Teng-hu"
are ruins of a Tang Dynasty Monastery. 16.
Cave of the Seven Stars.-On the West River near Shui-hing.
An image of the Goddess of Mercy has been chiselled out in the
loftiest chamber and is believed by the natives to be a spontaneous
outgrowth. 16.
Caves of the Goddess of Mercy.-On the North River. A
several-chambered cave in which Kwanyin is worshipped as the
chief deity. This place was declared sacred by Shun-chih who
worshipped here by proxy.
16.
Lien-chow Pagoda.-Eastern suburbs of Lien-chow. Dates
from VIIth century. Has a red-walled monastery, in a ruinous
condition but picturesque. 16.
Yang-shan Pagoda.-On the Lien-chow River in sight of
Yung-shan Hsien. Nine-storied. Built in the time of Ch'ien
Lung. 16.
Nam-wa Monastery.-On a branch of the North River
twenty miles from Shou-kwang Hsien. A small shrine was first
built here about A.D. 500. It became famous afterwards as the
burial place of Lu Tsu, the sixth and last patriarch of the Buddhist
Church in China. He died here about A.D. 720. Objects of

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
183
interest are the mummied remains of Lu Tsu; the Tower of Two
Sages, built in honor of the visit of Su Tung-p'o and another
scholar; and the Descending Dragon Pagoda, a peculiar iron
pagoda, twelve feet high, dating from the VIIth century. In
addition may be seen all the idols and equipment of a complete
Buddhist temple. 16.
Tan Hsia Ssu (Red Cloud Monastery).-Forty miles north
Shou-kwang Hsien. Shrine was first erected here in the XIIIth
century. The place is noted chiefly for its striking natural
scenery. 16.
KUANGSI
Wan-shou Ssu.-Temple. Kuei-lin. Sui Dynasty-A.D.
580-618. It is the oldest building in the city. It was originally
built in the open-afterwards, with its inclosing wall, it became
the nucleus of the city. A tablet records its interesting
history. 8.
Temple. Kuei-lin. About A.D. 800. Erected to the
memory of the great Shun and has an interesting, though
mutilated, memorial tablet. 8.
Tablets. Two tablets. Kuei-lin. One dates from A.D.
910, the other A.D. 826. The inscription on the latter
commemorates the banishment of Li Po to this place and given
an ode on Kuei-lin scenery accredited to him. 8.
YUNNAN
Chin Mino (Golden Temple).-Northeast of Yunnan Fu.
Temple building. Ming Dynasty. The walls and roof are of
brass, the steps and railing of Tali marble. Erected by Cheng
Yung-ping for worship of the Supreme Ruler of the North
Pole. 8.
Bridge. At Lu-feng, over the Hsiang-shui Ho. Built
entirely of grey stone. Twelve yards wide, 150 yards long. Seven
arches perfectly proportioned. Good carving, decorative triumphal
arches and many memorial tablets. An ancient bridge and one
of the best of its kind in China. 17.
Yuan Yin Tang (Temple to the Goddess of Mercy).-
Temple buildings. Ten li from Ta-li Fu. In this famous temple
is an effigy to Yang Ta-jen, an indomitable soldier who was
conspicuous during the Mohammedan Rebellion.
Lung Wang Miao (Temple of the Dragon King).-Temple
buildings. Near Tung-ch'uan Fu.
Suspension Bridges.-There are many suspension bridges in
this mountainous province. One is described as- -Composed of
eight parallel iron chains with connecting links, and the masonry
24

184
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
at each end very fine. Hand-rails decorated with carvings of
monkeys and other apocryphal beasts are at each end." These
bridges are drawn very taut by means of windlasses. Another
style is of creeper, suspended like a hammock from upright
poles, with a narrow plank along the center.
12.
Rock Temples. Buddhist and Taoist shrines near Yunnan
Fu; hewn from the solid rock, with winding galleries between,
cut in the face of the cliff. The uppermost is dedicated to the
God of Literature. 12.
Stone Images.-Three-faced images carved in stone and
sometimes wearing stone hats, stand like mileposts along the
way in northern Yunnan near the Lao Wa T'an. The mountain
coolies burn sandals in sacrifice before these images, as a
preventative against sore feet.
12.
KUEICHOU
Kuchow road
(There is also
Pai-lous. A series of 29 p'ai-lous on the
approaching Kueiyang. Nearly all are of stone.
a very beautifully carved single p'ai-lou outside the Hung Pien
Men, and more northeast of Anshun). 8.
SSUCH UAN
Mt. O-mei. This mountain is especially dedicated to the
worship of Pu-bien, the Sanscrit Samantabhadra. On the
mountain are seventy monasteries, great and small. At Wan
Yen Ssu is an interesting bronze elephant said to have come
from India, also a stone monument put up by an Indian prince,
and a piece of stone weighing several pounds said to be a tooth
of Buddha. A picturesque bridge and numerous little tiger
shrines may be seen on the way up the mountain. The mountain
is celebrated for its "Buddha's Glory":"A sort of Brocken
spectre rarely seen by travelers."
12.
Caves and Pottery Mounds.-Along the banks of the Min
River, not far from Mt. O-mei are many interesting caves
supposed to have been left by the Man-tsi when driven westward
by the Chinese during the Han Dynasty. Earthenware coffins
are found in them also occasionally coffins of stone. There are
curious drawings and figures of winged gods and winged animals.
quite unlike Chinese designs. Birds and domestic animals in
burnt clay, household utensils in pottery and brass, and cash
have been found. Worthy of more careful exploration.
12.
Image of Buddha.-Cut in red sandstone cliff near Chia-ting
Fu, in a sitting posture with hands on knees and 304 feet high.
The feet at high tide are washed by the Min River.
50 to 60 carved figures flank it on either side. 15.
From

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
185
Ch'ien Fo Kai (Thousand Buddha Cliff).-Near Chia
Chiang Hsien. In a cliff probably 300 feet high many Buddhas
are carved in gray sandstone for a distance of one-eighth of a
mile. Some are as large as twenty feet in height. Legend says the
patron of this monument and the creator of the Great Buddha
near Kia-ting Fu vied with each other as to which could do the
greatest work of merit, with the result now visible.
Pi Fa Tsu Ssu Hsiang (Image of the Patrician with
Dishevelled Hair).-Copper image on a hillside near Hsu-chow
Fu (also called Sui Fu). It is the figure of a man about 18 feet
high and brightly painted. Stands on a bronze turtle which has
been defaced. Erected several hundreds of years ago by the
Lo-los. Connected by some with the legend of St. Thomas.
12.
Temple and Pagoda.-A temple and pagoda at Hsu-chow
Fu (Sui Fu.) 17.
Pai-lou.-Near Ya-chou Fu. Of red sandstone and very
beautiful. Stands in front of a temple dedicated to Wu Hou. 5.
Lu-ting Chiao.-Bridge over the Tung River, dating from
1701 A.D. One of the most famous suspension bridges in China.
It is about 370 feet long and ten feet wide. It consists of iron
chains with narrow planks to cross upon. At each end of the
bridge is an archway, a gate and a guard-house. 5.
Bridge. At Li-tu-chang. Of sandstone, 27 feet high. The
roadway of the bridge is spanned by three handsome arches on
which are carved elephants and tigers. 18.
Wen Feng Shan (Temple of Literature).-On a conical
mountain at the Ssuch'uan end of the Wu Shan Gorge. A new
pagoda was being erected here in 1883 (when Little passed
through), and his boatmen strongly disapproved of it as unfavorable
to the "feng-shui."
10.
Pai Ti Cheng (Stronghold of the White Emperor). On the
left bank of the Feng Hsiang Gorge. A fine temple with hand-
some stone pavilions marks the site of this old stronghold famous
during the wars of the "Three Kingdoms." In the cliff on the
opposite side is "Meng Liang's Ladder," said to have been
constructed by that noted General for the purpose of scaling the
cliff. Holes about six inches square and fourteen inches deep run in
zig-zags up a perpendicular cliff 700 feet high. Into this were
inserted wooden beams up which his men climbed. Only the
holes now remain. 10.
Temple to Chang Fei.-On the river bank opposite Yun-yang
Hsien. Dedicated to Chang Fei, a hero of the "Three Kingdoms."
It is in good repair and highly decorated, having been built to
replace an older temple washed away in the flood of 1870. It has
a bell which is supposed to ring of its own accord whenever there
is a fire.
10.

186
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
Tien Tze Shan (Mountain of the Son of Heaven).-This is
near Feng-tu Cheng. A sacred mountain with ruinous temples
said to date from the Tang. The place is sacred to the Emperor
of the Dead, just as Peking is to the Emperor of the Living. It
is celebrated over the Eighteen Provinces. At every death a
Toaist priest "Indites a dispatch to the Tien Tze, duly addressed
to Feng-tu Cheng" introducing to His Majesty a new-comer. 10.
Arches and Cave. Just below "Scissors Gorge." There
are an ornamental gate-way and arch-ways of trimmed sandstone
built into a cave. The two large images within represent a bean-
curd seller and his wife who were canonized for their good deeds. 10.
Ta Fo Ssu (Monastery of the Great Buddha).-Below Li Min
Fu. Outside is a large gilt Buddha in a stone pavilion open to
the river. In a court within are five more colossal stone images.
The grounds are well laid out and the place is in good repair. 10.
Lao Chun Tung (Cave of Lao Tzu).-Temples and pavilions
on a hill near Chungking. There is a cave near in which Lao
Tzu is said to have lived. The hill is a popular local resort in
summer. On a higher peak opposite is a pagoda. 10.
Shih Pao Chai (Precious Stone Castle).-Cliff with temple
buildings. 33 miles beyond Wan Hsien, on the Yangtse River.
"A curious, eleven-storied pavilion built up the face of the cliff
contains the stairway to the submit, on which stands a Buddhist
temple." 17.
Pagodas and Tower.-Two pagodas and a fine bell tower
reinforce the "feng-shui" of Wan Hsien. 10.
Ta Fo Ssu (Big Buddha Temple).--On a high sandstone
cliff opposite the city of Chungking. The front of the cliff is
carved into bas-relief figures of Buddha, in particular one colossal
head. 5.
Erh Wang Miao (Temple of the Second Prince.")--A
beautiful and richly decorated temple. Chengtu. Dedicated to
the son of Li Ping, the great irrigator of the Chengtu Plain. The
son completed the work. 8.
Ching Yang Kung (Palace of the Golden Sheep).-Taoist
temple at Chengtu. In front of the main altar of this ancient
temple stand two antique bronze sheep. 11.
Palace. At Ta-chien-lu. Owned by one of the "14 Kings
of Tibet." It has fifteen gates along the main entrance before
reaching the audience hall.
Lamasery. At Ta-chien-lu.
At Ho-chou.
Lintel.-Ya-chou. A sculptured lintel about ten feet by fifteen
feet by two feet showing a procession of chariots drawn by prancing
horses.
Pagodas.-Pen-san (between Kiating and Chengtu),
Suifu (two), Chungking (two), Fung-tu-hsien, Chung-chow,

CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
187
Lu-chow, Lan-chi-hsien, Kuei-fu, Ya-chow (two small and plain),
Min-shan.
Pai-lous. On road to Kiating (a very fine one), on road
Chengtu to Yachow, on road Kiating to Chien-wei, on road
0-mei-hsien to Mt. O-mei.
HSINKIANG
Gutchen.--Ruins of a city. Famous as the seat of a
Chinese Governor in the VIIth century. Bricks of that period
bearing monograms resembling the Japanese chrysanthemum
design are dug up here.
Turfan. Ruins of numerous Buddhist temples and cave
dwellings. Sutras in Chinese, Uigur, and Kok-Turki are
found here.
Tomb of Imam Jafar Sadik.-A place of pilgrimage for
Mohammedans.
Kutcha. "Buried City." Manuscript of Vth and VIth
centuries found here in 1908 by Mr. Zuicho.
Talis. "Buried City "-extensive "debris-strewn" area.
Relievos in hard stucco, some in gilt, from a Buddhist temple
Vth or VIth century found here.
Kurla.-Ruins of cave-temples and a fort.
Lulan. Ruins of temples and other buildings where
manuscripts are periodically found, dating as far back as the
IInd century.
Niya. Buried City." In 1908 Dr. Stein found important
documents, seals, etc., here.
Andere. Buried City."
TIBET
Potala. In Lhasa, a mile to the west of the town proper.
Palace of the Dalai-Lama; also called the Red Palace. It serves
as monastery, palace, fortress and shrine. The residence of the
Dalai-Lama is a four-storied building 320 feet high, with a
dome covered with plates of gold. Said to contain immense
treasures and accomodation for 10,000 monks. Some of the
buildings are said to be " Among the noblest specimens of
architecture in Central Asia." 1. 41.
Monastery of Tashilumpo.-To the southwest of Shigatse.
Contains several richly adorned shrines, possesses great treasures,
and shelters over 3,000 lamas. It is the seat of the Panshen
Lama, "a personage held in still more veneration than the Dalai
Lama, as being less contaminated by worldly cares and
influences." 1. 41.

188
CHINA'S MONUMENTS.
Mausoleum of a Panshen Lama. At Tashilumpo.-
Resembles a plain, square watch tower surmounted by a
double Chinese canopy roof, the eaves of which are hung with
bells."
The body of the lama in a gold coffin, and his effigy
of gold are in the cavity of a large shell on top of the pyramidal
structure, of which the sides are of silver plates. The roof is
ornamented with cylinders of bright copper.
1.
Convent of Ramocheh.-At Lhassa. A place famous as a
school of magic. 40. 41.
Lamasery. At Kanze. Famous old Tibetan lamasery built
on a hillside overlooking the village.
Lamasery. On an island in Koko Nor. 40.
Sacred Places in Tibet.-Nam Cho, Iki Namur, Koko Nor,
Samden Kansa, Mt. Tiseh (near the sacred Lake Mansorovar),
Amnyeh Machen (the sacred mountain of the Goloks whose
name means the August Ancestor Ma.) 40.