THREE SITES IN HUNAN
CONNECTED WITH THE
CLASSICAL LEGENDARY
HISTORY OF CHINA
By Rev. G. G. WARREN
From time to time
The writer must confess to a weakness.
a strain of hero worship has drawn him somewhat off the beaten
track to visit spots that are associated with the tales of the past.
The weakness continues in spite of a chastening experience many
years ago which would have effectually expelled it had it been less
strongly rooted.
In those days, duty took me to the city of
Hanchuan, which lies some sixty miles up the Han from Hankow.
Hero worship took me round the foot of the neighbouring hill to
visit the tomb of one of Confucius' disciples-the sequel is my
excuse for forgetting which one. The somewhat scanty resources at
my disposal were ransacked to read up the story of the disciple:
they sufficed only to give his name. However The Master" was
better known, and it was for his sake that the journey was
undertaken. With very little trouble the site was reached. There
was a broken down erection on it that certainly gave the impression
of ruinous old age, but of an old age that would be measured by
decades rather than by millennia.
An old man happened to be standing near, and I got into
conversation with him. He remembered when he was a boy the
building of the now ruined stone work. "What was there
before?" I asked. "Nothing" was the unlooked for answer.
"But there was a tomb there?". "No." "Isn't it the tomb of
one of Confucius' disciples?" "Yes." "Then there must have
been something there before." "No." "Did they find the tomb
by digging?" "No." "Well then how was it known that this was
the tomb?" "It was this way: When I was a boy, the chih hsien
was a great scholar. One night he dreamed that this was the
grave of Confucius' disciple. That's how it was." "But was
there nothing to lead to the dream?" "Nothing but the bare
hill side." "Nothing found after to confirm the dream?" "Oh

CLASSICAL LEGENDARY HISTORY OF CHINA
45
yes, the dream was confirmed right enough." "How?" "The
hsien set to work. He memorialized the prefect and all the
provincial officials. He spent a lot of money over the tomb.
And he got promotion." The last sentence was a turning of the
knife in the wound. I fled, resolved never again to seek any
connection with the scenes of my work and the days of Confucius.
In due course new spheres of work came, and in Hunan,
farther than ever from the China of Confucius and his predecessors,
I was confronted with chapter and verse of the Classics naming a
mountain that was before my eyes. Apparently, I was brought in
touch with men and women whose day was almost as far behind
Confucius' day as his day is behind ours; with the men he
honoured almost as much as the men of to-day honour him.
Of the "Four Peaks" mentioned in the two very first
documents of the Shu (see pp. 24, 25, 34, 35, 41, of Legge's
edition), Hunan claims to possess one. Moreover, its situation is
more particularly described in the "Tribute of Yu"-a document
which attempts to combine the three great names with which
Confucius commences Chinese history. It purports to be a survey
of the empire, made by Yu when acting under instructions from
Shun who was then the co-regent with Yao. Then, over and
above the legends actually enshrined in the Classics, Hunan claims
two other sites connected with legends. On the southern border of
the province, lies the tomb of the emperor Shun; just inside its
northern border, is the joint tomb of Shun's two consorts, them-
selves daughters of Yao. Though there is no clear statement in
the classics about Shun's tomb, imperial sanction is lent to the
provincial legend by the sending of an imperial commissioner
every few years, to burn Tibetan incense and make prostrations
before Shun's tablet.
Before visiting the sites, I read over once more all that the
Classics have to tell us about the death and the wives of Shun.
Mencius in one short paragraph, tells us four things about
Shun. "Shun was born in Chu-feng, removed to Fu-hsia and died
in Ming-t'iao: a man of the wild tribes of the east."
(p. 112).*
The last statement is so astounding that Dr. Legge while admitting
that that is what Mencius really said, adds "but the meaning can
only be what I have given in the translation" i.e. "a man near the
wild tribes on the east." In his next volume, however, he had
gained fresh light on the next sentence of Mencius, and he was
constrained to admit that legend confirmed Mencius' statement
that king Wen was "a man from the wild tribes of the west."
(Odes p. 2.)
The Li Chi tells us that "Shun was buried in the wilderness
of Ts'ang-wu." (p. 132.) The strange statement is added: "and
*In all classical quotations the page of Legge's edition is given.

46
THREE SITES IN HUNAN
it would thus appear that the three ladies of his harem were not
buried in the same grave with him."
The Shu says immediately after some dealing with the
"San Miao," "in the thirtieth year of his life, Shun was called
to employment. Thirty years he was on the throne (with Yao).
Fifty years and he ascended on high." (p. 51.) That should be the
end of the sentence if the translation be correct.
The
But there follow
three characters E which should precede that for "ascending,"
if that be its meaning. Legge following Tsai Chen (G. 1968),
the pupil of Chu Hsi, ignores the character and translates the
other two by adding "and died" to "ascended on high." He
tells us that K'ung An-kuo (G. 1038), of the second century B.C.,
maintains the ordinary meaning of "region" and joining it to
the previous word amplifies it into, "He went up (the way to the
southern) region (on a tour of inspection) and died."
Historical Record which Ssu ma Chien published in the
generation after K'ung An kuo, gives us the groundwork underly-
ing this amplification: Shun after " having occupied the throne
39 years, being on a tour of inspection in the south, died in the
wilderness of Ts'ang-wu (F), and was buried at Chiu-i ()
of Chiang-nan (r), in Ling-ling ()." Ling-ling is now
the head hsien of Yung-chow fu, but it has shrunken from its
former extent, and Chiu-i is included in the neighbouring hsien
of Ning-yuan. 遠縣
Regarding Shun's wives, the Shu gives us an interesting
anecdote. When Yao had been on the throne "seventy years'
i.e. in B.C. 2288, according to the "received" chronology, he
asked: "Who will search out for me a man according to the
times?" "There is your son was the answer. In later days he
who wrote the "Great Learning" tells us that "a man never
knows the wickedness of his son," but Yao was no ordinary man;
and the son who seemed to the minister to be "one to whom
things had been revealed and who was clear sighted" was in his
father's sight "insincere and quarrelsome." The first character
(), is an unusual one it depicts a doubly double mouthed
minister. A second nominee was rejected with the laconic
remark: "Unemployed wordy; employed, reverse."
who promises this and does that was not such a one as Yao
would entrust with Heaven's gift of empire. Next Yao consults
"Four Peaks." Dr. Legge after long study of the question,
rejects the view that explains this phrase, as speaking of four chief
ministers a view that would make Yao antedate Alexander in
the subdivision of empire-and explains it as of one man, "He
of the Four Peaks," peaks that were used for the great national
sacrifices, peaks that were used to obtain the observations for the
four seasons and so were the guides to the peasant people for
their agricultural operations. Hence "He of the Four Peaks"
A man

CLASSICAL LEGENDARY HISTORY OF CHINA
47
might well be the Premier Minister of the court: one with whom
the emperor deliberates how to "open up the four doors" (i.e.
says Legge, "removing every hindrance obstructing the access of
worth and ability wherever situated" p. 42) and how to "enlighten
the four eyes, and listen with the four ears." Such a one should
be Yao's successor. "No" said the occupant of the high office,
"my virtue is insufficient." "Then who can do it.
And they all said :
Search him
"There is an
"I have
out from the high or the low."
unmarried man amongst the lower people-Wu Shun.'
heard of him, I will test him." And this he did by giving Shun
his two daughters as wives. He sent them off to Shun's home
north of the Kuei in Shansi, saying to them "Be reverent."
That is all the Shu says about the two wives. What is meant by
the "three ladies" of Shun's household in the passage already
quoted from the Li Chi, is more than any Chinese commentator
has yet been able to say.
Yao's
When we pass from the classics to the Bamboo Books we
add to this information the following meagre statements:
seventy-first year was the year of the marriage of his two daughters
to Shun; i.e. B.C. 2075 according to the chronology now found
in the Bamboo Books not 2288 as it would be in the other
scheme of chronology. Sixty-two years later, Shun "buried queen
Yu," a note says that this queen was O-Huang. No mention is
made of the sister. From other sources we are told that the
sister's name was Nu-ying.
Hunan legends have it that in the last days of Shun's life
there was once more trouble with the aboriginal races known as
the "San Miao." Shun undertook the long journey to the south to
put matters straight. He fell ill, and at once his two faithful wives
set off to nurse him. No sooner had they arrived at the border of
the Tung-ting Lake than news came that the sickness had
terminated fatally. The two wives were inconsolable. Their
bitter tears, tears which blistered the bamboo trees on the island
and so gave rise to the species known to this day as the "Empress "
bamboo-a species that is said to grow only on the scene of the
weeping. The ladies resolved there and then to commit suicide,
which they did by throwing themselves into the lake. The
exact spot on which Shun died and was buried could not be
ascertained; but it was one of nine. Hence the hill selected bears
the name of "The Hill of Nine Doubts."
My regular travels have brought me at one time and another
sufficiently near to the grave of Shun, the grave of his two wives,
and the tablet of Yu to allow of my spending a few hours off
the beaten tracks to visit these legendary sites. In not a few
references that I have seen to these places there seems to be some
7
*Kuei jui Shu Ching Pt. 1. Chap III, 12.-ED.

48
THREE SITES IN HUNAN-
haziness in the geography of the writers; it may therefore not be
amiss to spend a little time in entering into detail on this subject.
1. The island of Chun-shan is the most accessible of the
three. As the steamers plying between Hankow and Changsha
turn off from the Yangtse and enter the Tung-ting lake they
come in sight of the city of Yochow. When that city is passed
on the left the island will be seen a few miles to the right (i.e.
to the west.) It is about ten li long from east to west, and
about a third of that across from north to south. It would be
scarcely possible to crowd into such a small space with land that
nowhere rises over a hundred feet above the level of the lake a
greater variety of scenery than the islet offers. It is an ideal
spot for a picnic all sorts of little wavy roads that wind in and
out, and up and down, now shutting you into a land locked valley
without a hint of water anywhere; now lifting you up to see the
lake almost all round your standpoint. There is a special tea
grown on the island that is reserved for the emperor's table.
In a little on the eastern front of the island lies the legendary
grave surrounded with "Siang Empress" bamboos and other
vegetation. The tombstone makes no pretence to antiquity:
it was erected by Peng Yu-lin, one of the greatest of the great
Hunan statesmen of the latter half of the nineteenth century.
(A photo of the tablet will be found in Mr. Broomhall's The
Chinese Empire p. 164.)
2. Yu's Tablet lies on the southernmost of the peaks of the
Nanyoh range. The whole range runs from north to south for
a distance of twenty miles. The highest peak which is the
object of the worship of hundreds of thousands every autumn,
lies about ten miles due west of the district city which has
usurped the classical name of the peak. Locally "Heng shan"
refers to the city or district; "Nan yoh," to the peak or range.
An aneroid which registered between 29.78 and 29.72 ins. at the
river side stood at 25.6 at 5 p.m. on September 18, 1908 and
25.61 twenty-four hours later. Neglecting any attempt at
minute accuracy, this would give the height of the highest point
of the range-a fine rocky crag easily climbable, at 4,500 ft.
(If the traveller when coming down will leave the really well-
built and well-kept pilgrim road when about a third of the way
down, he can by smaller but still quite decent paths, get to the
temple whence it is claimed the first Buddhist monks left to
carry their religion to Japan. Japanese Buddhists have recently
acknowledged their indebtedness to the parent monastery by the
gift of a beautifully printed edition of the Buddhistic Scriptures
in some hundreds of volumes).
From the foot of the highest peak, the traveller who wishes
to see the Yu Tablet can go either by road or river. The road is
one of the best in the province; indeed it used to be the main

CLASSICAL LEGENDARY HISTORY OF CHINA
49
road from the two Kuang provinces to Hankow and the capital.
The nearest point on the river is a little town called Chang-mu-
ssu some thirty li below the prefectural city of Hengchow.
Thence to the Kou-lou-Peak () is a walk of only a few
hours. The day on which I went up was misty and therefore one
on which it seemed hardly worth climbing to the actual hill top,
which I guessed was about 500 ft. above the Tablet. This stands
obliquely at the extreme outer corner of a large platform in front
of a modern temple. This temple was also erected by Peng
Yu-lin. The Tablet is on a small crag. There are two mementoes
of its erection, doubtless accepted as incontestable proofs of
genuineness by the superstitious, which act as a climax on the
student who goes to the monument fortified with all the suspicions
that Dr. Legge has arrayed in his learned disquisition in his
Prolegomena to the Shu." In the Tablet are two round holes.
In a rubbing which I obtained at the monastery and which I
have forwarded to the Society's Museum these holes appear as two
white marks on the right side between the second and third
horizontal lines of the inscription. Legend will have it that an
iron staple fitted into these two holes and enabled the "Great
Yu to carry the tablet up the hill in one hand. His last footstep,
made as he deposited his inscription on its present site is deeply
impressed in the living rock. It is a naked and gigantic foot-
mark; its owner may well be known as the Great Yu.
3. The Chiu-i Shan is much farther from the beaten track.
The prefectural city of Yungchow lies three or four day's
journey above Hengchow fu. It is indeed not on the Siang, but
on a fine tributary which enters the main river two or three
miles below the city. Above the city this tributary can be
followed through charming scenery for a couple of days towards
Tao chow. Ten miles before reaching that city, a sub-tributary
can be followed to the departmental city of Ning-yuan. Thence
to the mountain there is a good road due south for a day's
walk. The whole country round about has a peculiar feature in
its scenery.
Hummocks of limestone stand dotted over a plain.
They vary in height from a mere boulder of a few feet to hills of
three or four hundred feet. All of them have some approximation
to the shape of an ordinary cannon shell, i.e., a cylindrical shaft
with a conical crown. It is as though preparations were being
made to repel an invasion of the Martians; the Titanic shells are
there that one can fancy would be just the thing for Titanic
cannon to hurl into the depths of solar space. At one point I
counted over fifty of these curious cones in the field of view. The
road runs along for miles almost on a level; fields are plentiful,
though very few are free from limestone rocks. As we approached
our goal the road wound about a good deal and high mountains
came into view. It was not until we were quite close that we

50
THREE SITES IN HUNAN-
could see what is now called the Chiu-i Shan. It is an
unimportant hill hardly a thousand feet high backed by much
more important peaks.
I was both fortunate and unfortunate in the time of my
visit. Every two or three years an imperial commissioner is
appointed to visit the Nanyoh, the Chiu-i and other
places to offer sticks of Tibetan incense, sent from Peking on
behalf of the emperor. I happened to reach the temple the day
before the Commissioner had appointed to be there, and thus I
was able to see everything at its cleanest and best. The district
magistrate had been somewhat lavish in his preparations, and had
made most extensive repairs so that the whole place was better
looking than it had been for a generation. But news had came
the day before that the Commissioner was ill and could not start
from the prefectural city. Thereupon some hundred of the Yao
tribesmen who had gathered to meet him and honour him with
their dances went off to their scattered homesteads in the hills. I
regretted the loss of seeing and hearing this interesting
reminiscence of Shun's original visit, which the oldest inscription
in the temple states was to settle up matters with the "Miao"
(). Nowadays this word is used only in the south-west
of Hunan. In the south and south-east (including the
neighbour-hood of the Chiu-i Shan) the aborigines are known as
Yao (猫).
The shrine at which the worship was to take place was
decked with yellow curtains, emblazoned with blue dragons.
The tables were adorned with new sacrificial vessels and with red,
blue and yellow drapings. The pillars had all been newly painted
and everything was as spick and span as Chinese art knew how to
make it.
Behind the shrine was another building which had a solitary
tablet in it. There was no furniture, nothing on the three walls,
no ornamentation on the roof. The tablet is a thick stone
with six or seven characters commemorating Shun Ti. There is no
date nor any clue to the age of the inscription. The magistrate's
secretary who had been superintending the repairs and preparations
told me that this stone had been removed from the old Chiu-i
Shan which was some five li from the present temple. A long
inscription in the present temple announces that its foundation
dates from the Yuan Dynasty. But no reason for the removal
from the previous site seems to be given.
Five li away there is a little recess in a limestone cliff,
hardly deep enough to be called a cave. It was there that the
imperial sacrifice used to be offered. On the left side of the cave
are three large and well carved characters (which the workmen
were then touching up): "Chiu-i Shan.' An inscription by the
side dated this inscription in A. D. 1214.

[Facing page 50.]
TEMPLE AT SHUN'S TOMB
Arranged for the Imperial Commissioners' Visit

CLASSICAL LEGENDARY HISTORY OF CHINA
51
Half way between the old and new shrines there is a very
large cavern. After descending about a hundred feet we were able
to walk along (or sometimes in) a stream of clear, cold, swift
flowing water for fully a mile. At times we had to scramble
crouching under the overhanging rocks; elsewhere our torches
failed to throw their light on the roof above which towered up for
over a hundred feet. Unfortunately all the stalactites are mud
covered, though a fresh break revealed a clear, clean crystal.
There is no grave at either the old or new temples. My Chinese
friends all came to the conclusion that the cavern ought to have
been, even if it were not really so, the grave of Shun. Truly it
would have been a worthy mausoleum for such an hero.
I spent a few days at the Chiu-i Shan reading and re-reading
the Shu and the Bamboo Books and trying to make the legends
live. Of course, tear-marked bamboos and footprints impressed
on the living rock had to have their full negative weight;
evidently somebody has been tampering with the truth. The
question I puzzled over then and on which I have hitherto got no
light, is not so much the question of how much foundation there
may be underlying the legends; it is rather, when, how and why
did the legends arise. It is not difficult to dismiss all thought of
either Shun or Yu ever having seen the Heng Shan; all thought
of Shun being buried near the Chiu-i Shan, and of his wives being
buried at Chunshan. What I should like to known is, if these
things be not so, how came any sane men to think they were so?
How came other provinces to acquiesce in a bare falsehood on the
part of Hunan, and allow the representative of the emperor to pay
the homage of the empire to places in Hunan that had nothing to
do with the people who are to be honoured?
I have looked up all that I can find of Legge and Parker, of
Faber and Kingsmill that bears on the subject. These veritable
sinologues differ amongst themselves, and who am I that I should
interfere in their strife? But the more radical of these "doctors"
are much more like the medical doctors of days gone by than the
inen of research to-day. It used to be in medicine as it seems to
be in literature to-day, enough to say of some things that they
were diseases; to-day in medicine, men search out the why and
the wherefore of the disease. Would that some one would give us
some positive criticism in literary matters. As a mere student I
would like to say wherein I have found the masters of little help.
Perchance further light may be forthcoming. I wish therefore to
say a little about the theories that have been put forth, some of
them in the pages of our Journal, others elsewhere; and to
point out where I for one desire better guidance than I have yet
found.
Mr. Kingsmill in many papers that enrich our printed Journal
has assiduously reiterated the theory that all the early Chinese

52
THREE SITES IN HUNAN-
stories are but variants of the old Aryan myths that taught the
men of older days the lore of sun and moon and stars with light-
nings and thunders, eclipses, and changes from long bright days to
long dark nights. In Vol. XIII of the Journal there is a
characteristic paper of his on "The Story of Shun." Yao and
Shun, Yu and Tang are all solved by the sciences of Comparative
Mythology and Philology. Now, in these sciences I am a child.
I can only listen as an outsider. I cannot dispute that Yao may
be near in sound to Sanscrit words for "Sky," that Wu-Shun may
stand for "Vishnu "; but am a less obedient child than my teacher
would have me be when he bids me translate O-Huang the name
of Yao's first daughter in order to find in her name the meaning of
bright-ness for the Day," and transliterate her sister's name
Nu-ying in order to get something like the Sanscrit sounds for
"Night." When I am further told to recognise in the Chinese "li"
the Sanscrit "ar," memories of the dictum attributed to Voltaire
arise and I think that in this science "you must pay no attention
whatever to the consonants and still less to the vowels."
It is however on another count that Mr. Kingsmill fails most
signally to carry me with him. He says: "Nothing is more
conclusive as to the extra Chinese origin of the early legends that
the evident coincidence of the geography of the Chinese stories
and that of Indian tradition. The Vishnu Purana gives a scheme
of cosmography in which we can detect many resemblances too
close to be accidental." (Journal Vol. XIII p. 131). There follow
some twenty Indian names of which three only are connected by
Mr. Kingsmill in his following comments with the story of Shun,
viz 1-"Meru" represented by "Meng;" 2-"Sringi" represented
by "Ts'ang-wu;" and 3" Hariwatha" represented by "Fuhsia."
Mr. Kingsmill's deserved fame is my excuse for a rather long
criticism on these dicta.
1-Mr. Kingsmill tells us that according to the Aryan legends
"in the centre of the universe is the golden mountain, Meru, the
Mung of the Yukung." Not being blessed with a Chinese
memory I was obliged to look up "Mung of the Yukung." In
Legge's Shu I found two "Meng" neither of which bore much
resemblance to "a golden mountain in the centre of the universe."
In the China Review, however Mr. Kinsmill has priveleged us
with two considerably differing translations of the Yukung. One
was published in 1875, the other ten years later. I eagerly turned
to these two translations to see if the resemblance between Meng
and Meru were any clearer. What was my surprise to find that in
his translations neither "Meng" was even a mountain.
Par. 30, 31 of the Yukung reads:
Legge's translation runs: "The hills of [italics are Dr. Legge's]
Mung and Yu were brought under cultivation." His note tells
us that "The hill of Mung is 40 li to the south of the district

CLASSICAL LEGENDARY HISTORY OF CHINA
53
city of Mung-yin (lat. 35, 50 N, long. 1, 42 E.) It is the
same with that called by Confucius the eastern Mung. (Ana.
XVI i. 4-the reference is to one of the lesser nobles in the state
of Lu whose ancestors had been appointed to preside over the
sacrifices of Meng.) Kien Lung who several times passed the
mountain in his visits to Keang-soo and Che-keang, wrote some
pieces of poetry on the sight of its snow covered summits."
In 1875 Mr. Kingsmill translated the couplet:
"The Hwei and I showed their banks,
Ten
Meng-yu was cultivated." (Ch. Rev. IV p. 14).
years later it appeared in the same magazine as:
"The Hwai and I were controlled
Meng-yu learnt the arts." (Ch. Rev. XIV
In the Yukung, par. 65, 66 we read
p. 29).
Legge translates:-"Sacrifices were offered to the hills Ts'ae
and Mung on the regulation of the country about them." His
note is "The hills of Ts'ae and Meng are both referred to the
present department of Yachow (lat. 30,33 N., long. 13, 25 W.)
Mount Meng seems to be sufficiently ascertained, the best tea of
all Sz-ch'uen is grown upon it."
Mr. Kingsmill translated in 1875:
"Ts'ai-mung was arranged and pacified
In 1885:
The Ho tribes were brought to submission.'
"The Ts'ai-mung were settled in townships
The Ho tribes were fixed at Tsik."
"
That is to say, in 1878, Mr. Kingsmill states that his strongest
evidence for the conclusion that the Chinese stories about Shun
are connected with the Indian stories about Vishnu is found in the
occurrence of a place name in the Yukung, which he identifies
with a place name in a Sanscrit work. The place name in the
Sanscrit work is applied to the very central spot of the universe;
the place name in the Yukung is so little distinctive that it is
applied to two unimportant places, one in the extreme east, the
other in the extreme west of the central line of the empire. By
Chinese commentators, both places are interpreted as mountains,
as is the Sanscrit word in the Sanscrit work; but by Mr. Kingsmill,
once before and once after his dictum, the word is the latter half
of a tribal name in its first occurrence, and the first half of another
tribal name in its second occurrence. One rather feels that for
the nonce Mr. Kingsmill had assumed for himself the part of
Lewis Carroll and for his readers, that of Alice.
2-Less strange than this "evident coincidence" of
"Meru" and " Meng," but still strange enough is that of
"Sringi" " and "Ts'ang-wu." Mr. Kingsmill makes the Canon
of Shun say that "He ascended to the upper regions and there
died," He adds that Shun "before his death dwelt in Ming-t'iao

54
THREE SITES IN HUNAN-
i.e. Mandara, one of the buttresses of the golden mountain Meru,
and died in Mount Ts'ang-wu, the Sringi of the Indian
cosmogony." Mencius says Shun died in Ming-t'iao. Mr.
Kingsmill's statement comes from the Bamboo Books. The
statement that Ts'ang-wu is a hill is added by the annotator of
the Bamboo Books together with the information that the hill
is in Ming-t'iao. Ssu-ma Chien as I have already quoted, makes
Ts'ang-wu a wilderness in which there is a place called Chiu-i.
What is the use of attempting to make out any geographical
coincidences of place names which those who use them in
Chinese are evidently ignorant about? How any of them can
be like "Sringi," it is difficult to understand, and the difficulty
is not removed by the facts that in the Sanscrit cosmogony
Mandara lies to the east, Sringi to the north, while the Chinese
places lie in the extreme south.
3-There is one more identification : "Hariwatha and
Fuhsia. As far as I know the Chinese name only occurs in
Mencius and there only once (p. 192) and all Mencius says is
that Shun dwelt there. Chu Hi's note is an admirable example
of that commentator's way of proclaiming his ignorance under a veil
of polished verbiage. Legge says nothing is known about the place.
Dr. Faber is not quite so ruthless as Mr. Kingsmill in his
criticisms of early literature. In his paper on Prehistoric
China (Vol. XXIV of our Journal)-a paper rightly characteris-
ed in the discussion that followed as "the most important that
had ever appeared in the Transactions of our Society "-he cuts
away the ground from all pre-Chou literature. The chain of
* On Mr. Kingsmill's own statement that there is nothing more conclusive
of the non-Chinese origin of these early legends than these coincidences
I prefer to hold on to a Chinese origin.
I cannot thus summarily dismiss Mr. Kingsmill's theory without a word
of sincere appreciation of his kindness in corresponding with me on
the subject of this paper. I trust the Editor will kindly allow a
communication from Mr. Kingsmill to himself on this subject in
answer to a question of mine, to appear in the Transactions. In a
further letter to myself Mr. Kingsmill wrote to me: "You ask as to
when it was possible for the Yukung to be put in writing. I find the
answer easy not before Li Sz by the introduction of the Siao chwen.
made the representation of language possible-say 230 B.C. As a fact
there was little real writing before the time of Wu of the Han Dynasty,
B.C. 140. The edict of Ts in Shi Huangti was about the first attempt
at written language and it is very crude . . I am writing an
exhaustive paper on the introduction of writing in China, but it will
not be ready for some months. [The letter is dated April, 1910]
I am the better able to do this as I have myself a fairly representative
collection of ancient bronzes."
It is sincerely to be hoped that at the time of Mr. Kingsmill's
regretted death the paper was sufficiently advanced to render some
publication possible.
I shall refer later to the date of the Yukung, on which I have
gained some light since my correspondence with Mr. Kingsmill.

CLASSICAL LEGENDARY HISTORY OF CHINA
55
reasoning is close and well connected; but there are at least two
links which are pure assumptions. Dr. Faber shows that the two
earliest attempts at dictionaries in Chinese are the T's'ang-chie
of B.C. 200 with 3,300 characters, and the Shuo-wen of A.D.
100 with 9,353 characters. Dr. Faber assumes that in each case
the works represented practically all the characters in the
language. Next, he assumes that these two works together with
one by Ching Tsiao in 1150, containing 24,235 characters, and
the Kanghi Dictionary of 1720 with 44,449 characters will give
you an average rate of increase of characters that may be used
in working back behind the Ts'ang-chie. On this basis, Dr.
Faber assigns to the historiographer Chou (Giles B.D. 1707)
who lived 827-782 B.C., about 1,000 characters with which
to commence "phonetic characters." Four hundred years earlier
he grants a possibility of 500 characters with which to begin
ideographic characters; "and possibly back as far as 2000 B.C.
there may have been 100 "elementary characters "-i.e. "simple
characters, which may form elements of other (compound)
characters, but they themselves do not contain any other element;
they are figures pure and simple. "Most of our readers" adds
the author, "will be surprised to learn that the number of such
elementary characters, out of which the 50,000 Chinese characters
have been developed, is not more than about 100."
"
To be sure, Dr. Faber himself is quite aware that he is
making assumptions only. I am not quite so sure that either
the Dr. or his readers is always conscious that the deduction from
this chain of reasoning, backed up as it is by great erudition and
unopposed by any accepted proofs to the contrary, is not proven
fact. The strength of a chain must be tested by its weakest
links. When once you introduce unproven assumptions, you
must continue to the end with results that are unproven.
Possibly Mr. Kingsmill's posthumous papers may greatly
strengthen Dr. Faber's position. Meanwhile, I prefer to leave the
door open for the possibility of a literature earlier than Dr. Faber
allows, much earlier than Mr. Kingsmill allows. Back behind the
literature there may still extend hoary traditions that need not
be relegated to the region of myths though they must be classed
as legends rather than as history.
It is for such reasons as these that I still hold on to a
treatment of these old tales rather on the lines of Dr. Legge and
Prof. Parker than on the lines of Dr. Faber and Mr. Kingsmill.
What especially appeals to me in the treatment of these
two other Sinologues is that the legends of Chinese History
are not jettisoned to make room for some pet theory. It
is in that direction that so much that arrogates to itself the
name of criticism seems to me utterly unscientific rather than-as
its propounders are never tired of asserting-"scientific."
8

56
THREE SITES IN HUNAN-
Astronomers would be laughed at if they rejected comets on the
ground that they could not fit them in to the planetary orbits;
geologists, if they rejected "faults" on the ground of some theory
of rock-formation. Science if it means anything means the
framing of theories to fit facts. The "facts" of literature
include forgeries. Those who used to treat the Decretals as
genuine documents were not working on a theory that fitted
facts. So, if the early Chinese Classics are really forgeries, it is
no use reasoning upon them as if they were genuine documents.
But, on the other hand, it seems wise to demand a further reason
for treating them as forgeries than that not to treat them so
would upset a theory that is not proven.
Dr. Faber says in the article from which I have been quoting
that "there is as much forgery of ancient books going on in
China as of coins, bronzes, porcelain, etc." That is a sweeping
statement, even though it is followed by a "list of ninety-one
so-called ancient works which are rejected by Chinese scholars
as not genuine." The forgery of coins is a lucrative business.
There cannot be many cases of forgery of literature that have
proved lucrative. When high rewards were being offered for the
restoration of works that had been affected by the "burning,"
there was a provocation of forgery. (By the way, if Mr
Kingsmill's views that Ts'in Shi Huangti was the first to issue
written literature are correct, not only must all stories of
"the Burning of the Books go, but all tales of forgeries to
replace them must go too). But there seems no solid reason
for extensive forgery. A mistaken notion of authorship-c.g.
that Chou Kung was the author of the Erh-ya does not make the
work itself a "forgery. "
Professor Parker in his very interesting work Ancient
China Simplified persists in putting Shun's grave too far
north, e.g. p. 7 "near the modern riverine port of Changsha":
p. 58, "Shun prayed at a certain mountain in the centre of
modern Hunan province where his grave still is; p. 191 "Shun
was traditionally buried near Changsha"; p. 221 "buried
at a point just south of the Lake Tungting." So it is represented
on the map facing p. 65 (which only reaches to a line just south
of the lake, but includes "the Grave of Shun.")
Moreover, when the author speaks of the traditional grave
as "a fact which points to the possibility of the orthodox Chinese
having worked their way northwards from the south," he is not
backed up by the traditions about the grave.
The legends
associate Shun's death either with a visitation such as the
Canon attributes to him quinquennially, or to the settling of
some trouble about the Miao. Mencius' statement that Shun
was "a man of the eastern tribes" is in no sense contravened by
the legend that he died in the south.

CLASSICAL LEGENDARY HISTORY OF CHINA
57
Neither in Dr. Legge nor in Prof. Parker's works is there any
discussion of a probable date for the Yukung. A preliminary
investigation on which much depends is a date for the Tso-ch'uen,
a commentary, on the Ch'un-ch'iu which quotes the Classics in a
way that indicates not only a complete Canon at the time of
the Commentary itself, but also much earlier. Such an
investigation has been sketched in two able papers by "A.M."
in the Chinese Recorder for April and May 1911. The writer
has summarised his study of the question thus: "The
evidence...
tends on the whole in favour of its having been
written towards the close of the reign of Wei Leih [B. C. 425 to
401], or very soon after. . . We may either say boldly that
[the author] was a contemporary with the later years of
Confucius, and was a young man of about 35 when the sage
died, and lived to be 90; or we may think that he was altogether
of a later generation, but may have known those who knew
Confucius." (Ch. Rev. XLII p. 281).
The writer of these two articles has favoured me with the
draft of a study he has made on the Yukung which I trust he
will soon publish. By his kind permission, I am able to use
some of his conclusions; as however his manuscript may still be
revised, it will be better for me not to quote much verbatim,
but to accept the responsibility for the wording, while
acknowledging my entire indebtedness to my friend for the main
idea. The only point in which the Yukung affects this paper is
its references to the Heng Shan. Both parts of the work name
the Hill part i. in par. 46 gives the south of the mountain as the
boundary of Ching Chou; part ii. par. 4 says that after going to
Mt. Heng, Yu "crossed the Nine Rivers and went on to .
another place that is quite unknown.
"
Is there any reason, first of all to connect the writer of the
first part with the writer of the second part? There seems to be
none. The two parts assume an entirely different arrangement
of the empire. In the first part the divisions are irregular and in
nine chou" in the second part they are purely theoretical and
made only on paper.
Whether the divisions of the first part
ever actually held good or not, they might have been made;
those of the second part never could have been made. Certainly,
one man could not have written both parts. The second part
may be summarily dismissed as useless for the purpose of getting
to know when the Chinese first colonised Hunan.
The first part has a foundation of verisimilitude. Its
opening phrase is of real interest spite of the utter impossibility
of any connection of Yu with the rest of the book. The
statement reads that "Yu regulated the land." The character
occurs in the Odes IV iii, 4 stanza 1 (p. 638).* This is the
瑢晢維商長發其洪水禹敷下土方

58
THREE SITES IN HUNAN-
very last part of the Odes as at present arranged; but the
Odes contained in it profess to be amongst the earliest, if not
actually the earliest of all the Odes; they are five Sacrificial Odes
of the Shang Dynasty, which according to the Narratives of
the States (a work ascribed to a contemporary of Confucius),
were handed on to an ancestor of Confucius in the eighth century
B.C. The fourth of these Odes contains a eulogy of the ancestors of
the Shang Dynasty, the earliest of whom was Hsieh (Shu p. 44)
appointed as Minister of Education by Shun, and therefore a
contemporary and colleague of Yu. The mention of Yu in
the Odes is merely as a contemporary of Hsieh's; nevertheless
there is reason to think that the unusual use of the character is taken
from the Odes by the writer of the Yukung, rather than the
reverse. We must judge entirely from internal evidence as to
about what time the Yukung could have been written. The
work consists of a systematic account of the empire and is
largely written as Mr. Kingsmill pointed out in the Ch. Review
IV 13 and XIV 17 in a four syllable metre. Interrupting the
metre there is a section for each "chou giving the chief
products and the route by which these products were conveyed
to the unnamed capital. (The complete omission of even the
mention of a central state or capital city is one of the most
interesting features of the work). Two prominent landmarks are
given for each "chou, except the first, either two rivers, two
mountains, or a river and a mountain, or the sea and a river or
mountain. In no case is the position of this landmark fixed
as regards the general position of the province, though occasionally
the south of the landmark is indicated as a boundary. There is a
great deal of uncertainty about details of the rest of the
geographical descriptions-some names are assigned by one
commentator to a place, by another to a tribe. But there are
some 30 rivers and over 20 mountains named. There is a
difficulty in identifying the rivers due to the known change of
course of not only the Yellow River, but also of others during the
last two thousand years; while such a reason could not apply to
the hills, we are there confronted with the serious difficulty that
nothing but the name of the mountain is given. There is no
attempt to distinguish between a peak and a range; there is
nothing to describe the mountains named. How many, if any, of
these mountains had been ascended, we do not know; quite
possibly they are merely the peaks that are visible from the rivers
-or at most-from the plains. "A.M." writes that "probably
only two of them, T'ai and Hua, can be identified with the same
confidence with which we identify the Lo and the Wei. The rivers
then are the fixed points from which we identify the mountains."
When we come to examine into the details that concern the
southern-central bounds of the Yukung, we find that as far as

OLASSICAL LEGENDARY HISTORY OF CHINA
59
59
the first part is concerned, no place need be located south of the
Yangtse; in the second part there is a distinct reference to a
crossing of the river, but even there it is by no means clear
whether the river was crossed before or after the coming to Mt.
Heng. A close investigation of the river system of that part of
the empire between the Yangtse and the Yellow River east of the
great southern bend of the latter river between Shansi and Shensi,
seems to show that there was no important river omitted in the
Yukung. It would seem improbable, therefore that such a dis-
tinct and important river system as that which characterises the
province of Hunan should have been known to the writer and yet
left unmentioned. That would shut out the present Heng Shan
from being the Heng Shan of the Classics.
There is nothing in the Shu Ching that brings us even to the
banks of the Yangtse. Nowhere is there any mention of the Han,
the Huai or the Yangtse. The Bamboo Books do bring us to the
River in days contemporary with parts of the Shu; but the
mention is significant: "In the 37th year [of King Mu i.e.
963 B. C. according to the received chronology of the Shu], the
king raised a great force of nine hosts, and proceeded eastwards to
the Nine Rivers where he crossed the water on a bridge of
tortoises and iguanodons piled up." (Legge's Shu, Proleg. p.151.)
In the reign before there is a mention of the "Nine Rivers"
apparently associated with the "Kiukiang" of to-day, for it makes
King K'ang go on a tour of inspection to the Li Shan of Kiukiang.
Of course all this is not only not historic, it cannot even be
dignified with the name of legend. It is forgery, pure and simple,
In the Tso-ch'uan there is a well known anecdote referring to
an early connection of the Chou monarchs with the Han (p. 140.)
In B.C. 656, the great marquis of Ch'i and his premier Kuan
Chang went on a marauding expedition against the viscount of
Ch'u The viscount sent a messenger to find out the reason of
the invasion Kuan Chan replied that the "three ribbed rushes"
(see Yukung p. 116) had not been supplied; moreover "King Chao
had never come back from the expedition that he had undertaken
to the south." The viscount's envoy acknowledged a fault in the
non-supply of the rushes: but "as to King Chao's not returning
from the south ask about it along the river bank." King Chao is
not mentioned in the Shu; he reigned from 1052 to 1002. He
is said to have been drowned while crossing the Han, and Kuan
Chang's question suggests a suspicion of foul play; on the other
hand the Ch'u retort suggests that even at that date the "dwellers
on the river banks" were not fully under the control of the Ch'u
monarch, as he preferred to style himself.
When we turn to the Odes, we find what is probably a
contemporaneous account of the first expedition to the Chiang and
Han that can be called historical. (It must be noted that in all

60
THREE SITES IN HUNAN-
probabilities the odes were extant as literary compositions before
they were written down). In Ode II iii. 4 there is an account of
an expedition against the tribes that were then called "
"Ch'ing."
They were utterly routed and treated the conqueror with awe. In
III iii. 8 and 9 there is an account of the commands of the king
with regard to the colonization of the Chiang-Han region that
must have included the present Hankow. King Hsuan lost his
new colonies before the close of his reign and none of his
descendants ever recovered them. Ch'u though acknowledging
(according to the loquacious Tso) its duty of paying tribute, never
fully acknowledged itself as part of the Chou kingdom. It is in
659 B. C. that the name of Ch'u replaces that of Ch'ing in the
Tso-ch'uan. But it is scarcely possible to connect any of its
narratives with the borders of Hunan. As the years went on
Ch'u crept up more and more towards Honan, and though it is
very likely there was a corresponding expansion towards the south,
it is outside the scope of the Ch'un Ch'iu.
It would seem therefore certain that as far as the Chinese
Classics go, Hunan has not the slightest right to claim any notice,
even geographically. The possibility of some early ruler wandering
far away to the south is no more unlikely in China than in
Assyria, where it is true that now and again a vigorous ruler
advanced far beyond what degenerate descendants were able to
rule for even centuries later.
Whether there ever were any such rulers in China or not, we
have no evidence whatever. We can confidently affirm that there
certainly was no such settled government over a large area as the
Canon of Shun assumes. There was no such thing as a
quinquennial visitation of the north and south, the east and west
of a great empire. A punitive expedition against aboriginal tribes
is a thing that must often have occurred. No such basis however
need be postulated for Hunan legends. Even if ever an
emperor "-chieftain, would be the more correct term-got as far
as Hunan, it is certain that he and others must often have reached
other places that have no legends.
Somehow or other the rest of China has allowed Hunan to
steal a march. There is no shadow of documentary ground for
the claims that Hunan has set up, and which the Board of Rites
has so long respected.
In the fine temple at the little town at the foot of the
Nanyoh that is used by the imperial commissioner on his triennial
visits (a temple but little frequented by the pilgrims) there is a
tablet standing in a mere passage-way that purports to give the
history of the foundation. It begins with the references to the
visits of Shun, and the labours of Yu. Its next sentence carries
us without a sign of any feeling of inconsequence to the days of
the T'ang Dynasty. That inscription is characteristic of Hunan

CLASSICAL LEGENDARY HISTORY OF CHINA.
61
scholarship. I have talked with many excellent classical scholars
on the subject of this paper. I have scarcely found one sufficiently
interested to even grasp the difficulty. They have no difficulty in
doubting the accuracy of the statements of the Shu; has not
Mencius taught them that it were better to have no Shu than to
place implicit confidence in it. But having extricated themselves
from the obvious difficulties involved in the journey of the
centenarian emperor and his centenarian wives by means of
Mencius, they will blandly proceed to say that the statements of
the Classics are sufficient ground for the claims set up by Hunan.
The popular pilgrimages to the " Nanyoh" in the eighth
month have no connection with the legends. The pilgrims do not
go near the Yu Tablet: the idols worshipped are not those of
historic celebrities. Shun and Yu are never alluded to, and
except for the out of the way inscription that I have mentioned
are as far as I know not even named on the pilgrim route. The
pilgrimage is almost confined to one of filial piety: but the example
of Shun is in nowise brought to bear on the pilgrims' thoughts.
3 YUHANG ROAD,
SHANGHAI, March, 1910.
Mr. WARREN and SHUN and YU.
In reference to Mr. Warren's remarks about the historic nature of the
traditions regarding Shun and Yü. I may say that his doubts are well
founded. We have no evidence which will bear a moment's sifting as to
any person or occurrence in what is now China prior to the entry of the
Cheo immigrants, cir. B. C. 1200-1100.
Leaving the question of myth, however, to one side, Shun and Yü if
ever they had any personal existence never penetrated to China south
of the Yangtse basin. Here we are on historical ground. Shun, Yao. and
Yü, as mythological or historical personages, are essentially Chinese, and
never entered into the folk-lore of the Mân peoples who up to the time of
T'sin Shihwangti were in possession of the basin of the Yangtse on both
sides of the river.
It had been, as a matter of fact, a long struggle between Ch'u and
immigrants T'sin as to which of them would accomplish the conquest of
Tien-hia, (the lands occupied by the Chinese descendants of the immigrants
who accompanied the Cheo-kungs Wu and Wan), and it was only owing to
the circumstance that Prince Cheng, who finally, B.C. 246, succeeded to the
rule of T'sin, was one of those born rulers of men who from time to time
arise to alter the trend of human affairs, that the conquest of China fell to
the lot of T'sin rather than of Ch'u.
The Tien-hia formed in those days the patrimony of Cheo, while the
basin of the Yangtse was inhabited by tribes of Man. There was no
community of either race or manners between the two, and the Shi King, the
book of primitive ballads of the Cheos, points to a state of continual
hostility between the two. In more than one passage the Tso Chwen to
the Ch'un T'siu speaks of the two languages being mutually unintelligible.
The most advanced of the states of the Mân was undoubtedly the kingdom
of Ch'u, which extended from the entrance of the Poyang lake up to the
borders of what in modern Chinese is still known by the name of K'ien-
chung, but which in the old pronounciation was Khamdo, . In those
days Khamdo consisted of great part of Hunan, Kweichow, the S. N. of

62
THREE SITES IN HUNAN-
Hupeh represented by the modern Shinan fu, and extended almost up to
Wan hien in Ssech'wen it was likewise inhabited by Mâns, traces of whom
are still visible in the present dwellers in the district.
Now in the Edict of Prince Cheng on first assuming the Imperial title
of T'sin Shihwangti (First Emperor) we find the sentence-F
archaic as this is undoubtedly, it can only be satisfac.
torily translated in one way :-(His Imperial Majesty). having completed
the fusion of all the principalities of Tien-hia with Khamdo (and brought
all) under one profound peace.-now assumes the title of universal
Emperor, &c. or . as it was also called, constituted one of the 36
Kiun into which the great conqueror divided his new Empire, and there is
no justification, historical or philological, for the subsquent rendering of
"Black-heads" placed upon it by the literati.
The division of China north or south of the Yangtse into Cathay and
Manji survived, it may be remembered, for nearly 1500 years after the time
of Shihwangti, and was very much in evidence in Marco Polo's day.
We are then on safe ground historically in concluding, that prior to the
age of the conquest of Tien-bia by the great T'sin Emperor neither in
history nor tradition did the Chinese people, nor Chinese myths or tradi-
tions, ever penetrate as far south as the Yangtse. When Shihwangti did. as
he expresses it, unite under the one profound peace the two dissimilar
peoples of the Mâns and the primitive Chinese and gave each the oppor-
tunity of becoming acquainted with the culture of the other, there is no
doubt that the inhabitants of Tien-hia stood on a much higher level than
the still rude Mans of the more southern districts; and, as in the case of
Greece conquered by Rome, the more cultured people imposed on the ruder
their arts, their civilisation, their myths, and even their language. The
conquering Romans thought it an honour to be permitted to trace their
descent from the heroes of ancient Greece, and hence arose the fables of the
wanderings of Aeneas and the settlement in Latium. The tales of the
connection of the mythical heroes of Tien-hia with the Mantse lands are of
the same nature, and equally unworthy of credit.
I may add that the pretended "tadpole" inscription of Yü in the Heng
Shan is a deliberate and shameless forgery. As a fact there exist abundance
of authentic remains exhibiting the growth of the Chinese written language
from its first beginning; and the imaginary "tadpole" script finds
here no place.
JNO. H. KINGSMILL.

MODER
CHARCOAL STOVE: CHIENLUNG PERIOD
Represents the finest type of Chinese art metal work. Casting good. Brass good colour,
originally gilded. Modelling and decoration excellent.
[Facing page 63]