NOTES ON CHINESE
ARCHERY.
By PROFESSOR DU BOIS REYMOND
The unbroken chain of tradition, which in China connects
our days with prehistoric ages, has preserved almost without
change some features of the greatest antiquity. One of these is
the bow and arrow.
There can be no doubt that the bow, as an implement of the
chase and war, is older than history. It is an invention of
primeval man, ancient beyond estimate. Proof is not wanting,
both external and internal evidence combine to show this. The
bow appears in the hands of warriors and hunters on many of the
most ancient pictures known to us. We find it outlined by five
bright stars in the constellation known as Sagittarius. All nations
have used it before the introduction of firearms and all savages, if
we except some of the lowest types, still do so. Arrowheads, more
or less elaborately fashioned out of flint or volcanic glass, are
among the commonest relics of the stone age, as everybody knows.
Of weapons to strike and kill at a distance this has certainly been
the most generally adopted device and one of the most efficient.
Not however the only one, as I may note in passing. In
some places and for special purposes others have survived and are
still found beside it: the sling, for instance, and the deadly
blowgun.
To explain how the bow comes to be found in all parts of the
world, it has been suggested that it may have had several, perhaps
many, inventors at different times and places. The argument was,
that the aboriginal savage, commanding such a small number of
technical means and having only few and simple needs, never had
any choice but to invent the same tool for the same purpose again
and again, whenever and wherever it would serve his ends.
This seems likely enough, but I believe a very much simpler
explanation can be found. The bow may have been invented once
only-untold ages ago-but then carried step by step, slowly but
surely, throughout the inhabited world, because the archers
conquered their more ignorant neighbours even by the use of the
new weapon. Deadly arrows wounding and killing the leading
men from a distance safe from all other weapons would surely
always create disorder and panic in the rows of men unprepared

NOTES ON CHINESE ARCHERY.
33
for such an attack and secure an easy defeat afterwards. Every
conquered tribe would soon learn to shoot in its turn and by the
same means overpower fresh enemies, until the weapon was finally
known and employed by all mankind. In short, the bow and
arrow may be supposed to have wandered over the whole world by
reason of its superiority alone, an instance-I might say-of
survival of the fittest. If this is true, it must have happened at
an early period, when men fought their battles naked, unprotected
by metal or other arrow-proof armour.
We can of course only guess at these things. But, if we may
reason by analogy, historical times might offer a wellknown
parallel. The next great improvement in shooting, the use of
gunpowder, has gradually worked its way from one race of men to
the other and is in fact still spreading out over the inhabited world
by the very same cause.
Here I venture to note as a curious fact the way in which
small boys take to the bow and arrow as a toy. One might almost
call it a natural or instinctive longing. At some time of early
childhood many boys will develop a passionate desire to arm
themselves with counterfeits of primitive weapons. The bow
among these is perhaps the most coveted treasure. The boy will
fashion into a bow by means of a bit of string any stick that will
bend sufficiently and forthwith use it to shoot other light sticks
that he can lay hands on. That he is a little savage and will use
his bow often enough in grim earnest, many sad accidents testify.
This calls to our mind the biogenetic principle of inheritance,
established by Robert Chambers, Darwin and many others: every
living creature in its evolution passes through stages repeating or
reproducing ancestral forms. The principle is proved beyond
doubt for the bodily development, but it may as well be applied
to the growth of mental faculties and cravings. I look upon the
child as a small repetition of prehistoric man, which illustrates-in
a childish way-the character and mind of our untaught savage
ancestors in former ages. The keen suspense and delight
concentrated into the seconds, while the eyes follow the straight
flight of an arrow, are certainly a sensation that would implant
itself deeply into the mind and brains of men whose subsistence
and safety throughout life mainly depended on their skill in
archery. As a plaything or a sport archery has never become
extinct. It survives even in countries where firearms have for
many centuries superseded its practical use, where therefore it
cannot be objected that the child is merely imitating the grown up
men. If now this longing is hereditary, if the child loves to shoot
arrows because his ancestors were archers in ages gone by, we may
conclude that the bow must have been used by a very great
number of generations. To develop a fixed tendency by inheritance
at least several, probably many, thousands of years are needed.

34
NOTES ON CHINESE ARCHERY.
Turning to historical evidence and its forerunner, poetical
tradition, we of course find the bow in common use everywhere.
The gods, the heroes and kings were marvellous archers, their
bows had reached the height of perfection. We have in Homer a
short description of the bow used by Odysseus which leaves no
doubt that even in his time, at the dawn of European history,
the weapon had already been improved to the utmost practicable
limit. Evidently before that time it had already gone through a
long period of development. The details of that description may
surely be accepted as substantially correct. It is without doubt a
picture from life, taken from some real individual bow known to
the poet, though of course we must allow for poetical exaggeration
in certain points. The Greek audiences of the Homeric songs were
probably good judges of archery and would certainly expect a
realistic account. That bow is a specimen of the Asiatic type
which represents the highest stage of mechanical improvement and
has never been surpassed in later times. Indeed, it would seem
highly probable that its construction closely resembled that of
these Chinese bows, the arms of a generation that has not yet
passed away. In the unknown past, into which the beginning of
archery must be dated, there must have been ample time for a
long and gradual development of such a high standard of
excellence. Between the first bone or flint-tipped arrows of the
naked savage hunter and the beginning of that comparatively short
period which we choose to call our history lies an immense age of
human evolution, the length of which, I believe, we are only
lately learning to appreciate rightly. We may safely measure it by
hundreds of centuries.
But, it may be objected, is not the bow and arrow a
wonderfully clever contrivance, quite worthy of the genius of the
greatest engineers ?-How could a naked hunter of wild beasts in
the stone-age ever invent a device which would enable him first to
store up the muscular power of his arm and then to let it fly at a
given moment with the feathered arrow, further and straighter
than he could throw any lance or javelin? Given the materials
and supposing him well acquainted with the elastic springiness of
wood, as everyone is, who has tried to wrench a sapling from a
tree, how could he ever conceive and foresee the possibilities
hidden in this combination of a bow, a string and an arrow, and
set about to build his first model? I must admit that this is a
serious objection. It may, however, be met
very simply, I
believe, by accepting a different view of the case. I would
suggest that probably the first bow was not a thoughtful invention
at all, but rather a discovery due to chance. At first sight this
appears impossible. But let us for a moment suppose that a model
of a bow was already in the hands of many men long before
archery was known. In that case the discovery of its use by

NOTES ON CHINESE ARCHERY.
35
chance would certainly become far more credible. It is easy to
imagine circumstances that would eventually lead somebody to try
to shoot with it. Children at play might have invented archery,
as they have found other no less momentous innovations.
Now, it is by no means improbable that a bow, at least
a small model or toy bow, really lay about in the camp, cave or
tent of the prehistoric inventor. I mean, of course, the drill
bow, which is simply a miniature bow, a bent stick with a leather
thong fastened to both its ends. This tool existed at a very early
period and must have been in general use for long ages. It served
to spin round a wooden stick set into a hole backwards and forwards
alternately. By these means and with the help of sand smooth
round holes were patiently drilled through the hardest stones.
The same tool served also to set wood alight by friction, a practice
still in use with a few savage tribes. To invent this simple tool no
very great ingenuity was needed. The thong was probably at first
pulled with both hands or by two workers. From this it was but
a small step for some workman who had no helpmate, to fasten his
thong to a stick in order to obtain double action, a pull, and a
push with only one hand and thereby set his other hand free to
adjust his work. Supple elastic wood is used by choice for the
drill-bow, to secure a smooth even run of the thong round the
boring-tool.
Here we have then a complete working model of a bow
readymade in the hands of countless generations of men at some
remote period of the stone age. May we not now imagine some
craftsman with an inventive turn of mind, toying idly with this
miniature bow, perhaps testing its elastic force by making the
thong jerk about light rods? Observing the force and precision
of these random shots and the facility of taking aim, he might
well conceive the plan of making a larger bow and thus become the
inventor of archery.
That, if I guess aright, must be the true story of this
invention. It quite agrees with the natural course of things.
Most new inventions are only clever adaptations of older ideas to
new purposes. Very few have ever been created, as it were,
out of a blank. Some older plan or design exists, the inventor
knows of it and fits it to attain some new object, and, in so doing,
modifies and improves it into something apparently new. One
invention is the parent, the next its offspring. A case in point for
instance is James Watt's invention of the crank motion in
steam engines. He himself said of it: "The true inventor of the
crank motion was the man who first contrived the common
foot-lathe. The applying it to the engine was merely taking a
knife to cut cheese, which had been made to cut bread."
[And, as I may perhaps remark, the original design of the
foot-lathe plainly shows it to be simply an enlarged modification of

36
NOTES ON CHINESE ARCHERY.
the ancient boring tool and drill-bow plan again. You may see it
at work in many Chinese and even in some antiquated European
turners' workshops].
However that may be, we may be sure that the first bows for
shooting were of the simplest workmanship, little more than a
grown stick roughly carved and notched into shape. But every
grown stick will be found to be thicker and stiffer in its lower
half. It will not bend symmetrically nor shoot straight, unless
that part is thinned down a little. This leads on to more careful
shaping of the whole bow. Experience would quickly teach to
pick out specially durable and springy kinds of wood, and then to
cut the entire bow out of a thick log of straightgrained wood,
following the grain and avoiding knots and bends. This at least
is the stage, at which even low savages seem to have arrived. A
bow of this kind, which I happen to know, is in a collection of
bows and arrows brought together by my brother. He bought it
from a naked Patagonian on Cape Horn, not far, I believe, from
the port of Punta Arenas. It is a small and weak bow, very
rudely carved, and looks like a toy, such as a clumsy boy might
manufacture with a very blunt pocket-knife. But the set of
arrows belonging to it is indeed a curiosity. They are fitted with
small arrow heads, which the Fuegian has most cleverly chipped,
barbs and all, out of bits of modern glass, nothing else, in fact,
than broken bottles, which the stewards of passing steamers have
thrown overboard. From the colour and shape of some of the
glass fragments and even some letters of the names of firms
impressed upon them there can be no doubt as to their origin. A
curious instance of the contact between two widely distant states of
civilisation.
Such a bow may be serviceable enough to shoot small game
in the thick cover of virgin forest and brushwood. But for higher
purposes and especially for war the simple wooden bow has been
much improved. The more perfect specimens are very carefully
shaped. The outer curve, which is subjected to a stretching
strain, is flatter and broader, the inner side is thicker, bulging out,
so as to resist compression: Both ends taper finely and are often
protected by tips of horn to prevent breaking and splitting. It is
well known that the best samples of the wooden long-bow are of
Flemish and British make. It seems that one old medieval
tradition has been preserved on both sides of the Channel, as the
shape and construction of these bows is very similar in both
countries. The best are put together out of two strips of different
wood, carefully glued and polished over, so that the seam is almost
invisible. These represent the highest stage of development
reached by bows built only of wood. With them the European
evolution of the weapon ceased. It was superseded, as is well
known, first by mechanical crossbows and later on by the firearm.

NOTES ON CHINESE ARCHERY.
37
The weak point of wood, as a material for the bow, is its
want of durability. The life of even the finest specimens is but
short, it will not stand the wear and tear of many seasons. The
wooden bow invariably ends in one of two ways. Kept in a dry
place and seldom used the wooden bow will grow brittle. Some
day, when fully bent, it snaps straight through across the grain.
On the other hand a bow that is worked hard and never dried out,
at length becomes lame. Gradually the life and springiness seems
to go out of it, its range shortens, until it becomes too weak for
use. The wood may still look sound enough outside, but its inner
fibres are softened and rent asunder. Both cases are of course
hopeless.
The fault lies partly in the nature of wood, but also in the
complicated nature of the strains to which a bow is subjected. If
we imagine a bow consisting of three layers, an inner, middle and
outer one, all three mechanically do different work. One material
cannot serve equally well for all. When the bow is bent, the
inner layer is shortened and thereby compressed, whilst the outer
is lengthened, that is: stretched. The middle layer retains its
length, we may consider it as passive in that respect. But it
also fulfils an important function in separating the other two,
which rest and act upon it as a substratum or fulcrum, pressing it
together between them. Lastly, all three, but chiefly the middle
layer, must counteract any accidental twisting strains and hold the
bow in a true plane.
It may have been in trying to repair some overworked but
specially beloved wooden bow that showed symptoms of the
softening or lameness before mentioned, that a cunning Asiatic
first conceived the idea of that great improvement: the composite
bow. Animal sinews, when soaked in warm water, turn into a
jellylike substance, which in drying contracts and becomes
exceedingly tough and elastic. By boiling water or steam it is
changed into glue, suitable to bind the sinews firmly unto wood.
In the composite bow strips of this material are laid on the flat
outer side of a wooden bow and held in place by lashings until they
dry and unite with the wood. After removing the lashings and
smoothing the surface, it is protected by a thick coat of varnish or
lacquer, sometimes also by a covering of cloth or skin, to prevent
moisture and decay. The first trial of this new contrivance must
have surprised its inventor. In drying the sinews shorten so
much, that the bow is not only straightened out, but reversed,
both ends now curving strongly forward. To string the bow when
in this state is not an easy matter. It has to be bent back into its
normal shape by sheer strength, keeping it meanwhile carefully in
its proper plane. A strongly inverted bow will turn and wriggle
out of your hands almost like a living creature, and the rebounding
ends will inflict most vicious blows if you let go. This difficulty

38
NOTES ON CHINESE ARCHERY.
however overcome, our supposed inventor would no doubt be much
pleased with the result. The cure of his lame bow proved a
success. It had not only restored all the lost elasticity to the
weapon, but greatly increased it. The bow would now possess a
stiffness and force, and consequently a shooting range, much
superior to any wooden bow of like dimensions. Moreover, instead
of being worn out in a few seasons, it would now, if carefully
treated, outlive a generation of men. We read of precious bows of
this kind which passed as a heirloom from the father to the son.
This height of perfection however was not yet attained with wood
and sinews alone. A third material was needed for the inner layer,
harder and more lasting than wood and with a higher resistance
against compression. Prehistoric man would not have to look far
for such a material. He had little choice. A material in very
common use in his time served the purpose admirably-horn. It
is hard, light, highly elastic to a compressing strain and tougher
and more lasting than wood. The inner surface of the composite
bow is sheathed with plates of horn, which not only add to its
power, but also protect and preserve the wood. The wooden layer
in the middle now only forms the core or underlying structure of
the whole, flattened on both sides, it contributes little to the
shooting strength, but it gives weight and keeps the whole fabric
straight and true. You observe, that the three different materials
required by theory are all there, each in its proper place. A
beautiful example showing how, in the long run, man arrives
empirically, that is-by innumerable trials-at the most perfect
solution of mechanical problems. We have come to the end.
Beyond this stage the long-bow has never been improved, though
it was in constant use for at least thirty, and perhaps many more,
centuries. It is here before you. The Chinese war-bow is a
composite,--or, as Luschan has named it,-a "reinforced" bow,
-built up of sinews, wood and horn.
Where and when did this wonderfully ingenious device
originate? Some names handed down by Chinese writers may be
disregarded as mythical. They are most probably only names of
celebrated makers; about the true inventor even Chinese historians
can hardly have much to tell us. But we may be sure that
the composite bow first appeared somewhere in the interior of this
great Continent. Wherever we meet any of its numerous forms
and patterns, they have come from Eastern countries. Such bows
are or were used in a long continuous region extending across Asia
from the Ottoman empire to Korea. They have, I believe, also
been imported occasionally into the adjoining continents, Africa
and America. Beautifully finished and ornamented samples are
found in India and Persia. On the islands they have not been
adopted. The Japanese, though famous archers, have a model of
their own, of quite different design. The Russian battalions which

NOTES ON CHINESE ARCHERY
39
invaded Prussia and attacked Berlin in 1760 and the other
Russian army which joined the great alliance against Napoleon in
1813 were accompanied by light cavalry formed by nomadic tribes
from the Ural provinces. Many of these wild riders were armed
with lances and bows only. An aged inhabitant of Berlin who had
seen these men camping in the streets of the city gave me a vivid
description of them. He and some other small boys of course
took a lively interest in the bows and arrows of the strange
soldiery. Making themselves understood by signs they prevailed
on one of these Baschkirs to show off his shooting. "He stood
where now Voss-street is," said the old man, "His little bow
looked like a plaything, but he shot his arrow into the wooden
door of Trinity-church." From my own knowledge of the locality
I can state that the distance named is very nearly 250 yards.
That bow doubtless was a reinforced bow, such as the Chinese
cavalry also used.
It
Now, as to the date of the invention. Chinese writers state,
that under the Chou () dynasty archery, which existed from
immemorial time, reached perfection. That is the 12th century
before Christ. Perhaps this refers to the introduction of the
composite bow into China. Its invention must be dated much
earlier, or in a word-into the unknown past. For, as I said
before, the Asiatic composite bow was known to Homer.
Let me
see what we can learn from his description. Odysseus received it
as a gift from a friend (Iphitos, son of Eurytos who inherited it
from his father on the Grecian mainland). The weapon was,
therefore, when its owner killed the suitors, at least forty years
old. That it had lain idle for twenty years had evidently done it
no harm. It is a precious thing, beautifully polished. The King
leaves it at home, not wishing to expose it to the risks of war.
is kept in his treasure room, enclosed in a shining case, from which
the queen withdraws it. This is necessary for the good preservation
of composite bows, which must be carefully shielded from wet.
The Chinese kept their bows with the arrows in cases of sealskin.
Homer calls it first herovo or, "bounding back," and then
καμπυλα οι “ curved."
Both expressions certainly suggest an
inverted Asiatic bow, especially as they are applied to it before it
has been strung.
The bow is sheathed with horn, which the king
examines closely to see if it is not moth-eaten. What the suitors
fail to perform, but Odysseus afterwards does without effort, is the
stringing of this bow, a test partly of mere strength, but also
requiring some skill. It must not be mistaken for the act of
drawing the bow before shooting. To string an ordinary long-bow,
even an extremely stiff one, can never be a test of great strength,
such as this proves to be, because a straight bow offers little
resistance at first. Its superior strength is not felt until it is
drawn some way out. But the stringing of strongly reversed
6

40
NOTES ON CHINESE ARCHERY
Asiatic bows is a trick or feat which must be specially practised
and may tax the strength of a powerful man to the utmost.
The traditional way to string such a bow is this: One loop
of the string being hooked on one end of the bow, this end is
firmly planted on the ground. The right foot is then placed close
to it, the outer edge of the foot touching the bow. Then the left
thigh is crossed over the middle of the bow, so as to rest on
its inner side. The left hand grasps the free end of the bow and
the right hand the free loop of the string. In this position the
muscular power of both arms and legs and partly even that of the
body can be brought to bear on the bow. With a steady pull both
hands are forced together, until the loop can be slipped over the
end and into the notch. To string a powerful Asiatic bow in this
manner is no mean feat of strength, especially if it is one of the
strongly reversed type requiring skilful handling. The strongest
man, not knowing the proper method, would be unable to do it,
though very likely he would break the bow to pieces.
In Europe the strength of bows is measured by pounds,
giving the weight which will draw the bow to the same point,
as would be done in shooting, that is, of course, to the length
of the arrow. The Chinese measurement we may safely assume to
be the same in principle. But the Chinese unity the "li")
or strength is greater, it is said to mean ten pounds. An older
measure, shih" () or stone, equal to six pounds, is also given.
For a man of ordinary strength in Europe a bow of 60 pounds has
been found handiest. The exertion in drawing a much stronger
one makes accurate aim impossible. But of course men of
exceptional size and strength may train themselves to surpass this
limit and learn to shoot with much stiffer bows. Eighty, a
hundred and even one hundred and twenty pounds are spoken of,
and they are certainly not beyond human power. Such a bow will
give the archer that can master them a considerably wider range.
He can also use a heavier arrow. To obtain, as far as possible,
these advantages, Chinese archers made use of special training-
bows, which were never meant for real use, but only to practise
and develop strength and skill. These bows are heavy and some
of them extremely powerful, reaching, I am told, up to 20 li
or 200 pounds. Shooting bows of this degree, and probably
all other figures exceeding 12 li quoted by writers as actually used,
we may consider as mythical.
The bows found to-day in China can be classed under three
distinct heads or types, the short bow, the long bow and the
gymnastic or training bow. The short one is the horseman's bow,
the long bent tips or "ears" and the wooden bridges or blocks
raising the string are absent in this type. They would be trouble-
some in the saddle. The long bow of the foot-soldier has them.
The training bow is easily known by its exaggerated weight and

NOTES ON CHINESE ARCHERY
41
stiffness and the thick string. I can produce here one sample of
each kind, not-I regret to say-the best specimens, because I
have sent those home. I think these represent the ordinary kind
of weapon used by the common soldier of the Manchu troops.
The short bow and the training bow came from a garrison town,
Wuchang near Hankow. The long bow was procured by the help
of my Chinese servant and is said to come from Ningpo. The
string and one of the blocks of this bow were missing and have
been replaced by my own handiwork. The country people,-
I am told-sometime use these old military bows for shooting
game. This short bow is fitted with a peculiar socket on the string
to shoot bullets or stones. The former owner said he hunted with
it. This training bow I have, after some practice, learned to
string, but a larger and heavier one (now sent home), was too
strong or perhaps too big for me. Nor could I find anybody else
that could master it. This little bow of slightly different shape
I found in Korea. From all I have seen of Chinese bows I may
say that their style and also that of the arrows is fairly uniform
where I have met them. Dimensions and strength must of course
vary a little to suit the requirements of different men.
The great standard work on war-craft of the Chinese officer
up to quite modern time was Sung-u-tze's "ping shu" or book of
soldiery, said to be written more than thousand years ago. It
contains a complete treatise on archery and some very good
pictures illustrating the proper way of handling bow and arrow.
This book I have hunted in many places, but in vain. Though in
use until very recently it seems to be forgotten. Instead of a
great classical work, I have nothing to show you but a small
pocket volume containing also some instructions for soldiers.
Possibly they are only extracts from the larger book. The first
chapter of seven pages only relates to archery and is illustrated by
five little drawings that are surely more quaint than useful. The
rest of the book which contains some 170 pages is not illustrated
and teaches other military subjects. The whole booklet seems to
be a kind of crib for young men trying to quality for an officer's
commission. An exhibition of shooting with the bow on foot and
on horseback formed an important part of this examination. The
advice given to beginners in marksmanship in many places
curiously resembles our own precepts in modern rifle practice. The
young Chinese parading the streets of Peking with his elegant bow
and five arrows seems to have received much the same teaching
how to shoot straight that to-day is drilled into his modern
successor on the rifle range. Perhaps all military writers since
prehistoric times have copied their instructions from each other.
Or is it because human nature remains much the same everywhere?

42
NOTES ON CHINESE ARCHERY
With your permission I will now read a translation of this
text. It seems to be difficult reading, even for native students, so
I am by no means sure of the correct rendering of some passages.
To each of the five woodcuts belongs one headline and a part of
the text:
(First picture.) Stand straight, breathe quietly.
The archer must stand upright, his feet forming neither the
character "ting" (T) nor the character () "pa."
All the limbs must be in correct position, erect, like a falcon.
Look towards the left, the edge of the little toe of the
foremost foot pointing to the target, the backward foot receding
one half-foot. The space between both feet should be equal to
the breadth of the shoulders. Stand with both knees neither bent
nor stiffened, the effort being equal on both sides.
Do not close the windpipe, so that you breathe freely.
It is most important that the backside is not held back or
upwards. Such a fault it would be best to avoid.
Not only the posture of the body must be correct, but one
should also think of what one is doing at the time.
(Second picture.) Calmly hit the mark.
(This is a classical proverb of Confucius). All parts of the
body must act simultaneously. Then one can hit the mark.
But one must know that, after drawing the bow, the index finger
should rest on the point of the arrow. The forehead must not
impede the arrowbutt, so that the arrow can fly fast through the
air. Nor should the chest get in the way of the bowstring, or it
may abrade some skin.
The arrow is on the right side of the bow, but one aims at
the centre of the target on the left side and observes at the same
time, if the arrow is pointing straight at the target.
One sights the bullseye in the "tiger's mouth" (this is the
angle between thumb and forefinger) grasping the bow firmly.
The left arm is stretched horizontally and puts its strength
forwards.
The right arm is stretched backwards and draws the arrowbutt
back with the fingers; its strength must act backwards. To
understand this better, study this picture.
(Third picture.) Act resolutely (?) The whole body exerts
itself very strongly, the abdomen swelling like a drum. The
navel is drawn downwards a little. After filling the body with
air, draw the arms back from the breast, lift the elbows a little,
move the front of both shoulders slowly somewhat backwards.
Bring all four joints, both shoulders and both elbows into line.
Concentrate your attention and hold your body upright.
Thus you will be best enabled to draw the bow.
(Fourth picture.) How to manage the horse.
should be near the mane and tighten the bridle firmly to stop the
Both hands

NOTES ON CHINESE ARCHERY
43
horse. Before pulling the bridle let both feet take firm hold in
the stirrups.
freely.
Lean the body forward a little and turn your head about
One hand grasps the bridle, the other the bow.
The body must not fall back and the legs not hang straight
down.
(Fifth picture.) How to shoot on horseback.
The horse runs full speed. The hindlegs kick up as if the
horse was going to catch the tiger's tail. The frontlegs reach out
as if the horse was going to kick away Tai-shan (a celebrated
mountain).
But previously the archer must have trained the horse to run
smoothly and well. Only after a thorough training one can shoot
from horseback.
If a novice wants to learn archery he must choose good quiet
horses. Stirrups must be, found to fit his legs, so that they be
neither too long nor too short.
The saddle must be well fastened.
The four limbs (?) must tighten equally. The saddles with a
short frame are the best. When seated in the saddle, the abdomen
ought to be rather close to the front of the saddle.
be afraid.
Do not
The arrows are in a quiver on the right side. Take the bow
in the left hand and let the horse run once round the ring. When
the horse has run once round, let the bridle lie on the saddle.
The manner of drawing the bow is like shooting on foot.
When using the bow the body must be held correctly and the
hands must not shake.
Three times one must shoot in the same manner, and there
must be no difference between the first and last shot.
"
After shooting pull the bridle again and stop the horse.
The chief point is, if Tai-Shan falls, do not change colour
and, if a stag were to charge at you, do not wink an eyelid.
I am well aware that this rather mixed little paper does not
contain much valuable matter. But I shall be contented if I have
perhaps awakened some fresh interest in the subject. For-we
may be sure-Archery is doomed. Before the cheap trade-gun
the bow and arrow is everywhere retiring into secret and remote
hiding places, like a wounded wild animal about to die. We may
see the day when they are only to be found in the museum and on
the sporting green. Now then, or never, is the time to collect
remnants and relics, stories and facts. They will soon be priceless,
and perhaps even the scraps in this paper may some day prove
useful.