In Memoriam
GEORGE EVANS MOULE.
George Evans Moule was born on 28 January 1828 at Gillingham in
Dorset, the second son of Henry Moule who was then Curate-in-charge
of Gillingham and afterwards, from 1829 to 1880, Vicar of Fordington
by Dorchester. He was educated at home until he went in 1816 to Corpus
Christi College at Cambridge; where he graduated with mathematical
and classical honours in 1850. Though his chief intellectual interest was
always in books he was also extremely fond of music, finding it a great
help to his work; and no one who played or even strummed on the piano
within hearing of his study ever went unthanked. He was neat and
clever with his hands, using a lathe well, and with a real, if rarely used,
gift for drawing. In 1846 he had turned his back on the world and set
himself to the service of Jesus his Master with a resolution which by
God's grace only grew stronger as years passed by. He was ordained
Deacon by the Bishop of Salisbury in 1851 and Priest in 1852. In 1857
he was appointed to work in China by the Church Missionary Society, and
reached Shanghai on 21 February 1858; proceeding soon afterwards with
his wife to Ningpo;-the wife who was his devoted and beloved companion
and helper from 12 February 1858, their marriage-day, until her death on
25 March 1909. He always kept a grateful recollection of the kind welcome
which they received from Wylie, Edkins, and others of the spiritual and
intellectual giants of those days.
He had chosen China as the mission-field which had least secular.
attraction for him; but he was not slow to find that the language and
literature which it was his duty to study were of the most fascinating
interest, and that his small leisure could be far more than filled with even
a desultory observation of the people with their manners and arts, their
history and antiquities, and of the country with its sights and sounds.
During the T'ai-p'ing Rebellion he already knew enough to be able to
pick up several quite valuable books of which some are now in the Asiatic
Society's Library at Shanghai and others in the University Library at
Cambridge. He was in scholarship, as in all things, ascetically devoted
to duty, and he did not allow himself to become a specialist in anything
but preaching the Gospel; though there are few branches of Chinese
learning of which he had not at least some sound and intelligent knowledge.
The papers which he contributed to this and other journals had perhaps.
sometimes the faults, as they certainly had the virtues, which come from
81

82
IN MEMORIAM.
the use of a strong intellect and sound scholarship without the aid of that
minute and laborious research for which he never had time.
On 28 October 1880, he was consecrated Bishop in Mid-China, and
from that day his scanty leisure for Chinese reading was reduced to almost
none. Of the last thirty-one years of his life he spent twenty-seven in
China, and of those twenty-seven years almost every day at work. One
of his last printed articles (in the Chinese Recorder) was on Missionaries'
Holidays, a subject with which those who knew him felt that he was nobly
incompetent to deal. His upright figure and kind, serious face were well
known and honoured in Shanghai; but he never lived there for more than
a few weeks at a time, except in the anxious days of 1900 and 1901, when
he was with difficulty persuaded to leave Hangchow, where a native house
was his home from 1865 to the end. During those months of residence in
Shanghai he preached regularly in the Cathedral, and took a most active
interest in the questions of social reform with which the community was
then concerned. He resigned his Bishopric in 1906, but continued full
active work until Bishop Molony arrived in 1908, and scarcely less active
until Death brought him rest on 3 March this year at Auckland Castle,
the home of his youngest brother, the Bishop of Durham. He had come to
England in July 1911 with his eldest son and only surviving daughter, and
was hoping to see one more English Spring. For him, "to look at things
in bloom Eighty springs were little room;" and his quick observation and
life-long love of flowers have brought several undescribed trees and plants
to the notice of scientific botanists. But he was hoping still more to
return to the land whose chief attraction was, to the end, that it was for
him the place of his Master's work. His religious convictions were very
deep and held unwaveringly to the last; but for that reason his charity
was large, and his capacity for friendship was unbounded. His friends
were christians and heathens; merchants and missionaries; Presbyterians,
Baptists, Jesuits, no less than members of his own loved Church. A
Prefect in Shantung once said "Every mandarin in China knows Bishop
Moule as a righteous man"; and a French Consul who had not seen him
wrote that he was "universellement connu et estimé en Chine."*
One who had met him very rarely writes "I can say without exaggera-
tion that very few, if any, men that I have ever met have attracted me
more. There may be others with as much goodness, and others with as
much charm, though they are scarce, or seem so, but still fewer who unite
in their character both the goodness and the charm."
There is no space even to name more than a small number of the many friends who
were real helpers of his life and work; such as were his Parents and five brothers and
friends only less dear than brothers in England, and in China such men (to name here men
only) as Burdon, Russell, and Nevius, his brother, and colleague through so many years,
Archdeacon Moule, Stuart and Judson at Hangehow, Hoare, Hodges, J. I. Scott, H. E.
Hobson, and not least his honoured successor, Bishop Molony.

IN MEMORIAM.
83
Beyond his courtesy, simplicity, and gentleness, the steady humourous
look with which he would regard his friends, especially if they were saying
things with which he did not and would not agree, and the hundred
indescribable traits which made him a lifelong friend to those who once
learnt to know him,-beyond these more intimate qualities all who knew
him at all were struck with his diligence and his plain living. "Repos
ailleurs" hung always on his wall, and since his death a most intimate
friend has well described this aspect of his life in Virgil's words,
Aude, hospes, contemnere opes et te quoque dignum Finge Deo.
On his appointment to the Bishopric he received the degree of Doctor
of Divinity honoris causa from his University, and in 1905 the high
distinction of an Honorary Fellowship from his College in recognition of
his Chinese learning. He was elected an honorary member of our Society
in 1864, having been proposed by Sir Harry Parkes. His contributions to
the Journal were:-
Notes on the Provincial Examination of Chekiang of 1870, with a
Version of one of the Essays. Read before the Society, 16 December 1870.
The Obligations of China to Europe in the Matter of Physical Science,
acknowledged by Eminent Chinese; Leing Extracts from the Preface
to Tsang Kwo-fan's Edition of Euclid with brief Introductory Observations.
Read 12 June 1872.
Notes on Col. Yule's Edition of Marco Polo's "Quinsay." Read
8 December 1873.
A Buddhist Sheet-tract, containing an Apologue of Human Life.
Translated, with Notes [and facsimile of the Tract]. Read 22 January
1884.
A Guide to True Vacuity. By Yuen-yang-tsze.
facsimile of the Tract]. Read in abstract 22 October 1888.
Translated [with
Notes referring to Hangchow in George Jamieson's Tenure of Land in
China and the condition of the Rural Population, 1888, p. 105.
Notes on the Ting-chi, or half-yearly sacrifice to Confucius. Read
17 January 1901.
He was one of those who read a paper at the Jubilee Meeting of the
Society, but the papers read then were not printed in the Journal.
His other publications were mostly articles on many subjects in the
Chinese Recorder, C. M. Intelligencer (or Review), and other periodicals;
and letters to various newspapers. The Conversion of a Chinese Physician
1864 (the second edition of which in 1868 contained an excellent short
account of the T'ai-p'ing Rebellion), though compiled by his Father, was
principally written by George Moule, with short extracts also of letters from
his wife and from Mrs. Arthur Moule. In 1878 he printed at Dorchester a
short lecture on Confucianism; and in 1889, at Shanghai, his most
interesting Notes on Hangchow Past and Present, which was reprinted in

84
IN MEMORIAM.
1907 in a revised and larger form. In this year he also printed by request
his brief autobiography: A Retrospect of Sixty Years, just as in 1902 he
had published, at the request of members of the congregation, the sermons
preached by him at Shanghai in 1900-1901, under the title of Faith and
Duty. He never had the least desire to write "popular" books on China
or on any other subject, and had to be persuaded and almost forced into
print, except in cases where he felt able to do something to support the
honour of God or the truth of Christianity. His works in Chinese include
a small Primer of the Hangchow (Mandarin) Dialect (1876), a version of
the Prayer Book (1874) and a Hymn Book (1871, etc.) in the same dialect,
a partial translation of the Prayer Book into the Ningpo dialect (1860,
1861), and a practically complete Prayer Book in Wen-li which was only
finished in 1910. In this last work he received constant and much-valued
help from his devoted secretary P'an Sung-chou (until 1905) and from his
colleague and former pupil the Rev. Ni Liang-ping. He printed also some
smaller books and tracts in Chinese, and was working at the last at a
paraphrase of the Bishop of Durham's To My Younger Brethern. He was
one of the too few missionaries who could compose and write a letter or the
rough draft of a translation in Chinese without the help of a native scholar.
He had hoped that his body would rest beside his dear wife and eldest
daughter and many Chinese friends amidst the mulberry orchards of
Hangchow; but now it is laid, near that of a beloved niece, within sight of
the great Cathedral of Durham, a spot not unbefitting the sleep of a
missionary of JESUS CHRIST.