57313
T'AI SHAN
By Rev. A. C. MOULE
詹所邦魯巖巖山泰
T'ai Shan, the most famous of the sacred mountains of China,
lies near the middle of the modern prefecture of T'ai An in
western Shantung, in latitude 36° 15' N. and longitude 117° 12'
65" E. (Richthofen, 1886). In the days of the ancient feudal
states T'ai Shan was on the extreme east or south-east of Ch'i
overlooking the plains of Lu, the home of Confucius. Richt-
hofen gives the height of the mountain as 5000 feet above sea
level, or 4300 feet above the city of T'ai An. The latter figure
is made 3837 feet by native measurements taken in the sixteenth
century. The mountain rises suddenly from the range of much
lower hills that stretches away to the north, and its southern
slopes run sheer down to the plain. Some twelve miles away to
the south-east rises the mass of the Tsu Lai hills.
A near view of T'ai Shan is often disappointing, since its
aspect is neither mysterious nor grand, and is far outdone in
picturesqueness by the south-western spur called Ao Lai Shan th
1. It is only when one sees it from a distance-ten or fifteen
or thirty miles away-that he feels it easy to realize why the men
of ancient China thought the mountain a fit object of reverence,
or when he finds it still looming black against the midnight sky
when all lesser hills have long sunk into invisibility. The
higher parts of the mountain are in many places bare, rugged and
precipitous, and the lower slopes too often strewn with a dreary
covering of loose boulders brought down from above by frost and
rain. On the southern face are two principal streams, one coming
down towards the south-east and running past the east wall of the
city, and the second to the west flowing down a valley between
Ao Lai Shan and Ta Ts'ang Ling and forming on its way the
beautiful waterfall of the Pai Chang Yai and the Black
Dragon's Pool . T'ai Shan is now nowhere wooded, but
Some say that T'ai Shan was in Lu, or on the borders of Ch'i and Lu.
In the sixth century B.C. Ch'i had "fields south of the Wên," a river
some 20 miles south of T'ai Shan.-Legge, Chinese Classics I. 74.
1

it is not wholly tree-less¹.
T'AI SHAN
Above the level of 3000 feet and
extending roughly, speaking, up to 4000 feet, both on the south
side of the mountain and in the Hou Shih Wu valley to the east,
are a considerable number of pine trees. From a few hundred
feet above the lowest pines right down to the foot of the mountain
the great pilgrims' road is planted with arbor vitae-in some places
so thickly as to earn the name of Pai Tung # or Cypress Cave.
Among the cypresses and along the beds of the streams will be
seen a few trees of other sorts; conspicuously some giant huai
(sophora Japonica) and several fine specimens of juniper and
salisburia. One of the lower slopes over-looking the P'u Chao
Ssŭ is planted with scrub oaks of a variety (hu) grown to feed
silkworms and also for a black dye which is got from their acorn-
cups. These oaks which are much planted in cemeteries, are
remarkable for retaining their leaves "brown and bright" all
through the winter and also for being often covered with mistletoe.
T'ai An is noted for its edible haws (I), and not many miles
to the west are the famous Fei Chêng peach orchards.
In
spite of the dry climate and stony surface of the ground there is
no lack of wild flowers-iris, pasque flowers, lilies, violets, honey-
suckle, spiraea, Michaelmas daisies, chrysanthemum, campanula,
pinks, St. John's wort, begonia, monkshood, bignonia, etc. Ferns
are not conspicuous, but some ten or more kinds may be found,
including a maidenhair (adiantum caudatum) and a small fern
(cheilanthes argentea) the back of whose fronds is elsewhere bright
silvery white, but on the mountain usually green. Near the
mountain top are various small birds rarely seen at lower levels,
among them the wren and the redpoll and a white-backed swift.
The high inaccessible cliffs are the haunt of large flocks of
choughs, too shy to let one often get a close view of their quaint
shape and handsome plumage, but fascinating to watch as they
soar and wheel high overhead and make the hills echo with their
weird cries. On the lower slopes crows, rooks, jackdaws, magpies
and Chinese blue pies are all common, and Chukar partridges not
rare. Kites and kestrels abound, and the handsome pied harrier
and (on the mountain) eagles may sometimes be seen. Hoopoes
about the city, and golden orioles in the remoter parts of the plain, and
woodpeckers everywhere, are far from rare. Of summer visitors
the most notable are the swift, the Chinese cuckoo and the
kingcrow; and in the winter flocks of ruddy sheldrakes frequent
1. I am told by an expert (Mr. F. N. Meyer) that the mountain was once
covered with forest (the trees including lime and ash); and a friend
not seventy years old remembers the time when trees were still com-
mon on the neighbouring Hsin Fu Shan. Both Tsu Lai and Hsin Fu
were evidently famous forests of Lu.-Legge, Odes IV, 11, IV. Cf.
History III, 1, Pt. i, 26.
2. Thuya orientalis, called cypress below for convenience.

T'AI SHAN
5
the sand flats of the river Wên . Of wild animals the most
formidable is the wolf; hares are common, and the author of Tai
Lan describes a jumping hare, possibly a jerboa, as found about
the Tsu Lai hills.
Tai Shan is mentioned some twelve times in the Classics;
namely in the Books of History, Rites, and Odes, and in the
Analects and Mencius. In the History it is called Tai for Tai
Tsung in the Rites, Tai Tsung or Tai Shan ; and
in the Odes, Analects and Mencius, T'ai Shan. Tai Shan U
and Tai Yo are names also found in old books. With
reference to its position among the five sacred mountains it has
long been known as Tung Yo, the Eastern Mountain.
is spoken of as a place and object of worship, as the largest
thing in the world, as the boundary of two of the primeval
districts, Ching Chou and Hsu Chou, and for its
pine forests and other natural products.
It
The change from the worship of a natural object like a
mountain to the worship of the spirit or genius of the mountain
marks a distinct step in the history of religion. But with regard
to the T'ai Shan worship it is not easy to trace any such regular
developement or progress. There is an allusion in the Analects
to sacrifice "to Tai Shan;" but perhaps the earliest mention of
the place describes the worship there not of the mountain nor of
its spirit, but of God;-the mountain top, the nearest place they
knew of to heaven, being the altar on which the ancient kings
regularly sacrificed to Heaven?. Yet for ages the people have
personified the mountain, or imagined that it has a soul or is
inhabited by a spirit. "The genius of the mountain"
is a phrase that occurs in books. The spirit has had various
names Yüan Ch'ang lung
or Sui Ch'ung t'ao
In A. D. 725 it was officially styled Tien Chi Wang
in 1008 the words Jên Shêng were prefixed; in 1011 it was
changed to Tien Ch'i Jên Shêng Ti, and in 1291 to
Tien Chi Ta Sheng Jên Sheng Ti-Tai
Lan IV, 3. In 1870 the Buddhist founder of the Ming dynasty,
returning in form at least to the most primitive stage, decreed
.
E,
1. About 2000 B.C.-Legge Classics Vol. III, Pt. I, p. 35.
2. Tradition makes the Emperors from the remotest mythical period, long
before Yao and Shun, offer the sacrifice to God () on Tai Shan
and the sacrifice to Earth () on some lower hill in the neigh-
bourhood. The Great Yü indeed made the latter sacrifice at Kuei
Chi in Chekiang. In the eleventh century B.C. Ch'êng Wang
E is said to have sacrificed to Earth on the She Shout hill
S. W. of the modern Tai An. This imperial worship of God on T'ai
Shan was continued at intervals far into the Christian era-Ming
Huang in the eighth century and Chên Tsung in the eleventh having
raised altars of earth both on the mountain top and at its foot. Cf.
Chavannes Le Tai Chan, pp. 16-26, 158-261.

6
T'AI SHAN
that worship should be offered to Tung Yo Tai Shan with no
added titles. Temples had long before been dedicated to Tung
Yo or to T'ai Shan, and at this day a temple of Tung Yo is found
in most of the larger towns of the empire. When Taoist influence
begins to make itself felt we find that T'ai Shan has a genealogy
and a birthday, is the abode not of one but of myriad spirits and
has much to do with the birth and death, adversity and prosperity
of mortals; while the little hill of Kao Li at its foot is specially
connected with the judgement of human souls after death. A
stone image of the spirit, perhaps the first, is recorded to have
been made in the year 591.
.
The religion of the place is now in the hands of illiterate
Taoist priests. Judging by the monuments remaining and by the
inscriptions and notices preserved in books, the sixth, seventh,
tenth and twelfth centuries seem to have been times of Buddhist
activity here'; but now the presence of Buddhists is hardly
noticeable. Under Taoist management the worship of the Lady of
Tai Shan has grown far more popular locally than that of the
mountain itself. The legends of the Jade Lady E, as she was
at first called, are not very definite. She is said to have been seen
twice, first in about 2650 B.C. and again about A.D. 65, and is
described as one of the seven women, dressed in feathers and crowned
with clouds, sent by Huang Ti to burn incense when he
founded the Tai Yo Kuan
The most popular story
identifies her with a girl named Yi Yeh born near T'ai
Shan in the year 143 B.C., who at the age of fourteen went to live
in a cave (the Hou shih wu) on the mountain hoping to become a
fairy (fill). She is said to have attained her object after three
years. Li Po , in a poem on T'ai Shan, mentions "four or
five Jade Ladies". Another account again traces the legend to
the twelfth century B. C. when the daughter of the Eastern Sea
appeared in a vision to Wên Wang x E. The present enthu-
siastic worship of the Lady seems, however, to date from the
discovery (A. D. 1008) of a marble statue in the Pool of the Jade
Lady on the mountain top by Chên Tsung of the Sung dynasty.
The chapel which he built for the reception of this image was the
predecessor of the present well known Lady Temple.
But indeed this year 1008, when Chên Tsung visited T'ai
Shan, was a great year for the Taoists and for the religion of T'ai
Shan especially, for in it the famous Letters from Heaven (Tien
Shu) were received. The first was found at the metro-
polis, K'ai Fêng Fu, and it was apparently to give thankofferings
to God for this that the emperor came to T'ai Shan. Outside the
1. Tai Shan Chih XV, XVI, XVII. Cf. Fei Cheng Hsien Chih II.
Tai Shil IX, f. 58.
2.

T'AI SHAN
7
south wall of the modern city, inscribed on a remarkable stone
monument, is his address of thanksgiving. The courtier Wang
Ch'in jo meant it seems to write an address in praise of
the Emperor, but his master said I have no merit or virtue to
record; if there must be an address let it be nothing but thanks
to God on high. The Tien Shu Kuan and the Li Ch'üan
or Wine Fountain, the Ling Chih Chich, the Ta Ts'ang
Ling near which the second Letter from Heaven was found, the
altars on the mountain top and on the plain, the temples of the
Lady, and perhaps the great Tai Miao itself, are among the many
evidences of Chên Tsung's visit and of the impetus given to
religion in that annus mirabilis of Taoism. Still there had been
temples and, as we have seen, images of the mountain if not of the
Lady long before. A temple of Tung Yo, near the site of the
present Tai Miao, existed in the first century of the Christian era,
and there can be no doubt that Taoist ideas and institutions had
been steadily developing and gaining ground here through the first
ten centuries. To a student of the religion, T'ai Shan would
probably form a singularly interesting illustration of the connexion
between modern Taoism and the beliefs of ancient China, and of the
policy by which the former has won its way.
Perhaps the most conspicuous feature of the worship now is
the annual pilgrimage. For the first three or four months of the
year the place is thronged with pilgrims from every part of the
province. Formerly, it is said, they came in hundreds of thousands
if not in millions, and from all parts of the empire; but the
numbers have of late years fallen off and those who come from
other provinces are comparatively few. This pilgrimage was
probably much increased in the eleventh century and again at the
end of the sixteenth, but there seems to be no doubt that the
mountain has been an object of pilgrimage to others besides
emperors from prehistoric times. The pilgrims' offerings on the
mountain top, which form so curious a sight, are mentioned as long
ago as the second century before Christ. It does not seem that
pilgrims come to T'ai Shan to pray for one thing more than
another, nor, as a rule, merely to acquire merit. They are very
commonly members of Pilgrims' Clubs (k), temporary
societies formed for the purpose of making a pilgrimage. The
promoters of a club () are men who wish to go to T'ai Shan
to perform a vow made in sickness or other distress, and they
invite others to join them. Each member makes a monthly
subscription until a sufficient sum has been collected, and then
in the first month the party starts, generally on foot, the leader
carrying a flag with the name of their native place and other
details written on it, and the other members often marked by a
1. Tai Shan Tao Li Chi f. 24.

8
T'AI SHAN
girdle of red or yellow.' The money is spent first on directly
religious duties, secondly on food, fairings and gambling, and
lastly in some cases in erecting a stone tablet to commemorate the
names and subscriptions of the members. A favourite place for
the erection of such monuments is the precinct of the temple on
the She Shou Shan. The two large iron vases in the Tai Miao were
presented by such a club in the year 1101, the subscriptions
amounting to 165,000 cash.
As long
The pilgrimage is naturally the occasion for a Fair.
as the pilgrims continue to come the courts of the Tai Miao are
filled with a large but otherwise rather uninteresting assemblage
of shops arranged in regular streets of mat sheds. The open spaces
are occupied by refreshment stalls, peepshows, quacks, minstrels
and story-tellers. Outside the temple also, in the city and
especially in the suburbs, a brisk trade is carried on for these three
months by a large number of shops which for the rest of the year
are closed. A curious feature of these and of some of the
permanent shops is the use of wooden figures-of monkeys,
scorpions, double cocks, double cows, and other creatures-as shop
signs. On the 28th of the third month, the birthday of Tung Yo,
another great Fair is opened in the west suburb for the sale of
cattle, agricultural implements, and all the requisites of rural life.
"He who climbs must pass from low to high, but to see the
sights he should descend from high to low." The actual summit
of T'ai Shan is occupied by a small and unpretentious temple of
Yü Huang, a Taoist god dating from the middle ages who
has usurped the primeval name of God, Shang Ti E. The
temple, now called Yü Huang Ting, was formerly called
Yü Ti Kuan, and occupies the site of the still more
ancient T'ai Ching Kung . On a clear day one may see
far over the great plain beyond the Yellow River to the north-west;
and to the south over the whole country of Confucius. Near at
hand, across a deep valley to the north-east, is a temple of Kuan
Yin picturesquely situated on the side of a precipice called
Hou Shih Wu fi . If the temple of Yü Huang itself has
little of interest beyond its heavy iron roof tiles, the site at least
is classic ground. The title Shang Ti may serve to remind us
that the platform on which the temple stands is the altar on which
For a good account of these clubs see Village Life in China, cap. XII.
"The original of this popular idol was a magician of the Chang family
that has given so many patriarchs to Taoism, whose deification cannot
be traced higher than the Tang dynasty." Legge, The Religions of
China, p. 169. In Shantung he is spoken of now as Chang Yu Huang
See also The Chinese Reader's Manual, p. 128.
1.
2.
3. These tiles, resembling clay tiles in shape and size but made of cast iron
(or in one case of copper), are found in several temples on the mountain,
and have been used certainly since the fifteenth century..

46
Photograph by Rev. B. M. MCOWAN
THE UNINSCRIBED MONUMENT
[See page 91

T'AI SHAN
9
of old sacrifices were offered to God. Where we stand so care-
lessly, Yao and Shun perhaps and many another of the founders
of China's greatness bowed down and worshipped: and the place
has been visited with reverent curiosity by the most eminent
scholars and statesmen of each succeeding age.1 Ssŭ ma Ch'ien,
who once came here with the emperor, tells us that there rose from
the altar the appearance of light by night and a white cloud by
day. Standing at the foot of the altar platform is one more
tangible link with the past, the famous Wu tzŭ peior
Uninscribed monument. This is a great granite obelisk set up,
according to a firmly rooted tradition, by Ch'in Shih Huang
in the third century before Christ. It is 15 feet 5
inches high from the ground to the underside of the cap, which is
formed of a separate stone, and tapers slightly towards the top.
The north and south faces are about 4 feet wide at the bottom,
and the east and west faces 3 feet; the angles are chamfered.
The surface retains a considerable amount of polish in places, but
with the exception of the one word , Ti "God," incised (in a
Tang or Sung dynasty hand) low down on the south-west angle,
there has evidently never been any inscription. The stone is said
not to be local; and the best authorities incline to the opinion
that this is the monument which was sent up and erected by Han
Wu Ti in the year B. C. 110.2 Ssu ma Ch'ien who is most careful
to record the inscription of stones set up by Shih Huang, says
nothing of the inscription of Wu Ti's stone. The Wu tzu pei is
said not to be ascribed to Ch'in Shih Huang, if indeed it is
mentioned at all, before the Sung dynasty, and then in the twelfth
century the Tung Chih names it, as Ch'in Wu tzu pei
, among the antiquities of T'ai Shan. It is clearly
marked and named () on the "new map of T'ai Shan,"
probably of the sixteenth century, in the Tai Shih.
Almost within a stone's throw of the Wu tzu pei stood, until
1740, a far more interesting relic,-a practically certain monu-
ment of Ch'in Shih Huang. This was a stone three or four feet
at least in height and roughly speaking square, the largest of the
four unequal sides being about two feet wide. It contained an
inscription by Shih Huang of 219 B.C., occupying twelve columns
of twelve words each, and a second inscription added ten years
later by Erh Shih, occupying nine columns and a short
1. The most famous visitor perhaps was Confucius, who "climbed T'ai
Shan and thought the empire small." Neither the mountain nor the
home of Confucius at Ch'üeh Li seem to have attracted the attention
of the earlier foreign visitors, though Marco Polo may well have seen
the former and passed within a few miles of the latter if Tadinfu is
rightly identified with that ancient "seat of a great kingdom," Yen
chou fu.
2. 令人上石立泰山Sui Chi史,XII.
2

10
10
T'AI SHAN
column of three words on the chamfered angle of the stone.' Of
the twenty-one columns the first side contained five, the second
three, the third six, and the fourth seven. The stone seems to
have fallen backwards at some time, and the inscription on the
back was thus preserved while that on the other three sides was
exposed to the weather; and when it was set up again the well
preserved last side was made to face south. In this position at
any rate it was found in 1048 by one Lü, magistrate of Tung
Ping, who had a rubbing of 47 or 48 words (all as he
thought that were legible) made, and from it a new stone engraved.
In 1113 Liu Ch'i, to whom we owe our accurate informa-
tion about this stone, took rubbings on which he was able to find
222 words, of which 146 were legible. By the end of the
sixteenth century only 29 words remained legible, and of these two
copies are preserved, one in the Tai Miao and one in the Tu Ti
Tzu. The original position of the stone is not known. In
1048 it was "above", i.e. to the west of, the Yü Nü Ch'ih
, a well just outside the western wall of the Pi Hsia
Tzu; and there it remained until 1730 when unfortunate
zeal for its preservation removed it to the eastern verandah of the
of the neighbouring temple. In 1740 the temple was destroyed
by fire and the stone was lost. Two small fragments containing
together seven perfect and three mutilated characters are kept in
the Tai Miao, and it seems probable but not certain that they are
parts of the original stone. The characters are in the lesser seal
style, about 24 inches high by 13 wide.
"
South-east of the Yü Huang Ting was the Chien K'un
pavilion. The pavilion is gone, but its base and an
inscribed tablet remain in a large oblong enclosure. A path leads
past this to the Jih Kuan Fêng on the summit of
which is a raised platform, the altar, it is said, on which Chên
Tsung sacrificed to Heaven. Near this is the T'an Hai Shih
, a rock on which people stand to watch the sun rise
1. These words (E) may apparently begin the first or end the second
inscription. Ssŭ ma Ch'ien, Liu Chi, the Tai Shan Chih, etc. put
them at the end.
2. It is not easy to reconcile Liu Ch'i's detailed account, implying as it
seems to do the original existence of 267 words, with the fact that the
independent text of the Shih Chi has only 225 words, and agrees for
all practical purposes with Liu's transcript of 222 words. It is worth
while to notice that it is at the very time when Liu could read 146
words on this stone that we first hear certainly of another monument
on the mountaiu top as the already famous uninscribed stone. For
the inscriptions cf. i, fol. 25-28., from which it is clear
that there were not more than 222 words, the nine later columns
being of uneven lengths.
3. These copies preserve one complete column of twelve words.
4. Tai Shan Hsiao Shih fol. 16.

[See page 10]
INSCRIPTION OF B.C. 209
Reduced facsimile of a rubbing of the two genuine fragments
which are preserved at Tai An. About of the original size
Photograph by W. POUNCY

胖吃
休位鋁
Photograph by W. POUNCY
INSCRIPTION OF A.D. 726
Reduced facsimile of two small pieces of a rubbing of the Chi Tai
Shan Ming or Mo Yai Pei, showing the two styles of writing
[See page 11]

T'AI SHAN
11
"from the sea"; and to the south is a cliff known as She Shên
Yai from the number of people who have been killed
by throwing themselves down it in the hope of saving by their
vicarious death the life of some dying relative.
The pilgrims' road turns sharp to the west at the foot of
the steps which lead down from the Yu Huang Ting, and passing
behind the Ch'ing Ti Kung #, a temple of no special
interest, leads to the side door of the Yüan Chün Hou Kung
元君後宮, a quiet deserted looking place containing the
sleeping image of the Mountain Lady, a figure which is dressed
and undressed, put to bed and got up like a doll. This Sleeping
Lady dates from the Ming dynasty. There is a good
brass bell (A. D. 1614) in the verandah of the temple. The
road passes down between these two temples, and turning to the
east leads to the back of the Tung Yo Miao
. This old
temple, known formerly as the uppermost of the three temples
of the Mountain, instead of being as one would expect the largest,
is the smallest and most insignificant of the temples that crown the
mountain top. But it hides, and we must hope protects, the colossal
monument known as the Mo Yai Pei . This is an
inscription in the form of the ordinary stone tablets (), with title
and ornamented head and border, all cut on the smooth face of
the cliff. It is about 30 feet high and 16 feet wide. The characters
(in the li style) are cut from the autograph of T'ang Ming
Huang, dated A.D. 726, and are still perfectly clear
after nearly twelve centuries of exposure to the elements.
There are several other inscriptions (some of nearly equal
age) on the same cliff.
From the Tung Yo Miao the road goes southward down
a steep flight of steps past the official vestries and waiting
rooms, till it turns to the west to cross the fore court of the
Pi Hsia Tzu. This, the topmost of the three principal temples
of the Mountain Lady, is far the largest, most wealthy, and
popular of the mountain top group, and has many points of
interest. It owes its origin to the discovery of the Lady's
image in the Yü Nü Ch'ih. This image is said to have been
made in the Han dynasty, and to have fallen into the pool in the
Tang dynasty. At what time it was finally lost is not known.
The first temple, built c. 1008, was the Chao Chên Tz'u
1. This was enlarged in the fifteenth century. At
the beginning of the sixteenth century the Lady's name was
changed to Ling Ying, and again a few years later to
Pi Hsia. The full title now is Tien Hsien Yü Nü Pi
1. Some of the lower characters are said to have been re-cut. The
text and translation are given by Chavannes, Le Tai Chan, pp.
315-328.

12
T'AI SHAN
Hsia Yüan Chin 天仙玉女碧霞元君1. The title Ling
Ying still appears in the name of the Ling Ying Kung, the
lowest of the three Lady temples. A fresh impetus seems
to have been given to the popularity of the Mountain Lady by
the rebuilding of her highest temple on a magnificent scale in
Wan Li, c. 1585. The temple was destroyed by fire in 1740
and rebuilt with considerable changes of plan in 1770.
It
was thoroughly repaired last year (1907). The forecourt is
entered from east and west through massive archways built
in 1661. A broad flight of steps to the north leads up to a
terrace on which stand the drum and bell towers and a pair
of finely carved stone monuments. Another flight of steps
leads up to the great Gate-Hall of the temple, roofed with
iron tiles. This opens on to the main court, on either side of
which is a small pavilion roofed with glazed yellow tiles and
an oblong room with iron tiles. On a raised platform in the
middle of the court is a picturesque yellow-roofed Hall, before
which stand two remarkable brass monuments of the same form
as the common stone tablets (). They are about 14 feet high
and of excellent workmanship. That on the east, dated 1615,
records the building of the Golden Palace (EU), which
however is mentioned in the accounts of the rebuilding of
1585 and marked on a map of about that date. The lower
part of the inscription has been rendered illegible by the
pilgrims who scrape off the brass to keep as a charm. The
north side of the court is occupied by the principal Hall of the
temple, a large and well proportioned building remarkable
for being roofed with brass or copper tiles and carpeted every
Spring to the depth of several inches with the pilgrims'
offerings. In this court are some fine old incense burners.
One of the Han dynasty seems to have perished in the great
fire together with an inscribed iron tablet; but the Lady's seal,
a relic of the Sung dynasty, fortunately escaped with very
slight damage and is now kept, they say, in the city treasury.
Passing under the stage of the theatre south of the fore-court,
one goes down a flight of steps to a small building occupying
the site of the Golden Palace which was removed in (?) 1770
to the Yao Ts'an Ting and later to its present place in the
Ling Ying Kung. South of this again is the Fire Pit (k),
a solid square building facing north in which the paper
1. The Tao Li Chi (f. 20) gives a rather different account of these name
changes, tracing the title Pi Hsia Yüan Chin back to the fourteenth
century.
2. The chief images in this Hall are those of the Lady and of the deities
presiding over child-birth and eyes; the image in the small square
Hall in front is believed to be the successor of that which was found
in the pool A.D. 1008.

T'AI SHAN
13
money offered by the worshippers is burnt. From the western
gate-tower a great flight of steps leads down to a comparatively
level piece of road which runs through the Tien Chieh,
a long straggling village of thatched cottages which are closed
for the most part except during the annual pilgrimage. From
the foot of these steps another long flight leads up northwards
to the temple of Confucius, a single small quadrangle different
in arrangement from the official temples of Confucius in cities.
Between this temple and the last is the Pei Tou Tai,
a low square stone tower of the sixteenth or seventeenth
century, pierced in both directions with archways. The road
passes through the Tien Chieh down and round a sharp curve
into the court of the Kuan Ti Miao H, a temple lying in
a deep cut in the mountain ridge. In front of this court
stands the great gate-tower Nan Tien Mên ", or
San Tien Men 14. Before 1008 the temple here was
the San Ling Hou Tzu (and this name seems to
have clung to the spot long afterwards) but by order of Chên
Tsung it changed places with the Kuan Ti Miao on the
neighbouring Fêng Huang Shan . The Nan Tien Mên
does not seem to have been built before the Ming dynasty. The
peak to the west is the Yüeh Kuan Fêng on the northern
slope of which is a natural rock gateway called Hsi Tien Mên
P. The Yüeh Kuan Fêng called the summit of T'ai
Shan (n) in old books of the Han dynasty.
Passing under the archway of the Nan Tien Mên the road
plunges down the great stairway of the Shih pa P'an
or
Eighteen Flights. The Shih pa P'an, in the cleft (1)
between the Fei Lung Yen on the east and the Hsiang
Feng Ling on the west, is perhaps the most remarkable
part of the great pilgrims' road, which is itself one of the most
remarkable sights of Tai Shan. It is difficult to obtain
information about the history of the road. It seems to be almost
certain that it follows generally the line of an extremely ancient
path up the mountain, but at what time it assumed its present
condition does not seem to be known. It is called Pan Tao
(or Pan Lu ) and p'an is explained as equivalent
to p'an winding," or as meaning a stage or flight of steps
without break or landing. A book of the Han dynasty says
"The P'an Tao goes winding upwards with over fifty stages
(pan) and the distance from the foot to the ancient altar is
forty li." At that time the great final ascent to the Tien Mên
evidently existed and was if anything steeper than it is now, It
was called Huan Tao, and pilgrims were helped in their
climb by ropes which were replaced later by the heavy iron
chains with which the last hundred and twenty-five of the steps
are now flanked. The old estimate of forty li, based on the

14
T'AI SHAN
amount of exertion required in the ascent, is still commonly given,
but careful measurements taken about the end of the sixteenth
century reduce the horizontal length of the road to 4384 paces or
just over four and a third English miles and according to the
same measurements the average gradient is about one in six.
The road is about ten feet wide; in many parts considerably
more and in some distinctly less. The more level parts are
roughly paved, and the steeper parts made with narrow steps
about six inches high extending the whole width of the roadway.
The road runs wonderfully straight from the Nan Tien Men
down to the Tai Tsung Fang, following stream beds for much of
the way, often built up to the height of ten or fifteen feet, and
crossing many small stone bridges.
The steps go down and down, under the Shêng Hsien Fang
57 and past two or three small chapels or rest houses,
through the region of the pine trees, till they reach the Ch'ao
Yang Tung, a cave with its mouth closed by a small
shrine. Opposite this on the other side of the ravine the Wan
Chang Pei is conspicuous a poem by Ch'ien Lung
cut in huge letters on the smoothed surface of the cliff. A little
further down a few cypresses along the roadside appear among
the pines, and the road soon comes to the rest house and pleasant
shaded platform of the Hsiao Tien Mên P. This marks
nearly the spot where Ch'in Shih Huang was caught in a storm
on his way down the mountain and took shelter under "a great
tree" which he named in gratitude Wu Tai Fu T. -the title
of one of his ministers. The tree (called a pine as early as the
Han dynasty) lived on perhaps until the twelfth century, but
its exact position even has now for ages been lost. Not far below
this the last pine is left behind. The next point is the
picturesquely situated wooden bridge called Yü Mu Ch'iao .
After this, passing another of the smaller chapels of the Lady and
the Tsêng Fu Miao, the road comes down to the level
stretch known as K'uai Huo San (Lu) () and then
rises again up the San Tao P'an to the Erh Tien Mên
二天門 or Erh Hu Miao, 二虎廟, as it is commonly called,
on the ridge of the Huang Hsien Ling . This ridge is
roughly speaking the half-way point both of the road and in
the height of the mountain.
From this point the road goes steeply down again to the
Hui Ma Ling . Here there are two small temples,
namely of Yi Huang and of the Lady. In front of the latter is
the massive arch of the Hu Tien Ko -the Shêng Hsien
Ko of the sixteenth century, re-named in 1747.
Below this the road goes through the deep shade of the Cypress
Cave, crosses the stream sharply from east to west over the Tung
Hsi bridge, and on to the Shui Lien Tung k. Next

T'AI SHAN
15
comes the San Kuan Miao, formerly known as Jên Tsu
Miao, built in the Ming dynasty.
A little off the road to the north-east is the Shih Ching Ku
Tor, as it is called, Ching Shih Yü. Pleasantly
situated in this beautiful valley is the stone summer-house Kao
Shan Liu Shui 高山流水 built by Wan Kung 萬 in 1572;
and below it stretches a smooth expanse of rock in the stream bed,
covered with the vast inscription which gives the place its name.
This inscription is the text of the Diamond Sutra (1),
written in the li style with characters measuring about 20 inches
across. The writing is ascribed by vague tradition to the famous
fourth century calligraphist Wang Hsi chih E. Antiquaries,
however, have identified the hand with that of Wei Tzu shên
or Wang Tzu ch'un both of the sixth century.
It seems quite safe to say that the inscription is at any rate earlier
than the Sung dynasty. A note by Wan Kung says that the text
of the Ta Hsüeh had then lately been cut over the old
writing in a kind of palimpsest; but this is said to have disappeared,
while the older characters remain for the most part quite legible.
Returning to the road we come to the Kao Lao
bridge, named, it is said, after the builder of this part of the
road in ancient days. Next, on the left side of the road, is the
Tou Mu Kung
built in 1542 on the site of the
ancient Lung Ch'üan Kuan ; and soon afterwards,
passing a number of modern and ancient inscriptions on the rocks,
the road reaches the archway Wan Hsien Lou dated
A.D. 1620. A short piece of more level road leads to the similar
archway called Hung Mên 2. The temple adjoining this to
the west is the middle Lady Temple (MI). The first
day of the sixth month is a locally very popular festival at this
temple. On the other side of the road is the Kuan Yin Ko
with an interesting image of the thousand-handed
Kuan Yin. East of this is the Buddhist convent Mi Lo Yüan
彌勒院 Here was formerly the vestry in which officers
going up the mountain changed their heavy official dress. The
rocks in the ravine below, lying in a curious cylindrical formation
like giant tree trunks across the stream, are well worth looking
at. The hill north-west of the Hung Mên is called Ta Ts'ang
Ling, and near it is Ch'ui Tao Shan, the
traditional place of the finding of the second Letter from Heaven.
The road now goes down steep flights of steps under three
pailow and through a considerable village till it ends at the Tai Tsung
1. Wang Hsi-chih died before the first translator of the Diamond Sutra
named by Eitel was born.
2. The real Red Gate is a natural gate of red rock. In the same way the
Gates in the Sky (19) are either rock gates like the Hsi Tien Mên,
or deep cuts in a ridge like the Nan T'ien Mên.

16
Fang
t.
of Kuan Ti
of San Huang
T'AI SHAN
But it has first passed the flourishing temples
and Yu Huang (1580) on the west, and
on the east; and, at a slight distance, on
the east the Lao Chün Tang (the ancient Tai Yo
Kuan
or the middle temple of Tung Yo, with an
interesting seventh century monument), and the spring called
Wang Mu Chih in a temple full of beautiful
and curious trees, and on the west the Tai Wang Miao
E. Adjoining the Tai Tsung Fang to the north-west is
the ancient foundation of the Chien Feng Yüan
which
was changed later to Sheng Yüan Kuant, in 1770 to
the Imperial Lodge (r), and quite recently to a school of
agriculture.
Before the building of the city wall the road probably led
from this point to the back gate of the old Tung Yo Miao-the
lowest temple of the Mountain. A smaller road bearing away
to the east now leads to the north gate of the city.
From the Tai Tsung Fang paths wind westward along the
foot of the mountain, passing the Ching Ti Kuan
and one or two other ruined temples, until they reach the P'u
Chao Ssu . The retired situation and the evident
regard for beauty in the surroundings plainly show this to
be a Buddhist monastery. It is an old foundation, remark-
able chiefly for a fine stupa of a sort common about Peking but
not often seen in this neighbourhood. The valley near by is
filled with a tangled thicket of wistaria. Further west again
is the valley of the Huang Hsi Ho P, or Hsi Hsi
, mentioned above. High on the side of the Ao Lai Shan
may be seen the relics of a refuge camp formed during the T'ai
Ping rebellion; and at the head of the valley is the Chiu Nü
Chai a towering pinnacle of rock on the flat top of
which are said to be ruins of nine buildings and the remains
of a drawbridge. "Long ago nine girls took refuge here in
time of war."
South of the P'u Chao Ssă is the little and unlovely Kao Li
Shan which is now generally called Hao Li, or
vulgarly Hao Ling, Shan 1. The continuation of this
hill eastward is the She Shou Shan, the ancient place
of the imperial sacrifice to Earth. The Buddhists have left
1. At the gate of this temple is the Fei lai Po , an arbor vitae
with a perfectly formed little tree sprouting from one of the upper
branches. "A marvellous branch-variation in a Thuya orientalis,
showing how nature sometimes throws off all at once a type so
different from the parent as to make one call it almost a new species."
A similar freak may be seen in a cemetery near the river P'an a few
miles south of T'ai An.
2. The tomb of the Corean monk Man K'ung who died there 16
Aug. 1463.-Le T'ai Chan, p. 121.

o's ad
[I]

[See page 17]
THE GOLDEN PALACE
Above the stone base and steps everything, except the two panels on
elther side of the door and the altar inside, is solid brass or copper

T'AI SHAN
17
their mark here in a stone ch'uang of the tenth century, but
the whole rambling temple that covers the hill is now in the
hands of Taoists. A few hundred yards to the east is the
Ling Ying Kung or the lowest of the three chief
temples of the Lady (F). It is curiously neglected
and the charm of solitude pervades the grove of giant cypress
trees which fills the courts. The temple is probably an
ancient foundation rebuilt early in the seventeenth century.
In the first court a large brass bell (1606) is worth notice ;
and the stone balustrade round the platforms before the two
principal buildings is of unusually delicate design and workmanship.
But the interest of the place lies in the fact that it has become a
kind of asylum for pieces of brass work. In the second court
standing on a high platform, is the Golden Palace (or brass tower
which was once, as we have seen, in front of the Lady
Temple on the mountain top and was brought down here for some
unknown reason about the year 1770. It is constructed like the
usual timber buildings but (with the exception of the doors and
shutters and the altar, none of which are original) is all of
brass or copper. The roof is supported on four brass pillars,
the sides being filled in with heavy brass and copper frames
which were once no doubt fitted with panelled brass doors
and shutters. The elaborately ornamented ridge of the roof and
the copper tiles still retain a good deal of the gilding with
which the whole was once covered.
The building measures
(excluding the deep eaves) about 15 by 11 feet, and is perhaps 18
feet high. Inside is a brass image of the Lady seated on a brass
throne on a brass dais, and on either side of her are three smaller
brass figures standing each on a stone pedestal. There is a
very similar brass building in the grounds of the Summer Palace
near Peking, and, it is said, more than one metal erection on
the Wu T'ai Shan Tin Shansi. To find a parallel
to these copper buildings and to the iron-plated pagoda of the
Tien Shu Kuan we must go perhaps to the Brazen House of
Athene at Lacedaemon and to "Homer's description of a seemingly
impossible sort of metallic architecture." Inside the main building
of the temple are eleven great brass images-one seated in the
central shrine and one at either end of the hall, and eight
attendants standing. The two large figures at the ends of the
hall represent the mothers respectively of the Wan Li and Ch'ung
Chêng emperors canonized as Chiu Lien and Chih Shang
E Pu Sa. In the hall at the back of the temple is another
sitting figure. These twelve figures, all far above life size, are
not only singularly good examples of casting, but are also covered
with fine engraving. They were originally set up in the T'ien
Shu Kuan by the Wên Yang bridge in the west
suburb of T'ai An, and were moved, I have been told, to their
3

18
T'AI SHAN
present place when that temple was impoverished and pulled down
twenty or thirty years ago. The Tien Shu Kuan (originally
called Ch'ien Yüan Mên 1") was founded, according to the
topographies, as its name would imply, in 1008; and the deep
well in the fore court is still called Li Chuan -the fountain
of wine which began to flow during the emperor Chên Tsung's
visit to Tai An in that wonderful year. But there seems to be
some doubt about the identity of both temple and well. Early in
the sixteenth century the place was converted into a temple of the
Lady, but the old name persisted. The official change of the
name to Tien Ching Kung a hundred years later was
equally futile and it remains Tien Shu Kuan to this day though
it is now rebuilt as a government school. Standing by the well
in the fore court is a small brick pagoda cased from bottom to top
with plates of cast iron embossed with dragons and other devices
and long lists of subscribers' names. The casting was done in
Honan, at the expense of a great society or club there in 1533.
It is not very usual to find a pagoda (pao t'a ) in a Taoist
temple such as, in spite of the quasi Buddhist images placed there
in the seventeenth century, the Tien Shu Kuan has always been.
Further up the stream is the Mosque, Ching Chên Ssuit,
a picturesque and solid building evidently of considerable age.
The Mohammedans are said to number some three hundred.
families. They have the monopoly of carrying sedan chairs.
The mountain chair consists of a square frame with a few cords
stretched over it for seat and fitted with a footboard and a low
back. Two curved carrying poles are fixed to the frame with
iron clamps and wedges, and are slung by long leather straps over
the shoulders of the bearers who generally hold the ends of the
poles in their hands in the manner of old English sedan bearers.
Going up or down the steep mountain road, or when they want
to rest on a level road, the two bearers walk abreast each other
with the chair and its occupant facing sideways between them.
There is a school in the Mosque where both Persian and Arabic
are studied.
Crossing the Wên Yang bridge and following the street
eastward one comes to the west gate of the city. Though, as a
city, T'ai An is not very ancient, there has no doubt been a village
or town here from the early days of the mountain worship. The
place when we first hear of it seems to have been called Tai Yo
Chên, and to have been popularly known as Yo Miao
the Mountain Temple. The region was from the Han to
the Sui dynasty called T'ai Shan Chün and was divided
into the districts of Po, Ying, and Fêng Kao, the
governor residing at Fêng Kao. In the sixth century Po (then
called Po Ping and later Po Chêng ) took the first
place. Feng Kao seems to have been about ten miles east of

T'AI SHAN
19
T'ai An-possibly at Ku Hsien k, a village near the town of
Chien Wen Ho ; and Po (now called Chiu Hsien NE)
was about the same distance to the south-east. In 666 Po
Chêng was named Ch'ien Fêng. In 972 the governor's
seat was moved to its present position, but in 1008 the city was
moved away three li to the south-east, and called Fêng Fu F.
This locality is still known as Chiu Chên . In 1162 the
city returned to its present situation and was subject to T'ai An
Chou 安州 In the Ming dynasty it was a district in Chi
Nan Fu. Finally in 1735 the present prefecture and district of
T'ai An were formed, the district having the same extent as the
old Chou. At what time T'ai An superseded Fêng Fu as the
name of the city does not seem to be known. The first
fortification round the city seems to have been an earthwork, and
it was not until about 1545 that the present stone-faced wall was
built 7 li 60 paces, or about two miles, in circuit.
The city owes its degree of prosperity, if not its existence, to
the fame of the mountain, and so it is curious that the most
conspicuous industry is not directly idolatrous. The industry in
question is that of brass and copper work which, if not the most
valuable trade of the place, is certainly very noticeable for so small
a town. The north-east suburb is a little village of copper and
tinsmiths' workshops. Large things or very fine workmanship are
now rarely attempted, and there is little to show whether the great
brass and copper monuments described above are local work or not.
The only thing which they claim as peculiar to T'ai An is the
lining of copper vessels with tin. The metal is said to come from
the south-west or from America, and none of it is locally produced.
The city is roughly speaking an oblong, the east and west
being rather longer than the north and south sides. A considerable
part of the space enclosed is occupied by graves or cultivated, and
a large proportion of the remainder is devoted to temples. The
architecture of the city does not present many points of interest.
The local stone is too hard for general use except in the form of
rubble. The extreme instability of these rubble walls built of
smooth pebbles from the streams, makes it necessary to support
the roofs on pillars of wood or stone built into the walls. The
roofs are generally covered with tiles or thatch, and the flat mud
roofs with high brick parapets and stone gargoyles so common in
the west of this prefecture are rarely seen here. The ridges of
more expensive roofs are beautifully decorated with flowers and
other designs in bold relief. An upper story, though by no means
the rule, is not at all uncommon. One of the best features of the
shops is their heavy projecting eaves supported either by large
1. One of the old boundary stones (at Ta Wên K'ou
is still in use.
)

20
T'AI SHAN
wooden brackets or by a row of stone pillars. T'ai An builders
have an evil and curiously Western habit of marking plaster to
look like brickwork and making (very cleverly) imitation ashlar
of a kind of stucco. An example of the latter may be seen on the
walls of a huge fortified pawnshop in the west suburb. Arches
are common in temples and houses as well as in bridges; but a
round arch is rarely built, not because the builder cannot describe
a circle but because, like the old European builders, he seems to
feel that there is something wrong in the look of a semi-circular
arch. And so he sets out his arch from two (or from three)
centres. That is, the arch starts as if it was to be a pointed arch,
but the point is usually rounded off. Some of these arches are
barely distinguishable from semi-circles but others have quite a
distinct point. The great Chieh Shan bridge south-west
of Chi Nan is a fine example of this curious arch construction. In
Gothic building the pointed arch was evolved from the semi-
circular; but it does not seem unreasonable to guess that the blunt
points of T'ai An are a degeneration from the true pointed arches
of the beautifully proportioned gateways of Po Shan to the north-
east.
The temples in the city and in the large east, south, and
west suburbs are very numerous, but few of them are of very
special interest, and the majority are more or less neglected and
in ruins while some, like the Ch'ang Ch'un Kuan, have
nothing but a few old stone monuments left to mark their sites.
The best kept temples inside the city are probably the Wên Miao
or temple of Confucius, and the temple of the Walls and
Moat (Chêng Huang Miao), both on the main street.
At the back of the latter is the Tzu Fu Ssu
(formerly
called Ming Fu Ssă), a neglected little Buddhist
monastery which contains an iron bell of the early fourteenth
century and four interesting specimens of the Buddhist monuments
known as ch'uang. Three of these are small and plain and do not
1. A ch'uang is usually octagonal throughout. It has a base of three
or more drums of stone more or less ornamented, surmounted by a
plain shaft which is generally inscribed with some Buddhist text and
a short note giving the date and other details of its erection. This
again is surmounted by a number of ornamented drums of which one
at least is carved like a lotus and one has little figures in niches.
A grand pair of ch'uang outside the south gate of Haugchow are built
up each of thirty-four drums-seven below and twenty-six above the
inscription. Chuang seem to be invariably Buddhist, and the great
majority of them were erected between the years 600 and 1200.
Chuang is an abbreviation for ch'uang chu E which is a translation
of t'o-she la-she-ti . the Sanskrit dhraja yashti (or lashti)
a" flagstaff." the brick pinnacle of a stupa. The Chinese stone flagstaff
() was probably evolved from the woo len masts with metal hoops
which form the pinnacles of several old pagodas or stupas. The above
explanation is due to the kindness of Professors H. A. Giles of
Cambridge and L. D. Barnett of the British Museum.

[See page 20]
Photograph by Rev. B. M. MCOWAN
THE CHUEH SHAN BRIDGE

Photograph by Rev. B. M. MCOWAN.
THE CHANG CHIA LOU
Refuge Tower east of Tai An
[See page 21]

T'AI SHAN
21
follow the common design of such monuments, but all have
features of interest. That in the north-east corner of the court
conforms more nearly to the regular pattern, but the plain square
base and the curiously classical ornament of the drum immediately
above the inscription are noteworthy. These four ch'uang were
all put up in the tenth century. The Kuan Ti Miao
in
the south part of the city is said to represent the old Hui Chên
Kung or Feng Kao Kung
where Chên Tsung
lodged in 1008, as we are reminded by the Yin Tzu Pei
which though outside the more modern city wall stands facing the
gate of this temple. The Yin Tzu Pei is a screen about 24 feet
long formed of five great slabs of stone, with a sixth above the
middle slab for the title, fitted into a heavy carved stone frame.
This form of monument on a much smaller scale is often used for
the inscription of family records in cemeteries. The original
inscription here is on the north side as the name implies, the large
characters () on the south side being much more recent.
Some distance south and south-east of the Yin Tzu Pei are three
altars, of the same or of even greater age. One (now the altar of
Hills and Streams ) is marked only by an inscribed
stone, another is a large mound of earth with a stone at the south
side, while the third, dating it is said from the T'ang dynasty, has
the mound alone remaining. Another old monument dated A.D.
941 will be found in the Ts'ai Shên Miao, a flourishing
temple at the foot of the Ling Chih Chieh in the west suburb.
Attached to this temple is an archway spanning the street and
surmounted by a temple Hall. The neighbourhood of T'ai An
abounds in these t'ai or square towers built for either religious
or military uses. The religious tai are generally pierced by
archways in one or both directions and are almost always
surmounted by an ordinary temple Hall. There are also many
good examples of lou or towers of oblong plan in the district.
These are built for the most part as places of refuge, and are often
much higher than the t'ai. One, some nine miles to the east of
T'ai An city, has a curious brick stairway separate from the tower
and leading over a draw-bridge to a window of the second storey.
Another, at Kung Li to the south, is built wholly of brick
or stone with vaulted ceilings and iron doors, and contains a well
and a mill.
Some ten miles to the north-east of T'ai An may still be seen,
it is said, a fragment of the base of the Ming Tang, which
was built by the sovereigns of the Chou Dynasty'. Mention of the
Chou dynasty suggests the stone tombs which are sometimes
1. This building belonged to the king of Chi and is mentioned in Mencius.
Ming Tang was the name given to the palaces occupied in different
parts of the country by the emperors in their tours of inspection."
Legge, Mencius I, II, V, 1, 2.

22
T'AI SHAN
ascribed to that epoch and are always said to be extremely ancient¹.
These are chests neatly made of slabs of stone, and measuring
about 8 feet in length. Great numbers of them may be seen in
the loess beds near P'ing Yin and among them are a few of other
patterns-some circular and built of tiny bricks, and others (the
most interesting) huge oblong structures roofed with very rough
hewn stones sloping inwards from the four sides with a fifth piece
laid on top. A tomb in Fei Chêng district resembling the neater
stone variety in form and adorned until quite lately with most
interesting sculptures of the Han dynasty is said, on no very
certain evidence, to be that of the famous example of filial piety
Kuo Chü E. Near it is a stone building (Hsiao Tzu Tang
孝子堂 or Kuo Kung Tzǔ 郭公司) the interior of which is
covered with curious and interesting sculptures which have
attained a world-wide fame².
Not very far from the reputed site of the Ming Tang is a
large Buddhist temple, the Tai Yün Ssŭ, containing
several curious old monuments. Returning from this neighbour-
hood to the city one passes the village of Hung Miao
identified with Hung which is mentioned in the Spring and
Autumn under the year B.C. 534.
Inside the city a few relics in the Tu Ti Tzu tin
the Magistrates' yamen are worth looking at. The yamen itself is
naturally one of the busiest parts of the city. In the middle of
the south street (r), where it joins the main cross street
of the city, is a square stone tank through which a torrent of
water rushes in the summer. T'ai An has an elaborate system of
water supply. The water is brought down a little aqueduct from
near the Wang Mu Ch'ih to the north gate of the city, and thence
distributed in covered channels which widen out at convenient
intervals into little open tanks. But the aqueduct is out of order
and the tanks and channels are now usually dry. Opposite the
large stone tank, on the north side of the street, is the entrance to
the Yao Ts'an Ting, the open space which it affords
being one of the chief market-places of the city and known as T'ing
tzŭ Mên P. The Yao Ts'an Ting used to be the vestibule
of the Tai Miao, the great Temple of the Mountain which occupies
about one eighth of the area of the city; but since it was
converted into a temple of the Lady, worshippers no longer
approach the Tai Miao through its courts.
1.-I am told that these tombs are still used where suitable stone is easily
got, and that the age of the so-called ancient ones is judged by the fact
that their present position on the surface implies that the soil has been
denuded away to the depth of 7 or 8 feet-a very unsafe criterion.
2. Dr. Bushell describes these sculptures in Chinese Art and ascribes them
to the first century before Christ. The native topography puts them
not later than A. D. 126.

[See page 23]
SOUTH-WEST CORNER TOWER OF THE TAI MIAO

T'AI SHAN
23
The Tai Miao i stands in the north-west quarter of
T'ai An enclosed by a massive wall. Of the history of the temple
provokingly little is known. A temple or public building of some
sort must probably have occupied the site from very early times,
if we may judge from the firm tradition that it was here that
Han Wu Ti (c. B. C. 110) planted certain juniper or cypress
trees. The Tsung Chêng Chi E #C, a book apparently not
later than the sixth century, describes a temple with gates and
towers and raised altars not unlike that which now exists. But it
is said that the old Mountain Temple of the Han dynasty was north
or perhaps north-east of the present Tai Miao and was not moved
until the Tang or Sung dynasty; and practically we must be
content to confess that nothing is known of the present temple
before the Sung dynasty. Then, passing over a vague tradition of
a beginning early in the eighth century, we find an order to
"build the mountain temple" in 968, and early in the eleventh
century Chên Tsung seems to have built the Tien Huang Tien
Where, though there is little evidence of even this, beyond
the fact that the tablet recording the building stands now in the
inner court of the Tai Miao. The colossal monument recording
the new title conferred on the mountain in 1011 stands in its
original position on the west side of the fore court, and marks
perhaps the earliest date at which we can be sure that the
Mountain Temple was here. The oldest and most picturesque
and by no means the least interesting part of the temple is the
great outer wall. It is an earth rampart faced on both sides with
large grey bricks, about a mile in circuit and about 12 feet high.
The height and thickness are both greatly increased at the gates
(of which there are eight-five in the south side and one each in
the east, north, and west sides) and corner towers. The archways
of the gates are curious. The openings are lined with rows of
upright posts which support a row of timber trusses carrying the
low three-sided "arches" of brickwork. Though arches supported
on wooden frames are found in the neighbourhood, I know of no
real parallel to these gateways except those of the wall of Soochow
as shown in the well-known thirteenth century map of that place¹.
The buildings above the gates and the picturesque corner towers are
all unusual in style. The wall, which shows little sign of having
ever needed repair (though the gate-towers were restored in the
seventeenth century when the modern name Tai Miao was
conferred by K'ang Hsi in place of the old [Tung] Yo Miao),
must probably date from a time before the city wall existed, and,
though no record of the building seems to be extant, it may be
attributed at latest to the early Sung dynasty. Apart from
conjecture many centuries must be allowed to account for the
1. The Book of Ser Marco Polo vol. II, p. 183.

24
T'AI SHAN
number of self-sown trees (among them many quite large
cypresses) which grow from the crevices of the brickwork. Of
the space enclosed the northern part is vacant except for a few
ancient trees, and the rest is divided into one small and two
enormous courts, flanked by smaller courts to east and west. A
group of buildings inside the west gate is occupied by the few
resident priests, and also by a school in which English and other
modern subjects are taught, suggesting a distant parallel to the
schools which have flourished under the shadow of our old
monastic churches in England. The principal building is the
Hsün Chi Tien or Hall of the Towering Peak, a large
and finely proportioned building of the ordinary northern type,
well worthy of study both inside and out'. It is said to be the
direct successor of the Tien Huang Tien, but it has been rebuilt
or repaired repeatedly-in the years 1100, 1124, 1180, 1547, 1666,
1729 for example. The interior is chiefly remarkable for the
great fresco that runs round the west, north and east walls and strikes
the visitor as something quite excellent in Chinese art. The
subject depicted is the visit of one of the great Manchu Emperors,
Kang Hsi or Chien Lung, to Tai Shan. The only mention of
the painting which I have noticed is in the Tai Lan (c. 1790)
which say
there are "decorated walls" () and the exact date
is perhaps unknown; but the perfect state of preservation above
the reach of pilgrims' fingers makes it unlikely that it is older
than the late eighteenth century. The image in the central
shrine is that of the personified Mountain in the dress of au
Emperor (Ti), though the yellow tiles of the roof are said to
denote the dwelling of a prince (Wang E). Behind this great
Hall is a small court containing two fine pai luo trees (salisburia
adiantifolia). The Hall to the north is the Mountain's private
room, Ch'in Kung , containing the image of his wife who
seems to have been worshipped since the later Han dynasty.
Her title, conferred in 1011, is Shu Ming Hou.
front of the Hsün Chi Tien is a great stone terrace or platform
(Lu T'ai ) raised about ten feet above the court below.
On it stands a very plain tripod incense burner which, by its brief
inscription, reminds us that the Hsün Chi Tien was called Jên An
Tien in the Ming dynasty. At the foot of the steps, in
the middle of the raised path that leads to the platform from the
south is a finely grown cypress called Ku Chung Pai [] #
and some paces further south a fantastic stone called Chieh Shih
or Fu Sang Shih #. The pilgrims find endless enjoyment
in going blindfold to touch the north side of the stone and then
trying to turn and walk straight to the tree.
1. The hipped roof, rare here and further south,
with the architecture of Peking and the north.
summer home of countless swifts.
In
In this court there
connects this building
The deep eaves are the

[See page 24]
Photograph by Rev. R. M. MCOWAN
SOUTH GATE OF THE TAI MIAO

[See page 25]
Photograph by Rev. B. M. McOWAN
WATER BOWL IN THE TAI MIAO, A.D. 1101

T'AI SHAN
25
are nine of these oddly shaped stones, said to have been brought by
sea as offerings during the Sung and Yüan dynasties. Only one
of these is dated-A.D. 1209. Near the platform is an ancient
well, and several juniper trees which claim to be those planted by
Wu Ti two thousand years ago. At the corners of the platform are
the two iron water bowls already mentioned (p. 8). Each is about
four feet high and six feet across the top. The western one bears
the date, A. D. 1101, and the eastern has a brief note of the
circumstances of the gift with an allusion to the restorations of
the previous year, and both have names of subscribers and bands
of good bold ornament. The metal is iron, but it seems as if it
must have been treated in some special way to make it stand
eight hundred and seven years of exposure without rust. Near
the eastern bowl is a very large oblong iron incense-burner dated
1573; and opposite it on the other side of the path is the curiously
twisted and gnarled stem of an old wistaria, which, however, is not
the largest, for a yet larger one, 2 feet 6 inches in its greater
diameter, is growing in the next court to the south. The court
was once surrounded by cloisters interrupted by the bell tower to
the west and the drum tower to the east, but they have nearly dis-
appeared. On either side of the court are a pavilion and a raised
platform. The pavilions each contain a large tablet, that on the west
bearing the interesting inscription of 1370 in which the Emperor
Hung Wu declines to give the mountain any imaginary title and
decrees that it shall be worshipped, as it has been ever since, as
Tung Yo T'ai Shan. South of the pavilions are the open raised
platforms. On the eastern stands a very massive tablet, dated
1182, recording a rebuilding of the temple, together with six
much smaller tablets of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. On
the western platform are five monuments. The second from
the north is the record of the building of the Tien Huang
Tien dated 6 December 1009, the nearest approach that remains
to a record of the foundation of the great temple. The stone
has been moved so that the old front faces west, and on the east
side is an inscription dated 1461. Near the south end of the
platform are the ruins of a gigantic ch'uang known, like the
obelisk on the mountain top, as Wu tzu Pei . All that
remains is the base formed of three immense drums, surmounted by
the plain shaft designed for inscription, and above that two drums
of the superstructure. The topmost piece, though otherwise battered
out of all shape, has a projection above on to which another drum
was intended to fit, so that it is hard to say how many pieces
1. It is possibly grey bronze, though called iron by the native books. "Lead
bronze was found to be the material of a collection of modern Chinese
art vessels. . In 1882 six little socket celts were found in a barrow,
near Eggardon.
three of them show nothing of the usual bronze
colour."
Notes on Bronze by H. J. Moule, Dorset Field Club
Proceedings, XXI, p. 42.
.
4

26
T'AI SHAN
there originally were. It is possible that the thing was left
unfinished in structure as well as uninscribed. The six remaining
stones are, or were, all octagonal. The ignorant priests and
idlers in the temple ascribe this ch'uang to Ch'in Shih Huang Ti,
but I have found no trace of such a tradition in native books,
not even in passages where the number and genuineness of that
monarch's relics are discussed. The general shape is that of the
common Buddhist ch'uang, and the very scant notice which the
books take of so curious a thing may show that they think it
Buddhist. The chief points in which it is rather unlike the
usual Buddhist specimens are its great size, the fact that the
inscription shaft tapers perceptibly2, and the profusion of beautiful
carving with which all the three pieces of the base were once
covered. The total height is about nineteen feet, the greatest
diameter nine feet. Three of the eight faces of the inscription shaft
retain a good deal of the original surface but no trace of inscrip-
tion. Of the eighty carved surfaces of the base only one or two
are even nearly complete, but fragments here and there of the
delicate carving are perfectly preserved. The books call it "ex-
tremely ancient," but in spite of its very much weatherbeaten
aspect there seems to be no reason to date it earlier than say the
sixth century of our era.
The gate which divides this court from the still larger one to
the south is called Jên An Mên 19. From the northern
part of this southern court a road leads to the east gate of the
temple and to the hall called Yü Tso the Emperor's lodging
in the eighteenth century and now reserved for his Tablet. In
this hall are kept the blocks from which various local topographies
are printed. The corresponding path to the west leads to the
Yü Hua Tao Yüan where the priests live.3 The
little courtyard contains at the entrance a cypress of a curious and
rare variety and behind this the fragments of the ancient inscrip-
tion rescued from the mountain top (see p. 10), carefully set up and
protected with iron bars. There are also several large and hand-
some brass vases in the court. In the hall to the north are many
more or less valuable sacrificial vessels of metal or cloissonné, a
large number of books, and the Yü Kuei E, a jade sceptre
1. Those that mention it all call it shih ch'uang Z. See above, p. 20,
note.
2. This tapering is a conspicuous feature of the Nestorian Tablet at Hsi
An, dated A. D. 781.
3.
On the government and maintenance of the various temples it is not
easy to obtain reliable information. The Tai Miao and some of the
others have at least some support from land to supplement the offer-
ings of the worshippers. And as to the management, I have been told
that the Taoist temples on the mountain are served by priests appointed
by and more or less subject to the central control of the Tai Miao; so
that these quiet unpretentious little buildings are the headquarters of
all the idolatry of this most religious region.

[See page 26]
THE GREAT CH'UANG IN THE TAI MIAO
The thick round-topped stone in the background bears the
record of the building of the Tien Huang Tien-A.D. 1009

T'AI SHAN
27
nearly four feet long presented by Ch'ien Lung in 1771. To the
north-west are the kitchens and farm buildings of the priests
where a large copper water jar is worth notice. South of the
Yu Hua Tao Yüan is the Huan Yung Ting
now
occupied by the school.
A great number of inscribed stones are
let into the walls of this western group of buildings.
Returning to the large court we find the northern half full of
modern tablets: one square obelisk bears no less than thirteen
inscriptions dating from the sixteenth to the nineteenth centuries.
Across the court is a row of buildings-the P'ei Tien Mên
in the middle, with a small hall on either side. In front of the
Pei Tien Mên are two striking brass lions without date or
other inscription, looking as if they had been cast in a number
of pieces and very roughly put together. In the southern half of
the court there are very few monuments besides the giant pair of
Sung dynasty tablets. The western one of these has been already
mentioned; the other, about a century later, records the repair
of the temple in the reign of Hsuan Ho. Near this latter
tablet is an enormous cypress tree measuring about fifteen feet in
girth five feet above the ground. Except the space just inside the
south gates, which is partly occupied by a nursery garden of flowers.
and dwarf trees in pots, both the large courts are full of cypress
and juniper trees. Near the large cypress just mentioned, but
over the wall, in the front court of the Ping Ling Tien
(the temple of a general of the Posterior T'ang who seems to have
been worshipped since A.D. 932 under the title of Ping Ling the
legendary third son of the mountain), are the six aged juniper and
cypress trees to which tradition allows the strongest claim to be the
actual trees which were planted by Han Wu Ti about the year
B. C. 110-a tradition of which it is impossible to prove, but
perhaps unnecessary to deny, the truth. The spot has been known
as Pai Lin the Cypress Grove, and as Hsin Tao Tang
1, this last being the name of the school of Sun one of
the Two Teachers of Lu, whose Memorial Hall after
various changes of position is now a ruin inside the south gate of
the city.
In the corresponding court in the south-west corner of
the temple is a huai tree planted in the Tang dynasty. It is
quite hollow and has lost its upper branches, but it is still vigorous
and healthy after not less than a thousand years of life.
So must end a long but most imperfect effort to put on record
something about this place so proud but careless of her relics, so
full and yet so destitute of the memory of her ancient fame.
Little has been said of the countless inscriptions on the rocks, in
which visitors to T'ai Shan have striven to express something of
the emotion which the stern beauty and immemorial religion of
the place have made them feel.
"Search your heart as you look up to the mountain."
心 問 山 朝

28
T'AI SHAN
BOOKS USED
TAI SHIH. 7 vols, 18 sections.
1587; reprinted
1654. By Ch'a Chih lung.
1
vol. 1789.
TAI SHAN HSIAO SHIH.
By Hsiao Hsieh chung, who died A.D. 1644.
TAI SHAN TAO LI CHI. 1 vol. 1766;
reprinted 1866, 1878 with illustrations. By Nieh Chien
kuang.
TAI LAN. 12 vols, 32 sections. 1793 (published
1805). By Lê | Tang Chung mien.
TAI SHAN CHIH. 10 vols, 20 sections. Prefaces
dated 1801 (by Yuan Yüan), 1808, 1810; reprinted 1898.
By
Chin Chri.
[A book of the same name by E Wang Tzu ch'ing was published
in the sixteenth century.]
DER T'AI-SCHAN UND SEINE KULTSTÄTTEN. 1 vol.
Jentschoufu, 1906. By A. Tschepe, S. J.
LE T'AI CHAN: Essai de monographie d'un culte Chinois.
Appendice: Le dieu du sol dans la Chine antique.
Chavannes. Paris, 1910.
Par Ed.
NOTE: My own paper is printed almost exactly as it was
written in 1908, but through the kindness of Professor Chavannes
I have received a copy of his most admirable book in time to
correct three wrong dates and one or two other small errors and
to add a few references in the footnotes. Professor Chavannes
devotes the greater part of his 436 pages to most interesting and
valuable translations of inscriptions and other documents to
illustrate the religious ideas connected with the mountain, a
subject with which I have not attempted to deal; but even in
the matter of description I fear there is little that can now be
called new in what I have written.
When the paper was read at Shanghai in February 1911,
three omissions were very kindly pointed out. 1. The Buddhist
Nunnery. This was suppressed, I think in 1905 or 1906, on
account of its disreputable character. 2. "The dessicated corpse."
This is the shrivelled and varnished body of a Taoist priest named
Sun who died in 1703, aged 94. He spent many years of his
life in the Yu Huang Ko (p. 16) where his body was, and I
believe still is, to be seen is a glass case in the Hsien Jên Tung
fil; cf. Le Tai Chan p. 91. The following extract is to the
point. In the Royal Asiatic Society's Journal for the current
quarter is a paper by Mr. W. Perceval Yetts on The Disposal
of the Buddhist Dead in China,' in which he draws attention to
the practice of preparing the corpses of particularly holy persons

T'AI SHAN
29
This consists in
in salt for a
thickly gilded.
by what is called the "dried priest" process.
exenterating the body, which is then pickled
considerable time, the skin being afterwards
This process bears a striking resemblance to the Egyptian
mummifications when we consider with Dr. Elliott Smith that
the natron used in the so-called "embalming" was only chloride
of sodium or common salt. The motive for preserving the
Buddhist saint intact is, however, the desire to make money by
exhibiting his body to the faithful, which does not seem to have
been the case in ancient Egypt. The Chinese practice is,
therefore, a curious example of how similar customs may arise in
remote parts of the world for entirely different reasons."-The
Athenaeum, July 29, 1911. 3.
. This formula,
carved on stone, brick, or wood and sometimes surmounted by a
tiger's head is fixed to a house which stands opposite the end of
a street or lane as a charm against evil influences which may come
unchecked by any corner down such street or lane. There used
to be specimens of such charms in the Nanking Road and other
parts of the Foreign Settlement at Shanghai. There is evidence
that in the fourteenth century the three words Shih kan tang
Talone were used, and Dr. de Groot seems to think that
this is even now the more common form, so that it is quite
possible that the charm had originally no connexion with T'ai
Shan. There is also evidence that a little figure was used in
place of the inscribed stone and Shih is more than once explained
as a personal name. In a village in the south of T'ai An district
I know a (seemingly Buddhist) figure carved on a block of stone
opposite the end of a. street. The formula Tai Kung chih tzu
A which certainly refers to a person is used in a
similar way.
The longer form Tai Shan Shih Shên kan tang
泰山石敢當 is also used. Cf. Le T'ai Chan, p. 42. The
Religious System of China, Bk II., pp. 1105, 1106.

NOTES ON THE MAPS AND PLANS.
The rough map of the top of T'ai Shan is drawn from the
author's notes and rough measurements, but will give at least a
general idea of the arrangement and relative sizes of the
principal temples.
The map of T'ai An is based on the maps in the T'ai An fu
chih 泰安府志 and Tai An hsien chin 泰安縣志
supplemented by the author's notes and measurements.
The plan of the Tai Miao is drawn from the author's
measurements with some details added from native plans. It is
hoped that the two large courts are fairly accurate and the
remainder not seriously misleading. There should probably be more
space between the buildings and the north (or Lu Chan) gate.
The scales given are in each case only approximate.
To my great regret I cannot recollect the name of the native
photographer to whom I owe Plates VI, X and XIII.

KUAN TI
TEMPLES ON THE TOP OF
TAI SHAN
1907
9.3050.100
MIAO
NAN TIEN
MEN'
T'IEN
CHIEH
YU HUANG TING
WU 1Z0
YUAN CHUN
500 FEET
CHING TI
N
HOU
KUNG
CH'IEN K'UN
K'UNG TZU
KUNG
TING
MO YAI PEI
TUNG
MIAO
回
YO
MIAO
PIHSIA
PEI TOU YU NU
T'AI
CH'IH
TZ'
JIH KUAN
FÊNG

CHIEN
LU
CHAN
PLAN OF THE TAI MIAO
CHIN KUNG
0 50 100 FEET
0 FET]
LU PAN TIEN
છે.
HŪN CHI TIỀN
1101
1370
1009
CHUANG
SU
☑
BC210
CHING
HUAN
YUNG
TING
WEL
KUN
YEN
HSI TIEN
1013
JENAN MEN
1182-
PELTIEN LING
MEN
KÊN
YO TSO
园
CHING
HOLL
☑
ว
PING
LING
1124
TIEN
B
YANG
CHIEN
CHENG
YANC
SUN
YANG
KAO

LING CHIH CHIEH
__CHO LO HSIANG
YUN CHOU
CHIEH
ΤΑΙ
AN
HSIEN
YO
171
PAN
TAO
TAI TSUNG FANG
༡3. 60
50
100 200 300 40OYDS
MILE
ΤΑΙ
MIAO
SHIH
YUAN
4
WEN HUA CHIEH
YANG
CHIEH
PR
9
TSANG HSIANG
6TAI WÊN
AN
ח
FU MIAO
SHENG PING CHIEH
CHING YEN CHIER
WU
[12]
TENG LUNG CHIEH
NING
14
TAI
CHIANG
CHIEH
T'AI YIN PEI
CHEN WEN
CHIEH
18

EXPLANATION OF MAP OF T'AI AN
1. North Gate. Yang Sheng
2.
Site of Chang Ch'un Kuan
3. Hua Fa Ssň華法寺
4.&5.Kuan Ti Miao
MI
(Têng Fêng #)
(A.D. 1261)
Tzǔ Fu Ssǔ資福寺(Ming Fu Ssí冥福寺)
Liu Chiang Chin Miao 劉將軍廟
6.
7.
8.
Yao Ts'an Ting
9.
10. West Gate. Yo An
(Wang Feng), with
Pao Kung Tzu
in the barbican.
Chtêng Huang Miao城隍廟
11. East Gate. Ying Hsüan
12.
Kuan Ti Miao (old Hui Chên or Fêng
Kao Kung 高宮)
Thn Ti Shên Tzu A từ inh xinh
13.
14.
Ho Shêng Tzu
15.
Erh Hsien Tzu =
16.
South Gate. Tai An 泰安(Chien Fêng 乾 封)
17.
Tsai Shên Miao財神廟
18.
Kuei Hsing Lou奎星樓
INSET
1.
Kao Li Shan 高里山
2.
Shê Shou Shan
首
3.
Ling Ying Kung
4.
Tien Shu Kuan 天
觀
5.
T'ang Altar店封
壇
6.
Sung Altar 宋封
壇

30
T'AI SHAN
CHINESE WORDS WHICH OCCUR IN THE MAPS
Chang Chia Lon
Chên Wên Chich
Cheng Yang [Mên]
Chien Ta [Mên]
Ch'ien
Chien Kun Ting
Ch'in Kung
Ching Yen Chieh
Ching Ti Kung
Ch'ing Yang [Mên]
Cho Lo Hsiang
Ch'uang
Chüeh Shan Bridge
Hsün Chi Tien
Huan Yung Ting
Jên An Mên
Jih Kuan Feng
AND PLANS.
張家樓
振文街
正陽門
見大門
乾
乾坤亭
宮
景街
帝宮
陽門
鐲鑼巷
角山橋
極殿
環詠亭
仁安門
日
民
關帝廟
Kên
Kuan Ti Miao
K'un
坤
K'ung Tzu Miao
Ling Chih Chieh
Ling Hou Tien
Lu Chan [Mên]
Lu Pan Tien
Mo Yai Pei
Nan Tien Mên
Pan Tao
Pei Tou T'ai
Pei Tien Mên
Pi Hsia Tz'u
Ping Ling Tien
Sheng Ping Chieh
Shih Pa P'an
Shih Yüan
Su Ching [Mên]
Sun
Tai Miao
Tai Tsung Fang
T'ai An Fu (Prefect)
孔子胸
靈芝街
靈侯股
聲瞻門
魯班股
天門
北斗
配天門
碧霞嗣
炳靈殿
門
岱
岱宗坊
泰安府
T'ai An Hsien (District Magistrate)泰安縣
T'ai Chiang
T'ai Wei Tien
泰
將
太尉股

T'AI SHAN
T'ai Yin Pei
Têng Lung Chieh
Tien Chieh
Tstang Hsiang
Tung Yo Miao
Wen Hua Chieh
Wên Miao
Wu Ning Chieh
Wu Tzi Pei
Yang Kao [Mên]
Yen Hsi Tien
Yo Yang Chich
Yü Huang Ting
Yü Nü Ch'ih
Yü Tso
Yüan Chün Hou Kung
Yün Chou Chieh
陰牌
登龍街
悲
化街
武寧街
無字碑
仰高門
延福殿
岳陽街
玉皇頂
玉女池
御 座
元君後宮
運舟街
5
31