118
NOTES AND QUERIES.
NOTES AND QUERIES.
Nestorian
The members of the Society will be interested in evidences
Relics in of the existence of the old Nestorian Church in North
Kiangsu. It is well to record these facts now for in a few
North
more years it will be impossible to tell whether the phenomena
Kiangsu,
are to be traced to the early church or to the recent
proprogation of Christianity in China.
HF situated in a retired
chief figures-one is called
First-There is a temple at Hsuchoufu
place outside the city wall that has in it two
Adam () and one is the "first Mother." They are clad in "Bu Long"
leaves (no one seems to know what Chinese characters represent those
sounds. If it should prove that it represented Fig leaves," in some
Western Asian tongue, we would have a definite reference to the past).
Of course, as the idol was supposed to represent the Father of the Race, it
would be natural to call it Adam if the keeper knew the Biblical account.
Careful inquiries from old scholars revealed the fact that it has gone by
this name since before modern missions opened work within a hundred
miles of the city. The temple is evidently a century old and possibly
much older.
At Tsing Kiangpu there is a temple to the "first parents." The temple
is old and going to decay. It was built in the Ming dynasty; for
the canal, which in these upper reaches was made about the 17th
Century, was cut right through the back court-yard. The figure of
Adam was very large so that the temple was originally called Great
Buddha Temple. The new figures of Adam and Eve are still about
15 ft. high, but much smaller than the original figures. They are seated
and both are clothed in leaves of a large size. On asking the keeper a
"Taoist" () priest, what the idol was called, he said "Pan Ku." We
said, "Is it not called Adam?" He answered, "Oh yes, to those who
understand we call it Father A (d)." When one remembers the
Chinese habit of using, when possible, only one syllable for a name it is
natural to assume that this is a shortened name for Adam.
Eve holds a Buddhist sign for origin, in her hand, and Adam holds a
"a circle or plate of the heavens. The circle is
a large flat ring with a cross in the center like this.
There is a whole brood of "holy mothers" along
the walls of the rooms. And they have such names as
the following:

NOTES AND QUERIES.
119
林花聖母 太山聖母
元女娘 武當聖母
We recognize the Goddess of Taishan.
Is Yuen Nu Niang the Virgin ?
The cross inside the circle of the heavens seems to point definitely to
the Holy Cross.
Nestorianism, for they made so much of the Sacrement of the Signation of
And on the Nestorian tablet at Sianfu we read that
appointed the cross to fix the four points
Jehovah
of the compass."
The library of this temple once contained many books of deep interest
but they were destroyed in the Taiping rebellion.
Among the traditions and language of the people one would naturally
expect to find traces of the Church that flourished so long among them.
In the Encyclopedia of the Demigods, there is a faithful and accurate
account of the birth and life and death of Christ. It is not easy to tell the
source whence this account comes. It is not from Protestant Bibles. The
characters used in proper names are more like those used by the Roman
Catholics, though not quite identical with them. As the Roman Catholic
absorbed the Nestorian Church it is but natural that their mission should
use the nomenclature of the older Church.
In an old book called "Chasing Literary Shadows" there is an account
of the creation of Adam and Eve and the flood and Noah and his sons.
The time that is said to have elapsed between Adam and Noah is in perfect
accord with the Hebrew Bible, though the transliterations are not
according to Protestant versions.
Among the pagan people one often hears sayings quoted that are
strikingly like Christian truth, and in North Kiangsu there is a form
of baptism practiced by many pagan families and called (Hsi Li)
This Washing Rite" is practised just before the person dies.
Water is put on the face. This ceremony is said by those who know
nothing of the Christian rite, to be intended to relieve the dying
person from suffering in the next world. And a revolting custom that is
supposed to drink the water
apparently pagan is added. The son is
that was used in the rite that he might bear the parent's sin.
It would be helpful for those living in Taichow, and Hangchow and
Chinkiang, where Nestorianism is known to have lived a long time, to look
for evidences of the old Church.
These facts should have deep interest to student of Missions and also
to students of the development (?) of Christian thought. It is plain to
unprejudiced students of history that Christian truth is not evolved and
only stays true, while the Biblical standards are preserved--left to itself.
"Tis but the moral of all human tales:
Tis but the same rehearsal of the past:
First freedom, then glory; when that fails
Wealth, vice, corruption, barbarism at last."
B. C. PATTERSON
16

120
NOTES AND QUERIES.
The exhibition of Chinese paintings from the collection of
The
Herr Rudolf Mahnfeldt of Shanghai in the building of the
Exhibition
of Chinese Society on the afternoons of June 7 to 9 was well attended
Paintings.
and very highly appreciated. It consisted of 164 paintings,
fairly representing the Tang and Sung, Yüan, Ming and Tsing
dynasties, more than twelve hundred years. So many and so generally
select examples of Chinese pictorial art, interspersed with not a few very
rare and fine paintings made Herr Mahnfeldt's exhibition one of the most
instructive and enjoyable anywhere to be had. The museums in Europe,
America and Japan have probably already acquired the best of Chinese
paintings, but the fact that Herr Mahnfeldt in the past seven years in
Shanghai, pursuing the avocation of collecting paintings, has so well
succeeded encourages the connoisseur to hope there are still paintings of
notability to be found in China. Several very finely illustrated books upon.
Chinese paintings have appeared in recent years, yet they do not yield,
even with their wonderful reproductions in photograph and color, the
information and pleasure that comes from viewing the actual paintings.
Following the exhibition some discussion took place in the
Ostasiatische Lloyd as to what, if any, appreciation one who knows the
art of painting as evolved in Europe can have for the art as evolved in
China. Let a Chinese artist view the Sistine Madonna, or a European
artist the mythological mountains and streams depicted by Wu-tao-tzu-
what is there the one and the other may admire and enjoy? The answer
lies in the individual. One of us may have almost a sense of repulsion
from the strange conventions of Chinese landscapes, another of us a sense
of attraction to what is so grand in conception, so delicate in delineation,
so rich in color, so fundamentally beautiful. Study of other phases of
Chinese civilization and travel in China much favor an appreciation of
Chinese art.
The exhibition was the more enjoyed for its well prepared catalogue
and for the good arrangement of the paintings.
The
Lecture
on
Mongolia, Turkestan and Tibet have been subjects of some
of the most notable works on exploration and travel published
in the last decade. The studies and experiences of one of our
Mongolia, members, Reverend G. H. Bondfield, who crossed Mongolia
by caravan in the summer of 1911, resulted in a lecture before a large
assembly in the Lecture Hall of the Society on March 7. This fascinating
narrative of his travels and valuable exposition of conditions, political and
social, in a vast region now opening to the railways and to western trade,
leads us to wish that Mr. Bondfield may, in the near future, find the leisure
to porduce a book upon Mongolia. It would be well taken by the public.