CHINESE ART METAL WORK
By ARTHUR STANLEY, M.D., Lond.
Curator of the Shanghai Museum
It is generally held that the Chinese are poor metal
workers and that the merit of their art-metal work is due rather
to the artist than to the artificer. It will probably be conceded
that the Chinese have the artistic temperament; which explains a
great deal their responsiveness to natural beauty, their satisfaction
with outward form, the fine flower of their literature and their taste,
or delicacy of perception, in matters of art. The general impression
appears to be that China was the place of origin of most Asiatic art.
In respect to art China is related to Japan much as Greece is to
France. Metal work has always held an important position among
the arts of China and a consideration of the subject is largely
one dealing with the alloys of bronze and brass. The essential
features of artistic work in other metals may be disposed of in a
few words.
THE SIMPLE METALS
Although the Chinese have made considerable use of gold
and silver, work in the precious metals has never reached a high
plane. Rings, bracelets and hair ornaments of gold frequently
show decoration of a pleasing nature derived from animal and
floral forms and the written character, often combined with the
eight precious emblems of good fortune and the Pa-kwa or eight
trigrams. Silver is used for cups, wine-pots, opium boxes,
women's powder boxes, hair and dress ornaments which show a
fertile invention of design in the use of animal, floral and
symbolic forms together with diapered patterns and frets; being
especially good in the form of hammered repoussé work. A
word may be said here about the Cantonese silver ware
made for the foreign market. This seldom shows any artistic
merit, being made under the delusion that it ministers to a
"foreign taste" which is synonymous with vulgarity: it is, however,
often mistaken by its foreign patrons for typical Chinese art.
9
63

64
CHINESE ART METAL WORK
It cannot be said that the Chinese have shown any facility
in the design of coins or tokens.
Lead, zinc, antimony, nickel or platinum work is seldom if
ever seen in China.
Iron is often cast into incense burners, josses and candlesticks,
the designs being similar to those used for bronze and brass work,
but they do not present any special features. A pretty effect,
though easily destroyed by rust, is obtained by gilding over iron.
Copper is used for jars, kettles and josses often decorated
in low relief and sometimes of great antiquity but of little
decorative value. Copper is also used as the foundation for
cloisonné enamel.
THE ALLOYS
The alloys used by the Chinese for art metal work are
pewter, a yellowish-white alloy like German silver, brass and
bronze.
In pewter, that easily worked and badly wearing alloy, the
Chinese were perhaps the first producers of art objects. Joss-
stick holders and other altar furniture, pen-rests, teapots, etc.
show pleasing work of a primitive character which is much
sought after by the masses. The gleam of the bright metal
from the altar of many a dimly lit temple helps to create a
religious atmosphere.
In white metal, an alloy composed in varying proportions
of zinc, lead, tin, copper and nickel, a multitude of small
ornaments such as boxes, candlesticks, incense burners, josses,
tobacco-boxes and pipes are made. They are mostly modelled
crudely and roughly but often beautifully chased with line
ornament representing animals and pictorial scenes.
BRONZE
History
Chinese bronze dates back before written record.
relates that the Emperor Yu Wang (B.C. 2180) caused nine
tripods of bronze to be cast. Later, in the Chow dynasty, a
thousand years before Christ, the bronze industry was in a
flourishing condition in China and attained marvellous develop-
ment in the Sung and Ming periods. While even to this day
China holds its ground though out-distanced by Japan in design,
workmanship and casting.
Some of the earlier bronzes have a barbaric and malevolent
grandeur which makes the subsequent plastic art of China and
Japan appear effeminate. Bronze is so indestructible by age-aere
perennius-that the moulding and inscription may be preserved
intact for thousands of years. While earthenware and pictures
are by their fragility necessarily short lived, bronze is by its

CHINESE ART METAL WORK
65
unalterability calculated to outlast most other materials. Old
Chinese bronze and their inscriptions have an archeological
value which is yet in the beginnings of its elucidation.
Chinese annals refer the origin of bronze to 4000 years ago;
but very few specimens are known anterior to the Chow dynasty
(B.C. 1122 to 255) though some of the Shang dynasty are
authenticated (B.C. 1766 to 1122). The Chinese recognise
that working in bronze is the oldest of their national arts and the
genuine archaic specimens, that is to say, made before the
introduction of Buddhism in the Han dynasty, are regarded with
the greatest veneration. While Chinese bronzes produced
subsequent to the introduction of Buddhism possess a greater
artistic value from better design and workmanship, the antique
bronzes have a monumental and majestic simplicity of form
which is inimitable. The old artist in bronze used his faculties
to glorify the terrible, the malignant and the merciless. Under
all China's ancient civilisation, tradition of duty, reverence and
philosophical good breeding there lies a spirit of primitive
cruelty, a sterner side to the Chinese national character. The
productions of the latter half of the Chow dynasty (about B.C.600)
combined finish of execution with archaic grandeur of form.
THE EVOLUTION OF BRONZE.
The worship of the primal natural elements formed a large
part of early Chinese religion and the principles of design were
evolved from a quaint though powerful cosmic mythology.
The Chinese art genius is perhaps greatest when it deals with
the elemental monsters of its imagination. The head of the
huge mouthed hideous T'ao-Tieh, the malignant glutton monster
signifying the powers of the earth, so frequently met with in the
early bronzes, is a most striking motive. "Dragons of the prime
that tare each other in the slime" and sundry beetle-like
primordial forms predominate among meandering frets and
thunder scrolls combined with decorative. treatment of various
phases of natural phenomena.
The primitive bronzes were the product of the three ancient
dynasties of Hsia, Shang and Chow. The chief elements of
ornament go far back into antiquity and have been gradually
moulded into conventional patterns in keeping with the fixed
routine of Chinese art. The introduction of Buddhism, A.D. 67,
may be taken as a convenient dividing line between the ancient
and the comparatively modern. Although during the Han, Tang
and Sung periods the conventional designs of the Chow and early
dynasties were repeated, bronze work underwent a gradual
refinement which led up to the culminating epoch of Ming when
Chinese bronze may be held to have reached its highest expression

66
CHINESE ART METAL WORK
of excellence in design and workmanship. Before that period the
artist in bronze appeared to have been strangled by tradition,
convention and respect for ritual canon and the art was confined
to the reproduction of formal types.
The introduction of Buddhism in the Han dynasty was the
first stimulus from outside civilisation on an art almost moribund
from want of originality due to conformity with ancient custom.
Missionaries from India brought with them the trappings and
lures of religion, having the usual object of appealing to the senses
of the masses. These were assimilated by the Chinese artists.
There is a tendency to trace the growth of Chinese art to
Assyrian, Græco-Bactrian and finally to Buddhist influence, but
there can be no doubt that China, although she assimilated these
influences, evolved an art which is almost entirely indigenous and
characteristically Chinese.
Incense burners were introduced by Buddhism and, although
the forms of the earlier bronzes were called later into service for
incense burning, the original forms were used probably as rice
boilers, wine jars and sacrificial vessels. In the early Han dynasty
the elephant was first used as an element of decoration; later,
birds and other animals came into vogue, while the human figure
was introduced with Buddhism. There are those who believe
that the Chinese national genius was greatest when it dealt with
the elemental monsters of its imagination and that the introduction
of realistic forms marked a period of decline. The later bronzes
showed, however, more skilful work and many beautiful forms
were introduced into the somewhat stiff and limited design of the
earlier ages. The rising of the Sung dynasty ushered in an age
of letters and art, as the court gave liberal patronage to all who
engaged in these refined pursuits.
MING BRONZE AND BRASS.
The characteristics of the Ming bronzes and brasses as
compared with the earlier productions are increased facility of
design, departing somewhat from the conventional types, and
greater delicacy of craftsmanship. On the other hand there was
a deterioration in the metal tin was replaced to some extent by
zinc and, instead of true bronze, the less costly and more easily
worked brass was used. It may, however, be noted that the
terms brass and bronze are often used indiscriminately. The
incense burners, perhaps, show Ming metal work at its best.
The ugly shapes of the primitive bronzes give place to well
modelled forms; the T'ao T'ieh ogre and similar repulsive
monstrosities are replaced by decoration based on the natural forms
of animal and plant life which often reaches a high degree of
excellence. Snake-like dragons gracefully coiled, the ornate

VASE PROBABLY K'ANG HSI
Well-modelled, showing plain surface of the metal of fine colour decorated with bats in
high relief. Simple key pattern along upper and lower margins. Handles have the archaic
form.
[Facing page 66.]

SENGA CHANGA
INCENSE BURNER IN MING STYLE
PROBABLY MADE IN CHIENLUNG PERIOD
Shows Chinese art metal work at its highest expression of excellence. Design, modelling
and decoration good. Brass of fine golden colour.
[Facing page 67.]

CHINESE ART METAL WORK
67
phoenix or pheasant motive, bat, crane and other bird-like forms
with idealised lizards and leonine heads for handles come within
the scope of the Ming decorative artist; while floral decoration,
elaborate frets, scrolls, cloud and wave forms and perforated work
provided a richer style of decoration. At the same time the plain
surface of the metal is given its proper value as a relief to the
decorative detail. Candlesticks richly chased with encircling
dragons or the lotus motive are typical of this period. A throw-
back to an earlier type is shown by the frequent repetition of the
peach of longevity, which as an element of design is somewhat
childish, being a mere imitation of natural form. A fine element of
design is the mundane egg guarded by two dragons of the clouds,
which is perhaps the most commonly used decorative scheme.
The dog of Fo or Buddhist monster with its fierce though
fascinating snarl, rolling ferocious eye and hairy feet is another
characteristically Ming decorative motive. The human figure is
used with telling effect in the josses, the pose being particularly
good but the anatomy poor. The finest work is usually gilded
over, a curious practice as it soon wears off and a more beautiful
effect can be obtained by polishing the brass.
Bronze and brass is cast in China by the cire perdue
process. A model of the object is made in wax which is
surrounded by a fire-clay support and then dried and finally burnt,
the wax meanwhile melting out: when hard set the metal is
poured in and a perfect cast may be obtained which can be made
to show the most intricate decorative detail.
Bronze is an alloy composed wholly or chiefly of copper and
tin in varying proportions. Brass is composed mainly of copper
and zinc and was a later invention not known or generally used
until shortly before the Christian era. The brass referred to in
the bible was more probably of the nature of bronze. Brass has
the advantage over bronze in its more pleasing colour, varying
from the beautiful golden colour met with in the Ming brasses to
the pale product of the present day due to the use of too much of
the baser and cheaper metal zinc. Brass is more easily cast and
worked than bronze. It is, however, less durable and does not
produce so fine a patina or coloured oxide. It has been said that
the practice of brightening up old bronzes and brasses is an
unfortunate one due to the defective taste of foreign residents in
China, because it sacrifices the patina feature. This is true
enough of bronze which is dependent on the covering of the
metallic surface for its beauty, but does not, I think, apply to brass,
which will not produce the beautiful patina of true bronze that
has been long buried in a suitable earth. The colour of the
surface of the metal, however, is the chief glory of brass. Moreover
the polishing of the surface shows up defects of casting and leads
to the rejection of imperfect pieces-surely a more important

68
CHINESE ART METAL WORK
quality than the accidental presence of rust on the surface
indicative of mere age.
to mere age.
THE VALUE OF THE ANTIQUE.
There is a strong tendency to attach too much importance
From the point of view of art age is nothing. It
has been said that all beautiful things belong to the same age. If
one eliminates antiquity and looks only for artistic value, there
can be little doubt that the metal work of the Ming dynasty
and up to the time of the Emperor Chienlung of the Ching
dynasty, say, between A.D. 1400 and 1800, was of a higher
order than that of the preceding periods.
The determination of the chronological sequence of Chinese
works of art is a matter of considerable difficulty. The approxi-
mate age of Chinese bronze can only be determined by a close
examination of the workmanship, the decoration and the patina.
The reverence for the past, which the Chinese possess in common
with other long-established nations, though particularly marked
in China through the predominance of ancestor worship, leads
them to consider the repetition of ancient forms and the reproduc-
tion of conventional types the consummation of art craft; and for
this reason the date mark cannot often be accepted an a proof of
period. For example one rarely sees a date mark on brass work
later than Ming, although obviously produced more recently. The
shape of the ancient ritual vessels has been followed to the present
day. The iron yoke of conformity lies heavy on the Chinese.
They are indeed obsessed by the quality of antiquity and usually
hold the earlier bronzes of the Chow dynasty to be the finest expres-
sion of Chinese art, affecting to deride anything later than the Sung
dynasty. Some foreign collectors also seem to have been similarly
held by the lure of the antique.
The reign of Kang Hsi, the greatest of the Manchus, so
celebrated for the beauty of its porcelain, has also been described
as the renascence period of Chinese bronze, both Kang Hsi and
Chienlung giving great encouragement to this as to other art
crafts. And no paper on Chinese bronze would be complete
without mention of the astronomical instruments still to be found
at the Peking Observatory on the wall of the Tartar city near the
Hatamen gate, most of which were cast during the reign of K'ang
Hsi about A.D. 1670. These fine castings in brass elaborately
decorated with dragons coiling round the supports of the instruments
hold their own as the finest work of the kind in existence.

innannnannon
The design though weak in places, notably in the lion head handles, forms a wonderfully
plastic whole. Recently made from a Ch'ienlung model.
[Facing page 68]

PAIR OF DEEPLY CHISELLED PLATES
PROBABLY TAOKUANG PERIOD
Apart from the weak scalloped margin and ugly rope pattern the drawing of the central
groups is of a high order.
[Facing page 68.]

Design, workmanship and casting fine. The dragon handles an exceptionally strong
design. The weak point is the lumpy dragon on the top of the cover.

AN EXCEPTIONAL EXAMPLE OF INTRICATE CASTING
Brass of good colour. Modelling and workmanship good. Consists of a gracefully designed
dish with well balanced dragon handles. The cover consists of perforated work of Horal design,
probably the lotus motive. The top of the cover shows a zoological scroll surmounted by an
elephant bearing a phoenix supporting the mundane egg.