LITERARY NOTES
La Philosophie de la Nature dans l'Art d'Extrême Orient.
Par RAPHAEL PETRUCCI. Paris Laurens.
An article on Art, of as late a date as 1895, closes with the phrase
"about Chinese Art we as yet know next to nothing." Since those words
were penned the sources of knowledge have indeed multiplied. Through the
labours of Bushell, Giles, Hirth, Chevannes, von le Coq, Stein, Binyon,
Münsterberg and others, a history of Chinese Art from its earliest days has
been laid before the student from the Western World, who now refers with
familiarity to Ku-K'ai-Chih, Wu-Tao-Tzu and their confrères, and freely
compares the styles of successive dynasties.
To knowledge of history we must, however, in the realm of Art, add
understanding of those impulses from which have sprung the forms we are
considering. To assist to this understanding is the end to which both the
books under review are written.
In the finely printed folio before us, Mr. Petrucci sets forth clearly.
with insight and deep sympathy, that marvellous philosophy of nature upon
which the Art of the Far East is founded. With the widely accepted theory
that Buddhism provided China with her artistic inspiration, that it brought
to the so-called "material and positive Oriental" that "something of the
imagination and idealism of the Aryan races" which transformed and
vivified their Art, Mr. Petrucci is strongly opposed and in support of his
argument shows how profoundly Buddhism itself was affected and modified
by the Philosophical system already developed in China. He points out
the great difference between the form taken by Buddhist art in the Far
East, and that which it has kept in India, where it has not that vigorous
comprehension of plant and animal life, and especially of landscape, which
in China and Japan have been so marvellously expressed. In India the
impossible, the fabulous reign always. As he expresses it "It seems as if
an intelligence more imaginative than observing produced with frenzied
fecundity the wonderful sculptures which seem to aim solely at passing the
limits of the real."
And what is this system, this Philosophy of Nature, a grasp of which,
is anterior to the smallest comprehension of that Art which first strikes the
Occidental mind as weird and unfamiliar? Mr. Petrucci searches for it in
85

86
LITERARY NOTES.
the pages of the I-ching, in the mystic teaching of Lao-tzu, and in the pious
conformation to tradition of Confucius, and finds, that the Philosophy
which was first expressed in the XIth century before our era, which has, until
our day, directed the evolution of the Chinese mind, "considers every being
in the world, every manifestation of nature, every man, every genii, every
god as an active part of the great whole," of that great Reality which is
behind and beyond the flux of phenomena. Whereas, this primitive
cosmogeny finds a close parallel in Hesiod, the development has been in no
wise the same. In the effort towards the comprehension of the Universal,
no personal or anthropomorphic form has appeared. The Chinese have
remained attached to vague principles, even the idea of God in our
Occidental sense is absent, and man, who is to us the centre and lord of the
earth, is to them but one of the component parts of creation. This
philosophy, explains that subtle penetration of Nature in all her moods and
manifestations, which is what strikes one most forcibly in the Art
of the Far East, and to all those who are interested in this most
fascinating subject a careful perusal of Mr. Petrucci's important work is
essential.
The author has been ably seconded by his publishers, who have
produced a very beautiful specimen of the book-maker's craft, and has been
fortunate in having access to those indispensable reproductions of the
Kokka Magazine, of which there are four examples, and also to a good
deal of as yet unpublished material from the recent expeditions to
Central Asia.
F. W. A.
The Flight of the Dragon.
By LAURENCE BINYON. London John
Murray. "Wisdom of the East Series."
"The Flight of the Dragon," by Laurence Binyon, one of those
charming booklets published in the "Wisdom of the East" series, purports
to be an essay on the theory and practice of art in China and Japan based
on original sources." No writer on Far Eastern Art has shown a keener
appreciation, a deeper sympathy, than has Mr. Binyon, and this exquisite
sketch (which indeed contains matter for a folio) will but serve to enhance
his well-earned reputation. He deals, as does Mr. Petrucci, with the
impulses, the intentions, which have produced this Art, with the Dragon-
symbolic of the sovereign energy of the soul-with the "sword-play of the
brush," with mental preparation, suggestion, symmetry, value of space, and
above all with the rhythmical vitality which is its most important element,
and he also feels that its sole aim is but the expression of the Universal

LITERARY NOTES.
87
Soul-that "Art is not an adjunct to existence, a reduplication of
the actual; it is a hint and a promise of that perfect rhythm, of that
ideal life."
F. W. A.
Adversaria Sinica.
By PROF. HERBERT A. GILES, LL. D.
The work on science is usually dry and flavourless. It is especially so
when the subjects to be treated have nothing in common with our daily
life. The present work, of which the first part appeared six years ago,
is a welcome exception in that the author's skill is so exercised as to render
a living touch to what otherwise might become a description of dead
things.
It is, however, not my intention to review the articles one after
another which amount to more than twenty. I may perhaps be permitted
to write something about two articles which have particularly interested
me in the course of my reading.
The first number is opened up with the auspicious subject of "Who is
Si Wang Mu" quite à la Chinoise.
Evidence is given from various angles to establish the identity of
Si Wang Mu pj with Hera or Juno. I think I am in a position to
present another support to the author's original argument. Look at the
following passage taken from
吾乃今目睹西王母然白首勝(?)而穴處亦幸有三足烏爲
之使(大人賦)
"I now personally witness Si Wang Mu. She is fair-haired and of white com-
plexion. She wears a necklace and dwells in a cave. She has a happy attendant in the
shape of. (Eulogy on Giant.)
are adequate terms to describe a
To begin with, and
Caucasian woman. Bor wearing a necklace, also proves that Si Wang
Mu was a woman. It is curious to note that the character has no
intrinsic significance of a necklace or a coronet. From the fact that the
ornament of images of Buddha is known as B, which of course is a pure
foreign term, I might infer that in the capacity of necklace, is of an
alien origin, possibly a transliteration of the Sanscrit.
As to the E, it is annotated as a blue bird, instead of the usual
crow and further that it was a supplier of food to Si Wang Mu. A parallel
might be drawn between that and the beloved dove which served as carrier
of the immortal food of Ambrosia and Nectar to twelve Gods of Olympos.
About the beginning of the Han Dynasty, incessant intercourse
between China and the Eastern Greek possessions along the trade
12

88
LITERARY NOTES.
routes of Central Asia, which reached their climax in 's expedition
must have introduced into China a beautiful current of the Greaco-
Bactrian art. Comparison of Fig. I with Fig. 2 will convince the
readers. In both instances.
the figures are arranged
diagonally one after another
with geometrical exactness.
This mode of delineation, I un-
derstand, was of common use
among the ancient Egyptians,
while in China, it is one very
seldom met with. Considering
that the stone carving, of which
Fig. I is copied, is traced one "Book of Dead"
century B.C., or about the
Fig. 1.
Stone Carving,
Hsiao T'ang Shan
(Dr. Bushell's "Chinese Art")
Fig. 9, Vol. I)
Fig. 2.
(Egypt)
commencement of the Han period, we are at once conscious of the fact
that influence of the Western art must have had a very far-reaching
effect upon the Chinese life.
Referring to the Si Wang Mu that appears in Mu Tien Tsu Chuan,
I may be permitted to quote Mr. Y. Sasaki, M.P., who has spent years.
in Mongolia and in Central Asia, as follows:-
"Si Wang Mu is not a fairy. It is a name of a great tribe which prospered in
Central Asia. From the founder of the Chou Dynasty down to Wen Wang XE,
the said tribe was held in great esteem as the main division of the Chou families. It is
for the sake of political policy, and not of love (as the orthodox commentators on
maintain) that Mu Wang E paid homage to Si Wang Mu
5).
(Translation) (P. 84,
The above quotation brings Mr. Sasaki quite in line with Prof.
Chevannes who holds that "Dans ces textes (c'est-à-dire, de 1),
le nom de Si Wang Mou est mentionné; mais il est le nom d'une tribu
barbare (?) de l'ouest, etc."
In conclusion, let me touch upon Terrien de la Couperie's explanation.
On page 3 of the Adversaria Sinica, he is quoted as saying that Wang Mu
is a corruption of Kam-mu (Kun-mo), the title of sovereigns of Wu Sung
nations. Here he evidently refers to the passage occurring in
to the effect that 旣至烏烏孫王昆英(?)見漢使如單于體(Upon
the arrival of in the country of Wu-Sung, Kun-mo or Wu-Sung king
received the Han Ambassador (viz. ) with the ceremonies due to
chiefs").
Might not the etymons of the "Kun-mo" be the Japanese "Ka-mi"
and "Ki-mi," meaning god and sovereign respectively? The former, the
"Ka-mi" is preserved in the Ainos' vocabulary in the form of "Ka-moi."

LITERARY NOTES.
89
It is one of the many rewards of antiquarian researches that such
words of our common use should find their counterpart in the accounts of a
nation that flourished in Central Asia one century B.C.
Pages 199-203 contain an interesting article on the "Japan's debt to
China," which claims our special attention on account of its being built.
upon the information chiefly gathered from the Chinese source.
First of all, I should like to point out that, in the translation of a
passage from heading the article (P. 189), Prof. Giles makes
a mistake in rendering h "Dwarf-slave nation." The best that
could be done with these three characters would be to simply put them
"Na-kuo of the country of Wa." Read the following:-
光武中元二年倭國奉
也(後漢書東夷傳)
朝賀,使人自稱大夫,倭國之極南海
“In the 2nd year of 中元 era of the Emperor,光武倭奴國, bearing
tribute, came up to the court of Han. The envoy called himself a Lord
Steward. (X) is situated at the Southern extremity of "Wa" country.
The Emperor bestowed on him an official seal."
From the above quotation, we can now clearly see that and
represent two different localities. Next the question arises, Is it possible
to find the place which was known to the Hans by the name of "Na-kuo"?
In A.D. 1784, there was excavated at a spot (lat. 33-40": long
130-18") called "Na-ka" () of the island of Kyushu a golden seal
with the inscription of upon it.
Considering that the Kumaso tribes inhabited the island of Kyushu in
the Han period have left us no object of art, we may safely conclude that
the seal in question is one that substantiates the record of, "The
Emperor bestowed on him an official seal." At the same time.
it establishes beyond doubt that is nothing but a transliteration of our
province, and it is an interesting by-product of this quotation from
後漢書(“(奴國) is situated at the southern extremity of the country of
'Wa") that we are able to decide the ancient "Wa" country consisted
of Korea and the southern reaches of Kyushu.*
Next on the question of tattoing as well as
quoted by
the author, mentions the practice of tattooing among Wa nations:
"Men, young and old, tattoo their faces and paint
their bodies." This description is highly valuable as it gives a clue to
distinguish the present Japanese from the Wa people.
*(In passing, I may remark that the character was probably pronounced "Na"
in the Han period. For, besides our "Na-ka" is designated as X, The History of We"
() tells us that the Assistant Governor in the island of Tsushima was called
4. The Japanese equivalent to this being "Hina-mori" or a Guardsman
of rural districts, the Japanese "na" is here also rendered x.

90
90
LITERARY NOTES.
To Mr. Darwin's remark, "not one great country can be found, from
the Polar regions in the North to New England in the South, in which
aborigines do not tattoo themselves," I may cite as an exception the
Japanese. This is shewn by the numerous clay figures that have been
unearthed from the ancient tombs. The existence of this habit among Wa
people, which is another name of the tribe known as "Kumaso" in the
Japanese history, goes to prove conclusively that they were of different
stock from the Japanese proper and of the tropical habitat. I say this
because the practice of tattooing is an invention by people who, living
under the burning sun, cannot afford to put on sufficient clothes to satisfy
their aesthetic temperament. In the travels of Marco Polo, I remember
two different tribes are credited with the habit and they are all tropical
nations living in Burma.
Thus it is clear that the 倭奴國in 後漢書 and is nothing
but a local name, without the least reference to the conditions of
people, such as "dwarf" or "slave," and the nations mentioned as "Wa"
comprises the Koreans and the Kumaso tribes, the latter now being
extinct as a race. The remarks of these two works on have in reality
very little to do with Japan proper, in which sense Prof. Giles intended to
construe the passage.
Last, but not the least interesting, is the question as to the origin
of the Kata-kana, or Japanese alphabet. Prof. Giles, citing the views
of the more conventional Japanese sinologues assigns it a Chinese origin.
At the risk of trespassing the limit of book-criticism, I venture to propose
that the vowel group of the Kata-kana is traceable to Sanscrit. The
first vowel (pronounced a) has its equivalent in the Devanagari ; the
second one (i) very much resembles the Devanagari f and the third
is seemingly a contracted form of 3, while the fourth I and the fifth
are unmistakeably copied from and respectively. In each of the
foregoing comparisons, the sounds are almost identical. The old Chinese-
origin-theory has more weak spots than one. Tempora mutantur, nos et
mutamur in illis!
R. K. W.
An Alphabetical Index to the Chinese Encyclopaedia Ch'in
Ting Ku Chin Tu Shu Chi Cheng (1)
By LIONEL GILES, M.A., for the British Museum, London, 1911.
It may seem a bit odd to describe an index as scholarly, but this is au
exceptional Index, the compiling of which implies scholarship to a marked
degree. It is a tantalizing list of good things-like a menu card of some
sumptuous banquet bestowed upon a guest who could not attend the

LITERARY NOTES.
91
feast. There are but few known copies of this mammoth encyclopaedia,
inside or outside of China. Mr. Giles states in his interesting introduction
to the Index that, so far as he knows, the British Museum has the
only complete set of the First Edition outside of China. Of course every
student of Chinese literature and science understands that he may expect
disappointment when he comes to peruse a given subject in a Chinese
treatise, but nevertheless this great conglomeration of all that China ever
accomplished in the several spheres of Literature, History, Science,
Biography, Belles-lettres, etc., etc., must not be ruthlessly set aside as
worthless, for it presents in a compact form the best thought of the
Chinese in all ages.
Heretofore the Encyclopaedia has been a sealed book to most
students because of the difficulty of finding what they wanted, even with
the aid of the voluminous Chinese index. Mr. Giles has made the path of
research easy by his Anglo-Chinese Index, whereby the student can turn
readily to his particular subject, although he may have to make a
journey to London to effect his search. The work thus indexed com-
prises some 10,000 'parts' (which (in the British Museum set) are
bound in 745 thick volumes,-a veritable library in itself.
It is useless to go into detail in describing this Index of nearly 10,000
items, but a glance will show the practical use to which it may be put.
The Museum is to be congratulated in having had the services of a
scholar like Mr. Lionel Giles to edit this valuable work.
F. H. C.
Les Chemins de Fer de Chine. EDOUARD DE LABOULAYE.
Emile Larose, 1911.
Paris:
There is very little that is original in this book. There is a brief
acknowledgement of the author's indebtedness to various sources, among
which appears the name of Kent, author of "Railway Enterprise in China."
There is great similarity of material (Kent's book was published in 1907).
Over 180 of the 337 pages are taken up with the text of the various
agreements, and 115 of these pages are apparently embodied from Kent's
book, those in English not being done into French; and even where the
English text of the agreement is only a translation from Chinese,
Japanese or German, it has been left in English; so that altogether there
are 138 pages, out of the whole 337, in English. Seeing that the
author presupposes such a knowledge of English on the part of his
readers, one would think he might have done better to have referred them
definitely to Kent's book for the history of railway enterprise in China up
to 1907, merely giving a brief resumé of this, and then devoting the

92
LITERARY NOTES.
greater part of the book to the period since 1907; there is but little in the
book, however, dealing with this period-it is altogether too brief and
unsatisfactory. Surely the French readers of the book would have liked to
see the agreement for the Yunnan Railway, but this is conspicuous by its
absence. And although the "Kiangsi Railway Co." has been running two
trains daily from Kiukiang to Tehan, no mention whatever is made of
this railway, although space is given to schemes which have not matured
so far.
And why is so very little said about the Szechwan Railway? The author
has missed a splendid opportunity of illustrating the Chinese idea of
"look-see"; he might have told that, although only a few miles of the
line have been finished, the station and goods yards at Ichang have been
laid out on a scale sufficient to cope with the traffic of the completed
line, large brick go-downs being ready, and even the wooden huts by the
points-like sentry boxes-being all in position (now occupied by
beggars!)
The names are mangled in a most cruel manner. We always feel
lenient with the uninitiated, but for a person who takes upon himself to
write a book that presupposes a fairly intimate knowledge of China, the
mistakes are inexcusable, especially that as now the Chinese Post Office
have standardized the names of places, the wayfaring man, though a
fool, need not err therein. Here are a few instances: Ningkwofu is
spelt Ningwofu and Ninkwofu as well as the proper way. Hsygniang,
Hsin-gyang, Hsinyang, Syanyang, have to be sorted out between Sinyang-
chow and Siangyangfu. And similarly with the names of people: Sheng
Hsuan-huai is also called Shen Hsuan Haï. Of course some of these are
misprints, but in many cases it is impossible to know which is intended
to be correct.
All these remarks seem very ungracious; the perusal of the book does
not tend to exhilarate one; when one thinks of the latter phases of
railway affairs, one cannot help musing on what might have been if
there had been no revolution. One cannot but feel that the agreement
over the "four-nations loan" was an eminently satisfactory and states-
manlike one, helping forward the best interests of the country; one in
which China secured better terms than in previous agreements, and one
which unhindered would already have had tangible results.
In looking through the book, one is forcibly reminded of the great
influence Sheng Hsuan Huai has had on the history of railways in
China. It was in connection with the negotiations over the Peking-
Hankow line, before the Boxer outbreak, that he reported that "his pen
was worn and his lips were parched with talking"; but he has had to do
with several other railways since then. One might almost suggest
respectfully to M. Laboulaye that he could get out a book on Chinese

LITERARY NOTES.
93
railways not reminding one so very forcibly of Kent's, by letting its
ground work be a biographical sketch of Sheng-on the style of Michie's
"Englishman in China!"
G. W. S.
Two Years in the Forbidden City. By PRINCESS DER LING.
New York: Moffat, Yard & Co., 1911.
The title of this book appeals to human nature which is ever curious
to know of the vague and the forbidden. The subject appeals to the
imagination, as the place has been prominently before the public mind for
years. A peep into the Imperial Palace has been the object of many and
the few details known of the life within have been widely published. The
book under review supplies the imagination and satisfies curiosity on some
points and to some extent. It is a very interesting book because it deals
with interesting personalities. It pulls aside the veil and throws light on
some of these as we may gather from the titles of some of the chapters.
Such as "At the Palace"; "Play at the Court"; "Luncheon with the
Empress"; "Audiences of Her Majesty"; "Attendances on Her Majesty ";
"The Emperor Kuang Hsu"; "The Painting of the Portrait"; "The
Palaces"; "Festivals," etc.
We are led into the inner apartments and view the daily life of the
Old Buddha awake and asleep, at her tiffin and her toilet, amongst her.
own waiting women and Court ladies as well as in intercourse with
foreigners; her angry moods and pleasant moods are depicted and
delineated effectively. The reader is amused by her fancies and startled
by her contradictions. Human nature in her case as in others was very
contrary. On the whole it is a pleasing character that is pourtrayed,
in spite of the outbursts of temper and certain cruelty of disposition.
The portrait is a pleasing one of an old lady of strong personality
spending her lonely life amongst her dependents. Very exacting, very
domineering, yet rejoicing in the dispensation of gifts; a woman of
marvellous memory and a great mistress of detail; taking note of all the
gifts sent her on birthdays, etc. and returning evil for evil if she thought
the presents sent were not of the finest. She has a great deal of vanity,
such as that foreigners should think well of her: "Did you take my
picture? Why didn't you tell me? I was looking too serious. Next
time you do so let me know that I may try and look pleasant." Very
particular in taste and in dress; looking over 20 or 30 dresses before
deciding which to wear for a function. She was very fond too of marrying
her ladies and finding wives for the rich feuds one of Madame
Beck in some respects, cf. pp.
fter she ished her tea, she
БА.
got up and went round the room/examining everything opening up all my
書市血

94
LITERARY NOTES.
bureau drawers and boxes, etc." Another trait in her character must not
be omitted, her devotion to the late Emperor Hsien Feng, pp. 249-254.
And again the ancestral feeling was strong in her, hence her devotion to
the old ways, and Buddhism; this also possibly accounts for her hostility
to missionaries.
The Emperor Kuang Hsu is a most pathetic and lovable figure. "He
would laugh and tease. but as soon as he was in the presence of Her
Majesty he would look serious, and as if he were worried to death." "I
found him to be one of the most intelligent men in China." This confirms
what the reviewer has heard from Chinese ministers who knew him well.
In this crisis one can't but wonder at the Nemesis that has robbed the
country of a possible ruler, one that would command the confidence of the
people and be their successful leader in reform. In this respect the old
Buddha cast a sinister shadow over the empire. The Boxer episode was
not the most serious mistake she made.
One thing we miss very much from this interesting book. How was
this country governed under the old Empress. Very little can be gathered
on this interesting and momentous point. Whilst the volume is most
disappointing in this respect, yet it contains a picture of Court life which
fills a distinct place in the annals of China.
E. M.
Among the Tribes in South-West China. By SAMUEL R. CLARKE.
For Thirty-three years a Missionary in China. China Inland Mission.
London, Philadelphia, Toronto, Melbourne, Shanghai. Morgan and
Scott, Ltd., 1911.
We do not hesitate to describe this as a most readable and instructive
book. It is really, so far as we know-and we have not forgotten the late
Colborne Baber's valuable work-the only "worth-while" book on the
subject of the Tribes of S.-W. China. The author, the Rev. S. R. Clarke,
is a missionary of more than 30 years' experience in China. For most of
that long period he has been in personal touch with the Tribes whose
history and habits he so well describes. Mr. Clarke does not pretend to
write as a scientific expert, nor does he ask his readers to put unquestioning
faith in all his deductions. It is, however, quite clear that he is a man
of keen and accurate observation, wide experience, and first-hand know-
ledge of the things of which he writes. Few of his readers will hesitate
to admit that he has succeeded in producing not only a most readable, but
also a very valuable, book. Where every chapter is interesting it is scarcely
necessary, perhaps not even fair, to refer to special sections in the book.
We ourselves, however, have found Mr. Clarke's remarks on the religious

LITERARY NOTES.
95
beliefs and practices of the Miao to be very instructive. His lucid and
informing disquisition on the Chung Chia is also worthy of special
notice. It is certainly unfortunate that people who are described as being
of all non-Chinese races found in China proper "the most numerous, and
for some reasons the most interesting," should also require to be
represented as "crafty, lying, and dishonest." "The Miao villagers"
we are told "trust one another." Not so, however, the Chung Chia,
for an epitome of whose striking, if not always beautiful, characteristics,
we refer the reader to Mr. Clarke's attractive pages.
We note with pleasure and interest that missionary work amongst
some of these interesting Tribes has been splendidly successful. It is also
satisfactory to observe that amongst the missionaries whose heroic lives
have been consecrated to the hard task of imparting moral advantages to
the non-Chinese races there are those whose natural abilities and acquired
training are such as to make it certain that ere long the general public will
be still further enlightened upon the hitherto unsolved ethnical and
philological problems associated with people for whose physical and moral
benefit the civilization of China. and the Chinese has done next to nothing
really serviceable.
We cordially welcome Mr. Clarke's book, and have pleasure in com-
mending it to our readers. It is brightly written and well illustrated.
Unfortunately we can give no hint as to its price.
J. W. W.
Lün-Heng, Part II. Miscellaneous Essays on Wang Chung. Translated
from the Chinese and annotated by Alfred Forke. Berlin, 1911.
The name of Dr. Forke and sound scholarship have become synonymous.
In 1899 he published a German version of Yu Chih's four act drama,
"Karmia. A volume of Chinese poems rendered in German verse by
Dr. Forke is a book which readers of German prize. Indeed until he
undertook the translation of Wang Ch'ung, all Dr. Forke's work on Chinese
literature has been issued in the German tongue. It is to be hoped that
having now broken his rule he will continue to observe the breach.
The first part of his translation of the Lün-Heng was published by
Dr. Forke in 1907. The present volume completes the work. A brilliant
heretic, who lived at the commencement of the Christian era, Wang
Ch'ung was a free lance in the world of thought. "A material monism"
is Dr. Forke's summary of his 85 critical disquisitions. They are
unequal in value. In his chapter on "The Real Nature of Knowledge,"
Wang Ch'ung illustrates the power of self-realisation, but in his "Last
Word on Dragons" (luan lung), he displays no original insight, and adds
nothing to our knowledge of an obscure subject, yet though wordy and
13

96
LITERARY NOTES.
often unsatisfactory, Wang Ch'ung is always worth studying. Free from
the conventional bonds which make most Chinese writers blindly reverence
antiquity, less paradoxical than the Taoists and more speculative than the
Confucianists, Wang Ch'ung is a free thinker. He calls himself, however,
a Confucianist. Our present day western philosophers will find in him
support for their disbelief in immortality, although they are unlikely to
borrow his auguments. In his belief in ghosts, and in dreams as the
confused recollections of actual personal experiences while the sleeper is
absent from the body, Wang Ch'ung is also delightfully modern; while
the phantom nature of his apparitions confirm the latest theory that ghosts
are unconscious, automatic thought-forms, rather than living self-conscious
entities. When, however, we turn to his discussion of physics we find that
Wang Ch'ung had no prophetic insight of what we now know as facts.
All students of comparative thought, as well as Chinese scholars, will
be grateful to Dr. Forke for these two valuable volumes of nearly 600 pages
each. Not only has he presented this old Chinese revolutionist in an
accessible form, but, throughout, his translation is illuminated and enriched
by scholarly notes of permanent value. Complete indexes of subjects and
proper names, with a full list of references to the Chinese works quoted
greatly add to the value of the work. Prof. Forke has added appendices
dealing with the Five Elements-water, fire, metal, wood, earth; the
Chinese Cycle; and Some Implements mentioned by Wang Ch'ung. These
are the outcome of careful research, and it would be a benefit to many if
appendices one and two were reprinted as separate pamphlets. If Dr. Forke
at the top of each page had printed the number of the book and chapter
he would have further facilitated reference. The volumes are bulky, and
it is not easy to turn quickly to any particular chapter.
C. S. M.
Taoist Teachings from the Book of Liel Tzu.
Translated from
the Chinese with introduction and notes, by LIONEL GILES, M.A.
London: John Murray, 1912.
This selection from the teachings of Lieh Tzu forms one of the Wisdom
of the East Series, edited by L. Cranmer-Byng and Dr. S. A. Kapadia.
Mr. Giles is a sympathetic translator, and it is to be hoped that he will
complete the work he has here begun, and publish a complete version of
Lieh Tzu in English. Rev. Ernest Feaber, and Rev. Wilhelm of Tsingtao
have prepared German editions of this famous Taoist, but we still wait for
a full and properly annotated translation in English. There is no need to
say much to commend this book, which is prepared and published in
unison with the other volumes of the series. The translator has interspersed
among the text his notes and quotations from commentators, after the

LITERARY NOTES.
97
fashion of Mr. Balfour's "Chuangtzu," a plan which possesses certain
advantages over foot-notes.
This rendering of Lao Tzu was evidently a labour which Mr. Giles
undertook con amore, and the natural result is a very pleasing interpretation.
and Mr. Giles tells us have as their modern equivalents "skilled
labour" and "capital," while and he renders as "effort" and
"destiny." After this it is somewhat disappointing to find him still giving
"inaction" as the meaning of . Wu-wei is not "inaction" but pure
action. It is, so to speak, the action which precedes action. Physically,
it is action without resistance; morally, it is action without attachment.
Modern examples of wn-wei are to be seen among the followers of
Mrs. Eddy, the late leader of the Christian Science cult; or among those
who chase the various phases of the New Thought movement in America.
It is the more surprising that Mr. Giles failed to grasp the true signification
of wu-wei, as; elsewhere he rightly speaks of "Lifelessness"
as "the
unchanging life-giving Principle (Tao)." The reviewer hopes that the issue
of this admirable little volume will stimulate a wider interest in the
teachings of the Taoist sages,-the most profound thinkers China has
produced.
C. S. M.
Wild Life in China. By GEORGE LANNING. Shanghai: The National
Review Office, 1911.
This book is exactly what it is described to be in the sub-title,
namely, chats on Chinese birds and beasts as between one nature lover and
another. Out of 255 pages 188 are devoted to birds. A similar
preponderation as regards birds is found in the Shanghai Museum, which
is easily accounted for; practically all those who go up country shooting
giving their entire attention to birds. Mr. Lanning touches on what may
be described as the finest zoological phenomenon in the Shanghai
neighbourhood, namely, the massing of water fowl in the winter on the
islands outside Woosung: the serried squadrons of wild geese; the teal,
widgeon and millions of duck; and the glorious white swan, than which,
splashing in hundreds on the shallow water in the sunshine, there is no
finer sight. It is doubtful if the author is correct when he states that the
best way of determining the species of snipe is to count the tail feathers;
surely a glance at the tail feathers is sufficient to distinguish the plain
feathers of the common snipe from the short side pin feathers of the
pintail and the long sickle-shape side feathers of the Swinhoe snipe. Mr
Lanning frequently moralises: for example, he says "even on a game
preserve the peregrine infallibly kills off all weakly birds and so maintains
the general healthiness of the community." What a fine public health
prescription in these pampered days!

98
LITERARY NOTES.
The Author gives the pseudo-scientists many good natured knocks.
"The number of ornithological compilers of bird books," he says, "is far
greater than the number of those who have done as Thomas Edwards did
i.e., who have made a study of wild life at first hand." On the other hand
the author appears to prefer odds and ends to subjects of deeper interest, while
there is a copious filling of fireside zoology around the record of direct
observation of wild life in China. It is doubtful whether the author is
correct in describing the poisonous snake, halys blomhoffii, "as uncommon
near Shanghai." It has frequently been found in the neighbourhood
especially among old Chinese coffins.
Mr. Lanning is very happy in some of his similes, which bring the
matter home. In speaking of the protective colouring of birds he mentions
immobility as a great cloak and emphasizes the fact that if one can only
keep still for a sufficient time one may observe animal life intimately, while
he speaks of looking at a nightjar without seeing the bird for a long while
just as in a "puzzle picture."
There is an appendix on the big game of Western China by Mr. F.
Kingdon Ward which is somewhat arid after Mr. Lanning's pleasant
chats.
A. S.
The Penetration of Yunnan. By ARTHUR PURDY STOUT, F.R.G.8.
Reprint from "The Bulletin of the Geographical Society of
Philadelphia." (35 pp. Illustrations, Map and Bibliog.)
There is at present a revival of interest in the Yunnan area, as
witness the British advances at Pienna, the recent journeys of Mr. Rose,
the comparatively recent and highly important volume by Major Davies,
and the researches now being carried on by Mr. Kingdon Ward and others.
As Mr. Stout points out, the interest in Yunnan has been inspired in
almost every instance by the desire of the British and the French to draw
the trade of western China on the one hand towards the Indian Ocean and
on the other towards the Gulf of Tonkin and the China sea. The economic
thrust that pushes the traveller and explorer into the most completely
hidden lands, has been working very strongly towards the capital of this
wealthy Chinese province, and now that at last the French have beaten
their great rivals in the attempt to link Yunnanfu with the sea by means of
the railway, and have thereby secured the first advantage, the moment is
not inappropriate for the piecing together of the narrative of peaceful
penetration that has been going on since Marco Polo visited the province,
but his been much more rapidly carried out during the years that have
elapsed since Margary's death, though even then with no great haste.
Hence we welcome Mr. Stout's compact record.

LITERARY NOTES.
99
The author has done his work well. He gives us first of all a succinct
account of the geographical configuration of the province, taken from
Major Davies's book, and then begins the story of exploration at the
beginning-80 far as Europeans are concerned-with Marco Polo. From
Polo's time to 1650 there is practically no record; from 1650 to 1800 the
record is chiefly that of the Jesuit Missionaries, who at the instance of the
Chinese Imperial Government conducted careful surveys in western
Yunnan, and between 1714 and 1716 completed their surveys of the whole
province. All foreign entrance to the province was from the north until
Major Sladen's expedition of 1868, a very elaborate affair, following close
on Garnier's attempt to pierce the province from the valley of the Mekong.
The Muhammadan rebellion greatly interfered with the exploration of
western China for many years, but its suppression in 1874, with the fall
of Tali-fu, led to renewed activity, which began with apparent failure in
the murder of Margary in 1875. From that time the attack was for some
years very persistent, and amongst other things has given us the classic
narratives of E. Colborne Baber, and the careful records of Rocher, and
from their time to this we have records innumerable by explorers and
missionaries, each contributing something to the sum total of our
knowledge of Yunnan, a total now by no means insignificant.
In the pages before us Mr. Stout, writing with the many advantages
that first hand knowledge of the country alone can give, traces minutely
the advances made by each explorer, the contributions made by each
traveller, and though the record is comparatively short no contributor
of importance is overlooked, and no real contribution despised. The
result is an historical record, plain and terse, to which the student will
naturally turn whenever he wants to know what was the state of explor-
ation in Yunnan at any particular period or what was the contribution of
any particular traveller towards our knowledge of the geography of the
province.
For every statement made the author gives us his authority, in a
footnote, and herein lies not the least valuable part of the brochure, for the
footnotes form an admirable guide to the literature that has in recent
years rapidly multiplied concerning Yunnan. Indeed, these footnotes are
really a better bibliography, in point of discernment on the part of the
author and usefulness to the student, than the professed bibliography
accompanying the monograph, for the bibliography is too complete to be
critical, covering as it does practically everything-pamphlets, articles,
books, and papers-in English, French and German, that has been written
about Yunnan since Cordier's "Bibliotheca Sinica" and "Bibliotheca
Indo-Sinica." The student will be well advised to stick to the bibliography
of the footnotes. This one word of warning is necessary, but it does not
alter the fact the Mr. Stout's pages present a clear, careful and accurate

100
LITERARY NOTES.
account of the geographical exploration of a province of great wealth
and of high potential importance.
Etudes Sino-Mahométanes.
Ernest Leroux, 1911.
W. S. R.
Par A. VISSIÈRE.
Pp. 144. Paris,
Mission d'Ollone 1906-1909-Recherches sur les Musulmans Chinois.
Par LE COMMANDANT D'OLLONE, LE CAPITAINE DE FLEUVELLE, LE
CAPITAINE LEPAGE, LE LIEUTENANT DE BOYNE. Etudes de A.
VISSIERE, Consul Général de France, etc.. etc. Notes de E. BLOCHET.
Attaché à la Bibliothèque Nationale et de divers savant.
Paris
Ernest Leroux, 1911.
pp. 470.
The first of these books, a reprint from the "Rerue du Monde Musulman"
for 1909-1910, and itself reprinted in the Commandant d'Ollone's
"Recherches," forms the beginning of what we hope will be a long series of
Studies of Chinese Moslems on which M. Vissière is engaged. It is
concerned chiefly, but not entirely, with the biography and work of the
Seyyid Edjell Chams ed. Din Omar, giving us first the translation of his
biography from the Yuan Shih ; then a panegyric by his contemporary
Chao Tsu-yüan
extracted from the Yünnan Tung Chih
and forming one of the most important documents we yet possess on the
subject; then various inscriptions from his tomb and memorial temples in
Yünnan; and lastly a careful study of the irrigation and other hydraulic
works which he undertook to the lasting benefit of the people of Yunnan.
Born in 1210 the Seyyid Edjell Omar seems to have joined the service of
Genghis Khan when he was not more than sixteen years old (for Genghis
died in 1227) and faithfully to have served the successive Khans until he
died under Kublai in 1279. He had been sent in 1274 to take charge of the
half savage and very ineffectually conquered region of Yünnan, and by his
firm kindness and tact seems to have won the people over almost at once to
loyal and grateful acceptance of his schemes of civilization, reform, and
public benefit, leaving behind him when he died a name which is still
honoured and a family which has played a prominent part in the spread of
Islam in China. On p. 41 M. Vissière refers to the curious doubt as to
where Omar was buried. An inscription of 1538 seems to say plainly that
his body was "taken home to Shensi for burial," while other inscriptions
and inquiries made of the family on the spot seem to show that he was
buried at the north gate of Shan Shan 3 near the present city of
Yünnan. The Commandant d'Ollone has added two notable documents to
those translated by M. Vissière-some extracts from the composition by the
celebrated Chêng Ho of the fifteenth century who positively asserts
that Omar was buried in Shensi, and a detailed biography by Liu Fa-

LITERARY NOTES.
101
hsiang
(A.D. 1684) which agrees with the Yüan Shih that he was
buried in Yünnan where his tomb is still shown. This last biography
differs, however, from the Yüan Shih which says that the Seyyid Edjell met
Genghis in the West, and says that an ancestor of his (a descendant of
Mohammed in the 26th generation, prince of Bokhava) had come with a great
number of his tribe to pay tribute (A.D. 1070) and that about ten years later
these immigrants had been granted lands east and west of the mountains
and between the Huai and Ssu i." Apart from the doubtful inscription
of A. D. 742, which is barely mentioned in the books under review, there
is very scanty evidence of the existence of anything like a settled
community of Moslems at so early a date as the 11th century, but there are
two scraps which tend to confirm this story at Hsi an; one is a very sober
statement on a monument of the 16th century that the first mosque
(1) was built in the Sung dynasty (960-1127) and the other a slab
which bears the words
(The Way and the Law are equal to
Heaven and Earth) with a note of the 18th century to say that the words
were a newly engraved facsimile of the original inscription of the Yuan
Feng period (1078-1085).
To the valuable translations of documents the Commandant d'Ollone
adds almost equally valuable chapters, based on the expert observations of
himself and his colleagues during their Mission of exploration in Western
China (1906-1909), on the Moslems of Yünnan, Ssŭ Ch'uan, Kansu, and
Turkestan. These chapters are full of interest. In Yünnan the Mission
was strictly watched and the opportunity of observation was restricted, but
elsewhere they were more free, and the account of the discovery of sects in
Islam Tomb-worshippers, the New Church-Sufi and Shia-and the chapters
on the Tungan (or Turkan) rebellions with their painfully interesting
contrasts between the local stories of the outrageous treachery and
barbarity of the Chinese and the official reports, and their accounts of the
heroes on either side, Ma Hua-lung and others, and Tung Fu-hsiang, and
of the latter's royal life of exile from 1901 until his death, all this will be
eagerly read. One great defect of these chapters is the omission of
Chinese characters. Ma Hua-lung, the greatest of the Moslem heroes and
leader of a heretical sect, but hitherto almost unknown in Europe, is given
as Ma Houa-long, and in Arabic characters of which the transcription is Mid
(or Mil) Khoua (Khouwa) lou, but not that we can discover in Chinese
characters.
The Commandant's chief conclusions are:-1. That Moslems in
China are comparative very few. He himself says 4,000,000; but his
argument points rather to 3,000,000 or even less, for he judges that
Moslems were on an average one per cent of the population in the places
he visited (là où nous sommes passés-p. 430) which were for the most part
Mohammedan strongholds. 2. That they are mostly pure Chinese, with

102
LITERARY NOTES.
no Turkish or Arab features. The religion has spread largely he thinks
by the buying and adoption of heathen infants and by conversions for
reasons of expediency, and by the natural growth of these, no less than
of the original half-foreign families. 3. That Islam has never been
preached in Chinese and never been enforced by the sword, but has
gradually grown in the way explained just above, having been unintention-
ally introduced by individual Moslem soldiers and governors among whom
the chief and perhaps the earliest was the Seyyed Edjell Omar or his
ancestor of the 11th century. 4. He insists too that the Moslem clergy
(Akhunds) are highly educated, reading and writing Persian and Arabic
extremely well, especially in Ssu Ch'uan where most of the Chinese Moslem
books (and they are fairly plentiful from 1642 onwards) are printed.
The Recherches" which includes, as we have said, and derives quite
half its value from M. Vissière's "Etudes," is a very conspicuous contribution
to our knowledge of Moslems and their customs, history and beliefs in the
western parts of China.
C. M.
Le T'ai Chan: Essai de monographie d'un culte Chinois. Appendice:
Le dieu du sol dans la Chine antique. Par Edouard Chavannes.
pp. 591. (Annales du Musée Guimet-Bibliothèque d'études Tome 21.)
Paris, Ernest Leroux, 1910.
It is impossible to praise too highly the contributions which Professor
Chavannes is making to our knowledge of Chinese religious thought and
history in the unending stream of books and articles which flows from his
mind and pen. The present large and singularly complete volume of nearly
600 pages is but a small part of what he has published since his return
from the Archeological Mission of 1907, and it is difficult to know whether
to admire most the amazing rapidity of the Professor's work, or its
scholarly form and accuracy, or the extent of his learning.
The first chapter of Le Tai Chan deals in a more general way with the
worship of the Mountain (III); first with those aspects of worship
which are common to T'ai Shan and to other sacred mountains, next with
its special connexion, as the Eastern Peak, with birth and death,
thirdly with the historic sacrifices feng and shan, fourthly with the
more popular forms of worship which are in fact not worship of the
mountain itself at all. "When I visited the temple of Tung Yo
at Peking my attention was attracted by the strange manner in which
certain women were entering the temple. Three steps and they flung
themselves full length on the dusty road amidst all the chaos of carts,
wheelbarrows, mules, and donkeys which filled the way; they rose only to
go through the same prostration three steps further on. Now the goal of

LITERARY NOTES.
103
their dolorous way was not the throne of the god of T'ai Shan, but other
shrines occupied by female divinities" (p. 29). These goddesses were of
course Pi hsia yüan chün or the Lady with her assessors
who preside over child-birth and eye-sight, whose worship has quite outdone
that of T'ai Shan in popularity not only in Peking but on the mountain
itself. The second chapter gives a methodical description of the mountain
and of the city of T'ai an with its environs, each temple or other
point of interest having a number by which it can be identified on the
very clear tracing of a native pictorial map which forms the frontispiece of
the book. This description is open to very slight criticism in one or two
points but is for all practical purposes complete and reliable. The
remaining chapters are those which give the book its great and lasting
value, and no serious student of Chinese religion can afford to leave them
un-read. Chapter III gives the full translation of the passages relating to
the feng and shan from the Hou Han Shu, Chiu Tang Shu
and Sung Shih with most valuable foot-notes;-the
corresponding passages from Ssu-ma Ch'ien are of course in Professor
Chavannes's Mémoires Historiques (tome III, p. 413) and are not repeated
here. There are many striking sayings such as: "In every sacrifice it is
the heart that matters; if the heart is perfect it has communion with
Heaven and Earth and reaches the gods above and below" (p. 216). And
this has some bearing on the old Term Question: "Sovereign Heaven the
Emperor on high (E) has the rank of sovereign, the Emperors of
the five regions of space corresponding to the seasons have the rank of
subject" (p. 223). And sure enough we find the Emperor addressing
Tai Shan on terms of equality, scolding him even (though the mountain
ranks among the very greatest of inferior gods), but recognizing always
with the humblest reverence the sovereignty of Heaven. From the fêng
and shan we pass on in Chapter IV to the prayers addressed to T'ai Shan
by various Emperors from the Text for a Sacrifice to Tai Yo (**)
A.D. 495 down to one of February 1762. Chapter V gives a selection of
the hundreds of inscriptions which concern T'ai Shan, notably those of A.D.
726, 1008, 1284, 1285, 1370; the translation being accompanied in both
these chapters (IV and V) with facsimiles of the text as given in some
standard work and often also with an excellent photograph of a rubbing
of the actual inscription. The last chapter deals with the popular beliefs
connected with the mountain, the true likeness of the Five Peaks, the
Magic Mirror, the Seal, and so forth. "It seems then," M. Chavannes
concludes, "that in this mountain worship we have as it were an epitome of
the intellectual evolution of mankind which by a slow process of elaboration
is always changing its gods to make them more and more like men."
Then follows the still more interesting Appendix on the Gods of the
Soil, Shed, Tu ti , or whatever they may be called. "This
local and family worship is the lowest substratum of religious thought in
14

104
LITERARY NOTES.
China; nothing is more nearly aboriginal than the God of the Soil and the
Ancestral temple."
There is an excellent index, and several pages of Errata-not mere
corrections of misprints, but in many cases very interesting additional
notes or explanations of what was left incomplete or obscure in the text.
We may venture to add a few queries and suggestions perhaps :-
p. 190. King Tcheng (sic) has the note "Au lieu de il faut lire."
But Tsuenn, Tseng, and in the Index the man is Li King-tcheng
李敬真
p. 234. Hsüan Tsung is said to have ascended the throne in the
seventh month of the second year of Hsien Tien (713). He is generally
said to have begun his reign in 712, but a long interval may have passed
before his enthronement. The period Hsien Tien 5, not mentioned in
Mayers or Giles' tables, was, according to P. Hoang, from 712, VIII month,
7 day (12 September 712) to 713, XI month, 29 day (21 December 713).
p. 257, note, 3. L'actuel Tai-ngan tcheon. T'ai an was raised
from a chou
to a fu ff in 1735 and has remained so ever since.
p. 318, note 2. "Ce n'est en effet que la première année t'ien-pao (742)
que le mot fut substitué d'une manière absolue au mot ." Wylie
says, probably more exactly, that the change was made on the first day of
the third year, 744. Cf. Chinese Researches II, p. 65.
p. 355, line 12.
"Tai Chan" is given for A, line 24 au Sud-Ouest
du Pic 7'ai" represents
M.
p. 357. We have "le directeur de la communanté taoiste Tchang
Tche-wei dont le nom de religion est Tien-yi tsen"
and just below "Tien Yi-tseu et Tchang Tche-wei" as if they
were two people.
M. Chavannes has himself given some further more interesting
corrections in the Toung-pao for 1911. p. 429.
The sixty-one illustrations are almost all interesting but not all are
well reproduced.
China's Revolution: 1911-1912.
A Historical and Political Record
of the Civil War. By EDWARD J. DINGLE, Author of "Across China
on Foot." With Maps and Illustrations. Shanghai, The Commercial
Press. Published also in Britain and America.
That some coherent account should be published in English of the late
Revolution in China is in every way desirable. There are, however, certain
inherent obstacles in the way, the chief of which is the inevitable difficulty
in getting at the facts-a chronic embarrassment which has always
hampered every writer on things Chinese. The difficulty of understanding
China, never small, has within the past decade and a half very greatly

LITERARY NOTES.
105
increased. Conditions always complex have become far more so through
the introduction of a variety of new factors in unknown combinations,
involving constant conjectures on the part of the writer of "History,"
and what the reader of history wants is not guesses, but facts-and these
are more or less inaccessible. While a speaking acquaintance with the
Chinese language is not absolutely indispensable as a preparation to
writing about China, it is highly desirable. Good media in interpretation
are equally necessary, and these are often not to be had. There must also
be a certain capacity to sense China, not only as seen but as felt, making
wise use meantime, without being under their tyranny, of the dicta of the
"Old China Hands." Some of these qualifications Mr. Dingle possesses,
having by means of his travels come into superficial contact with
considerable areas of China. When the Revolution broke out he was at
Hankow and judiciously made use of his journalistic experience and
opportunities to see as much as he could and to form first hand opinions
of what he saw. He is as well aware as the reader soon comes to be that
he is not writing "History" at all, but merely recording observations and
impressions. In his prefatory note he remarks: "The hurriedness with
which the volume has been launched does not allow any claim to vital
political value to be made for it." By far the larger part of the book
is devoted to recounting what happened about the Wu-Han center, much
of which was important, and much more of which did not in the end seem
to affect the outcome to any appreciable extent. The numerous
illustrations, some of which are excellent, give vividness to the sketches
amid which they are placed.
The reader is struck with the general absence of historical perspective.
The Revolution is allowed to burst upon us (with many adjectives, a
disproportionate number of which are superlatives), but the chapter
which should have preceded any description of what took place at
Wuchang or Hankow (that entitled "The Szechuan Revolt") is placed
immediately before the "Conclusion"! Much the best chapters in the
book are those contributed by Mr. Upward, but of these the one called
"Some Revolution Factors," which is a brief resumé of uprisings in China
similar to the late Revolution, immediately follows the one just mentioned
on the outbreak in Szechuan, at the very close of the volume. The most
entertaining twelve pages are those which contain the substance of
interviews with Mrs. T. C. White, the Princess Der Ling, for the reason
that the Manchu aspect of the China uprising is the one of which
we ordinarily hear very little, although Mrs. White's ideas are
probably totally unlike those of the most of her race. Of the events in
other parts of China than those under the author's observation, he tells
us next to nothing, for the sufficient reason that next to nothing was
known to him at the time he rushed to press. It is scarcely satisfactory
to find the serious outbreaks on the part of the government troops

106
LITERARY NOTES.
condensed into the remark that the soldiers made "a rumpus" in Peking.
At the bottom of page 295 we find this strange sentence-if such
it can be called-and other similar instances are not wanting: "I do
not say that nothing had changed before the Revolution, for of
certain phases of reform one could not get away from in even the
remotest corners of China." There are many instances of a singular
confusion of thought on the part of a writer who had had such
opportunities as Mr. Dingle. Thus on page 11 we read: "In China, even
in far interior places, one finds life, business, prosperity-a strange
commingling of Western ideas with Eastern. Four hundred millions of
people have to all intents and purposes become civilised." In other
words to be "civilised" is to be "Western," and the age long civilisation
of the Chinese was only a phantasm until "The West appeared with
its vivifying touch, and made the spurious article into the real thing! It
is certainly to be hoped that some one with the requisite knowledge and
patience should take up the story where it is dropped and make a complete
story of China's Great Revolution.
A. S.
A Small Collection of Japanese Lacquer. By JAMES ORANGE.
Shanghai and Yokohama, Messrs. Kelly & Walsh, Ltd.
Those who appreciate to the full the refined beauties of Japanese
lacquer are, perchance, a small band, but to them the oft quoted words of
Louis Gonse Japanese lacquer objects are the most perfect works that have
ever issued from the hands of man"-are but a simple statement of fact,
and to them, this Catalogue, prepared by Mr. Orange, will appeal with
especial force.
During a residence of many years in the Far East the writer has
succeeded in compiling a representative collection of these exquisite
productions, which are surely the most typical and wonderful examples of
Japanese art. In no other medium does the peculiar genius of Japan
find so completely its vehicle of expression.
The catalogue is preceded by a concise history of lacquer, by useful
notes on its manufacture, and by a short list of the names of the various
kinds, such as Makiye, Nashiji, etc. It is carefully prepared and printed
and is accompanied by fifty excellent collotype plates, the work of the
well known photographer K. Tamamura of Yokohama. The frontispiece,
which illustrates the cover of a beautiful Suzuri-bakō is described as "an
experiment in photo-printing on gold" and, although successful to a
certain point, can but faintly suggest the marvellous colouring, the depth,
the translucency of an original.

LITERARY NOTES.
107
Mr. Orange is to be congratulated on the possession of a very beautiful
collection of lacquer-and upon the production of a valuable book of
reference.
F. W. A.
Chinese Porcelains and Hard Stones. EDGAR GORER and J. F.
BLACKER. Quaritch.
In the Introduction to the work before us-which by the way is
dedicated to "that sagacious Collector and Connoisseur of the fine arts of
his country, His Highness the Duke Tsai-Fu of China"-the authors
expressly state their object in its production. This object is not to add in
any way to the history of the Chinese fine arts but to bring before the
collector and the student an array of the most representative specimens
which have been produced in the various periods in China, that this
same collector may have standards, by which to judge his purchases and
by which to train his eye.
To attain this object they have illustrated by 254 plates, printed by the
Mempes Printing and Engraving Co., Watford, the finest specimens in the
museums and private collections, more especially of England.
The beauty of these plates-produced by the most modern processes
of colour photography and printing-is beyond all praise. They are wonder-
ful. Accompanying each is a careful description in English and in French,
thus giving the book a cosmopolitan value. They are divided into twelve
groups, as follows: Black Grounds "-" Green Grounds"-" Yellow
Grounds ""Figures, Animals, and Birds," "Famille Verte"-"Blue
and White"" Powder Blue" Single and Flambè Glazes"-" Coloured
Grounds ""Aubergine and Dark Blue Grounds "-" Famille Rose".
and Chinese Hard Stones."
Where such a high standard of perfection has been attained it is
almost impossible to select especial examples for commendation though
naturally some are better than others. Those devoted to the "Hard
Stones," jade, agate, chalcedony, etc., which throughout the ages have
proved such a source of inspiration to the glyptic artists of China are
especially fine. Nos. 243 and 241 being startling in their realism.
One can but be grateful to those who have compiled this beautiful
series of plates and have thus made it possible for lovers of the fine arts,
and ceramics in particular, to study and familiarize themselves with these
finest specimens of the potter's art, though they themselves may inhabit the
antipodes. Nowadays these wonderful creations from the hands of the
unknown and obscure artists of Kiang-si are as unobtainable as are the
masterpieces of the Renaissance, as rare as is the Dragon, or as are the
Fairies from the Taoist Heavens, so often depicted on their beautifully
rounded surfaces.
F. W. A.

108
LITERARY NOTES.
Fans Painted by Famous Artists. The Commercial Press, Shanghai.
This set of six volumes contains black and white reproductions of the
very beautiful collection of fans painted by famous artists, which belonged
to the late Tao Chai, better known as H. E. Tuan Fang. On what has the
Chinese artist lavished more of his fantasy, and of his art, than on these
dainty trifles for daily use, light as the air they waft! H. E. Tuan Fang
had a beautiful and representative collection, worthy of being perpetuated
in these charming volumes published by the Commercial Press.
The Changing Chinese. By E. A. Ross, Ph.D. London: T. Fsher
Unwin.
p. 76-77
p. 95
p. 52
p. 126
P. 8
In a book by a professor one expects to find the peculiar
virtues of the scientist-caution in drawing conclusions from
carefully ascertained facts, aversion from condemnation of
customs simply because they are strange, absence of prejudice
and scrupulous moderation of statement.
The present volume suggests a series of magazine articles
rather than a deliberate study. It is full of inconsistent
pronouncements and hasty generalizations about China and the
Chinese as though one should predicate customs of Europe and
the Europeans. The preface shows utter ignorance of how far
the study of this land has advanced since the days when a
fellow-countryman of the author's turned the native accurate
description of the Natural Pillar into the absurd Needle of
Heaven that still appears in tourist books of the Yangtze Gorges.
No serious student now dreams of questioning that the Chinese
are as kin to all men as were Shylock's fellows to the Christians
of Venice; but this does not imply that their long history is not
a prime factor in every question concerning them.
Dr. Ross at times emphasizes the common sense of the
Chinese, but he appears not to perceive that a sensible people's
long persistent customs must be not fads but based on natural
causes. Thus the inclination to let public and private works
decay may indicate insecurity under absolutism and lack of
individual effort be due to the prime need for clan combination
against arbitrary officials; the risk of whose interference
likewise militates against jointstock companies, savings banks,
life insurance, and other blessings and it may be only an
apparent paradox to maintain that even footbinding and the
queue have as sound reasons-sanitary or social-as circumcision
and ceremonial washings.

LITERARY NOTES.
109
p. 112
p. 29
p. 11
p. 54
Chap. II
& IV
p. 4
The Taiping Rebellion and the recent revolution refute the
assertion that the north is braver than the south and that the
military spirit has evaporated. On the Rebellion the index is
silent though there are casual references on pp. 106 and 304, the
latter exempting Szechuen from its upheaval!
We learn from this book, amongst other novelties, that the
Chinese are never swayed by impulse, never conserve forests-
surely the author must have heard of Foochow poles-may take
to raising wool, as though sheep would thrive throughout the
country and cotton-wool were not the cheapest protection
against cold, and that the Chinese script is an inadequate vehicle
for the expression of ideas instead of an excellent means of
ensuring communication in a land of many dialects mutually
unintelligible!
Over-population is Professor Ross's bugbear and in most
places he gives the impression of people treading on each other's
heels, though in the account of his journey (Chap. X) he admits
the existence of wastes. The truth as anyone may see from a
good map is that China is thickly populated only in certain
favorable localities and that even the cities are not tightly packed.
When some years ago Hankow was to get a water works it
became essential to ascertain its population, given in official and
other authorities as at least 700,000 souls. A comparison of
areas with the native quarter of Hongkong whose population is
known, setting the higher houses of the one against the narrower
streets of the other, suggested 200,000 as the real number and
this was actually confirmed by a careful official census. The
four hundred million brethren whom we are wont to hear will
exist only when improved communications, intensive farming,
and just government have obtained for a generation or three
in China.
Dr. Ross bans ancestral worship as encouraging early marriage
and large families as well as a low standard of living; as
though the desire for posterity were not a primitive impulse
whose weakening causes grave apprehension in more than one
advanced nation to-day, and in the East adult development
comes no earlier than in the West. The wastage from infant
the
mortality is undoubtedly enormous, just as in nature
individual is everywhere sacrificed to the type; and our author in
another place admits that the untrammelled sifting for the fittest
acts for the benefit of the Chinese race. But, to go deeper, is it
beyond question that the bulk of the nation live in misery on
the edge of want? Is the long day of toil of the Chinese
peasant nearer slavery than the work of the mill-hand, the

110
p. 79, 80
p. 90
p.121 p.252
p. 101
p. 104
p. 140
p. 144
p. 222
p. 224
LITERARY NOTES.
docker of other climes? Those who have met the inland
farmer will not deny that cheeriness and fair content are his
usual characteristics. It is illogical to apply our ideas of a
comfortable home to those who, like their forbears, never knew
other shelter than their cots or other fare than the sparse diet
that has much to do with their stoical endurance of pain and
suffering.
In Chapter IV the reader is regaled with such traveller's
tales as the eating of pigskins, silkworms and "mangy curs" as
well as with a plague story as palpably absurd as the accounts
of the Hangchow railway and the "piling up" of the Changsha
indemnity we are told concubines are taken at will and the
natural remark "I have lost two children" is twisted into
"I have been relieved of two children "-a mistranslation
impossible for any who had seen Chinese fathers with their
little boys and girls in their arms in city streets.
But enough of these minor blemishes, of which many others.
noted are left unmentioned. A graver fault is that the author's
patriotism is of that political sort that thrives on belittling
others. Against Britain and the British Dr. Ross never tires
of inveighing. Opium is of course his best theme, though a
trained observer might have been tempted to investigate how
one nation can force on another an expensive luxury and a
scientist hesitate to commit himself to such a statement as that
the Tientsin Treaty bound China not to interfere with or limit
the importation of the drug. Dr. Ross can perhaps prove that
the East India Company taught the Chinese opium smoking
which was practically unknown in India and that opium is the
main British import into China and the business of the bulk
of British merchants in China. When he has proved these
premises, his strictures may be defended; but not even then
will such assertions as that the outbreak at Tientsin in 1870
and similar later anti-foreign ebullitions were due to the
"opium wars" of 1842 and 1858 be aught but rancorous
absurdities as ridiculous as his supposition that the peasants
throughout China know all about the import of the Indian
drug, which save in some coast and river provinces is the
luxury of the well-to-do, or that foreign traders inspire dislike
in a nation of traders to the exclusion of the propagators of the
gospel. On p. 250 the professor indulges in a sweeping
condemnation of foreign merchants that far surpasses the
ignorant slanders against missionaries occasionally heard in the
ports and he has the effrontery to charge our merchants with
dread of Chinese advance in modern ways of life, which would

LITERARY NOTES.
111
of course improve their business, Of British missions he
complains that they evangelize unduly, credits his fellow
countrymen with all educational work and ignores how great
is the British share in that medical mission work which has
done and is doing so much to win native appreciation of foreign
benevolence and to dispel anti-foreign prejudice. Finally, on
page 281 he talks of "Chinese patriots feeling the closing jaws
of the vice, i.e., the Powers" and with this climax of reckless
slander we leave this disappointing book.
ф
Lung Men.
The Door of The Dragon. Two volumes of photographs
presented to the library N. C. B. R. A. S. by MR. CHARLES FREER, of
Detroit, at whose instance they were taken.
In 1910 Mr. Freer undertook an expedition to the Lung Men for the
purpose of studying the magnificent carvings, which there adorn the walls
of the numerous cave temples, and of the defile itself. Unfortunately he
has been as yet unable to write the description which shall eventually
accompany the photographs, in lieu thereof notes from the works of
Chavannes, Munsterberg, etc., have been made and have been bound
with the photographs in books capable of expansion. Any data in
connection with this most interesting spot would be gratefully received by
the Librarian, N. C. B. R. A. S.
The photographs, 99 in all, are very fine and show in detail these
wonderful works of the Tang and Sung Dynasties. By the use of
flashlight many interiors have been obtained. The collection is an
important addition to the works on archaelogy possessed by the library.
F. W. A.
Plantae Wilsonianae. An enumeration of the woody plants collected
in Western China for the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University,
during the years 1907, 1908 and 1910, By E. H. WILSON. Cambridge
University Press.
Edited as this work is by Prof. C. S. Sargent, one of the authorities,
if not the leading authority on dendrology, botanical students, particularly
those who specialise in the systematic study of ligneous plants will
undoubtedly find this an authoritative work of reference of great value.
Though essentially an index, following much the lines adopted by the
Linnean Society in their Index Florae Sinensis (which contains 17,000
entries and was completed in 1905) of which it might be regarded as a
15

112
LITERARY NOTES.
continuation, since it includes chiefly species discovered after the above-
mentioned index was compiled, the present work in addition contains
descriptions of a large number of new species as well as a synopsis of
various genera with key to the species. Such a synopsis is of great practical
value to the student of systematic botany, and particularly is this the case
with Chinese plants, the descriptions of which are scattered about in
hundreds of journals and periodicals.
Within recent years our knowledge of the Chinese flora has advanced
considerably, revealing a flora of surprising richness and complexity.
Contemporaneously with recent collections the work of indexing the species
has proceeded. To collect the descriptions of the thousands of species in
one work, under the proper headings will be a stupendous labour, involving
considerable time, research and expense, and in the compiling of which the
present work will play an important part.
When it is realized that this work contains only a portion of the plants.
collected by Mr. Wilson, a period covering only three years, the total
additions to our knowledge of the Chinese flora due to this indefatigable
and successful worker, during the ten years he has collected becomes
apparent.
D. M.
Shantung. The Sacred Province of China, in some of its aspects.
Compiled and edited by R. C. FORSYTH. Shanghai: Christian Literature
Society, 1912.
This is a notable volume-one which it is to be hoped will be the
forerunner of other volumes devoted to other provinces. Like all books
in which a number of writers take part, it is unequal. The editor has here
and there secured a writer who has understood just what was wanted and has
supplied the want; at other times, the want has either not been realised, or
has not been met. For instance, in a province like Shantung, one would
have thought the fascinating history would have filled the first and best
section. Yet the capital Index shows that no reference has been made in
he whole volume to Kuan Chung. Dr. Bergen, who has written on the
Sages of Shantung himself, says that his article is a "somewhat superficial
survey of the lives and labors of these Sages." A meagre rechauffé of
Legge on Confucius and Mencius, plus a very first class though very brief
article on Ancient Chinese Coinage fails entirely to supply what is still
wanted in a good volume on Shantung.
Baron Richthofen's "notes" on Shantung were the high water mark
of what was known of Shantung in 1871-something is wrong with our
investigation of things to make those notes worth "translating" in 1911.

LITERARY NOTES.
113
(One is a little puzzled in a "translation" to come across a frank criticism
of the work supposed to be translated; and to find sentences in which "I"
refers to Richthofen inserted in inverted commas.)
There is a well-printed map of the province "showing the approximate
territory occupied by the different Protestant Missionary Societies "-a map
that may well give pause to those happy dreamers who seem to think we
are on the eve of seeing one and only one "Church of (or 'in') China."
But the very presence of this map emphasizes the lack of others; there is
no physical map, no political map. There is one "map of ancient kingdoms"
in and around Shantung: it is not sufficient for the skimpy article it accom-
panies. (It does not show anything of the geography of Mencius.)
The pictures are very badly reproduced, but often well selected.
One would have liked to treble the number to illustrate the excellent
article on T'ai Shan.
The articles on Protestant Martyrs, Pioneers and Veterans are
well done. There is, of necessity, much repetition when these are
followed by sketches of the history of each mission. This section of
the book is the largest; and it remains to see by the sale of the book
whether the editor in so arranging it has been wise. It occupies about
one-fourth of the whole work-a proportion which strikes one as too
great for a book not strictly missionary; too small for one that is.
The work on the compiler must have been very considerable.
He deserves the hearty thanks of all as a pioneer.. We shall be glad
if the Christian Literature Society can secure other compilers for other
provinces.
G. G. W.
The China Mission Year Book 1912. Edited by Rev. G. H.
BONDFIELD. Shanghai: Christian Literature Society.
This is the third issue of this valuable year book. It grows in
importance and completeness with every year. This volume covers a
most critical period of Chinese history; and an ample record of the
momentous movements of the past year will be found within its pages.
The papers by Bishop Bashford on General Survey, 1911: Government
Changes and National Movements by W. Sheldon Ridge: The Revolution
by Dr. Fong F. See are most valuable.
The papers dealing more definitely with the Christian movement in
China are full and of wide scope. These not only supply information on
missionary work but convey other useful knowledge of peoples and
territories as well. Particularly is this the case in such papers as Mission
Work and Recent Developments in China's Dependencies by the Editor,

114
LITERARY NOTES.
Rev. G. H. Bondfield. Other articles such as the Population of China:
Secular Chinese Press, and especially the documents that compose the
appendices are of general interest and most valuable.
Missionary operations naturally form the bulk of the book. There
is a wide catholicity in the choice and treatment of the subjects. Every
phase of the work is represented and past achievements as well as future
possibilities are treated. Educational-including the new University of
Hongkong Medical: The attempt to reach The Higher Class Women: The
Division of the Field: Unoccupied districts: Preaching the Gospel:
Christian Literature: Self-supporting and Independent Churches are
dealt with by various writers. There is, however, one very important
omission in dealing with Independent Churches. Perhaps the most
significant sign concerning the Christian Movement was the promulgation
early in the year of a Constitution for the Establishment of Christianity
in Shansi. Leading men, including the Tutu, it is said, had a share in
drawing up this unique instrument. It would have added greatly to the
value of the book if this had been included. A generous treatment is
accorded the movement towards Unity and Federation. But how this
will be affected by the new name assumed by the united bodies, the
Anglican and American Protestant Episcopal Churches, viz, the Chung Hua
Sheng Kung Hui, or the Holy Catholic Church for China-a full account of
which is to be found in the appendix-remains to be seen.
There are a few imperfections in the letter-press and mistakes
in transliterations, but these do not detract from the substantial value of
this useful volume.
M.
Münsterberg: Chinesische Kunstgeschichte.
The history of Chinese art by Oskar Münsterberg is highly to be
admired for the abundance and beauty of its illustrations. Bushell
contained only 239 illustrations; Münsterberg contains over 1,000. The
Japanese publishers' sumptuous volumes on Chinese paintings and bronzes
are unequalled for colour in those forms of art, and nothing excels the
delicacy of design and colour in the works on porcelain by Cosmo Monk-
house and Gorer. But in Münsterberg there are far more illustrations and
they are better selected and more finely developed than in any general history
of Chinese art yet published. The list of contributors of illustrations is a
list of most of the notable collectors of Europe and with some of those of
America, but, we regret, with almost none of Russia, Japan and China.
The text also is of the highest value. It is the most extended in any
European language. It is a compendium of most of the material that
other European art writers have collected, material that has hitherto been

LITERARY NOTES.
115
available in only a few of the art centers of the world. A straight reading
of the work is a task, but occasional reading impresses the mind that
Münsterberg has an encyclopedic wealth of detail no where else to be
found. Turning, for a change of reading, to the beautiful appreciations of
Chinese art in the books of Laurence Binyon, we breathe the high
atmosphere of pure aesthetics, but we shall resume studying Münsterberg
for the full and exact knowledge of Chinese art objects on which the best
appreciation rests. Even so, one misses in Münsterberg the use of the
Chinese language and quotations from Chinese literature which are
necessary to a full and accurate knowledge of Chinese art. It is necessary
also to have some years residence in China or at least to have travelled
there extensively, leisurely and frequently. Dr. Bushell lived long in
Peking, and he wrote of Chinese art with the simplicity of a master. We,
who reside in China, now and then returning to our home countries and see
in the home collections the porcelains, bronzes, paintings, lacquers, textiles
and the like that have been taken from China, may feel ourselves greatly
deprived of the privileges of museum study of art, for there are no such
collections in China as in Europe and America. However, we have the
advantage of knowing more intimately the country and people that
produced so great art, and for our aid in knowing better what there is
in the Chinese art collections at home we now have this most excellent
Chinesische Kunstgeschichte of Münsterberg.
Münsterberg, Oskar: Chinesische Kunstgeschichte. Band 1: Vorbuddhistische Zeit;
Die Hohe Kunst: 1910. Band II: Die Bankuunst; Das Kunstgewerbe: 1912. Esslingne
A.N., Paul Nef Verlag.
F. E. H.
Wenli Styles and Chinese Ideals. A collection of Essays and other
papers from Chinese authors, ancient and modern, with English
Translations and Notes. Prepared by EVAN MORGAN, Christian
Literature Society: Shanghai, 1912.
Miss Martineau says "that national literature is national speech, and
that without hearing this speech we cannot know the mind of the nation."
Judged by this standard, Mr. Morgan in his excellent translation of these
ancient and modern essays, has undoubtedly disclosed the mind of the
Chinese, and those hidden springs of thought and ideals which have
prevented for some four thousand years the wreck of their institutions and
the extinction of their national existence, and which are responsible for
that massive type which has ever characterized the Chinese as a people.
The essays which "embrace the realm of philosophy, religion, education,
politics, moral culture, belles lettres, official correspondence, etc., etc."

116
LITERARY NOTES.
have been selected "on account of the prominent place they hold in
Chinese literature, or because they marked an epoch in Chinese life and
history."
The book opens with an essay on "Kingly Government" by Hsun
C'hing who lived during the third century B.C. At the time the Chinese
were abandoning feudalism for the centralized form of government which
has existed down to the present day. This famous philosopher, in
answer to a question, gives the principal points in the art of government
as follows: "To advance the able irrespective of rank, to dismiss the
incompetent without delay, and to put to death the ringleaders in evil."
"Truth and justice must be the foundation of the state." The Prince and
his ministers must govern so as to secure the greatest good to every citizen
of the empire. But upon the Emperor alone rests the final responsibility
for all mismanagement, and consequent dissatisfaction of the people. When
these occur there is an apparent justification for rebellion for "it is evident
that the wrong man is on the throne." No better commentary upon
"Kingly Government" could be found than in Chang Chien's reply to
Yuen Shih Kai's telegraphic message:
Kingly Government:-Only with a contented people will the Prince enjoy his
throne, . The prince is as the boat and the people as the water. The water can carry
as well as capsize the boat. Therefore, if the ruler desires peace, the best thing for him to
do is to sympathize with the people and give them a just government.
Chang Chien's reply (2,250 years later): Seeing that the condition of the government
was more retrograde than before, I made my last loyal appeal saying . . . the popular
will must not be trampled upon since the more it was spurned the more acute would be the
crisis
Further I warned, them that the creation of a bogus constitution would
produce the true revolutionist. If the government is not reformed, the covenant
between prince and people is dissolved.
The next two essays are also by Hsun C'hing on "Moral Culture,"
and "The Nature of Man is Evil." These two essays which are opposed to
the ethics of Mencius, might be termed a study in psychology. For in
"Moral Culture" we read, "To lead and train men by virtue in the way
they should go is called education." And the method of training advocated
in the case of those who have deviated from the path of virtue, is first to
study each character individually, and then to displace their old habits
with new ideals. "He whose mind tends to doubt and care should have it
kept in hand and concentrated on one line of activity. He who is of a
violent and audacious disposition, should be helped into the paths of
submissiveness. He who is too hasty and impetuous should be taught the
habit of mature consideration
The man of mean disposition and
covetous nature should have his nature permeated with generous ideas."
This is the true art of "Moral Culture." "And to this agree all modern
educationalists, especially those engaged in teaching the young, in this
twentieth century." By the above quotation we are reminded of the
lamented Dr. Ross' statement in "The Changing Chinese," as to the reason

LITERARY NOTES.
117
why the Chinese have been so slow in breaking away from their ancient
traditions "Chinese conservatism . is not inspired chiefly by dread
of the unknown, horror of the new, or a fanatical attachment to a system
of ideas which gives them confidence in the established. It is the logical
outcome of precedent. Change the ideals of the Chinese and their policy
will change. Let their minds be possessed by a philosophy that makes
them doubt the past and have confidence in the future, and they will prove
to be consistently progressive as are the Germans of to-day." The recent
revolution which was brought about by the incoming of new ideals has
demonstrated the truth of the statement.
"An enquiry into a Scheme of Life," by Han Yu, canonized as Han
Wen Kung, is one of his famous papers against Buddhism which led to
his banishment. In this essay occurs the well-known passage, "Make
useful men of these fellows, (priest, etc.): burn their books: make
dwellings of their residence: make clear to them the teaching of the former
kings and instruct them in their methods. Find a livelihood for the
celebates and nuns, the orphans, the dependants, and the impotent." But
the chief value of this essay lies in its treatment of the word Tao. The
foundation of Tao is love. Tao itself, is "the path of life." But no
definition can really explain it. No matter what others have thought
about it Tao can only be understood as it is applied to one's own heart
and translated into action. In this Han Yu anticipates Rudolf Eucken,
one of whose noble sentiments prefaces the essay, "We are not concerned
with the reflections of these thinkers about life, but with life itself as it is
fashioned forth in their world of thought."
It is impossible in the short space at our disposal to notice all of the
essays contained in this work. They are all good. But we would invite
special attention to an essay from the Shih Pao; to "Methods of Study,"
and to that gem of literature, "What a Child ought to Know." Many
of the papers teem with pathos, and all are so delightfully human as
to draw out our deepest sympathies, and to make us feel that after all
there is no substantial reason why the East and West should not "share
in and contribute together to the progress of a planetary culture."
The Author intends this work to serve as a text book for students
of Wenli and Chinese Thought." Here the student will find examples
of the Ancient, Literary, and Business styles, which are described by
the Chinese respectively as very profound, very abstract, and plain and
distinct. The book is well printed on good paper, and there are copious
foot notes, which "elucidate grammatical, textual and historical
difficulties," also a vocabulary.
J. W.