A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
1.-THE KITE FESTIVAL IN FOOCHOW,
CHINA.
LEWIS HODOUS, D.D.
On the ninth day of the ninth month occurs the kite
festival. By the seventh month the kites begin to appear
in the shops and on the hills. They increase in number and
variety until the ninth day of the ninth month when the hills
in Foochow swarm with men and boys flying kites. There
are all sorts of kites, bird kites, round kites, oblong kites
with two planes and a space between them. There are kites
which make a sound as the wind blows through them.
There are kites with tails and without tails. Some fly
several kites from one string. At night they hang lanterns
from them and the kites look like the stars. The kites
have on them the characters for sun, moon and star. Old
and young enjoy the sport together. Those who have no
kites stand by and look on. Some vie one with another
trying to have their kites fly as high as possible. Others try
to get their kite across the cord of another kite and pull the
opponent down.
This is called hooking a kite. Many
families take their dinner with them and spend the day
picnicing on the hillsides.
On this day the shops prepare large cakes called dung-
iong gui. They are round, glue like, stickly masses about a
foot in diameter and two inches thick. On them are peanuts
and dates. Little flags of various colors are stuck into them.
They have nine layers and are often called the nine layer
cakes. These nine layers represent the ninth day of the
ninth month. The cakes are cut into small pieces which are
sold for a few cash apiece.
This festival is popular all over China, though it is not
celebrated everywhere in the same way. In the morning
of this day an offering is made to the ancestors. This is
quite general throughout China. Other practices, however,

A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
77
are not so uniform. At Chuanchow in the southern part of
Fuhkien, "On the ninth day the people go up on the hills and
fly kites. This they call warding off public calamity."
(History of Fuhkien). In Kienning Fu, "they steam rice-
flour making five colored cakes with nine layers. These
they present to each other. They drink hellebore wine."
(History of Kienning). In Shaowu "they drink hellebore
wine and call it escaping evil. The scholars and officials
with baskets of wine ascend the hills. Relatives present
each other with fish and wine." (History of Fuhkien).
In Formosa, "the boys make kites resembling the
sparrow-hawk or streamers in the temples, or the eight
diagrams. They vie with one another on the heights. As
the wind wafts the kites up or down they call it victory or
defeat. At night some hang lanterns on the kites and in
the distance they look like stars." (History of Formosa).
Similar customs obtain in all parts of China.
The popular explanation of this festival is found in the
work Ching Chu Shih Chi (written 502-555 A.D.) which
quotes another work called the Hsu Ch'ai Hsieh Chi written
about the same time. The story is as follows: "Hwang
Ching of Yu Nan followed Fei Ch'ang Fang in his journeys
abroad for the purpose of study. Fei Ch'ang Fang lived
about the fourth century A.D. and was noted for his magic
cures. Ch'ang Fang said to Huan Ching: 'On the ninth
day of the ninth month Yu Nan will have a great calamity.
Very urgently you should order your family to weave small
bags filled with hellebore and hang them on their arms and
ascend the hills and drink aster wine. In this way you will
escape calamity.' Ching followed his advice and the whole
family climbed the hill. At night when they returned they
saw that the chickens, cows, and goats had met a violent
death at one time. When Ch'ang Fang heard of this he
said that the animals died in place of the members of the
family. The present custom of the ninth day of ascending
the hills and drinking wine and the women wearing bags
with hellebore had its origin in this occurrence.'
"
It is quite evident that this story did not originate the
festival, but that the festival is responsible for the story. On
the face of it, it is very unlikely that a little family affair
should be the cause of a festival observed in all parts of
China. There is a strong probability that the festival was
observed long before the day of Ch'ang Fang. In fact we
have a literary effusion on the festival by the emperor
Wen Ti of the Wei dynasty (220-227 A.D.).
The popular story, however, contains the germ of the
explanation of this festival. According to the story the

78
A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
purpose was to escape evil by fleeing to the hills, wearing
hellebore in little bags, and drinking wine. In the ninth
month in northern and north-central China, where the fes-
tival originated, the frost destroys all vegetation. The insects
crawl into their holes. Only a few plants like the aster and
hellebore survive. Yin, the power of death and destruction
begins to reign. Yang, the power of life, is almost van-
quished. The ancient Chinese were familiar with the fact
that the frost first touches the lowlands. The ninth day
was selected because nine is odd and is endued with the
Yang principle, the principle of life. The people drank
aster wine. The aster must contain a large quantity of the
yang principle because it is unaffected by the frosts. The
hellebore likewise was regarded as containing the male
principle. The people climbed the hills to come into touch
with the Yang principle above.
That this is not mere theory we can readily see by
looking at our sources. The Yih Ching gives a clue to the
explanation. The diagram for the ninth month is one whole
line over five divided lines as follows: The explanation
of this by the great commentator Chu Hi (1130-1200) is:
"The diagram Pao means to fall down. The five yin below
are about to spring forth. The one yang line above means
that the yang principle is about to be exhausted. The yin
principle flourishing luxuriantly and the yang principle
becoming exhausted, this is the diagram of the ninth
month. The Book of Poetry has a line saying: "In the
ninth month all beings retire and the frost comes." Huai
Nan Tzu (died B.C. 122) says: "The third month of autumn
(i.e. the ninth month) the vapors of earth are not stored up.
They are gathered up. These vapors destroy the hundred
insects. They cause some to creep into their holes and live
quietly and shut their doors. The azure maid comes out
and causes frost and snow to descend." The commentary
explains that the azure maid is a goddess of heaven, the
daughter of the azure Emperor and that she rules frost and
snow.
The Shuo Wen (121 A.D.) explains the character Shu
which denotes the ninth month as follows: "Shu means
destruction. In the ninth month the yang vapors dwindle
away, the myriad of beings are completed. The yang goes
down entering into the earth."
The books of the Tsin dynasty 265-419 A.D. speak in
a similar strain. "The sign for the ninth month is Shu.
Shu means decay. It means that at this time all beings
fade and decay.
The name of the musical note
of the ninth month is wu-she. Wu She means to go out.

A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
79
The meaning is that the yang vapors ascend and the myriad
of beings are gathered together and stored up and they will
not come out again.'
These passages make it quite clear that the Chinese
have considered the vapors of the ninth month to be very
dangerous and to be warded off. We shall see how they
have attempted to escape these vapors. According to the
Feng Tu Chi, "During the Han dynasty on the ninth day
of the ninth month the people drank aster wine and in this
way they warded off evil. This work further says: "The
people regard this day as very important. They pluck
calyxes of hellebore and insert them into the hair. They
say that thereby they ward off evil vapors and resist the
first cold."
The Ching Ch'u Sui Shih Che (502-555 A.D.) says:
"On the ninth day of the ninth month all the people scatter
in the country and drink and feast." The commentary on
the above work (589-618 A.D.) says, "I do not know in
what dynasty the feasting on the ninth day of the ninth
month had its beginning. However, it has not been altered
from the Han to the Sung dynasty. At present the people
of the north also celebrate this festival. They wear helle-
bore, eat dumplings, drink aster wine saying that it causes
men to live to a great age. In recent dynasties all the
people feast, spreading the feast in towers."
"
According to the Meng Hua Lu written during the Sung
dynasty (960-1278), "In the T'ang dynasty (618-905 A.D.)
the people of the capital went outside the city walls and
ascended the heights. Each steamed cakes of flour. Into
them they stuck small flags cut out of paper. They pre-
sented to one another dumplings made of rice and chopped
beef, goat and pork, and also cakes and fruits."
This festival was not only observed in China, but was
celebrated by the tribes living to the north and west of
China proper. The Liao dynasty (907-1168 A.D.) established
in the Liaotung peninsula observed the following customs
on the ninth day of the ninth month. "The officials of the
north and south came to the royal tent in the morning and
followed the royal chariot to the enclosed camp to receive
tea. The emperor ascended the throne leading the officials
who took their places in groups before the throne. Proper
officials presented aster wine to all as they knelt. When they
received the wine they bowed twice. The wine was pre-
sented three times. They made a courtesy with their hands
and arose.
According to the history of this Liao dynasty we read:
"The son of heaven led the host of officials and the heads

.80
A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
of the various nationalities in the empire on the ninth day
of the ninth month to shoot at the tiger. Those who hit
the tiger a few times were considered as losing and were
punished by being compelled to give a feast. When the
shooting was ended they selected a high tent on high ground
and presented aster wine to the frontier officials and the
Chinese officials. Rabbits' liver was made into pickled meat
and deer's liver was made into sauce. They made hellebore
into powder and sprinkled it on the door and thereby made
an offering to ward off evil. In the language of the country
the day was called Pi-li-ch'ih-li."
The Kin Tartars (1115-1234 A.D.) observed the day as
we shall see from the following extract: "The Kin Tartars
followed the customs of the Liao dynasty. On the ninth
day of the ninth month they performed the ceremony of
worshipping Heaven outside the capital city. The ceremony
was as follows: 'They hollowed out a piece of wood making
a platter in the shape of a boat. They painted it red. On
it they drew clouds and a crane (the emblem of old age).
They made a stand five or six feet high and placed the platter
On the platter they presented food. They gathered
the members of the clan and worshipped. If the occasion
was an especial one they built a tower in the court of
Ch'ang Wu and made that the place of worshipping
Heaven.'"
on it.
A book called Tsun Sheng Pa Chien written during the
Ming dynasty gives an interesting custom. "On the ninth
day of the ninth month at day-light place one layer of cake
on the brows of the boys and girls and pray as follows:
'May the hundred affairs of the children all be high. This
pray three times.'
The weather of the ninth day is watched because it
determines the weather of other days of the year. The
Nung Cheng Chuan Shu, written in the early part of the
seventeenth century by Seu Kwang K'e, the disciple and
associate of the Jesuit missionaries, makes the following
prognostication. "If it is clear on the ninth day of the
ninth month then the day of the winter solstice, the first
day of the year, the fifteenth day of the first month, the
ching ming day (festival of the tombs) will all be clear.
If it rains on this day, then it will rain on these days."
As to the flying of kites, it is probably an old diversion
in China. According to K'ang Hi's dictionary Han Fei Tsze
(3rd century B.C.) in his Yu Ching said that Mo Tzu (4th
and 5th century B.C.) made a kite of wood and after three
years he made it fly." The kite was used by general
Han Sin (died B.C. 196) who aided Liu Pan in conquering

A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
81
She Hwang Ti. This general wanted to know how far the
palace E Iong was from his camp so that he might know
how long to make his tunnel. He did this by flying a
kite. At other times the kite was used in war to send
messages.
According to Professor J. J. M. de Groot in his Les
Fêtes Annuelles é Emoui the ascending of the hills and the
flying of kites was added to the festival of the ninth day of
the ninth month in the seventh century A.D. In this
century the literary examinations were reorganized and the
celebration of the kite flying took place after the results of
the examination were announced.
The kite was imported to the west from China. Strutt
in his Sports and Pastimes of the People of England
says that the earliest mention of the kite is found in a
French-English dictionary of the year 1690. The English
paper kite is an exact translation of the Chinese Chih-Yuan.
The German "fliegender Drache" and the French "cerf-
volant" suggest the Chinese origin. (See J. J. M. de Groot
Fetes Annuelles, p. 536).
The work Hsü Po Wu Chi written in the middle of the
twelfth century A.D. suggests another origin of the kite and
its use.
It says "At present people take advantage of the
wind to fly the kite. The kite flies upward tied to a string.
The small children gaze at it with mouth wide open and
thereby the fever in their bodies is dissipated." For all
these reasons kite-flying is popular, but especially because
it is good sport for young and old. The trip to the hills.
fills the lungs with good air and no doubt enables the
denizens of the odoriferous streets of China to obtain a
new lease on life. After all, the ancients were not so very
far wrong in their practice, though we may consider their
theory puerile. Like many other practices backed up with
poor theories it worked and fitted into their general philo-
sophy of life.
6