家 神
IV. THE DOMESTIC ALTAR.
JAMES HUTSON.
[Mr. Hutson has made an exhaustive study of Chinese life in the
province of Ssû Ch'uan. He says, "the first requisite of a worker in
Chinese is a knowledge of the language and a knowledge of the people.
Both are difficult to get." He has been collecting data for many years
and his notes cover most of the ground. He has classified all these and
one short section is now printed in the Journal.
As is well known practices that are universal differ in detail in
different parts. This chapter will help those interested in the subject
to compare the practices current in Ssû Ch'uan and other places with
those recorded by Le P. Henri Doré in Recherches sur les Superstitions
en Chine.-EDITOR.]
The Domestic Altar.-It is also called the
or spirit niche. On the top part is an incense
pot and below in the notch the large is situated. This
cupboard is the last thing to leave the house when a removal
is taking place, and as long as it remains, the owner thereof
still claims to be in possession; when he removes the cup-
board he invites the domestic gods to follow him, this is
called. The colloquial for worshipping the domestic
gods is 供家神,
* The Heaven and Earth Tablet.-This
tablet is dedicated to Heaven, Earth, Emperor, Ancestors
and Teachers. It is said that this tablet had its origin in the
Emperor . That before this man became Em-
peror he was being pursued by soldiers who sought to take
his life. Some people who favoured his becoming emperor
stopped him and asked him to write a tablet for the family
altar, and he wrote the above five characters with the follow-
ing explanation 天地有之恩君王有踐土之恩
父母有养育之恩師長有教育之恩,that is “Earth
has a supporting and Heaven a covering grace; emperors
have the land-giving grace; parents have the nurturing and
rearing grace; teachers have the teaching and exhorting
"
grace. It is also said that
western boundaries of Kansu
(who subjugated the
and kept it in peace for
18 years) when leaving the district wrote these five characters

-94
A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
as a tablet for the domestic altar. Both of these men belong
to the Han dynasty, and both stories may be equally
true of different parts, but the former version is most general-
ly believed. The writing of a family altar tablet is a very
important matter with some people. The wisest and most
learned man is invited to write it, he puts on his best official
robes and blows his breath on the pencil thus giving life to
the pencil and tablet.
門中歷代高會遠祖位. This is the ancient ancestral
tablet, which has largely been ousted by the tablet to Heaven
and Earth. Some scholars still use this tablet, .reckoning
that Heaven and Earth can only be worshipped by the em-
peror. This tablet is only written to the three generations
next to the living head of the family; but in all 18 generations
are included, that is, nine deceased, and nine yet unborn.
The following are the deceased nine generations:
鼻祖
R
烈祖
高沮
祖公
1. Nose ancestor, that is the first ancestor. This
comes from the idea that when a child is
born, the nose is born first.
2.-Distant ancestor.
3.-Great ancestor.
4. The first of the second three division ancestor.
5.-Heavenly ancestor.
6. The high ancestor.
7.-The great grandfather.
8. The deceased grandfather.
野考 9. The deceased father (whom he has seen).
The following is a list of the nine generations yet unborn
for whom prayer is continually made:-
耳
The ear progeny, it is said that in birth the ear is the
last to be born.
Seen as clouds in the distance.
Still his progeny.
Lasting progeny.
The spirits of ancestor come again.
The great great grandson.
The great grandson.
The grandson (of the deceased head).
The son of the present living head.
In all, there are these eighteen generations who come
within the range of the ancestral altar; when there are more
than nine generations of deceased ancestors, the remainder
are known as . On important occasions when it is
necessary to include all the nine progenitors, and the nine
descendants, it is not uncommon to find the represents
the ancestors, and I posterity. So in ancestral worship
prayer is made to the departed heads of the family for a

A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
95
continuation of the family line in an unbroken succession.
This is spoken of as, to perpetuate the ashes
in the incense urn. No greater insult can be given than to
take the family incense urn and empty it out; for fear of
this many old people will not allow their family altar to be
touched by any one. To obtain sons women take long pil-
grimages to shrines to pray for them. A man on changing
his residence invokes the spirits of the deceased ancestors to
go with him. Everything pertaining to idoltary may be given
up easily, but ancestor worship only with great difficulty.
Some who have pretended to be without a family altar have
in reality been worshipping their ancestors in a secluded part
of the house. This is the kernel of the religion of the Chinese
people, and the fear of the displeasure of the departed an-
cestors is very real, and no expense is spared that their spirits
may rest in peace.
The idea of transmigration or rather rotation of souls
seems to be found in this altar, and the of the family
seems to bear this out. Most families have only sixteen
family names but some have thirty-two, and a few twenty-
four; when these have run their course the round begins
afresh, and the spirits of the ancestors are probably believed
to do the same. The furniture of the chief room of the house
does not belong to any individual member of the family, but
is attached to the family altar, and is the general property
of the family. The saying has it 堂屋椅子輪流轉
#. The furniture of the chief room passes
from generation to generation, just as the daughter in law
soon becomes the grandmother.
The following tablet to the three religions, ancestors,
and the god of wealth it not uncommon, and takes the place
of the Heaven and Earth tablet in some homes.
(1). The upper three religions.-The Con-
fucius tablet儒教孔聖: The Taoist Sage 道教老君;
The Buddhist ancestor E.
(2) The middle three religions.-The god of
literature 文昌帝君:The god of war 銀大帝;The god
of hsuen t'ien 天上帝, which is Liu Chang Seng 劉長孫,
(3).
The lower three religions.-The god of
medicine ※王菩薩: The goddess of mercy 觀音大士;
The god of cattle 4.
Besides the above there is written on this tablet an in-
E. To the
scription to the ancestors as follows,
ancestors distant and near. Also a tablet to the 四官財神
The god of wealth of the four seasons of the year.
三品三元三官大帝. This is the Taoist trinity, an
idol or tablet situated on the outer left hand side of the door

96
A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
on entering the house. When worshipping this the wor-
shipper bows toward the outside as he is supposed to be
worshipping Heaven. The most common form of this idol
is a painting about one foot high and the same in width.
The Taoist trinity in its particularised form is written:-
1. –上元一品神天官紫微大帝;2.一元二品赦罪地
官清虛大帝;3.下元三品解厄水官洞陰大帝
1. The chief person is the giver of happiness, god and
governor of the Royal Star. 2.-The second person is the
forgiver of sins, pure and invisible, a governor of Earth.
3. The third person is the reliever of distress, god and
governor of Hades.
The Taoist trinity, as written by scholars and put out-
side their doors is 萬靈什方天地位焉, It is the
omnipotent one.
The first two characters of the first form, comes from
Taoism, the second two from Buddhism, and have been put
together by Confucianism.
箭神 The Kitchen God. 一九天司命竈王府君
A. The universal god of the kitchen, who pre-
serves the lives of the family from starvation, and poisoning.
This god is said to be a husband and wife, and when the
husband ascends to Heaven which he does on the 24th* of
each month to make a monthly report, the wife acts as his
deputy in his absence. He goes up to heaven on the 24th
of the last moon to make a yearly report of family doings to
the heavenly Emperor; before he goes away, incense is
offered on his altar, and sugar candy is given him to
gain his favour and get a good report when he ascends. The
kitchen god is said to have originally been Sü ren she,
the Chinese Prometheus, who taught the Chinese how to get
fire. This belief dates back almost to the mythological
period, before the time of Süen üen F. At that time
fire was produced by driving a drill into certain kinds of wood
at fixed seasons, and when the drill was withdrawn fire
belched from the aperture. The kinds of wood used at the
various seasons were as follows:-
In Spring from the elm and willow trees 春取榆柳之火
In Summer from the date and apricot trees.
In late Summer from quercus or silk worm oak
2. In Autumn from the gardenia and rosewood trees
2. In Winter from the oak and horn-beam
trees 冬取柞栖之火。
The kitchen god has been styled the lord of the house.
He has two assistants, one the stick gatherer, the
*In many parts the day is the 23rd-ED.

A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
97
other the water carrier. He is chiefly worshipped
in his notch in the kitchen, but is occasionally worshipped
in the chief room of the house. He takes special care of the
domestic animals, such as chickens, dogs, cats, and some-
times a picture of these animals is put up just below his
shrine. In the kitchen fire nothing dirty is allowed to be
burned for fear of offending him, and neither dog nor cow's
flesh is allowed to be cooked in his pot for the same reason.
No quarrels are allowed in the kitchen for fear he hears and
reports. The saying runs as follows:-
廚登牛犬穢氣我我必降災
一家吵鬧使我不安我必降災
"If in the kitchen the smell of dog or cows annoys me,
I will send calamity.
If the family quarrels in my presence making me un-
comfortable I will send calamity.'
本宅供奉長生土地,瑞夫人 The Domestic Law.
The first style refers to the husband and the second to his
wife. This is the domestic precinct god of long life, and
good luck, the husband seeing to the long life, and the wife
to the good luck of the household. His particular day is the
7th of the 7th moon when special offerings are laid upon his
shrine. His place in the house is just below the Heaven
and Earth tablet. It is said that the precinct god is the
or something akin to the Roman penates or house-
hold gods. If the family worship a or altar of lemuria
(shades), then that spirit looks after the animals; but if there
is no altar to the lemuria in the house this duty falls to the
lot of the kitchen and precinct gods. Very often if a child
gets sick or the pig takes the measles, then an offering is
made to the precinct god. He has two slaves; one is called
the 招财童子 and the other 進寶君. The names 招財
and are often given to dogs, and indicates that the dog
is a lucky animal. Hence the saying 來狗主食 when a dog
comes he governs the wealth of the household..
T'AN SHEN. THE ALTAR OF THE LEMURIA OR GHOSTS.
正一支皇會上侯聖祖 The Spirit of the lemuria
altar is believed to have been named Chao and the follow-
ing scrolls seems to give his history 昔日南陽太守,
今朝西蜀作壇神。
Formerly he was a prefect in Nan Yang
in Kiang
Nan I, Now he is the god of the lemuria in Western
Ssuchuan.
7

98
A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
This altar is situated in the left hand corner of the chief
room of the house. Some shrines are fixtures while others
are movable, and often take the form of a hollow stone in
which incense is burned. This is mostly used by the
wealthy and the superstitious. Every three or five years the
ceremony of tranquillising takes place; for particulars see
under sorcery and more particularly under the heading
To Pacify the Family Altar.-This is done after a
family has changed into a new dwelling, or anything unlucky
has happened in the house. This is the work of the
or married Taoist sorcerer.
To Worship Heaven.-This is also the work of the
married Taoist sorcerer. During this ceremony the family
altar is covered over, for the time being with a chart or
tablet. A tablet is then placed outside the door under the
open sky, where bundles of incense and candles are offered.
This ceremony is most commonly performed when the paying
back of a vow is required. A son may for example vow to
offer to Heaven so many sets of candles and incense if a parent
is healed of a sickness or saved from a lawsuit, or has had a
safe journey home. One set of candles and incense is 32
sticks of each. If a Buddhist priest manages the ceremony
(which is very seldom excepting at times of funerals) the set
of candles and incense consists of 24 sticks of each.
what would appear to have been an exceptionally pure act of
worship at its commencement, has sometimes become de-
generated into a pretext for the gratification of the lowest
passions. A man may for instance vow to offer so many sets
of incense to Heaven if a certain enemy is smitten and dies,
or if his direct line of succession is cut off and such like.
The tablet used by Taoist priests at this ceremony is as
follows: 三十二天上帝中央一炁梵天帝君,
Alas,
The following is the tablet used by the Buddhist priest
二十四天菩薩無世界
for the same ceremony:
It should be noted that one stick of incense and one candle
is used for each of the spirits worshipped.
To Worship Earth; To Thank the Earth.
This is the ceremony of pacifying the god of the springs, or
the five corner dragon 五神.
The ceremony is deemed necessary when a house has
been newly repaired, and possibly the dragon disturbed, also
when a new house has been first occupied, and when a place
of residence does not seem to agree with the resident, this is
spoken of as . This is demonstrated by the
farmer digging up some unlucky things such as
or eggs of the god of springs; these eggs are described as

A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
99
being round black, soft balls, the contents of which are said
to be like blood; in such a case Earth needs to be worshipped.
The worship of Earth is also said to be needed when the
geomancer decides that the resident is at variance with the
or five emperor evils, or with the evil influences of
the current year, or with the yellow flag evil influence
背翻煞, or the leopard tail evil influence 豹尾煞. When
Earth is worshipped these disturbing spirits are Wor-
shipped, this ceremony like the worship of Heaven is
generally managed by a married Taoist sorcerer. A tablet
is set outside the house, and candles and incense lighted
thereon. The four points of the compass are marked off
with lines of dry lime. At each corner and in the centre
a candle is stuck in the earth. This ceremony is sometimes
carried through in the chief room of the house especially
when the house is to be found fault with. The proverb
runs as follows 得罪天供天地供地“If you offend
Heaven worship Heaven. If you offend Earth worship
Earth."
The following five tablets to the or five corner
dragons are set up and worshipped when this ceremony is
enacted.
The Eastern Green Dragon Spirit
*****
The Southern Red Dragon Spirit 南方赤帝赤龍神君
The Western White Dragon Spirit 西方白帝白龍神君
The Northern Black Dragon Spirit 北方黑帝黑龍神君
The Centre Yellow Dragon Spirit 中央帝龍神君
Note that the five corner dragon spirit is made up of
five different coloured dragons, whose colours exactly cor-
respond with the five stripes of the new national flag.
Alongside of the five corner dragon tablets, there are
tablets to the gods of the five planets which are as follows
In the East the wood aura god (Jupiter) **
In the South the fire aura god (Mars) 南方火德星君
In the West the metal aura god (Venus)
A
In the North the water aura god (Mercury)
In the Middle the earth aura god (Saturn)
The five dragons and planets have an intimate con-
nection with the five cardinals as used by the secret societies.
Besides the foregoing there is a tablet of a more general
nature which is as follows:
土府九壘高皇大帝 This is the general tablet for the
worship of the god of springs, and pacifying the five corner
dragon. The two characters t'u fu seems to include
the whole family of earth, while the two characters kiu lui
or nine piles is said to refer to the nine continents.

100
A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
供奉風雲雷雨日月星辰 The Worship of the Gods
of Wind, Clouds, Thunder, Rain, Sun, Moon, and Stars.
This worship is done largely after the fashion of the
worship of Heaven and Earth, but of course the tablets used
are quite distinct, and are somewhat as follows:-
A statesman of the T'ang dynasty named K'uei
Chen who is said to have killed the five horned dragon.
雨師 A statesman of Kao Tsong 高宗 named Fu Ioh您說
who pacified the people. This is said to have been
Wen T'ai-si and probably of the time of Suen uen
If there was no dragon there would be no
*
clouds.
The Sun is reckoned to represent the emperor
太陽星君
The Moon is reckoned to represent the empress
太陰星君
The Planets to represent the statesmen
the larger stars, the provincial officials; and the
smaller stars the masses of the people.
To Worship or Thank the Fire Star.-This is
both a parochial and a domestic affair, but here we shall only
deal with the domestic side, as the parochial side is dealt
with under the feast of all souls. When there has been
anything approaching to a conflagration in the house, or
anything to indicate that the fire demon is in the ascendency,
then a few pieces of red hot coal are taken from the kitchen
fire, and put into a jar, and water poured over the embers,
while the priest chants the necessary incantations to drive
the demon out of the house.
To Worship or Thank the Water Star.-Those
who live by the sides of river or marshes have recourse to
this, thinking that it will save them from flood. In this
ritual the five corner dragon is the chief object of worship.
A mug full of water is brought from the river, over
which the priest chants incantations. After the ceremony
the mug and water is taken outside and thrown away.