SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS,
INCLUDING ALSO GENERAL REMARKS ON THE
BIRDS OBSERVED AT SEA ON THE COAST
OF CHINA IN 1916.
H. E. LAVER.
These notes refer principally to Land-birds which I have
seen at sea during this year-frequently both land-birds and
insects have been meet with when at a considerable distance
from land. I have also noted the sea-birds when present-
these represent but few species-and as many sea birds take
several years to reach maturity, no doubt I have been
occasionally wrong in naming these, especially when in
immature dress.
After all it is frequently very difficult to be absolutely
certain in naming the gulls or petrels, the view one gets is
more often than not, only a fleeting one, as the birds fly
past, and as their whole appearance changes as the bird
grows to maturity, one is often in doubt as to the species.
It will be noticed that in some voyages, few birds have
been observed, I usually note all I have seen, but much
depends on the season and whether the ship went North or
South at the right time. And with sea-birds the scarcity
or otherwise of food will govern their movements also. The
notes will be found to include several trips to Saigon, across
to the Philippine Islands and to Java.
Few opportunities offer for special remarks on the
natural history of life met with at sea, because the ship
is seldom stationary, with the exception of such as when
birds follow the ship; most other objects are lost to view
almost as soon as they are seen.
March 29th.-Chefoo to Swatow.
Light variable winds,
misty overcast weather. Calm sea. Being 6 miles east of
Tung Yung Islands, one small hawk was seen close to the
ship.
March 30th.-Light variable winds and overcast. When
off Chapel Island numbers of swallows were met with,
hawking for flies over the sea.

14
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
April 10th.-Swatow to Hankow. A moderate gale from
N.W.; misty and foggy. Between Bonham Pass and the
Bell buoy, the weather then moderating, a few pied wagtail
came on board; occasionally small flocks of duck from six
to ten together, were passed, sometimes on the wing, but
frequently at rest on the water. Last night the call of
plover, flying close over head, lasted on and off for several
hours.
When passing Tungsha
swallows hawking for
Also, saw a sandpiper
April 21st.-Wuhu to Canton.
Light vessel a great number of
insects, these remained until dark.
and a bird which I thought to be the pigmy curlew
(T Subarquata) and one small hawk. The wind a light
N.W. breeze and misty rain.
April 22nd.-Off Hieshan Islands. Light easterly winds
and a dense fog. A few swallows near the ship at day
break. An eastern golden plover (C. Dominicus) came on
board and remained long enough for me to identify. Also,
saw another plover which, however, I was unable to identify.
April 23rd.-Lat. 26-00' N., Long. 120-50 E. Variable
airs and foggy. Several swallows and a sparrow hawk-this
last was bent on mischief, but I did not see it get any
bird; one other land bird also seen. One petrel (unknown)
also seen in the distance. This evening being off Tung Yung
several small fin back whales-but I could not see their
heads; fog very dense just now. Many swallows came to
rest in the ship evidently lost in the fog. Saw a black
plumaged petrel.
April 24th.-Off Chapel Island. Calm. A dense fog.
Many swallows round the ship since daylight, possibly some
of our visitors of yesterday; by 9 a.m. they had all left.
Off Breaker Point at nightfall where many more swallows
came on board. A few dolphin seen here.
May 3rd.-Hong Kong to Saigon. Moderate easterly
winds and fine. Steering a course to pass 35 miles to the
westward of the Paracels. After leaving Hongkong until
Gap Rock was passed, swallows were continually seen hawk-
ing for flies amongst the Islands, in fact a few remained
with us until sunset. Saw a few flying fish occasionally-
rather small ones.
May 4th. Lat. 18-55' N., Long. 111-31' E. Moderate
easterly winds and fine. Again plenty of swallows around
since sunrise-the only land-birds seen. Numbers of gannet
(immature) chasing shoals of fish. As flying fish were
numerous, I expect it was these that they were after. Some
gulf weed seen.

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
15
May 5th. At noon Kulao Rae Island bore S.W. distant
5 miles. Variable winds and thick misty rain. One land-
bird seen, also several swallows. This afternoon passed
through patches of plankton-very large patches of a light
straw colour-"whales food." Saw one ocean bird with
black and white plumage resting on a piece of wood. Flying
fish very numerous.
May 7th.-Off the entrance to Saigon River. Heavy
rain and thunder squalls. Saw a school of dolphin which
I was unable to identify. And it is difficult to describe such
animals, more than half submerged in the water; but they
were strangers to me. Here a few swallows came round
the ship, various other land birds and many paddy birds
were seen, all close to.
May 16th.-Saigon to Hongkong. Light southerly
winds and showery. When passing Cape Taiwan about
4 p.m. numbers of jelly fish were met with and a few
light yellow coloured crabs swimming on the surface.
May 17th. Approaching Cape Padaran. Large patches
of plankton, straw colour; when passing through this a
strong smell of ozone present. Later when passing Three
Kings' Islets a brownish paddy bird was seen.
May 18th.-Plenty of gulf-weed was met with through-
out the day.
May 19th.-Lat. 17-47' N., Long. 110-50' E. A
moderate S.W. monsoon and overcast. A few gannet (im-
mature) were seen yesterday and to-day. A dove came to
rest, head white, back and wings reddish brown with
black collar behind.
May 20th.-Lat. 20-52' N., Long. 113-20 E. A
moderate monsoon and overcast. Three more doves about,
like that of yesterday. A pair of black plumaged birds, white
rump and long tails. A pair of egret (A. Coromanda) kept
flying close to the ship for some hours. Flying fish plentiful,
many of large size. Before sunset dragon flies and moths
came on board.
May 26th.-Hongkong to Saigon. Calm and fine clear
weather. Left here at noon and nothing was seen until the
ship was some 20 miles or more South of Gap Rock. When
we passed a few shoals of fish close to the surface. Not a
bird of any kind was met with.
May 27th. Lat. 18-55' N., Long. 111-41' E. Calm and
fine. In the morning passed a few streaky patches_of
plankton, light straw colour, stretching N.W. and S. E.;
medusae plentiful, and such remained all day. The sea
being without a ripple I could see well under water, once I
saw a small and peculiar fish wriggle away and one large

16
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
brown coloured swimming crab. Flying fish in plenty mostly
small ones. Three birds which I thought to be petrel, a
light brown colour, a little white in each wing when flying.
A few immature gannet; and of insects one dragon fly.
May 28th.-Lat. 15-11' N., Long. 109-25 E. Calm and
very fine clear weather. A few gannet occasionally, generally
all brown-and might be immature. Plenty of gulf weed
here, a fact I neglected to notice last trip. On one bunch
of weed I saw a small turtle about 18 inches long, this was
having a rest but scuttled off in a hurry as the ship passed
too close, but he did not go far and I could see him waiting
just below the surface. Plankton of a light straw colour,
somewhat like sawdust, abundant, as were also medusae.
Saw one petrel, sooty black, straight tail.
scarce all day.
Flying fish
May 29th.-7.40 a.m. off Davaich Head. A few
gannet seen, immature I think. Also saw a bird about the
size of a pigeon with similiar flight, flying in from sea to
the land, then distant three miles; general colour brown,
wings I may say were short and rounded in form. Off Cape
Padaran there were plenty of terns. Gulf weed occasionally
since daylight.
June 4th.-Saigon to Hongkong. Light S. W. monsoon
and fine weather. At entrance to the Saigon river-Cape
St. James, when dropping the Pilot-a small school of
dolphin, general colour a light grey, none of a darker colour,
nor had they any special markings, only, an occasional one
much lighter in hue was seen. Approaching the Britto
Shoal saw a land-bird, colour a light buff brown, a short
neck with whitish ring round, wings short and rounded, tail
long, with a very rook-like flight. A few gannet chasing
shoals of flying fish.
June 5th. When passing Davaich Head (which was
distant 5 miles), various seeds and wrack washed from the
land, some gulf weed occasionally, and flying fish were
plentiful. Not a bird seen all day. At night passed through
large coloured patches caused by plankton, but this was not
phosphorescent.
June 6th.-Kuloa Rai, N. 53° W.-distant 20 miles.
Moderate S.E. winds and fine. Early this morning passed
through a few large patches of "whales food," the plankton
of last night probably. Some gulf weed seen. Towards
sunset four birds were seen. A pair of booby, possibly
(S leucogastra) the brown booby; and a pair of small terns
or gulls-resembling in part the Kittiwake gull more than
anything else, but it was not close enough to distinguish the
colour of its bill or legs.

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
17
June 7th. Lat. 19-00 N., Long. 111-59 E. A moderate
S.W. monsoon and fine weather. A few ocean birds seen;
general colour sooty black, but they kept a great way off
and I am not able to guess what they were. A few booby
present as yesterday. Since sailing from Saigon there has
been a cricket in my room, this starts calling at night and
maintains the noise without a rest until daylight. I have
got accustomed to him now.
June 16th.-Hongkong to Saigon. Calm and fine clear
weather. Passing though the Islands to Gap Rock not a
bird was to be seen, only an occasional flying fish. After
we had passed the Rock plenty of "whales food" of a light
straw colour, in long streaky patches. The general direction
of which was east and west.
June 17th.-Lat. 19-23' N., Long. 112-14' E. Moderate
S. E. winds and showery. A dove (colour reddish brown)
flew past this morning. Flying fish plentiful and plankton
seen occasionally. Later, found the dove sitting on the stoke
hole ventilator. A good view of which shows the neck and
head plumbeous grey, sharply separated from the colour of
the back by a black collar round the hind neck. Back wings
and breast of a uniform rufous brown, tail rump and pri-
maries blackish, under tail and vent dirty white. Bill and
legs black. Possibly the red turtle dove (T tranguebaricus).
Several booby, all fully matured birds, seen chasing shoals
of flying fish these remaining in sight until dark.
June 18th.-Lat. 16-38' N., Long. 110-10' E. A
moderate S.W. monsoon and very fine weather. At sunrise
more booby seen. Head, back and upper parts of wings
and tail, and under parts of primaries, sooty brown; belly,
vent and under parts of tail, white; bill yellow, legs not seen,
tail cuneate-possibly the brown booby (S leucogastra).
These birds were following the shoals of flying fish, though
these last were but seldom seen. At noon Lat. 16-06 N.,
Long. 109-58 E. Very many terns here. Appears larger
than the common tern. Black cap, back and upper part of
wings French grey, white margins to wings but tips black;
neck, under parts of wings and tail, white; bill yellow; legs
not seen; tail forked. A dove similiar to that seen yester-
day came on board but soon flew away. This afternoon a
school of dolphin, which may be the Indian bottle nosed
dolphin, these played around the ship for an hour or longer
and afforded the Chinese some amusement. The tern have
remained throughout the day. I often heard their harsh cry
and now and again one would drop like a shot into the sea,
seldom coming up without something in its bill.
2

18
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
June 19th.-Approaching Cape Varella; a moderate
S.W. monsoon and fine. Saw several tern the same species
as those of yesterday. Gulf weed appears to-day. Flying
fish appear plentiful. After passing Cape Varella, no more
birds were seen, also flying fish failed to appear.
June 20th.-Off Kega Point. Moderate westerly winds
and fine. Passed several sea snakes, general ground colour
a light yellow having a black dorsal stripe from head to tail,
with black bars across the back, belly indistinctly seen, but
appeared to be plumbeous. Length about 2 feet 6 inches
to 3 feet. Tail compressed flat. I also saw a small school
of dolphin swimming in pairs, having a dorsal fin, general
colour of back and upper parts, ashy grey, belly not seen.
Medusae were plentiful.
June 26th.-Saigon to Cebu. Light southerly airs and
very fine. After passing Cape St. James and holding a
course for Kega Point I noticed a few butterflies of various
kinds, some nearly all yellow, others were rather large and
handsomely coloured, also a few white moths seen. The
funnel guys and rigging are covered with spiders' webs in
long threads, this has been done since leaving the River.
We have many mosquitos but these came on board before
sailing.
June 27th.-Lat. 11-24' N., Long. 110-10' E. A
moderate S. W. monsoon and fine clear weather. Nothing
seen until noon at above position. When flying fish began
to be plentiful; gulf weed and plankton present. This even-
ing I saw a booby the only bird seen to-day.
June 28th. Lat. 12-36 N., Long. 113-36' E. A
moderate S. W. monsoon and fine. An occasional booby
appears, there are either two kinds, or they are fully matured
and immature birds. Flying fish plentiful at times, many
of large size. Gulf weed has been present all day. Plank-
ton seen in patches like grains of seed, brown coloured.
June 29th.-Lat. 13-08' N., Long. 117-43' E. Easterly
winds and fine. An occasional booby seen during the day.
Also another large bird, general colour brown, with short
rounded wings, a sea-bird of some kind about the size of a
booby, but I was unable to identify it. Flying fish plentiful
at times and many large ones. Also gulf weed and plankton
present.
June 30th.-Lat. 12-44' N., Long. 120-41' E. Light
S.E. airs and fine. Coasting along Mindoro Island; with
the exception of a very few flying fish and some plankton,
nothing else was seen all day.
July 1st.-Nogas Island was passed at daylight, being
2 miles distant. Calm and exceptionally fine weather, fly-

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
19
ing fish and plankton seem general; one sea snake, yellow-
black back with black bars; also a saw-fish was seen.
July 8th.-Cebu to Ilo Ilo by the southern route. When
some 40 miles from Cebu, passing down Bohol Strait, keep-
ing close to the coast of Cebu, saw several schools, 8 to
10 in each, of some small whale, general colour plumbeous
black; head blunt and rounded; dorsal fin, rounded and not
falcate. These whales lay huddled together on the surface,
occasionally swimming if the ship passed too close. I am
unable to identify them, except they were G seiboldi.
July 13th. Ilo Ilo to Ningpo. Left port at sunset last
night, and passing through the Islands but little was seen.
A few shoals of flying fish rose occasionally and included both
large and small fry. And a few booby-general colour
brown.
July 14th.-Being 16 miles off Kapones Island. Light
northerly airs and very fine. Flying fish rose up now and
again. And a few boobies-brown coloured birds. A small
school of whale were passed, these lying asleep close
together; my attention was attracted to them by seeing some-
thing glisten in the sunlight. A closer examination showed
some to be piebald others nearly pure cream white, dorsal fins
were black in some and with others it was only partly black;
the dorsal fin was also extremely long, narrow and falcate.
Head rounded and blunt. Length about 10 feet. The dorsal
on account of its length was most distinct. Mostly these
were black, but piebald fins were seen in either piebald or
pure white animals. I did not see a pure white dorsal fin.
July 15th. Lat. 19-12' N., Long. 118-58 E. Light
N.N.W. airs and calms. Very fine and clear. At daybreak
a few brown plumaged booby following the shoals of fish.
Flying fish plentiful amongst which I saw a few of large
size. Most of the shoals were composed of very small fry.
A dark coloured butterfly flew on board this afternoon.
Later saw quite a number of booby, upper parts dusky
brown, under parts white. These were mostly seen bunched
together on the surface and flying away if the ship ap-
proached too close. I saw an enormous shoal of very small
flying fish rise up, they were peculiar, in the manner in
which they rose very high into the air, and then falling nearly
vertically almost directly afterwards. As I had my bino-
culars in my hand at the time I had a good view, in fact
they were not very far away, so that there can be no
question that they were flying fish. This shoal must have
contained very many thousands, it was in fact the very largest
shoal of flying fish I have ever seen. Passed through many
tidal rips and a strong smell of ozone present this evening,
very little gulf weed seen to-day.

20
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
July 16th. Lat. 22-52' N., Long. 117-40 E. Light
N.W. airs and very fine. Very few flying fish seen to-day.
Passed several shoals of other species of fish close to the
surface. Plankton, the colour and appearance of paddy in
long streakes met with as we get into soundings. A strong
smell of ozone present. Saw a pair of small whale this
afternoon. Towards sunset flying fish became more
numerous.
July 17th.-Passing 6 miles off Turnabout Island.
Light southerly airs and very fine. At daylight a brown
petrel seen, but this does not approach closely nor follow
the ship, so I could not get a distinct view of it nor note
it more in detail. Later quite a number of sooty brown or
blackish petrel, tail slightly forked. A smaller bird than that
seen earlier in the day. All of these followed in the ship's
wake. I think it is probable that they are Swinhoe's petrel.
Of course the sun playing on the wings of birds causes a
different shade, so that at one time, one bird will seen to be
quite black and another bird close by will look sooty brown.
So that on the wing they are difficult to identify. This flock
of petrel remained with us until nightfall.
July 18th.-10 miles to the East of Hieshan Island.
Light airs and very fine clear weather. Plankton and
Medusae were plentiful to-day, the former in long streaky
patches, colour and form somewhat like paddy. One dragon
fly came off. No flying fish seen. This afternoon when
passing to the eastward of Kueshan Islands gulls (L canus)
were seen for the first time this trip, these followed in the
wake until Wenchow Island was reached, where they left.
And occasionally swallows hawking over the sea were also
met with.
After closing the land dragon flies became
plentiful.
July 26th.-Shanghai to Hongkong. Light variable airs
from N.E.; very fine weather. Patahekok Island being west
7 miles distant. A few gulls hereabouts. All L canus as
far as I could tell. Medusae also met with. When 2 miles
off Heachu Island a few terns (S sinensis) seen flying out
to sea. A fair number of boobies fishing in the vicinity.
July 27th. Passing 6 miles to the eastward of Tung
Yung Island. N.E. airs and very fine. Last night numbers
of moths came on board, they were about the size and
appearance of clothes moths. An occasional flying fish seen
here. When passing Alligator Rock, a large rorqual
(B musculus) cruised round the ship for half an hour, dorsal
fin small, general colour a light ashy-grey. Once it came
within 100 yards of the ship, length might be about fifty
feet or more. Several petrel-scoty brown-tail straight.

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
21
Medusae plentiful at times. Approaching Turnabout Island
a good number of dragon flies around. I noticed that no
other flying fish were seen besides those met with earlier
in the day.
July 28th. Approaching the Brothers Rocks, it was
calm and fine not a ripple on the sea. Hundreds of small
moths came on board here, larger than those of yesterday.
Great numbers on board, the surface of the sea being dotted
all over with these insects. A pair of sooty brown petrel, tail
straight, and several boobies were seen. A newly sawn
plank was passed, covered with greenish yellow coloured
crabs. Medusae and plankton plentiful. Dragon flies
appear towards noon, when the sun had warmed the air.
The moths came on board continously all day, from sunrise
to sunset, during which time the ship has altered her position
fully 100 miles to the westward.
August 2nd.-Hong Kong to Hungay. A moderate
S.W. monsoon. Between the Taya Islands and Mofu Hill
on the coast of Hainan, plankton appears plentiful, and
flying fish frequently seen. An occasional tern singly or in
pairs (S anaestheta) were met with always on the wing and
fishing. Also I saw a pair of paddy birds.
August 8th.-Entering Hainan Straits from the west-
ward, off Cape Kami. A light S. W. monsoon. A few
swifts were seen, also, a tern which I could not identify.
And again, when passing Hainan Head at the Eastern
Entrance, more swifts were seen and a few tern (S
anaestheta). Plankton appears plentiful amongst which I
thought I saw several sea-urchin. A deal of very brown
coloured gulf weed also present, and dragon flies came on
board during the day more especially at the Eastern
Entrance.
August 9th.-Having N.E. Head Tamkan Island N. 27°
W. distant 11 miles. Light variable airs and fine. There
is but little to remark upon to-day, excepting that I have
not seen any flying fish this trip. At night the sea very
phosphorescent and a strong smell of ozone.
August 10th.-Off Swatow Bar. Calm and fine. This
morning there is a strong small of ozone in the air, whether
caused by the plankton or from the shore, I don't know.
A gull (L canus), and, when passing Double Island, several
pairs of white dolphins were seen.
August 15th. Swatow to Shanghai. Calm with passing
fog bank. By Sugar Loaf Pass I saw a few gulls and a tern
or two.
These remained only across the Bar to Bill Island.
After which only an occasional gull was seen until passing
Three Chimney Bluff, where gulls and terns were again seen.

22
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
Here some dragon flies came round the ship but a dense
fog coming on until up to Thunder Head prevented anything
else being seen. Of Thunder Head the sea greatly dis-
coloured by plankton, which extended some distance below
the surface. A calm sea enabled a good view of conditions
under water. This evening when passing 4 miles east of
Chapel Island several small flocks of some sea-bird were
seen. I have never identified these yet, as I have never
been able to get a good view so that I could describe them.
August 16th.-Between Turnabout and Tung Yung
Islands. A moderate S.W. monsoon. Cloudy but fine.
Flying fish were to be seen occasionally. I also saw a
petrel, it passed close to, but I was unable to get my bino-
culars on to it in time. Colour generally blackish, but there
was some white about it, tail straight. And it appeared to
be a new species to me. Detached shore weed seen in long
streaky patches marking the extent of the tide. At noon
when nearing Tung Yung Island I saw a good many_dragon
flies, which remained round the ship until sunset. I saw a
small flock of sea-birds like those of yesterday. Flying fish
were not seen after passing Tung Yung. Before sunset I
saw an albatross in the distance.
August 17th.-Bullock Harbour. Typhoon; wind N. to
N.E. (7). A hard gale all day, moderating somewhat at
sunset. I heard a land-bird calling at 7 p.m.
August 19th.-Left Bullock at 5 a.m. Gale moderating
wind N. (5-6). Heavy rain squalls. A pair of swallows
were seen at the Eastern Entrance. Passing through She-
tung Pass one gull (L canus) and one albatross (D albatrus)
were seen, this last was flying close into the land, which I was
surprised to see. I also saw a flock of terns, possibly the com-
mon tern, but the weather was too wet to use my binoculars
with advantage. Also, I noted another tern, with blackish
wings and back, underparts white. After leaving the Pass
nothing further was seen until nearly sunset, when a few
boobies were met with chasing shoals of fish. At night a
moth flew into the chart-room. The sea was very phospho-
rescent at night.
August 20th.-Being 6 miles east of Patahekok.
Moderate N.E. gale (5-6); fine and clear. A few common
terns were seen, sometimes at rest on the water, or hawking
for food.
August 21st.-Off Block House Buoy. A small king-
fisher rests on board and several small tern were seen.
August 24th.-Shanghai to Haichow. Wind North (3);
very fine and clear. Approaching Pingtau Island. A few
common terns seen flying round and busily feeding; great

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
23
numbers of a small wasp-like fly, body back and yellow rings,
also a few moths came on board. After anchoring 3 miles
north of Kingshan Island some gulls (L canus), and towards
sunset, a few swifts hawking for flies close to the water.
These stayed until dark.
August 26th.-At anchor 5 miles west of Tsin Shang
Rocks (Haichow) Wind E.S.E. (6); a fresh gale overcast
and squally. I stayed here one day and noted the following
birds. A few gulls mostly (L canus)-both mature and
immature; there were several much larger gulls having a
slow crowlike manner of flying, which I am inclined to
think were skua, but on considering further they did not
agree to the description, without they were immature.
Another thing these never associated together or with other
gulls. Their bill was larger and horn colour with a black
tip, plumage generally a speckled brown, under wings and
belly white. There were also two species of terns, one the
common tern (S fluviatilies) and the other may have been
(S fulginosa) or the Panayan tern (S anaesthata). Of petrel
some eight or ten birds, generally several together either
on the wing feeding or at rest on the water. Their colour
a brownish black, the tail slightly forked, which makes me
think that they were Swinhoe's petrel. Towards sunset
most of the birds had left, though I still saw a few gulls
and petrel around till dark. Also one swift with a white
rump, possibly C pacificus, this was hawking for flies close
to the ship and though after sunset it made no attempt to
fly ashore the land being some 15 miles distant. And this
bird remained until it was too dark to distinguish it longer.
After dark the cat caught a shrike (L cristatus) and later
I heard several more shrikes call as they settled on the
rigging.
August 27th.-At anchor 2-6 miles North of Kaishan
Island, wind S.E. (3); fair weather. The ship reached this
anchorage soon after daylight and remained here until the
7th September. To-day I have only seen one common gull
(L canus) and a pair of Swinhoe's petrel. Large and small
varieties of dragon flies have been abundant, and several
species of flies; a few moths were seen towards sunset.
August 28th.-No birds seen all day. But numbers of
dragon flies and various insects, particularly when nearing
sunset.
August 29th.-Wind N.E. (4); overcast and showery. A
pair of white rumped swifts (S pacificus) hawking for flies
close by-but flies were scarce on board all day. Three
gulls were seen, all different, one (L canus), and one with the
heavy crow-like flight, a larger bird than the other two,

24
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
having very dark plumage. Of land birds-a kingfisher
(A bengalensis) and a shrike. I also saw another land-bird
of the size of a pigeon, but resembling a kingfisher, too far
off to see properly what it was. An occasional moth was
also seen.
August 30th.-N.E. (4-5); overcast and heavy rain most-
ly all day. Caught a moth. A small flock of Swinhoe's petrel
near by, some hawking for food others at rest on the water.
Several land-birds were seen but none stayed long enough
for me to identify. A few insects came on board and flies
once more became a pest.
August 31st.-Calm and fine. At daylight the cat.
caught a large bat and was greatly surprised to see its mouse
fly away when attempting to play with it. Many hundreds
of moths flew on board last night, the ship was covered
with them, and they were no doubt the cause of the bat's
appearance. Up to now I have only seen one butterfly,
which I caught. Altogether we had four different species of
moths. And several small land-birds were seen. At sunset
a pair of terns seen.
September 1st.-Calm and fine. No fresh moths came
off last night, but several kinds of dragon flies and a couple
of bees were seen to-day. Also, saw a large flocks of birds,
probably the common tern, and one small land-bird.
September 2nd.-Calm and fine. Several species of
land-birds were noted as they flew past, none coming to rest
on board. Also, a pair of swifts. Several gulls (L canus)
come and go, and a few petrels occasionally seen-these last
too distant to identify. A land-bird was caught by the cat,
but a handful of feathers was all I saw of it. I saw a very
large bat this evening, quite the largest I have seen in China.
September 3rd.-Overcast-plenty of rain all night.
Clearing this morning after 10 a.m. Last night the ship
was infested with small aphides or flies. At daylight a
few swifts seen hawking round the ship and some dragon
flies. An occasional small land-bird flies off, none appear
to rest on board. After dark a few more land-birds, calling
as they circle round the electric light. One from its note,
must have been a large bird, many insects on board to-night.
September 4th.-Wind N.E. (4-5); freshening, sky over-
cast. To-day an occasional petrel-possibly Swinhoe's, and
during the day I noted several bees, moths and dragon flies.
To-night I heard several land-birds calling, but though quite
close, I did not seen any.
September 5th.-Moderate N.E. winds, overcast with
rain. Many moths came on board last night: as I found
plenty around at daybreak. Also, I saw several land-birds,

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
25
I identified a shrike; my boy caught a pintailed snipe (G
stenura) in poor condition, and exhausted. Several swifts
were seen-and petrel, always too far away to describe-
excepting generally of a blackish colour. I see an occasional
black plumaged gull immature from size, appearance and
flight remainded me of a skua. I think however, that this
must be a black-backed gull, I cannot recollect having met
with this species before. This afternoon a great number of
land-birds came on board, amongst which were many finches,
I think, and a small kingfisher, and though the cat caught
several, they were all too mutilated before I saw them.
I heard land-birds calling as they flew past up to 9 p.m.
And in my room were many mosquitoes, but on the lower
deck none.
September 6th.-A moderate N.E. (4) wind and fine,
the rain having cleared away at last. Several gulls-im-
mature sooty brown, but not as dark as the gull seen
yesterday. Still, as these are about the same size, I think
they are all the same species. A few petrel feeding, just
astern, colour sooty black, tail straight. Several small
land-birds have been on board all day, but left towards sun-
set. And I saw one swallow. After dark I heard land-birds
calling occasionally as they flew past or round the ship, and
some I think came to rest. Attracted by the ship's lights
most probably.
Now
September 7th.-Light easterly airs and fine.
and again I see a land-bird, mostly some kind of finch.
Locusts came on board during the night, and moths, beetles
and a bee or two since sunrise. An immature gull, general
colour brown, bill horn colour, and a few Swinhoe's petrels.
We sailed to-day for the Yangtse and the few birds that
were seen to-day, very shortly left us, as we got under weigh.
September 8th.-At daybreak. Lat. 34-00 N., Long.
122-45 E. Calm and a dense fog. Many land-birds seen
round the ship or resting on board, amongst which I noticed
a woodcock and a few shrikes. Also a kingfisher rather
larger than A bengalensis, so far as I could see, it being
very foggy. It had a black cap, whitish breast and green
back, but the light was too bad to distinguish further
features. We passed through a considerable amount of weed
this forenoon, probably some, if not most, is gulf weed. At
9.30 the fog lifted, when all the land-birds immediately left.
No sea birds in view. Noon Lat. 33-23' N., Long. 122-46' E.
Moderate southerly winds and hazy. Nothing further was
seen until sunset. When four swallows in a bunch, flew
in from sea and passed going to the S.W.

26
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
September 9th.-North Saddle Island, south about 15
miles. At daybreak I heard several land-birds fly past, later
when light enough, a number of swallows were seen, and
when nearing the Fairway Buoy several sooty petrel follow
in our wake as far as Tangsha Light vessel. Also, some
swallows, these hawking close about until the ship anchored
off Woosung.
September 26th.-Hankow to Swatow. Wind N.E. (4-5);
overcast sky and some rain. When North of Steep Island
the sea was very phosphorescent. After passing Steep
Island about 9 p.m. I heard a flock of sandpipers whistling as
they passed close by overhead.
September 27th.-Being midway between Hieshan
Island and Heachu. Wind N.E. (4); overcast but fine. A
very rough sea and greatly discoloured. Before 8 a.m. I
saw one black petrel flying some distance ahead. And one
land-bird, a bunting I think, flew round the ship a few times,
then it left us.
A
September 28th.-Approaching the Season Channel.
strong N.E. monsoon. Several moths came on board but
it is hard to say where they came from. Also one tern seen,
but unable to identify this. Having Kwing Island S.W.
distant 8 miles. A grey wagtail (M melanope) came on
board remaining until dark. To-night the sea was phospho-
rescent.
September 29th.-Dodd Island N.W. 14 miles. Fresh
N.E. monsoon-fine weather. One grey wagtail seen at day-
light, and may be the same bird that was seen yesterday.
A petrel blackish brown was seen some distance away.
Throughout the day plankton present greatly discolouring
the sea, forming long streaky patches, of a yellowish colour.
Some seaweed also seen. No flying fish have been seen this
trip.
October 4th-5th.-Swatow to Hongkong. Fresh N.E.
monsoon; very fine. A sparrow came on board at Swatow
and remained on the ship until arrival in Hongkong. Before
sunrise several land-birds were seen, one was about the size
of a dove but had a long tail: it was still too dark to see
more than the outline of the birds, and they had all gone
before sunrise. Medusae very plentiful all the trip.
October 11th.-Hongkong to Tsingtau and Newchwang.
We left port at 7 a.m. on the 8th instant. Met a strong
N.E. monsoon and fine clear weather. Nothing seen until
on the 10th instant when entering the Southern Entrance
to Haitan Strait, a few gulls (L canus) put in an appearance,
and medusae were seen. Owing to the N.E. gale I anchored
in the strait all night. This morning after clearing the

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
27
Northern Entrance one common tern was seen. When
about four miles from the White Dogs, the weather now
was thick with misty rain, so that I could not see further
than 1 miles. A flock of some kind of small birds,-finches
I think, flew round the ship and attempted to rest, but the
wind was too strong and soon carried them to leeward and
out of sight. Consequently I did not get a good view of
these. Later after passing the White Dogs I saw a black
petrel; the weather being still misty, I could not note any
special feature. One moth came on board here, but was
blown overboard almost as soon as I saw it. Then I saw a
small flock of some duck-like bird, but though I recognise
that these are to be met with from here to the Gulf of
Pechili, I have never got a good enough view to describe
their special features.
October 12th.-Being 3 miles east of Peshan Island.
A fresh northerly wind and rough sea. One gull (L canus)
follows in the ship's wake all the forenoon. This afternoon
when off Crate Island, the ship being 1 mile to the eastward,
a large hawk, possibly a goshawk, flew past, but of course
one is seldom sure if correct in naming a bird seen only for
a few minutes, and by the time I had got my binoculars to
view it was out of range, going in the direction of the land to
the west.
October 13th.-Being north of Steep Island Pass. A
fresh northerly wind and fair. Not until we were through
the Pass was any bird seen to-day, and now 11 a.m. I see
half a dozen gulls following in our wake. These remained
two hours and disappeared as quickly as they come. Passing
through the Cairnsmore Channel at the Northern End I saw
one gannett-immature-fishing on the edge of the tidal
stream. Here a few very large rufous coloured medusae
were seen.
October 14th. Lat. 33-05 N., Long. 122-50' E. Light
northerly airs and very fine clear weather. Last night the
cat caught a dove, but would not let me take it away, and
being dark I could not see very well, but it was probably the
common Chinese turtle dove (T Orientalis). Since daylight
several species of land-birds have been on board, but up to the
present I have been unable to get a good view. One however
appears to be some kind of fly-catcher, and amongst the
others is a finch or two. Being now in Lat. 34-00 N.,
Long. 122-47 E. The wind having just shifted to the N.W.
(4); sky overcast and dull with a few drops of rain. A small
flock of land birds, flying low, close to the water, passed
ahead of the ship; it was now getting dark but I thought
they were swallows. A pair of grey wagtail came to rest

28
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
A
and remained as well as several other small land-birds,
which I could not identify as the light was failing.
kestrel also hovered round trying to find some sheltered
place to rest, but was disturbed by the cat. After dark I
found that the cat had caught a bird and eaten it in my
room, covering everything most liberally with feathers.
Later the cat brought in another bird, which though greatly
mutilated appeared to be a wagtail, possibly one of the grey
wagtail seen earlier in the evening.
October 15th. Approaching Chen-lien-tau off Tsingtau.
A strong N.W. (5-6) wind all night, but now moderates, fine
and clear. I saw one small land-bird, a wagtail, and several
flocks of duck, from 20 to 30 birds in each flock, these were
all larger birds than mallard, but too far away to identify.
One mature gannett and a few gulls follow in our wake until
anchored off Tsingtau. And then some half dozen gulls
(L Canus) remained astern watching for offal.
October 18th.-Tsingtau to Newchwang.
Light S.E.
airs and fine, the atmosphere is full of dust. I saw a gull
at rest on the water, too far away to identify, yet I do
not think it was a common one. Nothing particular was
seen until approaching Surveyor Island; passing two and
a half miles north of this, many small land-birds were seen
amongst which were half a dozen swallows, which kept
together in one flock hawking round the ship for flies. None
of the birds remained with us for long, not over half an
hour. A hawk, which I think was a kestrel, hovered round
the ship for some time, and left when the swallows did.
No doubt this was the reason for the birds going elsewhere.
These birds were difficult to identify, being so continually on
the go, but amongst them I noticed two species of wagtail,
and one of these was the grey-wagtail, I fancy. After dark
a few moths came on board but I was unable to catch any
of them.
October 19th.-Lat. 37-50' N., Long. 122-15' E. Light
N.E. winds and fine. Air very clear. Several land birds at
different times. A finch of some kind, not unlike a chaffinch
at the first glance but differs considerably after a good view.
And a pair of pigeon, possibly (T Orientalis). Later this
evening the cat caught one of the finches, it was rather
mauled when I had succeeded in getting it, and a part
description would not be of much assistance.
October 25th.-Approaching Newchwang Bar. Light
N.W. airs and fine. Many small land-birds flew on board,
but as I was very busy, I had no opportunity to give sufficient
attention to determine what they were. On proceeding up
the river Liao a few flocks of duck or guillemot were met.
with.

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
29
October 29th.-Chefoo to Swatow. Wind N.E. (4-5);
fine. Lat. 35-37 N., Long. 123-01' E. Last night the sea
was phosphorescent, otherwise to-day has been a blank.
October 31st.-Lat. 29-02' N., Long. 122-40' E. N.E.
wind and misty rain, at 8 a.m. wind shifts to N.W. strong;
continuous thick misty rain. At daylight a pigeon on board.
Later several other small birds were seen, one small wren-
like bird, but the gale increasing I think that they were
blown to sea. Moths of various kinds seen since daylight,
but the wind blows them away to leeward as fast as they
appear.
November 1st.-Tung Yung west 18 miles distant, wind
N.N.E. strong monsoon-squally and overcast. Several land
birds were seen this morning, one finch-like bird, general
colour greenish yellow, a brown black cap, wings brownish
green with several white spots. A pair of martins-colour
brownish black all over. A bird similiar in appearance to
a thrush in size and manner of flight, colour speckled brown
breast, rather a short bill and longish tail. Several other
birds were seen but of none did I get a very good view,
misty weather fogs the binoculars, so that they are no great
help. Some moths were seen at daylight, I fancy that these
came on board last night-I could not catch any. Noon
Lat. 26-17 N., Long. 120-40' E. Similiar weather. Several
more land-birds appeared this afternoon, a pigeon and a few
small birds of various kinds, but being misty I could not see
very clearly what these were. Medusae occasionally, and
when approaching Turnabout this evening the sea was dis-
coloured by ruddy patches due to plankton.
November 2nd.-Off Chapel Island-distant 4 miles.
A strong N.E. monsoon, fine and clear weather. One small
land-bird and a gull were seen but unable to identify either.
When rounding the south end of Nanica Island, I saw
several terns, brownish black; and a few gulls.
November 3rd.-Swatow Bar. A few gulls (L canus)
and many common terns. After entering the river white
dolphin appear, usually in pairs. Many of these are marked
by large black patches on their sides.
November 7th.-Swatow to Shanghai. Leaving Swa-
tow, when passing Stick-up Rock, many black terns here-
abouts and resting on the Rock. These may be noddy terns.
I often see these here and the rock is covered with guano
from the number of sea birds which rest there. These are
also occasionally met with on the wing between Cape Good
Hope and Three Chimney Bluff. However, it is seldom
that you can get a good view close to of these terns.

30
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
November 9th.-In Haitan Strait. N.E. monsoon;
strong. All yesterday I only saw one or two gulls. To-day
I have seen a few gulls, never more than three or four at
one time, which were all (L canus) as far as I can tell, in
mature and immature plumage. And several of a large
species of tern, having tips of wings black; and a curlew
flew past. Further north, off Matsu, a land-bird pays a
visit, somewhat like a thrush, it being about the same in
size, general colour an olive green with a white streak over
the eye. Bill greenish yellow, with a somewhat forked tail.
Flight a few rapid beats, then its wings were held half closed
to its sides, and a few more beats and so on, the wings had
rounded tips. A pair of swallows were also seen hereabouts.
A
November 10th.-Bullock Harbour-at 10.30 a.m.
fresh N.E. monsoon, fine and very clear. When passing
through here a pair of crows flew past, also several other
land-birds, of gulls two kinds, one of which (L canus). The
others I could not identify. These follow in our wake.
Medusae seen occasionally. When approaching Taluk
Island I saw four ducks fly in from seaward towards the
mainland.
November 11th.-Nearing Tung Ting Island. Wind
W.N.W. a strong breeze but very fine. The only bird seen
before noon was one pigeon. This tries to rest on board but
cannot find a sheltered place. Later a few gulls (L canus)
follow astern.
November 15th.-Shanghai to Hongkong. Wind N.N.E.
a strong monsoon, and cloudy. Patchekok Island bearing
W.N.W. 15 miles distant. One pigeon flew round the ship
a few times, the land being plainly visible at the time, and
one goose was seen circling round the ship in an aimless
manner, as if lost: also several gulls, immature I think,
bill greenish yellow, black tip, mottled plumage, and are
possibly herring gull. Their flight is slower than that of
the common gull. Just before dark a small bird somewhat
like a chaffinch came on board but it was then too dark to
note its colour properly.
November 16th.-Approaching Turnabout Island N.E.
(5); strong monsoon and cloudy. Several large gulls like
those seen yesterday, there are now both mature and im-
mature birds in view. Then there is another gull, perhaps im-
mature, rather a longish white tail with a deep black band
on the margin. A small land-bird made its appearance just
at dark, so that I could not note its colour. At this time
we were approaching Dodd Island which was distant 20 miles
to the westward.

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
31
November 17th.-Abeam of Lamock Island N.S.W.
distant 10 miles. Wind N.N.E. (5); monsoon moderating.
Some kind of wagtail flew on board, but did not remain very
long. A gull with deep black margin to its tail was seen-
the same kind as yesterday. The sea being very rough
plankton has not been seen.
November 21st.-Hongkong to Saigon. Wind E.N.E.
(5); very fine. Left Hongkong at 4 p.m. A great number of
locusts on board, whilst in the harbour, and medusae plenti-
ful.
The only birds seen when passing through the Islands
to Gap Rock were a few boobies-brownish colour-and one
small land-bird was also seen.
November 22nd.-Lat. 19-10' N., Long. 112-00 E. Wind
N.E.N. (5). Fresh breeze, overcast and thick misty rain all
day. Several moths were seen to fly past, which must have
come from the mainland or Hainan Island. I also heard
one land-bird but did not see it.
November 23rd.-Lat. 17-00' N., Long. 110-25' E. Our
position at daybreak. Wind N.E.N. Fresh breeze and
thick misty rain. A flying fish was seen, the first this trip,
also it was the only one I saw all day. At noon Lat. 16-02' N.
Long. 109-30 E. Similiar weather. A pest of flies fills
every room in the ship and I saw one hornet. Towards
sunset one booby was seen.
November 24th.-Cape Varella S. 84° W. 7 miles dis-
tant at 5.40 a.m., winds moderate W.N.W. and fine. A gull
(L Canus) immature follows astern. Between Davaich Head
and Cape Padaran a large yellow butterfly and a dragon fly
came on board.
November 25th.-Passing Cape St. James. Light N.W.
winds and cloudy. I saw one tern, and a few insects are
met with on the wing hereabouts.
Voyage from Saigon to Tjilatjap via Batavia, Carimata
Straits, Java Sca and Sunda Straits, round the South Coast
of Java. Returning through Bali Strait, Java Sea and
Macassar Strait, calling at Sebattik in British North Borneo
then to Basilan Straits and direct route through the
Philippine Islands to Hong Kong.
December 2nd.-Left Saigon for Batavia on the 30th
November. A very strong N.E. monsoon, generally fine,
but occasional squalls of rain. A rough sea throughout until
the Natuna Islands were passed. When in Lat. 9-30' N.,
Long. 107-22' E. in the evening of the 30th November, a
pair of swallows were seen. Since then nothing has been
seen until to-day the 2nd of December, position at noon
Lat. 4-02 N., Long. 108-44 E. When midway between

32
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
North and South Natuna Islands I saw a tern, a large bird,
head and neck white but spotted with French grey spots,
belly white, wings white with brownish tips. This evening
a booby, brown head neck and upper parts, white under,
bill light yellow, feet greenish, possibly (S leucogastra). This
bird tried to rest on board but there was too much wind for
comfort; these few birds have been the only ones seen since
our departure from Saigon.
December 3rd.-Lat. 0-46' N., Long. 108-13 E. Wind
northerly (4), overcast with heavy rain squalls at times. Ap-
proaching Direction Island a few boobies (S leucogastra)
following shoals of fish. I saw a small shoal of dolphin,
only the back and dorsal fins seen-colour a deep black,
and this evening I saw a frigate bird. (F equila) soaring
round the ship. It is always a pleasure to watch these birds
flying, there being no other bird in my opinion that can
equal the flight of a frigate bird.
December 4th.-At anchor 2 miles north of Serutu
Island in Carimata Straits. Fog and torrential rains, variable
wind from north. Several moths were seen, also a few
pairs of paddy birds (brownish olive colour). These last
flying towards the Island: but when the rain came on, they
flew round the ship. Boobies (S leucogastra) also seen
occasionally; owing to the rain the birds had to pass very
close to be seen at all. Plankton present also gulf weed
and other sea weed, pieces of wood covered with barnacles
also floate past, the current setting E.S.E. to knot per
hour. A sample of the bottom which I got off the anchor
when it was weighed was a stiff blue mud, containing shells
whole and in fragments, pieces of coral and sand. One
solitary frigate bird sailed round the ship, coming quite
close at times a beautiful and interesting sight.
December 5th.-Lat. 4-32 S., Long. 108-28' E. Wind
west (3), continuous rain all day. All day nothing was seen
excepting a few pieces of gulf weed and some plankton.
This evening I caught a moth in my room.
December 6th.-Lat. 5-52' S., Long. 106-51' E. Similiar
weather; westerly wind and continuous rain. Several frigate
birds were seen and these accompanied the ship all day.
A large tern, black cap and French grey wings, and several
moths were seen to fly past. A land bird, possibly some
kind of finch also flew past chirping loudly, and a sea bird
brownish black, like some small tern. These were flying
low over the sea looking for food; owing to the rain I
could not use binoculars, consequently I could not get
sufficient details to identify any of the birds. Gulf weed
and plankton, stems of old banana trees, palm leaves and

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
33
sticks, passed all day long. Also a few sea-snakes, and as is
usual with these reptiles, they were lying any how on the
surface, one very large snake was lying belly uppermost
with head and tail hanging down at right angles-this was
not dead as I at first thought as he put himself the right way
up when we passed; and a large fish, like a tunny leapt
out of the water several times.
December 7th.-At anchor in Batavia Roads. Heavy
rains. A peculiar beetle came on board at night. A kind
of fire-fly-the light being emitted from a cream coloured
band on its belly close to the vent.
December 8th.-Batavia to Tjilatjap-variable winds
and squally. When passing Payang Islet, I saw a flock
of frigate birds hovering and fishing over a shoal of fish.
Shoals of fish plentiful at times. Medusae and plankton
present, also, gulf weed and various pieces of wood, leaves
and other odds and ends float past. Off St. Nicholas Point
I saw a large land-bird somewhat like a swift, plumage a
steel blue, a few terns seen here and plenty of pumice in
the Straits of Sunda.
December 9th.-Passing 6 miles South of Genteng Point
(on the South Coast of Java). Tropic birds were met with
and were the first seen this trip. These were, the red tailed
tropic bird the general plumage of a roseate tinge-and
red tail (P rubricanda). A few large flying fish having two
sets of wing-like fins were also noticed for the first time.
Generally I think these kind of flying fish, fly more hori-
zontally than the smaller species, as the small ones fly at
the angle with which they left the water 45 to 60 degrees
about. But of course it much depends on the way or angle
with which they start into the air. Before sunset being
about 3 miles from the coast, a moth and one dragon fly
hover round the ship. And a booby was disturbed, this so
heavily weighted with fish that it could only fly with
difficulty. An occasional piece of gulf weed and pumice seen.
There being considerable surface current noticeable.
December 21st.--Tjilatjap to Hongkong-via Bali
Strait, etc. Lat. 8-26' S., Long. 111-16' E. Light easterly
airs, very fine. A few frigate birds and tropic birds were
seen, but nothing else all day.
December 22nd.-Approaching Balambangan Peninsula
-light easterly airs, very fine and clear, smooth sea.
Several frigate birds; occasionally a flying fish jumps out,
and I saw a bunch of four duck-like birds flying out to sea,
but too distant to be able to identify. At present all life
is scarce. However, closing the Peninsula, to haul up for
Bali Strait a lot of drift-wood and gulf weed was seen and
3

34
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
shoals of fish appeared numerous; these shoals were at times
greatly disturbed when chased by larger fish or tunny. Some
schools of dolphin: and a whale jumped out several times.
After rounding the Peninsula, plankton like grains of paddy,
a dark straw colour, in very extensive patches at times; at
others, the sea being smooth, it could be seen like grains of
paddy broadcast to a considerable depth. And as the ship
got closer to Tanjong Pakem at the entrance to the narrows
terns in flocks were met with, being otherwise busy, I could
not afford time to observe these closely, but there appeared
to be two species. Frigate birds and terns were hovering
and fishing together. And I saw another sea bird more like
a puffin having short and pointed wings, with a rapid flight
full of twists and turns, of these I saw only six all in one
flock. At the Northern Entrance to Bali Strait a swallow
was hawking over the ship, insects being plentiful and
various kinds of butterflies, some of which were a yellowish
white all over. Between Bali and Sapudi Straits. At
night phosphorescent light was seen at a considerable depth,
none however close to the surface.
December 23rd.-Lat. 5-58' S., Long. 115-10' E. Wind
N.N.E. (3); very fine. The cat caught some kind of rail at
daylight and though cruelly mauled I was able to note its
features generally. Colour-a light brown with darker bars
on belly and legs, a dark cap and a lighter streak over the
eyes; bill, upper olive brown, under greenish yellow; eyes
and tail destroyed; legs olive green; claws brownish.
During the day we passed many pieces of timber, tree tops
and leaves. Frigate birds were often seen at rest on the
pieces of wood. And some flying fish were seen, these were
all the smaller kind and not so dark as those seen on the
South Coast of Java. Common house flies plentiful all day
and towards sunset when fully 30 miles distant from Mata
Siri quite a lot of dragon flies and a few moths appeared.
December 24th. At 11 a.m. Lari Larian Coral Reef
N. 56' W. 2 miles. Wind N.W. (3), very fine and clear; sea
smooth. As soon as daylight came in frigate birds and
flocks of a large species of tern were seen together,
chasing the shoals of fish, of which there seemed to be
plenty. Large flocks of boobies with over a hundred birds
in a flock, these also chasing shoals of fish but never in
company with other birds. A school of some kind of whale,
somewhat like a grampus, but passing at too great a distance
I was unable to make these out distinctly. There are two
kinds of boobies, those seen earlier were a larger bird than
the small brown booby which last is seen occasionally.
Several moths in the early morning. Plankton present in

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
35
the form of long streaky patches, very like paddy in form
and colour, extending N.E. and S.W., and occasional pieces
of gulf weed, nuts and seeds and pieces of trees float by.
When about 12 miles to the eastward of the Reef but few
birds. Most of the birds had left and few were seen after
this. At daylight I saw one or two flying fish.
December 25th.-Lat. 0-51' S., Long. 118-50' E. Light
westerly winds showery at first, later overcast but fine. A
swallow remains on board all day, taking short flights
occasionally, twice I caught it in my room, so far as I know
it escaped the cats and flew away as night came on. The
land near Cape Meng Kalibat being in sight: in the distance
I saw a large flock of booby following shoals of fish.
Plankton present throughout the day, and on the edge of a
tidal current large patches of gulf weed, trees, and leaves,
etc. On many of the pieces of drift wood I saw a species
of tern, plumage a dark leaden colour, with black tips to
its wings, usually they flew off as the ship got close. At
night some phosphorescence.
December 26th.-Passing 3 miles east of Muaras Reef.
Light N.W. airs and very fine. Large flocks of a small white
tern following shoals of fish. As we passed the shoals,
large fish, which appeared to be black in the distance, leaped
out now and again. In shape these fish were short and
almost oval. Whether these were chasing the flying fish,
or merely in company with these in the shoal and were
themselves being chased by still larger fish I don't know,
but their oval form did not appear suited to fast or rapid
movements. I did not however, see any larger fish. A
pair of brown booby flew by just before night, at which time
flying fish were present in large shoals. To-night the sea
was phosphorescent, but not remarkably so, and between
8 and 9 p.m. there was a very strong smell of czone.
December 27th.-The Approaches to Sebuku Bay.
Wind westerly (4); very heavy rain earlier but clearing up at
10 a.m.
Here I saw very many tunny-like fish, very large
ones, these frequently leap out, sometimes to re-enter by a
good header, at other times they just fell into the water
broadside, making a great splash.
At first but few flying fish to be seen, but when ap-
proaching Cowie Bay these became more plentiful, but none
were seen in the bay itself. Frigate birds singly or in pairs
were common throughout the day, more numerous off Darby
Reef. A peculiar thing about the flying fish was that some
shoals would be entirely composed of very small fish, other
shoals would have full grown only. Large and small fish
not being seen mixed in any one shoal.

36
SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
December 28th.-Approaching Darby Reef, after hav-
ing been to Sebattik. Light westerly airs and fine. Again
many shoals of flying fish, each formed of large or small fish
as noticed yesterday. A few frigate birds here, and three
terns resting on a piece of drift wood. On the edge of tidal
current there was a good deal of drift wood and cut logs.
The ship has many insects mostly some kind of beetle, which
came on board at the wharf last night. Booby also here-
abouts and one tropic bird.
December 29th.-Lat. 4-5 N., Long. 120-51 E. (Time
9.20 a.m.) Wind S.W. to Southerly, and clear. Last
night off Sebuku Passage very heavy tide rips causing a
rough sea. A moderate amount of phosphorescence here.
Nothing seen all day until the evening when a few booby
appeared, and small shoals of flying fish.
December 30th.-Approaching Basilan Strait. Light
N.E. winds very fine and clear. Early this morning when
passing Cape Matanal we passed through a patch of phos-
phorescent light, about one acre in extent, which emitted
one enormous and brilliant glow at intervals of one second,
the pulsation was most regular. The sea was generally
phosphorescent all night but only seen when disturbed by
the vessel's bow wave or by tidal rips. Passing Samboanga
several swallows were to be seen hawking round the ship.
Here flies again made themselves felt. A few terns were
seen, sometimes at rest on a piece of drift wood, but all
too far away to describe or identify. Many shoals of fish
were seen in Basilan Strait but no flying fish until we were
at the Western Entrance, when a few appeared. Here also
a very large white fish about 10 feet long jumped out several
times, possibly a shark or sword fish. To-night a booby
flies around looking for quarters for the night, but could not
find a quiet spot so eventually left. Several species of
insects, beetles and moths came on board whilst in the
Strait, but I did not succeed in catching any.
December 31st.-At 9 a.m. Nogas Point bore East 2
miles. Wind easterly (3-4); very fine. Only a few flying
fish seen, and during the day some dragon flies and beetles
came on board remaining until dark.
January 1st, 1917.-At 8.30 a.m. Cape Kalivite N. 60
E. 2 miles. Light N.E. winds and very fine. A few
flying fish seen since daylight. When nearing Cabra Island
I had a fine view of a white-breasted sea eagle (H
leucogastra) which hovered round for a short time and then
flew towards the land. This evening when off Kapones a
large flock of boobies passed ahead, mostly full
grown birds
but I saw a few immature birds amongst them, they were

SOME NOTES ON LAND-BIRDS
37
following shoals of flying fish, which have been plentiful
since passing Cabra.
January 2nd.-Lat. 16-47' N., Long. 118-43 E. Mo-
derate northerly wind and fine. Two boobies and a flying
fish seen.
January 3rd. Lat. 18-51' N., Long. 117-05' E. A
strong N.E. (6) monsoon, fine. A rough sea. Flying fish
fairly numerous throughout the day.
January 4th.-Lat. 20-45' N., Long. 115-27' E. A
strong N.E. (7) monsoon, very squally with rain, sea very
rough. Only an occasional flying fish seen.