A CASE OF RITUALISM*
EVAN MORGAN
This paper will not deal with the ritualistic questions
that have disturbed modern life. There is no intention of
discussing the roads that lead to Rome-nor pass an opinion
on the points of ritual that divide the Anglican Church.
These are but the relics of a quality much more ancient :
qualities that seem rooted in human nature.
We must pass beyond all the modern ritualistic cases,
to one in a much earlier time. We must try and imagine
ourselves placed in the world's age about the 12th century
before Christ, in an age coming soon after the times of
Moses and in China. For here a case of ritualism occurred,
on or about that time, that has been the subject of great
controversies through many succeeding ages, and which
became the occasion of intense grief, sorrow, and even in-
dignation to Confucius.
Europe was without a history when the question
originated. The Roman empire had not emerged: and
Greece was in its myth period. But even at this earliest
point, before the dawn of Western history, Chinese Society
was well established and enjoyed the benefits of an advanced
and organised civilization. A brilliant period had dawned in
its history-the illustrious period of the House of Chow.
Wen had laid the foundations of and Wu had organised a
great empire. By the help of Chi Tant known as the Duke
of Chou, the son of Wen and brother of Wu, a man of incom-
parable ability, a system of rites and ceremonies was fixed
and organized that has been the admiration of the Chinese
ever since. It would be incorrect to conclude that all this
elaborate system was the personal creation of the Duke of
Chow. It must be that these rites were gradually evolved
in the course of ages, and that the duke was the Moses who
planned, codified, and possibly also created much of them.
His work is seen in the Chow Li, a monumental work
witnessing to a vast industry and profound ability. A
special atmosphere should be created for a proper apprecia-
tion of this subject. An atmosphere such as is created in
*Read before the Society, April 18th, 1918. E.

A CASE OF RITUALISM
129
In
the mind by the reading of Marcus the Epicurean.
either case you are introduced into a life different from our
modern life, into homes and surroundings with ideals far
removed from ours. You feel you are in another age, in
another world of human thought and life. And to get the
full significance of the subject before us we have to transfer
ourselves into this remote antiquity; and be imbued with
the feelings and spirit of an age unlike our own in many
ways. We have to create a mental picture of a much
simpler state of Society: yet after we have created such a
picture, we shall not look upon these human institutions in
the process of making, but shall be plunged into a somewhat
advanced state of culture already made, and replete with all
the fundamental laws that have governed human institutions
ever since; institutions based on certain broad and universal
ideas that have offered repose to the succeeding generations
of men everywhere; and yet how different everything out
wardly seems. We are in a state of rush working our way
through the mazes of modern industrial pathways, beholding
the results of the scientific spirit everywhere; but they in
antiquity, following a simple life, ruled by a few ideals that
made human life very intimate. They were under the more
immediate sway of spiritual feelings, we are more under the
control of the senses.
Two great events in those ancient times filled life; one
was the solemn and moving trial of war, the other the august
ceremonials of the great sacrifices.* To the one men looked
with dread; to the other with feelings of awe. The celebra-
tions of the Sacrifices were awaited with solemnity; and the
whole strength of the country economically and spiritually
was devoted to their ample and elaborate preparations: the
royal mandates spread throughout the land summoning men
to prepare their hearts for the worship of God, and ordering
the divinations and horoscopes for the days and sacred
animals. In obedience to the royal commands a crowd of
officers was busy preparing the wines, the savoury meats,
the salads, and immense parapharnalia required, such as
the sacred vessels-thousands upon thousands of them-
ending with the preparation of the altars. All these formed
a great part of the national concern and coloured the mental
life of the people. And I have no doubt that in many homes
it was the great theme that occupied the minds of the men
and women and children, and formed the centre of the family
life. They had little concern with the outside world, but
this approach to Heaven, this renewal of intercourse with
*國之大事在與戎
9

130
A CASE OF RITUALISM
ancestors who had become spiritual beings created a realm
of thought that made people think a little more seriously and
tread a little more softly.
When the great day of the worship of Heaven arrived,
crowds of people lined the way and looked with reverence
and awe on the Grand Coach in which rode the Son of
Heaven-he was such peculiarly on that day; they gazed
upon the long cavalcade: sometimes also on the irreverent
crowd of royal females that followed in the imperial train.
In the silence of the night the vigil was observed by the
King and his officials, and the darkness as well as the flush
of the dawn itself gave the whole scene a great feeling of
mysticism and spirituality.
The austere simplicity of the great altar for the Chiao
sacrifice of Heaven, the solemn precincts of the T'ai Miao
with its endless halls and courts and corridors where the
living could meet with the dead ancestor, the solemn stillness
all contributed to the creation of devout feelings that res-
ponded in gratitude to the love and kindness of those gone.
Such then roughly is a picture of the mental state of
the people in ancient times, a thousand or 2000 years B.C.
They were imbued with the majesty of the emperor who was
the living embodiment of the divinity that dwelt in some
star, and to which he had a correspondence-the emperor was
the embodiment of a divine star-not always the same star:
different dynasties naturally were under different stars.
Being such he alone could discharge the great function of the
Chiao, Wang, Ti. These are exclusively royal prerogatives:
as absolute, as exclusive as the ceremonies of the Church of
Rome in the dispensations of its sacraments. Indeed there is
much similarity in the animism that rules either.
The Chiao is a word meaning suburb, country as
opposed to the town. The great altar was built outside the
capital in the Chiao or Suburb: and hence the sacrifice
itself came to be known as the Chiao, the great sacrifice to
Heaven. WANG was the sacrifice to the mountain ranges;
and the Ti was the quinquennial sacrifice of all the clans,
but its full significance and intention is not known to-day.
Now the king alone could perform these sacrifices. It was
not permissible for feudal lords to do so. The feudal state
of Lu however assumed the kingly prerogatives of celebrating
this Chiao sacrifice and thus committed a great sacrilege.
Almost as great a sacrilege as it would appear to some were a
nonconformist minister to celebrate in place of the pope.
This is our case of Ritualism.
* 奶 †
$.

A CASE OF RITUALISM
131
But how was it that Lu, one of the most reputable
feudal states of ancient China, came to commit this sacrilege,
an impiety towards Heaven and a crime against men. The
excuse is that Ch'eng Wang* conferred exceptional honours
and privileges on Lu because of the great services of the
Duke of Chow.
As the duke figures largely in this case of Ritualism it is
necessary to get some acquaintance with him.
The Duke of Chow was a man of great merit. He was
the son of Wen the founder, and brother of Wu the organizer
of the Chow empire. King Wu was very old when he came
to the throne, and his brother Chi Tan, the personal name
of the Duke, gave him immense help in the work of organi-
zation and was rewarded with the fiefdom of Lu. But
instead of going there himself he sent his son Pei Ch'in in
his place, preferring to remain as a minister in Chow, to
consolidate the empire, rather than proceed to the honours
of the new position himself.
When King Wu died the youthful Ch'eng* succeeded,
and the Duke of Chow spent the wealth of his affectionate
nature on him-the Chinese have expressed it by saying
"he trimmed the nails of the infant."
When the father died Duke Chow made himself regent,
with sinister motives said his two brothers Kuant and Tsai : [
but the good Duke paid no heed to the scandal-mongers-and
went forward in his unselfish way to pacify the newly
acquired kingdom. He welded the new territories into a
strong empire on feudal lines: and in spite of suspicions and
a short banishment, created that immortal empire of Chow-
handing down to posterity a name glorious for himself.
He became the ideal man of Confucius.
The Chinese speak of the doctrines of Chow and K'ung
to this day. Mencius says: "Ch'en Liang§ was pleased with
the doctrines of Chow Kung and Chung Ni: he came north-
ward and studied them." There is a temple standing some-
where in Kiangsu to-day to the joint names of Chow and
K'ung. These two sages are pre-eminently the ideal men of
China: the brilliant examples of blameless as well as illus-
trious careers.
Chow left behind him some state papers and prayers.
They were found in the iron coffer or safe and reveal the
loyal and affectionate nature of the man. When the King
his brother was very ill he went to pray for his life offering
his own instead. This, and his care of the young emperor,
as well as his great ideals for the people, are to be seen in
* 成王 +
求蔡 § MR.

132
A CASE OF RITUALISM
these memoranda that he left behind. These are the prayers.
and aspirations of no ordinary man.
A study of his life and actions suggests a comparison
with Moses, not exactly his contemporary, for Moses was
earlier by about two centuries. But there is much that is
similar in their careers. They are both great statesmen:
and they stand towering majestically on the distant horizons
of ancient history. They both led their people on the lines
of law and order, not of force.
It is most instructive to compare the tendencies they
inculcated with others set in motion by the great potentates
of Asia. These two men depended on law, rites, ceremonies,
principles; others like the Kings of Egypt, Babylon, Assyria
depended on armies,-on force. These exponents of might
are only remembered for their monster armies and great
conquests with the unthinkable waste of human life. On
the other hand, the Jews and Chinese endeavoured to
establish culture on the humanities; and the culture of
Moses and Chow remain to this day. Moses after the
liberation of the Jews from their slavery in Egypt created
the great codes of government for them. Life was based on
the covenants. A little later the Duke of Chow was simi-
larily busy formulating his codes of Rites and Ceremonies,-
the Chou Kuan or Chou Li, for the consolidation of empire.
The one was creating a theocratic democracy: the other an
autocracy on animistic ideas; the one was making a state of
men to be ruled by an Invisible king: the other was creating
a state under the government of a visible king-an earthly
monarch, but who also was the direct representative of some
divinity that dwelt in a star: the one seemed to be inspired
with a pure spiritual vision; the other was bound by
animistic conceptions of the cosmos. These two sages had
much in common: they had great nobility of character; their
actions were animated by lofty ideals. But the difference in
their codes, in their conceptions of men and things has
ultimately led to widely different results. We cannot help
wondering what the results for China and the world would
have been if the Duke of Chow had the spiritual grasp of
Moses and Abraham.
The thing to be remembered about their work is this
that to both human institutions rested on divine sanction. A
harmonious co-operation with the order and law of the
universe was in their view the successful way of obtaining
government amongst men. And it was partly the violation
of this law, as expressed in the great ceremonies which is the
subject of this paper, that made Confucius a pessimist with
regard to human government. He was the reverential be-

A CASE OF RITUALISM
133
liever in the law of Heaven, and the strong advocate of a
punctilious observance of all Rites, because rites were based
on correspondences in Nature. And it aroused his wrath to
think that his own native state of Lu should be a trans-
gressor in this respect, a State that otherwise was most
punctilious in the proprieties, and nearly perfect according
to his own judgment.. But in the case of ritualism under
consideration he despaired of ever seeing the right govern-
ment of man. "I must leave Lu," he said, "but whither
shall I go? All the world is out of joint; men obey their
own ideas rather than the harmony of nature."
How did it happen that this fine man the Duke of Chow
was involved in this ritualistic case? It began in this way.
Wu Wang (1122-1116 B.C.) appointed his youngest brother,
the Duke of Chow to the principality of Lu because of his
great merits in ruling the empire, and it is said that Ch'eng
Wang later on ordered that he be sacrificed to by succeeding
generations with the ceremonies and music accorded to
kings. Therefore the Duke of Lu in the first month of
spring rode in the Grand Ccach to the sacrifice of God at the
Chiao with Hou Chi as associate. From the crescent shaped
bamboo arm on the coach was unfurled the flag with the
twelve streamers, emblazoned with the sun and moon.
These are ceremonies of the King."
Confucius said: "Ah! Alas! I look at the ways of
Chow. The Kings Yüt and Lit corrupted them indeed:
but if I leave Lu where shall I go to find any better country!
The Chiao of Lu is contrary to propriety:-how have the
institutions of the Duke of Chow fallen into decay!" §
Bear clearly in mind the points at issue. The charge
of impiety against Lu is that it arrogated to itself the great
rite of the Chiao sacrifice to Heaven and used the imperial
music and dances.
Such
Various factors enter into the problem making what
appears on the face of it a simple question into a complicated
one. We need only consider a few of these things.
as (1) The date when the Chiao was held; (2) Was there more
than one Chiao. (The different calendars in use have added
to the difficulty); (3) What was the significance of the records
made in the Chronicles by Confucius of the mishaps to the
sacrificial victims. There are nine such items,-recording
inauspicious divinations, diseases of the animals, the ap-
pearance of venomous mice and so on; (4) Did the Duke of
Lu ride in the Grand Coach? (5) Did he use the forbidden
music and the dances?
* 公園
念
S-Legge Li Chi, Book VII, p. 373.

134
A CASE OF RITUALISM
If he did then he is guilty of a great sacrilege. This is
the question we have to solve.
To answer these questions let us examine the opinions
of some Chinese authorities.
Chao Pei Hsun says:-"the Chiao sacrifice is for the
worship of Shang Ti. The privilege of this sacrifice was
obtained by Lu from the royal house of Chow because of the
merits of the Duke of Chow. But this Chiao was not held
on the day of the great sacrifice to Heaven, i.c. the winter
solstice, in order to keep it distinct from the kingly sacrifice,
but at the opening season of agriculture, i.e. the first moon
of the year according to the Hsia Calendar."
The commentary on the Chiao Te Shengt says:-
"Scholars are not unanimous in their view as to the explana-
tion of the Chiao sacrifice of Lu." Dr. Ts'ui and Dr.
Huang follow the opinion of Wang Su, holding that Lu
observed the Chiao sacrifice of Heaven on the Winter
Solstice. On the first moon there was another Chiao
sacrifice, that of the invocation for grain. Hence the
Tso Chuan states: "the Chiao was observed when the insects
began to move." Again it says, "The Chiao sacrifice to
Hou Chi is a prayer for husbandry." These were the only
two Chiao.
It is apparent there were two services of the Chiao, one
on the winter solstice, the other in the early spring about
the time of new year according to the old style. The one
was for the sacrifice of Heaven, the august rite of the worship
of Shang Ti, which the king alone could perform. The other
Chiao was the sacrifice for agriculture offered in the spring.
At this too Heaven was worshipped and Hou Chi was made
the Associate. This was also performed by the king. Now
it is the general opinion that the worship of Shang Ti was
done on the winter solstice, just as the days turned and
began to lengthen.
The great Han Commentator, Dr. Cheng K'ang Ch'eng,p
has written much on this, but on the whole his views have
been rejected by later scholars. His view was that Lu had
but one Chiao, which was not celebrated at the same time
as when the King of Chow sacrificed to Shang Ti. He in-
troduces the strange and erratic view that the kingly rite of
sacrifice to Heaven was performed in the spring about the
New Year: that Lu sacrificed on the winter solstice, but
this was not the great sacrifice to Heaven. He adduces
certain proofs for this unique view. These proofs we need
not consider now.
*趙伯郊特牲 § 王 后秘♈鄭康成

A CASE OF RITUALISM
135
Another great scholar, Dr. Yeh of Shih Lin, controverts
this extraordinary view of Dr. Cheng. Yeh relies on a book
called the Ming Tang Wei, which states that the Duke of
Lu offered sacrifice to God during the first moon of spring,
i.c. about the time of the present lunar new year. In the
celebration Hou Chi was associated with Shang Ti in the
worship. There were other sacrifices performed by him in
the T'ai Miao and so on. Now the point of controversy
between these two hangs on the dates and the calendar.
The use of the horary characters and celestial stems, and the
different calendars in vogue have created much confusion.
These dates and methods of chronology have been a fruitful
source of discussion. Writers have revelled in the opportunity
for subtilty and sophistry offered by these different diurnal
and lunar calculations. It should be remembered that the
chronology of the Hsia dynasty ruled for ages: and though
Chow introduced a system of its own, yet in all state
business of Chow, the calendar invented by the Hsia dynasty
was used as a rule; of course no human calculations and
registration of the seasons can make any real difference in
the thing, and as the Hsia method seemed to be nearer to
the moons it was preserved even by Chow in its annals.
Yet the Chow officials differentiated the months by their own
method of chronology, and generally, dates were recorded
according to both methods: this gave rise to much confusion.
The Hsia calendar recorded the first moon under the
horary letter Yin; The Chow calendar recorded the first moon
under the horary letter Tzû; The Shang calendar recorded
the first moon under the horary letter Ch'ou.
It may be possible for us to appreciate this point from
an example taken from methods in use to-day. A person,
a thousand years hence, writing of the dates used now in
China might find same difficulty in fixing the absolute date
of any event because of the two calendars. One being the
lunar moon, that is to say the old style which made a
record of events by the use of the horary character: the
other method is the use of the solar calendar also indicated
by the horary character. And so in reference to the dates of
the ancient sacrifices in China voluminous controversy en-
sued. It is uncertain whether the matter is satisfactorily
and finally settled even to-day.
Dr. Yeh holds that all the evidence produced by Dr.
Cheng is insufficient to confirm his argument, and maintains
the other and usual view that the sacrifice of Great Heaven
was done at the Round Mound on the winter solstice; the
▶葉石林

136
A CASE OF RITUALISM
Chiao in the first moon was that for grain and harvest.
Though the privilege of a Chiao was bestowed on Lu yet the
privilege he thinks did not imply that the imperial cere-
monials could be used. He is inclined to think the Lu Chiao
therefore corresponded to the Chow invocation for grain;
and he confirms this view by saying that Lu, in imitation of
Chow, cast the usual horoscopes for the first Hsin day in
the month; if that for the first month was not propitious
then they cast one in the first month for the second month
and so on three times. If all three were unsuccessful then
the Chiao for that year was not observed.
Dr. Yeh after dealing with various authorities and
sundry evidences returns to the attack on Dr. Cheng's
position. He says Dr. Cheng was neither clear on the value
of the Chiao nor on the great quinquennial sacrifice of Ti.
His words he maintains are altogether confused; and it is
in vain he tries to get support from the two odes the Yuan
and Ch'ang Fa; the words of these seem to countenance
his view, but in reality they do nothing of the kind.
In connection with this theme much has been made of
nine statements in the Chronicles, or The Spring and Autumn
Classics. All these statements refer to mishaps connected
with the Chiao services of Lu. These are merely records of
inauspicious divination for the Chiao day; or of times when
the animals had the mouth disease; or of occasions when
the young and tender horns were bitten by venomous mice,
the victims dying in consequence. The details of these
discussions and the references to the sacred animals are full
of interesting matter but need not detain us just now, except
in this that these mishaps may be looked upon as the dis-
pleasure of Heaven at the unauthorised celebration of the
sacrifice by Lu; and was a way used by Confucius of indirectly
administering reproof to Lu, which he did not care to do
openly and directly. It is very clear that Confucius was
of opinion that the practice of Lu was incorrect. There are
many references to the matter.
In one place he exclaims "I behold the institutions of
Chow injured by Yü and Li"-two emperors who reigned in
Hsin day. Three explanations may be offered for the use of
the Hsin day for the Chiao. These three meanings spring from the
significance of the character itself.
1.-Hsin was used because it happened to be the day on which
Chow first worshipped Heaven. It became the red letter day in the
religious calendar.
2.-Hsin means New therefore the Chiao was held on the first
(new) Hsin in the New year.
3.-Hsin means labour, attention to, earnest effort in ;-hence the
Chiao should be held on a day indicative of labourious attention.

A CASE OF RITUALISM
137
Yue, 822-812 B.C.).
The Chiao and the
the empire of Chow (Li, 894-828 B.C.;
"Where shall I go if I depart from Lu.
Ti of Lu are illegitimate and sinful. The Law of the Duke
of Chow has gone to decay." The guilt of Lu cannot be
extenuated by adducing the practice of the sacrifices of the
Chiao by the Dukes of Ch'i and Sung. † These have some
justification, because they are descended from the royal
Houses of Yü‡ and Hsieh. § They maintain the ancestral
customs of kings: and as the commentators add
The Statutes of the ancestors
Should be cherished by the descendants.
Thus we see that Confucius grieved not only over Lu,
but also over the conditions of the moral life of the Empire
generally. These deteriorations in the institutions cul-
minated in the times of Li and Yu just mentioned: but
whether these men introduced customs specially detrimental,
or whether their names were reprobated in a general way
by Confucius is not clear. But it is very clear that he
expressed his sorrow on the moral and spiritual conditions of
affairs in the empire.
Dr. Ku Liang || makes certain general observations on
these matters mentioned in the Chronicles. (a) There was
want of proper care in watching the sacred animals, proving
that the daily inspection of the growing horns had been
neglected. For if this duty had been faithfully carried out
the presence of the venomous mice or rats could have been
early detected. (It may be asked whether these mice or
rats were plague carriers). (b) That the times for the
observation of the Chiao in Lu were arbitarily shifted.
(c) That the divination also was arbitary very often. Thus
he reaches the conclusion that the practices of Lu were
irregular. Nevertheless he too fails to lay his finger on the
vital point. He has simply considered the accidental and
not fundamental irregularity of the proceedings. For this he
is brought to task by Dr. Lin.
For
Dr. Lin of San Shan states that Ku Liang and the two
other authors of the Three Books did not appreciate the
fundamental idea of the spring and autumn Chiao.
the simple reason that they paid attention to minor points
and details relating to the ceremonial and neglected to deter-
mine the fundamental issue. "This is often the failing of
scholars-it is marvellous how often they can err!" These
men nibble at the question of why the mice bit the horns;
why this divination was unsuccessful and so on. What they
should have done says Dr. Lin was to decide whether the
契 || 穀梁 林三山
**
宋 ‡

138
A CASE OF RITUALISM
celebration of the Chiao sacrifice in Lu was legal or illegal,
and whether it should have been observed at all, and not
spend their time on small details. The sages, he further
says, always fixed their attention on this fundamental point.
"The Master grieved over the decay of Chow, because
its Rites and Music proceeded from the Feudal Lords," says
Dr. Lin. "When he spoke of the Chiao and Ti of Luh, his
words implied sorrow at the decay of Chow. For how could
it be that the Chiao sacrifice of Heaven which was the
exclusive office of the King, be performed by the Feudal
Lords too? The King performed the sacrifice of the San
Wang to the Mountains and Rivers: the Feudal Lords must
also Wang (sacrifice). The King sacrificed (Ti) to the
fountain-head of their Ancestors and the Feudal Lords must
sacrifice too. If it be assumed they had the right to do
these things, then the Sage would not take it as a cause of
regret that the Rites and Music were observed by the Feudal
Lords. Since the death of Confucius, the Han scholars were
ignorant of the True Way; they seeing only that the Ch'un
Ch'iu made a record of the use of many of the Kingly func
tions by Luh in their sacrifices began to. talk a lot of non-
sense, premising that as Chow bestowed (on Luh) the Rites
and Music therefore not one of the scholars considered that
Luh was at fault: and thus threw to the winds the view of
the Sage that the sacrilege was great. These men only
sought for the illegality in small details. The Luh people
in their wrongful use of the Rites and Music were guilty of a
fundamental wrong. Even supposing that they had not
incurred the sin of the blasphemous use of the Rites by
divining four or five times, the vital question was-Could they
offer (Chiao) sacrifice under any circumstance? Again su-
posing that they had used care in the tending of the sacred
animal, so that it did not die from disease, would it be right
for them to perform the (Chiao) sacrifice or not? At no
time was it lawful for them to Chiao or Wang. But these
petty details are not worth discussing.'
In defence of Lu the plea has been advanced that the
rites it observed differed a little from the practices of Chow,
and therefore the ceremonies were free from the charge of
bearing an exact correspondence to the rites pertaining to
the kingly functions. This difference is that whilst Chow
held the Chiao on the winter solstice, Lu held it when "the
insects began to move": the imperial sacrifice was made to
the Four mountains, but Lu limited this to two. Thus the
shifting of the times, and lessening the number gave a
different complexion to the whole, it was claimed. But
really in essence the two things were alike, and the alteration

A CASE OF RITUALISM
139
was only a subterfuge. For as one critic, Dr. Lin, observes
there may not be a verisimilitude of the ritual, but the point
is that Lu had appropriated the names of the Chiao and
Wang. This in itself is a great crime; if a merchant wore
the cap of a scholar, or the common people wore the clothes
of officials a glance at them would show they were wrong in
act.
Dr. Lin says, "the reprimand of Confucius on the actions
of Lu though only indirectly expressed by the reference to
the mishaps to the ceremonies is very deep indeed, very
subtle indeed, and should be pondered by students."
A new view of the illegality of this ritual was suggested
by Dr. Chiang. He says Lu should not have used the Rites
and Music of the king. But the plea in extenuation
advanced by some that Ch'eng Wang bestowed this honour
and that Pei Ch'in accepted it is quite wrong. It may be
said that whilst some one of the Chow emperors conferred
this, it could not have been Ch'eng Wang, for in his days
the code and institutions were in their pristine vigour and
beauty. Therefore the wrong must have been committed
much later when the institutions were decayed, possibly in
the 8th century; times reprimanded by Confucius-the times
of Li and Yü. And the story is that it happened in this way.
Duke Hui (8th century) of Lu through his minister begged
the privilege of the ceremonies of the Chiao and Temple from
the King. The King's minister Shih Chueh † was sent to
persuade him not to do this. Now if Lu already had the Chiao
service during the age of Ch'eng Wang why was it that Duke
Hui still begged the favour. This seems natural. My own
view, he continues is, "The Sage was grieved with the state
of Chow and the corrupt customs of the time of Yü and Li
the two emperors; he said the observances of the great and
august sacrifices of the Chiao and Ti were carried on in a
very unworthy way, showing that the law of the Duke of
Chow himself had been greatly debased. Thus it may be
inferred that this honour and privilege could not have been
conferred on Lu by Ch'eng Wang, but arose from the prac-
tices of a decadent age of kings and lords. And so Con-
fucius was much ashamed of the ceremonies of Lu. They
were an offence against reason and piety. Because the
Chow line was still in existence, and it was its right and
duty, being the royal house, to worship Heaven and make
its own ancestors the associates in the sacrifice. But what
have we! We have Lu duplicating this sacrifice: making
the Duke of Chou the associate. Feudal lords doing kingly
*惠公 154

140
A CASE OF RITUALISM
service, making a second sacrifice to Heaven and taking the
Duke of Chou as associate. He was not entitled to this,
being only the brother of a king. Apart from every other
consideration of illegality, do you think that the Duke, the
man most punctilious in the use of rites, would not feel the
ridiculous position in which Lu had placed him, as he stood
in the honoured list of divine associates. There would he be
in the presence of Shang Ti, Hou Chi, T'ai Wang, Wang
Chit-kingly ancestors and founders of the house of Chou.
Duke Chou would be unwilling to stand in their midst. He
would hide his face from the shame of it. It would be un-
usual, unbecoming, blasphemously wrong, and so no blessing
could be expected from the happy ceremony. As the saying is
'when no change is presumptuously made from the constant
practice descending from the oldest times between the prayer
and blessing (at the beginning of the sacrifice) and the bene-
diction (at the end of it), we have what might be called a
great and happy service.' At the beginnning of the worship
the invocator used the words of the host (Chu) to address the
Spirit and the sacrifice ended. The Spirits' promise was
made (by the priest) in the language of the Spirit and the
blessing was given to the host. To-day with the feudal
lords aping the king's sacrifices the service is offered not
according to the old practices and so the essential idea of
loyalty, filiality, gratitude is subverted. The differentiation
in names and ranks will produce elements of confusion and
change and the fundamental distinction in human relation-
ships and spiritual life will be lost. In short the efficacy is
lost where the ceremonies are disturbed, and ancient prac-
tices altered." Such was the great argument.
We come now to a review of the question by Ma Tuan
Lin, the great scholar of A.D. the twelfth century.
He first takes the disquisition of Lin Shao Ying who
ridicules the Three Bocks, compiled by Tso. Kung and Ku,
because they pass over without much notice the vital thing,
discussing only minor points in great detail. Ma agrees with
Lin in his criticism, but nevertheless points out that he too
has been misled by the Han writers. These held that the
illegal sacrifices of Lu did not originate with the bestowal of
honours on the Duke of Chow by Ch'eng Wang, but that the
privilege was bestowed by some later king of Chow on Lu.
Ma further refuses to accept the explanation of Dr. Chiang
that it arose from a request made by Duke Hui of Lu.
He regards this view as most unnatural. Inasmuch as Lu
was a state of great moral standing and self-respect it is
王季 念馬端臨
· 太王

A CASE OF RITUALISM
141
unthinkable that it could stoop to such an unworthy act:
and demean itself by making a request for the privilege of
celebrating the Chiao. It would be conscious that its request
was for a most illicit proceeding and a sacriligious act.
Further it would have before it, two examples where the
suzerain power of Chow had refused requests for minor
privileges. One was when the Lords of Chin begged for the
privilege of the Sui burial, an account of which may be
found in Legge Vol. V, Pt. I, p. 196, par. 6: and the other was
the request made by the Prince of Ch'u for the privilege
of the Ting, the possession of the imperial tripod. *
These lords were reprimanded for making such an im-
pious request. But these were small affairs in comparison
There were nine tripods representing the nine divisions of the
empire. Later eight were lost. The tripods were kept in the im-
perial palace. The commentators note on the affair as translated by
Legge reads:-
"The Jung of Luh-hwan were a tribe of the Little Jung ()
whose original seat lay in the extreme west of the present Kan-suh;
but, as related under the 22nd year of duke Ho, they were removed
by Ts'in and Tsin to E-ch'uen,-in the north of the pres. dis. of Sung
(), dep. Honan; which brought them within the reach of Ts'co.
They were also called the Yin Jung (). For Kung has ;
and both he and Kuh omit the before The Chuen says:-
The viscount of Ts'oo invaded the Jung of Luh-hwan, and then went
on as far as the Loh, where he reviewed his troops on the borders of
Chow. King Ting sent Wang-sun Mwan (see the former mention of
him in the Chuen on V, XXXIII, I) to him with congratulations and
presents, when the viscount asked about the size and weight of the
tripods. Mwan replied, "(The strength of the kingdom) depends on
the (sovereign's) virtue, and not on the tripods. Anciently, when
Hea wa distinguished for its virtue, the distant regions sent pictures
of the (remarkable) objects in them. The nine pastors sent in the
metal of their provinces, and the tripods were cast, with representa
tions on them of those objects. All the objects were represented, and
(instructions were given) of the preparations to be made in reference
to them, so that the people might know the sprites and evil things.
Thus the people, when they went among the rivers, marshes, hills,
and forests, did not meet with the injurious things, and the hill-sprites,
monstrous things, and water-sprites, did not meet with them (to do
them injury). Hereby a harmony was secured between the high and
the low, and all enjoyed the blessing of Heaven. When the virtue of
Keeh was all-obscured, the tripods were transferred to Shang, for
600 years.
Chow of Shang proved cruel and oppressive, and they were
transferred to Chow. When the virtue is commendable and brilliant,
the tripods, though they were small, would be heavy; when it gives
place to its reverse, to darkness and disorder, though they were
large, they would be light. Heaven blesses intelligent virtue;-on
that its favour rests. King Ch'ing fixed the tripods in Keeh-juh,
and divined that the dynasty should extend through 30 reigns, over
700 years. Though the virtue of Chow is decayed, the decree of
Heaven is not yet changed. The weight of the tripods may not yet
be inquired about." LEGGE: Vol. V, Pt. I, p. 293. See also MAYERS
Chinese Reader's Manual, Pt. II, p. 346.

142
A CASE OF RITUALISM
with the request for the Chiao sacrifice of God. And there-
fore it is unthinkable that Lu ever made such a request. For
though the times of Emperor Ping (811 B.c.) and Duke Hui
were decadent-the royal house being weak and the Feudal
lords strong and arrogant-yet they had not sunk to the
barbaric deterioriation of later times. There was yet enough
self respect left to prevent Lu asking for the use of such a
great ritual. Ordinarily Lu was a most correct state,
punctiliously observing the rites of Chow. The Master once
remarked that if or when it made a reform of minor blemishes
it would reach the perfect way. Thus it is unreasonable to
think that the Duke Hui would make the request alleged.
The Emperor being alive, it would be impossible for him to
try and supplant him in the great rites, or to duplicate
them.
An explanation of this case of Ritualism of Lu is made
by Chang Heng Ch'ü in this way. Ch'eng Wang was loath
to look upon the Duke of Chow, his uncle, as an ordinary
minister. Therefore looking round for a way of honouring
him in a special way he bestowed on Lu the royal privileges
enjoyed by the feudatory states of Ch'i and Sung. Ma says
this explanation is most likely the correct one.
"Now," says Ma, "as to the claim made that the duke
should be worshipped with rites and music of the King:
that is to say the Kung Hsien in Music and the Eight
Dancers in the dancing: this might be permissible purely
in honour of the Duke of Chow personally. But the claim
made to celebrate the Chiao stood on a very different footing.
To this they were not entitled nor could the Duke gain any
benefit even though Lu were to celebrate the Chiao.
Because he could not share in it: that is to say he could not
be made the Associate for he was not a King. Only a
deceased King could partake in such a function, after all he
was only a minister of great merit. The duke himself,
being a person of great sense would never condescend to
accept such an illicit honour.
But I am quite convinced," says Ma, "that Ch'eng
Wang bestowed this unusual honour on Lu and the general
verdict is that Lu was guilty of the crime: and did observe
functions which could lawfully be done by the Emperor
alone.
CONCLUSION.
Arising out of this case of ritualism and sacrilege on the
part of Lu are certain thoughts that bear on the whole
question of ritualism. It is often stated that the spirit of
ritualism is inherent in human nature, and that it is useless

A CASE OF RITUALISM
148
to try and suppress it in religious services. It is suitable
and essential to a type of mind. And the type of mind is
a relic; now a relic of what it is difficult to determine. It is
a branch of the wider function of symbolism in art; indeed
symbolism in art is associated with ritual in religion, and
all bear a strong likeness to the desire to find correspondences
between the artificial and real. To take an example the
altar to Heaven had to be on high ground that to earth in
low ground or a pit. Again the shape of the altar, the
number of terraces, colours and so on have the same signi-
ficance. The king rode in the grand coach with the great
flag with the twelve streamers emblazoned with the sun
and moon. Every detail in the whole parapharnalia had
some meaning; every article of dress worn by the officiating
people-the King's especially,-had a profound significance.
The artificial was in imitation of something real. The art
of the whole proceedings was in imitation of same natural
phenomena. The tailoring of ecclesiastic vestments is deep
rooted in animistic conceptions of the universe. Painting
and tailoring lend themselves perfectly to these matters.
We may even go further and say that ritual is very
akin to animism. In the discharge of certain sacred func-
tions such as the sacrifice to Heaven and Ancestors it would
be impious for any one but the King to discharge them. On
the same lines we see the development of the kingly idea.
The King was the direct representative of Heaven, he had
the divine fire in him. He was the embodiment of the
divinity in some star. So "receiving the appointment" was
a term of deep significance. The title of divine rights of
the king had substance behind it in China. We in the
West have played with the term. Fortunately this ritual
compound of an animistic conception has been shattered
in part. Would it were wholly so."