THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE
SUNG PHILOSOPHY
J. P. BRUCE, M.A.
[The result of Mr. Bruce's study of the Sung philosophers will
soon appear in book form. The work is being printed in London now.
Meanwhile it has been the Editor's good fortune to secure from Mr.
Bruce this article which gives some of the fruits of his studies.
Students will welcome this effort to expound the teaching of these
scholars. It is time to fix their place in the world's thought.]
The question raised in this article is: Was Chu Hsi a
Materialist? If not, did his philosophy imply Theism?
The title of the article, however, is made broader in its
scope, for the simple reason that it is impossible to dissociate
Chu Hsi from the other philosophers of his school. Like the
great Sage he was a transmitter rather than a creator. He
was the exponent, the chief exponent indeed, of the thought
of his predecessors. But beyond his keen dialectic, and
marvellous power of exposition, without the aid of which it is
doubtful whether the earlier philosophers would have exerted
the influence they did on the intellectual life of the nation,
there was little that was original in his writings. His work,
in the main, was to correlate their teachings and pass them
on to succeeding generations as a coherent system. It would
be difficult, therefore, in any fair and adequate inquiry into
the import of Chu Hsi's philosophy, not to include in its
scope some reference to the sayings and writings of those to
whom he acknowledged his intellectual allegiance.
It is widely assumed that the answer to the question we
have raised with regard to Materialism is in the affirmative,
and by some it would be asserted that Chu Hsi in fact robbed
the T'ien of the Classics of its richest meaning, and, while
he received from the Sages a religion, he handed down to
posterity a cold, materialistic and atheistic philosophy. That
the Sages were reformers while Chu Hsi was a philosopher,
is a distinction which it is of the greatest importance to keep
in mind. It may even be conceded that the effect of
Chu Hsi's philosophy upon the mind of the nation was to
lose much of the life and warmth which are to found in
the teachings of the Sages concerning Tien. But the

112 THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
question still remains: How much was this due to the fact
just stated, that Chu Hsi was a philosopher and not a
reformer? And, again, how much was due to a difference
of emphasis rather than to an essential difference in the
implication of his philosophy?
Perhaps the most outstanding feature of the Sung
philosophy is its Dualism. The two elements Li () and
Ch'i (), which enter into all forms of existence, constitute
a dualism, and the Ch'i itself resolves into a dualism,
assuming two modes of existence, active and passive, the
Yin and the Yang. But the question remains: Is the
dualism of Li and Ch'i ultimate? What is the content of
the two terms, and what is the relation between them?
Roughly speaking, Li and Ch'i represent the material
and immaterial elements of the universe:理形而上者
AT** But this needs qualification. While Ch'i
belongs to the realm of existences which have form and is
thus the primordial form of Matter, it is also the primordial
form of Spirit. The Ch'i, or Ether, when, in the process
of its evolution, it reaches the stage of the , or Five
Agents, assumes two forms. There are the Five Celestial
Agents, and there are the Five Terrestrial Agents. The
former belong to the realm of Spirit, and the latter to the
realm of Matter. Ch'i is the universal Plenum, filling all
space, the substance of everything that exists, whether
physical or psychical.|| The fact is: the antithesis which
presents itself to the thought of the Sung philosopher is not
one between matter and mind at all; nor is it, strictly
speaking, between the material and the immaterial. It is
rather between an animating principle and the substance or
vehicle of its manifestation. With this qualification, how-
ever, it may be conceded that Ch'i represents the material
element in the constitution of the universe, and, more often
than not, is best represented by the English word matter.
But, even in that case, the antithesis is not between the
physical and the psychical, but between the physical and the
ethical, between the material and the moral.
***, Bk. XLIX, f. 1.
十五行者質具於地而氣行於天者也, vide 性理大全
Bk. I, f. 29.
‡充滿乎天地之間非氣而吾所得以為形骸者,皆此氣耳
*, Bk. XLII, f. 22.
§ Ibid.
2. Ibid. XLIV, f. 2.

THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
113
Just as Ch'i is the substance of all existences, so Li is
the directing principle inherent in the substance. Every
existing thing has its rule of existence to which it conforms
as the law of its being. And this directing principle is
ethical: "Li is absolutely pure, and perfectly good." On
page after page of the Sung philosophers' works we find it
reiterated that, analysed into its component principles Li
is Love, Righteousness, Reverence and Wisdom (1).
These principles enter into every form of existence in greater
or less degree according to the differences in density and
purity of the Ch'i, and constitute the one ethical standard
to which all things conform in their varying degrees according
to their individual capacity. In short, Li is the controlling
and directing principle by reason of which each thing assumes
the form, and fulfils the functions proper to it.
What, then, is the relation between Li and Ch'i? The
answer to this question will furnish the answer to the charge
of materialism against the Sung philosophy. Some things
are clear.
In the first place, they are said to be inseparable.
"In the whole universe," it is said, "there is no Ch'i apart
from Li, nor Li apart from Ch'i." "Li is never separate
from Ch'i." They are also mutually necessary and de-
pendent. "If there were no Ch'i, Li would have nothing
in which to inhere." || "The existence of Li can only be
perceived through Chi." And still further, it is implied
that Ch'i as well as Li is infinite. In reply to the definite
question: "Li is infinite; has Ch'i limits?" Chu Hsi said:
"As to limits, where can you assign limits?" So then we
have two elements in the universe, both infinite, mutually
dependent, and inseparable. There are other important
considerations, however, which must also be taken into
account. In the first place, in the dualism of the Sung
School there is nothing antagonistic in its component
elements. On the contrary, they are inter-dependent and
complementary. Li pervades the Ch'i as its directing
principle, and Ch'i furnishes Li with its means of manifesta-
tion. But, still more important, a careful study of Chu Hsi's
teaching as a whole. shows that in his mind these two
elements, co-existent though they be, are not co-equal;
that the one is subordinate to the other, and is even derived
from it. "Wherever Ch'i is, there is Li; but Li is the
***, Bk. XLII, f. 1, cf. J in the Odes, LEGGE'S
Chinese Classics, Vol. III, Pt. II, p. 541.
Ibid., Bk. XLIX, f. 8.
Ibid., Bk. XLIX, f. 1.
Ibid., Bk. XLIX, f. 5.
§ Ibid.
8
Ibid.
Ibid., Bk. XLIX, f. 3.

114
THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
ultimate ruler," he says:* While neither can be said to be
antecedent to the other we are told, and while neither exists
apart from the other, yet, if we trace them to their origin,
Li is antecedent to Ch'i. In other words, there is no
priority in the time sense and both are co-existent, but there
is priority in respect of origin. Elsewhere he tells us that
while the two are co-existent Li is the root or source, so
that the priority is because the source of Ch'i is in Li.
In short, what the Sung philosopher teaches is an eternal
generation of matter by Law, and in this sense Law is
ultimate. Law and Matter are co-existent and inseparable,
but Matter is subordinate to Law as the source from which
it is derived.
It is obvious from all that has been said that the Sung
philosophy whatever it is, is not Materialism. There is one
very important respect in which it differs from Materialism,
at least from Materialism in certain forms. In Materialism
Matter is what might well be termed aggressively insub-
ordinate. It is true that it is absolutely obedient to laws,
but they are its own laws and unethical. To the Sung
philosopher the material is subject to the immaterial, and
the immaterial is the moral. Moral Law pervades all matter
as its ruling and directing principle. Such a conception in
itself is far removed from Materialism. It is in its moral
sanctions that Materialism, whether ancient or modern, most
conspicuously fails. The great merit of the Sung School is
that the Moral is recognized as fundamental. The material
universe which we see around us has an ethical basis, which
consists of those same ethical principles which we find
embedded in our own hearts.
This ethical basis of the universe is further emphasized
in the Sung School's use of the term Tao, or the moral
order, which is the synonym of Li. De Groot, in his volume
on Religion in China, bases his interpretation of the Tao
on what Chu Hsi would undoubtedly regard as a mistrans-
lation of an important passage in the Yi Ching, and which,
even apart from the Sung School interpretation, is, to say
the least, doubtful. In his chapter on The Tao or Order
of the Universe" he writes: There is,' as the Appended
Explanations state, in the system of mutations (of Nature)
the Most Ultimate which produced the two Regulating
Powers, which produce the four shapes (or seasons).' It is
these two powers which constitute the Tao, for the Appended
Explanations add explicity 'that the universal Yin and the
*Ibid., Bk. XLIX, f. 7.
+Ibid., XLIX, f. 1.

THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
115
universal Yang are the Tao.' "In this passage the phrase
translated "the universal Yin and the universal Yang" is
-, lit., one Yin one Yang. It is the common idiom
to express alternation, according to which it would mean
"one Yin one Yang following each other in continued succes-
sion. And this is Legge's interpretation, who translates
the complete sentence, The successive movement of the
inactive and active operations constitutes what is called the
course of (things)." In any case, so far as the Sung School
interpretation is concerned, Chu Hsi does not leave us any
room for doubt. His comment on the passage is: "If it
said Yin and Yang are what we term the Tao' the meaning
would be that the Yin and the Yang are the Tao; but seeing
that it says 'One Yin and one Yang' the meaning is that the
cause of the alternation is the Tao." 若只言陰陽之謂道
則陰陽是道日一陰一陽, 則是所以循環者乃道也
The importance of this in its bearing on our inquiry is that
if De Groot's translation were correct it would, it must be
admitted, at least suggest a materialistic interpretation of
the Universe, but as shown above it is in direct contradiction
to the interpretation given by Chu Hsi. The fact is, accord-
ing to the Sung School, Tao is Li, the two terms denoting
the same thing though representing two different aspects of
it; and the aspect represented by Tao is that of the universal
and the ethical, while that represented by Li is its individual
and law aspect. Li derives its name from the fact that
everything has each its own rule of existence; Tao expresses
the fact that everything conforms to one Moral Law and is
part of one Moral Order. The term Li, we are told, calls
attention to the minute and infinitesimal. It refers to the
innumerable vein-like principles inherent in every individual
thing, like the grain in wood or the vertical and horizontal
lines in bamboo. It is compared to the innumerable trees
in a dense forest. Tao, on the other hand we are told, calls
attention to the cast and comprehensive, and is compared
to a vast trackless desert with its vision of the illimitable. ||
The very name, Tao, is derived from the fact that as Moral
Law it is common to all the ages. It is the universal high-
way travelled upon for countless myriads of years to which
*Religion in China, p. 10.
+Sacred Books of the East, Vol. XVI, p. 355.
1, Bk. I, f. 18.
§陰陽迭運氣也,其理則所謂道. Vide Imperial Commentary
on the Yi Ching, Pt. 13, f. 14.
||冲淡無朕萬森然巳具二程遺書 Pt. XV, f. 11.

116
THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
"
all men find their way." When analysed it is found to
consist of those same principles of our Nature which we
found to be the component principles of Li. Referring to a
saying of Shao Yung: "The Nature is the concrete expression
of the Tao,' "Chu Hsi says: "Though the Tao is present
everywhere how are we to find it? The answer is: simply
by turning and looking within. It is wholly found within our
Nature. From the fact that we ourselves possess the prin-
ciples of Love, Righteousness, Reverence and Wisdom, we
infer that others possess them also; that, indeed, of the
thousands and tens of thousands of human beings, and of
all things in the Universe, there are none without these
principles. Extend our investigations as far as we will,
we still find that there is nothing that does not possess them.
Shao Tzû expresses it well when he defines the Nature as
the concrete expression of the Tao." +
Nothing could well be more explicit than this statement
both of the ethical and of the universal aspect of Tao. Tao,
in fact, represents the transcendental aspect of Li. Corres-
ponding to this distinction between Tao and Li there are
four terms which, according to the Sung School, represent
the transcendental and universal aspect of the four com-
ponent principles of Li. They are Yuan, Hêng, Li and Chêng
(), the first four words of the Yi Ching. "Yüan,
Hêng, Li, Chêng," says Ch'en Pei Hsi () one of
Chu Hsi's best known pupils, are the Eternal Constants of
Heaven's Moral Law (Tao); Love, Righteousness, Reverence
and Wisdom are the governing priciples of man's nature.
The Decree of Heaven is the diffusion of the Moral Law
of Heaven, and its impartation to the creature. Regarded as
the Yuan, Hêng, Li, Chêng it is called the Moral Law of
Heaven; regarded as the diffusion and impartation to the
creature of this Moral Law it is called the Decree of Heaven.'
(元享利貞,天道之常,仁義禮智,人性之天命:天道
之流行,而赋予於物者就元亨利貞理而言,則謂之
天道 即此道之流行,赋予於物者而言,則謂之天命
In another passage the same writer says, "Yüan, inherent
in the Decree of Heaven, when received by me is termed
Love; Hêng, inherent in the Decree of Heaven, when
received by me is termed Reverence; Li, inherent in the
Decree of Heaven, when received by me is termed Righteous-
ness; Chêng, inherent in the Decree of Heaven, when received
by me is termed Wisdom." (得天命之元,在我謂之仁,得天命
之享 在我謂之禍,得天命之利,在我謂之義,得天命之貞,在我謂之智》
*, Pt. IX, f. 8.
, Bk. XLII, f. 13.
1, Bk. XXIX, f. 3.
§ Ibid.

THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
117
These are the four ethical priciples which constitute the
moral Order of the Universe. A careful study of their inter-
pretation, both in the Yi Ching and in the writings of the
Sung School will justify the translation of them respectively
as the Principle of Origin, the Principle of Beauty, the
Principle of Utility, and the Principle of Potentiality. †
Within the limits of this article, however, it will not be
possible to do more than briefly to indicate their import.
The first of these Four Ultimata, if we may call them so,
is Yüan [], the Principle of Origin, the meaning of which
is thus explained by Chu Hsi. "Yuan is the beginning of
the production of things by Heaven and Earth. The Yi says,
'Great is Yüan indicated by Ch'ien! All things owe to it
their beginning.' 'Perfect is Yüan indicated by K'un! All
things owe to it their birth.' From this we learn that Yüan
is the thread running through all stages in the production of
things by Heaven and Earth. Yüan is the Vital Impulse;
in Hêng it becomes the development of the Vital Impulse;
in Li it is its fruitage; and in Chêng its completion." S
In another connection we are told: "Love is the life-
producing mind of Heaven and Earth which is received by
all men as their mind. Its substance pervades heaven and
earth and unites all things in the universe; its principle
includes the Four Terminals || and unifies all goodness. It is
what is called the Principle of Origin of Ch'ien and K'un.
From its transforming and nurturing influence, its mildness
and purity, its simplicity and liberality, its reproductive life
and deathlessness, it is termed Love."T
The passages quoted clearly teach that Yüan, the
Principle of Origin pervading the physical universe, and
Love, the premier virtue in man, are identical; and that it
is to this Principle of Origin, or Love, that all things owe
their beginning. But that is not all. Not only do all things
physical owe their beginning to this principle, but all four
principles are wrapped up in this one. We see it in the
case of the cardinal virtues in man, and we see it in the
material universe as exemplified in the progress of the
"Love permeatés and unites all the four.
seasons.
Or of Development. See below.
Or of Unerring Efficiency. See below.
$40.
$, Bk. XLVII, f. 14.
For
Or the Four Principles. They are the feelings of Commiseration,
etc., mentioned by Mencius, and regarded as the operation of the
four principles, Love, Righteonsness, Reverence and Wisdom, cf.
LEGGE'S Chinese Classics, Vol. I, pp. 78-9.
17, Bk. XLVII, f. 39.

118
THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
in the narrow sense Love is only one, but in the comprehen-
sive sense it includes the four. Therefore Love itself is the
original substance of Love, Reverence is Love expressing
itself in graceful form, Righteousness is Love in Judgment.
and Wisdom is Love discriminating. It is like the Four
Seasons which, though they differ one from another, all
proceed from the Spring, Summer is its growth, Autumn is
its consummation, and Winter is the storing up of Spring."
"
The second of the Four Ultimata is Hêng (), the
Principle of Beauty. In the gloss on the original text of the
Yi Ching the meaning of Hêng is given as the "assemblage
of excellencies" (*). † But the idea of t'ung
(), "permeating" or "continuing," is also present. It
is the latter meaning which is most emphasized in explaining
the relation of the Ultimata to the seasons. Hêng finds its
manifestation in the Summer season which is the con-
tinuance or development of the Vital Impulse of Spring.
But the meaning "excellence" also, in this connection, is
obviously appropriate. Summer is the Beauty Season just
as Spring is the Love season. In fact, the underlying
thought in the use of this term seems to be a combination
of both ideas-t'ung, "permeating" or "continuing" and
chia, "excellence." Pervading all physical phenomena is
a peculiar appropriateness and harmony, a surpassing ex-
cellence which produces in us a sense of Beauty. And this
"assemblage of excellencies' manifest in physical pheno-
mena, this prodigality of Beauty diffused throughout the
Cosmos, is due to an ethical principle behind and beneath
it all which ranks among the Ultimata of the Universe.
It is this meaning which best explains the relation of Heng
to its corresponding virtue Reverence. Poet and artist alike
will tell us how near akin are Beauty in the universe and
Reverence in man, and there is no need to enlarge upon it.
But this is not the only connection. Reverence is itself
beautiful. It is "Love expressing itself in graceful form."
." ±
It is the spirit of worship, the essence of ceremony.
ship and Ceremony are perhaps the most common meanings
of the word Li (), which in this article is translated
Reverence; and worship and ceremony are, or are intended
to be, forms of Beauty. But again, while "beauty" best
explains the relation of Hêng to Reverence, the other mean-
ing of the word, namely continuance, is not excluded. Re-
verence is the development of Love just as Summer is the
***, Bk. VII, f. 12.
† Sacred Books of the East, Vol. XVI, p. 408.
1*, Bk. XLVIII, f. 17.
Wor-

THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
119
development of Spring. Love seeks expression. It cannot
stop at the subjective, it must find its continuance in objec-
tive manifestation.
The third of the Ultimata is Li (), the Principle of
Utility. The use of the word Utility to express that ultimate
principle in the Moral Order which answeres to Righteousness
in man is at least arresting, if not startling. But a little
reflection will show its peculiar appropriateness. At the very
root of the idea of Righteouness is that of Order. But order
in the philosophical sense implies not only regularity, but,
what is another name for the same thing, adaptation or
useful collocation also. A phrase which has been much used
in connection with the doctrine of Evolution is "the survival
of the fittest." The Sung philosophy sees something deeper,
namely, mutual service. All things are made to serve.
Everything has stamped upon it as the law of its being the
creative purpose that it should be of service to its neighbour.
"Oh, we live! Oh, we live !
And this life which we conceive,
Is a great thing and a grave,
Which for others' use we have."
In
The Principle of Utility is manifested in the Autumn season.
The Vital Impulse which is born in the Spring, and of which
the Summer is the growth and development, finds its con-
summation and full fruition in Autumn, the harvest or fruit
season. Fruit in contrast to the leaf is self-giving.
fruiting the tree expends its life for the enrichment of others.
The fulfilment of such service for all is what constitutes
Order in the Universe and Righteousness in the individual.
"Benefiting all creatures he is able to exhibit the harmony
of all that is right."*
The last of the Four Ultimata is Chêng (i), the
Principle of Potentiality. Its physical manifestation is in
the Winter season. In man it becomes Wisdom. Like the
word for the Principle of Beauty Chêng has a double inter-
pretation. Legge translates it "correct and firm." Its
meaning is "strong to do and to do rightly." In the gloss
given in the Fourth Appendix it is defined as the "faculty
of action" and is said to confer on the noble man ability to
"manage all affairs." It is, however, a reserve faculty,
which is the special characteristic of Wisdom, a reserve of
knowledge and ability adequate to all emergencies.
But
this sense of reserve is not the characteristic of man alone,
it is everywhere, in all the phenomena of the universe. Its
typical manifestation is in the season of Winter, when life's
Sacred Books of the East, Vol. XVI, p. 408.
† Ibid.

120 THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
powers to all outward seeming have died down only to be
called forth to new outgoings in the Spring. Forces of
vitality are stored up for future need, and when the need
emerges they will be called forth to the new task, strong
and unerring in their efficiency. "Of the Four Attributes of
Ch'ien, Origin is the chief, and next to it is Potentiality as
revealing the meaning of the end and beginning. Apart
from the Principle of Origin there could be no birth; apart
from the Principle of Potentiality there could be no end;
apart from an ending there would be no means of making a
beginning; and without a beginning the end could never be
consummated; and so on in endless revolution."* In other
words, Spring is the mother of the Seasons, but Winter is
the mother of Spring. The hidden reserves of Winter are
the guarantee of the permanence of the Cosmos. And what
Winter is among the seasons that is Wisdom among the
virtues. Love as Love is creative, as Reverence it finds its
development and expression in humility and self-repression,
as Righteousness it finds its consummation in sacrifice and
service, and as Wisdom it is gathering up its energies for
new creations of love and humility, of service and sacrifice.
The lines along which our inquiry has up to this point
proceeded have been from the point of view of the ultimate
elements of the Universe as interpreted by the Sung School.
It will be well at this stage to approach the problem from
the point of view of Causation as expressed in the Sung
School doctrine of the T'ai Chi, or supreme Ultimate. This
conception was the creation of the Sung School. It was
elaborated by the founder of the School, Chou Tun I, from
an obscure passage in the Yi Ching, and expressed in a
famous Diagram accompanied by an equally famous mono-
graph explaining its meaning. The opening sentences are;
"Infinite! And also the Supreme Ultimate! The Supreme
Ultimate by its energy produces the positive ether; energy
having reached its limit, inertia ensues. By inertia the
Supreme Ultimate produces the negative ether. When
inertia reaches its limits energy returns.
Thus energy
and inertia in alternation become each the source of the
other." From this the evolution of the Cosmos is
traced through its unending stream of transformations.
An
exhaustive analysis of this doctrine would carry us beyond
the scope as well as beyond the limits of this article. All
*, Bk. XLVIII, f. 14.
+Sacred Books of the East, Vol. XVI, p. 373.
, Bk. I, ff. 1-6.

THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
121
that we can permit ourselves is a glance at its essential fea-
tures in their bearing upon our inquiry.
The first thing to note is the unmistakeable clearness
with which it is asserted that this Supreme Ultimate is the
immaterial element in the Universe. The very first sentence
in the chapter under this title in Chu Hsi's works is: "The
Supreme Ultimate is expressed in one word, Li." And
again, in the succeeding paragraph the Philosopher says:
"The Supreme Ultimate is simply the Law () of the
Universe. Again, "There are but two elements in the
Universe, namely Energy and Inertia in ceaseless revolution.
But given Energy and Inertia it follows that there must be
the Law of Energy and Inertia, and this is what is termed
the Supreme Ultimate." Such statements abound all
through the writings of this school.
The next thing to note is that the Supreme Ultimate
is inherent in the Ether in its Two Modes as their creator,
and as the director and controller of their evolution in all
its stages, while they constitute its material instrument or
vehicle of manifestation. "The Supreme Ultimate is Law,
the Two Modes are the material instruments."§
Although, on the one hand, therefore, the identification
of the Supreme Ultimate with its manifesting vehicle, or
material instrument, is so close that the name of the former
is often used as though it applied equally to the latter, we
are on the other hand expressly warned against confusing the
two. "The Supreme Ultimate is inherent in and cannot be
separated from the Two Modes, but the Supreme Ultimate
is the Supreme Ultimate, and the Two Modes are the Two
Modes." "The Supreme Ultimate is simply the uttermost
extreme beyond which you cannot go; most high, most
wonderful, most subtle, most spiritual, and all surpassing,
To guard against the idea that the Supreme Ultimate has
material form, Lien Hsi designated it 'Infinite! And also
the Supreme Ultimate!' "¶
One more point to be noted with regard to this First
Cause is its ethical perfection. "The Supreme Ultimate is
the most excellent and supremely good ethical principle.
Every man possesses a Supreme Ultimate. What Chou Tzu
calls the Supreme Ultimate is the supreme excellent arche-
type of everything that is called good in heaven and earth
and man and the 'all things.'"
***, Bk. XLIX, f. 8.
Ibid., f. 16.
, Pt. I, f. 6.
PE, Pt. I, f. 10.
Thus we find that the
† Ibid.
S, Pt. I, f. 5.
17, Bk. XLIX, f. 14..

122
THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
Supreme Ultimate is not only identified with Law (Li), but
also with Tao. Shao Tzû categorically asserts "Tao is the
Supreme Ultimate."* Chou Hsi also says explicitly: "The
dictum 'Infinite! And also the Supreme Ultimate!', with
the Diagram, expresses the truth that before all things Tao
existed, and is the true source of all things."t
We have now prepared the way for what must be the
ultimate goal of our inquiry-the question: What, for the
Sung School is the import of the word T'ien (*)? It must
be borne in mind that the T'ien of the Sung philosophers,
so far as their conscious intent was concerned, was the T'ien
of the Classics. If there was any departure therefrom in
fact, it was unwittingly. Our inquiry, therefore, has to do
mainly with their interpretation of the Classics. According
to Chu Hsi, the word Tien in the Classics is used in three
senses, which, he says, must be carefully distinguished. "In
some passages," he says, "the word refers to the Empyrean
(*), in others to the Ruling Powers, and in others to
Law (Li) only." With regard to the last statement, the
unmistakeable teaching of Chu Hsi is that Heaven is Law.
In the opening paragraph of his work on Human Nature he
endorses the statement in the very same words, and adds;
"Law is Heaven's substance.". § T'ien is also recognized
as identical with the Supreme Ultimate or First Cause.
"Among the attributes of High Heaven there is nothing that
can be perceived by the senses, and yet He is the true
Pivot on which all creation turns, the ground of all dis-
tinctions in the world of beings. Hence the statement is:
'Infinite; And also the Supreme Ultimate!' It is not said
that beyond the Supreme Ultimate there is also an In-
finite." In other words, High Heaven is the First Cause.
And, as we should expect, T'ien is also identified with Tao.
"Tao is Heaven as the self-existent," it is stated; and the
Four Ultimata which constitute the Tao are regarded as
attributes of Heaven. "What in my mind is called Love
is the Yüan of Heaven; what in my mind is called Reverence
is the Hêng of Heaven; what in my mind is called Righteous-
ness is the Li of Heaven; what in my mind is called Wisdom
is the Chêng of Heaven." | As transcendental they are the
Tao of Heaven, as immanent in the universe they are the
Decree of Heaven. By three different roads then we arrive
***, Bk. XLIX, f. 14.
E, Bk. I, f. 14.
§ Ibid., Bk. XLII, f. 1.
1. Pt. I, f. 4.
Ibid., Bk. XLIV, f. 34.
‡朱子全書,f. 25.
P*, Bk. XLII, f. 19.

THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
123
at the same point. Heaven is the First Cause, which is said
to be Li, infinite and perfectly pure, the component principles
of which are Love, Righteousness, Reverence and Wisdom,
These principles, pervading the universe constitute its Moral
Order, and are said to be the attributes of Heaven. The
implication of all this is significant from the point of view of
our inquiry. For these principles are hardly conceivable
apart from personality. They are the three phases of mind
conceived of in terms of the ethical-right willing, right
feeling, and right knowing-all proceeding from and summed
up in Love. Mind, as expounded by the Sung philosophers,
is the seat of unity in man's complex organism. It is the
organ of consciousness, and the ruler of man's entire being.
In other words, mind is the seat of personality. Law is
conscious. It does not, and cannot exist apart from mind.*
"The Pilot of the Universe is the Mind of the Universe,
in which Law is inherent." [ 天地之師,则天地之心,而
理在其閒也.7+
"
When Chu Hsi was asked, among other things, if it
would be correct to say that Heaven is Law, the Philosopher
qualified his endorsement by saying; "In the present day it
is maintained that the term Heaven has no reference to the
Empyrean (*), whereas in my view this cannot be left
out of account." His reference to this as one of the
meanings of the term Heaven as it occurs in the Classics
has already been cited. What, then, is the meaning of the
expression which in his view is necessary to a true under-
standing of the term Heaven?
The term 'Empyrean' (**) is literally 'Azure Azure'
and on the surface would naturally be interpreted as re-
ferring to the Azure Vault, or Visible Sky. Does Chu Hsi
then take back his endorsement of the statement that
Heaven is Law, with the statement which he himself makes
that Law is Heaven's substance, and look upon the material
sky as the Being termed Heaven by whose creative decree
all things exist? Did the child who, when his father pointed
to the Azure Vault with the words "That is Heaven," asked,
"What is there beyond heaven?"-did he in his maturer
years find intellectual rest in the thought that this material
dome of sky is in a fundamental sense the Heaven which he
regards as the source of all things? On the contrary, accord-
ing to Chu Hsi, the whole cosmos, including the heavens
and the earth, owe their origin to the Supreme Ultimate or
First Cause which as already stated is the same Being as
*, Bk. XLIV, f. 2.
Ibid., f. 1.
Ibid., Bk. XLII, f. 22.

124
THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
that which is termed Heaven; and, further, Chu Hsi dis-
tinctly asserts in the passage alluded to above that the
attributes of High Heaven cannot be perceived by the senses.
On the other hand, in another connection, the Philosopher
says, "The Empyrean is what we term Heaven. It is that
which revolves in endless revolution." This refers to the
revolution of the Primordial Ether by means of which the
Two Modes come into existence. In the Li Chi it is said:
"The T'ai I (the Great Monad) separated and became heaven
and earth. It revolved and became the Two Modes."†
The T'ai I or Great Monad is another name for the T'ai Chi
or Supreme Ultimate with which, as we have already seen,
Heaven is identical. Both these terms, T'ai I and T'ai Chi,
are sometimes applied to the Ether, but the real Ultimate,
the real Unity is not the manifesting vehicle, but the im-
material transcendental Law. It is most important that
this intimate relation between the immanent principle and
the material manifestation be kept in mind. We saw it in
the case of the Supreme Ultimate which gives its name to
the infinite mass of world stuff or Ether. And we see it now
in the case of the term Heaven. Heaven, the immaterial
has its material manifestation in the Empyrean, the garment
of God.
The Empyrean, therefore, as referred to in the passage
quoted in the last paragraph is not the visible sky but the
Primordial Ether revolving in endless revolution, from which
the visible sky and all other material existences are evolved.
Where then does the "Azure Vault" come in? There is
undoubtedly in the ancient religious thought of China an
intimate connection between the visible sky and the supreme
Ruler. Is not the connection due to the fact that the
visible Heaven in its infinite expanse of azure blue, formless,
mysterious, and intangible, was regarded as the purest and
most subtle manifestation of the supernal Ether accessible
to man's cognisance, and was therefore reverenced as sym-
bolical of the invisible Supreme Being? Just as the im-
material First Cause has given its name of Supreme Ultimate
to the infinite mass of Primordial ether in which it is
inherent, so, conversely, the material azure vault has given
its name "Azure Vault" or "Empyrean" to the same im-
material First Cause, as the Supreme Ruler.
But if it cannot be denied that in the term Empyrean
there is an etherial reference, neither can it be questioned
that when Chu Hsi contends that the Empyrean must not
*, Bk. XLIX, f. 25.
Sacred Books of the East, Vol. XXVII, p. 387.

THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
125
be left out of account in considering the term Heaven, what
is most prominent in his mind is not this etherial reference,
but the meaning attached to the expression in the ancient
classics. It is this which scholars of his day were eliminating
from the term Heaven, and which Chu Hsi maintained must
not be eliminated. What, then, from the standpoint of our
inquiry, are we to regard as the content of the word 'Em-
pyrean' as it is used in the classics?
No one reading the passages in the Odes and the Shu
Ching where the expression most frequently occurs can
escape the conviction that the writers are appealing to "a
Power above the sky" and that they "did not rest in the
thought of the material heavens." Their most striking
feature is the note of personality in the conception which the
writers have of this Power. And there can be little doubt
that it is this conception which is uppermost in Chu Hsi's
thoughts when he says: "In the present day it is maintained
that the term Heaven has no reference to the Empyrean,
whereas, in my view, this cannot be left out of account.'
For in one of the passages referred to above, in which he
speaks of the Empyrean, he goes on immediately to discuss
this very question of a personal ruler. The whole passage
reads: "The Empyrean is what we term Heaven. It is that
which revolves in endless revolution. It is true that it is
wrong to say, as is said in these days, that there is a personal
being (A) in the heavens judging sin, but it is also wrong
to say that there is no Ruler at all." If this statement,
at first sight, and taken by itself, seems to be a direct denial
of personality, it at least shows that the two ideas-Em-
pyrean and a personal Ruler-are nevertheless closely asso-
ciated in his mind. Elsewhere, however, he makes state-
ments which appear to be still more explicit in a contrary
sense as asserting personality in the Divine Being. Re-
ferring to certain passages which he quotes from the classics
he says: "These indicate that there is a personal being (A),
as it were, ruling in it all." One of his questioners, evidently
with a strong leaning in the opposite direction, asked the
question: "When we consider the inequalities of the decree
does it not seem as if there really is not One who imparts
it to man, but rather that the two ethers in their intricate
complexity and inequality follow wherever they happen to
strike, and, knowing that these inequalities do not proceed
from man's own powers, people speak of them as decreed
* LEGGE'S Chinese Classics, Vol. IV, pp. 112, 200.
***, Bk. XLIX, f. 25.
Ibid., Bk. XLIII, f. 34.

126
THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
by Heaven? To which the Philosopher replied, "They
simply flow from the Great Source. The phenomena may
be such as would lead one to think that there is not really
One imparting the decree; but that there is a personal being
(A) above us by whose command these things come to pass,
seems to be taught by the Odes and Records-in such pass-
ages, for example, as speak of the wrath of the Supreme
Ruler. But still this Ruler is none other than Law. In the
whole Universe there is nothing higher than Law, and hence
it is termed Ruler. In the passage in which it is said:
'The great God has conferred on the inferior people a moral
sense,' the very word 'confer' conveys the idea of One who
exercises authority." And that all this refers to the Em-
pyrean is shown by the further question of the same ques-
tioner who, still unsatisfied, asked with respect to various
natural phenomena: "Is it that in all these the Empyrean
truly possesses the power which controls the creative and
transforming processes, or is it that the Supreme Ultimate
is the Pivot on which all transformations turn, and therefore
that the universe is what it is by a process of self-evolution?"
Chu Hsi, however, never gave what he considered un-
necessary explanations, and in this case his reply was
simply: "This is the same question as the one already
answered.".
It would hardly be possible for personality to be affirmed
of the Supreme Ruler in terms more explicit than in the
last of these passages. The universe is what it is, not by a
process of self-evolution, not by a fortuitous conjunction,
intricate and complex, of the two ethers; but all things flow
from the Great Source, their inequalities come to pass by the
command of a personal Supreme Ruler; and this Ruler has
conferred on men a moral sense which renders them res-
ponsible to Himself for the rightness or otherwise of all their
actions. It is obvious, therefore, that in the criticism by
Chu Hsi quoted above he does not mean to deny the per-
sonality of the Supreme Being. It will be noted that the
word translated "personal being" in all these passages is
literally 'man' (A). The word does not of course, in itself
necessarily carry with it an anthropomorphic meaning,
except that the only instance of personality directly known
to man is man. Nevertheless, it would seem that what
Chu Hsi complained of in his contemporaries was in the case
of some the extreme of anthropomorphism, and in others
the opposite error of denying altogether the existence of a
Supreme Ruler and the passage in question was designed to
***, Bk. XLIII, ff. 34-35.

THE THEISTIC IMPORT OF THE SUNG PHILOSOPHY
127
correct both. In this case, therefore, the literal rendering
"man" would better represent his meaning. On the one
hand, he says, it is wrong to say, as is said in these days,
that there is a Man in the heavens judging sin, but, on the
other hand, he contends, it is also wrong to say that there is"
no Ruler at all.
The charges, therefore, which have been brought against
Chu Hsi of Materialism and of Atheism alike would appear
to be without sufficient foundation. It may be admitted
that, on the one hand, recoiling from the ultra-transcen-
dentalism of Taoism he rebounded in the opposite direction
to an excessive emphasis on the immanence of the Divine
Being and, on the other hand, afraid of an extreme anthropo-
morphism he failed to give due prominence to the note of
personality. Nevertheless, transcendentalism and person-
ality have their place in his system; while the great merit of
it as compared with other systems is the position he gives
to the ethical as constituting the very foundations of the
Universe, and to Love as the source of all things. Here,
doubtless, is the secret of its permanence. In the form which
it received from him it has remained substantially the same
through the seven centuries which have elapsed since his
day, pure and lofty in its ethics, a conservative force in the
nation, the very salt indeed which has preserved it from
decay.