II. ON A METHOD OF DIVINATION
PRACTISED AT FOOCHOW.
H. L. HARDING.
The rites described in the following pages were witnessed
at Foochow in December, 1912. The writer has not, un-
fortunately, sufficient technical knowledge to enable him to
use the correct English words in describing much of what
he saw; nor does he venture to pronounce as to the condition
of the medium at the time of vaticination, whether it was
one of hypnotism or not.
The method of divination in question is locally known
as p'a tong, in mandarin ta t'ung (#), and is performed
by two persons, the Tung-t'ou, ' who is always a "tao-
shih," (that is, sorcerer or mesmerizer, not a Taoist priest)
and the "t'ung-tzu" or medium, of whose body the spirit
invoked takes possession, and from whose lips the divine
advice or information is given. In the instance which came
under my observation the t'ung-t'ou was a man of about
45 years of age, of rather striking features which suggested
a certain strength of will; he was clearly, however, an opium
smoker. The t'ung-tzu was a thin, nervy fellow of about
25.
To begin with, a tablet in the room was arranged as an
altar; candles, incense bowls, a plate of dried fruits re-
presenting offerings, three cups of tea and three cups of
wine were arranged about a piece of yellow paper on which
was written the name of the deity to be invoked:
殿大聖王神位(i.c.齊天大聖or
The
or晤空).
T'ung-t'ou also wrote a number of magic diagrams ()
on yellow paper, these being similar to many of those re-
produced in the Siccawei publication Superstitions en
Chine. The t'ung-tzu carefully washed his face and hands
and donned a pair of red trousers, fastened by a red belt;
his upper garments he also took off, but left them over his
shoulders for warmth until they fell off owing to his move-
ments when "possessed."
The first thing done to invoke the deity was the burning
of incense by the t'ung-t'ou, while repeating an incantation;
he then gave a long low whistle, followed by a loud clap of

A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
83
the hands. Returning to the table he lit at a candle one of
the yellow papers on which a magic diagram had been drawn,
then extinguished it at a cup containing water. After per-
forming magic passes over and towards the cup with his
hands, he gave another long whistle, followed by several
claps with the hands.
Placing five strips of yellow paper on the floor (each
about the size of a man's foot, and arranged as
shown in the diagram), on the far side of the table
or altar, he burnt a number of yellow paper
diagrams over them; then recited an incantation accom-
panied by passes of the hands and legs towards the paper
strips, and ended by further clapping of the hands.
The tung-tzu then took up a position standing on the
two outside strips of yellow paper, while he held several
incense sticks in his clasped hands.
During the next ten minutes the t'ung-tzu remained
motionless while the t'ung-t'ou performed various rites in
order to cause the spirit invoked to enter his body. Alter-
nately standing before, behind and on one or other side of
the t'ung-tzu, he made passes with his hands holding
incense sticks, which being the movements they would make
when writing a magic diagram. Interspersed with these
passes were "flicks" of the t'ung-t'ou's fingers in the
direction of the t'ung-tzu. The writer was informed that
the object of this was to sprinkle him with the water in
which the t'ung-t'ou had extinguished the burning paper
with the diagram, and in which he had afterwards dipped
his fingers. At times also the t'ung-t'ou moved round the
room waving burning diagrams, then threw them into the
air when nearly extinguished, clapping his hands loudly on,
or close to, the burning embers.
The next fifteen minutes were occupied by an in-
vocation read at the "altar" from a secret manuscript book,
which was stated to consist of talismans and incantations
used in the magic art of communication with the super-
natural, but we were not permitted to see it. During the
invocation the reader stopped two or three times, moving
round the room and making passes towards the t'ung-tzu.
Towards the end of this time the latter began to sway
slightly from side to side, at the same time bending slowly
backwards.
His swaying then became more and more violent until,
after some passes and a slap by the t'ung-t'ou, he
straightened himself and remained steady for a moment.
Then he started to sway backwards and forwards, and while
doing so uttered two or three stertorous breaths. Raising

84
A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
his elbows with clasped hands still holding the bunch of
incense sticks, he then began to move his arms at first slowly,
then rapidly, up and down, his head at the same time-
moving more and more rapidly from side to side; while
making these movements he uttered two or three sounds
which may be compared to the "yap" of a small dog.
Throwing away the incense sticks, he rested for a moment,
then swung his arms alternately from side to side, striking,
his breast with a loud thud each time; all this to the accom-
paniment of snorts, "barks," and low roars like those of a
wild beast.
Becoming apparently more excited, he began to stamp,
at first with one foot, then with both; then to jump up and
down, then round in a circle, then appeared to faint or lean
powerless in the arms of an attendant. While jumping both
feet left the ground and struck it again simultaneously.
After passes made over him by the t'ung-t'ou the jumping
was resumed, to be followed by another "faint." Altogether
he "fainted" four times, on the last two occasions apparently
requiring to be aroused by burning yellow paper in close
proximity to his feet. After recovering from the fourth
"faint" he jumped two or three times round the room, his
arms assuming the attitude often seen in the figures of door
gods at Chinese temple gates; the right arm uplifted, the
left bent in front of the breast. He was then led to sit on
a stool; from this time on he assumed the attitude and
movements believed by the Chinese to be characteristic of
a deity, while his voice was that of a Chinese stage hero.
He first of all said: "The God is here! what do you wish
to ask?" A bundle of incense sticks was given to him by a
Chinese who was also witnessing the ceremonies, bowing as.
he stepped forward; the latter afterwards mentioned that
strictly speaking he should have offered the incense sticks.
on his knees.
A number of questions were then put by those present:
such as, where A. was likely to be transferred; when B. was:
likely to have a son; whether it would be better for C. to
remain at Foochow or to take up a position in the Ministry
of Communications at Peking; and when D. would be
married. The last two questions were answered; the spirit,
as the t'ung-tzu was now alleged to have become, declaring
that such matters did not concern him, but that he must
ask another divinity. Each time that a question was asked
of him he made sounds which might be described as "clucks"
--such as a Chinese makes when speaking to an animal,-
and which were intended to signify that the spirit did not
appreciate being worried by such trifles. During the whole-

A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
99
85
series of questions the would-be spirit waved the bundle
of incense sticks which had been given to him back and
forth like a fan; at times placing the whole bunch of sticks
(there must have been a dozen or twenty of them) into his
mouth and holding them thus between his lips for half a
minute. When he took them out they were still burning,
and his features endeavoured to show that he liked the
flavour.
During the whole time of his possession the eyes of the
t'ung-tzu were all but closed, generally only the whites of
the eyes being visible. At times it could be seen that the
eyeballs were turned to the left, at times to the right; they
never looked straight in front. He occasionally made a
sort of click with his teeth.
At the close the t'ung-t'ou was informed that there was
nothing more to ask of the "Prince, who might retire.
The t'ung-tzu then did another dance, or series of jumps
round the room, followed by a "faint." A few passes
apparently sufficed to bring him to, and the séance was at
an end.