KU K'AI-CHIH'S SCROLL
IN THE
BRITISH MUSEUM
JOHN C. FERGUSON, PH.D.
In Adversaria Sinica, Series II, No. 1, is a paper entitled
"An Emperor on Ku K'ai-chih." It is said to be a joint
production of Dr. Herbert A. Giles and his son Dr. Lionel
Giles. The transcription of the text from the chirography of
the Emperor Ch'ien Lung into printed characters was made
by Dr. Lionel Giles; the elucidation was a joint undertaking
of father and son and a certain biography was supplied by
Dr. Giles, Sr.
The original text and a corrected transcription are
reproduced overleaf, the number of characters in each line
of the original text and its transcription being preserved.
In the original text as printed in the Adversaria Sinica
the last three lines of the upper portion are reproduced on
the lower portion. This has been corrected in my trans-
cription. Unfortunately Dr. Lionel Giles has made serious
mistakes in his intepretation of the chirography of the Em-
peror Ch'ien Lung. Two of these mistakes are in column 21
of the original text. The third character in this column is
not Ku () as given by Giles but is yen () and the last
character of this column is not erh () but is chü (). In
column 24 the second character is not chün () but is
fu (). The misreading of these three characters has led
to an incorrect translation of the text. In order to correct
these errors I give a new translation.

102
KUKAI-CHIH'S SCROLL IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM
音颂愷之善丹
江九歌潇湘错
蒸色符董跃升
青日言傳神正
江九歌潇湘
太遹符董跃中
名表之數為多
非深入三昧者
置建福宮之靜
非深入三縣者 置孟福宫 ㄠ 静
不能列出卷的 怡軒颜皿美人
史箴圖&傳子 以志秘賞千 会
法寶石
不能到此举女
怡軒顔吕美乐
史箴國流傳千
以志秘賞千古
两百饴年而神
數百餘年而神
法窗不期而含
正经不可
换發意態欲
正復不可思議
生韭依人窃
平紀數方亦
曼卷凄创合也所可涯洺董香
是魔劍合心
乾隆丙寅夏至
湘圖云顔十余
前五日静怡軒
御筆
御筆
是固幻 脚書
房繼行李畫苟

KU KAI-CHIH'S SCROLL IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM
103
TRANSLATION.
[The numbers refer to the Notes which follow.]
Ku K'ai-chih of the Chin dynasty excelled in painting.
He himself used the phrase "the interpretation of feeling
really lies in this" (1) from which we know that one who
has not entered into the mysteries could not attain unto such
ability. This scroll "the Admonitions of an Imperial Pre-
ceptress" (2), has been handed down for more than ten
centuries yet its feeling and coloring (3) are still fresh, and
its expression is full of life. It could not have been equalled
by the strenuous efforts of a later artist. In his colophon on
the picture The Hsiao and* Hsiang, by Li Po-shih, Tung
Hsiang-kuan says that Secretary Ku (4) had in his collection
four famous scrolls of which this is the very best. I quite
believe this. This picture was previously in the Imperial
collection, and later then were obtained these pictures by
Li viz: "A River in Shu," "The Nine Songs," and "The
Hsiao and Hsiang." Thus the number tallies with that of
the famous scrolls mentioned by Tung in his colophon. As
they were transfered into the Ching-I Pavilion of the
Chien-Fu Palace I wrote an honorary inscription (5) referring
to these scrolls as "The Four Beautiful Objects" † (0) thus
recording my profound delight in them. The collection of
treasures of remote antiquity in one place without any
effort is beyond the bounds of expectation. I have re-
corded these few superficial words so that also I might
felicitate this scroll as "the united swords." (7)
An Imperial inscription written in the Ching-I Pavilion
five days before the summer solstice of the ping-yin year
of Ch'ien Lung.
NOTES ON THE TRANSLATION.
1. The passage quoted from the biography of Ku K'ai-
chih in the Chin Shu () and occuring also in the Shih
Shuo () is as follows:
願長畫人或
不點睛或問之日四體妍本無關於
妙處傳神寫照正在阿堵中
*The and is not required.-ED.
+The point of is important and it is not indicated by Dr.
Ferguson. The finding of the four things together in one spot is the
point emphasized.-ED.
Without any effort, better, unexpectedly, or fortunately. It is
well known that the emperor did make great effort to get the
pictures.-ED.

104
KU K'AI-CHIH'S SCROLL IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM
The correct translation, as it seems to me is "When Ku
K'ai-chih painted a portrait he often did not mark the pupils
of the eyes for several years. Upon being asked for an
explanation he replied 'the beauty or ugliness of the body
as a whole is not as a matter of fact lacking in any particular
spot. The interpretation of feeling really lies in this fact.'"
The point of this comment by Ku is that the way in
which such a minor detail as the pupils of the eyes should
be filled in would be determined by the interpretation of the
whole figure given by the artist. For example, if the con-
tour of the body indicated fear or pleasure, dignity or care-
lessness, the artist would be forced to mark the pupils of the
eyes in such a way as would harmonize with the rest of the
figure. The fact that some detail was omitted could not
change the leading idea of the artist in his portrait. The
statement of Ku is by no means mysterious or exceptional.
Its meaning is the plain one that all the details of a picture
must fit in with the general sentiment of the whole con-
ception. Dr. Giles has only made trouble for himself by
having failed to pass beyond the letter of the text into its
spirit although it must be said that he has succeeded in
correcting the punctuation and mistranslation of Chavannes. •
*Dr. Ferguson's suggested translation is very obscure. What is
the meaning of lies in this fact'? What fact? Is it 'the beauty
is not lacking in any particular point'? But is there any
meaning at all in that? In the elucidation offered subsequently by
Dr. Ferguson, it need only be said that it would not need years for
the act of insertion of the pupils to conform to the conditions sug-
gested. In fact if I correctly understand the elucidation it is just
contrary to what the painter said:
The 'some years' evidently is a difficulty. The phrase has been
taken to mean that the painter inserted the pupil only after 'some
years.' It is questionable whether this is the meaning at all. No
sense can he found in the passage if taken so. The only way is to
take the passage in the sense that 'some years' (after the painting was
completed) some one asked why it was that the painter did not insert
the pupils, and the reply was made "The figure of the human body,
i.e. the ssu t'i physical members has nothing special about it, the
lineaments of form do not need any profound treatment. The trans-
mission of the profound and mystic personality in the painting lies
in this way of painting the eyes." Whether this is a correct inter-
pretation may be questioned. It at least makes sense, and seems
natural and simple and this is gained without wresting of the sense of
the original.
The painting of the dragon's eyes by Chang Seng-yu may offer
some help in understanding the passage in question. The story is
that the painter left the eyes out, and the deduction was that if these
were inserted the expression of vitality would be altogether too power-
ful and vivid.
張個繇於金陵安樂寺五而不點睛人請點其二須臾雷
電破壁
去見書史
EDITOR.

KU KAI-CHIH'S SCROLL IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM
105
˙部藏書
2. I have followed Giles' translation of the name of
this scroll Nü Shi Chên T'u-"The Admonitions of an Im-
perial Preceptress" though I find it not altogether satis-
factory. Nü Shi can scarcely be called a "preceptress."
She was a palace official in charge of readers. Some author
ities, such as Huei Shih-chi and Sun I-hsiang say
say that
women of her class were chosen from good families, while
others claim that they were promoted from the position of
palace slaves on account of their ability. Their position was
secretarial and not preceptorial; hence I should prefer to
use "female secretary in a palace" as a translation of Nü Shi.
Neither do I consider "Admonitions" as a full translation
of Chên (). In this instance the word is used in the same
pregnant sense that it was used by Chang Hua and really
means "the way of virtue" (Cf. Cicero, Brut. 12, 46 "via
et arte discere") or "Admonitions to Virtue." In order that
the real meaning of Ku K'ai-chih's scroll may be understood
it is necessary to reproduce below (P. 107) the whole of
Chang Hua's chapter on this topic from the published col-
lection of his writings in the Han Wei Lu Ch'ao Po Shan
Chia Chi (漢魏六朝百三家集)
I do not agree with Dr. Giles in his criticism of Chavan-
nes that a new sentence could not begin with yü (). In
the house of a friend in Peking in a pavilion is a tablet on
which are the following seven characters written by a dis-
tinguished literary man. This phrase
begins with Yü and other similar instances might be
quoted.
3. Shen () is sentiment, feeling, the emotional ex-
pression of the artist's idea. Ts'ai () is coloring. The
references quoted by Giles in this connection are wide of the
mark.
4. Secretary Ku has given Dr. Giles much unnecessary
trouble and has caused him to entirely pervert the meaning
of the remaining portion of Ch'ien Lung's inscription.
Secretary Ku was a neighbor of Tung Ch'i-ch'ang in Hua-
ting. His name was Ku Cheng-i (IE) and his style
Chung-fang (f). He attained in official life to the rank
of Chung Shu She Jen (th) which in the Ming
Dynasty was a Secretary of a Grand Councillor. His record
may be found in any one of the following books, i
ji 松江府志 iii 書會要, div匾粉寶鑑, V無聲詩史,
vi王穉登撰信, vii 莫廷翰集 viii 容集
The meaning of the text, if it needs any further elucida-
tion than I have given in my translation, is that Ku was the
owner of the famous picture "Hsiao and Hsiang" and invited

106 KU K'AI-CHI'S SCROLL IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM
Tung Ch'i-ch' ang to write a colophon at the end of this scroll.
He had seen other pictures owned by Ku and had written a
colophon to the "Hsiao Hsiang" scroll, the text of which
is reproduced below.* Tung selected the scroll by Ku
K'ai-chih as the first of Ku's four famous scrolls, and re-
corded his opinion of it in the colophon which he had been
asked to write. The scroll "Admonitions of an Imperial
Preceptress" had passed from Ku's hands to those of Hsiang
Mo-ling and later to Liang Chao-ling and An I-chou (see
Mo Yuan Hui Kuan). When An's property was confiscated,
his famous collection of paintings was removed to the palace
and become the property of Ch'ien Lung. An had only one
picture by Li Kung-ling (Li Po-shih) and that was "The
Drunken Priest" of which Ch'ien Lung evidently did not
think highly. From other sources he acquired three of
Li's pictures, one of which was the "Hsiao Hsiang" which
had in an attached colophon the above-quoted reference to
Ku K'ai-chih's scroll. Thus the Emperor secured all of the
four famous scrolls belonging to Ku Chêng-i.
He says,
therefore, that the number of his famous scrolls tallies with
that of Ku Cheng-i.
Dr. Giles' laborious attempt to discover who Ku was,
need not be referred to further, except to point out the
absurd deductions which have resulted from misinterpreting
Ch'ien Lung's inscription. The result has been that Tung
Ch'i-ch'ang (A.D. 1600) has been made to write an inscrip-
tion on a painting by Li Kung-ling (A.D. 1100) in which
reference is made to Ku Shao-lien (A.D. 780) as the owner
in Tung's time of a scroll painted by Ku K'ai-chih. It
would be difficult to invent a worse example of anachronistic
medley than has been given in this instance.
5. The misreading of yen () for () has caused
all the trouble in Giles' rendering. The meaning of yen ()
here is an honorary inscription. In his
dictionary Giles has not given this meaning of yen.
6. The Four Beautiful Objects" is a well known
phrase. In the poetry of Wang Po (Giles 2212) there is a
reference to the "Four Beauties"-Ssu Mei Chü.
In the poetry of Hsieh Ling-yün (Giles 739). "There
are four beautiful things in the world which are rarely found
together a bright day, beautiful scenery, a happy heart and
enjoyable occupation."
*海上中舍所名跡有四顧愷之女史箴李伯時蜀江區
九歌圖此瀟湘耳女史在李項宋九歌在余家瀟湘子有杂
政策蜀江在信陽王思將軍家皆奇跡也董其昌因題

KU KAI-CHIH'S SCROLL IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM
107
In the Mou Tan Ting poem there are two cynical
lines When are a bright day and beautiful scenery found
together,
In whose garden may be found a happy heart and en-
joyable occupation.'
7. Chien Ho. Before the fall of the Kingdom of Wu
(A.D. 277) a purple vapor was frequently seen between two
constellations (Sagittarius and Aries). Some thought it to
be a sign of the revival of the power of Wu and that Wu
would enjoy peace once again. However the purple vapor
became more brilliant whereupon Chang hearing that Lei
Huan was skilled in astrology, sought him so that together
they might observe the signs of the heavens. Lei said that
the strange vapor between the two constellations was the
essential principle of fine swords which had mounted to
the sky. Chang asked where these swords could be found,
and Lei replied that they were in Fêng Ch'êng (in Kiangsi).
Chang asked him to search for them and thereupon appointed
Lei as Governor of Fêng Ch'êng. When he arrived at his
post he dug under the foundations of the prison and found
in a stone box two swords with inscriptions cut in the same
place on the swords. One had the two characters Lung
Ch'üan () and the other T'ai Ah (*) incised on it.
That night the vapor between the two constellations dis-
appeared.
Of these two swords Lei presented one to Chang, and
himself wore the other. Afterwards Chang was put to death
and his sword disappeared. After the death of Lei, his son
took his sword. While passing through Yen P'ing (in
Fukien) this sword suddenly leaped into the water and sank.
All that could be seen was two dragons more than ten feet
in length.
The reference in Ch'ien Lung's inscription is to the
bringing together of the two scrolls formerly owned by Ku
Cheng-i as being similar to the final reunion of the two
swords. This reference to "the united swords"-Chien ho,
is not infrequent in literary writings and was known to
Dr. Giles, Sr., who refers to the incident of the swords in his
account of the life of Lei Huan (No. 1089).
THE ORIGINAL ADMONITIONS.
In order that the meaning of this scroll may be under-
stood, I have reproduced and translated the text of the
"Admonitions" written by Chang Hua in the reign of Hui Ti
(A.D. 290-306) of the Western Chin dynasty. Chang Hua

108
KU K'AI-CHIH'S SCROLL IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM
fearing the power of the family of the Empress wrote these
admonitions as a remonstrance. Chang Hua wrote also three
other “Admonitions" directed towards other parties.
司之美黷者勿同正若而死志滿含
箴由
斧駭不不
敢
張華女史箴
不鑒玄以之機殺怯義式贞爰
爱造
告日美可于漠藻人物班高瞻吉始化史
麻翼翩以小神夫之咸無妾而清婉夫二箴
以專星聽
盛有二懿嫕婦儀
姬
矜取專戒無言念飾而辭王樊淑以既
尤實彼響如作其不割易姬慎及分
福冶生攸無聖容衰騅
仍容慢逐矜而出
以求愛比爾榮
感正君散
同元莊位臣氣
莫中
熊不居家流
言知
室
善
典好極
恭子
致則
思仇盈
榮結必
鮮施以既
千其月不馮 ·衿正陶
里性滿懷媛衛結王既
應性則防趋女褵猷甄
之 微微進矯虔有在
味苟不崇慮夫桓恭倫帝
丽而理雨靈違飾猶豈耳
耳中婦
期絕有不貴鑒斯 或塵道無
忠饋德義
女職固可隆無義愆積畏和肅
史此然以隆象則礼替隆知音慎
NU SHI CHEN.
In the vast operations of creation Heaven and Earth
were separated. The flux and flow of the liquid forces of
Yin and Yang distributed themselves in the moulding of
myriad things. During the time of Fu Hsi he established
the rites, a covenant between God and man. Thereupon for
the first time, marital relations were made by the ordering of

KU KAI-CHIH'S SCROLL IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM
109
Fan Chi
a home. The relation of prince and minister was created re-
sulting in imperial counsels being based on ordered principles.
The disposition of women was gentle: possessing virtues
which are not openly manifest they were chaste. Women
were circumspect in their own spheres. There was mutual
consideration in the home. They were respectful in the
ceremony of marriage and in domestic life were quiet and
sedate. Their deportment being of such a quality they were
respected for their virtuous accomplishments.
(Giles 531) was able to influence Prince Chuang by her
abstinence from animal food. The Lady of Wei (wife of
Huan Kung) opposed Huan Kung (Giles 841) and refused
to listen to the pleasant sounds of his music. (Huan Kung
was fond of singing the licentious Odes of Cheng as recorded
in the Shi King, Bk. VII). Thus noble purpose directed
towards righteousness succeeded in changing the hearts of
two masters. In the reign of Yüan Ti (Giles 1350) when a
bear escaped from its cage, the Empress Fêng boldly faced
it. Was not this woman fearless in the face of death? Pan
Chieh-yu (Giles 1599) declined the Emperor's invitation to
ride at his side in his chariot. Did not this woman neglect
to take the slightest precaution for her own future. ?
No way has ever been prosperous that has not come.to
adversity: no living thing has flourished but later to decay.
In a day changes come and at the waxing of the moon
affairs sink into insignificance. A high hill is as a heap of
dirt; changes come with the suddenness of a released trigger.
Men understand to a certain extent how to improve their
outward appearance but do not know how to improve their
own dispositions. Without improvement of disposition they
are liable to overstep the laws of propriety. By cleaving and
carving they can set themselves to becoming holy. If they
speak with discretion, people for a thousand li follow their
advice, but if the laws of righteousness are set aside, even
in conjugal relations there is suspicion. They use words as
if it were a trifling matter and yet their glory or their shame
is judged thereby. Do not talk of secrecy, for heaven peers
into things which have not yet taken shape. Do not talk
of black emptiness, for the gods hear even when there are
no sounds. Do not boast of your glory. God's truth hates
self-sufficiency. Do not presume upon your high position,
for the most prosperous come to naught. When the small
stars of the early morning are mirrored in the sky, follow
my warnings and you will be abundantly blessed with
children according to the desires of your heart.
Your pros-
perity should never become rudeness nor your riches be en-
joyed selfishly. Selfishness begets neglect. If you love

110
KU K'AI-CHIH'S SCROLL IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM
only the choicest favors they will disappear: your abund-
ance will perish. This is a fixed law. Beauty should be
natural. When it is artificial, it brings trouble upon itself. A
bewitching countenance that attempts to exhibit itself, is
always detested by a man of breeding. Closely-knitted
benignity will disappear and this will be the cause of it.
Therefore there is the saying "respectful and careful."
will your happiness be complete: tranquillity and respect will
be in your own thoughts and your honor will be resplendent.
These admonitions prescribed by an Imperial Preceptress are
boldly addressed to all ladies of the Palace.
CONCLUSION.
Thus
The scroll speaks for itself. It is full of beauty and
grace, which are in no way dependent upon the age of the
painting. From the recorded descriptions of the style of
Ku K'ai-chih there can be no doubt that it is his style.
As to internal evidence of age, the earliest seal on the scroll
is that of the Emperor Hui Tsung (1100-1126) and the
earliest mention of it is in the Hsüan Ho Hua Pu, a catalogue
of the paintings of this same Emperor Hui Tsung. This does
not settle the question as to the age of this scroll, nor its
authenticity as a genuine production of Ku K'ai-chih. It
only carries us back in our evidence to A.D. 1120 and up to
the present, we are left at this date. It may well be that
later evidence will emerge which will carry us further back,
but whether or not it is forthcoming, we have in this scroll
one of the "Four Beauties" of the discriminating connois-
seur, the Emperor Ch'ien Lung, and one of the best examples
of early Chinese painting that there is left in the world. It
deserves every word of praise that can be said of it. Its
age must be left to documentary evidence.