THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE
TAOIST RELIGION*
PETER C. LING.
PREFATORY REMARKS.
It is a well-established fact that the Chinese, of all the
existing races of the human family, constitute the most
ancient nation on earth, having an historic existence of no
less than four thousand years. In an old people like this, it
is not wonderful to find an almost incredible amount of
myths, legends, and traditions. China is a land abounding
in legendary accounts which time immemorial has hatched
into shape. The majority of these are so obscured by hazy
antiquity, that it is futile to search into their genuineness
from an historical point of view. In such circumstances it is
wise to rest content with what tradition has to say, or what
vulgar literature has to yield, without persisting on their
historical accuracy..
It is in this spirit that we are to make a quest into the
lives of the Eight Immortals, commonly known as the Eight
Genii of the Taoist religion in China. That they being men
once, and yet were immortal, points infallibly to the con-
clusion that they are creations or rather accretions wrought
by ages of time.
The writer of the present treatise has made a thorough
attempt to investigate into the veritable lives of the so-called
Eight Genii, and has thus far obtained only a meagre
knowledge of them. Some dozen Taoist priests have been
consulted; but they unanimously show a reticence with
regard to the actual lives of these beings. What they can
furnish is only the names of the "Immortal Eight,
belief that they were very happy beings, living a visionary,
ecstatic life in some region, preferably the high mountains
or some isolated island beyond the reach of man, or a vague
the
*Mr. H. E. Hobson (late Commissioner of Customs) occasionally
offers the students of St. John's University a prize for the best essay
on some given subject. Last year Mr. P. C. Ling's essay on the
Eight Immortals gained Mr. Ling is an undergraduate of the
University.-ED.
it.

54
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
description of the personal appearance of one or two of the
more prominent of the Eight, or perhaps incidents in the
lives of the Eight which are so popular. It would almost
surprise one to think that the Taoist priests themselves
should be ignorant of the patriarchal personages in their
religion, whose names are so well-known and the belief in
whose real existence constitutes one of the most fundamental
tenets of the religion. And yet, this is a fact.
No Christian
minister can be found ignorant of the lives of St. Ignatius,
or St. Augustine or other patriarchs of the Church. The
fact that the Taoist priests know nothing authentic of the
lives of the Eight Immortals clearly indicates that historic
accounts of them are wanting, and that they are a creation
of tradition, and so long as tradition holds ground in men's
minds, there is no need for searching and preserving the
true accounts.
Failing to get information from the priestly source, the
present treatise depends more or less on extracts from books.
Many books have been referred to, especially works on the
Chinese, and on the religions of the Chinese. According to
the Tzu Yüan's they are not mentioned in all the
books on genii or in the most voluminous of the Chinese
historical records.
The work that gives comparatively long accounts of the
lives of the Eight Immortals is Emperor Kang-hsi's
Encyclopedia. This work of ten large volumes quotes the
authority of The Supplementary Lives of the Genii
in dealing with most of the lives of the Eight Genii.
It is interesting to note that among the numerous treatises
on genii alone in Chinese such as搜神記,十洲記,神仙傳,
F. and others, practically nothing is
said of the Eight Genii, and yet they are the most popular
of the legion of genii, and at the same time, supreme in this
order of super-human beings.
Other books that tell the stories of the Eight at some
length are William Frederick Mayer's The Chinese Reader's
Manual, and Dr. Herbert A. Giles' Chinese Biographical
Dictionary. There is one other book which formed the
principal source of information to the writer: A Mission
to the East of the Eight Genii, with pictures
It was secured in Foochow, one of the commercial
centres of the coastal provinces of China, and exists in the
form of two small handy volumes. They contain about
forty-five pages, each with about nine hundred characters.
Here, we at once see a work of not less than 40,000
* Edited by 江吳元泰署

THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
55
characters takes up the narrative of the Eight Genii while
it is almost impossible to trace anything in all the other
works. This undoubtedly shows that even the contents of
this book, A Mission of the Eight Genii to the East can
scarcely be true so far as historical accuracy is concerned.
We cannot help admitting that a great deal of this book is
fictitious and that the miraculous feats and mysterious
encounters ascribed to the Eight Genii are the inventions of
imagination.* Nevertheless, it contains accounts of the
Immortals in an eclectic form. The traditional narratives are
interwoven with fictitious elements which the author deemed
worthy of such noble and supernatural characters as the
Immortal Eight. For the purpose of the present treatise,
only those traditional narratives will be given, while the
fictitious elements that savour of present imagination are
eliminated.
The subject will be treated in the following pages in
three sections. Section I will take up a general discussion
of the rise and development of the belief of genii in the
Taoist religion, their characteristics and habitations, and
some theoretical problems concerning them. Section II
will confine itself to the narration of the lives of the Eight,
individually. Section III will deal with the Eight Genii as a
whole, together with some incidents of the group that are
popular in the land.
The romanizations of the names of the Eight Immortals
are according to Dr. Giles in his Chinese Biographical
Dictionary.
I.
"Taoism embraces the primeval religion of China, and
all the intellectual tendencies which did not find satisfaction
in Confucianism. To these belong the various experiments
in natural philosophy, and in connection with them the
belief in the possibility of overcoming death by means of
the elixir of immortality. By this, man enters on everlasting
life, leads a higher existence above the range of material
laws, in beautiful grottoes, on the sacred mountains, or on
the islands of the blessed, and so on. It is worthy of note
that such a belief, which bears some faint resemblance to the
Christian belief of the Resurrection, should have found
acceptance from the earliest to most recent times among the
sober minds of the Chinese. There is a record of the names
of thousands of people who are supposed to have reached
this condition of immortality, and the life history of many of
* Assisted by 社友陵校

56
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
these is preserved. It has even been asserted that more
than 100,000 had reached this goal."
These are the words of Dr. Faber who ranks foremost
among eminent Chinese scholars. "They contain in a nut-
shell, all that are essential in the belief of an immortal
existence, as embodied in the genii; and show in what
important relation this belief stands to the Taoist religion."
While we admit that the idea of genii existence was the
sole contibution of Taoism, it is well for us to investigate
as to the time when the idea took its incipience. Confucius
was conspicuously silent on the question of death and the
future. Once, being asked about the state of man after
death, he gave the reply: "Not knowing life, how can we
know death?" But it is interesting to note that neither was
this idea contemplated by Lao-tzů the reputed founder of
the Taoist religion. All that we know of this miraculous
personage is that he wrote the Tao Te Ching a philoso-
phical treatise of 5,000 characters.
The idea really germinated after Lao-tzu. "Instead of
limiting itself to the mysticism of its master, and pursuing
his reasonable speculation, it gave itself up, at an early date,
to the magical side of Chinese philosophy and practice.
Even in Chuang-tzû, and still more so in his supposed pre-
decessor, Lieh-tzû, we find elements of the bizarre, men who
could walk through the solid rock, leap down terrifying
precipices unharmed, pass through fire unsinged, travel
thousands of miles through the air, absenting themselves
for many days, such men did not die, but were translated
and so on. Whether they intended their statements to be
accepted literally, or metaphysically, we know not. At least
we know that subsequent generations took them literally,
and for hundreds of years, nay, even to the present day,
men have sought the elixir of immortality, and the philoso-
pher's stone."
The earliest historical intimation we can find treating of
the magic of ever-continuing life was in Shih Hwang Ti of the
Ts' in Dynasty which flourished in the latter part of the third
century, B.C. This emperor, having been crowned by
success after a Napoleonic career of conquest, sought to
dominate over his empire for ever, by taking some elixir of
immortality. At this opportune moment, Taoist professors
found a favourable time for publishing their art, in order to
gain royal reward. Among these was one Hsü Shih
who memorialized the emperor, asking for permission to
J. Dyer Ball: Things Chinese.
†
W. E. Soothill: The Three Religions of China.

THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
57
make a quest for the elixir of immortality of the genii who
dwelt in the three spiritual mountains of Feng-lai **
Fang-chang and Ying-chow in the Yellow Sea.
Hence an expedition of several thousand boys and maidens
was sent out for this purpose, but they never reached their
destination though they were said to have come in sight of
these wonderful islands. Here we see a great expedition
being undertaken to look for the elixir of eternal life for the
emperor, showing that the idea of immortality had already
inflamed the minds of men for this exquisite possession.
Coming to the Han Dynasty, the Taoists found an en-
thusiastic patron in the person of Wu Ti 140-86 B.C. Like
Ts in Shih Hwang this Emperor was a great conqueror, and
a great search was made for the genii and for the philoso-
pher's stone. From this time forth the country was in a more
or less feverish state of search for the pills of immortality
which were supposed to be mysteriously extracted from some
unknown substance. Many were the zealous applicants
who banished themselves from society, and entered into the
deep mountains and dreary regions in search of the immortal
dose. And many were reported to have been successful and
actually attained immortality.
The classical Chinese literature, that is the thirteen
canonical classics, and the standard Chinese History prior to
this period, do not contain even the word genii (fl) but
beginning from this period books on genii began to multiply;
and we have a whole legion of men who have entered upon
this state of existence. Let us now see some of the charac-
teristics attributed to these supernatural beings, and the
place of their habitation.
The name of genii is a figurative term for happiness.
No doubt they are absolutely free from the trammels and
limitations of this world of matter. They are not influenced
by the forces at work on earth, but they can still have com-
munication with men therein. As will be seen later in the
lives of the Eight Genii, they very often mixed with men and
carried on benevolent works. They are tutelary deities, good
spirits, and merciful benefactors of humanity.
They possess wonderful art and perform enviable feats
of might. They drive in chariots of cloud; they are en-
veloped in effulgent glory; they partake of the blessing of the
heavenly peach; they mount on the fleeting dragon or downy
stork, and travel thousands of miles a day; they dwell in
palaces of pearls and jadestones, and sleep in shady and ex-
hilarating grottoes. One important characteristic ascribed
to them is the power of transfiguration. In their frequent
visitations to the earth, they take human forms, and are

58
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
often depicted as equipped with a fan, or a brush, or a gourd
of immortal pills or some other miraculous stuff.
It is well worth noticing that the way by which a man
passes from the earthly existence to the genii existence is
singularly simple. Etymologically, a genius is one who
enters the mountain (fil-A ). The genii are men who
have entered upon an ascetic life living in the mountains.
The Tzu yuan says, in definition of the word
"genii," that the Taoists attain immortality by abstention
from food, and mystic contemplation. In so doing, they
abandon all thoughts of the world, and become impertur-
bable. And then, comes the transmigration to the super-
human existence, unlimited by space, and force.
However lofty may be the ideals attached to this im-
mortal life, the genii never transcend the atmospheric
universe. They surmount the clouds, or transfigure as they
please, but they have always geographical locations as to
their abodes. It is impossible to locate the Buddhist
Nirvana, or the Christian Paradise, but the Taoist genii are
always represented as living in some regions within the
Chinese dominion, but these places are inaccessible to
ordinary men. Thus they dwell in the "golden isles of the
blest," in "Yuen-chow N where grows the herb of im-
mortality"; in the "Kwen-lung mountains .
where there are halls of emerald, and apartments of jade
stones." We also find the statement that "the fourth happy
land is the Eastern Abode of the genii, the fifth happy land
is the Western abode of the genii, and both of them belong
to the Tai-chow prefecture 台州縣
Not only do genii dwell upon the earth, but also their
personal appearance is humanistic. They are represented
as wearing garbs of ordinary men and women, but most of
them are distinguished by some peculiar traits or gaits. By
these, and by the wonderful power they possess, they can be
recognised whenever they make their appearance.
Having discussed the question to this point, it is neces-
sary to spend some time on the more important theories
regarding the genii. Whether the genii possess corporeal
constitutions or not is the problem we wish to enter into.
One naturally asks, do the men who have passed from the
limited existence into the genii existence, carry away their
physical body with them? Do they enter upon this new
life leaving their corpses after death? Or do they transform
into the immortal life carrying away with them flesh and
bones?
The first of the two theories admits that they do not
possess corporeal existence. The aspirants, after a period

THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
59
Through what is
the soul or
of asceticism, die like ordinary men.
known as the "dissolution of the corpse F
the spirit, phoenix-like rises into immortality. Henceforth
they become genii and frequent the mountain habitations.
When they have special missions on earth, they resume
human form with material equipments. But essentially
they are immaterial, an existence not dissmiliar from the
Hebrew conception of the angels. In fact they have many
of the qualities attributed to angels. This theory is affirmed
by the chief of the Eight Immortals Li-Tieh Kwai,
who was supposed to have died, and his body to have been
cremated by his disciple.
This idea of immortality, however, is of more remote
origin than Taoism itself. As early as the twentieth century
B.C., we have accounts of emperors making sacrifices to
their deceased ancestors whose spirits were supposed to be
among them, controlling their welfare. But they were never
represented as having any of the magical elements which
later accrued to the theory due to Taoist influence. The
Taoists took up the idea and elaborated it, and made the
decided contribution of the spirits of genii being able to
return to the world, and to appear in the forms they used
to wear, and to do wondrous works.
The second theory maintains that the genii do carry
away their physical body with them. In the Chinese lan-
guage, the genii are those who ever exist without getting old,
7. It is the same body, blood and flesh which
passes into the immortal state. A certain miraculous meta-
morphosis has taken place in the body as the result of quaf-
fing the mysterious draught, or swallowing the herbaceous
pills, and it never becomes old. The genii are men or women
alike a thousand years after their getting immortality with
the same physique and facial expressions and countenance.
In fact they are always represented as comely looking, robust
in health, and having the complexion of an infant. Though
their body is matter or matter metamorphosed, yet they can
rise above the clouds and wander without limitation. Here
is much resemblance between the genii and the Christian
belief of the risen Christ. Becoming genii is a kind of
resurrection carrying away the flesh spiritualized. This
theory is confirmed by the tradition that Hwang Ti, the
reputed first historical emperor of China 2697 B.C. ascended
to heaven in human form on a dragon at a place called
Ting-Huat the foot of the Ching mountains #r.*
Taoist books on genii abound in accounts of persons who
Tzu Yüan.

60
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
passed into the immortal state in this manner. A parallel
to such belief is found in the Hebrew traditions of Enoch
and Elijah, both of whom having ascended to heaven with
their physical body.
We will now take up the narration of the Eight Im-
mortals of the Taoists, the most popular of the hierarchy of
genii of that religion. In general, the belief in genii existed
in the Ts'in Dynasty two centuries B.C. In course of time
it flourished. The height of its popularity was reached in
the Yuan Dynasty 1206-1368 A.D. According to Chao Yih
in his book the legend relating to the Eight
Immortal personages as constituting a defined assemblage of
immortalised beings is traceable to no higher antiquity than
the period of this dynasty, although some, if not all of the
members of this group had been previously celebrated, and
venerated as genii. *
The names of the Eight Immortals are as follow:
1. Li Tieh-kuai
2. Chung Li-Ch'üan
3. Lan Ts'ai-ho
4. Chang Kuo
II.
5. Ho Hsien-ku
6. Lü Yen
7. Han Hsiang Tzu
8. Ts'ao Kuo-chiu
The order of the Eight Immortals will be dealt with in
this treatise according to A Mission of the Eight Genii to
the East, with pictures, which forms the basis of the nar-
rative of the writer. Others have given a different order
which may be due to their regard for the Chinese mode of
arranging orders by official career and seniority in age.
Hence Chung Li-Ch'üan, a great general is first, Chang
Kuo-lao, the oldest, comes next; Han Hsiang-tzu and Lan
Tsai-ho are younger than the rest; while Ho Hsien-ku, the
youngest and a female, comes last. The order given in A
Mission of the Eight Genii to the East, according to the
times of their entering immortality seems to be more reason-
able.
1. LI T'IEH-KUAI
The Chief of the category of the Eight Genii was really
named Li Yuan, Tieh-Kuai being his pseudonym which he
named Li Yuan, Tieh-Kuai being his pseudonym which
he assumed during his wanderings. No precise period is
assigned to his existence upon earth, though one tradition
placed him in the Yuan dynasty. He is represented to have
W. F. Mayers: The Chinese Reader's Manual.

THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
61
been of commanding stature and dignified mien with an extra-
ordinary constitution. From his youth, he devoted himself
to the study of the Taoist lore, and to the acquisition of the
"Golden pills," without any regard for domestic affairs.
He was so saturated with the Taoist contempt of the vanitas
vanitatum and the ambitions of the world, that he deter-
mined to lead a life of aceticism, ( is the Taoist term).
He secluded himself in a mountain dale, in a cavern having
a door of stones. Another tradition says he was in a certain
mountain for 40 years learning the secret of immortality.
He sat on a mat of reeds and practised training his animus
for years, often forgetting food and sleep. One
day the thought struck him that he might consult Lao-tzu
老子, his namesake who was the supreme of the genii 仙祖,
living in Hua Shan. He then placed himself under
the instruction of Lac-tzu who occasionally descended to
earth and at times used to summon his pupil to interviews
with him in the celestial spheres. In one of his discourses
he said, "The essence of the Tao is unfathomable, the extre-
mity of the Tao is indescribable. Without Tao everything
is void. Preserve your spirit and quiet your form.
Be pure,
be clean. Trouble not your form, disturb not your essence.
Abuse not your nature, and suspend all your anxieties.
In this manner can you attain to immortality.' Tieh-kuai
was highly enlightened by the teaching; all his mundane
thoughts dissolved like ice; and he bowed low in gratitude.
He also made obeisance to Wan-ch'iu who was with
Lao-tzû, and who informed him that his name was already
registered in the roll of the Immortals and that he need only
keep up rigid training to reach the perfect state before long.
One day, Lao-tzu, accompanied by Wan-ch'iu visited
Tieh-kai's cavern, and bade him to escort him on a journey
to the countries of Hsi-yü . At the time appointed,
Tieh-kuai committed his material body to the charge of his
disciple Yang while his spirit travelled with Lao-tzû
through the air. He left to Yang injunctions to cremate his
body in seven days in case his spirit did not return to it by
that time.
Now it came to pass that after six days of faithful
watch Yang was obliged to quit his charge in the evening
of the sixth day, owing to the serious sickness of his mother.
Hurrying to the death-bed of his mother, he cremated his
master's body before the seventh day had expired.
When Tieh-kai returned on the seventh day, having
visited Feng-lai Fang-chang and the thirty-six
heavenly caves where dwell the genii, and
other places, he found that his body was gone and what was

62
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
left of him was only a handful of ashes. Then occurred the
strange incident, that his spirit entered the body of a lame
and crooked beggar, who had just expired, and in this
shape the ascetic, now an Immortal, continued his existence,
supporting his halting foot-steps with an iron staff; and this
is the meaning of his pseudonym Tieh-kuai, i.e. "iron staff."
Tieh-kuai's first act of benevolence was to revive the
mother of Yang his negligent disciple. Leaning on the iron
staff, and carrying a gourd on his back, he came to Yang's
house, where the people were preparing the funeral. He
offered the dose contained in his gourd, which on being
poured into the corpse's mouth, revived the woman. Then
he made himself known and giving Yang another pill,
vanished in a gust of wind. Two hundred years later, he
brought his disciple up to heaven also.
We are told that Tieh-kuai often appeared on earth.
Once he became an old man with a gourd slung over his
shoulder and sold drugs in the market place of Ju-nan Mi
There were no cases of illness which could not be remedied
by his medicine. He hung a bottle on the wall, and at night
jumped into it, coming out again the following day.
Another time he tried to transmigrate a watchman
into the immortal state. In the person of a pauper he was
associated with poor men, not with men of high estate. He
walked into a glaring furnace and bade the watchman to
follow. The latter was afraid of the demoniacal action, and
did not follow. Then he told him to tread on a bamboo.
leaf on the river, saying it was a boat in which he would be
carried away safely. Again the watchman hesitated, where-
on T'ieh-kuai said to him that his earthly cares were
too great to carry him to immortality, and leapt into the
bamboo leaf himself. Henceforth, he devoted his energy
to securing and directing seven other persons who were
worthy of the category of the Eight Genii, being Chung
Li-ch'üan, Ho Hsien-ku and others.
2. CHUNG LI-CHUAN
Chüan was his cognomen, his literary appellation was
寂道 and his pseudonyms were 和合子 and王子 and
厉先生. He lived in Yentai 燕台 in the time of the
Han dynasty. His father was a tetrarch, hence he
was of noble lineage. "At his birth, a strange light shone
in the house, which was taken as a sign for the future
wonderful career of the new-born infant. His physiognomy
indicated a strange career too, having a round pate, broad
forehead, thick ears, long eye-brows, deep eyes, red nose,
square mouth, high cheeks, and scarlet lips. His arms at

THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
63
birth were as long as those of a three years old infant, and he
did not cry nor eat for seven days.' When grown up, he
became a general, and soon rose high in the royal favour.
Now it was a military campaign against one of the
Mongolian tribes which brought about his change of
official life to that of an ascetic. He was placed in command
of 500,000 troops and advanced to meet the invaders. It is
not necessary to recount the battles and details of the
campaign here. He was at first successful. While the
battle was raging, Li T'ieh-kuai happened to pass by,
mounted on the clouds. He mused to himself, "behold
there is Chung-li who by right ought to be transmigrated
now, and transcend the cosmos L But he is slow of
understanding, and is bent on acquiring honours, and fame.
Suppose he should be completely triumphant, he would be
raised to higher official ranks, and would be too much
absorbed in worldly lust, and thus prevented from attaining
to Tao. I will now turn the tide of victory, make him dis-
comfited, and take refuge in a lonely place, then he will
avoid folly, enter into understanding and ascend
the realm of the genii."
He transformed himself therefore into an old man, and
alighted before the camp of the crestfallen, foreign general,
to whom he disclosed the strategem whereby he could rout
Chung's army, and the battle was resumed.
In the struggle that followed, Chung was utterly de-
feated, and escaped with one horse. In his state of destitu-
tion in the wilderness, and in his desperation of spirit, he
met a foreign monk, to whom he addressed himself and asked
for direction. The monk led him several miles to the hamlet
belonging to 東華先生
Here, Chung-li met with the hospitality of this old man,
who advised him to relinquish ambitions. Chung-li, mean-
while, found him agreeable, and desired to be taught the
secret of life.
Thenceforth, Chung-li learned to train his life in the
"three-peak mountain." There was at the time a great
famine and many were the victims. One of Chung-li's works
was to transmute the baser metals, copper and pewter, into
silver by amalgamating them with some mysterious drug.
This treasure he distributed among the poor, and thousands
of lives were thus saved.
One day he was meditating alone at a place called
雲水之紫金四誥峰 All of a sudden the stone wall
rent asunder, with a loud sound, and a jade casket was seen
in it. It was opened and found to contain secret information
as to how to become an Immortal.

64
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
Chung-li practised, according to the formulae. Suddenly
his apartment was filled with clouds of diverse colours,
music struck up, and a celestial stork called to him to ride
away to the region of immortality. Thenceforth he became
an Immortal, and we will later see how he transmigrated
Lü Tung-ping to this order.
According to Mayers, Chung Li-Chüan was the first and
greatest in the category of the Eight Immortals, said to have
lived during the Chow Dynasty when he attained to posses-
sion of the elixir of immortality. He appeared from time to
time thereafter on earth as the Messenger of Heaven.
3. LAN TS AI-HO I
This character has much been disputed about as regards
sex. According to Mayers, he is usually reputed to have
been a female. It is stated that she wandered about in
a tattered blue gown, with one foot shoe-less, wearing in
summer an inner garment of wadded stuff, and in winter
sleeping midst snow and ice. In this guise the weird being
begged a livelihood in the streets, waving a wand aloft and
chanting a doggerel verse denunciatory of fleeting life, and
its delusive pleasures. *
The popular belief seems to show that only one of the
Eight was a woman, that is Ho Hsien-ku. Lan is always
represented as a stripling of about sixteen, bearing a basket
of fruits. According to A Mission of the Genii to the East,
he was the Red-footed Great Genius
incarnated.
Though he was a man, he could not understand how to be a
man, (that, perhaps is the reason why he has been supposed
to be a woman). He led a wandering life, carrying a musical
instrument of wood, being two pieces of wood connected
by a string of more than three feet in length. When drunk,
he would rave like a lunatic uttering extempore rhymes, any
money he got he strung together, and either gave it to the
poor or spent it in liquor at the public-house. He was
often seen, but he never grew old. One day he was drinking
with Li Tieh-kuai at and they conversed about Tao.
Suddenly music was heard in the air and surmounting a
white stork he ascended on high. Twelve ballads of Lan
Tsai-ho are preserved in this work. A translation of the
second of these will give a glimpse into the nature of all.
*W. F. Mayers: The Chinese Reader's Manual.

THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
"Ye men of the world!
Now are ye born, and soon ye die.
Yesterday, ye were twice eight,
And your valour puffed from your breast.
To-day ye are as seventy years' old,
Looking feebly and without strength.
Ye are like flowers of the spring day,
65
Which blossom in the morning, but fade in the
evening."
In the is preserved the following ballad.
"I, Lan Ts'ai-ho, sing while I ramble.
What is it in the world?
The ruddy face is even like a spring plant,
The fleeting time is even like a shuttle.
The ancients passed by in confusion, without return-
ing,
The moderns come by in ever increasing numbers,
In the morning they ride on the royal phoenix until
sunset,
In the evening white mists are seen in the mulberry
fields.'
4. CHANG Kuo .
This is the old man of the category and has the epithet
of "old" attached to his name.
He lived in the reign of
Yüan Tsung of the Tang dynasty. Nothing is known of his
earliest life except that he became a hermit in
There he received instructions from Wan Ch'iu
Tieh-kuai concerning Tao.
emperor.
D
and
Hearing of the fame of this recluse the Empress Wu Hou
sent to invite him to court, but when her messenger arrived
he was already dead. Ere long he was once more seen alive,
and in 723 A.D. the Emperor Ming Huang despatched
another messenger to fetch him, but in the presence of the
latter his spirit was exhaled. The messenger therefore,
burned incense before him and declared the intention of the
Then he revived, but the messenger did not
dare to urge him to go. A third despatch was sent bearing
an autograph letter from the Emperor, and seeing the
sincerity of the men, he accompanied them to the Capital.
He entertained the Emperor with a variety of magical tricks,
such as rendering himself invisible, drinking off a cup of
aconite, and felling birds or flowers by pointing at them.
He refused the hand of an Imperial princess, and also de-
clined to have his portrait placed in the Hall of Worthies
集賢院 He was allowed to return to his seclusion with an
5

66
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
honorary appointment in the "Imperial Banqueting Court."*
and with the title of St E in allusion to his super-
natural powers. About A.D. 740 the Emperor once more
summoned him to Court but the messenger had scarcely
reached the sage when he expired, or, as the Taoists assert,
entered on immortality, without suffering bodily dissolution,
thus supporting the second theory concerning immortality.
The Emperor erected in his honour a fane, which he entitled
, and offered him sacrifices.
His life being very erratic the narration of his wanderings
is of great interest. His constant companion as well as
carrier was a white mule. He rode facing backwards, and
within the limits of a single day could cover a distance of
thousands of miles. When he halted he folded the mule up
and hid it away in his wallet, as a sheet of paper. When
again he required its services he squirted water upon the
packet from his mouth, and the beast at once resumed its
proper shape and trotted away.
It is rather strange what such an old ascetic could have
to do with matrimonial happiness and fertility of the bride,
but here is the account about him. "Chang-kuo
sitting on a donkey, offers also a descendant to the newly
married couple, and a picture representing him is often
found in the nuptial chamber."† Perhaps this is due to the
belief that since he was a performer of wonderful feats of
necromancy, he could also be interested in the mystery of
production, although he himself never encouraged it in his
lifetime.
5. Ho HSIEN-KU J.
That the Madonna should occupy a place of veneration
in the Christian Church is not at all strange compared with
the fact that Ho Hsien-ku should take rank with the others
as an immortal. In the Taoist cult, women never occupy
prominent positions, and no system of female asceticism is
developed. Monasticism and conventualism were the con-
tributions of Buddhism, and nuns are by no means Taoists,
but rather Buddhists. Indeed, nothing is known of female
Taoists who however are many, no doubt leading segregated
lives. Even some of them are very fervent seekers
after the elixir of immortality, no less so than men, but
seclusion in the mountains, living the life of the men recluse,
and in independent quest for the immortal herb would be
Chinese name of the office
*
Henry Doré, S.J.: Recherches sur les Superstitions en Chine.

J'ai
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
67
gross violation of feminine propriety, and sheer ignominy.
Much more would this be the case with virgins in the bloom
of youth.
However it may be, the Taoists do venerate Ho Hsien-ku
as one of the Immortals. She is said to have been the
daughter of one Ho-So a man of Tseng-Cheng,
near Canton. At the instant of her birth, six hairs were seen
growing on the crown of her head. When fourteen years old
she dreamed that a spirit gave her instructions in the art
of obtaining immortality to achieve which she was to eat the
powder of mother-of-pearl. The advice was fol-
lowed, and she actually discovered that her body became
light and ethereal. Hence she strongly insisted on celibacy.
One day she was met by Tieh-kuai and Tsai-ho who delivered
to her the secret of becoming an immortal. Her days were
thenceforth passed in solitary wanderings among the hills
where she passed to and fro as though endowed with wings,
like Mercury of Greek mythology, returning to her home at
night with the herbs she gathered during her pilgrimages.
On being interrogated as to her doings, she told her mother
she had only been communing with the female genii of the
mountainous regions. She gradually renounced the use of the
ordinary food of mortals; and the fame of her wondrous mode
of life, having reached the Empress it, that sovereign
summoned her to the Court; but while journeying thither,
she suddenly disappeared from mortal view like Elijah on
his way to Jericho. She is said to have been seen once more
in A.D. 750 floating upon a cloud of many colours
in the temple of Ma Ku . Again, some years later
she was revealed to human sight in the city of
Canton at 小石樓. The magistrate was an eye-
witness of this, and he memorialized the throne about it.
Dr. Giles agrees with another tradition saying that she
was a native of in Hunan. Lu Tung-pin *
gave her one of the peaches of immortality, of which she
ate one half, and from that time forth required no more food.
She is represented as an extremely beautiful maiden bearing
a lotus flower, the flower of open-heartedness.
6. LU YEN 2.
His literary appellation was Tung-pin
while
was his pseudonym. He was born in A.D. 755
(Tang dynasty) 貞元十四年in 浦州永樂縣, Like
Chung Li-Chuan, he was of official ancestry. "When his
mother conceived him, a strange perfume filled the room,
and celestial music was struck up whilst a white stork flew

68
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
into her bed from the sky, and vanished. At his birth, he
was of very extraordinary physique, with the neck of the
stork, back of the monkey, trunk of the tiger, and cheeks
of the dragon. His phoenix-eyes curved upwards, and his
eye-brows were thick. His shoulders were broad, his nose
was rounded. His complexion was yellowish white, and
near his left eye-brow there was a black mole.
When very
young, he was precocious, and could memorize ten thousand
words daily. His language was extemporaneously literary,
and he was eight feet two inches tall. He wore a kerchief
on his head and his garb was brown in colour. On
the whole he was handsome like a virgin, and was not
married at twenty."
We may well surmise his early career as a successful
scholar. He graduated as Chin-shih corresponding
roughly with the doctorate. At this juncture traditions vary.
One says that "he held office as magistrate of the district of
Teh-hwa (in modern Kiang-si) and there he encountered,
it is said, the immortalized Chung-li Chüan among the
recesses of the Lu Shan I and was instructed by him in
the mysteries of alchemy and the magic formula of the elixir
of life." It is related (in another legend obviously borrowed
from a Buddhist prototype) that when the mystic being de-
clared to him who he was, saying "I am."
Lü Yen expressed an ardent desire to fulfil the mission of
converting his fellowmen to the true belief, but was pre-
liminarily exposed to a series of ten temptations, all of which
he successfully overcame; and hereupon he was invested
with the formulas of magic and a sword of supernatural
power, with which he traversed the Empire, slaying tigers
and dragons like St. George of the Britons, and ridding the
earth of divers kinds of evil, during a period of upwards of
four hundred years.
Another tradition recorded by Dr. Giles holds that his
official career was not successful; and owing to the dis-
quietude of his age he took his family to and there
became a recluse. Then he fell in with the genius Chung-li
Chuan who taught him the secrets of Taoism, and at fifty he
attained to immortality.
It was at the "Stork's Peak" in Lu Shan that
Chung-li discoursed on the "five grades of genii," and the
"three categories of merits." On being asked whether it is
possible to become a genius Chun-li answered, "if you train
yourself you will become one. If you do not, you will
become a devil." Thus under the tutelage of Chung-li he
finally attained to immortality and has always been known
as one of the most prominent of the patriarchs of the Taoist
sect.

THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
69
In order to fulfil his promise, made to Chung-li that
he would endeavour to convert his fellow men to the true
belief, he came to Yoh Yang in the guise of an oil
seller, thinking that he would transmigrate all those who
did not ask for additional weight to the oil purchased.
During one entire year he met customers who were selfish,
and extortionate, and only one dame who was honest and did
not ask for more than her due. Then he came to her house,
and finding that there was a well in the courtyard he threw
a few grains of rice into it. The water miraculously turned
into wine which the old dame sold and amassed much wealth
therefrom.
He also killed a dragon which had done much damage,
and declined compensation. He transmigrated many who
were really of good heart, and did other magical perfor-
mances.
In the twelfth century, temples were erected in his
honour and were dedicated to his worship under the designa-
tion
A which he had made his own. He is also
called Lü Tsu or the patriarch Lü, under which designa-
tion he is for some obscure reason, worshipped by the fra-
ternity of barbers.
The following excerpt from Doré's Recherches sur les
Superstitions en Chine, is also interesting. "At other times,
we find Lü Tung-pin and Kwan-kung
bearing in
their arms a male child. This is an assurance that the new
home will be blessed with numerous progeny, reckoning
amongst them literati and remarkable state officials. It is
indeed a well-known fact that Lu Tung-pin is one of the
Immortals honoured by the literati, and that Kwan-kung
combines in his person, the titles of god of war and patron
of literature."
Lü Yen was also skilful in fencing, and is always re-
presented as carrying on the back a sword, which also was
useful in his magical deeds.
7. HAN HSIANG-TZÛ.
The last word "Tzû" does not belong properly to his
name, and a similar case is seen in Li Tieh-kuai sometimes
called Tieh-kuai Tzû; and his literary appellation is *.
He was nephew of the great Han Yü and a man
"of an idle and harum-scarum disposition." No earthly
lust or pleasure could attract and divert him, and he became
an ardent votary of transcendental study. His scholarly
uncle urged him to the study of Confucian literature, and

70
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
was greatly affronted when he protested that what he studied
was in no wise different.
One day he went out in quest of a master, and casually
met Lü Yen, whom he followed after renouncing his home-
folk. They came to the region where the genii's peach was
abundant. He fell down from the peach tree and expired;
but that very moment he ascended to the sky as an Immortal
without suffering material dissolution.
Now he desired to make a proselyte of his former per-
secutor, his stern uncle, and to transmigrate him. Since
he could not be moved by persuation, which Hsiang-tzu well
knew, he resorted to magic. It so happened that a drought
prevailed in the realm, and Wen-kung, his uncle, was
ordered by the throne to invoke heaven to send down rain.
However, he failed and was on the point of forfeiting his
official rank. Hsiang-tzû was courteous enough to seize this
opportunity and in the person of a Taoist priest, he posted
a placard announcing that he had a store of rain and snow
for sale. The news was brought to the despairing *A
who immediately sent him to invocate for rain. He ascended
the platform and performed his art. In a short while snow
began to fall. The cynical suspected the effect, and
thought it was due to his own prayer. Whereupon the
Taoist said that the snow was uniformly three feet in thick-
ness which was found to be correct. This incident slightly
modified his intolerant spirit towards the Taoist practice.
Some time later, Wen-kung celebrated his birthday.
Guests and relatives thronged the house, and were in high
jubilation, when Hsiang-tzu returned. He too, tendered
his congratulations. In order to show that his years of
wandering were not spent in vain, he produced some verses
in which he spoke of flowers blossoming instantaneously.
"What!" cried the dignified old man, "Can you produce
flowers in defiance of the laws of nature?" Thereupon
Hsiang-tzú took a little earth and put it under a basin,
and after a short interval he raised the basin, and disclosed
a flower with two buds, on the leaves of which was written in
gold characters, a couplet:
"The clouds intercept (the way) on the Tsing mountain,
Where is your house?雲泰嶺家何在
The snow blocks up the Lan Gate and the horse cannot
proceed”雪擁藍關馬不前
The couplet referred to Wen-kung's exile, and to his
admonishing for receiving Buddha's skeleton. But
Hsiang-tzu did not explain the meaning, saying, "You will
understand this by and by, it is not meet for me to divulge
the heavenly design." Later on when Wen-kung was on

THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
71
his way to his place of banishment which was Chao-chow
(in Kwang-tung Province) his nephew suddenly ap-
peared to him and asked if he remembered the verses in the
flowers. By a strange coincidence the rigour of the climate
was exactly as described in the couplet, there being a snow
storm which blocked the way of the unfortunate outcast.
The uncle and nephew then lodged at the Lan Gate for the
night, while the prophet discoursed on Taoism, and the way
to enter Immortality. On the ensuing day, Han Hsiang
presented to his uncle a gourd full of pills, which he said
would keep him even in the coldest weather. Han Yü en-
quired if he might again see him, but he replied he could
not tell, and then he departed and disappeared.
8. Ts AO KUO-CHIU
The seven supernatural beings, having all attained to
immortality were one day feasting in the celestial Utopia.
In the midst of their carousing, Tieh-kuai, who had always
been the leader and spokesman, thus declared: "We are
seven here, and have occupied seven of the eight grottoes
of the Upper Spheres. If we get one more to complete the
category that would be capital. Have any of you an idea
of nominating one, worthy of the vacancy? I have heard
that Empress Ts'ao has a younger brother whose disposition
resembles that of a genii. He, I think, deserves to join our
ranks." Then Chung-li answered, "Well, I will some day
try to tempt him. If he is really of a mystic disposition
and his conduct agrees with Tao, I can easily bring about
his transmigration." The motion was approved and carried.
This was the reason why the Eighth Immortal was Ts'ao
Kuo-chiu.
Now Ts ao Kuo-chiu was the younger brother of the
Empress of the Sung Dynasty. His brother Tsao Er
was a man of detestable character. Trusting to royal
relationship he indulged in debauchery and roguish conduct.
He robbed the commoners of their property and women of
their virtue. This of course highly affronted Kuo-chiu who was
a man of exemplary character himself. At first he advised
him, then rebuked him, but only made an enemy rather than
a convert of him. Thus Kuo Chiu said in his expostulation
with his brother: "It is the law of nature that good doers
prosper whilst evil-doers perish, and there is no change in it.
Our present riches and dignity are due to the accumulated
merits of our ancestors. Your crimes are big enough to
bring about your downfall. Although you may escape the
penalty of the law you can never elude the net of heaven

72
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
which is invisible but present everywhere. When that
moment comes to pass in which the family is scattered, and
the body is sent to perdition, you may not even bring a
yellow dog out of the east gate.' I am ashamed of it; I am
afraid of it." Thereupon he dispensed with all his wealth
in the form of alms to the poor, also he took farewell leave of
his family and friends, put on his Taoist garb, and alone
spent the rest of his life in the mountains. In the course of
a few years, during which time he trained his spirit, and
purified his nature his heart became identified
with Tao, and his body vanished with his spirit. Once he
was visited by Chung and Tung-pin, who asked him what
he was about. He answered that he had no other intention
than to cultivate the Tao. The two visitors said "where is
Tao?" He replied by pointing to the sky. Again they en-
quired saying, "where is the sky?" He pointed to his heart,
and Chung-li smiled and said, "the heart is heaven, and
heaven is the Tao. You know the origin of things." He
was then introduced into the Class of the Immortals.
The
supplies another tradition which will be
related in passing. Ts'ao was the son of the Prime Minister,
and brother of the Empress. From his childhood he had
been handsome, and of a taciturn nature, and was favoured
by the Emperor and the royal Consort. One day he begged
to be allowed to become a priest. This was granted with a
gold medal from the emperor as a keep-sake. On reaching
the bank of the Yellow River, he was unable to pay his fare,
and he gave the ferryman his gold medal instead.
This was
observed by Lü Sung-yen (Lu Yen) who took him to be a
disciple and he entered immortality.
IV.
It has been observed that the Eight Immortals as a
group were not mentioned earlier than the Yüan Л Dynasty;
and when mentioned it was in connection with a drama,
entitled "The Eight Immortals' celebration of Si-wang-mu's
birthday." The words run as follows:-
The super-human beings were one day discussing how
they might do honour to Si-wang-mu or elsewhere called
Chin-mu on her birthday, she being chief of the female
genii or spirits as Lao-tzû was lord of the male ones. It was
agreed that a scroll should be their present, and at the
suggestion of Lü Yen they decided to have it written by
Lao-tzú. But it was quite a problem how to persuade
the Lao-kung to condescend to attend to this task;
and Tieh-kuai, who was his former disciple, was entrusted

THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
73
with the commission, accompanied by the other seven.
Fortunately old Lao-kung was pleased to oblige them,
though at the moment of interview he was not in a particu-
larly good humour, owing to the news just brought to him
that his writings had been pirated on earth. Lao-kung was
kind enough to compose a couplet of 76 characters for them
also. Then the Eight returned mounted on clouds and
manufactured a scroll of rare beauty. It was made of a
piece of self-existing silk, the stars were used for setting
the characters; and the rainbow was cut into decorating
tassels. The scroll was made to the exact size of Wang-mu's
hall, and was presented to her by the immortal acolytes fill
together with the immortal peach and nectar.
Now the celebration of this celestial matron's birthday
was indeed a glorious event. All the Buddhas, and Yü-huang
and all the spirits and genii were present, each bearing
the best of gifts that could be secured. The Immortal Eight
decked in the most luxuriant of their apparel, made their
appearance amidst high rejoicing and warm welcome. The
old dame was especially pleased with the gift of the Eight,
owing to its incomparable brilliancy and its fabulous value,
and entertained them in her private park. Oh, it was a
place of enchantment! Strange flowers bloomed luxuriantly,
and wonderful herbs grew promiscuously. Rare birds flut-
tered in confusion, and intelligent beasts raced for the amuse-
ment of the guests. The immortal peach, of a peculiar
species was just ripe, and was hanging from every tree.
This peach was so rare, that it bore fruit only once in three
thousand years. Besides there was strange fragrance filling
the air, dulcet music, wonderful bowers and pavilions, and
towering pagodas, all these added to the voluptuousness of
the entertainment.
In order to show special and marked respect for the
Immortal Eight, Wang-mu appointed her five daughters to
wait upon them in the gardens. They were of extraordinary
beauty, and in the sumptuous feast in which the eight parti-
cipated, they did their utmost to persuade them to take wine,
which is a token of a high honour. A compliment was paid
by Wang-mu in asking Lao Ts'ai-ho to give a dancing solo
in which as has been stated he was specially
dexterous, and he danced and sang causing great applause
and laughter from the spectators. At last, the Immortal
acolytes brought in a great dish of peaches, for the celestials
were not ignorant of the digestive value of the dessert, and
each took two. Unawaredly they got thoroughly intoxicated
and after a long period of high glee, they took leave of
Wang-mu and her daughters and departed.

74
THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
One other familiar allusion has been attributed to the
Immortals Eight, that is their crossing of the Eastern Sea
八仙過海。 Every Chinese boy is acquainted with the
tradition that they did, and let us see how it was accom-
plished. Lü Yen was the instigator of the excursion, being
represented as the most merry and pleasure-seeking of the
Eight. He was seconded by Tieh-kuai and Chung-li and
they started on their expedition. The purpose of the trip
was simply sight-seeing, such as the mirage and other
wonders of the sea, which were not seen in the celestial
spheres.
They travelled on the clouds as they were wont to do.
But Tung-pin's versatility again prompted him to devise a
novel means of locomotion; and he said thus to his comrades,
"Travelling on the clouds does not at all reveal the power
of us genii. Let us try to throw something on to the sea,
and tread upon it, and pass in that manner to show our
infinite ability."
This being agreed to, Tieh-kuai threw his staff, and
scudded over the waves rapidly. Chung-li used his brush,
Chang-kuo his paper mule, Tung-pin his sword, Hsiang-tzu
his flower basket, Hsien-ku her lotus flowers, and Ts'ai-ho
his musical instrument. Now it happened that Ts'ai-ho's
instrument was espied by the Crown Prince of the Eastern
Sea, being son of the dragon king there, and it provoked his
greed to try and steal it from Ts'ai-ho, and imprison him.
The injury was never to be put up with by the wonder-
working Immortals, and a war ensued, in which the Dragon
king was utterly routed.
So far, let it suffice to say, that the Eight Immortals
continued their exploits of this nature for an incalculable
time; and as stated in the prefatory remark, the present
essay will not enter much into the more fictitious elements
of the tradition. Besides A Mission of the Eight Genii to
the East, there are three other books by the same author,
entitled To the West, To the South, and To the North.
What is dealt with in them is very much Buddhistic in style
intermixed with Tacist influences.
As already stated, the appellation "Eight Immortals"
is a figurative term for happiness. In fact the number
"eight" is lucky owing to its association with this tradition,
and persons or things good, or eight in number, are graced
accordingly. Thus we note reverence for The Eight Genii
table”八仙栋,"Eight Genii bridge”八仙橋,“Eight Genii
vermicelli", "The Eight Genii of the Wine Cup"
(celebrated wine-bibbers, of the Tang dynasty,
to whom Tu Fu in his poems gave this designation).

THE EIGHT IMMORTALS OF THE TAOIST RELIGION
75
The Eight Immortals form a popular object for the
artist's brush also, especially the scene of their crossing the
Eastern Sea. Earthern dolls shaped as the Eight Immortals
are very common in the artist's studio too. Children delight
to have these dolls, since their lives are worthy of emulation.
"Carved specimens of the Eight Genii are also sometimes
found
in which the natural twistings of the roots
or fibres of shrubs and plants have been utilised with skilful
touches here and there to heighten the effect."* Creeping
plants also are often seen twisted into the forms of Eight
Genii, and mounted on frameworks of wire, and are objects
of admiration, in fact, the theme of the Eight Immortals
enters into almost any kind of aesthetic and fancy work.
These all go to show the immense popularity accorded by
the Chinese people to them, and in them, we see the
embodiment of the ideas of perfect but imaginary happiness
which possess the minds of the Chinese people.
NOTE. An illustrated article by W. Perceval Yetts, in
The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and
Ireland, Vol. XLVIII, pp. 773-820 should be consulted.-ED.
J. Dyer Ball: Things Chinese.