RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA*
HERBERT CHATLEY,
D.SC. (ENGR.) LOND., M.INST.C.E.IRE.
Engineering Department, Whangpoo Conservancy Board.
The increasing attention which is being given to conser-
vancy problems in China owing to the paramount necessity
of enabling certain of the treaty ports to be accessible to
modern deep draught ships and the disasters which have
occurred from time immemorial from the bursting from
restraint of the Huang Ho, the Huai, the Hsi Kiang, the
Pei Ho and the Grand Canal serve as a ready excuse for
speaking of the general question of water control in China.
Much information of a technical character has been accu-
mulated by the different Conservancy Institutions and other
public bodies but it has not been co-ordinated and the
majority of this is not accessible or intelligible to the un-
technical man.
The map, information and date contained below are
chiefly derived from the library and records of the Whangpoo
Conservancy Board, and I have obtained permission from
the Engineer-in-Chief of the Board to make use of these
records of his office for this brief resumé of some of the pro-
blems which are crying aloud to be solved.
The matter can be considered from several points of
view :
(1) Irrigation and water-supply; (2) Navigation; (3)
Flood protection; (4) Power production.
There are few countries in the world which can boast
so much concentration of the drainage. The whole of China
proper and more (excepting a few small coastal areas) dis-
charges to the sea through seven channels from North to
South, as follows:
*Read before the Society December 6th, 1917.

2
RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA
(1) The Liao River; (2) The Hai Ho; (3) The Huang
Ho; (4) The Yangtse River-including the Whangpoo; (5)
The Min River; (6) The West River; (7) The Red River.
shows the basins of these streams.
The map
One of the most important features about Chinese Rivers
is the fact that the low flat areas ("deltas") which they have
built up at their mouths by the denudation of the high land
in which they and their tributaries rise, are subject to almost
annual inundation.
This is due to the concentration of the rainfall in China
within the summer months so that the channels which are
sufficient to carry away the water during, say, ten months
of the year cannot hold the temporarily enormously swollen
volume during the other two months. In prehistoric periods
such annual inundations served to build up the plains by
the silt deposited and undoubtedly had man not appeared
the land would have steadily risen until the level became
so high that flooding would be exceptional. It would seem
therefore that these plains are geologically speaking young
and that the agriculturist found it necessary to use the bulk
of these areas before nature had completed them. Hence
from the earliest period in China's history we find levees
or dykes being employed to keep the rivers within their
normal bounds and it seems probable that the requirements
of humanity will compel this course to be perpetually
adopted. This has the somewhat curious result that it
accelerates the growth of the coast so that the past and
present operatons of the hydraulic engineer in China are
actually enlarging the territory at a greater rate than would
naturally occur. The question of inadequate channel
occurs in a peculiarly aggravated form in the Yellow River
which will be referred to later.
In this connection it may be mentioned that there is a
long standing controversy as to the respective merits of
dykes and dredging.
The latter is of course the process of excavating
mechanically the bed of a stream. It is claimed for the
dyke on the one hand that by restraining the waters within
one comparatively narrow area they are compelled to scour
out a deep channel which will not deteriorate. On the other
hand it is asserted that judicious excavation of the bed will
so guide the flowing water that they will naturally deepen
the excavation and lower the flood level, while it is alleged
against the dyke system that the channel and flood level
will gradually rise so that the dykes will be eventually over-
tipped. In actual fact it seems that the conditions are so
complex that there is no absolute advantage in favour of

RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA
3
the one method as compared with the other, and the im-
mediate protection, simplicity and lack of difficulty which
dyke construction gives weigh heavily to its credit.
The chief difficulty in China in the dyke question is
that in order to get the maximum area of land the dykes
are placed so close to the winter channel that the cross
section between the dykes in the flood season is barely
sufficient. The difficulty of protecting the dykes when the
deep channel cuts a loop towards them is also serious, and
the advantage of laying out river training works in smooth
curves has not been appreciated. Some consideration should
also be given to the enormous amount of energy, expense and
co-ordination required to build and maintain a system of
dykes which taken altogether probably exceeds in bulk all
the railway embankments in the world.
Still another factor in the problem is the fact that
while it is desired to shut out the water during the flood
period, it is necessary to be able to admit prescribed quan-
tities of water for agricultural purposes throughout the
growing season. Furthermore in such places as are possible
the high economy of water transport has led to the utilization
of every possible water course for navigation and the con-
struction of numerous canals. In this province of Kiangsu
alone there are over five thousand miles of canals.
Inland navigation has been developed in China to an
extent which is almost without parallel in history and at the
present moment comparatively frail vessels successfully ply
through rapids in gorges in the Yangtse, Han and West
Rivers which few European watermen could care to tackle.
Finally we come to the question of foreign trade and
its corollary, the mechanically propelled ship. Experience
shows that it is the highest economy to carry cargoes in the
largest possible ships both in the sea and in the inland
waters. The interior waterways of China are mostly shallow,
especially during the winter and the harbours are in most
cases obstructed by bars, which are serious hindrances to
large steamers.
Add to all this the fact that the rapidly growing indus-
trial development of the world will sooner or later influence
China towards the exploitation of her very considerable
sources of water power in the mountains and it will be seen
that China's rivers present some problems of the highest
importance and interest.
We will therefore proceed to consider the principal rivers
and give some idea of what are or may be the features to be
noticed.

4
RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA
THE RED RIVER.
This stream debouches in French Indo-China but has a
large part of the watershed in Yunnan. There are three
large branches which unite just above Hanoi. Floods occur
not infrequently and it is understood that the French Govern-
ment has under consideration definite conservancy and pro-
tective measures.
THE WEST RIVER.
Owing to severe floods in 1914 (followed by worse in
1915) the Board of Conservancy Works of Kwangtung was
created and investigation work started.
Much detail on the subject of this river is given in the
Engineer-in-Chief, Captain Olivecrona's Report No. 1 entitled
"The West River Survey of 1915" (Board of Conservancy
Works of Kwangtung).
The catchment area is some 131,274 sq. miles. The
total length is about 1,112 miles (301 miles in Yunnan,
230 miles in the Kweichow-Kwangsi border, 385 miles in
Kuangsi and 196 miles in Kwangtung), of which the last
87 miles lies in the delta. At Wuchow a change of level of
21 feet occurred in 24 hours in 1914.
The dykes are repeatedly breached and in some places
overtopped by the flood waters.
Dykes from 10 to 30 feet high protected the plain and
the conclusion has been reached that it is impracticable to
lower the flood levels, all that can be done is to supplement,
reconstruct or strengthen and maintain these dykes under
a proper system of co-ordinated supervision and maintenance.
THE MIN RIVER.
The urgent problem here is to improve the accessibility
of the city of Foochow. At present foreign ships even of
moderate draught can only reach Pagoda Anchorage, some
8 miles below Foochow. Above this the river abounds in
shoals. Even at spring tides there is only about 12 feet
through depth. A regulation scheme is contemplated there
which will undoubtedly improve the conditions by guiding
the water into a constant and narrower channel.
THE YANGTSE KIANG (INCLUDING THE SIANG AND WHANGPOO).
This enormous river drains some three-quarters of a
million square miles of country, discharges three million
cubic feet per second in time of full flood and is navigable

RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA
5
in summer for fairly large steamers for 600 miles from its
mouth.
The hydraulic problems of this river are numerous. The
following are the most important:-
-
(1) Improvement of the navigational conditions in the
torrential gorges between Chungking and Tehang.
Spear poir ##
外交部藏書
(2) The protection from floods of the alluvial reas
the river especially at:
(a) the mouth of the Siang River where an immense
lake, the Tungting, swells and shrinks with
the Yangtse.
(b) the mouth of the Kan River, where a similar
lake, the Poyang, exists.
(c) between Tatung and Taipingfu, where a group
of variable lakes exists.
(d) in the Estuary below Kiangyin where excessive
tidal waves rise above the level of the land.
(3) The control of the shifting channels which impede
navigation between Hankow and Woosung and
threaten the existence of Chinkiang as a port.
(4) The regulation of the Whangpoo and improve-
ment of the approaches to Shanghai, the largest
harbour of Central and North China.
It is well known how the indefatigable energy of Mr.
Archibald Little succeeded in overcoming the difficulties of
the passage of the gorges by steam. Immense steam power
and great navigational skill is required. The passage con-
sists of alternate comparatively calm extremely deep reaches
separated by narrower shallow rocky rapids over which even
very small junks require 20 or more trackers. Many lives
are lost annually and the mails are lost to the extent of an
appreciable percentage. Doubtless money put into winding
engines and removal of bad places by blasting would alleviate
some of the worst features.
A railway has been surveyed along the gorges and is
considered feasible economically but there can be little doubt
that an improvement of the navigational conditions would be
of great benefit. The water gradient from Chungking to
Ichang is 1.2 feet per mile, and in the parts of the channel
where it is free from rock bars, the maximum velocity does
not often exceed 7 feet per second.
The protection of the alluvial lands from flood is entirely
managed by dykes and there can be little doubt that great
improvements could be made by the introduction of a com-
pletely co-ordinated system and more scientific locating and
maintenance of the dykes. Telegraphic warnings of the
approach of heavy freshets would also be of great service.

6
RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA
The question of training works near Hankow and Kiu-
kiang has been mooted. The chief difficulty is the tendency
to form several channels instead of one, the depth in each
being too little. Some 20 miles of works would be required
at each place.
The problem of Chinkiang is one which threatens the
extinction of the port. The loop which the river makes at
this point is advancing down stream cutting away the north
bank opposite Chinkiang and forming a shoal on the convex
side in front of the wharves. In twelve years the north bank
has been eroded to a depth of 4,000 feet and the shoal is
developing to correspond. Remedial measures, such as the
construction of long groynes projecting from the north bank,
are urgently necessary.
Re the Whangpoo Regulation the several reports of the
Board give full information. A full account of the Yangtse
Estuary and the problems to be solved is contained in the
Report on the Yangtse Estuary," issued by Mr. von
Heidenstam in August, 1916.
Probably the most important problem in connection
with the Yangtse is the question of the outer bar. The
Yangtse enters the sea through three large channels, the
North Branch, the North Channel and the South Channel.
Between the first two lies Tsungming Island and between
the second two a chain of small islands and the Tungsha
banks. The latter will undoubtedly form a considerable
island in course of time. Shipping uses both the North and
South Channels but there is a bar in the former a few miles
west of Woosung over which there is only about 12 feet of
water at lowest low water and the passage is moreover
tortuous and continually changing. Hence the South Chan-
nel is the principal route. Between the Tungsha Flats and
the South Channel a bridge of hard mud rise in the bed of
the Yangtse. The saddle of this bridge is termed the Fairy
Flats and lies only some 16 feet below the lowest low water
level. The tides rise from 8 to 16 feet above this level so
that the depth at high water is from 24 to 32 feet. Thus
even with the greatest tidal depth the large vessels which
ply on the Atlantic could not enter the Yangtse. There is
no other place nearer than Tsingtao in the North and Hong-
kong in the South which can offer anchorage and inland
communication so that it is absolutely necessary for some-
thing to be done.
If and when the Yangtse bar has been improved, large
vessels wish to discharge to Shanghai a further problem
arises. The Whangpoo will at very low water only admit
24 feet draught and at lowest high waters about 30 feet.

RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA
7
The Yangtse outside Woosung is too exposed for convenient
unloading by lighters and in any case this process is a slow
and inefficient one. Consequently the question of further
improving the Whangpoo comes up for discussion.
Naval architects confidently expect draught of 40 feet
to become usual in a few years and it is becoming a serious
problem how China can be maintained in connection with
the trans-Pacific Ocean services.
THE YELLOW RIVER (INCLUDING THE HUAI AND GRAND CANAL).
The great plain of North China consists almost, if not
entirely, of the delta of the Yellow River. After passing the
southernmost part of the Shansi plateau (a spur of the
Mongolian Plateau) its course is no longer defined or
obstructed by any high land except the mountains of Shan-
tung. The latter was in earlier days undoubtedly an island
and the Yellow River delta formed fanwise from Kai-feng-fu
eastwards. It so happens that the general mass of China
has not been submerged under the sea since the middle of
the Secondary geological epoch (at least fifty million years)
and during a large part of this time there have been dry
regions to the North from which sand has been carried by the
wind. Hence it happens that Shensi and Shansi both possess
great thickness of this air-borne sand or loess and the tribu-
taries of the Yellow Rivers are steadily carving it out. The
water of the stream is therefore unprecedently heavily
charged with silt and great quantities are also forced along
the bottom as mud. Along a course either north or south
of Shantung the fall to the sea is about the same, 1 in 5,000,
which is a very large gradient for a big river. The muddy
bottom steadily works forward and raises the channel.
When the river is swollen by the summer rains the water
level rises high above the surrounding land. Near the sea
in the old bed south of Shantung the bottom of the channel
is higher than the adjacent land. Dykes alone protect the
country but as at present arranged can do little more than
postpone the trouble. Some idea of the uniqueness of the
river is given when it is noticed that it has no tributaries for
some 300 miles from its mouth. The only water connections
are to irrigation and navigation canals which are controlled by
sluiceways and serve during high level periods to draw off
water.
The migrations of the Yellow River extending from
Tientsin to Chinkiang have built up the plain but there are
several other drainage channels, especially the Huai to the

8
RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA
south and the Wei to the north. The former drains the
eastern side of the Honan hills and the former the south east
part of Shansi. Both are subject to violent fluctuations of
level by reason of the summer intensity of the rainfall and
the rapid descent from their sources to the plain and this
has been aggravated by deforestation. In addition to this,
however, the Yellow River has formerly usurped their old
channels and raised their beds so much that the Huai has
been forced into a system of lakes and, via the Grand Canal,
into the Yangtse, and the Wei has been forced into the Hai
Ho at Tientsin.
The Huai, owing to its inadequate means of discharge,
is almost annually flooding large areas of agricultural land.
As is well known the American Red Cross Society has
advised on the problem of the Huai, and it is considered
that by the joint improvement of the Grand Canal, con-
struction of channels and the proper control of the lake
reservoirs that some 2 million mow of land
reclaimed.
The Grand Canal consists of four sections:
(1) Hangchow to Chinkiang on the Yangtse.
(2)
(3)
can be
Yangchow on the Yangtse to the Yellow River.
The Yellow River to Tientsin.
(4) Tientsin to Tungchow.
The first and fourth sections have no relation to the
Yellow River.
The second section is fed by the River and also by the
west running rivers from the Shantung mountains. There
are some overflow weirs which allow surplus water to run to
the sea but these are not sufficient. The current towards
the Yangtse is very considerable. From Tsing Kiang Pu
where it crosses the old bed of the Yellow River to the
Yellow River the control of the water is uncertain.
The third section, from the Yellow River to Lin Tsing
Chou is similarly defective, but from the last named place
to Tientsin the canal is really the Wei River and runs
normally except in so far as it may be swollen by rain or
overfilled by the Yellow River. The latter seems to have
happened this last year.
The canal was orginally built for the transport of tribute
rice. Seeing that all contributions to the Central Govern-
ment can be more conveniently sent by sea or rail, it has
ceased to serve its ostensible purpose and the Government
is no longer strongly interested in it. Nevertheless it must
be conserved for two reasons:
First, it is a valuable means of water communication
which can be made much more so.

RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA
9
Second, it controls the discharge of the Wei and Huai
rivers which will suffer if it is too long neglected.
THE HAI Ho.
The publications of the Hai Ho Conservancy Board
give considerable information on the subject of the Hai Ho
Hinterland.
The arrangement of the rivers in the neighbourhood of
Tientsin is very unusual and repeatedly leads to difficulties.
The common channel from Tientsin to the sea is termed the
Hai Ho but immediately above Tientsin a number of streams
meet.
Proceeding from the south clockwise there are as
follows:-
(1) The Nan Yun Ho or Grand Canal, which is really
the Wei River. This has a large tributary-the
Liu Chang Ho-and so receives the drainage of a
large part of southern Chihli and a part of south-
east Shansi.
(2) The Hsi Ho, which has several branches leading
from the Wu Tai Shan region in Shansi and the
Pao Ting Fu area of Chihli.
(3) The Hun Ho, which drains the rim of the
Mongolian plateau from beyond Tatung fu to
Kalgan.
(4) The Pei Yun Ho, or Northern Grand Canal. This
is a high level canal fed by the Chao Pai Ho, which
drains the mountains north of Peking. The natural
outflow of this river appears to be to the Pei Tang
Ho through the town of Lu Tai east of Tientsin,
but by means of dykes the water has been diverted
into the Pei Yun Ho so that it passes Tungchow
and enters the Hai just above Tientsin.
Both the Pei Yun Ho and the Nan Yun Ho are provided
with overflows towards the east. A year or two ago the
Chao Pai Ho broke away some miles above Tungchow and
it was considered advisable by the Chinese Authorities to
permanently divert the waters of the Chao Pai Ho away
from the Hai Ho, but as this river is the only one which
can be relied on to scour out the Hai, the Hai Ho Conser-
vancy arranged for construction of a dam (with an overflow)
at the breach.
The Hun River has a very large run-off but the water
is heavily charged with silt and this tends to steadily choke
the navigable channel unless the water from the other
streams dilutes it.

10
RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA
The recent floods originated principally in the Wei and
Hsi rivers but it is more usual for the Hun to be the cause
of trouble. Floods occur almost annually at Yangtsun
which is near the junction of the Hun River with the Pei
Yun Ho. It is perfectly certain that an impossible state of
things is developing at Tientsin. The problem is just now
under consideration but it calls for immediate and wise
action.
THE LIAO.
This river which rises in the Manchurian slopes of the
Mongolian plateau is also liable to violent freshets which
flood the lower parts and in addition has at its mouth a bar
which affects Newchwang. A conservancy board has been
formed for the lower river in 1914.
By closing a bayou or lateral outlets an improvement
has been made and work is now going on.
PROCEDURE.
Having thus rather briefly described some problems in
connection with China's rivers, it is desirable to say some-
thing of the procedure by which any steps for improvement
must be taken. Expert knowledge of general principles and
past practice is required, together with all available inform-
ation as to the conditions of the problem. Contrary to a
widely held belief this aspect of the matter is not so difficult.
The serious side of the question is the presentation of a
scheme which is sufficiently extensive to properly cope with
the problem and at the same time rests on a sound financial
basis. It appears to the writer that almost all China's
difficulties arise from lack of co-ordination. Even in her
present unfavourable financial position there would be no
serious handicap if a strong and wise government existed.
This is mentioned in connection wth river control because of
the extraordinay degree to which even one river may affect
many public bodies. For example, the question of Tientsin
affects the farmers over an area of over 100,000 square miles,
it affects the strategic position of the capital and the whole
of the present railway communications with Europe. It
concerns the governors of four provinces and the welfare of
three different government railways. It touches on the very
delicate question of foreign control of Chinese state posses-
sions and affects the shipping interests of Shanghai, Hong-
kong and Japan. In spite of all this interrelation it is very
doubtful how really sufficient money can be raised to
radically change the situation.

RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA
11
These questions of national politics cannot, however,
be considered at great length on this occasion, and we may
proceed to discuss how the engineer proceeds to study a river
problem. There is one binding rule, viz.: The river must
be considered as an organic whole.
First of all the whole of the area from which the river
receivers water must be surveyed so that the area served by
the various branches and gradients in the valleys may be
known.
Secondly, rainfall observations for a number of years
at many evenly distributed points over the whole area are
required.
Thirdly, accurate plan and soundings of the main chan-
nel and levels of the immediately adjacent country must be
prepared. In the case of flat country these levels should
extend over the whole surface. Thus in the case of the
Yellow River it is urgently necessary to know the levels all
over the Great Plain.
Fourth Measurements of current velocity and in the
lower parts of tides and tidal currents must be made.
With these particulars it can be estimated without
great inaccuracy that sectional area is required and if im-
provements can be made by deepening the bed. From a
judicious consideration of all the facts certain lines are then
laid down to which the river can reasonably be expected to
conform and works are designed which will develop
tendencies towards these lines. Speaking generally sharp
curves and abrupt changes of width or section should be
removed and the width should be regulated to diminish at a
uniform rate as the river is ascended, projections and hollows
being eliminated. By means of long jetties the channel can
be kept narrow out into deep water and in this way bars can
be removed or reduced and by projecting spurs or hard
facing the cutting away of a convex can be stopped.
In China speaking generally the dyke question is the
most serious and the points to be decided are as follows:-
(1) How high and broad the dykes should be.
(2) How far they should be placed from the main
channel.
(3) Where overflow weirs and other connections should
be made.
(4) What system is employed for maintenance.
In addition there is the question of training works to
prevent loops from reaching the dykes and in cases such as
the Yellow River the provision of silt settling areas.
Questions of dredging in conjunction with dykes are also
important. In those cases where a stream has several

12
RIVER PROBLEMS IN CHINA
channels and is losing its force, dredging in one will
frequently help since the water runs in the direction of least
resistance, or to speak more correctly the velocity always
tends to a maximum.
POWER PRODUCTION.
Although China possesses great stores of coal all parts
are not equally favoured and it is certainly only a matter
of time before the power possibilities of her rainfall and
mountains are utilized industrially. At the present time
this power is already being used to a very considerable
degree for rice hulling mills. In every one of the valleys
in the lower parts of Yangtse there will be found dams
holding the stream up 5 or 6 feet. From above the dam a
flume runs to a water wheel which drives a series of tilt
hammers and the latter beat on the rice. Speaking generally
the results are absurdly disproportionate to the means
employed and many a young Chinese engineer might do
worse than design improved forms of water wheel for his
family village. Due regard must, however, be had to the
materials obtainable and the limitations of the artizans
available.
Undershot water wheels deriving their power from the
current alone, without a dam, are also to be seen but we
may broadly say that hydraulic power is quite inefficiently
used.
By the construction of massive high dams in suitable
positions numerous large power stations could be established.
The energy so obtained converted into electricity could be
sent by cable to an industrial centre or employed on the spot
for the production of chemicals. It should be remarked in
this connection that all those materials popularly known as
chemicals are, as it were, electrified matter and derive their
value from the fact that they can be kept in a state of raised
potentiality for a considerable time under proper conditions.
In Scandinavia it has been found worth while to devote the
bulk of the hydraulic energy not required for lighting and
power to the fixation of nitrogen. Compounds of nitrogen
are essential factors to the development of life and some are
therefore excellent fertilizers. There is also a great demand
for them in the manufacture of explosives. If a scheme for
preparation of nitrates could be worked in connection with
Chinese agriculture, it would seem excellent but the financial
aspect of the matter would have to be worked out, and the
fact that the Chinese farmer has also devised a fairly good
system of fertilizing must not be neglected.
As for
export the question of freight must also be considered.