ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN
MOSLEM PRAYER.*
SAMUEL M. ZWEMER, F.R.G.S.
Islam, as is well known, has not only borrowed many
beliefs and practices from Judaism and Christianity but
grew up in the midst of Arabian paganism and retained pagan
elements and superstitions prevalent in Mecca at the time.
The Moslem creed of six articles especially in its
demonology and eschatology shows these pagan sources.
The ritual also is not free from old animistic practices; wit-
ness the pilgrimage to Mecca which with all its grotesque
ceremonies is simply the old Arabian idolatory in a badly
fitting monotheistic dress. We find pagan elements also in
their rules for fasting and in the magical use of the con-
fession.
This paper, however, deals only with one part of
the subject namely the pagan or animistic practices con-
nected with Moslem prayer. The subject was examined
in one aspect by A. J. Wensinck † although Nöldeke had
already made a valuable contribution in one of his essays.
Further study of the sources given and long experience in
many Moslem lands have led to the following observations
and conclusions on the subject.
In the preparation for the five daily prayers especially
in the process of ablution-the object of the Moslem seems
to be to free himself from everything that has connection
with supernatural powers or demons as opposed to the
worship of the one true God. That is the reason for its
supreme importance. Wensinck tells us that these beliefs
have little or nothing to do with bodily purity as such, but
are intended to free the worshipper from the presence or the
influence of evil spirits. It is this demonic pollution which
must be removed. In two traditions from Muslim we read.
"Said the Prophet: 'If any of you wakens up from sleep
*Read before the Society May 30, 1918.
Der Islam, Band IV, Animisme und Daemonenglaube.

ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
39
Said
then let him blow his nose three times. For the devil spends
the night in a man's nostrils." "And again: "Said Omar ibn
el-Khitab (may God have mercy on him) 'A certain man
performed ablution but left a dry spot on his foot. When
the Prophet of God saw it he said: "Go back and wash
better," then he returned and came back to prayer.
the Prophet of God: 'If a Moslem servant of God performs
the ablution when he washes his face every sin which his
face has committed is taken away by it with the water or
with the last drop of the water. And when he washes his
hands, the sins of his hands are taken away with the water
or with the last drop of the water. And when he washes
his feet all the sins which his feet have committed are taken
away with the water or with the last drop of water until he
becomes pure from sin altogether.'" Goldziher has shown
in one of his essays that according to Semitic conception
water drives away demons. According to Bokhari the wash-
ings before prayer should always begin on the right side of
the body and not the left. Another tradition gives the value
of the hairs of the Prophet when they fell in the washing-
vessel. The Prophet used to wash his feet when he wore
sandals by simply passing his hand over the outside of the
sandals; the object, therefore, cannot have been to cleanse
impurity but to ward off demons. Another tradition is given
as follows: according to Abd-el-Rahman, a man came to
Omar ibn el Khattab and said, "I am in a state of impurity
and cannot find water." Ammar ben Yasir said to Omar
ibn el Khattab, "Do you remember the day that you and
I travelled together. You did not make your prayers, but
I rolled myself in the sand and prayed. When I told the
Prophet of this, he said, 'That was enough,' and so saying
he took some earth in his hands, blew on it and then rubbed
his face and hands with it."'* Abd-el-Rahman was witness
when 'Amar said to Omar,' "We were in a detachment
and we were in a state of impurity, etc.
" and he
uses the words: "he spat on his hands" instead of "he
breathed. t
These two traditions from Bokhari also show the value
ascribed to the animistic custom of blowing and spitting.
There are a number of traditions regarding spitting in
a mosque. It must never be done in front of anyone, nor
to the right hand but to the left. According to Annas
*+Les Traditions de Bokhari, by O. Houdas: p. 126.
§Bokhari chap, 33. Cf. Muslim, Vol. I: 207-Arabic edition;
"No one must enter or approach a mosque if he has eaten onion, or
garlic, because the angels hate the smell as much as human beings
do."-Muslim: Vol. I: 210.

40
ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
ibn Malek, to spit in a mosque is a sin: one may expiate
it by wiping up the spittle. Again, in entering a mosque
one must put the right foot forward first for fear of evil
consequences. In the same way we are told that a man
who was carrying arrows in his hand entered a mosque, and
the Prophet cried: "Hold them by the point."
The only
reason for this command, as is shown by its connection, is
that the points of the arrows or other sharp instruments
might arouse Jinn or damage the value of prayer.
find traditions concerning such Animistic practices as cross-
ing the fingers or the limbs at the time of prayer.
We also
In regard to the ritual ablution (ghasl), after certain
natural functions Wensinck remarks-"Das Geschlechtsle-
ben stand in semitischen Heidentum unter den Schutze
gewisser Götter und war ihnen somit geweiht. Die männli-
chen und weiblichen Prostituierten bei den Pälastinichen und
babylonischen Heiligtumern sind ja bekamnt genug. Ich
brauche darüber kein wort ze verlieren. Weil nun der
betreffende Gott für den Monotheismus Dämon geworden
ist, so ist auch sein Kult, das Geschlechtsleben, den Mono-
theismus dämonisch." There are many traditions which
assert a close relationship between sleep and the presence of
Jinn. It is during sleep that the soul, according to animistic
belief, leaves the body. Therefore, one must waken those
who sleep, gently, lest the soul be prevented from returning.
Not only during sleep but during illness demons are present;
and in Egypt it is considered unfortunate for anyone who is
ceremonially unclean to approach a patient suffering from
ophthalmia.
The Moslem when he prays is required, according to
tradition, to cover his head, especially the back part of the
skull. This according to Wensinck is also due to animistic
belief; for evil spirits enter the body by this way. Goldziher
has shown that the name given to this part of the body
(al qafa) has a close relation to the kind of poetry called
Qafiya, which originally meant a poem to wound the skull,
or in other words, an imprecatory poem. It is therefore for
the dread of evil powers which might enter the mind that
the head must be covered during prayer. References are
found to this practice both in Moslem tradition and in the
Talmud, on which they are based. Again it is noteworthy
that those places which are ritually unclean are considered
the habitation of demons, such as closets, baths, etc.
According to tradition a Moslem cannot perform his
prayer without a Sutra or some object placed between him-
self and the Kibla in order, as tradition says, "that nothing
may harm him by passing in between." Of this custom we

ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
41
speak later. The call of the Muezzin according to Al-Bokhari
drives away the demons and Satan.* No one dares to recite
the Koran, which is a holy book, without first repeating the
words, 'I take refuge in God against Satan the accursed.'
We may add to all this what Mittwoch has shown in his
book Zur Entstehungsgeschichte des islamischen Gebets und
Kultus, that the Takbir itself (that is the cry Allahu Akbar,
God is greater), one of the elements of daily prayer, is
a cry against demons. The raising of the hands during
prayer and the movement of the forefinger is perhaps
also to ward off the spirits of the air, or it may have a
connection with the Qanut. Others say that the spreading
out or the stretching forth of the fingers and arms is to
prevent any idol or thing of blasphemy being hidden between
the fingers or under the arm-pits, a ruse used formerly by the
unbelievers and discovered by the Angel Gabriel.
Among the Arabs before the time of Mohammed and
among Moslems to-day, sneezing, especially during prayer,
is an ominous sign and should be accompanied by a pious
ejaculation. This also is clearly animistic. Among the
tribes of Malaysia the general belief is that when one sneezes,
the soul leaves the body. At the close of the prayer, as is
well-known, the worshipper salutes the two angels on his
right and left shoulders. When one sneezes one should say,
"I ask forgiveness of God"; when one yawns, however, the
breath (soul) passes inward and one says, "Praise be to
God.'
"
Not only the preparations for prayer and prayer itself
but the times of prayer have a distinct connection with the
animistic belief. The noon-day prayer is never held at high
noon but a short time after the sun reaches the meridian.
Wensinck points out that this is due to the belief that the
sun-god is really a demon and must not be worshipped by
the monotheist. According to al-Bukhari the Prophet post-
poned the noon-day prayer until after high noon for "the
*Bokhari Kitab al Adhan: Section iv.
+I am told by my sheikh from al-Azhar that according to Moslem
tradition it is bad luck (Makruh) to drink water or any liquid while
one is standing. If, however, one is compelled to drink standing one
should move his big toe rapidly as this will ward off all harm. We
find here the same superstitious custom of warding off evil spirits by
moving the first toe up and down as that of the finger at the end of
the ritual prayer.
Prayer is forbidden at three particular periods at high noon
because the devil is then in the ascendant; when the sun is rising
because it rises between the horns of the devil, when the sun is at
the setting because it sets between the horns of the devil. (Ibn Maja:
Vol. i, p. 195).

42
ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
greatest heat of the day belongs to the heat of hell." Nor is
it permitted to pray shortly after sunrise for "the sun rises.
between the horns of the devil." According to Abu-
Horaira and Abdallah ibn 'Omar, the prophet of God said:
"When it is excessively hot wait until it is cool to make
your prayers, for intense heat comes from hell."
Abu-Dzarr said: The muezzin of the Prophet had
called for the noon-prayer. "Wait until it is cooler, wait
until it is cooler, or wait
said the Prophet. Then he
added: "Great heat is of hell: so when it is excessively hot,
wait until it is cool then make your prayers." Abou-Dzarr*
adds: "And we waited until we saw the shadow declining.'
"
But the most interesting thing of all is the tradition
regarding the Sutra. The word means something that covers
or protects; from what is it a protection and why is it used?
The Commentaries do not explain what the Sutra really
means but it is very clearly a protection against demons,
as is shown by the traditions given.
According to Ibn Omar, on the feast day (when the fast
was broken) the Messenger of God gave him an order when
he went out to bring him a stick and to stick it before him
and it was before this stick that he made his prayers, while
the faithful were ranged behind him. He did the same
thing when he travelled and it is from this that the emirs
took the custom. Other authorities say the Sutra of the
Prophet was the short spear or the camel-saddle, or his
camel when kneeling.
A curious tradition is given by Abu Dawud on the
authority of Ibn Abbas who said, "I think the Apostle of
God said, 'If one of you prays without a sutra (a thing set
up by a praying person) before him, his prayer is apt to be
annulled by a dog, or an ass, or a pig, or a Jew, or a Magi,
or a menstruating woman; if they pass before him they
ought to be punished on that account, with the pelting of
stones. §
Abu-Johaifa said: "The Prophet went out during the
heat of the day and when he came to El-Batha and prayed
two rake's for the noon-prayer and the evening prayer, he
stuck a pike before him and made his ablutions. The faith-
ful washed themselves with the rest of the water.||
*Al-Bokhari translated by Houdas, (Paris 1903) p. 190.
+See Muslim: vol. i, pp. 190, 193, 194 and Zarkani: Com. on
al-Muwatta: vol. i, p. 283.
+Ibn Maja: vol. i, p. 156, lines 10-12.
§Ad-Damiri's Hayat Al-Hayawan: vol. i, p. 708.
Les Traductions Bokhari, Houdas. p. 179.

ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
43
The following tradition is most important as it shows
what the Sutra originally meant. The reference to the
demon is animistic: "Abu Salih es-Sam'an said: 'I saw
Abu Said el-Khodri one Friday make his prayers before
something that separated him from the crowd.
A young
man of the Bni Abu Mo'ait trying to pass before him,
Abu Said gave him a push full on the chest. The young
man looked round for another way out and not finding any,
he returned. Abu Said pushed him back still more
violently. The young man cursed him and then went and
told Merwan of Abu Said's conduct. The latter at his
moment entered and Merwan said to him. "What is the
matter with you, O Abu Said, that you thus treat one of
your own religion?" "I have heard the Prophet pronounce
these words," Answered Abu Said, 'When one of you prays,
let him place something before him which will separate him
from the public, and if anyone tries to pass between turn
him away and if he refuse to leave let him use force, for it is
a demon.'"* Muslim adds: "If any of you pray do not
allow any one to pass between himself and the Sutra for it
protects from the demons.
The Sutra or object placed before the one in prayer is
usually some object such as a stone or a stick placed at a
certain distance from the one praying: i.e. about one foot
beyond where his head would touch the ground. It is
also a sign that none must pass before him, but never used
except by men of mature years and serious mind, and then
only in open or public places, never in a room or housetop.
If stones are used they must never be less than three, other-
wise it would seem as if the stone were the object of worship.
There are cases in which passing before one at prayer is
counted as sin either to the pray-er or to the one passing,
i.e.:
(a) If he who prays is obliged to pray in the public way,
and there is no other way of passing except before him,
there is sin neither to pray-er or to the passer-by.
(b) If he who prays chooses a public place in preference
to one less exposed and one passes in front of him, who
could as easily have gone behind, sin is accounted to both
of them.
(c) If he who prays chooses a public place in preference
to one less exposed and the one who passes has no choice
but to go in front of him sin is accounted to him who prays.
*Les Traductions Bokhari, Houdas. p. 181.
+Muslim vol. i, p. 193.

44
ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
(d) If he who prays chooses an unexposed place and
some one deliberately passes in front when there is space
behind, sin is accounted to the passer-by and not to him
who prays.
"The practices among the Shiah Moslems differ in some
respects from those of the Sunnis," says Miss Holliday of
Tabriz, Persia. "A Shiah about to pray takes his place
looking toward the Kibla at Mecca; if he be a strict Moslem
he lays before him nearest the Kibla and where he can put
his forehead upon it, the Muhr which is indispensable. It
generally consists of earth from Kerbela, compressed into
a small tablet and bearing Arabic inscriptions; it is various
in shape. If one has not this object, he can use a common
stone, a piece of wood or a clod of earth; in the baths they
keep small pieces of wood for the convenience of worship-
pers. With regard to wood, they say all the trees in the
world came from heaven and their life is directly from God
so they are holy objects. The Kerbela talismans are called
"turbat," as being made from holy earth from the tomb
city of the Imam Hussain. On the side nearest him of the
muhr the worshipper lays a small pocket comb, then next
to himself the rosary.
After prayer, they point the right forefinger first in the
direction of the Kibla, saluting Mohammed as the Son of
Abdullah and the Imam Hussain 'grandson of the Prophet,
son of Fatima,' then to the east saluting Imam Riza as the
Gareeb, or stranger, at Meshhed in Khorassan, then to the
west, saluting the Imam Mehdi, as the Sahibi-zaman or Lord
of the Age. The back is to the north; this looks like sun-
worship.'
Among the customs which are forbidden during prayer
is that of crossing or closing the fingers. They should be
held widely spread apart. We have the following tradition
in Ibn Maja:* "Said the Prophet: 'Do not put your fingers
close together during prayer. It is also forbidden to cover
the mouth during prayer." Another tradition reads that
the Apostle of God saw a man who had crossed his fingers
during prayer or joined them close together; he approached
him and make him spread his fingers. +
That the yawning, to which reference was made, has
connection with spirits and demons is evident from a tradi-
tion given in the same paragraph, namely: "If any of you
yawn let him put his hand upon his mouth for verily the
devil is laughing at him."
*Vol. i, p. 158.
+Vol. i, p. 158.

ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
45
The Moslem lives constantly in dread of evil spirits as
is shown by many traditions regarding the prayer ritual.
For example, we read in the Sunnan of Ibn Maja* that
Mohammed forbade prayer being made on or near watering
places of camels because camels were created by devils.
It is an old superstition that Satan had a hand in the creat-
tion of the camel; the explanation is given in the com-
mentators. We are solemnly told that the fingers must be
spread so as to afford no nestling place for evil demons and
that therefore the method of washing the hands (Takhlil)
consists in rubbing the outspread fingers of both hands
between each other. (Ibn Maja, Vol. i, p. 158; Nasai,
Vol. i, pp. 30, 173, 186-7). The last reference is particularly
important as it shows that Mohammed inculcated the prac-
tice of moving the first finger during prayer. Undoubtedly
the practice of combing the hair with the fingers outspread
(Takhlil esh-Sha'ar) to which al-Bukhari refers (Vol. i, p. 51)
has a similar significance. Some of the sects do not spread
the fingers of the right hand during prayer but make a special
effort to spread out those of the left. This may be because
the left hand is used for ablutions and therefore is specially
apt to be infected by demonic influence.
We give further reference to all these practices as re-
corded in a standard work on tradition, the Sunnan of
An-Nasai.
The niche in a mosque that shows the direction to which
prayer is made called the Mihrab, i.e. "the place of fight-
ing," or rather, the instrument by which we fight the
demons. There are many traditions concerning Moham-
med's struggle with afrits and Jinn in a mosque. The most
*Vol. i, p. 134.
+Takhlil is not only used of the fingers but of the toes as well,
there also demons lurk. (See Sha'arani's Lawa'ih al Anwar fi tabakat
al Ahjar, p. 26).
That in prayer there should be no gaps in the ranks of the wor-
shippers lest Satan come between. Nasai vol. i, p. 131.
That one should blow the nostrils three times when awakening
so as to drive away the devil. Ibid., vol. i, p. 27.
The Prophet forbade sleep in bath-rooms because they are the
abode of devils. Ibid., vol. i, p. 15.
The Prophet forbade facing the Kibla when fulfilling a call of
nature for fear of Satan. Ibid., vol. i, p. 15.
The separation of the fingers (p. 30): the fingers of the right
hand should be closed tight during prayer and of the left hand spread
out, but the forefinger should remain straight. Ibid., vol. i, p. 186.
The forefinger should be bent when giving witness. Ibid., p. 187.
The fingers should be moved. Ibid., p. 187.
To turn the head around during prayer is caused by the devil.
Ibid., vol. i, p. 177.

46
ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
interesting one is given in Muslim (vol. i, p. 204): "Said
the Apostle of God (on him be prayers and peace), 'A
certain demon of the Jinn attacked me yesterday in order
to stop my prayers. But, verily, God gave me victory over
him. I was about to tie him to the side of a pillar of the
pillars of the Mosque so that ye might get up in the morning
and behold him, all of you, when I remembered the prayer
of my brother Solomon: "O Lord, forgive me and give me a
dominion such as no one ever had," and after that God set
the demon free." The Mihrab in a mosque, I am told,
takes the place of the Sutra outside of a mosque and serves
the same purpose.
The forming of ranks in Moslem prayers as they face
the Mihrab, is most important and therefore they are extre-
mely careful of it. There are many traditions in this
respect which can only have relation to belief in Jinn. For
example, not only must the worshippers stand in a row,
but in a mosque it is considered most important to stand so
close together that nothing can possibly pass between.
They stand ready like soldiers in massed-formation.
is the tradition:
Here
Anas states that the Prophet said: "Observe your ranks,
for I can see you from behind my back.'" "Each one of us,'
he adds, "put his shoulder in touch with his neighbour's
and his foot with that of his neighbour."* We must add to
this another superstition in prayer, it is bad luck to pray
on the left hand of the Imam Ibn-'Abbas said: "On a
certain night I made my prayers together with the Prophet.
As I was placing myself on his left, the Messenger of God
taking hold of me by the back of my head, placed me on his
right. After having made our prayers, he lay down and
rested until the muezzin came to look for him. Then he got
up and made his prayers without making his ablutions."
We have already spoken of the lifting of the hands in
prayer. This is an important matter for discussion in all
works of Fiqh.
In the prayer called Qunut, which takes place during
and as part of the morning prayer (Salat), the hands are
raised in magical fashion. Goldziher believes the original
signification of this was a curse or imprecation on the
enemy, such was the custom of the Arabs. The Prophet
cursed his enemies in this way. So did also the early
Caliphs. In Lane's Dictionary (Art. Qunut) we find the
Houdas' Bukhari (French Trans.) p. 243; See also Nasai: vol. i,
p. 173 & 186-7.
+ Houdas' Bukhari (French Trans.) p. 244.

ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
47
present prayer given as follows: "O God, verily we beg of
Thee aid, and we beg of Thee forgiveness. And we believe
in Thee and we rely on Thee, and we laud Thee well, and
we will not be unthankful to Thee for Thy favor, and we
cast off and forsake him who disobeys Thee: O God, Thee
we worship and to Thee we perform the divinely-appointed
act of prayer, and prostrate ourselves; and we are quick in
working for Thee and in serving Thee; we hope for Thy
mercy, and we dread Thy punishment; verily (or may) Thy
punishment overtake the unbelievers." It is said of the
Prophet that he stood during a whole month after the
prayer of daybreak cursing the tribes of Rial and Dhukwan.
We read in Al-Muwatta (Vol.i, p. 216) that at the time of
the Qunut they used to curse their enemies the unbelievers
in the month of Ramadhan. Later on this custom was
modified or explained away. (Sec Bukhari). Bukhari even
wrote a book on the subject as to when the hands might be
lifted in prayer.
There is no doubt regarding the origin of the Qunut
prayer. We read in Yusuf as Safti in his commentary on
Ibn Turki, a well-known book on Fiqh (p. 157): "The
reason for the legislation concerning the Qunut is as follows.
One day there came to the Prophet certain unbelievers
who pretended that they had become Moslems and
asked him that he would give them aid from among his
Companions as a troop against their enemies. So he granted
them seventy men from among the Companions; when they
departed with them, however, they took them out to the
desert and killing them threw them into the well Mayrah.
This became known to the Prophet and he mistrusted them
and was filled with wrath and began to curse them saying:
"O God, curse Ra'ala and Lahyan and Beni Dhakwan
because they mocked God and his Apostle. O God, cause
to come down upon them a famine like in the days of
Joseph and help el-Walid ibn el-Walid and the weak com-
pany of Mecca." Then Gabriel came down to him and
told him to keep quiet saying, "God did not send you a
reviler and a curser but verily he sent you as a mercy.
He did not send you as a punishment. The affair does not
concern you; for God will either forgive them or punish
them. They are the transgressors." Then he taught him
the Qunut aforementioned.' i.e. the prayer now used.
In spite of the assertion of God's unity there are many
other things connected with Moslem prayer which show
pagan magic such as the power through certain words and
gestures to influence the Almighty. These practices were
prevalent before Islam. Professor Goldziher mentions the

48
ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
custom of incantation (Manashada) similar to that practiced
by the heathen Kahins. By certain leaders in the early days
of Islam-it was said "If so and so would adjure anything
upon God he would doubtless obtain it."
Not only in formal prayer (Salat) but also in the Du'a
(petition) there are magical practices, especially in the
prayer for eclipse by the raising of the hands. We are told
in Bukhari that on one occasion the Prophet while praying
for rain raised his hands so high that one could see the white
skin of his arm-pits! In the case of Du'a therefore, the
Kibla is said to be heaven itself and not Mecca.
⚫ Another gesture used in Du'a is the stroking of the face,
or of the body with the hands. This custom is borrowed
from the Prophet and has also magical effect. At the time
of his death the Prophet put his hands in water and washed
his face with them, repeating the creed.
Goldziher refers especially to magical elements in the
prayer for rain,* and against eclipses of the sun or moon.
These, like excessive drought, were explained and combatted
by the pagan Arabs in a superstitious manner. Mohammed
forbade them to recognize in such phenomena anything more
than special manifestations of the omnipotence of the
Creator, and ordained in this case also certain ritual prayers,
to be continued as long as the eclipse lasted.
No Mohammedan questions for a moment that the
omnipotence of God reveals itself in these eclipses-indeed
no doctrine is more popular than that of the omnipotence
of God and predestination-yet in the ranks of the people
all kinds of superstitions prevail in regard to such pheno-
mena. In these temporary obscurations of sun and moon
they discern the action of malignant spirits and do not regard
the performance of a simple service of prayer as a sufficient
protection. "In Acheh, as in other Mohammedan countries,
these prayers are left to the representatives of religion, the
teungkus and leube's while the people of the gampong keep
up a mighty uproar beating the great drum of the meunasah,
and firing off guns and sometimes even cannons in order to
frighten away the enemies of the sun and moon. Various
sorts of ratebs are also held in order to relieve the suffering
heavenly body."t
*See Bukhari who gives certain chapters on magical formulas to
be used on this occasion. Certain of the companions of the Prophet
were celebrated as rain-makers.
+Hurgronje's The Achenese, pp. 285-6.

ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
49
In Algeria the usual posture used in prayer for rain is
standing only with the elbows bent and palms turned up-
wards. Prayers for rain must only be done out of doors
and with old clothes on, the burnous being worn inside out
to express distress and need.
For eclipse of the sun a long prayer is made standing
with hands down at the side, fingers extended, then a
long prayer while the hands are bent on knees. These two
positions are repeated with prayer.
In Yemen, at the first of the year, if there is a drought
five cows are brought to a special mosque and each one in
turn is driven around the mosque three times by a huge
crowd of young men, who constantly pray or recite the
Koran. In case of an eclipse water is put in large trays in
the open air and the people peer into this water searching
for the moon's reflection but this prayer also has been for-
gotten.
In 1917 there was a total eclipse of the moon visible
in Egypt. As might well be expected the eclipse greatly
excited the Egyptian masses, who were very much impressed
by the fact that it coincided with Ramadan and the war.
Pans and drums as well as other noise-making appliances
were beaten by them as long as the phenomenon was visible,
and even after its disappearance, many servants refused to
go to sleep on the roofs.
Among the Turkish Moslems there is a superstition
regarding the value of "rain stones" called Yada Rashi, or
in Persian Sangi Yada. This superstition dates from before
their conversion to Islam but still persists and spread to
Morocco. In Tlemcen the Moslems in time of drought gather
70,000 peebles which are put in seventy sacks; during the
night they repeat the Koran prayers over everyone of these
pebbles after which the bags are emptied into the wady with
the hope of rain.*
"
This service of prayer is also occasionally held in Java,
under the name istika; but a more popular method of rain-
making is "giving the cat a bath," which is sometimes
accompanied by small processions and other ceremonies.
"In Acheh, so far as I am aware,' says Dr. Snouck
Hurgronje, the actual custom no longer survives, though
it has left traces of its former existence in sundry popular
expressions. 'It is very dry; we must give the cat a bath
and then we shall get rain' say the padi-planters when their
harvest threatens to fail through drought."
"
*Goldziher in the Nöldeke Festschrift, Zauber Elementse im
Islamischen Gebet, p. 316.
4

50
ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
"In Tunis and Tripoli," Major Treamarne tells us, "if
there is no rain, and the crops are being ruined, the Arabs
go in procession outside the city with drums and flags, and
pray for rain, and, according to Haj Ali, cows are made to
urinate and the roofs of houses are wetted with water by the
Arabs and Hausas with them as a means of bringing down
rain. But if there is no result the negroes are summoned to
use their magic.'
"In Northern Nigeria, amongst the Magazawa of Gobir,
the rain was made to fall and to cease in the following
manner, according to Haj Ali. The rain-makers were nine
in number and would go round with wooden clubs to a
tsamiya (tamarind) or a ganje (rubber) tree near the gate of
the town, and sacrifice a black bull, the blood being allowed
to flow into the roots. Then four pots of giya (beer) were
brought, and were drunk by the rain-makers. After this,
the eldest of the nine (Mai-Shibko) would rise, put on the
hide and call out: "You Youths, You Youths, You Youths,
ask the man (Allah) to send down water for us, tell the
Owner of the Heavens that men are dying here, ask him to
spit upon us.' The eight others would rise and stand around
the old man, and call out in a loud voice what they had been
told to say, and add: "If you do not send the rain we will
kill this old man. We are true to you, see, we have sacri-
ficed a bull to you. Then brandishing their weapons in
the air, they would continue: "If you do not send down
the rain we will throw up our clubs at you. "**
"
Regarding prayers for rain offered up by the Moham-
medans in China we glean the following from the Revue du
Monde Musulman. (Vol. 26; 89, article by G. Cordier):
"A procession is formed headed by the ahong, or priest,
carrying three objects which I will here describe:
(1) A sack filled with 7,000 stones, very clean and
which have been gathered from the bed of some river near
by. These may be said to represent a sort of rosary as ten
prayers are repeated over each stone.
(2) A sword of the shape employed in the mosques but
without a sheath. On the handle of this sword is inscribed
the words pao-kien, i.e. the "precious sword," and in Arabic
the creed. This sword is made of wood and is covered with
inscriptions in Arabic characters and carried in a case made
of yellow linen.
(3) A tablet made of brass. The Chinese call it Chao
p'ai, that is to say the "Tablet that is planted." The
The Ban of the Bori: pp. 185, 189.

ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
51
Moslems call it t'ong P'ai, "Tablet of brass," and in Arabic
lukh nahas. This tablet is also covered with Arabic
inscriptions.
Forty-four flags covered with quotations from the Koran
are also carried in these processions, and as they march
prayers are chanted. Arriving at Hei-long-t'an, the source
of the black dragon, the procession halts near the basin
called Etang du dragon. There a Moslem beats the water
with the sword while the prayers are continued.
This done an ahong holding the brass tablet gets into the
water and throws it in so as to make a fish come out (others
say a water snake). When this is caught they place it in
some water taken from the same source and carry it back
to the mosque and is kept there until the rain comes down.
When this happens it is taken back to the basin where it is
again thrown in.*
In conclusion we may here give four of the short final
chapters of the Koran that are used at the time of the five
daily prayers and which contain allusions to animistic and
pagan practices current in Arabia before Islam. It is true
that the beautiful opening chapter of the Koran with its
lofty theism and the chapter of the Forenoon with its pathetic
reference to Mohammed's childhood are frequently on
Moslem lips. So also is the chapter of the Unity (112).
But what thoughts a Moslem has when he repeats the
following chapters, if he understands the words, we may
learn from the commentaries. After reading what they tell
us there remains little doubt that paganism entered Islam
by the door of the Quran!
"In the name of the merciful and compassionate God.
Verily, we sent it down on the Night of Power!
And what shall make thee know what the Night of
Power is?-the Night of Power is better than a thousand
months!
The angles and the spirits descend therein, by the per-
mission of their Lord with every bidding.
Peace it is until rising of the dawn!"
*A few days ago," writes Miss H. E. Levermore of Tsinchow,
"the Moslems had a rain procession,-a thing rarely known with
them. It is said once before they had one, and the informer signi-
ficantly adds, 'and they revolted just after.'" In this procession there
was no noise, great order and devotion being observed. The Moslems
walked the streets, carrying incense and reading their incantations.
Two chairs containing Moslem sacred books were carried, whilst the
priests had open Arabic Korans in their hands."
+The Qur'an-Part II. Translated by E. H. Palmer. Suras
97, 100, 113, 114.

52
ANIMISTIC ELEMENTS IN MOSLEM PRAYER
"In the name of the merciful and compassionate God.
By the snorting chargers!
And those who strike fire with their hoofs !
And those who make incursions in the morning,
And raise up dust therein.
And cleave through a host therein !
Verily, man is to his Lord ungrateful; and, verily, he is
a witness of that.
Verily, he is keen in his love of good.
Does he not know when the tombs are exposed, and
what is in the breasts is brought to light?
Verily, thy Lord upon that day indeed is well aware."*
"In the name of the merciful and compassionate God.
Say, 'I seek refuge in the Lord of the daybreak, from
the evil of what He has created; and from the evil of the
night when it cometh on; and from the evil of the blowers
upon knots; and from the evil of the envious when he
envies.' "'+
"Say, 'I seek refuge in the Lord of men, the King of
men, the God of men, from the evil of the whisperer, who
slinks off, who whispers into the hearts of men!-from jinns
and men.'"'+
+ The Qur'an-Part II.
Suras 97, 100, 113, 114.
Translated by E. H. Palmer.