III. NOTE ON THE TU TIEN HUI (BA)
HELD AT CHINKIANG ON THE
31ST MAY, 1917.
H. A. OTTE WILL.
The Tu-t'ien hui consists of a procession in honour of
the Tu t'ien pu-sa. It used to be held every year.
Accounts differ as to the last occasion on which it was
celebrated. Some say six and others eight years ago. It
appears to have varied in extent and magnificence. The
celebration this year is said have been the largest for sixteen
years, and yet the number of spirits invoked and chairs in
the procession did not exceed half those brought forward
on previous occasions. Although belief in the favourable
intervention of the numerous gods and goddesses in the
Chinese pantheon is decaying, and must necessarily decay,
before the materialistic influence of Western science and
knowledge, many generations must elapse before it ceases to
play an active part in the thoughts and life of the people.
Even when forms and ceremonies connected with these
beliefs have passed away into the limbo of forgotten usages,
traces will be found which will lead back to long-forgotten
customs and habits of thought.
It seems permissible to give an account of one occasion
where deities are honoured while these customs and habits
of thought have not yet lost their full influence and preserve
it for reference by those curious to learn the ways of thought
of our Chinese fellow-citizens.
The procession in honour of the Tu t'ien p'u-sa consisted
of various parts, and more than one god was honoured. The
fête began at an early hour in the morning. The various
cortèges passed to and fro along the main streets, where
broad enough, till sunset. Probably four thousand men
took an active part in the procession. The cost was met
out of funds belonging to the Tu t'ien Guild, which were
subscribed to by merchants and merchant bodies in pro-
portion to their incomes. It is said that a small sum is put
aside out of each sale and contributed to the funds. The
expenditure on the present occasion amounted to fifteen or

A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
87
twenty thousand dollars ($15,000 or $20,000). On famous
occasions in the past the total is said to have been as much
as $50,000. All the beggars and unemployed were gathered
in and received payment for their work. One consequence
was the absence of beggars and disorderly characters.
The good behaviour of the crowds which gathered from the
surrounding towns and villages was very noticeable.
The Tu t'ien pu-sa does not appear in any foreign book
of reference to which I have had access. Processions in his
honour have always taken place during the fourth moon.
No particular date is assigned for them; the day appears
to be chosen by the elders of the Guild.
Owing to the long-continued drought and fear that the
ground would be too hard to plant rice, the rumour was
spread that the deity was affronted at the lack of respect
shewn to him by the non-observance of the ceremony of a
procession in his honour, and showed his resentment by
withholding the rain. The remedy was obviously to remove
the cause, and placate the deity by holding the procession.
The lack of rain was held to be the cause of the large amount
of sickness prevalent, scarlet fever, diphtheria, and such like.
The special gods which control diseases were honoured at
the same time. Other genii holding offices in the hierarchy
which controls rain and the transport of rice, and also gods
bringing blessings desired by the people received their share
and took their place in the general celebration.
The notice in the Chronicles of the Tantu (Chinkiang)
Magistracy (Tan-t'u Hsien Chih) () which deals
with the Tu t'ien Pu-sa is to the effect that in early days a
temple in his honour stood to the left of the Lieh-ti
temple, below the Ting Shih hill (4). During the reign
of the last Emperor of the Ming Dynasty, Ch'ung Chêng
(i) a priest named Jo-mei () built a new temple
to the east of the hill on the bank of the Grand Canal.
In recognition of the god's services in making water plentiful
and the rice to grow abundantly the Emperor Ch'ien Lung
in the sixtieth year of his reign bestowed on him the title
of "The Spirit which bestows" (). The Emperor Chia
Ch'ing added the title of "He who facilitates the passage
of rice and protects from flood" (16),
and ordered festivals in his honour to be held in the spring
and autumn. Later the Emperor Hsien Fêng added a title
of The Spirit which protects" (f). The temple was
destroyed by the T'ai ping rebels. After General Fêng
Tzu-ts' ai (7) had relieved Chinkiang, his force was
surrounded by rebels. Mysterious lights appeared on the
hill above the temple where no man was.
The rebels were

:88
A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
terrified and fled. General Fêng, who afterwards became
Ti-tu at Canton, reported the benevolent intervention of the
god to the Emperor who finally bestowed the title of "Dis-
playing majesty" (). The temple was rebuilt at the
beginning of the reign of the Emperor Tung Chih. The
Chronicle ends by stating that it is a popular superstition
that the god was a man named Chang (3) who lived in
the Tang dynasty.
The above account led me to think that the spirit wor-
shipped was probably a rain god in the early days of the
history of the place, perhaps when barbarians occupied the
land before its conquest by the Chinese, and that the Chinese
have adopted him, and given him a name and a history.
The Rev. D. W. Richardson of the American Presby-
terian Mission here has, however, informed me that he is
a god of transport rather than of rain. There are temples
in his honour at Tsingkiangpu and at a small town south
of Tsingkiangpu, at Nanking and Taichow. The temples
at the latter two places appear out of place as the god is
supposed to have honours only along the Grand Canal.
There is also a Tu-t'ien temple at Haimenting, referred to
below.
Mr. Richardson has identified the man named Chang
mentioned in the Chronicles of the Tantu Magistracy with
Chang Hsün (). An account of this worthy is given in
Professor Giles' Chinese Biographical Dictionary. He lived
A.D. 709-757, and was a great scholar in addition to being a
great warrior. After a heroic defence of Sui-yang (5)
he was killed by An Lu-shan's son.
It is stated that during the siege of Sui-yang the enemy
poisoned the well at which his soldiers drew their water.
Chang Hsün having learned this drank the well dry himself
with the result that he became different from other men,
his countenance changing to purple.
According to the Shang Yu Lu () he was
canonized as Governor of Yangchow, on the Grand Canal.
Yangchow Ta Tutu (M), and the inhabitants
dedicated a temple to him.
The Tu-t'ien Pusa has two assistants whose names are
given as Dukes of the Southern and of the Lightning
Countries respectively (國) and (公)
Two other gods connected with water honoured in the
procession were Chiang Kung (公) and Yen Kung (公).
The former is unidentified. The other is described in Père
Doré's Recherches sur les Superstitions en Chine, page 920,
as "The Protector of Sailors."

A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
89
The fourth water god was Yang Ssû Chiang Chun
(4). One of his functions appears to have been
facilitating the passages of tribute rice along the Grand
Canal. His headquarters are stated to have been at Tsing-
kiang-p'u in Northern Kiangsu. Chinkiang being the con-
necting link between the two portions of the Canal north
and south of the River Yangtze, the worship of the god
would naturally be brought here. Père Doré's Recherches
sur les Superstitions en Chine, Volume II, page 655, gives
some additional details.
It is stated that Yang Ssû Chiang Chun was in his
life-time a Director General of Grain Transport, and on his
death he was promoted to be a god by the Emperor. A
certain wind and appearance of waves indicated his impend-
ing coming. He appeared in the form of a snake about
eighteen inches long, green in colour and with piercing eyes.
When sailors on the rice boats saw him swimming in the
water, they produced a large tray and invited him to take
his place on it. The spirit was friendly and not afraid of
men. The tray was put on the bank of the Canal, and
the snake curled itself up in the centre. A message was
hastily sent to the Director General of Rice Transport, who
came in his official chair. He kotowed to the spirit. The
latter was taken on his tray and placed on the official's seat
in the chair and carried in state to the Dragon Temple
attended by the Director General. The tray was placed on
the altar. Candles were lit. The spirit in its snake form
would wind itself round one of the candles and look at the
flame. It was very fond of music, and the programme of
the troupe of musicians was offered to him as to an honoured
guest at entertainments. The spirit would place his head
on the piece to be played. On its termination the pro-
gramme was again submitted, and he again selected some
special item. When he wished to depart he was escorted
in state to the Canal and disappeared again in its waters.
It is stated that the permission of the four dragon kings and
of the Emperor was given before the spirit was allowed to
appear, and that the boatmen who were notorious for their
turbulence were very docile when there was any likelihood of
the manifestation coming amongst them.
Forty and fifty years ago these manifestations were very
common, but the stoppage of grain transport by the Canal
has largely killed the cult.
The next two gods were Su Pao Ssû and Lieh Pao Ssû
()(). The first is stated to be a messenger
to the Jade Emperor (Yü Huang) () and the latter his
recorder in his heaven. The history of the Jade Emperor

90
A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
is fully discussed by Père Doré in Recherches sur les Super-
stitions en Chine, Volume II, page 468.
The local earth god of Chinkiang () naturally
had his place in the procession, and also the god of riches
() and the stellar god of longevity (E). The
two latter are discussed by Père Doré in Recherches sur les
Superstitions en Chine, Volume II, pages 965 and 966.
In view of the prevalence of disease which was locally
attributed to want of rain three spirits were appeased by
being granted their places in the procession. They were:-
the goddess of smallpox, Tou-shen-p'u-sa () or
Hua-shen-p'u-sa (E), the god of scarlet fever,
Sha-shen-p'u-sa () and the god which cures the marks
of smallpox, Ma-shen-p'u-sa (5). See Père Doré,
Recherches sur les Superstitions en Chine, Volume II,
pages 748 and 749.
The plan of a hall dedicated to the god of riches in the
temple called the Tu t'ien miao (at Hai-men-t'ing,
given by Père Doré on page 1039 of his Recherches sur les
Superstitions en Chine who places the image of the god of
riches holding an ingot in his hand in the central place of
honour (). On the right is the sun god (**).
and on the left Yen kuang (R), the smallpox goddess
(痘神) and the scarlet fever god (鉟神 ).
On other occasions numerous other gods have appeared
in the procession but were passed over this time. Amongst
those omitted were:-
The City god, Ch'eng Huang (). Celebrations in
his honour are held in the third, seventh and tenth moons.
The valorous Marshal Liu (%), who affords pro-
tection against locusts. See Recherches sur les Superstitions
en Chine, Volume II, page 937. San-mao (*). They
are evil gods who frighten children at temples. A former
Governor of Suchow, named T'ang Pin () did away with
his image at Suchow, but the god appears to be much feared.
See Recherches sur les Superstitions en Chine, Volume II,
page 671.
There were several side shows in the procession. The
one which attracted most attention was a burlesque on the
well-known story of Chung Ku'ei (f). Recherches,
Volume II, page 852. During the T'ang dynasty he went
to the Capital for the triennial examination. The examiners
were filled with disgust at the mediocrity of the compositions
submitted to them, until they read the happy phrases and
balanced periods which adorned his essay. The writer of
the paper was the only one who could be designated Chuang

A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
91
yuan. Unfortunately he was a fright to look at, and his
face was hideous. (Compare the story of Ku'ei Hsing (A)
Recherches, Volume II, page 45). The Emperor dismissed
him without a position. The deathblow to his hopes caused
him to commit suicide. His ghost saw a malaria devil going
about his wicked way. The ghost swallowed the devil.
The story breaks off abruptly, and continues with the-
irrelevent facts that Chung Ku'ei had an unmarried sister,
and his soul returned to arrange a marriage for her which
was successfully accomplished. In the procession were four
men dressed in old-fashioned robes with their faces painted
green and black with blotches and sores, they wore beards
and were the embodiments of ugliness, amongst whom
Chung Ku'ei was marked by long pheasant's feathers, the
others being his friends. They rode donkeys in front of a
bridal chair in which sat a beggar man dressed as a bride.
Two men dressed as women attendants followed in open
chairs.
It is said that the personator of the bride receives from
five to ten dollars a day for his services, and that the reason
for this large payment is that he will die in the course of a
year. It seems possible that the part of the story relating
to the woman may refer to some custom now forgotten
whereby a girl was given in marriage to a malaria spirit, and
she was killed after the ceremony, whatever its nature, was
completed.
Another side show consisted of a living water buffalo,
and structure covered with a buffalo hide to represent
another. They were conducted by a man wielding a branch
of weeping willow. I am told that it was a rain charm of
some kind, as was the side show consisting of figures of three
Chinese lions, a male, a female, and a little one. The latter
was contributed by the Lighter Guild.
Two figures of dragons generally appear in the pro-
cession, but were dispensed with on this occasion.
A curious feature was the carrying about of valuable
jade and other curiosities. The ornaments tied to their
stands were arranged in three tiers over a basket. The
baskets were carried at both ends of a carrying pole by one
man. The carrying poles were richly carved. The carrier
was surrounded by a number of very respectable Chinese
gentlemen who waved triangular white flags with a red
border, and so passed along through the crowed of on-lookers.
There were several such groups passing to and fro throughout
the day. There is no doubt about the genuineness and value-
of the ornaments thus displayed. I was told that they were
supplied by the curio-dealers at Yangchow.

92
A CHAPTER OF FOLKLORE
As a happy coincidence, though in the minds of the
Chinese as a fortunate result of the procession and celebra-
tion, the drought broke a week later, and the rain longed for
by all fell.