CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
CHARLES KLIENE, F.R.G. S.
The Orient is the home of problems, puzzles and things
inscrutable; and China affords a field of sufficient vastness,
with crops of the inscrutable in sufficient variety, to satisfy
anyone afflicted with a fondness for this kind of fare. The
Chinese people have revelled in the obscure and the recondite
from time out of memory, and so conspicuous are the
qualities they have attained that one is almost tempted to
believe they have developed special talents for mystifying
the unsophisticated. The Chinese juggler and the Chinese
puzzle are proverbial. Bret Harte has told us that the
Heathen Chinee" is peculiar for ways that are dark and
for tricks that are vain; but apart from all that, it does seem
that the more one delves into things Chinese, the less one
knows; for the more we learn, the more riddles we en-
counter, and they have a provoking way of upsetting our
preconceived ideas and pet theories and of showing up our
ignorance.
Let us ask ourselves, for instance, the reason why we
call this country "China" and the people "Chinese." The
Chinese do not know their country nor themselves by any
such names, and it is a mystery to them why foreigners
should so designate them. Theirs is the Middle Flowery
Land," and the people who belong to it, in the south, call
themselves the "Men of T'ang," and in the north, the
"Sons of Han." What has "China" or "Chinese" to do
with that? We have assumed that the biblical mention of
"those of the land of Sinim" refers to the Chinese, and we
talk glibly about the name having been derived from the
Tsin dynasty and the "First Emperor," destroyer of books
and builder of the Great Wall. But there is nothing in
Chinese history or literature to show that this country was
ever called the land of Tsin; and, I submit, we cannot
satisfactorily explain to the Chinese the reason we call their
*Read before the Society, January 17th, 1918.

CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
145
Lacking a positively
the matter perforce
country by the name we have given it.
conclusive explanation on this point,
remains a puzzle. Or, seeing that very few of us are here
for the benefit of our health, how many of us know why
Chinese silver is called Sycee? I have tried to find out the
reason, but in vain. We are told that sai-si is the Cantonese
for "fine silk," and that this name is given to silver because
when it is pure, under the application of heat, it can be drawn
into fine silk-like threads. This information, though coming
from a good source, cannot be accepted without question,
for it applies equally to gold and other metals. I am more
disposed to agree with the joker who said:
"Some ask me what the cause may be
That Chinese silver's called Sycce.
It's probable they call it so
Because they sigh to see it go."
The Chinese from half-a-dozen provinces whom I have
consulted on the etymology of this mystic word are un-
animously agreed that it is English.
Leaving aside these trivial considerations we find
that the language is full of linguistic puzzles; it is
certainly cast in so plastic a mould that it lends itself
readily to all manner of puzzling and surprising effects.
An occidental,-unless he has mastered the "tones," that
frightful nightmare of all students, and is able to distinguish
with a fair degree of accuracy, the "upper" from the "lower"
among the even tones, and the "rising" from the "sinking"
among the oblique or deflective tones, to say nothing of the
"entering,' and the surds" and "sonants,"-will un-
consciously make so many puns in a sentence that he will
find himself, to the merriment of his hearers, involuntarily
discoursing on some other subject than the one he intended.
By modulating one's intonation according to the formula
given in certain text-books, will only make matters worse;
and by having recourse to a few utterances of the onomato-
poetic kind, or playing off a little pantomime, one runs the
risk of being locked upon as a raving lunatic at large.
Confucius said, "In language it is simply required that it
convey the meaning." Unfortunately, the Chinese langu-
age, at its best, does not invariably do this; very often it
conceals the meaning, which shows it cannot always be
taken at face value.
I have been told of a foreigner, who in the early days
of the Republic, once asked his stable-boy what he had
done with his riding whip. "Ni ti pien tzu tsai na 'rh?"
enquired the foreigner. The stable-boy, with an artlessness
not common in his genus, and rubbing the back of his head,
10

146
CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
blandly replied, "the barber cut it off yesterday, Sir; it is
not the fashion to wear that appendage in these days of
restored glory." That foreigner made the trivial mistake
of using the oblique "sinking" tone instead of the even
"upper" tone for whip; it was only a small matter of
nuance, but the urchin took him at his word and answered
him accordingly.
"It's a fine day" observed an acquaintance of mine
once in what he thought was unimpeachable mandarin to a
farm-labourer, ploughing a sludgy rice-field with a water-
buffalo thickly coated with fluid mud. "I don't understand
a single word of your foreign speech," grunted the rustic,
knee-deep in the ooze and staring blankly. "He is not
speaking any foreign language; he says it's a fine day,"
I ventured to explain in the best accents I could command:
"t'a shuo chin t'ien t'ien hao, ah!" laying special stress on
the final expletive as the natives have the trick of doing.
"O-oh!" drawled the bucolic swain with a significant grin
as he laboured muddily on: "i tien 'rh pu ts'o; ching t'ien
t'ien hao, pu ching t'ien t'ien pu hao," which rendered in
English was, "exactly so; ploughing the field makes the
field good; if the field be not ploughed; the field will not be
good." There was no lack of logic in this; but I cannot tell
to this day whether Nature had formed that son of the soil
into a wag, so that he could perpetrate his waggishness on
us, or whether the primeval simplicity of a mind matured
in mud, really precluded him from receiving impressions
not bearing direct reference to his immediate surroundings
of unhallowed mire. That is one of the puzzles I shall
never solve.
The books of the country, containing the thoughts of
master minds and written generations ago, teem with literary
and ethic puzzles. Not only are their obscurer passages
variously expounded by various commentators, a clear proof
of amphibology, but characters are deliberately singled out
and held to signify contrary meanings. What is a tyro in
the pursuit of knowledge to do when his authorities conflict,
and his teachers with malice prepense make Confucius worse
confounded? One may as well ask what in the world is the
poor patient to do when doctors disagree; when one declares
that if he takes the drug he dies, and the other insists that
if he does'nt take it he dies? Ch'ih yeh ssú, pu ch'ih yeh
ssú; tsên mo hao ni? I will leave you to unriddle this for
yourselves. When a native finds himself in a predicament
*光復

CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
147
of this sort, where, to borrow from his own language,
"progression both forward and backward are equally im-
practicable," he invariably puts it down to Fate, and says
with philosophic resignation that if the God of Longevity
rides on a donkey it is because he has no deer (
*1B).*
Those who have plodded wearily through the Four
Books and Five Canons unaccompanied by Dr. Legge,
will agree that what makes them on the whole so depressing
to the student, especially if he be at all fond of understand-
ing what he reads, is their contracted phraseology and ultra-
conciseness of construction, which Du Halde calls their
"Majestic and Sublime Brevity."
But of all the works in Chinese literature the palm for
downright unfathomable abstruseness must unreservedly be
given to the I Ching (), or "Canon of Changes."+
This book is the groundwork of the whole fabric of Chinese
Philosophy founded on the sixty-four permutations of the
Pa Kua (), or "Eight Diagrams, "which we are told
were copied from the markings on the back of a tortoise
at some remote period between the years 2953-2838 B.C.,
by that semi-legendary monarch Fu Hsi. The Pa Kua,
which has been elaborated into an entire system of ontology
interwoven with the mumbo-jumbo of divination and the
science of numbers, represents the Universe divided into
eight parts, viz.:
*The three bright stars in the centre of the Constellation of
Orion, known as the "belt," are called by the Chinese Fu, Lu and Shou
(); they are the three Divinities of Happiness, Emolu- .
ments and Longevity. In pictures the God of Longevity (*)
is always represented as a jovial old man with a flowing white beard
and an abnormally high forehead. He holds in one hand the Peach
of Immortality, the emblem of long life, culled from the fairy gardens
of the "Fairy Mother," Hsi Wang Mu (E), and in the other a
staff which is the adjunct of old age. He is always accompanied by a
deer and a bat. Now, the explanation of the deer and the bat is this:
the bat is called fu (A) and the deer lu (L), and by reason of
homophony they allude to (F) Happiness and () Emoluments,
the other two members of the trinity not in the picture, albeit the
characters denoting them are not the same. In the saying just quoted
the character lu is yet another; it is , a "road," or "way"; the real
sense, therefore, is not he rides on a donkey "because he has no deer,"
but "because there is no way out of a fix"; in other words, "he has
no option." The play on the words is perfect in the mandarin
language.
+First translated into Latin by the Jesuit Father, P. Regis,
A.D. 1834.

148
CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
1. Ch'ien (2) Heaven;
2. Tui () Seas;
3.
Li () Fire;
4.
Chên (C ) Thunder;
5.
Hsün () Wind;
6.
K'an () Water;
7. Kên () Mountains;
8. K'un () Earth.*
Out of Chaos these several parts emerged, and four of
them are Male and four Female, which brings in the subject
of Yin and Yang, or the Dual Principles of Nature. Con-
fucius ruled that "Heaven" is Father; "Earth" is Mother;
"Thunder," the eldest Son; "Wind," the eldest Daughter;
"Fire" the second Son; "Water" the second Daughter;
"Mountains" represent the youngest Son, and "Seas"
represent the youngest Daughter. In this ogdoad thus per-
sonified, it has been pointed out that we have that ancient
mariner Noah and his wife with their three sons, and the
sons' three wives who issued out of Chaos-the Flood, in
their microcosm-the Ark. The weak point in this is that
it rather sets aside the prior rights of Adam and Eve. By
ringing the changes on the Eight Diagrams the sixty-four
permutations are obtained, and out of these all things are
evolved; how this comes about exactly nobody knows. The
whole work stands as a unique production of a perverse or
paradoxical intellect, and Professor Giles, whose verdict is
to be respected, says "no one really knows what is meant
by the apparent gibberish" it contains. The Chinese them-
selves say that he who understands the I Ching understands
everything, though they claim that important lessons are to
be learned from its pages; but what those important lessons
may be is a mystery. Confucius who wrote a commentary
on it declared life too short to elucidate the riddle. Philastre
says it is a method of symbolizing the astronomical lore of
the ancient Chinese. Canon McClatchie tries to open its
mysteries "by applying the key of comparative mythology."
A. Terrien de la Couperie conceives it to be a vocabulary of
the language of the Bák tribes, said to be the oldest civilizers
of China, who brought the "word-symbols" with them as
an inheritance of the Elamo-Babylonian civilization; but
neither Zottoli nor de Harlez agrees with this. Dr. Riedel
insists on it being a lunar calendar. Dr. Paul Carus says
it is one of the most enigmatic books on earth. In view
of this diversity of opinion it is not astonishing that none
*According to Fu Hsi; the order according to Wên Wang is
1, 6, 7, 4, 5, 8, 3, 2.
"Which two great sexes animate the world." Paradise Lost,
Book VIII.
"An inevitable dualism bisects nature, so that each thing is a
half, and suggests another thing to make it whole; as spirit, matter;
man, woman; odd, even; subjective, objective; in, out; upper, under;
motion, rest; yea, nay." Compensation, R. W. Emerson."

CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
149
but necromancers and geomancers who deal in magic and
dabble in the occult, and those who find a livelihood in
fortune-telling, pretend to explain this deep-rooted and
impenetrable mystery. De Guignes endeavoured to prove
the common origin of the Chinese and Egyptians.* What-
ever may be thought of his arguments based chiefly on the
resemblances of certain Chinese characters with Egyptian
hieroglyphs as analysed and interpreted by Horus Apollo,
we have, at all events, in the I Ching nothing less than the
Sphinx of Chinese book-lore. Here then is a mammoth
puzzle from pre-historic times, still waiting solution. Almost
on a par with this book are the dark vaticinations of the
Tui Pei Tu () by Li Ch'un-fêng () and
Yüan Tien-kang () of the Tang dynasty, and the
Shao Ping Ko (f) by Liu Po-wen ( 14 ) of the
Ming dynasty; but these books contain predictions of a
political nature only.
"
Regarding popular literature such as the San Kuo Chih
() or "History of the Three Kingdoms," and the
Lich Kuo Chih () or "History of the Contending
States, there is so much fiction interwoven into them,
and so many anachronisms, that it is impossible to sift the
believable from the unbelievable, for the reason that the
dividing line is invisible. Lord Macaulay's remark anent
some of the tales of Herodotus applies here: he says, "The
fictions are so much like the facts, and the facts so much like
the fictions, that with respect to many most interesting
particulars, our belief is neither given nor withheld, but
remains in an uneasy and interminable state of abeyance.
We know that there is truth; but we cannot exactly decide
where it lies.' That is the point, "we cannot exactly
decide where it lies."
Turning to the written characters, we find ourselves
again confronted with no paltry affair. The characters, or
sinograms as Wylie calls them, consist of symbols, or signs,
more or less arbitrary and more or less bewildering. Some
of them are compound, that is to say they are composed of
two or more symbols, which are classified as "radicals" and
"primitives," or "phonetics"; but many characters though
containing the same "phonetics" are not homophonous.
On the other hand, many characters not bearing the slightest
resemblance to each other do have the same sound, while
many have more than one sound and most of them have
no end of meanings. A certain class of characters are called
*Mémoire dans lequel on prouve que les Chinois sont une Colonie
Egyptienne."-A.D. 1758.

150
CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
ideographs, or ideograms, because they are said to embody
in their construction some idea or figure. Every student
knows that the combination of the symbols for "sun" and
"moon" (H) means brightness, and "not" and "straight"
() means awry; but it may not be generally known that
the character ch'ü, meaning "to marry a wife," suggests
taking a woman by the ear. This character, of course,
would never do for "marrying a husband"; marriage on the
woman's side is chia (), and the idea presented by this
character is simply that the woman acquires a home. Then
again there is the character niao, where the symbol for
"woman" is placed between two symbols for "man" (),
or, for that matter, where the symbol for "man'
n" stands
between two symbols for "woman" (t)-it amounts to the
same thing, it is not difficult to guess that these ideographs
signify a state of affairs not strictly above board. If all
Chinese characters were constructed
on this perfectly
rational principle, learning their meanings would be reduced
to a tolerably simple process of deduction; but alas! they
are not; and too often when our boasted reason is brought
into play it only leads us astray. Take for example the
character Chien, meaning "shallow," or "wanting in
depth." Who in the world would ever imagine that this
same character also means a tiger, because of the shortness
of that animal's hair, and the want of depth in the fur of
his coat! Who would ever guess that a combination of
"big" and "sheep" means small sheep, or lambkin just
recently born; and who for a moment would dream that the
character Hua, meaning "flowery," and used as a poetic
designation for China, also means "cutting up a melon!"
The character Li is another of the elusive sort. There
are many characters with the sound li, but the one I refer
to here is composed of the radical "stone" with the primitive
"water," . Naturally one assumes that it has something
to do with stone in conjunction with water. Can it mean
that water wears away stone, or does it denote some hidden
danger to navigation in the form of a submerged rock, or
does it perhaps refer to the Chinese proverb "when the water
subsides the stones beneath appear, or can it signify a
pebble on the beach? One puzzles over the question till on
consulting the dictionary the following heart-breaking de-
finition is found: "to cross a stream on stepping-stones"!
Another Li is the surname, composed of the radical
"wood" placed over the symbol for "son," . Mr. Li, for
instance, meets Mr. Chang, whose surname is composed
of the radical "bow" and the symbol for "long," . They
are introduced; but both are in the dark as to what characters

"
CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
66
151
represent their respective names, and, as we would say,
"how do you spell it?" Chang enquires very politely
"which Li is it?" Quoth Li, ""Tis Li of the wooden son,
and may I enquire which Chang it is? "Tis Chang of the
long bow," replies the other. To say that a man is
"wooden,' or wooden-headed," rather implies that he is
an image of Buddha,* the Jewel in the Lotus, for many of
those images are made of wood; and to say he "draws the
long bow'
does not by any means insinuate that he is a
perverter of the truth. But they have other methods for
conveying the desired information; they may resort to the
silent expedient of tracing the character on the palm of the
left hand with the right index finger. In summer when fans
are carried nothing is more convenient, in case of doubt,
than to trace a character in the air with the folded fan, like
the conductor of an orchestra delicately punctuating a
staccato passage with his baton. You are expected to read
the invisible character in the air, which is just as legible as
an inscription on water; you nod assent whether you can
read it or not. Without mutual explanations of this sort,
one never knows how one stands with regard to isolated
sounds.
Not long ago I lost a little dog. As the animal was a
pet of the whole household every effort was made for its
recovery. At last it occurred to the houseboy to resort to
magic, so he quietly repaired to a Professor of the occult in
the neighbourhood to have a character dissected with the
object of locating the lost dog. Having explained his errand,
and having deposited the modest sum of three coppers in
advance, the man of magic presented to him a tray contain-
ing about two hundred characters written on small pieces of
paper and rolled up into spills resembling cigarettes. He
was told to take one. Into the promiscuous pile the boy
plunged his hand and carelessly drew forth one spill which
on being unrolled was found to bear the character pl (ch'en).
Now, this is the way the character was dissected and
analysed. "Here," said the man of magic, "is the character
ch'en. You will observe that there is a man in it; not a
child, not a woman, but one man, with a long pole on his
shoulder; the one is on the top and the man is below. In
between is the character (t'ien), which reveals the fact
that he is a man from the fields-a peasant,-come into
town, no doubt, with a carrying-pole to find work. That is
. "He is the best of all guides of men, no
other being is like unto him; he is like a jewel, of imperishable glory,
who hears the Law with a pure heart." The Buddha-Karita.

152
CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
the fellow who stole the dog, and the direction he has gone
is to the eastward. Besides this, we have the radical "ear."
The ear denotes the sense of hearing, from which I gather
that if you keep your ears open you will hear tidings of the
dog. Go to the east of your master's house; keep your ears
open and listen for the dog's bark. There is no doubt the
dog will be found." I am unable to tell whether the boy
did not go far enough eastward, or whether he did not keep
his ears wide enough open, for the dog was not found in spite
of the oracle.
Chinese writing is also well calculated to put the wits
of the student to a severe test. The old "seal" characters
now chiefly used for seals, titles and decorative purposes are
puzzling enough in all conscience, to say nothing of the
archaic "tadpole" script rarely seen at the present time
except on ancient bronzes and coins. The ordinary manu-
script style is admittedly the most elegant and at the same
time the most difficult writing in the world, while the
"cursive" or "current" hand is certainly the most perplex-
ing in existence. It is a special study by itself. An ex-
cellent puzzle is an ordinary cash note, or a shopkeeper's
receipt, written in the cursive hand. Let the student only
try to decipher one of those documents, he will realize to
what a high standard of illegibility cursiveness can be
brought, and if he is disposed to be "cursive" himself, he
will probably doom the perpetuators of this style and all
their deceiving flourishes to execration. Apart from this,
and in a special category of its own, is the "charm" writing
of the Taoist priests, based on Chinese notions of cosmogony
and astrology curiously blended with the esoteric mysticisms
of Taoist and Buddhist lore and the tenets of Confucianism.
Many have doubtless seen these anagrammatic charms, traced
as a rule, on slips of yellow paper and generally pasted over
doorways to intimidate evil spirits and to ward off sickness
at certain seasons. It will suffice to say here that every Fu,
as the charms are called, is the quintessence of a profound
riddle that baffles the Chinese themselves.
On the subject of Mathematics it will be enough to
mention that at a very early date the Chinese were
acquainted with several branches of higher mathematics,
and that long before the introduction of the abacus they were
able by means of bamboo tallies called Ch'ou () to make
accurate use of an effective system of notation in the resolu-
tion of complex problems. According to the Shih Chi (E),
or Book of Records, the Chinese were sufficiently advanced
in mathematics in the reign of the Emperor Yao (2357-2255

CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
153
B.C.), to be able to calculate the motions of celestial bodies
and to fix the Solstices and Equinoxes; and the Shu Ching
(), or Book of History, shows that they knew the length
of the year to within an hour of true time. Considering that
Mathematics are not taught in Chinese schools, and Arith-
metic is not included in any native school curriculum any
more than Hebrew, the puzzle is, how do they learn it?
The abacus is for the accountant and the tradespeople, who
learn its manipulation how and where they can. Notwith-
standing, it cannot be denied that the Chinese are good
calculators; they can count, and the lowest domestic servant,
however benighted he may be, in spite of currency intri-
cacies, in spite of the incomprehensible mutations of ex-
change, and the puzzling anomalies of weights and measures,
has enough arithmetic in his soul to safeguard him against
"squeezing" himself.
The Chinese system of chronology, like everything
Chinese, is different from any other system of chronology in
the world. It is known as the "Sexagenary Cycle"
(+), and was invented by a Minister of the
Emperor Huang Ti, when the science of numbers had
scarcely dawned among the Arabs. We are at present in
the 55th year of the 76th Cycle. Taking the Cycle of sixty
years and multiplying it by 76, it will be seen that the first
year of the first Cycle goes back to the year 2637 B.C., and
that 4555 years have elapsed since the introduction of the
system of Cycles, thus giving China the longest unbroken
chronological period on record. Now, the difficulty is this.
Each year in a Cycle has a distinguishing name, or what is
called a "Cyclical Term," which is derived from two sets of
characters, one composed of ten characters, called the "Ten
Celestial Stems,”甲乙丙丁戊己庚辛壬癸, and the
other composed of twelve characters called the "Twelve
Terrestrial Branches" 子丑寅卯辰巳午未申酉戌亥
To show how these "Cyclical Terms" are arrived at, let us
take the first ten letters of the alphabet, from a to j, for the
"Celestial Stems," and twelve numbers, from 1 to 12, for
the Terrestrial Branches," and place them in two rows,
a b c d e f g h i j
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
the numbers immediately under the letters. We thus have
the first ten "Cyclical Terms" in al, b2, c3, etc., up to j10.
After this we shift the whole top row of letters forward till
we get all, and b12; then the numbers being exhausted, we
shift the whole row of numbers forward till we get cl, d2,
e3, etc., and, as each row is used up we shift it forward.
In this manner the letters are shifted six times, and the

154
CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
numbers five times, when they revert to their original
position of a1, b2, etc. The permutations thus obtained are
exactly sixty in number, and each separate one, in its
proper order, is taken to denote each of the sixty years in a
Cycle, thus each permutation recurs once in sixty years,
ten times in six hundred years, and a hundred times in six
thousand years. That is what the Chinese do with their
"Stems" and "Branches" to obtain their "Cyclical Terms.
The Cyclical Term" for 1918 is 4 Wu-wu, or e7. Just
fancy talking about the Boxer rising as occurring in the year
gl, or 1789 as the year f10, or that Nelson died in the year
b2, and Herbert Spencer was born in the year g5. Can
anyone imagine anything more puzzling, more befuddling,
or more undistinguishable than years recorded for centuries
in this cabalistic way?
Unless a foreigner has been told, he will not understand
why every Chinese is a year older than every foreigner. The
Chinese have an ancient custom of reckoning age by birth-
days, not by anniversaries. When a child comes into the
world, the day of its birth is its first birthday; nobody can
deny that. When the first anniversary comes round, the
child has seen two birthdays, which is also an indisputable
fact; and so it goes on.
Among the many mystifying things in China, the degrees
of family relationship are about as puzzling as they can well
be. Most of us have heard of the houseboy who obtained
leaves of absence in eighteen months to bury three mothers
and two fathers, till finally his employer dispensed with his
services for piling on the agony. For the sake of con-
venience, a man calls all his cousins, german and otherwise,
brothers and sisters, and all his uncles and aunts, some
younger than himself, fathers and mothers, so that when the
relations by marriage are taken into account, he often finds
that he possesses more brothers and sisters, and fathers and
mothers than he can sum up. When an old man takes unto
himself a very young wife, his mother-in-law who becomes
one of his mothers, may happen to be about his own age;
and his mother-in-law's mother, who becomes his grand-
mother, may be younger than his uncle. Needless to say,
when three or more generations are living, the condition of
affairs becomes so frightfully mixed up that it takes a level
headed fellow to keep a proper tally of his kith and kin,
though everybody has a number. When step-mothers, and
foster mothers, and adopted mothers come into play, to say
nothing of the father having several wives, the hapless son,
from whom so much filial piety is exacted, has need to be

CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
155
wise indeed to know who is and who is not his maternal
parent. Early marriages, and plurality of wives are res-
ponsible for this singular state of affairs, to pursue which is
most distracting. Under these conditions one must not be
too severe on a houseboy even should he have a dozen
parents to inter in eighteen months. And if you chance to
find a multitude of strangers in your kitchen, and the cook
tells you they are all his brothers, the probabilities are he
can prove the veracity of his statement.
Dr. Arthur Smith once propounded a Chinese con-
undrum. He asked, "Why do Chinese wheelbarrows always
squeak?" His answer was, "Because the squeak is cheaper
than oil?" This is a delightful bit of humcur; but the true
explanation is because the squeak serves the wheelbarrow
as a horn serves the motor-car to clear the way. Maddening
as the squeak undoubtedly is, we must admit, when we
come to scrutinize it closely, that there certainly is method
in the madness. But there are scores of other things not so
easily explained. An ungrateful person is said to possess
the heart of a wolf and the lungs of a dog. That the heart
of a wolf should be void of such gentle instincts as gratitude
may be readily conceded; but what the lungs of a dog has to
do with the case is as clear as mud. The golden crow sinks
in the west; the jade rabbit rises in the east. This is faintly
seen, like a vision in a dream, when we are told that the
"golden crow" denotes the sun, and the "jade rabbit" the
moon; but it is hopeless to attempt to discover the con-
nection between the crow and the sun, and the moon and
the rabbit, and a jade rabbit at that.
As for left-handedness and topsyturveydom, we see it
in everything. According to ancient usage the place of
honour is on the left-hand side, not the right-hand side as
with us, a Chinese would never dream of saying "right and
left"; with him it is always , "left and right." In all
things, it is gentlemen first and ladies after; the Chinese
man has never made any concession to womankind in his
ancestral rights as regards precedence. The Chinese do not
shake hands with each other; they clasp their own hands
and shake them at each other. A man does not choose his
own wife, nor does he ever propose marriage; he leaves
others to do that for him. A waistcoat is worn outside of
the coat. In the west garters are worn for a specific
purpose; in China they are worn at the ankles, for the
specific purpose of keeping the trousers down. It is con-
sidered grossly impolite for a man to remove his hat in the

ง
156
CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
presence of a superior or of an equal, and highly improper
before a woman, even when indoors. To show civility a
Chinese gentleman removes his spectacles. Men salute each
other in the streets by taking off their spectacles. A Chinese
will no more think of removing his hat at meals than a
foreigner would think of taking off his boots; but he will
clear for action by taking off his coat. Water is wrung out
of a piece of washing by twisting the article the other way
about. When stitching a hem the needle is thrust point
outwards and the tread is drawn away. A thimble is a ring
worn on the finger instead of a cap worn on the finger tip.
Their tobacco pipes, when compared with ours, are long in
the stem and small in the bowl. In many places, when they
build a house, they run up a framework and commence with
the roof. When a parcel has to be done up, the wrapper is
invariably placed diagonally and folded corner-wise. Paper
bags used in a grocer's shop are triangular instead of being
square. A dinner is commenced with the "nuts and wine'
and ends with the soup. They drink their wine hot instead
of cold, they put it in boiling water instead of on ice, and
they eat out of bowls instead of plates. Teacups have no
handles, and saucers are placed in the cups to serve as lids.
Long ears are a sign of intellectual power.* The seat of
wisdom and wit is in the bowels, not in the brain. The
heart is the seat of memory; a good memory is a retentive
heart; they do not say "bear it in mind," but "bear it in
the heart." Beckoning is done with the fingers pointed
downwards instead of upwards. Bells have no clapper, they
are sounded by being struck on the outside. A fiddle-bow is
not detachable from the fiddle, being held between the
strings. There is no distinction between the words "borrow"
and "lend." White is the colour of mourning. At a funeral
the chief mourner walks before the coffin instead of following
behind it, and tombstones are placed at the foot of the
grave instead of at the head. In a boat the rower
stands facing the bow instead of sitting facing the stem,
and he pushes the oar instead of pulling it. Books
are bound with the folded edge at the front, each leaf is thus
double, and the back edge is trimmed. A book begins at
what we call the end, and the pages are turned from left
to right. Writing runs in perpendicular column from right
*Aristotle is suppose to have said: "They, having the ears small,
are ape-like, but they, having them big, are ass-like." Cornelio
Ghirardelli, a Franciscan, and seventeenth century authority on
Human Ears says:
"Auribus est longis aliquantum, stultus et amplis, est vafer, est
multa garrulitatis homo."

CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
157
The
to left instead of in horizontal lines from top to bottom.
When they play at cards the deal goes the reverse way.
potter's wheel spins the reverse way. Rope is twisted the
reverse way.
A candlestick has no socket so that a candle
cannot be stuck in it, but in place of the socket there is a
pin which is stuck into the candle. The calendar is lunar
instead of solar. The day is divided into twelve periods
instead of twenty-four hours. Dates are recorded in the
reverse order of year, month and day, and are placed at the
end of letters instead of at the head. The family name
always precedes the personal name, as Johnson Jack, instead
of Jack Johnson. If lightning strikes anything, it is said to
have been struck by thunder. The needle of the compass
points to the scuth, and the points of the compass are re-
ferred to antithetically and backwards, e.g., "east-south";
"east-north"; "west-north" and "west-south."
In the days when the Min Chü, or native Postal
Establishments flourished, postage was never prepaid. The
postage on a letter was always paid by the receiver instead
of the sender, to insure delivery. There is method in this
too when we come to think of it.
per
cent.,
and
When we say 10 per cent., they say 90
when we say 30 per cent., they say 70 per cent.; which really
comes to the same thing, for while we refer to the discount
they refer to the net amount.
According to the Chinese there are four liberal or polite
arts, namely, Music, Chess, Literature and Painting (
1). With literature I have already dealt at some length;
the other three subjects are also big ones and time does not
allow of more than a passing reference to them. Music:
Chinese music, as everybody knows, is very different from
foreign music. If our music were all major, Chinese music
would probably be all minor; but since ours is both major
and minor, Chinese music must, of necessity, he neither the
one thing nor the other. Because we have semi-tones, of
course, the Chinese must have none; because we have
chords, naturally, they know nothing about chords. Because
we consider a natural, well-rounded voice giving clear notes
the most beautiful, the Chinese must sing in falsetto. In
short, their ideas of music, must be the very opposite of ours
in every respect. Chess: Now in Chess, it is exactly what
the French would say: c'est la même chose, mais tout le
contraire. Of course the board must not be checkered; the
pieces must be placed at the angles of the squares instead
of on the squares; Black must have the first move instead of

158
CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
When
White, there must be two Queens instead of one; the
Queens must be the weakest pieces instead of being the
strongest, a stalemate must count as a victory, instead of a
defeat, and it is good form to insist on having the first
move, for the more you insist the greater is the compliment
you pay to your adversary in the sense that he is the better
player. Painting: It has been observed that there is no
perspective in Chinese paintings. This is a great mistake.
There is perspective, but of a different kind to ours.
a foreign artist starts to work, he places his canvas per-
pendicularly on an easel, and the horizon in the picture, if
it be a landscape, is on the same plane as his eyes; and he
works out his perspective accordingly. The Chinese artist
paints his picture flat on the table; between the horizontal
position of his picture on the table and the perpendicular of
the canvas on the easel, there is an angle of 90 degrees. The
natural result of this is, that instead of looking level at his
horizon, the native artist looks down on it, and by force of
habit develops a kind of bird's-eye view,-a perspective of
depth rather than distance; now, between depth and distance
we get the opposite angle of 90 degrees. A foreign picture is
best seen when hanging flat against the wall, and as much as
possible, level with the line of sight. To appreciate the
perspective in a Chinese landscape, the picture should hang
on the wall level with the floor, and the observer should
stand on a chair to look at it. The truth of this statement
can easily be tested by anyone possessing a Chinese land-
scape painting.
For these and other time-honoured differences too
numerous to relate, the Chinese have been spoken of as a
bundle of contradictions; and yet it must be granted that
they are a highly cultured and practical people, and that
their heads at least are not screwed on the wrong way. Why
then all this inexplicable contrariness? That is just where
the puzzle comes in, and I confess I fail to find a solution.
Whatever the explanation may be, it cannot be denied that
these are the things that go to make the Chinese so often so
difficult to understand, and us so difficult for them to under-
stand. Misunderstanding is, and always has been, the
cause of a great deal of mischief everywhere, and it stands
as one of the most troublesome stumbling-blocks between
Foreigners and Chinese in their intercourse. It is to be
hoped, now that foreign education is making fair advance-
ment in the country on the one hand, and more interest is
being taken by foreigners in the study of the Chinese
language on the other, that the day is not far distant when
mutual distrust and unreasonable prejudices will entirely

CHINESE PUZZLEDOM
159
vanish, when more patience and toleration will be shown by
each side for what is not understood; when sympathy and
goodfellowship will build up a closer friendship and establish
sounder relations between East and West. Some 500 years
before the Christian era Confucius said "Within the four
seas all men are brethren," and some 200 years later
Mencius tells us that the master craftsmen when teaching
their apprentices employ the square and compasses, for with-
out those implements squares are not to be formed or circles
completed."+ Let the master craftsmen, both of the East
and West, remember that they are engaged in a great work,
and let those who help in the work, in however small a
measure, realize that they are rendering a service to the
world at large. I am persuaded that when this world-war
on the battlefields of the West is ended, a war in which the
Chinese are lending a helping hand, we shall not be long in
seeing great changes in this great and ancient country,-
changes that will not only be for the real interest of China's
millions, but for the good of all mankind-changes that will
surely aid in the correct solution of many of the world's
great problems and puzzles.
*Confucian Analects: Yen Yüan, Bk. XII, ch. V, p. 4.
+Mencius Kao Tzu, Bk. VI, Pt. I, ch. XX, p. 2 and Li Lou,
Bk. IV, Pt. I, ch. I.