NOTES AND QUERIES
Mr. L. C. Arlington, Hangchow, writes:
The
Rhinoceros
I have been much interested in the various criti-
cisms in Adversaria, Series II, No. 1, and in
No. 48 of the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society,
re the much debated "rhinoceros."
We are all acquainted with the saying "When doctors dis-
agree, God help the poor patient." It might with equal truth be
said that "when sinologues disagree, God help the poor student."
As a humble student worshipping at the shrine of sinology, may
I be permitted to venture a few remarks as to the difference between
the hsi and the ssu?
Without any prejudice to the arguments of the doctors it is quite
correct to make a distinction between the beasts. My reasons are
as follows: In the first place we all know that of the five known
species of the rhinoceros, two of them are African and three Asiatic;
all have three-toes on each foot. While the Asiatic species has only
a single horn, the African has two horns. Then again, Mr. Laufer
places the extermination of the rhinoceros in China to the A.D. 13th
cent., and even later. If this is so, what do we make of the following
taken from Mengtzu, Chap. iii
m
(The Great Yü 2000 B.C., "banished the tiger, leopard, hsi and
elephant." This fact carries us a long way back from A.D. 13th cent.,
but it would be interesting to know where Yü drove the beasts.
Probably he cleared them out at the time he was dividing the
waters. It may well be asked why it is that the hsi and ssú became
extinct in China, but not the tiger and leopard? It may be owing
to the predatory habits of the latter which required a wider range
in search of food, whereas the former not being predacious did not
venture back again? It must however, not be forgotten, that extinct
rhinoceroses of many genera have been found (the earlier forms
hornless) in both hemispheres. May not the Chinese description of
them belong to these earlier species?
Cf., also Shih King, chap. iv, Erh Ya
Hunting Party
of King Hsuan (E) 8th Cent. B.C. The commentary states dis-
tinctly that the ssú is a yeh-niu or "wild-buffalo." The hunt and
killing of the ssu mentioned took place on the banks of the river

NOTES AND QUERIES
201
Ch'i chu (L) north of the rivers Ching and Wei in Shensi. From
the above it would appear that the ssú refers to a bovine-animal,
and not to a rhinoceros,
Is it possible that in post-diluvian times the Rhino, was found
as far north as the Valley of the Yellow River? That thongs made
from the hide of hsi (hsi-niu) were made in very early times is
proven by the following taken from the T'so Chuan, chap. vi, Mi
使婦人飲酒而以革套. The commentary here states dis-
tinctly that the hsi was a hsi-niu," Also the
quoting the
嶺表錄異 says that 有二角在額上僑兕在鼻上為胡帽
犀,牯犀,亦有二角皆為毛而今人多一角之說. And the
交州 states that 三角密水也 二角山屋也在頂上者謂
之頂
We certainly get much nearer the
在鼻者謂之鼻犀.
mark when we find it called a pi-hsi.
In Adversaria, series II, No. 1, The sentence
appears to me to mean that "the skin of the nose is all crinkled up,
like the folds or pleats of a skirt." I see no reference to a "horn"
in the sentence as it stands. But this is all the more in favour of
Dr. Giles' contention, that the ssú is not a rhinoceros.
Another important fact not to be over-looked, is that the Chinese
generally, and the druggists in particular, always call the shavings
of the hsi, "'hsi-chio-pi'en," and never "ssu-chio-pi'en."
In Adversaria, series II, No. 1, p. 25, the sentence
can only have one meaning, viz.-that the roots (or stems) of the
meanings, (are forked) rise up clearly (say one or two inches)
from the base of the horn. In other words, T
For my own part, I must confess that I am still in doubt as to
whether the hsi is really a rhinoceros or a bovine-animal. That the
88ú is not a rhinoceros is practically certain.
Mr. A. H. Sanders, Chaling, Hunan, also writes on this
subject:-
Re "Rhinoceros " discussion, p. 237 Journal 1917. Should
Drs. Giles and Laufer ever take the proposed week-end jaunt to
Tibet for the purpose of settling the knotty Rhinoceros question
"bovine or not bovine," they might come this way and view the
celebrated 4 of Chaling.
It is of bronze, and life-size, and is vulgarly supposed to have
fallen direct from Heaven ready-made. But the local historical
records give it as dating from 宋徽宗
Nevertheless, my teacher was very emphatic on the. point that at
least the pattern must be of celestial origin. "For," said he, "this
is no ordinary ox. It is a genuine, which has never been known

202
NOTES AND QUERIES
to exist in these parts. How could so true a likeness have been
produced if the gods had not sent the pattern?" A photo of this
speaking likeness is here shewn :
By the way, amongst the Miao, Lolo and some other tribes in
Yunnan, the common fashion of hairdressing is to bring all the hair
to the top of the forehead, and there fix it in the form of a horn.
Hence they are commonly referred to, by the Chinese, as
Dr. H. A. Giles writes:
A
Translation
.
4.
In last year's Journal (p. 165) there is a quota-
tion from the Family Sayings of Confucius, which
runs as follows: 家語孔子周入后右陛
(sic., should be )之前有人(焉 omitted) 三其口而銘其背日
At Dr. Ferguson translates this by, "In the
Family Sayings it is narrated that when Confucius went to Chow,
he visited the Hou Chi temple and saw bronze men at the right of
the altar. Their mouths were thrice bound up. Confucius wrote an
inscription on the back of the figures "These were the men of ancient
times who were careful of their words.'" The passage really means,
"when Confucius went to Chow, he visited the ancestral temple of
Hou Chi. In front of the steps to the right, there were three bronze
men. Their mouths were sealed, and on their backs was an inscrip-
tion, saying, 'The men of old were careful of their words."" The 三
"three" belongs to "men," and Confucius had nothing to do with
the inscription.

NOTES AND QUERIES
Dr. Ferguson replies:
203
As to the quotation from the Family Sayings of Confucius,
Dr. Giles is wrong in his translation of one phrase "there were three
bronze men." He is right in correcting the error made by me in
stating that the insciption was written by Confucius. The sentence
should read "Their mouths were thrice bound up. Confucius saw
an inscription on the back of the figures 'These were men of ancient
times who were careful of their words.'"
It is not at all likely that the decorous Confucius would play
the part of vandal tourist in the sacred temples and do any scribbling
on the images. It must be remembered too the man was made of
bronze, and the inscription must have been cast with the figure.
I find the Encyclopaedia gives the sentence in full. The words are
孔子周入后之右之前有金人焉三緘其口而銘其背日古
之 言人也.
From this it will be seen that is the correct reading and not
as amended by Dr. Giles. This too is the most likely reading.
Pi were the royal steps and Hou Chi was entitled to that; Chieh was
the more popular name for the same thing. Dr. Giles is wrong in
referring the to the A. The form of the sentence will not permit
this. Besides is a well known phrase meaning
t
. Possibly there was only one man. Whether we are
to read that the mouth was bound up literally three times, or simply
bound up, is uncertain and immaterial, if the idiomatic use of San
Chien be remembered.
Dr. H. A. Giles writes:-
The explanation of this term, which I gave in
The Meaning
An Introduction to the History of Chinese Pictorial
of界盃
Art (p. 126), and which I am reproducing in the
2nd edition of the same, has been challenged by
Dr. J. C. Ferguson. I stated that the essence of a "boundary picture"
consisted in "putting a landscape into a given space," as opposed to
the artist letting his fancy run on until he chose to bring his work
to an end, as seen in many very long landscape scrolls. Dr. Ferguson
claimed that the term referred to drawing buildings, and said that
"the name chich-hua does not refer to landscape, but to buildings in
a landscape." This view is reinforced by the Rev. E. Morgan in last
year's Journal (p. 242), as follows:-"Dr. Ferguson is quite right in

204
etc."
NOTES AND QUERIES
his interpretation of the phrase in saying that the name does not
refer to landscape, but to buildings in a landscape.". The following
quotation from the (see § 796 of "Painting") seems to
settle the question in my favour. Refering to a scroll by Wang Mêng,
which had some verses on it, we read,
p
界畫之其界畫外第一首詩有,etc. "This picture contains only
three or four scattered trunks of trees, with boundary-lines on all
four sides. The first stanza of poetry outside the boundary begins,
Here we evidently have a landscape and no buildings; and we
further learn that boundary-lines are not confined to the sides, but may
also appear to the top and bottom of pictures, as for instance in the
narrow vertical landscapes of which the Chinese are so fond. The
mistake in regard to buildings must have originated, I imagine, from
a misapprehension of the definition of ; namely,
which does not mean that chieh hua are pictures of buildings, but
pictures like buildings, which are bounded on four sides before the
artist begins to use the brush. Messrs. Ferguson and Morgan do not
give any authority for their view beyond emphatic assertion.
Dr. Ferguson's reply to this is:
"The quotation given by Dr. Giles from the Tu Shu Chi Ch'eng
is correctly translated by him but unfortunately for his argument,
it has no relation to the interpretation of the technical term, chieh hua.
The quotation refers to the boundary-lines or border surrounding a
picture, and could be used in reference to any style of painting to
which an artist might choose to add a border on all four sides. The
collocation of chich with hua in the quotation leaves the phrase to be
explained according to the usual meaning of the words and Dr. Giles
shows this clearly in his translation. It is a different matter, however,
when chich hua is used in the technical sense of a division or class of
paintings. In the Hsuan Ho hua p'u one division refers to "palaces
and buildings," kung shih, and in later works this class of paintings
is called chieh hua. The Glossary-Tzu Yüan, published by the Com-
mercial Press, explains chieh hua as follows:
畫家作宮室樓
等用界尺作直線 日界畫 元湯垕謂世俗論畫有十三科
山水打頭 界畫打底 界畫至難 唐至五代僅郭忠恕一人耳
'Artists in their paintings of palaces and buildings, as well as of city
towers, used measuring rules in making straight lines. Such work is
called chich hua. T'ang Hou, of the Yüan dynasty, divided paintings
into thirteen classes of which landscape was the first and measured
pictures, chich hua, were the last. Measured painting is most difficult.
From the time of the T'ang and Five dynasties, Kuo Chung-shu was
the only master of it.' This statement of the Glossary is based upon

NOTES AND QUERIES
205
many authorities whom space does not allow me to quote. The re-
petition of his error in the second edition of Pictorial Art by Dr. Giles
will not help to correct it."
Dr. Ferguson's reply seems conclusive. Dr. Giles is quite right in
saying that I produced no authority. I had none literary to give :
but I relied on the practical opinion of an artist, one of the most
famous calligraphists, living. He had no hesitation in saying that the
term referred to lines drawn on the paper to help exact measurements.
This opinion I now confirm by a quotation from the
which is amply authoritative and explicit.
宋晓自然箱宗十二忌 十日樓閣錯雜 共言日 界畫雖未
科然重樓疊閣 方寸之間 而向背分明 桷模拱接 而不離乎
繩墨 此為最難 或論江村山塢間屋宇者可隨處立向
不雖用尺 其制一以界畫之法.
-
'Jao Tzu-jan of the Sung, wrote an essay on 12 faults to be avoided
in painting. The 10th point dealt with the confusion in the insertion
of buildings in a picture. He said, that though Chieh Hua is a
minor or special study yet in the painting of complicated buildings, in
a small space, in order to have proper shading, perspective, and exact
relations, you cannot do without the rule and pencil, i.e. Chieh Hun.
This is a difficult subject.
The insertion of a house or two into landscape may be done by
free hand, and though you don't actually use the foot-rule yet the
method here too is that of Chieh Hua.'
too.
But it may be possible that the technical term has other meanings
Without desiring to be dogmatic I suggest a further one.
And the clue was suggested to me from a sentence in the biography of
Wang Chen P'eng (I). It reads as follows 64444
分柝神氣飛動不為法拍.This evidently does not so much refer
to landscape with buildings, which require exact measurements, as to
work of the imagination, and directly contradicts Dr. Giles' idea of
"putting a landscape into a given space as opposed to the artist
letting his fancy run on." The idea seems to be that the painter was
very efficient in drawing the dividing lines of light and dark he was
very clever in merging the Yin and Yang: the merging borders
and defining lines would thus be expressed by . The correspond-
ing term in English would be the word chiaroscuro: but possibly
with the difference that the Chinese would look more to the separating
lines where the light and shade merged, and the English term looks
rather to the general view and effect.

206
NOTES AND QUERIES
Dr. Ferguson adds the following note on Ku K'ai Chih:-
As to the notes at the bottom of pages 103 and
104, I am indebted to the Editor for his courtesy
in allowing me to add further explanations. On
An Emperor
on
Ku K'ai Chih
page 103, it is necessary to use an 'and' between
Hsiao and Hsiang for they are the names of two distinct, though
confluent, rivers. The Shan Hai classic refers to them as follows:
交瀟湘之淵
The phrase on page 104 to which the Editor devotes a lengthy
note is admittedly obscure. I have offered what seems to me to be a
reasonable explanation from the artistic point of view but I am not
certain that it is correct or that some other may not be clear. My
only claim is that mine is a reasonable explanation.
Mr. L. C. Arlington also writes on this subject:
I beg to send you a few Notes: Adversaria Sinica. Series II,
No. 1.
The famous painting in the British Museum has received rather
severe treatment at the hands of Dr. Giles. The transcript of the
original text has unfortunately led Dr. Giles into several pitfalls
which probably would otherwise not have happened. A careful
checking of the original text with the ordinary style shows the
following discrepancies:-
1. There should be no stop after Hua () in the sentence
beginning with 13. This however is immaterial.
2. Ku (i) should be Yen () and therefore has nothing to do
with Ku Shao-lien. Yen means a "tablet" or "title," and the
sentence should read, "The tablet hanging in the Ching I Pavilion
had inscribed on it, 'The Four Beauties,' " which were kept in the
Pavilion. We do not find the meaning "Tablet" or "Title" in
Dr. Giles' Dictionary, for Yen.
3. Dr. Giles fell into a trap by stopping at Erh (I.) instead of
at Shang (). i.e. "which I am enabled to enjoy in
secret delight." The "Four Beauties" of course is meant by the
emperor.
4. Cheng Chun () should be Cheng Fu (E) which gives
a slightly different meaning-"Unexpected good fortune," etc.
5. Dr. Giles left untranslated one of the most important passages
in the text, viz., . Dr. Giles in his Note,
(No. 14), says that "Some allusion is hidden in the words 'Filicitous
sword.'" This has put him off the track completely since the

NOTES AND QUERIES
207
real meaning is Chien Ho (). Had Dr. Giles referred to his
own Dictionary under No. 1659 he would have discovered the mean-
ing, of the "twin swords," which were made by
and,
For explanation of "Chien Ho," See Tsin Shu, W.
華留煥為豐城令,捆嶽屋得雙劍,遣使一劍與華,華報書曰,
詳觀劍文乃干將也,莫邪何不至,雖然天生神物,終合耳
The Emperor's allusion to the "United Swords" of course, caps
that of "Four Beauties," in which lies the whole kernel of the
Note.
That is the happy consummation of the "Four Beauties" and of
the "United Swords" enabled the emperor to complete his Note.
Otherwise he would not have introduced the swords with that of the
paintings.
I may mention that Chien Ho (A) is a well-known proverb
() a euphemism for a "happy reunion."
As the lecture on the "Boundary Provinces of Western China,"
by E. C. Wilton, Esq.,. and that on the "Early Malays," by Judge
C. S. Lobingier, have been published already, they do not appear in
the Transactions.
An obituary notice of Professor E. Chavannes had been promised,
but for some reason has not reached the Editor's hands. He much
regrets the absence of such a notice.
The Editor would call the attention of Authors and Publishers
to the desirability of sending books early. Only books that have
been presented can be reviewed. It is also desirable to send two
copies, one for the Library and one for Review.