REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
The I-Li or Book of Etiquette and Ceremonial. Translated from
the Chinese with Introduction, Notes and Plans. By JOHN
STEELE, M.A., D.LITT. (2 Vols. Probsthain & Co., London).
Probsthain's Oriental Series is a well conceived and tastefully
produced series of books. The cover, paper, printing and general
arrangement are excellent. The Publishers deserve every praise.
The issue of the I-Li in two volumes is an event in sinology. The
translation and text are interspersed with a considerable number of
woodcut illustrations which enhance the value of the work, and give
the English reader an insight into the paraphernalia of the Ceremonials
and indirectly into the elements of Chinese art as applied to clothes
and utensils that serve the purpose of the great etiquettes of life, such
as are depicted in these volumes. It was necessary in view of the
limited circulation to charge 248. for these volumes, and it is not
intended to imply that the price is at all too much considering the
subject matter but the question does suggest itself whether if they
had been marked at 15s. double the number of buyers would not be
found and, in this way a larger circulation be guaranteed-the author
and publishers would be equally ensured against loss.
It is surmised that the I-Li has been read by very few people.
In the original Chinese, the edition in the possession of the reviewer
consists of 28 volumes containing about 1,008,000 characters. This is
a fairly liberal treatment in advice how to act and behave or what to
do in life's various circumstances. Dr. Steele has reduced this mass
within the space of 2 volumes containing about 540 pp. with about
320 words to a page giving a total of 160,000 words. Even this re-
duction leaves quite a respectable amount for remembering how to
behave, and needs always be at hand for consulation. He has been
able to reduce it thus to smaller dimensions by eliminating most of
the commentary, retaining only the text. Dr. Steele might have re-
duced his pages still more if he had not been so liberal in the spaces
allotted to the text. Not only are there clear headings for the chapters
and sections-but he also divides clauses, starting each with a fresh line
and indicating each by the use of an alphabetical letter. Whilst this
makes the matter admirably clear, yet it does seem as though such

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
161
a detail was not really necessary. For the work is not required to-day
as a guide by any one. At best it is a work only interesting to the
student of ancient sociology. It can be no guide to the etiquette of
present-day life. Even in the solemn functions of funerals such
minutiae would not be observed. Of course the ordinances and rules
laid down here are for the governing Powers rather than for the com-
mon people, yet even these would leave the knowledge of these com-
plicated matters to the Master of Ceremonies, and not be burdened
with them individually. Therefore we think that Dr. Steele might
have reduced the translation to smaller dimensions still without
seriously inconveniencing the usefulness of this valuable work.
Dr. Steele has given a certain amount of introduction to the text.
We could have wished he had supplied more information on the work:
such as the distinction and difference between the I-Li-Chou Kuan
and Li Chi. For instance assuming the I-Li to have been also pro-
duced in the Chou dynasty reasons might have been given why it was
called the I-Li, the cause being possibly that a great number of the
Etiquettes from the Hsia and Yin were included. Hence a more general
term was ascribed: a term signifying etiquettes in general.
What a profound age that of Chou was, how significant in the
history of civilization! For in the history and development of civiliza-
tion outward rites bear a vital part. And as such the Chou age is
one of the most important in the world's history. It signified that the
affairs of the world were to be carried on by means of Law-Cere-
monial rather than the lawless and barbaric means of arms. It formed.
then a great step in the rescue of humankind from the mud and ooze
of existence into a higher level and safer path. The danger has always
been in the tendency to go back again to the pit and confusion, whence
men have painfully but surely emerged. The cataclysmic battle now
raging in Europe is but another phase of the attempt to revert to
primeval savagery, where the rule of the individual working through
the instrumentality of the brute force of the horde may emerge and
dominate. The triumph of this would not only imply the abrogation
of Christianity from the field of politics but also the earlier step in the
progression of humanity, the age of ritual and ceremony, as seen pre-
eminently in the Jewish and Chinese codes. The stages are clear and
important,-Brute force indicating triumph of clan and tribe. Law
and ritual still preserving class distinctions: Democracy where class
distinctions are swept away-no male or female: no bond or free: all
are one in the law of the Spiritual Life.
Very few people in China study the I-Li now; even this nation
has ceased to be governed by the etiquettes outlined in this work. At
no time was it the standard for the king or the people. The instruc-
11

162
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
tions were only meant for the scholar and officers of the state and the
etiquettes have to do with the rites of the Coming of Age: Marriage:
Intercourse the Courtesies at an archery meeting: Banquets and
Missions. And it should be remembered that to carry out these
instructions houses had to be constructed on a definite plan. A plan
of the Chou house accompanies this work. To give an idea of the
admirable mechanical arrangement of the work a short quotation will
best serve the purpose. The first words in the first volume will do as
well as any other. Thus :-
CHAPTER I.
THE CAPPING OF AN ORDINARY OFFICER'S SON (Part I).
1. Divining for the Day.
(a) The divining (with the stalks) is carried on in the door-
way of the ancestral temple.
(b) The father of the boy, as Master of Ceremonies, in his
dark cap, dress clothes, black silk girdle, and white knee-pads,
takes his place on the east side of the doorway, with his face to
the west.
(c) The assistants, dressed like the Master of Ceremonies,
take their places on the west side, facing east, and graded from
the north.
(d) The divining stalks, the mat, and the recording materials,
are all laid out in the western gatehouse.
(e) Then the mat is spread in the doorway, to the west of
the mid-post, and outside the threshold.
Enough has been said on the general character of the work.
There but remains one thing, and it is perhaps the most difficult of all.
It is the value of the translation. It must have been a very difficult
task in many respects, especially when the obscurity of the text is
remembered. The very first paragraphs of the first chapter,-the
passages just quoted, show this. Take the phrase the ancestral temple
in (a). Commentators differ as to the meaning of the miao. The
general opinion seems to be that when other than the father's is meant
special mention is made of the fact. And the interpretation does make
a difference to the whole passage
Again take the phrase graded from the north (c). It is difficult
to know what it is that is exactly meant by the phrase as translated.
The Chinese looks simple enough it is tŁ. Now another possible
meaning is leaning towards the north, i.e. not standing immediately in
the centre, out of respect. But the real meaning is found in neither:
rather it is, (they turned about) and walked north: because the

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
168
objective was the western gatehouse as read in (d). In the writer's
copy of the Chinese text, a clear plan is given which leaves no manner
of doubt on the matter.
Again consider the word assistants (c). This is a word often used
in writing concerning religious ceremonies. What were they? Were
they professional astrologers or the personal assistants of the 'Master'
in Civil affairs? This is by no means an unimportant question, for
it would affect the civil or religious nature of the ceremony.
Finally within this short passage we have still one important
matter of doubtful interpretation. It is, who was it that was capped?
Was it the son coming of age, or the father? Over this there has
been much controversy, and the writers have been busy. On the whole
the son is possibly meant, as taken by Dr. Steele, but some indication
of the uncertainty should have been indicated.
Such points, and they pervade the whole work, are indicated to
show the immense difficulty that must have faced Dr. Steele rather
than given in the way of fault finding. The whole is a matter of
interpretation. And the student of Chinese must ever feel grateful to
Dr. Steele for the production of this laborious work, which will be of
great help to those who follow him.
There are a few misprints such as Yün in Hsia Yün Chou, Vol. I,
p. 11. This should of course be Yin.
M.
The Beginnings of Porcelain in China. Field Museum of Natural
History, Chicago, 1917.
Asbestos and Salamander. From T'oung-Pao, Juillet 1915.
The Reindeer and its Domestication. Reprinted from Memoirs of
the American Anthropological Association: Vol. IV, No. 2, 1917.
Supplemental Notes on Walrus and Narwhal Ivory. From
T'oung-Pao, Juillet 1916. All by BERTHOLD LAUFER.
These publications are of the same type as the unusually interest-
ing studies which Mr. Laufer has sent out from the Field Museum in
such profusion during recent years. They appear to be mainly the
result of laborious literary research, which makes their general interest
all the more remarkable. Although that dealing with porcelain is very
well illustrated it is not to this alone that the interest is due for the
other three publications have no pictures whatever. It would seem
therefore that their fascination is due to the subjects being developed
in a philosophical way out of a mind which is markedly imbued with
the true spirit of natural science.
Writing of the beginnings of porcelain Mr. Laufer says there was
no inventor of porcelain, which was slowly evolved, a porcelanous were

164
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
being the forerunner of true porcelain. True porcelain is found only
when the Kaolin skeleton is permeated and bound together by the
more fusible glass of petuntse, which makes the ware strong, im-
pervious and translucent. Kaolin alone gives rise to a ware which is
porous, fragile and opaque. Petuntse alone merely fuses into a shape-
less mass. Kaolin was known at least in A.D. the 3rd Century; but of
petuntse the knowledge is less definite. From the time of the por-
celanous glaze of the post-Han period the Chinese went on perfecting
their glazing. The knowledge of glazing rendered the making of
porcelain a possibility. No porcelain was produced in the Han
dynasty; the first gropings after a porcelanous ware are found at the
end of the Later Han dynasty. This ware became an entity in the Wei
dynasty (A.D. 3rd Century) and through the 6th and beginning of the
7th Century finally resulted in the production of a true white porcelain.
There exists at the present time a direct Alaskan-Chinese trade
in 'fish teeth' or walrus tusk ivory; also of elephant tusk ivory from
India.
A.S.
Compiled
A Preliminary List of the Plants of Kiangsu Province.
from various sources by PROF. N. GIST GEE, Shanghai. Com-
mercial Press, 1915.
For some time past Prof. Gee of Soochow University has been
engaged in the very useful task of codifying in simple form suitable
for Chinese students the miscellaneous and elusive scientific literature
of Chinese Natural History from foreign sources. The work involved
is great and the result will prove of incalculable value to those who
have at present to laboriously grope through innumerable periodicals
for scraps of knowledge. The present list presents botanical classifica-
tion in an unusually lucid way.
A. S.
Harvard Medical School of China Reports, 1911-1916. Collected
by the Executive Committee, Cambridge, Mass. U.S.A., 1918.
These reports give a carefully compiled record of the work of the
Harvard Medical School in their intention of founding a medical school
for Chinese in Shanghai. Such a school, which had for its standard
the high one of the Harvard University itself, made greatly for the
uplift of Chinese medicine. The school after five years work was
abandoned when it became known that the Rockefeller Medical
Foundation had decided from their immense financial resources to
undertake the same function in Shanghai.
A. S.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
165
Further Notes on the Birds of the Province of Fukien in South
East China. By J. D. D. La TOUCHE.
This is a short pamphlet reprinted from the Ibis, containing a list
of birds which have been received from Foochow during the past
four years. Quite a few have not been recorded previously. The
names are in Latin, the description is in English.
A Key to the Birds of the Lower Yangtze Valley. By N. GIST
GEE and LACY I. MOFFET, Shanghai Mercury, Ltd., 1917.
This is an exceedingly useful volume for the general traveller and
holiday makers on the Yangtze. Every visitor to the mountain resorts,
or, those living in the valley of the valley of the Yangtze should have
it; it will greatly help them to know the birds they see. An acquain-
tance with birds and flowers greatly enhances the pleasures of life.
The old verse which says God gave names to the animals is full of
significance and should not be forgotten by observers of the Creator's
handiwork.
We were almost afraid to take the book up lest it prove to be
nothing but a scientific list, that would be of no use to any bird or
ordinary man, but only to the expert with a huge memory for names.
It has been an agreeable surprise to see such full descriptions of the
birds, and much entertaining matter.
M.
Kiao Ou Ki Lio.
(Variétés Sinologiques, No. 47). Par le R. P.
JEROME TOBAR, S.J.
This, the latest number of the Variétés Sinologiques, is also the
last work of the Rev. Father Jerôme Tobar, who finished his earthly
course on September 3rd, 1917; and it may be well to recall what
manner of man this was. The late Father Tobar was a Spaniard, a
native of Burgos, and was born in 1855. After completing the usual
classical studies, he offered himself to the Society of Jesus, but was
refused admission to the noviciate, because of delicate health, and (we
are told) "à cause peut-être aussi de quelque originalité." At any
rate, he took an original way of establishing his delicate health, for
he became a subaltern in the Carlist army, and after sharing its mis-
fortunes, was interned in France when the final crash came. Here he
and his fellows were regarded as sufferers for right and order, and the
petting received, and perhaps the open-air life of the soldier, seem to
have suited the young Spaniard; for we hear no more of the delicate
health, and in 1878 he was accepted by the Society of Jesus, and in

166
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
1880 arrived in the Kiangnan Mission. Here for thirty-seven years he
worked with untiring energy and zeal; in addition to his labours as
evangelist, as shephered of souls, as professor in two Colleges in
Shanghai, he for years edited L'Echo de Chine, regularly translating
for that paper the chief official documents of the Chinese Government,
for in this task he was an expert. His great gifts as a sinologue have
become widely known through his contributions to the Variétés Sinolo-
giques, viz., Les Inscriptions Juives de Kai-fong-fou, (No. 17);
L'Exhortation à l'Etude, (No. 26); and, lastly, the Kiao Ou Ki Lio,
now under review.
To form an estimate of the value of any book it is necessary to
know its aims; and in this case, these are eminently practical. H. E.
Chou Fu, with a lively sense of the Boxer movement and its calamitous
results, caused the work to be prepared, and brought it out in 1905,
avowedly as a practical guide to his subordinates in their treatment of
difficulties between Christians and non-Christians; and the book was
translated to give foreigners (both individuals and governments) the
point of view of one of the most sincere and fair-minded of the high
officials under the Manchu régime, as well as to provide a collection of
important documents relating to religious matters in China in general.
The work was actually translated in 1906, though from motives of
prudence (we are told) it was withheld from publication till recently.
But a great deal of water has flowed under the bridge since then;
and it might seem at first sight that the book has been kept back
until it has only an academic interest. The China of 1918, it may
plausibly be said, no longer troubles about the opinions of officials
"under the former Ch'ings"; nor are its views on Christianity as on
many other matters, those of 1905; the distinction between Christians
and non-Christians is no longer made under the Republic, etc., etc.
To this it may be replied in the first place, that the work, as we
have it, contains no fewer than fifty-two appendices, the general
purpose of which is to bring the whole up-to-date, a document of
May 1st, 1915, being the latest. (Appendix XI is given by an error
the year 1919).
In the second place, the opinions of H.E. Chou Fu and of the
class he represents are far more powerful than might appear. Back
of the Treaty Ports, of the returned students with their Western
learning, of the large and growing Christian constituencies, of the,
fighting Tu-chuns and quarrelsome politicians, lies CHINA, on which,
after all, these things are but excrescences at present. Most old China
hands believe that the soundest part of that inarticulate mass is com-
posed of the good officials of the old régime. Many of them had
already quitted office before the Manchus fell, and are now in retire-

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
167
ment, practising that "flexible inflexibility" of which Dr. Arthur
Smith has written, or, as they themselves would say, quoting Mencius,
"practising their chosen principles alone." (). These men
have the respect of their countrymen, and their opinions carry great
weight, both with the gentry and the common folk. Wherefore, it is
good that foreigners should know what views such are helping to form;
and it is still better that as compared with even thirty or forty years
ago, their ideas are enlightened and tolerant.
In this connection, it appears regrettable that the résumé of
Christian doctrine, given as part of Chapter II of the original, has
not been translated. It contained, we are told, "nothing new to
foreign readers"; but its omission leaves us ignorant of the degree of
knowledge of Christian beliefs shown by the compiler of the Kiao Ou
Ki Lio. Into the book as it stands, no article of the Creed except the
first has found its way; the Cross, that great rallying point of all
Christendom, is only mentioned once, and then in a yamen-case about
a cross on a certain church, which a mob destroyed believing it to be
the cause of a prolonged drought. In reading the favourable edicts,
too, one tires of the phrase that "Christianity has for its end the
exhorting of mankind to good works" (RS); and
yet, what great advances have been made!
We can only guess at the original Chinese opinion on the Nestorian
and Franciscan teachings and practice; but we know their fate; and
we know that as soon as Catholic Christian propaganda became too
successful, it was classed with the secret sects so abhorred by the
government, and was therefore attacked by the mandarinate. In
1622, the White Lily sect was confounded with Christianity,-a long-
lived error; and even in 1818, the latter is mentioned in an Imperial
Edict along with the Red Yang, Silent Void, One Incense-stick and
Pure Tea Sects as secret institutions some of whose followers had
repented, and returned to their allegiance to the Government. Long
after this Christianity was still legislated against; and much more
recently, if the mandarins did not believe like the vulgar in the
"medicine made by missionaries from human eyes," etc., they winked
at anti-Christian riots, and read and circulated the unspeakable
Deathblow to Corrupt Doctrines; and in all these things, they seem
to have been sincere, as scores of them proved practically in 1900; but
also by this time many of them knew better, as is proved by the issue
of this Kiao Ou Ki Lio in 1905. As it has been said, the aim of
the work is a practical one. Its primary appeal is not to the
archaeologist, the sociologist, the historian, but to lawyers, law-makers,
administrators and diplomats. Of the 159 pages of the book proper,
all but 22 are taken up with Memorials to the Throne, Edicts, Treaties

168
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
with Foreign Powers, and Religious Legislation, both Chinese and
foreign; while Christianity itself is mainly represented (see Chapter
IV) under the aspect of rules. In the appendices, the proportion of
what we may loosely call legal matter is even greater; it includes
practically all recent governmental documents on religion, and is of
the highest value for reference. One would like the opinion of Chou
Fu on some of these! Of the non-documentary part of the work, the
preface and appendix from the pen of His Excellency himself appear
to us by far the most valuable. They give us his personal convictions
on religion, and it is interesting to find that he endorses the opinion
of K'ang Hsi, of Fathers Grimaldi, Pereyra, Thomas and Gerbillon,
and of the late President Yuan Shih K'ai on the subject of the
Confucian rites, maintaining that they are not religious, and in spirit
at least, by no means inconsistent with Christ's religion. Chapter II,
which gives a sketch of the spread of Christianity, first in Europe
and then in China, is inaccurate in many points, and here the trans-
lator's notes are the most numerous. These are written as becomes
a loyal son of the Latin obedience, yet most people will regret that
Chinese readers have not the benefit of them.
One's attention is soon compelled to the silences of the book.
Written by a Manchu official under the Manchu dynasty for practical
purposes, it is natural that only cursory notes are given on anything that
occurred in pre-Manchu times; but even with regard to the rule of
the Ch'ings a drastic selection was made,-whether in the interests of
the reigning house or of the Christians, one is left to guess. As a
matter of fact, no anti-Christian legislation is recorded. An apparent
exception occurs on pp. 5 and 6, in an edict of the first year of
Yung Chêng, put out when the missionaries were bidden to retire
to Macao. But no mention is made of the persecution which was going
on, and attention is drawn rather to the kind care of His Majesty in
providing safe escort and proper treatment for the retiring foreigners.
The shocking treatment of the aged Schall in 1664: the prohibition of
Manchus becoming Christians in the first year of Ch'ien Lung (1736)
and the accompanying persecution in Peking: the edicts of 1746 and
1748 for a general extermination of Christians, as a result of which
the missionaries were thrust into Chinese prisons and endured terrible
sufferings the anti-Christian edicts of 1805, 1811, and 1812 and many
other "old, unhappy far-off things," are not mentioned at all here.
In fact, the general impression made on the Chinese reader is probably
that of a paternal and long-suffering government doing its best for
the preachers and converts of an intruding faith. Further, many
things enthrallingly interesting to the student of Christian propaganda
in China, such as the Rites Controversy, and the many literary labours

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
169
of the early missionaries, not coming within the scope of the book, are
not touched upon.
One puts down the book with a renewed perception that the brunt
of the battle for toleration of Christ's religion in China was borne
by the Roman Catholics into whose hardly-won gains the Protestants
entered after 1842. It is impossible to conceive more complete self-
sacrifice than was shown by these devoted men; but it is to be feared
that their records, mainly written in Latin, Spanish, Portuguese, and
French, are not remembered as they deserve to be in these hustling
times, and that those of other communions who come on the same
errand to-day, are too ignorant of the first pioneers to give them the
reverence and the gratitude which are their due.
Lastly, the Kiao Ou Ki Lio sets one longing ardently for more
light on the whole past of Christianity in China, from the Chinese
side. The finding of the Nestorian monument, and the Tun-huang
discoveries have but whetted the appetite for more. Archeological
researches may be relied on to yield much important information.
May not valuable manuscripts also yet be unearthed, telling of those
early times? We have some of the writings of Dr. Paul Hsu and
other high officials and literati who embraced Christianity; but did no
non-Christians give their view of the new teachers and their religion.
during the time both were in favour at court? Did pride of race
forbid it? or did subsequent disfavour cancel it? Again, those
Christian communities which the good Fathers planted through the
provinces, and were often forced to leave, only to find they were
missing when a return was possible; are there no records of what took
place? Were those little groups of Christians worn away by attrition,
like the Jewish Colony of Kaifeng foo in recent times? Or were they
all forced to choose between recantation and instant death?
Are we
never to know these things, or are there records hidden away biding
their time?
Some day, some Chinese Gibbon with plenty of material before
him and years of research behind him, may tell these things; and
all about the connection (if any) between Nestorianism and certain
secret sects; and the Christian members of the Imperial family of
Ming; and the relations of the Chinese with the Christian Alani who
fought for the Great Khan. We envy the readers of that great book,
which we shall not live to see.
C.E.C.

170
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Recherches sur les Superstition en Chine, HENRI DORÉ, Tome
XII, IIeme Partie (Le Panthéon Chinois, Fin). Shanghai,
Tousewei Press, 1918.
Father Doré's latest volume is up to the same high standard as
those which have preceded it. The colour-printing of the plates and
the general typography are, as before, excellent and the matter is well
arranged.
This volume is the final one on the subject of the Chinese
"Pantheon," and deals with Protective and Patron deities, Composite
deities and Stellar deities. The title "Researches" given to this
excellent series does not perhaps convey exactly the nature of their
contents. Father Doré has not apparently arrived at or attempted to
arrive at any conclusions as to the significance of Chinese superstitions
but has contented himself with cataloguing them in very considerable
detail. Any theological bias has been well suppressed and might only
be suspected in a few small expressions of contempt which are so
infrequent as to be probably unintentional.
The extraordinary luxuriance of the Chinese imagination in god-
making is well exhibited in this and the preceding volumes and it
would be well worth while to endeavour to show the general lines of
thought along which it has proceeded in the various cases.
It is per-
fectly obvious that, as in all religions (Christianity by no means
excepted) many reputations for spiritual excellence have been built up
on misinterpretations of words or baseless association of ideas, so in
China the fervour of piety (or in some cases the ambition of magicians)
is continually creating divinities from mere names or incidents. Herein
we see the tendency of the human mind to anthromorphise in its
highest degree. Modern scientists are so anxious to avoid it that
some will not even acknowledge that a falling stone is attracted by the
earth but say sententiously that the stone "tractates towards the
earth," i.e., neither earth nor stone behave in any way like human
beings.
Still another fascinating idea which arises, in reading these
volumes, is that of the extraordinary attachment which the Chinese
mind has for purely sociological or political issues. A very large pro-
portion of the gods are conceived to have manifested under the forms
of officials, and, while it is dangerous to generalise as to the general
course of thought, it almost appears as if the Chinese notions of
"Ling" and "Shen" are synthetic formulae for the glamour or in-
fluence of heredity and social organization.
The patron saints of the first chapter are those of animals and
occupations, and presumably represent concrete forms of certain ideals
associated with the objects of their patronage.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
171
The composite deities of the second chapter illustrate the syncretic
tendency of separately evolved gods to fuse into distinct types, or tho
converse process of one spirit lending his fame to others.
The last chapter will perhaps be of the most general interest.
It would seem that the Tao-Shih and other enthusiasts reasoned that
to every astrologic influence there must be an individuality and so
they produced a spirit for each factor.
Thus we have the Sun-god and the moon-goddess, the spirits of
the twenty-eight lunar constellations into which the lunar orbit is
divided and the gods of the five planets. The influence of each upon
the weather in each of the four quarters is mentioned but the author
omits to say if it is considered that the moon must be situated in the
constellation in question in order to produce that influence. This is
quite an important point since without some such provision, the
allocation of the influences is meaningless.
Under the heading of the planets, it is interesting to notice how
different the influences are from those which the Greeks attached to
these bodies. Individual years are considered to be ruled by the
planets, and there is a particular day in each lunar month when the
spirit of the planet descends upon earth and should be worshipped.
Thus Venus has the 15th, Jupiter the 25th, Mercury the 21st, Mars
the 28th and Saturn the 19th.
Next follow two bad stars, Lo-hou and Ki-tou, which are obviously
the Indian Rahu and Kathu, the dragon's head and tail of the
European astrologer and the ascending and descending node of the
moon's path in modern parlance.
The spirit of the Star "Tzu-wei" follows next, and then the
Five "Tou" of the five cardinal points. That of the North is of
course the "Great Bear."
The titular spirits of 115 stellar palaces then come up for notice,
each with their own particular star. Then there are 36 Tien Kang or
dominating stars, with their gods, and 72 evil stars which cause baleful
influences on earth by virtue of the malignant potency of the beings
who possess them. Nine brilliant constellations and seventy other
stars, some good and some bad, together with one hundred less im-
portant lights complete the list.
The volume closes with an account of thirty-two romantic genii
from a famous magical repertoire and a brief description of the
divinities usually to be found in temples.
All who are interested in Chinese beliefs should secure these books,
whose only main defect is an "embarrass des richesses" which may
deter the casual reader from properly examining them.
HERBERT CHATLEY.

172
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
The Development of China. By KENNETH SCOTT LATOURETTE,
formerly of the College of Yale in China. Published by the
Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston and New York, 1917.
.
.
Plainly the first duty of the reviewer of this little book on a great
subject is to set forth the aim the author had in mind in compiling it.
He himself tells the tale. He felt the need in his own teaching for
"a short sketch for college courses
a sketch which in the
light of the best modern scholarship will give the essential facts of
Chinese history, an understanding of the larger features of China's
development, and the historical setting of its present-day problems:
a sketch which does not burden the student with unnecessary
details.
If we say at once that Mr. Latourette has succeeded in no small
degree in attaining his object, (and that we may say), we are awarding
praise of some import, for the task was by no means easy, and in the
hands of one less well provided with authorities, and less competent
by training and experience, might well have proved a failure. For
the author has essayed the task of presenting the pith of China's
story, with some account of her culture, in less than 140 pages! That,
however, brings the student down only to the thirties of the 19th
century. The second portion dealing with the past seventy years or
so is of practically the same length.
To some of the better acquainted students of things Chinese this
may suggest Pope's equally dubious and cynical line-"A little
knowledge is a dangerous thing, drink deep, etc." The book before
us, though, as we shall see, it does not absolutely disprove the poet's
dictum, does go a good way towards it, for the "knowledge" thus
provided of China and her problems, though "little," will not be by
any means "dangerous," provided its supervision is in the hands of
men who know their subject.
Being what it is, there is nothing in the volume that demands
attention as being entirely new, and we need not, therefore, follow
further its construction or aim. Some few comments may be made
regarding the subject matter here and there.
Page 4, for example, places the greatest dialectic differences in
South and South-west China. We should have put them along the
coast. On the next page it is suggested that China's "gifts of
nature," her minerals being specially mentioned, have enabled her
to achieve unity, the fact being that her minerals, and some others of
her gifts, have scarcely been used at all. Her unity is much more
due to her classics, to the character of the people based on them, and
to their age-long use in the system of Civil Service examinations.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
178
In various places our author refers but slightly to the religious
differences and persecutions which have stained the pages of China's,
as of most other, histories. "Buddhism had varying fortunes," he
says (p. 50). On p. 84, we read that "Missionary work, (Christian
this time), continued
subject to occasional persecution," while
on p. 122, we have this statement, "In her religious life China has as
a rule been tolerant." We remember no reference to the works of
de Groot in this volume, except in the Bibliography, nor is the name
mentioned in the index. Had it been, such statements would, perhaps,
have been expressed somewhat differently. In making them, however,
Mr. Latourette sins in good company.
Then, again, some objection might be taken to the references to
Ancestral Worship. We know of no writer who has done for China
in this respect what Lafcadio Hearn did for the corresponding
Japanese cult of Shinto, who, so to speak, has got as he did into the
very soul of the subject as it presents itself to those who follow it.
One more small stricture and we have done. On p. 236, there is
a statement to the effect that extraterritoriality "has gone so far" in
China, that "in the park along the water-front in Shanghai, the chief
port in China, there is displayed the sign, "Chinese and dogs not
admitted." There was probably never a better example of the mis-
chief of a half-truth than this. On the face of it the meaning to be
conveyed is that Chinese and dogs are, by the Municipal authorities
of Shanghai, classed together. We believe that the concoction of this
peculiarly offensive falsehood has to be laid at the door of some
anti-foreign scion of Young China, who either hit upon the striking
conjunction himself, or had it suggested to him by a Westerner who
should have known better. It is, of course, perfectly true that Chinese
are excluded from the Public Garden-the "Park" so called. There
are two reasons for it. Their exclusion is one of the terms in the
original legal agreement which turned a bed of accreted silt into a
garden at settlement expense. The other is found in the fact that the
Garden is inconveniently crowded if only a very few hundred people
attend it, and within a radius of two miles there are a full million of
residents, foreign and native. It is also true that dogs are excluded.
But the two facts are not offensively juxtaposed, and it is a thousand
pities that an honoured name like that of Mr. Latourette should-
unwittingly-have made a misleading statement. We feel sure that
when the fact is brought to the author's notice he will do his
utmost to remedy any mischief his statement has already done, and to
take all possible steps to prevent its further spread.
(G. L.)

174
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
The History of the Early Relations between the United States
and China. 1784-1844. By KENNETH SCOTT LATOURETTE.
Yale University Press, 1917.
In little over 200 pages Prof. Latourette tells the story of
American relations with China between the dates given, "a cycle of
Cathay." His work is one of that most useful sort which goes into
the records of the past, gives the gist of their most valuable portions,
and so paves the way for the correction of those hasty opinions formed
amidst the heat of action and controversy without that full knowledge
which is essential to the formation of just judgment.
It is a story worth the telling. To Americans, and especially to
those interested in China, it comes with more authoritative backing
than anything before written on the same topic, for our author has
ransacked the libraries of universities, the minutes of institutes, the
records of Custom-houses, the sanctums of State Departments, and the
rich accumulations of mission libraries. "Practically all the known
available material on the subject has been examined," the list including
MSS. as well as printed matter.
It will be noted that the American people had been independent
scarcely a year before they had started on the first beginnings of their
trade with China. Very appropriately their first ship was named
"Empress of China." Her officers and crew spoke the English tongue,
of course, and, to avoid the "squeeze" levied on new comers at Canton,
they easily passed for English, and it is on record that they found the
real English very friendly and "anxious to forget the recent war."
But they found a curious combination at Canton, a combination of
Chinese fear, contempt, cupidity, and corruption on the one side, and,
on the other, one of the last of British monopolies, which hitherto had
opposed American entrance into the China trade as it had that of the
unlicensed Briton.
What Mr. Morse has told us regarding the import of silver into
China, and the welcome which was extended to opium by everybody,
Americans included, because it lessened the amount of the white metal
needed to carry on trade, is fully borne out by the researches of
Mr. Latourette; and we have no doubt that the general opinion of the
world concerning what has been mis-called the Opium War would have
been very different from what it was, if plain facts, such as are here
recorded, had been as widely known as the warm-hearted but one-sided
statements of missionaries were. John Quincy Adams, son of the
second American President, and himself sixth President, would not
have been subjected to the insult of having the MS. of his lecture
refused by the North American Review because he held that "Britain
had the righteous cause" in that war.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
175
The main basis of the early success of American trade with China
was the fact that during the Napoleonic wars American shipping
became one of the mainstays of the world's carrying trade. China,
of course, was then more nearly self-contained than she now is. The
"Empress of China" had little but ginseng and silver for her first
cargo, but the demand for the root was limited, and as the new
nation had little specie to spare, her merchants cast about for tempting
articles of barter. It was thus the fur trade on the N.W. American
coast began, thus that a trade in camphor wood, and afterwards in
bêche de mer sprang up. John Jacob Astor was interested in the first.
One source of criticism passed on British shipping in times gone
by was its readiness to use its guns. Our author tells of 600 pirate
junks on the China coast at one time, ranging from 80 to 300 tons each,
and manoeuvring in squadrons of four or five together, and all this
within the waters of the Canton delta!
The burning question of extraterritoriality is here traced from
the start, the Terranova incident being that which first involved
Americans, and the Su Anam case, which occurred just before the
Cushing Treaty was negotiated, being the second. Mr. Cushing,
American Commissioner, had no doubt what to do. He refused the
surrender of the man who was responsible for Su's death, an American
jury having decided that the homicide was committed in self-defence.
There was no fundamental division of opinion between British and
Americans regarding what was needed in Canton to put things on a
better footing. A larger freedom was indispensable. Greater security
for property and person was equally necessary, as was a full under-
standing regarding dues, fees, and other official charges. When
Cushing came, he was to lose no opportunity of impressing the fact
that he was not a tribute bearer. On the other hand, his performance
or non-performance of the kotow was left to his own discretion. A
most curious document was that brought for presentation to the
Emperor. "The letter reads much like a missive to some barbarian
prince," says Mr. Latourette, and it is plain to those who have seen
it, that the underlying thought of the writer, Daniel Webster, was
that the simplest English would be the most easily understood and
translated. As an historical document it is, perhaps, unique.
Mr. Cushing experienced in his own person most of the dilatory,
and epistolatory dodges used for the purpose of snubbing the "foreign
devil." He waited nearly half a year before negotiations began, and
then the President was "abased" in the first communication. We
invite the attention of certain critics of Western treatment of China
to the Cushing dictum that International Law was only the law of
Christendom. That was a statement which Peking would have en-

176
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
dorsed con amore. China wanted no international law from anybody.
She was superior to it.
Lack
Such is the gist of this most interesting and well-told tale.
of space forbids notice of many a sparkling reminiscence, many a well-
known name, and many a stirring incident. The book will take its
place amongst the best and most reliable of the works on this uniquely
interesting period.
G. L.
Outlines of Chinese History. By LI UNG BING.
Press, Shanghai.
Commercial
Mr. Li has written in the English language a very good history of
his own people. It makes pleasant reading. The book contains about
670 pp. inclusive of Index, etc., printed in clear type, on good art
paper. This glazed paper must have been used because of the illus-
trations. But it is questionable whether this is a gain big enough to
compensate for the heavy weight of the volume. A book of history
should be printed so as to be easily handled. Otherwise we have
nothing but praise for the publisher's part, except for certain small
defects such as the lack of true perspective in aligning the notice on
the inside of the fly leaf and dedication. The writer is to be heartily
congratulated on the production of this handy and readable volume.
It betokens much research, and its compilation must have entailed
much labour. As a general history of events it is well done and the
reader will gather much that is interesting in the internal history of
the country and also much that relates to foreign relations-especially
to the intercourse between the Mongols and other strangers with China.
The reviewer does not know enough about the subject to offer much
criticism on this, the names are very bewildering and the subject is
outside "the usual courses"; but that Mr. Bing has meant to make
things plain for us is evident from his elaborate explanations of clans
and clansman, and supplying them with so many Chinese characters
to elucidate the names.
The reading of a book like this suggests many thoughts in the
realm of life; and one is that it seems necessary to have a cataclysm
now and then to give a new beginning so that history shall not get too
long. It is a task for a student to remember all that is recorded
of his own country; a long period like the Chinese entails much labour
to be acquainted with it. And the other thing is will a genius ever
arrive who will construct history for us giving the essence of what
should be known so that the universal history of man may be made
a source of instruction for the individual.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
177.
Which is the most profitable way of writing history; whether to
give leading events grouped around dynasties or whether to picture the
people the rise and fall of kings or the trials and triumphs of the
people? J. R. Green took a new departure in writing his Short
History: he determined to give the history of the people rather than
kings and royalties. And a fascinating book he wrote. There can be
no hesitation in deciding which is the more profitable. The knowledge
of the civilization of a people; its progress in arts and culture are far
more educative than the knowledge of wars, the rise and fall of kings
and dynasties. The one is a matter of dates: the other of principles.
Even in dealing with dynasties a history of the causes that led to the
decay and overthrow of thrones are more profitable than the events
themselves. It is of little moment when this house disappeared and
another appeared that in a sense is a personal matter but it is of
consequence to men to know why one failed and another succeeded.
That is to say the impulse and method of government.
:
Mr. Bing in the early chapters does give us an insight into
qualities of government. He pourtrays the rise of institutions as well
as kings and gives us a peep into the fascinating picture of the early
life of the Chinese: the things that the sage-emperors did for the
land. It is a great idea that men have had of sage-emperors ruling
men in accordance with the principles of Heaven. Alas the world has
seen too little of it. For the most part China like other nations has
suffered from terrible bloodshed, resulting from the warlike pro-
pensities of individual warriors, or chieftains of strong clans, who
were ruled by the impulses of great ambition, to increase their own
domains and prestige. And it is one of the most appalling facts in
life to think what treasure, what valuable human talents, that might
be of incalculable benefit to the human race, have been ruthlessly
destroyed and the fair promise of god-given powers devasted in the
interests of a royal house. The rich endowments destined by a
beneficent Creator for the advancement of the race have been more
often than not cut off in their prime in the interests of wicked and
arrogant individuals. And we are witnesses to such a cataclysm
to-day! As Carlyle said "God must needs laugh outright, could such
a thing be, to see his wondrous Manikins here below"; it is probably
for this reason that Mr. Bing did not follow the promising beginnings
he made. Sage emperors disappeared and the course of history became
one of recapitulations of the wars of dynasties and royal houses.
Nevertheless we think he might and ought to have given us an ampler
account of Chinese institutions and the welfare of the people of which
for the time being he was custodian. For instance take the reign of
Kang Hsi.
For the most part the narrative is one of wars and con-
12

178
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
quest. True he touches on Kang Hsi's merits and patronage of litera-
ture. But there is very little said of the state of the people: their
prosperity and sufferings; the famines and reliefs; their moral and
spiritual conditions: the coins and finances, meteoric occurrences,
etc., etc., of which a full account might have been obtained from the
Tung hua luh (). The further we advance the more glaring
does this defect become. Indeed the last part is for the most part
made up of rebellions and foreign intercourse. These are necessary,
but history of the people must mean something more. And after
closing the book we know a good deal of Ch'ien Lung's raids, and
much of opium and the kowtow but nothing of the people themselves.
Such a history has yet to be written.
Some of the English sentence are ambiguous and occasionally a
word is not used quite correctly as 'the throne fell on his brother'
(p. 152). But on the whole the narrative is well done. The romaniza-
tion is not consistent throughout the book: Fang Szu which should
be Fang Shih (p. 64): and there are a few errors besides. Other
corrections should have been made in an errata, such as that Lo Yang
is 60 miles from Ch'ang An (v. p. 83). K. Giles on p. 131 should be
H. A.; tarry (p. 166) should be tally. Li ssú not Li sen (p. 66)
invented the script. On p. 189 Chung San, Tai Yuan, Ho Chien are
said to be in modern Chihli. This must be partly incorrect. There
are several misprints as Miscow for Moscow (p. 377) and a for the
p. 366. Gerlillon p. 380, should be Gerbillon. Also Perewa should be
Pereira.
There are certain things not very clear as the account of the
feudal states (p. 23) and the reasons given for the Boxer rising are
totally inadequate and somewhat incorrect. The author is severe on
the Sung philosophers (p. 196) and fails to recognize their great merits.
The author's interpretation of Chinese sentences fails to carry weight
always for instance on page 27 he calls Kung Ho, joined peace,
which is senseless. Kung means all, the public, Ho (participating in
the discussions of) co-operation.
We are not competent to criticise the author's judgements on this
vast history of China, but we cannot agree to some of his statements
on points within our knowledge. On p. 53 he makes the astonishing
statement that 'China has no religion in the true sense of word.
Now if a country that possessed an elaborate system of ritual for
sacrifices, etc., had no religion, it would be difficult to decide who had.
Again it is stated on p. 54 that Confucius left the state of Luh in
a huff because a part of the sacrificial meat was not given him. The
sentence of the author is ambiguous, but the real reason was Confucius

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
179
was deeply hurt at the impiety of the rites, not because of any
personal affront. That is why he left Luh.
The book has many illustrations and helpful maps. And the
foreign student as well as English speaking Chinese students will not
fail to find great help in this compendium of Chinese history.
M.
Li Hung Chang. By J. O. P. BLAND. London: Constable & Co., Ltd.
We are inclined to think that Mr. Bland's writing is seen at its
best in the last chapter of his life of Li Hung Chang. He rises to
flights of eloquence that is impressive, considering that his subject is
a man, and a man of such extraordinary contradictions in character
as Li, it is all the more remarkable. It was a many-sided character
true, and the great reaches of Li's experiences afford ample and
generous room for the use of a facile pen and a broad treatment. In
the chapter on human equation Mr. Bland has possibly found a subject
peculiarly adapted to his kind of writing and which has given him an
opportunity for general conclusions that are instructive. There is too
about this chapter a moral warmth and fervour which is quite edifying.
Li was not a man that could evoke the spirit of hero worship in
the mind of any one except those who based their own line of conduct
on his. The man who did so had needs to suppress conscience and the
teaching of the Sages before he could bend the mind in esteem of Li.
And of course when these two factors are eliminated it is likely that
there is lacking that which forms the true hero worshipper. It must
then be the relation of valet and master rather than the devoted offer-
ing of a warm heart alive in admiration of its hero.
Li was not a man easy to write about. There was much in him
that was likeable, much that was admirable, but more that was base
and double-faced. A sentence in the memoir is very striking and hits
off the character excellently. While he professed to see the danger
of the opium curse, he was still one of the greatest poppy growers in
the land.' Video proboque bona sed sequor mala, is an old experience
illustrated in every age. Li is a glaring example. Mr. Bland has we
think, in striking a fair balance, drawn a true resultant of such a
character as Li, at least so far as words can do so, based on possibly
insufficient data. And he is to be heartily congratulated on this vivid
pourtrayal of a statesman who if he at times tried to help China, and
he did render much aid in many critical affairs, yet who at the same
time undoubtedly is responsible for much that troubles China to-day.
The lack of foresight, failure to realise the seriousness of certain
actions, inability to rise above circumstances, inordinate love of family,

180
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
the stupendous peculations of which he was guilty, and the employment
of a corrupt entourage who aided him in his maladministrations, and
whose lust of gain was in turn fed by the example of their chief, stamp
him at once as a 'hsiao jen,' the petty man. That he knew the classics
and was endowed with a memory that could repeat backward that
difficult work, The Chronicles, only condemns him all the more, and
demonstrates that he had no true share with the great men and
honoured sages of China. He knew the good, but followed the bad.
These sins and foibles are what is driving China rapidly to ruin to-day.
If the Empress Dowager had made a short shrift of him like her
predecessor did with the voracious money grabbers, able men though
they were possibly, later officials would pause before they wholly en-
gulfed China in disaster. Lies and decay always go hand in hand. But
it means too much to have expected such an action from her. She was
as corrupt as Li. Possibly this chameleon character of their able man
is the cause of a certain incongruity in the narrative. Mr. Bland
constantly indulges in paeans of praise, followed by strong condemna-
tion of Li's scandalous venality. In attempting to arrive at a just
balance Mr. Bland is often led into these alternate opposites.
And this possibly is enough of an index of the character presented
in these pages: a man of great capacity for good or ill: a man whose
public service is often marred by utter and callous selfishness: a man
who would only be too glad to see foreigners driven into the sea to
free his own country of their presence, yet who was not averse to
receiving large bribes from these barbarians for favourable concessions,
and so on.
In spite of certain advantages of talent and opportunities and
experiences, Li 'it must be confessed was an unmitigated Chinese
official, the results of his administration therefore is not very different
from that of others.' His countrymen had a secret admiration for the
man who had discovered and exploited for the benefit of his family
and friends new fields of profitable squeeze.
On the other hand the fine traits in his character are fully re-
cognised by the author. His fine loyalty, his devotion to his royal
mistress his five hours study of Mencius at Potsdam in memory of
his mother showed another feature of his life: his bonhomie, his
cordiality were captivating.
He was a believer in the new learning but did nothing to advance
it, possibly not so much as the more conservative and bookish Chang
Chih Tung, on whom Mr. Bland passes, unjustly we think, the most
severe and unjust strictures. One can't help reaching the conclusion
indicated once and again by Mr. Bland that the human equation failed
absolutely and blighted everything that was touched. If Li and the

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
181
Empress Dowager were really sincere and had clean hands, and
endeavoured to carry on the government with some measure of fidelity
to the principles they so honoured with lip service China would be in
a very different condition now. If the present corrupt leaders could
and would but read this betrayal of the country's interest at many
critical times, and if these present leaders had a speck of conscience
and could rise above the lust of gain, possibly there would be a chance
of arresting the headlong plunge that Chinese leaders are now making
towards ruin. But it may be that it is too late, and that in any case
it is hopeless to expect these perverted leaders to mend their ways,
and consider the consequences of their present acts. Li's life should
be a warning to them.
It would be well if Mr. Bland had given us in some matters shorter
disquisitions and more of a narrative based on solid fact. As it is, much
of the book is in the journalistic style; that is to say much of the
writing is simply an evolution of the writer's rather than a narrative
of fact. Thus it is composed of too many deductions evolved out of
Mr. Bland's mind and the reader feels that he is dealing with a
cobweb's network of assumptions and journalistic deductions rather
than with solid history. This too must account for much repetition
and reiteration in the volume.
have the history and
Li's connections with
It is questionable for instance whether we
fact of the Korean affairs adequately recorded.
this was vital and any judgment of his life must be made from the real
facts of his policy. Yuan Shih K'ai was very young when he was
appointed to Korea. Yuan's own relative who knew Korea well strongly
opposed it in his mind Yuan had not the qualification, temperament
and experience to deal with such a delicate situation. Yet Li persisted
in the appointment. What his motives were, what object he had in
view is uncertain. We can only make surmises. But it would have been
well if the author had probed these questions more deeply. He does
not even hint at them. The journalistic narrative of events are of
little educative value to the historian. Mr. Bland's treatment of the
Tonquin affairs is equally superficial. It is only a summary of what
the newspaper correspondents supplied.
To justify these strictures on the lack of presentation of important
factors in the recorded history we challenge Mr. Bland to explain the
attitude of Li towards England and Russia before the Korean affair
and subsequently. We maintain that Li wholly favoured British
power before the Korean war, and did not depend so much on his own
navy to withstand Japan, as upon the whole hearted support of Great
Britain in his diplomatic relations with Japan over Korea. He was
fully convinced that Great Britain in her own interest would fully

182
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
support China in maintaining the integrity of Korea. He was aghast
when he found that British aid was not forthcoming and a complete
revulsion of feeling towards Britain followed. He wholly turned away
from England, and sought the help of Russia. He even went so
far as to say 'if I damage my own country by concessions to Russia
it is unavoidable: England must be thwarted.' Mr. Bland makes no
mention of these deep undercurrents and hidden causes that have
influenced the course of events so greatly in the Far East. He merely
adopts the usual and too easy and superficial explanation that Li only
played one barbarian against another. On p. 186 Mr. Bland senten-
tiously states that Li's policy was very frequently influenced by personal
sympathy with the Russian temperament and culture, with their easy
going semi-Asiatic fatalism, their admixture of administrative autocracy
and social democracy. It is surprising to find Mr. Bland giving such
reasons. They are absolutely worthless and futile. The total change
of attitude must be accounted for in some more adequate way.
Possibly the denouement in the negotiations regarding the Cheng Tai
railway is not unconnected with Li's change of feeling towards Great
Britain. That line had always been marked out for construction by
Great Britain. And great was the surprise when it was found that
Britishers after all had no share in it. It is known that Li definitely
vetoed any British share in the undertaking.
The field open to Mr. Bland was an extraordinary wide and
fertile one. And if there had been more investigation into the rich
material offered by the long life of Li's public service the value of
the work would have been greatly enhanced. Li's field of adminis-
tration was by no means narrow or parochial; not only did it touch the
internal conditions of China in every political and administrative
phase, but the wide interests of China touched every World Power in
some shape or other. We miss much that is therefore valuable from
this book.
There is one other thing that is rather a surprise in this volume.
The author has no doubt that the 'Memoirs' published a few years
ago is not an authenticated biography but is a pure fabrication. Yet
he quotes largely from it and makes long,-very long, deductions on
statements based on these fabrications. Is this method not rather
unusual! But in spite of these defects, this is a very readable volume.
M.
En Butinant: Scenes et Croquis de Mongolie. Par Le Père
JOSEPH VAN OOST, Chang-Hai, T'ou-Sè-Wè.
Le Père Joseph Van Oost in addition to the duties of his sacred
vocation has not been idle. He has kept an observant eye on the life

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
183
round him. The result is this charming volume containing (i) Quelques
Légends; (ii) La Mendicité Au T'oumet; (iii) Chez Les Païens; (iv)
Néophytes; (v) Scènes De Mon Village. We are introduced to the
ordinary life of the ordinary people and through these scenes we may
spend some time in their company. The text and illustrations are all
well done. Having given the titles of the Five Parts into which the
volume is divided, the scope is sufficiently indicated.
M.
Hand-book of New Terms and Newspaper Chinese. By Mrs.
A. H. MATEER. Paper covers, $2.50. Cloth, $3.00. Mission
Book Company, Shanghai.
Mrs. Mateer makes another useful contribution to the supply of
books which attempt to deal with the fascinating subject of New
Terms, or old terms with new contents, now being used by the news-
paper-reading people of China. Her previous work New Terms for
New Ideas was reviewed in the 1914 Journal. We are told that the
present hand-book is not exclusively compiled from the former work,
as some terms have already been superseded and are therefore omitted,
while other newer terms have been added. The Author wisely cautions
that "this little book it not designed as a dictionary of the Chinese
language, or even to supply a complete definition of the words in-
cluded. It is simply designed to give the newer forms of expression
of certain ideas, the form most commonly occurring in the newspapers.
It is impossible to predict which or how many of these terms will
survive."
The "Hand-book" is of a very convenient size, well printed on
good paper.
It contains two parts, English-Chinese, and Chinese-
English, which is an arrangement of much convenience to the student.
The list of terms given is quite comprehensive and representative.
We have found the book helpful in actual use, and can recommend it
as deserving a place on the study table.
In a work of this size, brevity must be considered, so in the main
only one equivalent to a term is given. In general such equivalents are
excellent but the young student should beware of supposing that
any given term is the only available one, or even necessarily the best.
The definitions will at any rate provide a valuable clue to the finding
of what may be the best term for any particular requirement.
A few terms have been abbreviated so much as to be incomplete
and misleading, and of some others we have doubts if they really
convey the meaning claimed for them. For example:-

184
Page 7
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
is used for "armistice," and on page 140 for "truce";
the same term is used for "cessation of hostilities." There is nothing
in the term as used to indicate the temporary nature of an "armistice."
Page 35 is used for "differing opinions," but is incorrect.
Page 21
"Christian Science" can have no valid claim
to the appropriation of this term.
Page 58
criticism."
Page 67
Page 94
is a doubtful term to represent "Higher
used for "kidnap" is surely a localism.
r is used for "penitentiary" and on page 148 for
"work house." Its use for either is open to question, and the term
might have a much better definition.
Page 149
is not the full name of the Young Men's
Christian Association, though it is generally understood as such. Any
Society of young people could be so called, therefore in a book of terms
the full title of the Y.M.C.A. should be given.
Page 115 is not known as the equivalent of the
Royal Asiatic Society. We are known as the
.
But while drawing attention to these few cases where improvement
might be made, we would again express our warm appreciation of the
"Hand-book" as a whole.
I. M.
Who's Who of the Chinese in New York. By W. M. VAN NORDEN.
This is a small illustrated book of Chinese persons in the United
States, and scenery in China. It gives an account of several successful
Chinese business men in America with a small directory of Chinese
in New York. It contains many items of interest about Chinese
things. It also seeks to advocate the use of Chinese farmers (married)
for land cultivation in America. But it is a book of very little value.
M.
A Sportsman's Miscellany, with Sketches by the Author, and
Photographs. By ARTHUR DE CARLE SOWERBY, F.Z.S., F.R.G.S.,
etc.
One of the best tests of the value of a book may be found by
putting a straightforward question to the men who review it-Do you
want to possess that volume even if you have to pay for it?
In the case of the present book and the present reviewer, the
answer is an enthusiastic "Yes!" For Mr. Sowerby, who is already
well-known to members of the R.A.S., has in these twenty-one
chapters, with their fourscore illustrations, given so charming and so

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
185
diversified a treat to every naturalist and sportsman that his volume
ought to sell like the proverbial hot cakes. We shall, in future, judge
the finish of a Shanghai houseboat by the presence or absence of this
most enjoyable volume. There is always a niche somewhere or other
for books on all houseboats worthy the name. This must find a place
in it.
Possibly a Shanghai sportsman, who begins reading at the first
chapter, which deals with snipe-shooting, may find little that is new,
so accustomed is he to dealing with long-bills; and the duck-flighting,
too, may be familiar. But once through these two, he will find himself
launched on a succession of delightful essays just such as appeal at
once to the naturalist and sportsman combined. He may accompany
the author in quest of bear, bring down a specimen sixty-two inches
from tip to tip, and weighing from three to four hundred pounds, or
he may invade the Imperial Hunting Grounds and find the glorious
Reeves pheasant, the pucras pheasant, gorals, roebuck, spotted deer,
leopards "positively plentiful," and even tigers. That was before
the domain was opened to the farmer. What it is like to-day we
cannot say.
Then comes a change of scene; the pretty little Yangtze River
Deer is introduced to us, and we make the acquaintance of that
hatefully abominable phrase "cold storage." Pheasants find their
proper place in the picture, and what the writer says of them and
other birds and animals, when he permits the naturalist in him to
take the chair, is at once full of interest and quite reliable. In some
cases one envies the good fortune which at times accompanied our
author from start to finish, enabling him to return with a bag so
mixed as to run from quail to pheasant, from pheasant to bustard,
and from bustard to leopard. On one occasion we see him bring
down a 300 lbs. ram, (Ovis jubata); on another occasion it is wild
boar, and then geese, in connexion with which is mentioned Mr.
Gibson's specimen of 13½ lbs., probably a world's record.
One would like to put a question or two here and there. Is it
not a habit of snipe to get on to dry ground when well fed? We
have put them up from ground as dry as a bone, and ranging in
height from the Shanghai plain to the tops of Japanese hills, 3,000 ft.
up. Are the suggested rates of bird flight intended as maxima? In
the very admirable chapter, "Stray Shots" ducks are credited with a
pace up to 70 miles an hour, and teal up to 80. We have seen far
higher estimates given, especially when ducks are planing down from
migration heights to rest and feed. And one more query. Our author
speaks of the "solid circling horns" of the rams he saw, and doubtless
there was a good deal of solidity about them and behind them, but

186
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
what one wants to know is whether the intention is to convey the
meaning that the horns in question are solid right through, like these
of a deer.
One of the most interesting of all these attractive stories is that
which deals with the Takin, an animal very little known even now.
One has to imagine a goat-like animal of the size of an ox, with a
Roman nose and generally clumsy appearance, an animal which
frequents the mountainous parts of west and north-west China at a
height of from ten to twelve thousand feet. It seems to be fond of
the leaves of the bamboo, has in some cases a "golden-white fleecy
hide," and is known to science as the Budorcas, while the natives
call it a Panyang. Mr. Sowerby's chapter dealing with it will be
widely welcomed for its freshness and graphic description.
But we have said enough. Mr. Sowerby has laid the whole of the
combined sporting and natural history world under obligations to
him. They can best be met by the purchase of the volume. The
proof-reader was not always sure of his orthography, but one may
excuse that when the matter itself is so entrancing.
G. L.
: Published by the COMMERCIAL PRESS, Shanghai. $8.00
This is a handsome volume, printed in clear type on good paper.
There are 1,590 pp. of text: an index of 48 pp. in Japanese characters:
and one of 62 pp. in Latin and English. There is an index for the
Chinese names arranged under the radicals. The volume contains
about six thousand names, with descriptive articles and many illus-
trations.
The history and scope of this work is well expressed in the
Introduction by Prof. N. G. Gee. He says:
"From the earliest times the Chinese have been students of the
plants around them, have learned of their properties and made use of
them in large quantities for food, for healing disease, and in their
industries.
Early literature is full of references to plants which are im-
perfectly described, and therefore much confusion has often arisen in
assigning the proper Chinese name to plants that are already well
known to science. A plant may have one name in one place and an
entirely different one in another place not far removed.
Explorers and students of Botany from all over the world have
taken much interest during recent years in the Chinese flora, and
many large herbaria have been collected and deposited in the museums
of the West. These herbaria have furnished material to the specialists
who have worked out very thoroughly the systematic side of our flora,

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
187
and we now know, with a high degree of certainty, the Latin names
for a very large number of Chinese plants. This is a very important
step and it has required a long time to accomplish it, but a still more
difficult and necessary one remained to be taken; that is, the fixing
and getting into general use of Chinese, equivalents for the already
known Latin names. The knowledge along this line is in a very
confused condition and there is no standard work of reference to
which we may turn with the feeling that it has the stamp of authority
upon it.
Now we have the first long step in this direction, a reference
work to which we may turn as a guide.
Not only has the lack of Chinese equivalents for Latin terms
caused confusion, but also the lack of any accepted standard of
definition of terms in Chinese to convey certain botanical thoughts or
ideas. Technical terms are the results of growth in a language, and
in many cases the thoughts are new to the language, so new terms to
convey these new ideas must be made, and this necessitates creating
new words or giving a new significance to old terms, and these are
only acquired by use. A dictionary of botanical terms has long been
a much needed book for our students who cannot use foreign languages
and we wish for this one an immediate and an extensive field of
usefulness.
The preparation of such a publication is not the work of a short
time, nor is it the work of one man. Months and years of research
and the unselfish co-operation of a number of workers have been
required for this production, and the authors are to be congratulated
upon the completion of their burdensome task."
This work should be compared with the Shokubutsu-Mei-I
reviewed in this number of the Journal. The translations and names
are not always the same. For example take Abelia biflora (Capri-
foliacae). Different names are given; and this is not the only example
of dissimilarity that could be given. Again take the word Cicuta
virosa. The Japanese name is the same in both but the Chinese
is somewhat different. There is a further difference. The Commercial
Press dictionary gives a descriptive account and a picture of the
plant. This is a characteristic throughout and gives great value to
the work.
M.
Chinese Names of Plants. By J. MATSUMURA, Sc.D., Tokyo..
Maruzen Co., Ltd.
The name explains the book. Latin and Japanese names are
supplied for corresponding terms to the Chinese; and authorities are
given in each case. These are fairly numerous and reputable. It is

188
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
very difficult to say whether the names are final or fully correct. A
few seem to be different from translations given in Giles.
There is also an alphabetical list of incompletely known species
of Chinese plants as 'Aconitum' .
There is also a Chinese index: but this does not seem to be
arranged on any plan and so its utility is much lessened. In fact it
would be difficult to know on what principle the list has been arranged.
Further the references contained in this index do not seem to be
complete; for instances we have 180, 299 but we have noticed it
also on p. 302: and so on.
Finally there is an alphabetical romanised and Japanese index.
The book is well printed, and were the arrangement of the Chinese
index more clear this book would be a greater help to readers of
Chinese books.
M.
Beans and Bean Products. By SHIH CHI YEN, of the Biology
Department, Soochow University.
A foreword by Professor Gist Gee shows how much the Chinese
have to teach us about economy in the use of food products, and this
pamphlet gives a very full account of the varied uses to which the
many beans of China are put.
First in order come the soya beans, the primary use of which is
for oil production. Bean oil constitutes one of the most important of
China's exports. The method of cultivation is dealt with here, and
is followed by an account of the method of preparing bean curd (found
also in Miss Love's paper on Household Industries in Soochow).
Other preparations are to po yeh, dried curd, curd soaked in oil,
ju fu, tsao ju fu, and salted curd caked. Bean sauce and soy are
fully treated; the latter is universally used and relished in the Far
East, and has even penetrated to Europe. Sprouts and the method
of extracting bean oil, which has often been described, are next and
last on the list of Soya Bean products.
The green bean (phaseolus mungo) which has been described by
Hosie in his Manchuria, produces congee and pudding made with
rice and sugar. The small red beans have the same uses; from the
skin of the latter a red dye for colouring paper is also extracted.
Hyacinth beans (dolichos lablab) and asparagus (vigna cantiang) are
eaten as vegetables, and medicine is also made from the flower and
seeds of the former. There remain the broad bean (vicia faba) which
is especially important in Kiangsu. This is eaten chiefly as a
vegetable, but are also popularly cooked with prawns.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
189
The minute details given of methods of cooking, and preserving
make this pamphlet interesting and valuable. A strange omission is
that of vermicelli, which however is chiefly made-from green beans-
in Shantung. The romanisation of this paper requires revision, and
there is a number of printer's errors.
N. S.
Household Industries in Soochow ELIZABETH A. LOVE.
Some Industries of Soochow E. V. JONES, PH.D.
These two papers, read before the Soochow Missionary Association,
cover the leading industries of the famous old town, though they are
by no means exhaustive, for it is authoritatively stated that there are
350 industries in this hive of industry. Very few of them attain any
considerable dimensions; most of the work done is on a very small
scale, and carried out in every household. The variety is possibly a
relic of the days of Soochow's ancient grandeur, before the Taipings
descended on the city.
Dr. Jones' paper is the more scientific of the two; as he says, it
is in reality largely a by-product of courses in analytical and industrial
chemistry in Soochow University. He deals particularly with the
copper alloy industry, which was studied by Mr. Chen, a graduate in
chemistry, with the result that the type of furnace used is found to
be not unlike those of very ancient type. "Yellow and white" and
"sound" copper were identified by Mr. Chen as corresponding with
brass, German silver and foreign bell metal respectively. The lime
industry was also carefully studied, and an interesting account of it is
given. 8,000 tons are produced annually. Tanning, candle and paper
making, the idol industry, etc., are treated among lesser trades;
particularly interesting is the account of wine making. We learn that
"samshu" means "thrice fired." The term wine is a misnomer. There
are three kinds of wine-yellow, white and burning. The first two are
fermented liquors and the third is a distilled liquor.
Miss Love gives a valuable and sympathetic account of the daily
life and work of a Chinese household, dealing with domestic duties,
the training of girls, cookery, etc. The methods of preserving hams,
the famous ancient eggs and various kinds of fruits are clearly des-
cribed; flavourings, spices, and sundry delicacies, of which the
Western mind has so vague an idea, can all be found here. The
incubator business is a flourishing one in Soochow. Farming, which
in China includes the gleaning of every possible product of the soil
and creeks, ponds, etc., is lightly touched upon.

190
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
The leading industries are described by either Miss Love or
Dr. Jones. First in importance is the silk trade, which is carried on
both as piece work and as regular household tasks, besides in the
three filatures, which (as we learn from Customs reports produce
1,200 piculs of raw silk yearly). There are, owing to the activity of
these filatures, now only 1,500 looms in the city, as cocoons cannot
now be obtained in sufficient quantities except by the filatures.
Formerly there were 9,000 looms. The number of workers has un-
fortunately fallen off. In fact the whole silk trade needs new methods
and scientific supervision.
Another leading trade is that in rapeseed, which is grown in the
surrounding districts. The oil from the seeds is consumed locally,
but large quantities of seed are exported to Japan. The process of
oil extraction is described by Dr. Jones, who also mentions the rice
trade, which has introduced steam polishers lately-a feature noted
in other parts of Kiangsu. The making of firecrackers is an interesting
process, and so is that of spectacles, which is given in detail by
Miss Love. Akin to this is jade-cutting, for which Soochow is also
famous.
It is impossible to go into details of all the interesting matter in
these two pamphlets, but those interested in the daily life of the
Chinese will find them well worth perusal. It would be of great value
and interest if this work of describing local industries were taken up
by literary circles throughout China, for many of these highly localised
trades have never been dealt with. The establishment of the Kiangsu
Industrial Model Factory at Soochow in 1917, and the school of
embroidery under Mrs. Koo, where excellent work is turned out, are
hopeful features among much which seems out-of date and hardly
destined to survive the stress of modern competition.
N. S.
The Educational Directory and Year Book of China. EDWARD
EVANS & SONS, Agents.
The appearance of The Educational Directory is regular and people
get to look for it. It must be a tedious bit of work to compile such
a list of names, and to get it correct to date. But the work is done
and educationists can rejoice once more. This must be a most useful
volume to those needing information on schools and colleges. The
directory gives the teachers in all schools: native and foreign;
missions; municipalities and government services.
The work gives also much general information including the most
recent innovations such as the 'Academic Costume in China.' The

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
191
writer of this article has fallen into a blunder. He speaks of the
"feathered cap with its distinguishing button, and the embroidered
gown were the prescribed dress of the graduate." Nothing of the
sort. The graduate's dress in the past was a very modest and
becoming one: a brass button in the circular hat and a black robe,
nothing more. The writer in the directory is confusing two things.
He is describing an official's dress. The official button is never brass
but a brass button is the distinctive mark of the graduate. Let us
hope the description of the gowns of the various foreign universities
is more correct.
Mrs. Frost gives a very useful article on the Teaching of Drawing
in Chinese schools and the Government's Educational work in Peking
gets adequate treatment.
Full and adequate information is given about the Hongkong
University. Its curriculum and examination papers. These things
should prove of great value to those preparing for that Institution.
This volume is to be commended for its varied and useful
information. The price is $3.00.
M. O.
Forests and Chihli Floods, D. Y. LIN.
This pamphlet is the translation of a circular written for the
purpose of stirring up the Chinese public to the realisation of the
necessity for reforesting the barren hills of their country. Mr. Lin
is a graduate of the Forestry School of Yale University, and since his
return to China a few years ago has spent his time in lecturing under
the auspices of the Conservation Department of the Y.M.C.A. on
behalf of reafforestation. He has visited the majority of the provinces
and has excited enthusiasm wherever he has lectured; he may be said
to have laid the foundations of a work which it is to be hoped will
eventually succeed in restoring to China her forests, which have been
swept away in the most reckless fashion. Mr. Lin at present is at
the head of the Forestry Department of the University of Nanking,
where he lends valuable aid to the energetic Professor Baillie. His
whole-hearted enthusiasm and disinterestedness should be an object-
lesson to Young China.
In the pamphlet there is a description of the terrible damage and
loss of life caused by the disastrous floods of 1917 in Chihli. As
regards remedies the statements of five prominent engineers and men
who have been closely identified with conservancy work in Chihli
agree that reforesting is of paramount importance. Owing to the rivers
having already formed beds in many cases above the level of the

192
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
plains through which they flow, and the enormous quantities of silt
washed down from the loess regions, any system of barrages, reservoirs,
dikes, outlets, and other engineering works can only afford temporary
assistance. The problem must be attacked at its root, i.e. the hills
must be reforested in order to prevent the soil erosion which charges
the rivers with silt, building up their beds to a dangerous height, so
that when floods come the banks are broken through and devastation
spread through the low-lying plains.
Mr. Lin shows the great value of forests in preventing floods by
reducing the surface run-off, maintaining a steady flow of water instead
of disastrous freshets; acting as reservoirs for water and retarding the
melting of snow; preventing the formation of gullies and landslips, etc.
He hopes that China will soon realize the misery caused by neglect,
and will do something to start this all-important work-forestry.
His pamphlet which has been well circulated, should stimulate his
fellow-countrymen to put their hands to the plough.
N. S.
Yearbook of the Netherlands East Indies, 1916.
The aim of this compendious volume, which appears for the first
time, is "to classify the vast amount of material which has been
collected, and to provide a permanent plan for an annual yearbook of
the Dutch East Indies." It will be found valuable to all who desire
information on the geographical features, flora and fauna, legislation,
finance, banking system, commerce, agriculture-in short, every
formation required by the business man, economist, and tourist
desirous of becoming acquainted with these valuable islands is given.
in-
No census figures are available since 1905, but the number of
Chinese in the Dutch East Indies at that time is given as 563,000, and
this figure has probably increased since then. Most of the Chinese
living in the Archipelago are merchants while many are mechanics and
land owners; they are chiefly middle men and carry on a retail trade.
By their diligence and economy many have grown rich and become
proprietors of large commercial enterprises, estates and factories.
In West Borneo the Chinese have accomplished a great deal towards
the advancement of agriculture, and have converted the primeval
forest into rice fields and cocoanut plantations. The Chinese are also
noted as furniture makers and are also employed in large numbers in
the tin mines.
The chief exports to China are sugar, kerosene oil and paraffin
wax (the last growing in importance) and candles; in 1917 Java sent
large quantities of tea to China. Pepper and quinine are also growing

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
193
exports. China sends beans, coal, tobacco and paper in considerable
quantities, but not much else; although the Chinese residents import
various articles for their own use. Owing to the intervention of
Hongkong as a port of transhipment, it is impossible to arrive at the
exact figures of trade, but there can be no doubt that it is growing
yearly. The figures given in the Yearbook show that exports to China
increased in the years 1905 to 1914 from Guilders 5,185,000 to Guilders
18,500,000 and the imports from China from G. 2,168,000 to G.
9,403,000,
The Yearbook shows that agriculture, mining and the development
of the country are being energetically pushed; the process of sugar
manufacture is the most up-to-date in the world; the health of the
labourers in the mines is cared for; the forests and rubber industry
are being developed, and the islands have a great future before them,
in which the Chinese are aiding by the use of their labour and business
qualities.
An interesting feature is the establishment of "village rice banks."
which have prevented middlemen from abusing the natives' temporary
need of money. Good maps accompany the publication, which may be
recommended to all who are anxious to acquire knowledge of theso
beautiful islands in the South Sea.
N. S.
The Encyclopaedia Sinica. By S. COULING, M.A. Shanghai: Kelly
and Walsh, Ltd.
The very favourable opinion formed of this work, which appeared in
last year's Journal, in the review of the first part, is amply confirmed
by the completed volume. So far as it has been possible to examine
it, the work on the whole, is remarkably exact and reliable.
Mr. Couling has been fortunate in his collaborateurs and the
writers of Special Articles. The articles on Meteorology, Lexicography,
Maritime Customs, Marriage, Minerals, Music, etc., Ornithology,
Paintings, Poetry, Post Office, Railways, Taoism, are invaluable. In
fact all the articles long and short are useful without exception.
The only regret is the absence of many others. The articles on
Missions would form a valuable volume by themselves. Mrs. Couling
must have spent great labour in compiling them. These and her other
articles form a large contribution to the Encyclopaedia. Many of the
articles are useful even where there are special works dealing with the
subject in question. The article on Medical Missions is a case in
point. This presents a conspectus of information that is scattered
through many articles, in other books like a Century of Missions.
13

194
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Thus whilst the book is primarily designed for the general reader,
the student and specialist will also turn to it.
Those who had the onerous duty of superintending the work
after the editor left for England are to be highly congratulated.
The work is very free from typographical errors. Certain omissions
in Pt. I have been rectified such as articles on Abbé Huc and Stanislas
Julien.
However there are many names of persons and places still wanting
in the finished work. There is nothing said of Lo Yang, one of the
most historical places in ancient China of Tamerlane, and there is
a distinct need for a record of such men and places-much might have
been left out if these could have been inserted: no record is made of
Li Ssû. The principle of selection, it must be admitted, was a very
difficult business, but why Mo Hsi the concubine of Chieh should be
enshrined and the historic name of the great Duke of Chow find no
record is a mystery. Again Bishop Scott has quite a few lines
accorded to him, but no mention is made of members of the Moule
family who have a distinct place in literary China. No mention is
made of A. G. Jones, nor of Dr. Moir Duncan. Further in the
matter of literary things, the P'i p'a chi finds a record, but other
much more important works like the Hsi Hsiang
are omitted.
The same might be said of many weighty subjects like the sacrifices
and cognate matters and if the question of space were the difficulty
why was it necessary to insert say the article on the Wan Kuo Kung
Pao, when due mention was made of it in the article on Newspapers?
Thus there is a distinct lack in many lines. Religion is not even
mentioned, the only god is that of literature. Under spirit there is
only mention made of liquor: nor is this subject pursued to the
enquiry of the sacred wines which occupy a large space in ancient
literature. There is nothing said of the Tai Miao or of any of the
great functions in the ancient rituals.
Some of the articles are somewhat incomplete and need revision,
such as that on Newspapers, and the article on the Mixed Court.
The article on Japan is not unprejudiced. The article on Ritual
Music does not supply the essential knowledge pertaining to this
theme, and it somewhat confuses the sacred and secular. Under the
title Pa Li Ch'iao, only the bridge near Peking is mentioned. There
are we believe many famous bridges of that name in China, and the
fact should be noted.
On p. 467 I is given as leisure. This is quite misleading:
the term signifies anything but leisure; it denotes the most assiduous
and serious business given to the perfection of the heart and mind:

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
195
and to complete the idea two other words should have been added
These are the two functions of the kung fu.
Under Joly it is stated, 'he translated the Hung Lou Meng.'
This is not quite correct. He only translated a part, publishing
Vol. I only.
A few typographical alterations will also have to be made, B.C.
should come after the year, and A.D. before. Ma Kuang Lin (p. 111),
should be Ma Tuan Lin: Cha Chiao * (p. 338) ments of the
presses (p. 377) must be mistakes. Amiot is given as I
should it not be 錢德明?
Under Feudal States it is stated that 'the son of the Duke of
Chow, Po Ch'ing, was invested with the State of Lu' (p. 177). This
is hardly correct. It was the Duke, the father, who had the fiefdom.
This is clearly stated by Mencius, Pt. II, Chap. VIII, p. 6, Legge.
Preferring to remain in Chow, the King being very aged, and the
heir an infant, Pei Ch'in (not Ch'ing) the son of the duke,
was deputed in the place of the father.
These after all are only minor defects. Mr. Couling has made
it evident that this work is only a cadre for future expansion. We
heartily commend this valuable work.
M.
Gems of Chinese Verse. Translated into English Verse.
By
To
W. J. B. FLETCHER. Shanghai, Commercial Press.
Those who know China, her language and her people, might think
that English versions of Chinese poems would not appeal to those
who have not such knowledge; but to judge from the appreciative
reviews which have appeared recently on both sides of the Atlantic,
and from the speeding up of production, the contrary is the case.
go back only a very few years,-our own modest library contains a
volume which appeared in 1912; two of 1916; one of 1917; and now
comes Mr. Fletcher again with his Gems of Chinese Verse. Such a
book may be regarded from several points of view, and we may ask
i. What is its value per se? Is it poetry, or verse, or doggerel?
ii. How far is it an equivalent for the original? Would one use it to
introduce Chinese poetry, say, to a friend in the West? iii. How far
is it likely to be useful to the student of Chinese?
i. Using these three tests, we note with regard to the first that the
enthusiastic friend who writes the preface (and who seems to think
this is the first book of the kind) tells us this is "true poetry."
But is it? What constitutes poetry is as open to dispute as what
constitutes beauty in other spheres; we can only speak for ourselves.

196
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
To us, then, the book smells poetical, so to speak; it suggests
that the original was poetry; but like most of his predecessors, the
translator is content to call his work "verse," and only by accident
does he reach poetry. It seems to us he does so sometimes, as in
"The Milky Way" and "Moon Thoughts," which we discovered and
liked in his earlier modest bcok. The Pearl Chaplet; and many of
the other verses are smooth and pleasant enough. On the other hand,
a line here and there strikes us as being lame; and with the best will
in the world, in a number of places we were not able to get at the
meaning until we referred to the original. E.g. in the first line of
"The Pair of Swallows" (p. 99) the expression "my passover meal"
is certainly arresting, if only for the change of accent which the
rhythm demands; but who could have told it meant a traveller's
repast?
Again in the first line of "Absence" (p. 8) the Moon is called
"homely," in the sense of "here at home"; and as for the third line.
"Nor drops the Wind long Autumn from its wings," even with the
help of the very clear and simple Chinese (), we are
still in doubt as to what the English really means.
We might point out in passing that "A Lover's Dream" (p. 237)
here called anonymous, is credited by Giles to Ka Chia-yün, 8th
century A.D.
As to how far the book is an equivalent for the original, we
venture to think, pace the appreciative reviews mentioned in our first
paragraph, that to give an equivalent for Chinese poetry in any
European, probably we might say any-tongue, passes the wit of
man. "To translate is to traduce," say the Italians; and if that is
true of prose, how much more of poetry, especially Chinese poetry!
For, consider what has to go by the board all the balancing of tone
with tone, executed with the exquisite art which conceals art; the
neatness of the monosyllabic materials; the chaste severity of the
style; the vague outlines of the thoughts suggested. All these must
go, not to mention that countless references must either be laboriously
explained in notes or left obscure; for the T'ang poets had a wonderful
past to draw upon-two milleniums and more, during which history,
legend, literature, custom and belief had united to stock that vast
storehouse of allusion which is the delight of the Chinese, and the
despair of the alien.
What then is left to the translator? Mr. Fletcher tells us in his
Introduction; "Just human life portrayed in terms of Nature."
Whatever may be subtracted from Chinese poetry, the best always
remains the throbbing of the true and tender Chinese heart.
If we
could only give one book to our hypothetical friend, we confess it

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
197
would be Giles' Chinese Poetry in English Verse; but we would
prefer to give him Giles, and this book, and three or four more that
we could name; we would point out to him duplicate translations
such as "The Wife's Lament" (Fletcher, p. 9) and "From a Bel-
videre" (Giles, p. 62); "Kinling" (Fletcher p. 27) and "To the City
of Nanking" (Lute of Jade, p. 58) and many others; and leave him.
If perchance, he were of those who have not so much as heard whether
there be any Chinese heart, he would get a revelation.
iii. As to the value of the book as an aid to students of Chinese,
which we take it was the translator's chief aim, we think it would be
for such a helpful introduction to the reading of Chinese poetry.
Mr. Fletcher, unlike. his predecessors, is good enough to give us the
original; and the well-printed book with translation and notes may
allure, where the native collection of T'ang poetry, running to some
49,000 poems, would alarm and perhaps effectually discourage.
We doubt if the student will always agree with the translator;
and the former too, might with advantage study duplicates. We
give two examples only; in "The Moon Shines Everywhere," the
poet is made to say that he saw the moon and thought it was hoar
frost (not a very likely mistake); but does not the original say that
he saw the moonlight and thought it was rime until lifting up his
head he saw the moon herself, when overcome with thoughts of home,
he lays his head down again-perhaps to weep; we are not told.
Again on page 231 the line, "That caress to her babe my too
tender heart swayed," is translated by Giles, "The boy who was with
her quite felt for my sight." The expression Awould seem to mean
the boy leading the palfrey; and we think it was he whose feelings
were moved.
However, one of the charms of Chinese poetry is its vagueness;
and the more this book is studied, the more the difficulties the trans-
lator has had to encounter will be understood, and the way in which
he has overcome or "walked round" many of them will be corres-
pondingly admired; and the less will any dare to dogmatize where
Chinese themselves do not always agree.
In conclusion, anyone who is a poetry-lover at all, will be well
repaid for his trouble if he studies Chinese poems in Chinese; the
more he sees in them, the more there will remain for him to see; and
when he has got all he can out of them, let him (and us) humbly re-
member that all poetry keeps its innermost sweetness for those in
whose native tongue it is written, just as the dearest of women still
has a special smile for the man she loves.
C.E.C.

198
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
The Fight for the Republic in China. By B. L. PUTNAM WEALE.
Dodd, Mead and Company, New York, 1917.
A preface to a book usually contains some modest statement of the
author in regard to the imperfections of his work: not so in this
volume. Mr. Putnam Weale evidently has a good opinion of himself
as a writer on political subjects, and opens his preface with the
startling sentence "This volume tells everything that the student or
the casual reader needs to know about the Chinese Question."
After a careful persual of the book, we put it down with a feeling
of disappointment. We do not find that the author has kept his
promise, and there is much more that we would like to know. We
are informed as to what Mr. Putnam Weale thinks about the
situation, and we get a clear idea of his opinion, but we do not feel
entirely certain that his judgments are correct and reliable.
The book has its merits and we will speak first of those. It gives
an interesting account of happenings in China from the revolution of
1911 up to the year 1917.
In so doing many important documents are quoted, such as the
pamphlet of Yang Tu, Dr. Goodnow's memorandum, Liang Chi Chao's
appeal and the Twenty-one Demands of Japan.
One can obtain a readable story of the various movements which
have taken place, and of the struggle between the militaristic and
parliamentary parties.
His portrayal of the character of Yuan Shih K'ai is suggestive.
So much for the merits of the book, and now we must turn to
the other side. The great trouble is that it is not written in a
judicial spirit, but from the point of view of one who is an ardent
advocate of the Republic. Apparently Mr. Weale believes that the
Chinese people are ready for a democratic form of government, and
that their failure thus far to establish the Republic on firm foundations
is not so much their own fault, as it is the fault of foreign powers.
He criticizes foreign governments severely for not giving whole-
hearted recognition to the Republic. He brings the charge that some
nations, especially Japan, have been all along secretly opposed to the
Republic and that they favoured the restoration of the monarchy.
He holds that if all nations had united in the support of the
Republic, there would never have been any attempt at a coup d'etat
by Yuan Shih K'ai. And that the restriction of the Manchus would
never have been heard of.
It may be that he is correct in attributing lukewarmness for the
Republic to European nations and to Japan. We do not think that
it is anything to be wondered at, for many who know China best feel
extremely doubtful as to the possibility of the success of the Republic.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
199
It is quite probable that some believed that order could never be
restored in China until a strongly centralized government had been
established.
We would ask however the question, does Mr. Putnam Weale
really believe that the chief cause of the lack of success of the
Republic in China is due to the withholding of recognition and support
by foreign powers? Surely this is an amazing statement. It entirely
ignores all other causes.
The author says nothing of the stupendous ignorance of the
Chinese masses and of how small. percentage of the people under-
stand what democracy means. He glides over the fact that the
leaders of China for the most part have not been men of character,
and that selfish motives have been at the back of this policy. He is
silent about the unscrupulous corruption of the officials of the Republic
and of the utter farce of elections.
He makes no reference to the struggle between centralization and
provincialism.
There are innumerable reasons which might be given to show what
a difficult problem confronts China in the attempt to establish a
Republic and it seems nothing less than puerile to attribute the
failure to the lack of sympathy of foreign powers.
It may be that a republic will some day be established in China,
but it will be many years before political equilibrium will be obtained.
Governments, in order to be stable must evolve, and this far we
see but little in China from which a Republic can evolve.
The author gives us a severe arraignment of Japan's policy in
China. From the moral point of view Japan's attitude toward her neigh-
bour is entirely indefensible. The ethics of Japan are not Christian
ethics. We find in history that the foreign policy of nations is
generally actuated by, motives of self-interest. We long for the
day when it will not be so, but we must face facts as they are.
Without condoning with Japan's agressions, we can easily under-
stand them, China's weakness and disunion give Japan her opportunity.
The civil strife now in progress makes it easier for Japan to
strengthen her hold.
When the world war is over Japan may find it wise to alter her
policy, but at present the one thing needed to make her halt is
lacking namely a strong united China. We wonder whether "the
dream of the Republic" is not in reality a hindrance to the strength
and unity of the people.
F.L.H.P.