REMINISCENCES
OF A
CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY'
Being the Opinions and Recollections of a Secretary on
the Staff of the late Viceroy Chang Chih-tung
for over twenty years
TRANSLATED BY "ARDSHEAL"
PREFACE.
The writer of these Reminiscences was for more than twenty
years one of the Secretaries on the Staff of Chang Chih-tung,
when he was Viceroy at Canton and at Wuch'ang: and though
he would not venture to say that he was shown any special mark
of consideration, he was nevertheless treated by the Viceroy with
unfailing courtesy throughout the whole period of his service.
The Viceroy died last year and the writer could not help feeling
regret for the days that are no more and sadness at the contrast
between them and the present time. Happening to have plenty
of leisure during last summer, he set about putting together his
reminiscences of the old days which gradually grew into the
volume now published and which like the footprints of birds
on the snow' may be regarded as a slight memento of the days
that are gone.
Of his presumption in rashly venturing to express his
anxiety and concern regarding the affairs of the present time,
he is fully sensible. It is said that it was indignation against
the times that made the philosopher, Chuang Tzu, write his
work entitled the Nan Hua Ching. But the writer, who is
of a headstrong and indolent nature, considers himself very
1 The following chapters are approximately one-third part of a work
published in 1910 entitled . The whole work has been
translated by Ardsheal. To those who cannot read the original this
free translation gives an interesting glimpse into the intellectual conditions
of the times. [Ed.]

92 REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
fortunate that although he lives in times like the present and
is always kicking against the pricks, he still finds himself alive.
What right, then, has he to feel indignation against the times?
Still during the past decade there have been such sweeping
changes in the social order in the world and such deterioration in
the moral relations between man and man that it is impossible to
tell in what all this degeneration and degradation will culminate.
Observing this, the writer cannot but feel sick at heart and to
those who understand that 'out of the fulness of the heart, the-
mouth speaketh,' he appeals for indulgence.
Written by a Student of the Canon of Changes on the banks.
of the river Han.
Mid-Autumn 1910.
I.
Λ
THE VICEROY'S YAMEN AT NANKING.
My fellow provincial Sub-Prefect Li Wei-jên alias Lung-t'ien,.
who is a grandson of Li Ch'ang-kêng, once spoke disparagingly
of Tseng Kuo-fan, applying to him the criticism of Kuan Chung-
which is given in Mencius, viz., that "though his Ruler had given
him his entire confidence and he had so long directed the affairs-
of state, he had after all accomplished but little.' To this
I replied: "The great achievements and lofty patriotism of
Tseng Kuo-fan should not be spoken of lightly. Still if one-
considers his culture and his political sagacity as revealed in his.
statecraft, they cannot be regarded as altogether satisfactory.
In his Diary he himself has made the following entry-Of
the worthies of old who enjoyed fame equal to that which I
have acquired, not one was so wanting in culture as I am".""
Some one asked where such want of culture could be seen, to
which I answered: "Look at the hideous, uncouth style of the
Viceroy's yamên at Nanking, with its common, coarse workman--
ship and materials. This building, with its entire absence of
good taste, is a fitting illustration of the want of culture of
Tseng Kuo-fan."
1 For Tseng Kuo-fan, A.D. 1811-1872, See Giles "Biographical
Dictionary No. 2021. He was famous for his operations against the rebels-
during the T'aip'ing Rebellion." His son was Chinese Minister in London
and was commonly known as Marquis Teêng.
2 This yamen was built by Tseng Kuo-fan when he was Viceroy at
Nanking after the suppression of the Taiping rebels.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 93
II.
LOYAL TO THE MANCHUS.
Being asked in what I considered lay the special merit of
Tseng Kuo-fan, I replied: "In his not having been hostile to
the Manchus." After the T'aiping Rebellion had been sup-
pressed, Tsêng Kuo-fan was practically in the position of a
Military Dictator. Half the leaders throughout the country were
his henchmen and under his control, whilst his own brothers, who
were as daring as they were brave had such an overweening sense
of their own merits that no imperial commendation or reward
seemed to satisfy them, but appeared only to make them
grumble and feel discontented. In fact the situation was almost
identical with that at the end of the Han dynasty when the Yellow
Turban rebellion broke out and Ho Chin' became generalissimo and
was supported by leaders such as Yüan Shao and Tung Cho, who
behaved with great arrogance and violence. If at the time in
question Tseng Kuo-fan had shown any suspicion or dislike of the
ruling power or had evinced the least sign of disloyalty, the
Empire would have been broken up even more disastrously than
when China was divided into three separate Kingdoms. If this
break-up of the Empire had taken place, is it likely that the
other powers, surrounding it and watching for their opportunity,
would have been content to remain disinterested spectators and
would not have created the same disorder as arose when Tartar
hordes overran China? Confucius once said: "But for Kuan
Chang we should now be barbarians with hair dishevelled and
coats buttoned on the left side." I now say: "But for Tsêng
Kuo-fan we should now be like foreigners with hair cropped short
and tight-fitting garments."
III.
A REMINISCENCE OF P'ENG YÜ-LIN.
A great thinker of the past has said: "A man must be
capable of love, affection and sentiment before he can have char-
acter, and he must have character before he can achieve anything
great in the world." In my opinion there was no one among
1 See Giles' B. D. No. 644.
2 See Giles' B. D. No. 2561.
3 See Giles' B. D. No. 2090.
4 See Giles' B. D. No. 1006.

94 REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
those prominent during the period following the suppression of the
Taiping Rebellion who for strength and beauty of character and
chivalrous manners could inspire such admiration and esteem as
Peng Yü-lin. When he was appointed Imperial Commissioner to
organise the defences of the river approaches between Bocca
Tigris and Canton at the time of the rupture between China and
France in 1880, I had just joined the secretarial staff of Viceroy
Chang Chih-tung, and being acquainted with those in close relation-
ship with Peng Yü-lin I was able to learn from them incidents
in the life of their chief. At that time Her Imperial Majesty the
Empress Dowager used to show her consideration and regard for
her old henchman, sending him presents such as ginseng, sables
and delicacies. When a present was brought to him, he was so
affected as soon as he saw the Imperial gift that he would weep
aloud and sob until he lost his voice.
In the work entitled Papers from a Viceroy's Yamen, written
by Mr. Ku Hung-ming during the Boxer troubles in 1900, there
occurs the following passage:
"But it is not only the ability of the Empress Dowager and
her wise statesmanship that constitute her a guarantee for the
stability of the Empire. Her influence lies far deeper. It lies
in the powerful influence given her by the forty years of storm
and stress during which she-notwithstanding the sorrows of a
blighted life has guided, watched over and shared the destiny
and fortunes of her suffering people and the hold which all this
has upon the
memory and sympathy of the educated classes and the
people of China."
It is said that Mr. Ku Hung-ming was moved to write his
book by the recollection of the above incident which he heard
about Pêng Yü-lin sobbing and weeping until he lost his voice.
IV.
THE FOLLY OF PLAYING FOLLOW MY LEADER.'
Liang Ch'i-ch'ao2 has compared Li Hung-chang3 with Ho
Kuang, the great General and Prime Minister of the Han
dynasty as being without any mental culture and having no ideas
beyond ordinary routine. In my opinion he should rather be
compared with Ts'ao Ts'an" of the Han dynasty (who blindly
followed in the footsteps of his predecessor Hsiao Ho). During
1 See Giles' B. D. No. 1642.
2 The well-known associate of Kang Yu-wei and famous for his
literary abilities.
3 See Giles B. D. No. 1148
5 See Giles B. D. No. 2012.
4 See Giles B. D. No. 653.
6 See Giles B. D. No. 702.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 95
the period covered by the reigns of the Emperors Hsien Feng and
Tung Chih (A.D. 1851-A.D. 1874) with the exception of T'sêng
Kuo-fan, there was really no one of truly statesmanlike ability, and
though Li Hung-chang may be said to have been a highly
meritorious servant of the state, he was not possessed of truly
statemanlike ability. Now by a person of such ability is meant
one who is capable of shaping and directing the national policy of
the whole Empire or, as Mencius says, "one who with foresight
directs and improves the administration and laws of the nation so
as to meet the needs and exigencies of the times." After the
Taiping Rebellion had been suppressed, there were two questions
of national policy to be dealt with, viz., internal reorganization
and external defence against foreign aggression. Let us put
aside for the present the question of internal reorganisation and
confine our attention only to that of defence against foreign
aggression. At the time mentioned all the leaders of opinion
thought that the sole reason why foreigners were so strong in their
might and thus able to insult and intimidate us was owing to their
having men-of-war and modern weapons. As to the learning and
:science, the government and constitution, the literature and arts
of foreign countries, they did not stop for a moment to inquire,
but jumped to the conclusion that if men-of-war and modern guns
could be obtained, they would be able to defend themselves against
the foreign hosts. And this was the policy determined on by
Tseng Kuo-fan, which may indeed be termed narrow and crude.
When Li Hung-chang succeeded Tsêng Kuo-fan as Prime Minis-
ter, he blindly followed his lead by continuing the same narrow
and crude policy, just as Ts'ao Ts'an followed the lead of Hsiao
Ho without change or modification of any kind. Is it then to be
wondered at that when in 1894 war broke out between China and
Japan, this egregious folly of playing follow-my-leader led to
.collapse and disaster beyond repair?
V.
A FAR-SIGHTED STATEMAN.
My old friend and fellow-provincial Taotai Ts'ai Hsi-yung
alias Ts'ai I-jo when young went to Canton, where he studied
English in the Tung Wên Kuan. Having been afterwards
selected to go to Peking to continue his studies in the Tung Wên
Kuan there, he and his fellow-students proceeded to the Capital
and just as they alighted at the entrance to the Tung Wên Kuan,
they saw a long-bearded old gentleman who warmly welcomed them
and leading them inside, inquired most kindly how they had borne
the fatigues of the journey. He then conducted them round the
building, showing them the studies, the lecture rooms and dining

96
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
hall, pointing out and explaining everything, his manner being as
courtly as his speech was kind. The students only knew that he
was a superior, but were quite ignorant as to his real position. He
finally asked the students if they had had their afternoon meal
and when they replied in the negative, the old gentleman at once
summoned the officer in charge of the Institution. When he
appeared arrayed with red button and peacock's feathers and stood
in the most deferential manner beside him, they then for the first
time realised that the old gentleman whom they had just met was
no other than Wên-hsiang, the Prime Minister of China.
This incident is a very good illlustration of the gentle urbanity
and kindness of heart characteristic of our statesmen of an older
generation. But in my opinion not only was Wên-hsiang a model
of manners that would be hard to match, but in his far-sighted
policy he also showed himself the superior of others. After the
restrictions on foreign trade had been removed and it was desirable
to make provision against foreign aggression, much perplexity
and anxiety existed on account of the absence of any provision
that could be regarded as satisfactory. When the Taiping
Rebellion had been suppressed, Tseng Kuo-fan and his distinguished
contemporaries, in order to provide against the danger of
external troubles, hurriedly set about the establishment of arsenals
and dockyards as matters of foremost importance, whilst Wên-
hsiang on the contrary established the Tung Wen Kuan with a
view to training students in the knowledge of foreign affairs
through a study of European languages, literature, science and
institutions, regarding such training as the most effective means of
getting rid of the dangers of foreign aggression. From this it
may be seen that for far-sighted policy Tsêng Kuo-fan and the
distinguished men of his time were not to be compared with Wên-
hsiang.
VI.
A MAN OF THE FIRST ORDER.
A writer of the present dynasty in a letter to a kinsman says:
"Mankind, so far as moral quality is concerned, may be simply
and briefly classified according to the manner in which men
realise their own shortcomings and the shortcomings of others,
and the manner in which they plume themselves on their own
good qualities and acknowledge good qualities in others. Men
of the highest moral quality are those who while insensible of
the shortcomings in others are fully alive to their own, and who
are ready to acknowledge the good qualities of others without
being sensible of any good quality whatever in themselves. Men
1 See Giles' B. D. No. 2304.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 97
of the second order are those who being alive to their own
shortcomings as well as to those in others and being sensible of
the good qualities in themselves as well as the good qualities in
others, select the good and reject the bad, thus making use of
the good qualities in others to improve the good qualities in
themselves. Men of the third order are those who while alive
to their own shortcomings as well as to those in others and
while sensible of the good qualities in themselves as well as
of those in others, still retain their individual characteristics
without any amalgamation. Men of the lowest order are those
who are only alive to the shortcomings of others and blind to
their own and who are only sensible of their own good qualities
but recognise no good quality in others."
When I visited Europe I noticed that at every capital there
were many large theatres, the magnificent architectural proportions
and splendid ornamentation of which it is unnecessary to describe.
But when a play was being performed, the audience, which
numbered thousands, watched it in dead silence without uttering
a sound. Now in China, in the new buildings which are beginning
to be erected for the representation of the reformed drama, the
desire to imitate the Western style in externals is evident. But
inside the theatre I always find that the audience is so noisy in
its movements and so loud in its talk that, however excellent the
piece and however fine the music may be, their effect is almost
entirely spoiled. From this it may be seen in a general way
whether China, as compared with European countries, is really
civilised or not. I have heard that Kuo Sung-t'ao1, who was
the first to go as Chinese Minister to Europe, was so struck by
the evidences of superior refinement and good manners he saw
in the various European countries that on his return to China, he
exclaimed "Our Confucius and Mencius are failures!
like Kuo Sung-t'ao may be said to have been one who is ready to
acknowledge the good qualities of others without being sensible of
any good quality whatever in himself and may, therefore, be
considered to be a man of the highest moral quality.
VII.
A man
THE BUMPTIOUSNESS OF THE LITERATI.
In 1884 when the French bombarded and destroyed the
Chinese fleet at Pagoda Anchorage near Foochow, Chang Pei-lun
(who was one of the Military Commissioners appointed to super-
intend the coast defences of the Province of Fuhkien) ran away
from the fight.
He subsequently became the son-in-law of Li
1 See Giles' B. D. No. 1072.
2 See Giles' B.D. No. 94.

98
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
Hung-chang. Both of these incidents were generally and severely
reprobated. I think bumptiousness has always been the charac-
teristic of the literati. Now the criticism and denunciation of Li
Hung-chang by the leading literati at that time were very similar
to the criticism and denunciation of the practical statesmen of the
time, General Chou P'o' and others, by the famous scholar Chia
[of the Han dynasty. Chou P'o and the other statesmen were
undoubtedly vulgar functionaries without any culture, whilst
Chia I was a scholar of culture and refinement. But if the
Emperor of that time, abandoning his old policy for a new one,
had appointed Chia I to be commander-in-chief, would he have
been able to have led captive the Chief of the Huns or would be
not rather have collapsed in much the same manner as did Chang
Pei-lun? As to Chang P'ei-lun having become the son-in-law
of Li Hung-chang, that fact showed the broad-mindedness of Li
Hung-chang and his high regard for talents. I should like to ask
whether anyone can imagine Chou Po or any of his party being
willing to make Chia I their son-in-law.
VIII.
DEGENERATION.
At the time of the Boxer troubles in 1900, when the Empress
Dowager and the Emperor went to Hsi An, Li Hung-chang sent a
telegram urging them not to listen to the advice of the bookworm,
Chang Chih-tung. Some one reported what Li had said to Chang
Chih-tung who in fury exclaimed: "If I am a bookworm, he is a
"wily old rascal !" and even up to the present time whenever
adherents of Chang Chih-tung discuss Li Hung-chang, they always
roundly abuse him. Mencius says: "The Five Leaders among
the Feudal Princes were quite unworthy of the Three
Emperors of old just as the Princes of the present day are
quite unworthy of the Five Leaders." In the same way I say
that as Li Hung-chang was an unworthy successor of Tseng
Kuo-fan so the Viceroys and Governors of the present day are
degenerate successors of Li Hung-chang.
"
66
IX.
A MAN OF GREAT EXCELLENCE.
Some one having asked me how Chang Chih-tung compared
with Tseng Kuo-fan, I replied "Chang Chih-tung was a
statesman with moral ideas: Tsêng Kuo-fan was a great
1 See Giles' B.D. No. 422. 2 See Giles' B.D. No. 321.
3 Chia I in a famous memorial, presented to the Emperor, stated that
he would undertake to tie a rope round the neck of the chief of the Huns
and bring him to China.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 99
practical statesman, but not a statesman with moral ideas. To
propound and carry out moral principles is the function of a
statesman with moral ideas. To maintain order and secure the
safety of the Empire by attending to the proper and effective
administration of affairs is the function of a great practical
statesman. A country that has no great, practical statesman
can have no efficient administration: a country that has no
statesman with moral ideas can have no moral principles. The
prosperity and safety of a state depend upon an efficient
administration. The welfare and existence of the human race
depend upon moral principles. Moreover a government without
moral principles must eventually and inevitably end in no
government. During the reigns of the Emperors Tung Chih
and Kuang Hsü the dissatisfaction of the flower of the intellec-
tual aristocracy in China with Li Hung-chang was really not
dissatisfaction with him but with the principles adopted by
Tseng Kuo-fan in directing the national policy of the Empire.
For the policy of Li Hung-chang was really that which had
been determined by Tsêng Kuo-fan, whose footsteps he followed,
blindly carrying out, without any ideas of his own, the views of
his predecessor. Now, why was the intellectual aristocracy dis-
satisfied with the national policy adopted by Tsêng Kuo-fan?
Simply because he only thought of practical administration
without paying attention to moral principles and Li Hung-
chang, following in his footsteps, had even still less than Tseng
Kuo-fan any idea of moral principles. As a result, in directing
the policy of the administration and in the employment of men,
attention was confined to the material success of the adminis-
tration, not to the spirit which animated it, and to the
cleverness of the executive, not to its character. This is what
led to loud and bitter expressions of dissatisfaction and dis-
content among the intellectual aristocracy of the country, who
loudly demanded change and reform so as to save the civilisation
of the country from further deterioration. For at that time
many of the best of the intellectual aristocracy were men who
like Chia I and Tung Chung-shu of the Han dynasty, being
possessed of a knowledge of the moral principles contained in
their sacred books, considered it their duty to make use of such
knowledge in order to maintain uncorrupted the civilisation of
their country. Thus when Chang Chih-tung was a metropolitan
official at Peking, he devoted all his learning and energy solely
to the attainment of this object. Even afterwards when he was
appointed to the responsible offices of Governor and Viceroy,
his administration was animated-by the desire to attain the
1 See Giles' B.D. No. 321.
See Giles' B. D. No. 2092.

100
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
same end.
But after the débâcle at Pagoda Anchorage, near
Foochow, during the French War, the whole face of affairs
throughout the Empire was changed and with that change came
also an alteration in the guiding principle of Chang Chih-tung.
He then thought that unless European methods were adopted so as to
enrich and strengthen China, the country could not be saved, and if the
country could not be saved its civilisation could not be preserved.
But Chang Chih-tung though he then wanted to adopt European
methods, was not an admirer of European civilisation, and his
desire to make China rich and strong was not due to his valuing
material prosperity and power for themselves, but to his wish
to use them to save China, and by saving China to preserve its
civilisation. And this is why I have said that Chang Chih-tung
was a statesman with moral ideas. Subsequently his followers,
K'ang Yu-wei and others, misunderstood his motive, not realising
that it was only by force of circumstances that he was compelled
to advocate change and reform which finally led to the disasters
of 1898 and 1900. As Su Tung-po says: "The father kills a
man to avenge a wrong and his son (who does not understand the
motive) is likely to become a murderer and robber." That was
the reason why Chang Chih-tung wrote his tract on the Need
of Education in China. Alas, he was driven to write it in order
to dissociate himself from K'ang Yu-wei and Liang Ch'i-ch'ao
and to make his apology to the world (for his connection with
them). The philosopher Han Fei 3 said: The philosopher
Hsün was right in his fundamental principles though wrong in
the detailed application of them.' And to Chang Chih-tung I
would apply the same words."
X.
THE TEACHING OF CONFUCIUS.
One day I was invited by a European friend to dine at his
house and as I was the only Chinese guest present, all the other
guests yielded to me the seat of honour. After we had taken
our seats, the conversation happened to turn on European and
Chinese moral teaching, when our host asked me if I would
try to explain what good there is in the moral teaching of
Confucius. I replied: "Gentlemen, in refusing a moment ago to
occupy the seat of honour and yielding it to me, you have been
following the moral teaching of Confucius. If you had followed
1 One of the leaders in the Reform movement who managed to
make his escape from Peking in 1898.
2 See Giles' B. D. No. 1785.
3 See Giles' B. D. No. 614.
4 See Giles' B. D. No. 807.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
101
the modern doctrine of 'might is right' with its guiding
principle of the survival of the fittest," and had insisted on
carrying out the principle to its practical issue before commenc-
ing dinner I fear none of us would have had anything to eat."
My reply created much laughter among the guests. It is said
in the Classic of the Conduct of Life, "The moral law is a law
from the operation of which we cannot for one instant in our
existence escape." The moral law of the Confucian Classics
is the law which the moral man obeys. It is by following the
dictates of that moral law that men are led to mutual forbearance.
Without such moral law and mutual forbearance a banquet would
become a scene of strife, and the banqueting hall a field of battle.
And this is why I say that the very existence of the human race
depends upon a knowledge of the moral law.
XI.
THE NEW ARITHMETIC.
Mr. Ku Hung-ming told the following anecdote. "In
1894, after the war with Japan, Marquis Ito resigned his
office of Prime Minister and travelled in China. When he
came to Wuch'ang, it happened that my translation into English
of the Sayings of Confucius had just been printed so I presented
the Marquis with a copy. He then said to me I have always
heard that you are well versed in Western learning. Have you
not, then, realised that however suitable as a guide the teaching
of Confucius may have been during the long centuries of
the past, it is impossible to follow them as a guide in the
19th century?' I replied: The teachings of Confucius
may be compared with the rules of subtraction, addition and
multiplication in Arithmetic. Three times three have always
made nine and still continue in this 19th century to make
nine and cannot be changed to make eight.""
When I heard this anecdote, I said to Mr. Ku: "Do you
mean to say you have never heard of the 19th century new
rules of Arithmetic? Three times three used to make nine, but
that is now changed. When we borrow money from foreigners,
three times three instead of making nine make only seven ;
and when we repay the loan, three times three make eleven.
Do you mean to tell me you did not know this? No wonder
people say you are quite behind the age as regards your
knowledge of modern affairs."
1 See Giles' B. D. No. 991.

102 REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
XII.
AN IMPROVED MENCIUS.
A poem of T'ao Yuan-ming! says:
"What offence had books committed that they should have
been burnt to ashes? The recovery of their fragments was
indeed a work of time, industry and care, on the part of scholars
old in years."
These lines refer to the burning of the books in the time of
the despotic Chin dynasty, and to the revival of learning which
commenced during the Han dynasty, when real scholars, who for
the first time dared to show themselves and breathe more freely
began to collect the fragments of the old writings. But most of
these scholars were old men, and the true sense of mutilated
documents collected by them was in many instances lost. Besides.
it is not improbable that bigoted reactionaries of that time, like
Tung Chung-shu, wishing to give currency to their selfish re-
actionary ideas, have made alterations in the original texts.
A visitor who had recently returned from a visit to Japan
told me as follows:-"When I was in Japan, I saw an original
copy of the writings of Mencius which had escaped the burning
of the books during the Ch'in dynasty and it is in many
respects different from what is now called the Seven Books of
Mencius. For instance the first chapter of the original copy
says 'Mencius went to see Hui, the Ruler of the State of
Wei. The Ruler said: "As you, Sir, have not regarded it
too far to come here, a distance of more than 300 miles, may
I hear what you have to say in the subject of virtue and
righteousness?" Mencius answered: "Why should your Majesty
want to hear about virtue and righteousness? Let us rather
discuss how to make a nation rich and powerful, those are the only
subjects worth consideration." Again in the chapter where
Mencius, discussing with Duke Wên of T'êng the nature of man,
declares it to be good, and makes a point of quoting Yao and
Shun in proof of his declaration, the original copy says: "Mencius
declared the nature of man to be evil and makes a point of
mentioning foreigners in proof of his declaration.""
XIII.
FORMALISM.
Tzu Chang, one of his disciples, asked Confucius what con-
stituted a good man. Confucius answered: "A good man does
not follow the beaten track." Chu Hsi³ explains 'a good man'
1 See Giles' B. D. No. 1892. 2 See p. 99, Note 2. 3 See Giles' B.D. No. 446.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 108
So
as one who is innately good but without education, and quotes the
explanation of following the beaten track given by Chiêng Tzu¹
who says it means to follow the usual way and not to get out of
the rut,' and adds that a good man though he does not necessarily
follow the beaten track never does what is evil. In my opinion
to follow the beaten track,' means moral conduct which is not
inspired by an inward impulse from the heart but which regards
the outward form of such conduct, or what the Sung scholars call
mere formalism. For example, when there is any work to be
done, one's elders are relieved of the toil, or when there are wine
and food, the old folk are allowed to enjoy them.' This is a mere
external discharge of one's duty which Confucius does not reckon
as true filial piety. Tsêng Tzu (another disciple of Confucius), in
discussing Tzu Chang said "what airs that man puts on! It is
impossible with such airs to be a good moral man." Chu Hsi
explains the word 'airs' as an air of grandeur, meaning that
he gave his attention to externals and was full of self-conceit. A
person paying attention only to externals and filled with self-
conceit can never succeed in his attempt to attain true moral
culture; for not understanding the inward meaning of culture, he
can only follow the beaten track' and be a mere formalist.
when Tzu Chang asked what constituted a good man, Confucius
replied: "He is not a mere follower of the beaten track," thus
touching the really weak spot in the character of Tzu Chang.
Now if a formalist, however much he may wish and desire, cannot
become even a good man, how much less can be become a truly
moral man? In later times Hsün Ching? was a man who also
tried to attain true moral culture, but his attempt resulted in
imperfection, which was also due in his case to his devotion to
externals and to self-conceit. Su Tung-po³ in discussing Hsün
Ch'ing said: "As a man he must have been arrogant, self-willed,
pugnacious, with far too high an opinion of himself;" which is
a testimony to the evil results of self conceit. Chang Chih-tung
was one of the intellectual aristocrats of his day, who made it the
object of his life to serve the cause of true moral culture; but
when his disciples K'ang Yu-wei and Liang Chi-ch'ao appeared,
they nearly succceded in their attempt to make a clean sweep in a
day of the culture and civilisation of China which had been
matured during thousands of years. Su Tung-po said: "Hsün
Ch'ing preached the moral principles of the Ancient Kings and
tried to transmit the civilisation founded by them, but Li Ssu 6
(a pupil of Hsun Ch'ing) used the teaching of his masters to
to destroy all civilisation in China." Alas! that such terrible
1 See Giles' B. D. No. 278.
4 See p. 100, Note 1.
2 See p. 100, Note 4.
5 See p. 94, Note 2.
3 See p. 100, Note 2.
8 See Giles' B. D. No. 1203.

104 REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
disaster should have resulted from men who tried to attain true
moral culture but who, through not understanding the inward
meaning of such cultures, became mere formalists! But the root
of the evil really lay in giving attention to externals and in self-
conceit. Yü said to the Emperor Shun: "Do not be conceited
like Chu of Tan." 1 Fu Yüeh, the Tutor of the Emperor Kao
Tsung said to him: "In all education it is only by humility and
constant application that you will attain true culture." 2 Humility
and pride are the qualities that reveal whether or not a man is
possessed of moral culture and religion.
XIV.
OUTWARD SUCCESS.
The philosopher Hsün Ching in his chapter on the benefits
of education says:
"If being lowly, I wish to become exalted;
being ignorant, to become wise; and being poor, to become rich,
how can this be effected? The answer is, by education only.
When one sees a person who was once the lowliest of the lowly
in a short space of time become the equal of kings, is not this
a case of the lowly becoming exalted? When one sees a person
who was once crassly ignorant of the most common things, in a
short space of time revealing an ability that can fathom the
principles of virtue and righteousness and distinguish between
right and wrong, and proving himself the ready saviour of the
state, with high discernment and clearness of vision, is not this
a case of the ignorant becoming wise? When one sees a person
who was once an ordinary wage-earner or hireling, in a short
space of time displaying a capacity which proves him worthy to
govern the Empire, is not this a case of the poor becoming
rich?" Now it cannot be denied that the philosopher Hsun
in his praise of education shows great zeal but still he cannot
avoid holding out, as the inducement to learning, mere material
benefit and worldly success. Now Hsün Ch'ing himself inveighs
against the teaching of the philosopher Mo Ti, declaring that it is
overshadowed by the idea of utility and does not take into con-
sideration art and refinement in true culture. In my opinion the
teaching of the philosopher Hsün is also overshadowed by the
same idea of utility, and he does not comprehend what true
education means.
Now what is the object of true education?
Its object is to attain a true standard of right conduct without
seeking for any material benefit, and to understand the law of life
! See Shu Ching, Legge, p 81.
3 See p. 100, Note 4.
2 See Shu Ching, Legge, p. 261.
4 See Giles' B.D. No. 1537.

外交部藏
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 105
without thinking of worldly success. Now to understand the law
of life one must understand the principles of things, and the moral
man is concerned about education because, not understanding
those principles, he is desirous of attaining a knowledge of them.
And whilst he is endeavouring to effect that object, his mind must
be so entirely concentrated on it that it should not be distracted
for a moment to consider even the greatest of worldly triumphs,
to say nothing of the smaller material successes and failures of
life. An act which has no ulterior object in view is sincere and
true. An act which has an ulterior object in view is not sincere
and true, and what is not sincere and true is false. Without
sincerity and truth how can there be any true education? And
it is on this account that the education which the philosopher
Hsin commends is not education in the true and proper sense of
that term.
I remember when at the instigation of the Viceroy Chang
Chih-tung students from the Province of Hupeh were being sent
to study abroad, and when on the eve of their departure they
came to see the Viceroy, he addressed to them the following words
of encouragement in bidding them farewell: "You, students,
when abroad must work hard at your studies. After you have
completed them and return to your own country, you can then
exert yourselves in behalf of the Government and you will be
sure to rise to high office and have red buttons to wear. So
exert yourselves." In what respect does this advice differ from
the encouragement given to students by the philosopher Hsün in
his chapter on the benefits of education? I say that the teaching
of Chang Chih-tung was based on the teaching of the philosopher
Hsün, because they both concerned themselves with the external
result of education, and being also filled with self-conceit they
could not get rid of the idea of material benefit and worldly
success. Confucius says "Men in old times educated them-
selves for their own sakes. Men now-a-days educate themselves
to impress others." It is only he who realises the truth of this
saying that can understand what education really is.
XVI.
THE NEW ALTRUISM.
In a famous drama entitled the Mou-Tan-Ting or Peony
Pavilion the heroine says, "I have through all my life loved and
liked with the natural love and taste that God gave me." The
idea here expressed is the same as that in the passage in the
Classic of Higher Education where it is said: "One should love
virtue as one loves beauty." The extent to which the taste of
men of the present day has become unnatural and false may be
seen even in their vices, such as their love of women, gambling

106
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
and other dissipations. Confucius said: "In ancient times men
took to learning because of the pleasure they themselves found
in it. Now-a-days men take to learning because they want to
show off their learning to others." In the same way I say:
"Formerly men used to keep the company of public women because
of the pleasure it gave them. Now-a-days men keep such company
merely to show off to others."
XVII.
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INTERESTS.
During the many years I was attached to the Secretariat of
Chang Chih-tung, I could never get him to agree with or adopt
the ideas on any subject which I tried to bring before him. One
day speaking to one of my colleagues named Wang, I told him
this, when he said: "In discussing a subject you always treat it
from the point of view of whether it is right or wrong: that
is why you have not been able to convince our chief, who is a man
who understands only interests-what will pay. He does not
care for what is right and wrong. In future if you want to
'convince him, you must in discussing a subject try to treat it
from the point of view of interests-whether or not it will pay."
Subsequently somebody repeated this to Chang Chih-tung, who
was furious and sending at once for me to come to see him, said:
Who says I am a man who only understands interests and does
not care for right and wrong? If I am, as has been said, such
a man, where, I would ask you, is the large fortune I have
accumulated? Or have I amassed any private fortune at all?
Where do you find any sign of my concern for my private
interests? My anxiety and concern have not been for individual
and selfish interests, but for those of the public. Individual
and selfish interests should not be regarded but public interests
must be considered." I replied: "Confucius in his conversation
seldom spoke of interests. Is it possible then to imagine that
Confucius sometimes discussed individual and selfish interests?
Chang Chih-tung then advanced many arguments to defend his
position, maintaining stoutly the distinction between public and
private interests and insisting on the necessity of always keeping
in view interests when dealing with public affairs. Finally I
said:
"In the Classic of Higher Education it is said: 'The
policy of maintaining the life and greatness of the state by
making revenue and finance the one important question originates
in the mind of some vulgar person." Was not such a vulgar
person in insisting upon the importance of the question of revenue
and finance also looking after public interests? On this Chang
Chih-tung became silent and giving me the hint to depart, I at
once withdrew.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 107
When I recently heard that on his death my former chief
left little or no private fortune and that he made no provision
whatever for his children, I recalled our conversation about public
and private interests and was sad at heart for many days.
XVIII.
JUDGMENT.
Chang Chih-tung once discussing me with somebody said:
"He has the right principles but no judgment."
But I venture
to say that Chang Chih-tung himself did not understand the true
meaning of judgment. Now all things in the universe are governed
by two things--right and miglit. The Canon of Changes says:
"That which transcends and is outside the sphere of material form
is what we call Law. That which is within the sphere of material
form is what we call Matter-the instrument or vehicle by which
Law manifests itself." Law is the embodiment of right: matter
or the force in matter is the source of might. The immoral and
ignoble man values might, not right: the moral and noble minded
man values right, not might. Because the former values only
might, he employs it to trample upon right, whilst the latter, who
values right more than might, can make use of right to overcome
might. But to be able to overcome might by right one must
know how to make use of and apply one's knowledge of right, and
to have judgment means to know how to make use of and apply
such knowledge. Confucius remarked: "Some men there are
to whom you can impart knowledge of facts but you cannot make
them understand principles. Some can understand principles but
you cannot make them have convictions. Some have convictions
but they have no judgment." He who can follow you in arriving
at principles understands right. He who has conviction grasps
the principles in their entirety and is thus able to have complete
confidence in himself. He who has judgment knows how to apply
those principles under any circumstances. For the difficulty is
not to understand right principles, but to know how to apply
those principles under any circumstances. Great indeed is the
significance of the word judgment! For example, if you want to
regulate water you know that "earth can control water;" that is a
true general principle. But if acting on that general principle to
prevent a flood, you merely dam up the water with earth embank-
ments, the water will only accumulate until, becoming more and
more incapable of control, it will finally burst its embankments
and overflow, in which case the disaster will be worse than if
there had been no embankment. This is an example of acting
merely on general principles instead of using one's judgment.
The man who uses his judgment would first examine the nature
and level of the ground, and estimate the volume of water, and

108 REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
then instead of trying to control the water by means of earth
embankments, would lead it off by making sluices or by opening
other channels, and thus gradually control it. He would thus
adapt his measures to the special local circumstances and would
not obstinately adhere to preconceived opinions. This is what
I mean by knowing how make use of and apply one's knowledge of
right. But I should like to remark here that whilst the true use
and application of the knowledge of right is judgment, the crooked,
false and improper use of it becomes finesse or Machiavellism.
When Chang Chih-tung used the word judgment, he understood
it in the sense of finesse or Machiavellism and not judgment in the
true and proper sense of that word. Right represents moral force:
might represents physical force. Conscientiousness, sincerity,
truth, reverence, are moral forces and therein lies the strength of
China. Ironclads and big guns represent physical force and
therein lies the strength of European nations. In 1884 at the
time of the war with France, the leaders of thought in China
believing in the principle that moral force must be able to
overcome physical force, thought that as China possessed such
moral force, she would be able by means of it to secure
a triumph for the Government of China. They, therefore, tried
to fight ironclads and big guns with conscientiousness, sincerity,
truth and reverence. But they failed to realise that those moral
forces are things immaterial, whereas ironclads and big guns are
material things. And who in reason could expect victory to be
on the side of those who do not know that in actual battle moral
forces are uselsss against material brute force? That was an
instance of those who, though they have right on their side, do not
know how to make use of and apply that right to overcome might.
After 1884 Chang Chih-tung, seeing what had happened
then, wished to abandon right for might, but as this would
be treading the path of the immoral and ignoble man, he felt
perplexed. After much hesitation and consideration he finally
hit upon the following compromise: for the good of the State,
might was to be maintained and right tabooed: in the life of
the individual, right was to prevail and might to be tabooed: and
this gave rise to his view on the difference between public and
private interests. I, therefore, say that Chang Chih-tung did not
understand the true meaning of judgment and that what he
understood by judgment was Machiavellism and not judgment in
the proper sense of that term.
XIX.
AN UPRIGHT BUT UNPRACTICAL FUNCTIONARY.
A friend asked me where one could see that the scholarship
and culture of Chang Chih-tung were superficial and shallow-

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 109
not reaching down to the root of things. I replied: "Ever
since the Franco-Chinese War in 1884 Chang Chih-tung devoted
all his energies to endeavouring to make China rich and
powerful, but he himself, when he died, left a load of debt
which could not be paid and a family of more than eighty
persons who were almost totally destitute." The Classic on
Higher Education says: "In nature there is cause and
effect and in human affairs there are springs of action and
consequences. When you know that you must first deal with
the causes and springs of action before you can deal with
their effects and consequences, then you are on the way to
a true moral life.
If the springs of action are
disordered, it is impossible for their effects and consequences to
to be well-ordered." Now, the life of the individual is the root
from which the State springs and it is impossible for the State
to be rich if the individuals that compose it are poor. If there
is to be no attempt to make China rich and powerful, there
is an end of the matter. But if the attempt is to be made,
men of the type of
should be employed for that
purpose, for he and his like in their efforts to enrich the country
will take good care to contrive to enrich themselves first, thus
affording what is called a personal example for others to follow.
The Classic on Higher Education says: "Yao and Shun led
the Empire by setting an example of morality; and the people
followed and became moral. Chieh and Chou led the Empire
by setting an example of violence and the people followed and
became violent." Chang Chih-tung tried to lead the Empire
to wealth and power, but so far from there being any sign of
wealth and power, the Empire is now reduced almost to a state
of destitution. This was because he only thought of the nation.
and neglected the individuals composing it, concerning himself
about the State and paying no attention to its people. From
this one can see that the scholarship and culture of the late
Viceroy Chang Chih-tung were superficial and shallow-not
reaching down to the root of things. Yang Hu said: "He
who wants to be rich cannot be moral; he who wishes to be
moral cannot be rich." If a good man wishes to establish a
truly moral government and makes its material resources his chief
concern in order to gain wealth and power for the nation, such a
man thus shows that his philosophy and ideas are false and that
even Yang Hu is preferable to him.
1 See Giles' B. D. No. 2582 and Mencius, Legge, p. 116.