PROCEEDINGS
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The annual meeting of the North-China Branch of the Royal
Asiatic Society was held June 25th, 1914, at 5 Museum Road.
Sir Everard Fraser, K.C.M.G., presided, and after commenting
upon the satisfactory position in which the Society now found
itself, stated that the Council had adopted a member's suggestion
that they should encourage the formation in Peking, where many
active members resided, of a special section of the Society. It
would not entail any expense and members would be able to meet
there and discuss matters of interest, and these discussions might
be productive of interesting papers for the "Journal." The
Council therefore proposed to authorize Dr. Ferguson to organize
such a circle, if convenient and practicable. It was hoped this
system might be extended to other parts of China later on.
The Honorary Librarian's Report.
In Mrs. Ayscough's absence this Report was read by the
Secretary.
The Library has for the past year shared the fate of those
happy countries "which have no history." I can therefore in my
seventh annual report but state that routine work has progressed:
that the resident members and public have availed themselves
to the full of their privileges; and that the non-resident members,
who may now make use of the library by paying the registered
postage on the books they require, are discovering the advantages
of this system. The finances of the Society being in a more
stable condition, it is hoped that the coming year may see greater
additions to the stock of books than has been possible heretofore.

viii
PROCEEDINGS
A collection of photographs has been commenced under the
able guidance of Mr. Mennie, and members are requested to bear
this collection in mind when they are so fortunate as to obtain
photographs of an interesting nature, and to contribute copies of
the same to the album.
The staff remains unchanged. Mrs. MaGrath, who so ably
undertook my duties last summer, has kindly consented to do the
same during my proposed absence this year; for this she earns the
grateful thanks of all members of the Council and of the Society.
F. AYSCOUGH.
The Editor of Journal's Report.
The "Journal" of the Society should contain matter of
interest to sinologues and students of Far Eastern subjects; but
it must also be made of value to a more numerous class of
members, who while interested in things Chinese have not the
leisure to pursue any special study in them. It must cater for
readers as well as for scholars. The Editor hopes that in the
forthcoming volume all will find something worthy of their
attention. It must, however, be remembered that while the
student and scholar may contribute as a labour of love the results
of his research, there are various periodicals now where more
popular matter can be given to the public more quickly than in
our annual issue, and where it is, moreover, paid for. This will,
perhaps, make the editor's work more difficult in future.
In the volume now nearly ready there will be found a larger
number and greater variety of articles than usual, and it is further
embellished with a good number of illustrations.
The editor expresses his thanks to all members and others who
have assisted, whether by contributing articles or by writing reviews.
S. COULING.
The Honorary Treasurer's Report.
The Secretary read this report in Mr. Hynd's absence,

THE NORTH CHINA BRANCH OF THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY
IN ACCOUNT WITH THE HONORARY TREASURER OF THE SOCIETY.
Cash Account--June 1st, 1913, to May 31st, 1914.
RECEIPTб.
Balance at Credit May 31st, 1913
Fees of Members:
Annual ...
Life...
Municipal Grants:
International
French
Interest on Bank Balances
Rent of Hall to May 31st
Sales of Duplicates, Discards, &c.
Account Museum
Account Library
Account Gas-fittings
Audited and found correct,
Signed: J. FERGUSSON.
$
cts.
EXPENDITURE.
$
cts.
509 95
Museum
Library
77 40
483
74
1,962.99
200.00
Journal
715
98
Salaries and Wages
899
86
2,162
99
CO
Stationery
66 27
Postage
66 93
1,353.75
Public Meetings and Exhibitions...
179
72
135.13
Building Maintenance
1,488
88
13
58
135
05
800 10
(Light, Heat, Water)
...
175
30
Building Repairs and Improvements
136
00
Apparatus
6 00
Taxes (part of year)
118
27
201.25
Insurance
46
16
49.80
Interest on Recreation Fund Loan
33
97
15.00
China Monuments Society
266
00
05
(Bishop White's account)
10
00
Sundries
50 95
Balance to credit May 31st, 1914
1,509
95
Total $4,576
50
50
SHANGHAI, June 8th, 1914.
Total $4,576
50
50
PROCEEDINGS
ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY, NORTH CHINA BRANCH,
Signed: R. R. HYND,
Hen. Treasurer.

PROCEEDINGS
The Honorary Curator's Report.
I have the honour to present my ninth annual report as
Honorary Curator of the Shanghai Museum.
With the exception of the roof, the waterproof felting of which
continues to give much trouble, the building has been maintained
in good condition. The floor of the west room which has been
unduly mobile for some years, was made quite steady and able to
support safely the weight of the crowd of Chinese who throng the
building during holiday time.
The cases holding the natural history specimens have been
carefully examined and maintained in an insect-proof condition so
that no loss or destruction of specimens has been noted.
Considerable further addition has been made to the collection
of Chinese reptiles. This collection now numbers 670 named
specimens, representing 72 species. A record of the collection of
'Chinese reptiles will be found in the coming number of the
Journal of the Society. A collection of Chinese amphibia has
been made which at present numbers 130 named specimens. A
demonstration lecture was given on Chinese amphibia with the
object of stimulating an interest in the Museum, especially in this
interesting order of animal life, and to enlist the co-operation of
the increasing number of nature lovers in China. Donations
of reptiles and amphibia are especially requested. They can
conveniently be sent in a biscuit tin through the parcel post, just
wrapped in a cloth moistened with strong alcohol, provided the
specimens have been in 50 per cent. to 75 per cent. alcohol for
two months previously. The best way is to keep a wide-mouthed
pickle bottle half full of strong alcohol and throw the specimens
that you meet with during your walks into the bottle and at the
end of the year send them to the Museum in a biscult tin in the
manner just described.
The running expenses of the Museum have been kept low so
as to provide a fund for future purchases. Through fortunate

PROCEEDINGS
xi
sales of duplicates, the receipts have, for the first time in the
history of the Museum, exceeded the expenditure.
The most important acquisition during the year has been a
very fine collection of butterflies from the Wenchow district.
presented by C. Talbot Bowring, Esq.
Captain H. E. Laver presented an instructive series of sections
showing the construction of the Chinese composite bow, and a
thumb ring.
Mr. W. R. Kahler presented an interesting miscellaneous
collection consisting of the rhizome of Rheum palmatum, a stone
axe head, various iron and bamboo fish hooks used in the Tahu
Lake, soap tree pods, fossil plants, conglomerate rock, a Taoist
Wand and a specimen of Edelweiss from Mount Omi.
A small collection of Fukien crustacea and 56 bird skins,
containing 5 species new to the Museum, were acquired by
purchase from the Museum collector.
Birds have been presented by Mr. A. Bookless, Mrs. N. P.
Andersen, Mr. P. L. Byrne, Mr. G. Purton and Mr. C. Hill.
Reptiles have been presented by Drs. Gray, Bryan, Leggate,
Hutcheson, Houghton, Lee, Preston Maxwell, Davidson, Ida
Kahn, J. R. Cox, Hemingway and J. A. R. Smith, Rev. J. E.
Walker, Miss Barclay, Mrs. N. P. Anderson, Mr. G. Evans and
Mr. C. Talbot Bowring.
Amphibia have been presented by the Rev. D. E. Dannenberg
and Prof. Gist Gee.
Mr. H. A. Thompson presented an inscribed brick from the
now demolished Shanghai City Wall.
Rev. Dr. G. H. Bondfield has placed on loan a fine deer's
head from Urga.
Mr. P. N. Yang has presented a grey mongoose caught in
Yangtszepoo.
Messi's. Benbow Rowe and A. C. Clear have kindly sent insects.
From this list it will be seen that the Museum has many
friends and to them the best thanks of the Society are due.
ARTHUR STANLEY.

xii
PROCEEDINGS
The Honorary Secretary's Report.
The Society may look back on the year as one of healthy
activity and progress. The Council has met eight times for the
transaction of business. In the middle of the year it lost the
assistance of the Hon. A. P. Wilder, much to its regret, on his
departure from China.
Eight meetings for members have been held at which the fol-
lowing lectures were delivered; October 3-Every-day experiences
in Tibet, by Dr. A. L. Shelton; October 8-Ancient Chinese
Paintings, by Dr. J. C. Ferguson; November 13-Some Chinese
Animals, by Dr. A. Stanley; December 4-The Land of Deep
Corrosions, by Rev. J. H. Edgar; February 20-The Oracle-Bones
from Honan, by the Hon. Secretary; April 8-A Visit to
Mongolia, by Mr. E. Manico Gull; May 7-The Sea Trade of
China during the Yüan and Ming dynasties, by Hon. W. W.
Rockhill; June 25-Chinese Wood Carving, by Dr. A. Stanley.
Several of these lectures were illustrated by exhibitions of
examples-the lecture by Dr. Ferguson being accompanied by a
superb collection of Chinese paintings.
By the kindness of Mr. W. Jessel a three days' exhibition of
his collection of Chinese paintings was given from January 9th to
11th, the admission being free. A short explanatory lecture was
given by Mr. Jessel on the first day. All the lectures and
exhibitions were well attended, and were appreciated not only by
the members, but also by the public.
Fifty-eight new members were elected during the year, their
names being:
:-
E. Mengel, L. Hodous, S. Schaeffer, J. P. Christiansen, A.
Moore, P. B. Joly, N. P. Bendixsen, M. L. Justesen, Th. Ibsen,
J. A. T. Thomas, A. E. Smith, O. Jorgensen, A. Bollerup-
Sorensen, A. Petersen, A.S. Kent, H. Barton, A. R. Whitewright,
M. Y. Strewe, H. Verbert, C. Remer, J. R. Greaves, D. A. Irvine,
H. A. Ottewill, W. Mortensen, J. H. Charnley, H. H. Morris,
H. T. Hancock, C. Gimbel, T. R. Wheelock, A. E. C. Hindson,

PROCEEDINGS
xiii
H. W. Pilcher, Miss J. Watkins, H. A. Cornaby, U. Streib,
J. D. MacRae, Mrs. Hayley Morriss, J. R. Norton, Carter,
W. S. A. Pott, H. G. Lowder, W. A. B. Leach, R. Y. Abraham,
H. P. Brune, A. Craig, Kloevekorn, W. Hopkyn Rees, A.
Krisel, Feodoroff, F. S. Unwin, K. Rappenecker, J. M. Menzies,
R. M. Talbot, H. C. Adams, F. T. Goodnow, J. A. Bristow,
P. S. Reinsch, C. H. Blake, W. Mesny.
year.
Thirteen members have resigned in the course of the
J. Valentin, A. P. Wilder, F. Schjoth, H. E. Middleton,
H. D. Gröne, E. Pugh, A. W. S. Wingate, F. H. Gamburg,
G. H. Gowland, H. B. Stewart, H. Eitaki, M. Konnowski,
L. W. Schüler.
Two members' names have been removed on the announce-
ment of their deaths. The list of members has been made more
correct by the ruling out of twenty-seven names because the owners
neither paid their dues nor, in most cases, even answered the
letters addressed to them on the subject. Most of them owed to
the Society four or five years' subscriptions; some were members
who, having been elected, received the "Journal " but never paid
even their first year's subscription.
This makes the present total number of members 458, which
is a net increase of 18 for the year.
In the interests of the Society the Secretary would beg all
members to remit their dues early in the year to the Hon.
Treasurer. At the present date out of 390 annual subscribers
110 have not yet paid for the current year. Second and third
applications mean extra work, extra expense and sometimes extra
annoyance. Members must not be surprised if the rule with
regard to the distribution of the "Journal" to those whose
subscriptions are in arrears is more strictly observed in future.
The Council has made arrangements for reprinting certain
volumes of the "Journal " which have long been out of print, and
Vol. I. New Series, 1864, has already been reprinted and will be
on sale at Messrs. Kelly & Walsh, Ld., in a few weeks.

xiv
PROCEEDINGS
The finances of the Society, as will be seen from the Hon.
Treasurer's report, are in a satisfactory state, though the balance
in hand is somewhat swollen by the accidental non-payment of
some accounts which should have been included in the year.
Very few repairs have been done to our building in the year,
and it is probable that there will have to be a larger expenditure
before long. The electric light has been installed on the upper floor.
The Hon. Secretary would call attention to the great value
and usefulness of the library. The funds do not permit the
purchase of many works which ought to be on our shelves, and it
would seem to be a case in which an appeal may be made to the
generosity of members and well-wishers, who might easily enrich the
library by the presentation of appropriate works, both old and new.
Approval of Reports.
S. COULING.
On the proposal of Sir Everard Fraser, seconded by Dr. J. C.
Ferguson, the reports and statement of accounts were adopted.
Election of Officers.
It was proposed by Dr. W. Hopkyn Rees, and agreed, that
the following be elected officers of the Society for the ensuing year:
President, Sir E. D. H. Fraser, K.C.M.G.; Vice-Presidents.
Col. C. D. Bruce and Dr. Stanley; Curator of Museum, Dr.
Stanley; Librarian, Mrs. F. Ayscough; Acting Librarian, Mrs.
C. D. MaGrath ; Hon. Treasurer, Mr. R. R. Hynd; Editor of
Journal, S. Couling, M.A; Councillors, Prof. Dr. C. du Bois-
Reymond, Dr. F. E. Hinckley, M. Gaston Kahn, Mr. W. E.
Leveson, M.A., Dr. J. C. Ferguson, Dr. T. Richard and Dr. F. L.
Hawks Pott; Secretary, S. Couling, M.A.
The meeting closed with a hearty vote of thanks to the
officers of the Society for their valuable services during the year,