NOTES AND QUERIES.
Exhibition of Chinese
Paintings and T'ang
Sculptures.
Collection Jessel.
Early in January of this year, on the 9th,
10th and 11th to be exact, members of the
N. C. B. R. A. S. and the public were privileged
to see, prior to its despatch for exhibition in
Leipzig, the exceedingly interesting collection
of Chinese Paintings and T'ang Sculptures assembled, during his residence
in China, by Mr. Jessel. At 5.30 p.m. on the opening day Mr. Jessel gave
a short talk on Chinese Paintings, which betrayed a keen appreciation of
the high aesthetic value of this branch of Oriental Art. The arrangement of
the exhibit was excellent, evincing much thoughtful care and a true sense of
values on the part of the owner.
In the main hall were hung a rich and varied collection of landscapes,
studies of birds, beasts and flowers, while on the tables were laid several
fine "Hand-scrolls." The library was devoted to "Art consecrated to the
Cult of the Dead," and here Mr. Jessel had hung his really remarkable
collection of ancestral portraits, Ta Shou as the Chinese call them, and
had arranged to great advantage the pottery grave figures of the T'ang
dynasty.
These figures, executed with great virility, were extremely interesting
in that they evince unmistakable traces of the foreign influeuce so strong
at that period. They were originally placed in tombs that the spirit of the
dead might not travel alone to the world of shades.
By courtesy of the owner we have the pleasure of reproducing a few
specimens of his collection, which appear as frontispiece and facing pages.
57, 65, and 91.
F. A. A.
A Chinese
Inscription
A discovery of considerable historical interest was
recently made in the town of Galle, in Ceylon. While
working on the Cripps Road, Mr. H. F. Tomalim, the
Provincial Engineer, unearthed a carved stone which had
been used as a cover to a culvert. On examination this tablet was found
from Ceylon.

172
NOTES AND QUERIES
to bear inscriptions in three languages-Chinese, Tamil and Persian. The
Persian and Tamil inscriptions were badly defaced and in many parts
indecipherable. The Chinese portion was, after considerable difficulty
translated by Mr. Backhouse as follows:-
"His Majesty the Emperor of the great Ming dynasty has despatched
the eunuchs Ching-Ho, Wang Ch'ing Lien, and others to set forth his
utterance before Buddha, the World Honoured One as follows:
"Deeply do we reverence you, Merciful and Honoured One, whose
bright perfection is wide-embracing, and whose way of virtue passed all
understanding, whose law enters into all human relations, and the years of
whose great Kalpa (period) are like the sand of the river in number, you
whose controlling influence ennobles and converts, whose kindness
quickens and whose strength discerns, whose mysterious efficacy is beyond
compare!
Whereas Ceylon's mountainous isle lies in the south of the ocean, and
its Buddhist temples are sanctuaries of its gospel, where your miraculous
responsive power imbues and enlightens. Of late We have despatched
missions to announce our mandates to foreign nations, and during their
journey over the ocean they have been favoured with the blessing of your
beneficent protection. They escaped disaster or misfortune, and journeyed
in safety to and fro. In everlasting recognition of your supreme virtue, We
therefore bestow offerings in recompense, and do now reverently present
before Buddha, the Honoured One, oblations of gold and silver, gold-
embroidered jewelled banners of variegated silk, incense burners and
flower vases, silks of many colours in lining and exterior, lamps and
candles with other gifts, in order to manifest the high honour of our wor-
ship. Do you, Lord Buddha, bestow on them your regard!" (Here
follows a "list of alms bestowed at the Shrine of the Buddhist Temple in
the Mountain of Ceylon as offerings.")
"The date being the seventh year of Yung-Lo [1410 A. D.] marked
Chi Ch'ou in the sixty years' cycle, on the Chia Hsu day of the sixty days
cycle in the second moon, being the 1st day of the month. A reverent
oblation."
No definite conclusions can be reached until the Tamil and Persian
portions have been more closely examined, and the Chinese chronicles
studied in the light of Ceylon history; but there can be little doubt that
this trilingual inscription refers to the second visit to Ceylon, in the year
1410 A. D. of the eunuch Chêng Ho, a famous official in the reign of the
Emperor Yung Lo. A full account of this interesting discovery, with a
facsimile of the Stone. is given by Mr. E. W. Perera in Vol. VIII, Part XXX
of the "Spolia Zeylauica"; and our own Journal may also be referred to
for the Chinese invasion of Ceylon in 15th cent. (Vols. XX, p 66 and
XXII, p. 63.)

NOTES AND QUERIES
The Journal,-Re-issue
of Early Volumes.
178
Several of the earlier volumes of the
Society's Journal have been long out of print.
Vol. I of the New Series (1864) has now been
reprinted, in a limited edition, and those whose sets are incomplete should
make immediate application to Messrs. Kelly and Walsh for this volume.
It is an exact reprint except that the type and paper are better than in the
original. The papers include Notes on the City of Yedo, by Rudolph
Lindau; Some of the Physical Causes which modify Climate, by J. Hen-
derson, M.D.; Narrative of an Overland Trip from Canton to Hankow, Dr.
Dickson; The Medical Practice of the Chinese, by Dr. Henderson; The
Seaboard of Russian Manchuria, by J. M. Canny; and Events in North
China, 1861-1864, by R. A. Jamieson. Arrangements have been made
for the reprinting of other out-of-print volumes in the series; probably two
more will be issued within a year.
China
In the Journal for 1912 there was published the Report of
the China Monuments Society. In the next year's Journal
Monuments there appeared a note which criticised the Report as con-
Society. taining various inaccuracies. (R.A.S.-N.C.B. Journal
XLIX, p. 193.)
It has been courteously pointed out to us that many (most) of these
criticisms were incorrect and, as such, are likely to injure the work of the
China Monuments Society. This would be most regrettable, and we take
the first opportunity of examining the note in question, with a hearty desire
to do justice to the valuable work of the C. M. Society and to its Report.
The Report consists of two parts; an introductory essay, and a detailed
list of monuments. The first criticisms of the note in Vol. XLIV (p. 194)
deal with the introductory essay and blame it for leaving out certain things
which things are however certainly to be found in the detailed list. Thus
it says "The paper fails to record that this tablet is found on the top of the
Drum Tower," etc. This is true as far as the introductory essay is concerned
but if the Report is taken as a whole it distinctly states in the detailed list
that the tablet is in a temple at the summit of the Drum Tower (p. 172).
The succeeding lines of the note referring to the tomb of Confucius
and the Colossus of Buddha are similarly incorrect criticism if the Report
be taken as a whole, as will be seen on reference to XLIII, pp. 164, 169.
The remark the Xanadu should be placed under the heading 'Mongolia'
is also incorrect: it is correctly given by the Report as being in Chihli.
The passage criticising the Report with reference to the Ming Tomb;
and the tomb of Hung Wu is somewhat difficult to understand as it is
printed the Report seems clear and correct as it stands.

174
NOTES AND QUERIES
The assertion in the note that Little Orphan Island has no pagoda is
also incorrect.
In some other points which are criticised it will be evident to the
careful reader that the editor or proofreader of the Journal are to be
blamed rather than the compiler of the Report.
This Branch of The Royal Asiatic Society is in entire sympathy with
the work of the China Monuments Society, and would sincerely regret any
misunderstanding whether due to a mistake of editor, critic or proofreader.
S. C.
Shanghai, March 17, 1914.
To the Hon. Secretary,
Royal Asiatic Society-North China Branch.
Dear Sir,
You have asked me for a brief statement concerning the aims and
the plans of the proposed American School in Peking, in the future of
which you were good enough to say that the North China Branch of the
Royal Asiatic Society would be deeply interested.
Up to the present time the matter stands as follows:-a committee of
gentlemen representing the Smithsonian Institution and the Archeological
Institute of America have despatched me to China with instructions to
report to them on the advisability of establishing an Archeological School
at Peking more or less on the same lines as those already existing in Italy,
Greece, the Holy Land and our own country. All of these are either
directly controlled by the Archeological Institute of America or closely
affiliated with it. The Institute, as you doubtless know, is an immense
body with a large number of local branches in Canada and the United
States. Any new activity inaugurated by it will be followed with close
interest by many thousands of persons who are enrolled as its members.
While the proposed school is primarily American and entirely supported
from America, it is in no sense limited to the service of Americans. The sole
object of the committee is to found an institution which will work for the
advancement of science and will publish its results in such form as to be
available to scholars and to the general public. It is considered by them
to be of no small advantage to America that a more complete knowledge of
the arts and history of China should be disseminated through the widely
read archeological journals, and by means of monographs and lectures both
scientific and popular.
There will be no attempt at teaching in the usual sense of the term,
hence the name "School" must be understood in its broader meaning.

NOTES AND QUERIES
175
But there will be plenty of opportunities for learning, both from the library
at Peking and from the activities in the field and the constant association
with learned Chinese.
It is my hope that we may be the means of creating at Peking a
centre of Far Oriental investigation, by which a truer knowledge of the
East may be made the common property of the West.
The committee has asked me to request the Chinese government for its
good-will and support, and to examine. so far as my short stay of a year
and a half will permit, the fields of investigation which should be entered
by the proposed school. During this necessarily cursory examination of
the vast archeological problem, I am to collect such data as may be useful
for the first few years of the life of the School on such subjects as the cost
of living both in Peking and in the interior, and the feeling in different
localities toward excavation by foreigners both among the peasantry and
the Provincial officials. Last but not least I am to consult with the foreign
residents of China and receive such suggestions as they may be willing to
offer.
The committee have not yet received my report on all these matters,
nor do I myself know what it will be in its entirety. But it is already
decided that the School shall broaden its investigations in proportion with
the growth of its staff, and it is hoped and confidently expected that it will
not long be necessary to limit our scope to the pure science of archeology.
One of the main purposes will be the study of the history of art, and it is
expected that eventually there will be trained members who will undertake
the allied subjects of epigraphy, ethnology, literature, history, folk-lore, etc.,
etc. This development may well be a matter of years, for the committee is
determined that no work shall be done hastily or in an amateurish fashion.
Our lack of facilities for training Sinologues in America is the great
drawback to the enterprise at the present time. Happily there is much
work in China which can be done by the mere archeologist, trained in other
fields, who will turn over his results to a Sinologue to be worked up. In
this matter, and in many others equally important, the proposed American
School is fortunate in the hearty co-operation offered by the learned staff
of the Ecole Française d'Extrême-Orient in Hanoi. M.M. Chavannes and
Pelliot have also been most generous in their offers of advice and assistance.
Our hope is that the new school will be able from the very first to turn over
material of value to these gentlemen aud to other scholars who have not
the opportunity to be continually in the field.
It is my personal opinion that nothing is more to be regretted by students
in China than the lack of a government museum where antiquities and
objects of art may be studied. As the American School will be prohibited

176
NOTES AND QUERIES
from bringing back actual collections to America, it will need a repository
for any finds which are made in the course of excavations and other
field work. A government museum is the only proper place for such
finds, and I am glad to hear a rumor at least that the Peking govern-
ment is planning to establish one. All students, Chinese and foreign
alike, would profit enormously by an adequate modern museum with
exhibitions and "study storeage" such as is beginning to be found in Europe
and America to-day.
In this same connection it may be said that the American School
would naturally do all in its power to further the admirable aims of the
China Monuments Society, and to protect and preserve the antiquities of
China from the vandalism which strikes the traveller on every side. One
is at a loss to explain this hideous waste of priceless material. The last
few years have apparently surpassed the days of the T'ai P'ing rebellion
and the Boxer war in the list of treasures destroyed and dissipated. Those
outbreaks were confined to certain more or less restricted areas, but to-day
no part of the utmost province is safe.
Through the long history of China there has hardly been a period of
such disaster in the arts. Foreign dealers and native vandals have combin-
ed in this pillage-a national loss comparable only to the burning of the
books by Ch'in Shih Huang Ti. The loot of the Summer and Winter palaces
were nothing to this, only the conquest of China by the Khans approached
it. Even the Enemy-Time himself-has hardly a more destructive record.
than that of the last five years, when sculptured gods as ancient as the hills
have been mutilated for the pleasure of Parisian fanciers of bibelots, and the
impoverished scions of the great Chinese families have been induced to part
with their heirlooms to American millionaires.
If the American School of Archeology can have some part in the
coming regeneration, if they can achieve and maintain a high level of
scholarship and help to make the true China known to the West, you will
agree that there is room for us in China to-day.
I am, with great respect,
Yours very truly,
LANGDON WARNER.