THROUGH THE LAND OF
DEEP CORROSIONS'
FROM BATANG TO MENKONG
By Rev. J. HUSTON EDGAR, F.R.G.S.
As to my title, "The Land of Deep Corrosions," the Tibetans
have such a name for their own land; but it may be applied in a
special sense to that region between China and India where three
great rivers of the world, the Yangtzu, the Mekong and the
Salwin "flow through closely contiguous valleys between systems
of meridional ranges" which project as spurs from the Tibetan
plateau. A glance at a good map will show that these rivers run
parallel for about eight degrees of latitude. The Yangtzŭ finally
turns east, and leaves its companions to reach the southern oceans
at widely different points. Strangely enough, to the west of
the Salwin another river, the Brahmaputra, is deflected in a manner
somewhat similar to the Yangtzu, but to the south-west, leaving
to the east a stupendous bluff from which another of the world's
large rivers, the Irawadi, has its springs. These great circling spurs
seem to lose their continuity about 26° and 28° N. lat., but if there
is any truth in the assertion that the Yangtzŭ at one time went
south-east from Likiang to the sea by way of the Mekong or Red
River; and if the altitudes of these three rivers really decrease
from east to west, it is interesting to speculate on the surprises
that nature may yet have in store for races living in these
latitudes. And many are anxious to learn something of the
terrestial or celestial commotions which produced diversities as
extraordinary as the similarities.
The basins of these three rivers present remarkable contrasts.
The eastward course of the Yangtzu, running for hundreds of
miles at the base of a system of smaller corrosions, implies a basin
of exceptional magnitude. The writer, who had been from
Shanghai to the Ning Ching Shan and across country from
Songpan to Batang, had never in these journeys actually left its
tributaries. But a year later he was to cross the forty miles which
represents the basin of the Mekong in only 15 hours actual
1Read before the Society Dec. 4, 1913.

THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
33:
travelling. The Salwin is, probably, never so contracted, yet
there may be many points where the Mekong and Brahmaputra
snows are less than 100 miles apart. The Yangtzu in other
respects also, is quite unlike the Mekong and the Salwin. Near
Batang the former flows serenely through a relatively open valley
with moderately sloping hills on each side. The Mekong, however,
flows through dismal, sunbaked gorges with the velocity of a
gigantic mill-race. In this respect the Salwin resembles the
Mekong. As regards length and volume the prize again goes to
the Yangtzů. But while the lengths of the other two may be
about equal, the Salwin seems much greater in volume than
the Mekong, although the rapidity of the latter may make this
inferiority only apparent. As to altitude, it is probable that the
beds increase in altitude as we go East, and 6,056, 7,300, 7,800
feet respectively for the three rivers is suggested as a possible
comparison.
A passing glance now at the popular and local names
applied to these rivers. The principal river, called by us the
Yangtzu, is the Kinsha of the Chinese, and the Drich'u of the
Tibetans. The Chinese name is probably an ornate but wretched
adaptation of the Tibetan name,-Yak or Yak-milk river. The
second river is the Lantsang of the Chinese, the Dach'u of the
Tibetans, and the Mekong of Europeans. This latter name,
although unknown to the Chinese, has a respectable antiquity, for
Camoens seems to have heard of it as the Mecom; and in
Indo-China, Shan names of somewhat similar sound seem to be
well-known. But this evidence in no way invalidates my own
theory that Mad-Kams, or Lower Kam river, is the true
meaning. This, however, presupposes a geographical error which
will be mentioned later. The Tibetan name of the Salwin is
Gyamoongch'u or simply Nguch'u: the Nu or Lu of the Chinese
being another clumsy adaptation of the Tibetan name. But
strange to say, among the common people of Ts'arung, the
Salwin is known as the Menk'ang, Mekong and even Mehang: a
fact which seems to hint that for some reason the Salwin, the true
Madk'am, became geographically extinct, and the more eastern
river inherited its name and glory. Of course such palpable
confusion may have arisen in any age from Europeans, Chinese or
Tibetans speculating too freely about the southern trend of these
rivers. But even at the present moment geographers seem to be
speculating just as freely and quite as absurdly about another
river the Drayul or Wich'u. The Wich'u apparently rises in the
mountains of Bomi, and finally enters the Salwin by a most
extraordinary piece of wriggling, just above Menkong. Now
although the upper portion of this river must have been well-
known to Des Godins 50 years ago, present day map-makers seem
to vie with each other in adding to the misinformation regarding

34
THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
it. Some ignore it altogether or delete it from older maps; others
make it the head waters of the Salwin; and some force it into the
Mekong at various points. One otherwise clever map shows a
theoretical river flowing straight into the Salwin, while another
makes it cut the Salwin at right angles, and after negotiating the
Great Divide at the Bondela, enter the Mekong in the vicinity
of Yenching. All doubt, however, has been set aside by the
French traveller Bacot, who in a careful, but unpublished map,
gives the correct course of the Wich'u from Pehtu to the Salwin."
The writer went from Batang to Menkong in June 1911.
On the way to Yenching we circled through Ranten in the Dalai's
territory, but rejoined the main road some hours later. On the
9th we stood on the Ch'ala, 14,894 feet, where the feeders of the
Yangtzŭ and Mekong enter their respective basins. Beyond us
at no great distance were the stupendous barriers which form the
Divide between the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and over which we
must shortly find a path. We arrived at Yenching the same day
and taking the full responsibility on our own shoulders directed
our caravan down a ravine, 1,500 feet deep, through which
the turbulent Mekong has blustered and bellowed for ages.
At a
Salt Barrier probably about halfway down the ravine our carriers
caused us some trouble by going on strike, but in due time all our
baggage and animals were on a small platform close to the plaited
bamboo ropes which spanned the boisterous waters of the Mekong.
We knew that the feat of crossing these sagging ropes might
easily baffle us at the very beginning. For not only were we
unaccustomed to this mode of crossing rivers, but it was hard to
forget that just here some years ago Major Davis and party found
angry Tibetans, who not only threatened their lives, but by cutting
the ropes at the right moment left them quite helpless. They
eventually got across, but we had neither the "saddles" nor
the experience to imitate them. Never in my life did defeat seem
so easy; and never before, perhaps, were five men, four horses,
eight loads, and one dog so absolutely at the mercy of certain
Tibetan bridgemen who were preparing their meal in a cave on
the other side of the river. But the possibilities of defeat did not
interfere with the desire to get over; so we hailed the caretakers,
and two weird unkempt creatures swung across to us with the
alacrity of slaves and the abandon of monkeys! In a short time
they were aware of our plans, and after the usual bargaining the
matter was settled. But we had yet to cross; and the thought
was not a pleasant one. A rope bridge is probably the worst
way possible of crossing rivers. These "bridges" are simple,
inexpensive, and perfectly adequate for most of the requirements
1The Salt Springs of Yenching, on both sides of the Mekong, supply
the Tibetan Marches and some districts in Yunnan with this commodity.

THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
85
of travel in this wild land. It is quite true they do not inspire
the novice with confidence; but nothing does in the "land of
Deep Corrosions." The "bridge" in this case consisted of two
thick bamboo ropes, probably 200 feet long, which spanned the
actual water and some of the Lantsang Gorge. The ropes are firmly
fixed to posts on each bank, and in both cases the slope is such
that the burden, living or dead, will swing across of its own
accord, as a rule with a velocity that may easily be over-
estimated. It would be quite unfair to ourselves to let the
public know our thoughts and feelings as we viewed the flimsy
ropes and the roaring water. "I would like to see you go first"
was the comment of my companion. But as the horses did not
belong to me, and as their weight would more thoroughly test the
ropes I made a suggestion to that effect; but the Tibetans had
already anticipated me. With a faith in our courage and experience
that was almost alarming they were hard at work. A nervous,
inexperienced horse had already been bound with heavy leather
thongs close to the fore and hind legs. These thongs were speedily
made fast to a strong wooden clamp or saddle over the rope, and
then with quick, callous dexterity, the poor trembling brute was
pushed over the declivity. In about 20 seconds he had been
whirled to the other side where business-like Tibetans freed
him from his bands. In this way four were sent across in a
surprisingly short time. One poor brute, hopelessly unnerved, was
only secured by being first blindfolded. After the horses, then
the baggage and some servants. By this time it was getting
dark, so we made up our minds to cross. My companion, more
heroic than I, went first. A small clamp was put over the rope,
and lighter thongs attached and then tied round his waist and
over his shoulder. In a painfully short time he was ready, and
having been carried to the brink was pushed off and whirled
across to the right bank. In his case the Tibetans lifted the rope
to increase the velocity. It was now my turn. Everything was
soon ready and I was off. A totally new sensation may now be
recorded. There was a whirring noise; a smell of burning wood;
the sound of many waters; an idea of gathering momentum; a
confusion as a rule associated with delirium; and something like
a railway accident. The former, no doubt, indicated that the
Mekong was crossed rapidly; the latter that I had collided with
some posts on the right bank. Fortunately, no harm was done,
as men with thongs over the rope had considerably lessened the
impact. And above all I had crossed the Mekong on a bamboo
rope; my dreams had been fulfilled; all fear was dispelled and I
could ever after look upon crossing these structures as an imposing
kind of sport. That evening we slept in the settlement of Chiata,
and a friendly Chinese promised to hire us animals for Menkong.

36
THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
The animals came in due time, and at 8.45 a.m. we were
winding up the precipitous walls of the Mekong Corrosion. Half
an hour later we rested on a small cultivated platform on which
were many ripening fields and not a few homesteads. This rest
was welcome, for just beyond there commences one of the most
audacious roads in the Empire. The climb from Chiata had
been difficult, but here one goes on by scores of short, sharp turns
higher and higher, over the steep barren slopes which overlook the
Mekong Gorge. And long before buildings on the neck of an
injutting ridge told us that Lakong Ssu was near, my head was
giddy and my heart sick. The height above the Mekong waters is
hardly less than 3,000 feet, and two weary hours elapsed before
we were beyond the terrific slope which we had contemplated with
wonder and awe from the left bank. This lamasery, La Kang Ssů,
now in ruins, was formerly of great importance. The Lamas were
intensely anti-foreign and no doubt organised the attack on Davis
and his party, and were also the ringleaders in the attack on Yen
ching when a Catholic priest was murdered. They were also anti-
Chinese, and although owning the valuable salt springs on the
right bank of the Mekong they coveted those in the Batang
principality also. They were watching and waiting for a suitable
opportunity to realise their ambitions. But Nemesis was silently
closing in on them, and finally, one day in 1906, a company of
H. E. Chao's soldiers crept up the slopes, stormed the position, and
looted this arrogant outpost of the Dalai Lama. The Lamas fled
in disorder, but some were captured and executed, and the "House
of their Gods" became a granary of China. The lamasery in its
halcyon days ruled over the Pehtu region, and by an artful irrigation
system controlled many families in the Batang principality. Here-
I inadvertently broke the seals of H. E. Chao's granary, and was,
as a result, under surveillance until a Secretary from Yenching
came up and resealed the same in my presence. I fully expected
to receive official orders to return, but no one claimed such power,
the Secretary contenting himself with the remark "It would have
been better if you had taken out the ordinary passports!" I
thanked him profusely, apologised for my mistake, and darted into
the gloaming for the hamlet of Drangtze, which was reached in
due time without incident. We left Drangtze in a soaking
drizzle and passed up by a good road through a fine forest of
pines, firs, oaks and poplars to a pretty camping ground, Lot'ang,
at the upper end of the forest. Here we decided to lunch, but
owing to the prevailing humidity it was only after an hour of
blinding smoke, blown here and there by the frantic puffing of
Tibetans, that a yellow, murky flame was produced which finally
satisfied our modest requirements. The road from Lot'ang
ascends gradually, and after passing a few patches of unmelted
drift we wound round to the flat summit of the mBondela.
The

ANAKIR
111
VOTEZLO
TV
ard to d
6112
YAY 0xd
in 200
AIGHE
DV ALP
70
30 19
* OVATED US TO
000-15000 4
нотяже
9082-000
OOOZATUITAM
popween 38 wing 30 (apole) P

W
DRE SHU
DRAYUL
IV
LAKON
PENT
LADRANG
MENKONO
HANDA
OLUNPO
WAPO
EPO
N
YAO CHIAO3
1
YENKING
III
ONA PU
RIVERS:
1
KIN SHA.
II
KIANGKA or LUNG
III MEKONG or DACHU
IV WICHU or DA YUL
V
VI
ODRANA
VI
CADEN
1
P BONGA
GIAMA ONG CHU or NGU
or LU CHIANG or SALWIN
CHIUTSE or IRA WADI
MOUNTAINS
BLUE:
6,000-12,000 ft.
RED. 12,000-16,000 „
BLACK: 16,000-26,000,
SKETCH
MAP OF TIBETAN CORROSIONS
between 28 and 30 (about) N. lat.
OCHIAPE
CKUNYA
OYATSA
ATENTZE
PHUANGFUTING
ITSEKU
CHIANI
TING 6

THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
37
temperature was 35° F. (1°.7 C.) the altitude, 15,209 feet, and we
had not only reached the watershed of the Mekong and Salwin
streams, but that of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The snow,
slush and soaking fog made our ride cold and unpleasant.
The view too was utterly spoiled. But coming back I was more
fortunate. The view then was grand in the extreme. Bold,
detached peaks with torn ragged edges; range upon range of
superb snow mountains; gaps, gorges, wastes, glaciers and forests
are some of the details which may be admired in Nature's weird
jumble on the Great Divide! On the way back too, the slush-
covered waste had changed to a quiet sombre plateau agreeably
warm, and with air clear and exhilarating. This pass is impas-
sable during the winter months, and traffic is then confined to the
Tila, a higher but steeper pass a few miles to the north. In
reference to the difficulties of winter travel in this region it is
interesting to remember that passes on the Batang road 2,000 feet
higher than the m Bondela are open to traffic all the year. The
road from the m Bondela passes through a fine forest, the counterpart
of that on the Mekong side-and at the end of forty li brings the
traveller to Pehtu, a settlement on the Wich'u with 30 families
and a lamasery of sixty monks. The women were handsome and
wore much jewelry; the men too were frank and extremely
cordial. It rained during the night with downright thoroughness,
but in the morning it had cleared sufficiently to allow me to pay
some attention to the settlement. Pehtu is composed of three
small plateaux two of which are cultivated. Although the land is
good and carefully irrigated, the altitude prohibits more than an
annual crop of wheat. The lamasery, although of some
importance, looks as if its great mass of gable-roofed buildings had
just been at the mercy of a tornado. It, with the village, quietly
submitted to China after the capture of La Kang Ssu in 1906.
From Pehtu in passing along the Wi we notice that as usual
houses, gardens and farms occupy the lower altitudes, and higher
up are distinct zones of prickly oak, fir, and mountain waste.
Five miles beyond Pehtu a bridge of logs and planks, 31 paces long,
spans the Wi, and a short distance beyond is the summit of the La
Drang Dang, a pass 10,797 feet. Some distance below is a waterless
ulag station of the same name where eight families eke out
a miserable existence. But it may be questioned if any place
on earth gives such an amazing display of prodigal grandeur.
It would seem as if Nature in the earlier geological ages,
embarrassed about the disposal of certain precipices, ravines, and
mountains, had later decided to dump her débris, in the most
inconsequent manner, into this grand and melancholy depression.
4
1Ulag, Government service of transport, etc.

38
THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
Hence we are confronted by a perfect maze of gorges, cañons,
ravines, peaks and precipices, flanked in turn by even rougher
masses of snow-clad ranges, which bewilder the mind and leave the
impression of nightmare fantasies rather than plain facts of a
mid-day world. It seems that the Mekong and Salwin have
broken through barriers which have forced the greater Yangtzu
away across China. At the same time one of the circling ranges,
about this latitude, not only seems to increase in altitude, but
bifurcates, forming two more or less irregular chains which cast
their shadows over Burma and Assam. The result is a fearfully
rent zone of unparalleled savagery, with valleys and cañons of
amazing complexity. And we know that somewhere through these
Titanic mazes of a blasted planet the Salwin, guarded by eternal
snows, has worn its yet unexplored course! And beyond are not
only the converging feeders of the Brahmaputra but those of an
entirely new system which, gradually uniting, form in the fulness
of time another of the earth's large rivers, the Irawadi.
After
The road from La Drang circles round the mountain about
2,000 feet above the river and thus, in a large measure, escapes the
injutting grooves. About 5 p.m. our party rode into the settlement of
Wapo. Below La Drang the Wi turns round sharply and flows back
almost parallel to its downward course, and for the greater part of
the afternoon, although actually descending, we were ascending the
Wi which was making its way down to the Salwin. Wapo is a
settlement of 25 families, built in three sections one above the
other. The upper portion, which is irrigated by the mountain
stream, produces two crops yearly, but the lower, unirrigated
portion does not always produce one in the same time.
Wapo is Gepo (7,480 feet), a village on the right bank of
the river. We were now past the Saurian-shaped mass formed
by the Wi bend, and after ascending the left bank for some
time left this tiresome river and made towards the summit of the
Dang Di La (11,240 feet) which in spite of dark woodlands,
a serpentine pathway and an exhausted horse was at last reached.
Some time previously we had passed through a belt of the most
magnificent pines I have seen in the Chinese Empire. From the
Dang Di La we got our first view of the Salwin flowing through
a wild rent valley which was rendered more grotesque by spur-like
projections from the mountain side. Right below us at the end
of a tedious descent were the cultivated areas of Drana and
Lunpo. We rested at the latter place and were soon on good terms
with everyone. My
companion showed them his rifles and
automatic pistols, and when the well-made plates of a dentist
artist were exhibited, men and women, young and old, clapped
their hands and danced with excitement. For a long time it
seemed as if some pre-arranged concert was in progress, and no
doubt Lunpo was never so entertained before. From Lunpo

THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
39
the road descends through a waterless thorn-covered belt to Drana,
a settlement of 18 families, situated in a well watered plain and at
the junction of roads from Aden and Bonga. Thirty li further up
the barren, sun-baked gorge, and on the right bank of the Salwin,
is the settlement of Menkong. As at Yenching, the bridgemen
swung us and our belongings over to the right bank with good-
humoured alacrity, and gave us the impression that the Salwin is
easier to cross than the Mekong. In the matter of gradients
to and from the river bed this is certainly so.
Menkong (7,056 feet) is one of the most S. and E. localities in
Tibet. It is, moreover, one of the least known, and geographically
about half way between the Indian and Chinese Marches. The
settlement is situated on a plateau, the area of which may be
about 1,000 acres, and the altitude 950 feet above the river.
Scattered over this broken platform-the remains of a landslip
of more than ordinary magnitude, is the chief town of the T'sa
Rung. The population, only 45 families, is along a stony ridge
overlooking the Salwin, and a tree-fringed depression in which are
fields and orchards. On the right bank of a mountain stream
some distance away is the lamasery of Ta Che with 60 Lamas.
My recollections of Menkong are very pleasant: Chinese soldiers
and Tibetans came around freely, and as at Lunpo we gave an
impromptu entertainment which was much enjoyed by the friendly
population. As Menkong may at any time come into the political
limelight a few words about its highways may be of interest and
value. In the first place then, a road to India, or a cul-de-sac in
the direction of India, passes through Menkong; but as this
region has been described by my delightful companion, Captain
F. M. Bailey, further comment is needless. Rumour persistently
avers that a trade route passes through Menkong and proceeding
N. W. reaches Hlasa. But it would be better to say that the
Menkong-Rima road eventually meets one going from Zayul to
the capital. But probably another road altogether is meant.
In any case we know that a road of some importance from
Yünnan viâ Drana passes through Pehtu and Drayul, and
finally reaches Hlasa viâ Bomi. This may have been the route
followed by the famous Tson Kapa in former times, as to-day by
his followers who circumambulate the Dokela (Stone-stair pass).
The importance of this road may be inferred from the report
that between 2,000 and 3,000 animals traverse it annually; the
owners being influenced in their choice by financial considerations.
While such an explanation would make Drana, and not Menkong
the centre of trade and priestly activity, the main road to and
from Zayul can hardly miss the latter, and there is no doubt
that the following roads converge at, or near, what is now the
political and religious centre of Titsang: two from Atuentzu,
two from Yenching, one from Drayul, one or more from Tse-Ku;

40
THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
and the main road from Zayul. In other words, about five days.
journey in any direction will take the traveller to an important
commercial or political centre. But this is anticipating the
future: Menkong at present is a small village on the Salwin with
a diminutive lamasery and no trade; and its broken flats facing a
great river, with a background of pretty homesteads in the
midst of grain fields and peach gardens, are common enough in
S. E. Tibet.
The return journey was devoid of any unpleasant incident.
though proof was not wanting that the Chinese wished it
otherwise. On the second day a Tibetan courier handed me
an official document, but as it referred to Titsang tribute I paid
no attention to it, nor to the evident excitement of my companions.
But at Pehtu I found that instructions had been given to refuse
me ulag and hospitality. However, as I had never used the
Government animals the situation was unchanged unless the
instructions implied anti-foreign agitation. But no such complica-
tion arose. Indeed, so many wished to be my servants that
something like a free fight finally decided who was to have the
honour! And the next morning two prepossessing matrons
18 and 25 respectively-took charge of my belongings and
perseveringly pushed on through forest-clad ravines, desolate
woodlands, and down the precipitous pathways included in the
130 li between Pehtu and Yenching. The bridgemen took me
over the Mekong without delay,-I was carried over on the bridge-
man's knees!-and in the gloaming of a June evening, after a
serpentine climb of 1,000 feet our party was again traversing the
plateau of Yenching where requirements of Great Treaties must be
recognised. The Yenching official seemed relieved when I got
back; 'Leopards,' he said, 'were fierce in Ti tsang'. But this was
no doubt a case of wilful exaggeration, for no such creatures were
seen, nor did I hear of any.
As Menkong may be some day a half-way stage between China
and Assam a few general remarks will no doubt be of value.
The distance from Batang to Menkong is roughly about 800 li or
200 English miles. The road is good, and the passes are by no
means as high as those on the Tachienlu-Batang road. Still, because
the snow line is so much lower in the Titsang mountains the
passes are in the winter months more difficult to cross.
The dips.
into the beds of both the Mekong and Salwin are unpleasantly
steep; but if the serpentine wind up to the Lakong Ssů is justly
notorious, it is remarkably good. The Wi and other small rivers
are spanned by bridges, and although good ferries ply on the
Kinsha, ropes and clamps must suffice on the Mekong and Salwin.
Coracles do not seem to be in vogue, nor could animals live in the
wild currents of these Titanic torrents. But after all it is quite
possible that permanent bridges would tax the treasury rather

THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
41
than the engineering faculty. Suitable resting places occur at
regular intervals, and food, firewood, and grass are as easily
obtained as on the Hlasa road. On the mBondela animals are
frequently.poisoned by the "Tsa-Dug" (poison-grass) which on
this pass, as on the Dokela, is probably a species of aconite. In
crossing the former pass horses are often muzzled on this account.
It has been suggested in an earlier section of this paper
that the true spelling of Mekong and Menkong may be Madkáms,
or lower Kám, but the geographical position would also make
Mad-Gangs a legitimate alternative. For it seems likely that
somewhere in here are the divisions of lower Do, Káms,
and Gamgs (cf. La Gang), regions which are known to the
Tibetans as Bya Yul, or "Country of Birds": the Tibetan
way, no doubt, of expressing the paucity of population! An
explanation of this pleasantry at once suggests itself to the
traveller. The deep corrosions not only lack the slope necessary
for hillside cultivation, but the fanlike deposits at the ends of the
lateral ravines are, as a rule, unimportant. The nature of the
country too, as well as a deficiency of water, makes irrigation
not only difficult but often of little or no value. The rainfall
seems uncertain, and the amount differs almost every few miles.
Such a region also quite excludes a nomad population; indeed,
between Yenching and Menkong rumour would not even suggest
more than two such families. The trading centres, however,
are rather frequent, but the lamaseries are small and widely
separated, and the people, although the heirs of an evil reputation,
are contented, friendly, and lack many of the objectionable
Tibetan characteristics.
Although language and customs are after the Hlasa pattern
there are probably few true Tibetans among the population
of Lower Kám, for the following tribes may all be found between
latitudes 28° and 27° N. and longitude 98° and 100° E. On the
Irawadi the Chiutsu or Khanung; on the Salwin, Lutzu
Li-so, Moso, and Tibetans; and on the Mekong, Liso, Moso,
and Tibetans. This confusion of tongues and tribes, although
showing no uncertain signs of origin, has been fused into one
great amalgam which anthropologists would not hesitate to include
under the term Tibetan; and they will readily admit that the
fire fusing the mass is that medley of creeds on the Roof
of the World known as Lamaism. Lower Kám after the advent
of Lamaism naturally accepted the political ideals of Hlasa,
which would imply a bevy of subsidiary chiefs under a central
Prince or powerful Abbot. Menkong had one such chief with a
superior at Kiang Ka, who in turn was under the Dalai and
the Imperial Resident at Hlasa. What relation it will bear in
the future to Hlasa or Peking will be settled no doubt by diplomacy,
but its right to be under the former will be hard to deny; in

42
THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
any case its value to either country will be largely a matter of
sentiment; as the market for its products will almost certainly
be some town in Assam.
In discussing the anthropological problems of Titsang one
must remember that penal colonies and slaving centres have been
exerting a somewhat important influence for many decades. As
regards the former, Menkong, being from the Tibetan standpoint
a semi-mythical land; outlandishly distant from Hlasa; with a
hot unhealthy climate, and on the confines of ferocious savages,
was an ideal spot for abandoned criminals. It was in a similar
region, the hotter and less distant Zayul, that the Catholic
missionaries Krick and Boury were murdered some 60 years ago.
But
But to get the true composite photograph of the Tsa Rung
people we must consider the more sinister factor of slavery. For
years there had been rumours of mysterious slave marts, but
it was difficult either to confirm the practice or to locate the
centres. But a proclamation issued by the senior prefect of the
Marches in 1910 furnishes an interesting confirmation of the
rumours. It not only seemed to confirm the practice of slave dealing
but hinted at Tachienlu being one of the buying centres.
much more definite information was forthcoming for us shortly.
One evening of the same year, the writer being at Litang, became
interested in a strange, uncivilised party that had lately entered
the town. It was composed of liberated slaves from Menkong
and Zayul, who told a strange story. Years ago Tibetan traders,
aided by the underlings of the King of Cha La, had possessed
themselves of many Chinese children, and by using the unfre-
quented roads through Hsiang Ch'eng and Atuentzu eventually
reached Menkong and disposed of their living merchandise. Once
in slavery, escape was well nigh impossible. One related that
on two occasions he had made the attempt but was each time
detained by the caretakers at the rope bridges, who were no
doubt the secret agents of the slavers. But the captives were
evidently not ill-used, and though now free they were planning
to return. They had been liberated by the officer operating in
Titsang and their travelling expenses were defrayed by fines
imposed on their former owners. Quite a number of Chinese
women were also released in the same region and they are now
the wives of soldiers in Menkong and Zayul. In one case a
Chinese slave refused his liberty and remained in Mantze
bondage. All these men spoke Tibetan fluently and Chinese
indifferently or not at all.
But the types now met with in Menkong would indicate a
wider field of operations than China. Long before visiting
Menkong, a negroid type, in slavery as a rule, excited my curiosity;
and on my arrival at Menkong I was face to face with a peculiar
dwarfed race that might possibly furnish the explanation. These

THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
43
people were slaves of the local Tibetans and had been brought
from a region known as Tsong Yul. Unfortunately, they were
too timid to be explicit, or perhaps the thought of their masters'
anger made them discreet in their intercourse with strangers.
They were on the whole the most hideous little specimens of the
genus homo I have ever seen. Their apish expression was weird
in the extreme, and they seemed to herd about the outhouses
like so many
animals. But except when afflicted with goître
they were perfectly formed and their limbs apparently in proper
proportion. A full-grown male measured by me was 4 feet
8 inches, and a female 4 feet 4 inches. But later one specimen
was measured, a particularly monkey-faced female with a child,
who was only 4 feet 2 inches. Their noses were bow-shaped, with
heavy, bulging alæ: the bridge was in many cases absent, or
represented by a distinct hollow. The zygomatic arches were very
high, the mouth was immoderately large, the under lip hideously
thick and heavy, and the general aspect of the face would indicate
pronounced prognathism; but, without being dogmatic, it is
probable that there was nothing approaching steatopygia in the
females. It is quite unlikely that they were a colony of crétins
such as is sometimes heard of in Yünnan, for another dwarfed
type was noted quite unlike the former. It was represented by
a human female probably about 4 feet 5 inches, whose face
was that of a beautiful child. In this case the features were
finely chiselled, the eyes bright and expressive, and every limb
beautiful and symmetrical. Moreover, she was artistically
marked about the nose and mouth by some indelible pigment.
The reputed home of the dwarfs is some days to the South or
South West, probably near the springs of the Chiutse Chiang or
Irawadi. Some say it may be reached in four days, and others
think seven are necessary: a discrepancy explained by assuming a
somewhat extensive territory. One dwarf, however, pointed to
the North West and said 'Di Chu', which may mean the Drï C'hu
or even Dji on the line of A. K's journey. The dwarfs of
Menkong are the more conspicuous on account of other types
to be seen there, tall, stately, and handsome, as truly the
representatives of the patrician class as the former are of the
slave.
Almost the only peculiarity of dress noted was a very
primitive sandal worn by the poorer classes. It consists of a
few layers of leather or hide sewn together in the roughest
manner, and attached to the foot with light thongs of softer
material. In carrying water in barrels on the back the supporting
straps instead of going round the thorax pass over the forehead.
This custom may be derived from the Tsong Yul menials,
who would otherwise find the barrel inconveniently low.

44
THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
The population along the main road from La Kong Ssů may
be 250 families, or possibly 1,500 souls. There are also lamaseries
at Pehtu and Menkong with 60 monks in each, and a small one at
Dre Shu with ten. Menkong and Pehtu may someday be of
greater importance than at present. The former is said to
form the centre for 656 families, but I question if 100 will be
found within a radius of 50 li. But it is also near to Bonga and
Aden, and the Zayul is only a few days distant. And as I have
already mentioned, the Chinese political centre, as well as the
headquarters of Lamaism, will be here or in the vicinity. Pehtu
may be even more important, for although the population is only
about 50 families in the settlement and vicinity, the Zayul and
Yünnan trade will pass it on the way to Hlasa or Batang, and
the large number of pilgrims who cross the Dokela will visit its
lamasery. Moreover, two days' journey takes the traveller to
Dra Yul and Yenching respectively. As regards the former,
the district, I am inclined to believe is rather important, and its
famous lamasery, although battered by China and its haughty
lamas humbled to the dust, may yet revive and claim a high
position in Lower K'am. But my remarks on the Drayul region
and prospects are based on Chinese and Tibetan information.
NOTES.
Note I.-I assume the dwarfs mentioned on p. 43 are not
crétins, and suggest that they may be the remains of a primitive
Negrito stock sometimes met with in the islands South of the
Asian continent.
Note II. The centres of population from Yenching to Men-
kong are as follows:-
La Kong Si to Drangtze, 7 families; Drangtze to Pehtu, 2
families (nomads); Pehtu, radius of 5 miles, 50 families;
Ladrang and Dreshu in Wi bend, 37 families; Wapo in Wi
depression, 37 families; Handa over Wi bend, 13 families; Gepo
in Wi valley, 18 families; "Ta and Drugu (ulag stations), 12
families; Lunpo and Drana, 34 families; Menkong and village on
left bank, 53 families; Lamaseries, Pehtu 60; Dreshu 10; Men-
kong 60; La Kong-ssŭ 0.
Note III.-The stages from Batang to Menkong represent
780 li or 200 English miles:
Batang to Chu Pa Long ferry 90 li; Chu Pa Long to Kong
Tze Ting 90 li; Kong Tze Ting to Chia Ni Ting 90 li; Chia Ni
Ting to Yao Chiao 70 li; Yao Chiao to Yen Ching 100 li; Yen
Ching to Drangtze 50 li; Drangtze to Pehtu 80 li; Pehtu to
Lodrang 35 li; Lodrang to Wa Po 35 li; Wa Po to Gepo 30 li;
Gepo to Ta 10 li; Ta to Lunpo 50 li; and to Menkong 50 li.
Note IV.-The altitudes are from Capt. F. M. Bailey's paper
(R.G.S. Journal, April 1912-) Chala-14,894 feet; River

THROUGH THE LAND OF DEEP CORROSIONS
45
Mekong water level-7,300; "Bondela-15,209; Ladrang Dang
-10,797; Gepo-7,480; Dang Di La-11,240; Salwin-6,056;
Menkong-7,056.
Note V.-Ulag. This is a Mongolian word but is under-
stood in all Tibetan regions in the sense of "Government Service."
The recognition of "ulag" by the Tibetans is the first
indication that China is exercising the authority she so readily
claims. Each district is taxed pro rata and enjoys certain
privileges supposed to accrue from Chinese administration. To
refuse "ulag" is the first overt act of rebellion, as the recognition
is the first indication (and often the only one) of submission.
Note VI. The advent of the late Chao Ri Fêng, formerly
High Commissioner of the Sze-ch'uan and Yünnan Marches,
brought many changes. His plan was to create a new province by
paring away the edges of provinces and dependencies. In this
way portions of quasi-independent territory within the Vice-
royalties of Sze-ch'uan and Yünnan, and the Imperial Residencies
at Hlasa came under H.E. Chao's jurisdiction. He not only
placed officials in centres formed in these federated principalities
but actually had coins stamped for circulation in the same.
the "Sze-ch'uan and Yünnan Marches" were included not only
the Hlasa region of Chantin or Nya Kong but also unknown
Marches to the North of Assam and Burma which China could
only claim by her policy of enforcing the ulag.
In
Batang was in all probability to be the capital of this wild
region.