ON THE SOURCES OF
CHINESE TAOISM
By RICHARD WILHELM, Dr. Theol.
I.
One of the most interesting and most difficult problems of the
religious and philosophic history of China is the origin of Taoism.
The popular division of the Three Religions holds good, if we give
only a superficial look at them. We have three religious heroes
worshipped by them respectively: Confucius, Laotzŭ and Buddha.
We have different temples: the official "Temples", the Taoist
"Kuan", and the Buddhist "Ssu" . We have different
religious persons: the Officials, the Tao-shih and the Ho-sêng.
Yet if we look closer, there is something about Taoism which
makes it exceedingly difficult to distinguish it from the other two
organizations, the State religion of Confucianism and the Church
religion of Buddhism-at least if we regard the matter from a
religious point of view. If we look at the ancient Taoism, there
is no organization at all, nothing which could be described as a
religious body. The religious and metaphysical convictions are
very much the same as the Confucian metaphysics. The difference
between the ancient Confucianism and the ancient Taoism seems to
be mainly social and moral-not religious. Modern Taoism on
the other hand has certainly a kind of religious organization,
especially so far as it is concentrated in monasteries; but, strange
to say, this organization is entirely borrowed from the Buddhistic
Church. So the verdict seems quite inevitable: Taoism so far as
it is original is no religion, so far as it is a religion it is not
original.
Still there remains something in Taoism which is insoluble by
this reasoning. The ancient Taoism, though on the same religious
basis as the so-called Confucianism, is something more than a mere
sect of the literati. The modern Taoism, though with the same
organization as Buddhism, is yet something more than a Buddhist
sect. Moreover, there is a connecting link between the old and the
new Taoism. The decay of Taoism is not so great at least down
to the Manchu dynasty, under which it was very much neglected,
-as European writers generally assume, some of whom go so far
as to distinguish between the old genuine Taoism and the modern
degenerated "Taoshihism."

2
ON THE SOURCES OF CHINESE TAOISM
If, therefore, we are to ask for the origin of Taoism, the
safest way will be, first by a comparison of old Taoism with Con-
fucianism and then by a comparison of modern Taoism with
Buddhism, to find out the non-Taoistic elements in Taoism.
After this we have to proceed to look for the peculiar elements of
ancient and modern Taoism, which are common to them both.
So we may try to find a way which leads us to some glimpses of
the possible origin of Taoism.
Taoism is not founded by Lao-Tzu, neither was Confucianism
founded by Confucius. Both of them, Lao-Tzu and Confucius, have
their footing on Chinese antiquity. From that antiquity the
foundations of the religious life of China have come down, and
neither of these two Chinese heroes ever thought about setting
those foundations aside. The religious teachings common to early
Taoism and Confucianism can be traced in the scriptures of the
literati as well as in the Taoist works.
There was One supreme God acknowledged as the supreme
Ruler and Judge of men. He was generally called Ti or Shang Ti.
He was a personal Being, for prayers are offered to him by the
princes. Lao-Tzu in the Tao-Tê-Ching does not think of denying
this Being, though he proceeds to the idea that the immanent.
World-Reason, Tao, might perhaps be prior even to the personal
God. But even about this idea there is no contradictory feeling
between the literati and the Taoists. In the same way as Lao-Tzu
thinks the Tao to be anterior to the personal God, Confucianism
prefers the more general term Heaven (tien) to the term God
(ti), while the term "Tao" is used in the Doctrine of the
Mean very much in Lao-Tzu's sense. It is true, however, that
"Tao" is generally a more definite conception with the literati.
Tao is for them rather identical with the Path (Tao) of the
ancient Kings than with the Sense (Tao) of the Universe. But
there is no irreconcilable discrepancy in the two conceptions.
Even the Taoistic ideal of non-action is praised very highly by
Confucius. A further point of coincidence is the notion of
Heaven as the source of providence and moral order, the invisi-
ble world vis-a-vis the Earth, as the visible world. It deserves,
however, some notice, that the character for tien Heaven in its
ancient form seems to have represented also a personal god (cf.
the Indian Dyaus). This personal conception is still of some
influence in many expressions, which seem to require the transla-
tion "God" for instance "the Servant of God" (tien li) in Mêng
Tzu, or, a still more striking example in Chuang-Tzu Book XI, 4,
where the personified Yün Chiang calls the likewise personified
Hung Mêng "Tien "-God. The later Taoism therefore uses the
term t'ien tsun-freely for the Indian Dewa arya. By and by the
1 D.M. XII, 2.

ON THE SOURCES OF CHINESE TAOISM
3
personal conception of tien got lost by the connection of the idea
with the sky. In the Shih-Ching for instance there is a strange
mixture of both of these ideas, when the Heaven is spoken of as
high or blue, and yet is prayed to as a personal being.
There is also common to the two "religions" the belief in a
number of gods (Shên), superintendents of the heavenly bodies,
of natural objects and of all phenomena. Besides these Shên
there exists a multitude of spirits (Kuei) both good and evil.
With regard to the gods and spirits the same religious development
seems to have taken place in China as elsewhere. The more
original word of the two is Kuei = spirit, demon. It has from
the beginning an ideographic character of its own. Just as in the
demonic conceptions of other nations, the Kuei seems to have been
in its first instance the departed spirit of man (cf. the etymology
of Kuei "spirit" from Kuei "to go back" sc. to the earth, which
is found in Lieh-Tsu I, 4). These demons had in the Totemistic
age which has left its traces in China perhaps more distinctly
than others were not yet a distinct personality. Most of them
were something to be dreaded. And there may have been, existing
from very old times, some spells and talismans (ya shêng ) by
whose power the noxious influences of the spirits could be put
down and their blessings could be got. It deserves mention that
in ancient China during her Totemistic age there was a very close
connection between the demons as departed spirits and the
totemistic animals. Amongst the totemistic animals the serpent-
dragon had in ancient time a most prominent place. The old
oracle bones recently found in Honan call the priest of the oracle,
"serpent-father." Just as in other nations, these totemistic
animals had some kind of relation to the demons of the clouds.
That seems to be the reason why the dragon is found as well on
earth as amongst the clouds. Perhaps the serpent-like lightning
was the tertium comparationis. In later times, when the gods had
come into existence, the serpent or dragon became an emblem of
the gods, at least of some of them (cf. the dark warrior hsüan
wu with serpent and tortoise, and the expression in Lieh-Tzu
"the serpent-holding gods.") We find here also a very similar
development to that of the nagas in India. Besides these snakes
there were the (white) tiger, the (red) bird, the tortoise, the toad
and perhaps from other regions the kilin, which seems to have
been a kind of okapi (cf. the ancient pictures of it on Han stones
as they are reproduced for instance in Chin Shih So), the
phoenix (perhaps some connection with the red bird), in later
times, the bat, the fox and a great number of other animals, which
are to some extent even now regarded as taboo. Not animals
only were thus connected with totemistic conception, but also
plants and stones. The very extensive use of plant ornaments
with symbolic ideas (cf. peach, willow, fir, bamboo, pomegranate

4
ON THE SOURCES OF CHINESE TAOISM
and many others) and the special liking for stones, especially if
they have "the shape of clouds," are, as it seems to me, still
existing remnants of these old totemistic ideas.
This totemistic age is, as said above, the common basis of
Taoism and Confucianism. The exorcism, divination, faith in
omens, dreams, etc., things which, in other parts of the world, also
are connected with the totemistic age, are to be found as well in
Confucianism as in Taoism. Now the totemistic age is an age
of magic. Man tries to get into his hands magic forces which
make him master of the demons so that their forces may be at his
disposal. In this respect, as in many others, Taoism has been-
strange to say-more conservative than Confucianism.
In fact the main difference between Confucianism and ancient
Taoism lies here. While the development of civilization has
brought about in China the Heroic age, in which Man came into
the centre, Taoism represents a reactionary movement. It tries
to keep Man back mid Nature. Confucianism, on the contrary,
takes up history and its teachings in order to establish the true
ideal of Humanity. So the difference between Confucianism and
Taoism is not so much a difference of religious creeds as an instance
of different stages of the same religion. They may be compared
with the Roman Catholic and the Protestant churches, which also
stand on the basis of a common religious creed. Confucianism
is the representative of culture, Taoism of nature. From this
point of view all differences between them are easily understood.
The totemistic era has for its corresponding form of society
the organization of clans. The family as well as the State are of
lesser importance. There is no centralization of government
known and to a certain extent the individual has an independent
position. On the other hand Man is not yet much differentiated
from surrounding nature. Only the magi, who possess the arcana
for mastering the forces of nature, have a more prominent position.
This seems to have been the state of China during the ancient
times. The Heroic age seems to have set in with the Chou
Dynasty. There must have been distinct changes in the whole
structure of Society. The famous marriage law of the Chou,
which forbade the connubium to persons of the same surname, had
the effect of bringing the different clans together, of establishing
the patriarchate instead of the rule of the clans, of giving weight
to the institution of the family; not, however, of the single
family so much as of the collective family, in which different
generations were living together under a common head. This
state of society found its moral and religious expression in the
establishing of filial piety as the root of humanity and in the
institution of ancestral worship. Hand in hand with these
remarkable changes came feudalism as a principle for the State,
together with the centralization of government.

part.
ON THE SOURCES OF CHINESE TAOISM
The feudal princes were partly relatives of the reigning house
order. So feudalism and the family cult were blended with a kind
of hero worship, as very naturally the founders of the different fiefs
were objects of a religious cult to their posterity. The parallelism
between the hero and the god (in China called shên ) is very
distinctly marked. In China more than anywhere else the human
element has the foremost place in the formation of the ideas of
gods. In Confucianism we find the seven divine heroes: Yao,
Shun, Yü, T'ang, Wên-Wang, Wu-Wang, Chou Kung, in the most
prominent places. On some of them even the title Ti, Supreme
Ruler or God (with capital letter) is bestowed. And though there
was in the beginning a difference between the heavenly gods (tien
shên ), the human souls (jên kuei ), and the terrestrial
demons (ti chih) yet Man became so much the model, that
even the positions of the heavenly and earthly gods became nothing
more than offices for men of merit, who after death were promoted
to such divine posts.
Man as the centre of moral and religion is the pivot of
Confucian doctrine. That is the main reason for the thorough
anthropomorphism of the Confucian gods, as well as for the
historical veil uniformly spread over the whole Confucian
mythology. So there is some reason in the legend that in the
beginning of the Chou Dynasty the majority of Chinese gods had
been assigned to their offices (cf. Feng Shên Yen Yi
).
The prevalence of sober human rationality is a peculiarity of
the Chinese type of the Heroic age and it was brought about by
Confucius. The imaginative power of the human mind was cut
down and the human feelings, having not been allowed to take
part in the process of reasoning, were set free in the arts, especially
music, poetry, rites, the specific subjective arts.
Now the difference between Confucianism and Taoism
consists in their respective relation to the principles of the
totemistic and heroic ages. The civilization of the heroic age, it
is true, was in a state of utter decay. Still, Confucius had a
positive relation to the heroic age and therefore to civilization,
history, rites, and the settled order of human society, while keeping
aloof from the obscure forces of nature with a reserved respect for
them (cf. Anaects XVI, 29). Of course he saw the faults of that
civilization. But he thought it possible to reform it without
giving up the foundations. So he became the great reformer of
China. Lao-Tzu, on the contrary, despised all the accomplishments
of civilization. He thought the whole root was rotten. There
was nothing better than to give up the whole of human civiliza-
tion-all the meddling and making-and go back to the state of
nature and of non-action. Still, while reactionary in its depth, yet
there seems something more independent in him than in Confucius
5

6
ON THE SOURCES OF CHINESE TAOISM
since he had thrown away the means of efficiency in the existing
world. There was much freedom in the lofty world of thoughts
and feelings, but this freedom was bought at the price of
renouncing the world of reality. Therefore though Lao-Tzu in that
famous interview with Confucius (which never took place, being
only an extract of several parables of Chuang-Tzu made up by
Ssu-Ma Ch'ien) seems to be more advanced and independent than
the scrupulous and formal Confucius, yet Confucius had the future,
being in close connection with reality, while Taoism was the more
reactionary system, unable to bear real fruits.
In Taoism Man fell back into Nature. The striking-out of
the whole of civilization, the going-back to nature has something in
common with Rousseau and Tolstoi. It is the despair of a dying
world. Though the idea of simple human society which the Tao-
Te-Ching gives in its 80th chapter has a bucolic charm of its own,
it is in fact nothing more than unhistoric anarchism of a negative
form. The naturalism of the Tao-Tê-Ching is mitigated because
the principle of nature (tao ) is the highest reason, and as such
in fact identical with the highest moral qualities of man (tê ).
The affinity of the human Ego (Te) with the Universal Reason
(Tao) opens a way to different consequences which we shall
consider below. There is one thing more, worthy to be pointed
out as a consequence of the Taoistic naturalism: the liking for
anonymity. While Confucianism stands in the full light of
history, Taoism has a penchant for a personal hiding. Of course!
for Man has no higher aim than to be one with Nature, to dive
into her depths and sink his little life with its little troubles in that
huge ocean of peace.
It is no mere chance that, while Confucius looks for his ideals
in Chinese history, the ideal heroes of Taoism are pre-Chinese,
far beyond any definite history: Fu Hsi, Shên Nung, Fuang Ti,
Nü Wa, Hua Hsü and all the like mythical beings. The Tao-Tê-
Ching speaks of the masters of old, who understood so well to hide
themselves that nobody can find their traces.1 Who are those
masters? Are they Chinese? Are they Indians? It is but in
keeping that Lao-Tzu should have succeeded in hiding himself also
from the light of history so well, that nobody knows whether he
wrote the Tao-Te-Ching, or where he went to die; his whole
existence even has become doubtful to some European investigators,
who have found out that he is nothing more than an empty name
for "the philosophers of old" (lao tzu)! I am sure he would
smile with great satisfaction on hearing of these researches.
Lao-Tzu was not the only representative of Taoism in his time. In
the Confucian Analects we meet quite a number of wise men, such
as the madman of Ch'u and others in Book 18, whose very names
Tao-Tê-Ching, chap. 14.

ON THE SOURCES OF CHINESE TAOISM
7
have escaped posterity. In Lieh-Tzu we learn that Lieh Yü Kou's
master was Hu Kiu Tzu Lin or Lao Shang. This master cannot
be identified with Lao-Tzu and yet there is nothing more known
about him, than that he was the master of Lieh-Tzu, who is also
pretty much unknown. The anonymity of the book which bears
Lieh-Tzu's name-and which was certainly not written by him-is
a proof of our thesis. That book seems to be a collection of
miscellaneous Taoistic doctrines which were transmitted between
the period of Lao-Tzu and of Chuang-Tzu. Besides Lieh Yü Kou,
there are also his elder friend Po Hun Wu Jên, Yang Chu, the
strange "master Ch'i of the southern suburb," the unknown
neighbor of Lieh-Tzu, and many others. But not only do the
prominent masters of Taoism make their appearance in the book.
There are Saints and Slanderers, hidden wise men and bonvivants,
philosophers in the ranks of disciples, sharp-tongued sophists under
the thrones of princes, peasants, women and children, beggars and
equilibrists, down even to the "horse doctor," presenting them-
selves and consciously or unconsciously imparting the wisdom they
have to dispense. This crowded and very mixed-up society and
the not less mixed-up ideas of the book are a very instructive
instance of the anonymity of early Taoism, which makes it so
difficult to trace its origin back into Chinese antiquity.
II.
There were three possible consequences of the naturalistic
principles of ancient Taoism. Either the power of outer Nature
Te-absorbs the little human soul, man becomes the prey of his
instincts, sinks down to inactive drifting on the ocean of passion,
without real joy, without real grief, only with disdain awaiting the
end. This is naturalistic and sensualistic Pessimism. Or the
individual seeks the inner freedom, becomes one with the Inmost
Principles of the All, gets through the depths of his own heart
down to the sources of bliss and rest: this is the way of Mysticism.
Or the man tries to grasp the forces of life and death, to master
the arcana of the Universe in order to become immortal and
almighty this is the way of Magic.
Each one of these ways has been trodden by one or the other
of the adepts of Taoism. The sensualistic was the way of Yang
Chu. The motto which Sören Klerkegaard puts at the head of
the papers of the aesthetic in his "Enten-Eller,"
Grandeur, savoir, renommée,
Amitié, plaisir et bien,
Tout n'est que vent, que fumée :
Pour mieux dire, tout n'est rien,".
could be put at the head of Yang Chu's ideas as well. Offspring
of a decadent time, he draws out of the naturalistic Taoism a

8
ON THE SOURCES OF CHINESE TAOISM
kind of demonic pessimism. He does not acknowledge any moral
boundaries. For him the highest wisdom is to let himself go in
wild license and at the same time stand by as spectator and look
at the events, which life and death bring about. It is the decay
of a whole age which glooms in this bold and wild pessimism.
But he had esprit, so he adorned these deadly morals. He might
have led the Chinese nation to ruin, because many of the minor
spirits were only too ready to accept these very convenient prin-
ciples. But that Confucianist Mencius, that busy travelling
preacher and moralist, stigmatised him definitely as a black sheep,
and so the public morality was saved once more.
The second consequence of Taoism is Mysticism. Mysticism
in the proper sense of the word is something other than the
emotional religion to which this name is sometimes given. It is a
well developed method for evacuating the Ego of every distinct
idea, a kind of trance brought about by a regular training of mind-
concentration. In the Raja Yoga of India we find this mysticism
very distinctly displayed. Just the same identification of the
individual Ego with the world-Ego is found also in Taoism.
Perhaps some traces of this hypnotic mysticism can be found even
in the Tao-Tê-Ching; at least there are some expressions which
are understood in this way by the Taoists themselves. Express
descriptions of this mystic trance we find in Chuang-Tzu in some
place where he speaks of the body becoming like dry wood and the
heart like dead ashes. This mysticism is the passive way of
widening the self-individuality and reaching union with the
universe. As this is a mere spiritual and interior process the body
becomes as it seems perfectly lifeless, while the spirit travels
through the universe at its own inclination. In Lieh-Tzu we
have several instances of this spiritual travelling. Not only can
Lieh-Tzu himself walk with the wind, not knowing whether he is
driving the wind or the wind is driving him; a story of the King
Mu of Chou is given at the beginning of Book III when
the king with a magician travels through several heavens and ages
during an instantaneous nap between two dishes of a meal. It is
quite easily understood, that these states of trances, when described
to exoteric people, were taken as real stories which happened in
the same plane of existence as the daily life. Many of the Taoistic
fairy tales in later times have without any doubt this misunder-
standing for their source.
While this mystic trance is a passive union of the individual
with the world soul, there is a more active method possible which
is the third form of Taoism. It is the magic art. The devotee of
magic is far from delivering up himself to the unspeakable
influences of Nature, either in body, as the sensualist, or in soul,
as the mystic. On the contrary: he tries to get the forces of the
Universe at his disposal so as to uplift his own Self and get the

"
ON THE SOURCES OF CHINESE TAOISM
6
power of conquering space and time. This is the way of the
genii" (hsien) fill. There are many methods of realizing this
end. Drugs of immortality may be prepared, such as the Chin
Tan, the Taoistic elixir of life, or philosophic stone, which
can prolong life and change mean metals into gold. There are
ways of gymnastics, breath-exercise, spells and talismans and every
other description of shamanic performance. This way of magic
also was trodden by some of the adepts of Taoism. Chuang-Tzu
of course is far from being the subject of such gross deceptions.
He makes a laughing stock of those queer saints "who behave
like bears and birds in their gymnastic strife for immortality."
It must be kept in mind that Chuang-Tzu had a good portion of
sound Confucian education, and a literary refinement which gave
such fascinating charm to his productions that down to this day
even the most orthodox Confucianist must acknowledge the spark-
ling beauty of his style.
But it is only natural that in the rude ages, which followed
the great cataclysm of the old Chinese civilization, just these very
primitive magic arts should get multitudes of believing adherents.
Especially the princes who wanted to extend their power not only
over the earthly Universe but also over the world yonder, became
the ready prey of clever sorcerers. The famous Ts'in Shih Huang
Ti as well as the Emperor Han Wu Ti are remarkable instances
of this era of alchemy, which was repeated in Christian Europe so
many centuries later. This kind of Taoism is connected with the
mythical names of Wei Po Yang and Ch'ih Sung Tzu, and
found a literary expression in the book which the king of Huai
Nan, Liu An, made his court literati write down in his name.
That book, called Huai Nan Tzu, is on the dividing line of the
old and new Taoism. The magic Taoism was to some extent
anticipated in that dark and abstruse Yin Fu Ching, , the
time of which is very difficult to fix. It had a great number of
followers in after ages down to the present time. The Eight
Immortals, however, who are at present the foremost types of this
kind of magic Taoism, did not-at any rate as a band of eight-
come into existence before the Yüan dynasty. It is very strange
that the Indian philosophy has produced very similar systems.
The materialistic Pessimism of Yang Chu can be found in the
doctrine of Carrāka. The Mysticism is to be found in the
Vedanta philosophy and the Magic in the Yoga exercises, and
there are other parallels.
cp. the story of the Shen Hsien Chuan related in Mayers' Chinese
Readers, Manual No. 113, about Ch'ih Sung Tzu, the name of a rain-priest
under Shen Nung who afterwards joined the Si Wang Mu in her grotto
and came back to earth as Huang Ch'u P'ing in the fourth century. Also
Mayers No. 839, 214.

(
10
ON THE SOURCES OF CHINESE TAOISM
III.
Taoism in its beginning had no organization. There were
hermits living in the mountains or near the sea who tried to reach
the state of immortals. Chuang-Tzu already mentions their order.
It is very likely that the similarity of aim gave them a basis for
living together in a kind of free community. Such a common
life was suggested by the wandering teachers, who took with them
scores of pupils all through the Empire. There were-last not
least the hidden saints who lived their daily life in lowly
positions without letting their wisdom shine through the surface
of their simple lives. In consequence of the strife for magic arts
during the Han dynasty the fairy mountains in the East-the
Lao, Sheng and Pênglai Shan-became asylums of the would-be
genii. But the monastic life in its proper form does not seem to
have existed before the entrance of Buddhism. There is reason to
believe that Buddhist influence goes farther back than is generally
admitted. But it exercised most of its influence in the southern
part of China. In the North Taoism took its place and adapted
itself to the new conditions.
The monastery rules of Taoism are entirely Buddhistic.
There are Taoistic Sutras existing from the time of the "six
Dynasties" downwards, but to a large extent they seem to be
Buddhist Sutras, for instance, the Yü Huang Shang Ti in one of
his former incarnations has been Sakyamuni. In the same Sutra,
the Ta Shêng (Mahayana) doctrine is recommended as the true
religion. The end of another of these Sutras has even the
foreign sounds kept in a kind of transcription which gives no sense
at all in its Chinese form.
No less are the gods of Taoism relatives to the Buddhist ones.
We can find the Indian original of far the most of the Taoist
gods: : for instance Yü Huang is Indra (note the number 33 which
is given as the number of the gods under their rule respectively);
Tien Hou, Queen of Heaven is Maritchi; the Tou Mu worshipped
for instance at T'aishan is also Maritchi, identified also with
Tchundi. It would lead too far for our purpose to identify all the
Taoist gods with their Indian originals. In the Fêng Shên
Yen Yi for instance the majority of these different gods are to be
recognized as having an Indian origin.
How much Taoism and Buddhism have in common, we may
infer from the Hsi Yu Chi, E in which Lao-Tzu and Kuan
Yin-Avalokiteshvara are seen conversing as very good friends. It
is quite the same world in which they live. There are some
Of the Sutras found in Tun Huang, the greater part are Buddhist,
but there are some Taoist texts amongst them.

ON THE SOURCES OF CHINESE TAOISM
11
differences between Buddhists and Taoists of course. But they
are not very deep reaching. We may find Taoist temples with
Buddhist monks in charge, and vice versa, without the religious
feelings of the monks or of the people being hurt in the least.
Now the question arises: how was it possible that Taoism
could accept so much from Buddhism without losing itself? If
we go back to ancient Taoism we find that it represents a stage of
development prior to the national and historic age of heroes which
set in with the Chou dynasty. Moreover, we have seen that the
development of Taoism has strange parallels in India. Now there
exists a tradition, that the Buddhisatwas of Buddhism, such as
Wên Shu, (Mandsusri), Kuan Yin, (Avalokiteshvara), Pu Hien,
(Samantabhadra), were originally Taoistic Tien Tsuns (Deva
Arya). Now it is true that these and many other Buddhisatwas
before entering Buddhism were Brahmanic gods. So the
suggestion lies near that Taoism and prebuddhist Brahmanism
may have something in common. It seems that many Brahmanic
gods have found their way into Taoism even more easily than into
Buddhism. Even the central notions of Taoism, Tao and Tê have
an analogue in Brahma and Atman.
So we venture the suggestion, that the affinity of Buddhism
and Taoism may have for its reason certain Brahmanic influences
on Taoism. These Brahmanic influences of the Vedic literature
may perhaps even be traced back as far as the Tao-Tê-Ching.
That would give at the same time a reason why Taoism in its
ancient form could not succeed against Confucianism. Con-
fucianism was more fitted for the advanced time of the heroic age
than the reactionary doctrines of Taoism, which represented an
older, prenational period of thought.
Whether these similarities of Taoism and the prebuddhist
Indian religion are only fortuitous parallels, such as may be found
in the development of spiritual life at every time and in every nation,
or whether they point to a direct foreign influence even on ancient
Taoism, is a question which needs more careful investigation
before it can be decided. The only point to which we call
attention is the fact that while Buddhist influences have been at
work in shaping modern Taoism, yet its affinity to Buddhist
forces has deeper reasons.
The Taoist is allowed to drink wine, the Buddhist is not. There
is a little story of the three religious heroes Confucius, Laotzŭ and Buddha
meet. Laotzŭ of course wants to have wine, Buddha refuses. Confucius
in his acknowledged wisdom gets out of the dilemna pretty nicely: "If
I do not drink wine I shall become a Buddha; if I do, I shall become an
Immortal. Well, if there is wine at hand, I will drink; if there is none,
I will not." This story is very characteristic of the difference between the
three religions.

12
ON THE SOURCES OF CHINESE TAOISM
However that may be, we are now able to state as the main
source of Taoism the prehistoric, totemistic age of Chinese
civilization, and we have found that ancient Taoism was a
reactionary movement, which, in despair of the possibility of
reorganizing the rotten civilization of the time, tried to go back
to the very root out of which the social structure of the Chou
dynasty had developed itself. The second source of modern
Taoism is undoubtedly the Buddhistic Church-organization. And
a third source may be found in nonbuddhistic Indian influences
during an earlier or later period of Taoist history.