CHINESE WOOD
CARVING
By ARTHUR STANLEY
Curator of the Shanghai Museum
Although the greater part of China is denuded of timber
through frantic efforts to provide food for an excessive population,
wood is a most extensively used building material, and decorative
woodwork of infinite variety is found throughout the country.
RELATION TO ARCHITECTURE
An intimate relation exists between Chinese architecture
and decorative woodwork. The stability of practically all Chinese
buildings depends upon the wooden framework. The authorised
definition of a Chinese building is one in which the weight of the
roof is carried on posts. It thus becomes easy to fill in the wall
spaces between the posts with wooden lattice work, which affords
opportunity for the use of an infinite variety of fretted designs.
In fact, architecture in China is more a matter of nicely balanced
and decorated woodwork than of stone and brick. As in Japan,
so in China, the roof's the thing, and everything else is subsidiary.
The great mass of the roof is fundamentally of wooden
construction. Beautiful bones have more to do with the grace
of the human face and figure than any other tissue. There is
a close analogy between the skeleton and the wooden framework
of a Chinese building; but woodwork forms besides the bones
much of the exterior decoration. Taking that fine example of
Chinese Architecture, the Sacrificial Hall of Yung Lo at the
Ming Tombs near Peking erected in the 15th Century. The
massive roof is moulded entirely in wood, the tiles, plaster work
and earthenware decorations being in the nature of protective
scales. The magnificent sweep of the roof is essentially of the
spirit of the trees. The roof mass is supported on great plain
round pillars of nanmu wood (Machilus nanmu), which are
fragrant even after 400 years. Intervening between the pillars
and the roof mass is an elaborate system of beautiful bracketing
forming a sort of cornice characteristic of Chinese architectural
woodwork. By the use of such bracketing the fine effect of the
overhanging roof is obtained. The bracketing itself is highly
decorative and is usually ornamented with rich colours. The
76

PANEL OF WILLOW WOOD
The carving is in low relief. The picture is surrounded by a supremely beautiful
border consisting of of an outer fluted line delicately folded in at the corners and an inner
fretted design held together at two points by a link of the sacred fungus pattern. The
general treatment of the picture is better than its composition, the details and grace of the
figures being exceptionally good, while the architectural features and the water are
highly decorative. An overhanging tree and a group of three birds at the top of the
picture are very pleasing.
From the collection of Mr. C. D. McGrath.
1
To face page 76]

DOOR OF A CABINET
Design. There is a border of a recurrent cloud pattern on the frame of the panel
having a bat symmetrically filling each corner and a decorated longevity character (Shon)
in the middle of the lower rall. The design on the panel is of a somewhat remarkable
description. The salient features are two pairs of dragon heads placed in oblique symmetry.
The body of the dragon curls up in a semicircle above the head. From the front of the
body below the head the two forelegs project fore and aft in meander of rectangular
branching pattern founded on the svastika. The two hind legs project in a similar manner
from near
near the end d
end of the body. These anatomical features of the dragon are difficult to
follow but the result is very pleasing, filling the whole panel with decoration not unlike
some form of Scandinavian work. This conventionalising of the dragon is a tour de force
in design. The decoration is still furtheer nriched by a floral scroll of a convolvulus like
nature branching in curves alternating over and under the parts of the dragon and spring.
Ing from among two large leaves which sheath the neck of the dragon on each side. The
general spacing out of the design is well balanced and though profuse is not flamboyant.
Treatment, In relief of 0.5 centimetres in depth. The wood is teak.

PARTS OF A LONG BLACK-WOOD' PANEL
The upper figure shows the dragon and cloud motive in low relief.
The lower figure is the centre part of the panel showing the flaming ball' often
described as the precious pearl (pao chi) or 'mundane egg, in a cloud motive which
forms a pleasing though restless background in low relief. The lower part of the panel
is occupied by a wave motive from the centre of which projects a conventionalised
rock. Growing from the summit of the rock is a narcissus. Projecting from below
the rock are two pieces of branching coral from which is daintily suspended a svastika,
the symbol of Buddha's heart. This design is very frequently met with.
9
[To follow page 84]

PANEL OF A SCREEN
Design. After a model from the Imperial Palace in Peking. The frame is occupied by
a border of a decorated longevity (Shou) character enclosed between two lines. The panel
is occupied by a five-toed dragon and clouds.
Treatment. The border in medium relief; the panel in perforated work modelled in
the round. The wood is teak.
10

CHINESE WOOD CARVING
77
wooden tablet, with gilded margin and letters on a dark ground,
in the centre of the long horizontal, just below the roof and over
the main entrance, sets its seal of symmetry on the general
design. Mention should also be made of the value of the gable
end of the roof in producing picturesque effect and the introduction
of symmetrical curved designs in decorative woodwork. The
horizontal beams and joists are ornamented by repeated geomet-
rical designs in colours, mostly green, blue and white, consisting
of wave forms, patterns founded on the sacred fungus and floral
designs. The sides of the building are occupied by lattice work
screens of simple and bold design made so that on occasion the
great hall could be thrown open to the four winds of heaven.
Turning to the dim interior the mellow light gives a vast effect
of detached space which is accentuated by the coffered wooden
ceiling. Each coffered square encloses a decorated circle, the
four corners being filled with floral scrolls in blue, green and
white, while the intersection of the beams forming the coffers
show a symmetrical cross decorated in the same colours with a
design founded on the sacred fungus; the general effect of which
is extraordinarily rich and complete.
I have described this Ming building because it seems to
show decorative woodwork of a noble type; but if one has the
eye for beauty in line similar details can be found which just
fulfil the lines of grace in many a farmer's dwelling or village
temple in almost any part of China. Carefully considered
ornament can be found in the wooden doorways and lattice work
almost anywhere in Mid-China. While the most decorative and
characteristic of all are the great wooden memorial arches which
are so abundant in Peking and other places in the North
of China.
DESIGN.
It seems fitting to consider design first: design being of
greater importance than mere technical skill, representing, as
it does, the result of intellect, imagination and originality; while
the actual carving, once the design is furnished, is the result of
manual dexterity only. The designer's first object is to beautify
the common objects of daily life and use. There is no essential
difference between the elements of design for decorative wood-
work and any other Chinese decorative art. The bronzes,
embroideries and porcelain all show many similar designs and
patterns, modified to suit the material. The wood carver has
of course one more element to work in than the decorator of flat
surfaces so that shadows give wood carving the added life of
sculpture.
The earliest decoration of wood took the form of repeated
diapered patterns in low relief which mitigated the monotony of

178
CHINESE WOOD CARVING
the plain flat surface. First of all simple parallel lines were
used cut with a grooved or triangular tool; then similar lines
at right angles forming squares and at other angles forming
a great variety of patterns. A further stage led to diapered
patterns founded on the pa-kua or the eight trigrams, the
svastika or mystic cross and the key pattern or so-called Greek
fret. By a combination of these patterns an infinite variety
of diapered designs composed of straight lines became available,
as may be seen by studying almost any piece of wood carving or
lattice work. Corners are almost invariably found treated
satisfactorily in Chinese work by the use of such designs. A
stage further led to the use of circular and curved patterns.
The simpler of these are confined to geometrical forms but,
by the use of designs founded on plant and animal life, an infinite
field of variety and charm was opened. Wave and cloud
forms comprise a quite special feature of Chinese decoration.
These and flame forms are rendered in wood decoration with
inimitable clear-cut force. The floral scrolls are usually derived
from the peony, lotus, pine-tree, plum, pomegranate, orchid or
bamboo and often show fine treatment of stem, leaves and
flowers in good conventional form. The opening seed-pod is
always an effective motive. Though there is little individual
originality these designs show a fine appreciation of the
importance of nature study. Animal forms are often derived
from the mythical dragon and phoenix, birds, particularly bats
which form a frequent corner decoration, deer, squirrel, butterflies
and fish. Frequently animal and plant forms are combined
as in the favourite theme of the squirrels and the vine, an
old Chinese motive first used during the Sung dynasty. The
most elaborate type of wood carving is that devoted to landscape
and figures. Landscape is treated in the formal style developed
in the T'ang and Sung periods showing mountains, trees and
water piled up into the background. Figures are usually those
of mythical and historical characters, and, combined with landscape
elements, represent dramatic scenes of such varied character as
are not seen in any other example of Chinese art craft not
excepting that of painting. Though perhaps not in accordance
with the canons of the best taste this pictorial carving is that
which is most characteristic of Chinese work; but it must
be noted that the work is not realistic enough to be vulgar,
being conventionalised as a rule in a most pleasing manner.
There is no doubt that these Chinese heroes of romance were
a real source of inspiration, stirring deeds always infusing new
life into literature and art. Though the Chinese painter
usually makes a wooden animal when drawing a horse it is
remarkable that the wood carver often gives equestrian work both
vigour and nobility, especially in battle scenes.

Design.
PANEL FROM A SCREEN
After a model from the Winter Palace, Peking. Below a border of
decorated Shou character, signifying longevity. The panel represents Ho Seen-Koo, one of
the eight Taoist Immortals, a lady who wandered alone among the mountains carrying
a branch of lotus lily. She is reputed to have rejected the ordinary food of mortals
eating powdered pearl shell which made her immortal.
Treatment. The border is in medium relief, the panel perforated work. The wood
is teak.
8
[To face page 78]

Lower part of the frame of a cabinet of teak wood showing several interesting
decorative features:-
1. The highly decorative manner in which a conventionalised bat fills a corner.
2. The bat as a central feature of a cloud motive design,
3. The decorated longevity (Shou) character as a central feature of a cloud motive.
design.
4. The same character somewhat differently treated as the central feature of a
design combined of the key pattern and floral scroll.

CHINESE WOOD CARVING
79
In China literature has been more closely connected with
art than in any other country. The ideal Chinese artist has ever
been a man of letters first and something of a poet; in any case a
man who took delight in writing for writing's sake as an index of
scholarship. The characters themselves possess a high decorative
value and are an important source of inspiration in design. The
designer may modify the character in an ornamental way which
makes it more beautiful from the point of view of design although
still capable of being read as the original character and preserving
its special meaning and symbolism.
Chinese art is so bound up with symbolism that symbolic
design plays an important part in decorative wood-work.
Chinese symbolism has that fascination which is always associated
with the mysterious and the baffling. Many of the symbols
themselves may be looked upon as a kind of imaginative
gymnastics. Fairy fancies light as air hold us in their mystic
snare.
Summarised, Chinese design in art wood-work shows great
fertility in invention of ornament. One rarely sees a vulgar riot
of unshapely forms. A due appreciation is shown of the value of
plain surfaces. Great use is made of the written characters and
of symbols having mythical or religious meaning. Where plant
forms are used as a basis of design they are usually conventionalised
with a proper feeling for natural growth. Nature is the main
source of inspiration in design. The mechanical regularity of
geometrical patterns is not overlaboured. Borders especially
show a marvellous fertility of decorative resource. Chinese design
because of its slow evolution shows conventional ornament carried
to the extreme of reticent treatment; so much so, that when one
sees an exact imitation of nature it immediately strikes a vulgar
note. It has the supreme merit of being decorative and not
merely decorated.
LATTICE WORK.
Lattice work forms a characteristic feature of Chinese
decorative wood-work. It is used to fill in the space intervening
between the roof and the floor in garden pavilions and temples,
for the doorways, window gratings, railings and fronts of dwelling
houses and shops, for dividing rooms and for all manner of
internal arched decorations.
The simplest and most frequent forms of lattice work are the
small squares used for the ordinary paper windows so common in
Chinese houses. Almost as simple is the same square placed
diagonally, seen in typical form in the Lama Temple and the old
Observatory building in Peking: this form is also used for the
windows consisting of laminae of mother-o'-pearl shell. These
simple lattices are beautifully made, perfectly symmetrical and

80
CHINESE WOOD CARVING
regular. In the Temple of Heaven, Peking, the lattice work of
the screens, which completely encircle the building, is of hexagonal
design, the intersections being accentuated so as to produce a star
effect which is especially noticeable from within. The Summer
Palace is an excellent place for the study of the more complicated
fretted designs. A vast series of beautiful frets are built up from
rectangular forms founded on the Pa-kua, the Svastika and the
so-called key-pattern. Circular patterns are often introduced,
frequently in the form of the decorated 'shou' character
signifying longevity. Chinese writing is one of the most
picturesque scripts in the world and the extraordinary faculty
possessed by the Chinese in designing frets is closely correlated
with the written character.
These characteristically Chinese frets almost invariably show
the beauty of pure line. They are most original in conception
and show great ingenuity. Used as they always are to fill an open
space their charm consists not only in the wood-work itself
but in the effect of light passing through the open spaces, and the
design is usually made with the object of emphasising this effect.
TREATMENT AND MATERIALS.
THE WOODS USED BY THE CARVER.
The Chinese have less of that fine feeling for grain and
beauty of wood than the Japanese possess. They more frequently
cover it with varnish, paint or gold. In the early days of our
intercourse with Japan the first thing that they did at Yokohama
with a wooden warship which was presented by the British
government was to scrape off the paint. Of the few woods which
the Chinese allow to show the beauty of the natural grain, the
so-called Chinese blackwood' is the chief. This includes more
than one variety of hard and heavy wood capable of taking a fine
natural polish, the botanical source of which is indefinitely known;
but both this and the closely allied red wood' or 'rose wood'
are mostly imported from Siam and Indo-China. Much of the
so-called black-wood' made for the foreign market is, in reality,
quite inferior wood stained black; but genuine blackwood' can
be detected by its exceptional weight.
Among the multitudinous uses to which the Bamboo is put is
that for decorative work, such as ornamental vessels for containing
pens, boxes, penholders, teapots and the framework of fans. The
hard external layer takes a fine polish and assumes in age a rich
brown colour, while, though hard to cut, the carving is of a very
permanent nature and often highly prized. Bamboo was, prior to
the Tang dynasty, used for written records; such being strung
together at one end like a fan. Inscriptions are often met with

TOP OF A BOX FOR HOLDING TWELVE CUPS OF JADE
Design. A marginal border of a simple running key pattern within two lines nicely
treated at the corners. A wide border of the squirrel and vine pattern, an old and favourite
Chinese motive. An inner narrow border of a neat dentate pattern within two lines. The
main feature is a group of five figures, the central figure holding a mannikin in his hand
towards which the other figures make earnest effort. The motive is much used in the
Chinese glyptic arts and signifles Striving for Fame. The figures are well modelled and
full of easy action. They are set on a pleasing background consisting of a small repeated
boatshaped outline-one of those restless backgrounds of which the Chinese are so fond and
which often convert a simple subject into a highly decorative work of art.
Treatment. In medium relief on Evonymus wood (Chinese kyi-kwe-zu).
5
[To face page 80]

ベリン
MEMORIAL TABLET
Made of Singapore red.wood, gilded ex-
cept the name.plate which is lacquered
in red. Perforated carving in the round
of three dragons among clouds; at the
foot two conventional birds well modelled
and with a touch of genius in their posing.
A great deal of good work is
is usually put
into these memorial tablets which take
an important place in ancestor worship.
Several of these memorial tablets are
usually possessed by each family to
which they have a sacred value and
most carefully preserved. This memorial
tablet relates to a Buddhist priest named
Boh.ka; the first two characters liken
him to Buddha; the last two extol him
as of high principle while the middle two
characters are his name.
and are
From the collection of Mr. C. D. McGrath.
PANEL IN BLACK-WOOD FROM AN OPIUM COUCH
The picture illustrates an incident from the Eastern Han Dynasty, A. D. 196
representing a fight between two great warriors. He on foot has by a ruse been deprived.
of his weapon, whereupon he wields the bodies of two live men. The action is depicted in
the carving with the utmost vigour.
6

CHINESE WOOD CARVING
81
on bamboo carvings, the incised characters being remarkably
clear cut and decorative. In fact, Bamboo is most suitable for
fine carving done with the utmost precision and resembling ivory
carving. Imaginative landscapes and pictorial scenes are depicted
on Bamboo with as much delicate detail as is shown in paintings.
The root of the Bamboo is used for carving quaint distorted
figures and demons.
The common Chinese Fir (Cunninghamia lanceolata) gives a
light, fragrant, easily worked wood which is greatly esteemed for
coffins. Coffins in China are often sumptuously decorated at the
ends in lacquer, both with and without carving. The wood
(Sung-shu) of the Chinese Pine (Pinus massoniana) is very
commonly used for carvings especially in perforated work on
account of the ease of cutting and sawing. This wood is often
close grained and durable. The White Fir (Cupressus funebris)
gives a white, hard, heavy and very tough wood which is used for
carving, especially furniture.
The wood of the Ginkgo biloba (Peh-k'o), that remarkable
survival of a single species from an ancient family, is used for
carving and has the advantage of never cracking or warping.
It is something like maple in appearance, yellowish in colour,
fine grained, can be polished, but is easily broken. The wood is,
however, scarce, as it does not grow wild, being found cultivated
near temples.
Nanmu wood from the Machilus nanmu, a very fine tree
from West China, which yields a timber dedicated in the
past to Imperial use, is close-grained, fragrant, brown in colour
ageing to a beautiful dead-leaf tint, easily worked and very
durable. It is used for the pillars of the largest temples, for the
finest coffins and for carved cabinets and other good furniture.
It is one of the most valuable and beautiful of all Chinese
timbers.
Camphor wood from Cinnamonum Camphora is used for
carved figures, boxes and furniture, gateways, finials of door posts,
etc. It is easily worked and durable as long as the camphor
remains in the wood. The colour of camphor wood varies from
greyish white to dark reddish brown, but is generally a light
brownish red. The dark coloured and speckled varieties are most
highly prized.
The Walnut (Juglans regia) occurs in China but is rarely
used for carving. The so-called Chinese mahogany' (Cedrela
sinensis) Ch'un-tuen-shu is sometimes used for decorative furni-
It is of a brown colour very soft and easily worked; and
does not warp or crack.
ture.
The genus Evonymus, evergreen shrubs in Europe, grows
into a tree in China, Evonymous sieboldianus (Chinese Pai-oh-cha)
yielding a white wood of even fine grain somewhat resembling

82
CHINESE WOOD CARVING
though not so heavy as box. It is used for making seals, wood-
cuts and for fine carving.
The wood of more than one species of willow (Yang-zu) is
used for carving. It is a light coloured wood, soft, of smooth
grain with little tendency to split. The mulberry, sycamore,
maple, persimmon (Diospyros kaki) and satin walnut (Liquidamber
formosana) are occasionally used for carving and other decorative
woodwork. Singapore redwood and hardwood is in common use
for carved screens which are subsequently lacquered. Teak is
only rarely met with in Chinese carving. Oak is rarely used in
China for wood-carving probably because the tree is seldom met
with except in sacred places.
THE WOOD-CARVER'S OUTFIT.
There is no essential difference between the tools used by
the Chinese and those used in Europe, but the V tool or veiner is
not used. The chisels and gouges differ in having long narrow
shafts, being splayed out near the cutting edge apparently with
the object of saving steel, which, before the days of foreign
trade, was a comparatively scarce metal. The steel tools have
been produced in China for generations and the art of tempering
so as to produce various degrees of hardness in the cutting edge
is understood. They have the same variety of stones of different
degrees of hardness and roughness for sharpening the tools. The
wire saw for fret-work used by the Chinese seems a more business-
like tool than the European, the wire being kept tense between the
ends of a bent semicircle of a substantial segment of bamboo.
The carver prepares his own wire saw by nicking the wire by
means of a more highly tempered steel chisel; this saw
enables the worker to get through his work at great speed and
gives him easy control when changing the direction of the cut.
The foot lathe in common use rotates the object alternately in
opposite directions at each movement of the treadle. Holes are
made very quickly by means of a wooden hand drill operated by
moving to and fro a rod with a cord attached to either end, the
slack of which is wound two or three times round the revolving
shaft, the upper part of which is held against the chest while the
lower may hold a variety of bradawls, drills and centre-bits.
CONSTRUCTION.
Though not such exquisitely fine wood-workers as the
Japanese, the Chinese are past masters in the art of joinery
without the aid of glue, screws and nails. These adventitious
aids to rapid and careless work are often scorned by the oriental
wood-worker who never hurries and cannot be hustled. He
either, as a labour of love or because he follows the methods
evolved and taught by past generations, prefers to join the pieces

CHINESE WOOD CARVING
83.
together through the merit of prefect apposition in the matter of
mortice and tenon, niche and tongue and dovetailing. Practi-
cally all the woodwork joints used in Europe are in use in China,
and panels are strengthened and prevented from warping and
cracking. by frames composed of stiles and rails and sometimes
muntins. The thickness of the tenon is as a rule, about one-third
the thickness of the wood and the width of it not more than five
times its thickness. The tenon, as a rule, goes through the stile
into which it is mortised, being wedged in position without the
aid of glue.
METHODS OF WORK.
The methods used in Chinese wood-carving may be classified
under low relief and flat carving, modelling in high relief and
carving in the round, mouldings, lettering and perforated carving.
Typical examples of these methods will be found among the
illustrations given. As a rule the design is drawn on thin tough
paper in the Chinese ink or by means of a rubbing from a previous
example. This paper is pasted on the wood destined for the
carving. The chisel is then used with boldness and precision
following the design on the paper. The Chinese carver has no
craving for the use of sandpaper so that most of their work shows
the mark of the tool and gains in strength. It is, perhaps, in the
matter of mouldings and borders that the Chinese are past
masters, that is to say, in the more purely decorative work. And
the same remark applies to lettering. The Chinese characters are
very decorative and have assumed an important feature in all the
decorative art of the country. Literature and art have ever gone
hand in hand in the Far East. The beauty of Chinese script on
bamboo especially, both in cursive and seal character, is inimitable.
Most of these inscriptions are such a subtle combination of happy
phrase and fine calligraphy that one need not wonder at the value
the Chinese place upon them as personal belongings and fit objects
for the scholar's table. In bamboo carving the characters are
almost always incised,-in other woods they may be cut in relief.
It is, perhaps, in perforated carving that Chinese work most
excels. In the infinite variety and intricacy of repeated frets and
wave and cloud motives the infinite patience and manual dexterity
of the oriental finds its special field in a land where time is scarcely
considered. The introduction of machinery is, however, having a
pathetically destructive effect on the production of the decorative
arts. Embroidery is rapidly disappearing before the machine-made
articles and most of the other arts will probably follow until a
demand for the beautiful is again fostered by advanced modern
education.
The special beauties of Chinese decorative art are not apparent
to all, even to all those who have received a training in art.
The

84
CHINESE WOOD CARVING
illuminating saying of a Chinese Sage appears to show the way to
a true appreciation. He says The people of the world will not
believe this, but their unbelief is due to their unwillingness to
purify their heart.'
In conclusion, I wish to acknowledge the kindness of
Mr. C. D. McGrath in lending me some beautiful specimens of
wood-carving for the purpose of illustrating this paper.

THE CENTRE FEATURE OF A LATTICE WORK PANEL.
Made of one piece of Chinese pine, gilded. The circular decoration is perforated work
of the finest type, the picture representing an incident taken from a work of fiction written
by one Nyoen Tsung during the Tang Dynasty about A.D. 806, showing a scholar named
Tsang Kyuin Zen sending a letter to a lady of high degree with whom he is in love through
the agency of her handmaiden. The composition of the picture is well-nigh perfect, the
pine tree and foliage being decorative work of a very high order. The figures of both the
man and the woman are full of grace. The decorated circle is supported on a block on
which is carved in relief a conventionalised butterfly, a symbol of happiness, treated in a
most pleasing manner.
From the collection of Mr. C. D. McGrath.
11
[To face page 86]

A door panel of Singapore wood in high
relief depicting the scholar Tsang Kyuin Zen
leaving in a Tang Dynasty rickshaw for the
capital to take an examination amidst the
admiring glances of his friends and relatives.
The carving is lacquered.
From the collection of Mr. C. D. McGrath.
A door panel of Singapore red wood which shows
wonderfully well composed pictures illustrative of scenes in
a work of fiction written in the reign of Kang Isi. The
carving is lacquered.
From the collection of Mr. C. D. McGrath.
12

PANELS IN BLACK-WOOD FROM AN OPIUM COUCH
The subjects are taken from the wars prior to the rise of the Epoch of the Three
Kingdoms, A.D. 222-265.
Shows two warriors who having fought all day without decisive result continue
through the night by the light of lanterns.
Shows bound to the breast of the warrior in the centre a child who has been handed
over for protection during the wars. The child escapes and subsequently became the
Emperor of the minor Han Dynasty.
13
[To face page 88]

'BLACK-WOOD' PANELS FROM AN OPIUM COUCH IN MEDIUM RELIEF
The upper picture illustrates an incident from the Eastern Han Dynasty about A.D.
189 wherein a handmaiden of Wang Yuin, President of the Board of Ceremonies, is seen
burning incense by moonlight with a view to mitigating the sorrow of her master. Wang
Yuin, unable to sleep, wanders in the garden and discovers the handmaiden. The lower
picture shows her involving by womanly wiles the two enemies of her master in a mortal
quarrel which removes the cause of his sorrow.
14