A TABLE OF THE EMPERORS OF
THE YUAN DYNASTY.
By A. C. MOULE.
The accompanying Table has been made from the Yüan Shih
with the help of the late P. Hoang's Concordance des
Chronologies néoméniques (Variétés sinologiques, No. 29) and
M. Ed. Chavannes' Inscriptions et pièces de chancellerie de l'époque
mongole (Toung-pao 1904, 1908). Each Emperor has a letter
of the alphabet attached to his name for convenience of reference.
The table is divided into eight vertical columns of which the first
gives the Mongol title or name (Kuo-Yi) as it appears in
contemporary official documents, and the second the personal name
(hui ) as it is given in the Yüan Shih. The distinction
between these two names or titles is not always clearly defined.
It is well known that the transcription of foreign words in the
Yüan Shih was revised in the eighteenth century. Through the
kindness of my brothers G. T. Moule and H. W. Moule, I have
been able to use both the revised and unrevised editions and the
reading of the latter is placed first in each case in the second
column. The third column gives the two Chinese posthumous
titles called miao-hao and chui-shih , H. T. and ||
stand for Huang Ti and respectively. The next three columns
give the dates of the birth (sheng 4), enthronement (chi wei E1),
and death (pêng ) respectively. The seventh column gives the
name-of-the-years (nien-hao F) adopted by each Emperor from
Kubilai onwards, and the eighth the date of the adoption of each
such nien-hao and, in square brackets, the cyclical characters and
European date of the first year (yüan nien *)
of each
nien-hao or, in the case of the first four Emperors, of each reign.
When a new nien-hao was adopted on the first day of the Chinese
year, "(1 moon, 1 day)" has been added after the European
date. A new nien-hao adopted later in the year was generally
made retrospective, so that an event which occurred in, say,
July 1335 would be described in after years as having occurred
in the first year of Chih-yüan, not the third of Yuan-t'ung. This
second Chih-yüan period is often distinguished from Kubilai's
reign as the later Chih-yüan (Hou Chih-yüan ).
Besides the Emperors given in the table we meet with
Yu Tsung Huang Ti the second son of Kubilai, and
Yu Tsung's eldest son Hsien Tsung and second son Shun
Tsung who did not actually reign.