110
A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION
A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL
INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY
OF CHINESE LAW
BY CHARLES SUMNER LOBINGIER, Ph.D., L.L.M.,
Judge of the United States Court for China.
A few years ago a treatise under the above title would
probably have encountered indifference, if not derision. Indeed
anyone who might suppose that a system of Chinese Law existed,
would have been quite content to leave it to the antiquarian or
the anthropologist. "Practical" lawyers would have been sure-
that they, at least, could have no concern with such a theme.
But considerations, "practical" as well as scientific, have-
wrought a change. The opening of Chinese markets to the world,
and the participation of outsiders in her vast commerce, have
rendered necessary some knowledge of the rules and customs upon
which that commerce is conducted, and the almost limitless.
possibilities of its expansion give the subject an increasing
importance, which no lawyer, more than the merchant, can afford
to disregard.
On the scientific side, the growing interest in Comparative
Law, as evidenced by the formation of learned societies devoted to
its study, and the publication of books and periodicals designed to
promote interest therein, has finally gradually brought to legal
students a sense of realization of the loss incurred by ignoring the
lessons afforded by any legal system, past or present, which has
evolved through the various stages of adolesence, development and
maturity. This has long been recognized with regard to Roman
Law; it is at least beginning to be recognized with reference to
the jurisprudence of a nation which was old when Rome was
young, which has outlived all of the civilizations of antiquity and
whose government is to-day the oldest sovereignty on the globe.
One of the almost insurmountable difficulties heretofore
confronting those who might want to enter upon a study of
Chinese law, has been the absence of available material in any
except the native language. The Chinese literature upon this, as

TO THE STUDY OF CHINESE LAW
111
indeed upon countless other subjects, is voluminous, not to say
bewildering. But few would have the persevering ambition to
acquire even a reading knowledge of the Chinese characters merely
for the purpose of studying its legal literature. Fortunately,
however, there has been accumulating for about a century past,
a new literature in western languages and it is mainly to call
attention to this and to place it at the disposal of those desiring
a general acquaintance with the subject, that the present paper
is intended.
THE LAW-GIVER OF CHINA.
Probably the best beginning for an outsider who would know
something of the jurisprudence of China, or for that matter of
almost any other feature of her marvellous and complex civiliza-
tion, would be a study of the discourses of Confucius, or rather
those fragments of them which have been preserved. For,
contrary to popular western conceptions, Confucius was not a
teacher of theology1; much less was he the founder of a religion.
He was primarily a moralist and seems to have approached from the
ethical standpoint every subject which he discussed. Nevertheless
his teachings have profoundly affected Chinese thought on all
subjects and particularly on law. "A quotation from Confucius
has settled many a quarrel, arbitrated many a dispute."
1 "A disciple of Confucius remarked, 'You will often hear the master
speak on the subjects of art and literature, but you will never hear him
speak on the subjects of metaphysics or theology.""
"Discourses and Sayings of Confucius," Ku Hung-ming's translation,
(Shanghai, 1898), Ch. V., sec. 12, p. 32.
"Confucius always refused to talk of supernatural phenomena; of
extraordinary feats of strength; of crime or unnatural depravity of men ;
or of supernatural beings."
Id. Ch. VII, sec. 20, p. 53.
The following passages appear to come the nearest to any of religious
teaching:
"On one occasion when Confucius was sick, a disciple asked that he
would allow prayers to be offered for his recovery. Is it the custom?'
asked Confucius. 'Yes,' replied the disciple, in the Book of Rituals for
the Dead it is written, Pray to the Powers above and pray to the Powers
below.'
'Ah' said Confucius, 'then my prayer has been a long-lifelong-one." "
Id. Ch. VII, sec. 34, p. 57.
A disciple enquired what constituted understanding. Confucius
answered, "To know the essential duties of man living in a society of
men, and to hold in awe and fear the Spiritual Powers of the Universe,
while keeping aloof from irreverent familiarity with them; that may be
considered as understanding."
Id. Ch. VII, sec. 20, p. 44.
2 Holcomb, "The Real Chinaman" p. 45.

112
A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION
Moreover Confucius became the highest judicial officer of his
native state', and his discourses reveal much enlightened concern
for the conduct of its government in accordance with wise and
lofty principles. We may instance the following:
"Confucius, referring to the state of government in his native
State and that in a neighbouring State, remarked If Ts'i would
only reform, she would have as good a government as Lu (Confucius'
native State), and if Lu would only reform she would have a perfect
government.2
The following rather lengthy passage can hardly be mutilated
by abbreviation:
A disciple of Confucius enquired of him, "what should be done
in order to conduct the government of a country?"
Confucius answered, "In the conduct of government there are
five good principles to be kept in mind and respected, and there are
four bad principles to be avoided."
"What are the five good principles to be respected?" asked the
disciple.
Confucius replied, "First, to benefit the people without wasting
the resources of the country; secondly, to encourage labour without
giving cause for complaint; thirdly, to desire the enjoyments of
life without being covetous; fourthly, to be dignified without being
supercilious; Fifthly, to inspire awe without being severe."
"But," again asked the disciple, "What do you mean by 'To
benefit the people without wasting the resources of the country?'"
"It is," replied Confucius. " to encourage the people to undertake
such profitable labour as will best benefit them, without its being
necessary to give them any assistance out of the public revenue;
that is what is meant by, To benefit the people without wasting
the resources of the country.""
Confucius then went on to say, "In the employment of the
people in forced labour on works for the public good, if you select
those who are most able to bear it, who will have any cause for
complaint? Make it your aim to wish for moral well-being and
you will never be liable to be covetous. A wise and good man,
whether dealing with a few people or with many, with great matters
or with small, is never presumptuous and never regards anything as
beneath his notice or as unworthy of serious and careful attention;
that is what is meant by being dignified without being supercilious.
And, finally, to inspire awe without being severe, a wise and good
man has only to watch over every minute detail connected with
his daily life, not only of conduct and bearing, but even in minor
details of dress, so as to produce an effect upon the public mind,
which, without these influences, could only have been produced
by fear."
"Now I understand," said the disciple, "But what do you mean
by the four bad principles of which you have spoken?"
1 We find Confucius himself as Chief Justice to the State of Lu.
His habit of introspection seems to have placed him on the road to the
jury system, for, not content with his own mind, he had a habit of con-
sulting seniors unconnected with the case before arriving at a decision."
Alabaster, "Notes on Chinese Law and Practice," Journal of the North
China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, Vol. XXXVII, p. 87.
2 "Discourses and Sayings of Confucius," Kn Hung-ming's translation,
(Shanghai, 1898), Ch. VI, sec 22, p. 45.

TO THE STUDY OF CHINESE LAW
113
"First," replied Confucius, "is cruelty; that is, the undue
punishment of crimes committed through ignorance arising out of
a neglected education. Secondly, tyranny of that kind which
renders people liable to punishment for offences without first
clearly giving public notice. Thirdly, heartlessness; which means
to leave orders in abeyance and uncertainty, and suddenly to
enforce their performance by punishment. And lastly, meanness;
to treat your subordinates as if bartering with them exactly and
meanly; that is called behaving like professional men and not like
gentlemen." 1
The foregoing quotations, it will be seen, deal largely with
political science, or at most, with public law; they have little to
do with what we now call private law; yet it is epigrams like
these-brief statements of great principles-which have permeated
the entire field of Chinese jurisprudence.
The works of Confucius were first made accessible to English
readers by the translation of Dr. James Legge, more than half a
century ago. But a later translator of the same race as Confucius
himself, has found much to criticize in Dr. Legge's version and,
being at once a Chinese and an English scholar (he is, among
other things, an M. A. of Edinburgh University), he has given us,
naturally, the best key to the interpretation of the Great Sage. To
use his own language:
"The attempt is therefore here made to render this little book,
which, of all books written in the Chinese language, we believe
is the book which gives to the Chinaman his intellectual and moral
outfit, accessible to the general English reader." 2
THE CHINESE CORPUS JURIS.
The most comprehensive source for western readers in the
study of what might be termed the modern Chinese Law, is the
so-called "Manchu Code" (Ta Ching Lü Li).
This was promulgated in the year 1647 of the western
chronology, under the Emperor Shun Chih, the first of the late
Manchu or Ching Dynasty. It may well be called the Chinese
Corpus Juris, for it includes the original text (Lü) correspond-
ing to the first three parts of Justinian's Pandects and the supple-
mental laws (Li) answering to the Novellae of Justinian. The
former (Lü) were translated into English and published in
London in 1810 by Sir George Thomas Staunton, an attaché of
1 Id. Ch. XX, sec. 2, pp. 180-182.
2 Id. Preface, viii.
3 Staunton only translated the original kernel or ancient statute'
part of the law, much of which is obsolete; he left entirely untranslated
what may be termed the judge-made or case law, which really forms the
most important part of the work."
Edward H. Parker in "Law Quarterly Review," XXII, pp. 210-211.

114
A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION
the first British diplomatic mission to China (1793.) A later
investigator in the same field has observed of this effort:
"The fullest admiration is due to Sir George Staunton, the first
translator of the Chinese Code, for his elegant work. It is a monu
ment-a labour not sufficiently recognized. It is possibly not entirely.
accurate, as we now measure accuracy, and my own translations and
notation are entirely independent of Sir George's. Indeed, I do not
possess a copy, and my comments are based on recollection. But
considering that Sir George's work was produced a century ago and
that (so far as I know), no complete translation has since appeared,
Staunton's exposition, though only of the lü and not of the li, is
wonderful." 1
Staunton's work was soon utilized by other western scholars.
A French translation of it by Felix Renouard de Sainte Croix was
published in 1812 and later a Spanish translation, 2 probably from
the latter, was rendered. The present writer's attention was first
called to the work during a visit to China in 1907 when some
material on this and kindred subjects was embodied by him into
a magazine article. 3 It was not, however, until his transfer to
China in the spring of 1914 that he was able to obtain a copy of
the Staunton translation, and then only after considerable search
and inquiry. The work is out of print and this fact, together
with the now recognized inaccuracies, inevitable at the time of
translation, would seem to call for a new edition.
COMMENTS ON THE CODE.
In his preface its famous translator said of it;
"With all its defects, however, and with all its intricacy, this
Code of Laws is generally spoken of by the natives with pride and
admiration; all they seem in general to desire is, its just and
impartial execution, independent of caprice, and uninfluenced by
corruption." 4
Elsewhere he is quoted as observing:
"When we turn from the ravings of the Zend-Avesta or the
Puranas to the tone of sense and business in this Chinese collection,
it is like passing from darkness to light, from the dwellings of
dotage to the exercise of an improved understanding and redundant
and minute as these laws are, in many particulars, we scarcely know
a European Code that is at once so copious and so consistent, or is
so nearly freed from intricacy, bigotry, and fiction."
1 Alabaster (Ernest), "Notes on Chinese Law and Practice, Preceding
Revision," Journal of the North China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society,
XXXVII, p. 94.
2 A copy of this is now in the government law library of Manila.
3 "Law Reform in China," American Monthly Review of Reviews,
XXXVII, p. 218.
4 Staunton's Translation, Preface, xxxviii,
5 Holcomb, "The Real Chinaman" p. 40.

TO THE STUDY OF CHINESE LAW
115
1
A later investigator ¹ says:
"The Code, as we all know, is divided into six portions, dealing
with Civil or Government, Fiscal or Popular, Ritual or Religious,
Martial, the so-called Criminal,' and Public Works Law.
"In all there are 427 articles, and, in my edition, about 2,000
Supplementary Laws. All classes are provided for, from high official
to peasant; the note of the Code is indeed comprehensiveness
combined with exactness. There is in this general connexion a
point to remark, i.e., the sovereignty of the Law. Military
interference, for example, is not tolerated, and many cases bearing
on the matter are quoted."
CHINESE LEGAL HISTORY.
To begin the study of the jurisprudence of China with the
Manchu Code, would be like attempting to obtain a grasp of
Roman Law from Justinian's Pandects-a method which is, indeed,
sometimes followed, and which accounts for the unsatisfactory
results complained of in connection with Roman legal study. The
Manchu Code, like the Justinian books, is the product of a long
period of juridical evolution." Neither can be understood without
a comprehension of the forces and processes which brought it
into being and this requires a survey of the historical back-
ground.
Unfortunately the materials for even a general history of the
development of Chinese law are not yet accessible in western
languages. There have, however, been several sketches which
have afforded a beginning, and which ought to be consulted by
every student, before entering upon the subject matter of the legal
system itself. And here as in the enterprise last above men-
tioned, British investigators have been the pioneers. Sir Chaloner
Alabaster, K.C.M.G., while British Consul-General in Canton,
collected a vast amount of material on various phases of "Things
1 Alabaster, (Ernest), "Notes on Chinese Law and Practice," Journal
of the North China Branch of Royal Asiatic Society, XXXVIII, pp. 90-92.
2 "So at the start there is the resemblance in the manner by
which the present Chinese Code at its inception and Justinian's Codes
were formed respectively (vide preface to original Chinese Code of present
dynasty A.D. 1647)-in either case a solicitous Emperor being aided by
distinguished scholars. And of other likenesses in this connection:
between the discouragement of publications additional to the Chinese
Code (save by authority), and such in Rome: between the Li, and
enactments supplementary to the Justinian Code: between the respective
manners of legislating by edicts, decrees, and rescripts."
Alabaster, "Notes and Commentaries on Chinese Law." (London,
1899), pp. 615-616:

116
A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION
Chinese", and law was included. His son, Ernest Alabaster,
a barrister of the Inner Temple, has utilized and compiled
this material, in a treatise on special phases of Chinese
law, but with apparently little historical matter. Subse-
quently, however, the same author, apropos of the then contem-
plated changes in the law, contributed a rather lengthy review of
Chinese legal history in the form of a paper for the North China
Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society.1 We are also indebted to
another Englishman, Mr. Edward H. Parker, for an interesting
general sketch, containing much historical matter relating to
Chinese law, which appears in the leading legal periodical of his
country. 5
In a letter received under date of May 7, 1914, from Dean
John H. Wigmore of the North Western University School of
Law, that eclectic and cosmopolitan investigator observes:
"So far as I can find out, there is absolutely nothing in any
language on Primitive Chinese Law, except one German essay, I
mean law back in 500 or more, B.C."
1 The Chinese translator of the Sayings of Confucius observed:
"We take the opportunity here of paying our tribute of respect to the
memory of an Englishman, Sir Chaloner Alabaster, who has at different
periods published masterful translations of many portions of this book.
When in Canton ten years ago, we urged upon him to seriously undertake
the translation of the Chinese sacred books, with Dr. Legge's translations
of which we were both dissatisfied. But he was very conscientious. He
said that his knowledge of Chinese books and literature was too limited;
besides, that he was not a literary' man. He in turn advised us to
undertake the work. Now, after ten years, just as we finish this first
attempt to follow his advice, the melancholy news comes that he, to whom
our little work would have been of some interest, has passed away from
among living men." "Discourses and Sayings of Confucius," Ku Hung-
ming's translation, (Shanghai, 1898), Preface, ix.
2 "Added to his knowledge and his mental endowments, Sir Chaloner
Alabaster had also a lengthened experience of the East- extending from the
middle fifties until the early nineties. During his life-time, Sir Chaloner,
among his other literary enjoyments, made very many miscellaneous notes
upon the Chinese legal system and its working, principally relating to the
criminal portion of law, and the result not only of study but of observation."
Alabaster (Ernest) "Notes and Commentaries on Chinese Criminal Law
and Cognate Topics" (London, 1899), Preface, vi.
3 Alabaster (Ernest) "Notes and Commentaries on Chinese Criminal
Law and Cognate Topics, with Special Relation to Ruling Cases-Together
with a Brief Excursus on the Law of Property" (London, 1899).
4 "Notes on Chinese Law and Practice preceding Revision," Journal
of the North China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, Vol. XXXVII,
pp. 83-149.
5 "The Principles of Chinese Law and Equity," Law Quarterly
Review, XXII. p. 190 et seq. (1906.)

TO THE STUDY OF CHINESE LAW
117
Mr. T. R. Jernigan, formerly of the Bar of North Carolina,
afterward Consul-General of the United States at Kobe, Japan,
later at Shanghai, and now a member of the Bar of the United
States Court for China, is the author of what may be called the
This
latest general work relating to the Chinese law as a whole.'
has been pronounced by a critical reviewer "practical, accurate and
deep,'
," and about half of its fifteen chapters are devoted to legal
topics.
CHINESE LEADING CASES.
Both English and American lawyers will find a striking
analogy to a prominent feature of their own legal system in the
Chinese use of adjudicated precedents, though with the latter
the respect for precedent and authority is much greater than
with us.
Some of these adjudications have been translated and
naturally afford the best of source material for the study not alone
of the substance, but of the history, as well, of Chinese law. As
long ago as 1889, Mr. J. W. Jamieson, also of the British Consular
Service, published certain translations which he says
"Are taken from a Chinese ... collection of leading cases, the
decisions in which, having been carefully revised and approved of by
the Central Government, are held to establish precedents whose
validity is equal to that of Statute Law." 3
These precedents cover such subjects as the restitution of
stolen property, the fraudulent sale of lands, etc.
Ten years later Mr. Ernest Alabaster, in publishing his well-
known work above mentioned, included translations of a number
of adjudicated precedents relating to inheritance, testamentary
law, trusts, guardianship, etc. 4 It is evident from this meagre
beginning that here is the most promising field for the investi-
gator and student of Chinese law, and probably no undertaking
would contribute so much to a general appreciation of its value
as a more extensive translation and publication of these precedents.
It is already evident that the inductive method of legal study
commonly known as the "Case System," now well nigh universal
in the best American law schools and coming into use among the
most advanced teachers of Roman law, is not only feasible, but
essential to any satisfactory progress in the study of Chinese law.
33.
1 China in Law and Commerce," (The Macmillan Company 1905).
2 The Nation, Vol. 81, p. 84.
3" Chinese Law; Translation of Leading Cases," China Review, XVIII,
4 Notes and Commentaries on Chinese Criminal Law and Cognate
Topics," (London, 1889) pp. 575-605.

118
A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION
THE CHINESE FAMILY LAW.
Foreign investigators appear to consider that they find the
crux of the legal situation of China in the family. One author 1
observes:
"With a precocity truly remarkable the Chinese people have
made the family the base and the image of society."
Mr. Jernigan says:
"The members of a Chinese family are those who live as
members of the same household, which includes all who enter by
marriage or adoption as well as slaves and servants. But this
definition, while correct, is not sufficiently comprehensive as to
the meaning of mutual responsibility as intended by the Code. It
has been stated that the unit of social life in China is found in
the family, the village, or the clan, and that these are often con-
vertible terms, and this is specially true as relates to the doctrine
of mutual responsibility. The responsibility of the family for the
act of the member is most cruelly impressed, in the crime of high
treason, in another section of the Code. This offence is 'committed
either against the state, by overthrowing the established govern-
ment, or endeavouring to do so, or against the sovereign, by
destroying the palace in which he resides, the temple where his
family worshipped, or the tomb in which the remains of his
ancestors lie buried, or in endeavouring to do so. All persons who
shall be convicted of having committed these execrable crimes, or
having intended to commit them, shall suffer death by a slow and
painful method, whether they be principals or accessories. All the
male relatives in the first degree of the persons convicted of the
above-mentioned crimes, the father, grandfather, and paternal
uncles, as well as their own sons and grandsons, and the sons of
of their uncles, without any regard being had to their place of
abode, or to any natural or accidental infirmities, shall be indis-
criminately beheaded. All persons who shall know others guilty
of high treason, or individuals having intent to commit such a
crime, and who shall connive at the said crime, by not denounc
ing the authors, shall be beheaded.' The responsibility of the
family for a member who commits a lesser offence still follows,
but of course the punishment is in accordance with the degree of the
offence." 2
In 1878, P. C. Von Möllendorff, a German Consul, read an
essay before the North China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society 3
at Shanghai, on the "Family Law of the Chinese." Nearly a score
of years later this was amplified and reprinted separately in
1 Scherzer, "La Puissance Paternelle en Chine," (Paris 1878) p. 77.
2" China in Law and Commerce" (The Macmillan Company, 1905)
pp. 73-74.
3 Journal of the North China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society,
Shanghai, Vol. XIII, pp. 99-121.

TO THE STUDY OF CHINESE LAW
119
German and English. 2 The same year in which Von
Möllendorff's essay first appeared, a work of analogous but less
comprehensive scope was published in French by F. Scherzer. 3
Both of these works are written from the standpoint of Comparative
Law, the first being arranged on the basis of the Roman Law "which,
owing to its logical structure and general completeness, has become
a typical system." The author further says in his preface:
"The frequent comparisons with Jewish and Roman Law have
been made with the object of proving that Chinese laws and customs
are pervaded by the same spirit of common humanity as those of
other ancient peoples."
M. Scherzer, in concluding his monograph, observes:
"In China, as later in Rome, the paternal power was instituted
not to protect the child but solely in the interest of the father." 4.
Shortly after the appearance of these works, Mr. Edward
H. Parker of the British Consular Service 5 contributed an
extensive sketch of the Chinese Family Law from the comparative
standpoint. More elaborate than any of the foregoing is a later
work in French, but with ample use of Chinese texts, on the
general subject of marriage in China."
PROPERTY LAW.
The author last mentioned also published a work on the law
of property in China. 8 And if the family law has proven most
attractive to scientific students of Chinese Jurisprudence, the law
of property is surely the most important from a purely utilitarian
standpoint. For not only are foreign property interests increasing
in China, year by year, both in value and extent, but this branch
of Chinese law is actually applied by the foreign courts,
including the American, which by virtue of the extraterritorial
jurisdiction conceded by the treaties, have been sitting in China
1 "Das chinesische Familienrecht" (Shanghai, 1895). Cf. Holzhauer,
Fritz, "Justizwesen in China" (Tsingtau, 1912) as indicating renewed
activity among German scholars in this fieid.
2 "The Family Law of the Chinese" (Shanghai, 1896).
3" La Puissance Paternelle en Chine" (Paris, 1878).
4 Id. pp. 77-78.
5 An excellent example of the value of the British and German
encouragement to Consuls, in China at least, to become lawyers.
6 The China Review," VIII, 68-107 (1879-80).
7 Le P. Pierre Hoang, "Le Mariage Chinois au Point de Vue Legal."
(Changhai, 1898).
8 Le P. Pierre Hoang, "Notions Sur la Propriété en Chine," (Changhai
1897).

120
A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION
for many years. On most subjects, indeed, they apply the law of
their respective sovereignties. As was said by a British Judge:1
"The Court administers the law of England (1865 Order-in-
Council, Art. 5); but what is the law of England in regard to
immovable property situated within the dominions of the Emperor
of China? Undoubtedly that rights in respect of such property shall
be governed by the lex situs, that is by the law of China (Story's
Conflict of Laws,' ch. X; Heffter, 42, V; Dicey's Conflict of Laws,'
Rule 138 Wushishan case, North China Herald,' XXIII, p. 90.)
To apply the law of English realty to land under the sovereignty
of China is to disregard the distinction between the real and personal
statutes a fundamental principle of Private International Law
which can be traced back through the legal history of the western
world to the time of the Roman Republic, and which is as necessary
to-day as ever. It is true that our extraterritorial rights in China
are not rooted in the history of western law, as are those in the
Levant, for they are the creatures of the treaties with China, the
earliest of which was ratified in 1842; but I think there is no doubt
that the Orders-in-Council, from which this Court derives its juris-
diction, were framed on the long-established lines of an extrater-
ritorial law. When article 5 of the Orders-in-Council of 1865
provides that His Majesty's jurisdiction shall, as far as circumstances
admit, be exercised upon the principles and in conformity with the
Common Law, the Rules of Equity, the Statute Law and other law
for the time being in force in and for England, it could not have been
intended that the Court was to apply to land in China the English
law in regard to land in England (cf. Westlake, 3rd ed., p. 226.) A
wellknown rule of construction requires that such an intention being
to change the Common Law, should be explicity stated (cf. Story,
463): 'It is in the last degree improbable that the Legislature
would overthrow fundamental principles
without express-
ing its intention with irresistible clearness.' (Maxwell's 'Interpreta-
tion of Statutes,' 3rd edition, p. 113.) The principle that land and
its incidents are subject to the lee situs is not arbitrary, but founded
upon cogent considerations of justice and convenience-one of the
most obvious of which is that contiguous plots of land should be
subject to the same law in regard to such incidents as prescription
and servitudes. The land of British subjects at Tientsin is often
conterminous with that owned by Frenchmen, Germans and subjects
of other Treaty Powers. If the home land law of each proprietor is
to apply to his land at Tientsin there will be different periods of
limitation, prescription for servitudes, etc., according to the nation-
ality of the owner for the time being. For example, the German
period of limitation is 30 years with conditions. (German Civil Code
927) and the French also 30 years (Code Napoleon Civil, 2262), while
the English is 12 years; that is, a British subject could acquire a
title to a part of his German neighbor's land by 12 years possession,
while the German could only get the same right by 30 years posses-
sion of the British subject's land, or the German might reduce the
necessary period from 30 to 12 years by transferring the legal estate
to a British subject. Such injustice and confusion must in any
case throw doubt on a construction involving them; but I can find
no colour for such a construction either in the Foreign Jurisdiction
1 Bourne, Judge, in MacDonald v. Anderson, British Supreme Court for
China 1904; reprinted in Hinckley's "American Jurisdiction in the Orient,"
pp. 250-253.

TO THE STUDY OF CHINESE LAW
121
Act or in the China Orders-in-Council The same reasoning excludes
the law of the owner's domicile; and cf. Due dem. Birtwhistle v.
Vardell, 5 B. and C., p. 451, per Abott, C. J. Moreover, supposing
that we were in a circulus inextricabilis and that while English law
applies the lex situs, the lex situs applies English law, that law can-
not be the law of realty, and must, therefore, English law being
e2-hypothesi to be applied, be the law of personalty. For the
distinction in English law between realty and personalty is not
founded on principle, but is historically derived from the old
forms of actions (cf. Goodere's Real Property,' 3rd ed., p. 6.)
Realty included only interests in land for the enforcement of
which a real action was available. But a real action in England
was not open to a plaintiff in regard to any interest in land
and freehold, certainly not in regard to land under sovereignty of
a Foreign Prince, a result utterly repugnant to feudal theory
(Digby's Law of Real Property,' p. 96.) Therefore, foreign land
cannot be realty in English law, unless explicitly made so by legisla-
tion. Supposing, then, English law has to be applied, land in China
would fall under the same law as English chattels real, and for
the same reason-that there would have been no real action open
to the plaintiff (cf. Williams' Real Property,' 16th ed., p. 2.)"
Unfortunately, however,
"Chinese land law consists almost entirely of local custom." 1
As long ago, indeed, as 1888, the Royal Asiatic Society, with
characteristic prudence, procured and published reports on land
tenure from a majority of the Chinese provinces. But these were
made, partly at least, by laymen, and are, partly at least,
economic.
As already stated, Mr. Alabaster, in his work, includes a
translation of adjudicated cases on Chinese property law. One
of these must suffice.
"In this case, Tsao Hsiao is uterine brother of Tsao Chi-hsien.
Chi-hsien appears to be childless, and in easy circumstances; Hsiao
to have two children, and to be utterly devoid of property-covetous
therefore of the valuables his brother may leave behind him.
Chi-hsien selling a piece of land belonging to him to the Military
Doctor Lo Hung-pao, Hsiao holds that his brother's property is his,
and outrageously prevented Hung-pao enclosing it, and Hung-pao
brings an action against him. Before this is decided, Hsiao tries
to influence me (to decree) that Chi-hsien dying childless his
property goes to his brother. Chi-hsien, however, happens to be
alive, and Hsiao has therefore no claim-and for attacking the
purchaser when his attempt to get his brother's land from him has
failed, he must be flogged."3
per Mao Tien-lai P.
1 Id.
2 "Tenure of Land in China and Condition of the Rural Population,"
Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, North China Branch, XXIII, pp.
59-183. Cf. Richards, "The Right of Foreigners to Hold Land in China,"
Harvard Law Review, XV, pp. 191-207; "Chinese Conveyancing," 36
American Law Review p. 825.
"Notes on Chinese Criminal Law, etc. (London, 1899) pp. 585-6."

122
A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION
CRIMINAL LAW.
Sir George Staunton chose as his principal title for the "Ta
Ching Lü Li" the "Penal Code of China" and Mr. Alabaster,
as has been seen, selects as the chief title of his work, "Chinese
Criminal Law." But the latter adds this explanation in his
preface.
"The term 'Criminal Law' has in China a more comprehensive
import than is the case with us. The Code for instance has a
distinct division marked off as Criminal Law', consisting of the
discussion of such offences as homicide, larceny, etc. This division
is of itself sufficiently comprehensive and bulky: but the Criminal
Law is not only to be found herein, but is also stored away in all
corners of the Code, in the Supplementary Laws, and in authoritative
treatises.
Indeed to style the aforesaid division in the Code 'Criminal
Law is confusing-and I have only done so in deference to
custom." 1
Nevertheless one of the features that impresses a beginner is
the highly penal character of Chinese legislation. Not only are
its penalties Draconian in the extreme, but acts are given a
criminal aspect which in western law would be regarded at most
as private wrongs. In this respect the Chinese conception seems
to be the opposite of the Roman, for in the latter even larceny
remained throughout a mere delict or tort. A few examples from
Chinese adjudicated cases will serve to illustrate this difference:
"An Ch'i-so held, on lease from one of the Imperial Princesses,
99 mu of land, which had been allotted to her by Imperial Decree
and was thus Government property, so to speak. He was repeatedly
called upon by the Prefect to give up the land and pay the due rent
and on being arrested made his escape. After a few years he
returned and again took possession of the land, alleging it to be
his own property and refusing to pay rent for it, at the same time
inducing the other tenants to pursue a similar course. In accordance
with the punishment due to all those who take possession of land
in a Government settlement, if it be over 50 mu in extent, he was
sentenced to transportation to the nearer frontier." 3
"Sien I-Yüeh took possession of land which had formed in the
middle of a river and proceeded to sell the same. On the appearance,
however, of a proclamation by the District Magistrate forbidding
such practices, he discontinued to sell. As his case differed from
that of those who fraudulently take permanent possession of
Government and other people's property, his punishment is reduced
by one degree." 4
1 "Notes and Commentaries on Chinese Criminal Law and Cognate
Topics," (London, 1889), Preface viii, ix. Cf. Kohler, Joseph, "Das
chinesische Strafrecht." (Wurzburg, 1886.)
2 "At Rome theft was regarded as a civil injury for which pecuniary
redress had to be made." Harris, "Criminal Law," (Am. Ed. 1885), 2.
3 Jamieson, "Translation of Leading Cases," China Review, XXVIII,
Par. 2, p. 35.
4 Id. Par. 5, p. 35.

TO THE STUDY OF CHINESE LAW
123
But most of this material has now become historical. In the
last year of the Manchu régime, which was also the first of the
Republic, a "provisional new Criminal Code" was promulgated.
This is based largely upon the present Japanese Penal Code which
in turn was modelled upon that of Germany. Indeed the
resemblance between the Chinese instrument and the Japanese
is so close that the former is little more than a translation of the
latter and this fact is attributed to the influence of Chinese
students who within very recent years have gone in such numbers
to Japan and returned in time to take a prominent part in public
affairs under the new, Republican régime."
Other codes have been drafted and still others projected based
upon similar models, but these have not as yet received the force
of law and in any event, are outside the scope of this discussion
which relates to native Chinese law. These newer codes are not
Chinese, nor even Oriental, instruments. They are western
products and though filtered through Japanese sources, they will
require pruning and modification, before they can be even
moderately well adapted to present conditions in China. It is well
for her, indeed, that her present rulers have seen fit to call a halt,
temporary though it may be, in the reckless process of ruthlessly
up-rooting ancient legal landmarks and substituting exotic codes
which, however excellent in their place of origin, are quite out
of harmony with Chinese conditions. That revision is needed
is clear; but it would seem that the process would fare better
under the friends than with the enemies of the time-honoured
native legal system.
And when that revision comes, let us
hope that its results will show that China has not forgotten
her very creditable legal history, nor failed to preserve and utilize
all that is bes; in a legal system which can boast of greater
antiquity than any the world has ever known.