THE ORACLE-BONES FROM
HONAN.1
By SAMUEL COULING, M.A.
The very ancient proverb says that a prophet is not without
honour save in his own country; and it seems true of other things
besides prophets. For example, while these inscribed bones from
China are treasured, studied, lectured on or written about in the
United States, Paris, Berlin and London, our collection in this
Society's Museum is one of the poorest and our Journal has so
far had nothing to say about them.
It seems only decent that some account of them, however
superficial, should be laid before the Society and be recorded in
its Journal. I cannot treat the subject as it deserves to be dealt
with; and the only fact which makes it appropriate that I, in the
absence of others better qualified, take this duty upon myself is
that I was one of the original discoverers, so to speak, who
introduced these objects to the notice of the learned world.
I shall first give an account of the bones themselves; then
discuss their relation to the art of divination, and finally speak of
the characters used in the inscriptions on them.
The Oracle-bones, to the number of several thousands, were
dug up a mile or so west of An-Yang2 in Chang-Te Fu.3 This
seems to be now settled definitely though other places in Honan
have been mentioned, but it is unfortunate that no foreigner has
enquired into the matter on the spot. It is said that all the bones
have been found within a very limited area, presumably the site of
an ancient oracle; and it must not be forgotten that capitals of
the Shang and Chou dynasties were in this neighbourhood.
The time of their discovery has never been in dispute,-it
was 1899. Dealers carried the curious things to Peking the next
year, but 1900 was a bad year for curios in Peking-for sellers at
least; and the bones were disposed of in Weihsien, Shantung. It
was also a bad year in Shantung for foreigners, all of whom, myself
among them, were driven to the coast; and it was not till after I
1 Read before the Society February 20, 1914.
This location has been settled by the Chinese writer Lo
Chên-yü (K).
3彰德府.

99
66
THE ORACLE-BONES FROM HONAN
had returned from a furlough that the bones came under my notice
in 1903. Then Dr. F. H. Chalfant who lived at Weihsien
secured for himself and for me, who lived in a neighbouring city,
some four hundred fragments out of a total said to number three
thousand. We fully recognised their interest, but did not suppose
that any more would be obtainable, and in February 1904 we
passed them on at cost price to the Museum of this Society, where
you have all had the opportunity these ten years of studying them.
Later on we were able to buy more of the first consignment, and as
more and more arrived from Honan during the next few years we
bought all we could get, and more than we could afford, at ever-
increasing prices. Our first joint collection (if a such word may
be allowed), being as we supposed final, was disposed of to the
Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh; but more were obtained later, and
sold to the Royal Scottish Museum, Edinburgh. The third and
best collection, containing some of the finest speciments found,
including the beautiful carved antler, after being jointly held for
some time became my own property for purposes of study; but in
1911 I sold it to the British Museum.
Besides these collections in four Museums, we helped Mr.
Lionel C. Hopkins to obtain his collection of eight hundred good
specimens over seven hundred pieces are in the Museum für
Völkerkunde in Berlin; there is a small collection in the
Anglo-Chinese College at Tientsin, Dr. Wilhelm of Tsingtau
has seventy fragments, and I possess about a hundred amulets
belonging to the same find. These are all that I know of in the
possession of foreigners, though there may be many collectors who
have secured a few pieces. The larger numbers are in Chinese
hands, where, with two honourable exceptions to be mentioned
later, they are useless to science.
I have not stated the number of fragments in our whole
collection, because as in most collections of any objects the value
depends on the quality, not on the number of the specimens. By
the use of a hammer, or by careless packing and transport, one
may easily increase the number of pieces in a collection but not its
value. More fragments reached other places than ever left
Honan, and our efforts were rather to reduce the number of our
pieces. Many a happy odd hour did Dr. Chalfant and I spend
before a large table covered with our bone-fragments, trying,
especially where we saw new fractures, to bring corresponding
broken edges together, and great was our joy whenever we could
reduce two or three small fragments to one. The nearly complete
tortoise-shell figured in Chalfant's Early Chinese Writing³ was
1 See "A Royal Relic of Ancient China" Man, April, 1912.
2 See plate II.
3 Fig. 12.

THE ORACLE-BONES FROM HONAN
67
made up of five bits. The advantage of joining pieces which
belong together is of course that, instead of single and useless
characters, one may perhaps obtain a complete sentence of far more
value to the student.
While for convenience sake we refer to them all as bones,
there are a certain number of fragments of tortoiseshell, and among
the amulets are a few, I believe, of horn. The bones are shoulder-
blades of either ox or large deer, with tibia bones, split length-
wise, of deer and goat.
The question has been raised whether bones could possibly
last so long in the ground as is claimed for these; but we are
assured on scientific authority that the löss in which they rested
would preserve them for many ages. On the other hand I think
it has not been sufficiently considered that what have been
petrified and found may be only a small fraction of the number
were buried. Many which have passed through my hands have
been too frail to handle, and once, when I soaked a piece in water
to get the mud off the inscription, the result was disastrous. It is
probable therefore that many have turned to dust in the earth
long ago, and that many more have been rotted by moisture.
Of late years, as was to be expected, imitations have been
made and offered for sale. The bones in these cases are old, the
inscriptions on them are new. It is supposed that thousands
of petrified uninscribed fragments being found with the others,
ingenious forgers proceeded to cover them with characters imitated
from the inscriptions. It should not be difficult, especially with a
hand-lens, to distinguish characters newly cut in petrified bone,
from those inscribed on the fresh soft bone many centuries ago, but
care should be taken in buying any fragments that are now offered
for sale.
When the first bones came into our hands it did not take
long to decide that they were connected with divination. First
there were among them fragments of tortoiseshell; and on these
were recognisable characters which indicated their use. The
inscriptions were evidently, at first sight, questions or answers to
or from an oracle.
The practice of divination by means of the tortoise is
mentioned in the earliest Chinese literature, and very frequently.
Thus in the Book of History (Shu Ching) in the section named
Hung Fan, which dates from the Shang dynasty, we read in
Legge's translation, "Having appointed officers for divining by the
tortoise and by the milfoil, they are to be charged on occasion to
perform their duties. In doing this they will find the appear-
ances of rain, clearing up, cloudiness, want of connection and
crossing; and the symbols solidity and repentance. In all, the
1洪範

68
THE ORACLE-BONES FROM HONAN
indications are seven; five given by the tortoise and two by the
milfoil, by which the errors of affairs may be traced out." In the
Book of Rites (Li Chi) in the section Ch'ü Li¹ formulæ are given
for the consultation of the tortoise; and in the Chou Li Book XXIV
there is a list of officials for sacrifices and auguries, with the
various duties of each office. But though the references are thus
numerous they are often quite obscure and leave us uncertain
on many details. Much later, though still twenty centuries ago,
Ssu-ma Ch'ien in his Historical Records (Shih Chi)3 gives us a
chapter on the value and the methods of divination by the
tortoise; and chiefly from this chapter together with what is
found in the Chou Li a modern writer Hu Hsü5 compiled a work
some two centuries ago entitled "Detailed examination of
divination methods; " the word for divination implying the use
of the tortoise. It will be seen therefore, that with authorities so
distant from us in time and often so enigmatical the discovery of
the actual objects used in divination must be of supreme interest.
The details as learnt from books are these; first the tortoise-
shell had something done to it which is expressed by the character
chi. Now this character had the meaning "to hollow out, to bore
a hole," etc., but a Chinese commentator thinking this interpretation
not suitable in this connection, explained it as "to burn," and his
gloss has been accepted ever since. Thus in the Book of Odes
(Shih Ching) Legge translates a passage containing this character
"They singed my tortoise; "8 and Couvreur renders it "Il grilla
notre tortue." Leaving this word, which even a Chinese
commentator of eighteen centuries ago could not see the sense of,
we are definitely told that fire was applied to the shell. Of the
proper officer it is said "Il chauffe l'écaille avec un feu
clair." Hu Hsü following the Chou Li tells us that the fire was
applied where the operation called "ch'i" had been done. Then,
as we understand, the proper officer applied ink to bring out
more distinctly the cracks which the fire had produced. After
the oracle had been read, the shell, as the Ch'ü Li tells us, was
buried. The whole summed up is that the shell was bored or
hollowed (if we revert to the proper meaning of ch'i), heated
till cracks appeared, the cracks were brought out with ink and
interpreted by the diviner, and the shell, from a feeling of
reverence, was buried. And now, after thousands of years we
have in our hands both bones and fragments of tortoiseshell; we
see that some of them have been drilled with little hollows
on the under surface, thus justifying the use of the word ch'i
曲證
2 周禮
3 司馬建,史記
4 Section 128
5 胡
ト法考
7 契
8 詩經:繇爱契我龜
9 Biot's Tcheou-li, Vol. II p. 78

181
INSCRIBED BONE-FRAGMENT FROM THE COLLECTION
OF L. C. HOPKINS, I.S.O.
PLATE I.

AMULETS IN THE COLLECTION OF S. COULING
PLATE II

THE ORACLE-BONES FROM HONAN
69
69
which a Chinese commentator eighteen hundred years ago could
not understand because he had not had the advantage we have
of seeing the actually used bones; in the little hollows we see the
black, burnt mark where apparently a red-hot point was pressed,
just as Hu Hsü led us to expect; on the upper surface we see the
cracks produced by this heat; on some pieces we still see the
remains of colouring matter; and finally by exhuming them
to-day we prove how true it is that they were buried and buried
well!
Among the many questions which arise we should like for
one thing to know how the fire was applied. According to
Chavanne's translation of a passage in the I Li (Shih sang li)¹ a
bunch of thorn-branches was used; but in the examples before us
it would appear that only a sharp glowing point was applied,
presumably red-hot iron or heated bronze. I think the apparent
discrepancy may be explained by assuming that branches of the
prescribed kind were kindled and then pieces of the wood with
glowing tips were applied to those thinned parts of the bone, the
heat being sufficient to crack the enamel. Indeed this may give a
reason for hollowing the bone; for red-hot metal would crack it
without the need of thinning.
A further suggestion I would make is that the heat of the
sun's rays may have been used. In one part of the Chou Li we
are told of officers whose duty it was "de recevoir avec le miroir le
feu brillant qui vient du soleil." They do this to furnish among
other things the burning torches of the sacrifices. But elsewhere,
in connection with divination, an officer is charged with the
preparation of the combustibles, and "every time that an augury is
taken he heats the shell with a clear fire."3 A note to this from
a Chinese commentator says "this fire comes from the rays of the
sun concentrated with a metallic mirror." The charred marks on
the bones are exactly such as might be produced by the focussing
of the sun's rays on the spot; and I suggest that either this was
done directly, or else that the thorn branches were first kindled in
this way by the sacred rays and then applied to the thinned bone
as already mentioned.
The system of divination by the tortoise, as displayed in the
Chou Li, was very elaborate. Many officers with separate duties
were appointed; and though the interpretation of a few fine
clair.
'儀被士喪禮
Book XXXVII § 27, Biot's translation p. 381.
3 Toutes les fois qu'on fait l'auguration il chauffe l'écaille avec un feu
Biot's translation p. 78 (***).
Selon Tou-tseu-tchun ce feu vient des rayons des soleil, concentrés
avec un miroir metallique; ibid. (#7#,
於日).
6

70
THE ORACLE-BONES FROM HONAN
cracks on the surface of a bone might seem as simple as the
palmistry of to-day; yet we find that by considering the crack in
three portions, each of which might have any of five forms, they
got one hundred and twenty sets of three-eliminating those
cases where all three were alike, and these gave 1,200 possible
responses; and if, in addition, as is indicated, they regarded the
colour, the depth of the crack and the appearance of the subsidiary
little cracks, one sees that the system was a most elaborate one.
All these fragments of tortoiseshell or bone that we have seen
bear inscriptions. In most cases these begin with a date, that is,
the cyclical characters for the day; and then follows the enquiry
for which a response is sought. It seems a very natural
proceeding that before cracking the bone to get an answer, the
bone itself should be inscribed with the question asked. But a
difficulty appears when we find that some fragments contain not a
question but a response. Chavannes suggests that these are
incomplete sentences and that the entire sentence if we had it
might be in question form; but this would only solve the difficulty
in part, for we have other sentences complete enough which are
neither enquiries nor responses but genealogical lists; the sooth--
sayer was apparently the keeper of family registers also. We
have, besides, questions cut on carved bones which from their
shapes we should regard as amulets; but what should unanswered
questions do on amulets, especially questions beginning with the
phrase "The King asks"? We could well understand that
amulets, carved for instance in the shape of little tortoises,
might be on sale at a temple, just as miniature silver shrines were
sold in Diana's temple at Ephesus; and we might suppose we had
unearthed some unsold stock: but not when they are inscribed
with definite questions, which must have had a merely personal
interest and which are not answered on the bones themselves. It
might be suggested that these are specially carved mementoes for
the richer class of questioners, just as wealthy Christians to-day
may have bibles more richly bound than others have; but in that
case why did not the rich and pious enquirers take their precious
mementoes away with them instead of leaving them to puzzle us
to-day?
There are many other difficulties, such as the fact that
though nearly all the bones are inscribed with questions only a
small number of them show the marks of fire or the resulting
cracks which give the answer. We should like to know also
whether bone was a later change from tortoiseshell-for reasons of
economy or convenience, or whether the two materials were
always in use together but for different classes of questions or for
'See plate II.
E

A GILDED SCREEN IN CHINESE PINE
Perforated work of a very beautiful type characterised by the utmost grace and
precision. At the top is a narrow panel showing the dragon-headed horse prancing through
the Taolst paradise. The centre pattern is surrounded by a broad perforated border
showing a fret founded on the svastika delicately united by a floral scroll. This is repeated
in the panel below at the centre of which the frette:l design almost insensibly passes into
a somewhat unusual form of decorated longevity character.
The centre panel shows us a pleture of some disciples of Buddha among the rocks
and pine trees, well composed and worked with great dexterity.
The panel is shewn enlarged in the lower figure.
From the collection of Mr. C. D. McGrath,
7
[To face page 82]

PART OF A BLACKWOOD PANEL
Shows bats, the symbol of happiness, and a cloud motive in high relief.
A SMALL PANEL OF MOUNTAIN-PEACH WOOD
Shows perforated work and carving in the round; the background of dull black
lacquer being put in position afterwards. The carving is coated with lacquer in rich
dark colours. The figures show action and grace. The details are remarkably well shown
for so small a piece of work (6" 3")
From the collection of Mr. C. D. McGrath.

THE ORACLE-BONES FROM HONAN
71
different ranks of enquirers. Again, was the shell itself a later
change, taking the place of the living tortoise?-for the early
references to consultation of the great tortoise would seem to
indicate that the living creature was applied to. And finally we
may ask why was it from the beginning the tortoise and not some
other beast-which would bring us to the history of the Chinese
dragon and to the wide subject of serpent worship. We leave it
with a dim guess at a totemistic origin.
These difficulties, however, are all less important than the
great difficulty of the writings on the bones, which have a more
archaic appearance than any Chinese characters known before..
Dr. F. H. Chalfant began very early to make a list of these
characters with such identifications as were possible; and he
added to the list every character which he could get sight of, in
other collections as well as our own; and not only so, but he
made a drawing of every fragment, and hoped that one day his
work would be published. It is with the deepest sorrow I have
to announce that he died last month. In his long and painful
illness he persisted in his labours on the book. I do not yet
know in what state the work was left, nor what arrangements
were being made for its publication,-it could only be printed by
the generosity of some wealthy man or by some learned Institution
with funds for such a purpose; but I feel that the suppression of
such a book by such a student would be a loss to sinology greater
than has occurred for many years. Dr. Chalfant had over three
thousand separate characters in his list. (It is not possible to be
exact in the number, for the same character may sometimes be
written in two or more different ways and we in our ignorance
may regard mere variations as being distinct symbols; just as
A and a might be taken as separate independent letters.) The
puzzle begins with fitting all these characters to their modern
equivalents.
we
In some cases there is no trouble at all; the form may be
practically unchanged from the earliest days till now; for instance
the ancient is recognised at once as the modern and Mas
III. Or again in a larger number of cases though the character
may have altered considerably, yet, from the Chinese studies of
ancient bronzes, etc. the alteration may be perfectly well-known
and indisputable. Thus there is no doubt when we find
may put the modern instead, or may be replaced by E. But
alas! the largest number of all consists of those for which no
Chinese work on ancient characters gives us any equivalent, and
which, à fortiori, are not to be at once recognised by any
knowledge of the modern dictionary. That is to say, we have a
large number of characters which are undoubtedly Chinese but
which are so archaic as to be utterly unrecognisable by any
scholar Chinese or foreign, which are not found in any extant

72
THE ORACLE-BONES FROM HONAN
book and which are undoubtedly the earliest specimens of Chinese
writing that we to-day possess. Of such characters, before one
can be translated there must be much ingenious guessing, much
tedious comparison, much patient study. Take for examply
perhaps the commonest character, which occurs on almost evere
bone, the symbol . Being so common and occurring immediately
after the date, at the beginning of a question, it was easy to guess
it might be "to ask, to enquire," and Dr. Chalfant declared it was
the modern and certainly in every place where the context
could be read the substitution gave good sense. I, however, who
gave but little study to the subject, was not satisfied, and refused
to accept , probably on instinct! But I had nothing better to
offer, and for years the matter remained a standing joke between
my friend and myself. But at last either Dr. Chalfant or Mr.
Hopkins came across what was evidently the same character but
written, and it became at once plain that it was not to ask
but i to divine.
such fearsome wild-fowl as
藥
more
In spite, however, of all the patient toil of enthusiasts, and
with all the help that native literature can give, I believe that
out of the three thousand symbols not more than about seven
hundred have been identified. Such innocent looking characters
as and
are, I believe, still unrecognised, while
might disconcert the boldest.
Whether German students beginning later have been
successful I cannot say ; but there have been two Chinese collectors
who studied the bones and published works on them. The first
was a Tao-t'ai, Liu Tieh-yün,' who made the first great collection.
In 1903 he had some hundreds of examples from his six thousand
fragments phototyped and produced in six volumes. But he
made hardly any attempt at the identification of the characters.
In 1911 another Chinese scholar Lo Chên-yü2 began the
publication of a large and ambitious work on the subject, but his
labours have been interrupted by his flight to Japan. The total
result, therefore, so far as I know, is that after years of study and
discussion three-fourths of the characters still remain unknown to
us. It may be of course that many of them have no modern
equivalents, but have been replaced in practice by entirely
unrelated characters. As an example, we have characters which
are written in several ways such as
which are now
replaced by ; and T which is supposed to be a nail seen sideways
but which is also written where we must have a view of the
nail's flat head. Now in these cases we are aware of the characters
being related though so dissimilar in appearance; but it is
23.
2 羅振玉

THE ORACLE-BONES FROM HONAN
73
probable that in other cases there may be relationships quite
unsuspected by us, where one variant has survived to modern days
while the others have become obsolete ages ago.
Mr. Hopkins expresses surprise that such variations could
obtain contemporaneously; but I think that except where variants
occur on the same fragment it is easier to accept them as proof
that the bones belong to different periods. If they were reverently
buried the oldest would be at the bottom of a pit and the newest
at the top; or successive pits or trenches would be made side by
side as required. When the bones were exhumed unhappily no
foreigner was there to observe these things; but I cannot help
thinking that if instead of their all being mingled together we
had them in the separate layers or order in which they were buried,
we should find that one variant of a character was in use at one
time, and another, superseding it, at a later period, the latest being
those which have passed into the language of to-day.
The actual age of the relics is a question not yet settled. On
them there occur frequently such pairs of characters as Tsu I,
Tsu Kéng, Tsu Ting, etc. Now these are titles of the rulers of
the Shang dynasty; and Chavannes, on the ground that none dare
thus address the dead emperors except their descendants, regards
the bones as dating from the later years of the Shang dynasty,
which ended B.C. 1122. The Chinese scholars Liu Tieh-yün
and Lo Chên-yü are also of this opinion, the latter asserting that
Wu Ist (B.C. 1198) moved his residence to the very place
where the relics are now discovered. On the other hand Mr.
Hopkins considers that the above pairs of characters are not proper
names or titles, so to speak. The word Tsu means ancestor, and
the second character in each case is a cyclical sign; and as personal
names of parents might not be used, Mr. Hopkins considers the
words to mean "ancestor Kêng, ancestor Ting" etc, the cyclical
sign being employed just as we in such cases might use the letters
of our alphabet and write "my ancestor A, my grandfather B"
and so on.
In this case the fragments might belong to the Chou
dynasty. But further, Mr. Hopkins has found on one bone a
name which certainly belongs to that dynasty and to the fifth
century B.C. and he, therefore, seems to think that is the more
likely date of all the fragments. There is thus a difference of six
centuries between these authorities. I do not myself see why both
should not be partly right. Divination was no doubt carried on,
and in that district, during both periods. General uniformity in
the style of writing during six hundred years may easily be
understood when we remember that the priestly script is sacred
"Chinese Writing" etc. R. A. S. Journal 1911.
2乙,祖庚,祖T, etc.

74
THE ORACLE-BONES FROM HONAN
and remains unchanged in spite of the advance of learning.
Hieroglyphics persisted thus in Egypt long after the general public
had found an easier way. These pictographs and symbols on the
bones are the hieroglyphics of soothsayers, and the characters of
the later Shang may well have been still written with but little
alteration by diviners in the later Chou. At the same time I
have already suggested that such variations as we find in spite of
the general uniformity may be a positive proof that the inscrip-
tions can belong to different centuries.
There is one character of the greatest interest, and I invite
you to preside as it were at its birth. Where the fire has
been applied to the underside of a bone as described already,
the resulting crack on the surface is longitudinal with a
branch at right angles. Sometimes there is a succession of such
cracks on the same bone. When we first looked on this we felt a
little like "some watcher of the skies, when a new planet swims into
his ken"; for, the purpose of the crack was divination, and the
character for divining is to-day written p, and we could not doubt
that in the crack itself we saw the birth of the character. In the
Shuo Wen, the dictionary of the second century A. D., under the
word we find as one explanation "to examine the horizontal and
vertical omens."1 In explanatory books the vertical and horizontal
are pictured as being the natural marks on the shell; but the
discovery of the actual bones has shown us that it was the crack
which both gave an answer to the enquirer and enriched the
language with a symbol.
As in the dark ages of Europe, learning was conserved in the
church, so in the dawn of Chinese history we find writing a
possession of the soothsayers. It would be too much to suggest
that the diviners invented it; but remembering the need of preserv-
ing questions and answers to and from the oracle as well as other
sacred records, it is not too much to say that soothsayers were the
learned class who preserved and developed the written character,
and that the temple was the home of learning then as in the
middle ages of our civilisation. It has even been claimed that
many of these bones are simply the copy-books of the younger
generation of priests learning the sacred art of writing. Exceed-
ingly old tradition says that the Lo gave the Book (or defined
characters) and the Ho gave the Scheme (which was developed into
the Pa Kua system of philosophy or divination). The Lo gave the
book, which came on the back of a tortoise; and this is interpreted
to mean that the natural markings on the back of the tortoise gave
to men their first idea of written character. The Ho also gave
the divination scheme. To-day again the Lo and the Ho have
'象亟兆之岊衡也
2 Anna Bernhardi p. 25.

THE ORACLE-BONES FROM HONAN
75
given into our hands the writing on the back of the tortoise and
the works of divination. Can it be that the old legend really
means that on the banks of the Lo and the Ho in Honan writing
was first developed, that it was done on tortoiseshell, and that it
was used for divination?
In conclusion I have said that the inscriptions are nearly all
questions and that answers are scarce. So with the bones them-
selves, they have answered a few questions for us but they have
stirred up a host of new ones. We hope that patient study and the
discovery of new material will give us answers, but it will not be
soon, and our interest and our keen unsatified desire to know will
last us all our days.
LITERATURE OF THE SUBJECT.
Chalfant, F. H. Early Chinese Writing (pp. 30-5)
Memoirs of Carnegie Museum, Vol., IV No. 1, Sept.
1906.
Chavannes, E. La Divination par l'écaille de tortue dans la haute
antiquité Chinoise. Journal Asiatique 1911.
Hopkins, L. C. Chinese Writing in the Chou dynasty in the light
of recent discoveries. Journal of Royal Asiatic Society
1911.
A Funeral Elegy and a Family Tree inscribed on Bone.
Journal of Royal Asiatic Society, October 1912.
& R. L. Hobson. A Royal Relic of Ancient China.
Man. April 1912.
Dragon and Alligator, being Notes on some ancient
inscribed bone carvings. Journal of Royal Asiatic
Society July 1913.
Bernhardi Anna, Frühgeschichtliche Orakelknochen aus China.
Baessler Archiv, Band IV, Heft 1, 1913.
Liu Tich-yün 10 Vols. Shanghai. 4903.
Lo Chên-yü (64 pp.) Peking. 1910.
Japan, 1912, 4 vols.
Mueller, H. Mitteilungen zur Kritik der frühgeschichtlichen
chinesischen Orakelknochen. Zeitschrift für Ethnologie.
Heft 6 1913.