THE GREAT WEAL:
OR
A CHRISTMAS JOURNEY TO THE HUANGHO MOUTH
By Rev. J. HUSTON EDGAR, F.R.G.S.
By this name I denote the raised silted tract at the Yellow
River old mouth, the title being a companion title to "The Land
of Deep Corrosions." The old mouth of the Yellow River is not
one of the best known regions on the earth's surface; and for this
reason the writer chose it as the object of a Christmas holiday.
A start was made from Antung on the 23rd of December, 1912,
and although the wind must have been about freezing point, the
bright shining sun made our morning walk along the Great Weal
pleasant and invigorating. At Ri Tang, a few li down, the party
descended to the weary plain, trundled across to Shan-Yin and
again ascended to the artificial plateau. In due time we reached
our destination, Chowmên in the Fowning district, an utterly
untutored village under the mud cliffs of the right bank. The
children became strangely excited and threw mud at my inn, but
the adults were friendly and polite. The place has some reputa-
tion for quarrels. It seems that they have, on the strength of an
indelicate legend, tabooed a commonplace, ordinary expression. In
this case almost every one would naturally use the same ten times
a day and inadvertently offend the Chowmên community just as
often. Fortunately, a warning beforehand kept our party off the
social rock.
On our way down we had an excellent opportunity of study-
ing the Yellow River Weal. The dykes, or elevated silt areas
composing it, are about forty feet above the level of the con-
tiguous plains, and as a rule about one mile from bank to bank.
Of course the intervening space was never occupied by the
ordinary volume of the Huang Ho, but the old trough, a wide
winding depression some ten feet lower, may be easily traced.
Running through this trough again is a canal-like groove, the
water level of which must still be somewhat higher than the
distant fens bordering the dykes. Indeed this is probably a true
canal cut about forty years ago with the object of draining the
Crown lands within the artificial catchment area. For this
unique river, by its remains, has not only made a new Divide, but

d.A 2001 ile
ALO TW AT THE
VAX DXIT
DZAUST
je bio most sat i OUT A SAM HOT

W
SHUH SHUI
LUH TANG
HO
SHÏ
HSIANG
HU
NORTH
SAN LI
HU
CHONG
LIEN
HUANG
SOUTH
HSI LIEN HO
FENG HUANG KEO
HO
CH AO
HO
LUH TANG HO
OHSI AN
TUEN
ANTUNG
AND
HUEIO
TEN
Massacre of Jap. pirates
abt 1550 A.D
OCHA MIAO
TUNG AO HO
NG HO PEH TEO HO
KENT
YUAN TU
Hо
YIH FAN HO
UAN
TUAN
OH IT HIH H
CHIEN
OMAN HO
N
OR
MA CHIANG Пo
HSIAO HUANG HO
-MIN PIENHO
TIEN
KUANG YUIN
TIDAL
R.
TA CHONG
YIN YANG HO
after 1068 A.D.
The HUANG
SHA P
SHA PEH
TUNG KAN
HUO
Θ
O
PEH TAN WUCHIA
HUAI
No. 1.
SKETCH MAP of AN TUNG in Aucient times from old Maps
Notes.-Ho Canal or River-Hu-Lake.
0-0-0- Boundary of old Estuary.
8
Blue Dry land. RED
former Sea.
E
KAI SHAN

H
O
201
Ccat arvo
D
.VZD
OB KALI 32n
HO
OH
UH
DZA18M
їна
DVAUH
CHONG

THE GREAT WEAL
also an elevated basin of its very own!
47
As far as one can see
the normal water level must have been from 15 to 20 feet above
the plain, but the flood levels-an alarming body of liquid mud-
no doubt often rose from 15 to 20 feet higher.
We left Chowmên before sunrise and went along the right
bank for some distance. A dreary plain was before us which
gave the impression of marsh-land, the monotony of which was
broken by trees, homesteads and an incredible number of grave
mounds. The leakage evidently by drains and canals enters the
Inner Canal and eventually goes into the sea direct or via the
Yangtzu. The region although unsurveyed is uninteresting in
the extreme. Not so that on the, left bank, however, although
even here the landscape is generally unattractive enough.
Groves, gardens, homesteads, temples and other works of man are
reduced to a minimum; and everywhere the winter grass, willows,
poplars, dog-kennel hovels, and innumerable grave mounds speak
of his waning influence, while further down thousands of treeless,
unproductive acres proclaim that the fight has gone against him.
This waste is the famous Tien Hu ( ), and although in
the opalescent haze of the winter sun it has a beauty of its own,
later when soaked by the floods of summer it would probably
suggest a detail for a noisome Inferno. Strangely enough, owing to
man's interference with Nature's architecture, we must reckon the
Tien Hu as a recent addition to the world's geography. For
without accepting the Annals of the Antung city as infallible,
they are probably correct in viewing this region as an ancient Delta
through which numerous streams and canals entered the Huang
Ho; but in time, owing to the necessity of embankments, these
streams were not only unable to enter their accustomed basin, but
owing to a like cause the convex contour not being perfectly
formed they were unable to flow back into another basin. And
because of these facts we assume that if the work of the River
had not been hindered the poverty and desolation of the Tien Hu
would have never been recorded. At present the farmers who
have an interest in the swamp live on terraced patches along the
monstrous dyke, and the report that each family has a boat, or
shares in one, is probably not far from the truth.
is about 30 miles in length, and contains about 12,000 English
acres. Near the centre of Tien Hu is a fair-sized town with the
same name. Among other things it is remarkable for the large
number of graves in the vicinity; and while I have no positive
proof, it would almost seem that the owners of marsh lots have
encouraged the Antung residents to bury their dead in this
noisome fen. In the old days the town Tien Hu may have been a
busy port on the Huai, and later no doubt became a valuable
military outpost guarding the Huai and the Ch'ao from maraud-
ing Japanese, and the equally fierce robbers and pirates from the
This marsh

48
THE GREAT WEAL
litoral regions of Haichow, Fowning and Antung; but its present
importance arises from the fact that it is a connecting link between
Haichow and Fowning; or being in an exceptionally sequestered
locality and a border town as well, pirates, robbers, and smugglers
may deal in contraband goods with impunity. Tien Hu gives
the impression that it is just recovering from something. Did
the plague of demons, mentioned in the Annals of Antung, retire
to this weird land; and even now do the ghosts, monsters, ogres,
elves, gnomes, dryads, naiads, harpies, brownies, goblins and
hobgoblins still hold their Councils in the swamps of Tien Hu? I
cannot say; but my experiences a few miles to the East: may incline
some to ponder before being too emphatic with a negative answer.
Tien Hu has three lagoons in the vicinity, and a mass of
broken ground that might be mistaken for a hill; but this and the
other features bear mute, yet trustworthy witness that the town was
in perpetual danger of being buried in an ocean of mud, and that
its continuance as a mart has in it something of the miraculous !
Outside the city the traveller is asked to inspect a huge lump of
iron which still retains a rough dumb-bell shape. It is credited
with being the baton (?) of one of the Tang dynasty worthies,
but I prefer to look upon it as an efficient mud-pounder to which
some mythological deficiency gave an entirely new value. For in
controlling this mad rush of liquid mud the favours of the Genii
were not ignored. It is said that associated with the human
engineers were nine cows, two tigers, and one Imperial Baton-
all of iron;-the cows and tigers are rare enough, but only
Tien Hu has a Baton: an indication of the extreme danger
threatening the vicinity! Two of the cows may be seen between
Antung and Huang Ho K'ou, but the nearest tiger is said to be
at Hsu Chow Fu徐州.
In a conspicuous position in the centre of the marsh
is an interesting old tower which tradition asserts was built
in the Tang Dynasty and the traveller assumes was in
existence before the advent of the Yellow River in Kiangsu,
in 1080 A.D. The tower is in a low position below a ruined
temple; the upper portion is smashed and on the opposite side
an enormous section has been taken out from the base. Although
it is now hanging by about half the masonry, there is no sign of
the equilibrium being affected.
Some distance below Tien Hu is the famous Yün Ti
Temple where in days gone by "the Huai and the Huang
first met the Ocean." An adjacent Kiosk, now in ruins,
with the gilded dome in danger of toppling over, is the famous
"Sea View Tower" of the Chinese Histories. It is quite likely
that all this is much more than poetry, and that at one time-
probably long after the 11th century-the above-named rivers
entered an old salt water estuary now completely silted up.

THE GREAT WEAL
49
Etymology, too, would encourage us to suppose the adjacent town
of Tung K'an (Eastern Bay) as furnishing additional testi-
mony in this direction. From Yun-ti Kuan we find the
nomenclature of the region laden with such terms as: T'ao, ()
T'sun, (*) Chü, (E) and Hung, () a fact which seems to indicate
that there was a consistent programme of reclamation. This was
no doubt accomplished by extensive dyking and artificial flooding of
the enclosed areas. The extent of shallow sea or marsh land raised
in this way from five to six feet is quite amazing.
About 20 li below Yün Ti Kuan at Ta-Tung K'ou is an iron
Cow which marks the position of one of the famous "Breaks."
The cause of this historical disaster is said to have been the com-
mon fresh-water crab. The course of the vagrant waters, a trough
almost half a mile wide and about ten feet deep, may be seen to-day.
It apparently entered the Ch'ao Ho at Kuan Yun Hsien, a newly
made district city about sixty li to the North. The land on the
left bank of the Huang Ho is unproductive waste with scattered
miserable hamlets, but a few feet higher are the silted T'ao, not un-
like riverine terraces, with pleasant homesteads in the midst of
productive fields. I rested in a deserted, half-burned village on
the edge of a dismal swamp. It is called Kung Chihtzu and
has a vile reputation. Robbers find it very convenient in many
ways, and the temporary absence of the inhabitants just then.
only admitted of one explanation. The Headman and innkeeper
were both friendly, but so was a mysterious stranger whose good
faith could not be guaranteed by either. On Christmas day in spite
of the fact that there was about 15° of frost, we were on the road
about 3.30 a.m. and by sunrise were at Luh T'ao, twenty li nearer the
mouth of the Yellow River. This is a characteristic marshland town
with kennel-like hovels in the midst of dreary wastes and dead men's
graves! The Huang Ho here is about 10 li across, and one again
observes how by artificial flooding thousands of acres have been
reclaimed from the saline swamps of the Yellow Sea.
The people of Luh-T'ao were still in bed when we
arrived; but as our party was unconsciously trundling into
the headquarters of robbers and pirates, infuriated by a ruthless
slaughter of their comrades a few days ago, a somewhat
detailed account of local conditions will be necessary. Antung
district is in shape not unlike a pumpkin, the portion E. of the
Tachong being the neck. The people of this region (often
not more than two or three miles broad) being the
offspring of truculent indigenes, hunted criminals, professional
highwaymen, and alien pirates, are turbulent and savage, and for
obvious reasons the depravity increases as the coast is approached.
On each side of the Antung strip are the historic borders of Hai
Chow and Fowning, where the scum of many ages and sundry regions
have been wont to flock, and by prompt and complicated migrations

90
50
THE GREAT WEAL
have forestalled alike the stringent law and the zealous officer.
For a robber in Haichow by going through a back door may be in
Antung; and if necessary, by continuing his flight two or three
miles, in Fowning. And even when the three interested regions
have combined to combat the common enemy as often as not they
have returned the laughing stock of exultant foes.
Sometime ago
a region near the sea was surrounded in this way. Escape seemed
impossible, until the settlement was seen disappearing in flames,
and the desperadoes cruising in a fleet of sea-going junks where
no craft under Government flags could follow. This and many
other regions are so depraved and turbulent that decent men never
visit them, and taxes or dues of any kind are out of the question.
Indeed, it may be questioned if anywhere in China professional
robbers are so numerous, or pirates so fierce and persevering.
But apart altogether from the historical depravity of the region,
for some months, bold men-the scum of many interior quarters,
goaded by starvation and injustice had been using this region as a
base for an audacious programme of robbery and violence.
Finally, some hundreds, led by mounted brigands, had concentrated
in the wastes on the right bank of the Huang Ho and were
threatening Tung K'an. Fortunately, trained troops from Fow-
ning arrived in time, and surrounding the robber camp slaughtered
about 180 of their number. But the remainder, some four or five
hundred, had fled into Antung and were still lurking in the long
line of villages adjoining the Huang Ho dykes. And it was in
some such malevolent incensed region that I spent the Christmas
of 1912.
About 15 li beyond Luh Tao is a large village of low
miserable huts enclosed by a well-made mud wall. It is known
officially as Ch'ih T'ao. Being hungry and unsuspicious a small
inn suggested breakfast, but the faces and remarks of some local
loafers plainly indicated that the intentions of Ch'ih T'ao were
sinister, and that I had walked into a trap. They plied me with
questions and their insolence was past belief. As is almost always
the case children were encouraged to abuse me, and the little
creatures simply worked themselves into an indescribable fury.
A brutal looking mob gathered round, and as soon as my party
began to move it seemed as if an uncanny hysteria from the pit
possessed them, and a wild mass of hooting, cursing beings surged
round me. Fortunately, the village gate was reached without
injury and although the howling mass rushed on the walls
shrieking abuse, there were no doubt cogent reasons why they
should not come out of their self-imposed boundaries.
congratulating my party on their lucky escape when men with
rifles came round a corner and in an insolent manner ordered us to
stop, one emphasising his remarks by a suggestive clicking of a
quick-firing weapon. The crowd evidently expected a thrilling
I was

THE GREAT WEAL
51
diversion, but when I nonplussed the "braves" by walking up
to them, demanding in my most unconciliatory tones the
meaning of this demonstration, an important point was gained, and
the armed ruffians went off to explain the cause of the tumult to
someone in authority. I too went off-I hope for ever! Later, a
visitor in Chih T'ao, overtook us and discussed the situation in
its relation to the fight at Tung K'an. He seemed quite surprised
that a European should risk his life and reputation in such an
untutored region. It was the rule here, he said, to cover strangers
with rifles as they passed, whether individuals or groups. Our
party was a large one and no doubt the cause of much suspicion
and angry comment. Apart from the incident at Chih Tao we
found his statement as to rifles verified on two occasions the same
day.
Beyond Chih Tao the first place of consequence was
Shih Tao, and later after passing a line of hamlets ten li long,
named Seng Ssu Ch'ing, we again ascended the somewhat
diminishing Weal. Below us was a low swampy feature which in
the Yellow River days represented either a lake or shallow sea.
Remembering Chih Tao we decided to avoid the market of Wu-
Chia-chih, and seek an asylum from anti-foreign feeling in the
quarters of the local representative of the Government. It was a
happy decision, for Mr. Wang was a friendly gentleman who
willingly allowed me to remain within the precincts of his pretty
homestead high up in the bed of the Yellow River. I was tired
and weary, and clean rooms and friendly faces were hardly to be
expected in this part of the country. The home of the Wang
family is only 30 li from the Ocean, but the tide does not average
more than sixteen inches during the year.¹ The bed of the river
is now a deep, marshy trough in which there is little water at any
time, but apparently sufficient in the rainy season to float fair-
sized junks. This water comes from the overflow of the Grand
Canal in the vicinity of Chingkiang-pu. There was a fish-eyed
junk floating in the roadstead, the history of which is an excellent
comment on the morality of the region. Some tens of li from
here is T'ao-tzu-k'ou where pirates alone wanton, riot, and divide
the spoil.
A few months ago the junk set out from Ts'ing-tao
laden with oil and general cargo. But falling into the hands of
Antung pirates, the captain and crew were promptly murdered,
and the boat with its cargo towed into T'ao-tzu-k'ou. For
unknown reasons the authorities became active, went down secretly
and recaptured the prize, which finally threaded its way up the
Yellow River to the position where I saw it, where its sad goggle-
1Compare this insignificant tide with that on the Ch'ao where
the tides will average between nine and ten feet at Hsiang Shui K'ou 120 li
from the Ocean.

52
THE GREAT WEAL
eyes seemed to yearn for the security of the German port. But
as the pirates were threatening reprisals there may have been quite
a different destiny in store for it.
I was up very early on the 26th and found, to my
surprise, that although a warm South wind was blowing, a
sprinkling of snow covered the ground. My road lay through
the wheatfields of the artificial plateau and past long lines of
ramshackle houses where hanging mats took the place of
wooden doors. The population for obvious reasons is confined
to the vicinity of the dykes. Every house has a dog or two,
and every dog or two comes out and shows his dislike to the
traveller a reflection of their owners' character, for they too are
manifestly quarrelsome and unfriendly. But one can hardly blame
them when it is remembered that the advent of strangers to
such a region indicated the approach of either marauding bands
or of the agents of Law and Order, both equally obnoxious.
About 15 li down on the left bank a long flat waste is noted, which
was until recently covered with the tide, and it was into such
places that the engineers forced their dykes and waited until the
burdened waters raised the expanse above the reach of floods and
brine. It is impossible not to admire the ingenuity which reclaimed
such areas from the water. The crops, trees, and numerous
farm houses bear ample testimony to the fertility of the soil. It
is interesting to note that stamped bamboo slips are used
instead of the small cash; and that mule-litters carry the natives
to and fro over the Great Weal. About 20 li from the Wang
homestead is the Temple of the Dragon King; a fine building
with quarters for the reception of High Mandarins employed on
the river works. A grove of arbor vitæ in front, although un-
expected, was a pleasant change. At Luh-ho-chuang our journey
was nearing its end; here sea-going junks were anchored in the
canal, and further down we saw one house, one junk and a few
people. This place is technically known by the name of Huang
Ho-K'ou, or the Port! Now the roar of the Great Ocean could
be distinctly heard, and a line verging in the sky was the shallow
sea of the Yellow River Estuary; over it the Temple of Neptune, held
its lonely watch, whose towering emblems are the salvation of
sea-going junks. The river seen from the Port is a poor canal
about 60 feet wide, with a shallow flat on the right bank made
almost into an island by a lagoon-like extension of the tide.
Indeed the place is so poor and unromantic that it requires vigorous
effort to realise that it was once the point where one of the greatest
rivers returned its waters to the sea. Almost to the edge of the
ocean the silted Weal is highly productive and is in marked
contrast to the adjoining wastes. While the former produces
wheat and the ordinary crops of China, the latter supply the grass
fuel for the local population and even the distant markets of

ALGIT
ZAN TAX
OCT 215 TUT
EX DRITO
II.07
OH
TAUH
2YEICH 176 7X INC TRCE 182

e
,
e
e
W
CHIANG
CHIA HỌ
y
a
h
f
f
1
YEN
at
Ce
NORTH
LUH
TANG
SOUTH
LUH TANG
OH
KAOKIAKEO
O
CHAMIAO
HO
xxxxxxナナナ++
OR
SALT
CANAL
+
+
x
ANTUNG P
HUANG
N
CHAO HO
OWU TSANG
OR
HUITEN
OHSI AN
HAI CHOW
YUAN -----
HO
SHUI KEO
HSTANG
TH FAN HỌ
+
O
CHIEN +
+
YENTANG
+
+
+
OWANG CHIH
X
OMANHO
Ο
WUCHIANG
MIN PIEN HO
HO
AND
S
"GREAT BREAKS"
(TA CHONG)
HUAI
HO
TIEN
HU
TIDAL
AKAI SHAN
YIN YANG HO
KONG
LUN TAO CHIH TAO
о
LUN
WANG CHIA
PEH
TAN
HAI SHEN
CHUANG HO KEO
TAU CHIEN
ΤΟ
WU CHI
E
O PEH SHA
FOWNING
OTUNG KAN
CHOW MEN
No. II.
SKETCH MAP OF AN TUNG SINCE 1856
Exps: Ho River or Canal.
Hum Lake.
Blue Ordinary Levels
Red Altitudes between 16-60 11.
xxx Dykes built to divert River
probably used for some years
along dotted lines -----
RIVERS FLOWS to YANG TZE OR S. and E. to OCEAN.

HO
CH-70
+
t
4 mm O
JAZAD
T.1/2
OH
OZAUH
OH

THE GREAT WEAL
53
Antung and Fowning. A peculiar weed also-probably Artemisia
annua is grown in large quantities, and produces a coarse kind
of oil. Salt and fish must be reckoned as exports; and con-
traband and stolen goods are no doubt sold daily in the markets of
Ta-yü-kien and Wu-chia-chih. But it is very unlikely that this
region, even if the advent of the Huai is more than a dream,
will ever have a port of sufficient importance to alter the
commercial status quo. Even in the halcyon days of the great
river the everlasting silt not only produced dangerous sandbanks,
but, blocking the main and subsidiary entrance, confined the traffic
to a small channel always dependent on the east winds. And it is
quite probable, judging by the shipping at "the Port," that the old
conditions are on the whole unchanged; and even if the pirates
were repressed the extent of the change would be confined to small
launches which might touch at Huang-ho-k'ou during their
limited journeys in the vicinity.
The Chinese party of engineers who have been surveying the
Yellow River bed with the object of draining the Hungtseh
Lake have left their marks in English and Chinese. This scheme
has not the sympathy of any who discussed the matter with me;
and not a few suggest the depressions of the Yen and Ch'ao rivers
as an alternative. The Ch'ao is now not only the natural outlet
of the Yen and Luhtang rivers, but formerly at Hsiang-shui-
k'ou, received the greater part of the Yellow River waters.
Indeed, judging by the splendid dykes on the Yen Ho, plans
were already perfected for turning the Huang Ho from its old bed,
when it would have followed the course of the former river and
the Ch'ao to the Ocean. Many Chinese seem quite certain that
Hsiang-shui-k'ou, which was last year given the rank of a district
city (Kuan Yün Hsien) is the true port of the region between
Tsingtao and Shanghai. Certainly, it was one of the old pirate
headquarters; and the presence of large seagoing junks in its
roadstead, hint at moderately deep channels.
The tides are
between ten and twelve feet, and an Imperial gunboat which
arrived here last January (if the report is true) found seventeen
feet of water. That the Chinese Government attach strategic
importance to the islands at the mouth of the Ch'ao may be
inferred from the persistent rumours that a company of soldiers
were at one time stationed on the K'ai-Shan Island "to watch the
movements of an alleged hostile power." In the bad old days
pirates from Japan made free with these waterways and at times
penetrated to a point within 50 li of Antung.
Travellers to Huang-ho-k'ou cannot but accumulate a varied
stock of fact and fancy relating to the old River. It is said
that the current was awful, and the noise of its billows could be
heard 30 li away. Only specially constructed boats could ply on
its fierce waters; and crossing even at Antung was a dangerous
5

54
THE GREAT WEAL
undertaking as may be inferred from the proverb: "Cheer up,
you have not come to the Huang Ho yet!' Only on calm days
would the large boats venture out and even then as a rule reached
the opposite bank four or five li further down, a fact that always
demanded from eight to ten li of weary tracking before the return
journey could be commenced. Men who remember say that in its
best days two giant banks of sand extended 300 li out to the
Ocean and boats wishing to pass its mouth went out 200 li further
before venturing the swirling wrath! And although the European
may be inclined to class such tales with the huge volumes of
Oriental Apocrypha, both Ricci and Barrow (?) would incline us to
reserve our judgment. The local explanation of the departure
of their Titanic enemy is worth repeating. An inquisitive whale,
mistaking the channels, or ignorant of the laws of sedimentation,
foundered in the sands, thus blocking the mouth and causing an
overflow which did so much damage that the engineer prayed to
the gods, and vowed, if relief came, to build a Temple to the
Dragon King. About 1850 A.D. the Huang Ho broke its banks
at Fengpeh, but two years later it returned as far as Antung,.
then finally left for the North. The bones of the audacious whale
were thrown up 17 years ago and exist even to our time. It is.
necessary to add that the note in the Antung History gives the
year of departure as 1856-Hsien Feng, fifth year-a date-
accepted by Dr. Giles.
On my return to the Wang homestead the inmates warned
me that the roads were unsafe, and as they were about to
leave for Chingkiangpu they invited me to accompany
their party. They, although about 30 strong, would not risk the
direct course, but were making a détour of some hundreds of li
via Fowning and Pao Ying, but I preferred a route which would
take me through the zone of the recent carnage.
On the 27th I began the return journey and arrived at a
lonely hamlet about 20 li from Tung K'an; as the massacre took
place there, it was almost certain to be the safest place in the
Fowning district; and although cramped for room there was no lack
of comfort. We had a good night and passing through Tung K'an
about daylight went out towards the Yellow River dykes. Here
at Ching-seng we found that two people had been recently
murdered, and a few li further on frenzied children and insolent
roughs cursed me savagely. A man too with a new rifle sent a
bullet singing through the air, with what intention is difficult to say.
But it was with a feeling of satisfaction that I realised an hour
later that we were past Pehsha and traversing the waste in the
vicinity of the "Falling Tower." An impoverished and truculent
headman gave us shelter; but here again we heard how robbers
had attacked a neighbouring homestead and killed a servant;
while a beetle-browed visitor gave everyone the impression that

THE GREAT WEAL
55
the programme might be repeated in our midst. At Yangch'i-
kang a few li from here, the drainage of Antung bifurcates,
forming the Minpien and Yihfan canals. On the 29th I reached
my destination without incident, and felt once again in an
atmosphere of civilisation.
but
In thinking the matter over my journey to the Huang-
ho-k'ou seems the most risky I have ever accomplished. It
had been a bad year, and the time was unhappy;
such thorough-going savages are fortunately rare in China.
Indeed, it might be questioned if anywhere in the land a man
might more readily meet a violent death than between Ch'iht'ao
and the Ch'ao-ho and eastward to the Ocean. The region is a
veritable cave of Adullam and the disposition of the people might
be likened to that of ferocious animals. During this and other
journeys I have noticed the following peculiarities. No young or
handsome women will go abroad in the daytime, as an exhibition
of their youth or charms might lead to abduction later on.¹ The
region is an uncultivated waste; but the population is numerous,
and in some places the destruction of the low, poorly built houses
would not seriously inconvenience the owners.
The appearance
of strangers either drives them into paroxysms of excitement, or
they become taciturn and openly on the defensive. A jaded,
hunted look may be seen in many faces; violent quarrels are
common; and tales of robberies, abductions and murders abound.
The coast line from Shanghai to Haichow is apparently unsurveyed;
at least if the Chinese Admiralty has correct maps of the Huang-
Ho and Ch'ao-ho debouchures it is unlikely that they have been
at the disposal of European cartographers. So in this respect my
paper suggests problems rather than answers them. It may be
said with certainty, however, that Huang-ho-k'ou is of no com-
mercial value; and it may be probable that a port between
Shanghai and Tsingtao where the approach of sailing junks and
steam boats would not be seriously hindered by Yellow River silt
will yet, be found at Hsiang-shui-k'ou. It is interesting to note,
also, that since the advent of the Weal and other enormous silt
deposits, earthquakes and devastating tidal inundations have been
frequently recorded in the Antung annals. Is it possible that
the extra burden imposed on the region may be part of the cause?
The coast line, too, since 1856 has undergone remarkable changes.
Islands now form part of the mainland, and erosion for years
demanded from ten to fifteen li of the coast lands although at present
the hungry sea seems satisfied with about one fifth of that amount.
1This is specially so in Hsi-an in the Kuan-yün Hsien district.
2The large island marked Yün T'ai Shun has now no existence but the
connecting silt may have been deposited, or the land elevated before 1856;
that is if the "island" of Yün T'ai is not after all a mythical land.

56
THE GREAT WEAL
The following distances are based on Chinese itineraries with
my own estimate of five li to an English mile; Antung to Haishen
Miao, via the Old River Weal, 50 miles; Antung to Haishen
Miao via Tienhu, 44 miles; and the same journey with a détour
to Tungk'an 46 miles. In conclusion the questions will come :
How long must we admit this great deficiency in geographical
knowledge? and why are maps of the Kiangsu coast less trust-
worthy than those of the upper Salwin?