A CHINESE SUN-DIAL.
Prof. Dr. C. du BOIS-REYMOND.
The timepiece of antiquity was of course the sun. Thousands
of years before the most ancient records of history men observed
the sun's daily progress and measured time thereby. Worship of
the sun followed, and developed a scientific priesthood. The
motions of the heavenly bodies were carefully noted and certain
esoteric teachings of astronomy handed down to posterity. In
those days without telescope, reading lens and graduating tool,
truer measurement was obtained by a very simple device. By
enlarging the circle to vast dimensions the error of observation
was proportionally reduced. The mysterious stone-circles and
certain peculiarities of ancient temples can only be explained by
the theory of their relation to sun-worship. Modern astronomy
has even roughly ascertained the age of such structures by their
deviation from the actual path of the sun, and made out dates in
some cases many thousands of years older than written history.
Our division of the day and year, the dial, zodiac and calendar are
derived from these sources of unknown antiquity.
It seems strange that sundials are not more common in China
to-day. They were in general use in Europe before the introduc-
tion of mechanical clockwork, they are still found on churches,
city-gates and other ancient buildings, and often adorn parks and
gardens even of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Old
textbooks of mathematics mostly contain a chapter on gnomonic,
teaching how to trace correct dials on various planes and surfaces.
Doubtless they must have also been in general use in China. We
only see few sundials to-day because ancient buildings are scarce
in these parts.
There is however one kind of sundial occasionally to be found
in curio-shops, the small portable instrument we also sometimes
see in the shops of opticians at home, fitted with a magnetic
needle by which to place it in the true meridian. These instru-
ments fold up and can be carried in the pocket. They may have
been introduced by early travellers and copied by the Chinese
from foreign patterns, as their construction is identical with the
European.
A dial which I examined and photographed at Seoul, with
the kind permission of the owner, seems to be older. It is an
interesting proof of the high degree of culture which China had
attained probably at the beginning of the Manchu dynasty. This
sundial is also of the portable kind, but without the compass. A

86
A CHINESE SUN-DIAL
hemispherical cup or basin about as large as an ordinary soupplate
rests on four artistically ornamented feet rising from the four ends
of a rectangular cross. The material is bronze of a fine light-
brown colour, shaped and finished with great neatness and accuracy.
The gnomon or hand casting the shadow is a thick square bar.
It protrudes from the inner surface of the cup about halfway
down, slanting upwards at an angle corresponding to the polar
axis and tapering to a fine point which occupies the exact centre
of the cavity. The hollow surface of the basin represents the
visible hemisphere of the heavens, of which it is the inverted
counterpart; the dial is therefore of the simplest "hemispherical"
kind. The sun, travelling across the sky from east to west, causes
the shadow to describe a similar circle in the opposite direction
within the basin, at different elevations according to the seasons.
The range of the shadowpoint for the whole year is traced with
meridians and parallels engraved in the metal and inlaid with
silver. The day is divided into six doublehour periods, subdivided
into hours and quarterhours. The scale would allow the time of
day to be read correctly to within about two minutes. The
celestial equator and the tropics are marked by three parallels,
ten others complete the division of the year. The equator of
course serves for the equinoxes, the tropics for the solstices, and
the ten lines for the twenty other solar terms of the Chinese year.
The shadow reaches each tropic once, the other eleven circles
twice within the year, marking thus the twenty-four halfmoons.
On the broad polished rim of the cup the ordinary characters
for the solar terms are inlaid with silver at either end of the
corresponding circles, those of the first half of the year at the
eastern, those of the second half at the western end. A narrow
border encircling the rim is divided into twenty-four equal
parts, thus forming a graduated circle or a kind of double
zodiac, each part marked with one character. The instrument
combines therefore a timepiece, calendar and compass, as every
portable sundial should do. The meridian being known and the
dial placed correctly, it will show solar time and date. If solar
time is known, one may read approximately the date, and more
accurately the cardinal points, and use it as a bearing compass.
But a dial to give correct solar time must be set in a true
horizontal position. We should use a spirit-level for the purpose.
The Chinese maker not knowing this device or unable to make it
has cleverly attained the same end by a simpler contrivance. A
small hole is bored through the bottom of the basin and in the
four arms of the cross supporting it a shallow excavation is dug.
Water poured into the basin flows through the hole into this
cross-shaped trough and fills it. If all four arms of the cross are
filled to the brim without overflowing, the stand and basin must
be on a true level.

A CHINESE SUN-DIAL
87
As to the age and origin of this dial no authentic evidence
is forthcoming. The owner states that it was probably a gift
from Peking presented to a Korean emperor. One other dial of
the same kind is said to have been sold in Seoul to a foreign
officer. The latitude indicated by the instrument agrees closely
with that of Seoul, or rather a point in the northern neighbourhood
of that city. It does not correspond to Peking. Nevertheless we
may safely assume it to be manufactured in Peking or by a
Pekingese artist. It might date from the period in which the
Peking court astronomy was revived by the Jesuit Father Verbiest,
the reign of Kanghsi or his successor. The exact workmanship
and other proofs certainly seem to indicate European influence,
and this cannot be dated much earlier. In 1670 Father Verbiest
is said to have begun his famous reconstruction of the bronze
astronomical instruments for the court at Peking.
metal surface.
The dial bears four inscriptions, all inlaid with silver, in the
With one exception they are in seal character.
The twenty-four well-known solar terms are written at both ends
of the corresponding circles in ordinary book-type, possibly for
want of space. The tropic circles are marked with the same
character at both ends, thus the total number of characters
amounts to twenty-six pairs. The double-hour Divisions are
inscribed with the customary names of animals: hour of the hare,
the dragon and so on, in the southern part of the cup, the reader
being supposed to face the south.
On the free part of the northern rim an inscription of fifteen
large seal characters is placed, which reads:
九十弍度十弍高亟
邦五十弌洲
-Polar height 37 degrees, 39 minutes, 15 seconds.-
This comes very near to the latitude of Seoul, but that of
Peking is about two degrees higher, so that the dial would be at
fault in that place. But this bearing, stating as it does angular
seconds, has no sense or practical value for using the dial. The
basin is far too small for the reading or even estimating of
angular minutes, much less quarter minutes. We must suppose the
artist inscribed on his work the most exact value of the angle
known to him merely to show that he was well informed and able
to construct a correct dial-as an advertisement we might say.
A measurement of such precision was probably an uncommon
novelty in this part of the world. On this supposition the
number of fifteen seconds or a quarter of a minute presents some

88
88
A CHINESE SUN-DIAL
interest. It may give a clue to the age of the work. Tycho
Brahe, the last of the great astronomers before the telescope came
into use, made the most precise measurements, which were true
to about one minute. In fact, naked eye vision does not allow a
much higher accuracy. This was only attained after 1667 by the
use of the telescope. One angular minute was the true limit, but
Tycho and his pupils, among whom Verbiest must be reckoned,
wrongly ascribed a greater precision to their instruments, giving
quarters or even sixths of minutes. The bronze circles of Peking
made by Verbiest and lately carried to Germany were graduated
for the reading of quarter minutes. We have therefore on the
dial a statement, the precision of which agrees with the official
limit of exactitude recognized by the court astronomers of Peking
in the pre-telescopic era of Verbiest. We may conclude that the
inscription on the dial and the dial itself came from the court at
Peking and was made no earlier than the last quarter of the
seventeenth century, when Chinese astronomy reached its climax
in the reign of Kanghsi. On the other hand it is not very
probable that the dial was made much later.
On the northern border of the basin are four large seal
characters reading: Yang fu ji kuai.
日
了
The meaning is obvious: yang means looking upwards; fu,
a cauldron; ji kuai is a sundial-Horizontal cauldron-shaped
sundial.
The fourth and last inscription are the seal characters which
mark the twenty-four divisions of the outer rim. They are placed
in the middle of each division, so that the characters and not the
dividing strokes occupy the four cardinal points, north, south, east
and west, and the twenty others. The strokes are therefore
removed from these points on either side by an angle of seven and
a half degrees. For use as a bearing compass this disposition
is evidently most unsuited. It would rather appear to represent a
kind of zodiac. By applying plumblines to the dividing strokes
one could partition the lower region of heaven into twenty-four
azimuths or "houses" and observe the place of celestial or
terrestial objects with regard to these. Such observations are
known to play an important part in the astrology and geomancy
of the Chinese. The common geomantic compass indeed contains
a graduated circle marked with the same twenty-four characters in
the same order, if we may disregard slight variations and trans-
positions of single characters such as often occur in those fanciful
monstrosities. These circles might be taken for a duplication of
the universally known twelve zodiacal signs, or else one might
suspect a modern adaptation to some foreign influence. For the

A CHINESE SUN-DIAL
89
two ancient zodiacs of Chinese astronomy are not graduated in
twenty-four parts; one has twelve, the other twenty-eight
divisions.
To solve the problem I have tried to unravel the texture of
this set of characters. It is not difficult; three different cycles
have contributed to its composition, they are,-one might say,-
interlaced in a regular manner to form it. Dr. E. J. Eitel in a
paper on Fengshui has analysed all the circles of a geomantic
compass of the largest size, according to Chinese notions. A full-
sized illustration is given in which our circle of twenty-four
characters appears twice [with a declination between the two of
fifteen degrees]. The text confirms my conjecture as to the
arrangement.
The zodiacal signs or twelve horary characters, rat, ox, tiger,
hare, etc. form the groundwork, beginning at the north point and
running round the entire rim east, south and west, but they omit
every alternate space. Eight of these remaining spaces are
occupied by eight of the ten celestial stems, arranged in pairs
according to their connection with elements and planets. The
first and second stem [element: wood, planet: Jupiter] are
placed on either side of the east, the third and fourth [fire, Mars]
have the south between them, the seventh and eighth [metal,
Venus] the west point, and the ninth and tenth [water, Mercury]
the north. The fifth and sixth stem, belonging to Earth and
Saturn, are absent. Four spaces now remain to be filled, placed
northeast, southeast, southwest and northwest. These are marked
with the four characters: mountains, wind, earth and heaven,
corresponding to the places given them in Wen Wang's
"posterior" arrangement of the cardinal points and diagrams.
This combination of the cycles is best illustrated by a table,
setting forth the three parts in separate columns. Evidently such
a rather arbitrary mixture of fragmentary cycles cannot represent
a valuable relic of high antiquity. It is most probably nothing
more than a comparatively modern compilation of Taoist occult
science.-