REMINISCENCES
OF A
CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY'
Being the Opinions and Recollections of a Secretary on
the Staff of the late Viceroy Chang Chih-tung
for over twenty years
"
TRANSLATED BY ARDSHEAL"
[Continued from p. 109 of Journal 1914.]
ΧΧ.
CONFUCIANISM AS A GUIDE TO GOVERNMENT.
Confucius said: "When directing the affairs of a great nation,
a man must be serious in attention to business and at the same time
faithful and punctual in his engagements. He must study economy
in the public expenditure and at the same time love the welfare of
the people he employs, whose employment by him must be at proper
stated times." The philosopher Chu Hsi explains the phrase
'faithful and punctual in his engagements' as meaning, trusted
by the people,' but in my opinion the meaning is, 'regularity and
punctuality' as in the lines of the poem of the T'ang dynasty,
"Had I only known that the tide is so punctual, I would have
married the ferryman." I remember when Hsü Chih-hsiang
impeached Chang Chih-tung, one of the charges contained in his
memorial of impeachment was that Chang did not keep regular
hours. Li Han-chang, 3 who was appointed to inquire into the
matter, reported in his memorial that it had occasionally happened
that Chang Chih-tung had continued to deal with official papers
until late into the night. Those who want to praise Chang will
1 As mentioned in the last Journal these chapters are from a work
published in 1910, (A) which has been completely
translated by Ardsheal. The extracts shew the shrewdness and humour
of the Chinese mind and should be interesting to those who cannot read
the original work. [Ed.]
2 See Giles' Biographical Dictionary, No. 446. 3 Brother of Li Hung-chang.

62
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
say that he worked early and late whilst those who want to abuse
him will say that he did not keep regular hours. To work early
and late is to be serious in attention to business to have no fixed
hours is to be wanting in punctuality. Now, however serious
in attention to business a person may be, if he is wanting in
punctuality his labours will be wasted and his efforts vain. The
reason why the public administration of affairs in European
countries is so efficient is simply because they carry out in practice
the saying of Confucius that a man must be serious in attention
to business and at the same time faithful and punctual in his
engagements. Chao Pu¹ of the Sung dynasty once said: "One
half of the sayings of Confucius is sufficient to govern an Empire."
I say that the teaching of Confucius about paying serious attention
to business and being faithful and punctual in engagements is
alone sufficient to secure the prosperity of China. If the officials,
high and low, of the present day, were to carry into practice that
teaching of Confucius, it would not be necessary for subordinate
officials to waste 300 out of 360 days in the year in dangling about
the waiting rooms of their superiors.
I remember also when on the death of Liu Kun-i2 Chang
Chih-tung was transferred to act as Viceroy of the two Chiang
Provinces, economy had to be studied, so the members of his
secretarial staff were ordered to provide their own food: which
caused dissatisfaction and grumbling. It happened that the ex-
aminations for the third degree were being held that year and one
of the themes set was the passage from the Sayings of Confucius
quoted at the beginning of this essay. I chaffingly said to my
colleagues: "Our chief may be said to be one who is serious
in attention to business but is not faithful and punctual in his
engagements: he studies economy in the public expenditure, but
does not love the welfare of the people he employs, nor does he
employ them at fixed times! People say our Chief has mastered
all the learning of the ancients and moderns, but he does not seem
to me to understand thoroughly even one of the passages in the
Sayings of Confucius, for his treatment of us would tend to show
that he has grasped only half its meaning!' My remarks were
greeted with loud laughter.
says:
XXIII.
NE SUTOR ULTRA CREPIDAM.
re-
Tseng Kuo-fan in a letter to the Viceroy Liu Ch'ang-yu4
"Since Wang An-shih5 of the Sung dynasty was
probated and reviled by all honest and good men for his schemes
1 See Giles B.D. No. 178.
2 See Giles B.D. No. 1324.
3 See Giles B. D. No. 2021. 4 See Giles B.D. No. 1274. See Giles B. D. No. 2134.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 63
of financial reform, it has become the rule for good men ever
since to avoid and shun the reputation of being financiers,
holding it to be a sign of nobility of character not to speak of
money matters and accounts. But after all, in times of trouble,
with an empty treasury and financial distress all round, one can
certainly do nothing to improve the state of the country." The
view expressed by Yeh Shih¹ that a gentleman of moral education
should not contemn financial matters as being entirely unworthy
of consideration, is certainly one that must be generally accepted.
Whilst in my opinion finance is a matter that must receive atten-
tion, in China to-day the so-called consideration of finance is not
a real and true consideration but merely a struggle to get rich.
And so it has come to pass that such so-called consideration has,
during the past decade, only resulted in the enriching of the com-
pradores in foreign employ and of the influential leaders of the
various associations for the promotion of trade. Confucius said:
"Let the prince be a prince and the minister a minister. Let the
father be a father and the son a son." In my opinion two further
categories should be added to the saying of Confucius if China
wishes to attain a true knowledge of how to deal with finance;
These are:
"Let the official be an official and the merchant a
merchant." For in China to-day in a great majority of cases,
officials who are worthless turn and become merchants whilst
merchants who are worthless turn and become officials, and this is
what has brought the people throughout the Empire to the verge
of starvation. The commentary on the Canon of Changes says:
"When those who govern stint themselves to benefit those whom
they govern, that brings peace and contentment, but when those
who govern stint those whom they govern to benefit themselves,
that brings dissatisfaction and distress." It is only he who grasps
the truth of this saying that can understand what true finance
really is.
ΧΧΙΧ.
AN ARISTOCRAT.
An inquiry into the English nation shows that during the
reign of Chên Tsung of the Sung dynasty, the Normans occupied
the province of Normandy in the N.W. of France. A revolution
having broken out in England, the King of the Normans transported
a force across the sea, suppressed the revolution and declared
himself King of England. On this the Normans became the
aristocracy of the country, the natives of the soil forming the
populace. Subsequently members of the populace who were
1 See Giles B.D. No. 2459.

64
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
distinguished for refinement and learning rose from their own class
to the middle or educated class. This is the reason why up
to the present time the population of England is divided into
three classes: the aristocracy: the educated or middle class and the
populace. Matthew Arnold, a famous English writer of recent
times, has said somewhere that the aristocratic class in England is
distinguished by its high spirit and chivalrous character: the
middle class by its serious thoughtfulness and the populace by
its ready powers of action.
:
I should say the Manchus of to-day really constitute the
aristocratic class of China. It was through their military prowess
that they, like the Normans in England, succeeded in founding
the Manchu dynasty, and that is why up to the present day they
are still distinguished for a nobility and chivalry of character to
which we Chinese must yield the palm. This fact may be
illustrated by looking at the condition of those who have received
a foreign education abroad during recent years. It is unnecessary
to consider those students educated abroad who have not been
successful in their careers after their return to China. But of
those foreign-educated students who have been successful, there
is not a single one who has not amassed a fortune large enough to
gratify his taste for costly living and extravagance. The Manchu
Lien-fang, formerly Vice-President of the Foreign Office and
afterwards promoted to be General at Ching Chow is, however, a
signal exception to the general rule. He was for more than ten
years on the staff of Li Hung-chang1 when Viceroy of Chihli and
was entrusted with various important missions. But whilst all
the other members of the Viceroy's staff who had received a
foreign education filled their private purses to overflowing, he
alone remains as poor to-day as when he first entered on his official
Whilst thus affording an example of purity of character
and integrity worthy of imitation, he proves himself to be not an
unworthy member of the aristocracy to which he belongs.
career.
XXXII.
COMPLIMENTARY SPEECHES.
Kuan I-chih once said that the weak point in the character
of the public men in China may be summed up in the words :-
Love of flattery and desire of gain. Putting aside the question
of desire of gain, we find that love of flattery has much increased
as compared with former times. Now-a-days, whenever there is a
meeting or banquet, there must be a complimentary speech
1 See Giles B.D. No. 1148.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 65
couched in terms of fulsome flattery, which he who makes the
speech and he in whose honour it is made calmly regard without
misgiving as in no way extraordinary.
In ancient times lying epitaphs used to be written for a man's
grave after his death, but the modern custom of Complimentary
Speech-making may be regarded as a funeral oration delivered for
the benefit of the living.
I remember when Chang Chih-tung was Viceroy at Wu-
ch'ang, he took a very active part, after the Boxer troubles
in 1900, in promoting the establishment of schools and colleges,
and some busy-bodies got up a meeting to celebrate the opening
of the schools and colleges; at which were present several
hundred people, including the leading provincial officials, the
professors and the students. Mr. Liang, Principal of one of the
Colleges, had specially composed in honour of the occasion a
lengthy complimentary speech, which a certain Mr. Liu, who had
been sent to study in Japan, read in a loud and clear voice
whilst the large assembly listened in respectful silence. A wag
who happened to be present waited until he had finished reading
the speech when he repeated immediately afterwards in a loud
voice the usual ending of a funeral oration: "May the spirit of
the departed rest in peace, Amen!" to the great amusement of
those who heard him.
XXXIII.
NEW ROADS.
A certain Governor who had received the Emperor's com-
mands to institute reforms in his administration, having heard of
the carriage roads in foreign countries which are used for riding
and driving, wished to have roads made in the same style. But
when he learned that in foreign countries the carriage roads are
broad enough to permit riding and driving in the centre whilst
there is a pavement on either side for foot passengers, he realised
that it would be difficult to open up the streets of his capital in
the same way, owing to their narrowness. Subsequently he was
informed that carriage roads in the foreign style had already been
constructed at Wuch'ang and were declared by the people to
be very convenient, so he determined to make a carriage road in
the foreign style. When it was finished, he ordered foreign
carriages from Shanghai and when he went abroad to pay calls he
dispensed with sedan chairs and only used carriages, which he
found very comfortable.
One day the son of a Taotai was galloping along the new
carriage road when he suddenly ran down an old woman and
almost killed her. This much incensed the wayfarers, but the son

66
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
of the Taotai pointing his riding whip at them abused them,
saying: "The Governor built this road specially for horses and
carriages and for that reason called it a carriage road and not a
people's road, you stupid fools! How dare you make use of this
road meant for the use of horses and carriages? You should
consider yourselves very lucky that I don't march you off to the
Police Station to be punished. What more have you got to
say?" A rustic replied: "If what you say is true, then here in
China there is now only a living (literally road) for officials and
their horses but none for the people."
This incident having subsequently reached the ears of the
Governor, he stopped having roads made in the foreign style and
ceased using carriages, reverting once more to sedan chairs.
The poem of Wei Ying-wu says:
"I feel ashamed to live in such grandeur whilst I see no
sign of happiness or contentment among the people."
One may say that such a Governor is really one of the rarest
of the rare.
XXXVI.
A TRUE CENSOR.
Ssu-ma Kuang in discussing the office of Censor once said
that a Censor must be free from all desire for riches and honours,
must have a high sense of duty and independence of character
and must have a thorough grasp of the principles of government
before he can be regarded as truly worthy of the office he holds,
but that it was hard to find any one person in whom were united
these essential qualities.
Chiên Huang-chung of the present dynasty in a letter to
Wang Tzu-shan on the subject of Censors said: "Those who hold
the office of Censor possess unfettered liberty of speech, but the
really important part of their duty is to do something for the
enlightenment and moral elevation of their Ruler, to raise the
moral tone of public life, and to maintain a high standard in
matters of tone and taste."
When the Censor Chiang Ch'un-lin was dismissed recently
from office for the denunciation of certain influential persons in
high station and promptly resigned the public service, returning to
his own home, his fearless independence created a sensation
throughout the Empire and he was universally declared to be a
True Censor. In my opinion Chiang Ch'un-lin by his bold and
fearless denunciation of exalted and influential persons, showed his
1 See Giles B.D. No. 2299.
2 See Giles B. D. No. 1756.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 67
sense of duty and independence of character and by his prompt
resignation of office shewed his disregard for riches and honours.
But the present unhappy direction of public affairs in China, which
are going from bad to worse, cannot surely be compared with the
condition of affairs in previous dynasties which was entirely due to
some bold, unscrupulous traitors who seized the reins of government
so that they might exercise, unchecked, their tyrannical sway. For
the special features of the unsatisfactory state of things at the
present day are that all in authority, both high and low, look upon
conduct, however corrupt, dishonourable and shameless, with the
utmost complacency and have no policy whatever except the policy
of expediency, and whilst their entire want of culture and ideas
only serves to emphasize their natural stupidity, the formation of
cliques and the embezzlement of money are the only signs of their
extraordinary smartness. But though such mean, contemptible
creatures, whose sole care is to cling to office, must inevitably
bring ruin upon any country, the Censors, even though so worthy
as Chiang Chun-lin, are never heard to utter a word or enunciate
a principle which by helping to enlighten and elevate the character
of the Ruler or by raising the moral tone of public life, would
make men in the public service reform and depart from their evil
ways. All they do is to vehemently assail a few exalted personages,
waxing so furious over some trifling matter which merely concerns
their private life, that it would almost appear as if they had some
old-standing grudge against those whom they assail and were
merely giving vent to their long pent-up hatred. Can such a
discharge of their duties be regarded as in accordance with that
high sense of decency and good taste which one expects from
Censors?
XXXVIII
THE CART BEFORE THE HORSE.
Some years ago I went to Shanghai to see a certain Consul
who said to me: "Now-a-days whenever the Viceroys and
Governors of China do anything they are terrified of the gentry
and the students of their Province. What kind of government is
this?" I replied: "Is not this what is called in your country
government by the people?" The Consul replied: "No, this is
not government by the people but government in which the
coachman is driven by the horses!"
The Canon of History says: "Do not do anything which is
contrary to what is right in order to gain popular applause. Do
not carry things against the will of the people merely to gratify
your own desire." I say that popular feeling should be respected
but that to do what is contrary to right in order to gain popular
applause is a step that leads to anarchy.

68
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
ΧΧΧΙΧ.
YELLOW JOURNALS.
Chu Chu-t'o, a writer of the present dynasty, in an essay on
the Emperor Ch'in Shih Huang says: "When the Chou dynasty
was in its decline no wise and good Rulers appeared and the
educated class, who had no regular occupation, preached all kinds
of wild, pernicious theories with unbridled licence-theories which
according to Mencius so corrupted the minds of the people that
they became no better than wild beasts. A few decades later, just
before the establishment of the Ch'in dynasty, the state of affairs
must have become even worse than that of which Mencius had
experience. In addition to this, the supporters of the federation
of the Six States against the State of Ch'in took perpetual delight
in opposing that State, declaring it to be as overbearing as it was
violent and as savage and ferocious as it was immoral and unjust,
thus heaping upon it every form of vilification and abuse. After
the extinction of the Six States, the rulers of Ch'in were just waiting
for an opportunity to give vent to their feelings of resentment
against these insults which they had patiently endured, and when
the literati renewed their campaign of abuse, condemning Ch'in
for its policy of departing from the practice of antiquity, they
gave the rulers of Ch'in just the opportunity they wanted of
wreaking their vengeance upon them. On the representation of
Li Ssů a holocaust was at once made of all the writings of the
literati and with them the Sacred Books were also committed to
the flames. Now Li Ssu was a disciple of the philosopher Hsün
Ching so must, therefore, have been taught the doctrines of
humanity and justice. Is it likely, then, that he could have found
any pleasure in the destruction by fire of the Sacred Books?
What he deeply abhorred were the evil doctrines of the literati
and not the teaching of the Sacred Writers, and those whom he
wished to bury alive were the preachers of false moral culture and
not the supporters of true moral culture.
The awful
consequences of the pernicious false theories of the literati were
such that whilst they survived, with their total disregard of the
bonds which hold society together, they reduced mankind to the
condition of beasts; and when they were suppressed, their suppres-
sion involved the burning of the Sacred Books, which were
really burnt not by the State of Ch'in, but by the literati with their
wild pernicious theories."
In my opinion the books burnt by Ch'in Shih Huang Ti have
their modern equivalent in the rags of Yellow Journals of the
1 See Giles B. D. No. 453.
2 See Giles B.D. No. 1203.
3 See Giles B.D. No. 807.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 69
present day, and the literati whom that Emperor buried alive have
their modern counterpart in the editors of such Journals. Under
such circumstances burning and burying are an inevitable necessity.
XLI.
EDUCATION.
Yüan Tzu-ts'ai in an essay on the educated gentleman says:
The fewer the number of educated gentlemen, the better governed
the Empire will be. How can this (apparent paradox) be
explained?
If the number of gentlemen of education be
restricted, it will be easy to train them thoroughly, to make
their salaries larger and to employ them in the exact position
for which they are suited. But now-a-days the very contrary of
this is the case, for not only do those whose abilities scarcely fit
them to be either farmer, artisan, or merchant become gentlemen
of education, but those whose physical capacity renders them quite
unfit for any of these occupations also become gentlemen of educa-
tion. And though as physically incapable as they are mentally
dull, they are filled with wild hopes of rising to the highest position.
If their hopes are fulfilled, they occupy such a position without any
misgiving, but if they are disappointed in their hopes they are filled
with envy and give vent to their spleen by maligning and
calumniating those in authority for not having bestowed their
patronage on them. Those in authority seeing them behave in
this manner are led to believe that there are no men in the
Empire really worthy of the title of gentlemen of education, and
their contempt for gentlemen of education being thus intensified,
the condition of such becomes more than ever desperate. The
Empire is not entirely destitute of gentlemen of true culture and
education, but men who have the semblance of such and yet are
not educated gentlemen in the true sense of that term, are
confounded with them, and so it comes to pass that though
gentlemen of true culture and education do exist, they are regarded
as non-existent."
In my opinion what China is suffering from to-day is not
lack of students but lack of students of true culture and education.
Of late both the Government and the public have established
innumerable schools and colleges, regarding universal education
as the panacea of the age. But it passes all comprehension to
know what is to become of the host of physically unfit and
mentally dull students who are filled with wild hopes of occupying
the highest positions. Besides, everyone now wishes to teach but
1 See Giles B. D. 2557.

70
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
no one wants to learn, so that whilst China must soon be full of
educators, there will not be a single educated man in the land-a
state of things which it is terrible to contemplate.
XLII.
SPECIALISATION.
Some years ago when it was proposed to establish in Peking
a School of Instruction in Customs affairs, I happened to meet
Tuan Fang at Wuch'ang and discussed the proposal with him,
when he said: "The pressing need in China to-day is specialisa-
tion, so I am thinking of establishing in the Province of Hupeh a
School for special training in Likin matters." I replied: "If
there is to be such a school for Likin, then there should also be a
special school for training district magistrates." He answered:
"Yes: quite so!" I then looked him straight in the face and
said, "Then why not a school for the training of Viceroys and
Governors?" on hearing which he burst out laughing.
But
In my opinion education is of two kinds-the education for
gentlemen and the education for professional men. The latter
concerns itself with what is technical: the former with truth.
In technical education special instruction is indispensable if a
mastery of the art or profession studied is to be attained.
the education for gentlemen is not confined to mere technicalities
but to teaching them to have such a grasp of universal principles
that when their education is finished they can apply them in
practice under all circumstances without fail, just as if one were
using a knife which, provided it is really sharp, will cut any kind
of meat without its being necessary to have a special knife for
every variety of meat that has to be cut.
XLIII.
DIFFICULTY AN ATTRACTION.
Yüan Tzu-ts'ai 2 in the latter part of his life wanted to study
Buddhist literature. But as he was continually coming across
difficult words and phrases by which he was puzzled and of which
he could find no explanation, he applied for enlightenment to
those adherents of the Buddhist religion who were versed in the
mysteries of Buddhism; and when after great difficulty he had
1 He was at this time Governor of the Province of Hupeh.
2 See p. 69 note 1.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 71
obtained an explanation of what he did not understand, he said
with a sigh, "Why! what they want to teach with these books-
is exactly the same as the teaching contained in our Sacred Books;
so there is really nothing mysterious or recondite about them.
But our scholars are attracted by the books of the Buddhist
religion because they find them difficult to understand."
In my opinion the admirers of European civilisation who
now take to the New Learning are also for the most part attracted
to read the new books got up in foreign style simply because they
find them difficult to understand. Take for example the transla-
tion of Huxley's Evolution by Dr. Yen Fu, which deals with
the doctrine of the Survival of the Fittest. That doctrine is
regarded by everyone as an entirely new theory which has never
been expounded in China during its history of thousands of years,
though as a matter of fact the idea is exactly the same as that
expressed in the following passage of the Classic of the Conduct
of Life:
"The tree that is full of life God fosters and sustains, whilst
the tree that is ready to fall He cuts off and destroys."
XLIV.
WANT OF INTELLIGIBILITY.
When some years ago Chên Li-ch'iu, better known as
Ch'ên Lan-pin, 1 who was Vice-President of a Board, went as
Minister to America, there was on his staff a certain Mr. Hsü, who
did not know a word of English. One day the Interpreters of
the Legation saw him holding before him an English newspaper
in which he appeared to be entirely absorbed. They were all
surprised and asked him when he had learned English. Hsü replied
that he really did not know any English. The Interpreters then
said: "If you do not know any English why do you look at the
newspaper? He replied: "As I find that I understand no
more of the newspapers when I have read your translations than
I do when I read the original in English, I thought the best plan
would be after all to read the original myself." This ludicrous
story still never fails to evoke a smile.
XLV.
LOOKING AT PICTURES.
Two friends were once discussing the sending abroad by
China of Princes to investigate and study Constitutional Govern-
ment, when one of them told the following story:
1 See Giles B. D. No. 251.

72
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
Some years ago there was a local Croesus in Singapore who
had amassed a large fortune. Being old and having a daughter
of marriageable age but no son, he wished to find a suitable son-
in-law to live with him in his family as if he were his own son
and thus be a comfort to him in his old age. As he was, to his
regret, quite uneducated himself, it was essential that his son-in-
law should be as well educated as he was handsome. Now it
happened that a fine handsome young man, a native of the
Province of Fuhkien whose family was poor, had arrived in
Singapore to seek a livelihood and was staying in a business firm,
the master of which was a fellow-countryman of his. Whenever
the local Croesus went to the firm, he always saw the handsome
young man sitting in an attentive attitude reading a book, and
secretly took a fancy to him. On inquiry from the master of the
firm, he learned that the young man was a fellow-countryman of
his, and wanting someone to act as negotiator for him he
entrusted the master with the duty of middleman. The negotia-
tions having been satisfactorily concluded, the handsome young man
entered the family of the local Croesus as his son-in-law. Not
long after he had entered the family his father-in-law sent for
him and said: "In future you can deal with all my accounts and
this will render it unnecessary to employ any longer an accountant
for that purpose." The handsome young man blushed and was
silent for a long time, but at length said: "I cannot read!"
The local Croesus in astonishment asked: "How was it then that
formerly I never saw you without a book in your hand which you
were always reading?" The young man replied: "I was not
reading but only looking at the pictures."
In the same manner the Princes who have gone abroad to
investigate and study Constitutional Government may be said to
have gone abroad to look at foreign pictures only!
XLIX.
THE RESULT OF POVERTY.
In the Shih Hua of Yüan Tzu-ts'ai¹ occur the following
lines:
If the mulberry and hemp fill the waste
To secret night-meetings young maids will not haste.
These are the sentiments of a man with a heart.
The two provinces of Kiangsu and Chehkiang, which have
always been famous for the life of gaiety and luxury led by their
large and rich population, have certainly never been without
1 See p. 69, note 1.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 73
their frail creatures who sell their charms. But in former years
the so-called Soochow singing-girls, whose fame was unequalled
throughout the world, were never known to carry on their calling
in any province outside their own. But now the case is quite
different. There is not a province or port at which the Soochow
singing-girl is not to be met. With such a lamentable state of
things before our eyes, one is tempted to ask what has the
government in China done for the moral and material well-being
of the people.
A foreigner once said to me: "How is it that there is so
much prostitution in Shanghai ?" I replied: "It is not prostitution
but destitution."
LIV.
NOT A QUESTION OF QUEUES.
In the book entitled House Boat Days in China the author
mentions the overawing effect on foreigners of the Pu-tzu or
embroidered figures on the official robes of Chinese authorities, his
real intention being to show his utter contempt for the Chinese.
But a wise man does not discard what a man says because of the
speaker's character' and though the view of the author that the
Pu-tzu is able to inspire foreigners with awe is only written
in jest, it nevertheless contains a great truth. For did not
Confucius say:
"A wise and good man has to watch over every
minute detail connected with his daily life, not only of conduct
and bearing, but even in minute details of dress, so as to produce
an effect on the public mind which without these influences could
only have been produced by fear?"
Further, it is a peculiarity of human nature that if a man
meets another who is different from himself and whom it is
impossible to fathom, doubt and fear are aroused and a feeling of
respect is created, whereas if a man meets another who is so like
himself that a glance is sufficient to see through him, no doubt or
fear arises and familiarity breeds contempt.
Men now-a-days regard the removal of the queue and change
of dress as the most urgent remedies for saving China. In my
opinion the saving or losing of China depends on the moral
character of its people and not on the style of wearing their hair,
and whether the queue is removed or not is a matter of no
importance. But I should like to know whether the bearing and
demeanour of the worthies of the Foreign Office and of the officials.
in the Provinces, if they remove their queues and array themselves
in short coats with narrow sleeves, high collars and tall hats, is
likely in their relations with foreigners to impress them with an
awe that inspires respect or with a familiarity that breeds contempt..

$74 REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
LVI.
MERE IMITATION.
Confucius said: "To acquire knowledge, and as you go on
acquiring it, to put in practice what you have acquired." The
philosopher Chu Hsi explains the phrase to acquire knowledge'
as meaning to imitate' but in my opinion the phrase has a much
wider meaning and should not be explained by the word 'imitate.'
For if the meaning is confined to that sense, it will make students
in their pursuit of knowledge mere mechanical imitators instead
of their grasping the real reason that underlies it. It will be a
case as the proverb says of drawing a gourd like a gourd,' merely
imitating a pattern.
I remember when about the end of the reign of Ch'ien Lung
and the beginning of the reign of Chia Ching the restrictions on
trade were removed, there was a certain foreigner whose clothes
were worn out, and as at that time there was no foreigner who
carried on the business of tailor, he had to call in the services of a
Chinese tailor. The foreigner having asked the Chinese tailor if
he could make clothes such as foreigners wear, the latter replied
that he could do so if he had a pattern. So the foreigner handed
his old suit of clothes to the Chinese tailor who took them away
with him and returned in a few days with a new suit.
On
examining it the foreigner found that in cut and build it was
quite exact, but that a piece of cloth had been cut out behind and
covered with a patch. The foreigner, much surprised, asked for an
explanation, when the tailor replied: "I have followed exactly
the pattern you gave me."
In what respect does the present craze in China for every-
thing that is new, which leads to mere imitation of foreign methods
without any real understanding of what they mean, differ from
the action of the tailor?
LIX.
TRADE MARKS.
There was once a Taipan of a foreign hong who dealt in
arms, and as he had frequent intercourse with Chinese officials,
he often entertained the official deputies from the various provinces
so as to encourage them to deal with him. At every entertain-
ment, when the meal was over, he produced cigars for his guests
to smoke, always using the best and most costly brands, which
the Chinese guests threw away before they had half smoked them.
1 See p. 61, note 1.

REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY 75
Now the Taipan was as mean as he was cunning, so subsequently
when he gave an entertainment he surreptitiously placed cigars of
the worst brand in a box which originally contained cigars of the
best brand. One day a Taotai who was ordering arms and who
prided himself on his intimate acquaintance with foreign affairs,
went to dine with the Taipan. After the dinner was over the
host produced cigars and gave them to his guests. The Taotai
noticing the box in which they were contained, in great elation
exclaimed: "Ah! I know this brand! A box costs ten dollars,'
and then taking one of the cigars, he put it in his mouth and
puffing out the smoke in a swaggering, conceited manner said:
"I told you it cost ten dollars and the flavour is well worth it,'
whilst the host suppressed his laughter.
Foreign merchants who sell foreign goods in China set great
store by their trade marks, and if any one imitates or forges them
they make a point of applying to the authorities to have the
culprits punished. For they know that the Chinese pay no
attention to the quality of the goods but only look at their trade
mark. Confucius said: "There is no one who does not eat and
drink. But few there are who really know the taste of what they
eat and drink."
LXI.
SELF RESPECT.
Yo
Chang Erh-chi, a writer of the present dynasty, in his work
entitled Kao An Hsien Hua says: When Chao Hsüan Tsu
imprisoned Shu-hsiang, Yo Wang-fu wished to intercede for him
but Shu Hsiang would not consent to his intercession, for which
Shih Lao blamed him. Shu-hsiang then said: "The Minister
Ch'i can set me free," which he ultimately did. Admirable as were
the knowledge of men and calmness in a critical situation shown
by Shu-hsiang, they did not equal the foresight he showed by
preserving his honour and independence whereby he was ultimately
able to serve the interests of his own native state of Chin.
Wang-fu was an immoral man. With such a creature one should
not have relations of any kind. How much less then should he be
beholden to him for his freedom! Should one become beholden
to such a creature and act contrary to his wishes he would be sure
to complain, whilst compliance with them would mean loss of
honour. When once a moral man is under obligation to an
immoral man, his honour and good name are ruined, and such ruin
is entirely due to his not having taken sufficient care in the first
instance not to place himself under an obligation to such a man.
And this was the reason why Shu-hsiang would rather have
sacrificed his life than have put himself under an obligation to an

76
REMINISCENCES OF A CHINESE VICEROY'S SECRETARY
"To have no
immoral man by accepting a kindness from him.
dealings of any kind with an immoral man" is a warning which
should never be forgotten. Liu Tzu-hou lost both honour and
fame through his connection with the party of Wang Shu-wên-an
example which has caused never-ceasing regret throughout the
ages. Han Wen Kung says: "Liu Tzu-hou in his youth was
wanting in self-respect, and thought that his worldly ambitions
could be easily and speedily realised, with the result that he was
dismissed from office."
Now if a man of character and erudition like Liu Tzu-hou,
having once lost his self-respect, was unable to find full scope for
his abilities and thus be of benefit to his age, is there any hope
that those men of the present day who regard bribery and corrup-
tion as a sign of ability and who are dead to all sense of shame
will be able to retrieve the present situation and prove saviours of
their country in its difficulties?
LXIV.
LAO TZU AND CONFUCIUS.
Confucius once went to the Imperial State of Chou to consult
the philosopher Lao Tzu who replied to him as follows:-
"The men of whom you speak and their bones are now turned
to dust and ashes and only their words remain. Now when the
times are favourable, a wise and good man comes forth to take his
part in the affairs of the world. But when the times are out of
joint, he lives in retirement. I have heard, that just as a prudent
merchant carefully conceals his wealth and appears as if he had
none, so a truly wise and good man wears simplicity as the mask
of his moral perfection. Get rid of your proud spirit and many
desires, your affectation and vanity, for they are all of no
advantage to you that is all I have to tell you."
It appears to me that this admonition addressed by Lao Tzu
to Confucius, who was a divinely gifted man, may be compared
with the warning against arrogance given by the great Yü to the
Emperor Shun, who was also divinely gifted. And who can say
that it was not due to the admonition of Lao Tzu that the Sacred
Teaching of Confucius became a pure and perfect model for all
times?
1 Sea Giles B. D. No. 632.
2 See Giles B.D. No. 1361.