ON A LARGE METEORITE'
WHICH FELL IN THE SEA NEAR VIDEO,
CHUSAN ARCHIPELAGO, ON THE
13th FEBRUARY, 1915.
By W. F. TYLER.
A realisation of opportunity involves a responsibility in regard
to taking advantage of it. Such a realisation was by circumstances
imposed on the writer in March last. He was visiting the
light-stations in the Chusan Archipelago when he received a report
from a foreign light-keeper that a fortnight previously a man-of-
war in the neighbourhood had fired a new-fangled aerial torpedo
which had nearly hit the light-tower. The projectile was said to
have been 20 feet long and 4 feet in diameter, to have been white
hot and to have passed so close to the tower that there was serious
danger of it being hit. The affair happened in the forenoon of a
bright sunny day. A request was made that men-of-war be
notified of the danger of practising with these modern projectiles
in the neighbourhood of light-stations.
It was obvious that what had been seen was a meteorite, and
there were features in the information gathered which pointed
to one of large size, which had not been nearer the station than,
say, four miles.
That some investigation into this interesting occurrence was
desirable seemed plain; that the means-in the shape of a vessel
at the writer's disposal-existed for such an investigation could
not be denied; and so an opportunity was realised and a
responsibility accepted.
The acceptance is not a matter that the writer flatters himself
about. It has led him not steadily to one conclusion but to
conclusions fluctuating between opposed ideas. It led him to a
lecture before this Society-a lecture intended to lay conclusive
evidence of certain facts before it, but which in effect only stated
inconclusive ideas as the result of conflicting evidence; and
finally it has led him, at the request of our Honorary Secretary, to
the labour of writing this paper, and to the risk which anyone,
who deals with a subject without being fully competent to do so,
necessarily incurs.
1 Most of this paper was read before the Society, March 15th, 1915.

102
ON A LARGE METEORITE
The details of the evidence gathered, the recording of which
is the main object of this paper, is given in an appendix. The
body of the paper will be occupied with a summary of events and
of the evidence gathered, a brief study of certain conflicting
peculiarities in it and some general remarks.
It was on the 1st March that the report of Mr. Pipkin, the
lightkeeper-in-charge at Steep Island was heard. The event
reported by him had occurred at 11.40 a.m. on the 13th
February. Mr. Pipkin had previously been a marine in the
American navy.
That he and his staff should have mistaken a
meteorite several miles off for a new-fangled projectile at a short
distance is an interesting thing from the standpoint of subjectivity.
Some remarks will be made later on the extraordinary defective
judgment of the majority of even highly educated persons on the
subject of apparent size of distant objects.
Having decided to make an investigation, Video Island, near
which it was judged the meteorite had fallen, was visited. The
surmise proved correct. The meteorite had been seen by two
persons to actually fall into the sea about a mile south of the
island. The explosion when the object struck the water is said to
have shaken the island, but the details of the evidence here, the
most interesting of all that was gathered, must be looked for in
the appendix.
Several places were then visited, of which the only one where
first hand evidence of seeing the meteorite was obtained was
Thornton Island-28 miles W. from Video. Indirectly, however,
evidence was obtained of the meteorite having been seen from Hall
Island (near Steep Island) and from Sinkeamun (at the S.E. corner
of Chusan Island.) These places will be found on the accompany-
ing Plan I which shows all the places visited on the occasion now
referred to and on a subsequent investigation.
The evidence from these five places harmonised in general.
It appeared to point definitely to the following conclusion:-
That a large meteorite fell in the sea about one mile south of
Video. Its course had been about S. 40° E. and thus involved
that the meteorite passed over Shanghai or nearly so. The angle
of descent appeared to have been about 30°. On the supposition
that the trajectory was flat, this would mean a height for the
meteorite above Shanghai of 55 miles.
The evidence as to size will be referred to separately. Just
now we will deal with the question of the meteorite's track, which
is the one that was found later to offer difficulties.
Returning to Shanghai the writer laid his evidence and his
conclusions before Fathers Froc and Gauthier of Sicawei Observatory,
who concurred generally with the writer's views and urged on him
the importance of recording the information gathered. It was in
these circumstances that a lecture was offered to this Society.

ON A LARGE METEORITE
103
The advertisement of the lecture then brought to light
evidence which conflicted with the conclusions previously formed.
Mrs. W. J. Hawkings, at Shanghai, stated that she saw a
meteorite on the same day and at the same time disappear below
the horizon. The bearing on which it was said to have disappeared,
if correct, was one which made it impossible that the meteorite
seen by Mrs. Hawking was identical with the one which fell in the
sea near Video. Also she saw it to the eastward with an altitude
of only 12°-a condition entirely incompatible with the course of
the meteorite as recorded at Steep Island and Video.
Further, on the same day and time Mr. H. P. Wadman,
Mr. A. Rose and Mr. A. Bookless saw the meteorite from somewhere
in the neighbourhood of Ningpo. At a later date I got certain
information of value from Mr. Bookless, but previous to the
lecture I had only Mr. Rose's information to the effect that the
party believed the meteorite to have come to earth over the
adjacent range of hills, and that the idea of searching for it was
considered and that the meteorite was not only seen but was heard
to "sizzle." In regard to the latter evidence, however, it is to be
noted that at the lecture Mr. Rose, realising the great importance
of this detail, made the very interesting explanation that possibly
his belief that the object had "sizzled was only based on the
fact that it looked as if it ought to !
Again, second hand evidence from a Chinese, whose home was
near Ningpo, also pointed to the fact that a meteorite had fallen on
the peninsula to the eastward of Ningpo.
On the whole, therefore, at the time of the lecture, there was
good reason to suppose that the discord between the first gathered
information and the evidence of Mrs. Hawkings might be due to
the fact that two meteorites, or rather two portions of the same
original meteorite, had been severally viewed and reported on.
In these unsatisfactory circumstances it was, after the lecture,
decided first to try and elicit information by advertising and
secondly to gather more information by personal enquiry in the
neighbourhood of the archipelago. The advertisement elicited
nothing which fact pointed, if anything, to no meteorite having
fallen on the mainland near Ningpo. As regards the direct
gathering of information, this was entrusted to the writer's
colleague, Mr. T. J. Eldridge. He gathered fresh information
during a lights' inspection trip in April. The evidence so gathered
is incorporated in the appendix. Here it will only be said that
this new evidence from eight places pointed to the non-existence
of two meteorites at the time concerned, and the whole of the new
evidence harmonised in general with the Video meteorite.
This being so it was necessary to again consider
Mrs. Hawkings' account with a view to solving the problem
presented.

104
ON A LARGE METEORITE
It may be thought that with the harmony displayed by the
rest of the evidence, that by Mrs. Hawkings, which was so
discordant, should be discarded; but that view I did not take.
The account given by that lady and the manner of giving it were
of a most convincing character. She was sitting on the verandah
of her father's house in Gordon Road. The bearing of where she
first saw the meteorite is marked by the bearing of the verandah
column from where she sat. The altitude was given in relation to
the height of a telephone pole some distance off, the size was given
in relation to a certain magpie's nest. The value of the evidence
can to a great extent be gauged by the good judgment with which
it was thus given. What she observed was immediately written to
her husband, who at the time was absent from Shanghai. While
the letter has been destroyed, its contents have been confirmed as
far as recollection permits.
Yet, if there was only one meteorite in the neighbourhood
at 10.40 a.m. on February 13, i.e., the one which fell near
Video-and the evidence is now overwhelming in this direction-
it is certain that Mrs. Hawkings' evidence is incorrect as to where
the meteorite disappeared below the horizon.
The explanation of the discrepancy is considered to be as
follows:-
The meteorite was first seen on the S. 70° E. bearing at an
altitude estimated at 12°. It passed across the sky at a slight
inclination only and eventually became obscured by a house. A
continuation of the line of slope generally would have resulted in
the meteorite emerging on the south side of the house and going
below the horizon near a certain telephone pole. Consequently,
viewing the rapid movement of the meteorite across the sky the
reappearance of the object on the southern side of the house was
anticipated. The fact that it did not so re-appear would not have
been thought much of at the time. Four weeks later, however,
when questioned on the subject, the recollection tended to be of the
anticipation, i.e., that anticipation was recollected as a thing that
had actually happened.
And now please mark the fact that the bearing of the corner
of the house where the meteorite was occulted is also within a
degree of the bearing of the spot where the meteorite struck the
sea near Video. That this bearing of S. 42° E. comes within the
limits of the house by which the meteorite was occulted must be
considered as more than a mere coincidence and as evidence of the
general accuracy of Mrs. Hawkings' statements except as regards
the reappearance, the false recollection of which has been explained.
Now it has been stated that the slope of the meteorite's track,
if continued, would have resulted in the emerging of the object on
the south side of the house. This is a surmise only to account
for the false recollection. It happens, however, to fit in with the

ON A LARGE METEORITE
105
final conclusion about the meteorite's track which will be described
later. Here it will only be noted that according to this conclusion
the track of the meteorite across the sky as seen from Shanghai
would have been slightly concave to the earth, and, on about a
S. 42° E. bearing, i.e., hidden by the house, would have fallen
nearly perpendicularly on the horizon.
As regards the evidence of altitude on a S. 70° E. bearing.
That which was described corresponds to an altitude of 12°. It
is not considered that this can be counted on further than that the
altitude was comparatively low. It might have been twice as
much or more. The memory about such a matter by one, who at
the time attached no particular importance to the subject, cannot
be trusted except in a very general manner. No modification of
the evidence about altitude that would be justifiable will, on the
supposition that the track of the meteorite was in a vertical plane,
surmount the difficulty of the discord between that altitude and
the direction of flight as observed from Video and Steep Island.
If the meteorite had travelled in a vertical plane and in the
direction indicated by the Video and Steep Island observations,
which within limits cannot be doubted, it is quite impossible that
the meteorite could have been seen at Shanghai at as small an
altitude, say, as 30° unless it were very near the earth, i.e., had
a very flat trajectory, in which case it is incredible that more
information of its visibility to the northward of Shanghai would
not have been received.
Apparently the only hypothesis that can make Mrs. Hawkings'
evidence-reasonably modified-to harmonise with the facts of the
Video meteorite is to suppose that it proceeded on a curved course.
in azimuth i.e., it did not travel in one vertical plane.
Such a hypothetical track might be a curved one passing
near North Saddles, and over Raffles, Balfour Island and Steep
Island. So far, however, no information other than that of a
negative kind had been obtained among the islands to the north-
ward of Steep Island, but if this track were curved as supposed,
and also comparatively low-as indicated by the low altitude as seen
from Shanghai-it seemed certain that further enquiries among the
islands to the northward would elicit some new evidence.
An opportunity occurring, the writer took a trip in the
latter part of June and visited Chesney Island, Side Saddle, East
Saddle and Tsusan Island. From each of these places except Side
Saddle the meteorite was seen, and the information obtained
confirmed the belief that the meteorite had taken a strongly
curved track in azimuth.
The details of the new evidence is incorporated in the appendix.
Let us now pick out and consider that evidence which is mostly
determinative of the meteorite's track in azimuth.

106
ON A LARGE METEORITE
(a) It can be considered as certain that the meteorite fell
in the sea a mile or two to the southward of Video.
(b) It was seen from Video over the Fishermen Group.
That is to say, during the latter part of its track it must have
been travelling between S.S.E. and S.E.
(c) It is certain that it passed some miles to the eastward
of Chesney Island.
If the plans be examined it will be seen that conditions (a),
(b) and (c) are incompatible with a straight track.
(d) At Steep Island the foreign keeper standing in the
doorway of a wall which faced W.N.W. said that he saw the
meteorite coming from that direction. There was, however a
low-lying mist and the islands to the northwestward were obscured.
His impression was that the object passed over the tower and that
there was danger of the tower being hit. He was standing about
280 feet to the south of the tower. The fact that he believed
it to have passed over the tower but not over where he was stand-
ing indicates strongly that the meteorite passed to the northward.
of the island. That he could have seen it approaching from an
W. N. W. direction is incompatible with all the foregoing accepted
evidence; but standing where he was it is certain that he saw it
on a bearing not to the eastward of north.
(e) At Box Harbour the meteorite was believed to have
passed overhead, but considering the height it must then have
been-say 20 miles-no reliance is to be placed on the estimated
verticality. It would have appeared to be overhead if it had
passed 5 miles to the westward.
It cannot be said that from this evidence taken cumulatively
we can positively indicate the track of the meteorite, but we can
indicate a track which conforms best with that evidence. That
track is shown on the accompanying plans.
Whether meteorites have ever been recorded as having taken
a curved flight in azimuth is not known to the writer. It would
appear that a meteorite entering our atmosphere and travelling
in it from north to south would in its attempt to maintain its
original direction make a slightly curved track relatively to the
earth, but the curve would be to the westward and not to the
eastward as in this case.
A possible explanation of the curved track of our meteorite
seems to be as follows:-
mass.
According to the evidence at Video the meteorite was a curved
In space the mass would be revolving on some axis and its
orbit would be unaffected by its peculiar shape. On experiencing
the resistance of the atmosphere the revolving mass of curved form
would act like a boomerang and adopt a curved course. There are
surmisable reasons why this effect should be particularly noticeable
in the lower strata of the atmosphere, but into this it is not
proposed to go.

TSUNG MING ISLAND
SHANGHAI
Showcishan
THE VIDEO METEORITE OF 13TH FEBRUARY, 1915.
Places from which information was obtained of the meteorite
being seen are underlined doubly. Places visited cut from
which no information was obtained are underlined singly.
CHAPY
S.W. Horn
NINGPO
Nest Volcano
NIMROD SOUND
Ky North Saddle
Side Soddle
Gutzlaff
CHUSAN
TINGHAI
Chesne
Raffles
Button R
Bonham
{Tauson
Harbour
South Saddle
Village
M.Eger 1
tou Minor
Chang You Minor
Hall
Thornton 1
Poglog
Loka id
Brideo
Scole
30 Geographical
Miles
Plan I.

OMAZI
JAHOBAR22

ON A LARGE METEORITE
107
On Plan II the three dimensional aspect of the meteorite's
supposed track is indicated by a series of triangles giving the
horizontal distance and the altitude from certain points of observa-
tion and the vertical height of the meteorite. This is on the
supposition that the track had an inclination of 25°. A comparison
between these particulars as taken from the plan and as obtained
in evidence is, it is considered, fairly convincing of the approximate
accuracy of the track as laid down."
Evidence gathered
Bearing
From supposed track
Bearing
Altitude
Altitude.
Chesney Island
JN. N. E.
60°
N. E.
55°
S. S. E.
30°
S. by E.
30°
Box Harbour
Tsusan
Shanghai
Passed overhead
65°
S. E.
20°
S. E. E.
21°
S. 70° E.
12°
S. 70° E.
21°
It should be noted that evidence as to altitude is only of
value when combined with evidence of bearing. In the above
cases evidence of both have some degree of reliability, inasmuch as
they were indicated by, for example, where the meteorite
disappeared being a certain spot on a hill sky line.
At other places the evidence was merely that the meteorite
was about half sky high, which must be taken to mean merely that
it had an appreciable altitude.
It may be of interest to note what would have been the
altitudes for the several places at a distance of 90 miles and on the
supposed track. These would have been as follows:-
Chapu
21°
Thornton Island 27°
Chang Pai
27°
Medusa Creek
15°
Mei Shan
20°
While it cannot be said that these figures are confirmatory of
the supposed track, it cannot, it is considered, when we take the
indefiniteness of the "half sky line" evidence, be said that this is
in any sense condemnatory of it.
It remains to be said that the deduced altitudes are on the
supposition that the earth over the area concerned is flat. This
supposition introduces no material error for the purpose in hand.
And now as to the matter of size: There are two preliminary
considerations to bear in mind. The first is the fact that evidence
of apparent size is usually quite unintelligible even when given by
educated persons-on which point something will be said later,-
and secondly there is the fact that the apparent diameter of a
meteorite is as a rule the diameter of its gaseous envelope plus the
effect of irradiation, and is conseqently as a rule entirely unindica-
tive of the size of the solid body."

108
ON A LARGE METEORITE
In the case of our meteorite it is considered that, with bright
sunlight existing, irradiation could have had no appreciable
effect. There is also some reason to believe that at the end of its
flight the solid body itself became visible. A summary of the
evidence in regard to size is as follows.
The meteorite was seen by several persons whose evidence
was recorded as regards its apparent size. It was described by
them as being as large as a fish basket, as large as an indicated
window, two feet in diameter, etc., which got one no further.
When however, they were asked if the object was as big as the full
moon they acquiesced at once in this means of indication. At
Video they consulted together, argued for ten minutes, and then
all agreed that it was larger than the full moon but not as large as
two full moons; as large in fact as a moon and a half. Now by a
moon and a half it was not taken to be indicated the diameter and
a half of the moon but a body that had the appearance of being
half as big again as the moon. There is of course a difference.
The moon when full subtends an angle of about 30', a moon of
50 per cent more "area" would subtend an angle of about 37'.
This is taken as their evidence regarding the apparent size of the
meteorite. At a distance of 1.3 miles this would indicate a body
of 84 feet in diameter.
At Steep Island Mr. Pipkin, believing that the object was
distant only 450 feet, estimated its diameter at 5 feet. This
means a subtended angle of 38 minutes of arc. Now Mr. Pipkin
is an ex-naval man. He has seen 12-inch projectiles in flight,
yet believing the object to be some new projectile-he had a
possible aerial torpedo in mind-he considered it to be 20 feet long
and 5 feet in diameter. At a distance of 6 miles Mr. Pipkin's
evidence indicate an object 400 feet in diameter.
On the whole it is considered that the Video evidence-which
represents a strong concensus of opinion-can be accepted, and that
we can conclude that the mass of fire as seen to fall into the sea
was about 80 feet in diameter.
The evidence of size in respect to noise of explosion is
impressive, but only in the vaguest manner leads to an indication
of size. The explosion at a mile distant shook the massive granite
island of Video or so it was said. One foreign lightkeeper said
that Steep Island-10 miles distant-shook. The other foreigner
did not confirm this. At the least, however, the explosion was
considered as loud as that of an 18-pounder gun when standing
close to it, and that is very considerable. The explosion was
heard at Thornton Island, 28 miles distant, as a loud explosion; it
was heard at Hunter Point, 52 miles distant, as a sound like
thunder. Obviously what gave rise to such a volume of sound
was not a small object.
The evidence of the boy at Video about the shape of the

DIAGRAM SHOWING SUPPOSED TRACK OF METEORITE
a.b. c.d.&e-Triangles showing height of meteorite at specified distances from
Video on the supposition that its angle of descent was 25:
..Triangle showing particulars as seen from Shanghai on a S. 70°E bearing
Chesney
"
af
"N. E.
"" 5. by E.
Box Harbour
Tau san on a S.EE bearing
Gutzlaf
Tai Shan
8
Cheeney 1?
Button RK
Bonham 12
Tsu San
Elgar
Scale
10
Hallia
Steep
North Saddle
Saddle
South Saddle
Harbour
20 Nautical
Video
Mila
Plan II.

SMIWOHZ MARDAID

ON A LARGE METEORITE
109
meteorite before it fell into the water seems to be of special interest.
He described the shape as being at first pear shaped but, as it.
approached the water, the lower and fatter end flattened and the
tail drooped. He sketched the latter appearance so:
Now this boy was not affected by what so often detracts from
the value of evidence of educated observers, i.e., a tendency to
unconsciously mould the evidence to favour some preconceived
notion. He told what he saw and thought he saw without any
modifying tendency. He was very positive about the drooping of
the tail.
What could that and the flattened head mean? The
alteration in shape, or rather the absence of bilateral symmetry,
would indicate that what was seen was to all intents and purposes
solid or plastic. An object with an enveloping coat of incandescent
gases exceeding several times the diameter of the nucleus could
not have a clearly defined drooping tail. Plasticity would explain
the flattened head and the drooping tail at the end of its flight.
On the other hand that a large mass, which a few seconds before
had the coldness of space in its inside, should become plastic
throughout seems very improbable.
It seems more probable that the curved shape was the shape
of the nucleus, which shape is apparently necessary to explain
the curved course in azimuth which the object took. Why
then did the object lose its symmetrical pear shape only just
before it struck water? The answer to this may be that the
speed then fell below the critical speed for the generation of a
gaseous envelope.
Now if we assume that the object seen to fall into the sea was
the solid meteorite itself with a diameter of, say, 80 feet, it follows
that in other parts of its flight, when covered by a thick gaseous
envelope, it must have had a materially greater diameter. As has
been already said the evidence as to apparent size is very
unreliable, but something can perhaps be made of it.
Mrs. Hawkings said the meteorite was the same size as a
certain magpie's nest, which the writer found subtended an angle
of 12 minutes. According to our conclusion as to the meteorite's
track the distance of the meteorite was then 71 miles. This
involves a diameter of 1,500 feet when in the neighbourhood of
the Saddles.
According to Mr. Pipkin's evidence the meteorite when in
the neighbourhood of Steep Island had a diameter of 400 feet,
and according to the accepted evidence the diameter at Video was
80 feet.

110
ON A LARGE METEORITE
It is not suggested that any reliance be placed on such figures,
but it is proper to face them and examine them.
The following points are noted for consideration: It seems
legitimate to suppose that the meteorite shortly before falling into
the sea was possibly seen in its solid form and was about 80 feet
in diameter. It is easier to believe this than that a body of,
say, 10 feet in diameter, had by falling into the sea created an
explosion which was heard as a very loud noise at a distance of
over 50 miles.
Allowing that the nucleus had a diameter of 80 feet, the size
of the incandescent body when at its maximum would be much
greater. The writer has no information regarding the possible
relation of size between the nucleus and the gaseous envelope, but
he gathers generally that there might be a proportion of one to ten,
thus making a diameter of 800 feet for the envelope of this
particular meteorite not an impossible one.
On the supposition that the diameter of the incandescent
Inass while over the Saddles was 1,500 feet, that at Video it was
80 feet and that it decreased in size at even rate, then when in
the neighbourhood of Steep Island it would have had a diameter
of 230 feet. This statement is made to indicate a possible
rapidity of change in size.
However improbable such change of size in the course of a
few seconds may appear, we are confronted with the fact
that from a large number of places the meteorite was in bright
sunlight viewed at distances up to 66 miles or
in all cases the object plainly subtended a very substantial
angle.
more, and
Mrs. Hawkings' evidence in regard to the magpie's nest may
perhaps be discounted by 50 per cent. Viewed cumulatively with
other evidence as to apparent size there seems no justification for
a larger discount, and we still have an incandescent object of
750 feet, i.e., an envelope about ten times the diameter of the
supposed nucleus.
There remains the following point for consideration: A
meteorite which strikes the earth would apparently previously
experience the following conditions :-
It would enter our atmosphere with the immense speed of
many miles a second. That speed would be progressively very
materially reduced by the resistance of the air.
The actual work expended per second in overcoming the
resistance of the air, i.e., that which in due course results in
incandescence, would increase up to a certain point-where the
increase of friction due to greater density of the air was counteract-
ed by the decrease in speed-and would then decrease. It might
so decrease that the meteorite would lose its incandescent gaseous
envelope.

ON A LARGE METEORITE
11F
Reference has been made in the foregoing to the general
unintelligibility of evidence about the size of such an object as
the moon or a meteorite, and it was stated that something on this
point would be said.
The peculiarity of evidence of this kind is that there is a
strong tendency-affecting not less than nine out of ten capable
and educated persons-to liken the size of such an object as the
moon to that of a dollar, a plate or a Dutch cheese, without
realising that the impression in this respect is a subjective one
of obscure nature, which there is no possibility of being able to
convey to a second person. By a very select number only will it be
realised that, in order to give evidence that would have any value
physically, it is necessary to give some equivalent of a subtended
angle, e.g., to quote a given diameter at a given distance.
In conclusion the writer would explain that he started out
in this matter with the intention of gathering and recording
information and of pointing out obvious conclusions to which the
information pointed. Circumstances, however, have caused the
situation to be very different. They have involved him in a
matter of some obscurity in a field lying outside the bounds of
his competence. He dislikes having been placed in this position
but has felt bound to do the best he could in it.
APPENDIX.
EVIDENCE GATHERED CONCERNING THE VIDEO METEORITE.
Steep Island: (10 miles N.W. from Video).
Mr. Pipkin, the Keeper-in-Charge, said that at 10.49 a.m.
on the 13th February, with bright sunlight and a clear sky, he
saw in the sky a brilliantly lighted object. He first saw it to the
W.N.W. and at an altitude of about 45°. It passed, he said,
with great rapidity over the island and so close to the tower that
he feared it might be hit. It disappeared behind Wood Island-
a low lying islet 4 miles distant and must have fallen into the
sea there. At the time he was following the object with his eyes
he saw no smoke, but some seconds afterwards he saw that it had
left behind a trail of white woolly smoke like cumulus cloud.
The object was brilliant but not dazzlingly bright. It was clearly
defined in shape, which was that of an elongated pear with a
length about four times the diameter. The big end was in front.
It looked like a monster electric light bulb. He considered it to
be 20 feet long, 5 feet in diameter and to have been not more

112
ON A LARGE METEORITE
than 450 feet from him. Mr. Pipkin, who had been a marine in
the U. S. Navy, believed it to be a projectile fired for practice from
a man-of-war-some new kind of aerial torpedo. So sure was he
of this that he urged the desirableness of warning men-of-war of
the danger of practising with such projectiles in the neighbourhood
of lightstations. Mr. Anderson, the assistant lightkeeper, saw the
band of smoke only and judged it to be 150 feet above the station.
The period of its visibility was considered to be about
4 seconds. After an interval, which was estimated variously
between 30 and 90 seconds, a loud report was heard. The noise
was louder than the report of an 18-pounder fog gun when close
to it. Mr. Anderson said the island shook; Mr. Pipkin did not
notice that.
Several of the Chinese staff also saw the object. One-an
intelligent mechanic-said he saw the light and smoke together,
and that he could not say where one began and the other ended.
The size of the light was equal to two moons.
Video Island.-Video Island has a group of fishermen's huts
on the north side and on the northwest a large village in a
deeply indented valley, running N.W. and S.E. At the north
village a "white rainbow" extending from the N.W. and going
over Video was seen, and immediately afterwards came an explos-
ion of such violence that it "nearly broke their ears". At the
N.W. village many persons saw the meteorite and the smoke.
It came from the direction of the Fishermen Islands, i.e., north-
westerly, and was first seen at an altitude of about 30°; a cloud
was pointed at to indicate this altitude. It passed over the valley
and disappeared behind the rampart of surrounding heights.
Two persons, however, saw it fall into the sea. One was a
man collecting shell fish on the south shore. Another was a boy
who was on the hill top. The boy saw it from its appearance
over Fishermen Islands to the time it fell and exploded. The
man saw it falling only. The boy said that as it approached it
was in shape like a long pear with a round head and a tapering
after body, but as it approached the water the forward end became
distinctly flat and the tail sagged down. It fell into the sea
south of the island at a distance which was not great-perhaps 4 li.
When it entered the water he could see the sea "boiling," and
almost immediately after came a violent explosion which shook
the island. The size of the meteorite was said to be larger than
a full moon but not as large as two. This description of the
size the idea of the comparison was suggested by the writer-
was adhered to by all who saw it.
Thornton Island.-(28 miles W. from Video.)
About six men saw the object. One of them interviewed
said he saw it first to the northeastward, when it was about half
way up the sky. It travelled from west to east in a sloping

ON A LARGE METEORITE
113
direction. After such a time as it takes to drink a cup of tea a
loud explosion occurred. No information as to apparent size
could be obtained.
Sinkeamun.-(27 miles W. from Video).
Object was seen and heard.
Shanghai. On the 13th February at some time between
10.30 and 11 in the forenoon Mrs. W. J. Hawkings was on the
verandah of the house of her father, Mr. E. S. Little, in Gordon
Road. The verandah faces a little cast of south.
Her account of the occurrence was given to the writer per-
sonally on this verandah, and the particulars she gave of direction
and heights were converted on the spot into bearings and
altitudes, etc.
Mrs. Hawkings, who was sitting on the verandah looking out
across the country suddenly saw a bright object bearing about
S. 70° E. and having an altitude of about 12°. This object
moved across the sky in a sloping direction and became obscured
by a house close by on a bearing of S. 42° E.
At first Mrs. Hawkings' recollection was that the meteorite
emerged again to the westward of the house and went below the
horizon in the direction of a certain telephone pole on a bearing of
S. 25° E. When, however, she heard that this was entirely in-
compatible with where the meteorite was known to have fallen, a
doubt arose in her mind as to whether the meteorite did
emerge to the westward of the house. Her recollection, she
thought, might only have been of her anticipation that it would
do so.
Her description of the appearance of the object is given in
her own words :-
"I cannot say exactly what was the form of the object, but
it was 3 to 4 times as long as it was wide at the head. While it
gave me the impression of being a single body it yet gave me the
impression of, as it were, one large light followed by a series of
smaller ones. The light was brilliant but not dazzlingly so. It
was not as bright as the sun and I could look at it without any-
thing approaching to discomfort. It had the same whitish
yellowish colour as the sun. I saw no trail of smoke behind it.
The sky was blue overhead but cloudy below. The clouds were
in horizontal streaks and light grey in colour. The object
appeared to come out of a cloud and there were clouds behind it
for the whole time I saw it. The head, at all events, was quite
clearly defined. It was not exactly pear shaped or drop shaped.
The head formed a knob, as it were. It is difficult to say how
long it was in view, but I think it was for three seconds. As
regards size : It was as big as the magpie's nest in that tree.
(This subtended an angle of 12 minutes of arc.) The object was
very conspicuous. Anyone facing the sky at the time must have

114
ON A LARGE METEORITE
seen it. I was greatly astonished at what I saw and at once wrote a
letter to my husband and sent it to him at Foochow.
I told my
mother about it immediately afterwards."
We have here evidence of a very positive and reliable
character. In its broad features it can be taken as unimpeachable,
that is, that a meteorite was seen to the south-eastward at com-
paratively a low altitude. The bearings and altitude concerned
and the apparent size should, I consider, be taken as a general
indication only.
Ningpo. Mr. A. Bookless, accompanied by Mr. A. Rose and
Mr. H. P. Wadman, was on the day and time concerned about
5 miles east of Ningpo. He saw the meteorite to the N. E. and it
fell to the horizon in an easterly direction. His sketch shows the
angle of fall as seen to be about 30°.
The following was the additional information gathered by
Mr. Eldridge in April:-
Chapu. The meteorite was seen by Mr. E. B. C. Hornell
when 15 miles due north of Chapu City at about 10.45 a.m. It
had an altitude of from 30 to 45 degrees when first seen; he did
not note on what bearing he saw the object; it travelled very
fast and looked like a huge ball of fire.
Pootoo. Several men interviewed had seen the meteorite
from different parts of the island, and all agreed that the meteorite
was to the northward of them when first seen; that it was about
half sky high; that it was about the size of the moon, perhaps
bigger; that it travelled to the eastward towards Video and that
after it fell there was a loud report and the windows rattled.
Medusa Creek. The crew of a junk, boarded off Hunter Point,
said that they had come from Medusa Creek, from which place
the meteorite had been seen to the northward; that it was about
half sky high when first seen; that it travelled in an easterly
direction and that it was like a ball of fire about the size of
the moon.
Hunter Point. (S. E. approach to Nimrod Sound.)
The villagers here had seen the meteorite to the northward
of them; it travelled very fast in an easterly direction; it fell in
the direction of Video and there was a sound like thunder when
it fell.
Mei Shan.-(An island on the west side of Gough Pass,
North of Nimrod Sound.)
A man on the island, who had seen the meteorite, said that
the meteorite was to the northward when he first saw it; that it
travelled to the eastward, pointing out the point where he saw it
disappear (nearly in line with Video); that it travelled very fast
in a slanting direction; when first seen it was half sky high;
that it was like a very large bar of fire; after it disappeared there

ON A LARGE METEORITE
was a rumbling noise like thunder.
Ting Hai. (Chusan Island).
115
A man who had seen the meteorite from a hill at the back of
Ting Hai said that it was to the northward of him when he had
first seen it; that it was about half sky high; that it travelled
very fast in an easterly direction; that after it fell there was a
rumbling noise.
Sinkeamun.-(Chusan Island.)
This place was visited by the ship's steward, who said that
the reports he got there were the same as those obtained at Pootoo
and Ting Hai.
Chang Pei. (An island off the north side of Chusan Island.)
There had been a report that a meteorite had fallen on this
island. A villager on the island who had seen the meteorite said
that he first saw it to the northward of him; that it was about
half sky high; that it looked like a ball of fire followed by white
smoke; that it travelled very fast in an easterly direction; that
after it had disappeared there was a noise like thunder; that many
others had seen the meteorite as he had done.
The following was the additonal information obtained by the
writer in June.
June 20th.-Chesney Island, West Village. Three men at this
village saw the meteorite. Two were absent fishing; one was inter-
viewed. He indicated the course as he saw it. According to his
indication he first it to the N.N.E. and it disappeared over the hill
top to the S.S.E. From where he stood the amphitheatre of hills
round the village had an altitude of about 30°. According to his
indication the altitude of the meteorite on the N.N.E. bearing
must have been about 60°.
An explosion-a very loud one-was heard some time after.
All the village heard the explosion.
Side Saddle.-Visited tidepole station and two villages on the
North East Side of the island. No one had seen the meteorite, but
all heard the explosion. These villages are cuttle-fish establish-
ments, and only caretakers were present in February.
Box Harbour (East Saddle).-Three men interviewed saw
the meteorite fall in a due south direction. The position on the
hill slope where it disappeared was indicated. It was said to have
passed immediately over the island. Considering, however, the
height concerned-probably over 20 miles-a good deal of
allowance must be made in respect to verticality. One man
explained that he had the sun and the meteorite in view at the
same time and that the latter was at least as large as the former
and was at a lesser altitude.
Tsusan Island (S.S.W. of Parry Island).-The village
was shut in by hills to the north round by west. One girl saw the

116
ON A LARGE METEORITE
meteorite disappear over the hill to the S. E. This hill had an
altitude of about 20°. Two other villagers were visited on Tsusan
without result.
Note. Since the completion of this paper the following
additional evidence was gathered by Commander C. I. Williams,
of the Revenue Steamer "Liuhsing.'
North Saddle, Joss Bay. Two women were interviewed who
had seen the meteorite. It was first seen to the northward and
passed nearly overhead but a little to the westward.
South Saddle, S.E. Village. Many persons saw it. It came
from the north and passed nearly overhead but a little to the
westward.
Raffles Island, South Village. Several persons saw it to the
eastward proceeding from north to south. It had two horns
sticking out ahead"!
Senhouse Island, South Village. Many persons saw it and it
was believed to be a projectile fired by some vessel. It was not
seen quite overhead but a little to the eastward.
heard.
T'susun Island, South Village.
Changtau Major, West Village.
persons to pass from N.W. to S.E.
was seen in the N.W.
Meteorite not seen, but it was
Meteorite was seen by many
This does not mean that it
Changtau Minor. Same evidence as at Changtau Major. It
resembled a huge moon with a white cloud behind it.
Taishan Island, South Village. Meteorite was seen by many
persons to pass from N.W. to S.E. This does not mean that it
was seen in the N.W.
It will be seen that this additional evidence is confirmatory
of the track as indicated on the plans.