THE TONE-ACCENTS OF TWO
CHINESE DIALECTS.
By Dr. CORNELIUS BEACH BRADLEY.
A-CANTONESE.
The Cantonese words whose "tones" are analyzed on Chart A
were spoken by Mr. Sun Yap Shang, a native of Canton and
resident there throughout most of his life, until a few years ago he
came to Oakland, California, where he is now a well-known teacher
of that dialect. Each word was a typical example of one of the
ten "tones" of the traditional list. The records were made by the
Rousselot apparatus. Of each record the wave-lengths (represent-
ing time of vibration) were carefully measured and plotted,
forming the curves or patterns of pitch shown on the chart. Each
curve is there identified both by the number-in arabic numerals-
and by the name assigned to that particular "tone" in the native
list. The hair-line curves shown in the chart are plotted from
duplicate records taken for control of results. In all these cases
the correspondence between duplicate and original turned out to
be so surprisingly close as to give assurance both as to the general
accuracy of the method and as to consistency of utterance on the
part of the speaker.
From the first it seemed doubtful whether under conditions
of actual speech such an unusual number of tonal species could be
certainly distinguished either in hearing or in utterance. But
when once the figures were plotted, and it was possible to make
definite comparison of them, the doubt was greatly strengthened.
Very few of these figures show any clear-cut distinction of form.
Tone 1, to be sure, with its deep curving drop, and Tone 4 with
its single short sharp note, are unmistakable. But the other eight
seemed at first a mere huddle of featureless shapes all crowded
into the narrow compass of mid-voice pitch. Nowhere among
them is there a rising glide or a circumflex or a low-pitched level
note- all of which are figures of real individuality and character,
and by no means uncommon in tonal languages. Nevertheless,
after further study certain marked resemblances between members
1 For much valuable assistance in making these records the writer is
indebted to Professor T. T. Waterman of the Department of Anthropology
in the University of California,

A-CANTONESE
A
G
F
E
I
1 Shang Ping
D
G
upper even
B
A
2
Shong Shong
G
upper upper
F
G
FE
E
D
VI
4 Shong Yap
upper entering
5 Ha Ping
lower even
10 Chung Ping
middle even
D
IV
9 Chung Yap
middle entering
7 Ha Hui
B
lower recoding
A
G
8 Ha Yap
lower entering
F
E
||
6 Ha Shong
Lower upper
3 Shong Hui
upper receding

TONE-ACCENTS OF TWO CHINESE DIALECTS
39
of this group of eight began to appear, leading to a rearrangement
of them in four groups, each group consisting of two obviously
similar figures, constituting apparently a single species or type.
This would be a simplification of the scheme very much to be
wished, but before accepting it even tentatively certain matters
must be considered.
1. In all similar studies so far undertaken, the one abiding
feature of these "tones" has proved to be the general figure or
pattern of movement as regards pitch. Considerable differences in
detail are freely allowed, and indeed for the most part pass un-
noticed, as may be seen in Chart B, where several examples of the
same "tone" uttered consecutively by the same person are plotted
side by side.
2. The feature least stable is absolute pitch, that is, definite
position on the musical scale. Examples of large variation in this
feature may be seen in groups IV and VI on Chart A, and under
I in Chart B. That this must be so becomes plain when we
recall that in singing each succeeding note takes its place at a
measured interval of pitch from its immediate predecessor, so that
each note furnishes a definite cue for the pitch of the next one.
In singing, therefore, it is possible for a trained voice guided by a
trained ear to approximate that interval so nearly that the ear
of the listener is entirely satisfied; though even so it can never
be mathematically correct. But in speech there are no measured
intervals at all, and no constants of pitch to measure from. In
tonal languages no vowel takes its cue of pitch from its neighbor,
but only from a general sense of the relation of its "tone" to the
general scheme of the voice. Under such conditions it is
impossible for the organs of speech to strike accurately and
maintain consistently, or for the ear to judge with even approximate
accuracy, the definite pitch of any vowel in the flow of words.
proof be needed of this statement, one has only to look at the pairs
of duplicates shown on the chart-duplicates which, as has already
been said, are remarkable for the accuracy of their reproduction.
The words in each case were the same, and were uttered in close
sequence; yet they differ in pitch sometimes as much as three
semitones. "Tone" then, in our sense of the word, is not exactly
pitch at all, but rather a patterned change or movement within
the field of pitch. If the general pattern or figure remain the
same, small differences of absolute pitch do not compel us to
assume that we are dealing with different species.
If
3. Vowel-quantity is a thing strictly observed, I believe, in
all languages of the Chinese type. If "tone" be a patterned
change or movement of pitch, quantity is time elapsed during the
movement. Longer time allowance favors a fuller execution of
the pattern. Shorter time compels more or less abridgement.
Time-that is, quantity-is the horizontal ordinate of the chart,

40
TONE-ACCENTS OF TWO CHINESE DIALECTS
while pitch is the vertical one. Long quantity therefore appears
as long reach of the figure across the chart. If a given pattern is
found in both long and short forms, the long would naturally be
accounted the type or species, since it is the more fully characterized,
while the short would be the variety.
Turning now to the chart, we observe that in group II No. 5
is a third longer than No. 2; in group III No. 7 is a third
longer than No. 8; in group IV No. 9 is half as long again as
No. 10. In all these cases the patterns are strikingly similar,
save that No. 9 has made use of its longer time to throw in a
preliminary flourish. Unless further investigation should invali-
date these results, it would seem that these six "tones" of the
Cantonese list should be reduced to three species, each having
perhaps a short variety.
The case of group V is not so clear. The resemblance
between its members is not so compelling, and the quantity affords
no clue. It seems altogether unlikely that within so narrow a
compass of pitch two distinct species, each with the same pro-
nounced rising vanish, could be successfully maintained. Final
determination of the matter could only be accomplished by one
who could compare the results of a large series of instrumental
records with the reports of a trained ear on the living speech.
4. So far as I know, long quantity "by position" as in
Latin and Greek prosody has no place in the Chinese scheme.
But in one tongue of the Chinese type-namely the Siamese-
there is the interesting case in which a short vowel followed by
either of the nasals, m, n, or ng, in syllabic closure, has its tonal
function continued in the nasal, so that its "tone" invariably has
the full pattern of the long vowels. This comes about through
the fact that the nasals are vowel-like-if indeed they be not
vowels altogether, as some are ready to claim-and sufficiently
sonorous to take full intonation. This feature is emphasized by
the fact that the only other syllabic closure ever heard in the
Siamese language is that of the unvoiced stops, p, t, k, and the
glottal stop which is not recognized in English. That is, all short
vowels in closed syllables are either lengthened by continuation
into a nasal, or are abruptly chopped off by the guillotine of an
unvoiced stop which is not even exploded. That closure does
affect tone is shown not only by the amplification of pattern in
the case of the nasals, but by the fact that in the other case
the vowels are limited to two special "tones," the one a sharp
high-pitched note extremely short (identical with Tone 4 of the
Cantonese scheme), and the other a very short variety of the
"depressed level tone" of long vowels. All this suggests the
1 Cf. My paper on the Graphic Analysis of the Tone-accents of the Siamese
Language, in Journal of the American Oriental Society, vol. xxxi, pp. 287-88.

TONE-ACCENTS OF TWO CHINESE DIALECTS
41
need of a careful examination of this field in the Chinese dialects
also if the theory of their "tones" is ever to be placed on a sure
basis.
To sum up this part of the discussion-(1) In the records
of the eight traditional "tones" here in question there seem to
be but four real patterns or figures of movement, and this fact
strongly suggests the reduction of the eight to four. (2) The
slight differences of pitch noted within some of the pairs so grouped
offer no valid objection to their association under one species, since
the differences are no greater than those often found between
consecutive utterances of the very same word. (3) The minor
differences of figure or pattern which appear are in some cases fully
accounted for by demonstrated difference in vowel-quantity, which,
as is well known, does often materially modify the tonal pattern. (4)
In other cases the observed facts of a kindred speech suggest an
examination of the syllables which are listed by the natives as of a
given "tone," to ascertain whether they are open or closed; and,
if closed, whether the closure is by sonorous consonants which
extend the vowel tone, or by stops which abruptly cut it off.
If this tentative combination and reduction is found to be in
accord with the facts, the Cantonese scheme of "tones" would be
brought into workable dimensions, and the "huddle about the
mid-voice pitch" would be greatly relieved. But even so it would
not entirely amend the lack of bold and unmistakable distinctions
in this group of "tones." The level line of IV indeed is ordina-
rily an unmistakable figure; but here its neighbors on either side
are too nearly like it and like each other to make discrimination
between the three seem either very easy or very sure in actual
practice. Languages of this type are not only limited to monosyl-
labic words, but the number of possible monosyllables is in some
dialects greatly reduced by allowing very few consonants to take
the final place in the syllable. The result is that there are not
monosyllables enough to furnish forth the necessary vocabulary
unless difference of tone be added to the possible differences of
articulate elements alone. One wonders therefore whether, when
they were about it, the founders of the Cantonese dialect failed to
develope distinctions which really distinguish, or whether the present
situation is the result of a sort of tonal decay.
I feel sure that the figures on the chart are truthful repre-
sentations to the eye of the various movements of pitch in the
particular words which were spoken into the receiver of the
recording instrument. It is possible, of course, that the speaker's
accent was at fault, or that he did not speak words which properly
represent the "tones" indicated, neither of which, however, I think
could have been so. But, barring this possibility, it seems certain
that in three, or perhaps four, instances, a given pattern was
duplicated under another name. The evidence is there on the

42
TONE-ACCENTS OF TWO CHINESE DIALECTS
chart. A much larger series of records, and records of many
different voices, must of course be examined before any general
conclusion can be reached. But for this particular voice and for
this series of records the following summary and reclassification
I think will hold. I offer it only as a starting point for further
investigation and comparison by those who are more fully equipped
and more fortunately placed for the accomplishment of the task.
The Tone-patterns of Cantonese Speech-Description and
Reclassification.
I (Tone 1).-A drop of increasing steepness through more
than an octave from a level start at high pitch of voice. Long in
quantity.
II (Tones 2 and 5).-A straightaway glide from about
mid-voice pitch, dropping gradually through less than an octave.
Long, with probably a shorter variety.
III (Tones 7 and 8).-A short drop from about mid-voice
pitch, merging some three tones below into a level run. Long,
with well-marked short variety.
IV (Tones 9 and 10).-A level run at a little above mid-
voice pitch. Long, with well-marked short variety. (Identical
with the "middle tone" of the Siamese.)
V (Tones 3 and 6).-A preliminary movement of uncertain
figure at the depressed level of III, ending with a rising vanish.
Possibly meant for the reverse of III.
VI (Tone 4). A high note, extremely short, in which the
vowel tone is abruptly cut off by the closure of an unvoiced stop
not exploded. Identical with the "high abrupt" or "high
explosive" of the Siamese.)
B-PEKINGESE.
The speech here recorded and analyzed is that of Mr. K. S. C.
Kiang, Assistant in Chinese in the University of California,
brought up from infancy in Peking, and resident there nearly all
his life. The purity of his accent is vouched for by Professor
John Fryer.
In plotting the results on Chart B, no attempt was made-
as was done in the other case-to soften or generalize the minute
inaccuracies or eccentricities of execution which seem to be present
in every vocal utterance.
the superior delicacy of instrumental analysis as compared with
These are here retained as illustrating
Tone I are absolutely unheard-are all blended into a single level
To the ear the serpentine wanderings of
note; and the three glides of Tones II, III, and IV, give not the
even the trained ear.

A
C
G
F-
B-PEKINGESE
TONE I HIGH LEVEL
A-
G
F
D
C
B
TONE II SHORT RISE
TONE III LONG RISE
TONE IV LONG FALL
A
G
F
E
D
C
-B-
A
G

TONE-ACCENTS OF TWO CHINESE DIALECTS
43
slightest hint of uncertainty in attack or of hesitation in move-
ment such as appears in the chart. For all ordinary purposes,
however, the generalized form is no doubt preferable as less
confusing, and as presenting more clearly the features which are
constant. The small number of tonal patterns found in the
Pekingese has permitted the plotting of several examples of each
which may serve further to illustrate these points.
The chief features of the Pekingese scheme as here shown
are: (1) its simplicity, due to the fewness of its "tones" and to
their remarkable consistency of adherence to type; and (2) the
high pitch and small compass of voice used in their execution.
This last might of course be merely a personal peculiarity of the
speaker, but Dr. Fryer is inclined to regard it as a general
characteristic of the northern dialect. The only point of doubt
which appears is caused by the very close resemblance between
Tones II and III, raising the question as to whether they are not
really one. This will be considered in the discussion of the
individual Tones, to which we now pass.
Tone I is discerned by the ear as a high-pitched level note,
near the upper limit of the speaking voice. Instrumental analysis
of it, while in general confirming the impression of the ear,
discloses a constant wavering or "wobbling" of the voice about a
central line of level pitch. This central line seems to be the note
which it is intended to strike and hold, but from which in its
execution the voice continually sags or wanders, and to which it
has to be continually brought back by a series of infinitesimal
readjustments in the tension of the vocal chords. As has already
been said, the same phenomenon, in the form of hesitation and
correction, may be traced in nearly all the other lines plotted on
this chart.
Tones II and III may be best considered together. They are
both rising glides ranging through the greater part of an octave,
and reaching the high level of Tone I. Typically, however, III
begins at a point about three semitones lower than II, and ranges
upwards through a whole octave; while II begins at about C,
and covers only three-fourths of an octave. III, moreover, has
usually a short preliminary movement before the rise actually
begins. This is understood by the ear-if it notes it at all-as
a short level run.
This preliminary is commonly absent from II,
or is much reduced. Yet II sometimes shows it unmistakably,
Then III typically
and III sometimes lacks it altogether.
stretches over a wider horizontal space on the chart, that is,
occupies longer time-a natural result of its double movement
and of its longer climb. But it is not so in every case. Indeed,
were not the word here spoken known to be of Tone III, the
example shown on the extreme left of group III would be taken
for an unusually perfect specimen of Tone II.

44
TONE-ACCENTS OF TWO CHINESE DIALECTS
On none of the lines then which we have been considering
can groups II and III be really distinguished. The examples
might be so arranged as to form a continuous series. According to
all scientific canons they should be considered a single species.
Should further examination of vocabulary, syllabication, and
current usage discover a division along some such line as vowel-
quantity, or syllabic closure, the longer form would naturally be
considered the type, while the shorter would be the variety.
Tone IV is simply III reversed. It is a long descending
glide, beginning near where III ends, and ending near where III
begins. The initial uncertainties, moreover, carry a suggestion of
a preliminary run which may or may not be confirmed by further
examination.
Note-A few weeks ago, when these studies were already under way
the writer learned that a Scandinavian scholar, whose name, however, could
not be recalled by his informant, had recently published a study of certain
of the Chinese "tones." In the troublous days since then the writer has
not been able to get track of the paper, nor to secure any further informa-
tion regarding it. Under the circumstances it was thought best to complete
what was begun and let the results take their chance. Being thus independ-
ently obtained, and very likely secured by independent methods and
dealing with different material, they should be of some value, if only for
corroboration or as a starting point for further investigation.