REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
The Gods of Northern Buddhism. Their History, Iconography and
Progressive Evolution through the Northern Buddhist Countries.
By ALICE GETTY; with a General Introduction on Buddhism
translated from the French of J. DENIKER. Docteur ès Sciences, and
with Illustrations from the Collection of HENRY H. GETTY. (Oxford:
At the Clarendon Press: 1914), pp. 196, £3.3s. net.
The appearance of this admirable work is one of many recent indica-
tions that Mahayana Buddhism is at last beginning to receive a fair
measure of attention from Western scholars. Though it is undoubtedly
true that the Mahayana as a religious system will never be properly under-
stood by the western mind until its scriptures have been fully and correctly
translated and their imagery and symbolism adequately interpreted, there
are various subordinate fields of enquiry in which painstaking investigators
may already find ample material for constructive work of a sound and
useful kind. Miss Alice Getty, the accomplished author of The Gods of
Northern Buddhism, has chosen as her own field of research the history
and iconography of what she describes as the "Mahāyāna Pantheon," and
she has given us a work which, within the limits assigned to it, will be
found to be of real and permanent value.
It would be hypercritical to make any protest against the employment
of the term "pantheon" in connexion with Buddhism; but it may
perhaps be suggested that the title of Miss Getty's book is not altogether
satisfactory, inasmuch as the application of the term "gods" to the
Buddhas and Bodhisattvas of Northern Buddhism is apt to be slightly
misleading. This, however, is a matter of no great importance, as Miss
Getty's readers are not likely to be unaware that the religious conceptions
of different faiths may overlap but seldom coincide, and that the trans-
ference of terminology from one faith to another is at best but an imperfect
device whereby the ideas of the one may be brought into an intelligible
relationship with those of the other.
"To the uninitiated" says Miss Getty in her Preface, "the images of
these deities are only of value as works of art, or as grotesque curios, with
their various heads and many arms; but to the initiated, apart from their
artistic merit, they furnish an inexhaustible fund for study and research."
To this study and research Miss Getty has devoted herself with industry
and enthusiasm; and her book will be deservedly appreciated not merely
by collectors of Buddhist "curios," and by western travellers and "globe-

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
121
trotters" who wish to know something about the meaning of the objects
they see in Buddhist temples, but also by serious students of the Buddhist
religion as it has been developed throughout many past centuries and as it
is taught and practised to-day in China, Mongolia, Tibet and Japan.
A cursory glance at the numerous plates and photographic reproduc-
tions which this book contains would no doubt tend to corroborate the
prevalent western notion that Mahayana Buddhism is pre-eminently a
religion of idolatry. But a study of the text will speedily show the
discriminating reader that this prevalent notion is far from the truth. As
Miss Getty is well aware, Buddhist images and pictures are not "idols" in
the only legitimate sense of that word-that is to say, they are not ultimate
objects of worship and are not regarded as intrinsically holy or divine.
Like the images and icons of the Roman Catholic and the Orthodox Eastern
Churches, they are symbols which (as experience has proved throughout
countless years of human history) are of assistance to the untutored masses
and to many of their "betters," in enabling them to withdraw their
attention from worldly concerns, to concentrate their thoughts on sacred
things, and to raise their souls to the contemplation of, or even to mystical
union with, that ultimate "holy of holies" which in its true essence is
inexpressible in terms of human art even as it is unutterable in terms of
human language. It is no doubt true enough that many ignorant Buddh-
ists, to whom religious symbolism is unintelligible, are apt to regard the
images in the temples as something more than mere blocks of stone or
wood but precisely the same criticism could be passed on the religious
attitude of the ignorant masses of Spain or Russia towards their miracle-
working statues and pictures of the Virgin and the saints. In any case, it
is only fair to remember that no iconoclastic Protestant has been more
emphatic in the repudiation of idolatry than have been some of the
Buddhist writers and preachers of China and Japan-especially those of the
Zen or Ch'an () school. Many stories are told by Buddhists in illustra-
tion of the principle that an image is not to be regarded as an object of
worship. We may recall, for example, the tale of the Chinese monk who on
a cold morning wanted a fire to warm himself. Having no supply of fuel it's not true
ready to his hand, he took an image of Buddha, hacked it in pieces, and
used it as firewood. Whether the story is true or not is of no consequence:
the point which it is intended to illustrate is sufficiently obvious.
Most of Miss Getty's readers may probably be trusted to avoid any
misconceptions as to the alleged "idolatry" of Buddhism, but there is
another point of view from which Buddhist images may evoke criticisms
or complaints of a much more legitimate kind. It is a lamentable but
undeniable fact that a great many of these images-especially those
associated with the Tantric and similar cults-are to the Western eye
repulsive and grotesque. Not only is the Western critic justified in ques-
tioning whether such objects can possibly guide wayward souls into the
Where's the point?

122
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
paths of holy meditation, but he can hardly be blamed if, when he con-
templates these monstrous forms, he harbours doubts as to whether the
Oriental mind can really be endowed with that delicacy of artistic perception
with which it has been credited. The simple explanation of the matter is
that art and religion, unfortunately, do not always work together in
harmony. In all parts of the world, but especially in the countries which
have come under the spiritual sway of India, artistic abominations have
often been perpetrated in the sacred name of religion. We know, of course,
that when we enter a Buddhist temple and see before us a many-armed and
many-eyed monstrosity we are not to assume that the Buddhists really
believe their "gods" to possess these horrible shapes. We know that the
image is merely intended to give outward expression to those passages in
the sacred books which tell us that the all-loving and all-merciful Bod-
hisattva is ever ready to stretch out a hand to save, ever present to watch
over and protect suffering mankind. If on artistic grounds we were to
express dissatisfaction with the crude symbolism which frequently offends
the eye, a devout Buddhist would perhaps retort that the shape of the
image matters little so long as we keep clear and undimmed in our hearts
the ideal which it attempts to portray. "Let us look after our ideals"
he might say; "the symbols will look after themselves." The art-lover,
however, would be tempted to remind him that religion, if it is to make its
appropriate appeal to man's many-sided nature, should be associated not
only with goodness and truth but also with beauty.
That Art should be the handmaid of Religion seems reasonable enough;
but unfortunately Religion has sometimes shown an inclination to treat
Art not as her handmaid but as her slave, and in these circumstances it is
hardly fair to blame Art for the atrocities which she may have committed
at the bidding of an all-powerful and tyrannical mistress. That their
relations have often been perfectly harmonious, in the Buddhist East as in
the Christian West, is too obvious to need emphasis. We Europeans are at
last beginning to realise that the Buddhist art of the T'ang and Sung
periods, for example, shows a sincerity of religious feeling, an emotional
insight, a depth of spirituality, which the religious art of other ages and
other lands has never surpassed and perhaps never equalled and we have
visible and tangible proofs of the fact that religious devotion co-existed
with the keenest artistic sensibility and the most exquisite craftsmanship.
Buddhist artists may have dismayed us with their grotesque Dharmapālas
or Samvaras or eighteen-armed Kuan-yins: but let us not forget that they
have also given us the great bodhisattvas of Ta-t'ung and Lung-mên (now,
alas, suffering pitiful desecration at the hands of Eastern and Western
vandalism), the exquisite drawings of Buddhist saints lately discovered in
Chinese Turkestan, and the wonderful bronze Daibutsu of Kamakura.
Perhaps the beauty of holiness" has never been more marvellously
illustrated than in the religious art of the Buddhist "ages of faith." Such

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
123
considerations as these must serve to console us when we feel disposed to
condemn the Buddhists for their frequent lapses from artistic good taste in
the fabrication of some of their sacred images.
In matters of detail there is very little to criticise in Miss Getty's book.
It contains a General Introduction on Buddhism which has been translated
from the French of M. Deniker. It is a useful and instructive essay,
though perhaps its treatment of Chinese (as distinct from Tibetan and
Mongolian) Buddhism is hardly adequate. The reference, on p. xxxvi, to
"the Grand-lama of Peking, head of the Lamaist clergy in China" is rather
misleading. It is not quite accurate to say (p. xxvi) that Kanishka's
Council ended in schism between the Buddhists of the south (Ceylon)
and those of the north (India)"; or to say that a "new canon" was
"drafted" at that Council. It is questionable, too, whether Nagarjuna can
properly be described as "the real founder of Mahayana."
On p. xxix occurs the following sentence, "Bodhidharma was made
head of all the Buddhist monastics in China, and took up his residence in a
famous convent near the present Kiu-kiang on the Yangtze." Both the
first and the second statements are inaccurate. Bodhidharma came to be
recognized as the Patriarch () of the Ch'an () school, of which he
was the founder, but he exercised no control over "Buddhist monastics"
in general. It should be remembered that he was a native of India, that
he spent only the last years (probably nine) of his life in China, and that
his knowledge of the Chinese language can hardly have been profound.
Further, the monastery which is most closely associated with his name is
not one of the Kiu-kiang (Lü-shan) group, but the Shao-lin monastery
() on the southern slope of the Shao-shih mountain, near the
ancient Chinese capital Lo-yang (Honan).
On p. xxxiv, it is stated that "till quite lately" the tooth of the
Buddha was shown at Kandy in Ceylon. The so-called tooth of Buddha is
still enshrined in the Daladawa Maligawa temple in Kandy. Like many
of the relics preserved and adored in Christian churches, it is undoubtedly
spurious. Of that fact, its size and shape are conclusive evidence. The
original relic, which may or may not have been equally spurious, is said to
have been destroyed at Goa in 1560 by a Catholic archbishop; though the
Kandyans say that the Portuguese ground the tooth into powder and threw
the powder into a pond, but that it was miraculously restored and was
found next morning floating in the middle of the pond on the petals of a
lotus.
In Miss Getty's text there are a few trifling misprints. For example,
on p. 41 Kantsu should be Kansu; on p. 68 Kwin-yin should be Kwan-yin
or Kuan-yin; on p. 69 (line 18) Chanwang should be Chuang-wang.
Chinese characters are sometimes supplied and are sometimes missing.
In a book like this, which is primarily intended for the use of serious students,
the Chinese script should always be supplied. It is a pity that it seems

124
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
impossible to convince English publishers of this fact, as the present writer
has good reason to know.
On p. 69 Edkins and Hackmann are quoted as authorities for the
statement that Taoist images are often to be found in Buddhist temples.
Surely this is a well-known fact which needs no authoritative corroboration!
On p. 72 we are told of "the Mongolian emperor Kang-hsi in the
fourteenth century." The Emperor whose reign-title was K'ang-hsi was a
Manchu, and his reign began not in the fourteenth but in the seventeenth
century (1662.)
Some erroneous references are made to the bodhisattva Ti-tsang on
pp. 90, 92, 93, 137. To describe Ti-tsang as "over-lord of Hell" is misleading.
He is the Conqueror of hell,-the saviour of the damned. He visits hell
to bring succour to those imprisoned there, but he does not dwell there as
overlord or as Regent. Similarly, it is inaccurate to refer to Yen-lo-wang
(Yama) as "a subordinate under Ti-tsang." On p. 92 the mountain on
which Ti-tsang is worshipped is given as Chin-hua-shan. It should be
Chiu-hua-shan (JL).
The Chronological Table at the end of the book might be greatly
improved. There are important omissions which could easily be made good.
The Bibliography, on the other hand, is fairly representative, if it cannot be
described as quite complete.
The illustrations, which are based on the valuable collections of
Mr. Henry H. Getty, are copious and excellent. The only mistake which I
have noticed in the descriptions of the images occurs in connexion with
two of the figures illustrated on Plate xxxiv. The names of Wên-shu and
P'u-hsien should be transposed, as the figure on the elephant is P'u-hsien
and that on the lion is Wên-shu.
R. F. JOHNSTON.
Variétés Sinologiques Nos. 36, 39, 41, 42.-Recherches sur les
Superstitions en Chine, par Le P. HENRI DORÉ, S.J., (Imprimerie
de la Mission Catholique. A L'ORPHELINAT DE TOU-SE-WE,
Zi-Ka-Wei.)
These are the most recent additions to that series for which every real
student of Chinese matters is so deeply indebted to the Jesuit Fathers.
The four volumes complete "Recherches sur les Superstitions eu
Chine," the first four volumes of which were reviewed in Vol. 44 of this
Journal, pp. 179-181, and what was said in review of those numbers will hold
amply true for these fresh volumes. The reviewer can only regret that they
have appeared so late, and not during those years when he had ample op-
portunity of examining the subjects treated in these volumes, and desired

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
125.
to do so, but found little help from any books; nor was the information to-
be obtained from the bonzes of any value. Most of the priests knew little
of the images and the mural decorations in their own temples, and one had
often to depart with only a vivid mental impression gained through the eye,
but with the mind still ignorant of the meaning of these things, and the
wherefore of all the objects of superstitious culture in which many of the
temples were rich and profuse in variety. But no longer need there be any
complaint in this respect, for through the patient, arduous, and prolonged
researches of M. Doré the students of such things are well supplied with a
magnificent Guide Book to the many phases of "Superstitions."
These volumes are very weighty, not so much perhaps by profundity
of thought as in leaves and illustrations which form the volumes. The
paper is the best art paper, and the lithographs are on heavy paper, so if
they give an impression of beauty in the get-up, this very quality adds to
their weight. It will be a laborious business to handle them. Though not
weighty in thought, they supply a vast treasury of material to the thinker.
The philosopher must now come, and from these materials formulate his
system of the origins of these things. This Guide Book will supply the
general reader too with all that is necessary; the opportunity is afforded,
time only is required and a certain amount of ability in a few
directions.
The first of these four volumes is Tome V of "Première Partie des
Recherches," and supplies the explanations of matter which appeared in the
earlier numbers. It is a treatise "des Talismans chinois." These as the
author says remain a mystery to foreigners. But it need be so no longer,
for M. Doré supplies the principal keys by which to open these mysteries..
These talismans are very interesting and important things, at least important
to the Chinese mind: they consist of such talismans as "To work Deliver-
ance"; "For a favourable Reincarnation"; "For Erring Souls"; For "Unlocking
the Gates of Heaven"; "For Women in Distress"; "The victim of Assassin-
ation, and many other Unfortunates"; "People in prison"; "People Calum-
niated"; these are all remembered, none left out: there is a talisman
"against fires," and against every other calamity. A man who is "born
under an unlucky star" may have the misfortune rectified by a talisman
that will "ensure perfect health for the rest of his days." In certain quart-
ers of the West these may still find a place. There is a talisman for such
common complaints as asthma, the swelling of rheumatism, and ad omnia.
Vols. VI-VIII deal with "Le Panthéon chinois." Here we have the Triads;
the gods of Literature; the Pusas. There is a very interesting chapter deal-
ing with all the figures in the temples, each of which has a significance. An
ample history of famous Buddhist Saints is given, and all that is worth know-
ing about them will be found here. Vols. VI-VIII contain pp. 462 with
about 140pp. of illustrations, a rich treasure-house of information on the
subjects treated.
M.

126
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Adversaria Sinica, by H. A. GILES, M.A., LL.D. (Shanghai, Kelly and
Walsh, 1914.) pp. 438.
This work has been coming out piecemeal through the last eight years
or so; the parts are now bound in a volume with a title-page bearing date
1914. There is a good index, but it is a work which very much needs a
Table of Contents. Instead we have following the title page a list of works
by the same author and a very short preface.
The preface is pathetic; it points out to a public without the Latin that
Adversaria has nothing to do with hostility, but is Ciceronian for a note-
book. Dr. Giles states this to correct 'a wide-spread misunderstanding'
but it seems hard to see how such a misunderstanding could ever have
arisen in connexion with his writings.
The book is full of miscellaneous wisdom in long articles, short notes,
reviews, etc., and almost every interesting subject connected with China
seems touched on somewhere. Here and there we get a little of that gentle,
kindly girding which perhaps has given rise to the strange misunderstanding
already mentioned; Dr. Laufer, Dr. E. H. Parker, Dr. T. Richard and others
all catch it. These no doubt all know how they are loved; but perhaps to
prevent the public from misunderstanding in years to come, it would be
well to say in some future book that the harsh-sounding things said in divers
manners and in sundry places about Parker, Hirth, Kingsmill and the rest
were half in jest, and that some of these men did know something of Chinese
matters and Chinese.
Some of the controversies are old and tiresome, such as that about the
authenticity of the Tao Te Ching; other subjects are new and somewhat
useless, e.g. The taxicab in ancient China, Traces of aviation in ancient
China, etc.; but there are many papers of much value to the student, such
as Psychic Phenomena in China; Childbirth, Childhood and the Position
of Women in China, and others.
Of course one is prepared to find Professor Giles arguing that the Opium
question should be left alone because the alcohol habit is worse, that in-
fanticide is not more common in China than in Christendom; and we are
indebted to him (p. 282) for a new and of course without the shadow of a
doubt real reason for foot-binding among Chinese women. Where there
is so much cocksureness and so much true and valuable learning it seems
unkind to point out two mistakes on two consecutive pages (pp. 387-8); but
the Christian Literature Society was not founded by Dr. Griffith John, nor
was Rev. E. Morgan the editor of this Journal for 1911, but only co-editor
with Dr. Ferguson, as is plainly printed in its proper place in the volume.
These are trifling mistakes but both are quite gratuitous, and worst of all
they mar the general appearance of infallibility.
The work has a number of interesting pictures and is admirably printed;
like all Professor Giles' works it seems indispensable in the library of any
serious student of things Chinese.
S. C.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
127
With the Russians in Mongolia. By H. G. C. PERRY-AYSCOUGH
and Captain R. B. OTTER-BARRY. (London, John Lane).
A book published in the early months of last year and entitled "With
the Russians in Mongolia" possesses an especial interest at the present time
when events in that country point, as the result of the Kiachta Conference,
to what appears to be a satisfactory settlement of its position in regard to
China. The joint authors embody in the volume and present with com-
mendable lucidity much needed information as to the political conditions
in Mongolia and the factors which led up to them in connection with the
Russo-Chinese and Mongolian treaties. Mr. Perry-Ayscough travelled from
east to west, visiting Urga, Kobdo, and Uliassutai. Captain Otter-Barry,
starting from Kalgan, crossed the Gobi Desert, and after spending some
time in Urga, journeyed to Siberia by way of the Yero gold-mines and
up through Kiachta. Their log-books on the road supply such local colour
as should stimulate the traveller to wander along the relatively unknown
roads of Mongolia. In political as well as in commercial aspects Mongolia
is of greater importance than has been realised, and certain salient
remarks in the opening chapters of this book should be well considered.
The preface is by Sir Claude Macdonald, and he writes, in reference
to episodes during the Boxer troubles: "The Legations of England and
Russia have spread themselves over what was once Chinese Imperial
property.
Much the same thing, though of course on an infinitely
larger scale and with a notable difference, is going on in the far north
of the Chinese Empire. Russia is rapidly spreading herself over the
markets of Outer Mongolia and is pushing China back and out.
The notable difference is that whereas, in the little episode I have
mentioned, the British and Russian Legations pushed together, now Russia
pushes, and Great Britain would seem only to be looking on."
The authors point out that Russia's object is to obtain a dominating
influence in Mongolia in order that she may have a buffer state between
herself and China. "From a British point of view, one cannot help seeing
the danger of any Russian influence in Mongolia. Tibet and Mongolia are
very closely allied . . . The dominating iufluence in either means
eventual dominating influence in both these countries." For the sake
British interests and British trade in the East, a Consul to represent this
country is very badly needed in Urga. Moreover, he would be warmly
welcomed by a strong section of Mongols. There is opportunity in Mongolia,
it is stated, for business men with a little capital who do not mind rough-
ing it. The Russians consider fifty per cent. a fair profit, and regard
themselves as patriots and philanthropists if they make but twenty per cent.
There is scope for cattle-raising, horse-breeding, and general trade. Of
compensations for "roughing it" there are many. The sport in North
Mongolia would appeal to all who can handle a gun, for absence of restrict-
ions is combined with abundance of game both big and small.
.G.

128
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Les Chemins de Fer Chinois. Un Programme pour leur développǝment.
Par A. J. H. CHARIGNON, Ingénieur Civil, Conseiller Technique au
Ministère des Communications. Pei-Tang, Peking, 1914.
Monsieur Charignon has placed at the head of this, undoubtedly one of
the most important works which have recently appeared in connection with
Chinese affairs, a modest quotation from André Chénier:
" ... S'y peut-il tellement moissonner
Que les derniers venus n'y trouvent à glaner?"
We should have scarcely thought that this particular field had been
so thoroughly harvested already, Mr. Kent's book, published some seven
years ago, was mainly historical, and a recent work by a French writer was
described in these columns as being for the most part a collection of
borrowings from Mr. Kent, and for the rest a series of inaccuracies. But
the delicate and momentous question of the development of the railway
system of China has now been treated, we think, with an authority and in a
bold, creative spirit which are as new as they are opportune. For the
present is not a time of after-gleanings, but rather an era when ripe
experience combining with the fullness of the times may bring great schemes
to fruition.
The plan of the book is simple. It is divided into three chapters, the
first of which treats of the railways already constructed and in operation,
the second, of those to be made, including lines projected or under
construction and those which are part of the author's comprehensive
scheme for the entire railway system of China; and the last, of the problems.
to be studied in putting this scheme into execution. The second chapter
forms the main portion of the work, and is perhaps the most interesting
part of a fascinating book. But the first contains a valuable survey of the
lines at present open to traffic. A detailed account of their growth is
purposely omitted, the "vieilles histoires" of their early days being stale
repetitions of European railway history, and not a profitable study. A
short account of each line is given, with particulars of its cost and the
"interests" involved in its construction, and a discussion of its working
results. Statistical tables show details of various heads of expenditure and
receipts in successive years. The concise and up-to-date information
supplied in this first chapter make the book of evident value for reference
purposes.
M. Charignon states that the total length of the railways working in
China at the end of 1913 was just under 10,000 kilometres, and he reckons
that the length of lines yet to be made in order to complete the essential
framework of his scheme (exclusive of the routes fore-shadowed for
Turkestan) is approximately 42,100 kilom., of which 6,600 kilom. belong to
lines already allotted to foreign "concessionnaires." When these and the
remaining 35,800 are completed, the author reckons that China will possess
a system of railways supplying all immediate needs, connecting all leading

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
129
centres, and tapping the principal commercial and productive regions;
providing also a framework to which branches can be conveniently and
economically added as required. To prove the essential economy of his
scheme he affirms that it would give China in 1930, 0.9 kilom. of railway
for every hundred square kilometres, or 0.11 kilom. to every 1,000 inhabitants,
while Japan in 1904 had 1.8 kilom. per 100 square kilom. and 1.6 to
to every 1,000 inhabitants (the ratio in the United States and Russia, as
evidenced in a table furnished by M. Charignon, is very much higher still).
The leading idea of the scheme may be given in the author's words:
"Tous les chemins de fer ouverts à l'exploitation ou en cours de
construction, qu'ils soient à capitaux nationaux ou étrangers, qu'ils
appartiennent à l'Etat chinois, aux Compagnies provinciales ou à certaines
Compagnies étrangères, seraient répartis entre un certain nombre de
Compagnies qui les utiliseraient pour leurs lignes principales ou secondaires,
qui les développeraient dans une zone fixée d'avance pour chacune
d'elles."
The advantage of this division into independent systems, each in the
hands of a company working and developing its own zone, is clearly and
convincingly argued by the author. The general utility of a pre-conceived
plan, avoiding the dangers of waste in isolated and haphazard ventures,
or a surplus of railways as, according to M. Charignon, occurs
in Belgium and the United Kingdom, is evident. A disadvantage
which such a scheme would obviate, is well illustrated in the case of the
communication soon to be established between Shanghai and Hankow,
which will be controlled at different sections of the route by four
different administrations, to the obvious inconvenience of all concerned.
Another virtue of the scheme is that it promises to simplify the
task of the State in connection with the financing of so vast an
enterprise.
The central section of M. Charignon's book is devoted to a
detailed discussion of the 21 systems comprised in his programme. It is
an education in the geography of China to follow him as he deals with
each system in turn, explaining the considerations which govern his
selection of the main routes and outlining the probable ramifications of
each in its future development. One recalls Richthofen's amusing
description of an earlier and different scheme, the author of which, having
traced a net of utterly impossible "Railroad lines," inserted on his map "a
number of large mountain ranges to suit his convenience, good care being
taken that none of them should find a railroad in its way." With the
advantages of foresight and unity the present programme combines that of
flexibility. Many of the minor features mentioned by the author in
connexion with his several systems, he admits to be of the nature of
tentative indications. To the description of each system is attached a
sketch-map, showing the lines proposed, and a forecast is given of the

130
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
gauges most likely to be adopted for the various sections, and a computation
of the probable expenses. But modifications will naturally suggest
themselves as the projects mature, and for this reason continual care is
taken to distinguish those lines which are most urgently needed, and, in
particular, those necessary lines the most suitable routes for which are least
open to doubt.
A few matters likely to be appreciated by members of this Society may
be mentioned in conclusion. The production of the book, carried out by
the Pei-Tang Press, is above praise. The preface touches on the thorny
question of romanisation and explains why that adopted by the Postal
Administration was selected. The Chinese characters are, indeed, constantly
given. Those on the numerous and beautifully printed maps are particularly
pleasing in form.
Of late a departure seems to have taken place from the days when
confined views and a stumbling style were held excusable in books about
China and authors who "knew Chinese." It is a notable departure. Recent
years have seen books by British travellers, works of erudition and poetic
insight, and studies in Chinese art which are an ornament to French
literature. And now we have a work on railways by the "Conseiller
Technique" to the Chiao Tung Pu, which commences with a quotation from
"le plus doux des poètes français" (and one, we fancy, of the least culti-
vated). This is delightful, and surely most appropriate in this country
where famous soldiers have often been venerated scholars, and men of
learning conspicuously successful in practical works,-a phenomenon
happily epitomized in a laudatory tablet recently bestowed on H. E. Chang
Ch'ien; and we may well feel that it is a fitting as well as a pleasing
circumstance that M. Charignon has given his book a distinction and
precision of style fully worthy of a magnum opus dealing with a great
subject.
A. R.
Chinese Clay Figures. Part I, Prolegomena on the History of De-
fensive Armour. By BERTHOLD LAUFER. Chicago, 1914.
The study of things purely Chinese is passing rapidly into the hands of
aliens; they are now the enquirers into the curious and ancient things.
of China. The late lamented TUAN FANG was a great student of these
matters, and an authority on them. And so likewise is Mr. LO CHEN-YÜ,
but he lives in retirement in Japan; others there may be hidden in some
corner of this vast land, possessed with this ancient lore and who would be
capable of dealing adequately with the volume prepared by Prof. LAUFER.
But the Chinese students of such subjects are few.
The reader is somewhat puzzled at first in handling this volume, which
bears on the outside the title of Clay Figures and then to find his attention

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
131
arrested by the Rhinoceros which occupies a large part of the prolegomena:
but he soon understands the apparent discrepancy. Clay figures are
clad in armour, and the armour, or at least some of it, is supposed to be
made out of the hides of two animals, designated by the words Hsi and
Ssu . Now the author states that the value of the prolegomena depends
on getting a clear understanding of the nature of these two old animals.
Are they one and the same or different animals? What are they, and do
they mean the Rhinoceros? He says "it is imperative to have a clear
understanding of what these two animals were in the early antiquity of
China." This on the face of it sounds somewhat hopeless,-and risky if
the value of the book is staked on the result. "Clear understanding"
"early antiquity,"-that is a great problem. Prof. LAUFER has
read deeply in the lore of "early antiquity" and it is cheering to see him
emerge with such confidence in a "clear understanding." It cannot be
said of others that they are quite so cheerful, even after reading his
illuminating and learned treatment. We are glad he is not deterred by
any fears, nor by the flat contradictions of scholars, nor by his own examina-
tions into the obscure, the uncertain and the vague: these have in no wise
arrested his own march through many a labyrinth, but he always arrives at
some definite conclusion. It is well to be optimistic.
The occasion for this volume "was the collection in the period 1908-
1910 of ancient clay figures in Shensi and Honan." It is a closely printed
volume of pp. 315-73-242 plus plates. The volume begins with p. 73,
possibly because it is published as part of a Series, but a little note to
account for this would not have been out of place.¹
But to return to the two old animals, the Hsi and the Ssu, what were
they? BIOT's translation of the Chou Li is first examined, who translates
Hsi by buffalo, and Ssu by rhinoceros, and says that in the Shih Ching the
two characters are not differentiated, where they denote a rhinoceros or
wild buffalo. M. BIOT's prepossessed idea of "the skin of the rhinoceros
being very thick," making it "difficult to believe that it could have been
sliced, and that the pieces could have been sewed together in order to
make cuirasses" seems to interfere with the spirit of exact investigation.
The translations of PALLADIUS and COUVREUR are examined, as well as
CHAVANNES' sensibly expressed opinion that "ssu niu and hsi appear to be
two different species of rhinoceros." DEVERIA translates both words by
rhinoceros, and BRETSCHNEIDER, "both a naturalist and an eminent sino-
logue" upholds the opinion "that the rhinoceros, and goblets made from
rhinoceros-horn are repeatedly mentioned in the Chinese Classics, and that
the latter has been reputed from time immemorial for its anti-poisonous
1 The Anthropological Series of Field Museum, Vol. XIII No. 1 (pp. 1-72) is Dr.
Laufer's "Notes on Turquois in the East." The work under review is Vol. XIII, No. 2. [ED.]

132
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
virtues." This really does not help us to a true definition of the words in
the Classics, which is the difficulty. Next the opinion of Dr. GILES is
examined, who says Hsi is a tapir, a rhinoceros, and Ssu, a "bovine animal,
another name for the Hsi." This is the modified view adopted in the
second edition of his dictionary. He says "the Hsi niu is a bovine animal,
and "the traditional rhinoceros of foreigners is wholly wrong." In his
Adversaria Sinica Dr. GILES has amplified the reasons for the modification.
He has no doubt of its being a bovine animal. He thinks however there
is "hopeless confusion" because a term which meant "a bovine animal was
later on wrongly applied to rhinoceros." And so many authorities are
consulted and examined in search of what these bovine animals might be.
One is surprised by the way to find Dr. GILES quoting the Shan hai ching,
a book which is only reliable for the strange and untrue. So here we are
landed in "hopeless confusion." Prof. LAUFER however is not in despair,
but proceeds quite confidently to examine Dr. GILES' views and reasons.
He brings numerous authorities to controvert Dr. GILES' reasons, which
are one by one rejected. Even his most weighty evidence, "the queer
Chinese illustrations of the two animals" fail, for in any case "these
sketches pointed out by Dr. GILES . . . can never have been intended
for any bovines." These queer animals have due attention paid to them.
They seem to indicate the rhinoceros rather than anything else. For "the
single horn and the three toes are thoroughly characteristic of the
rhinoceros, and of these animals exclusively." "The weak point in Dr.
GILES' definition of bovine animal is that it is somewhat generalised and
leaves us entirely in the dark as to the difference between the two words
Isi and Ssu." Prof. LAUFER tries to get light out of this darkness and not
only calls Chinese authorities to his aid, but examines Roman and Greek
antiquities as well. In the course of this examination much valuable in-
formation is collected about the habits of wild animals, about agriculture,
etc., and in regard to Dr. GILES and the rhinoceros, the conclusion is reach-
ed that while Dr. GILES renders the words Ssu and Hsi indiscriminately
by "bovine animal" it is manifest that the Hsi and Ssu are two
distinct animals, but can by no means be two distinct bovine animals
(p. 172.)
There were three kinds of cuirasses, some made of the hide of the
two-horned rhinoceros, some from the hide of the single-horned. Therefore
the hide of the wild bovine animal must be eliminated since there would be
no need of so much ado in hunting for wild bovine animals for cuirasses,
when there were domestic cattle from which leather was obtainable. The
skin of ox and cow would not be used for sacred and other reasons, and
so "the tradition that rhinoceros-skin is a fit material" for cuirasses
has been maintained, etc. That in short is the verdict given by Prof.
LAUFER.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
133
On the whole we are inclined to think that Dr. GILES is not quite
犀與兕
堅厚古人恒用以製甲
犀 角縱列一前一後角堅緻可以製
度所產者祇-角非洲所產者二
(一)獸名較象畧小角生鼻端印
犀
器中國井用价藥品其皮箴襞極
棘亦有一角者
角-在頂上一在額上1 在鼻上鼻上者即食角也小而不棚好食
(爾雅釋 㞗似豕注云形似水牛猪頭大腹痺脚脚有三蹄黑色三
兕 獸名犀之璡者頂止一角文理細 (山海經南山經注)犀似水牛
clear in his identity. The Hsin Tzu Tien gives
the following definitions, inclining to the view
腻
that Hsi is the male, and Ssŭ the female of the
皮
製止
甲
animal whatever it be, with other structural
differences, and it says that the single horn is
Indian and the double horn is African. But
its definition is only valuable in confirming
the idea that the Chinese are not certain of
the ancient interpretation.
We venture to
ching.
offer the following quotations from Chinese
authorities, even one from the Shan hai
兕
(述異記)却麈犀海獸也共角辟廛
(傅咸犀鈎銘序)犀之美者有光雞見影而驚故曰雞
(南越志)海中出離水犀似牛共出有光水之開
(抱朴子 犀角一尺以上街之入水水常開
(說文)犀南微外牛-角在鼻一角在頂似豕
(國語越語注)犀形似柔而大分山水犀水犀皮有珠甲山犀則無
(說文)兕似野牛而
(儀禮郛射禮記洼)兕獸名似牛一角
(國語晉語法)兕似牛而尚善觸人
(山海經南山經注)亦似水牛
(爾雅釋 兕似牛注云一角青色重千斤
(周禮冬官)函人爲甲犀甲七周兕甲六周犀甲壽百年兕甲二百年
(南州異物志)兕角長二尺餘形似馬鞭柄共皮堅可爲鎧甲
(論衡是應)倉兕者水中之獸也善覆人船
(後漢書馬融傳洼)兕似野牛而青色
An examination of these expositions leads us to
conclude that the
Hsi and the Ssu are two different things. There are 5 points of difference
between them.
1. The colour of the Ssu is ch'ing or light blue (cerulean). The
colour of the Hsi is black.
2.
The Ssu has one horn, but the Hsi has more than one.
3. The hide of the Ssu is extremely tough: that of the Hsi less so.
4. The Hsi can divide the waters (with its horn); the hide will keep
the dust off from the person possessing it, that is, the dust will
not settle on it: and further it has anti-poisonous properties. But
the hide of the Ssй was used for armour alone.
5. The Hsi is similar to a hog, only larger: but the Ssă similar to an ox.

134
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Thus it is evident they were two distinct animals. Possibly the Hsin
Tzu Tien in saying one was male and the other female fell into the error
from confusing tzu with Ssu. Dr. GILES defines tzu as the female of
certain animals, which is really very vague. The Pên ts'ao chi chich
(medical) defines it as the female of the Hsi, which in popular language
is called the spotted Hsi. The Erh Ya again says the Ssu and the Tzu
have the same sounds i.e. same name. And it further states that most
likely this and the Hsi and the Ssă are one animal: the ancients spoke of
it as Ssu, and later ages called it Hsi: the North called it Ssu and the
South Hsi, meaning two different oxen.
Thus taking the weight of opinion it seems there were two distinct
animals, but possibly of the same species. Having said so much on this
part let us pass on.
Chap. 2 deals with the "defensive armor of the Archaic Period" which
was "characterized by the absence of any metal, but was exclusively made
of hide," p. 174. "Prior to the time of Ts'in metal armour and metal
helmets were not in existence." Given the simple question of hide there
is still the difficulty of how the armour was constructed. Prof. LAUFER
cannot accept the Chinese interpretations, but his arguments are not con-
clusive. The Chinese description is technically impossible and beyond our
experience, he says. "It is an absurdity to speak of an armour consisting
of 7, 6, 5 laminae." But to us the matter does not seem to be quite as
impossible as the author assumes. Still it must be recognized that Prof.
LAUFER treats the question with much learning and skilfully, and the chapter
is a valuable contribution, which will become a standard of reference in all
future discussion of the theme. This remark will apply to the next chapter,
which treats of the defensive armour of the Han period. This chapter has
some excellent illustrations of Han soldiers in armour. Certain advances
were made during this great fighting period, the most fundamental change
being the great importance attached to cavalry. The old General MA YUAN
says "the horse is the fundamental of all military operations." Chap. IV
deals with chain mail and ring mail, and then comes the problem of the
Plate Armour in Chap. 5 and the conclusion is reached that, "Looking
backward at the remarkably wide distribution of plate armor, we cannot
fail to recognize in this fact a certain degree of historical coherence. The
Tang epoch denotes only the culminating point in this development.
The elegant specimens of the T'ang were preceded by those of coarser
and cruder workmanship. There is a great deal of probability in
the supposition that such existed, both in China and among the
Iranian and Turkish tribes of Central Asia, ages before the T'ang,
presumably as early as the era of the Han. Iranians surely were the
mediators between the west and the east in this matter. Altogether
the impression remains that plate armor, the last offshoots of which
we encounter in the farthest north-east corner of Asia and the

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
185
farthest north-west of America, took its origin from western Asia."
(pp. 290-291.)
Chapters VI and VII deal with the defensive armour of the T'ang
period, and with the Horse Armour and clay figures of Horses. The
volume closes with some splendid plates of Clay Figures. It is impossible
to deal adequately in a short review with this volume. It shows much
labour and erudition. Students who are interested in the Rhinoceros,
Armour and Clay Figures will find much information in it.
M.
Mission Archéologique dans la Chine Septentrionale, par
E. CHAVANNES, Membre de l'Institut.
Ouvrage publié sous les auspices du Ministre de l'Instruction publique
et de l'Academie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres.
Tome I Première Partie. La Sculpture à l'Epoque des Han. Paris:
E. Leroux. 1913.
The two noble volumes of Plates and this first volume of letterpress.
add fresh laurels to one who has long since won his sinological crown.
For many years M. Chavannes has been publishing pictures and descriptions
of the wonderful sculptures to be found in northern China. The great work
now commenced gives promise not only of including within its scope all
that M. Chavannes himself has published, but also all that many collabora-
tors, Chinese as well as foreigners, have had to say on these sculptures.
And although it may be hard to find anything on the subject not already
written by Chinese writers, much that will be given to the western world
in these volumes has hitherto been available only to readers of Chinese.
The present review will be practically confined to the volume of letter-
press-little can be written about the pictures; they require to be seen to
be appreciated.
After a too brief section (23 pages only) devoted to Prolegomena
the present volume is given up to five chapters. First comes an account of
the Pillars of Tengfeng Ho, (in all cases possible the authorised Post Office
spelling is adopted in this review, and not the more correct French sound-
symbol to be found in M. Chavannes' pages). Next comes the Chamber of
Siao tang Hill. The longest chapter in the book (p. 94-220) is devoted to
the interesting group of relics connected with the Wu Family. The last
chapter of 67 pages contains a rapid review of all other known bas-reliefs
of the period in question.
The Prolegomena discusses the evidence that exists, showing that in
the Han Dynasty an ancestral hall was occasionally erected actually on the
same enclosure as that on which the grave itself was found. This seems to
have been a custom unknown in earlier days, and one that was modified in
later times by the separation of the hall and the cemetery. Prof. Chavannes

136
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
also produces evidence to show that Memorial Halls were occasionally
erected to still living heroes, to perpetuate their memory when they had
won for themselves a good name, but were being moved by imperial order
to some different post. It is conjectured with every probability that the
halls to the dead as to the living were reproductions in their main features
of the homes of the wealthy classes of that period. A most interesting
result of this is the fact that in the halls to the memory of the dead, none
of the scenes represent the life beyond the grave. Our author says: "In
passing in review the subjects treated most frequently by the sculptors of
Shantung one cannot but be struck with the impossibility of explaining
any of them as connected with the occupations of the life of another world.
With the exception of processions in which the deceased appears re-clothed
with the functions he exercised on this earth, one finds nothing in this
decoration directly bearing on death; nothing which indicates in any
manner the thoughts which were held concerning the destinies of life
beyond the tomb. We are led, therefore, to the conclusion that the art is
not specifically funereal." In a note the following information is added:
"Perhaps some day new discoveries may throw fresh light on this question.
In the Hou Han Shu (c. xciv, p. 8) we read of one Chao Ch'i, who died
A.D. 201, when over ninety. In the tomb which he had prepared for him-
self he had portrayed himself as host entertaining four visitors at a feast,
viz., Ch'i Cha, Tzu Ch'an, Yen Ying and Shu Hsiang. [See Giles' B.D.
146]. For each of these figures he had composed a poetical note. It is
evident that we have here a conception very different from that which
dominates the bas-reliefs hitherto known. In representing himself as
surrounded with several eminent men of antiquity it would seem that
Chao Ch'i wished to express his desire to hold converse after death with
the sages in the Elysian fields."
The scenes chosen by the sculptors are grouped by Prof. Chavannes
thus: 1. Mythological representations of the Hsi Wang Mu, surrounded
by the solar crow with three legs, lunar hares, the nine-tailed fox, etc.
2. Scenes from the legendary and later history of China: e.g. Fu Hsi and
Niu Kua (generally both represented as half human and half serpent); Yü
of the Flood; the hero founders of the Chou Dynasty, coming on down to
scenes in which Confucius appears-one of the most frequent being the
meeting of Laotze and Confucius. 3. Scenes illustrative of filial piety,
widow fidelity, etc.; and lastly, scenes in the life of the deceased.
Having shown that Pillars were erected to indicate the opening in a
boundary wall (the latter being either real or imaginary), we come to the
first chapter of the book, the Pillars of T'ai Shih. These two pillars were
erected in the year 118 A.D. They stand in front of the celebrated Sung
Shan the "middle" of the five Peaks of Chinese lore. In 695 A.D. the
Empress Wu ascended this Peak to perform the Feng sacrifice, whence the
present name of the county Teng-feng. The divinity celebrated by the

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
137
two pillars is that connected with the Central Peak. Five years later two
other pillars were erected to the memory of the Mother of K'ai ; but in
this case "K'ai" represents K'i, the name of the son of Yü, the hero of
the Flood. There is a legend about the birth of this son, K'i. Yü had
transformed himself into the shape of a bear; forgetful of this, he called
to his wife to bring him something to eat. The wife ran away and when
she got to the neighbourhood of the Central Peak, she was transformed
into a rock. As a rock, she gave birth to K'i.
There the rock still stands away to the north of Tengfeng hsien. In
B.C. 110, the Emperor Wu declared that he had seen it. Little wonder
that the "Mother of Ch'i" became a paragon of all womanly virtues and
that a temple was erected to her honour. There remain in connexion with
the temple the two pillars which were erected in A.D. 123 The most
interesting thing in connection with these pillars is an inscription cut in
chuan-" seal" characters. This and a similar inscription on the next two
pillars to be discussed are the oldest specimens of this writing actually
extant. Sundry inscriptions of the First Emperor on the T'ai Shan and
elsewhere, only remain to us to-day in copies, the originals having dis-
appeared. There is nothing very striking in the inscription itself. Below
it is a second in li characters that comes from the pen of Tang-chi Tien,
dated 175 A.D. The writer was one of the scholars employed in the first
cutting of the extant Classics on stone tablets. This inscription merely
records that T'ang-chi Tien came to this spot to pray for rain. A further
inseription from the same pen, in the same style, eulogises his father.
A third pair of pillars are known as the Pillars of the Lesser House
(Shao Shih). The hill known as Shao Shih is divided from the Central
Peak, which is, as we have seen, known as the T'ai Shih, by a valley. They
are still within a few miles of the city of Tengfeng. Prof. Chavannes
holds that the names of the two hills have come from the two temples and
not the reverse. Tradition connects the tutelary deity of this lesser hill,
with the sister of the "Mother of Chi," named Wu-i. Through an inscrip-
tion, we are able to date these pillars in the year A.D. 123, i.e. the same as
the second pair we have considered.
Very little information can be gathered as to the particular meaning,
if any, that should be attached to the various sculptures and ornamentations
that are to be found on these pillars.
We pass now from Honan to Shantung. In the county of Feicheng,
some 60 li to its north-west, there is a hill known as the Hsiao-tang Hill
i.e., the Hill of the Hall of Filial Piety. A series of inscriptions leads us
back to the year 129 A.D. as the date for the sculptures that are connected
with this Hall. The Hall is itself enclosed in one of the buildings of a
Taoist temple-a fact that has had the great advantage of preserving the
building, but which entails the slight disadvantage of rendering it all but
impossible to get a good photograph of the building. The sides of the

138
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Hall are composed of slabs covered with low relief carvings. The name of
Kuo Chu, (Giles, B.D. 1059) one of the 24 heroes of filial piety, is connected
with the Hall and with a tomb quite near to it. The legend about Kuo is
that at a time when he was very poor the fact that his son was eating 80
much and his mother could not get sufficient decided him to do away with
the son so that the mother might have plenty. He therefore began to dig
a grave in which he was going to bury the son alive. Before he had finished
the grave he came across an ingot of gold with an inscription in red stating
that it was Heaven's gift to him in reward for his piety, and ordering that
neither the officials nor anyone else should attempt to deprive him of it.
An inscription from the prince of Lung-tung dated A.D. 570 says clearly
that the Hall was in memory of Kuo. But the legend makes Kuo a poor
man; the decorations of the Hall are in memory of a wealthy man. A full
description of these decorations occupies the following pages of M. Chavan-
nes' book.
Keeping still to Shantung but moving to the south-west, we come to
the Wu Liang group of sculptures that are found in the county of Kiasiang.
Thirty li to the south of the city at the foot of a hill known as the Hill.
of Violet Clouds, were a large group of sculptures. Some of these remain
in situ; yet others have been taken to places of safety. A series of inscrip-
tions connects the buildings with a scholarly family named Wu. The
inscriptions bear dates from A.D. 147 to 167. Four brothers united to
publish the praises of their father. Within the series, however, one of
the brothers and a nephew had also passed away and they too are com-
memorated. As long ago as 1881 Dr. S. W. Bushell brought the inscriptions
to the notice of the west. In 1886, the inscriptions were seen and described
by Lieut. Dudley A. Mills, who gave impressions of them to the British
Museum. Two years later, M. Chavannes saw them. Later they were
again and again described by other western visitors. Every kind of
sculpture summarised by M. Chavannes is to be found in the Wu group:
the mythological, the legendary, the historical and the more or less private
and domestic scenes all appear on one or other of the stone slabs or pillars.
The descriptions of these decorations are the best part of the present volume.
The learned author has exhausted the stores of Chinese learning and research
to annotate as fully as possible the scenes depicted. Old anecdotes known
to every reader of books Chinese are to be found, together with new ones,-
I am afraid to say, not to be found in Giles; I must content myself with
saying, that I have not yet discovered in the pages of the Biographical
Dictionary. For instance, neither Giles nor Watters (in his "Guide to the
Confucian Temple") gives the following tale of the greatest of the heroes
of Filial Piety, T'sêng Ts'an. "Once when the Tsêngs were living at Fei,
there was amongst the people of Lu one who bore the same family name and
the same personal name as Tsêng Ts'an. This namesake committed a
murder. One came to the mother of our hero and reported to her that

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
139
Tsêng Ts'an had murdered a man. She, however, went on with her spinning.
A second neighbour repeated the news. Again it had no effect. But when
a third time, the statement was repeated to her, her motherly heart gave
way, and throwing down her work, she fled out of her back door." One of
the sculptures represents "the loving mother throwing away her shuttle on
hearing for the third time the calumny." The anecdote connected with the
next sculpture is given by Giles (1533, p. 586) in his brief notice of Min Sun.
Tale after tale is to be found translated in the pages that follow.
The last chapter is very brief. Of much that it contains, there is a
mere register that such and such a sculpture is to be found at such and
such a place; or even that it once existed there and has been mentioned
by Chinese writers. Even this, however, is a good thing to have at hand
for reference.
The work is done so well, that there will be no repetition of it. All
who write on the matter of Han sculptures henceforth will be Mons. Cha-
vannes' debtors. We look forward to the future volumes with increased
interest after reading this first one.
G. G. W.
Chinese Pottery and Porcelain.
An account of the potter's art in
China from primitive times to the present day, by R. L. HOBSON,
B.A., with forty plates in colour and ninety-six in black and white.
Messrs. Cassell & Co., 1915. Edition limited to 1,500 copies.
Chinese, Corean and Japanese Potteries; descriptive catalogue of
Loan Exhibition of selected examples. The Chinese and Corean
authenticated by R. L. HOBSON, B.A., of the British Museum, London,
and the Japanese by EDWARD S. MORSE, M.A., of the Museum of
Fine Arts, Boston. All exhibited under the auspices of the Japan
Society at the Galleries of M. Knoedler & Co., New York, March
2-21, 1914. With illustrations in colour and half-tone, and with a
report on early Chinese potteries compiled from original sources by
ROSE SICKLER WILLIAMS.
The years 1914 and 1915 have seen the publication of the above two
exceedingly important works on the ceramics of the Far East. The scope
and purpose of Mr. Hobson's fine work are best explained in the author's
own words taken from the Introduction; "In spite of all that has been
written in the past on Oriental ceramics, the study is still young, and it
will be long before the last word is said on the subject. Still our knowledge
is constantly increasing, and remarkable strides have been made in recent
years. The first serious work on Chinese porcelain was Julien's translation
of the Ching-tê Chên t'ao lu, published in 1856. The work of a scholar
who was not an expert, it was inevitably marred by misunderstanding of

140
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
the material, and subsequent writers who followed blindly were led into
innumerable confusions. The Franks' Catalogue, issued in 1876 was one
of the first attempts to classify Oriental wares on some intelligible system;
but it was felt that not enough was known at that time to justify a
chronological classification of the collection, and the somewhat unscientific
method of grouping by colours and processes of decoration, was adopted as
a convenient expedient. At the end of the last century Dr. Bushell
revolutionized the study of Chinese porcelain in his "Oriental Ceramic
Art," a book, unfortunately, difficult to obtain, and by editing Cosmo
Monkhouse's excellent "History and Description of Chinese Porcelain."
These were followed by the South Kensington Museum Handbook and by
the translation and reproduction of the 16th century "Album of Hsiang
Yüan-p'ien, and later by the more important translation of the Tao-shuo."
After a hearty acknowledgment of Dr. Bushell's work Mr. Hobson
continues; While Dr. Bushell's contributions have greatly simplified the
study of the later Chinese porcelains, little or no account was taken in the
older books of the pottery and early wares. The materials necessary for
the study of these were wanting in Europe." In the last few years the
position has completely changed. The opening up of China and the
increased opportunities which Europeans enjoy not only for studying, but
for acquiring masterpieces have awakened a new and wide-spread enthu-
siasm for them.
"The result of all this is, ceramically speaking, is that we are now
familiar with the pottery of the Han dynasty; ceramic art of the T'ang
period has been unfolded in wholly unexpected splendour; the Sung pro-
blems no longer consist in reconciling ambiguous Chinese phrases, but in
the classification of actual specimens; the Ming porcelain is seen in clearer
perspective, and our already considerable information on the wares of the
last dynasty has been revised and supplemented by further studies. So
much progress, in fact, has been made, that it was high time to take stock
of the present position, and to set out the material which has been collected,
not of course, with any thoughts of finality, but to serve as a basis for a
further forward move; that is the purpose of the present volumes, in which
I have attempted to merely lay before the reader the existing material for
studying Chinese ceramics, which he may or may not accept."
Vol. I deals with Pottery and the early wares. Mr. Hobson traces the
history of the Potter's art to its earliest sources in a masterly manner;
indeed the opening chapters of the book are of enthralling interest, partly
perhaps because he here, to a great extent, tills virgin soil. The data in
regard to the wonderful potteries designated by the Chinese as Ju, Kuan,
and Ko wares, as Lung Ch'üan Yao, Ting Yao, Tz'u Chou, Chün Yao, etc.,
have hitherto lain, inaccessible to the amateur, in the native literature on
ceramics, and to find the whole subject now clearly set forth is indeed
a joy.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
141
Mr. Hobson devotes a chapter to the vexed question of "Porcelain and
its Beginnings," his own opinion being "that Porcelain in the Chinese
sense already existed at the end of the Sung dynasty.'
Vol. II opens with the discussion of the wares which issued from the
potteries at Ching-tê Chên under the Mings and carries the history of
ceramics to the present day, devoting the last chapter in the book to "For-
geries and Imitations."
The plates are extremely fine, especially the frontispiece to Vol. I which
represents the magnificent Tang figurine at the British Museum, and the
work is complete in every detail. An excellent bibliography is included
and also a chapter on "marks on pottery and porcelain," while a short
summary of the contents of the various famous Museums of the World,
should prove useful.
Turning to the Catalogue of the Exhibition held in New York, one is
first struck by the perfect taste in which the volume, accompanied by a set
of magnificent photographs, is produced, and the committee of the pottery
exhibition which consisted of Samuel T. Peters, Charles L. Freer,
D. J. R. Ushikubo, Mataichi Miya, Alexander Tison, Howard Mansfield,
Lindsay Russell and Eugene Worden, are to be heartily congratulated on
their work.
The report on early Chinese pottery, compiled from original sources by
Mrs. Williams is of very high interest. Her researches open with the Sung
dynasty and her note on the famous Chün Yao is most excellent.
The foreword to the publication, which sets forth in a concise form the
intention of the Japan Society in organizing such a note-worthy exhibition,
runs as follows; "At the request of the Committee of the Japan Society,
when the Society's exhibition of Sung pottery was determined upon, the
Asiatic Institute inaugurated investigations in China and Corea, and
commissioned Mrs. Rose Sickler Williams, in Peking, to make researches
into native and foreign sources and to formulate a report. The object
aimed at was to bring together more knowledge of the subject than was
contained in any hitherto published consecutive document, to free facts
earlier presented from irrevelant material, to add, by researches on the
ground, something not previously known to us, and to arrange the whole
in a clear form. Chinese books, collections, kiln sites and shards have been
examined, and Chinese and foreign works compared. Of the result, as
embodied in the accompanying Report, it may be said that what is true in
the existing Chinese and foreign works on the subject of Sung dynasty
pottery has been found out, and a quantity of what is untrue has been
detected. Consideration has been given to the true artistic taste and
genuine antiquarian instincts of the Chinese connoisseurs, allowance has
been made for what is called the unscientific knowledge of Asiatic authori-
ties, and care has been taken in weighing the evidence of Chinese literature
and in accrediting the work of foreign writers." Paradoxical as it may

142
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
seem, books such as the above, are of infinitely greater value to the amateur
who dwells in the Far East, the home of the products described, where
however but few public collections are at his disposal, than they are to his
his brother of the West, who, though he may dwell many thousand miles
from the lount of Oriental Art, has yet magnificent specimens, fully described,
at his very doors.
F. W. A.
Catalogue of a Special Exhibition of Chinese Paintings at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. By J. C.
FERGUSON, 1914.
Catalogue of Chinese Paintings Ancient and Modern. The pro-
perty of Mr. LIU SUNG FU; compiled by FLORENCE WHEELOCK
AYSCOUGH, 1914.
Chinese Pictorial Art. By E. A. STREHLNEEK. Shanghai: Commercial
Press, 1914.
Dr. Ferguson gives an illuminating introduction which tends to support
the idea that China is the mother of the arts. He distinguishes between
pictures which appeal to the art sense and those which are 'known in the
records' having historical value in addition to or apart from art value.
In modern China there would appear to be a tendency to assess historical
value above art value. We understand that this representative collection
of 95 pictures and books of pictures which has been acquired by the
Museum was collected in China by Dr. Ferguson with the help of Chinese
connoisseurs. The English translation given of Hsieh Ho's Six Canons
of Chinese Art appears to have been more felicitously expressed by Prof.
Giles. The illustrations are nicely reproduced as is usually the case with
the work of the best American printers.
Mrs. Ayscough, in her catalogue of Mr. Liu Sung-fu's extensive
collection of 358 pictures and albums destined for the Panama Exposition,
has relieved the oft-time conventional descriptions by apt quo tations from
the Chinese poets and other authors.
Mr. Strehlneek's catalogue is the most ambitious of the three and no
expense has been spared to make it as good as can be produced in a modern
Chinese printing press. While the monochrome reproduction are delicate
and restrained, the colour prints are somewhat crude and disappointing. It
is difficult to discover the artistic merit of the illustrations facing pp. 126 and
130. But a collection which includes the masterly Kwanyin from a stone
rubbing after a picture by the immortal Wu Tao-tze and a number of
delightful landscapes can afford to include some examples of the common-
place.
A. S.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
143
Chinese Forest Trees and Timber Supply. By NORMAN SHAW.
(T. Fisher Unwin, London).
This is not an account of the sources, native and foreign, whence China
gets her timber, as the second part of the title might imply but a systematic
survey of the Provinces of the country in regard to forest trees and native
timber. It is a careful and well arranged compilation which should be
interesting to amateurs of gardening and of China. It begins by
a detailed account of the Provinces, one by one, in respect of timber, or
more often, alas! the lack of it, and ends with an account of the trees,
under the categories of Broad-leaved Trees, Conifers, Bamboo and Palm,
and Foreign Trees. I should judge the author was rather a compiler than &
naturalist. Such mistakes as there are-and I have noticed very few-
suggest that the author has not an intimate personal acquaintance with the
trees; e.g., he refers several times to Camphor-Cinnamomum camphora-
as deciduous. In the next edition the author might add an index of the
Chinese names of trees; the book would be more useful if the Chinese
characters could be printed.
One rises from a perusal of this work with a feeling of positive-
disgust at the foolish neglect by the Chinese of trees, which is slowly but
surely ruining one of the fairest regions in the world. The North-west is
gone, and the North is going, as the country traversed by the Nanking-
Tientsin Railway from Piu-k'ou to the Shantung border bears witness.
Wood is usually planted round graves and is usually cut and sold by a
spendthrift son. We can recommend this book to our readers.
F. S. A. B.
Some West China Hunting Notes. By DAY DYE-FU.
This is another valuable contribution to the little-known habits of
some of the more interesting species of big game of Western China.
It of course does not pretend to attempt anything so wide as the scope
of Mr. H. F. Wallace's "Big Game of Central and Western China" which
we reviewed in last year's Journal of this Society. Nevertheless from the
point of view of the observer of the habits of the big game of China as well
as from the point of view of the sportsman, this little pamphlet arrests
attention.
Its descriptions of the appearance and habits of the three animals the
author observed and shot, viz: the Serow, Takin and Blue Sheep (Ovis
nahura), are very complete, and the pictures drawn of the gorgeous scenery
of their habitats are well written.
The Blue Sheep is of course the well known Burrhel, considered among
Indian shikaris a great prize. There were two or three years ago a few
specimens in the London Zoo.' It is a particularly attractive-looking,
wiry little animal, and we remember, when last at Regent's Park, being..

144
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
very much impressed (as was apparently the author) with the neatness of
its movements and the agility with which it clambered about on a large
block of artificial rock provided for it in its enclosure.
Blandford ("Fauna of British India," 1891) says it has bred freely
in the Zoo.
He however says nothing about the reason for the Burrhel earning its
title of "Blue sheep" and Mr. Day's statement that it "has a distinctly
slate-blue color for about nine months of the year" only, may be a fact
unknown to naturalists.
There is a description of the destructive effect of modern weapons
used in big game hunting; and the instance of a sheep shot through the
shoulder which when picked up, was found minus its heart which had
been shot clean out and was lying detached from the carcase on the ground,
may possibly be explained by the fact that the bullet, in entering the
shoulder, had driven one of the shoulder-bones through the body, severing
the heart-connections on the way.
Still it is strange to what extent bullets will mushroom out when
passing through even a less solid body than a muscular sheep or goat.
We remember having a 150 yards shot with a rifle at a flock of bustard sitting
in close formation on the foreshore near the Little Beacon in the Yangtsze
Estuary. The nickel nose of the bullet had been slightly filed, disclosing
the lead inside. The same bullet killed two birds. A small hole the size
of the bullet was seen in the side of the nearest bird when picked up. The
hole had increased to about double the size where the bullet emerged. It
was of the same dimensions of course where the bullet entered the second
bird, but where it left the second bird on the far side, the hole made was
big enough to put one's fist in, and the bustard was almost too mangled
to be worth taking home for the pot.
J. H. T.
Experiences with Man-Eating Tigers in China. By the Rev. H. R.
CALDWELL. I, II, III and IV.
We are inclined to think that "The Man Eaters of Tsavo" (Patterson)
is perhaps the most thrilling account of lion-hunting which has ever been
written. Moreover it is presumably authentic, being vouched for in the
Editorial by no less celebrated a Nimrod than Mr. F. C. Selous.
But Mr. Caldwell's experiences of tiger-hunting near Foochow are no
less remarkable and thrilling.
One has often heard and read descriptions of tiger-hunting in India,
whether the sportsman be seated in a howdah or in a tree, from both of
which places of observation he sees his prey without running much risk
of attack.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
145
One has also often heard of the method semployed by tiger-hunters in
Amoy, which sound far more dangerous. In that district the tiger rests
during the day in caves formed by huge boulders leaning against one
another in endless confusion in rugged upland country among the moun-
tains. Into these caves the foreign sportsman enters on all fours preceded
by a native shikari with a torch. The fact that there is only one exit--that
by which the sportsman has entered the cave-makes the exploit sound
one attended with great peril, and yet those hunters with whom we have
spoken on the subject such as Mr. J. R. Harding (who shot five tigers at
Amoy) say that after one's first experience, the danger is really less than
one anticipates, as the tiger is completely cowed by the flare of the torch
and forms an easy prey.
However that may be, there is no doubt that the exploits of Mr. Caldwell
have been of a much more remarkable kind. He pursued his animals on
foot, sometimes seemingly unattended, lay in his "cache" on occasions
only ten feet from his "kill" which was generally a goat and kids. He is
undoubtedly an unerring shot and possessed of a very full measure of
indomitable pluck and resource. The descriptions of his hunts after "Blue-
beard "a dark variety (or possibly new species of Felis)-are most excit-
ing, and we trust that when he next pursues this formidable animal he will
meet with better luck..
We know that tigers' teeth, claws and bones are much prized by the
natives for various supposed medical and other properties but we did not
realise what anxiety there is on their part to secure the blood of the dead
tiger.
We recollect killing a very large boar in the Wuhu district some years
ago; the only part of it we required was the skull. The animal was accord-
ingly decapitated and the head boiled for a whole day in a huge cauldron.
The head man of the village then asked us if the villagers could have the
carcase. Consent being given, fifteen men and women set upon the corpse
lying on the temple floor, cut up and carried away first hair, then skin,
entrails, blood,-everything, and in a quarter of an hour no trace of the
animal was left except the stains on the ground.
For exciting adventures, these little pamphlets from the pen of
Mr. Caldwell are difficult to beat.
J. H. T.
Chinese Game Mammals.
By T. R. JERNIGAN.
In turning over the pages of this pamphlet after reading Mr. Caldwell's
thrilling experiences one feels as one navigating again in smooth waters.
We confess we did not know that there was any probability at all of
the extinction of the lion in Asia, though Blandford, we see, writing in
1891, says it is verging on extinction in India.

146
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
The description of the double-barreled matchlock used by the Emperor
Kien-lung, the barrels of which wero octagonal in shape and superimposed
one over the other is curious, particularly as superimposed-barreled guns
are, we believe, coming into fashion in England.
This pamphlet affords light and pleasant reading as, in fact, could
hardly be otherwise expected by those who know Mr. Jernigan's writings.
J. H. T.
Winter Birds about Peking. By G. LANNING.
Our only quarrel with Mr. Lanning is that this pamphlet is all too
short. In our review of Mr. Lanning's "Wild life in China" in Vol.
XLIII (1912) of this Journal we said "This book is exactly what it is
described to be in the sub-title, namely, chats on Chinese birds and beasts
as between one nature-lover and another." These remarks can be applied
again to the little pamphlet now under review.
His description of the Autumn migration of birds which he witnessed
on his way north is written in that delightful style of his with which we
are so familar, and is clear proof of his talents as a close observer.
We do not think, as he appears to do, that the reason for his not seeing
specimens of the Bustard was due to protective colouring. The Bustard in
colouring, it is true, closely resembles the light brown soil of the level fields
he frequents, but he is a big bird and stands quite two and a half feet high.
He relies for protection rather on his wariness, seldom allowing an intruder
who looks suspicious to approach nearer than one hundred yards without
taking flight, and choosing for his positions wide expanses of flat ground
without any cover at all. It is more than probable that in September and
October during Mr. Lanning's visit the Bustard had already migrated
further south. The species has generally reached the Shanghai district by
November.
We appreciate Mr. Lanning's difficulty in distinguishing between the
rook and the crow whether on the ground or in the air. Of course the
bills are conclusive when the birds are in the hand. But the raven is a
much larger bird than the crow, has a slower flight and its croak cannot
be mistaken.
The description of his observation of the circling kites is good reading.
There are not many forms of bird-life that indulge in aërial gambols that
we are aware of. Perhaps choughs and jackdaws, particularly the former,
are more partial to this "bird-play" than others.
Chinese Game Birds. By T. R. JERNIGAN.
J. H. T.
This is a useful contribution to the literature of the Natural History
of China and is illustrated with several reproductions of photographs of
some of the best known pheasants.
J. H. T.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
We have also to draw attention to the following pamphlets:
Household Insects. By Professor C. R. KELLOG.
147
The Battle of Muddy Flat, (4 April 1854); from which event dates
the inception of the Shanghai Volunteer Corps.
Sericulture (a translation from the Chinese). By Professor GIST GER, M.A.
A Class of Social Outcasts (a brief study of the Beggars of China).
By Professor GIST GEE, M.A.
List of Plants found in Kiangsu Province. Compiled by Professor
GIST GEE, M.A.
List of Plants found in Fukien Province. By J. E. WALKER.
Mining Laws of the Republic of China.
All the above articles under review are numbers of a current
series written at the instigation of Mr. N. Gist Gee, M.A., Professor of Biology
at the University of Soochow. They first appear in the "National Review,"
a good number are then printed in pamphlet form and are sent to Mr. Gist
Gee who distributes them, entirely at his own expense, among a large
number of the Schools and Universities of China, hoping thus to arouse an
interest in Natural History and allied subjects. It is unnecessary for us to
say more than that we hope there will be found many more who will feel
drawn to emulate the energy and public-spiritedness of Mr. Gist Gee in
thus making available to all the many interesting discoveries in this large
and, as yet, little known Republic of China.
J. H. T.
Ninety Common Birds of the Lower Yangtze. By PROF. ALLISON.
Two Hundred Common Birds of the Yangtse Valley. By H. A.
BAKER, Chuchow.
These booklets come to the R.A.S. from the Kuling Scientific Association.
Professing however, no scientific exactitude, they aim to do something
whereby a growing number of bird lovers may secure a semi-formal
introduction to "a world of new friends." It is our belief that in spite of
various shortcomings they should meet with no little success in this very
admirable aim. It should be remembered, therefore, that in drawing attention
to a few of the inaccuracies our criticism is entirely friendly. We have
in mind the man; and, perhaps, even more the woman; who, when in the
country is eager to become acquainted with feathered friends but is without
a care whether they have or have not the Ambiens muscle, or certain
tell-tale crinkles in the cranium.
First, then, there are a number of misprints both in the classic no-
menclature and in the descriptions. Next, amongst the woodcuts illustrat-
ing Professor Allison's lecture, some of which are distinctly good, there
are others that are misleading,--that of the water-cock's head, that of the
myna (which would have displayed its markings much more clearly if on

148
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
the wing), and that of the head of the rook. Then there are a ew
comparisons of doubtful value. When we are told of a woodcock, for
example, that it is "not so large as the Mongolian Pheasant," and that
"when flushed it darts off with a loud 'Peewit,' "we wonder what peculiar
variety it was which suggested such facts to the writer.
But beyond a few blemishes of this sort the descriptions do tend in
the direction of a more intimate acquaintance between the two great biped
groups, and as an illustration of this fact we may mention a little experience
of our own only 24 hours old. We then were standing on the top of one of
the lower of the Fêng Huang Shan in the early morning. We saw
and heard amongst others the following birds in the space of half an hour
or so. A babbling of Laughing Thrushes, a single King-fisher, a Chinese
Dove, a white-throated Moorhen in full flight (a rare sight on a hill-side),
and a few minutes after, the same bird running on the grass, tail up, just
like that of a wren in England, the Chinese Cuckoo, Crows of two or three
sorts, an Egret, Mynas, Magpies, both the ordinary and the blue-winged
varieties, and a Kite.
All these, without exception, are described in the booklets under review,
the second of which has a further advantage for the raw beginner, that it
classifies birds according to their predominant colour; black, white, brown,
yellow, &c. This to a Lyddeker or a Styan might be as unscientific as it
would to a Paxton or a Loudoun to classify flowers according to tints, but
the ordinary student, aiming at pleasure rather than technicality, will
welcome the short cut to acquaintance, and leave greater exactness for a
more convenient season.
One word of warning in conclusion. British readers should carefully
remember the difference between the name "Robin," as known in England,
and that in the United States and other English-speaking lands. Where the
much-loved little brown bird with the red-breast (Erithacus rubecola)
was not to be found, Americans transferred the name to a thrush of some-
what similar build, and the Australians to various species of Petroeca.
The name, in the books before us, is used in the American sense.
G. L.
On the Trail of the Opium Poppy; by SIR ALEXANDER HOSIE, M.A.,
LL.D. F.R.G.S. 2 vols. George Philip and Son, 1914.
In spite of its picturesque title this book is disappointing. Sir A. Hosie
was appointed to travel through certain provinces and see to what extent
opium-growing had been checked. The business results have been published
in Parliamentary papers, and the present work is made up from the traveller's
diary, now five years old. To the student of the Opium Question the book

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
149
itself is therefore of little value, though a summary of the investigations
compressed into an appendix, is of use for reference. But as a book of
travel it is distinctly dull. The writer had time to write down everything,
and wrote it; what money the coolies wanted for a journey, what they at
last accepted, what the landlord said, what goods were met on the road,
what trees grew near each village, how a herd of pigs was frightened and
how one ran away; how the mule fell down and how it got up again. Lest
this seem exaggerated a few extracts may be given.-
"A demand was made for 600 cash per man per day; but this I resisted,
offering 500 cash on condition that we should reach Chung-king in a couple
of days no matter what the weather. My offer was declined and I went
to bed; but at midnght I was roused with the welcome news that my terms
were accepted. There is, as a rule, no fixed price in China, and the value
of an article or labour is arrived at only after the keenest bargaining."
(Vol. I p. 256).
"The fish that came to my table from the Hêng River was full of
bones and very insipid. During the day I noticed a bamboo fishing-rod
with reel, line, hooks and sinker complete, leaning against, a shanty by the
roadside and felt very much inclined to borrow the outfit and indulge in a
favourite pastime for an hour; but I reflected that my men disliked to dally
on the road except for their own pleasure." (Vol. II. p. 33).
"Here I had lunch in the verandah of a house, and, as it chanced, came
to the end of a tin of cheese. My servant presented the empty tin to a
five-year old son of the house, who came forward immediately with clasped
hands and made me his bow of thanks." (Vol. II, p. 108).
When we state that the book is more than half made up of innocencies.
like these, without a single small adventure, we are hardly severe in adding
that it is not an exhilarating work. Some of the botanical information
and some of the observations on trade and manufacture might be useful if
they were arranged. But the index in every case gives the numbers of
pages without any subdivisions; thus, under Poplar one is referred baldly
to 53 different pages, Oak is found on 61 pages, and the Poppy on 120,
without any indication of locality, etc.
There are two appendices occupying 100 pages. The first is on "The
Inception, Organization and Methods of the Anti-opium Crusade in China."
This crusade' is the Chinese official movement for the suppression of the
trade, begun by H. E. Tang Shao-i in 1906; and this is the valuable part
of the book, of great use to all students of the question. The second appendix
is a summary of the investigation which is recorded at such length in the
two volumes. It is useful for reference perhaps, but the movement has left
those times so far behind that the interest of these five-year-old observations
is much diminished.
The work has a map and is excellently illustrated.
S. C.

150
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
Finance in China. By S. R. WAGEL.
One would have thought that all matters of interest relating to this
most interesting country had long ere this been entirely exhausted, but
apparently this is not so, for, in "Finance in China," by Mr. S. R. Wagel,
an entirely new field has been opened up by the author. The subject is
one upon which Mr. Wagel is eminently qualified to write, having made it
peculiarly his own; and his treatment of it shews an intimacy with the
varying circumstances which control the finances of a country in the early
stages of economic evolution. Briefly stated, the subject matter has been
grouped under the following divisions. 1--China's indebtedness. 2-Trade,
local and foreign, as well as the aids to it, such as exchange and banking,
money, credit and prices. 3-Industries, manufactures and labour. 4-Fin-
ance of the government. 5-Communications.
China's debts are historically treated in the second and the third chap-
ters of the book. The author has succeeded in giving in most interesting
form, a connected account of the several foreign loans, including such as were
made for the construction of railways. One cannot help detecting the
attempt the author has made to eschew the political aspect of the loans as
much as possible; but China's history during the past 60 years is so closely
interwoven with the history of her foreign loans that it is practically
impossible to treat of the one without a reference to the other in order to
understand the economic life of the Empire and Republic. The history of
the loans is brought down to March, 1914.
The second section deals with the trade of China, and chapters 4 to 9
inclusive are devoted to an exhaustive study of this subject. The chapter
on the "Trade of China" gives this history, including the purely internal
trade, from ancient times down to the present. Extracts are given from
rare books, which help to give an insight into the nature of the progress.
The Finance of Trade" elucidates the complicated manner in which
business is conducted in this country. The several stages necessary before
a package of piece-goods can reach the actual consumer, passing from the
foreign merchant in the ports, through the hands of that merchant's
compradore to the middleman, the carrier and thence to the retailer in up-
country markets, likewise the inevitable processes before the merchant in
the treaty-ports receives the produce from the cultivators in the interior,
are minutely explained. The "Progress of Trade" deals with the growth of
foreign trade during the past sixty years, and in this chapter are contained
statistics taken from the customs as to its growth and volume in the various
ports, and the values of the several commodities dealt in, with information
concerning customs revenue, shipping, etc. The following chapter deals
with the vexed problem of the balance of trade, and incidentally explains
the part that China Trade has played in bringing down the value of silver,
and how such an event was unavoidable, owing to the nature of the
foreign trade of this country.

REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
151
In the chapter on "Exchange and Banking" the author takes up the
thread of the progress of foreign trade in the ports, and carries it on to the
foreign buying and selling countries, and explains the part played by the
foreign and native banks in connexion with all trade transactions.
The third section comprises chapters 10 and 11. Industries and manu-
factures are still in an incipient and undeveloped state in this country, and
the causes that conspired to bring about such a situation are well explained.
Some very interesting lines are given to the discussion of the problem of
labour and wages, paying special attention to agricultural labour. The
reader is made conversant with the reasons why agriculture is the greatest
industry in this country. The facts and figures given on this subject are
extremely interesting.
The fourth section deals with the finances of the Government, which
from time immemorial have been as unregulated as they could possibly be.
The author gives a brief history of taxation, revenue, and expenditure in
China, from ancient times down to the budget of 1913, and supplies much
useful data. In chapter 13 the sources of revenue are set out, under the
several heads of land, salt, likin, etc., and details are given of the progress of
the several taxes, the history of land tenure, and possibilities of the future.
The fifth and last section deals with communications, beginning with
a short account of the land and water transport. It also gives in brief an
account of all the existing railways in China, and closes with a survey of
the projects now contemplated. On the whole it may be said that Mr.
Wagel has produced a work which should appeal to all students of applied
economics in relation to one of the most interesting countries in the world.
He has touched upon the various sides of a maze of international intrigue
in relation to finance, with the hand of an economist rather than that of
a politician, and therefore has made the work under review unique in its
line. Few who have any interest in the financial, industrial, and com-
mercial life of China, will fail to find some subject of interest related very
closely to this particular line of life and thought. The work is certain to
find a ready and increasing circle of readers amongst all who have financial
intercourse with China.
H. C. MORRIS.
Annual Report on Reforms and Progress in Chosen (Korea)
1912-13. Compiled by the Government-General of Chosen Keijo
(Seoul) 1914.
This highly interesting report has been received from the Japanese
Consulate-General. It sets forth in a most exhaustive manner the work
that is being accomplished in the land which has heretofore been known as
that of the Morning Calm." The volume is carefully tabulated. XVII
chapters bearing such titles as Justice, Finance, Commerce, Agriculture,
Sanitation, Education are divided into 212 sub-headings all carefully indexed,
and the desired data are therefore found with great ease. The work contains,
in addition, an illuminating appendix, being a compilation of speeches made

152
REVIEWS OF RECENT BOOKS
by the Governor-Generals at the National Central Council at various times;
a long list of statistical tables; three excellent maps and a score or more of
very fine illustrations from photographs.
The Report must be read to appreciate the strides that have been and
are being made in the improvement of the material welfare of the Korean
population. Seedling stations have been established for agricultural experi-
ments. Live stock is being improved, roads are being opened in every
direction, while sanitation and education are carefully attended to. Not
the least of the reforms undertaken is that dealing with afforestation, which
is being encouraged by all methods, both scientific and popular, as may be
realized from the following account of the annual Arbor Day (p. 178). "With
a view to stimulating in the people an interest in, or love of afforestation,
the Government-General selecting the anniversary of the demise of the
First Emperor of Japan as Arbor-day, has caused, since the annexation, a
universal plantation to be carried out on that day, the first time being
April 3rd, 1911. The first Arbor-day was held under the auspices of the
Governor-General in the Government grounds on the slopes of Nansan,
while the Civil-Governor conducted plantations on a mountain in Keijo on
the second and third Arbor-days. Arbor-day arouses much interest in the
people in general, especially in the school children. While 4,650,000 trees
were planted on the first Arbor-day, over 10,160,000 trees were planted on
the second Arbor-day, April 3rd, 1912,"
F. W. A.
The Educational Directory of China, 1915.
of China Publishing Co.) $2 Mex. Net.
(Educational Directory
This year's issue is distinctly better than last year's, though there is
still much room for improvement. There are four parts, and each is paged
separately, each begins with page 1. This unnecessary confusion is worse
confounded by the intrusion of whole-page advertisements. In any
scholastic work the advertisements should certainly appear all together at
the end.
Part II is a Directory of Teachers. There are names of men who
might be called professors,-a few; a large number of professionally trained
and qualified masters and mistresses; but these appear side by side with
names of missionaries who are 'running' a small school and wives who
assist in some fashion. This jumble of the real and the unreal can perhaps
hardly be helped-such a list cannot be kept as strictly as a Medical
Register; but it might be an improvement to remove the large number of
Chinese names-no doubt mostly mere assistants-to a separate list.
In spite of faults the work is a very useful one and great credit is due
to the compilers whose labours must have been immense. The book should
have a large sale in the scholastic world in China.
S. C.

NOTES AND QUERIES.
This Society has issued a good Report this year and con-
China tinues by its widely scattered literature to make vandalism
Monuments more and more difficult. The founding of a Government
Society. Museum of Antiquities is a splendid result of the Society's
activities.
It appears that the membership at the beginning of the year was only
106 and the total income only $506.46. If the membership could be largely
increased the Society would be able to do untold good for which future
generations of archaeologists and art-lovers both Chinese and Western
would bless it. The member's subscription is $4.00 mex. per annum, and
the Secretary is Mr. F. McCormick, Peking. Any assistance or information
which can be given by the Hon. Secretary of the N. C. B. Royal Asiatic
Society will be given gladly.
N.C.B.R.A.S.
As announced at the Annual Meeting a new work
on Chinese Numismatics will shortly be issued by
New Publication. the Society. It consists of carefully engraved re-
productions of some 1800 copper coins from the most
ancient down to the Republican issues, the collection being the property
of Sir James H. Stewart Lockhart K.C.M.G., whose studies in numismatics
are well known. There will be an Introduction and a careful description of
each coin.
We already have in English La Couperie's Catalogue of Coins in the
British Museum, and the Glover Collection-now out of print-described
by Sir James Lockhart,-and a few smaller works; but many collectors are
deterred from this fascinating pursuit because English books on the subject
are few and to consult Chinese works is difficult. The new work will be
of great value to such amateurs, though it will appeal also to the most
advanced students of the science.
Only a limited edition will be issued, and members of the Society,-
who will receive the book at a reduced rate,-are advised to send in their
orders early to our publishers, Messrs. Kelly & Walsh, Limited.

154
Reprint of
Journal.
NOTES AND QUERIES
Several early volumes of the Journal being quite out of print
are gradually being reprinted, so that members may complete
their sets. New Series Vol. I (1864) was reprinted last year,
and Vol. II (1865) has just been reprinted and can be ordered from
Messrs. Kelly & Walsh.
Errata,
Owing to distance it is often impossible to let authors correct
their own proofs, and alterations etc. are often received long
etc. after the articles are printed and the type distributed.
Readers are requested to note the following;
Page xvi, Note 1. For page 102, read page 101.
Page 31, Ch. LXXXVII, "make great praying and great
..."; the
word omitted appears in the French text to be "progere," and perhaps
'processions' should stand in the vacant space.
Page 38, line 3, for Dr. Cornelius Beach Bradley read Prof. Cornelius
Beach Bradley.
Page 39, last sentence of second paragraph, "One wonders therefore
whether "-this sentence has been altered to read "One wonders therefore
whether the native scholars who elaborated the presented scheme imagined
distinctions which had no real existence, or whether the present fact of the
lack of distinctions is the result of a sort of tonal decay or levelling which
has obliterated distinctions which once existed."