THE WU PAN
TABLET
AN AMATEUR STUDY IN CHINESE
EPIGRAPHY.
By Rev. G. G. WARREN.
The Journal of last year contained no notice of a valuable
work that had been added to the Society's library during the
previous twelve months, viz:-Mons. Chavannes' "Mission
Archéologique dans la Chine Septentrionale." For the omission I
am to blame. The work had been entrusted to me to review. In
reading it my eye was caught by a most interesting sentence.
There was a passage in an inscription that M. Chavannes was
translating which caused him to write "Je ne comprends pas la
phrase 庶仰其首” That the greatest living Sinologue should
be a man of like limitations with one's ordinary self was consoling.
The last thing that could have occurred to me would have been
that I should be able to understand a Chinese phrase that had
baffled M. Chavannes. But it so happened that just after I had
come across the difficulty I had the honour of a visit from one of
the two men whom all Hunan holds as the foremost of the scholars
of to-day. Mr. Wang Hsien-ch'ien (I-wu) for years held the
first place amongst the scholars of the empire, for he was the
Principal of the Hanlin Yüan. It at once occurred to me that I
could put something in my review that would redeem it from
commonplace if I could get the solution of the problem from my
visitor; so I showed him the passage and asked him if he would
interpret its meaning. It does much to account for Mons.
Chavannes' failure to grapple with the four characters to know
that such a scholar as Mr. Wang took some months before he was
able to send me the solution. When the answer came my review
was too late for inclusion in the 1914 Journal.
The answer took the form of a bulky packet containing,
besides a most courteous letter from Mr. Wang, a number of
extracts from all the Chinese writers who had referred to
the particular tablet in question. I was quite embarrassed
when I found the trouble that so aged a gentleman had been put
to by my enquiry. I had never before done anything in the way

78
THE WU PAN TABLET
of reading works in Chinese on epigraphy, and the thought
occurred to me that I might at one and the same time make
some more adequate acknowledgment of Mr. Wang's kind exer-
tions and also interest others who are as amateur as myself in this
special line of Chinese literature, if I translated the documents
that I had received. I propose therefore, after detailing the
difficulty that Mons. Chavannes had found and the answer that
Mr. Wang knew of in Chinese literature on the subject, to first
give in English Mons. Chavannes' translation of the tablet with
his notes and then translate the extracts from Chinese works-
from fourteen writers in all, showing in detail a specimen of the
work that the Chinese have done in this particular field. The
words with which Mr. Wylie introduces the section on inscriptions
a section in which he reviews 26 separate sets of volumes-in his
amazing work, Noles on Chinese Literature, will be the best to
prepare one for the study of a very minute portion of that work,
to wit, the work that has been done on one specified tablet.
Mr. Wylie says:
"The investigation of inscriptions on ancient
stone tablets has long been a favourite study among a portion of
the Chinese; and there is no doubt that many of these inscriptions
form exceedingly important and interesting documents as contem-
porary historical records. The interest that attaches to these
records and the skill with which the Chinese are able to produce
facsimiles from stone tablets, have given rise to a practice among
many men of wealth of keeping a series of these impressions in
their cabinets. From this practice again has sprung a series of
writings descriptive of such collections."
Mr. Wang's letter to me reads as follows:-
"Dear Mr. Warren,
For some months I have not had the pleasure of meeting you. I hear
that you spent part of the summer at Kuling; now that autumn has return-
ed, I expect you are back in Changsha. I trust that each day brings its
measure of joy to you. I am here in the country where I have the opport-
unity of reading a good deal. Unfortunately I have been unwell and am
neither able to stand or to ride in a chair, so that I have been unable to
re-visit Changsha. When I was last there you asked me about a phrase in
the Wu Pan Tablet, a copy of the inscription on which you got Mr. Chiêng
to make for me. Although I have let your request go so long unanswered,
I have not forgotten it. I have looked over a number of books but unfort-
unately I have mislaid my copy of the Chin Shih Tsui Pien, a capital work
by Mr. Wang Lan-shêng. I have therefore been obliged to write to some
friends in Shanghai asking them to look up all they could find about the
tablet and especially to see if there was not a reference to it in the Chin
Shih Tsui Pien, which contains so many extracts from earlier writers.
I enclose with this a copy of the answers that I have received from
them. You will see that the two characters which caused the author of
whom you told me some difficulty, are explained in this work. The
should be written . It stands for "Chi Shan" . The is the
first character of . The meaning of the sentence is that Wu Pan's
aspirations are compared with the Chi Shan and with Shou-yang. Han
writers abound in abbreviations of this sort. I do not know how other-
wise the phrase can be explained.

THE WU PAN TABLET
79
My hand shakes so that my writing is far from clear; but I have felt
obliged to write you at least these few lines.
With my best regards,
Yours sincerely,
WANG HSIEN-CHIEN.
P.S. I have another letter from by friend Mr. Wang of Shanghai
giving me seven other references to the Wu Pan Tablet that he has found.
None of these, however, comment on the particular phrase you asked me
about; but I enclose them also as you may be interested in them.
Mr. Wang wishes to know how it is that a French gentleman has got
hold of an inscription from a tablet that is to be found in Shantung. Will
you please tell me about this so that I may write to Mr. Wang and-as he
says "widen his knowledge of notable things." It really seems as if you
Western gentlemen were even more earnest in your researches into Chinese
archeology than we ourselves are. I also shall be glad on my own part to
know about this French gentleman's interest in the Tablet, so please send
me an answer.-W. Hs-c.
One of the groups of sculptures with which Mons. Chavannes'
work is concerned contains an inscribed tablet that was erected in
A.D. 147 to a promising young official cut off in his early prime
when he had not only attained to the second rank of office, that of
Lieutenant-Governor, but had held such a post on the frontier in
a time of war. He was only 25 when he was placed in the office.
On his way to court to report what had been done he was suddenly
stricken with illness and died. The Tablet contains, as was usual,
first a brief biography and then an elegy. In the elegy, the writer
(again, as usual) availed himself of various recondite literary and
historical allusions so that it became at once an enjoyment to the
trained scholar and an enigma to the ordinary passer-by. In this
particular elegy a comparison is made which is acknowledged by
Chinese writers to be unique, in a sentence consisting of four
characters, with the two first of which there is no difficulty,-they
simply refer to the aspirations of the deceased. The other two
give something with which these are compared. They consist of
the first two characters of two names, each being the name of a
hill, viz-Chi (Shan) and Shou(-yang). There is nothing un-
common in this method of referring to two places, indeed "Wu-
han" is becoming quite common in even foreign papers as a short
method of talking of Wu(-chang), Han(-yang) and Han(-kow).
Of course it is easy to see why hills should be selected to symbolise
aspirations. The point of selecting these two particular hills,
however, has no connexion with their height, which, I presume, is
as unknown a quantity to Chinese writers as to foreign readers.
Each of these hills is associated with one who fled to them to
avoid honour and responsibility for which he did not see himself
properly qualified. Herein lies the felicity of the allusion. The
fact that this one amongst the ten thousands of elegy writers is
the only one to have so joined them adds to the achievement of the
writer quite as much as it adds to the difficulty of the reader in
seizing the point. One of the two places is unmentioned in the

60
80
THE WU PAN TABLET
classical literature of the land, though the legend connected with
it is well enough known to find embodiment in those vade-
mecums of the foreign student of Chinese, Mayer's Readers' Manual
and Giles' Biographical Dictionary. To crown the difficulties
that accumulate on this one of the four characters, it is not
written in the ordinary form but in one that has but one parallel
forthcoming, and in the parallel the "Chi" refers not to the
mountain but to the better known viscount of the same name.
Even after all has been said and written there yet remains
one difficulty; what was there in Wu Pan, the hero of the Tablet,
that led the writer of the elegy to compare him with the men who
fled to the Chi Shan and to Shou-yang? The difficulty will be
the more appreciated if the stories of the men are briefly
told. Hsü Yu is the name of the man who fled to Chi Shan and
the legend of his flight is placed in the third millennium B.C.
Although it was not included by Confucius amongst the documents
which he admitted into the Shu Ching, the first of the docu-
ments which he did include tells us how the old emperor Yao
sought diligently to find a suitable successor. Those whom he
suggested, one after the other declined with emphasis the honour
he sought to lay upon them. Yet none of them showed such a
horror of this honour as did Hsü Yu whose legend is only to be
found outside the classics. What it was in him that Yao saw
and he himself did not we do not know; but so unspeakably and
unbearably unsuitable did the proffered honour seem to such a
one as himself that he hastened to wash his ears in order to
cleanse them from the defilement they had incurred through
having had to listen to such a dreadful thing. And as if to show
us that Hsü Yu could be out-Hsü-yu-ed the legend goes on to
say that when he ran away to the Chi Shan and told his friend
Ch'ao Fu, Ch'ao would not let his calves drink of the water
of the brook into which the defilement had been washed.
Yu died at Chi Shan and was buried there.
Hsü
The story of Shou-yang is better known, as Po-i, the hero, is
named again and again in both The Analects and Mencius.
Po-i
and Shu Ch'i were two brothers whose father selected the younger
to succeed him as heir to his title and estates. Rather than offend
against the rights of an elder brother, Shu Ch'i fled away to a hill
called Shou-yang, thinking thus to compel Po-i to do what
otherwise he might have been unwilling to do. But Po-i, equally
unwilling to offend against a father's wishes fled after Shu Ch'i,
and the two brothers died of starvation rather than do what they
believed to be wrong.
What there could be in the career of a young man who at
twenty-five attained to the office of Lieutenant-Governor and
brilliantly performed its duties in a time of danger that showed a
likeness to men who fled away rather than occupy posts of honour,

THE WU PAN TABLET
81
is a difficulty that perhaps Chinese writers of elegies might think
no one ought to feel. For it was only in the biography that
preceded the elegy that the writer was rigidly held down to the
contracted world of fact and wrote the appropriate prose. When
he comes to the elegy he gains entrance into the vaster spaces of
the might-have-been and writes an appropriate "poem," i.e. a
creation. Granted that Wu Pan never was confronted with the
difficulties that came to Hsü Yu and to Po-i. All that the elegy
says is that if he had been, he would have acted as wisely and as
well as they did. Who can deny it?
One trifle interests me the solution of the problem is found
in the last paragraph devoted to this monument in the Chin Shih
Tsui Pien. Mons. Chavannes happens to discuss and reject a
suggested interpretation of another phrase made in the paragraph
that immediately precedes the last. It is interesting to think that
he overlooked the words that followed so closely after those that
he discussed so ably.
The Chinese text herewith printed' is not taken from the Plate
to be found at the end of Chavannes' volume (fig. No. 1193).
I have copied the text included in the communication I received
from Mr. Wang. It was taken from the Chin Shih T's'ui Pien.
It seems to give, in differing types, the characters that still exist
and those that have been supplied by criticism or conjecture. For
easier reference, I have numbered the columns with Roman and
the lines with Arabic numerals, so that in the series of extracts
given below, whenever a passage in the tablet or even a single
character is quoted its position can easily be found. But Prof.
Chavannes' introductory note shows that the accuracy of align-
ment attainable in modern printing was not attained by the actual
sculptor of the tablet. The figures must not therefore be pressed.
Indeed, the copy itself affords internal evidence that the alignment
is inaccurate xiii, 17, 18, are occupied by two characters that
read "Temple Taboo.' They stand for the one character.
Giles s.v. 4790, explains that formed part of the personal name
of the emperor Kang-hsi. Until the fall of the Manchu dynasty,
therefore, scholars were forbidden to use it as it was written up to
that time. A slightly altered form was used. The right form
was, of course, used on the tablet; the law-abiding student who
copied it did not even give its altered form. All scholars would
at once see which particular one of the twenty or thirty taboo
characters would fit that particular context.
After the English rendering of Mons. Chavannes' translation
and notes, the reader will find chap viii of the Chin Shih Ts'ui
Pien, the opening sections of which are filled with extracts from
six previous writers. Then come the erudite notes of the author
1 Facing p. 77.

82
THE WU PAN TABLET
himself. Besides this chapter, seven other writers are quoted as far
as their works refer to this tablet. I have ventured to abridge
the translation of these seven by omitting things already mentioned
in the Chin Shih Tsui Pien.
CHAP. IV OF MONS. CHAVANNES' "Mission Archéologique "
Tome I,
p. 94.
THE GROUP OF WU LIANG Tzu.
A. The Funerary Inscriptions.
"The largest group of Han sculptures is to be found some
30 li south of Chiahsiang hsien in the west of Shantung. They are
situated at the foot of a hill that is known in book language as
the Hill of the Purple Clouds" tu, but which is popularly
called The Hill of the Wu Family it. This latter name is due
to the fact that the funerary chambers that have made the place
famous belonged to a family called Wu. Although the buildings no
longer exist, the site they occupied is still marked by two pillars
which originally formed the entrance to the place of burial.
Through a number of inscriptions that have been preserved
we know that the tombs all belong to members of this Wu family
who held office in the second century of our era. There are five
inscriptions, viz :
1st. The inscription of Wu Pan E dated April 11th, A.D. 147.
2nd. The inscription on the West Pillar dated April 21st, 147.
(This is still in situ)
3rd. The inscription of Wu K'ai-ming, who died
December 14th, 148.
4th. The inscription of Wu Liang, who died July
4th, 151.
5th. The inscription of Wu Jung it, who died in 167.
From a study of these monuments the following facts are
made out. The two pillars still standing were erected in the year
147 by four brothers in honour of their father and his grandson,
the son of the youngest of the four brothers. This grandson was
none other than Wu Pan. His tablet was inscribed ten days
earlier than the inscription that still exists on the Pillar. Wu
K'ai-ming, who is only known to us by his "style," was the father
of Wu Pan and the youngest of the four brothers.
Wu Liang
was the second of the four and was fourteen years older than
K'ai-ming. Lastly, Wu Jung was the second son of K'ai-ming
and therefore the younger brother of Wu Pan.
The Wu Family claimed to trace their descent from a monarch
who reigned in the second millennium B.C. In the second century
A.D. several members of the family were holding office. Wu Pan,
who died when he was only 25, was already Lieutenant-Governor

THE WU PAN TABLET
83
of Tun-huang in the extreme west of the empire. His father was
the Lieutenant-Governor of Wu, that is to say, he had to reside in
Soochow, Kiangsu. Wu Jung had the rank of Lieutenant to the
chief of the Inner Palace Guards and so had to reside at Loyang,
the capital. Wu Liang alone of the group held no office, preferring
the retired life of a student to a career of official honour."
MONS. CHAVANNES' TRANSLATION OF THE WU PAN TABLET,
WITH NOTES, RENDERED INTO ENGLISH (p. 96).
Introductory Note: The Tablet is still extant. It has been
placed in a house which serves as a museum for the sculptured
slabs of the Wu Liang Tzíň. It is 111 centimetres high and
62 wide. In accordance with a common custom of the Han
days, a double bevel was carved round the upper edge which has
been pierced with a big round hole. The stone is so damaged
that rubbings taken now-a-days are almost entirely illegible.
One can very well see this by looking at the reproduction of it
to be found in the last plate but one of my book La Sculpture
sur pierre en Chine (1893). The Inscription was formerly in
a much better state of preservation. That is how it was that
Hung Kua (A.D. 1117-1184) was able to give such a legible
representation of it in his Li Shih (chap. vi, p. 11r°, 12vº). The
text of the Inscription will also be found in the Chin Hsieh Lin
Hang (chap. iv, p. 13r), in the Chin Shih Ku Wên (chap. v.
p. 11r) and in the Chin Shih Tsui Pien (chap. viii, p. 1ro-vo),
In the transcription that I have given in fig. 1193, I have tried
to reproduce the original alignment. But the result is imperfect,
because the lines on the stone do not always contain the same
number of characters, and, moreover, those that remain on the
stone do not afford sufficient data to be exact.
(i.) In the first year of Chien-ho, the t'ai-sui being in the signs
Ting-hai, the twenty-third day, being the day Kuei-mao of the second
month (April 11th, A.D. 147), of which the first day was Hsin-ssu, 3
1 The Roman numerals enclosed in brackets refer to the columns on the
plate giving the Inscription, facing p. 77.
2 We know that by the expression t'ai-sui *, the Chinese indicate
the revolution of the planet Jupiter, equal to twelve of our years
(Cf. SSU-MA TSIEN, Fr. Tr. III, pp. 655-666). This Tablet is one of the
oldest in which the cycle is applied to years. (Its earlier application
was confined to days.)
3 The method of giving the notation is curious. If the 23rd day of a
month is Kuei-mao, it is altogether superfluous to add that its first day is
Hsin-ssu. Although curious, the same method of a double identification is
found in a very large number of monumental inscriptions of which this of
Wu Pan is one of the oldest. A text given in SSU-MA TSIEN (c. lx.) allows
us to go still further back than the Wu Tablet, for it shows the same
procedure (but without the indication of the number of the order of the
day) employed in B. C. 117 in the order for investiture conferred on princes
of the imperial family. (Cf. Toung Pao 1896, pp. 108, 109.)

84
THE WU PAN TABLET
the contemporaries' of the Chang-shih
5
[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
(ii.) He was the Chang-shih of Tun-huang, the Honourable
Wu, whose personal name was Pan and whose "style" was
Hsüan-chang. In bygone days, king Wu-ting of the Yin Dynasty
for a periodo triumphed in the "land of the demons."11" This
fundamental success was well known; the memory of it was retained
in the fact that the
(iii) family of dignitaries that sprang from this ancestor drew
its name from this deed; 12 the Wu family is doubtless issue (of this
king). If we go back 13 to the distant days of the Chou dynasty
4 At the end of the inscription we read that this tablet was erected
through the care of contemporaries and colleagues
of Wu Pan.
Probably in this first column of the text there was a similar statement.
If so, the word following should be . The expression is only
found on the inscription of Liu Min's Tablet, which is dated A.D. 169;
the expression in general use is .
5 The title of Chang-shih was one given to the Lieutenant of
the Governor in military commanderships on the frontier. This is
formally stated to be so in the Books of the Later Han (chap. xxviii, p. 2r°)
2. Tun-huang (Sha-chou) where the deceased Wu Pan
exercised the functions of chang-shih, is just one of these frontier commands.
6 Tun-huang (Sha-chou), in the province of Kansu is the name of a
commandership instituted in the year 111 B.C.; it was an advanced post
that the Chinese held against the Hsiung-nu.
7 This name was written by many stone sculptors; but the reading
EE is guaranteed to us by Hung Kua in the Li Shih and by Wang Ch'eng in
the Chin Shih T's'ui Pien.
8 It is under this name of Hsüan-chang that Wu Pan is referred to in
the inscription on the Pillar. (Cf. p. 102 of Mons. Chavannes' work.)
According to the usual chronology, Wu-ting reigned B.C. 1324-
1266; but according to the chronology of the Bamboo Books, from 1274-
1216. SBU-MA TSIEN (Fr. Trans. I, p. 196) identifies this sovereign with the
one referred to in the section of the Shu Ching on "Kao Tsung Yung Jih"
(Legge p. 264). It is worth noticing that the Bamboo Annals agree with the
Tablet in calling Wu-ting "king" and not "emperor."
10 The reading is that of the Li Shih; the Chih Shih T's'ui Pien
writes to conquer.
11 This tradition is to be found in the Bamboo Annals which tell us
that in the 34th year of Wu-ting, the armies of the king triumphed in the
land of the demons.
(See Legge, Shu, Proleg,
p. 136.) The expression "land of demons" occurs also in the Odes (Ta Ya,
III, i, 6. Legge p. 509.)
12 That is to say that the military success (t), which gained for the
King his name of Wu-ting (Wu-warrior; ting-cyclical character,
probably it was that of the day of the king's birth) also gave to the family
of officials who traced their genealogy from the king, the family name of Wu.
13 According to the best authorities the inscription here gives the
reading which would signify "under the Shang and Chou dynasties."
But it would be rather surprising to find a mention of the "Shang" dynasty,
seeing that long before the days of Wu-ting its name had been changed to
"Yin." I believe that we should read in the place of and consider
as the equivalent of which means "to go to, to arrive at"; so that
would mean " to go back to the days of the Chou." This is moreover the
reading which is indicated in the Chin Shih Ku Wên" (c.v., p. 11 r°.)
14 假 is the equivalent of 遐邈

THE WU PAN TABLET
85
we find this family spreading 15 from generation to generation
without losing any of its excellent qualities. Throughout the
days of the Han, the members of the family have had positions
of dignity and responsibility. They have always been loyal
servants of the dynasty.
The honourable (Wu Pan) from his youth (showed)16 a
fine character17 like that of Yen and
(iv) Min; 18 when he reached the age of manhood, he dis-
played intellectual knowledge comparable to that of Yu and Hsia;19
he was good and sympathetic; broad and [ ]; a good son and a
trustworthy, excellent and admirable friend. He had encompassed
all branches of study; he had penetrated into the holy (teachings).
Widely he united [ ] [ ], he found pleasure in collecting the
canonical writings;
(v) [] thought, [ ] pure; he sought happiness without
returning on his steps, his pure fame and excellent actions were
shown forth far and near. The Viceroy and the Governor 20,
appreciating the lofty wisdom which he showed in spite of his
youth requested that at the age of [ ] [ ] 22 he should be
recommended as an aide in the Purple Palace23.
15期 is the equivalent of 購
16 The Chin Shih Tsui Pien gives here where other copies mark a
missing character. The reading does not seem to me satisfactory.
17 is the equivalent in sound of
18 Yen Hui J, styled Tzu-yuan 7. and Min Sun styled Tzu-
chien were both celebrated disciples of Confucius. (Giles, B.D.
2,465 and 1,533).
19 Tzu-yu (in the inscription the character is written) is the
style of Yen Yen言; Tzi-hsia 子夏 is the style of Pu Shang 下商;
here again we have two of Confucius' disciples. (Giles' B. D. 2,480 and 1667.)
20 Under the Eastern Han, China was divided into 98 commanderships
and kingdoms, the kingdoms numbered 27, the commanderies 71.
These commanderies and kingdoms were distributed in twelve provinces N
(Cf. Hou Han Shu, chap. xxxviii, p. 1 v°). The province was therefore more
extensive than the commandery, hence the order of the two words MR.
21 It is probable that the word missing before the character (v. 23)
is the word J. In the first year of the period Yang-chia (132 B.C.), an im-
perial decree had ordered the provincial authorities to recommend for public
employment all who having reached or passed the age of forty showed their
filial piety and disinterestedness; but if they should meet with men who
had not attained to the age of forty who displayed conspicuous qualities,
they were to recommend them without taking the age into account. Wu
Pan was one of those thus recommended.
22 The inscription on the Pillar tells us that Wu Pan's age at this
time was 25.
What
23 The word which precedes the (v. 31) was probably
is the meaning of the phrase that Wu Pan was an aide in the Purple
Palace? According to SSU-MA TSIEN (Fr. Trans. III, p. 340), that part of
the heavens that contained the polar star was named the Purple Palace; it
is then the place in the heavens from which all the stars have their move-
ments co-ordinated. By a comparison with the heavens, the imperial palace
is made the central principle of government, and Wu Pan obtained
office in the central administration.

86
968
THE WU PAN TABLET
(vi)[][] a decree appointed him. He added lustre to
the royal household and (made himself of use to) his country.
The Emperor employed him and praised him. He was busy with
the ancient [], he received and controlled the most secret
documents, 24 he investigated them thoroughly, and [ ] the
obscure and subtle parts. Going back to the men of old such as
Liu Hsiang, Pan (Ku) and Chia (I)25 and comparing him with
them he was []
(vii) ten thousand. At this time the Jung (barbarians)
[ ] [ ]; to rectify and correct [ ] [ ]; the imperial court was
oppressed with uneasiness; [ ] [ ] the officials; [ ] [ ]
recommended the honourable (Wu Pan); from the day on which
(Wu) Pan entered on his duties, he stimulated 26 the officers and
soldiers to a fury comparable to that of roaring tigers27;
(viii) attacking close by [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
] [] together; the hundred families placed their confidence in
him. The territory was pacified, and he himself having laboured
for a long time on the outer borders was proposing to return to
the court in order to get rewards for his followers according to
their merits.
(ix) But in the first year of Yung-chia (A.D. 145), on the
[ ] day of the [] month, he was taken ill, he did not [ ]
unfortunately []. Then the county magistrate of Chin-hsiang28,
Shih K'uei whose native home was Kao-yang29 in (the province of)
Ho-kien and others remembering him who had been their
contemporary and their colleague,
24 is the equivalent of . According to Wang Ch'ang (Chih Shih
Tsui Pien, chap. viii. p. 2 v°) this phrase gives us to understand that Wu
Pan was occupied with the secret archives and that his duties were similar
to those which from 159 A.D. were devolved upon the Pi-shu-chien
Ibelieve this interpretation is a little forced and that it simply refers to the
ability with which Wu Pan understood the most difficult of the old texts.
This is why a few lines lower he is compared with such litterateurs as Liu
Hsiang, Pan Ku and Chia I.
25 Liu Hsiang (Giles, B. D. 1300) 80-9 B.C.; Pan Ku M
(Giles, B. D. 1600), died A.D. 92; Chia I TY (Giles, B. D. 321) 200-168 B.C.,
are well known writers of the Han time. It should be noted that the word
is here written, according to the reading of the Chin Shih Ku Wên
and of the Chin Shih Tsui Pien; the earlier epigraphists who deciphered
this text read; this is the reading found in the Li Shih and the
Chin Shieh Lin Lang; but one can hardly see what meaning it could bear.
26 I consider that the word is the equivalent of
27 In the Wu Jung inscription we find the expression
Wu Jung and his soldiers who threw terror as roaring tigers on the abettors
of trouble.
applied to
28 The county of Chin-hsiang has kept its name till our days. It
(wa a dependency of the secondary prefecture of Tsi-ning in Shantung.
29 25 li east of the present sub-prefecture of Kao-yang, Pao-ting, Chihli.

THE WU PAN TABLET
87
(x) moved [] believing that from of old it has been
necessary to place in the front rank sanctity and benevolence [ ]
[ ] success or destruction [ ] [ ] men preserve it. In life
it is glorious; in death, mourned 30. For ten thousand years
the virtue bequeathed by this sage will be a jewel [ ] [ ] 31.
(xi) This is the reason for (erecting) a tablet and engraving
thereon an elegy in verse to celebrate his brilliant virtue; the text
of the elegy is as follows:
"Ah, truly, the honourable Wu-had genuine virtue, and
was stirred with real respect. He received from Heaven a great
(xii) destiny-in himself, he united a multitude of favours
from on high. From the age at which he began to walk-
'majestic and wise,' 32 he gave himself to his goal.' 33
"Modest and [], he kept the rules; -he only followed his duties.
"His filial piety was more profound than that of those who
chant the ode when the wind is fair' 34 his will more pure than
that of the officers clothed in the skins of lambs and of sheep.' 35
"Gladsome is this [ ] [ ] -satisfying is this [ ] effulgence.
"His constant application might be compared
(xiii) with Confucius' observation when on the bank of the
running stream 36;-He was like him who said one could look
over the wall of his house. 37
30 Cp. Lun yü XIX, 25, sect. 4th
31 The whole of this part of the inscription being impaired, I can only
give a hypothetical translation.
32 The expression is drawn from the Odes (Ta Ya, II, 1, Legge p. 468)
33 The expression is taken from SSU-MA TS'IEN (c. liii, p. 2 1°);
the word is here the equivalent of ; this can be seen in the parallel text
of the Earlier Han Books; the expression "fa tsung" in this passage of
SSU-MA TSIEN therefore signifies to free hunting dogs from their leash, to
give them free course.
34 The ode from the Shih Ching (Kuo Fêng III, Ode vii, Legge 50).
which begins "The genial wind from the south", is placed in
the mouth of seven brothers who in their piety to their mother accused
themselves of faults.
35 The 7th ode of the 2nd section of the Kuo Fêng (Legge p. 28)
praises the officers whose clothing of lambskins and sheepskins portrayed
their virtue 羔羊皮
36. In the Wu Liang inscription we find the words
Both of these phrases are explained by the passage in
the Lun Yü (ix. 16, Legge p. 86) where it is said: "The Master standing
on the bank of a river said This is how it passes away, stopping neither day
nor night.”子在川上曰。逝者如斯夫。不舍晝夜 The commentators
explain this remark of the Master by saying that the wise man should
imitate the incessant flowing of the water and make continuous efforts to
attain to perfection.
37 That is to say he was like Tuan-mu Tzu (styled Tzu-kung), a disciple
of Confucius, of whom we read in the Lun Yü (xix, 23 Legge p. 211),
"Tzu-kung replied, Allow me to make comparison from a house and its
surrounding wall. My surrounding wall is only the height
of a man's shoulders. Anyone can peep over it and see all that is valuable
in the house." **2#. Probably in the inscription the character
that should be supplied in xiii. 9 is.

88
THE WU PAN TABLET
"[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] 38 ;-things most subtle and most
ingenious, he understood them fully.
"Majestic was his pure countenance; [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
[ ] [ ] to ascend [ ]-(he would have been) to the
Emperor as arms and legs are (to a man).' 3
"
He helped
39
"(xiv) to establish universal harmony;-the multitude of the
people received benefits.
"He made his ancestors illustrious [ ] [ ] ;-The official
historians told his merits.
"Majestic Heaven, Supreme Ruler, has caused this trouble
to come down10.
"Suddenly,41 (Wu Pan) was taken away (from the world),-
[ ] [ ] [ ] palace.
"He never rejoiced in an old age ;-
(xv) supreme destiny [ ] [ ]
"The officials of all grades [ ] [ ] ;-the sovereign was
afflicted.
"His scholars are in mourning for their master ;-men and
women are plunged into grief.
"
He shall be celebrated in metal and on stone-his great
renown is imperishable 12.
"Men will transmit [ ] to posterity, and for a myriad
years he shall be praised and regretted."
(xvi) The ts'ao Tzu []-hsuan, shang-shu-ts'eng, from
Hsiao13 in the kingdom of P'ei.
(xvii) The ts'ao Tsung [ ] [ ], country magistrate of
Ch'eng-wu, from An-hsi, 45 Tsung (chou).
38 I do not understand the phrase
note that has called forth this paper.]
[This is the particular
39 The metaphor is taken from the chapter on Yi and Tsih in the Shu
(Legge p. 79). Here, as in the inscription of Wu Jung, the complaint is
made that premature death had prevented the deceased from attaining to
the highest charges of the State.
40 Cp. Odes Hsiao Ya IV. vii, 5 (Legge, p. 212)
"Great Heaven, unfavourable to us--is sending down these disorders."
is, as Hung Kua tells us in his Li Shih (Chap. vi., p. 13, v°)
equal to .
41
42 is the equivalent of . We find this phrase used twice in the Odes,
Ta Ya I, i and III, 8 (Legge 428 and 555) E "His renown is
imperishable.
43 The sub-prefecture of Hsiao, which was found in the kingdom of
P'ei ili was to the north-west of the present Siaohsien*, Hsuchow, Kiangsu.
44 The former sub-prefecture of Ch'eng-wut corresponded to the
present sub-prefecture of Ch'eng-wu, Tsaochowfu, Shantung.
45 Thirty li east of the secondary prefecture of Ting, Chihli.
*In the names of modern towns I have given the Chinese Post Office
romanisation.

THE WU PAN TABLET
89
(xviii) Hsü Ts'ung [ ] [ ],46 the county magistrate of
Feng,17 from Liang-ts'eng, 18 Hsia-p'ei.
(xix) The former sub-prefect of Ch'en-liu19 [ ] [ ] [ ]
from Lu[],50 in Lu.
(xx) The county magistrate Fang-tung,51 | ] [ ] [ ],52
from Lin-tse53 in Ts'i.
(xxi), Chi Po-yün wrote this inscription.
(xxii) [ ] Yen-ch'i, styled Po-lou."
The rest of section A in Mons. Chavannes' work is taken up
with the translation of the other four monuments of this group.
B. THE WORK OF ARCHEOLOGISTS.
*
We will now proceed to examine briefly how the Wu monu-
ments came to be discovered and studied.
First, it is of importance to note that the two pillars that
marked the entrance to the burial ground are still standing.
Doubtless before Chinese archaeologists had had them dug round
they were half buried, for this is attested by the steep drop in
level with which you get to the foot. Still, they must always
have stood out sufficiently to have attracted the attention of any
who passed that way.
He
Ou-yang Hsiu (Giles, B.D. 1592) the author of the Chi Ku
Lu possessed a copy of the inscription in his collection.
devoted a notice to it on May 10th, 1064, in which while deploring
the illegibility of much of the inscription he fixed its date to be
that of the first year of Chien-ho, A.D. 147.
Chiao Ming-ch'êng (1081-1129), the author of Chin Shih
Lu applied himself to the Wu Pan inscription and succeeded in
deciphering several phrases that gave the principal facts of Wu's
life. He also possessed a copy of the Wu K'ai-ming inscription
and we owe to him the fragment that we now have. Lastly he
studied the inscription of Wu Liang and quoted some of its phrases.
46 It would seem as if there should be but one character missing here.
47 Still called Fêng , a sub-prefecture in Hsuchow, Kiangsu.
48 60 li north of the secondary prefecture of P'ei B, Hsuchow, Kiangsu.
49 Ch'en-liu was a commandery, the administrative centre of which
corresponded to the present sub-prefecture of Chen-liu , Kaifeng, Honan.
50 Probably "the city of Lu" means the capital of the kingdom of Lu.
That town is the modern Kufow , Yenchow, Shantung.
51 South-west of Kin-hsiang Tsining, Shantung.
52 It is necessary to supply here two or three characters, and not merely
one as Chinese epigraphists do.
53 Still the sub-prefecture of Lintse, Tsingchowfu, Shantung.
* CHAVANNES, p. 109. I have greatly abbreviated this section, selecting
only the parts concerned with the Wu Pan Tablet.

00
90
THE WU PAN TABLET
Hung Kua (Giles, B.D. 892), 1117-1184, the greatest
Chinese archeologists and author of the Li Shih, in his famous
work gave for the first time a transcription of the texts of the
Wu Pan, Wu Liang and Wu Jung inscriptions.
In 1786, Huang I (styled Hsiao-sung) finding himself in the
neighbourhood of Chiahsiang thought he would visit the tombs of
which he had read a short description in the county history. He
found the pillars were only some three feet above the soil so he
got them dug round. He re-discovered the Tablet of Wu Pan.
[He also found many of the sculptured tablets to which Mons.
Chavannes gives a considerable space in his book.] He took one
of the most famous of the sculptures-that which portrays the
visit of Confucius to Lao tzu, and placed it in the Confucian
Temple at Tsining.
In 1787, Weng Fang-kang wrote an inscription on Huang's
visit which was engraven on stone. He also wrote a profound
study on the various tablets and inscriptions of this neigh-
bourhood.
In 1796, Yüan Yüan wrote a treatise on the archæology of
Shantung which gives a full description of the group.
In 1805, Wang Ch'ang in the Chin Shih T's'ui Pien not
only copied what his predecessors had said but added many
criticisms of his own.
In Europe, Dr. S. W. Bushell was the first to give any
information on the subject, in a paper which he read to the
Oriental Congress which met at Berlin in 1881. ("Inscriptions
from the tombs of the Wu Family from the Tzu-yün Shan
(Purple Cloud Hills), 28 li south of the city Chia-hsiang hsien in
the province of Shantung"). On December 5th, 1886, Lieutenant
Dudley A. Mills was the first European to visit the spot to see
the Tablets and he published an account of his journeys in the
Chinese Times of the 5th, 12th and 19th of January 1889.
Mons. Chavannes himself first saw them on January 27th, 1891
and a second time in 1907.
CHAPTER VIII OF THE CHIN SHIH TS'UI PIEN.
The Tablet of Wu Pan, Lieutenant-Governor on the Frontier
at Tun-huang.
Note:-The Tablet and its Headpiece are ten feet high and
four and a half wide. There are twenty columns of inscribed
matter and each column has about forty characters. The head
piece contains nine characters in the "Li" script (which have
been translated above.) The tablet is now on the Purple Cloud
Mountain in Chiahsiang hsien.

THE WU PAN TABLET
91
[Here follows the text of the inscription which accompanies
this article.]
(A) Extracts from Six Earlier Works.
(1.) From the Chi Ku Lu, by Ou-yang Hsiu. LA.D.
1064. Wylie, Notes on Chinese Literature, p. 76].
The above inscription from the Han Pan Tablet has so many
defaced characters that one cannot make complete sense of the
inscription, e.g.-you cannot make out the clan name, the native
home, the offices he held, the time of death or the place of burial.
You can see that his personal name was Pan.
The first characters of the inscription state that "The first
year of Chien, the cycle being Ting-hai." By reference to the
Han books we find that during the Eastern Han, from Kuang-wu
Ti to Hsien Ti, there were seven periods in which the first
character was a "Chien"; viz. Chien-wu, (25-55); Chien-ch'u
(76-83) Chien-kuang (125); Chien-k'ang (144); Chien-ho
(147-149); Chien-ning (168-171) and Chien-an (196-219). By
examining the cycle tables we find that the first year of the
Chang-ho period of Chang Ti's reign (A.D. 87) was a Ting-hai
year. Sixty years later was the very year that the period Pên-ch'u
was changed to Chien-ho. The missing character is therefore
certainly a "ho." This shows that the tablet was erected in the
year A.D. 147. Inasmuch as there must be some eight or nine
characters out of every ten that are lost, we insert the "ho" in
our copy of the inscription.
(2) From the Chih Shih Lu [by Chao Ming-ch'êng,
c. 1100., Wylie, p. 76.]
says
The above is the Wu Pan Tablet. The Chih Ku Lu
(v. supra). In the copy of the tablet that we have
in our family although there are quite a number of characters that
cannot be made out, the general sense is clear.
The title above the inscription states that the tablet is that
of Wu Pan, the chang-shih of Tun-huang. Hence we know that
the family name is Wu, the official rank that of Lieutenant-
Governor on the frontier at Tun-huang. The inscription itself
tells us that his personal name was Pan and his style, Hsüan-
chang. It also says that the clan name was traced back to Wu-
ting of the Yin Dynasty (B.C. 1324-1266) whose brilliant deeds
in conquering the Demons' Land were blazoned in the court annals.
This is what we can find out about the surname, personal
name and the ancestral circumstances of the deceased.
We are
also told that he died in the first year of Yung-chia (A.D. 145) so
that we know the year and the month [sic] of his death.
(3) From the Li Shih [by Hung Kua, c. 1180; Wylie,
p. 76.]
The above is the tablet of Wu Pan, the chang-shih of Tun-
huang. The headpiece is now in Jên-ch'êng, Tsining chou.

92
THE WU PAN TABLET
Mr. Wu's personal name was Pan, his style, Hsüan-chang. He
was the nephew of Wu Liang, an official of the rank of ts'ung-
shih. He was the oldest son of Wu K'ai-ming, the Lieutenant-
military-governor of Wu, and the brother of Wu Jung a lieutenant
in the Imperial Guards. He died in the first year of Yung-chia
in Chung Ti's reign, (A.D. 145); the tablet was erected two years
later by six of his colleagues. The characters are small and the
stone is very much worn. Hence we cannot make out all the
offices he held nor his exact age. In the first year of Wei-chung
(i.e. Huan Ti), K'ai-ming raised a pillar in memory of his brother
and at the side carved an inscription in which we read: "Hsüan-
chang (i.e. Wu Pan) held office in Tsi-yin when he was but 25.
The military governor Ts'ao noted his filial piety and his
uprightness and therefore recommended him for public employ-
ment. He was appointed chang-shih of Tun-huang but he fell ill
and died prematurely. The grain did but sprout and blossom;
it never came to maturity." The pillar was erected on the day
kuei-mou of the second month; the inscription from which this
quotation is taken was cut ten days later, on kuei-ts'ou of the
third month.
The inscription reads (ix, 17 ff) "Then the country magis-
trate of Chinsiang, Shih K'uei whose native home was Kao-yang
in (the province of) Ho-kien and others remembering their
colleague." The character sui (i.e. the character which is
needed to give the sense of "colleague" rather than "con-
temporary ") is not very clear. The reason for supplying
it is that a comparison with the Liu Min tablet shows a
parallel. The Liu Min tablet reads: "Chien being a colleague in
the administration of the hsien district erects this tablet in
memory of Chao-tai and for friendship's sake." This makes it
quite clear that the character to be supplied is a sui
and that the reference is to colleagues (and not merely to
contemporaries).
In the Han dynasty it was quite a common thing for scholars
or subordinates to erect memorial tablets to their superiors. The
Wu Pan and the Liu Min are the only two I know which were
erected by colleagues.
Good friends are such for life and death and do not change.
They do not look on each other as mere travellers do who more or
less suspect each other and after they part have no further inter-
course. Such men are not to be named on the same day (as men
like Wu Pan and Liu Min.)
The following peculiarities in characters are to be
noted:-
iii 11 徦 is used for 遐
iii 15 城
iv
7 游
vi 22 鄒 is used for 奧
xiv 24 腌
游
XV 6 遼
30%
***

THE WU PAN TABLET
98
(4) From The Liang Han Record of Monuments W
M.]
[not referred to in Wylie. M. Chavannes gives its date
as 1786; its author as Wêng Fang-kang
After the eulogy and list of officers on the Wu Pan Tablet,
we read (xxi) "Chi Po-yun wrote this inscription." This is the
only Han Tablet that has such an addition. In Ou-Yang's
Chi Ku Lu the last sentence (xxii) reads: "Yen-ch'i, whose
style is Po-lou." There are other books that do not show this
sentence. In Hung Kua's Li Shih the last line reads "Chi Po-
yün wrote this inscription" and then beneath come the words
"Yen Ch'i whose style is Po-tsêng." We do not know whether
this last character should be a "lou or a "tsêng."
"
Although Yen Ch'i's name is the last on the tablet, the
inscription says that the writer was Chi Po-yün and not Yen Ch'i.
There seems to be something illegible above "Chi Po-yün." It
may be that Chi is not the surname; that may have been given
by the missing character. If so, Chi would be the personal name
and Po-yün the style. We cannot be sure about this.
Mr. Wu was the eldest son of Wu K'ai-ming, the Lieutenant-
Governor of the Wu province. His own office was that of the
chang-shih of Tun-huang. Ou-Yang made a mistake in saying
that he was a native of Tun-huang.
The two characters [sic: but the inscription printed
herewith has xiv, 22, 23] have the same meaning as .
The upper half of the first character is not clear. It seems to
have had a bamboo radical at the top. In the Shuo Wên the
character is said to mean a "ball" and it is written either with
a or a . But in the sense of "calamity," it is always written
with a , which means "an inexcusable criminal." It is compos-
ed of and which means "a great noise." In Hung's Li Shih
the character is altered to ; but this is perhaps only a misprint.
In xiii, 15, 16 the miao is partly illegible. A minute
examination makes it seem to have been written with a instead
of a . Still as this is not quite certain I prefer to follow Hung's
work and write it with a .
On the back of the tablet, below the hole, there are three
characters "Mr. Wu's Tablet." These were cut later, evidently
by some one who noticed that the inscription was getting worn
and feared it would not be known whose tablet it was.
(5) From the Shan Tso Chin Shih Chih [by Yüan Yüan
1796. Wylie, p. 78].
The superintendent (ssu-ma) Huang I by personal inspection
of the tablet corrected several of the characters as given in Mr.
Hung's (Li Shih).
v. 22, 23. There are two characters missing. "Mr. Hung
supplies. I think we ought to read instead of . The
meaning is that "the (viceroy and the governor) appreciating the

94
THE WU PAN TABLET
lofty wisdom that he showed, spite of his youth."
In the
first year of the period Yang-chia of Shun Ti's reign (A.D. 132),
imperial orders were sent to the provincial authorities to recom-
mend for promotion only men of filial piety and uprightness
(? "graduates") of forty years and upward. If they showed
considerable ability and remarkable power-men of the type of
Yen Yüan and Tzu Chi, they were to be recommended without
any mention of age. The inscription on the Wu pillar says
(already quoted above)
This shows the reason for the state-
ment in v, 20-23: "He showed lofty wisdom spite of his youth."
xiv. 24ff. After the words: "Suddenly taken from this
world" there is a blank of four characters, the fourth of which is
now given as a "kung" () xiv, 31; as "kung" is even tone,
it is perhaps the right character. From 32-35 we have "he never
rejoiced in old age." The 34th character is generally given as,
this is the equivalent of.
Below
XV. 17-20
"Men and women are plunged into grief." The
next character is a blank which most copies fill with.
(23, 24) come ; but recent editions give . This would
mean "We celebrate him in metal and on stone," and this fits in
with the following words "his great renown is imperishable."
After the list of names (cols. xvi, ff.) below the sentence
"county magistrate of Fang-tung" (xx) and separated by a
considerable space come the words "Yen Ch'i styled Po-lou"
[note that in the text as given with this article these words occur
in col. xxii].
These corrections are additional to those made by Mr. Huang I.
(6.) From Chu Wên-ts'ao's edition of the Li Shih with
corrections."
"
(The Li Shih) gives the sentence in ii, 17-20 thus: .
According to Mr. Chao's Chin Shih Lu it should read.
Also in ii, 30-33, the Chin Shih Lu reads and
. [This last is purely a question of rhythm. is first
tone; is fifth. A deflected tone was needed for the last word.]
[This ends the extracts given by the author of the Chin Shih
Tsui Pien. There follow his own criticisms.]
According to the headpiece of the tablet it is quite clear that
it commemorates a gentleman named Wu. When, therefore, the
Chi Ku Lu calls it a "Han Pan Tablet" and says that he
cannot make out the clan name of the deceased, it is quite certain
that in Ou-yang's collection of inscriptions not only were there, as
he says, a large number of illegible characters, but he cannot have
had a copy of the headpiece.
1 Tzu Ch'i was a native of the Ts'i state who was sent to rule a district
when he was only 18 and the district greatly benefitted. Liu Hsiang's
Hsin Hsü, p. 183.

THE WU PAN TABLET
95
ix,31,32.同歲is what after ages spoke of as同年,
Amongst the Han tablets we only know of one other which was
erected by "colleagues," viz. that of Liu Min. Research tells us
that Liu Min was a governor in the first year of Pên-ch'u (A.D. 144),
a little later therefore than Wu Pan. There was a similarity in
their treatment by their colleagues.
In the last year of Shun Ti (A.D. 144) the Hsiung-nu made
trouble, and an official named Ma Shih conquered them.
The expressions "roaring tigers" (vii, 33, 34) "attacking close
by" (viii, 1, 2), "the territory of the state was pacified" (viii,
17-20) refer to this war.
"
near
and
iii, 9-12 [sic]. The two last characters are
equivalent to. The Shuo Wên does not give the character.
A tablet on the Hua Shan says 思登彼之道“ Thinking of the
journey to the far off" (Cf. Giles, 4204: "A Taoist phrase ").
The Yang Tung tablet has 邇莫不隕涕. Those distant
and those at hand wept." A tablet to Mr. Yang, the district
magistrate of Fan-yang reads. "Far and
all respected him." In all these cases the character used is
has the meaning of . In the Lieh Tzu (Wylie, p. 217) in the
section on Huang Ti we read 而帝登假, "The Emperor made
the long journey." In Chang Chan's commentary (Wylie: "4th
cent.") there is a remark that fought to be . In Han books
on religion and music we read of "the gathering place
of distant barbarians." Yen Shih-ku (Wylie, 17, 20; Giles,
B.D. 2472) in his commentary says that is the equivalent of .
In the Rhyming Dictionary we are told that should be written
鏡. The Yang Tung Tablet has 勷迹
profound." (For the rendering cf. Odes p. 564,
The character here has the same meaning.
"His merit was
with Legge's note).
(Note however that
the character given here is and not. In xiii, 23 we have .)
iii. 15. is the equivalent of Mencius says (p. 176)
"As wild beasts fly in the wilderness." In the
Han Books, in the section on the Empress Li (Giles,
B.D. 1125) we read
"Reposing in the depths of
Hades this long time." Yen Shih-ku says that and are alike.
iv. 7 is the equivalent of. In the Stone Classic Annals
and also in the Chou Ritual, Ta Tsang chapter we read of +=
Twelve streamers; in the Hao Kung Chi chapter of 9, 7, 6 and 4
"streamers." The characters which we now use for streamers
attached to banners and flag, was formerly written, without the
"water" radical. The derivation of this character is from A,
which has the meaning of ("To bend, to desist, to
cease" Giles 13117). That is how it is that Confucius' disciple
Yen (Giles, B.D. 2480) has for his style. In the K'ung
Piao tablet there occurs the phrase
"floating above
the dusty world." In the Wu Yung tablet, "He had

96
THE WU PAN TABLET
wandered long in the pursuit of his higher studies." In the tablet
of an official (斥彰長),Mr. Tien, 乃始游學“He had just gone
from home for his studies." These examples show that the
character was used for the journeyings of scholars.
vi, 19-22 This last character is interchanged
with . In the Tribute of Yü we have the phrase
"The grounds along the waters were everywhere made
habitable." In the Historical Records, Hsia section, we read
Pa phrase with the same meaning. In the Erh Ya the
meaning of the character is said to be "the south-west corner
(where the lares stood)" R. Lu Tê-min in his Shih Wên
says that and are interchangable. In tablet inscriptions we
find the following. The Chiao Min tablet
"Quite clear
in the mysteries of the canon." The Liu Min tablet
(note the new variation of the character by the addition of the
140th radical) "Hidden in secret places." In all these places the
character stands for . On our tablet the contracted form of the
170th radical (which ordinarily stands on the left side of a
character) stands on the right side.
vii, 33. 哮 is used for 虓. In the Ta Ya (0. 588) we have
"savage as a growling tiger." In the Fêng Su Tung
is used; in the tablets of Fei Feng-pieh and Wei Ta-hsiang;
but here and in the Wu Jung .
xiv, 24. is used for . It means a "dull day without
sunshine"; it is also used for "forthwith." There is a similar
usage on the tablet to a Mr. Hsieh, the county magistrate of P'ingyu.
XV, 5, 6 [There are six different forms in which this
word for "the body of officials" is written. They are all found in
this paragraph; I am here lettering them for convenience, (a)
(b)(c) (d)(e) and (f)]. The interchange between (d)
and (f) was frequent in Han writings. The following usages are given
from tablets: Kao Piao tablet (a) "The whole body of
the officials was moved." Yang Tung (a) 12.
" The
whole body of the officials commiserated with them." A grave-
stone of a court official named Ching (a) πi.. "The
officials were all wasted with grief." Hsia Kuan tablet (a)
"The officials all came to condole." Yang Ming-wên
Elegy (e) "The officials all copied his example.' Li
I tablet (c) "His reputation spread among his
colleagues.'
v, 30-33. []This signifies the "purple pavilion."
In a work on the Chun Chiu 春秋合誠圖we read紫宮太帝室也
"The purple pavilion is the place where the Great Emperor lives."
1 This character only occurs in Giles under the list of Surnames (p. 1360)
where it is pronounced Yu and toned fourth. It does not occur in the
Commercial Press New Dictionary.

THE WU PAN TABLET
97
vi, 19-22. shows that Wu Pan must have
performed the duties of a Private Secretary. As an office, private
secretaryships were not instituted until the second year of Yen-hsi
But
in Huan Ti's reign (A.D. 159, i.e. after Wu Pan's death).
though at this time there was perhaps no such title the work was
The post
possibly performed by the officials known as A.
was a most important one as it carried with it secret oversight of
matters connected with the palace and brought the holder of it
into special connection with the Emperor.
xiii, 11-14. The is the same as . The Li
I tablet reads 其先出自其子苗“His forbear's were the
descendants of Chi Tzu." The 140th radical is used for the 118th.
stands therefore for Chi Shan and Shou-yang and a com-
parison is made between the aspirations of Wu Pan and these
hills. So it goes on (15-19) "Majestic was his pure countenance.'
Such a use of and is very rare. I do not think I have met
it elsewhere.
""
In addition to this Chapter from the Chin Shih Ts'ui Pien,
Mr. Wang also forwarded to me the following seven extracts
(which I am abridging by omitting anything that has been
already translated above).
I. Extract from a work by Mr. Tu on "Metals, Herbs,
Gems and Corals”都北金薤琳珉
After quoting from Mr. Ou-Yang's Chi Ku Lu and
Mr. Chao's Chin Shih Lu, Mr. Tu remarks that "Mr. Chao
was a later writer than Mr. Ou-Yang, and one would
have expected the earlier writer to have had the better copy of
the inscription (since these get more and more worn as time goes
on), but there was not really much difference in the times of the
two writers; both were Sung dynasty men. Perhaps Mr. Chao
may have obtained a copy of an older rubbing. We have a copy
in our family, which, although it cannot be compared with
Mr. Chao's copy, also tells us what he was able to find in correc-
tion of Mr. Ou-Yang."
II. Extract from a work in continuation of the Chin Shih
Lu金石錄續補 by Mr. Yeh I-pao of Kun Shan崑山葉氏奕苞
This extract deals mostly with the question of the various
official ranks of the six donors and of Mr. Wu himself. The
author points out that Yen Ch'i (col. xxi) is
the only
gentleman whose appellation is added, and also the only one
whose office is not named. He therefore considers he was a local
scholar not in office. He goes on to discuss the meaning of the
office that Wu Pan held. "In the days of Ch'in Shih Huang the
governor of a was styled a . Ching Ti in his second year
(B.C. 155) changed the title to that of, Each had an
assistant. From the days of the Tang dynasty, a large division

98
THE WU PAN TABLET
大州 was called a府. After that we find I used for . In the
Two Han, were established. In the Han, the parts of the
country not called, were - Hence, the Assistant of the
Military Commandant of Ch'en Liu (col. xix) ought to have been
styled he is styled ff. The Tablet to Wu K'ai-ming,
as
Wu Pan's father, says that he was appointed to the Wu
府丞. The Kao I Tablet 高頤碑 reads 北部府丞
III. Extract from the Chien Yen Tang
(Wylie, p. 79).
.
After the usual reference to Ou-Yang and Chao about the
inability to read certain things, the author goes on: Even
nowadays, students have not been able to make the inscription out
completely. A friend who has recently returned from Shantung,
Mr. Ho Yuan-hsi, met me at Wu-mên and gave me a copy of his
book on inscriptions. There are several things that are still not
certain; there are others that he has helped to clear up. At the
side of the Tablet there are three characters "Wu Shih Pei."
The characters seem to be about the time of the Six Dynasties.
(i.e. the six dynasties between the Han and the Sui: A.D. 220-587)
Mr. Ou and Mr. Chao had not seen these characters. (The
sentences from the Tablet about the Wu ancestors is then
quoted). The Feng Shu Tung of Ying Shao (Wylie, p. 153)
suggests that Mr. Wu was a descendant of the Sung Duke Wu
(B.C. 765-747) because Han writers generally allege this to be
the origin of that family name. But there are other explanations.
The Empress Wu Hou (the usurper) of the T'ang dynasty
(A.D. 684) alleged that she was a descendant of a younger son
of Ping Wang of the Chou Dynasty (B.C. 771-720) this son
being named Wu. She said this, however, in an attempt to trace
the imperial power in her family back to Wên Wang, the founder
of the Chou Dynasty, whom she wanted to call "The First
Ancestor, the Emperor Wên." At the same time she gave the
Temple name of "Jui Tsu T'ang Huang Ti" to Wu the son of
Ping Wang. The Kuang Yun (Wylie, p. 10) agrees with Ying
Shao, as regards the origin of the family name. Sun Mien 孫愐,
also thinks that Wu Hou was merely deceiving the people in what
she said and ought not to be accepted as an authority. In the
Spring and Autumn Annals for B.C. 720, we read "A son of the
Wu family came to ask for a contribution for the king's funeral
**" (Legge, p. 12). Hence as early as B.C. 720
this was a family name. Books on family names say that Chao
Wu (Giles, B.D. 2073) was the ancestor of the Wu's; but the
writers of these books have not taken much trouble over their work.
IV. Extract from the Ping Tsin Tu Pei Chi
*L (Wylie, p. 79).
The above is the Tablet of Wu Pan; it is to be
found on the Tzu-yün Hill in the Chia-hsiang hsien. It

THE WU PAN TABLET
99
was set up in the first year of Chien-ho, the cycle characters of
which were Ting-hai. The particular day of the second month on
which it was set up was Hsin-ssů. Chien-ho was the style of the
reign when Huan Ti succeeded to the throne. The 1st day of the
year was Hsin-hai. The 1st month was "great" (i.c. it had
thirty days; "small" months have twenty-nine); therefore the
1st day of the second month was Hsin-ssu. The Tablet and the
Records therefore agree in this matter. (Then follow extracts
from other works that have been already translated above.
Next comes a discussion of official rank;) Su Han-chih and
Yin Chueh-lu have a note on ancient affairs in which they say
that the Shang Shu Lang B was the office to which men
who had filled the office of Ling or Shih were promoted.
In the days of "Shih Tsu" (sic) ft men of the rank of Hsiao
lien were used to fill the rank of Lang . Wu Pan rose
(sic) vi. 19-22 was the
from Hsiao lien to Lang.
Tun-huang Chang-shih. Wu's office corresponds to this.
V. Extract from the Wu Shih Hsü Ku Inscriptions
虛谷金石
H.
Huang Hsiao-sung gave me a copy of the Wu Tablet.
The characters are not all of them clear. I asked Hsiao-
sung about this, and he told me that he had recently compared
the original with the copy that is given in Hung's book.
makes out that the original has only 312 characters; Hung's copy
has 480, a difference of 168.
He
According to the Li Shih, ii 17-20 reads,
according to Mr. Chao, it should be
; Mr. Huang's
investigation agrees with Mr. Chao. Hung's reading of xv. 33-36
is A, but it should be 1. This shows that Hsiao-
sung's investigation has been careful and that he has avoided
making mistakes. I fancy this Tun-huang official must be an
ancestor of our family. If so, it is as if one had not been, and
then were restored to life. (There follow sundry critical notes
nearly all of which have already come before us.)
VI. Extract from the Han Inscriptions with Comments.
by Ma Chin-shih (Pang Yü) of Yu-tai.
The inscription consists of 20 columns varying from 38 to 40
characters each. They are not of equal length. I have compared
Hung's copy with the original, especially in the matter of
columns and alignment.
Below the (i, 22) there are several characters which are
altogether illegible. In col. ii, the 17th and the 19th and 20th
do not seem to me to be 克,and. Below . . [the
copy of the extract seems here to have missed a character which
the original author must have inserted; probably it is iii, 1 16]

100
THE WU PAN TABLET
there is a . In col. iv, the 29th character should be
and not 探 Below that there seems to be a needed; but no
such character has been cut. In col. v, 3rd space, there is
a which Hung has omitted. In col. vi there is a blank
after the 21st space; it has been joined on to F. [In the
copy of the Inscription given with this paper no blank is
shown between these characters.] In col. vii the top two
characters should be and not as in current copies which
cannot be read with R. Character 34 is and not . In
col. ix, there should be blanks in spaces 5 and 7.
These matters I have personally verified. This is the only
Han Tablet in which I have noticed the writer's name being
given.
VII. Extract from Collections from Metal and Stone. Ti
by Chang Hui-yung 張氏容,
The Wu Pan Tablet including the headpiece is 5 ft. [sic]
high, and 2 ft. 6 ins. [sic] wide. It is on the Tz'ü Yün Hill of
Chia-hsiang hsien. Both Ou-Yang and Chao give the inscription
which consists of Memorial Inscription, 11 cols.; Elegy, 4 cols.;
Names of the donors of the Tablet, 5 cols.; in all 20 cols. .
(Quotations from the Chi Ku Lu and the Chin Shih Lu).
The Li Shih gives six characters in col. xxi that I cannot
make out on the Tablet itself. The five of col. xxii are quite
clear. Mr. Tan Hsi-wêng says that he could not see
was not rubbed sufficiently far
Huang Hsiao-sung (see extract
them. Perhaps his copy of the Tablet
on the left to include this column.
VI above) compared the Tablet with the copy to be found in
Hung's book.