10
PUTOSHAN.
A DRAUGHT AT THE WELL-SPRINGS OF
CHINESE BUDDHIST ART.
By ARTHUR STANLEY,
Curator of the Shanghai Museum
It has taken over a thousand years to bring the island of
Putoshan to its present state of hallowed grace. Originally chosen
for its fine natural features, it has, in an atmosphere inspired
by devotion to the Buddhist religion, become one of the most
entrancing spots in China. Situate on the outer edge of a group
of enchanted islands, which outrival those of the Inland Sea, it is
exposed to the powerful breaking force of the open Pacific which
wears the rocky margin into fairy forms and reduces its great
blocks of granite into boulders, pebbles and the ultimate golden
sand. The inner, that is to say the western side, is sheltered and
washed by the Sea of Water Lilies, an imaginative designation
due to the comparatively shallow water being often broken into
white foaming curling waves: the Chinese seeing Water Lilies
where we should fancy Sea Horses. Putoshan has been abundantly
gifted by nature, while from the Buddhist priests she has received
the loving care of human hands. The association of religion with
natural beauty in the East is one of those subtle symbioses which
might be expected from the continent which has been the mother
of all the great religions of the world. There can be little doubt
that a better insight into the works of the Great Architect can be
thus obtained and a broader moral outlook on mankind. Even
cloddish superstition acquires a poetic touch among the ocean
waves, the huge rocks and the green flower-covered hills. The
pilgrim to this Sacred Islet leaves the care and bickering and
scraping of his everyday life and gets a glimpse of heaven which
may give him comfort through years of subsequent daily drudgery.
Here the jaded spirit may find temporary solace; or the soul
which is lost through immersion in a sea of materialism may again
find itself among these silent hills and golden beaches. Ruskin
says the mountains are our schools and cathedrals. The Chinese
seek the divine mountains as an essential part of their philosophy
which has ever been closely in touch with nature. This tranquil

2
PUTOSHAN
mountain islet rising like Aphrodite from the depths of the ocean
and purified by the ceaseless wash of its waves has had a very real
influence on Chinese thought and art. After a thousand years it
remains to-day the most intimate, animated and popular of China's
sacred places. Putoshan to the Buddhist is a great natural altar
or cathedral whose canopy is heaven to which incense from censers
and flowers ever ascends. The music of the waves and the winds,
of the bells and the wild birds, wells up; all things animate and
inanimate give homage to the patron saint Kuan-yin, best beloved
of the Bodhisattwas-the Pusa of the sea.
Putoshan, lying at 30° N. latitude and 120° 25' E. longitude,
is one of the outermost of the Chusan Group consisting of more
than a hundred islands off the north-eastern coast of Chekiang
province in Mid-China. It lies two miles to the east of Chusan,
the main island of the group. Putoshan is nearly four miles long
and has a deeply indented and delightfully varied margin. Great
granite rocks mostly cleaving into rectangular blocks come through
the ground here and there. The island is a lively green, the
vegetation wonderfully varied and the flowers innumerable and
fragrant. It is one of the few parts of China free from disagree-
able smells. Nature is unfettered though assisted by the hand of
man, the monks being landscape gardeners of considerable taste.
There is only sufficient agricultural land for the needs of the
monks so that it is more verdant than the neighbouring islands.
It is not difficult to discover the reason for the subtle
charm of the island of Puto. To be completely beautiful an
island should disclose beauty as a whole and charm in its details.
Approaching from the sea the whole contour grips you as a
beautiful thing fully realised. After landing it matters little
which way you turn, for you are sure to strike a track which will
afford enough pleasant surprises to lure you on and make you
forget the time. Whether basking on a rock like a lizard in the
sun or walking along beaches where bathing is a sheer delight or
listening to bird voices in the mountain recesses, the charm of the
island holds you fast. There is no need for switchbacks, wiggle-
waggles or side shows here, any more than for the gun or golf bag
among your luggage. But the essential thing to bring to this
delectable spot is imagination; without this invaluable possession
the charm of Putoshan will be largely lost.
ACCESS.
Putoshan is some eighty miles from Ningpo, whence it is
reached in about eight hours in small steamers plying almost
daily. Leaving Shanghai about 5 p.m. one comes to Ningpo early
next morning. The small steamers for Putoshan depart from a
little further up the Ningpo Bund at about 9 a.m. reaching the

Before the great hull of
the Monastery of Uni-
versal Salvation. Brass
incense burner made in
Kung-Hsi period from a
Ming design.
ら

In the garden of the Monastery of the Meditation Grove of the Great Rock.

PUTOSHAN
3
island at about 5 p.m. by way of Chinhai at the mouth of the
Ningpo river, Tinghai the capital of Chusan Island, and Sinkamên
a fishing port also of Chusan Island. On the return journey the
boat usually leaves Putoshan about 4 p.m., staying at Sinkamên
over night and reaching Ningpo about 2 p.m. the following day,
in time to join the boat for Shanghai which leaves about 4 p.m.
As the small boats cater only for Chinese traffic it is as well
to bring some biscuits and cocoa both going and coming, together
with a camp bed so as to sleep on the upper deck while staying
the night at Sinkamên. The latter is a place having an ancient
and fish-like smell, being the centre of the fishing trade.
Shanghai to Ningpo $15 return; from Ningpo to Putoshan $1.50
single. It is better not to take a cabin on these small boats.
BEACH AND SEA.
Fare
The island is dedicated to Kuan-yin, the Pusa of the sea, who
is believed to protect sailors, among innumerable other acts of
mercy. The combination of the rugged with the verdant is the
keynote to Putoshan. The western side of the island is washed by
the tailings of the great Yangtsze and Ch'ientang estuaries, so that
the water is slightly yellow and there is a slow but extensive
deposition of alluvium. The eastern side is exposed to the open
Pacific and the water generally clear and blue with bold rocks and
perfect stretches of hard sandy beach. The sands are described
by a Chinese poet as resembling powdered gold and soft as moss to
walk upon.
Even a gentle swell from the Pacific may result
in breakers of twenty feet high which make bathing a splendid
struggle. The beaches have a reputation for dangerous currents
which carry bathers out to sea. What really happens is that the
beach shelves rather steeply so that the breakers wash back
strongly which gives the swimmer the idea that he is being
carried out. The poor swimmer should be cautious among the
big breakers but for the strong swimmer they should carry
no danger but rather recall the lines of Swinburne :
'I will go back to the great sweet mother
Mother and lover of men, the sea.
I will go down to her, I and none other
*
O fair white mother in days long past
Born without sister, born without brother
Set free my soul as thy soul is free.'
HILLS.
The waterworn hills of eternal granite are a never failing
source of inspiration. Pilgrim pathways lead up to their summits-
pathways often cut out of the solid rock and kept in excellent

4
PUTOSHAN
repair; dangerous places and steep ascents being carefully railed.
The infinite patience and labour required for the making of the
thousands of granite steps which traverse the ascents show how
important a place these mountain solitudes take in the Buddhist
cosmos.
Some beautiful impressions were got among these hills. It.
was evening and the sun was setting. The soft music of the
Monastery bell trembled from peak to peak. The still air was
broken by the occasional cry of a sea-bird. Down in a lonely
cleft between two rocky summits a monk could be seen on a
sheltered grassy bank making his last offering before retiring for
the night to his sleeping mat which lay near. A thin vertical
pillar of incense smoke went up until it wavered and finally melted
into the thin air of night. The murmur of the monk's angelus.
came up like a voice from the very bosom of nature. Here,
indeed, was one seeking retreat from the world and getting very
closely in touch with the spiritual shades of nature. In such an
environment this simple act of worship seemed vibrant with true
religious feeling. It was easy then to understand how the divine
mountains have helped to mould Chinese poetry and pictorial art.
In the light of the setting sun, when the rest of the scene is
enshrouded in the pearly twilight associated with these sea-girt
islands, the clear lines of the dark rocks on the hilltops lit as it.
were with the light of other worlds and the gem-like green of the
intervening banks rising from the ever deepening opalescent.
garment produces an effect which is mystic and wonderful
recalling Keats'
'Sweet night in an island enchanted.
And skiff's that were freighted with dreams.'
ROCKS AND CAVES.
Concerning the geology of Putoshan, the rock of the island,
granite and the products of its metamorphosis and disintegration,
shows it to be part of that great granite outburst, one of the main
features in the geology of Eastern China, which extends together
with porphyry all down the coast from Ningpo to Hong Kong, as
described by von Richthofen in 1869. The granite resembles
that of that lower Yangtsze but is coarser than that of Soochow.
No fossils were seen on the island. The rugged granite boulders
cleave mostly into rectangular shapes. The golden sand is
produced by the breaking down of the granite, the rich colour
being derived from its laminated mica. The so-called Ningpo
stone, green and red, found in the neigbourhood appears to be a
quartz breccia of volcanic origin, the sedimented eruptive broken
fragments conglomerated and bound together in a matrix of
sandstone. Von Richthofen describes the Chusan Islands as.

The Holy Rock of Putoshan, the most sacred spot
on the island after the Chao-y in Cave. Ch'an na-deep
religious meditation-is practised by the monks at the
top of the rock where they may sometimes be been in
silent reve.ic.

Sculptured Balustrade at Monastery of the Rain of the Law. Kang-Hsi period.
The subject is the mainfestations of filial piety.

PUTOSHAN
5
almost exclusively composed of quartzose porphyry and its volcanic
tufas and the development of porphyry between Ningpo and Hong
Kong as the most extensive in the world.
The wave hewn caves of the island lend themselves to
religious mysticism but appear to have a reputation for sanctity
which they scarcely deserve. All have been produced by that
facility towards vertical cleavage which granite especially
possesses. The Fan-yin (Buddhist Echo) cave is the finest, a
vertical cleft into the rock some sixty feet high near the eastern
promontory of the island. A little temple is wedged into the cleft
about half way down, approachable from above by steps cut in the
rock. It has an iron grille to restrain suicidal ecstacy. Down
below, the waves surge into the depths of the cleft in whose
inmost recesses the true believer may see Buddha. Incense is
always burning in this Shrine of the Sea Spray and at frequent
intervals the resident priest chants a liturgy. It is a place for
awe-inspired contemplation which has been chosen with a view to
impressing pilgrims through natural phenomena with mystic
wonder.
Near the Ch'ao-yin (Tidal Echo) cave, not far from the
landing stage at the south-east end of the island, there is a rock on
which vigils are kept by faithful anchorites day and night, a
sleeping mat being usually found lying on the edge of the cleft.
This cave has a perforation in the roof called Heaven's Window
through which a shaft of light may aid the illusion of Buddha
when it strikes athwart the surging wave below. This cave
worship appears to be a development of the mystery which caves
usually have for the human mind.
Nearly every rock which is at all prominent has inscriptions
deeply cut, especially the Pant'o or Holy Rock at the south-east of
the island. Some of these inscriptions have been translated thus:
'I take my refuge in Buddha.
This is the place where the great teacher expounded the law.
The holy rock which guards the state.
The world's most famous rock.
The shore of true wisdom.
The golden thread which leads to the path of knowledge.
The sun of wisdom rises in the east.
Embark on the ship of good wishes.
China has its sages.
Revisited in old age.
Cross to the other shore (to Nirvana).
May all things ultimately become one with Buddha.
To set apart an island for the worship of Kuan-yin is in
keeping with history. Here Kuan-yin may best teach her
doctrine of mercy and a multitude of pilgrims will come
in fine weather and receive benefit.'

6
PUTOSHAN
These great rocks are places for the practice of deep religious
meditation (Ch'an-na) and are often surrounded with trees and
called Meditation Groves. Many figures of Kuan-yin and other
Pusas are cut in the rocks, but they are as a rule of inconspicuous
artistic merit. Associated with rock masses are sacred springs and
pools from which the faithful carry away holy water reputed to
have curative value.
TREES AND FLOWERS.
Many of the finest trees on the island have been planted by
the monks. There are splendid camphor trees-one with a trunk
seven feet in diameter-thuja orientalis, the so-called Tree of Life,
hoary with age and of great beauty, wut'ung (sterculia
platanifolia), cypress, chestnut, evergreen oak, sophora, catalpa
kaempferi, ash, maple, soap tree, cleyera japonica, michelia fuscata,
laurel, plum, peach and ficus pomata among many others. The
lovely gingko biloba or maidenhair tree (Chinese peh-k'o) is
abundant near the temples: this is a remarkable survival of a
single species from an ancient family dating back almost to the
coal measures, which is now found only in China and Japan; and
there only when planted by man, mostly by Buddhist priests.
There is a variety of tea for which the island is noted and
which the monks often bestow as a parting gift to pilgrims.
There are many varieties of wild rose, including a white rambler.
The fragrant little white flower' for which the island has been
famous for over a thousand years is the gardenia florida growing
close to the ground and beginning to flower early in June.
The rocks are covered with all manner of beautiful lichens
and mosses, so that many a rock is itself a picture. The lichens
grow so luxuriantly in the humid atmosphere that they even creep
up the stems of other plants. The rock being covered with a
spongy undergrowth which holds the frequent gentle rains and
mists explains the fresh and palpitating green of this delectable
islet. The Chusan islanders have a saying that the rains of the
locality are like the tears of a petulant woman-quick to fall, slow
to cease.
ANIMAL LIFE.
Animal life is abundant on Putoshan because it is free from
molestation by the monks and the rest of the people as one of the
tenets of the Buddhist faith. The reptiles were especially observed
and were seen in order of abundance as follows: eumeces sinensis,
tachydromus septentrionalis, naia naia atra, emys sinensis, coluber
phyllophis, zaocys dhumnades. The Black Chinese Cobra was
particularly common; about half a dozen could be found almost
any sunny day in June near the rice fields full of succulent edible

The bridge over the lotus lake leading to the Monastery of the Rain of the Law.

Marble sculpture in high relief.
The central panel of the bridge leading to the Monastery of the Rain of the Law.

PUTOSHAN
7
frogs (rana esculenta) which accounted for the fat and sleek con-
dition of the reptile. The cobras were from four to five feet long.
They appear to be of a mild disposition and on sight slither quietly
away. If you get in their way they blow out their necks into a
flat hood in the way peculiar to cobras. The priests say that they
never bite or do anyone any harm; but as the priests are interested
in encouraging visitors it is probable that they may minimise the
danger of these venomous reptiles. The Chinese Cobra is a thick
shiny black or dark brown snake with about thirteen transverse pale
yellow narrow bands, one of which round the neck, the part which
swells out laterally when they are cross, expands at the sides into
two rings the so-called spectacle mark common to most species of
cobra. No other poisonous reptile was found except the cobra ;
but it is quite possible that they exist under such ideal conditions
for reptile life. The amphibia noted were bufo vulgaris, rana
esculenta and rana limnocharis.
As there are an unusual number of trees (for China) birds
are plentiful. Among the rocks the white-necked crow (corvus
torquatus) is abundant either alone or in twos and threes; the
oriental raven (corvus macrorhynchus) is found solitary. The busy
lark fills the empyrean with song. The common kingfisher was
seen, an occasional snipe, and duck in solitary couples (June.) As
would be expected in a place where flowers are so plentiful, butter-
flies and bees abound. An interesting creature observed during
bathing was a crustacean able to skim along the surface of the water
for some distance; in size and appearance it resembled a shrimp.
The dogs of Puto are no better than the average mangy, snarling,
cowardly cur one sees all over China.
THE EARLY HISTORY OF THE ISLAND.
Of the four sacred hills of Buddhist China, Omishan, Wutai-
shan, Chinhuashan and Putoshan, the last has the shortest religious
history, that is to say, from the Tang dynasty, but enjoys the
greatest popularity and prosperity, and may be considered the chief
sanctuary of Buddhism in China.
Perhaps the first historical record is that one, Mei-fu, a
prominent statesman and Confucian scholar, sought the seclusion
of Putoshan towards the end of the Han dynasty in A.D. 6. His
name still lives in the small hill of Mei-shan in the south of the
island and in Mei-fu's well and temple.
In the Tang dynasty Putoshan began to acquire sanctity.
The patron Pusa was always Kuan-yin, the All Compassionate
who hears the cries of the people, the Captain of the Ship
of Salvation. At this early period Putoshan was known
Hsiao-pai-hua - shan, the Island of the Little White
as
Flower.

8
PUTOSHAN
The island was released from taxation in the Yuan dynasty;
from which dynasty also the Pagoda of the Prince Imperial, near
the Southern Monastery, dates.
The monasteries date back more than a thousand years.
During this time they have had their troubles, especially from
pirates attracted by their wealth. From early in the Ming dynasty
for 150 years the religious history of the island was a blank page
owing to the depredations of Japanese pirates, the Eastern Dwarfs
as they were called. They also had trouble with the local fisher-
folk in these early times but the priests got the ear of the Ming
Emperor Wan Li in the beginning of the seventeenth century and
obtained an autograph letter from him which established their
prior claim to the island without interference. This letter was cut
in stone and preserved as a precious relic in proof of imperial
favour. In substance the inscription is an follows:
"In the 34th year of my reign (A.D. 1607), the people
being at peace, at the request of my mother I opened a private
subscription for the purpose of repairing the great monastery
at Putoshan, which was destroyed by fire, and send an officer
to direct the good work."
Early in the reign of Kang Hsi, that is to say, in A.D. 1665,
the Red Haired men are reported to have pillaged the island and
removed everything of value. These were probably the Dutch
who had been at this time driven out of Formosa by Koxinga, the
Chinese Pirate King. Six years later the government called all the
monks to the mainland and the island was abandoned for seventeen
years. It was after the country had been restored to tranquility
that the Emperor Kang Hsi turned his attention to the island.
This cultured monarch restored the monasteries in magnificent
style, sending imperial yellow tiles from the roofs of the ruined
Ming Palace at Nanking. These tiles still form the roofs of the
two big temples. Kang Hsi's autograph letter cut on a mag-
nificent monolith of marble rests under a pavilion over against
the Southern Monastery. It is pitiful to have to record recent
malicious destruction of some of the marble carving at the base of
the monolith due to Chinese vandals with an ultra-modern spirit.
There is also a general air of decay in the buildings and
surroundings quite unlike the condition of the temples themselves,
showing that the monks have an outlook only wide enough to see
the main chance under present quasi-republican conditions. The
inscription may be paraphrased as follows:
"In the earlier years of my reign, owing to the turbulent
state of the country, pirates from the Outer Seas destroyed the
temples. But after quelling the insurrection in Formosa the
seas were freed from such vermin so that the priests were able
to come back and repair the destruction. I have furnished
from my own purse the wherewithal to rebuild the religious

Gilded wooden draped figure of Kuan-yin,
the original male Pusa, at the Monastery of
the Rain of the Law.

Kwan-ti, the God of War; one of the Protectors
of Buddhism; but derived from the Taoists.

PUTOSHAN
9
houses and have sent an official to direct the operations. I
did this for my mother's sake and to promote the happiness
of my people. I have been reared in the classics and know
little of the wonderful subtleties of Buddhist doctrines. But
the sages say that heaven has a kind and merciful disposition
towards all things and the teaching of Buddha has the same
aim. I trust that Kuan-yin will send merciful clouds, gentle
rain, sweet dew and balmy winds at the proper season so that
the country may have peace and prosperity and the people
live long and happily. This is my earnest desire which I
wish to have graven in stone so that future generations also
may read."
In A.D. 1733 further restoration was effected by the Emperor
Yung Chêng and later Ch'ien Lung also identified himself with
the fortunes of the monks of Putoshan.
THE RELIGIOUS SIGNIFICANCE OF PUTOSHAN.
There are more than a hundred monasteries, temples and
hermitages, but the Monastery of Universal Salvation and the
Monastery of the Rain of the Law, known as the Southern and
Northern Monasteries respectively, overshadow all other religious
houses in Putoshan. The former is near the landing stage while
the latter is some two miles further on lying in a secluded hollow
at the foot of Buddha's Peak and close to the Golden Sands.
The sect of Buddhism followed on the island is the Ch'an or
Contemplative School founded and brought to China by Bodhid-
harma, called Tamo by the Chinese, in A.D. 520.
The prayer-
book used is the Ch'an-mên-jih-sung, which includes prayers for
daily recitation by both priests and laymen, prayers for saints' days,
burial services, ordination, for spiritual ancestors, for fair weather
and for rain, for deliverance from plague or famine, for divine
guidance of rulers and magistrates and for those in danger on the
sea among many others; together with much moral exhortation.
In Putoshan it is comparatively easy to get into touch with
the main tenets and purpose of Buddhism and to understand why
this religion has succeeded in acquiring a greater number of
adherents in the Far East than any other. Buddha has infinite
pity as well as infinite wisdom and ever seeks to make mankind
one brotherhood. The Buddha and those nearest, the Pusas, are
represented either as human beings or incarnations of ideas, com-
bining wisdom and mercy in their acts and teaching. The early
Buddhists surrounded death with an atmosphere of spiritual dis-
tinction and called it Nirvana; death finally becoming merged in a
spiritual condition of absolute peace. From its original Indian
home Buddhist teaching has become modified for those unable to
comprehend the original subtle metaphysics; so that to the Northern

10
PUTOSHAN
Buddhists of Thibet, China and Japan, Nirvana became an
additional Western Heaven ruled by a new Buddha-Omito. All
forms of Buddhism, however, appear to be characterised by a
spirit of tolerance and charity.
The patron Pusa of Putoshan is Kuan-yin who takes preced-
ence of other divinities, filling the place usually occupied by
Sakyamuni in other parts of China. Kuan-yin takes the form first
of an angelic youth, one of the Pusas who refused Nirvana and
Buddhahood until the salvation of mankind is accomplished;
subsequently a woman, the mother of pity. In most of the temples
Pu-hsien and Wen-shu, the patron Pusas of Omishan and Wut'aishan
respectively, are worshipped by the side of Kuan-yin. Pusa is the
Chinese abbreviated form of the Sanskrit Bodhisattwa, the condi-
tion nearest to Buddhahood; the penultimate transmigration
before absorption into the Universal Spirit; godlike and yet still in
touch with the earth and therefore capable of helping the people.
On the 19th day of the second moon, which is the birthday
of Kuan-yin, pilgrims come to the island and great services are
held; including ordination, for which there are from one to three
hundred candidates each year. The monks are not required to
take perpetual vows but promise to be chaste and vegetarian besides
requirements of a sound moral code. The reputation of the
Monasteries of Putoshan, where there are over a thousand monks,
is high, due to its isolation from the demoralising influence of
great cities.
The monasteries are a refuge for the unhappy, for those who
have failed in the rough and tumble of life, as well as for those
who feel they are called to the priesthood. The renunciation of
the world and the absorbing occupations of a religious life in
retreat becomes to many a pleasant dream state. Moreover, it
provides a home, quiet uneventful life and congenial work. They
have no financial troubles, for they depend on a common fund, the
result of endowment and the gifts of the charitable. There are
many who would temporarily exchange the rack and rattle of a life
of tooth and nail competition for the serene and subtle charm of
the monastic cloister on this gracious island. The social character
of the worship is another aspect which appeals. No matter how
perfunctorily performed or allowed to degenerate into monotonous
routine the doctrine of the Karma (moral necessity) makes each
invocation, mass and ceremony, each gift, good wish, genuflection
and incense burning a source of general benefit through the work-
ing of the law of moral cause and effect. Dharma (the law)
requires that the heart be pure and calm and the mind clear and
bright. The monks are expected to conduct themselves with
gravity, to read the sutra (testament), to chant the authorised
invocations and prayers, and to frequently perform the required
adorations to the rhythmic beating on the wooden fish, drum and

Temple doors with designs of Kang-Hsi and Chien-
Lung periods.

Gilded wooden figure of Wei.t'o, the Defender of
the Faith, at Monastery of Universal Salvation; and
a carved black-wood altar table of Kang-Hsi period.

PUTOSHAN
11
bell, so as to promote contemplation of holy things. The greater
part of the worship is praise and invocation.
The Ch'an doctrine of Contemplation appears to have drawn
much from the teachings of Lao-tsu seeing that meditation on the
beauties of nature was one of its fundamentals in its realization of
the better self. By supplementing the study of man with that of
the rest of nature as exemplified in mountain mist and wave-worn
rock, it drew nearer to a true appreciation of the proper relation of
man with the universe. In this connection it may also be recorded
that Buddhism has no theory of the creation of the world but
wisely leaves it to science. The followers of the Contemplative
School believe that Nature can teach more of the way man ought
to live than all the sages. This nature worship at Putoshan is an
all-important adjunct to the authorised Buddhist scriptures and
canons, and appears rather to be an invigorating discipline than
a gratification of the senses.
Though the sculptured and gilded figures of the Pusas and
other divinities are perhaps more beautiful in Putoshan than in
any other part of China it would be an error to consider these
images as the most essential part of the religion. The solemn
design and arrangements of the temple and the figures are mainly
symbolical. Tamo, who carried the famous Patra or Almsbowl,
the Holy Grail of Buddhism, and who was the founder of this
Contemplative School, said You will not find Buddha in images or
books look into your own heart.' This same meaning seems also
to be reflected in the recent lines of Ella Wilcox:
'So many Gods, so many creeds,
So many paths that wind and wind,
While just the art of being kind
Is all this sad world needs.'
CHINESE BUDDHIST ART AT PUTOSHAN.
There is no art at Putoshan which is not essentially Buddhist-
or subservient to that religion-here, therefore, is a pure source at.
which to seek knowledge.
The religious buildings are placed so as to take full advantage
of natural features. The approach to them is generally paved
with large stone slabs, often chiselled at the rhythmic geometrical
centre in a design of lotus or other symbolic pattern. Well made
granite steps assist the pilgrim where he has to climb. Avenues
of splendid camphor trees entice him along the broad and beautiful
path which leads the Buddhist to salvation. About midway
between the landing stage and the Monastery of Universal Salva-
tion is a square low arch, presumably of the Yung Cheng period,
open to the four quarters, with inscriptions on the beams welcom-
ing the wayfarer from north and south. It is provided with seats.

12
PUTOSHAN
so that pilgrims may rest after climbing the steep ascent on each
side. This arch is placed with consummate skill. To the south
it frames a perfect picture of rocky promontory and beyond it the
enchanted islands of the Chusan group; to the north of Buddha's
Peak, the Golden Beach and the imperial yellow roof of the
Monastery of Universal Salvation with its background of rock-
piled hill. Further down the path through a carved stone triple
arch (pailou) of the Kang Hsi period one enters the precincts of the
Monastery. Magnificent camphor and gingko trees afford a fine
base line for the approach by a causeway and a bridge across a
lotus lake. In front of the monastery building is a spacious paved
courtyard with thuja and wut'ung trees. A series of steps leads
up to a balustraded terrace on which the doors open. The first
building, forming the main entrance, is the Imperial Pavilion,
containing monoliths incised with writings of certain of the Ming
and Ch'ing emperors, excepting that of Kang Hsi which has a
pavilion of its own before one crosses the lotus lake. Now comes
a courtyard, flanked by the bell and drum towers, across which is
the Hall of the Four Kings of Heaven who are the guardians of
the faith in the four quarters of the Universe, the Kings that rule
on the Slope. Though impressive and constantly met with at the
entrance to Buddhist temples, these great fierce figures are not
held to be divinities but spirit Kings of pre-Buddhist Hindu origin.
They should stand at the four quarters of a temple but are usually
placed two and two on each side of the main entrance for the sake
of convenience. Their purpose is symbolical, namely, to impress
the worshipper as he enters with the idea of protection by
celestial beings. Here also is Mi-lei Fo, the Buddha of the
Future, who after 5,000 years will open a new era; he is always
seen contemplating the hereafter with a happy smile so as to
inspire confidence. Behind the Hall of the Four Kings is another
spacious courtyard with splendid camphor, gingko and thuja trees,
flanked by pavilions containing the eighteen Lohan. These
disciples of the higher rank by their expression of intelligence and
pleasure symbolise the great benefit received from the teachings
of Buddha. Their purpose is to prepare the mind of the wor-
shipper before entering into the presence of the greater ones.
In
the centre of the courtyard is a brass incense burner about fifteen
feet high-fine work of the Kang Hsi period following a Ming
model. In front of this are wide granite steps which lead to a
terrace balustrated with granite pillars surmounted by finials of the
Buddhist lion and a lotus motive, between which are great panels
of granite carved with a series of pictures in high relief illustrating
forms of filial piety. On this terrace are huge candlesticks, water
bowls and flower jars of bronze, while in the centre is a splendid
incense burner of Ming model surmounted with a double pagoda
roof. Thuja and wut'ung trees are planted at either end of this

Granite memorial arch of the Kiang.Hsi period at the Monastery of Universal Salvation.
Through the arch is the Hall of the tablet of Kang-Hsi. The avenue of camphor trees leads to
the Yuan Pagoda of the Prince Imperial.

Perforated stone carving in the main outer
wall of one of the smaller nonasteries just above
the Chao-yin Cave. The design is the mythical
phonix and the flaming ball (Pao-chi). Through
the fenestr. tions of the original a charming picture
of the Chusan Islands was seen.

PUTOSHAN
13
terrace. One now approaches the chief sanctuary-the Shrine of
Kuan-yin. On entering on the right is a superbly carved gilded
wooden figure in magnificent dimensions of Wei-t'o who is en-
trusted with the special duty of protecting temples-a Defender
of the Faith. In front of Wei-t'o is an extremely fine carved
black-wood table, the Wu-shi-hiang-pan or five-vessel-incense-
stand for incense burner, two candle-sticks and two flower jars to
be found in the front of all Buddhist altars. This table is a fine
example of a well-balanced design of an elaborate dragon pattern
presumably of the Kang Hsi period. Behind Wei-t'o is the bell
and an enclosure for the priests. Entering on the left is a
corresponding splendidly carved wooden figure of Kuan-ti, the God
of War, also a protector of Monasteries, but borrowed from the
Taoists. It is a virile figure of magnificent pose holding a spear.
Behind him is the drum and an enclosure for the priests. Along
each lateral wall are sixteen figures representing metamorphoses of
Kuan-yin. On the high altar the central figure is Kuan-yin, a
colossal gilded carved wooden figure of the original male Pusa,
whose virile face beams down in golden glory with benignant
wisdom. Below the central figure of Kuan-yin are three other
metamorphoses of the Pusa including the popular female figure of
the so-called Goddess of Mercy, while at the side of these is a
recumbent figure of the Pusa carved in marble and of Burmese
origin.
After becoming accustomed to the type, the grandeur and
symbolism of infinite wisdom and freedom from worldly emotion of
these sculptures becomes apparent and they are accepted as great
works of art. To the causal observer these josses look all
alike'; but after a short period of study it is seen that they have
as much individuality as is to be found in the Chinese people
themselves after living amongst them for some time.
Behind the main sanctuary is the largest court, flanked by
various monastic offices, abbot's quarters, guest chambers and
the refectory. The centre of the open space is occupied by the
Hall of the Law. The lower floor holds the figure of Sakyamuni
Buddha supported by the Pusas P'u-hsien and Wên-hsu. The
upper floor is a library-a place of retirement and study for the
monks. The residential quarters are austere and with few
embellishments. They communicate with a number of minor
religious houses for the accommodation of pilgrims and visiting
priests; in fact, the Monastery is surrounded by a honeycomb of
cloisters for the accommodation of visitors seeking spiritual and
physical rest. But the shrines and pavilions of the temple are
resplendent with all that the architect and decorator can produce.
The wood carver and the sculptor have been given the fullest play
for their talents. The massive roof with the wonderful bracketing,
the imperial yellow tiles (derived from the Ming Palace at

14
PUTOSHAN
Nanking) and the decorated and well balanced gable ends produce
a glorious effect of harmony in line and colour with strength
which completely satisfies the aesthetic sense. This monastery
building represents a complete restoration in the time of Kang Hsi
of that previously destroyed by pillage and fire.
ARCHITECTURE.
It is
Regarding the architecture of the religious houses in Putoshan
the leading motive is an intimate harmony with nature. The
buildings are invariably adapted to their environment. There is
no jarring note. The massive roof of the main pavilion of the
temple resting on plain round pillars formed of complete tree
trunks has the effect of strength, grace and simplicity. The
beauty of the more important building is enhanced by the
sculptured balustrades which cover the foundations. The roof,
however, as in most Chinese buildings, is the main feature.
moulded entirely in wood, the tiles, plaster-work and earthenware
decorations being in the nature of protective scales. The magni-
ficent sweep of the roof is essentially of the spirit of the trees.
The weight of the massive roof is distributed by an elaborate
system of beautiful and intricate bracketing forming a sort of
cornice characteristic of Chinese architecture which produces a
fine effect of ponderous projection. The bracketing is as a rule
highly decorated and ornamented with rich and harmonious colour.
The gable end of the roof especially produces a picturesque effect
and lends itself to the introduction of symmetrical curved designs.
The horizontal beams are ornamented with repeated geometrical
designs in colours, chiefly green, blue, white and gold, in wave and
floral forms.
In its worship of great stones Putoshan has relations with
the early morning of architecture in Europe. Some of the rock
sculptures, though not so markedly at Putoshan as at Lung-mên
and Tatung-fu, are wonderfully true and sweet, retaining the dew
of art's morning. Architecture has been defined as building
touched with emotion. In Putoshan architecture shows that
mystic quality which touches the depths of feeling and opens the
gates of wonder at its subtle beauty; while the decorative design
conforms with that recorded by Ruskin in his 'Seven Lamps' in
being developed mainly from natural forms.
SCULPTURE.
There are many remarkable examples of sculpture at Puto-
shan. As regards rock sculpture there is nothing to compare
with the wonders of Lung-mên and Tatung-fu. Practically every
rock of importance is covered with deeply inscribed writing.

Temple doors with designs of Kang-Esi and Chien-
Lung periods.

身空化和葉
The Abbot's Grave close to the summit of Buddha's Peak.
Translation of Inscription: 'The body is but an empty shell..

PUTOSHAN
15
There are many quaint figures of Kuan-yin cut in the round and
gaudily coloured, evidently the work of the island people. At the
two larger monasteries, however, there are evidences of the best
talent in the empire during the Yuan, Ming and the earlier part
of the Ch'ing dynasties.
The Pagoda of the Prince Imperial, lying close to the
Southern Monastery, is the earliest of these evidences of art of a
most refined type. The pagoda is in ruins but the sculptured
figures remain after 550 years in marvellous preservation owing
to their inaccessibility raised as they are on a four-sided terrace
well above the spectator. At each of the four corners are splendid
posed figures of the four Kings of Heaven with faces of an
unusual and intellectual type. Above, on the four sided terrace
are figures of the Lohan and half relief sculptures of Kuan-yin
and other Pusas. These are all fine work in limestone from the
Tahu district near Soochow. The face of Kuan-yin is of most
noble type, signifying ineffable wisdom and repose.
The triple archway in stone (pailou) which leads to the
Pagoda is of Ming model but probably executed during the
Kang Hsi period when the Monastery was restored.
It is a very
beautiful piece of sculptured symmetry-simple and dignified and
at the same time light, lasting and charming. The relief decora-
tion is a delightful fret combined with the dragon, phoenix and
the mundane egg.
There are two remarkable bridges at the large Monasteries.
That at the Monastery of Universal Salvation appears to be of
about the same date as the Pagoda (Yuan) and by constant use
has been shorn of much of its pristine beauty. The bridge over
the lotus lake at the Monastery of the Rain of the Law is in
perfect condition and would appear to have been erected in the
Kang Hsi period and recently restored. From the point of view
of sculpture the balustrade on either side is quite remarkable.
It is formed of a series of pillars surmounted by a Buddhist lion
and supporting panels of fine grey limestone on which are repre-
sented in high relief scenes and symbolical natural history studies.
The familiar combination of the squirrels and grapes, wild duck
among reeds, birds and pomegranates, peacocks and peonies, deer
under trees, buffaloes and fowls and chrysanthemums are rendered
with supreme effect; but perhaps the most striking of all the
panels represents two goats fighting which is instinct with living
At the two main monasteries there are terraced balustrades
with carvings, in one case a series of high relief sculptures illus-
trating the manifestations of filial piety; but all sculptures of
conspicuous merit.
art.
Apart from the two main monasteries and in the most out
of the way places sculpture of a high type may be found; fenes-
trated screens chiselled out of fine limestone and usually framing

16
PUTOSHAN
some exquisite landscape; pavements cut in some beautiful
natural design; corbellings decorated with dragons and heads of
ogres; stones for the support of wooden pillars formed in pattern
of the lotus flower; finials of lion heads, gourd and pomegranate;
and copings with an infinity of graceful curves do not exhaust a
tithe of the decorative sculptural details that could be described.
WOOD CARVING AND LATTICE WORK.
The temples at Putoshan have in the past given fine scope
for the artist in wood. The best wood-work appears to date back to
the days of Kang Hsi and Chien Lung; and of this there is a
considerable quantity. The space below the roof bracketing at
the front and back of the temple pavilions is usually filled with
beautiful lattice work in a great variety of fretted designs. The
frequent lacquered inscription tablets are often monumental in
design and decorated with reticence. The interior roof decoration
is mostly dependent on huge joists and beams for the effect of
massive beauty; but in the cloister coffered ceilings of marvellous
intricacy and broad balance may be seen.
Lattice work forms a characteristic feature of Chinese
decorative woodwork and the examples to be found at Putoshan
are as fine, if not finer, than any to be seen in China. The
proportion of the panels, usually about three wide to ten long, is
in itself such as to lend distinction to any form of decoration
placed within it. This will be specially seen in the door panels
among the illustrations. An exquisite series of fretted panels was
noticed founded on a hexagonal motive which might have been
suggested by snow crystals. The character of the work and
resemblance to that at the Temple of Heaven and the Winter
Palace in Peking confirm the opinion that these lattices were
designed in the Kang Hsi period and that the originals at least
date back to the time when that cultured monarch restored the
Monasteries at Putoshan. A glance at the illustrations will make
it apparent that these doors represent decorative art of a quite
unusual excellence. The fretted designs almost invariably show
the beauty of pure line and are so original in conception as to
stamp them with the mark of consummate genius. And, used as
they are to fill an open space, their charm consists not only in the
pattern of the woodwork itself but in the effect of light passing
through the open spaces, producing in the case of the remarkable
hexagonal designs an inimitable star effect. The same remarks
cannot, however, be made of the modern renovations which are
almost without exception, trivial and commonplace.
There are to be seen on the altars of many of the temples
carved and gilded panels picturing mythical and historic characters
combined with landscape elements which represent dramatic

PUTOSHAN
17
scenes of remarkable power. This pictorial carving is characteris-
tically Chinese, conventionalised in a pleasing manner and never
realistic enough to be vulgar. There can be no doubt that these
heroes of mythical and romantic history have been a real source
of inspiration to artists.
The figures of the Buddhas, Pusas, Lohans and lesser
ones in the Buddhist pantheon as exemplified at Putoshan are
well worthy of careful study from the point of view of pure art.
These figures are mostly cut out of big blocks of camphor wood
and finally gilded and lacquered. The essentially Buddhistic
figures so often express wisdom and repose as their main attribute
that a general impression of monotony is bound to assert itself.
The more these figures are studied, however, the more sublime
they seem and their individuality becomes apparent. On the
other hand the figures of those outside the pale of the Buddhist
pantheon, such as Wei-t'o, Kuan-ti and the Kings of Heaven
are at once appreciated as works showing the utmost vigour and
physical force. The images of Kuan-yin beam down with divine
pity while those of the other Pusas express a tender meditation as
compared with the conception of ruthless power which surrounds
the Kings of Heaven and the formidable figures of the Lord
Protectors Wei-t'o and Kuan-ti. The Pusas represent the
divine power of the intellect and moral force while the others
show the dynamic and passion of the elemental energies of the
material universe in fealty to Buddha, signifying the conquest
of nature by the spiritual forces of passionless love and wisdom.
The beauties of nature and art are thus consecrated to the service
of the detached and immaculate spiritual soul. To appreciate the
greatness of Buddhist art an acquaintance with the mental
attitude and philosophic idealism on which its outward
manifestations are based is essential. Buddhist art expresses an
ideal of contemplation, ecstatic vision and spiritual repose. These
effulgent colossal figures of the Pusas at Putoshan often show
consummate art which impels the beholder into an ideal
atmosphere somewhat nearer to the essential centre of the world
soul.
ART METAL AND TEXTILE WORK.
The art metal work at Putoshan does not afford opportunity
for much favourable comment. Each temple has the usual
complement of bells, gongs, incense burners, flower jars and bowls
for offerings on the altar. The bells are in no way remarkable
for beauty of tone or design. The huge brass incense burners in
the two big monasteries are, however, fine works of art of the
Kang Hsi or Ch'ien Lung period.
The altars afford opportunity for large hangings usually
decorated with the conventional dragon pattern in gold thread

18
PUTOSHAN
couched down on silk. Heavy tapestry of dragon and cloud
design in blue on an ochre ground were seen hanging over the
entrance to the great Hall of Kuan-yin. There were also a few
silk pile carpets of a similar design. The vestments of the priests
were in no way remarkable, being of a sombre red and yellow
with decadent decoration for the most part.
MUSIC.
Living actually in a temple one soon gets in touch with the
ritual employed and the many musical and rhythmic forms which
enter into Buddhist worship.
There appears to be an extraordinary number of different
musical forms of service not only for solo but for part-singing
and ensemble where boys' voices mingle sweetly with the deeper
booming voices of the priests. The latter have tenor and
bass parts crudely harmonised in fifths as a rule, the boys' voices
being maintained at an octave higher. Rhythm appears to be of
more importance than melody; fugue and canon forms abound
and the counterpoint is sometimes most complicated. The
accuracy and precision with which the different parts are combined
and repeated seem to the casual observer little short of marvellous
and must require infinite practice to produce the perfection of
rhythm and note obtained.
While yet the wut'ung tree in the temple court is wrapped
in the mystery of moonlight with the first glimmering of dawn
soon after four on a May morning, one is awakened by a low and
plaintive beating upon the wooden fish followed by a few strokes
upon the small bell; after which the priest sings a liturgy almost
of a bird-like character, as it seems in the thin air of the early
morning. The impression conveyed is that of a bird ruffling its
feathers and gradually bursting into its morning song with an
abandonment at first laden with the weight of sleep. Then begins
a rhythmic beating on the small bell. The chant takes on a
questioning character as one would address the sun before it appears
above the margin of the sea. The effect gradually becomes
symphonic by the addition of other voices and other instruments
until the full effect of morning is produced-when it all ends
suddenly by a compelling stroke on the large gong. The effect
upon the sleepy sojourner in the temple is that the Buddha never
sleeps but guards his flock through the silent watches of the night
bringing fresh life wherewith to renew each coming day.