THE CH'ING MING FESTIVAL.
By Rev. LEWIS HODOUS.
The Chinese divide the year into twenty-four seasons, called
Chich-ch'i . Chich means a knot, or joint of a plant, etc. ch'i
means vapor, the aura of Chinese cosmogony' or breath. The
two together mean the breathing of nature in different parts
of the year. Ching-ming is the fifth season from the
beginning of spring. It comes after the vernal equinox and
begins about April 5, and ends at April 20. Ching means
pure and ming means clear. The sun at this time is in Aries.
The time corresponds to our Easter.
The day on which the festival is observed comes immediately
after the day of eating cold food, han-shih . It is a very
ancient festival. It was probably observed as soon as man felt
the joy of the spring after the long and cold winter. Huai Nan
tzů (died 122 B.C.) said: "Fifteen days after the equinox of
spring when the handle of the great dipper points to the east, then
the pure clear wind comes. The musical note which corresponds
to this season is opposed to the yin principle of nature."
The
time of the festival is the same to-day. The yang of nature,
which stands for the life-giving principle, has overcome the
principle of darkness and death called yin. The powers of dark-
ness and death have been doing their utmost to overcome the sun,
but he has fought valiantly, and now after the victory smiles bene-
ficently upon revivified nature.
This victory is shared by man. He turns instinctively to the
dear ones who have left him and who are there on the hillside,
partakers also of this new birth which is going on all about them.
In the Li Chi we find the old custom crystallized into a rule. "The
Son of Heaven sacrifices a male goat. He breaks the ice and
brings it and offers it first at the ancestral temple." It is the
time of remembering the dead.
There is offering on this day before the ancestral tablets,
either in the small room behind the main reception hall of the
house, or in the main reception hall. On a table before the
1 Legge's translation: "The son of Heaven at this time offers a lamb
(to the ruler of cold) and opens the (reservoirs of) ice. Before (using it
generally) they offer some in their principal apartment or in the ancestral
temple." Yüeh-ling, pt. II, p. 15.

THE CH'ING MING FESTIVAL
59
cabinet, where the tablets are arranged, is placed an incense
burner. On each side of it is a candle and a vase with flowers.
Immediately before the incense burner are ten cups of wine.
Then come either ten, or eight, or five bowls of different kinds
of meat. There is one bowl of dumplings stuffed with
peppermint and rice and other vegetables sliced. When all is
ready the head of the household takes three small sticks
of incense, lights them, holds them before his forehead and
then places them reverently into the incense burner. Then he
kneels and while kneeling bows three times. The children come
up and kneel and bow. Then idol paper is burned in the urn at
the foot of the table and fire-crackers are let off. This offering
may take place any time during the day.
The burial grounds of the southern Chinese are the hillsides.
The hilis around Foochow for several miles are crowded with
tombs. As some one has said, it is impossible to get out of sight
of a Chinese either alive or dead. On the Ching-ming day, the
head of the family starts out with one or more members of the
household for the ancestral tomb. A servant carries an offering
similar to the one described above. If the family is poor, then the
father, or one of the daughters, carries the baskets with the offering
for the dead. The hillsides resound with the voices of the people.
The grave is usually in the form of a large horseshoe or rather
that of a capital Omega. At the back and sides there is a ridge
made of mortar or solid granite. This keeps the rains from
washing over the grave, but, more important, it screens the rifts
and breaks in the hills behind the grave from the sight of the
dead person. Through these rifts in the hills come the malign
influences of feng-shui. Immediately in front of the grave there
is an altar. The very poor have simply a small mound, a foot
high, above the grave with a stone at the foot.
When the party arrives at the grave they sweep it.
The grass and weeds are pulled up, the rough places are
smoothed over, and the characters on the tombstone are painted
red.
First, an offering is made to the tutelary deity of the ground.
This offering is spread to the right of the tombstone. It consists
of three dishes of food, three cups of wine, two small candles and
three sticks of incense. When all is in readiness the incense and
candles are lighted. The head of the house kneels and bows
thrice and burns idol-paper.
When the guardian deity of the ground, who is the repre-
sentative of Earth, has received his offering, then the offering to
the dead is spread on the altar or on the ground before the tomb-
stone. The candles and incense are lighted. The head of the
family kneels once and bows three times. Those who are with
him do the same. A large quantity of idol-paper, and paper with

60
THE CH'ING MING FESTIVAL
pictures of clothing is burned and a little of the wine is poured
upon the ashes. Fire-crackers are let off.
Sometimes another offering is made near the grave to the
restless spirits who are wandering about and who have no one to
make offerings to them.
When this has been done sheets of perforated paper represent-
ing money, are placed upon different parts of the grave and
weighted down with stones to prevent them from flying away.
The food is then consumed or packed away into a basket and
taken home.
At this time the caretaker of the grave, the original owner of
the land on which the grave is made, receives a small gift. The
yearly visit to the grave is not only a religious duty, but it is the
only way of holding the title to the grave land. It shows to the
neighbours that the family is prosperous and that the dead are
looked after by filial children. Disputes about grave lands are a
great source of litigation. One way of warding off other claimants
is to keep the grave in good order.
On the Ching-ming day those who have lost relatives during
the last year come and weep at the graves. The weeping is
usually very loud and may be heard a long distance.
In case the family of the deceased parents has met with death
or sickness or other misfortune, and the consultation with the
necromancer has revealed that it is due to the bad location of the
grave which makes the dead unhappy, the family opens the grave
and moves the occupant to a more favorable location. If the
coffin is in good condition it is removed. In case it is rotten the
bones are carefully taken up and brushed and those belonging
together wrapped in paper and deposited in a large urn. This is
buried with due ceremony on the new site. Sometimes a small
coffin is provided and the bones are laid in it and wrapped in silk
baiting.
The people take branches of pine home with them and place
them at the door of the house. The pine is an emblem of long
life. They have trodden on the green grass which suggests the
rebirth of spring and have received its new power into their own
bodies. They turn homeward with thoughts of the new life of
Spring and with intimations of the life beyond emblemized by the
pine branches.