CHINESE PAGODAS.'
The word Pagoda is of course not Chinese though the attempt
has been made to give it a Chinese origin. It probably comes
from Persian or Hindustani words which mean "The house of
idols." The French is therefore correct when it applies the word
not to single towers but to a group of buildings used for idolatrous
worship. The English use of the word, however, is so well
established that we may retain it without fear of confusion, though
it is less correct, since the towers may have no religious connexion.
In
As far back as their history goes the Chinese have always had
a weakness for building lofty towers, but it seems impossible for
us now to determine the type of this ancient architecture.
both history and poetry we have many references to the splendours
of these buildings, and we have even pictures of some of them,
but the origin and genuineness of such representations must remain
in doubt.
Such towers were called tai, a word used to denote raised
terraces from which one gets a distant view, and were chiefly put
up by rulers for their own aggrandizement and enjoyment. In
fact, to check competition it was made an Imperial prerogative to
erect these t'ai, and the Ch'in Shih Huangti (B.C. 246) is
celebrated for the number of such towers he built in all his
imperial palaces. The complete disappearance of all ancient t'ai
cannot make us disbelieve in their former existence. They were
still standing until the Mongol dynasty appeared and forbade the
erection of more, and even though none exist to-day it is quite
probable there are buildings derived from them though of reduced
size-such as the Five Story Pagoda of Canton, the Ku-lou
and Chung-lou of Peking and many others.
The tai or terraced towers were never popular erections;
being reserved for the use of rulers, without any religious
character, mere objects of luxury and splendour, they had lasted
long enough when in the 3rd or 4th century of our era there
appeared another kind of tower which the Chinese-the people
themselves-soon became passionately fond of. This new type is
the Pagoda such as we see it to-day, a true tower, without terraces,
comparatively small in diameter, and found not in capital cities
only, but as a popular construction in every Province, near most
important towns and on many a hillside too. It seems hardly an
1 This paper was read before the Society, May 13, 1915. It was
prepared by the Hon. Secretary from a French manuscript kindly lent to
him by a Jesuit missionary, and was illustrated by a number of carved
models of pagodas, executed at the Tou Sè Wè Orphanage ateliers and lent
for the purpose by the same Father.

46
CHINESE PAGODAS
exaggeration to say that most important cities have or have had
one, two or three Pagodas within their walls or in their neigh-
bourhood. Peking has a dozen at least, Soochow seven, Canton
three, Hangchow four or five, and so on. It is estimated that of
the larger size there must be at least 2,000 in the Eighteen
Provinces. These buildings have been known to the Chinese as
ta ever since their beginning in the 3rd century, but the term
pao-t'a (Precious Tower) is more common still, and they are
often called Precious Pagodas of Thirteen Stories' even when the
tower has but 7 or 9 stages.
Among the existing pagodas whose date is early not one is
the original construction; they have been rebuilt and repaired,
sometimes with an untiring zeal. The Ningpo Pagoda for example
dates from A.D. 696; but it was destroyed in 1107; in 1221
it was rased by Imperial orders; it was rebuilt in 1285, but about
1327 it fell into ruin; it was built again 3 years later and
repaired in 1411; it was struck by lightning, then thrown down
by a hurricane, and was built again. Thus when we look at the
fine pagodas in good condition, such as the high tower at Soochow,
that in Canton and others, we are looking at buildings which
have been repaired and reconstructed. The Hangchow Pagoda,
destroyed by rebels in 1862, was almost wholly rebuilt and finished
in 1894; the Pagoda at Soochow has been restored completely not
more than twelve years ago. We shall hardly find one belonging
to the earliest period; perhaps such a mere ruin as the Lei-fêng
Pagoda of Hangchow may be the original structure; perhaps
some in stone or marble, such as the Chi-hsia Shan
tower
near Nanking (Sui dynasty, 581-617) may show themselves the
same in form as when they were first built, without radical altera-
tion from repairs: but these would be very rare exceptions.
It seems that the earliest arose in the 3rd century of our era.
Milne gives a long story from native authorities" about the
first pagoda (which may mean first in time or first in importance).
It was apparently put up about A.D. 235 to shelter a relic of
Buddha. A similar age is given to other towers: as Lung-hua
near Shanghai, A.D. 247; Soochow, tower of the Southern
Gate, A.D. 248; the tower of Hsin-fêng hsien 12 in Kiangsi,
etc. The start was made, and the Sui dynasty produced some
(e.g. Ch'i-hsia Shan tower); the T'ang dynasty (A.D. 620-907) built
many, as the Hua Pagoda E at Canton, the towers of Chin Chou
EH, of Ningpo, etc. Under the Sung dynasty pagodas were very
popular. The Yüan or Mongol dynasty being anti-Chinese,
destroyed some; still there are pagodas of that period. But the
movement was most powerful under the Chinese Ming dynasty and
was continued under the Manchus.
1 Life in China, p. 467.

CHINESE PAGODAS
47
How shall we define this kind of monument? "The t'a
says Paléologue, "are polygonal towers divided into 5, 7, 9, 11 or
sometimes 13 stages." "It is a particular style of edifice,"
according to Milne, "which rises to the height of several stories,
in the form of an narrow obelisk with several faces." Let us say
more simply that the Chinese t'a is a tower generally divided, at
least externally, into stages.
Whatever may be the pagodas given as typical by travellers
and even by writers qualified to write on China, these towers are
of appearance very varied and sometimes widely different styles
and shapes.
Square pagodas are quite numerous all over China, and one
fails therefore to understand Baber's astonishment at finding some
in Ssuchuan. It was not necessary to go so far west to find
them they are to be seen even in the neighbourhood of Shanghai.
One of the finest specimens is certainly that in the town of Sung
chiang 松江. In this province also we have those at Ch'ing p'u
and Kiating. At Suchow in this province again there was built
in 1589 in the suburb near the east wall a square tower with no
architectural pretensions-a mere pigeon-house; but the city is
proud of it. One might also mention the singular pagoda at
Poo-too; and others are found at Amoy, at Hsi-an fu in Shensi,
at Chêng-ting fu in Chihli; there are several in Yün-nan, one at
Hsing-ping hsien in Shensi, at Lin-chin hsien in Shansi, and there
is the famous Yen tower of Hsi-an fu.
Of the transition from square to octagon several examples
could be given. In these the horizontal section would show four
large and four small faces; or if one prefers, it is the square tower
with the corners cut off. A beautiful specimen of this class is
found in Peking.
Without
Many may be surprised to learn that round pagodas are not
unknown, although examples in a large size are rare.
mentioning the Kuang ta of Canton which one would take
for a lighthouse and which is only the minaret of a very old
mosque, there is the round tower on the S.E. corner of the wall
of the Huang chiêng of Fêng-yang hsien in Anhui.
Hexagonal pagodas are perhaps equally rare; Milne speaks of
the Tien-fêng t'a of Ningpo and calls it a hexagonal
pyramid of 7 stages. Let us mention also the Pao-shu t'a
1in Hangchow.
The commonest form is the regular octagon; to quote
examples would be to give a list of the more important cities
throughout China.
It is necessary however to name another category or rather a
type, perhaps unique, which combines several forms. This pagoda
1 Journey of Exploration in Western Ssuchuan, p. 21.

48
CHINESE PAGODAS
is found in the Yuen-ming-yuen Summer Palace, a very pretty
specimen of architecture in faience. But more remarkable than
its rich and delicate ornamentation is its shape; the base is square,
the middle part octagonal and the upper part round. Each of the
roofs of glazed tiles has the same shape as the stage to which it
belongs. Some consider this modern monument to be full of
profound symbolism, but in any case its builder has produced a
masterpiece of elegance and grace.
The Liu-ho Pagoda at Hangchow, put up in 971, was
originally hexagonal at the base and cylindrical above.
One cannot from the external shape be sure of the internal
form of a pagoda. In the greater towers the shape inside and out
is generally the same, octagonal or hexagonal, etc. But in a good
many one finds the interior section square from top to bottom,
with this peculiarity, that the square changes its orientation at
every stage. This is not a mere Chinese whim but is made
necessary by the style of construction. In some cases the openings,
doors or windows, in the outer faces occur alternately and
they must correspond to a side of the interior square and not to a
corner. This detail may be easily studied at Shê shan (Zocé)
or Shao-hsiang shan near Shanghai.
Some of the finest pagodas such as that of Soochow are made
up of two concentric octagonal towers; we have in section for the
first tower an interior of octagonal form; the other, more massive,
shows at each stage a square chamber, in the gloom of which a
gilded idol is throned in a niche.
But there are some peculiarities which are not so easily
explained, unless one supposes that the mason wished to simplify
his work; as when the internal polygonal section of the base
changes to a square about half way up. In the pagoda which
Baber saw being built in Ssuchuan he noted that the first stage
was of solid masonry, the 2nd and 3rd were circular internally,
while the higher stories were octagonal inside as the outside was
from base to summit.3
1 "The base, four-sided, represents the abode of the four maharajahs,
the great guardian Kings of the four quarters, whose figures are seen
enthroned here within the open arches. The centre, octagonal, represents
the Tushita heaven, with eight celestial gods Indra, Agni and the rest,
standing outside as protectors of the eight points of the compass; this is
the paradise of the Bodhisats prior to their final descent to the human
world as Buddhas.
The upper story, circular in form, repre-
sents the highest heaven, in which the Buddhas reside after attaining
complete enlightenment." BUSHELL, Chinese Art, Vol. I, p. 62.
2 In the Nanking Tower (polygonal, as Mr. Taylor remarked during his
visit in 1862) "after the first or ground story, all the others were quadrang
ular in the inside, instead of conforming to the octagonal exterior."
MILNE, Life in China, p. 436.
3 Journey of Exploration, etc., p. 20.

CHINESE PAGODAS
49
We have seen that the t'a is generally defined as a tower in
stages, and though there are a few exceptions¹ the rule is general.
But we must remember that the stages are not necessarily real
stories carrying floors inside and balconies outside; one under-
stands by stages a dividing of the tower externally, whether by
roofs or by cornices-nothing more.
According to Kanghsi's dictionary a t'a is divided into
7, 9, 11 or 13 stages. Properly speaking little towers of 3 or 5
stages are not t'a,2 but the people do not regard this learned
distinction-neither shall we.
Much the most common number of stages in pagodas is
seven; next comes nine, then thirteen, and the rarest number is
eleven. Among the last we may mention the Chuang t'a of
Chêng-chou fu and the Pagoda of Ting chou, both in Chihli.
There were others formerly, for instance, the North Pagoda of
Soochow ;3 and according to de Guignes one which he visited at
Kao-tang chou in Shantung.
Of 13-storied pagodas Milne did not venture to name a single
one, having as he said too little information. One might give a
short list, the Liu-ho t'a at Hangchow, the two square pagodas of
Yün-nan fu, in Chihli the towers of Lin-kuang ssu Yuan-
p'ing hsien, and of Ta-ming fu; in Shensi at Chou-yang hsien, and
that of Kuang-ying at Liao-yang chou, etc. Many towers formerly
had thirteen stages, perhaps the Yen t'a in Shansi and the Chun-
kuang t'a in Soochow.
Thirteen stages is the maximum, never exceeded except by
some imaginative writers. Pierre Loti for example in Les derniers
jours de Pekin speaks without blushing of the pagoda at T'ung-
chou in Chihli as "a tower astonishingly high and frail-looking, of
very Chinese appearance, with 20 roofs one on top of the other."
The Chinese inexact terminology as to the number of stages
in a pagoda is easily explained. When the building is begun there
is a good deal of puffing it; one promises quite sincerely perhaps
that it shall be of an extraordinary height; especially it is said
that there shall be 13 stages. But as the building advances the
money available becomes exhausted; at the 7th, the 9th or the
11th stage the funds are at an end; then one stops and finishes off
by a roof and a mast, 40 or 50 feet short of the intended height.
This is not a mere supposition; such an account is given of the
building of the Lei-fêng Pagoda at Hangchow.
1 Such as the Kuang t'a at Canton and some small examples like the
Little Tower of Lin-chin hsien
in Shansi.
2 They are called chui tzu for awls.
3 MILNE, Life in China, p. 436.
4 Voyages à Peking, Vol. I p. 346.
5 Ch. IV, p. 70.

50
CHINESE PAGODAS
It has been observed that there is not a single large pagoda
with an even number of stories. The odd number makes part of
the definition in the Imperial Dictionary; and in truth it would
be very difficult to name a pagoda of 8, 10 or 12 stages. Perhaps
the only one, if one could include it among the greater towers,
would be that at Lin-chin hsien in Shansi; but it is only some
56 feet high. Nevertheless a good many travellers in China write
that they have seen pagodas of 8 or 10 stories, and that those who
assert the number is always odd are mistaken. An elementary
knowledge of Chinese habits would make them less certain; for
the Chinese do not count as we do; the basement is with them
the first stage and our first story is counted by them as the
second.
Again it is not always safe to trust to appearances in counting
the stages or in estimating the height, since many pagodas have
lost at least the topmost story.
Why this odd number? Milne says "The reason is that the
Buddhists consider the odd numbers to be the most religious and
propitious." And this perhaps is all the explanation required,
and perhaps it is idle to ascribe to the Chinese the profoundly
mystical notions which some authors do, such as Bushell and
Davis.
The division into stages internally is not essential. To begin
with, there are solid pagodas; then again in many which are
hollow, if they are too narrow for mounting or if there is no
opening to the outside, interior stages and floors are useless and
do not exist. Sometimes there is simply a spiral staircase,
steep and narrow, leading right to the top.
In some narrow pagodas the floors are put in at each stage
but the staircase is omitted; an opening however is left in each
floor and in case of need one can mount by means of a ladder.
In the larger pagodas, such as that was in Nanking, such as those
of Soochow and Sung-chiang and many others the stages are marked
by a flooring which rests on a confused framework of beams, very
curious if not very skilful. One mounts by a staircase both
narrow and steep, with small steps hard to climb and harder to
descend. The staircase is spiral or zigzag following the internal
shape of the pagoda. Sometimes it is said to be in the thickness
of the wall itself, as at Lin-ch'ing chou in Shantung and elsewhere.
This requires an explanation. These pagodas, like the Pei-ssu
Pagoda at Soochow, are made on a special plan there are
really two towers, an inner and an outer, and the staircase is
between the two. At Soochow the stairs are easy to climb at
each landing one gets a rest in passing to the other side of the
structure to reach the next flight.
It may be remarked that unlike the ancient t'ai no t'a has an
exterior staircase.

CHINESE PAGODAS
51
Those pagodas which have internal stages have doors at each
stage if there are balconies, or otherwise they have windows, giving
light and air to the interior.
In octagonal towers there are 4 or 8 of these openings on
each stage-if 8, generally four are windows and four are doors.
The Liu-ho Pagoda at Hangchow gives itself the luxury of three
windows on each face; its heavy style makes necessary this
multiplication of openings which look like embrasures for cannon.
If in these octagonal stages there are only four openings for
the eight faces they are in some cases made to alternate instead
of being one above the other for instance An ch'ing,
Jung-ch'êng in Shantung, Shê-shan (Zocé) near
Shanghai, Soochow, and the Kuang t'a . Symmetry is
generally retained very strictly, but one is sometimes surprised by
an eccentric arrangement of the openings as at Chung-king, the
Hsing-p'ing Pagoda in Shensi, and at Ichang.
In the solid pagodas it goes without saying there is nothing
from base to summit but cornices and sculptures. These are
found at Tung-chou, Yuan-p'ing hsien, Ta-ming fu,
Liao-yang chou, etc.
Let the pagodas be solid or hollow the stages are always
marked externally either by projecting roofs or by cornices.
The so-called classical type has roofs and balconies, as the
Nanking Pagoda had, as those of Lung-hua, Soochow, and others
all over central China have. From the inside landing one passes
by a door onto a balcony which goes all round the pagoda and
which has a balustrade generally of wood or sometimes of iron.
Milne states that about the year 1850 all visitors used to ascend
the Lung-hua pagoda and venture on the balconies. It could not
be done now without some risk; these frail structures of wood
exposed to all weathers are all destroyed in time.
Above the balconies there project from the walls the roofs,
which have the same shape as the stages they cover, polygonal,
square or round.
The corners curve upwards gracefully and it is
at these roof-corners that hang, or used to hang in better days,
the little bells. The roofs are of tiles, glazed or not according to
the style of the pagoda, and they are supported on a framework
of brackets decorated or at least painted in red. These large
collarettes dress the towers very coquettishly and make of them
very beautiful monuments. But because the material of the roofs
and balconies is wood, always wood, the pagodas in good condition
are very rare. Unless they are often repaired they become heaps
of ruins, and these ruins are very numerous; Soochow has four
out of five, Wu-hsi two out of two, Kiang-yin one, the only one,
Nanking has none left, and so on.
More solid and resisting are those pagodas which have no
balconies to be sheltered and whose roofs are therefore less pro-

52
CHINESE PAGODAS
jecting as at Foochow, etc. But how much is lost, how much
more common-looking is the style, how much less rich, less dressed
so to speak!
And this style is the transition to a type of which Chinese
architecture can hardly be very proud; the roof is replaced by a
simple cornice of masonry-as at Yün-nan fu, Chêng-ting fu and
elsewhere. Poor towers, which can only be of worth by their
proportions, apart from decoration.
The reason for adopting this style seems to have been only
economy, not poverty of imagination, for where the Chinese have
wished to decorate such pagodas they have produced some buildings
very rich in style though somewhat heavy in shape. Such are that
at Tung-chou which Ferguson calls "an imposing object of
architectural art," and the Lin-kuang ssu on the western hills near
Peking mentioned by Bushell as "the ordinary pagoda of, thirteen
stories.'
"
The first stage of such pagodas, built on a massive base, is
very high; at Ta-ming fu for example it is nearly half the total
height; the other stages are on the contrary very close together.
Most of them have thirteen stages, but there are also some quite
small ones. Some are simple, with modest decorations and
sculpture, but others are rich both by their sculptures and their
material; for instance the towers of Yuen-p'ing hsien and Ta-ming
fu among large pagodas, Liao-yang and Chêng-ting fu among
medium-sized; and Ch'i-hsia shan near Nanking among small ones.
The height of the first stage allows full play for sculpture-which
is always Buddhistic.
The corniced pagodas, however, of the N.W. Provinces
(Honan, Shansi, Shensi and Kansu) deserve special notice. They
differ very much in their external appearance from the usual
pagodas, their ornamentation consisting in a great variety of
cornices. The usual roofs and balconies to each story are entirely
absent and their place is taken by rich and strong cornices dividing
the tower into stages. If the appearance be less elegant and
impressive, yet they may be considered as of great architectural
interest. Many are very imposing in effect and of very bold and
artistic execution. Their system of surprisingly large projections
from the vertical walls surpasses, by far, our best European examples
of the kind though the material used is only brick. Closely
joined layers of bricks form the roofing of these cornices, and it is
remarkable how well this simple and primitive style of roofing
has braved the atmospheric influences for centuries, as almost
all these cornices seem to be in good preservation. Of the great
1 Tung-chou, Lin-kuang ssu, Ta-ming fu, Ching-chou, Pa-li-
chuang Yuan-p'ing hsien, Liao-yang chou, etc.
2 Jui-kuang t'a at Soochow ; Chang-tê fu, Honan.

CHINESE PAGODAS
number of such pagodas the following few may be named;
53
Honan, Wei-hui fu (two), Yen-ch'in hsien (one), Wu-an
hsien (one); Shansi, P'u-chou fu (two), Ch'i hsien (two); Shensi,
Ping chou (one), Hsi-an fu (two), Kao-ling hsien (two); Kansu,
Hui-ning hsien (one), Lan-chou fu (three), P'ing-liang fu (one).
There are some pagodas which may be called fanciful. The
examples at Chefoo and some in Peking, though small, are among
the most graceful creations of Chinese art but are distinguished
by a greater freedom of style, the architects having dared some
novelties and having broken the rules especially with respect to
the arrangement of the stages.
For there are rules, if not official and obligatory at least
followed by routine and custom. In the towers with balconies and
roofs, the height of each stage diminishes as one ascends, and so with
doors, windows, etc. One might say from this that the Chinese
knew and adopted the rules of perspective. It is better to suppose
that practical observation taught them that by this gradual
diminution their towers were made to appear more lofty.
In the pagodas with cornices on the contrary the height
between two stages after the first always remains the same.
In the fanciful style neither of these rules is observed; the
architect has built his tower as he pleased. The two small
pagodas at Peking have only three stories, surmounted with
double or triple roofing.
It is to be noticed that in almost all pagodas there is a
gradual decrease in the diameter of the whole building from base
to summit, giving the form of obelisk or pyramid. Thus the
Pei-ssŭ Pagoda at Soochow has a diameter of about 60 feet at the
base and only 45 at the last stage. The effect is chiefly produced
by the retreat of the wall at each stage. Père Lecomte states that
the walls of the Nanking Pagoda were 12 feet thick at the base
and only 8 feet at the summit.
There is another type which differs totally. Baber states
that in Ssu-chuan he found towers in which the 5th or 6th stage
was as large as the base or even larger, giving a slightly convex
outline to the erection.1 This model is not so rare as Baber
thought the famous Tower of Victory at Yün-nan fu was so
constructed.
:
Pagodas are mostly terminated by a roof shaped like a
Chinese hat never or almost never by a terrace, which shows
they were not built as observatories or watch towers.
of tiles, ordinary or glazed, rising at the angles in more or less
1 Journey of Exploration, etc., p. 21.
The roof is
2 There seems to be a small terrace with railings on the Chang-tê fu
Pagoda; and at Yang-chou fu on the 7th stage there is a half terrace, on
which rises a second small tower of 6 stories,-a curious and unique example.

54
CHINESE PAGODAS
accentuated horns. In the towers which are all of stone, like
Ch'i-hsia shan t'a, the roof is of stone cut in imitation of tiles; in
some it is of plain masonry as in the square pagodas of Hsi-an fu,
Chêng-ting fu and elsewhere. The roof of the Hua t'a Eat
Canton is triple; that of the Wu-chang pagoda is double.
The roof is surmounted either by a spire or more simply by a
button like that on official hats.
The spire is essentially a mast terminated by a ball or balls
of gilded wood or of copper, and surrounded by iron or bronze
hoops of different sizes making a graceful ornamentation without
taking away from the lightness, and forming a spindle or an open
But there are many variations in form, in fact there are no
two alike. The height of the mast or spire is sometimes as much
as 30 feet. Chains hang in festoons between the mast and the
topmost roof corners and on these chains are hung little bells.
cone.
The "mandarin's button" termination to the roof is much
more simple and much less decorative. It may be of plastered
brick-work or of stone, but the simplest way of making the globular
termination is to use the large earthenware jars called kang L;
these are varnished or glazed with the desired colour, filled with
cement, placed one on another in order of size, with a rod of iron
or wood piercing them to keep them in place, and they form little
steeples. The styles vary greatly, from the simple, flat button of
Kai-fêng fu or the round button of Hing-p'ing tê to the piled up
globes of Chêng-ting fu or Hangchow.
As exceptions may be mentioned Yen-chou fu pagoda in
Shantung which ends in a trident; that of Lin-chin hsien,
Shansi, which has a sort of lightning-conductor difficult to describe,
and that at Chin-chou H.
As to the little bells, many pagodas have lost them and many
never had them. When they occur they are not only on the
chains of the spire but at the corners and sometimes also along
the edges of the roofs. The Nanking Pagoda had only 152; the
Tower of the Tien-ning ssu at Peking had 3,400. Their music
is very feeble and they are not well attuned; the chief interest is
in the ingenious method by which they are made to sound in the
faintest breeze.
In China as is well known the bells generally do not swing,
but only the clapper-as with a ship's bell; or else a mallet is used
to strike the bell. The same is the case with the little pagoda bells.
The clapper is not spherical but is a cross of metal, the ends of
whose arms are very close to the edge of the bell; below this cross
there hangs by a metallic thread a light plate of copper; the
slightest wind will move this hanging plate and then one of the
arms of the cross cannot fail to strike the bell.
It is very difficult to give the exact heights of pagodas; we
have only Chinese measurements to go on or else estimates made

CHINESE PAGODAS
55
by the eye. The latter way gives very various results; thus the
Porcelain Tower of Nanking is said in the Chinese Repository of
1844 to have been 103 metres high. Lieut. Fitz-James in 1842
gives the height as 261 feet, and Ferguson says 236 feet. Chinese
documents are no more exact, and one knows too that Chinese
measures vary not only with the locality but also in the different
trades. The Porcelain Tower is said by Chinese authorities to
have been 329 feet high.
With all reserve the following heights may be given;
Ting-chou (Chihli), 360 feet; Nanking, 329 feet; Yuan-p'ing
hsien (Chihli), 279 feet; Hangchow, 276 feet; Yuan-pien hsien
again (at the Tien-ning ssu ), 275 feet; Canton Hua t'a
1E, 270 feet; An-ch'ing, 240 feet; Chin-chou (Manchuria),
220 feet; Jehol, 213 feet; Yen-chou fu, (Shantung), 185 feet;
Chêng-ting fu (Chihli), 180 feet; Kai-fêng fu, 170 feet;
Hangchow Lei-fêng t'a 160 feet; Sung-chiang
159 feet; Ning-po Tien-fêng t'a 147 feet; Foochow,
138 feet; and, omitting the rest, Lung-hua Pagoda, 120 feet.
The heights in some cases are very bold, but both Chinese
and foreigners are apt to exaggerate; the Chinese expression is
that the summits are lost in the clouds !
We cannot here discuss in detail the ornamentation of
pagodas; sculpture and painting in distemper play a great part in
it according to the types. But because of the fame of the
Nanking Pagoda it is necessary to say a few words on Porcelain
Towers, for the one at Nanking was not as many suppose a unique
specimen. As a construction it was not of an uncommon type;
and its covering of glazed bricks is found on other towers too.
Many travellers have described the Pagoda of Lin-ch'ing chou,
Shantung, "built of white bricks except the intervals between the
stages which were covered with a kind of glazed tile." There
is also the most beautiful little tower of Peking, the Second Bar
Pagoda of Canton, and there are others with at least the roofs
covered with glazed tiles. For it must be understood that real
porcelain is not in question at all; the Nanking Pagoda was
built of brick, thick bricks, well baked and laid on edge, and the
external faces were glazed in the same manner as the Chinese
employ for the tiles and ornaments of imperial palaces and certain
temples. The Summer Palace Pagoda of the Yuen-ming-yuen is
called by Bushell "a fine example of architectural work in
glazed faience in the style of the famous porcelain tower of
Nanking."2
But really they are unlike in size, shape and style,
and resemble one another only in their covering of glazed bricks.
1 Holmes.
2 Chinese Art, p. 61.

56
CHINESE PAGODAS
The glazes of the Summer Palace Pagoda are, continues Bushell,
"five in number;
the fivefold combination [of
colours] is intended to suggest the five jewels of the Buddhist
paradise."
Most pagodas are built of bricks of the ordinary size, and
covered with plaster; though the basement may be of stone or
marble. There are however in China not a few small pagodas in
iron. Yen-chou fu in Shantung has a pretty little tower of iron
of 9 stages on a pedestal of masonry, the total height being 100 ft.
There was another at Chên-kiang (Chinkiang) in this province, of
8 stages without the pedestal. The upper part has disappeared.
We are told it was 40 to 50 ft. high and cast in 28 pieces. There
are others which must be left unmentioned, besides some made
of wood.
In conclusion, what was the purpose of these towers? For
though the Chinese have often chosen such beautiful sites for
them, they are not erected simply for æsthetic ends-nor have
they a useful purpose like our belfries. Their end originally was
certainly religious; they were the shelter for Buddhist idols or
were gigantic reliquaries. It was indeed at the time when
Buddhism entered into China that these pagodas began to be
built. 2 Their Buddhistic origin is unquestionable. There is
never any sign of connexion with Confucianism or Taoism, but
the whole history of these buildings is connected intimately with
with Buddhist worship. Nothing prevents our believing the
tradition that many were put up to cover sacred relics, but it is
much more evident that the first object was to shelter Buddhist
idols. At the present day most pagodas have their gilded idols
on every floor; "one has reckoned," says Milne, "that in the Pei-
ssú t'a of Soochow the number of idols must be near five hundred."
On the contrary there are some, like the square pagoda of Sung
chiang, with no idols, or with none left.
The religious purpose of pagodas has not remained their sole
end; there has been a slow change whether due to the zeal of
Buddhists having declined, or to the lack of popular interest in so-
called relics and to the preference for worshipping their gods on
level ground; but the pagodas themselves suited the taste of the
Chinese people; they wanted them everywhere and could easily
find good reasons for erecting them. They have not been put up
for mere pleasure like the ancient t'ai, though they are often
resorted to for the sake of the view; nor have they ever, except in
one case, been built as watch-towers. A pagoda in honour of a
1 Taylor.
2 The Indian origin of Buddhism makes it quite possible that there
is some connexion between the architecture of Indian pagodas and Chinese;
but even admitting the filiation it is certain that the type in Chiua has
taken on a physiognomy so new as to be a real creation.

CHINESE PAGODAS
57
great man or in memory of a great event would seem very natural,
but the idea has seldom come to the Chinese mind. Some temples
to which pagodas are attached have been put up by filial piety,
and there are at least two towers which profess to commemorate
important events; one is the Second Bar Pagoda, on the Canton
river, in memory of a naval victory; the other is the tower at
Yün-nan fu erected by a Chinese general in the Tonquin war in
honour of his victories to come; which all turned out to be
defeats !
But that which explains best the astonishing number of
pagodas, apart from their religious end, is the Chinese superstition
of feng-shui. No one can say clearly why pagodas should bring
good fortune, but every one believes they protect the cities or
districts in their neighbourhood, that they drive off bad influences
and bring happiness and wealth to the people. This belief may
be regarded as universal, and is confirmed by many Chinese annals
and local legends.
At Peking the Pei t'a is considered as the palladium not only
of the city but of the whole country.¹
The Ink Tower, square with 5 stages, in the eastern part of
Soochow, was built in 1589 to improve the feng shui of the
neighbourhood-which was not so good as that of the districts
near the Chuang Pagodas, and caused nearly all the students thence
to fail in their examinations. A geomancer being consulted said
"The Chuang Pagodas are the pens, make the ink-slab!" This
Ink Tower was thereupon made and daubed black, after which the
number of bachelors and doctors in that quarter increased rapidly.
For
If one says such are mere old time legends, it would be quite
easy to bring similar illustrations from quite recent times.
example, the following was circulated in Canton with a view to
subscriptions in 1837; "the South-east part of the city of Canton
has an important influence on the fortunes of the inhabitants.
The t'a which are there have a salutary effect on the surround-
ings; they are the cause of the number of literati and of the
fruitfulness of the soil. But at present these monuments are in a
poor condition. Therefore, to make prosperous times return, it is
well for you to repair your pagodas."
1 Favier, Peking, p. 346.