WILLIAM WOODVILLE ROCKHILL
1854-1914
1914.
Mr. ROCKHILL addressed the Society at Shanghai May 7,
His subject, the sea trade of China during the Yüan and
Ming dynasties, was from a larger subject, the pre-modern
relations of China with the western world by the routes along
the coasts of India and overland through Turkestan to which
he had principally directed his investigations during the later years
of his life. He had edited, translated and annotated in collabora-
tion with Professor Friedrich Hirth of Columbia University the
nearly contemporaneous work Chu-fan-chi of the Chinese Imperial
Trade Commissioner at Amoy, Chau Ju-kua, on Chinese and
Arab trade in the 12th and 13th centuries. (Imperial Academy of
Sciences, Petrograd, 1911). This was followed in 1913 by his
notes on the relations and trade of China with the Eastern
Archipelago and the coasts of the Indian Ocean during the
fourteenth century. His continuing research among Chinese
sources on these commercial subjects would doubtless have resulted
within a few years in an ample and illuminating treatise.
Another main subject of Mr. Rockhill's studies was Tibet.
He had a life-long interest in Tibet. His contributions to the
Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, London, the Journal of the
North China Branch, the Royal Geographical Society, the
Toung Pao, and other scientific periodicals mostly related to
Tibet. When he came to China originally, which was in
1884 as Second Secretary of the American Legation, it was
with a hope of opportunity further to pursue the studies of the
Tibetan language, geography and ethnography which he had
commenced while he was a student at the Military School of
St. Cyr. He had published at Paris translations into French of
the Prâtimoksha Sutra (Le traité d'émancipation) and The Life of
Buddha. At Peking he made rapid progress in the Chinese and
Tibetan languages and won the esteem and friendship of intelligent
and influential Tibetans. In 1891 he wrote the article in the
Royal Asiatic Society Journal, London, entitled Tibet, from
Chinese Sources. Resigning his Legation post in 1887 he engaged
himself to the Smithsonian Institution (now the National Museum),
Washington, and proceeded under its auspices on a scientific
expedition to Tibet. Very little was then known of that secluded

118
WILLIAM WOODVILLE ROCKHILL
country. The Russian Prjevalsky expedition had reached Lh'asa
the previous year, and the two American Rockhill expeditions
1887 and 1891, were accordingly directed into eastern and
southern Tibet towards Chamdo and Kokonor, regions fully as
difficult to traverse and fully as rich for geographical and
ethnographical observation. The accounts of these journeys are
contained in The Land of the Lamas, 1891, and a Diary of a
Journey in Mongolia and Tibet and Notes on the Ethnology of
Tibet, the last two published by the Smithsonian Institution in
1894 and 1895 respectively. In 1910 Mr. Rockhill contributed
to the Toung Pao an article entitled The Dalai Lamas of Lhasa
and their Relations with the Manchu Emperors of China,
1644-1908.
It was not, however, as to early commerce of China and as to
Tibet that the greatest services were rendered by Mr. Rockhill.
He was for thirty years an influential factor in the direction of the
foreign relations of the United States especially in relation to
China. In 1900 and 1901 he was Special Commissioner and
Plenipotentiary of the United States to China and from 1905 to
1909 he was American Minister at Peking. He served in the
Department of State at Washington for some twelve years. He
was Ambassador to Russia and Ambassador to Turkey. In 1914
he undertook an extended visit to China, including Mongolia,
under auspices of the American Asiatic Association for observa-
tion of political and commercial conditions. In the same
year, it is understood, he declined an advisorship to the Chinese
Government, but he was prevailed upon to accept a designation as
personal adviser to President Yuan Shih-kai, and he was returning
to Peking for this purpose when he was stricken with pleurisy and
heart-failure at Honolulu on December 8, 1914. The political
services of Mr. Rockhill may not in this connection be fully
considered, and it is sufficient to say it is well known at Washington
that the policy of the "open door" as to China and the notes
that secured for it the adherence of all the Powers originated
with Mr. Rockhil!. It was Mr. Rockhill also who advocated
moderation as to the amounts of the Boxer indemnities and who
effected the arrangement by which nearly the entire amount of
indemnity due to the United States is to be used by China for
education of Chinese young men and women at the Tsing-hua
College, Peking, thence to continue further education in the
United States.
The scholarship and the statesmanship of Mr. Rockhill are
both well memorialized in a work wherein, however, he appears only
as an archivist, namely, Conventions and Treaties with or concerning
China and Korea, two volumes containing documents with notes,
which is a comprehensive and indispensable work of first authority
published by his Government in 1908.

WILLIAM WOODVILLE ROCKHILL
119
Mr. Rockhill had been a member of the Royal Asiatic
Society, North China Branch, since 1885 and many years an
Honorary Member. There is an excellent notice of Mr. Rockhill
in the Royal Asiatic Society Journal, London, for April 1915,
written by his friend Alfred E. Hippisley, Esquire. Mr. Rockhill
had been a member of that Society since 1882.
From one of the last public addresses of Mr. Rockhill the
following may be taken as an epitome of his life: "I agree with
President Eliot in thinking that the western world ought to stand
by China with patience, forbearance and hope while she struggles
with her tremendous social, industrial and political problems."
And as many of the members of this society were privileged to
know personally how deeply Mr. Rockhill loved China, it may be
permitted to relate here how it was a wish of his last days that on
his grave should be planted white pines of that beautiful variety
that grows in the region north and west of Peking.
FRANK E. HINCKLEY.