NOTICES OF
CHRISTIANITY IN CHINA.
EXTRACTED FROM MARCO POLO.
By Rev. A. C. MOULE.
[I have to thank Mr. John Murray for leave
to print SIR H. YULE'S version of the extracts from
RAMUSIO'S text as well as such phrases and sentences
of that version as may chance to remain unaltered in the
other extructs.-A.C.M.]
The following extracts, made originally from Colonel Yule's
translation, have been modified so as to form a fairly exact
version of the old French text which Colonel Yule called the
Geographic Text (or G. T.). This French text is represented by
a single MS. which is kept at the Bibliothèque Nationale (MSS.
Français No. 1116, formerly No. 7367) and is the truest re-
presentation we have of Marco Polo's actual words.2 The
language of this MS. is rough and ungrammatical French with a
certain admixture of Italian words and forms. There exist also
copies of the work written in Marco's life time in Latin and in
Italian, both showing signs of being derived from the French;
and later appear MSS. in true French with considerable changes
and curtailments. One of these has the interesting note, which
Colonel Yule translated on p. 69 of his Introduction, stating that
it was a copy of "the first copy of his said Book after he had
made the same," which first copy Marco Polo had himself given
in 1307 to Thibault de Cepoy to be carried by him to "the noble
country of France." The reasons given by Colonel Yule on p. 92
do not seem to us conclusive for the rejection of the very interest-
ing suggestion that the MS. No. 1116 is itself the actual volume
presented by Marco to Thibault de Cepoy. Next in interest to
1 The Book of Ser Marco Polo, translated and edited by Col. Sir H.
YULE: third edition, revised by H. Cordier, 2 vols. John Murray, 1903.
2 This MS. is a quarto volume, measuring 0m 32 x 0m 22, containing
112 leaves, parchment, written with double columns in a hand of the early
14th century. It was printed by the Société de Géographie in Recueil de
Voyages et de Mémoires, tome I, Paris, 1824, where it occupies pp. 1-288;
and by Dr. A. Steiner in facsimile at Karlsruhe, 1902.

20
NOTICES OF CHRISTIANITY
"
these old MSS. is the printed text of Ramusio which appeared
in Vol. II. of Navigationi e Viaggi in 1559. The text differs
considerably from that of the MSS. and Colonel Yule writes:
"whilst some of the changes or interpolations seem to carry us
further from the truth, others contain facts of Asiatic nature or
history, as well as of Polo's own experiences, which it is extremely
difficult to ascribe to any hand but the Traveller's own."
(Vol. I.
p. 97.) A few of these interpolations will be found below enclosed
in square brackets. Marsden's English version (1818) was based
on Ramusio; Pauthier's French text (1865) on the improved French
MSS. which he regarded as having Marco's own imprimatur.
Colonel Yule (1871, 1875, 1903) translated Pauthier's text with
some modifications from the Geographic Text (as printed in 1824)
and some additions from Ramusio.
The two brothers, or Mr. Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo, were
Marco's father and uncle respectively. They had left Constant-
inople for the East in 1260¹ and returned to Acre as the Khan's
envoys to the Pope in April, 1269. Marco Polo was born in
1254, and reached the Khan's court with Nicolo and Maffeo on
their second journey in May, 1275. They returned by sea, sailing
from Zaitun in January 1292, and reaching Hormuz in the winter
of 1293-94, and Venice in 1295 or 1296. Marco was taken
prisoner by the Genoese in 1298, and it was then that the story of
his travels was written down by his fellow-prisoner Rustician of
Pisa. The prisoners were released early in August, 1299. Marco
Polo died at Venice in 1324 or 1325.
"VI. And when Mr. Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo were come to
the great lord, he received them with honour and with great joy
and hospitality, and showed much pleasure at their coming, asking
them about many things. First about the Emperors, how they
maintained their dignity and administered justice in their domin-
ions; and how they went forth to battle and all about them.
And then he asked them about the kings and princes and other
potentates.
"VII. And afterwards he asked them about my lord the
Pope, and about all the doings of the Roman Church, and all the
customs of the Latins. And Mr. Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo told him
all the truth of each particular with order and good sense, like
sensible men as they were, who knew the language of the Tartars
well.
"VIII. And when the great lord, whose name was Kubilai
Khan, lord of all the Tartars on the earth, and of all the provinces
and kingdoms and territories of that vast quarter of the world,
1 No. 1116 (ed. 1824, p. 2) reads 1250; and 1260 for 1269 just below.

FROM MARCO POLO
.
21
had heard all the ways of the Latins, as the two brothers had well
and openly told him, he was greatly pleased. He said to himself
that he would send an embassy to the Pope. And then he desired
the two brothers to go on this mission along with one of his
Barons. They replied that they would execute all his commands
as those of their sovereign lord.
After this the great
lord caused letters from himself to be indited in the Turkish
tongue to send to the Pope, and committed them to the two
brothers and to his baron, and charged them with what he wished
them to say for him to the Pope. And know that the contents of
the letter
were to this purport: He sent to say to the
Pope that he must send him as many as an hundred persons of
the Christian faith, intelligent men, acquainted also with the
seven Arts, and well qualified to enter into controversy, and
clearly to prove to the idolaters and other kinds of folk that all
else and all the idols which they keep in their houses and worship
are works of the devil; and well able to show by argument that
the law of Christ is better than theirs. Again the great lord
charged the two brothers to bring him some oil of the lamp which
burns on the Sepulchre of God at Jerusalem.
"IX. When the great lord had charged the two brothers
and his baron with all his commission to the Pope, he caused to
be given to them a tablet of gold, on which was inscribed that the
three ambassadors should be supplied with all the provision which
they should require, in all the countries through which they should
pass, with horses and men to escort them from one land to
another. And when Mr. Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo and the other
envoy had made all needful preparations, they took their leave of
the great lord and mounted on horseback and set out. When
they had ridden I know not how far, the Tartar baron who was
going with the two brothers fell sick and was unable to proceed
further, and halted at a certain city. And when Mr. Nicolo and
Mr. Maffeo saw that he was sick they left him, and proceeded on
their way.
And I assure you that whithersoever they went they
were honourably provided with whatever they chose to command.
And what shall I tell you about it? They rode on their journey
until they arrived at Laias, a journey which occupied them, I
assure you, for three years. And this came about because they
could not always proceed by reason of bad weather, and snow, and
swollen rivers.
"X. And they departed from Laias and came to Acre, and
arrived there in the month of April in the year MCCLXIX,3 of
1 The seven liberal Arts were Rhetoric, Logic, and Grammar; Arith-
metic, Astronomy, Music and Geometry (H. Yule).
2 Ayas, the principal port of Cilician Armenia, on the Gulf of Scande-
roon (H. Yule).
3 No. 1116 (ed. 1824, p. 7) reads 1260.

22
NOTICES OF CHRISTIANITY
the incarnation of Jesus Christ, and learned that the Pope was
dead. And when Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo found that the Pope,
who was named [Clement V.], was dead, they went to a certain
wise Churchman who was legate for the Church of Rome in the
whole kingdom of Egypt. He was a man of great authority, by
name Teald' of Piacenza. They told him of the mission on which
the great lord of the Tartars had sent them to the Pope. And
when the legate heard the two brothers' story, he was greatly
surprized, and deemed the thing to be of great honour and
advantage to Christendom. He said to the two brothers: Sirs,
said he, you see that the Pope is dead, wherefore you will best
have patience until a Pope be made. And when a Pope is made,
you will be able to execute your charge. The two brothers,
seeing well enough that what the legate said was just, said that
while the Pope was a-making they would like to go to Venice and
visit their homes. And then they departed from Acre and went
to Negropont, and from Negropont they departed in a ship and
sailed until they arrived (at Venice). Mr. Nicolo found that his
wife was dead, and that she had left behind her a son of fifteen 2
years of age, whose name was Marco; and it was that Marco of
whom this book tells. Mr. Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo abode at
Venice two years more, waiting until a Pope should be made.
"XI. And when the two brothers had tarried as long as
you have heard, and saw that never a Pope was made, they said
that their return to the great Khan must be put off no longer.
Then they left Venice, taking Mark his son with them, and went
straight to Acre, where they found the legate of whom I have
told you above. They had a good deal of talk with him
concerning this matter, and asked his permission to go to
Jerusalem to get some oil from the lamp of Christ, for which the
great Khan had asked them. The legate gave them leave to go.
Then the two brothers left Acre and went to Jerusalem and got
some of the oil from the lamp of the Sepulchre of Christ. They
returned to the legate at Acre, and said to him: Sir, since we see
no sign of a Pope's being made, we wish to return to the great
lord, for we have tarried too long. And my lord the legate, who
was the greatest lord in all the Roman Church, said to them:
Since it is your wish to go back to the great lord, I am well
content. Then he wrote letters and a message to send to the
great Khan, bearing testimony that Mr. Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo
had come to accomplish their mission, but that as there was no
Pope they had been unable to do so.
"XII. When the two brothers had received the legate's
letters, they left Acre and set forth to return to the great lord..
1 Tedaldo, or Theobald (H. Yule).
2 No. 1116 (ed. 1824, p. 7) reads "un filz de douze anz."

FROM MARCO POLO
23
They got as far as Laias; and no sooner were they come there,
than that legate was elected Pope, and was called Gregory of
Piacenza. The two brothers were very glad of it; and then
presently there came to Laias a messenger from the legate who
was elected Pope to Mr. Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo desiring them,
if they had not gone, to return to him. The two brothers
rejoiced greatly at this, and said that they would do so gladly.
And what shall I tell you about it? The king of Armenia caused
a galley to be got ready for the two brothers, and despatched them
with honour to the legate.
"XIII. And when they were come to Acre, they went to
the Pope and paid their very humble respects to him. The Pope
received them with great honour, and gave them his blessing.
Then the Pope gave Mr. Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo two Friars
Preachers, who were quite the most learned to be found in all that
Province. One was called Brother Nicholas of Vicenza, and the
other Brother William of Tripoli. He gave them credentials
and letters and his message with which he wished to charge the
great Khan [and gave them authority to ordain priests and
Bishops, and to bestow every kind of absolution, as if given by
himself in proper person; sending by them also many fine vessels
of crystal as presents to the great Khan]. And when Mr. Nicolo
and Mr. Maffeo and the two Friars Preachers had taken the
credentials, letters and messages of the Pope, they received his
benediction. Then they all set out, and with them Marco the
son of Mr. Nicolo. They all went straight to Laias. And when
they were come there, Bendocquedar, the Sultan of Babylon2, in-
vaded Armenia with a great host, and ravaged the country; and
these envoys ran a peril of being slain. And when the two
Preaching Friars saw this they were greatly afraid to go further.
Then they said that go they never would. They made over to
Mr. Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo all their credentials and documents,
and took their leave of them, and departed with the Master of the
Temple.
"XIV. And Mr. Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo and Marco the
son of Nicolo set forth and rode on, winter and summer, till they
came at length to the great Khan who was then at a city which
was called Clemeinfu.3
1 William of the Dominican convent at Acre, where he seems to have
been as early as 1250, was born at Tripoli in Syria about the year 1220, and
is known as the author of De statu Saracenorum post Ludovici Regis de
Syria reditum. (H. Yule).
2 Cairo. (H. Yule).
3 Col. YULE reads Kemenfu. The place was
K'ai-p'ing-fu or
Shang-tu (Coleridge's Xanadu), north of the Great Wall. Nothing
remains of this summer capital founded by Kubilai but its fast disappearing
ruins; cf. The Geographical Journal Feb. 1874, p. 156; and Feb. 1907,
pp. 183, 184.

24
NOTICES OF CHRISTIANITY
"XV. And what shall I tell you about it?
When Mr.
Nicolo and Mr. Maffeo and Marco arrived at that great city, they
went to the chief palace, where they found the great Khan attended
by a large company of barons. So they bent the knee before him,
and paid their respects to him with all possible reverence.
Then they presented the credentials and letters which the
Pope had sent them, which pleased him right well; and next
they produced the holy oil, and at that he was very glad, and set
great store thereby. The great Khan, when he spied Marco, who
was then a young gallant, asked who he was. Sir, said Mr. Nicolo,
he is my son and your liegeman. Welcome is he, quoth the great
Khan. And why should I make you a long story?
Know of a
truth that very great was the rejoicing and festivity which the
great Khan and all his court made at the arrival of these envoys;
and they met with much attention and honour from everybody.
They abode at the court, and were honoured above the other
barons." 1
"LVII (LVIII). And when you have ridden these thirty
days through the desert, as I have told you, you come to a city
called Sachiu, which belongs to the great Khan. The province
is called Tangut. They are all idolaters, though it is true that
there are also Nestorian Christians, and moreover Saracens. The
idolaters have a language to themselves. The city is between
north-east and east.
"2
"LIX (LX). Chingintalas is also a province at the verge
of the desert, lying between north-west and north. It has an
extent of sixteen days journey, and belongs to the great Khan.
There are numerous towns and villages. There are three different
races of people in it, namely idolaters, those who worship Mo-
hammed, and Nestorian Christians.
3
1 Recueil de Voyages et de Mémoires, tome I, pp. 4-11, The Book of Ser
Marco Polo, 1903, vol. I, pp. 11-26.
2 Recueil, etc., p. 54, Marco Polo, vol. I, p. 203. Sachiu is M
Sha-chou or Tun-huang, near the present Tun-huang hsien
in the extreme north-west of Kansu. It has for ages been of great im-
portance as a frontier post on the high road to central Asia, and has acquired
a new interest from the discovery there in 1900 of a great hoard of
ancient manuscripts. See B.E.F.E.-O., VIII, pp. 501-529; and cf. Palladius
and Bretschneider, Journal N.C.B.R.A.S, 1876, pp. 4, 182. Tangut is
JJ Tang-wu or Ho-hsi (Coshi), the kingdom of the pHsi-hsia,
occupying a great part of the modern Kansu. It was taken by the Hsi-hsia
in the years 1031-1035 (some parts many years earlier), and conquered
by Chingis in the year 1226. cf. Yuan Shih; c. I. fol. 9v°.
3 Recueil, etc., p. 57, Marco Polo, vol. I, p. 212. Col. YULE thought
that this chapter formed part of a digression from Marco Polo's narrative,
but PALLADIUS (Journal N.C.B.R.A.S. 1876, p. 7.) is prepared to

FROM MARCO POLO
25
"LX (LXI). When one leaves this province, of which I
have told you, he goes ten days between east and north-east.
And in all this way there is no human dwelling, or next to none,
and there is nothing to make mention of in our book. And at
the end of the ten days one finds a province which is called
Sukchur, in which there are numerous towns and villages, and
the chief city is called Sukchu. There are Christians and
idolaters; they are subject to the great Khan; and the great
general province in which this province is and the two of which I
have told you above, is called Tangut.
"1
"LXI (LXII). Campichu is a city which is in Tangut
itself; and it is a very great and noble city. And it is the capital
and rules the whole province of Tangut. The people are idolaters;
and there are some of those who worship Mohammed, and there
are also Christians, and they have three large and beautiful
Churches in this city. The idolaters have many monasteries and
abbeys after their fashion.
11 2
identify Chingintalas with the country round lake Chih-chin where a
tribe of Mongols was found established about a century after Marco
Polo's visit. The lake lies between the Chia-yü kuan and the town
of An-hsi. In the
Kuang-yu-t'u Chih-chin is marked
on two of the maps as between Su-chou and FP Yü-mên-kuan.
In the Kuang-yu-hsing-sheng, vol. IV.
Chih-chin
Meng-ku comes between I-li-pa-li and
Tu-lu-fan in
the list of foreign tribes-cf. Ming Shih, c. II. fol. 7v°.
1 Recueil, etc., pp. 58, 59, Marco Polo, vol. I, p. 217. Sukchur and
Sukchu (Suctuir and Suctin in the Recueil)-the difference though
found in several MSS. being probably accidental-are respectively the
circuit (lu) and city of Su-chou in Kansu. The distance between
Shachou (the "province of which I have told you," according to YULE) and
Su-chou appears to be about 250 miles, though it is given as 1500 li in the
Yüan Shih, c. LX. fol. 12v°. When Marco Polo passed along this road
Sha-chou was subordinate to Su-chou, but owing to the difficulty of com-
munication it was made an independent lu in 1280. For the forin Sukchu
see PELLIOT, Kao-tch'ang Qoco, etc., in Journal Asiatique, 1912, pp. 591-593.
2 Recueil, etc., p. 59, Marco Polo, vol., I, p. 219. Campichu is H
Kan-chou. The circuit of Kan-su was formed in 1264, and the
name changed to Kan-chou in 1271. The district had also been known
in the past as
Chang-i chiin. and a river was still called Chang-i.
The province. afterwards called
Kan-su têng ch'u, had been
formed in 1261 with the capital at Chung-hsing or Ning-hsia,
but was technically in abeyance from 1273 to 1281. Kan-chou was made
capital of the province in 1286. It had been captured by the Hsi-hsia early
in the Sung dynasty and was called by them Chên-i chün, cf. Yüan
Shih c. LX, fol. 12r°, c. XCI, fol. 1, 2. For the existence of at least one
Christian Monastery at Kan-chou. cf. Yüan Shih. c. XXXVIII, fol. 5v
至元元年三月...丙申中書省言甘肃甘州路十字寺奉安世祖皇帝母別吉太
On 7 April, 1335, the Metropolitan Ministers said, The Empress
Dowager Pieh-chi, the mother of the Emperor Shih Tsu, was reverently laid
within the Monastery of the Cross in the circuit of Kanchou in Kan-su."

26
NOTICES OF CHRISTIANITY
"LXVI (LXVII). Now the story goes that when Prester
John became aware that Chingis with his host was marching
against him, he went forth to meet him with all his forces.
The two vast hosts were pitched on that plain of Tenduc
in such manner as you have heard. And one day Chingis Khan
summoned before him his astrologers who were Christians and
Saracens, and desired them to let him know who would gain the
battle between him and Prester John. The astrologers inquired
by their arts. The Saracens were unable to give him a true
answer about it, but the Christians showed him it manifestly.
For they had a cane before him, and split it lengthwise in half;
and then they placed one (half) on one side and the other on the
other side, and no one held them. Then they named one part
of the cane Chingis Khan, and the other cane Prester John, and
said to Chingis Khan: Sir, now watch these canes, and see that
this is your name and the other is named Prester John; and
when we have made our enchantments he whose cane shall get
above the other shall win the battle. Chingis Khan said that he
would fain see that, and told the astrologers to show him as soon
as they could. And then the Christian astrologers took the
Psalter and read certain Psalms, and made their enchantments,
and then the cane on which was the name of Chingis Khan,
without anyone touching it, advanced to the other and got on the
top of Prester John's; and this was seen by all those who were
there. And when Chingis Khan saw this he was greatly delighted
at it, and because he found the Christians in the right, he ever
afterwards did great honour to the Christians, and held them to
be men of truth and trustworthy.
ויי
"LXXI (LXXII). And when one leaves this Campichu of
which I have told you, he goes for five days where there are many
spirits which are often heard speaking in the night. And at the
end of those five days towards the east, he finds a kingdom
called Erguiul, belonging to the Great Khan. And it is in the
great province of Tangut which contains several kingdoms. The
people consist of Nestorian Christians, and idolaters, and
worshippers of Mohammed. There are plenty of cities, and the
capital city is Erguiul. And you can travel in a south-easterly
direction from this city to go to the countries of Cathay; and on
that road to the south-east you come to a city which is called
Sinju, and there are many towns and cities, and it belongs to
Tangut itself and is subject to the great Khan. The people are
idolaters, and worshippers of Mohammed, and some Christians.
1 Recueil, etc., pp. 64, 65, Marco Polo, vol. I, pp. 241, 242. Marco Polo
seems to be wrong in placing this battle in Tenduc, the land of Prester John's
supposed descendant King George.

FROM MARCO POLO
27
There are also wild oxen which are as large as elephants and are
very beautiful to look at
זיי
"LXXII (LXXIII). And when one leaves Erguiul and
goes eastward for eight days, he finds a province which is called
Egrigaia, where there are numerous cities and villages,-and
belonging to Tangut. The capital city is called Calachan. The
people are idolaters; and there are three churches of the Nestorian
Christians. They are subject to the great Tartar
192
"LXXIII (LXXIV). Tenduc is a province towards the east
which contains numerous towns and villages. They are subject to
the great Khan, for the descendants of Prester John are subject
to the great Khan. The capital city is named Tenduc. And one
1 Recueil, etc., p. 72, Marco Polo, vol. I, p. 274. Erguiul, or Erichew,
as it is in the Mongol text of the
Yuan-ch'ao-pi-shih (PALLADIUS,
N.C.B.R.A.S, 1876, p. 18), was called in Chinese
Yung-ch'ang
lu, and is now Liang-chou fu. The "plenty of cities" do not
appear in the Yüan Shih (c. LX, fol. 12r°) where only one subordinate
administration
(Hsi-liang chou) is named. The spirits
talking at night are not described in the Chinese histories, but the III
Ming-sha Shan or Sounding sand hills three or four miles south of
Kua-chou, further to the west, were well known for the sounds like thunder
heard there in the winter and summer, cf. Hsin Wu-Tai Shih, c. LXXIV,
fol. 5r.; and a similar phenomenon may have given its name to
Ming-sha chou to the north-east. Cf. especially Tun-huang lu by L. Giles,
J.R.A.S., July 1914, pp. 710-712, 726. Sinju is generally identified with the
modern Hsi-ning chou. It should however be noticed that the
south-easterly road to Cathay does not run through Hsi-ning which lies west
of south from Liang-chou, and that Hsi-ning was at that time a chou of the
lowest grade (F. with population of less than 6,000 families) with no sub-
ordinate cities under its jurisdiction. At a considerable distance, but yet
answering to Marco Polo's description-on the high road and to the south-east
was Ch'in chou, still so called, a chou of the second grade (p) with
six subordinate administrations until the year 1270 when the number was
reduced to three. Ch'in-chou was not then in the province of Kan-su, but
in that of Shên-si-ssu-ch'uan. Neither Hsi-ning nor Ch'in seem
to have been in Tangut, cf. Sung Shih, c. LXXXVII, ff. 5v°, 10v°., Yüan
Shih, c. LX, ff. 4r°, 13r., Chin Shih, c. XXVI, fol. 6r.
2 Recueil, etc., p. 74, Marco Polo, vol. I, p. 281. Egrigaia is
Chung-hsing, then the capital of the region. The name was changed to
.
.
Ning-hsia in 1288. The form Erigaia is found in the Mongol text of
the Yuan-ch'ao-pi-shih and "even now the Eleuts of Alashan call Ning-
hia-Yargai." "Marco Polo, when describing the Tangut kingdom
apparently spoke of a state of things already past in his time, but preserved
in popular memory. Under the name of Calachan he probably means the
summer residence of the Tangut kings, which was sixty li from Ning-hia at
the foot of the Alashan mountains
The last Tangut kings made
this place their permanent residence
The Chinese name of this
residence was Ho-lan-shan Li-kung; " and in Mongol it was
called Alashai nuntuh, Halahachar or Halachar (PALLADIUS, N.C.B.R.A.S.
1876, pp. 18-20.) Rashid ed Din is said to call it Kalajan (Marco Polo, vol.
II, p. 282), and to give Eyirkai as the Tangut and Eyirkaya as the Mongol
form of Egrigaia (CHABOT, Hist. de Mar Jabalaha, p. 21, n.) The Chinese
form Ying-chi-li-ch'êng is also found, cf. BRETSCHNEIDER,
Journal N.C.B.R.A.S., 1876, p. 303, Yüan Shih, c. CLXXX, fol. Ir°., cf. c.
LX. fol. 13r

28
NOTICES OF CHRISTIANITY.
.
of the lineage of Prester John is king of this province, and still is
Prester John: his name is George. He holds the land for the
great Khan, but not all which Prester John held, but some part
of it. But I tell you that the great Khans have always given one
of their daughters or of their relatives to the reigning kings who
are of the lineage of Prester John
The rule is in the
hands of Christians as I have told you; but there are plenty of
idolaters and men who worship Mohammed. There is a class of
people who are called Argon, which is as much as to say in French
Guasmul, that is to say that they are sprung from two classes of
the lineage of these Argon of Tenduc and of these "reduc" and
of those who worship Mohammed.¹ They are finer men than the
rest in the province and more clever and better merchants. And
you must know that in this province was the chief seat of Prester
John when he ruled the Tartars and all those provinces and
kingdoms round about, and his descendants still dwell there,
and this George whom I have named to you is of the lineage of
Prester John, as I have told you in the story, and is the sixth lord
since Prester John; and this is the place which we call
Gog and Magog, but they call it Ung and Mungul. And in each
of these provinces was a (distinct) race of men; in Ung were the
Gog, and in Mungul dwelt the Tartars. And when one rides
through this province seven days eastward towards Cathay,
he finds many cities and villages where there are people who
worship Mohammed, and idolaters, and Nestorian Christians also.
There is a city which is called Sindachu
"LXXVIII (LXXIX)
And you must know that
Naian was a baptized Christian, and in this battle he had the
Cross of Christ on his banner; and why should I make you a long
112
1 Ce est a dire quil sunt né del deus generasions de la lengnee des celz
Argon Tendue, et des celz reduc, et des celz que aorent Maomet.
2 Recueil, etc, pp. 74, 75, Marco Polo, vol. I, pp. 284, 285. It seems
to be generally agreed that Tenduc represents the Chinese Tien-tê
and that the country is that through which the northern reach of the
Yellow River flows, but the identification of the town has given com-
mentators considerable trouble. Odoric calls it Tozan; the biographer of
Nar Jabalaha, Koshang which may be a slip for Toshang; and M. PELLIOT
suggests that the town was Tung-shêng chou. W. W. ROCKHILL
had, on quite different grounds, concluded that Togto (Tou-ch'êng) was
meant. Explorations in Mongolia and Tibet, Smithsonian Report. 1862,
p. 659. Cf. Cathay, etc., 1913, vol. II, pp. 245, 246; Histoire de Mar
Jabalaha 111, pp. 18, 19; Marco Polo, vol. I, p. 286; Chin Shih,
c. XXIV, fol. 6r; Liao Shih, c. XLI, fol. 3r°; Yüan Shih, c. LVIII,
fol. 15r. For the existence of Christians in 1276 in Hsi-ching
(i.e. Ta-t'ung), in which circuit Tung-shêng was, cf. Yüan Shih,
c. IX, fol. 4vo.
Much that Marco Polo and other Western medieval writers tell us
about King George, except his descent from Prester John, is confirmed
by the Yian Shih, c. CXVIII, etc.-cf. J.R.A.S., July, 1914, p. 548.
Sindachu is probably Hsüan-tê chou, now 1 Hsüan-
hua fu, which in Marco Polo's day was officially called MF Shun-ning
fu,-cf. Chin Shih, c. XXIV, fol. 7r°; Yüan Shih, c. LVIII, fol. 3v°.

FROM MARCO POLO
29
story?
When Naian and his men saw that they could
hold out no longer, they took to flight; but this availed them
nothing, for Naian was taken and all his barons and all his men
returned to the great Khan with their arms.
"LXXIX (LXXX)
And after the great Khan
had done this and won this battle, the different kinds of people
who were there, Saracens, idolaters and Jews, and many other folk
that believed not in God, did gibe at the Cross that Naian had
borne on his standard, and said to the Christians who were there:
See how the Cross of God has helped Naian who was a Christian!
They made such great jeering and mockery about it that it reached
the great Khan. And when the great Khan heard it, he rebuked
those who had mocked before them; then called many Christians
who were there and began to comfort them and said: if the Cross
of your God has rendered no help to Naian, it has done right
well; because it is good it ought not to do what is not good and
right. Nayan was a disloyal traitor who attacked his master, and
therefore well deserved that which has befallen him; and the
Cross of your God did well if it gave him no help against the
right, because it is a good thing and ought not to do anything but
right. The Christians answered the great Khan: Most mighty
lord, said they, you speak the truth, for the Cross cannot do evil
or be disloyal as did Naian who was a traitor and disloyal to his
master, and he has received just that which he deserved. Such
were the words which passed between the great Khan and the
Christians concerning the Cross which Naian had borne on his
standard."1
"LXXX (LXXXI). And when the great Khan had
defeated Naian in the way you have heard, then he went back to
the capital city of Khanbalig, and abode there [till March, in
which our Easter occurs; and learning that it was one of our chief
festivals, he summoned all the Christians, and bade them bring
with them the Book of the Four Gospels. This he caused to be
incensed many times with great ceremony, kissing it himself most
devoutly, and desiring all the barons and lords who were present
to do the same.
And he does the like at the chief feasts of the
Saracens, Jews and Idolaters. On being asked why, he said:
There are four Prophets worshipped and revered by all the world.
The Christians say their God is Jesus Christ; the Saracens,
1 Recueil, etc., pp. 84-86, Marco Polo, vol. I, pp. 339, 343, 344. Naian,
who was Kubilai's cousin, made a rebellion in 1287. The lands which he
held under the great Khan appear to have been Corea and Mongolia. The
statement that he was a Christian seems to be corroboated, as M. PELLIOT
tells me, by an inscription which POZDNÉEV found in Mongolia. It is dated
1287 and states that Naian did not hold the Buddhist faith. Cf. POZDNÉEV,
Mongoliya, vol. II, p. 328.

30
NOTICES OF CHRISTIANITY
Mohammed; the Jews, Moses; the Idolaters, Sogomon Borcan,
who was the first god among the idols; and I worship and pay
respect to all four, and pray that he among them who is greatest
in heaven in very truth may aid me. But the great Khan let it
be seen well enough that he held the Christian Faith to be the
truest and best-for, as he says, it commands nothing that is not
perfectly good and holy. But he will not allow the Christians to
carry the cross before them, because on it was scourged and put to
death a person so great and exalted as Christ.
"Some one may say:
Since he holds the Christian faith to
be best, why does he not attach himself to it, and become a
Christian? Well, this is the reason that he gave to Messer Nicolo
and Messer Maffeo, when he sent them as his envoys to the Pope,
and when they sometimes took occasion to speak to him about the
faith of Christ. He said: How would you have me to become a
Christian? You see that the Christians of these parts are so
ignorant that they achieve nothing and can achieve nothing,
whilst you see the Idolaters can do anything they please, insomuch
that when I sit at table the cups from the middle of the hall come
to me full of wine or other liquor without being touched by
anybody, and I drink from them. They control storms, causing
them to pass in whatever direction they please, and do many other
marvels; whilst, as you know, their idols speak, and give them
predictions on whatever subjects they choose. But if I were to
turn to the faith of Christ and become a Christian, then my barons
and others who are not converted would say: What has moved
you to be baptized and to take up the faith of Christ? What
powers or miracles have you witnessed on His part? (You know
that the Idolaters here say that their wonders are performed by
the sanctity and power of their idols.) Well, I should not know
what answer to make; so they would only be confirmed in their
errors, and the Idolaters, who are adepts at such surprising arts,
would easily compass my death. But now you shall go to your
Pope, and pray him on my part to send hither an hundred men
skilled in your law, who shall be capable of rebuking the practices
of the Idolaters to their faces, and of telling them that they too
know how to do such things but will not, because they are done
by the help of the devil and other evil spirits, and shall so control
the Idolaters that they shall have no power to perform such
things in their presence. When we shall witness this we will
denounce the Idolaters and their religion, and then I will receive
baptism; and when I shall have been baptized, then all my barons
and chiefs shall be baptized also, and their followers shall do the
like, and thus in the end there will be more Christians here than
exist in your part of the world!
1 Sakyamuni Burkhan (H. YULE).

FROM MARCO POLO
31
"And if the Pope, as was said in the beginning of this book,
had sent men fit to preach our religion, the great Khan would
have turned Christian; for it is an undoubted fact that he greatly
desired to do so.]"
"LXXXVI (LXXXVII). And you must know that all
the Tartars keep festival on their birthdays. And the great
Khan was born on the twenty-eighth day of the moon in the
month of September. And on that day is held the greatest
festival excepting that which they hold on New Year's Day,³ as I
shall tell you hereafter.
"LXXXVII (LXXXVIII).
And on this day the
idolaters, and all the Christians, and all the Saracens, and every
description of people, make great praying and great
to the idols and to their gods that they may save their lord, and
grant him long life and happiness and health.
"14
"XCIV (XCV).
And you must know that no
persons who die are buried in the city, but if they are idolaters
they are carried to the place where the corpses must be burnt,
which is outside all the suburbs. And if it be of one belonging
to a religion, the custom of which is to bury, such as the Christian,
the Saracen, or what not, it is also carried out beyond the suburbs
to a distant place assigned for the purpose.
5יי
"[. So Vanchu and Chenchu, having come to this
conclusion, proceeded to communicate it to the chief people among
the Cathayans, and then by common consent sent word to
their friends in many other cities that they had determined on
such a day, at the signal given by a beacon, to massacre all the
men with beards, and that the other cities should stand ready to
do the like on seeing signal fires. The reason why they spoke of
massacring the bearded men was that the Cathayans naturally
have no beard, whilst beards are worn by the Tartars, Saracens
and Christians. And you should know that all the Cathayans
detested the Great Khan's rule because he set over them governors
1 Marco Polo, vol. I, pp. 348, 349. Only the beginning of the first
sentence is in Recueil de Voyages et de Mémoires, p. 86, where the chapter
ends quite differently. Ramusio's interpolation (in square brackets) is not
found in the old MSS.
1215.
2 Kubilai was born on the 28th day of the eighth moon (23 September),
Cf. Yüan Shih, c. IV, fol. 1ro.
3 Or: "is held a greater festival than they hold on New Year's Day,"
fait le greingnor feste qu'il font le chief de l'an.
A Recueil, etc., pp. 95,96, Marco Polo, vol. I, pp. 386-388.
5 Recueil, etc, p. 106, where the second sentence is much shorter and
makes no mention of Christians or Saracens; Marco Polo, vol. 1, p. 414.
The city is Khanbalig or Peking, where the rule is still in force. Two or
three old graves are however to be seen in the barbican of one of the gates
of Peking. The rule is strictly enforced in some other large cities in China.
but is by no means universal.

32
NOTICES OF CHRISTIANITY
who were Tartars, or still more frequently Saracens, and these
they could not endure, for they were treated by them just like
slaves. You see the Great Khan had not succeeded to the
dominion of Cathay by hereditary right, but held it by conquest;
and thus having no confidence in the natives, he put all authority
into the hands of Tartars, Saracens, or Christians, who were
attached to his household and devoted to his service, and were
foreigners in Cathay.
ויין
"CXVII (CXVIII). When one has passed this river then
he finds and enters the province of Carajan, which is so large
that it includes seven kingdoms.
At the end of these
five days (westwards from the river) one then finds the capital
city and that which is chief in the kingdom, which is called Yachi
and is very great and noble. There are numerous merchants and
craftsmen. They are of several kinds, for there are those that
worship Mohammed, and idolaters, and Christians who are
Nestorian.
112
1 Marco Polo, vol. I, p. 418. This extract is from the Ramusian
chapter Concerning the oppressions of Achmath the Bailo and the plot that
was formed against him. Vanchu and Chenchu were the ringleaders of the
plot. The assassination of Achmath by the Chiliarch (FF Chien-hu)
王善 Wang Chu and his accomplices 高和尙 the monk Kao and 張易
Chang I, on 27 or 28 April 1282, is described in the Yüan Shih, very briefly
c. XII, fol. Ivo, and in detail very similar to Marco Polo's story in the
biography of Achmath (A-ho-ma) c. CCV, fol. 3 v. Kubilai who
was at Chagannor was informed at once and despatched among others
Po-lo to investigate the matter at Peking. Wang Chu was captured
on 29 April, Po-lo is said to have reached Peking on the 30th, and the
conspirators were executed on 1 May. The identification of Po-lo with
Marco Polo who was on the spot when all this happened proved too
tempting to DE MAILLA, who is quoted to that effect without question by
Col. YULE (vol. I, p. 422). It is perhaps possible that Vanchu and Chenchu
represent Wan-hu "a commander of 10,000" and Chien-hu a
commander of a thousand," respectively. In this case Vanchu would cor-
respond to the mock prince (F) who was brought from his horse by
the Captain of the standing garrison of the city" (1)
amid an indiscriminate shower of arrows, and Chenchu would be Wang chu
the originator of the plot.
With regard to the position of Christians in the Empire Rashid ed Din
says that the members of the Imperial Council (Tsai-hsiang) were "taken
from the nations of the Tajiks, Cathayans, Ighurs, and Arkaun [Chris-
tians]. Cf. Marco Polo, vol. I, p. 432.
יי
2 Recueil, etc., pp. 131, 132, Marco Polo, vol. II, pp. 64. 66. Carajan
(Ha-la-chang. Cf. Yüan Shih, cc. VIII, fol. 7ro, XXXV, fol. 5v°,
etc.) is Yünnan; the river, Brius, is the Chin-sha chiang; Yachi (
Ya-ch'ih) is the city of Yünnan. The presence of Moslems and Christians in
that remote region may very probably have been due to the influence of the
great Moslem Seyyid Edjell Omar and the keen Christian Mar Sargis (cf. A.
VISSIERE, Etudes Sino-Mahometanes, 1re Sér., and p. 40 below) respectively.
The Seyyid Edjell is thought by some to have been the chief founder of the
present Moslem population of West China. Cf. Recherches sur les Musulmans
Chinois, p. 435. The Yuan Tien-chang c. XXIV, fol. 13r°, mentions
both Christians and Moslems as in Yünnan in the year 1295.

FROM MARCO POLO
33
"CXXX (CXXXI). Cacanfu is a great and noble city of
Cathay, and is towards the south. The people are idolaters and
burn their dead. They are subject to the great Khan and have
paper money. They live by trade and handicrafts, for they have
plenty of silk:
[There are also certain Christians at
this place, who have a Church.]
ויי
"CXLIII (CXLIV). When one leaves Tiju, he goes to the
south-east one day through a very beautiful country where there
are numerous villages and houses, and then he finds a noble city
and great which is called Yanju. And you must know that it is
so great and so powerful that it has under its dominion twenty-
seven cities great and good and of great trade.
In this city one
of the twelve barons of the great Khan has his seat, for it has
been chosen to be one of twelve Sings.2 They are idolaters.
Their money is of paper, and they are subject to the great Khan.
And Mr. Marco Polo himself, he of whom this book speaks,
governed this city for three years. They live by trade and handi-
crafts, for they make there armour for knights and men at arms
in very great quantity; for I tell you in all truth that in this city
and its neighbourhood a large number of troops are stationed for
its protection. There is nothing else to mention.
3 יי
1 Recueil, etc., p. 149, Marco Polo, vol. II, p. 132. Cacanfu is identified
with Ho-chien fu. Cf. Yüan Shih, c. LVIII, fol. 9v°.
2 Recueil, etc., reads sajes.
3 Recueil, etc., p. 160, Marco Polo, vol. II, pp. 153, 154. Tijuis perhaps
Tai chou in Kiangsu, which is however east and not northwest of
Yanju. Yanju is certainly Yang-chou of the Grand Canal. Colonel
YULE thought that Marco Polo was governor of at most the circuit (lu)
of Yang-chon, and that probably between the years 1282 and 1287. He
only claims to have been governor of the city.
The Empire was divided thus: Metropolitan Province (1
Chung-shu-sheng), 1; Provinces (17 Hsing-chung-shu-sheng), 11;
Circuits (Lu), 185; Prefectures (ff Fu), 33; Sub-prefectures (Chou),
359; Districts (Hsien), 1127; besides some other divisions. And there
were also a large number of groups of lu called Tao. The total number
of cities in the Empire may have been about 1450. Yang-chou lu seems to
have comprised twelve cities, but the city was also the capital of
Huai-tung tao which included twenty-eight cities, that is, precisely Yang-
chou itself and "twenty-seven cities great and good." In the constant
changes of the administrative divisions which were necessary while the
country was being subdued, this region was called a Province (
17 in 1276, changed to HF Yang-chou-lu tsung-kuan-
fu in 1277, to Huai-tung-tao hsüan-wei-ssu in 1278, to a
Province (17) again in 1282, to Huai-tung tao again in 1284, to a
Province again in 1285, to Huai-tung tao on 6 March, 1289, and, perhaps
finally, in 1291. It is not improbable that the Province of 1282 and 1285
had the same extent as the Tao.
The twelve Provinces of the Empire given above must not be taken
too hastily to confirm Marco Polo's figure, as several of the Provinces
enumerated in the Yüan Shih were only created after he had left China.
But the alterations were at first so frequent that there may have been

34
NOTICES OF CHRISTIANITY
"CXLVIII (CXLIX). Chinghianfu is a city of Manzi.
The people are idolaters and are subject to the great Khan; and
have paper money. They live by trade and handicrafts. They
have plenty of silk. They make cloth of gold and silks of many
fashions. There are rich merchants and great. They have
plenty of venison and of game both beasts and birds. There are
two Churches of Nestorian Christians; and this happened there in
the year MCCLXXVIII of the incarnation of Christ; and I will
tell you how it happened. It was true that never had there been
there monastery of Christians nor Church of the Christian God
until in the year MCCLXXVIII. Mar Sargis, who was a Nestorian
Christian, was governor there for the great Khan three years.
And this Mar Sargis had these two Churches made there, and
from that time to this there are Churches while before was no
Church there nor Christians. Now we will leave this matter and
will tell you of another city exceeding great, which is called
Tinghingiu."
"CXLIX (CL). When one leaves the city of Chinghianfu
he goes three days towards the south-east always finding numerous
twelve Provinces also at an earlier date.
With regard to Marco Polo's supposed confusion of the twelve Barong
and twelve Sings, it should be remembered that the Metropolitan and
Provincial administrations were all alike called Chung-shu-sheng or, com-
monly, Sheng; that the offices used by them were also called Sheng-the
capital city of each Provincial administration being probably a Sheng as
well ("for they call Khanzai a Shing"); and that, in spite of Rashid ed Din,
n Cheng-hsiang was at the head of each provincial administration.
It seems that at first the Cheng-hsiang at the metropolis were responsible
each for the affairs of such a region, but that later regular provincial
ndministrations were formed, the staff bearing the same titles (
Cheng-hsiang, Ping-chang-cheng-shik, etc.,) as those at the
metropolis but being of lower rank (pin). The eleven or twelve mem-
bors of the metropolitan staff were called collectively Tsai-hsiang and
their president (Chung-shu-ling) was generally the heir apparent.
Ct. Marco Polo, vol. I, pp. 432, 433, Yüan Shih, cc. LVIII, LIX, LXXXV,
XCI, etc.
For the existence of Christians at Yang-chow at a later date see Odoric
in Cathay, etc., 1913, vol. II, p. 210, and the
Yuan-tien-chang
c. xxxvi, fol. 36v-38°. The latter passage details a dispute which was
referred to the central Government in August 1317, in which
Ao-in-han the head of the Christian monastery at Yang-chou (
Ji) was concerned. It states incidentally that Ao-la-han's father
had founded the monastery some years before (4
A). I owe this reference to M. PELLIOT.
1 Recueil, etc., p. 165, Marco Polo, vol. II, pp. 176, 177. Ching-hian-fu
is 7 Chên-chiang fu (Chinkiang). For this passage, which is one of
those in which Marco Polo's accuracy has been most thoroughly confirmed,
seo Chinese Recorder, 1875, pp. 108-113, and
Chih-shun
Chen-chiang chih, c. IX, fol. Svo-9°, 12v°, 18r, 24r°-25r, c. XIX, fol.
12r, etc. The Latin MS. 3195 (cf. Recueil, etc., p. 423) has: In ista civitate
sunt tres ecclesiæ christianorum nestorinorum. Tinghingiu is the original
form of the last name, and not Cinghingiu as printed in the Recueil.

FROM MARCO POLO
55
35
cities and villages of great trade and business. They are all
idolaters, and subject to the great Khan, and have paper money.
And at the end of three days then one finds the city of Chinginju
(Tinghingiu) which is very great and noble, and the people are
idolaters and are subject to the great Khan.
And so
I will tell you an evil thing that those of that city did, and how
they paid dearly for it. It was so that when the province of
Manzi was taken by the troops of the great Khan and Bayan was
in command, it happened that this Bayan sent a part of his men
who were Alans who were Christians to this city to take it. Now
it came to pass that these Alans took it, and entered into the city,
and found there such good wine that they drank so much of it
that they were all drunken, so that they slept so soundly that
they perceived neither good nor ill. And when the men of the
city saw that those who had taken it were so transformed that
they seemed dead men, they made no delay but immediately in
that night slew them all, that never a single one of them escaped.
And when Bayan, the commander of the great army, knew that
those of this city had slain his men so treacherously, he sent there
a large body of his men and took it by storm, and so I tell you
quite truly that when they had taken it they slew them with the
sword; and in such manner as you have heard were there so
many dead men in this city. So we will leave this place and go
forward and will tell you of a place called Suju." 1
Though
1 Recueil, etc., pp. 165, 166, Marco Polo, vol. II, pp. 178, 179.
no good explanation of Marco Polo's name has been given yet, there is
no doubt that Chinginju or Tinghingiu is Ch'ang-chou on the Grand
Canal. Ch'ang-chou comprised the two District administrations of
Chin-ling and it Wu-chin. Cf. Yüan Shih, c. LXII, fol. 2v°.
The city had surrendered to the Mongols on 30 March (or 12 April),
1275, but was recaptured by the Sung officers Chang Yen and 99
Liu Shih-yung on 17 June. In October
Wang Liang-ch'en (or
Hu-ch'ên), who had given up the city in April and had escaped in
June, led a force of northern troops' to attack it. Liu Shih-yung and
Wang An-chieh went out to meet him and defeated him. Next day
however he managed to come up to the city walls, when the gates were
suddenly opened and the Chinese troops came out to battle. The attacking
Mongol forces were slaughtered wholesale, and the survivors fled only to
fall into an ambush set by Liu Shih-yung, so that in the end less than half
of them escaped. The siege seems to have continued, however, for in
November a relief party sent by Wên Tien-hsiang arrived and was
repulsed with great loss by the Mongols on the 15th and 16th. The Yüan
Shih seems to place this attempted relief during the final assault which
began with the arrival of Bayan on 4 December and ended with the capture
of the city on the 6th. A great slaughter of the Sung troops followed;
Wang An-chieh was captured and beheaded, and Liu fled to Soochow.
Native accounts do not mention either the Alans or the wine, but it is
recorded that more than one Alan officer with his men followed Bayan on
this expedition against the Sung, and elsewhere one or two Alan officers
were murdered in the same treacherous way, cf. Yüan Shih, c. CXXXII,
fol. 1r°, 2v°. While the city held out the country round had suffered in-
describable horrors. The people were caught and killed, and their flesh

36
NOTICES OF CHRISTIANITY
"CLI (CLII)
And again you must know full
truly that in this city are 160 tomans of fires, that is to say 160
tomans of houses, and I tell you that the toman is ten thousand
and then you must know that there are in all 1,600,000 houses, and
amongst them are a great number of rich palaces. There is one
church of Nestorian Christians only.
"CXCVII (CXCVIII)
ניי
Now it was so that in the year MCCLXVI of the incarnation of
Christ this King Kaidu with his cousins, of whom one was named
Yesudar, assembled a very great force and made an expedition to
attack two of the barons of the great Khan who were Kaidu's own
kinsmen, but held lands under the great Khan; one was named
Tibai or Chiban. They were sons of Chagatai who was a baptized
Christian and own brother to the great Khan Kubilai. And what
shall I tell you about it? Kaidu with his host engaged those two
cousins of his who had also a very great force so that both one
party and the other had about a hundred thousand horsemen.
They fought together right hardily and many were slain on either
side, but in the end King Kaidu conquered and made great havoc
of those men. But so you must know that the two brothers who
were cousins of King Kaidu escaped unhurt, for they had good
horses which carried them swiftly
And after that
he had won this battle as you have heard he returned to his
country, and stayed there two full years in
Now
peace.
it came to pass that at the end of two years King Kaidu
assembled a great host, so that they were a vast multitude of
horsemen. He knew that at Karakorum was the great Khan's
son Nomogan and with him was George the son of the son of
Prester John. These two barons had also a vast force of cavalry.
And what shall I tell you of it? King Kaidu, when he had
cooked, and the fat made into balls which were apparently fired into the
city out of cannon to make the woodwork of the buildings more inflammable.
"Carpini relates," writes Col. YULE, "that the Tartars, when they cast Greek
fire into a town, shot with it human fat, for this caused the fire to- rage
inextinguishably." The quaint diary of one of those who went with the
Sung Empress from Hangchow to Khanbalig and Shang-tu has been
preserved and testifies to the horrors of this siege; "Early on the 16th
(3 March, 1276) the boats reached Ch'ang-chou. The roads were blocked
with the ruins of the burnt houses, the canal was filled with the corpses of
the slain, and the stench was intolerable. [The corpses were] far more here
than anywhere else. We next passed Pên-niu-chên and at night we
stopped at Lü-ch'êng; heaps of white bones piled up like mountains."
cf.
Chien-tang-i-shih, c. VII, fol. 7, c. IX, fol. 3, and Yüan Shih
c. VIII, ff. Sv°, 10r°, 11v, c. CXXVII, fol. 4v°, Marco Polo, vol. II,
pp. 180,181. Suju is Su-chou, then called officially 2 Ping-chiang.
1 Recueil, etc., p. 172, Marco Polo, vol. II, p. 192. The city is Kinsay
(Ching-shih) or Hang-chou. For the one church, which had
been built by Mar Sargis, see Chih-shun Chên-chiang chih, c. IX, fol. 9r°.

FROM MARCO POLO
37
assembled all his men, left his kingdom with all his host and set
out; and they rode on their journey without meeting with any
adventure worth mentioning until they were come near to
Karakorum where were the two barons with their vast hosts.
And when these two barons, that is the son of the great Khan
and the son of the son of Prester John, knew how that Kaidu was
come into their land with so great a host to fight against them,
they did not show alarm but showed that they had courage and
valour.
You must know in all truth that on the
third day after the son of the great Khan was come there and
the son of Prester John early in the morning each of the
parties armed themselves and prepared themselves as best they
could.
And without doubt King Kaidu showed here
and on the other side the son
great prowess in arms
of the great Khan and the son of the son of Prester John
did right well also.
At night they rested very gladly
for the labour which they had endured that day in this
great and deadly battle. And when the morning was come King
Kaidu
with all his men mounted on horseback and set
out to return to their country. And when the son of the great
Khan and the nephew of Prester John saw that King Kaidu and
all his men were gone, they did not go after them, but let them go
free, because they were very weary and very tired.
ויי
1 Recueil, etc., pp. 246-252, Marco Polo, vol. II, pp. 459-462. Kaidu,
Nomogan and King George (who was of course neither the grandson
nor the nephew of Prester John) are familiar figures in Chinese history, but
it does not seem as if this particular battle had been certainly identified.