JOURNAL
OF THE
NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF THE
ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.
ARTICLE I.
NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.*
BY
HERBERT A. GILES,
H. B. M.'s Consular Service.
HE Figures of Rhetoric have been scientifically classified
THE
follows:-
I.-Figures of Similarity.
1.—Simile.
2.-Metaphor.
3. Personification.
4.-Allegory.
II. Figures of Contiguity.
1.-Metonymy.
2.-Synecdoche.
III.-Figures of Contrast.
1. Antithesis.
2.-Epigram.
3.-Hyperbole.
4. Climax.
5.-Interrogation.
Read before the Society on the 28th October, 1881.

2
NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
6.-Exclamation.
7.-Apostrophe.
8.-Innuendo.
9.-Irony.
and it is in accordance with these divisions and sub-divisions
that the following Notes have been prepared.
This subject has been treated more or less at length by
several writers on Chinese composition; notably, by Prémare
in his Notitia Linguae Sinica, by Gonçalves in his Arte China,
and by Watters in his Essays on the Chinese Language.
Neither, however, of the above-mentioned three authors have
attempted anything like classification; Prémare and Gonçalves
having mixed up Figures of Rhetoric with Figures of Syntax,
indiscriminately, while Watters in his otherwise scholarly and
valuable Essays seems to have included all figures of similarity
and contiguity under the one head of metaphor. For instance,
Gonçalves gives under Syntaxe Figurada (p. 179) Climax,
Metaphor, and Metonymy, as well as a whole host of such
figures as Polysyndeton, Epanadiplosis, Antanaclasis, etc., etc.,
legacies from the schoolmen of ancient Greece, who by their
pedantic refinements would have reduced the art of rhetoric to
the level of a mechanical toy. And Watters (China Review,
V., p. 215) speaks of "that kind of metaphor by which the
part is made to represent the whole or the individual the
species," this being of course the separate figure of synecdoche;
while of the three illustrations adduced, namely, for person
or individual, p for sect or school of philosophy, and for
pork, only the last one falls under the head of synecdoche, the
two first being excellent examples of metonymy.
CLASS I.
1. Simile. This figure consists simply in likening one thing
to another. The things compared must, however, be different
in kind; and the comparison must not be pushed to excess, or
it degenerates into hyperbole (q. v.).

NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
3
The choice of similes by Chinese writers presents but few
points of special interest, being in fact, with due allowance for
difference of environment, almost identical with that dictated
by the canons of western literary taste. Life is compared
with a dream, death with sleep, rosy cheeks with peach-
blossoms, etc., etc.
E. G.
: eyes as black as lacquer.
u: spokes and axles like clouds (in
number); sc. many chariots. See
synecdoche.
Ja mouth like a knife; sc. cutting in speech.
F: her tears fell like rain.
A tipsy man is said to be
"as drunk as mud," in
reference to a certain marine creature which when taken out
of the water lies like a lump of mud, thus affording an instance
of a simile within a simile.
The poet Li T'ai-poh likened man in his mortal state to the
dust on the high road, blown hither and thither at the caprice
of every changing wind:-"
人生無根带
飄如陌上塵
He likened the moon-beams playing on the floor round his
bed to hoar-frost lying on the ground:-
床前月明光
疑是地上霜
He also compared the human face with the flowers of the
garden, and found that neither yielded in beauty or expression
to the other:-
花面不相饒
So, too, we read in the Hung-lou-méng (ch. VI.) of P'ing-'rh,
that
she was as beautiful as a flower and as bright-
looking as the moon.
2. Metaphor. Some readers may possibly be glad to be
reminded that a metaphor is simply a simile in a word, the

4
NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
metaphorical application of the word being altogether foreign
to that in which it is commonly employed.
Of all figures of speech this is the one most constantly to be
met with in Chinese literature, a fact to be ascribed in a great
measure to the peculiar nature of the written language. For
instance, the Chinese say "iron proofs" for the more
expanded "proofs as irresistible as iron," reducing the simile
to a metaphor by a process of condensation which is the alpha
of success in every department of Chinese composition. Thus
we have
a willow waist.
cherry lips.
A: a "fowl's sinew" man; se. a very thin man.
: a "fly's head" affair; sc. tiny, much as wo
say "pin's head."
the foot of the hill.
and so the matter slept; sc. dropped.
# "father and mother officials"; sc. magistrates
who are entrusted with the more im-
mediate welfare of the people at large.
偶有所欲意一而婢已致之: whenever he
wanted anything, the thought would
hardly sprout before the maid had brought
it to him.
so as to leave no handle for ridicule.
washed by the rain and combed by the
wind (said of the hardships of travel).
"a bushel room"; sc. a small room, no bigger
than a bushel measure.
"bushel characters"; sc. enormous characters,
as big as a bushel measure.
Mixed metaphors are to be found in Chinese as in other
languages, occurring sometimes in the works of the best.
authors. The following example is taken from the writings of
Lan Lu-chow:-

NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
5
平地與無風之波:to stir windless waves upon
up
a level ground; sc. to make needless trouble.
3. Personification.-This figure is also known as prosopoparia.
It consists in attributing life and mind to inanimate things.
Thus, "heaven," which was originally nothing more than
the blue æther overhead (cf. the Taoist form), has become
endowed under the influence of superstition with the form and
attributes of a human being. The people speak of
"the old gentleman of the sky," and Han Wên-kung in the
most famous of all his polished essays writes
上天鑒臨:I call God to witness.
And à propos of a story in the Liao Chai narrating the total
destruction by thunder of a virtuous family, the commentator
remarks that he thought it was only wicked people who were
thus visited, adding "Truly the muddles of God Almighty are
many indeed!" AMTE. In another pas-
sage, however, referring to the preservation of a notably filial
son out of the wreck of seventeen or eighteen entire cities
destroyed by an earthquake, the same writer says "After this
who will say that God Almighty does not know black from
white?”誰謂天公無皂白耶
Earth is not unfrequently personified in a similar manner;
e.g-終日被人欺神明天地知 “and if after all men do
oppress you, the spirits will see it and Heaven and Earth will
know it." Hence too such phrases as "queen Earth,"
to which may be added the "God of Hail," or
the "Angel of Pestilence," and E "Neptune"
(sc. the sea) also used in the slang sense of "Davy Jones' locker."
4. Allegory. An allegory is simply a metaphor expanded
and sustained through all its parts. It is impossible here to do
more than indicate where specimens of Chinese allegories may
be found in translation. The of Han Wên-kung ap-
peared in the Shanghai Courier of 12th July, 1879; "Sleep-

6
NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
land,", by Su Tung-p'o, and "Hunger-land,"
by Lan Lu-chou, were given in vol. VI., No. 6, of the China
Review, and several good examples will be found in the Liao
Chai, notably "The Wolf Dream," . It may not be un-
interesting, however, to note here the Chinese equivalents of
"metaphor," "allegory," etc.; more especially as considerable
confusion has prevailed hitherto among sinologues as to the
proper employment even of their own native terminology. For
instance, Dr. Williams in his Syllabic Dictionary, p. 1128,
translates "metaphorical, by metonymy," thus attribut-
ing to a single term the meanings of two quite distinct rhe-
torical figures. On pp. 973 and 1129 he further renders
"metaphorically, in a figure," and "a metaphor etc.,"
respectively.
As regards, lit. "to borrow the sense," there can be
but little doubt that it is in every way a most apt analogue of
"metaphor," to which figure its use would seem to be ex-
clusively confined, and it matters little that I have no quo-
tations ready to hand in support of this statement.
As regards, abundant proofs are to be found showing
that when employed by competent writers it has invariably the
sense of "illustration."
E. G.:
"Let me take an illustration from war"
(Mencius).
以蠡測海喩人之小見“To measure the sea with
a gourd is a phrase illustrative of persons
with small mental capacity"; sc. those
who would attempt the impossible. See
the 幼學
此言雖小可以喻大奖“This proverb, although
trivial in itself, may be used in illustra-
tion of important matters." See T'ang
Mêng-lai’s preface to the Liao Chai
特假此以喩大道耳 “specially availed of in order
to illustrate the Great Doctrine." See

NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
preface to the
7
L, with reference
to Hsüan Chuang and his travels.
Z: a state of danger is illus-
trated by the phrase "a fish in a frying-
pan."
E: a state of longing is illus-
trated by the phrase "one day like three
autumns."
急之喩曰捧漏沃蕉: a state of haste is illustrated
by the phrase "carry a colander to water
bananas"
To these examples may be added the use of
Pas
a translation of "Esop's Fables," by the learned Mun Mong.
Scientifically speaking, a fable is a short allegory; but the
Chinese have never classified so accurately as that, and are
content to regard fables simply as anecdotes of fiction, without
reference to their strictly allegorical character.
As regards, we may safely write it off as the correct
translation of "allegory," as witness the following instances:-
2: the Nan-hua (by Chuang-tzu)
is full of abstruse allegories. See pre-
face to the 西域記.
: the story of K'ao Cheng-huang is
allegorical. See comment on story No. 1
of the Liao Chai,
and a final example in which both and occur in the same
sentence:-
鲲鹏之喩托物寓言: in the illustration of the
leviathan changed into a roc, these
creatures are employed allegorically. See
commentary to the Nan-hua-ching (ad
init.).

8
NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
CLASS II
1. Metonymy. By this figure one word is put for another;
the word substituted being, in general terms, an understood
accompaniment of the other, or having some existing con-
nection with it.
E. G.:
"light and shade"; st. time.
"dragon robes"; sc. the office of State to which
the right of wearing such robes belongs.
"white head"; e. an old man. Cf. "gray-beard."
"the pot boils"; i. e. the water in it boils.
於是履嚳交錯 “thereupon ensued a great hurrying
to and fro of shoes and slippers"; sc. "of
persons."
"the white food"; sc. rice.
L "the round and square"; ac. the cash, which is
round, with a square hole in the middle.
"the pound and hoe"; sc. the paddy-bird, so
called from the peculiar movements of
its head and neck when searching for
food in the fields,
"the dark and sweet"; sc. sleep.
The following is an example of the matter put by metonymy
for the materiate:-
無半寸防身之鐵 “without half an inch of iron to
defend ourselves with"; precisely as in
English we often speak of the steel,
meaning of course weapons made of that
metal.
Euphemism, which consists in veiling offensive subjects with
polite phraseology, is a sub-head of metonymy; and so also is
that nameless figure by which words are employed in a sense
only to be understood by reference to some historical fact,
some quotation either in poetry or in prose, or other similar
key. Of the latter, the following are examples:-

NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
9
"great officer"; sc. the pine-tree, so called because
the First Universal Emperor (B. C. 221)
once sheltered himself from a storm under
a group of five pines, and in recognition
of their services conferred upon them the
title of the "five great officers."
Jt"this prince" or "this gentleman"; sc. the bam-
boo, so called because when an ancient
worthy was asked why he planted so
many bamboos around his dwelling, ho
replied何可一日無此君“How can
one be a single day without this gentle-
man?" in allusion to the extended use of
the bamboo in almost every department
of Chinese every day life.
"offered himself for the post of sleep-
ing dragon"; sc. as commander-in-chief,
the famous general Chu-ko Liang having
lived in his youth at a place called
Sleeping Dragon Hill.
Of euphemism, instances occur most frequently in connection
with death and burial. Thus "to die" is
to excuse
oneself from the world, or to burst the tumour; "grave-
clothes" are clothes of old age; "the grave" is
terrace of night on the beautiful city, etc., etc.
the
Of the
same class are and E for capital punishment, and
such others as 温柔鄉,破瓜,相公,大便,小便出游,
行房敦倫†櫻梅釘,子孫子孫堂,etc., etc., the
name of which is legion.
Hence, a petty official is never spoken of as J, from the awkward
identity of sound.
† I have once before drawn attention to the unfortunate selection of these
two characters to express the sounds Lon-don in the Chinese desiguation of
the London Missionary Society.

10
NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
2. Synredoche. This figure appears under various forms
and in various disguises of language. Generally speaking, it
may be defined as a rhetorical trope by which the part is put
for the whole, or the species for the genus, and vice versa.
E. G.:
A "not a rafter (se. house) nor a man
left." Said of a deserted site.
"a thousand fingers (i. e. one hundred
persons) eating daily [at his table]."
Cf. "so many mouths to feed."
馬千蹄美人百袂“a thousand hoofs of horses and
a hundred sleeves of girls"; sc. 250 horses
and 50 young ladies. Cf. "so many head
of cattle."
"the scales (sc. fish) in that pond were
all of the dragon family."
"same species as hair or feathers," i. e. an
animal or a bird-a brute beast.
"the hundred names"; sc. the people.
"wait until next melon season"; sc. next
year.
"three autumns"; sc. three years. Cf. "a youth
of twenty summers."
+"sixteen colds and hots," i. e. winters and
summers; sc. sixteen years.
It is by synecdoche that we apply numbers to things in
themselves "not estimable with numerical precision."
E. G.:
"seven parts glad, three parts
not"; sc. more glad than sorry.
By synecdoche, too, the names of celebrated personages are
often substituted for the particular qualities by which they
acquired their reputation. Thus, the names of Mao
Ch'iang and Hsi Tzu, two famous beauties of antiquity,
are frequently put for loveliness in the abstract.
The following sentence aptly exhibits the facility with which

NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
11
in the Chinese language a number of figures may be crowded
into a small space:-
風類雲辔
Here we have two distinct metaphors and two examples of
synecdoche, all within the compass of four words. These
characters mean literally "wind manes clouds reins," or in a
more expanded form "[swift as the] wind manes [used by
synecdoche for horses, and countless as the] clouds reins [used
by synecdoche for chariots]"; that is, "swift horses and
countless chariots." Similar examples are common enough in
Chinese literature, and are easily understood by the general
reader. Compare such a sentence as "Le vin rit dans le cristal,"
an instance of metaphor and metonymy occurring in the short
space of six words,
CLASS III.
1. Antithesis. This figure consists in the institution of a
contrast. It enters very largely into all kinds of Chinese com-
position.
E. G.:
: poor but happy.
The above is an expression of contrast under its simplest
form; a more elaborate example would be
君受虛我被寬傷: you got unsubstantial curses,
but I received a real wound,
in which sentence each of the last four words are directly op-
posed either in form or sense to the corresponding character
of the first four.
As a specimen of secondary antithesis, i. e. where the anta-
gonism of the parts opposed is weaker than in the examples
given above, we may take
cure hunger with food;
ignorance, by study.
Chinese proverbs and household words derive much of their
point from the skilful use of this figure.

12
NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
E. G.: E: it's better to be dead and happy
than living and miserable.
民可使由之不可使知之: the people may be
led, but they cannot be made to under-
stand.
先到為君後到為臣: he who arrives first is prince,
he who follows is minister only.
55: first at the fire, first with his food, i. e.
first come first served.
These last two sayings, the first of which is of very varied
application, exemplify the antithesis (1) expressed and (2)
understood, the contrast being in both cases between and
"first" and "afterwards," though in the latter instance the
actual antithesis is not visible in the text. To rhetorical anti-
thesis, it may be mentioned en passant, an antagonism is ne-
cessary which in merely structural antithesis often almost
entirely disappears.
As an instance of tersely-elegant antithesis of a structural
character, the following are selected from a long list:-
the same table by day, the same
bed at night. (Said of inseparable friends.)
此處夏無大暑冬無大寒花無斷時:here the
summer is never excessively hot, nor the
winter excessively cold, while flowers
bloom all the year round. (From a
description of the Isles of the Immortals.)
來是是非人去是非者: he comes and abuses
others, and then goes away and abuses
the person [to whom he had just been
speaking].
A special kind of phraseology, peculiar as far as I know to
the Chinese language, consists of abstracts formed by the
simple juxtaposition of concretes.
E. G.: lit. "come go," signifies the mutual inter-

NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
13
course of friends, or any similar form of
correspondence.
lit. "many few," is used for "number" in the
abstract.
The following examples will be sufficient to illustrate the
use of antithesis in Chinese poetry:-
有心栽花花不發
˙無意插柳柳成陰
You may set with all care,-yet the flow'ret will fade,
While the chance-planted willow throws o'er you its shade.
萬時不如杯在手
人生幾見月當頭
The cup's in the hand: seize the hour ere 'tis fled;
How seldom in life is the moon overhead!
Disarrangement of the strictly antithetical order of words is
comparatively rare.
E.G.:我不以致富有無: I am not talking about
what the rich can afford and the poor
can not.
規矩方圓之至也: the compasses and the square
are the embodiment of the rectangular
and the round.
There exists one single sentence in the Chinese language for
which, like silver with regard to rhyme, no corresponding anti-
thesis can be constructed. It is
A
smoke envelops the willows by the
pond.
In the characters here employed all the five elements are.
already present, thus leaving according to Chinese rules no
field from which to draw corresponding antithetical terms.
2. Epigram.-Epigram is a term which, like several others
in rhetorical use, has been modified by lapse of time. It seems
to have been originally applied to inscriptions, and from that
to have developed into "a short poem containing some single

14
NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
thought pointedly expressed," taking in on its way all kinds
of titles, advertisements, superscriptions, etc., etc., which might
afford scope for the play of epigrammatic wit.
An epigram need not of course be a poem, though it should
be short; and it should be, strictly speaking, of such a nature
as to rouse the mind by some "conflict or contradiction between
the form of the language and the meaning really conveyed."
Thus it will be seen that the boundary-line between Epigram
and Antithesis is not very clearly defined; unless we confine
ourselves, in common with the best authorities, to such speci-
mens as are distinguished by brevity and some play on words
therein contained. That Chinaman was of an epigrammatic
turn of mind who announced some years ago that
康熙字典有一個錯字
In K'ang Hsi's dictionary there is a word wrong.
setting all the literati of Kiang-su by the ears until some one
discovered that the word "wrong" was the word in question.
It may be mentioned in parentheses that the Pun is a sub-
head of Epigram; and for want of a better example we may
take the old joke of the man who declared he was what sounded
like chin shih "a graduate of the highest degree," but
which he afterwards explained to be chin shih yen
"near-sighted"; or that of the bashful young man who was
likened to a country carpenter because he had only "one
saw," which has precisely the same sound in Chinese as- AJ
"one sentence," sc. nothing to say for himself.
It was decidedly epigrammatic to say that men mostly prefer
自已的文章人家的老婆
Their own compositions, but their friends' wives.
So also it was an epigram by which a certain gentleman
notified the newly-engaged tutor for his son that he should not
squeeze the hand of the waiting-maid who brought him break-
fast and dinner:-
奴手為怒,先生以後勿奴手.
The tutor's reply was in a similar strain:-
人言為信,束家以後勿信人言

NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
15
3. Hyperbole.-: "a black
speck," or "a pill"; these are hyperbolical expressions for a
very small District. (See the .)
a
Hyperbole is the figure by which anything is excessively
magnified or diminished, beyond the limits of truth. Of such
kind is the phrase (see Metaphor) for "a house no
bigger than a bushel measure." Examples are common enough.
E. G.: : he was as tall as a moun-
tain, and his eyes were like two suns.
: as scared as if the sky had fallen.
swift as if riding on the wind.
The snored with a noise like thunder.
1: a nation overthrower; sc. a very beautiful
woman.
: the 10,000 li rampart; sc. the Great
Wall.
Apropos of 10,000 li (say 3,000 miles) the landscapes of the
celebrated painter Wang Fei were said to have been so art-
fully executed that the eye could wander over scenery to this
extent (all within the narrow area of an ordinary fan.
The Chinese delight in hyperbole. They speak of their
children as "dogs," of their friends as "princes," of the Heir
Apparent as "a thousand autumns," of the Emperor as "Lord
of Ten Thousand Years," and of China as "all beneath the
canopy of the sky." The records of their antiquity teem with
examples; while the records themselves go back to a period of
2,269,360 years ago.
Mencius, on one occasion, took the trouble to point out that
hyperbole was a figure of rhetoric, and that its terms should
not be literally construed. "We must not understand," said he,
"that passage in the Odes-'of the black-haired people of
Chow, not a single one was left 周餘黎民有子' in
its literal sense."
4. Climax. Of this, the "ladder" figure, so called because
the mind is carried, as it were rung by rung, up an ascending

16
NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
scale until the final point is reached, the
Ta Hsüo
furnishes no inconsiderable number of examples. E. G.:-
欲治其國者先齊其家,欲齊其家者先修其身,
欲修其身者先正其心,欲正其心者
先誠其意,欲誠其意者先致其知
"[The ancients] desirous of good govern-
ment in the State, began by good order
in the family; to attain good order in the
family, each began by attending to his
own personal demeanour; to attain to
proper personal demeanour, it was neces-
sary to rectify the heart; to rectify the
heart, it was necessary to refine the
thoughts; and to refine the thoughts, it
was necessary to extend knowledge."
5. Interrogation.-This figure, employed to surround a pro-
position with extra rhetorical force, is commonly employed by
Chinese authors. The very first chapter of the Confucian
Discourses opens with three good examples. The first is-
學而時習之不亦說乎
Lit. To learn, and from time to time to practice (what is learnt),
is not that pleasant?
The two following quotations are in a lighter style:-
受人金便當淹禁死耶: because I have taken
a few pieces of a man's money, is he to
shut me up to death, eh?
我或致固簪纓之貫以執鞭發跡何敢媵敔:
though poor, I am descended from a
noble family, and shall this carter fellow
presume to take my daughter for his
concubine?
For two further examples, see Personification.
6. Exclamation.-Of this figure one example will doubtless
suffice.

NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
子曰莫我知也夫
17
"Alas!" said Confucius, "there is no one who appreciates me."
Many similar instances are to be found (e. g.) in the,
where they are usually introduced by some such words as .
So also the proverbial saying-
嗚呼哀哉
人死難猜
7. Apostrophe. This figure consists in suddenly addressing
somebody, or something, absent, as if they were present. Of
such kind are invocations to deities and devils, which are
common enough and are generally prefaced by祝日, or禱曰.
E. G.: 飲則地祝曰河中溺鬼得飲: and when
he drank, he would pour out a libation
on the ground and utter the following
invocation: "Drink, too, ye drowned
spirits of the river!"
For further examples, see the passim.
8. Innuendo. When one Chinaman says that another
reminds him of the fan used by the ruler of the Infernal
Regions, he avails himself of an innuendo; for tradition has it
that the fan in question is black inside, and black-heartedness
has much the same signification in China as elsewhere. So
also when he speaks of people or things as "temple
wares" (i. e. the miscellaneous articles sold at stalls in temples
on religious festivals), he is suggesting that they cannot be
depended upon靠不住 A paragraph in the Shanghai
Courier recently noted the destruction by fire of an ice-house,
and the writer very naturally remarked that it was the last
place where he should have expected a fire to break out. Now
the Chinese frequently use as an innuendo the phrase
"an ice-house burnt down," as applied to events which seem
to be a special manifestation of the will of Heaven, or
destiny. It is also an innuendo to liken a man to a lamp on
the top of an 18-foot pole A. Such a lamp

18
NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
throws indeed its light to a distance, but leaves its own im-
mediate neighbourhood in gloom
and the
sous-entendu is that the individual in question throws more
light upon the faults of others than upon his own. It is an
innuendo to call a man an "earthenware cock", the
implication being that you can't pull a hair out of him
-ET, sc. that he is a stingy fellow. Degeneration in a
family is hinted at by the phrase "a swan hatching ducks"
17, and a cruel mandarin is often spoken of as a
"blacksmith official" whose only thought is to
strike只是打
9. Irony. It is well known that the sense now attached to
this term is of comparatively modern date. Irony, in the time
of Aristotle, signified "saying less than was meant," whereas
we now understand by it "saying the opposite to what is
meant," a figure known to the ancients as Litotes.
E. G.鬻妻子巳大惠“that you should sell your wife
and child was already very kind of
you," which words are spoken by an
angry wife to whom her dissolute hus-
band is about to do some further injury.
The above is irony direct; as an example of the indirect I
may quote the following story from the Liao Chai. A virtuous
young man goes to visit his elder brother who holds office in
a distant part of the empire, and while residing in his yamên
becomes aware of a very extensive system of bribery and cor-
ruption which is daily practised there, to the utter exclusion
of anything at all like justice or impartiality. With tears in
eyes he reports what he has seen and heard to his brother,
who however only laughs at him and says,
**k
不知仕途之關竅耳黜陟之權在上臺不在百姓
1 ... "My brother, your life has been
spent in a cottage, and therefore you do not know the ins and
outs of official life. We look for our advancement or dismissal
to our superior officers, not to the people; hence, he who
his

NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
19
gratifies those in authority over him is the good public servant.
But if a man were to occupy himself with the interests of the
people, how could he at the same time cause gratification to
his superior officers?"
The irony in this passage is of course that of the author and
not of the speaker in the dialogue.
ADDENDUM.
Ellipsis. This figure belongs, strictly speaking, to the pro-
vince of Grammar, though some writers have given it a place
in treatises nominally confined to Rhetoric alone. The written
and spoken languages of China teem with interesting examples.
To begin with a simple instance: we generally find
place of the full expression 查照。 So 西商 is an
ellipsis which might at first sight be understood as applying to
European merchants, and not, as is the case, to the native
bankers of Shansi, who are also familiarly known as
in
or Passing on to more recondite examples, oft-times
difficult of expansion and occasionally even of explanation,
we have
I
lit. Wang-arrow-not-he; i. e., Wang
swore he would never marry anybody
else.
lit. fowl-window-Hung-table; i. e., she
made a very good wife, the full expansion
being, as given by a writer in the China
Mail, "For many years she rose at cock-
crow, as soon as dawn first glimmered
through the window. She was as faithful
as Mêng Kuang, the wife of Liang Hung,
who, when eating, would raise the table
up to her brow as a token of respect."
ulit. concubine-long-prince-like-year;
i. e., "Every day has seemed a year to

20
NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
me since you left," being of course an
address from a wife to a husband.
A beginner might fairly stumble over
, but the in-
sertion of between the two characters makes the phrase
easily intelligible as "ordered the constable." So also
"dark-yellow" is no mean puzzle, until its expansion into
"dark robes, yellow caps" points at once to the
priests who are thus specially distinguished. But of all ex-'
amples of ellipsis pure and simple, i. e. where the knowledge
of no allusion is necessary to elucidate the sense,
commend us to an example quoted in the China Review by
Mr. Parker:
"If [any other] man can
[do] it [in] one [day], [then] I [will give a] hundred [days
to] it [rather than fail]."
1

NOTES ON CHINESE COMPOSITION.
21
ERRAT A.
Page 4 Line 2 for 'that' read 'the sense.'
7, 13, 'Mun Mong' read 'Mun Mooy.'
8 from below, for
"
10
"
"
11
"
دو
3 for
read.
read.
read .
"
"
16
"
وو
16 for 'employed' read 'intended.'
دو
11 12 from below, for
16, 8 from below, for read E.
17
"
12 "
"
"
,,
"
18
وو
4 "
"
A. 14.
"
before 何術復合上臺喜也 insert
上臺喜便是好官要百姓