ARTICLE VII.
SAMSHU-BREWING IN NORTH CHINA.
BY
H. B. GUPPY, M.B.
SURGEON, R.N..
Whilst at Tientsin in the winter 1878-1879, I visited two
of the Samshu breweries in the suburbs of that city, and
made the following notes on the mode of preparation of this
spirit.
The first step in the process is concerned with the produc-
tion of the fermenting-element or yeast. This is obtained by
grinding down a quantity of oats and barley or some other
cereals: the powder is then moistened and shaped into brick-
like cakes, and is kept for a period varying between six and
twelve months before it is ready for use: some of these cakes,
which I observed stowed away like bricks in the corner of one
of the buildings, were much worm-eaten and partially encrusted
with mould. When required for use the cakes of this
fermenting-element are reduced to a fine powder, which is
kept dry and ready at hand. This powder when examined
microscopically is shewn to be composed in great part of the
starch-cells of either barley or wheat, together with a large
number of small disconnected bodies which exhibit a lively
molecular motion when moistened, and are evidently the spore-
cells of the ferment-fungus.
The next stage-that of fermentation-may be thus des-
cribed. In a building, which is kept cool in summer and
artificially warm in winter, a number of large earthen jars
are buried in the ground with their mouths on a level with
the surface; these jars are filled with millet-grains pre-
viously mixed with about five catties of the powdered yeast-
cake, and moistened with water; when filled, each jar

164
SAMSHU-BREWING IN NORTH-CHINA.
is plastered over with mud and covered with millet-refuse;
and there it is allowed to remain undisturbed for ten or
eleven days, during which time the fermentation is in active
operation. On examining with the microscope a small portion
of millet which had been thus fermenting for ten days, I
found it composed of starch-cells scattered sparsely about, and
of an abundance of smaller yeast-cells sometimes disconnected
and at other times developing in chains or rows.
The process of distillation occupies about an hour. When
the fermented millet is taken out from the jars, it is placed in
a large wooden vat or tub, the bottom of which is made of a
kind of grating; and beneath this vat is placed a large boiler
of water which is heated by an adjacent furnace. The steam
ascending through the grating and passing through the
fermented millet finally comes into contact with a cylinder of
cold water; it is there condensed, and trickling off into a
little gutter finds its way out through a long spout in a clear
stream of veritable samshu. After the process is completed,
the vat is emptied of the millet, which is subsequently dried
and sold as fodder for ponies, donkeys, etc.
"Kow-liang" is, I believe, the name of samshu thus pre-
pared from millet. The spirit to which these notes refer, is
that which is in common use amongst the poorer classes in
Tientsin; and in two different samples which I examined the
proportion of alcohol by volume varied between 48 and 54
per cent.
I was informed that the samshu drunk by the
higher ranks is a weaker spirit, and is only prepared on the
approach of the warm season.
H.M.S. Lark.
Solomon Islands, April 13th 1883.