ARTICLE VIII.
NOTES ON SZECHUEN AND THE YANGTSE
VALLEY.
BY
ARCHIBALD J. LITTLE, Esq.
Read 3rd December 1883.
Mr. Little, in introducing his paper, remarked;
that, it was only owing to the urgent solicita-
tion of their energetic President, who had
exerted himself so successfully to procure
papers for the meetings, that he had consented
to produce before the members his notes on a
subject which had been already thoroughly
treated by travellers so distinguished as
Blakiston, Baber, Richthofen and Armand
David. He had gone over no new ground and
had nothing new to tell. He hoped that the
relation of what he had seen would prove
interesting and lead to a discussion on the
points raised in his paper. He would begin
by giving a general outline of the main physical
features of the Yangtse valley and conclude
by a brief account of his journey to Chungking.
The Yangtse River which, traversing the country from
West to East, may be said to divide the Chinese Empire into
two nearly equal portions,-eight provinces being situated on
its left bank with precisely the same number on the South;
two only, Ngan-hui and Kiang-su, lying partly on both banks,
has a course of about three thousand miles in length. For
two-thirds of this distance it runs through a mountain land
in a continuous ravine, the valley being nowhere wider than the
actual river bed. In the lower portion of its course, which
forms the remaining third of the distance, the valley widens
out and the stream flows through an alluvial plain, following

166
NOTES ON SZECHUEN AND
generally the southern boundary of its valley except where it
forces its way through the limestone range which forms the
boundary of Kiangse and Hupeh, above the town of Kiukiang,
past the vertical cliffs called Split Hill and Cock's Head in our
English charts, until it emerges into its delta proper near
Kiang-yin, 110 miles above the entrance to its estuary at
Yangtse cape. The stream issues from the mountains at the
Ichang gorge, just 1,000 nautical miles from its mouth; and
some 50 miles below this point the boulders and gravel of the
upper river disappear to give place to banks of soft alluvium,
the outline of which varies every season, notwithstanding the
gigantic embankments with which it is sought to retain the
stream in its channel. These begin a short distance above
the important emporium of Shasze, situated in the middle of
the great plain of Hupeh, 83 miles below Ichang. Here we
find the river at the time of its summer floods running with a
four and five knot current at a level of 15 or 20 feet above
that of the surrounding country, the great dyke on the North
bank being continuous nearly to Hankow, while the South
bank is open to the floods as far as the eye can reach; a vast
inland sea is then formed, which mingles its waters with those of
the Tung-ting lake proper, from which its outline is undistin-
guishable. The fall of the bed from Hankow downwards must, if
Mr. Baber's observations are to be relied on, be extremely slight.
But for the accuracy for which that model traveller's work is
undeniably distinguished, one would almost be inclined to
doubt his results. A comparison of three years' simultaneous
barometrical readings at Chungking and Sikawei the resumé
of some 4,000 observations given in Mr. Baber's work,
exhibits a difference in level between the two places of only 630
feet. This altitude is correct only upon assuming the two
places to be on the same isobaric, which is hardly likely. I
think, all things considered, we may safely assume the normal
mean pressure at the inland station to be not more than one-
tenth greater than that on the sea-coast, in which case the

THE YANGTSE VALLEY.
167
maximum possible addition to Mr. Baber's altitude would be
100 feet and this puts the height of Chungking at the still
comparatively low level of 730 feet. Let us take half this
difference and assume the level to be 680 feet. Now as the
average rate of the current down the rapids which, large and
small, obstruct the river throughout the whole distance of
400 nautical miles between Chungking and Ichang, is not
less than six knots, the estimate of Captain Blakiston, (another
traveller remarkable for his assiduous work,) of a fall of 14
inches to the mile between these two places, cannot be con-
sidered excessive. This would give a total of 467 feet as the
fall for the 400 miles between Chungking and Ichang, leaving
213 feet only for the 1,000 miles between Ichang and the sea.
It will be interesting, now that an efficient Customs' staff is
engaged at Ichang in recording the needful observations to
test this datum by their results when published. If correct,
it would show that Hankow is little more than 150 feet above
sea level, a fact not gonerally credited. The great fall in the
river bed is as is only natural, in the upper half of its course,
where the stream rushes, as an unnavigable mountain torrent
through the defiles of the almost impenetrable ranges of
Western Szechuen and Thibet, and where Mr. Baber esti-
mates the fall at no less than six feet per mile. The average
speed of the, by comparison, more tranquil lower half of the
river's current, say from Pingshan to the sea, a distance of
1,600 miles is still, as Captain Blakiston points out, double
that of the Nile and Amazon and 3 times that of the Ganges.
The volume of water brought down per second as measured by the
same observer, is at Ichang in June 675,800 feet; that at Hankow
at the same period according to Dr. Guppy of the" Hornet," who
utilised his stay there to carry out an elaborate series of obser-
vations on the subject, being nearly one million feet, the increase
being due to the influx from the Tungting Lake and from the
Han river the only true affluents between these two points.
Compared with these figures it is curious to note that the

168
NOTES ON SZECHUEN AND
water discharged into the sea by the old familiar Thames is
estimated at 2,300 cubic feet per second. Reducing the
figures given by Captain Blakiston for Ichang in June to the
average of the whole year on the basis of Dr. Guppy's monthly
observations in Hankow, we find the discharge at the former
port to be actually 560,000 feet per second for the whole year
round which would make the volume of water at Ichang,
1,000 miles from the sea, just 244 times that of the Thames
at London.
The comparison of the sediment annually brought down by
the respective rivers at these two points is as 2,000,000 cubic
feet to 5,000,000,000 or as 1 to 2,500. Taking the drainage
area of the upper Yangtse at 500,000 square miles and esti-
mating the sediment discharged as above both Captain Blakis-
ton's and Dr. Guppy's figures give a rate of subaerial denu-
dation for the whole catchment basin of about one foot in
3,000 years. This consideration becomes important when we
come to study the geological formation and natural aspect of
the province of Szechuen of which I propose to give a brief
outline before we conclude.
It seems to me a matter of no doubt that in ancient times
the Yangtse River upon leaving the mountains discharged its
waters into the ocean through a series of lakes analogous, in a
way, to the manner in which at the present day the waters of
the Saskatchewan discharge themselves through Lake Winni-
peg and the great Canadian Lakes into the Atlantic. The
remains of these lakes are still visible in the flooded country
which extends each summer many miles back on either bank,
the whole distance from a little below Ichang right down to
Chinkiang, a length of 800 miles. When we see that each
summer nearly half an inch of sediment is deposited and the
level of the surrounding country raised each year to that ex-
tent, we cannot help being struck with two facts: one, the vast
depth of the original lake bottoms; the soil set free by the
erosion of the Szechuen water-courses to a level of many

THE YANGTSE VALLEY.
169
hundred feet below that of the original plain has failed even
now entirely to fill up the vast cavities once occupied by these
ancient lakes: the other striking fact is the very recent for-
mation of the existing landscape. China, in fact, the oldest ex-
tant country politically, is geographically one of the very newest.
A few years more, geologically speaking, and these basins will
be entirely filled and the whole of the sediment brought down
will be available for promoting the advance of the coast sea-
wards, an advance even now so great that every resident of a
few years only in Shanghai has had ocular demonstration of it.
I think then we may assume that the first of these Great
Lakes extended from the Western Mountains, formerly known
as the Y-ling or Hills of the Barbarians, the easternmost
spurs of which are lost near the village of Tungche some
30 miles below Ichang, down to the range of the Wu-hsüeh
hills which occupy nearly one hundred miles, or two thirds of
the distance between Hankow and Kiukiang, and through
which the river flows with a rapid current in a confined channel
joining, much as the Detroit river connects Lake Michigan
with Lake Ontario, this upper lake with the next in the
series of small lakes, through which the river at one time
discharged into the ocean. The first of these I take to be
represented by the plain North of Kiukiang and the valley
west of Ngan-king. Below this again we have the small plain,
of which Wuhu is the centre, forming another lakelet and
connected with the lake above by the winding, rock-infested chan-
nel which flows round Hen Point and athwart the mountain
ranges of Ngan-hui. The Eastern boundary of this lake would
seem to be the hills environing the old city of Taiping-
fu. We then come to Nanking, to the South of which now
stretches a large alluvial plain, 25 miles across, the lower
portion of which is still, for a considerable period of the year,
below the level of the river and which apparently formerly
communicated with the Tai-Hu and the series of lakes of
lower Kiangsu. At the present day we find these ancient

170
NOTES ON SZECHUEN AND
lakes practically filled up, being only just in time to see the
finishing touches being given by the annual summer floods, to
the laud that now occupies their site. Formerly the bulk of
the sediment was arrested in these lakes and the turn of the
delta had not then come. At that time doubtless the river flowed
through "the Pillars" which were then close to its mouth, in a
comparatively pellucid stream, an hypothesis which is confirmed
by the fossils of the old beaches found in the neighbourhood.
I have myself at rare intervals in the depth of a dry winter,
noticed clear water and an absence of current at this very spot.
At the same time, however, we have no reason to expect
that as the banks become thus rapidly raised, in a short
time the floods will cease altogether, natural as this result
would at first sight seem to be:-for, the bed of the river
must be rising simultaneously in the ratio of its extension
seawards, and thus higher and higher banks are constantly
needed.
6
Marco Polo, 600 years ago, in his chapter on the "Great
River Kian" say's "It is in some places 10 miles wide, in others
eight, in others six, and it is more than 100 days journey in
length from one end to the other It seems indeed more
"like a sea than a river."
6
Now if, as is probable, Marco visited the river during the
summer floods, this is no exaggeration and it is curious to
find Colonel Yule critisising this passage as exaggerated and
giving, as a probable explanation, the fact that Marco's
expressions about the river were perhaps accompanied by a
mental reference to the term "Dalai" The sea, which the
Mongols appear to have given to the river.
We thus ascend by a series of wide steps, to Ichang a total
height of about 200 feet. Here, where the river issues from
the mountains, we continue our ascent by a series of short
steep steps, well described by the Chinese as Mên-ka'rh, or
thresholds, and over each of which flows one of the famous
Yangtse rapids "effrayantes cataractes" as they are termed

THE YANGTSE VALLEY.
171
by the worthy Père Amand David; but at the same time rapids
amenable in my opinion to steam power, should the Chinese
ever take the matter seriously in hand and encourage Western
enterprise in that direction. These steps lead us by way of
the celebrated gorges through the limestone ranges which
bound Szechuen on the East and divide it from the wide plain
of Hu-koang, the province of Broad Lakes. We are now in
the Red Basin of Richthofen and traverse the vast modern
sandstone formation of Eastern Szechnen in a ravine cut down
1,000 feet or more below its surface. Here owing to the
softer nature of the rock the rapids are less violent, although
still of almost continuous occurrence and we have always a
fierce current to contend against. These conditions prevail
until, on the one hand, in the Kin-sha-kiang we meet with a
torrent flowing through inaccessible gorges and on the other
hand, in the Min river which, by the Chinese, is regarded as
the true Kiang or inain-stream, we ascend to the unique plateau
of Cheng-tu. This plateau is our next step upwards from Chung-
king and is just 1,000 feet above the level of that city. Beyond this
plain, famous for its fertility and elaborate system of irrigation
and which runs in a N. W. and S. E. direction 90 miles in length
by 40 in width, the mountains on the West, (the nearest conspi-
cuous peak of which is the famous O-shan) rise rapidly to a
height of 12,000 feet and upwards, and form the Eastern bulwarks
of the great Thibetan plateau beyond. This alluvial plain of
Cheng-tu through which now flows a net-work of clear streams
with gravelly beds, was also once a lake whose basin was gra-
dually filled with the boulders and coarser detritus from these
Western mountains. Below that, possibly in tertiary times, we
have the evidence of the sea that formerly occupied the now rug-
ged country of Eastern Szechuen and in which the coal measures
with the superincumbent sandstones of which the surface is now
composed, were deposited. At a subsequent period, as the land
rose, the surface of the former sea-bed must have gradually
become exposed to denudation and then the channels of the

172
NOTES ON SZECHUEN AND
present rivers began to be cut out; and if as seems probable, a
dam then existed on the Eastern border of this sea, it had not
been broken through nor had the gorges, through which the
water subsequently escaped seawards, then been opened.
Through and across this sandstone plain, run a succession of
parallel ranges of limestone mountains, all trending more or
less in a N. and S. direction and rising to a height of 2,000
to 3,000 feet above the sea, forming the "cross ranges"
through which the Yangtse and its affluents now break their
way in a series of magnificent gorges. The intervening
plateaus, originally level, except where tilted up against the
steep flanks of these ancient ranges, have since been worn
away by erosion into a fantastically rugs ed landscape,
reminding one of the picturesque scenery of the Saxon
Switzerland but on a grander scale. Every stream, large and
small, has cut its way down and flows in a steep ravine,
ascending which, except always in the neighbourhood of the
"cross ranges" a small stretch of comparatively level ground
is reached until the next ravine is met with. Hence the land
roads are mainly a succession of ascending and descending
stone staircases, up and down which, the sturdy little Kueichow
ponies, to the manner born, scamper with astonishing noncha-
lance. It is in spots where these sandstone cliff's overhang
the stream that we find the square, port-hole looking, entran-
ces of the ancient cave-dwellers described by Mr. Baber and
spoken of by the modern inhabitants of the province as
Mantze. Coal underlies the whole formation and is exposed
at the surface in the gorges of the Yangtse and its affluents
where these cut through the cross ranges. It is largely
mined, coal forming the staple fuel of the country; the junks
of the upper waters all have their brick chimney and at meal
times when vomiting the soft-coal smoke have the appearance
of antediluvian steamers.
The peculiarity of the Yangtse, as distinguished from the
other great rivers which take their rise in the South-eastern

ward course.
THE YANGTSE VALLEY.
173
corner of the Thibetan plateau, the Irrawaddy, the Salween
and the Mekong, is that, whereas all four, in the early part of
their courses flow close together in parallel valleys running
North and South, the three latter alone continue to follow
the prevailing lay of the mountain ranges and retain a South-
On the other hand the Yangtse, or Kin-sha-
kiang as it is here designated, after accompanying its neigh-
bours down through nearly ten degrees of latitude, upon
reaching the vicinity of Talifu in Yunnan, recurves suddenly
northwards, abandons its associates and strikes out a course
of its own athwart the rows of mountain barriers which fail
to turn it aside from its steady progress to the Eastern sea.
Owing to the circumstance of its course being thus mainly in
a direction transverse to the axes of the ranges traversed by it, we
find its channel down to its emergence in the plains of Hupeh to
be a series of zigzags, consisting of a succession of reaches
running at right angles, alternately S. W. and N. E. and
N. W. and S. E. In the former it runs in comparatively
open ravines parallel to the radial axes of the mountains
enclosing it. In the latter it breaks through them by the
magnificent clefts of the gorges. The strata in these are for
the most part horizontal or only slightly inclined and it would
dapear that they are natural splits in the rocks and not gorges
gradually formed by erosion like that below the falls of Nia-
In some of the gorges, and these spots naturally afford
the most striking views, the split takes a sharp rectangular
turn such as is only likely to occur in horizontal strata with
vertical cleavage, the absence of more extended denudation
being very wonderful and, to me, inexplicable.
gara.
In the outlying spurs which extend Eastwards from the
Ichang gorge we find sandstone and coarse conglomerate, the
latter predominating, isolated ranges composed almost entirely
of conglomerate rising to a height of 2,000 feet and upwards.
South-East of Ichang up the Itu river, a small affluent taking
its rise in Honan, which enters the right bank 32 miles below

174
NOTES ON SZECHUEN AND
Jchang in a country not yet explored by the geologist, copper
has been found; and a native mining engineer in the pay of
Mr. Tong-king-sing was engaged at the time of my visit in
attempting to open up mines of that metal. Extensive iron
mines are worked by the natives along the river's course bet-
ween Wu-shan and Wan-hsien, a distance of 100 miles. The
iron is brought down in the minute bars affected by the native
trade, by numerous small affluents on the left bank, at and
between these two places. The sandstones of Szechuen are
largely impregnated with iron the washings from which give
the red colour to the summer floods. There seems little
doubt that these floods which culminate each summer in
the Hankow plain, are mainly attributable to the spring
rains, the snow from the mountains of the Thibetan frontier
yielding only a limited contribution. On the other hand
these mountains undoubtedly furnish the golden sands of
which a fresh layer is deposited each summer in the river's
bed. Throughout the whole course of the upper Yangtse,
down to the entrance of the Tungting lake, in winter when
the sand and boulder flats are laid bare, gold washing is sten-
dily carried on and a journey up the river immediately before
the spring rise exhibits these flats connected into stretches of
mounds, having the appearance of a native graveyard; this is
due to the refuse heaps of the few cradles employed which are
moved from spot to spot and gradually traverse the whole
bank. The earnings are small but it is worth the while of the
country people to employ their winter leisure at this work.
Their earnings, as I gathered from numerous enquiries on the
spot, seldom exceed 20 cents per day per man, but the steady
supply would seem to indicate the presence of a rich matrix
beyond. Immediately below Kuei-chow-fu or Kuei-koan, the
famous Likin station situated at the head of the big gorges,
salt-wells are in full swing throughout the winter, from the
time the large boulder-bank, through which the borings are
made, is exposed in December until it is again covered in May.
The brine is hoisted to the surface and evaporated, by the aid

THE YANGTSE VALLEY.
175
of coal, on the spot. Having only been able to make a flying
visit last spring, I had no opportunity of stopping to make an
examination of this nor of many other interesting spots. I
propose merely to give you a rapid outline of my journey with
a slight notice of the aspect of the country I traversed. At
the time of my departure from Hankow last February the
river was at its lowest and the Kiang-tung, the steamer by
which communication is maintained with Ichang, had ceased
to run, there being little more than four feet of water in the
channel which meanders through the extensive sandflats at
Sunday Island and Salamis Point, the native name for the
spot being Tien-hsing-chow. Until I arrived in Hankow, I
had no idea that the river was unnavigable for stea-
mers in winter and, misled by the standing advertisement
of the "China Merchants" Company in the North-China
Daily News attached to the departure notice of each Hankow
steaner-taking through cargo for Ichang" I arrived at
Hankow in the expectation of proceeding by steam. I, how-
ever, found myself dependent upon native means of transport
and upon enquiry found that at that time, February, junks
often occupied five and six weeks in the ascent, having to
wait for a fair wind to take them through each of the many
winding reaches which meander through the Hupeh plain.
But only heavy goods take this route. A short cut across the
lakes to the North of the river, which extend from the banks
of the Han to above Shasze, is used for all light traffic. This
route begins in a creek, the mouth of which is situated at a
place called Kin-kou, 7 miles above Hankow, and ends in a
canal, the head of which abuts against the great dyke upon
which the emporium of Shasze is built, thus necessitating a
short portage for all goods destined for Ichang or higher up.
The creek by which the lakes are entered, and which I call
a creek advisedly, although it is known to the natives of the
place as the "Chang-ho" or "Long River," is one of those
peculiar channels which exists throughout the whole of the
lower division of the Yangtse valley and which communicate

176
NOTES ON SZECHUEN AND
with the existing limited remains of the ancient lakes of which
1 just now spoke. Their peculiarity consists in the fact of
their being effluents in summer and affluents in winter. At
one season they drain off the surplus water which they have
conveyed inland in the other; taking the sand-laden water up
and returning it pure. The Yangtse being now at its lowest,
we found the water running out through a narrow channel
between high mud-banks in a six-knot torrent and we tracked
up with three men in the small flat-bottomed boat I had hired
for the trip, with great difficulty. It took us a week to crawl
up this desolate stream whose length I estimated at 60 or 70
miles, the current higher up slackening to a more manageable
speed. At its source in the lakes, however, there was a sharp
overflow, of beautiful bright clear water which we surmounted
not without some trouble and delay. Another week was
spent in traversing the lakes, which consist of a string of
shallow lagoons, from 2 to 10 miles across, connected together
by embanked channels, on and behind which the wretched
looking towns and villages of this poverty-stricken province
are built. The current in these canals was at times favoura-
ble, though generally adverse, making the hydrography of the
district a puzzle which it would require some study thoroughly
to unravel. In one place we passed from a lake into a canal
by a breach in the embankment, through which rushed a tor-
rent of water which necessitated our hiring 20 extra coolies
to pull us through. The lakes were entirely covered with the
Chiaopai, a jointed waterplant, with edible celery-like roots:
the dead leaves and stalks covering the surface in a tangled
mass and contributing another shade of brownish yellow to
the dull monotone of the mud-coloured landscape. The
presence of this water plant enables the lakes to be navigated
in safety during the winter gales by the smallest craft, as no
sea can get up. The channels radiate through the weeds like
roads drawn by a ruler across the map. Millions of water-
fowl have here their winter home, different sections of the lake

THE YANGTSE VALLEY.
177
country being parcelled out among the fowlers who make a
business of netting them: these men pay a fixed tax for the
priyilege and are very jealous of a foreign sportsman. The
fortnight I passed in this boat was one of the worst in the year;
rain and snow-storms were almost continuous and the hills on the
North-West, whence, I was informed by the natives, the excessive
water-supply was derived, were nowhere visible. The lakes
were all above their normal level, the reclaimed portions at
their edges and along the banks of the canals which are culti-
vated with paddy, being all submerged. This state of things
had existed two years during which time no crops had been
reaped and the misery of the residue of population left in the
country and the consequent rebellious spirit of the Hupeh
peasantry, may be imagined. Nearing Shasze the country
assumes a more civilised aspect, the last six miles of the jour-
ney being through cultivated fields and the grave-mounds,
which cover such an extensive surface in the neighbourhood
of all Chinese cities. Arriving at Shasze, and mooring at the
head of the canal, the population, largely composed of Hunan
people, fully maintained their reputation of "barbarian-compel-
ling braves" by saluting me with the too-customary brickbat,
a supply of which obnoxious article seems always ready to
hand in such places. I had to retreat for the night to a se-
questered spot lower down the canal, leaving my native com-
panion to charter a boat on the Yangtse side of the embank-
ment, for the continuation of my voyage to Chung-king. I
may here mention that I paid $6 for the hire of my boat with
three men from Hankow to Shasze and $16 for that from
Shasze to Chung-king; the distance in the one case being
about 200 miles and in the latter 500. The distance by the
windings of the river from Hankow to Shasze is, according to
the admiralty chart, 287 knots. Shasze is the natural meet-
ing-point of the navigations of the Upper and Lower Rivers
and it has thus become the transit station and great inland
shipping emporium for the interchange of Western produce

178
NOTES ON SZECHUEN AND
or "Chuen-ho" i.e. goods from Szechuen, with the cotton,
piece-goods and sea products of the plain and coast. In
this respect its rise and situation are analogous to that of
Hankow at the terminus of the Han navigation and like
that mart, it is built, as its name implies, on a sand-bank sur-
rounded by water and at times entirely submerged in it. The
unruliness of the Shasze population is due to the floating
nature of its inhabitants and the absence of any high official
authority, the nearest walled town being the prefectural city
of Kin-chow where the Taotai resides: this city is situated a
few miles higher up and about a mile inland and is not visible
from the river, its walls and roofs being below the level of the
huge embankment. All along the face of the town this
embankment which, at the time of my visit, towered some
fifty feet above the water, is handsomely faced with stone, not
unlike the somewhat similarly situated British concession at
Hankow. The Chinese speak of Shasze as the "Chên,"
Hankow the "K'ow" and Shanghai the "Hsien " par excel-
lence, of the Empire. There is no doubt that, under present
circumstances, the opening of this port to foreign trade, in
lieu of Ichang, would have been productive of far better
results, although possibly, with steamers running through
Szechuen, a contingency probably contemplated by the ad-
vocates of Ichung, (but who, I am convinced, cannot have
visited the place themselves) a transfer of the trade to the
latter depot may, in time, be effected. At present, that
any transhipments of downward produce at all are made
in Ichang is due to the fact of the half duties, under the
transit-pass system, being payable at the Ichang customs.
Ichang itself is a pattern specimen of the dirt decay and
misery of almost every inland town (always excepting those in
Szechuen) to which the revivifying influence of foreign
contact, direct or indirect, is wanting. Let us hope that the
Chinese authorities, by the real opening up of the rich country
beyond, will do their best to encourage such revival.

THE YANGTSE VALLEY.
179
Notwithstanding that the port has been opened six years, no
merchant has thought it worth his while to settle there,
though there are rumours of more than one effort being about
to be made in that direction. Thus far, the foreign commu-
nity of Ichang comprises only the Customs' staff, the inevi-
table missionary and about the tenth part of a Consul who
has an office here which he periodically visits but who in view
of the barrenness of the field, is considerately allowed to have
his home in Hankow. Shasze is one of the Yangtze stages,
socalled, and the shipment and delivery of goods by steamers
is permitted there under the new Customs regulations promul-
gated in 1877, for that object. But so many difficulties are
connected with the working of these regulations that as yet
the China Merchants Co. has found it impossible to avail of
the privilege.
The distance from Shasze to Ichang is 83 nautical miles
which, favoured by the usual up-river breeze, it took us a little
over three days to accomplish. On the morning of the second
day, I first noticed boulders covering the sand-flats and this
evidence of our approach to the mountains put me in high
spirits after the long monotony of the dreary mud flats I had
hitherto been traversing. Above this the river quickly
changed its character and from a huge ditch with perpendic-
ular walls of crumbling mud became transformed into the
semblance of what we usually understand by a river in Eu-
rope; a clear blue stream with clean gravelly banks along
which one could walk with comfort and pleasure, with high
ground in the near distance. The dejected looking hamlets
of mud and wattle, temporary erections which have to be re-
moved each summer, with no vestige of vegetation near them
and which are the sole signs of human activity visible to a
traveller on the river in winter, gave place to substantial vil-
lages embowered in groves of willow and fruit-trees, these
latter bursting into blossom. The winter wheat which, lower
down, was only just appearing above the ground, was here,

180
NOTES ON SZECHUEN AND
already in early March, over a foot high, the shelter of the
distant mountains inducing a milder climate. Soon the lower
spurs of the hills themselves reached to the bank and on the
third day we coasted for some distance under a veritable sand-
stone cliff 40 feet in height. Thence we sailed past the walled city
of Itu 20 miles from Ichang, to the Tiger Teeth gorge, where the
hills are at length throughout conterminous with the banks.
This gorge, which is situated 10 miles below Ichang consists
of a low range of conglomerate, through which a channel has
been probably eroded by the river. The walls of the gorge,
which is only a mile long, are vertical for about 200 feet only,
steep hills rising from them some 500 feet higher. The con-
glomerate of which they appear to be entirely composed is
coarse and very hard. Ichang itself, situated on the left bank,
is built upon a ledge of conglomerate, formerly an island
submerged in the summer floods, curiously undermined in
places, the actual site of the city being quite level. At the
back is a depression now occupied with paddy fields and be-
hind this the grouud rises gradually to a height of 100 feet at
a mile's distance: the whole is entirely covered with a thick
eruption of ancient grass-covered grave-mounds. Below the
conglomerate ledge there extends, in winter, nearly half way
across the river, a level sand-flat forming the anchorage of the
port. The right bank is steep-to and even now, in winter, a
three-knot current runs under it: in summer the current there
often attains a velocity of seven knots. Upon this bank sand-
stone and conglomerate hills alternate in an unexpected man-
ner, the former being of pyramidal form and the latter, though
almost equally steep, exhibiting more rounded outlines.
Im-
mediately opposite Ichang is a striking isolated pyramidal
hill, 600 feet high, its steepest side descending in an al-
most vertical cliff sheer into the deep water at its base.
This picturesque but obtrusive object is a sad blow to the
complacency of the good people of Ichang. It has the effect,
so the
geomancers say, of conveying the wealth of the place
into the pockets of the strangers who come there and of

THE YANGTSE VALLEY.
181
preventing its accumulation in the hands of the poverty
stricken natives. But a remedy has at last been found and
thirty thousand taels have been collected wherewith to "pu"
or "supplement" the deficient Fengshui. On the rise behind
the town a three-storied temple, which promises to be an
unique work of its kind, is being erected. Let us hope it will
not have the effect of preventing any unfortunate stranger who
may now go to tempt fortune in Ichang from attaining his
desires!
After spending two days at this retired spot, investigating
the curious otter fisheries and enjoying the hospitality of the
genial Commissioner of Customs, I proceeded on my voyage
up the gorges proper. The first gorge commences 5 miles
above Ichang and is known to foreigners as the Ichang gorge
and to the Chinese as the "Hsi-ling-hsia" or Gorge of
the Western Mountains. The reach here is in winter fully
half a mile wide and doubtless was once much wider, the
whole of the low land on the left bank being once probably
under water when the aspect would have been even more
lakelike than now, when in summer the width just below
the gorge is little less than a mile. Expression seems to have
been given to this condition in the district name of Ichang-fu
which is "Tung-hu-hsien" or "district of the Eastern Lake"
Tracking up this reach along the left bank, no signs of the
approaching gorge are witnessed and one would imagine one-
self in a lake with high land on the left hand and in face (by
which, of course, the mountains, through which the gorge is
cleft, are hidden) and low, gently undulating country on the
right. Suddenly we come to a split in the hill on the left
and the entrance to the gorge is before us and we look down
a narrow water alley with walls of limestone rising to pin-
nacles of 3,000 feet on either side. Through this gate, which
is about 400 yards wide, the whole body of water from Sze-
chuen and the country beyond pours forth into the lake-like
expanse below. The contrast is inexpressibly grand. We

182
scene.
NOTES ON SZECHUEN AND
suddenly leave the brawling rapid and find a still, deep current
without a ripple on its surface, flowing with majestic slowness
through a bottomless chasm, and the gloom and the dead
silence add inmeasurably to the imposing grandeur of the
As one penetrates the gorge, which is about 10 miles
long and which takes a sharp rectangular turn near its upper
end, one has leisure to observe the fantastic outline of the
mountain peaks which are composed of pure white limestone.
The first entrance into the gorge produces an impression such
as one experiences once in a lifetime.