ARTICLE III.
NOTES ON THE SOUTH COAST OF
SAGHALIEN.*
BY GEO. C. ANDERSON.
OKUI-KOTAN BAY
Is an anchorage on the South Coast of Saghalien and is used
as a station for collecting and drying seaweed. The shore is
fronted by terrace-like cliffs, with out-crops of shale and pro-
bably coal, which I had no time to examine closely. Behind
the land rises in wooded ridges, presenting the usual Saghalien
aspect. A few miles further east there is a lofty mountain
range with several fine peaks which are useful landmarks in
making the anchorage, here and at the Convict Station Karsa-
kof, which is about six miles further to the westward, round
Cape Endouma.
A fine stream of fresh water runs into the sea at Okiu-Kotan
and ships' boats can water with great ease, there being a deep
hole close to the beach and water sufficient to float any ship's
boat close up to it.
Trout were observed at the mouth of the
stream. The Bay is sheltered from west round by north to
S.E., but the bottom is rock. The rise and fall of tide appears
to be about 4 feet by the marks on the rocks. I made a hasty
rough survey of the Bay and found the water shoal gradually
to 3 fathoms, and then rather suddenly to 13 feet. The best
plan is to stand in with the hut bearing about N.N.W., and
anchor in 4 fathoms; a vessel is then quite far enough in. The
* Read before the Society on the 26th September 1881.

36
NOTES ON THE SOUTH COAST OF SAGHALIEN.
trend of the valleys on this part of the coast is north and south,
while round Cape Endouma it is east and west. The Russians
have constructed a tolerably good road from Karsakof round
to a village called Poran Tomarie, and I heard that this road
was to be carried on to Boussie on the east-side of Aniwa Bay,
and will probably pass close to Okui-Kotan and Chupisani.
There is good wild-fowl shooting to be had at the mouth of
the large river to the westward of Karsakof, but the musquitoes
are very troublesome in the summer. Hazel grouse are found
in the woods, and deer have been seen. Bears are numerous
according to the Russian officers. Sea-lions, seals, and whales
I have seen myself.
A number of Japanese junks come here in the summer and
take away salmon and herrings. There is a Japanese consul
or commercial agent at Karsakof, to whom all Japanese arriving
must report.
It may perhaps be worth mentioning that the Shirum-sha, a
species of wild leek, reputed to be a certain cure for scurvy, is
found all over Saghalien and is largely used by the Russians
and natives all over the north. The Russian soldiers on the
Amoor are very fond of it, and detachments are sent specially
to procure supplies of it for winter use. The smell of it is
much worse than garlic. I was told by an old Okhotsk whaling
captain that he has often, after having lived weeks at sea on
salt provisions, run for the island of Shantar, with himself and
crew almost helpless from scurvy, and after using the Shirum-
sha for a single week they invariably got perfectly well.
also told me that in the vicinity of the Shantar islands there is
a rise and fall of 24 feet in the tides, with very strong tidal
currents in Shantar Strait. It was on Shantar island that the
unfortunate crew of the Nellie perished from scurvy, with
plenty of wild berries and Shirum-sha within reach, had they
known their use and value.
Bonasia betulena.
He

NOTES ON THE SOUTH COAST OF SAGHALIEN.
CHUPISANI BAY
37
Is a tolerably good anchorage about fourteen miles to the east-
ward of Cape Endouma, South Coast of Saghalien.
It is sheltered from west round by north to S.S.E. The
water shoals gradually, and the lead is a safe guide in taking
up a berth. Inside the four-fathom line the bottom is sand,
and further to the eastward the sandy bottom extends for some
distance off shore. To the westward of the Bay the shore and
bottom are alike rocky.
There is a settlement of Russian peasants here, who seem
well off and contented; they raise cattle principally. Fine
salmon-trout, clams, eggs, and milk were procured from them.
The place is sometimes used as a seaweed station, but none is
being collected this year. Fresh water can be procured with
some little trouble from a small stream which runs into the scit
close to Pinnacle Point; also at another stream close to tho
village. There is an out-crop of coal close to the beach; the
surface layers are little better than shale, but doubtless better
coal would be found further in. The Russian peasants stated
they made use of coal which burns well, from a seam three
versts inland, which I was unable to visit. I saw large quan-
tities of what appeared to be iron ore, but it did not feel very
heavy when taken in the hand.
There are some curious Aino graves to the east of the village,
with quaintly carved posts and the remains of small canoes
near them. There are no Ainos here now. I believe these
gentle, honest, but dirty savages to be quite untamable, and
destined to disappear before the advance of the white man.
In Yezo saki is doing the work for the Japanese. They cannot
be got to take to agriculture. The Ainos on the West Coast
of Saghalien are pretty well looked after and taken care of by
the traders, as they are of great value to them; but sooner or
later vodka will find its way among them, and then the end of
this interesting race may bo calculated; for drinking to the
gods, i. e. getting dead drunk when opportunity offers, is part

38 NOTES ON THE SOUTH COAST OF SAGHALIEN.
of their religion, if so it may be called. Beyond the graves
the shore is bordered by low, swampy forest, extending a con-
siderable distance to the eastward, behind which the N.E. ridge
rises; and still further away are seen lofty peaks with patches
of snow on them. To the west all is closed in by a range of
mountains, with a high sharp peak to the north-west.
There is a slight rise and fall of tide here, not more than
four feet, which seems greatly dependant on the winds; our
stay was too short to ascertain exactly about the tides.
From July 9th to 13th, when in Aniwa Bay, we had two
days of light airs and calms. Highest reading of thermometer
69° dry bulb; wet bulb 62°. Barometer 29-896 and stendy.
The rest of the time the wind was from E. and S.E., greatest
force 4. Highest reading of thermometer 65° dry, 59° wet.
Lowest reading 48° dry, 47° wet, at 4 a.m. The sea water
was about 57° average. I have observed that on the coast of
Saghalien in the early part of the season, say from April to
June, the winds are generally from the south-eastward, with
more or less fog; the nearer east the wind the denser the fog;
but there is generally a belt of two to three miles off the west
coast which is clear of fog. If the barometer falls suddenly
with a S.E. wind, the wind will freshen and blow hard for a few
hours, and then fall light, probably finishing at N.W., when
there will be a day or two clear weather.
In July, northerly and N.E. winds prevail in the Gulf of
Tartary. On the Saghalien coast the wind generally comes.
off the land at night. In August the fogs clear away. Storms
of a revolving character are experienced as far north as the
Amoor. On the 19th of last August it blew with hurricane
force at the mouth of the river, the wind beginning at south
and finishing at N. W., with the low rapid scud so well known.
From 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. the gale was at its height, the baro-
meter falling all the time. After 10 p.m. the barometer began
to rise, and the weather rapidly improved. August however
is about the finest month for weather in the year. In Sep-

NOTES ON THE SOUTH COAST OF SAGHALIEN.
39
tember the weather breaks up, and heavy gales may be ex-
pected from anywhere between N.E. and west. Easterly winds
bring snow and rain. Vessels have no business to be on the
west coast of Saghalien between the 15th and 26th of Sep-
tember, as the weather is very uncertain just before and after
the equinox. October is considered a fine month, but liable
to N. W. gales, which however generally give good warning.
With the close of October winter fairly sets in.
HEIGHTS OF MOUNTAINS ON SAGHALIEN
COAST.
(BY TRIANGULATION.)
Western Peak of Kaitsiska Range. Dist. 14 Miles.-3,221 feet
Middle Peak of Kaitsiska Range.
Eastern Peak of Kaitsiska Range.
دو
16
" 18
دو
وو
-3,397"
-3,695"
Taken at noon July 7th, 1881. Fine clear weather.
Stoukambiso Point bore N. 6° W. Eastern Peak N.
37° E. true. Lat. by Obs. 48° 30 N. Long. 141° 55 E.
Mount Lopatinsky. Dist. 18 Miles.-2,866 feet.
Mount Lopatinsky bore S. 35° E. Mayatchnoi Point
N. 11° E. true.