ARTICLE VI.
NOTES ON SOME DIKES AT THE MOUTH
OF THE NANKOW PASS.
BY
H. B. GUPPY, M.B.
SURGEON, R.N.
Whilst remaining a day at Nankow during an excursion to
the Great Wall in November 1878, I came upon three basaltic
dikes cutting through the outcropping edges of the limestone
beds; they were lying close under an old square tower which
is situated on the north side of the small stream where it
passes the town. They pierced the limestone beds at right
angles to the strike: their direction therefore corresponded
with the dip, being S.S. E.-N.N.W; (the beds of limestone
of the district are inclined to the S.S. E. at an angle varying
from 40° to 50°). The smallest of the three dikes, which
was a foot in width, became at one portion of its course
suddenly contracted; and it assumed a rather tortuous outline
before it was lost to view, where its width was about three
inches. The dike adjacent, which was separated by about
four feet of rock, was about two and a half feet across. Next
to it and separated by about two feet of rock was another
dike-also two and a half feet wide. The extent of surface
over which they could be traced I roughly placed at from 25
to 30 yards. The want of correspondence between the por-
tions of the dikes on the opposite sides of a little hollow between
two beds of limestone afforded evidence of a lateral movement;
which, after the consolidation of the intrusive basalt, frac-
tured the dikes and displaced the limestone beds along the
line of strike. There seemed to have been a lateral move-
ment of about a foot in the case of the two left-hand dikes
(vide diagram); whilst the one on the right only exhibited about

160
NOTES ON SOME DIKES AT THE
half a foot of displacement. The limestone in contact with
one and adjacent to the basalt did not display those well-
marked effects of the proximity of an igneous rock which one
might have anticipated. A tendency to become more fissile,
and the formation of concentric concretions some two or three
inches wide which projected above the surface of the rock,
appeared to me to be the most noticeable signs of "alteration."
Such are a few notes on the subject of these dikes, which
deserve a careful examination from any one who may interest
himself in the geology of this region. It is worthy of note
that Sir Charles Lyell in his "Student's Elements of Geology"
describes some dikes of vesicular and amygdaloidal lava near
Palagonia in Sicily, which, as shewn in a ground-plan in his
work (page 532), exhibit evidence of lateral movement as well
as of tortuosity.
H.M.S. Lark, Auckland, N.Z.
March 7th 1882.

MOUTH OF THE NANKOW PASS.
161
DIAGRAM, GROUND-PLAN, &c.
Ground-plan of three basaltic dikes at the mouth of the Nankow
Pass penetrating the limestone-beds at right
angles to their strike.
basalt, cutting across the outcrop.
limestone, cropping out at surface.
hollow, separating the detached portions of the dikes.