ARTICLE V.
SOME NOTES OF A TRIP TO COREA, IN
JULY AND AUGUST, 1883.
BY
G. JAMES MORRISON, Esq.
In placing the following paper before the Society I hope it
will be understood that it is only intended to be of a superfi-
cial character. In first visiting a strange country one sees
many new things, but one is sure to make egregious mistakes
if he generalizes too quickly and on insufficient bases, and I
would rather have the paper characterized as incomplete than
as incorrect.
I left Shanghai on the morning of Sunday the 8th July, and
after a rather stormy passage the Ferrier Islands were sighted
on the morning of Tuesday the 10th.
These islands are at what may be called the entrance to the
harbor of Jenchuan, inasmuch as after passing them the course
lies among islands all the way up to the anchorage. Passing
the Ferriers at about 10 o'clock, we arrived at Roze Island at
about 5 p.m. The official name of the port is Jenchuan
which is the name of the nearest place of any importance, but
the spot where the Custom House has been temporarily located
and where it is purposed to make the foreign settlements, is
called Chi-mul-poo and the port is usually spoken of by that
In front of Chi-mul-poo there is an island called by
the French Roze Island, immediately to the west of which
there is good anchorage for a large number of vessels. The
scenery between the Ferriers and Roze Island is very pleas-
ing when the water is high, but at low tide the vast extents of
mud flats detract much from the beauty of the landscape.
There is a rise and fall of about 28 feet at spring tides at Chi-
mul-poo, and at low water there is a foreshore of mud
name.

142
SOME NOTES OF A TRIP TO COREA,
about two-thirds of a mile in width. In some of the bays in
the neighbourhood the extent of foreshore is very much greater.
The Custom House has been placed close to a small bluff
which projects some distance into the bay, and here it has
been possible to construct a small jetty of reasonable length
reaching down to low water. At present the vessels lie about
half a mile to a mile south-west of Roze Island, and against
the tide it sometimes takes an hour for a boat to reach one
from Chi-mul-poo. The charge for a boat to a steamer and
back is from $1 upwards, but as trade increases this charge
will no doubt be much diminished.
On a bright day and at high tide the view of the islands
from Chi-mul-poo is very picturesque; the view of the main-
land from the sea is not so pleasing,-still it compares very
favorably with Chefoo or any of the places which residents in
Shanghai have opportunities of visiting during a short holi-
day, and there is every reason to hope that some day a very
delightful watering place may exist on some point on the
south-west coast of Corca.
Chi-mul-poo can hardly as yet be called a model settlement,
but it may possibly have a great future in store.
Immediately to the south of the knoll or bluff above-men-
tioned lies the Japanese settlement. Here the Japanese have
built a considerable number of wooden shanties, and offer for
sale a most heterogeneous mass of commodities. They seem to
have settled down determined to east in their lot with the
place, and it may only be a few years before some of these
men who are at present owners of a shanty and a few dol-
lars' worth of stores will be wealthy storekeepers. The great
difficulty to be encountered is the absence of the trading class,
who could exchange commodities with the foreign importer.
I feel quite certain, however, that the difficulty does not arise
from the inability of the country to furnish exports, but from
the absence of a class which hitherto has not been required,
and which the usual law of supply and demand will soon call
into existence.

IN JULY AND AUGUST, 1883.
143
Among the Japanese storekeepers there are I believe now
one or two Europeans, but there were none when I was at
Chi-mul-poo.
Immediately to the south of the Japanese settlement lies
the foreign settlement-for foreigners other than Japanese. I
cannot say that I think the choice of a site has been a happy
one. The ground is low and must be raised with disinte-
grated granite, a process which is generally considered very
unhealthy; but putting aside this, which after all is but a
temporary difficulty which will disappear after the settlement
is all raised, nothing can ever improve the two-thirds of a mile
of mud foreshore at low water. Even if after 30 or 40 years
the place became rich enough to reclaim all this, it is very
doubtful if the result would not be to throw out another mud
flat in front.
There were no houses on this settlement when I was there,
and it is to be hoped that the question of the location of the
settlement may be reconsidered. The anchorage is undoubt-
edly very good, and if the settlement must be in that neigh-
bourhood, either Roze Island or the land immediately to the
north of the Custom House knoll would be preferable to the
present place. As all the goods would be taken into the country
in boats by the Seoul river, there is very little objection to the
settlement being on an island, particularly when the distance
to the mainland is only a few hundred yards.
The European portion of the population is almost entirely
confined to the customs staff. The Commissioner, Mr. Stri-
pling, is an old and valued member of this Society, whose
hospitality to strangers in that country will astonish no one
who knows him here. His residence is situated rather more
than a mile from the settlement, and most of the staff live in
the adjoining house; but ere long (that is as soon as the re-
ceipts begin to flow in) it is intended to build houses better
suited to the requirements of the place.
On landing at Chi-mul-poo I found that I could ride to the
capital, but my baggage would have to be carried by bulls.

144
SOME NOTES OF A TRIP TO COREA,
The idea of veritable bulls being used as beasts of burden was
new to me, but it appears that when hard-worked they are
very quiet, and I soon got accustomed to seeing them toil
along under enormous loads. A few cows are used for the
same purpose, but their number is very limited compared
with the number of bulls. (It may be remarked here that all
the male cattle as well as the horses are entire, the process of
castration not being practised in Corea except in the case of
eunuchs required for the palace).
The breed of cattle is remarkably handsome, but the cows
do not seem to give much milk.
Through the kindness of Mr. Stripling I was provided with
a first-rate pony, but in spite of this the journey to the capital
was rather tiresome. The country, though somewhat pretty,
is on the whole uninteresting. The soil consists of disintegrat-
ed granite and other rocks, and consequently there are many
large barren patches to be seen in every direction, some of the
hills being absolutely bare.
As usual when travelling in such countries with some of
the attendants on foot, it was necessary to go at a walk, and
the consequence was that starting from Chi-mul-poo at 10
a.m. on Wednesday the 11th, we did not reach our resting
place at the capital till 7.30 p.m.,-the distance being about
25 or 26 miles.
The Capital of Corea-Han-yang or Seoul as it is called
on maps, Seoul as it is generally known by Coreans and by
foreigners, and Hwang-ch êng as it is usually called by the
Chinese-is a large but not very densely populated city.
It is surrounded by a wall, and has large and somewhat
handsome gateways. The main roads are very wide, some-
what after the character of the roads in Peking, but being
composed of disintegrated granite they dry very quickly
after rain, and are much cleaner than the roads in the
Chinese capital. The smaller sheets are filthy. They have
side ditches into which is thrown all the refuse from the
houses, and the smell is almost unbearable. The palaces

IN JULY AND AUGUST, 1883.
145
and some of the public buildings are fine compared with the
general run of house in the country, but compared with the
public buildings of Western countries, or of those of Eastern
countries which retain buildings erected in the days of their
prosperity, they are very inferior.
The shops are very poor, many if not most of them being
mat sheds erected in the main streets, but they are good
enough for the wares exposed for sale. The natives display
some ingenuity in ornamenting their pipe stems and in the
manufacture of articles inlaid with mother-of-pearl, but a vi-
sitor wishing to bring away some memento of his trip may
walk about a long time before he finds any thing worth car-
rying away which is at the same time characteristic and pretty.
At Seoul I was most hospitably entertained by Mr. P. G.
von Möllendorff, a member of the Corean Foreign Office and
Chief of the Customs. The house in which he lives is one of
the best in Seoul. It was the residence of one of the princes,
who was murdered in it at the émeute in 1882. In conse-
quence of this murder having taken place, none of the native
officials cared to live in the house, and thus it was available
when a residence was required for Mr. von Möllendorff.
There is a large enclosure with several detached buildings.
The Coreans are in the habit of removing their shoes on en-
tering a house, and the floors of the better houses are polished
or covered with strong oiled paper. The roofs are low, and
the doors being made to suit the small proportions of the Co-
reans, are in many cases very trying to the skulls of foreigu
visitors.
After spending a few days at Seoul I received permission
to make a trip into the interior. One of my greatest difficulties
was an interpreter; I found to my horror that no one could be
found who could speak Corean and English, and I feared my
intercourse would be confined to what could filter through my
boy, whose knowledge of English was of the most limited
character, and a Corean who spoke Chinese; but I soon found
that though my Chinese is of the feeblest, it was exactly the

146
SOME NOTES OF A TRIP TO COREA,
same dialect as that of my interpreter, and before the end of
the journey we got on capitally.
My party consisted of myself, an interpreter, a boy, and a
coolie, all mounted on ponies, three ponies carrying baggage, and
a chair and two chair coolies. The greater part of the time I
travelled in company with a Corean official, and thus was per-
mitted to lodge at the Yamêns in the various cities which I visit-
ed. This official had a servant who rode a pack pony, while he
himself had a chair with four bearers. The speed at which such
a party can travel does not exceed 33 miles per hour, so that
a 30 miles journey takes nine hours besides the time lost in
stoppages, say two hours per day. Thus starting at 6.30 and
travelling 30 miles one may expect to arrive at his destina-
tion at about 5.30 p.m.
My pony was only about ten hands, and I feared he would
not be able to carry me, but he stood the journey remarkably
well, only requiring a little care when the day's distance was
exceptionally long. The chair was taken in case the pony
should give out, and I tried it once to see how I liked it. Like
other Corean chairs it had no seat, so that one had to sit cross-
legged, and ten minutes was enough for me.
Every Corean who rides has a man to lead his pony. The
saddles of the officials are so high that one wonders how
the rider manages to keep his balance. The lower classes
when riding have generally a certain amount of baggage,
on top of which they sit. The servant of the official in whose
company I travelled rode a China pony, and the baggage was
so arranged as to give a level surface right across the two
bundles and the pony's back. On top of this was laid a car-
pet, and there the servant squatted, sitting cross-legged, and
smoking and fanning himself all day, while a mafoo led the
pony. The Coreans exhibit considerable ingenuity in packing
their own baggage on the pack ponies, but foreign baggage bothers
them a good deal, and even such a thing as a bundle made up
in a different way from what they are accustomed to, seems
to present difficulties, though square boxes, large boots, jars of

IN JULY AND AUGUST, 1883.
147
oil, deer's horns, and all sorts of incongruous articles to which they
are accustomed, seem to fit together like the parts of a dissected
map. My portmanteau, if I did not watch it, was sure to be placed
so that
any rain would run into it; and on one occasion my bed,
which was wrapped up in a waterproof sheet, was placed so that
when opened after some three hours' heavy rain the sheet was
half full of water, and I could not use my bed for three nights,
while enough rain had got in at one end of my portmanteau
to wet about two inches of every article in it. My baggage
sustained a little damage on another occasion in fording a
river which turned out to be a little deeper than was expected,
but luckily at the worst ford which I crossed I was with-
out baggage, as I was making only a day's excursion from a
village where I was staying. At the last mentioned ford the
water took the men nearly up to the arm pits. There was a
village close by where the inhabitants were expected to supply
men to carry travellers across the stream. The stream runs
with considerable velocity when in flood, and it is hardly safe
for one man to cross it alone. I was taken across on a chair,
borne on the shoulders of six men; the officials, interpreters,
&c., were carried in the same way; while the attendants and
all the tag-rag and bob-tail that fasten on to a travelling party
stripped, placed their clothes on their heads, and forded the
stream two or three in company. Some ponies swam by
themselves, others were held by a halter. I passed this same
ford a week later with baggage, but the water was then low
and there was no trouble. Getting one's baggage wet is one
of the greatest annoyances in travelling, and I could not bear
having my sleeping room heated to dry it, as I had had one
night's experience of that and preferred damp clothes.
In a short visit one has hardly time to form any definite
ideas regarding the manners and customs of the people, but
certain peculiarities are sure to be brought prominently to
one's notice.
The first night after I left Scoul I got into a miserable

148
SOME NOTES OF A TRIP TO COREA,
inn, and after having some dinner sat down on my bed to
write a few notes. The night seemed oppressively hot but I
saw no help for it, so had my mosquito net put up; but in
tucking it under my bed, I found the floor so hot as almost to
burn my hand. On enquiring I found that all proper sleep-
ing rooms had fire places under them to warm them in winter,
but in the poorer class of houses, for the sake of economy, this
heating was done by the kitchen fire. As the thermometer dur-
ing the day had been over 80°, I felt no inclination to be
cooked at night, so declared my intention of sleeping in the
stable. At last, however, a room was found in a house about
a quarter of a mile off where the fire had been out for some
hours, and I managed to get through the night there, though
the heat and the insects allowed me little rest. Subsequently
in the better places I took care to give orders not to light the
stove under my room, but I found that the native officials
sometimes had theirs lighted in wet weather, in spite of the
heat.
When travelling by night it is necessary to get a proper
pass from the officials.
With this one has a right to demand
torches and guides at each village. Sometimes the people object,
and occasionally it results in a fight. It so happened that on
the only two occasions when I travelled all night I was not in
company with any official, and although I ordered all the
torches to be paid for and all the guides to have a small
present, I don't feel sure that the money always went to the
right person. On one occasion at a lonely hamlet the people
were very wroth at being turned out at one o'clock, and declared
they had no torches; however, after a little bit of a free
fight and a fruitless search in one or two houses, the at-
tendants broke into one rather better-looking house and soon
appeared with a large bundle of torches. Proceedings of this
sort are to be deprecated, but at the moment I was passing on
over an uninteresting bit of country to reach a city I wanted
to see before the arrival of the steamer, and as I had had no-

IN JULY AND AUGUST, 1883.
149
thing to eat since tiffin, and my boy nothing to eat since early
breakfast at five o'clock, we were too anxious to get torches
to be over particular as to the action of our attendant guards,
who after all were only acting according to usual custom.
Some of the torches consist of bundles of straw, but the best
are branches of Scotch fir dried and partially split. On a
dark night when the atmosphere was clear, our party of half
a dozen ponies with their mafoos, and six or eight attendants
with large torches looked quite picturesque. The route I fol-
lowed from the time of landing at Chi-mul-poo till I embarked
was Chi-mul-poo to Seoul, thence to a point some 30 miles
beyond Kin-ching, thence by a somewhat different route back
to the capital, thence to Chio-ha, and thence by an entirely
different route to Chi-mul-poo, a distance altogether of about
350 miles. During my stay in the capital I had seen very
few women; that is to say, most of those I had seen had their
faces covered to a greater or less extent. Subsequently when
travelling in the country I saw many. These were so ugly
that at first I thought the pretty ones must all take great care
to conceal their charms, but after having caught sight of a
few whom I managed to see before they had time to wake up,
I got fair proof that the uglier the women were the more they
tried to hide themselves. I was confirmed in this view of the
case by the fact that the only decent specimens of feminine
humanity which I met with made no attempt at concealment,
and I finally came to the conclusion that the women knew
how hideous they were, and for the credit of their country
they hid themselves from strangers as much as possible.
The attempts at hiding occasionally gave rise to amusing
manoeuvres. On one occasion I came suddenly on a woman
who had just crossed a river. The bank at which she had
arrived offered no means of shelter, while the other bank was
wooded. Though the river was 100 yards broad and tolera-
bly swift, she at once turned and recrossed it, and as the

150
SOME NOTES OF A TRIP TO COREA,
water came a long way above her knees the proceeding was
not one which modesty would have suggested to a European.
The dress of the women consists of loose trousers covered
by a skirt somewhat larger than that worn by Milk women in
London. The skirt or petticoat has a very high waist. The
shoulders and arms are covered by a very short jacket with
long sleeves. The jacket is so short that it is little more than
a collar, and between it and the skirt there is a lucid interval
of five or six inches through which the breasts protrude or
generally hang. Even when the face is carefully concealed,
the women think nothing of exposing this part of their persons,
and if the cloak over the face covers this also, it is only as a
secondary affair.
The dress of the men is too well known by residents in Shang-
hai to require much description: trousers covered by a loose
robe generally of linen, and a sort of long scarf of blue gauze,
with a wide-brimmed hat of black horsehair. This hat is
rather an elaborate affair; first there is a sort of fillet which en-
circles the head and is fastened by strings and connected with
the knot of hair, which all Corean married men wear on the
top of the head. On top of this a small brimless hat fits.
This hat is worn in-doors, and varies in shape according to
the rank of the official. The non-official class wear a very
plain hat, but almost all have a slight knob or boss in front to
make room for a jewel, which is often worn attached to the
fillet above mentioned. This brimless hat is worn in the house,
and in the case of the non-official class the wide-brimmed hat
is worn over it. In the case of high officials the indoor hat is
of too elaborate a description to be worn under the other hat,
and it is therefore replaced by a plainer one before the out-of-
doors hat is put on. To a European it would appear that if
it were not for the honor of the thing a man would be as well
off without a hat as with it, because being composed of very
open horse-hair gauze it must offer very little protection from
the sun or wind. The unmarried men do not tie up the hair

IN JULY AND AUGUST, 1883.
151
in a knot, but part it in the centre and plait the ends into a
queue at the back. Many of them have a great deal of hair, and
when a traveller first sees them (generally in a boat at some little
distance) he almost invariably supposes them to be women.
In some respects one travels in Corea with much more
comfort than in China. Although a foreigner is much more
of a curiosity there than in the latter country, he is much less
pestered by inquisitive crowds. In those parts of China where
a foreigner is nearly unknown, the crowds of rough natives
are a source of much inconvenience and discomfort, even where
they have no wish to do any harm. In Corea there are not
so many large cities where roughs abound, and besides
this the people are much more gentle in their ways, and
though anxious to see seem equally anxious not to annoy.
The accommodation, except in the Yamêns, is simply filthy.
Even there, although there is a show of cleanliness, as exem-
plified by the men taking off their shoes and by papering the
floor, there is an amount of insect life perfectly appalling to a
European, and I would strongly advise any intending travel-
ler to provide himself with a picul of Keating's insect destroy-
ing powder.
The food which one can obtain is pretty much the same as
in China: rice, chickens, eggs, vegetables of various sorts,
Indian corn, beef, dried fish, and I presume in some localities
fresh fish. The general drink of the people seemed to be cold
water. This is accounted for by the magnificent streams of
water, as clear as crystal, which are met with all through the
country. Pools five or six feet deep are perfectly transparent,
and even when the rivers are in flood after heavy rains only
the slightest possible trace of turbidity is discoverable. This
description does not apply to the tidal portions of the Seoul
River. After passing Mapoo (near Seoul) this river runs
through a great deal of low-lying alluvial country, and tow-
ards its mouth becomes muddy; and the mud from this and
similar rivers seems to be the source of the soft slime which
covers the foreshore in the neighbourhood of Jenchuan.

152
SOME NOTES OF A TRIP TO COREA,
It was with difficulty that I could be persuaded that the
Corean rivers in the district which I visited contained no fish,
but such I found to be truly the case, and it is accounted for
by the fact that at certain seasons they are nearly dry.
Before passing from the drink question, I may mention that
the Coreans seem to be much more advanced in the matter of
the use of spirituous liquors than their neighbours the Chinese.
Their ordinary spirit is I think a good deal stronger than
the ordinary Chinese samshoo, and either from this cause or
from their imbibing in larger quantities, numerous drunken
men may
be seen reeling or lying about the streets. That this
is due entirely to the spirit and not to any special inhability to
carry it is rendered quite certain by a series of most careful
experiments with Scotch whiskey.
As one travels into the interior of Corea, though the for-
mation of the country cannot be said to be materially changed,
the scenery and the general appearance of vegetation gradu-
ally improves. Towards the coast the rock is near the surface
and is barely covered with a thin stratum of poor soil. In-
land, though the rocks still belong to the very old formation,
there is a covering of rich black mould. The fields are more
fertile and better cultivated; one sees rice, millet (Kao-liang),
small millet (Siao-mi), beans, Indian corn, oats, barley,
cotton, jute, flax, tobacco, and numerous other crops. The
hills in many places are cultivated to the summit; in other
places they are covered with woods. As far as I went I saw
no forests, but at the furthest point which I reached some
large trees were to be found in the woods.
For some distance inland the bottoms of the valleys were
level plains from which the hills rose abruptly on either side,
and through which ran a winding stream, clearly indicating
that the valleys had been filled up by material brought down
by the streams from the higher districts, and that little of the
material was derived from the hills at the side. It seemed
hard to reconcile this with the fact of the extraordinary clear-

IN JULY AND AUGUST, 1883.
153
Af-
ness of the water, but most of the detritus consists of clean
sand, and a considerable quantity of that can be rolled along
the bed of a river without making it in the least turbid.
ter getting 60 to 80 miles inland, I found the character of the
valleys changed entirely. The hills no longer rose abruptly
from level plains, but from the bottom of the hills proper there
was a slope more or less steep reaching down to the stream, which
no longer seemed free to wind about the valley at its pleasure,
but was confined to one bed. After this country was reached,
the scenery was very fine indeed. There were no mountains
to be seen, but there were numberless very high hills, and
when one reached the summit of a pass and could get an ex-
tensive view of the surrounding country, he felt well repaid
for all the discomforts of a pretty trying journey.
The people as a rule seem poor. The cities, with the ex-
ception of Seoul, are without walls, and the villages are col-
lections of miserable huts. In one city which I visited,
Chia-ho, or Chio-ha, not only were there no ponies to be had,
but there was not even a stable to be found. Notwithstanding
this, the chief magistrate when carried in a chair was preceded
by trumpeters and men with gongs, and was accompanied by
a band, and the people prostrated themselves before him with
the greatest respect. In every city which I visited I saw the
same submission to the officials.
At a magistrate's Yamên at night a piece of music is played
by a band. This music which lasts four or five minutes could not
be mistaken for Chinese music; but further than saying that
it has a character of its own I am unable to describe it.
Like China the country is cursed with an inordinate num-
ber of officials, and expectant officials. There being no road
to distinction except through office, the number of candidates
is necessarily out of all proportion to the posts. Many of
the subordinate expectant officials have an allowance of rice
and about $2 a month. Under these circumstances it is not
to be wondered at that on one occasion on leaving a place I

154
SOME NOTES OF A TRIP TO COREA,
was told I owed a dollar for some eggs and a few other little
things I had bought, and when I paid it at least 20 respect-
able-looking men sat down on the floor and went into an ela-
borate system of accounts to see how much belonged to each
for the portion he had provided. These men seem to be ab-
solutely without occupation, and appear to a stranger to be a
useless, lazy lot of hangers-on at the Yamên. If any man can
stand several years of such a life and still preserve some ener-
gy for work when his time comes, he must be a man of con-
siderable strength of character, and perhaps well worthy of the
respect which is shown him.
The agricultural classes seem to a great extent to provide
for their own wants, that is to say they grow crops in the first
place for their own use, and only sell the balance. One came
upon no districts where apparently the people grew one crop
for sale and lived on the proceeds. The whole family works,
when necessary, in the fields. I saw women on many occa-
sions transplanting rice, a sort of work which I have never seen
them perform in China. There seems to be an utter absence
of the class of merchant. The producer seems to sell his sur-
plus to the retail dealer, and there are no large stocks of man-
ufactured articles anywhere. I was informed that even in
the matter of hats it was difficult to find one ready made:
they were all made to order.
The Coreans make use of very few mechanical contrivances,
but I noticed one for hulling rice similar to the ones used in
Formosa and other parts of China. It can only be used in
places where the streams have a considerable fall, and is un-
suitable to a flat country. A long beam fixed on a pivot car-
ries a sort of cistern at one end, and a hammer or pestle at
the other. This is placed on the bank of a stream, and water
from a higher portion of the stream is brought along an arti-
ficial channel and made to discharge into the cistern.
soon as the cistern is full, it weighs down that end of the beam-
raising the pestle, but in doing this it practically upsets the
As

IN JULY AND AUGUST, 1883.
155
cistern and allows the water to run out into the stream below.
When the cistern is emptied, the pestle falls with great force
on the rice which is placed in a mortar. This action brings
the cistern again under the spout of water, and the process is
repeated. The cistern holds about a ton of water, and the
machine gives about four strokes per minute.
When in use one man takes the
There is one implement, I might almost say one agricultur-
al machine, in use in Corea which deserves some notice, viz:
the spade. I have heard of an egg so big that it required two
hens to lay it, and of a window so large that it required two
people to see out of it, but I never expected to see in Corea a
spade so large that it required five men to use it. The spade or
shovel consists of a flat piece of wood shod with iron, and
pro-
vided with a long handle. To each side of the blade of the
shovel there is attached a rope, and in the larger shovels each
of these ropes is split into two.
handle of the shovel to direct it, but apparently does little in
the way of supplying power, which is furnished by the four men
who pull the ropes. The directing man, the helmsman so to
speak, inserts the point of the shovel in the stuff to be moved,
the rope pullers give a long pull, a strong pull, and a pull alto-
gether, and, if the ropes do not break, about half a shovelful
of earth is detached and thrown a small distance. To any one
who believes that it is the duty of a government to find the
greatest amount of work for the greatest number this invention
would appear to be of the highest utility.
There is I believe an abundance of game in some parts of
Corea, but there was very little to be seen along the route
that I travelled.
I saw some deers' antlers, and the skins of some small wild
pigs, but I saw no live specimens, and only one pheasant and
a few cranes and any number of paddy birds. I was told
there were tigers in the woods, but that they were never seen.
Probably there used to be tigers, but they have now gone
north to the more thinly populated districts.

156
SOME NOTES OF A TRIP TO COREA,
Of the insect life (with the exception of the domestic para-
site above alluded to) I can say little, but one could not fail
to remark the magnificent butterflies, some gaily colored and
others jet black, with wings as large as the palm of my hand.
The green and red dragon flies, metallic beetles and other at-
tractive insects were very common. Near Seoul there are
numerous scizzor-grinders; up-country I heard scarcely any,
but there were millions of wee-wees which, as far as I know,
are unknown south of Peking.
The measures of weight, of distance and of value are appar-
ently much the same in Corea as in China, though it is really
difficult to get information on such apparently simple matters.
The Coreans had, however, the picul, the catty, and the tael for
weight, and their li is as nearly as possible the third of an
English mile. For money they have little besides cash in use,
but they count by the tael. A short time ago silver coins of
1, 2 and 3 mace value were struck or rather cast, but they
have been recalled, being supposed to be rather too high in
value, and likely to leave the country. The ordinary cash are
about the size of Chinese cash, but they are exchanged at the
rate of 750 cash to a tael or 525 to a dollar. 1
them equal in value to about 2 Shanghai cash.
This makes
The exchange does not vary, but this of course arises from
the fact that practically all transactions are in cash, and when
one speaks of a payment of 100 taels one only means 100
bundles of 750 cash each. When business begins to flourish,
and traders begin to make bargains for payment in silver, ex-
change must vary unless the system of a standard coin and
token currency can be introduced, which would be very diffi-
cult, though the attempt would probably not be so hopeless as
in China. At present the tael may almost be taken as a token
for 750 cash, and the large cash which are equal to 5 small
cash invariably pass at their proportionate value.
The gener-
1 A few months after this was written, foreign intercourse had raised the
rate of exchange of the dollar at Chi-mul-poo to over 700 cash. G. J. M.

F
IN JULY AND AUGUST, 1883.
157
al impression left on my mind was that Corea was a country
of great capabilities, but the primitive condition of the people
and the absence of any large native trade place great obstacles
in the way of a rapid opening-up of the country.
The country is capable of producing exports of many kinds,
but these have not yet been produced in sufficient quantities
to exchange them for any considerable quantity of imports.
It is impossible to produce any of the export articles at a mo-
ment's notice, and for several years while an export trade is
being worked up, a small amount of imports must be doled
out to them, leaving a very small and very problematical pro-
fit to the foreign merchants. The fact that the country was
shut up inspired most exaggerated ideas regarding the enor-
mous trade that was sure to spring up immediately it was
opened. These ideas have I think been pretty well dissipated,
but believing as I do that the poverty is more in the people
than in the country, I think there is fair reason to hope that
ere many years are past the open ports of Corea may be flour-
ishing centres of trade.