ARTICLE II.
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE NEIGH-
BOURHOOD OF NAGASAKI.*
BY H. B. GUPPY, M.B.,
SURGEON, R.N.
THE
THE remarkable manner in which this part of the island of
Kiusiu is cut up by its several gulfs into the three ex-
tended peninsulas of Simabara, Nagasaki, and Omura, is a
feature in its surface-geography, which bears especial reference
to the configuration of the region at no distant geological
period. Although it is an elevated district, considered as a
whole, the hills in the more immediate vicinity of Nagasaki
varying between 500 and 1,500 feet in height, while Mount
Unzen in the Simabara peninsula rises to about 4,700 feet
above the sea; yet there are low-lying regions situated at the
base of the peninsulas, which a depression of the land to the
extent of about two hundred feet would completely submerge.
That there has been an elevation of this amount at some recent
period, is demonstrated by the occurrence of a loose bed of
water-worn rock fragments, which is exposed at the top of a
deep cutting, through which the Nagasaki road descends to the
village of Tokeets; and the following description of the trans-
formed topography of this region at that period is not a mere
speculation of my own, but is founded on numerous observa-
tions made in the several localities concerned.
At such a period the Gulfs of Omura and Simabara by uni-
ting would isolate a large region, extending from the present
Read before the Society on the 31st March, 1882.

24
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE
narrow entrance to the Gulf of Omura to the southernmost ex-
tremity of the Simabara Peninsula, and forming an island about
forty miles in length. This would be again divided into four
smaller islands in the following manner:-by the submergence
of its low-lying isthmus the Simabara Peninsula would be
transformed into a mountainous island; whilst the sea, by oc-
cupying the line of the present road between Tokeets and Na-
gasaki, would completely disconnect the peninsula which forms
the western side of the Gulf of Omura; and the Nagasaki Pen-
insula would in its turn form the southern prolongation of
another island, produced by the formation of the Tokeets chan-
nel on west, and by the junction of the Gulf of Omura and
Yagami Bay on the east, somewhere along the line of the present
road between Yagami and the village of Isahaye; lastly, a fourth,
though smaller, island would be formed by the Simabara strait
on the east and by the Isahaye and Yagami channel on the
west. In such a manner would this region now continuous be
transformed into a group of large islands; and, that this was
the actual condition of this region at a very recent geological
period, I have not the slightest doubt.
I must
Before treating of the subject proper of this paper,
premise by observing that I shall limit myself to the more pro-
minent geological features of this region; which, on account of
the complexity of detail which it presents, requires for its more
thorough examination a greater time than I was able to devote
to it. Forming the axis or backbone of the base of the Naga-
saki Peninsula, are beds of mica-schist and allied schistose
rocks; which, whilst they are for the most part concealed on
the hill-sides overlooking the town by masses of trachyte occa-
sionally porphyritic, a dark felsitic trap, and agglomerate, are
freely exposed to view on the eastern slope of the peninsula,
more particularly in the vicinity of the village of Mogi. On
crossing the harbour and ascending the hills on the western
side, the same agglomerate and trachytic rocks are found; and
although I was unable to find the mica-schist in situ, yet de-
tached fragments of this rock gave evidence of its vicinity.

NEIGHBOURHOOD OF NAGASAKI.
25
Turning to the district north of Nagasaki, we observe that
the road from that town to Tokeets, as it skirts round the head
of the harbour to cross the narrow isthmus of the Omura Pen-
insula, follows a line of cliff formed of agglomerate overlying
a light-coloured friable trachyte; and long after the harbour
is left behind, for a distance of from two to three miles, the
road continues to skirt the base of this inland cliff, following
in truth the line of the ancient channel already referred to in
this paper. As one proceeds towards Tokeets, the trachyte
assumes a more compact texture; and at a point where the
road, which has previously been confined to a level plain, enters
the hills, about four miles from Nagasaki, this rock exhibits a
spheroidal structure, each spheroid being about three feet in
diameter and enclosing within its concentric coats a nucleus of
the size of a 32-lb. shot. A few steps further on, one observes
an intrusion of trap, probably a phonolite: and from this point
the trachyte, as exhibited in a slight declivity which has been
carved or hewn out into niches for the reception of stone figures,
assumes a darker colour. When about a mile and a half or
two miles from Tokeets, the road, which has by this time
reached its highest elevation from 175 to 200 feet above the
sea, dips down into a deep cutting, at the top of which occurs
the bed of water-worn rock-fragments which has been alluded
to above. About half-way down the cutting, extensive dikes
of a dark trap-rock-probably diabase-protrude through a
quartz-porphyry; whilst near the foot of the cutting, occurs.
another small dike of blue basalt: all these dikes, which trend
in an east and west direction, are vertical protrusions. On
approaching Tokeets, the trachyte again appears; and near the
bend in the road which suddenly displays to view the picturesque
bay of this village, this rock exhibits a porphyritic structure.
Two huge masses of this porphyritic trachyte, which overlook
the road, have received the name of "The Giant's Head" from
the Japanese, on account of the rude resemblance which they
present to a human head and bust.
About half a mile to the east of the Tokeets road, lies the

26
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE
hamlet of Meecheno, where exists a thermal spring. When I
visited this spring in November 1879, I found its temperature,
which was 74° F., to be 12° above that of the surrounding air:
it had no odour, was quite clear, and, as the villagers informed
me, was fit for drinking purposes: it contains, as I subsequently
found, a moderate amount of lime in solution. To its existence
the hamlet of Meecheno probably owes its being; and the in-
habitants by conducting the water to a neighbouring bath-house
employ artificial means to raise it to a temperature for bathing.
The rock in the vicinity of the spring appears to be an "altered"
argillite: whilst a very tough mottled phonolite occurs at the
base of a hill to the eastward of Meecheno,-a granitic rock
destitute of mica forming the summit, and an "altered"
argillite intervening between the two. In the bed of the stream,
which flows from the lower end of the valley and crosses the
Tokeets road about a mile and a quarter from the head of the
harbour, I observed a highly calcareous and siliceous rock,
followed in the lower portion of the stream by basaltic and
trachytic porphyries.
An interesting traverse may be made along the road from
Yagami to Isahaye,-a distance of eight or nine miles,-fol-
lowing the line of the original channel that once united the
Gulf of Omura with Yagami Bay. The road between the
villages of Heemi and Yagami displays in its cuttings agglo-
merate and beds of a fine-grained sandstone and shale which
dip about 50° to the west. Proceeding by the road to Isahaye,
one observes a light-coloured eurite to be the prevailing rock
as far as the hamlet of Koga, about two and a half miles from
Yagami. Beyond Koga, a region of trachytic porphyry begins;
-specimens of this rock which I obtained exhibited fine crystals
of glassy felspar. This trachyte is followed by a speckled
sandstone dipping to the north-west at an angle of 40°.
On approaching the shore of the Gulf of Omura, beds of sand-
*This same speckled sandstone is to be observed in the hamlet of Koga,
dipping about 45° to the eastward.

NEIGHBOURHOOD OF NAGASAKI.
27
stone and shale are observed dipping 35° to the north-west:
and as the road passes through the village of Kaieesa, about
two miles from Isahaye, a dislocation of these beds is displayed
in a cutting, which exhibits not only an alteration in the dip
but a twisting round of the line of strike. I traced the sand-
stone and shale as far as the village of Isahaye. Striking off
to the north-west in the direction of the town of Omura, about
seven miles distant, the road for the first two miles lies along
the same low-lying country, with fragments of a dark phonolite
lying on the surface. It then crosses a hill elevated between
600 and 700 feet above the waters of the Gulf; a sandstone
dipping gently to the south-south-east forms the lower two-
thirds of this hill; whilst its summit displays a dark grey
phonolite. Before reaching Omura the road crosses a suc-
cession of low hills, which exhibit at rare intervals a decomposed
felspathic rock; whilst a dark pitchstone is to be observed in
the hill overlooking the town.
Not the least interesting locality of the region to which this
paper refers, is that of the Simabara Peninsula. This rugged
promontory attains in the cloud-topped peaks of Unzen an
elevation of not less than 4,700 feet above the sea* (measure-
ment by aneroid). Tradition has located an active volcano
on the summit of this mountain: and, that a similar belief is
current at the present day, the following testimony will be
sufficient to cite. The China and Japan Sea Directory, for
as recent a period as 1873, refers to an active volcano in the
centre of the peninsula, "over which a dark cloud of smoke
usually rests; " whilst Dr. S. W. Williams in a "Lecture on
Japan," published in the Journal of the North-China Branch
of the Royal Asiatic Society for May 1859, describes Mount
Unzen as "a volcano still in action;" and lastly, we find a
There is no measurement of the height of Mount Unzen given in the
Admiralty chart. The only estimate I have been able to find is that of 3,500
feet, which I have derived from a "Lecture on Japan," by S. W. Williams,
LL.D., published in the Journal of the N-C. B. of the Royal Asiatic Society
for May 1859: it is greatly under-estimated.

28
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE
writer in the "Treaty Ports of China and Japan" describing
the town of Simabara (Minato) as "backed by a huge moun-
tain whence the hidden fires still send up a gentle stream of
smoke on a cloudless day." There would appear to be some
facts which explain this current belief: and history in truth
relates, that in 1:92 or 1793 (the date varies in different
accounts) there was a violent volcanic eruption in this moun-
tain, which, being attended by a most disastrous earthquake,
not only devastated the neighbouring country, destroying 53,000
of the inhabitants, but is said to have been felt through the
whole of Kiusiu, and to have permanently affected the adjacent
coast-line and territory of the province of Higo. There is
little doubt, but that the striking resemblance, which Unzen
presents to a truncated cone, often capped by clouds, when
viewed from the hills overlooking the village of Mogi, affords
an explanation of the persistence of this popular error as to its
present activity. For loth as I am to detract from the romance
which has been vulgarly attached to the volcano of Simabara,
I grieve to write, that not only did I observe that this mountain
loses its volcanic profile when regarded from other points of
view, but that having stood on one of Unzen's highest summits
and having crossed the peninsula from west to east, I failed
to find any signs of the existence of an active volcanic vent.
Yet I may urge, that the occurrence on the western flanks of
this mountain of the hot springs of Wobama, Kojeego, and
Unzen, which are probably intimately connected in their past
history with the disastrous earthquake of last century, does not
entirely divest this mountainous Peninsula of Simabara of its
claims to be included within the present dominion of Vulcan.
Commencing the ascent from the fishing-village of Wobama
on the western shore of the peninsula, the path led me up
through the zone of trees, which extends up the mountain slopes
to a height of about 1,100 feet above the sea.*
Rising gra-
In the vicinity of Nagasaki the upper limit of the zone of trees is very
marked when viewed from the town; its level being from 900 to 1,000 feet
above the sea.

NEIGHBOURHOOD OF NAGASAKI.
29
dually from a height of 1.700 feet to a level of 2,500 feet, the
higher portion of the peninsula may be best described as an
extended plateau, from which springs the double peak of Unzen
which attains another 2,000 feet or more of elevation. Such
are the more conspicuous physical features of this region.
With regard to its more strictly geological characters, I may
remark that a sanidine-t' achyte, rendered porphyritic by the
fine crystals of glassy felspar embedded in its matrix, is the
prevailing rock on both the eastern and western slopes of this
mountainous peninsula; and that it extends from the sea-level
up to the eastern summit of the double peak. This porphyritic
trachyte varies somewhat in its characters: on the east slopes,
the matrix appears to be more felspathic and is of a lighter
colour than in the rock of the opposite side of the mountain;
whilst regular crystals of hornblende are often associated with
those of the sanidine, particularly in the neighbourhood of
Minato on the west slopes, the matrix is of a light bluish
colour, and becomes strangely altered in the vicinity of the hot
springs of Kojeego and Unzen,-a subject to be immediately
considered.
Overlooking the populous town of Minato which is situated
on the eastern shore of the Simabara Peninsula, there rises an
abrupt desolate-looking hill which is completely detached from
the main mountain-mass. The "why-and-wherefore" of its
precipitous sides, the explanation of its peculiar form and of
the strangeness of its situation, must have often afforded subjects
for speculation to the casual visitor, if not to the inhabitants
of the locality. It is in truth one of those hills, which-to
employ the figurative language of Dr. Macculloch-" seem as
if they had tumbled from the clouds." Tradition avers-and
tradition generally has something to say in these matters-that
during one of the earthquakes which have devastated the district
of Simabara, this hill was detached and parted asunder from
the parent-mass. But whether this explanation is a satis-
factory one, I had neither the time nor the opportunity to
determine.

30
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE
By far the most attractive localities for the mere sight-seer,
are those of the hot sulphur-springs of Wobama, Kojeego, and
Unzen. The hot springs of Wobama, a fishing village to which
I have already alluded as being situated on the west shore of
the peninsula, occur close to the water's edge. A series of
stone bathing-pools has been built around the springs;-the
water of which evolves a large quantity of sulphuretted hydro-
gen, its unpleasant odour tainting the air of the neighbouring
streets. Most of the bathing-pools are accessible to the sea at
certain heights of the tide; and these are the baths most fre-
quented by both real and imaginary invalids: their temperature
I found to be 82° F., about 8° above the temperature of the
surrounding air. On placing the thermometer in a bath which
was inaccessible to the sea, it rose to 112° F., a temperature
which appeared to be too high to permit of its general use
amongst the frequenters of the springs.
I may best describe the sulphur-springs of Kojeego, which
are elevated rather more than 2,000 feet above the sea, as
bubbling up briskly at a temperature of 182° F. into a pool
about fifteen yards across. The water, which is milky in ap-
pearance from the deposit of sulphides and the other products
of the decomposed trachyte, exhales a powerful sulphureous
odour: and after it has been allowed to run down into some
baths in the hamlet of Kojeego, which is situated immediately
below the springs, it becomes sufficiently reduced in tempera-
ture to allow of its being used for the purposes of bathing.
The surface of the ground in the vicinity of the springs is
warm, and often undermined; and I was informed that fatal
accidents have sometimes occurred from the ground giving
away beneath the feet.
A walk of about twenty minutes from Kojeego will bring
the visitor to the hot springs of Unzen, where these phenomena
are exhibited in their grandest form. Some time before arriv-
ing there he will have noticed dense clouds of white vapour
ascending in the distance, and that the milky-looking streams
over which he has to cross retain a portion of their original

NEIGHBOURHOOD OF NAGASAKI.
31
warmth. His first impression of these hot springs of Unzen
will hardly be a favourable one; and he will carry away with
him a vivid recollection of "the dismal situation waste and
wild" which was there presented to his view. Bubbling up
furiously over a whitened and sterile surface of some acres are
several boiling springs; whilst the atmosphere in their vicinity
is powerfully impregnated with sulphureous vapours. The
whitened crust which forms the surface is often so hot that
even with a thick pair of boots on the feet it is necessary to be
constantly changing one's ground; whilst it is pierced in many
places by small holes, from which issue jets of steam that now
and then remind the visitor rather sharply of their proximity.
A thermometer, which I placed in one of the springs, rose to
202° F.; but as this locality is elevated about 2,200 feet above
the level of the sea, this observation represents an actual amount
of heat of 6° below the boiling-point of this elevation-208° F.-,
a temperature which is probably attained at a short distance
from the surface. The undermining of the ground has pro-
ceeded to such a degree in some places that there is a danger
of the thin crust yielding underfoot; and to avoid a somewhat
awkward introduction into the realms of Tartarus, it would be
advisable to procure the services of an old Buddhist priest who
resides in an adjacent temple.
The manner in which the sanidine-trachyte of the district
has been decomposed and altered by the chemical and thermal
influence of these hot springs,-a phenomenon éxhibited on a
lesser scale at Kojeego-, is worth a moment's consideration;
and the visitor who may have previously stood in the midst of
the Solfatara of Naples will be particularly impressed by the
similarity in the appearance of the two localities, a resemblance
which is due in both cases to the influence of sulphureous
vapours on trachytic rocks. By the decomposition of the
felspathic constituents and especially of the crystals of glassy
felspar, the trachyte has become whitened and often laminated;
and the most advanced degree of these changes may be ob-
served in the thinned surface-crust around each spring, in the

32
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE
masses of
pure white rock much resembling the Cornish Kaolin
which lie on the ground, and lastly in the whiteness of the
adjacent cliffs and hill-slopes. Mr. Darwin in his "Geological
Observations" describes a very similar change produced in a
trachytic rock in the island of Terceira, one of the Azores, by
the action of steam issuing from fissures.
Before leaving the subject of Simabara, I should refer to the
long and narrow isthmus which connects its peninsula with the
mainland of Kiusiu. The eastern half of this isthmus, which
consists of a low and level tract of land well cultivated and
dotted over with numerous hamlets and villages, is formed of
the material arising from the degradation of the trachytic por-
phyry of Simabara; and in some cliffs, at present removed a
short distance from the high-water line, I observed the same
material to be occasionally stratified. But a small amount of
depression would be required to submerge this low-lying portion
of the isthmus; and doubtless there was a time, geologically
recent, when the elevated peaks of Unzen formed a lofty island-
mountain in the midst of the Gulf of Simabara,-a period
when the extensive tracts of low-land which fringe the eastern
and northern shores of the present peninsula were also covered
by the waves. On the other hand, the surface of the western
half of the isthmus is broken by groups of low hills, generally
from 300 to 400 feet in height. Walking along the southern
border of this neck of land, I observed the prevailing rock in
this portion of the isthmus to be a dark trap finely speckled
with felspar.
I will conclude this paper with a description of the geology
of Mogi Bay, a locality which affords, in my opinion, a key
to the geological history of the whole neighbourhood of Naga-
saki. Whilst the southern border of the bay is composed of
the schistose rocks of the district which extend down to the
sea, the observer will meet with formations of a very different
character on the opposite side. The point immediately north
of the village of Mogi is formed of a large dike of coluninar

NEIGHBOURHOOD OF NAGASAKI.
33
basalt, which must have been originally protruded in an easterly
direction at an angle of 15° with the horizon. Adhering to the
upper surface of the basalt are fragments of a curious quartzose
rock, probably an "altered" mica schist. On rounding this
point one enters a small cove, on the northern side of which
beds of fawn-coloured shale and fine-grained sandstone, and of
a rock intermediate in character, appear in the cliff's dipping
to the N.W.-W.N.W. at an angle of from five to seven
degrees.
In these recent beds the leaves of dicotyledonous plants are
beautifully preserved, the venation in particular being retained
in a very perfect condition. In some places I observed the fine
layers of the shale to be curiously contorted,-an indication of
their having been subjected to some disturbance previous to
their consolidation. At the base of the sedimentary beds occurs
a thin layer of conglomerate, which is composed of fragments
of schistose rock and of the "altered" rock before alluded to.
Overlying and conformable to these shales and sandstones are
a series of bedded volcanic agglomerates, formed of fragments
of a porphyritic trachyte and occasionally of a schistose rock
embedded in a matrix of volcanic tuff, which varies in colour
from white to grey. Thin seams of this tuff are interstratified
with the sandstone and shale previously described: and the
same agglomerate and tuffs, bedded and inclined 15° to the
north-east, are to be observed forming the steep cliffs on the
northern border of Mogi Bay. It is worthy of note that some
hand-specimens of the porphyritic trachyte from this volcanic
agglomerate appear to me identical in their characters with the
trachyte of the Simabara Peninsula.
From the foregoing description of the leading features pre-
sented by the district of Mogi Bay, it will be manifest that we
find there some important circumstantial evidences of the order
of succession of the different formations, which will be of some
service in unravelling the geology of the other portions of this
region. First in order of age must be placed the schistose rocks

34 NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE NEIGHBOURH. OF NAGASAKI.
of the Nagasaki Peninsula; and I opine that the extensive
series of the felsitic traps, and of the trachytes of Nagasaki and
of Simabara, with the associated igneous rocks, are the work
of a succeeding age of volcanic activity. Then followed the
intrusion of such basaltic dikes as we see at Mogi and in the
cutting above Tokeets; the formation of which was probably
succeeded by a period of partial abatement of the volcanic
forces. At such a time were deposited the sandstones and
leaf-bearing shales of Mogi Bay, with the other sedimentary
beds of the district: and amongst these, we must include the
fossiliferous limestone and calcareous sardstone-also fossili-
ferous of Iwosima, an island at the enti..nce of the Bay of
Nagasaki; together with the coal-bearing sandstones of Tako-
sima, another adjacent island.* But that the subterranean
forces were not completely at rest during the deposition of these
sedimentary formations, we have a sufficient demonstration in
the occasional contortion of the shale at Mogi Bay, and in the
intercalation now and then amongst these beds of thin seams
of volcanic tuff, and-I may also add-in the crushed con-
dition of many of the fossil shells embedded in the calcareous
strata of Iwosima. At a yet later period the volcanic forces
seem to have resumed their former sway; and we now behold,
in the great thicknesses of agglomerates and tuffs which overlie
the shales of Mogi Bay, the accumulated effects of their opera-
tions. And lastly, there ensued that general upheaval of the
whole region, which, whilst it transformed an archipelago into
a group of peninsulas, gave to Omura a gulf, to Simabara a
bay, and to Nagasaki her far-famed harbour.
*For some further information with regard to the coal-fields of Takosima
vide a paper by Mr. T. W. Kingsmill, published in the Journal of the North-
China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society for December, 1868.

CMEER PENINSUL
1JL
Miles
Saga
Gulf of Simabara
Mt Unzen
MABARA PENINSULA!
AGASAKI
NB. The old channels or struits.
Minato

34 NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE NEIGHBOURH. OF NAGASAKI.
of the Nagasaki Peninsula; and I opine that the extensive
series of the felsitic traps, and of the trachytes of Nagasaki and
of Simabara, with the associated igneous rocks, are the work
of a succeeding age of volcanic activity. Then followed the
intrusion of such basaltic dikes as we see at Mogi and in the
cutting above Tokoets; the formation of which was probably
succeeded by a period of partial abatement of the volcanic
forces. At such a time were deposited the sandstones and
leaf-bearing shales of Mogi Bay, with the other sedimentary
beds of the district: and amongst these, we must include the
fossiliferous limestone and calcareous sardstone-also fossili-
ferous-of Iwosima, an island at the enti.nce of the Bay of
Nagasaki; together with the coal-bearing sandstones of Tako-
sima, another adjacent island. But that the subterranean
forces were not completely at rest during the deposition of these
sedimentary formations, we have a sufficient demonstration in
the occasional contortion of the shale at Mogi Bay, and in the
intercalation now and then amongst these beds of thin seams
of volcanic tuff, and-I may also add-in the crushed con-
dition of many of the fossil shells embedded in the calcareous
strata of Iwosima. At a yet later period the volcanic forces
seem to have resumed their former sway; and we now behold,
in the great thicknesses of agglomerates and tuffs which overlie
the shales of Mogi Bay, the accumulated effects of their opera-
tions. And lastly, there ensued that general upheaval of the
whole region, which, whilst it transformed an archipelago into
a group of peninsulas, gave to Omura a gulf, to Simabara a
bay, and to Nagasaki her far-famed harbour.
* For some further information with regard to the coal-fields of Takosima
vide a paper by Mr. T. W. Kingsmill, published in the Journal of the North-
China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society for December, 1868.