JOURNAL
OF THE
NORTH-CHINA BRANCH
OF THE
ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.
ARTICLE I.
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.*
IN
BY
JOSEPH EDKINS, D.D.
DR. BRETSCHNEIDER'S learned account of "The
Knowledge possessed by the Ancient Chinese of the
Arabs" published in London, 1871, he states that the Chinese
accounts of foreign countries contained in their histories are
vague and inaccurate.
This is much to be lamented but none the less must we, if
we would inquire into the past history of our globe, make
strenuous efforts to gather from those same vague and in-
accurate accounts safe results, and interesting additions to cur
own knowledge. There is little doubt though he has said this,
that Dr. Bretschneider will consent to the opinion that the
two great historical writers of the Han dynasty, that of Sï-ma-
chien and that of Pan-ku, have conferred an unfading glory on
the Chinese scholarship of that period. These authors did
the best they could with the knowledge they had, and we
Europeans can now reap the benefit to be derived from the
study of their works, although they contain inexact descriptions.
*Read before the Society on the 9th January, 1883.

2
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
One name by which the Roman empire was known was Ta
T'sin The reason is said to be that the inhabitants of
that empire resembled the Chinese in stature, erectness and
upright conduct.
May there not be another reason for this name? The
Chinese may have compared the Tsin dynasty with the Ro-
mans on account of the rapidity and success of their military
expeditions, and the fact that they subjugated all the surround-
ing kingdoms. The name first occurs in the Heu-han-shu,
the work of Fan-ye, himself an author of the fifth century. It
is found only in the histories written after the time of
Pan-ku, the historian of the early Han dynasty, and
the brother of Pan-c'hau who subdued Turkestan. But this
may be regarded as a reason for thinking that, it was the
Buddhists who entered from China to teach their religion that
gave the Romans this name. It was in the time of Nero
A.D. 64, that they first entered China coming from Affghan-
istan, then called the country of the Getae. When in the
reigns of Antoninus Pius, Marcus Aurelius and Commodus
the next Buddhists are mentioned, it was from Affghanistan
and Parthia that they came, remaining in China from A.D.
147 till about A.D. 180. The embassy from Marcus Au-
relius arrived A.D. 166 by Canton. In the biography of the
earliest of the Parthian missionaries it is said that he went to
Canton. He was also an excellent translator on account of
his good knowledge of the Chinese language. We may con-
clude then that the name Ta-t'sin for Rome was adopted
through the Buddhists, and that the reason of its adoption is
to be found probably in some national designation for Rome,
in some language current at that time in Affghanistan and
India.
Referring to the earlier accounts, Rome can only be detected
under the name Li-kan. In the Shi-chi we are told
under the heading Parthia (called there an sik or as
pronounced at Shanghai Ersik, the Arsacidae) that west of
Parthia lay Syria Dio-ti, and north of Parthia lay the
Alans and the country of Likan. Fan-ye identifies Likan
with Rome. The Shi-ki was written about B.C. 95, before

OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
3
the Romans under Pompey conquered Syria, which was in
B.C. 65, while Greece was divided into Roman provinces
about B.C. 146, so that in the time of the Shï-ki the powerful
nations of the west were Parthia, Syria, Rome and Egypt.
The author knew of all these except Egypt, and he designated
them by names current in Affghanistan and Bactria at the
time. Unfortunately we do not know the name by which the
Parthians called the Romans. If we did we might get light
on the origin of the term Li-kan. We may speculate on its
resemblance to the word regnum, or Hellenikon or some
other word, but with no very satisfactory result. We need
more knowledge of names current after the time of Alexander
the Great in Persia and India before we can determine this
point. Before the Chinese made their way to the countries
known as Bactria and Sogdiana, the Greeks under Alexander
had gone there and left behind them flourishing colonies, which
had existed through revolutions, wars and intervals of
for nearly two centuries.
peace
The conquest of Bactria and Sogdiana by Alexander the
Great, B.C. 328, was followed after sixteen years by the
consolidation of the kingdom of the Seleucidae. Bactria was
the most distant province of that empire and remained so for
about sixty years.
At this time the last Cheu emperors were
reigning feebly. The time was not favourable for foreign
intercourse, or the Chinese and the Greeks might have learned
to respect one another as having at about the same time a
school of political philosophy and morals, and a literature of
history and poetry.
After sixty years the eastern dependencies of the Syrian
Kingdom were snatched away by insurgent chiefs. The
kingdom of Ansi, or Arsic, as the Chinese name was probably
pronounced nineteen centuries ago, appeared in the history of
the western nations as Parthia. Bactria was left in peace by
Arsaces, and the presence there of Greek colonies, flourishing
through the fineness and fertility of the climate and soil, had a
little before rendered it possible for Deodotus to change the
title and position of a satrap under the Seleucidae into that of
an independent king. His son made a treaty with Tiridates,

4
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
king of Parthia, and joined him in fighting against Syria.
He began to reign about B.C. 250, others say B.C. 255.-
See Bayer, Historia Regni Græcorum Bactriani.
Euthydemus, a native of Magnesia, effected a revolution in
the Bactrian kingdom B.C. 220 and became king. He caused
Greek coins to be cast for use in his kingdom as had been
done before by the dynasty of Diodotus.
After eleven years
Antiochus, the great king of Syria, came eastward with an army
to reconquer his old possessions and destroy the new kingdoms,
Parthia and Bactria, which had sprung up there. He defeated
Euthydemus in battle at the river Arius, in the year B.C.
207, a peace was soon made on the submission of Euthydemus,
who pleaded that Antiochus would do well to leave him the
title of king, because he was surrounded by powerful tribes,
who would respect him the more on account of it. Antiochus
gave one of his daughters in marriage to the son of Euthy-
demus.. A treaty of alliance was made, and in the invasion
of India by Antiochus he was helped by the king of Bactria.
The capital of Bactria was Zariaspa, a city on the Oxus.
Euthydemus died B.C. 196 and was succeeded by Menander,
who conquered the Penjaub and called himself on his coins
king of India and Bactria. He was therefore a powerful
king. In the year B.C. 181 he was followed by Eucratides.
The kingdom of Parthia was now increasing in size, and B.C.
152 Mithridates, king of that country, added to his possessions
Media, Hyrcania and Elymais. In conquering Hyrcania,
which is on the south-east of the Caspian sea, he became a
more dangerous neighbour than before to the Bactrians and the
Dahae. Coins of Eucratides of the date B.C. 148 have been
found, eight years earlier than the visit of the Chinese traveller
Chang-c'hien to Bactria, when China obtained her first know-
ledge of the Greeks. On the coins which have been found on
both sides of the Paropamisus, the mountain chain which
separates the waters of the rivers Indus and Oxus, this king
is called Eucratides the Great. Bayer believed that he was
succeeded by his son Eucratides the second, but this view is
contested. According to Wilson Eucratides was succeeded by
his son Heliocles. Coins have been found with Greek and

OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
5
Arian inscriptions associating the two names in the sovereignty.
The Greek Bactrian kingdom was destroyed B.C. 127,
thirteen years after the visit of Chang-c'hien and twenty-six
`years before the successful war waged by the Chinese against
the native dynasty, which followed the Greek.
The Chinese name for the country in Sï-ma-t'sien and
Pan-ku is
Ta-wan. The prefix ta "great" is not
The word is then Wan, and this
properly part of the name.
is probably the Indian Yavan, the name for the Greeks,
borrowed by the Hindoos from the Persians. From the time
of Alexander and during the reigns of the Seleucidae, the
Greeks are known to the Indians by no other name than
Yavanas. The vin this word is w, and the sound agrees
accurately enough with that of the Chinese so far as we know
it, which was probably Yon. The modern Persian taken from
the Arabic is Yunan. The Hebrew in Zechariah IX, 13,
"when I have raised up thy sons O Zion, against thy sons
O Greece" is yawan agreeing exactly with the Sanscrit.
Among the reasons for identifying Bactria with Ta-wan
are the customs of the people as described by the Chinese. For
example Chang-c'hien found in Bactria the art of wine-
making from
grapes flourishing, and says
that the rich men of
the country stored it to the extent of thousands of piculs.
After being kept for several tens of years it was still good.
They also paid unusual honour to women, consulted them in
important matters and adopted their views.
The Ta-wan country was so important that the historian
gave all his information respecting western countries under
this name.
In the work of Si-ma-c'hien✶ it is the heading of
the entire section which treats of western countries. This
historian would not have classed all western countries under
this title, if Chang-c'hien and Li-kwang-li had not in their
accounts described Ta-wan as specially interesting and in-
portant.
*Si-ma-ts'ien died about B.C. 85. Li-kwang-li conquered Ta-wan B.C. 101.
Mayers identifies Ta-wan with Ferghana, de Guignes with Sogdiana.
Perhaps both of these authors mean Kho-kand. Remusat makes Ta-wan,
Ferghana. The city of Kho-kand is 200 miles N.E. of Sa-mar-kand,
Ferghana is the N.E. neighbour to Bochara.

6
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
In the identification of ancient Chinese names of countries,
the names themselves ought to be well considered. For
example when the country of the Dahae is called Ta-hia it
should be well weighed whether the characters were not
formerly called Da-hae. The use of one national designation
for a race or kingdom is more common than the use of two.
Many races have two names, but there are not a few instances
where one principal name is predominant in usage over any
other.
By examining the ancient sounds of Chinese characters we
may identify old names with much more confidence than other-
wise. The name Ta-yue-shi for the Massagetae does
not, when spelled in this way, suggest the western name as
known to the Greeks. But, if we adopt the sound Get-ti which
we are obliged by correct reading of the Chinese old sounds
to do, we arrive at an orthography which may well inspire us
with some hope, that other names may also, when carefully
reduced to a self consistent orthography, be proved to be identi-
cal in ancient China and in ancient European geographers.
When Alexander the Great, in B.C. 328, followed in the
footsteps of the fugitive Darius, he found the Da-hae living in
the reign known as Hyrcania on the south-east of the
Caspian sea. He crossed with his army the first home of the
Parthian empire, and the provinces of Aria and Drangiana to
the modern Herat, then called Arachosia. From this point
turning northwards he crossed the Hindoo Coosh mountains,
then called Paropamisus, into Bactria. The Bactriani are
called by Quintus Curtius a very warlike race.
Their capital
Zariaspa was situated on the Oxus.
The Oxus then flowed into the Caspian and was much used
for navigation. Now it is an affluent of the Aral lake. It is
called in old Chinese accounts the K, Kwei-shui. In
Wei-yuen's map, prefixed to Lin-tse-sü's geography, the Oxus
is so named.
In the year B.C. 162 the Massagetae were then living at
Tun-hwang on the east of Lake Lob. The Hiung Nu Turks
attacked them and killed their king.
They then left for a

OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
7
more western residence, and we hear of them between the
Dahae and the nation called Kang-ku.
The road, by which the Chinese diplomatic agent Chang-
c'hien reached the country of the Dahae, is described by Sï-
ma-t'sien as circuitous. He went to Ta-wan first; thence to
the country of the Kang-ku nation; from this point to the
Massagetae, and from them to the Dahae.
The position of the Dahae is known.
trading race on the shores of the Caspian.
by Remusat and Klaproth in Sogdiana.
far north in the Kirgis country.
They were a peaceful
Kang-ku is placed
Wei-yuen places it
It may well be doubted if Ta-wan was Sogdiana, because
in the later Han history the So-ku kingdom, which from the
sound should be Sogdiana, was at war with Ta-wan, which
may surely in that case have been Bactria. This point how-
ever is less important because Sogdiana was a Greek province
in earlier times.
Chang-c'hien therefore will have gone by the southern
route to Bactria (Ta-wan) and then to Sogdiana at that time
occupied by the Kang-ku race. From thence he went south
across the Oxus, which at that time flowed into the Caspian
and would support a population on its banks, whom I suppose
to have been the Massagetae. The Kang-ku king had a
winter residence at Pidan, which was the chief city of the
Lakinik country. As this was due west of the Chinese
residency and 5550 li distant, I suppose it to be in
Sogdiana. The Chinese Viceroy's residence would be in Ili.
The Massagetae shortly before the time of Christ removed
to the south side of the Oxus, as shown in Wei-yuen's map,
This would be
and remained there during the Wei period.
possibly cn account of the unruly action of the Oxus, destined
afterwards to flow to the Aral Sea, causing dryness in the
soil or destructive floods and rendering the country unpro-
ductive.
From the Massagetae Chang-c'hien arrived among the
Dahae and staid there more than a year.
years with the Hiung-nu and therefore
He had lived ten
was familiar with

8
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
Turkish. In this new region he would probably also learn
Persian, which would be necessary for the commercial transac-
tions of the Dahae with India, a part of the produce of which
passed by the Oxus into the Caspian.
As the Massagetae, a century afterwards, conquered the
Penjaub, their language would affect somewhat the formation
of the Penjaubi language. The Massagetae became then more
powerful than they had ever been. In the Fa-yuen-chu-lin
they are named among the three most flourishing races in the
world, the others being China and Rome.
On account of the word Massa being rendered "Great"
in the Chinese name I suppose the language to be Indo-
European. But common consent calls them Scythians
according to the usage of the early classical authors, who
described the Massagetae as being like the Scythians.
Remusat thinks they are the Goths."
The Massagetae, B.C. 529, lived north of the Araxes on the
western shores of the Caspian sea. For it was in that year that
they killed Cyrus in battle. Queen Tomuris sought his body
on the battle field, had his head cut off and placed it in a skin
filled with human blood in order to shew her indignation for
his love of conquest and wholesale destruction of human life.
At the time of the expedition of Alexander the Massagetae
are mentioned as a tribe in the Chorasmian region, which is
on the east of Sogdiana and south of the Aral sea. It is said
of them that they were always ready to make war when they
saw a prospect of plunder. They caused trouble to Alexander
while he was in Bactria, by attacking his garrisons and some
detached bodies of his cavalry.
This was previous to the time when the Massagetne, east of
Lake Lob, moved westward. The Chinese accounts, in saying
that the Massagetae went to the country of the Dahae, omit
mentioning the fact that they had tribes of their own nation
residing close. This would permit them with a reason for
seeking a home in that region, and a junction with kindred
clans would strengthen them greatly, found as they are, on the
*Foe Koue Ki, p. 78.

OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
9
east and west of the Caspian and on the east and west of Lake
Lob, they occupied portions of a tract of country embracing
nearly 50 degrees of Longitude and, if we include the Getae of
Thrace, a much larger area.
The Chinese account may be used to correct Malte Brun's
view respecting the Oxus. He argues in his 34th Book that
Strabo and Pliny were wrong in saying that the Oxus flowed
into the Caspian. Remarkably enough the Han history shows
that Strabo and Pliny were right. This appears from the fact
that there is no difference of opinion about the position of
the Dahae, who however are found south of the Oxus in
the Chinese account and at the same time on the shores of
the Caspian. Strabo and Pliny then were right.
The physical description of the Ta-wan people ought to be
considered by us, when we wish to determine the question if
they were Greeks. They had, say the ancient Chinese, deep eyes
and much beard and whisker. That description will suit almost
any Indo-European or Semitic race. It will therefore suit the
Greeks or the Persians.
The Persian occupation of Bactria, which lasted for about
two centuries, must have caused many Persians to settle there
permanently. The Persian and Greek element together have
given an Indo-European aspect to a portion. of the people,
which has never been since lost.
Alexander's efforts were still more definitely fixed on coloni-
zation than the Persian kings had ever been. He founded
many cities and left a very considerable number of colonists
in Bactria and Sogdiana.
Quintus Curtius tells a sad story of the fate of a Greek
colony, which dated from the time of Xerxes. The Milesians,
called Branchidae, in charge of a certain rich temple, had, at
the period of the invasion of Greece by Xerxes, taken the spoils
of the temple and given them to Xerxes. This was in the
eyes of Greece a crime that could not be forgiven. They
were transferred by Xerxes from Miletus to Bactria. Alex-
ander passed their town with his army. They joyfully wel-
comed the Macedonians. A consultation was held as to what

10
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
should be done with them. The result was a merciless slaughter
of the whole.colony by command of Alexander.
Thus we learn that Persia had planted in that fruitful and
inviting region, not only settlements of her own people but
even of the more distant Greeks.
Alexander during his stay, extending over 18 months, left
there indelible marks of his genius not only for war but for
imprinting on the nations he conquered solid features of the
Greek civilization.
It was by this road that something of the influences of Eu-
ropean thought and Greek art penetrated through Chinese
Turkestan to China.
It was in B.C. 106 that the Emperor Han Wu-ti sent an
army to take vengeance on Ta-wan for the murder of a Chinese
Ambassador, despatched by him a short time previously.
Li-kwang-li was the general who was sent. He failed to
conquer Ta-wan and returned with only two-tenths of his
army. His expedition had met with nothing but disaster,
the cities on the way had been closed against him, and provi-
sions denied him. When he reached Ta-wan, he was unable with
the feeble remnant of his army to cope with the forces that
met him, he sustained a severe defeat and returned. The
Chinese emperor withheld his permission for him to enter
China, and refused his consent to the abandonment of the
enterprise. In the year B.C. 101 he went again at the head of
a large army. The chief people of Ta-wan killed their king
Muko, and submitted to superior force. The expedition was
successful.
The chief people of the state appear to have had at that
time a greater power than the king, and the government would
seem to have been in part aristocratic.
Though Ta-wan, when conquered, was no longer the Greek
kingdom founded by Diodotus, it was not long after the close
of the Greek rule that the Chinese army was there.
The
Chinese may in conquering Ta-wan have had to do with
many Greeks remaining from the Bactrian kingdom, subverted
twenty years before.
Pan-ku tells us that the Massagetae had for their capital

OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
11
the city Lamti, which was distant from the Chinese metropolis
11,600 li. They had 100,000 soldiers. In the Shï-ki, this
city is called Lam-ji i, and is said to be the capital of
the Dahae.
In Bayer's history of the Greek kingdom of Bactria the
dates of the accession and death of the successive kings are
given in the following manner:-Diodotus B.C. 255 to 243,
Diodotus the younger B.C. 243 to 220, Enthydemus of
Magnesia, B.C. 220 to 196, Menander king of India and
Bactria, B.C. 196 to 181, Eucratides B.C. 181 to 146, Eucra-
tides the younger B.C. 146 to 134. This last should be
Heliocles.
Bayer gives the impression of a coin of Eucratides, BC.
148, and another of Diodotus of unknown date.
Sogdiana and Bactria both belonged to the Greeks for a
time. They divided these countries into satrapies. Sogdiana
is described by Strabo as lying between the Oxus and Jaxar-
tes. The latter river separated it from the Nomades or
Scythians, with whom Alexander fought a successful battle.
Some old writers speak of Sogdiana and Bactria as separate
provinces of one country, which was regularly settled and
cultivated as far as the river Jaxartes, now called by the
Persians the Sihun. Ptolemy speaks of the Chorasmian
country lying between Sogdiana and the Caspian as also
belonging to Bactria.
On the east Sogdiana was bounded by the high grounds,
which formed the source of the Jaxartes, and which were
occupied by the Sacai, who are called Sak by the Chinese.
Beyond them to the east, across the mountains, Ptolemy places
the Seres in the country, where Yarkand is now the chief city.
By the Seres he means the Chinese, then as now masters of
that country.
Sogdiana was the modern Bokhara. Khokand was then
occupied by the Sakai, Khiva was then the country of the
Chorasmians. Kunduz was Bactria with Tocharestan on the
east.
These identifications are not exact, but they are an approxi-
mation to the truth.

12
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
Bayer has discussed the geography of this whole region
with minute particularity, paying careful attention to all that
the ancient geographers have said. But he has scholarship
without eloquence, and he has not attempted to draw, even in
a single instance, a vivid picture in light and shade of the long
departed past. Yet he calls his book a history.
Yet his book is most valuable as possessing quotations from
a great variety of authors, who wrote respecting the affairs of
Asia in the time of Alexander and his successors.
I place here the following facts from this book. The
country of the Dahae, among whom the Chinese Ambassador
Chang-c'hien lived for more than a year, reached that of the
Bactrians and the Chorasmians on the east and north, while it
stretched to the Caspian on the west.
Arsaces, the founder of the Parthian Empire, lived in early
life
among the Dahae, and belonged to some nomade tribe.
He is called a Scythian. In his wars with Seleucus he was
partly held in check by the military power of the Bactrian
king, Diodotus. With the help of Diodotus a few years later
he was victor in a battle fought with Seleucus.
Diodotus was succeeded by his son of the same name B.C.
243. During his reign extending to B.C. 220 there were
three Greek kingdoms in Western Asia-Bactria, Syria, and
Pergamos. Pergamos in Asia Minor did not hold its place
very long as a powerful state. Syria I suppose to be the
Chinese Tiau-chi, as Bactria was Ta-wan, and Parthia, An-sik.
The Chinese accounts of the coinage of Parthia say that it
bore the king's countenance on its face: on the back was
the face of a woman. In the history of Fan-ye, the capital of
Parthia, is stated to have been Ho-tu, old sound
Wadok. This should be the city Artacoana. It is said to be
25,000 li distant from Loyang. This city was also called
Aria. It was the chief town of the province of Aria, and lay
about 360 English miles to the south-east of the Caspian
southern shore. In the year A.D. 87, Parthia sent an
embassy to China with a present of lions and an animal called
Bubat without horns. In A.D. 97, the governor-general of
the Turkish provinces of China, Pan-c'hau, sent Kan-ying on

OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
13
an embassy to Rome. He arrived at the great sea in the
territory of Syria, but the sailors of the west border of Parthia,
which we must suppose to be the Persian gulf, told the Chinese
envoy that the sea was wide and would require three months
with a fair wind to cross it. With adverse winds some-
times two years were required. On this account sailors on
leaving provided grain for three years, so long a voyage made
people think of home and not a few died on the way. Kan-ying
hearing this concluded not to proceed.
This conversation I suppose to have taken place on the
shore of the Mediterranean. But it may have been on the
Persian gulf.
The Chinese text is ambiguous.
In the year
A.D. 101, the Parthian king Pacorus, known
as Arsaces the 24th, sent an embassy to China. He is called
屈 Mank ut.
The letter t was probably then pronounced
when final as r.
probably the Ostrich. The name "bird of Parthia" was given
to it from this time forward. From Parthia travelling 3,400
li west you come to Aman. From Aman proceeding west for
3,600 li you arrive at the kingdom of Si-pin. Here, if you go
south and cross the river, you reach the kingdom of Ula after
travelling 960 li. Here you are at the extreme limit of
Parthia. From this proceeding south by sea you can go to
the Roman empire, a country abounding with remarkable and
valuable productions.
He sent lions and a great bird from Syria,
The historian says of Rome that the empire contained more
than 400 cities, and had several tens of subject kingkoms.
City walls were built of stone. The post houses on the roads
were plaistered with lime. He describes the precious stones,
woven fabrics and silver and gold coinage. He also men-
tions that trade is carried on by Rome with Parthia and India
by sea. The intervention of Parthia prevented intercourse
till the year A.D. 166, when an embassy from Marcus Aurelius
Antoninus penetrated to China by way of Cochinchina with
This
presents of tortoise-shell, ivory and rhinoceros horn.
probably meant that the embassy arrived by way of Can-
* Antoninus is written An-ton.

14
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
ton. At that time Cochinchina was a part of China. The
same historian in his account of India mentions the trade
that existed between India and the Roman Empire, and
the import into the ports of India of valuable articles
from that Empire. In the reign of the Emperor Ho-ti, A.D.
84 to 106, many embassies were sent to China by the land
route. But, when the Turkish provinces of China revolted,
travelling by this route was stopped. In the year A. D. 159
and subsequently, embassies from India came by the China
About A.D. 222 a Roman called Tsin-lun arrived
at Nanking, and there saw the Wu Emperor Sun-c'hiuen, the
saine who figures conspicuously as a general in the "Three
kingdoms." Later in the third century, about A.D. 285, a
third Roman embassy came. This may have been from
Diocletian or from his predecessor. The former in 222 might
be from the Emperor Alexander Severus or from Heliogabalus.
The information obtained by the Chinese respecting the Ro-
man empire was chiefly from the Buddhists, who came to
Loyang in the first, second and third centuries.
sea.
The embassies came by sea, and the trade in the Indian seas
for the supply of civilized Europe with Oriental products,
carried on by the Persian gulf and the Red sea, was not small.
The Buddhist missionaries came from the Penjaub, Affghanis-
tan and Parthia to China. Ships from the city of Berenice
(the modern Suez) came then to the mouths of the Indus, and
carried on trade there at the Buddhist island of Pattala, the
sacred home of Kwan-yin, an antitype of the Chinese Puto
in the Chu-san Archipelago. From this point the Egyptian
ships proceeded to the Malabar coast and the pearl fisheries of
Ceylon to obtain the products of those regions. Of all articles
of commerce the Romans valued pearls the most. But India
also sent to Europe silks and other textile fabrics, as well as
precious stones, and the pepper and spices, for which she has
always been famous. The Buddhists spoke the language of
the Penjaub and the Pali of the region watered by the Ganges.
They also had among them speakers of Persian, at least this
was probably the tongue with which the Parthian missionaries
were most familiar. It was in A.D. 61 that T'sai-an and

OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
15
T'sin-king were sent to India to bring Buddhist books and
teachers to China. They met in Affghanistan (country of the
Getae) with Kashiapmadanga and took him back with them.
In him and his companion Chu-fa-lan they had translators,
who could tell the Chinese statesmen what they knew of
western countries. A native of Affghanistan lived at Loyang
translating from the year 147 to 186, and another translator, a
native of Parthia, a prince of the royal family of the Arsacidae,
was in China from A.D. 148 to A.D. 170. He could not fail
to know much of Rome and western Asia, and what he knew
he would tell. His name was An-shi-kau. Another
Parthian, named Ubasa Kan-yon, was at Loyang from A.D.
168 to 190, and was also a translator. These foreign transla-
tors were followed by others during the decline of the Han
dynasty to about the year A.D. 207.
After the establishment of the three kingdoms, Hindoo and
other foreign Buddhists resided at Loyang under the dynasty
of T'sau-t'sau. Contemporaneous with them there was at
Nanking, under the patronage of Sun-c'hiuen's dynasty, a still
more numerous band, attracted there by the flourishing condi-
tion of Buddhism in the country, of which Nanking and
Sucheu were the chief cities. During 60 years about 190
Buddhist books were translated there by five foreign transla-
tors. One of these had come to China near to the close of
the Han dynasty with a colony of several hundred persons
from the country of the Getae (Affghanistan etc.,) and had
grown up with a familiar knowledge of the language of China
as well as his own. He studied Chinese at ten years of age and
Sanscrit at 13. He knew in all six languages. At the time
when the Han dynasty was falling, he took his departure with
several tens of his countrymen, and went from Loyang to the
Nanking country. He translated into Tibetan as well as into
Chinese, at least his knowledge of the Yung language is
mentioned as a qualification for his duties. Enough has been
said to show that the knowledge of the western world, acquired
during the Han dynasty and the three kingdoms, B.C. 140 to
A.D. 260, by the Chinese was derived in the first instance by
their own people, when they had travelled far enough to learn

16
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
foreign languages sufficiently well to obtain information res-
pecting important geographical facts. This knowledge was
greatly increased, when missionaries from the Ganges, the
Penjaub, the Parthian kingdom and countries near came to
China to teach Buddhism. It was by means of these men
that several embassies by sea, arriving from Europe at Canton
during the period mentioned, were able to hold intelligible
communication with the Chinese court at Loyang and at
Nanking.
SUPPLEMENTARY STATEMENT.
(Reprinted from the "North-China Herald" of the
14th March, 1883.)
To the Editor of the
"NORTH-CHINA DAILY NEWS."
SIR, To what was said in my paper on this subject, read on
the 9th January at a meeting of the Asiatic Society, may I add
here the following statements?
Considerable difficulty has been felt by investigators in identify-
ing places by the number of Chinese miles recorded in the dynastic
histories. But much may be learned from them notwithstanding.
M. Vivien de St Martin has done the most in this department
of inquiry. He finds it safe to take five Chinese li as the
equivalent for an English mile in laying down the route of Hiuen
Tsang in the Tang dynasty. At that time Ch'ang-an, in 109
degrees east longitude, was the capital. In the early Han
period the capital was also there. In the later Han it was
removed to Lo-yang, in 112 degrees. In the distances given in
the How Han Shu we must therefore subtract about 900 li
to make the numbers given harmonize with those of Pan-koo
and Si Ma-chien. In the Wei period the capital was in Shansi,
at the present Ta-t'ung-fu. This is four degrees east of Si-an,
and we must subtract 1,200 li from the distances of the his-
torians mentioned.

OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
17
Such is the principle. But if we proceed to compare the
longitudes of places which are known, such as Samercand,
Bokhara or Artocoana, one of the old capitals of Parthia, we
shall find that even to divide by five in order to find the English
miles is not enough. Artacoana, in 61 degrees, was distant from
Loyang 25,000 li. The difference in degrees is 51, or 3,600
miles. Eight li to a mile is, then, the rate for the How Han-shu.
The route would be that which leads from Kashgar to Badak-
shan, across the Imaus mountains. In the same way Khoten,
with a longitude of 80 degrees, is given as 11,700 li from Lo-
yang, and the quotient is 6 li per English mile. The diminution
of the quotient is accounted for by the direction of the road, which
is generally straight till it turns south when near Kashgar. In
the Wei-shu, which gives distances from the new capital, then in
northern Shansi, the extent of the journey to the Parthian capital,
there called Wei-su, is given as 21,500 li. This city, not yet
identified, was the capital of a kingdom which bordered on
Persia, and lay to the north-west of the Tochari or Massagetae.
The distance, as given in the same history, of the capital of the
Massagetae, Lukamti, from the Chinese metropolis, is 14,500 li.
It lay to the west of Badakshan, J, which has the
longitude of 70 degrees. This yields about six li to the mile.
Soon afterwards the Getae removed the capital of their nation to
what may be Balkh, in longitude 67. The name is given Bokla,
and also looks like Bokhara, which is in 65 degrees, but this is
too far to the north, and the account says that the Scythian king
moved westward on this occasion a distance of 2,100 li. If the
city meant is Balkh, the number of li to the mile is only four. It
was this Scythian King who conquered India.
In the Wei-shu, the capital of the Roman Empire is stated to
be Antu. The Wei dynasty lasted from A.D. 386 to 532. Can
this city be Byzantium, the seat of the Emperors? Or Antioch
the Asiatic capital? Or is it Rome? It is said to be 10,000
li westward across the sea from Syria (Tiau-chi) by a winding
route, and no less than 39,400 li from the Chinese metropolis.
Taking the difference of longitude at 113, less 29, or eight-four
degrees, we obtain a quotient of eight li per mile, supposing the
city to be Constantinople. "The Roman Empire is," says the
historian, "called the Ta-t'sin because the people resemble the
Chinese in height, upright conduct, clothes, carriages and flags.
They have in their country the five cereals, hemp, and the

18
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
mulberry. They tend silkworms and cultivate the ground. On
the south-east they have commercial intercourse with China
through Cochin China, and by water they also communicate (by
the modern Yunnan) through the department of Yung-c'hang in
Yi-chow."
How the traders of the Roman Empire communicated with China
by way of Yunnan is not stated. It may have been by Birmah,
through the site of the modern Bhamo and the river Irawaddi,
or it may have been by the Cambodia river, or the S'angkoi,
running through Tung-king to the sea. Of these the S'angkoi
is the most likely.
The conquest of Cochin China and of Yunnan was made by
the Chinese in the reign of Han Wu-ti, about a century before
the Christian era, and cities were then founded in those regions
which became trading centres. Here commerce flourished so
long as the empire was powerful. It was thus made possible, by
means of the S'angkoi, the Cambodia river and the Irawaddi, to
have commercial intercourse with the Indian Ocean, and so with
Europe. In the Wei-shu we are told that the Roman Empire
had intercommunication with China by this route as well as by
Cochin China. The city Yung-c'hang is mentioned, and this was
the modern Yunnan Fu. We therefore seem to be shut up to the
Cambodia river and the S'angkoi. The chief object sought by
European traders would be silk robes for the rich inhabitants of
western cities, and the reason of these routes being chosen would
be that the Canton river was not known at that time to the traders.
The Golden Chersonese of Ptolemy is believed to be Cambodia.
What he calls the Magnus Sinus beyond it may be the China
sea. After the victorious expedition into Parthia by Trajan in
the second Christian century, the eastern trade of the Roman
Empire became more adventurous than before, and merchants
travelled farther in the direction of China. They went to Catti-
gara, which was a port leading to the interior capital of Thinae.
Marinus described a voyage from the mouth of the Ganges to the
farthest point of Cattigara. The first portion of this voyage was
south-west; the second portion was north-west. It may well be
supposed therefore that the ship referred to passed the island on
which the modern Singapore stands, and reached the mouth of the
Cambodia river, and then perhaps the mouth of the S'angkoi, ten
degrees farther north on the coast of what was then China. The
port he calls Sada would be somewhere near Singapore. Marinus

OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
19
also describes a voyage of twenty days by a navigator named
Alexander, from the Chersonese to Zaba, in a northerly direction.
Since the common Buddhist name of China is Chi-na,,
the Hindoos in the Birmese peninsula would use this name for
China. But the Chinese residents in Cambodia would pronounce
it tina, because to this day in Annam the initials & and ch of
Chinese words take usually the form t. Hence the name learned
by Ptolemy and Marinus was the Sanscrit name of the Chinese,
modified by local Chinese pronunciation.
The Chinese settlements in Cochin-China are described in the
after Han history in the following manner. Kiauchi the old
Tonquin, had twelve cities under it. The chief city was 11,000
li from Loyang. In one of the cities boats were made by melting
copper. The last of the twelve was constituted a city A.D. 43.
South of Kiauchi was Cochin, JL, at a distance of 11,580 li
south of Loyang. Of houses there were 46,513. Of inhabitants
there were 209,894. In all there were five cities in the jurisdic-
tion of this department. The southernmost was Jinan (Nitnam).
It is 13,400 li distant from Loyang. It was first included in the
Chinese Empire in the latter part of the third century before
Christ. The department embraced five cities, 18,263 houses, and
100,676 inhabitants. In the neighbourhood of one of the cities,
called Luyung, gold was found.
The distances require us to count about ten li to a mile at sixty
to the degree, assuming the road to be straight.
In the times of Ptolemy, European traders on arriving at the
Cambodia river, or in Annam, were already in China, and from
the account in the Wei Shu it appears that facilities existed for
conveying imports and exports to west China by the Yunnan
route, and to central China by that of Annam. By this second
route the Roman embassy of A.D. 166 must have come, which
reached the Emperor's court on the banks of the Yellow River.
J. EDKINS.
DISCUSSION ON DR. EDKINS'S PAPER.
In regard to Dr. Edkins's conjecture in respect of the words
Li-kan and regnum, Dr. Hirth said that at the time Li-kan (or

20
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
Li-küen (Li-gion?) as the pronounciation is handed down for
this name) was used by the Chinese, regnum was a forbidden word
with the Romans; no Roman would have dared to speak of
regnum after the expulsion of the kings, a period which coincided
with the beginning of history in China-the end of the mythological
period of the Chow dynasty. Rome was called "res publica" at
one time, and "imperium" later on, but not regnum or kingdom.
He thinks the late Mr. Taintor's conjecture, though no more than
a guess either, of the name Li-küen being connected with the word
"legiones," the word which represented the conquering power of the
Roman Empire, being more natural. He remarked upon the difficulty
of finding copies in Shanghai of the Chinese works required for in-
vestigation of the subject treated in Dr. Edkins's paper, such as de
Guignes' Histoire des Huns, Pauthier's "Mémoire sur l'authenticité
de l'inscription de Si-ngan-fu," and the various Chinese histories,
all of which were conspicuous by their absence from the Library
of the Asiatic Society and which, though procurable in Chinese
book shops would be an expensive article for a private student.
The only place where such studies could be made with success
was Peking, as had been shown by the able essays on the subject
of Dr. Bretschneider. It was therefore altogether very difficult
to form an opinion on the identification of the names of countries
mentioned in Chinese works. Next to the travels of Marco
Polo, he thought the early relations of the Chinese with western
countries, were one of the most interesting questions for Europeans
in Asia. He then described the method followed by the Chinese
historians in treating of western countries; the manner in which
their chapters were subdivided, and the grouping of facts con-
nected with the respective countries. He suggested that it
would form a very interesting study to take the distances given
in Chinese books, and work them out to see if any definite con-
clusions could be arrived at in the identification of the countries.
In every case the Chinese historian gave the distance of the place,
in so many thousand li, from the capital of China; in some cases
it was given in round numbers, say 10,000 li, and in others they
give it more definitely, such as 22,300. To determine the dis-
tances, they had to ascertain whether, at the date the historian
wrote, the capital of China from which he measured his distances
was Si-rgan-fu, Loyang or Nanking; and they would also have
to place the capitals of the foreign countries described. The
distances were evidently calculated by days' marches, by one or

OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
21
other of three overland routes. Then as to the facts stated in
Chinese books in reference to foreign countries, they would have
to be satisfied if out of a series of 12 facts or statements of pro-
ducts of the country, &c., they could get half a dozen to tally
with what was known to be produced in any given country. It
was mentioned in some of the ancient Chinese books, that Ta-tsin
produced lions; but he did not think lions were produced in Italy.
Mr. Haas-Yes.
Dr. Hirth-Were they not imported from the African colonies?
They were not "growing wild."
Mr. Haas-At the time of the Greek colonies, the country was
infested with lions.
Dr. Hirth thought that no one coming from Rome to China
would have mentioned lions as one of the special productions of
that country, seeing that on his way to China he would pass
through countries where lions were more common.
Dr. Hirth concluded his remarks by expressing his high
appreciation of Dr. Edkins's paper, which had added some im-
portant facts to our information in regard to the Chinese knowledge
of western countries especially inasmuch as it had drawn attention
to a new source of information from which the Chinese may have
derived their knowledge of western countries. Hitherto we
believed that the chapters on this subject contained in the various
dynastic histories were based on the reports of tribute bearers
and special embassies as well as those of Kan-ying, the military
explorer who reached the coast of one of the western seas.
Dr.
Edkins's paper points to the probability of Bactrian, Indian and
other "translators and missionaries" who were engaged in the
translations of Buddhist books at the court of China, having
communicated their own knowledge of the west to the Chinese
historians in the east.
The Chairman said, that in considering this question there
were two ways which suggested themselves to him of arriving at
the connection between China and the West in ancient times-
they would have to look at what China said with regard to the
West and what the West said with regard to China. In modern
times China had excluded itself from other nations, and Pliny
said that such was the case in his time; and yet Pliny mentioned
a variety of articles, in the form of luxuries of high value, in use
among the Romans, as having come from the land which Dr.
Edkins had identified with the North of China, and if this were

22
WHAT DID THE ANCIENT CHINESE KNOW
so it was a very remarkable coincidence. They knew that certain
productions of some distant eastern country, in which the Greeks
and Romans very greatly delighted, abounded in a very special
manner in China at the present day. He was not aware of these
articles being produced in any other countries to anything like
the extent and value to which they were found in China. But
apart from this hypothetical course of reasoning they knew that
early in the Christian era the imperial power of Rome greatly
extended itself in the direction of Central Asia, and countries
were mentioned in the course of the paper before them which they
could identify very clearly. Was there not a possibility of
Chinese representatives having met with representatives of Rome
in these parts? They had evidence of the clearest character that
there were military expeditions from China to the far west, and
they would be safe in assuming that no small amount of informa-
tion would, by means of these expeditions, reach China, with
regard to the great empire of Rome. If any western countries
were known in Central Asia or in the places mentioned, they
might be sure Rome was in particular; and whether Ta-tsin
might be considered as descriptive of Rome or not, he had no
doubt that in these countries as much information was obtained
in regard to China on the one hand and in regard to Rome on
the other as was possible under the circumstances. He had been
led to believe that in early times there was a mutual knowledge
between the east and the west which they were apt to overlook.
There could not have been the interchange of products which
they knew to have existed without this mutual knowledge.
Dr. Hirth observed, with regard to the parallel which Mr.
Muirhead had drawn between the knowledge of China possessed
by Rome and the knowledge of Rome possessed by China, that if
Ta-tsin was actually identical with Ancient Rome, and if Fu-
lin was Byzantium of the middle ages there seemed to be no
doubt that the ancient Chinese knew a great deal more about
Rome than the Romans had ever known about China. The
Seres whether quoted in Horace or Virgil had been to the
best instructed Roman only a name, the name of a silk pro-
ducing nation who were at home at some distance beyond the
terminus of Alexander's campaign; but there their knowledge of
China was at an end, whereas the information about the countries
of Ta-tsin and Fu-lin, such as it is recapitulated in the work of
Ma-tuan-lin for instance, is quite as full of details as is the store

OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
23
of notices regarding China possessed by many a well educated
European even now-a-days.
The Chairman said the undoubted fact of the existence of the
Suez Canal in ancient times proved that there was a greater
amount of intercourse between the West and the East than was
generally recognised. They ought to express their indebtedness
to Dr. Edkins for his valuable paper on a subject of great interest.