NOTES AND QUERIES.
225
Example: Hsü is called Shuang-jén Hsü, indicating
the radical on the left which is colloquially styled the "double
man."
4. The shape of the character is described.
Example: I Shan is called 筆架山 Pi-chia Shaw or the Shan
which resembles a pen-rack.
I add here some examples of each of these classes, together
with the homophones from which the analysed surnames require
to be distinguished. The list is by no means complete and is
intended to be suggestive rather than exhaustive.
Class.
Surnames.
Homophones.
1 張 Chang
1 章
"
1 趙 Chao
1 計 Chi
1費 Chia
1 錢 Chien
1
Chu
"
章張挑季甲潛諸朱河壺泄一貴共理留泥盤神詩談衞五臣正江舟
弓長張
立早章
走趙
言十計
西貝賣
金戈戈錢
Popular Names.
Kung-ohang Chang.
Li-ts'ao Chang.
Tsou-hsiao Chao.
Yen-shih Chi.
Hsi-pei Chia.
Chin-kê-kê Chien.
Wei-p'ieh Chu.
Yen-chê Chu.
未ノ朱
言者
合
可何
Jên-k'ê Ho.
古月胡
Ku-yüeh Hu.
言身寸謝 Yen-shên-te‘un Hsieh
言午
木土土楼 Mu-tu-tu Kuei.
言甚諶
Mu-tzu Li.
Mao-chin-tao Liu.
Jên.êrh Ni.
Fan-shui P'an.
Yen-shan Shên.
方人也施 Fang-jên-yeh Shih.
言西早譚 Yen-hsi-ts'ao Tan.
Wei-knei Wei.
Chih-kê Wu.
1
Ho
1 胡 Hu
1 謝 Hsieh
1 許 Hsi
1 Kuei
1 e Kung
1季 Li
1 劉 Lin
1 倪 Ni
1 潘 Pan
1諶
Shên
1 施 Shih
1 譚 Tan
1 魏 Wei
1 武 Wa
2 陳 Chên
2 |
Chêng
2美 Chiang
2周 Chou
龍共
木子季
人兒倪
番水潘
卯金刀
Yen-wu-Hsü.(¹)
Lung-kung Kuug.
Remarks: (1) Has no exact homophone. (2) See also under Class 3.
委鬼魏
止戈武
耳
Erh-tung Ch'ên.
正 莫耳鄭
Tien-êrh Chêng.
美人美
Mei.jên Chiang.
用口周
Yung-kfon Chon (2)

226
NOTES AND QUERIES.
Class.
2
2
Surnames. Homophones.
Ch'üan
Fêng
2 郭 Kuo
2 羅 Log
2 g Lu
2 孫 Sun
2 Tao
2 鄒 Tsou
21 Wu
2 Yang
2 余 Yi
2
"
3 程 Chèng
3 江 Chinng
3 周 Chou
3 瞿 Chi
3莊 Chuang
3 花 Hun
3
3
3
「徐
Huang
H-ü
Ling
3廬 Lu
3王 Wang
3
Yü
4成 Chêng
4 Shan
泉豐國一旅一漕聊吾羊兪余成姜舟衢一滑皇一凌】一余程】
「人王全
二馬馬
享耳郭
「四維羅
雙口呂
子系
曲日营
劉耳鄒
口天吳
木易
虞 人未余
虞
人則
禾木程
Popular Namea.
Jên-wang Chuan.
Hsiang-ênh Kuo.
Erh-ma Fêng.
Ssu-wei Lo.(3)
Shuang-k'ou Lü.
Tzu-86ŭ Sun.(4)
Ch'ü-jih Ta'ao.
Ch'u-êrh Tsou.
K'ou-t'ien Wu.
Ma-yi Yang.
Jên-wei Yi
Jên-teê Yi.
Ho-mu Ch'êng.(5)
三點水江 Sun-tien-shui Chiang
Ch'ian-chi Chou (6)
Shuang-mu Ohü.
Ts'ao-t'ou Chuang.(7)
Ta'no-tfou Hua.
Ta'ac-t'ou Huang.
Shuang jên H ü (8)
Liang-tien-shui Ling
圈吉周
雙目瞿
草頭莊
草頭花
草頭黃
雙人徐
兩點水凌
虎頭盧
三王
兪 虎頭處
蹺脚成
筆架山
Pi-chin Shan.(12)
Hu-t'ou Lu.(9)
San-hun Wang.(10)
Hn-tou Yii.
Ch'ino-chino Cheng.(1)
Remarks:—(3) Has no exact homophone. (4) Has no homophone. (5)
The radical is popularly called 禾木禾, “the ho which resembles
the character 木” (6) See also under Class 2. (7) Has no homophone.
(8) 雙人 is the popular name of the radical. (9) Has no exact homo-
phone. (10) Has no homophone. (11) 蹄脚 =One foot lifted. (12)
筆架=Pen-rack.
THE COLLOQUIAL
ANALYSIS OF
To the four chief methods of distinguishing
a surname in the colloquial language as
CHINESE SURNAMES. Specified by G. M. H. P. I wish to add a fifth,
which is the common way of describing an
ordinary character when liable not to be caught by the ear owing

NOTES AND QUERIES.
227
to its not being heard with other sounds that may explain it.
My surname is Hsia, "summer," and when asked for my name,
since I am not strong in tones, I usually anticipate all doubt as
to the possible relationship with my namesakes and, by
adding hsia-t'ien Hsia (F). I am told that I might just as
well say ch'un-hsia-ch'iu-tung Hsia, the "spring-summer, etc.
Summer," or hsia-shang-chou, the "Hsia, Shang and Chou
dynasty Hsia."
THE YUE-TI OR
MASSAGETAE.
夏
This interesting race of people are referred
to by Prof. S. Beal in the Journal of the Royal
Asiatic Society for April 1884. He says they
were the same with the Vrijjis, the people
of Vaisali, who were a Scythian race and who are described in
the Parinibbana Sutta. One branch of the Yue-ti had gone into
India, while another penetrated eastward to Tangut. The centre
of the race would be the region of the Massagetae to the east
of the Jaxartes. He reverts therefore to the old theory of
Rémusat and Klaproth that the Yue-ti were Getae. The objec-
tion made by Vivien de St. Martin that several centuries earlier
Herodotus spoke of the Massagetae is not valid, because the
nation had several branches, and Herodotus when he spoke had
in view one of the western branches. Prof. Beal rightly says the
old sound of was Get. Their old home was not, he says,
in Tangut. They were strangers there and differed in language,
manners, and dress from the Chinese and the Turks.
THE
EPHTHALITES.
J. EDKINS.
These people are mentioned by later Greek
writers. They are in Chinese char-
acters which were formerly pronounced ep
tar (tat). Ma-twan-lin says they had their capital on the
south of the Ohu river river which we must suppose
to be the Oxus.* Their customs were the same as those of Tahara,
now called Kunduz, on the upper Oxus. It was in the end
of the sixth century that the Ephthalites sent an embassy to
China. Beal calls them Turks, but Ma-twan-lin is not sure what
race they belonged to. Some think, he says, that they are akin
to車師 Ku-shi and 高車 Ko-ku. If so they must be Turks, for
these states were among the Turkish principalities. Another
account places them in connection with Kang-ku in Russian
* Vivien de St. Martin, Buddhist Pilgrims, vol ii, p. 283: Vakshab or
Vakshu, the Oxus.

228
NOTES AND QUERIES.
Turkestan. In that case they may be Indo-European, and as
Ma-twan-lin himself thinks, a branch of the Yue-ti. This Chinese
author says in his account of Khoten that to the west from
Kan-chang the various nations had deep eyes and high noses.
He divides the Turkish and Indo-European (deep eyes and high
noses) races at Khoten. West of that point the Indo-European
race prevails. It embraces, for instance, Persia, India, Badak-
shan, the Tajiks and some others at present. The Turkish races
have conquered the Tajiks, and now in the Russian conquest we
see the Indo-European race again asserting its superiority to the
Turkish. There seems to be no solid reason why we should not
regard both the Yue-ti and the Ephthalites as Indo-European.
The Ephthalities were akin to the Sacai , which favours the
supposition. It was not till the Hiung-nu Turks grew very
powerful in the third century B.C. that the Indo-Europeans
(the Yue-ti) were driven away to the west. From that time the
Turks encroached more and more victoriously on the Indo-Euro-
pean area. Hence a confusion occurs. The races become mixed
and it is difficult to distinguish them securily. Ma-twan-lin
says the Ephthalites did not speak like the Nu-nu and the Ko-ku
, both of Turkish descent. Their language was peculiar,
as if in fact it might be Indo-European.
J. EDKINS.
AREAS OF RACES. A thousand years ago, the Indo-European
race spread over Russian Turkestan and
held a part of Chinese Turkestan. The most of Chinese Turk-
estan was distinctly Turkish.
Two thousand years ago through the neighbourhood of the
Messagetae, a little beyond the north western frontier of China,
the eastern extension of the Indo-European race was nearer
to China than at present. The Turks have vigorously pressed
to the south and south-west, but excepting that the Yue-ti were
driven westward and the Turkish provinces made more tho-
roughly Turkish, the Indo-European area remained the seat of
Indo-European languages. The Turkish is an imported language
in Russian Turkestan as in Turkey, and the Indo-European
languages remain in Turkey (with the Semitic), in Persia, and
in Russian Turkestan as the colloquial speech of the subject
peoples.
There has been a tendency in ethnological researches in Asia
to refer too many races to the Ural Altai stock, and too few to the
Indo-European, and the old pronunciation of Chinese characters
has been greatly overlooked. Asiatic ethnology requires to be
overhauled carefully in all its accepted data with reference to
these two things. Girard de Rialle, in his Mémoire sur l'Asie

NOTES AND QUERIES.
229
Centrale identifies the Eptar with the Iatii of Pliny and
the Iarao of Ptolemy on the ground of resemblance in sound.
The restoration of the lost final p in the first syllable and r for
t in the second, reduces his hypothesis to "waste paper" as the
Chinese say.
Genghis Khan's conquests led to the displacement of the
boundaries of the languages spoken in Tartary. Mongol was
and is spoken from the Amur to Hami. Before his time this
area was chiefly Turkish. The Turkish soldiers of his armies
went westward. The Mongol soldiers occupied eastward lands.
The boundary of races is easily moved in countries which are
given up to pasture for roving flocks and herds.
The Manchu conquests have not extended the area of Manchu
speech. Mancha has given place to Mongol and Chinese and
is destined to extinction. The frontier of its area has gone back
visibly from lack of population to maintain it. This is because
they have not attended to agriculture though possessing coun-
tries well adapted to farming.
J. EDKINS.
THE CHINESE FOR THE
In spite of Dr. Edkins' admiration for
BAR OF A RIVER.
the bold imagery of the term 鐵板沙,
as used in the Peking Gazette, and his
dictum that this is a much better expression for "bar" than
any heretofore in use, I am afraid we shall have for the present
to stick to the humble unimaginative phrase Lan-chiang-
sha. Tieh-pan-sha may in some future age become by
metonymy a good rendering for "bar." Just now it is not a
general term meaning "bar," but the proper name of a shoal
near Ch'ung-ming Island in the mouth of the Yangtsze, and has
not yet attained the apotheosis it doubtless deserves.
G. M. H. P.
呢 Ni
BROADCLOTH.
Has any derivation been found for this
word, which is obviously non-Chinese in origin
when used in the above sense? Williams
hazards no suggestion in his Syllabic Dictionary.
The two combinations in which this word is most frequently
met on shop-signs, viz., To-lo-ni and BAWE Ka-la-ni
(observe that is here read Ka not Ha) stand for broadcloth,
which has a certain gloss, and coarser dark-coloured material
respectively. It seems from this that we should look to Manchu
or Mongol for the origin of E, for toro in the former (probably

230
NOTES AND QUERIES.
in both) signifies bright, and Kara means black from the Amoor
to the Danube.
呢 Ni
BROADCLOTH.
G. M. H. P.
Though I am not able to trace the sound
ni (E) to its exact foreign source, I venture
to offer the following remarks in reply to
G. M. H. P.'s Query.
The name To-lo-ni [E] has been the subject of enquiry
eight years ago. Mayers, in his notes on "Cotton in China"
[Notes and Queries, vol. ii, p. 95] refers it by way of conjecture
to an expression tou-lo [5] which, he says, "was used as late
as the 17th century to designate the cotton fabrics imported at
Canton from Malacca, and which is perpetuated at present, it
would seem, in the characters to-lo, as for instance in to-
lo-ni, now signifying broad-cloths."* Mayers' conjecture proves
a happy one, inasmuch as medieval Chinese authors hand down
the same explanation. The author of the Tung-hsi-yang-k'ao,
speaking of the articles of trade found in Atjeh on the north
coast of Sumatra (ch. 4, p. 10) explains the term tou-lo-mien [
by the scholion: "a texture also made of down [E]; in
lenght they measure up to 6 or 7 ch'ang; now they are called
to-lo-nien [];" and Chao Jn-kua, an author of the 13th
century, says in the second part of his work under the head of
Chi-pei [], i.e., the Cotton Plant: "The Cotton tree [
is a kind of small mulberry; its flower is a kind of hibiscus
[?fu-jung]; the flake is rather more than half an inch in
length; it is soft like the down of geese, and has several tens of
seeds. The southern people collect these soft flakes, remove the
seeds by means of iron sticks and rollers, after which they shake
the flake with their hands, and will then reel it without trouble.
It is woven into cloth of which the most durable and thickest
quality is called tou-lo-mien [5]; the second quality being
called fan-pu [, i.e., foreign cloth, the third, mu-mien
[*], and a still lower quality, chi-pu []. It is sometimes
dyed with various colours and illuminated with foreign patterns.
It is from five to six ch'ih [=abont 6 to 7 feet] broad."
It appears from Ch'ao Ju-kna's work that, during the thir-
teenth century of our era, a period when oriental trade generally,
and with it the trade in piece goods, had assumed large dimen-
sions, the cotton industry based on the cultivation of the chi-pei
* Both the expressions tou-lo and to-lo may be referred to Sanscrit tilo,
"cotton," which name has been connected with that of the island of Tylos,
in the Persian Gulf, one of the best known localities for the cultivation of
tree cotton during antiquity.

NOTES AND QUERIES.
231
(Sanscrit Karpása) plant, from which the texture called
tou-lo-mien, or tou-lo-nien, was made, was practiced in Annam
and Cochinchina, Borneo, Java, India (especially in countries
on the coast of Malabar, Gujerat, and Bengal) and certain parts
of the Arab dominions of the time. From all I conclude from
a perusal of that author's statements, the Arabs carried the
cottons produced in these countries, not only to China, but to
all their own colonies, including their settlements in Zanzibar
and Berbera. The name Tou-lo-mien or its Arab equivalent, as
representing the best quality, must have been known in all the
oriental ports frequented by Arab ships, and in the face of its being
mentioned so frequently in our Sung author, as it is of common
occurrence in its later shape tou-lo-nien with the Ming authors,
we may be permitted to assume that it represented the foremost
of foreign piece goods imported into China by sea. Apart from
the scholion quoted from the Tung-hsi-yang-k'ao, which simply
suggests that at the time both a cotton and a woollen texture
was covered by that name, I am not able to show at what time
and under what circumstances it came to be applied to woollen
goods, and whether there is any connection between the mien
() of the Sung author, or the nien (i) of Ming authors, and
the modern ni (E), which occurs now in the names of the
following woollen textures:
To-lo-ni (E) also called Ta-ni (E)=Broad Cloth,
Spanish Stripes ;
Hsiao-ni (JE)=Cassimeres, Flannels;
Fa-lan-ni () = Flannel;
Ka-la-ni (E)
or O-ni (E) S
=Russian Cloth.
Possibly nien or nin () was similar in sound to ni (E)
in some of the southern dialects, through which the name was
imported.
In this connection I wish to mention what I consider the pro-
bable derivation of the term pi-ki (, or pi-ki-jung,
the Chinese word for "Long Ells." The Canton sound of these
two characters is pat-ki. I have availed myself of another
opportunity to prove, by a large collection of examples contained
in Sanscrit, Arabic and other names, the rule by which characters
in the ju-sheng and with a t in the southern dialects are preferred
to all others in rendering foreign syllables ending in r.
This
rule would allow us to read par-ki, or, since the first character
is not aspirated, barki or bark, for Cantonese pat-ki. This I com-
pare to Arab baraq, or Persian barah (=agnus et aries), from
which the names for certain kinds of camlets, as they are and
have been in use in numerous countries, are derived, and of

232
NOTES AND QUERIES.
which Dr. Schrader in his late work (Linguistisch-historische
Forschungen zur Handelsgeschichte und Waarenkunde, vol. i, Jena,
1886, p. 215) mentions Arab barracân, Spanish barragan, French
barracan, and others, to which several Slavic words are added
as quoted by Miklosich. The German Barchent, which is derived
from the same root, is a useful example in showing how, in its
migration from language to language, the name of a texture
may come to mean a cotton stuff in one language, while all the
related terms in other languages have preserved the original
category of a woollen manufacture. Making allowance for such
changes in the meaning, the frequency of which it is hardly
necessary to prove to the linguistic student, it may be understood,
how the to-lo-nien, or cotton cloth, of the thirteenth century may
now appear as to-lo-ni with the meaning of a woollen texture.
F. HIRTH.
ANALYSIS OF BRICK
FROM THE
GREAT WALL OF
CHINA.*
and its analysis
A small portion of the brick was chipped
off, and after being cleansed from all extra-
neous matter adhering to the outside was
reduced to powder. A small portion only
was soluble in acid (Hydrochloric Acid)
may be represented as follows:-
Dried at 230° Fh. Moisture.
Carbonate of Iron
Portion
soluble in
Carbonate of Lime
acid 8.22
Portion
insoluble
in acid
91.51.
Carbonate of Magnesia
Alumina...
Oxide of Iron
Lime
Magnesia
Silica
4.06
3.20
0.96
7.60
5.85
2.52
0.99
.74.55
99.73
* By J. S. Brazier, F.C.S., Professor of Chemistry, Aberdeen University.

LITERARY NOTES.
REVIEW. Buddha: his life, his doctrine, his order (Gemeinde) by
Dr. HERMANN OLDENBERG, translated by Wм. HOEY, M.A.,
D. Lit., London, 1882.
This book is of great interest for the student of Buddhism.
The author writes as one who belongs to the school of Neander.
As Professor in the University of Berlin he would naturally
imbibe the spirit of that eminent Christian historian. Probably
he was a pupil, for he takes pleasure in pointing out analogies
between Buddhism and Christianity, and he sympathizes with
all earnest minded pioneers in the regions of religious thought
to whatever school they may be attached.
Dr. Oldenberg begins with a careful picture of religious
thought in India before Buddhism. There was a time of
natural worship and sacrifices, with religious hymns, out of this
sprang an age of questionings. To what God are these sacrifices
made? What is his name? This introduced the study of unity,
the special work of philosophy, for there is a philosophy in the
later Vedas. The favourite form it took was the teaching of
the Atman, the soul, the breath. The breath became the Ego
and the Universe, Pantheism was very early reached by Hindoo
thinkers, but early Hindooism had the idea of a creator Prajapati
and also that of a first principle called Brahma. With them
Brahma, the principle, preceded Brahma the God, and this was
the form religious philosophy took in India before Buddhism.
Dr. Oldenberg points out that it is necessary to place in the
Hindoo development of philosophy a special period in which
Brahma figures as a God with a paradise as his residence. This
period was before the age of Buddhism and after the Vedic age.
When Buddha teaches, the great God Brahma comes from
heaven as a disciple to listen to the wisdom of this sage. With
this period of Brahma, the God, coincides that of the fully
developed metempsychosis of the Hindoos. This is at the base
of Buddha's teaching. His doctrine of universal sorrow cannot
be stated, but in the language of the popular metempsychosis of
the time.
Dr. Oldenberg is also of opinion that Buddhism has borrowed
from Brahmanism much of its dogma and much of its spirit.
This is true in regard to the universality of sorrow. Buddhism
pities the universe and so did Brahmanism. The author points
out how in this respect Christianity differs because Christ in

234
LITERARY NOTES.
the gospels always pities the individual. Buddhist metaphysics
was founded as the incipient metaphysics of the later Vedas
when the Hindoos began to ask about the all, the unity breathing
ten thousand varying forms, the one being who sustains this
universe, and how can I enter into identity with that mysterious
unity?
It seems quite plain that if the Atman, the breathing primal
element of life, is at the same time Ego and the ultimate
principle of the Universe, that the transition to Buddhist
teaching from this sort of dogma would not be a difficult one.
This is no disparagement to Buddha's originality, nor does it
render him less admirable. He was a true man of his race.
He was a thinker, but he knew only the teaching of his age and
country. He believed that metaphysical knowledge could turn
back the high tide of human sorrow. This was a great mistake,
but he sincerely believed it and so did many other Hindoos
before and after him. His success as founder of his religion
was occasioned more by his sympathy than by his logic, but his
disciples touched with the tenderness of his heart became
adherents to his mistaken philosophy and believed him invincible
in the battle field of argument.
There is a fascination in the subject of this book and the
author has treated it in a fascinating manner. But there is
one thing here to be said specially which is that this book opens
up to the Chinese student a curious field of speculation. The
factors of early Tauist thought are in several respects the factors
of the later Vedic thought. The Atman, being "breath,"
may be very well contrasted with the Tanist, the pervading
breath of the universe and the source from which all things
have sprung. It existed before change began in the beginning
of the Universe. This is the teaching of Lie-tsï. Lautsi
approves the act of the wise in giving peculiar attention to
their breath that is to the outgoings of feeling that they may be
mild. Chwang-tsi says of Lautsi that "he tanght light to have
been produced from darkness, actual things were formed from
invisible substance. The soul sprang from the underlying
principle (tau) of nature." They all use the term creator and
this corresponds exactly to the Sanscrit word Prajapati. They
employ too the term for God, never using . This seems
to correspond to the Brahma of the Vedas. The fable in Lie-
tsï of the floating islands in the Eastern Ocean borne on the
* The Tau of Lau-tsi is the li of the Sung philosophy. In the Brah-
mana system it is the atman and is not in that system well separated from
"breath." Lau-tsl's word for atman is tau. Lie-tsi's word is c'hi. Lau-
tsi's word for Brahma is In Chwang-tsï the universal underlying unity
is 大一

LITERARY NOTES.
235
back of great sea monsters is intensely Hindoo, but a little more
modern looking. Both Lie-tsï and Chwang-tsï believed in an
undeveloped metempsychosis like that of the later Vedas.
Chwang-tsi says 已而生文化而死,“a change and we are
born; another and we die." You may be by transformation
(L) changed to be the liver of some rat or the foreleg of
an insect. Your left arm may become a cock and you will begin
to crow the hour in the night. (See Balfour's Chwang-tsi,
p. 79-80). All this agrees far better with later Vedic philoso-
phy than with Buddhism which scouts the idea of a creator
and which has the full pledged metempsychosis. So also the
paradises of the Devas with Brahma and Indra Shakra. These
are completely realized in Buddhism, but in Chwang-tsi and
Lie-tsï what we meet with is that mode of talk which fits the
Vedic niche better than the Buddhist.
To find therefore the Hindoo system corresponding most
closely with the Tauist ancient system we must study the Brah-
mana philosophy and there we can get it very nearly developed
in the same form. There are two points which are different.
The Tauists have a Trinity and the legends of the islands of the
immortals are too developed and too definite in Lie-tsï to suit
this approximation. Here then we look to those contempora-
neous influences which are connected with the spread of Babylo-
nian thought in India. It was the Babylonians that gave to
India and China a Trinity and set the philosophers of these two
countries dreaming about the islands of the immortals in the
distant eastern sea. But how were the factors of Hindoo
thought in the age when the Brahmanas were written to be-
come known? There were travelling diviners, astrologers and
doctors who went from place to place, men like the magician of
whom Lie-tsi speaks who professed great powers and gained
access to princes by their personal influence.* None of the
Asiatic races were without this class. They lived by their
knowledge and learned new languages as they travelled. Their
*The South of China was occupied very much by Tibetan, Birmese and
East Himalaic races. Travelling diviners and merchants would bring
portions of Hindoo thought in driblets to the Chinese in the Ch'u country
and thus the three great Tauist philosophers would receive them. The
pre-buddhist philosophy of India slowly spread to the east and at last
touched the Chinese area about B C. 600 or earlier. Chinese philosophers
who knew south China would then be in a position to derive suggestions
from an Indian source in this way. Thus for instance the Chinese learned
to view the character as containing the numbers two. six six,
six written from left to right and interpreted it (in Legge's Tso-chwen)
as expressing the number 26,660 days (v. page 556), a piece of arithmetical
writing which is almost purely cuneiform. This was in the year BC.
542 and may be called Babylonian.

236
LITERARY NOTES.
implements were such as the paint brush, the counting slips of
bamboo, and the magician's wand tipped with hair. Then there
were always travelling merchants who brought back informa-
tion from the countries they visited. Races too were always in-
movement if their habits were not agricultural. Further the
Indian ocean was traversed for two thousand years before
Christ by Dhows from the Straits of Babelmandeb and the
Persian Gulf. It was by the influences of these and other
kinds that the early Tanists became acquainted with the
elements of Hindoo thought which are embedded in the later
Vedas.*
JOSEPH EDKINS.
Whatever comes of Mr. Giles' theory it should be remembered that
he represents Lau-tsi as having lived in the sixth century B.C., and that
his philosophy has been preserved in fragments by the early Tauist writers.
Hence Mr. Giles' view does not disagree with the promulgation of Tauism
in the sixth century B.C. by the founder. Nor are we obliged by his
theory (supposing he were able to prove it) to regard the doctrines of the
Tau-te-king as, belonging to the Han dynasty.