CIETY
上海
CHINA
ARTICLE VIII.
CHINESE GUILDS OR CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE
AND TRADES UNIONS.
BY
D. J. MACGOWAN, M.D.
The following cursory observations on Chinese Guilds have
been drawn up at the suggestion of Dr. Lührsen, formerly
German Consul-General, Shanghai, communicated to me by
Count d'Arnoux, Deputy Commissioner of Imperial Maritime
Customs, Wênchow.
It is a subject of no inconsiderable importance, and has already
received attention from Commissioners of Customs, Consuls,
sinologists and publicists.* What follows is submitted merely
as an additional contribution, in the hope that it may serve to
elicit further inquiry, for until the administration of those
institutions at each of the nineteen ports open to foreign trade
is carefully made, this important feature in Chinese secular life
can only be superficially studied.
Foreigners in China apply the term "Guild" to two classes of
institutions denominated Wei-kuan (club-houses), and Kung-so
"Reports on Trade :" Imperial Maritime Customs; 1866, p. 14; 1873,
pp. 72, 110, 112, 119; 1881, pp. 5, 11. "Regulations of the Canton Guild
at Foochow," translated by C. F. R. Allen, Esq., H.B.M.'s Consular
Service. "Vocabulary and Handbook of the Chinese Language ;" Foo-
chow, 1872, Vol. II, p. 399. "Chinese Guilds and their Rules," by "K.,"
China Review, July-August, 1883. British Blue Book: "Commercial
Report by H.B.M.'s Consuls in China, 1884," Part II; Consul Cooper's
Report on the Trade of Ningpo. "Chinese Sketches," by H. A. Giles,
H.B.M.'s Consular Service, 1876; "Guilds," p. 49. Shanghai General
Chamber of Commerce: "Minutes of Annual Meetings and Reports,
1882-1883;" "Tea Weighing at Hankow-Taboo at Hankow."
Note
sur les petites Sociétés d'argent en Chine," par G. Eug. Simon, Consul de
France à Ningpo: Journal of the China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society,
December 1868. China Mail, 6th April 1886.

134
CHINESE GUILDS.
(public halls). Wei-kuan may be not inaptly compared to
Chambers of Commerce, while Kung-so fairly represent Trades
Unions.
The subject, therefore, is naturally divisible into two parts,
and under the following headings:-
Their Origin.
PART I.-MERCANTILE GUILDS.
Compatriot Guilds-
of Ningpo.
دو
Pakhoi.
Guilds versus Local Authorities.
General Administration of Guilds.
Guild-halls.
Revenue.
Government; "Boycotting."
Rules on Credit and Storage of Goods.
Rules of Weights and Measures; Closing and opening
of the Year.
Rules of Tare; Insurance; Police.
Rules against fictitious Buying and Selling; Charities.
Wênchow Druggists' Guild.
Fukien Guilds at Ningpo: The Foochow, Amoy, and
Hsing-hua.
Shantung Guild of Ningpo.
Shanghai Tea Guild; Silk Guild.
Regulations, "Boycotting," etc.
Ningpo Bankers' Guild.
Fictitious dealing in Dollars.
Shanghai Bankers' Guilds.
Guilds and Foreign Merchants.
Collisions at Swatow, Hankow, and Ningpo.
PART II.-TRADES UNIONS.
Ningpo Fishmongers' Union.
Wênchow Blacksmiths' Union.
دو
دو
Carpenters' Union.
Copper Wire-drawers' Union.
"
Silk Weavers' Union.

Wênchow Millers.
CHINESE GUILDS.
135
"
Postal Companies.
Barbers' Union.
General Remarks; Hours of Labour; Apprentices; Strikes;
"Boycottings;" Penalties.
Co-operative Clubs.
Reflections.
General Conclusion.
PART III.-SUPPLEMENTARY NOTES.
Agricultural Labourers.
Agrarianism.
Contentment of the Proletariat of China.
PART I.-MERCANTILE GUILDS.
The origin of Mercantile Guilds is succinctly given in the
Constitution and Bye-laws of the Ningpo Guild at Wênchow,
which, in a preamble such as those institutions usually publish
for their raison d'être, says: "Wei-kuan were first established
at the metropolis by mandarins among compatriots or fellow-
provincials for mutual aid and protection. Subsequently,
merchants formed guilds like those of the mandarinate, and now
they exist in every province."
How long metropolitan compatriot Guilds have been in
existence I have been unable to discover. Early in the Ming
era a Kiangsu Guild (Yen-ling, Wei-kuan) flourished at Peking,
and it is probable they were known as early as the Tang period.
Being of the nature of clubs, their origin may have been much
more ancient.
At Peking the Guilds include compatriot members and mer-
chants-the official class, of course, preponderating in numbers
and influence. In the provinces the mercantile is the controlling
element; mandarins not needing such protection.
Provincial compatriot Guilds have two main objects in view-
protection against sectional prejudices to which settlers from
distant places are subjected, and for the prevention of litigation
among its members; and, latterly, including the functions of
Chambers of Commerce.

136
CHINESE GUILDS.
NINGPO COMPATRIOT GUILD OF WENCHOW.
In relation to the first-named object, the Ningpo-Wênchow
Guild (established at the close of the last century) says in its
preamble: "For a century, no province has been without Ning-
poese residents. Ningpo is a maritime region. Those of its
people who cannot find employment as agriculturists resort to
other places for trade. Here at Wênchow we find ourselves
isolated; mountains and sea separate us from Ningpo, and when
in trade we excite envy on the part of Wênchowese, and suffer
insult and injury, we have no adequate redress. Mercantile
firms, each caring only for itself, experience disgrace and loss-
the natural outcome of isolated and individual resistance. It is
this which imposes on us the duty of establishing a Guild."
CANTON COMPATRIOT GUILD OF PAKHOI.
This Guild in its preamble says: "The people of Pakhoi are
very covetous, and of a licentious nature, showing little respect
for the laws; while cases of robbery and theft are innumerable,
to the great annoyance of our merchants; and when trouble
arises between our trades and local merchants there is no way
of dealing with the latter.
"It is hoped that the rules we have adopted will lead to
uniformity of action and unanimity of feeling among our mem-
bers, who are bound by ties of townsmanship, and in this way
secure ourselves against gradual degeneration, while it will
teach those outside the Guild that being of one mind in our
determination to oppose wrong, unscrupulous merchants and
bad characters will seek to avoid us, and so avert their own
discomfiture."
It is strange that institutions of such obvious utility should
be of recent formation. According to the above, they were
scarcely known two centuries ago.
With regard to self-protection, which was the principal cause
of their establishment, that function is effectually secured by
the semi-official character that is accorded to them by local
authorities. They undertake "To prosecute in behalf of their
members when satisfactory proof is afforded of the equity of
their claims. Members having occasion to go to law to obtain

CHINESE GUILDS.
137
redress for a real grievance, and finding their resources inade-
quate to carry on the suit, the Guild will address a joint petition
to the Court praying for an adjustment of the case. Half the
expense of legal proceedings will be defrayed from the funds of
the association; but if it is discovered that the plaintiff has an
unworthy case and no resources, or that his trouble originates
from gambling or dissolute life, all claims to assistance will be
dismissed. Members going to law to effect a settlement of
claims will have three-tenths of the cost defrayed by the Guild,
the balance being borne by the litigants. But before legal
proceedings are commenced, the unanimous consent of a meeting
of members for approval of action shall be obtained. The
three-tenths contributed from the fund shall be inclusive of the
amount involved, and will only be issued when the claim is
insufficient to cover the cost of legal proceedings. When the
claim sued is sufficient to liquidate costs, no grant will be made
-not with a view to the saving of expenditure, but with the
object of preventing advantage being taken of this rule for the
sake of gain and to repress the spirit of persistency in litigation
among members."
GUILDS versus LOCAL AUTHORITIES.
When piracy prevailed on the coast, complaints of victims
were immediately written out by Guild secretaries in due form,
which secured such redress as was possible.
Protection is sometimes needed against local authorities.
Take the following illustration from the records of the Guild of
the Ningpoese at Wênchow.
In the latter part of the first decennium of the present century,
a dearth of rice was experienced in several neighbouring pro-
vinces, at a time when that staff of life was abundant in Southern
Chêkiang, and Ningpo traders in Wênchow availed themselves
of an Imperial Edict, which allowed the exportation of rice
from any part of the Empire; they chartered vessels to engage
in the trade, but the local authorities seized the junks and
placed the merchants under arrest, refusing to admit the
applicability of the Imperial Rescript to Wênchow. The Guild
appealed to the provincial authorities at Hangchow, without

138
CHINESE GUILDS.
obtaining redress; but, carrying their complaint to Peking,
they secured exemption from further annoyance.
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION OF GUILDS.
The officers consist of a general manager; a committee, who
are elected annually, but eligible for re-election. In large centres
of trade, each staple commodity has its committee-man, as at
Ningpo. The Fukien Guild has three distinct departments-
sugar, timber, and miscellaneons articles; while there are also
sub-Guilds for several of its prefectures. In small ports the
management is often assumed by members in turn. The most
important functionary is the permanent secretary, a salaried
scholar of literary rank, who, in virtue of his literary position,
has the right of personally interviewing the mandarinate, and,
as Guild delegate, has a recognised official standing. He is a
medium of all correspondence, and at the Yamêns appears as
the Guild's legal representative, pleading for its interests,
demanding redress for its injured members, defending and
protecting his constituents as occasion requires. He is useful
to local authorities in soliciting from his Guild subscriptions
for public works, charities, and extraordinary exigencies.
The membership seldom exceeds thirty; and when meetings
are convened, those who attend are not too numerous to con-
sider questions that come up for discussion. Although there
are no written parliamentary rules for proceedings, decisions
are arrived at with the decorum that befits deliberative bodies
generally. Every institution, however, has its garrulous, fussy,
crotchety debaters, not less in China than elsewhere. One of the
Guilds has found it necessary to protect itself against such
members; its single regulation reads: "At the public meetings
of the Guild, should there be anyone of higher abilities than
the rest, with a plan of his own to propose, whatever his station
may be, he must argue and explain the case before all the
members. He must not continue to dispute the matter after it
has been decided, as such a proceeding is useless when there is
no one to second it; that will prevent waste of the Guild's time."
A further security against useless palaver disallows junior
partners attending meetings.

CHINESE GUILDS.
GUILD-HALLS.
139
Chief among edifices in mercantile emporiums are buildings
erected by Guilds for head-quarters-places of meeting, theatrical
representations, and as lodging-houses for high officers when
travelling, and for scholars en route to metropolitan examinations;
chaplains-Taoist and Buddhist.
"Women and girls are not admitted to Guild-halls, to the
end that decorum may be maintained."
Sometimes these structures are truly palatial, representing
the highest specimens of Chinese architecture; all that the arts
of gilding and carving, masonry and sculpture, can effect is done
to render Guild-halls imposing, the most striking portion being
a court for theatrical performances in honour of the gods. At
one end is a stage; at the other, shrines; in surrounding
balconies the privileged witness plays, while feasting and
chatting; the open court being free to the general public.
REVENUE.
Funds are raised from self-imposed taxes on commodities
sold by the members-assessments varying in amount according
to exigencies, averaging one-tenth of one per cent., which
necessitates a monthly inspection of the books of every
establishment, the examination being made by clerks of the
various firms in rotation, two being detailed every month for
that purpose where the firms are numerous, as of timber
merchants at Ningpo. Some Guilds levy a higher rate on
certain articles than on others, as at Wênchow, where the
Ningpo concern exacts eight coppers for every thousand coppers'
worth of medicine sold by those members who are engaged in
the drug trade, and only two coppers from beancake dealers for
a thousand-worth of that article disposed of; dealers in other
articles are charged, some less, none more, than those charges,
the intrinsic value of the commodities forming a basis for the
assessment; those who deal in valuable articles consenting to a
higher tax than that paid by dealers in coarse goods. The same
Guild levies a tax of two dollars on each Ningpo junk that
arrives; in this way the shipping interest pays its quota to the
Guild treasury. The Canton Guild at Shanghai does not now

140
CHINESE GUILDS.
tax the trade of its members, the income from its property
sufficing to meet current expenses. The amount of income
varies from a few hundred dollars in small marts, to half a
million, as in the case of the Druggists' Guild at Ningpo.
Inquisitorial proceedings like those adopted by Guilds to
ascertain amounts at which members should be assessed for the
maintenance of the institution are certainly remarkable. In no
other land would merchants submit to an examination of their
books, yet in no other land is the mercantile character possessed
of greater prescience and acumen. The system, however, is
made to work satisfactorily, which is evident from the fact that
it is self-imposed.
There appears to be some friction in its working, attempts
being sometimes made to represent current sales as less than
the truth warrants. Punishment is provided against such
delinquents by the infliction of fines.
A bye-law of the Canton Guild at Pakhoi reads: "At the
annual meeting members shall hand in duly sealed statements of
their contributions for the year, making obeisance in the Guild
Temple in asseveration of good faith. In the event, however, of
any account being confused or called in question, it is under-
stood that, notwithstanding the member shall have already
testified to its accuracy before the gods, a ballot will be cast to
decide whether the member whose account is doubted shall
produce his books for the inspection of the members. If the ac-
count proves to be false, he shall be fined five times the amount
due, and if he refuses to produce his books or to submit to the
finding of the meeting, he shall be expelled from the Guild."
It appears that in this Guild there is no provision for examin-
ing its members' books.
GOVERNMENT.
Guild regulations vary, of course, according to the particular
traffic which forms its bond of union, a full account of which
would acquaint us with the intricacies of Chinese Mercantile
Law. Guilds are tribunals of commerce that enforce laws of
their own enactment, by which litigation is narrowly circum-
scribed, their rules being regarded by the Courts as authoritative.
A few instances will suffice in illustration.
9

CHINESE GUILDS.
141
Members are kept well in hand by laws like the following:
"It is agreed that members having disputes about money
matters with each other shall submit their cases to arbitration
at a meeting of the Guild, where the utmost will be done to
arrive at a satisfactory settlement of the dispute. If it prove
impossible to arrive at an understanding, appeal may be made
to the authorities; but if the complainant have recourse to the
official direct, without first referring to the Guild, he shall be
subjected to a public reprimand, and any future case he may
present for the opinion of the Guild will be dismissed without a
hearing." It is not, however, only when disputes arise respect-
ing " money matters" that Guilds claim the right to adjudicate,
but their intervention is experienced in quarrels generally that
occur between its members.
Another rule to prevent members going to law reads: "Among
the members of our own compatriots who come here, there are
those who engage in business transactions, and have current
accounts, as well as in making joint speculations. It is
impossible to say that disputes may not arise among them. If
anything of the sort occurs, the Guild shall settle the difficulty
in the manner most advantageous to all. Justice shall be
observed, and the facts of the case brought to light, and the
matter be decided according to what is right. No concealment
must be employed, that justice may be manifested."
"BOYCOTTING."
"It is agreed that, after a member of the Guild has been
expelled, or a local firm has been expelled by its members, all
intercourse with such parties shall be suspended. Any member
discovered to have had dealings with them, either from
sympathy or friendship, shall be fined one hundred taels."
Few Guilds have articles that expressly provide for "boycot-
ting" persons other than their members, yet the proscription of
all offenders is employed to the fullest extent possible, and vast
is their power when earnestly exercised.
RULES ON CREDIT, STORAGE OF GOODS, &c.
Descending to details, we find regulations on specific subjects.

142
CHINESE GUILDS.
Credit. Each Guild has rules on sales by credit, which is
peculiar to itself. Here is an example: "It is agreed that, in
selling goods, the times of payment shall be, in the case of
cereals and the like, forty days after delivery; in beancake,
fifty; and miscellaneous commodities, fifty days; infraction of
this rule subjects the seller and purchasers alike each to the
fine of the expense of a theatrical performance, and two tables
of liquors and viands;" entertainments that entail an expense
of about $25 to each delinquent.
Storage. "It is decided that the seller of goods shall ware-
house them for seventy days, free of charge, but if they are not
removed by the seventy-first day they shall be charged a month's
storage; if not removed at the end of that period, they became
chargeable for two months' storage the first day after, and so
on.
Contravention of this rule subjects seller and purchaser
alike each to a fine equal to twice the regular amount of
storage; the fines to be paid into the treasury of the Guild."
Weights and Measures.-Provision is made by each Chamber
of Commerce for standard steelyards and measures. "It is
agreed that the Guild shall keep a standard set of weights and
measures, which shall be adopted by all members, that there be
no light issues and heavy receipts. Should it become known
that a member is using scales at variance with the standard
set, he shall be heavily fined." Unfortunately there is no
common standard, most Guilds and traders having their own.
Tare.-Rules fixing the tare of articles occupy a large space
in printed Guild regulations, every common article being subject
to certain deductions.
Fire Loss.-Some Guilds maintain fire-engines, and require
their members to aid in extinguishing fires. The rules of the
Ningpo Shantung Guild make the seller of goods in storage
sufferers for their loss by fire for five days after the sale; and
when destroyed later, the purchaser makes good the loss. In
cases of destruction in civil strife, it is agreed that purchaser
and seller shall be equal losers.
Closing and Opening of a Year." It is agreed that no business
shall be transacted before the middle of the first month of the
year; that goods sold in the tenth month shall be paid for by the
middle of the twelfth; those sold in the eleventh be paid for in

CHINESE GUILDS.
143
the second month of the year following; that goods sold in the
first month shall be regarded as if sold at the beginning of the
second; and that from the first of the second month, the forty,
fifty, or sixty days' credit allowed to certain commodities re-
spectively shall commence. It is provided also that goods sold
in the twelfth month shall be taken by the purchaser, or be
liable to charge for storage.
Police. Compatriot Guilds are to some extent made respon-
sible for the behaviour of their members; hence one of the
decrees: "That inasmuch as Customs duties and octrois for war
expenses (li-kin) are levied for the good of the State, it behoves
all members to come forth with alacrity and pay them. The
consequence of attempts at evasion or fraud on the Revenue
involving fines by the authorities must be borne by the indi-
vidual implicated, who must clear himself of all trouble as best he
can, as the Chamber will not concern itself in such affairs."
The same Guild undertakes to assist in the recovery of stolen
property. "Any member concealing a robbery or retaining
stolen property, in order to exact a heavy ransom, shall be fined
ten times the value of the goods, and if he fail to pay the fine
he shall be expelled from the Chamber." Rewards are offered
by the Guild for the capture of thieves.
Fictitious Selling and Buying.-The concluding regulation of
the Ningpo Northern Chamber of Commerce is noteworthy.
"It is agreed that, fictitious buying and selling being illegal, this
Chamber entirely interdicts that to its members. If violations
of that law come to our knowledge, we will transmit to the
authorities the offender's name; assuredly no favouritism will
be shown." A most wholesome rule, and very creditable to the
merchants by whom it was enacted.
This offence is not specified in the Statutes and Criminal
Code (1883), but that grand monument
of Chinese legislation provides against "monopolising markets"
-a law that is exceeding broad, so comprehensive and distensible
as to include penalties against mercantile transactions, generally,
that are inimical to the public weal. Under it, a gang of
coolies who combine to abuse their monopoly of the porterage
of a particular landing may be punished; while it takes due

144
CHINESB GUILDS.
cognisance of speculators who corner markets and manipulate
finance.
In a recent work devoted to causes cèlébres (ET+
), two cases are reported of Imperial intervention in
this class of offences, which seems to have attracted attention
then for the first time, being apparently new.
In 1823 a Censor memorialised Tao Kuang respecting fictitious
traffic in bread-stuffs, representing that certain merchants,
availing themselves of a drought that was affecting the food
supply, in a portion of the metropolitan province-Chihli-had
established syndicates for fictitiously buying and selling cereals,
none of the crafty merchants themselves possessing a grain of
any cereal, affixing their signatures to paper that represented
nothing; by which grain fluctuated in price, and was kept from
market, greatly to the detriment of purchasers of food for their
own consumption. On the Censor's motion, His Majesty took
up the subject, and ordered Chi-shen (who subsequently nego-
tiated the Treaty of Peace with Elliot, 1841) to thoroughly
inquire into and severely deal with the evil. At the same time
the Governor-General and provincial authorities generally were
commanded to issue prohibitory proclamations against the
practice.
Three years later, the same Censor represented Manchuria as
suffering in its food supply from the same cause, unscrupulous
merchants establishing firms to conduct fictitious trade in grain,
and enhancing its price; whereon the Emperor directed its
suppression and renewed interdictions against it in all marts of
the Empire. Unhappily, the sons of Mammon generally disre-
garded these salutary prohibitions, to which reference is made
in the Rules of the Ningpo Chamber, and that form of gambling
is very rife, and as facile and safe as lying.
Charity.-Compatriot Guilds (Landmannschaften) are not
professedly benevolent institutions, but in one form of doing
good they all take part-the coffining of the dead, and inter-
ment. They either send cadavers back to their native place, or
establish cemeteries for fellow-townsmen where they have been
domiciled. In some cases widows and orphans are provided
for, and the destitute sent back to their homes.

CHINESE GUILDS.
145
To many the foregoing will afford sufficient information on
the subject; but others probably will be interested in further
details at some length. I submit, therefore, the salient features
of several of the principal Guilds of Wênchow, Ningpo, and
Shanghai.
WENCHOW DRUGGISTS' GUILD.
Preamble. From days of yore to the present, all occupations
have commenced their organisations by establishing regulations,
to be subject to modifications by time and circumstances.
Accordingly, we of the drug trade, in the reign of Hsien Feng
(having previously been divided into two Guilds), united, and
formed a compact body, without reconciling old and new rules,
and, therefore, for the past ten years, irregularities have occurred,
necessitating their codification. Consequently, we assembled,
and agreed on the new rules here subjoined. Henceforth they
are to be conformed to in their entirety, their violation, when
discovered, will entail the penalty of two plays, and liquor and
viands for over twenty persons. This notice is given to caution
against infringements of the following laws:-
"It is agreed that all accounts shall be settled at each of the
three terms of the year.
"It is agreed that deductions of five per cent. be allowed for
cash payments, but not on credit transactions.
"It is agreed that when a member is in debt to another, and
transfers his dealings to a third party, the Guild shall bring
the three members together, and that he shall not be allowed to
trade with the latter until he liquidates his debt to the former.
"It is agreed that a member who allows a customer a higher
rate for dollars than their market value for the day shall be
mulcted.
"It is agreed that a druggist newly commencing business shall
pay an initiation fee to the treasurer, of the God of Medicine
Temple; if failing to pay up the due amount in full, the mem-
ber who transacts trade with him shall be fined to the full
extent of the deficiency."
FUKIEN GUILDS AT NINGPO.
Chief among the Guilds at Ningpo, and the oldest, is that of
the Fukienese. It resembles a Chamber of Commerce in certain

146
CHINESE GUILDS.
of its functions. Its constitution, mutatis mutandis, is like that
of the Canton Guild at Foochow already named. While the
Fukienese merchants are united in a general Guild, they are
divided into as many sub-associations as there are districts
represented by them, each having a separate code. The follow-
ing synopsis of those of the Amoy, Ch'nan-chow, Foochow, and
Hsing-hua, throw light on the nature of those organisations.
AMOY-FUKIEN SUB-GUILD OF NINGPO.
Preamble. It is said that well-conducted commerce yields
three-fold profits, and that the promise of a man of his word is
worth a thousand taels. We of the trade, who have come from
Amoy by sea, a long distance, have for many years harmoniously
conducted business at Ningpo, but after the Taiping Rebellion
our rules of trade were neglected. Now, however, peace having
been re-established, it behoves us to improve those regulations
for the promotion of sound trade; it is important to have proper
methods of a permanent character, and expressed in few words,
that they may be perfectly comprehended. Commerce has its
laws founded on reason, which conduce to concord; and the
subjoined have been agreed upon by us.
General Regulations.-All dealings shall be in dollars. Pro-
mises to pay are to be from ten, twenty, or thirty days (according
to commodities particularised). Five days after sale, goods to
be taken delivery of from godowns; if not taken by that time,
risks of fire and robbery to be borne by the purchaser.
FUKIEN SUB-GUILD OF NINGPO.
Preamble. From the coasts of Fukien the most distant
regions may be reached; and, inland, its salt, fish, oranges,
pumeloes, hair, feathers, horns and skins, in days of yore, were
conveyed to the Han river. For the past two hundred years
Fukienese merchants have had a good understanding with
customers. During the Taiping Rebellion our trade suffered
and our hongs were destroyed. On the restoration of peace
trade revived, and called for renewal and improvement of
former regulations, to secure the confidence of those with whom
we deal, that all may like to trade with us.

CHINESE GUILDS.
147
Regulations.-Dollars are the recognised currency of the
trade. Sixty days is the limit of payment for purchases of
paper of Fukien manufacture, and thirty days for other commo-
dities. Promissory notes not to be post or ante dated. Other
details respecting packages, together with other rules resembling
those of the Fukien merchants, are given.
HSING-HUA SUB-GUILD OF NINGPO.
Preamble. We have heard that in commercial transactions
the principles of gain-getting are uniform and constant, and (to
employ a classic phrase) including transport, from places of
abundance to places of scarcity, and to change places of abode.
We came from Fakien to Ningpo for purposes of trade. At the
commencement we established regulations for its control, but
during the Taiping Rebellion they fell into desuetude; when
peace returned and commerce recommenced, the following
improved regulations were enacted (at a meeting during a
theatrical performance in honour of the Queen of Heaven),
which we solemnly agreed to follow.
The regulations are substantially the same as those of the
other Fukien Guilds, and the same enactments for infringements
of the laws.
AMOY SUB-GUILD AT NINGPO.
Preamble. In prosperous ports, profits are trebled, but to
that end, truthfulness and sincerity are indispensable. We have
settled for many years at Ning po, having come by sea from
Amoy, and have had continuous amicable relations with Ning-
poese buyers and sellers, but we find it necessary to revise our
regulations and formulate new ones, those formerly in existence
having fallen into desuetude during the Rebellion. The return
of peace and restoration of trade have led us to agree upon the
following as complete and inviolable bye-laws, in order that
none may be deceived, thus securing permanent concord between
sellers and buyers.
Summary of Bye-laws.-Purchases and sales to be made in
dollars. Promissory notes to be dated the day of sale. For
bread-stuffs, to run ten days; woods and rattan, thirty days;

148
CHINESE GUILDS.
sugar and miscellaneous goods, twenty days. Five days after
sale, the articles are to be removed from godowns; after
that period, for loss by fire or damage the seller not to be
responsible. For goods purchased on board vessels, when
they are once put on board cargo-boats, the seller is no longer
responsible. The date of promissory notes is to be that of
the day of sale, and is not to be altered; they are not to
state the day when the money becomes due (that being fixed by
the above-named rules, varying according to commodity). It
is not necessary to give in the note the name of the godown
from which the goods are taken; but when taken from a junk,
her name is to be written.
Purchasers are to bring their own steelyards to the godown.
The weighing is to be in the presence of the parties concerned.
When goods leave godowns or vessels, no corrections in weight
are admissible, nor allowance made for breakages or leakages
of enclosures of merchandise. No allowance for dried fruits
that become damaged after the day of sale. Goods not taken
delivery of five days after sale are subject to charge for storage.
Three kinds of steelyards are recognised, and the commodities
for the weighing of which one or other of these instruments
is used are specifically named; each article to be weighed by the
steelyard that has been fixed by custom.
CH'UAN-CHOW SUB-GUILD OF NINGPO.
Preamble. It is said that the ways of trade should be equit-
able and that dealers and customers should be governed by good
faith and probity. In establishing commercial regulations,
justice should be of a durable character in matters of selling
and buying. New and old regulations should be adapted to
changed conditions. We came thither a long way by sea, and
if we do not stand well here for straightforwardness, we can
acquire no wealth; and as the former excellent rules have come
to be disregarded, we assembled for improving and supplement-
ing our rules, that there may be no defects. We all hereby
agree to select an auspicious day to give a performance in
honour of the Queen of Heaven, formally to adopt the rules
agreed on, pledging ourselves to punish all who transgress these
rules subjoined.

CHINESE GUILDS.
149
General Regulations.-These relate to the size of crates for
different sorts of sugars, etc. One rule limits the period of
credit to twenty days, and declares the goods forfeited to the
Guild in case of contravention of the law being discovered.
Goods not removed five days after sale to be forfeited to the
Guild. Abatements that may be made in the prices of sugar
are fixed, and penalties are provided for reducing such abate-
ments. Twice a month all steelyards employed by members are
to be brought to the manager for the month, for testing and
verification.
SHANTUNG GUILD OF NINGPO.
In the halcyon days of protection and monopolies, the Northern
Guild (usually called Shantung Guild) was one of the most
important mercantile bodies in China. Its individual members
owned about 140 large junks, expressly adapted for northern
navigation, but unfitted for southern voyages. Ningpo was
their port of departure, to which they returned,-making the
round trip from two to four times a year; transhipping northern
staples into southern vessels, and receiving from those the
products of the South. It was a highly remunerative trade,
but antipodal merchants and mariners swooped down on the
China seas, clutched its traffic, and the glory of maritime Guilds
vanished, with their monopoly, for ever. Commodities were
transferred to foreign bottoms; the stately junks were taken to
pieces and made into small vessels, to carry to non-treaty ports,
which, foreign vessels being unable to reach, Chinamen were
allowed to retain for their own use. This is a sombre view, but
the case affords a brighter aspect; the removal of restrictions
on trade increased the gains of producers, lightened charges to
consumers, and contributed to the enrichment of the Imperial
exchequer. To these advantages is to be added the stimulus
which foreign competition imparted to native merchants, who
gallantly fight fire with fire; themselves now employing steamers,
keeping down freights, and making things in general sufficiently
lively, and all for the common weal. The last struggle of this
Guild to maintain its supremacy was shown in its procuring
insertion in the Regulations of Trade appended to the Tientsin
Treaty, a special clause prohibiting the export of pulse and

150
CHINESE GUILDS.
beancake from Tungchow and Newchwang under the British
flag. [That clause has been since rescinded.] But as regards
importing those articles into Ningpo, their monopoly is still
preserved. Seven years ago the Guild issued the following
regulations.
Preamble. We learn that Shun, B.C. 2255, made uniform the
measures of length and capacity, and corrected the steelyards;
and that, in the early Chou period, measures of capacity were
provided and engraved with descriptive characters; that gem-
meous weights were made, market hours were fixed, and credit
allowed for ten days. Thus it appears that arrangements were
made of old for even and fair business transactions-as we now
desire them to be.
At the present time the Empire is prosperous, the sea is no
longer infested by pirates, and vessels, like clouds, ply from
north to south and from south to north. Unless a man's simple
promise is worth a thousand catties of gold he will nowhere be
Goods must be transported to the advantage of all
concerned. These are axioms.
trusted.
Times and circumstances change, and old rules required to be
adapted to new conditions; to be equitable and conformable
to men's feelings, they should be as even as the balance, as
uniform as the waveless ocean, and observed with a punctu-
ality as sure as the unerring tides, in order that confidence
may be maintained. To that end we agree to the following
rules:-
Credit. All purchases and sales to be in dollars. Payment
for grain, forty days after purchase; oil and beancake, fifty days,
commodities sold in bundles, sixty days, from the date of the bill
of sale. Infringements of this rule to entail on each, seller
and purchaser as well, the expense of a theatrical performance
and banquet.
Storage. Formerly, over half a year sometimes transpired
before purchased goods were removed from storage. Hereafter,
at the expiration of seventy days, storage is to be charged.
[Here follow details for non-compliance with which the Guild
inflicts heavy fines. Ten days is the limit allowed for removal
of goods from junk board. Goods consumed by fire in godowns

CHINESE GUILDS.
151
five days after sale are not to be paid for by the purchaser;
after that date the seller is no longer responsible.]
Goods sold in the tenth month to be paid for on the 25th of
the twelfth month; purchased in the eleventh month, to be paid
for on the 15th of the second month of the new year. Pur-
chases when made in the twelfth month are to be reckoned as
if made on the 1st of the second month. Goods purchased in
the tenth and eleventh months to be taken possession of before
the close of the year.
Weighing. The ordinary sixteen-taels-to-catty steelyard is
the standard to be employed by every firm connected with the
Guild; weighing to be in the presence of all concerned; no
discussion to be allowed afterwards. Short weights, as of fresh
red dates, due to cargo-broaching, to be made good by the
vessel; allowances for tare and net according to old rules.
Details follow respecting all the commodities dealt in; penalties
for irregularities and frauds.
Fictitious Buying and Selling forbidden to members of the
Chamber; offenders to be reported to the magistrate for punish-
ment. Violations of other rules to be mulcted by the Chamber.
Separate sheets are issued relating to porterage and the like.
Charges for hampers, bales, boxes, &c., for each commodity,
and an additional allowance made as a gratuity to prevent
pilfering.
SHANGHAI TEA GUILD.
Ordinarily, Guild regulations are printed on red placards
and pasted on the walls of mercantile and manufacturing
establishments; but the rules of the Shanghai Tea Guild are too
numerous for a placard, being thirty-one in number; they are
issued in pamphlet form. As foreigners take much interest
in the commodity in which this Guild deals, I submit a précis
of their brochure, published in 1871.
The preface states that formerly dealers in tea and silk were
united in a common Guild, but their hall, having been occupied
by French troops during the Taiping Rebellion, fell into decay,
and was presented to a benevolent institution. Subsequently,
the silkmen formed a Guild of their own; and gradually every

152
CHINESE GUILDS.
occupation became organised in like manner [implying that, in
the earlier period of foreign trade at Shanghai, Guilds were
few in number and generally insignificant].
Tea-dealers also found it necessary to establish a Guild, which
was the more important in that "commerce with foreigners
required to be conducted with good faith and rectitude, and
also dealings with country growers, manipulators, and sellers of
tea should be equitable; and seeing that, latterly, men's dispo-
sitions have grown perverse, and trade thereby rendered more
difficult, it is obvious that without such an institution the
accumulated abuses of the trade could not be eradicated, nor
correct regulations established; neither could needful reforms
be effected." This is given by the Tea Guild as its raison d'être.
It was established in 1871-2, and is composed of proprietors of
tea storehouses or godowns, who act as the agents for tea
producers or proprietors.
Administration.-A committee of twelve is elected annually,
each member serving for one month. Members elected to serve
on the committee may not decline; the duty is obligatory.
When an emergency occurs, the acting member of the committee
for the time being summonses several or all his colleagues for
deliberation, who are required to be punctual and to transact
the business equitably. Any who arrive after a decision has
been arrived at shall not be allowed to move a reversal, but
shall be mulcted to the cost of a banquet for over a score of
members.
A permanent executive officer represents the Guild at the
Yamêns, and conducts its correspondence. He is a literary
character, and conversant with public affairs.
An accountant is employed to receive dues from members.
Directions are given touching the mode of keeping books and
records, which are to be open at all times for inspection.
Two firms act as treasurers, who are to select safe banks for
depositing the Guild funds.
A special regalation provides for the appointment of a foreign
lawyer, whom the committee may consult when there is need
for protecting the members' interests, and who is employed,
"not from a desire to litigate but that when foreign merchants
disregard mercantile laws, craftily interpreting it to suit

CHINESE GUILDS.
153
themselves, they may be frustrated." In such cases the manager
for the month must repair with several colleagues to the foreign
firm to discuss the subject. "In all probability, a myriad to one,
it will be satisfactorily adjusted; but failing in that, and the
Guild member suffering injury, the case is to be committed to
our legal adviser."
Revenue.-Members are assessed pro rata on their sales. For
every large box of black tea sold they are to pay to the
accountant eight tael cents; less for smaller boxes; and for
green tea six tael cents. The subscription to be paid in advance
on the arrival of the tea at Shanghai-based on the sales of the
previous year.
Should the current year's sales fall short of last
year's, the excess of subscription to be refunded. On the first
Sunday of each month members are to send to the Guild
accounts of sales for the past month, with a corresponding sum
as subscription. If under-statements are discovered, the
delinquent is mulcted fifteen times the amount due by rule.
One hundred dollars are to be paid into the Guild treasury
by the owner of every new godown, who also shall stand treat
for a banquet for forty or fifty members.
Storage. No charge to be made by members of the Guild for
storage until the expiry of ten days, after which the charge
shall be one mace a box of black tea; green tea to be charged
according to old rules, whether for a short or long period; but
if it extends into the new year, the charge is to be doubled.
Any secret, private arrangement to abate godown charges shall
entail the infliction of a fine.
Insurance.-Tea brought up from the country by dealers, on
which money has been advanced, is to be insured by them
against fire; they are not to begrudge that item of expense; but
insurance is optional when there are no claims against the tea.
Advances to the Country Owners.-When sub-agents are de-
spatched into the tea districts with money to advance to tea-
producers, they must act for one firm only. If this rule is
contravened, the tea purchased is to be given on its arrival at
Shanghai to the firm by which arrangement was first made;
and the other firm's money is to be returned. If on the arrival
of teas further advances are required, the storage firms will
carefully ascertain the quantity of tea offered, and not advance

154
CHINESE GUILDS.
in excess of its value; if more than that is needed, the country
tea-trader must provide it himself: his tea will be kept for him
two months, and then sold, without waiting for a rise in the
market.
General Rules.-The firm in whose godowns tea is stored are
to have the sale of the article, but its sale may be committed to
another tea-storing firm on liquidating all claims against it.
Commissions, etc.-The charge for duties paid, storage, interest
on money advanced, and commission, shall be four per cent.;
three per cent. if money has not been advanced.
Erstwhile, frauds in the tea trade were unknown, but of late
years tea-producers frequently employ secret marks to indicate
different qualities of the herb, and deceive purchasers by false
samples, which when it comes to be weighed is discovered-
causing contentions, which foreign merchants avail of to depre-
ciate the whole lot, demanding abatements in price, all which
is subversive of equitable mercantile ways. We now write to
the hill tea districts, requiring uniformity in the quality of the
staple, and conformity with samples.
When the tea is brought to Shanghai for storage, boxes shall
be opened indiscriminately. If perchance the article does not
correspond with the muster, Chinese and foreign merchants
shall be called to examine the whole lot-the contents of all the
boxes to be turned out for public inspection. If the examination
shows the tea not to correspond with the sample, those present
may decide what should be done in the matter. If tea-tasters
unjustly depreciate a chop, the case shall be submitted to
arbitration to make equity manifest.
"Boycotting."-Pending litigation with a foreign firm, members
of the Guild shall transact no business with the derelict house;
intercourse is not to be resumed until the case is adjudicated.
Should any member secretly violate this rule, and it comes to
the knowledge of the Guild, the offender shall be condignly
punished.
Porterage on tea purchased by foreigners and conveyed for
them to steamers is to be paid by them. Recently, however,
they have demanded that the expense of such porterage be paid
by native merchants. In cases of that kind complaint is to
be made to the manager of the Guild at the time, who shall

CHINESE GUILDS.
155
remonstrate with the foreign merchant. If the offender persists
in the demand, he shall be tabooed. Should any secretly
consent to the charge, punishment shall be duly inflicted.
Regulations. An unopened box of tea, taken to the foreign
dealer as a muster, and if not weighed by him, its weight must
be taken as given by the teaman when delivered, who is not
to be required to make good any deficiency. A box already
opened must be weighed on the spot, and its weight recorded.
If the muster is returned, it must be again weighed-a catty or
two missing is of no account; but if more, it must be paid for.
An unopened muster box is to be opened on the spot and its
weight recorded; and if the bargain is not completed, the muster
must be again weighed; and if more than a couple of catties of
tea are missing, it must be paid for.
For binding tea boxes with rattan [which is done by the
foreign purchaser] eight taels per 100 boxes is to be allowed
him-albeit the cost is only five and a half taels. When more
than that amount is demanded for rattaning, appeal is to be
made to the acting tea Guild manager for the month and others
to remonstrate with the foreign firm, in order that there may be
uniformity. Any tea-dealer giving more shall be dealt with by
the Guild.
Duties on teas brought to Shanghai from Hupeh and Hunan
shall be paid at Hankow by agents of storage firms, and charged
at the then value of sycee. Insurance, porterage, and freight
from the tea districts to Shanghai, and river insurance, shall
also be paid by storage firms. Heretofore no charge was made
for interest on advances for such expenses, but now money being
scarce (and losses accruing from loans), there shall be a charge
at the rate of fifty tael cents per diem for a thousand taels=18
per centum.
Teamen arriving at Shanghai in need of advances from the
godowns to be accommodated when the value of their stock is
ascertained; but no money shall be advanced beyond the value
of their stock; or if more is given to them, they shall repay it;
failing to do so, their tea shall be sold at the expiration of two
months. It shall be sold by the Guild after communicating
with the mandarinate. If money be still due on the tea,
judicial proceedings shall be instituted to enforce the claim.

156
CHINESE GUILDS.
Should the tea bring more than the amount of claims against
it, the balance is to be paid to its owner. Storage hongs must
be cautious and not advance more than the tea is likely to fetch.
The storage hong should be allowed to purchase the tea that
it receives on storage, unless the teaman can get a higher price
elsewhere, when he is to inform the custodian of his tea, who
shall allow him to take it away, on payment of charges. If the
offerer of a higher price fails to fulfil his promise, he shall be
punished by the Guild.
Porterage of black tea from the godown is to be defrayed by
the godown hong; if it is charged to the teaman, he may inform
the Guild manager for the current month, and the Guild shall
decide on the punishment to be inflicted.
Insurance.-Tea stored in Shanghai on which advances have
been made must be insured against loss by fire. Teamen must
not begrudge the expense. If no money has been advanced,
the teaman may do as he likes as regards insurance.
The Guild-hall being for the transaction of public questions,
it shall not be used for travelling officials as a temporary hotel,
nor for mercantile guests; nor shall women be allowed to lodge
there, in order to illustrate the important rules of decorum.
Semestral meetings shall be held for reconsidering the rules
of the association, and for the worship of Kuanti (God of War),
the first to be held on his birthday, 13th of the fifth moon,
the other, 13th of ninth moon.
SILK GUILD.
The rules of the Silk Guild vary so much from time to time,
according to exigencies of trade, that it has ceased to have them
printed, and no member can be prevailed on to furnish a copy,
or to state what they are. Two examples have been recently
furnished of their fluctuating legislation. It was suddenly
decreed that instead of silk being paid for by the purchaser on
the day immediately following the departure of the mail, the
account was to be settled as soon as the commodity was weighed;
a rule that was observed for a few months only, when it was dis-
regarded, and finally duly abrogated. Again, an order went forth
that muster bales of silk should be weighed separately, and the

CHINESE GUILDS.
157
bulk weighed to the half-pound only, disregarding fractions;
and a prohibition was enacted against tenders of sale on
firm offer to consuming markets in Europe and America by
wire.
BANKING.
I devote considerable space to the regulations of banking
institutions, for the use of those who are studying the intricacies
of Chinese finance.
NINGPO BANKERS' GUILD.
A few years ago the constitution of the Guild underwent a
change for the better, which is undiscoverable in its present
rules. It was until recently the practice of bankers of that city
to hold sessions twice a day in a thoroughfare that may be
denominated the "Wall Street" of Ningpo, for the purpose of
speculating in the market value of dollars as quoted in the next
despatches from Soochow, or from Shanghai when that port
took the place of the former as money-mart. To a stranger the
spectacle presented the appearance of a crowd of excited mad-
men escaped from confinement. For more than an hour every
forenoon, and for the same time every afternoon, they thronged
the street, so as to render it almost impassable; all the time
vociferating, so that the din was deafening, and business had to
be conducted by dactylonomy,-indicating by fingers fractions
of sums for which dollars were offered for sale, or sums which
buyers were willing to give-e.g., $10 would be offered for sale
by outstretched digits at 1,130 coppers; if accepted, bull and
bear retired and made a record of the transaction, and on the
arrival of intelligence from the money-market, if the dollar
varied in value a copper from the figure fixed upon, one paid the
other 10,000 coppers. Sellers and buyers were generally brokers,
having, for constituents, bankers, money-changers, merchants,
traders, scholars-all classes, in fine, were so fascinated by this
form of gambling as to plunge wildly into a vortex of speculation.
More dollars than the city contained would be sold and pur-
chased in a few hours. Occasionally a check would be imposed
on the maniacs. When insolvency and suicide followed a
disastrous speculation, a magisterial proclamation would be

158
CHINESE GUILDS.
fulminated, interdicting "fictitious dealing in dollars," and for
a time a Sabbath stillness would pervade 'change; but soon
official vision would be blurred by a process known to all man-
kind. "Wall Street" again became as lively as ever.
I once took Sir Rutherford Alcock to witness the spectacle of
bidding on the prospective value of dollars; he pronounced it
one of the most striking scenes he had ever witnessed. Ulti-
mately the evil effected its own cure. When native speculators at
Shanghai had floated various giant stock companies, and the
gambling in shares became rife, Ningpo became more than ever
infatuated by the dollar-jobbing mania; and when the crash
took place at Shanghai, great defalcations were discovered at
Ningpo, involving chiefly young clerks and bankers' sons.
Rain was brought upon many, and suicides by opium or drown-
ing followed to an unprecedented extent. These disasters moved
the money-dealing community to suppress fictitious dollar-
dealing, by forbidding the practice to its members; but a class
of brokers had come into existence which did not recognise the
Guild. Sham dollar-selling had become a profession in itself,
and was employed by the gambling public generally. Bankers
petitioned tho magistrate for a proclamation against the brokers,
who had organised a Guild of their own, and which threatened
disobedience and resistance; they were only placated by receiving
aid from the authorities until they found other occupations.
Thus a custom that had existed long anterior to the first
appearance of dollars, about 1726, ceased at once; before that
date the value of silver ingots in coppers was a subject of
speculation from an unknown period.
Now all meetings are restricted to the Guild-hall, on the walls
of which are the following regulations.
Preamble. In examining the chapter on "Affluence through
Trade" in Sz'-ma-chien (the so-called Herodotus of China,
circa B.C. 163-85), we find his thoughts on "the increase of
goods" [in a biographical sketch of Kuan Chung (about B.C.
645), among the most illustrious statesmen of Chinese history,
who was originally a merchant]; and in the Analects we find a
weighty remark of Confucius, who says: "There is a great
course for the production of wealth. Let the producers be
many, and the consumers be few. Let there be activity in the

CHINESE GUILDS.
159
production, and economy in the expenditure. Then the wealth
will always be ample." Consequently, those at hand will be
gratified, and others assemble from a distance, and amicable
mercantile intercourse becomes protracted, as a natural result.
Our profession of money-dealing originated on the establish-
ment of the nine Bureaux of the Treasury Department of the
Chou dynasty (B.C. 1122). But the division into five degrees
of weights dates from the Han era. It is of urgent importance
that those who have should be able to exchange with those who
want, and that small coppers should be exchanged for large
ones for convenience of the people on the one hand, and for
Government finances and taxes on the other; in fine, our occupa-
tion is the pivot of commerce.
Then follows an account of the vicissitudes of the Guild during
the Taiping Rebellion; of the "Happy restoration of peace
through the combined military operations of Chinese and fo-
reigners; the revival of trade; the encouraging prospects of the
future," and a devout wish for continued peace and prosperity,
through accumulations of goods and double profits. Next,
reference is made to their abandonment henceforth of paper
money, and to the decision to restrict all transactions to ingots
and dollars, owing to the changed condition of business affairs [of
their accord, bankers then made an end of free-banking, which
had led to many evils, though the chief reason for the change
was the transfer of the money centre from Soochow to Shang-
hai, which being now so near in point of time, rendered paper
money unnecessary], and at a meeting convened for the purpose
they agreed to conform to Shanghai usages in monetary trans-
actions generally. The regulations then adopted are to be
binding on all, without prevarication, all agreeing to circum-
spection from first to last; to be equitable and diligent in the
right mode of acquiring wealth. "Let all the gentlemen com-
posing the Guild co-operate in promoting the business of the
port by correct and sincere endeavour."
The first rule is creditable to the Ningpo bankers: it reads
"Amicable intercourse with foreigners has long subsisted, and
it is incumbent that in commercial transactions
we should
embody the liberal feelings of the Emperor, and not fail to act
in accordance with his intentions."

160
CHINESE GUILDS.
Summary of thirteen rules then follow.
Administration.-A treasurer and a managing committee of
twelve to be elected annually. The treasurer at the close of
every month debits each member with an equal share of current
expenses. Managers serve each one month by turns. Early
every morning a manager must be present at the Guild [which
then becomes a clearing-house; each member bringing or send-
ing his books, the bankers exchanging each others' drafts and
settling the differences]. Nothing under $50 to be noted; all
irregularities mulctable. An initiation fee of $10.
accruing from such fees are placed at interest.
Sums
Currency.-Dollars and ingots (Mexican and Carolus dollars)
to be taken at their respective values [Carolus, being heavier,
at a premium] in copper or ingots. Eight descriptions of
dollars not to be accepted-"light weight," "indistinct,"
"oily-like," "dull sound," "three-starred," "heads upside
down," "coarse-edged," "thin-edged," and "yellow-tinged."
Ingots of 45 taels to pass current for fifty; but when further
short of the standard weight, the deficiency to be made good
[of course fifty-tael ingots disappeared from Ningpo, or when
used were at a proportionate premium]. Ingot and dollar
deposits and payments to be made between noon and 2 p.m.
Interest. Interest on accounts of $500 and upward to be paid at
the ruling rate of the day. No one shall be pressed to lend
money.
Sundry Rules.-Promissory notes deposited by the promisee
are to be made good by him in the event of bankruptcy of the
promiser. The seals of members to be stamped in the duplicate
books of regulations, minutes kept by the treasurer and the
managing board.
SHANGHAI BANKERS' GUILDS.
A satisfactory account of the Shanghai Bankers' Guilds would
include a survey of all the intricacies of Chinese banking, on
which my information is scant, and, besides, I lack the financial
capacity to make the best of the documents before me, which
consist mainly of numerous sheets of printed regulations.

CHINESE GUILDS.
161
"
As usual in Guild promulgations, there is a classic preamble,
which in this instance represents that "inquiry discloses that
ways of commercial wealth have been transmitted by sages
[allusion is here made to Tzu Kung, one of the most famous
disciples of Confucius, who acquired a fortune by trade before
he devoted himself to learning]. "The 'carrying of cloth to
exchange it for silk' [a phrase from the Book of Poetry com-
piled by Confucius] has been conducted from age to age without
intermission, and Imperial statutory laws have regulated money
matters, which have been conducive to profits, and repressive of
abuses."
The bankers could add little to the above of an archaic
character. No Chinese antiquarian that I wot of affords informa-
tion on the early history of banking; although changing,
depositing, and loaning money was, doubtless, almost co-eval
with money coining. At an early period we find Emperors
lending money to their lieges on interest. According to the
Chou-li-"Polity of the Chou Dynasty,"-and commentary, a
"Money Bureau" was established under the control of four
officers, to whom imposts on commodities were paid, and who
loaned money to the people from whom labour was exacted as
interest on the loans, the amount borrowed to be returned at
the end of the year. This unique department also purchased
unsaleable goods, storing them until they could be disposed of
at the same price at which they were bought; and lending
sacrificial utensils for ancestral worship for the period of ten
days, and funeral paraphernalia-mourning habiliments-for a
month, without charge, paying over to the Emperor at the close
of each year its surplus funds. Wu-ti, B.C. 179-141, committed
to two officers the function of lending money on interest.
Two other instances occur in Chinese history of Imperial
money-lending. The usurper Wang Wang (A.D. 9-14) lent
the smallest sums of money to his subjects, at 3 per cent. per
mensem. He was a merchant as well as banker, purchasing
commodities when they were cheap and selling when prices
In this he claimed to be conforming to ancient precedent.
The other case of Imperial banking was in A.D. 1068-85,
when the reigning Emperor lent semi-annually to his subjects,
sums of ten thousand cash, charging two thousand interest for
rose.

162
CHINESE GUILDS.
the half-year. His usurious Majesty also lent grain, but at
higher interest. Money lending to the State has never been in
vogue; certain not infeasible reforms must precede such an
exhibition of confidence.
Then there is the name of a famous banker of the former Han
era (B.C. 32), Ku Yung, who received money from the affluent
to lend to the impecunious, he receiving a commission for his
agency. It is not likely he was the first of that vocation; but
it was then, probably, modern, coming into existence with the
extinction of feudalism.
Returning now to Shanghai bankers, we find their Guild has
been divided for convenience into a northern-the principal
bank, the Yang-king-pang Creek forming the dividing line.
Besides their common hall, each has a Kung-so-exchange, or
clearing house; that of the northern is situated in the Ningpo
Road.
The Guild seems to date 'no further back than the reign
of Tao-kuang, and subsequent to the opening of Shanghai to
foreign commerce. In that and the following reign regulations
for conducting business were adopted; but the increase of
bankers, whose hearts were not like those of the founders, and
commerce becoming depressed, those excellent rules fell into
disuse, and thus at the present time, out of every ten bankers,
eight have succumbed [this refers to the recent rise and fall of
joint-stock companies, on shares of which advances were made,
involving banks in their ruin].
In view of the stagnation of business they felt it incumbent to
meet and confer on the re-establishment of good rules-just as
trees, to be made to thrive, require their roots to be made firm.
They met, and agreed on the rules that were adopted in the reign
of Tao-kuang and Hsien-fêng. These, fourteen in number, with
improvements, I summarise as follows:-
Charges for Cashing Notes." It is agreed that no deceit shall
be practised in recording receipts and issues of Shanghai current
silver. Dealers in piece goods, Canton, Fukien, Szechuan, and
Hankow commodities, and opium, and also Kiangsi traders
and merchants generally, whose cheques are presented by foreign
firms, shall be debited with a charge of half a tael for every
thousand cashed."

CHINESE GUILDS.
163
[This is a new regulation; the reason assigned for its enact-
ment is that those are demands for specie to be paid at sight.
Some expense is liable to be incurred in getting ingots, parti-
cularly when trade is depressed; also because there is loss on
odd sums.]
For the same reasons a charge is made of three mace for a
thousand taels on notes cashed for Ningpo, Shaoshing, Hang-
chow, and Soochow. The same charge is made against the issue
of cheques to Kiahsing, Wuchow, Fukien, and Yangtze ports,
and to Shantung and Chihli as well.
Interest.-A new rule suppresses a most usurious practice that
had arisen among Shanghai banks,-to wit, charging ten dollars
for ten days' loan of a thousand dollars. A small interest is
allowed on deposits that are unemployed by the bank, and when
money is in demand, the amount of interest payable, and the
amount to be charged to borrowers, is to be declared by all the
banks on the fifth day of each month [determined at a Guild
meeting]. At the close of each month an account is to be
rendered to depositors. On the 15th, the rate of interest for
Shanghai shall be declared [that of the 5th being for other
ports].
On money advanced on tea and silk, interest is chargeable at
the rate of half-a-tael per diem; accounts to be presented at the
close of each month. In transactions between banks of exchange,
the Guild banks' interest is chargeable by each, two mace for a
thousand taels.
[These banks of exchange are the agencies of the great bankers
of Shansi, who remit funds to all parts of the Empire, and are
in nowise connected with the Shanghai Bankers' Guild.]
Miscellaneous.-Deposits not made by 4 p.m. are to be reck-
oned from the day following. [Per contra bills are not cashed
until near that hour; if demanded in the morning, a slight
discount must be paid.] In .paying Customs dues there is a
specified charge for a hundred taels. Packages or boxes
containing ingots are to be opened and the silver taken to the
Guild Assay Office for examination. [Assaying is sufficiently
simple, consisting in gently holding the sycee to be tested in one
hand, and grasping firmly the ingot with which to strike the
other; the ring of the metal struck determining its quality].

164
CHINESE GUILDS.
Notes of Fukien sugar dealers are subject to a discount
because of the inferiority of the ingots of that province. Notes
having on their face "Payable by either Northern or Southern
Branch of the Guild" are not to be received.
Regulations of the Northern Branch of Shanghai Bankers' Guild.
Dollars. In paying out new dollars, the issuer must imprint
them with his seal [washing out the previous imprint], other-
wise they shall not be current. Disregard of this rule entails
a penalty. According to former rule, ten kinds of dollars are
nncurrentable-to wit, the light, dull-coloured, flowery-spotted,
dull-sounding, copper-alloyed, edges unusual, three stars,
circles (?) on the reverse, head upside down, yellowish hue,
white-to which is now added, such as have unusually fine
edges.
Sycee.-Bills from or to foreign banks (and merchants gener-
ally) that accompany boxes of ingots are not to be altered; they
are to indicate the number, weight, value in dollars, the premium
or discount, all in capitals, not in running hand; also the date,
the bank by which issued, and seal, in order to prevent irregu-
larities. New bills must be out-descriptive of the ingots;
when any are taken out of the lot, the old one to be cancelled.
The bills accompanying sycee that are issued by the hands of
the Guild are for outsiders only, and not for Guild banks inter-
circulation [those of the Northern branch are at a premium,
compared with the southern]. When payments from foreign
banks to Guild banks are in ingots, a descriptive bill is to accom-
pany them, having first the seal of the foreign bank; that when
found deficient, they may be returned. When the amount of
ingots to be paid by a foreign bank exceeds fifty [as a rule there
When a
are fifty to a box], the balance is to be paid in notes.
Guild bank has to pay a foreign bank less than fifty, it must
make out a descriptive bill, and seal it. When inferior sycee is
paid by a foreign bank, it is to be returned the next day by
noon (or if Sunday intervene, on Monday).
Miscellaneous.-Cheques for less denomination than ten
dollars are non-receivable. Guild banks having notes to be
cashed at foreign banks shall present them before 3 p.m., except
on Saturdays, when they shall present them by 11 o'clock a.m.

CHINESE GUILDS.
165
When a foreign bank pays to a Guild bank a round sum in
ingots, the latter shall make out a bill for the balance.
Regulations of the Southern Branch of Shanghai Bankers' Guild.
Interest.-Loans of ingots are to be charged at the rate of
seven mace per diem for a thousand dollars; the smaller charge
for dollars is in conformity with orders from the mandarinate.
For all cheques cashed the sender is to be charged as under the
old rules, from three to five mace, for every thousand taels.
Against Speculating.-In buying and selling dollars and ingots,
all settlements must be made on the day of the transaction,-
that thereby there shall be no empty buying and selling. [This
rule also is conformable to magisterial mandate: until its fulmi-
nation, not long since, the exchange of the northern branch of
Shanghai banks exhibited the same maddening scenes as those
which occurred among Ningpo bankers, as already described.]
Clearing House.-Each money-dealer must send his books to
the exchange twice a-day, to square accounts, under the super-
vision of the manager for the month.
When orders are made payable in old dollars, old dollars are
to be furnished; but when the kind of dollars are not specified,
payment may be made in those in ordinary use by the bank.
These rules, supplementary to the old ones, conduce to the
promotion of business. We unite in establishing them, and
they should be loyally observed; their infringement shall be
inquired into, and summarily punished.
Besides the above regulations, the general, as well as those by
the two branches of banking Guilds, there are old ones, written
and unwritten; that govern banking, but these suffice to disclose
the nature of the Guilds.
In no other occupation is such liberty enjoyed. Nearly all
others are compelled to be associated in those combinations,
while more than half the Shanghai bankers act independently
of the two Guilds of that port. There are belonging to those
Guilds only 55 members, while the non-member bankers number
75, who, however, conform to Guild regulations. Besides these
130 banks, whose business is mainly local, there are 18 Shensi and
Peking banks of exchange; and, finally, there are 150 money-
changing shops, wholly engaged in changing coppers for dollars.

166
CHINESE GUILDS.
GUILDS AND FOREIGN MERCHANTS.
In the history of foreign intercourse with China, the co-hong
Guild of Canton stands prominent, as enjoying a monopoly in
trade, as collectors of duties, and as the sole medium of com-
munication with foreigners, mercantile and official. Established
in 1720, it continued until by the Treaty of Nanking, 1842, it
was abolished. Its spirit, however, animated so many that
monopolies called for further measures of repression. In 1847
it was stipulated that foreigners are to be admitted to trade
with any and all subjects of China, without distinction; they
shall not be subject to any new limitations, nor impeded in
business by monopolies or other injurious restrictions. Eleven
years later the French treaty provided: "No privileged com-
mercial society shall henceforward be established in China, and
the same shall apply to an organised coalition, having for its
end the exercise of a monopoly on trade-the Chinese authorities
to dissolve such associations, and to prevent the existence of any
by prohibitions, so as to remove all that may stand in the way
of free competition."
Considering that those attempts to suppress long-established
institutions were forced on the Chinese, and considering also
that many foreigners have systematically evaded their own
treaty obligations, monopolies have been kept tolerably well in
hand. Still, as Consul Giles remarks: Several collisions have
occurred that at the time attracted considerable attention, but
which are now well-nigh forgotten. Some of these are here
recorded, as further illustrative of the making of those patent
engines of Chinese commerce.
For more than a fortnight the export and import trade of
Swatow suffered a total cessation in consequence of resistance to
an attempt by native merchants forcibly to abrogate a Customs
rule, which required cargo-boats to bring goods to the Customs
jetty for examination; frustrated in that, the Guild (not in its
official capacity, but anonymously, the act being illegal) addressed
a circular to all the ports, stating that, after a fixed date, Swatow
merchants must cease to receive or ship merchandise or to
Custom houses were first established by the Sung dynasty (reign
not given), A.D. 960-1126.

CHINESE GUILDS.
167
charter sailing vessels or steamers. After the period named,
two vessels that arrived had to have their cargo stored in
their agent's godowns, the consignees not daring to apply
for it from fear of "boycotting." Above 2,000 coolies
were thrown out of employment. Thirty-five steamers suffered
heavily from the suspension of trade. Emboldened by suc-
cesses in "boycotting" merchants, the Guild felt strong enough
to beard and defy the authorities, for which the guilty were
so condignly punished, as to be deterrent of future enterprises
of that description.
In 1883 a long-pending dispute between tea Guilds and foreign
tea merchants at Hankow came to a crisis-the former complain-
ing of variable and false weights used by the latter, an abuse
which they proposed to rectify by appointing an approved
foreigner, to whom they were themselves to pay a liberal salary,
who should act as umpire in all disputes anent tea-weighing.
Foreign tea dealers objected, not being willing to have an out-
sider on their premises when that operation is going on; and
they convened a meeting at which it was decided to cease buying
tea until it could be procured as under former usage. On that
the native teamen "tabooed" the foreign firm, which, when it
entered the market, found no teamen were allowed to send tea
to a dissident merchant. Tea-trading was totally suspended.
Complaint was made to the Taotai, who declined to interfere,
on the ground that it was a matter entirely between native and
foreign tea merchants. "Boycotting," however, soon set the
wheels of commerce in motion. Had both parties been able to
resort to that agency, the quarrel would have been protracted
and damaging to all concerned; but in that, foreigners were
impatient. The resolution which held them together was like a
ligature of sand; they caved in, while every member of the
Guild stood firm. Some, it was believed, were rather shaky;
but, fortified by threats, they neither budged nor flinched.
Perfidy on their part would have exposed them to fearful per-
secution, while the financier's disloyalty merely subjected him
to ostracism. In both cases the intent and spirit of the sanction
was the same.
The victory gained by the Guild was turned to no mischievous
account. Subsequently, at a meeting of the Shanghai Chamber

168
CHINESE GUILDS.
of Commerce, a member frankly remarked on the correspondence
that had taken place between the Chamber and the agent of the
Tea Guild that "he thought it casts a very great reflection upon
a large portion of the community and a reflection which they
deserved."
An imbroglio at Ningpo is now taxing the acumen and tact of
men in authority. Merchants at that port complain of "boycot-
ting" by Guilds or syndicates. No member of a Guild is allowed
to transact business with a foreigner without its assent, which
is tantamount to a total prohibition, the penalty being "boy-
cotting"-interdiction of all business dealings with the pro--
scribed, a prohibition that extends to native traders generally,
though not Guild members. It is contended that this is a
violation of the intent and spirit of the Treaties; at the same
time Consul Cooper shows it would be difficult to suppress the
evil: "For, apart from the extreme unreadiness of any sufferer
to give evidence against them, their establishment is in accordance
with Chinese usage, and is, moreover, a convenience to the
provincial government, and even a source of profit."
The complication at Ningpo is due to the farming out of war
octrois (or likin) to Guilds, and to the monopolies thus created
-these are the foreign shirtings, foreign and Cantonese, coal
and iron, tin and zinc, and opium Guilds,-that farming was.
brought about by foreigners themselves.
To save merchants the inconvenience of paying octrois at
numerous inland stations, it was provided by the Treaty of 1858:
that transit dues on articles purchased inland and transferred to
a port, or conveyed from a port to an inland market, might be
commuted by payment of a single charge-a satisfactory arrange--
ment; but on the imposition of the war tax foreign merchants.
claimed to have it classed with transit dues, and the advantage
which passes gave foreigners over Chinese caused native mer-
chants to engage foreign merchants to personate them, procuring
passes in the foreigner's name, an evasion that led to the exten-
sion of the privilege to the natives, and next to the establish--
ment by them of special Guilds, which arranged with the
authorities for the commuting all the inland imports on their
particular goods. In this manner the monopoly complained of
had its origin-farming the inland revenue.

CHINESE GUILDS.
169
Opium was the first commodity fixed upon to monopolise; the
transactions of monopolists during the last decade at Ningpo
are illustrative of what was done or attempted elsewhere. The
Opium Guild determined to monopolise the country trade in the
drug, and disallowed foreign merchants to sell to any but them-
selves; the combination notifying foreign dealers that infringe-
ments of the interdiction would cause all dealings with the
disobedient to cease. In this manner country dealers were
obliged to pay much more for opium than the market price. At
the same port a man from Swatow attempted to engage in the
opium trade, but the Opium Guild, composed of Fukienese,
issued orders that no person should have dealings with him; and
even foreign merchants were obliged to obey the behest, and the
Guild stifled competition.
Despotism seems to be as ancient as the institutions them-
selves, in East as in West; it is inherent, the natural cause
of such combinations; without unanimity, they are compara-
tively impotent, and to secure that end they resort to despotic
measures. They are monopolies also, yet being amenable to
law, and as we have seen, to reason, their utility, it must be
conceded, is more obvious than their mischievousness.
Consul Giles remarks: "Foreign merchants regard them with
a certain amount of awe, for they are often made to feel keenly
enough the influence which these institutions exert over every
branch of trade." As against political usurpation of one or
many, the price of liberty is eternal vigilance, so with regard
to monopolies, which always aim to encroach, the only remedy
is watchfulness. True, but when foreign merchants come to
understand those institutions better they will discover that but
for them the course of true commerce would not run as smoothly
as it now does: these Chambers of Commerce or temples of
Themis, in which the goddess is not blindfolded, but has her
visual organs in full play-these temples are courts in which
equity and common sense are usually in the ascendant. A single
illustration must suffice to adduce out of many that present
themselves. Very recently a merchant found in a certain
transaction that a broker with whom he was conducting business
had the "whip-hand." In the dispute, justice was on the side
of the foreigner, while technically the native enjoyed an

170
CHINESE GUILDS.
advantage. It was open to the merchant to bring the case before
the Mixed Conrt-a course that would have been simply ridi-
culous, but he proposed to submit the case for arbitration to the
Guild to which the broker belonged; to avert the drastic pro-
ceedings which that proposition would entail, the broker
instantly came to terms. It is not always a fearful menace for
one foreigner who has been injured by another foreigner to
institute legal proceedings against the derelict. It is too well
known that, owing to the glorious uncertainty of our jurispru-
dence, offenders often escape with impunity; whereas in Guild
tribunals ethical are of more weight than technical considera-
tions; and they are not to be regarded in the counting-room as
mischievous bogies.
PART II.-TRADES UNIONS.
The second class of Guilds, denominated Kung-so-" public
halls" is generally composed of retail traders and artisans, and
are of yet more recent origin than the mercantile associations,
few of them being a century old. Early germs from which
they arose are discernible, but as they now exist, they are
modelled on the Wei-kuan. It is remarkable that, although
subject for many generations to the same environment, shop-
keeping and mechanic classes should not sooner have formed
organisations to avert the mischiefs of competitions for mutual
aid against the cheapening practices of society, and against
official interference. With regard to mechanics, the Unions are
generally composed of masters and workmen, united as against
society. In some trades where workmen are numerous, journey-
men have their own organisations, but generally, when they
have occasion to combine against employers (of which instances
are rare), they meet in some temple, commence a strike, peace-
fully accomplish their object, and disband. Every Union has its
regulations printed on red paper, sometimes beautifully gilt,
which are posted in stores or workshops. A familiar saw says
"Human occupations are 360 in number." Only those callings,
however, that are common are found associated in societies.
They present so much uniformity that translation from a few
will suffice to show their general features.

CHINESE GUILDS.
NINGPO FISHMONGERS' UNION.
171
This is regarded as among the most wealthy associations in
the country. Its reserved fund is estimated at $700,000, which
is lent to banks and pawnbrokers at half of one per cent
interest, that charge being marvellously low, for greater safety..
Their regulations read:
Preamble.-We have heard that, in trade and mercantile
transactions generally, sincerity and good faith are of prime
importance, in order that neither seller nor purchaser should
incur loss. Our Union desires that transactions should be satis--
factory to both parties. We have long been engaged in fish-
mongering, and the rules originally formed having become
partially obsolete, we now remodel them to meet changes, hoping
that, both dealers and purchasers being upright, these regula--
tions will ever after be conformed to.
Regulations. First. It is agreed that boatmen conveying
fish from fishing stations, who place sand in the bottom of
hampers, fraudulently increasing the weight, shall be mulcted
to pay for a theatrical performance.
Second. It is agreed that we keep standard steelyards, and
inflict the same fine on any of the Union who keep fraudulent
instruments.
Then follow other rules relative to allowance to be made for
weight of hampers of various sorts, and different kinds of fish,
and one requiring information to be sent to the office of the
Guild on arrival of a boat, and a manifest of the cargo, which
if on inspection is found to be correct, receives the Guild's seal,
and the fish may then be purchased by the members. And
lastly, the tariff of charges is exacted from the fish-carrying
boats. Ultimately, those charges are paid by the fishmongers,
which they find a convenient mode of collecting the tax they
impose on themselves for the common treasury. No member of
the Guild would presume to purchase a cargo of fish that had
not been duly passed by the Guild. A deposit of $3,000 is made
by every fish-dealer into the Guild treasury, as a guarantee of
conformity to its laws-repayable on withdrawing from the
association.

172
CHINESE GUILDS.
WENCHOW BLACKSMITHS' UNION.
This is of the class that comprehends both masters and
journeymen. A meeting was recently convened for the purpose
of increasing the price of their manufactures, consequent on the
reduced value of dollars, and to establish a new tariff. It is
curions to observe how Nevada's plethora of silver has deranged
industry to the ends of the earth. The blacksmiths, like all
who have a statement to make, introduce it with a preamble,
setting forth reasons for action. They say-
"The metallurgic art existed in high antiquity [prehistoric];
in the Chou era vases and tripods [for religious use] were cast,
as we learn from the Book of Odes; thus our manufacture has
been followed for thousands of years, and traffic in its products
has suffered no interruption to the present day. But recently,
we who are engaged in casting pots and kettles and in forging
iron utensils have discovered that, owing partly to depreciation
of dollars, and partly to increase of public work, our bye-laws,
for protection, require to be more definitely defined [the 'public
work' refers to a corvée, which in a mitigated form has come
down from fendal times, exacting from artificers and labourers
service at less than the current wages]. We therefore convened
a meeting at the Palladium Temple, and during the theatrical
entertainment and feasting, we agreed on a new tariff of wages
for work and price for our manufactured wares. [Trades
Unions, which, as in the case of blacksmiths and iron-founders,
are too poor to own a hall, meet in the City Temple for delibera-
tions, on which occasions a Thespian entertainment is provided
in honour of the tutelary god, and a feast for the members, who,
while enjoying the play and viands, discuss and decide questions
relative to the interests of the craft.] Any infraction of the
rules hereunto appended will be punished by inflicting a fine of
a theatrical performance and three tables of liquor and viands."
Forty-four articles are enumerated; the price, the value
of the iron and of the labour bestowed on each article being
separately stated.
WENCHOW CARPENTERS' UNION.
Another instance of resistance to the corvée system is furnished
by the following manifests lately posted up in carpenters' shops:

CHINESE GUILDS.
173
"Important Notification: Revision of Rules.-Our trade is re-
presented before the mandarinate by five headmen (selected by the
carpenters from their craft, who are recognised by magistrates,
and on whom demands are made when repairs of yamêns are
needed), who undertake public works. Heretofore they have
conformed to rule, exacting one day each year for our employ-
ment for mandarins, for which one hundred coppers per diem
was paid, and three meals, and in lieu of that service, au exaction
of a hundred cash. But now there is a demand for additional
service, which we refuse to render, or to pay money in lieu
thereof, and there are none to perform needful repairs of the
public offices. On this emergency the mandarinate have ordered
us to elect five other headmen, who shall act in accordance with
established rules, that hereafter no more than one day's work
in a year shall be exacted of us, nor more than a hundred coppers
in commutation for such service. This we have done; and we
have agreed that when any member of the Union refuses to pay
that amount, the newly elected headmen shall mulet the masters
who employ them." This strike, like all others that take place,
ended in the triumph of wage-earners.
WENCHOW COPPER WIRE-DRAWERS' UNION.
This consists of journeymen, who, feeling the pressure of the
times, made a demand on their employers to abandon the
practice of deducting ten per cent. from their wages (in this
place a common abuse), and for an increase of pay. Their pre-
amble sets forth their inability to maintain their families through
inadequate compensation for their labour; and adding that their
toil requires an extraordinary amount of physical exertion;
therefore they had met before the gods, whom they had honoured
by a play, and had come to the conclusion to make demands
hereto affixed. These were an increase of pay, pay to the full
amount, and their work to be weighed by steelyards of a certain
standard. All these terms were agreed to, and are to be seen
posted up in every copper-wire shop. Attached are the usual
penalties.
WENCHOW SILK-WEAVERS' UNION.
The rules adopted in 1842 having fallen into disuse, they were
revised in 1876, and printed, and enforced.

174
CHINESE GUILDS.
"It is agreed that members of the association shall work care-
fully and with their best skill, and pay for silk that has been
damaged by bungling." Then follows a scale of wages for
piecework, the various articles of manufacture being enume-
rated; being an advance on former rates.
st
Journeymen. It is agreed that a hand who is employed by
one manufacturer shall not surreptitionsly work for another-
penalty for transgressing, a theatrical performance and a feast
for over ten. Pilfering silk from employers-to be expelled
the trade; the purchaser to be fined a play and a feast for over
ten. No employer shall engage a journeyman if that hand is
in debt to his master; but when all debts are paid he is at
liberty to enter the service of another; but an employer who
clandestinely engages a hand from another shop shall be fined,
as above.
At the beginning of a new year workmen are at liberty to
make engagements in other manufactories, provided their debts
are all paid to former masters. If they persist in leaving with-
out a settlement, the Trade Union shall pay his indebtedness,
and no shop shall be allowed to employ him. In the case of
journeymen who are dismissed from a shop while in debt to their
master, the new employer shall make deductions from their
wages until the debt is liquidated. No workman shall enter
into business on his own account, nor into partnership until
their debts are paid.
At the commencement of a year masters shall advance to
journeymen [from two to four months] wages [the wages vary
from $4 to $8 per mensem]. Nothing further is payable until
that advance has been worked off.
Dyeing. [Silk-weaving and silk-dyeing constitute a single
trade. General dyers are not entrusted by silk-weavers with
thread-silk for dyeing]. Weaving is to be taught first, and
then dyeing. A theatrical performance is the penalty for dis--
regard of this rule. No shop shall have more than one
apprentice at dyeing at the same time.
Masters. A workman who enters into manufacturing, and
taking as partner a man out of the trade, shall make the con-
tract for five years, during which period the partnership shall not
be dissolved. A play and banquet is the penalty of contravening:

od taiw
CHINESE GUILDS.
this law. At the expiration of five
their own inclinations in the matter.
175-
years, the parties may follow
When a new shop is opened, the proprietor shall subscribe
3,000 cash for temple purposes.
Manufacturers shall have but one member of their family
learning the art at one time.
A shop of three looms may have two apprentices-not more.
No workman shall secretly avail of the assistance at work-
of anyone not in the trade, nor privately teach any the art.
Quarrels among members are to be settled by arbitration. In
a small matter, the one in fault is to be fined in candles [for use
in the temple worship], and for graver offences the fines shall
be a concert [vocal and instrumental music, by five boys, before
the gods]; but feasts shall not be imposed as a fine in quarrels.
[Fining an offender for quarrelling to the expense of a banquet is
not always conducive to harmony, as this Union discovered.]
The present advanced rate of pay shall suffer no abatement;
any workmen accepting less shall be punished.
Silk-weavers' Apprentices.-An apprentice must begin by
standing treat-giving a feast to workmen of the establishment.
Two years are to be spent in learning to weave, and three years-
service as a weaver are to be rendered to the master-five years-
completing his apprenticeship. Employers violating in this
respect to be fined. When out of his time the apprentice shall
serve his late master for two years as a journeyman, when he is-
at liberty to work elsewhere. A manufacturer who endeavours
to get him away shall be fined a play, and the late apprentice
compelled to fulfil the year's contract. If, however, his old
master does not want to retain him, or if he wishes to manufac-
ture on his own account, he is free to go. An apprentice wish-
ing to discontinue learning the trade may leave, but he shall
not be permitted to resume it.
Apprentices are required to be respectful to journeymen. At
the close of his time an apprentice shall subscribe 1,500 coppers-
to the Union for temple expenses.
WENCHOW MILLERS.
Flour mills at Wênchow are worked by hand. The millers
of Wênchow state in their preamble that former regulations-

176
CHINESE GUILDS.
having fallen into confusion, each miller charging what he
thought fit-thus bringing on damaging competition-they
had now come to an agreement for the better governing of the
craft. Sixteen mill proprietors constitute the Union, which is
under the control of a committee of four, changed every year so
as to bring, in rotation, each member into office. It is the duty
of the committee to confer at the close of each month with the
trade, and to fix the price of flour for the month ensuing. Any
member who sells flour at less than the price agreed upon to be
fined the cost of a play and a feast. No member is allowed to sell
flour on credit to any person who is in debt to another member;
that is, customers are not allowed to run up accounts with several
establishments. No member to grind wheat except what he
has himself purchased-not to grind another man's grain. The
Millers' Union steelyards to be the standard for measuring.
No abatement to be made in prices in favour of pastrymen and
others who are large consumers of flour. Usual penalties for
infractions. Assessments for the expenses of the Union, and
other minor matters follow, concluding with the injunction-
"Let not observance of these rules be a mere spurt at the out-
set and dawdling afterwards!"
WENCHOW POSTAL COMPANIES.
Imperial posts exist exclusively for conveying official
despatches. The private correspondence of the country is carried
by postal firms. These combine for the protection of their
common interests, and for maintaining a uniform tariff. At
Wênchow, above a dozen firms engaged in conveying letters
agreed on a tariff with this preamble: "Our undertaking of
sending letters containing dollars, or notes, admits no delay or
error in delivery; besides, we are required to make all losses
good, and while the responsibility is great, the recompense is
small. Moreover, the rules that existed among us prior to the
commencement of steam communication became obsolete, and as
the business increased, offices were multiplied, all which render
necessary the adoption of new rules and tariff on the basis of
postal offices at Ningpo and Shanghai." To give some of the
charges: 70 coppers to Ningpo; Shanghai and Canton, 100;
Peking and Hankow, 200. Where much of the route is by

CHINESE GUILDS.
177
land, the charge is higher; for example, when water com-
munication with Peking ceases, postage is double. Accepting
less postage than the Union has agreed upon subjects the
offender to a fine of a play, feast, and a lot of candles for illu-
minating idol shrines.
WENCHOW BARBERS' UNION.
The humblest of the Guilds (players excepted) is the barbers',
which I here name, in that the association of this most needful
class of artisans illustrates the utility of organisation and com-
bination as an elevating agency; their Union having improved
them socially by infusing into their body a degree of self-respect
to which erst they had been strangers. On combining they dis-
covered that they had wrongs to be redressed and rights to be
vindicated, which in itself was salutary. Custom, as strong as
the statutes of the Empire, interdicted their attendance at the
literary examinations. It was regarded as sublimely audacions
in barbers to demand such a privilege; its absurdity strained
the risible faculty of the polite, appalled the learned, and
agitated society generally. Local magistrates of every grade
exclaimed "non possimus;" they boldly carried their appeal to
the provincial capital. Yamên after yamên was closed to their
admittance. Happily, the Governor was liberally minded, and
penned a despatch in which he showed that barbers were not in-
cluded among players, lictors, etc., who, with their descendants to
the third generation, are not allowed to attend the examinations.
Having thus manfully disenthralled themselves, they erected a
a hall for plays and religious worship, in which they placed a
mural inscription that in modest language narrated their grand
achievement. Subsequently, the Union decided on a measure
which was still further designed to advance the status of their
profession. Shampooing, an operation that consists in pom-
melling the spine between the shoulders of customers who have
been shaved and who pay an additional fee for the prescription,
they voted to be a menial act unbecoming tonsorial dignity.
Like Trades Unions in China generally, and like too many similar
bodies in the West, this association, not content with having
offered successful resistance to injustice, proceeded to arbitrary
acts of oppression towards its members: one who violated

1178
CHINESE GUILDS.
a rule of the Union that forbids ear-cleaning during the last
six days of the year [those being days when every man has his head
polled, and there is no time to be devoted to ears], and another
who shampooed a customer were mobbed by their fellow-shavers,
and their tools, furniture, and paraphernalia thrown out-doors,
street arabs coming into immediate possession of the articles
. ejected.
GENERAL REMARKS ON TRADES UNIONS.
T
Hours of Labour; Holidays.-Unions whose craftmen are paid
by the amount of work performed are not allowed to labour
beyond certain specified hours. Weaving, for example, is not
allowed after nine o'clock at night. There are no laws respect-
ing the hours of labour of those who work by the day; custom
adjusts that. Carpenters work eleven hours in summer and
nine in winter; masons half an hour longer. Chinese artisans
are a reasonable class of men, and never think of demanding a
uniform wages for inferior and superior mechanics; and em-
ployers being amenable to reason, laws do not favour aggression
on the part of the wage-paying class; consequently there are few
collisions between capital and labour.
Perhaps Wênchow tailors may be taken as an illustration; an
average workman will receive $5 per mensem and his food, a
wage that enables him to maintain a family with the necessaries
of life.
It is the unhappy lot of the Chinese proletariat to toil in a
sabbathless land, in which the holidays that are allotted to
him are poor compensation; the last five days of the year, the
first ten days of the new year, and four others interspersed
through the year are his only exemptions from labour; yet is he
not only contented but cheerful.
Apprentices. Many of the Unions rigidly restrict the number
of apprentices of the master. Some, as goldbeaters at Wênchow,
allow none but sons and nephews of workmen or masters to
leave the trade. The unntterable meanness that moves pseudo-
civilised men in the West to debar women from occupations for
which they are competent is, as might be expected, rampant in
China. Rules of certain (Unions (e.g., silk weavers) expressly
forbid their members teaching or employing women; needle-

CHINESE GUILDS.
179
makers make exceptions in favour of the wives and daughters of
members of that craft, who are allowed to acquire the difficult
art of drilling needle-eyes, the instrument employed being iden-
tical with the ingenious "pump-drill" used by North American
Indians; but should either ever marry ont of the Union, employ-
ment would be withheld. Apprentices serve in some trades for
three and in others for five years. At times, a premium is
demanded; in all, food and lodging are alone provided, clothes
being found by parents. No master can employ an apprentice
who has not served out his full time. Before becoming a
journeyman he must stand treat for a theatrical performance.
In some trades fees are required for the general purposes of
the Union from apprentices commencing and concluding their
period of service.
General Penalties.-A play, three tables of viands, and liquor.
A Wênchow capitalist who sets up a gold-beating establish-
ment may take a son or nephew as apprentice. Tin-foil beaters
have similar rules, and so rigid are the rules that infractions
are unknown.
Rules for Preserving the Honour of Unions.-In some Unions
restrictions are imposed on its members by the Union respecting
the quality of the work to be turned out. The Kitty sols Union*
states in its regulations that the trade had suffered depression
from deterioration of paper umbrellas that had been put upon
the market, and their export having consequently fallen off, it
was agreed that kittysols should henceforth be of an uniform
quality and fixed price. Dealers now who put on the market
defective articles are mulcted to the same extent as if guilty of
disposing of wares at less than the established tariff of the trade.
It appears from bye-laws of the Pewterers Association that their
trade suffered from a like cause, and new rules were adopted, to
which all are compelled to conform. Any pewterer who alloys
a tin article with lead is amerced by the trade as surely as if he
* Umbrella-makers in China do not assign the origin of their craft, as do
their Western confrères, to the last century; but (somewhat vaguely) to
high antiquity. An archeologist of the eleventh century A.D. says
umbrellas were in use during the period of the Three Dynasties (they date
from the twenty-third century B.C.). Umbrellas were then of silk, and
came into use after canopies. Silk umbrellas gave way in the latter part
of the fourth century A.D. to those made of paper-the kittysols now in
ee.

180
CHINESE GUILDS.
sold articles for less than his fellow-craftsmen. In this attempt
to elevate the character of their calling they are public bene-
factors.
Very excellent are the regulations of the Dyers Trade Union,
whose preamble declares that "Business requires for its proper
administration that there should be equitable rules and good faith
in their observance; and that owing to the fluctuating price in
indigo, it is to the interest of all concerned that charges for
dyeing should be fixed twice a year; that during the semestral
period the tariff should undergo no change whatever. It is also
provided by that craft that accounts shall be settled at each of
the three periods into which the year is divided; which means,
not only that master-dyers shall owe no man, but that all
moneys due him shall be collected-long accounts being inimical
to the common interests of the craft.
Strikes.-Strikes are infrequent, and not illegal. There does
not appear to have been a time in industrial history when
labourers might not lawfully continue to raise wages and regulate
the hours of work; and no harm has resulted from that
liberty; for the code, in interdicting "monopolising markets,"
is calculated to prevent abuses of that liberty; but a strike for
increase of wages on the part of workmen in the public service
is severely dealt with, as mutinous. Several cases of that de-
scription occurred on the Grand Canal in 1826-39; boatmen of
junks that were conveying Imperial rice having been beaten and
banished for clamorously demanding higher pay (
Hsing-an-hui-lan). Resistance to corvée may be classed among
strikes. I once witnessed resistance on the part of a cooper
to an unjust demand. I saw the poor fellow at the gate of a
magistrate's yamén, just after he had with a cleaver, held in
his right hand, severed his left at the wrist, rather than perform
the half-gratuitous labour that was required of him.
A strike of journeymen for increase of wages rarely fails to be
successful, for if it goes so far as to endanger public tranquility,
magistrates interpose, and the strikers being too numerous to
be flogged and too poor to pay for the mulcting operation, hands
are laid on the masters, who can always be had when fleecing
is feasible; and they, to avoid such result of a strike, wisely

CHINESE GUILDS.
181
surrender; a state of things, however, of which workmen take
no unfair advantage.
Sectionalism.-Clannishness is a Chinese characteristic, which
renders sectionalism a common fault. Many occupations form
Unions, membership of which is restricted to fellow-townsmen.
Fish-hook making at Wênchow is restricted to men of that
trade who belong to Fukien, and no Wênchowese is allowed to
acquire the art. Needle-makers' rules allow only Taichow and
Kiangsu needle-makers to work at Wênchow (those workmen
excelling in the craft). Tallow-chandlers and tin-foil beaters
are remarkable for sectional jealousy. Those craftsmen will not
work with men of their trade who happen to belong to another
prefecture; as it is, though labouring in different establishments,
they indulge in frequent and fierce feuds. At Wênchow, gold-
beating is monopolised by artisans of that craft from Ningpo;
their Trade Union forbids instruction in gold-beating to Wên-
chowese. Should an employer transgress that rule, it is decreed
that journeymen shall meet to enforce the penalty which their
law inflicts on such offenders. The mercantile Guild at Wênchow
excludes forever those from a region in their prefecture, because
when it was instituted eighty years ago men from that place
declined to take part in its organisation.
"Boycotting."-None of the bye-laws of trades that have been
published, nor those of Chambers of Commerce, expressly pro-
vide for "boycotting" others than members of their own
combination, yet in practice it is carried out thoroughly to the
extent of their ability; nor is membership always obligatory,
and is often treated as a privilege; yet in point of fact no one
in their line of business can with impunity refuse to act with
them. Recently a merchant at Hankow invested in drugs to
sell at his private residence, but the associated druggists caused
him to be summoned to the magistrate, and to pay $500 for a
license, and to join the Guild. Non-compliance with the rules
entails utter and irremediable ruin.
TRADE UNION TRUCULENCY.
As regards handicraft associations, their Unions are most
exacting and arbitrary; no recalcitrant members can escape
punishment, nor can any obtain employment who are not in

182
CHINESE GUILDS.
good standing for fidelity to the craft. Ordinarily, mild mea-
sures are resorted to; the offending member is waited on and
invited to repair to a tea-house. Resistance would be useless.
He goes, and is there under arrest, surrounded by successive
relays of fellow-craftsmen, until he pays the amount for which
he is mulcted, or until friends or employers advance money to
satisfy the demand. It is rare indeed that such measures fail,
and occasions seldom exist for inflicting cruelties like those of
which Western mechanics have been guilty.
Although an exceptionally mild people, there are no limits
when their blood is up. In all the empire there is perhaps no
population so docile, so law-abiding, as that of Soochow-the
Athens of China; nevertheless, that city was not long ago the
scene of a ferocious and ghastly proceeding on the part of the
Gold-beaters' Union. A recent writer gives the narrative,
which differs but little from the account current at the time
in Shanghai. A novel which gives a fictitions account of the
traitor Yo Fi having been bitten to death by an indignant
populace has given rise to the belief in Chêkiang that per-
sons conspiring, and conjointly, in putting a man to death,
escape punishment because the crime of murder cannot be
brought home to any one of the perpetrators,-and at this time
(1872) prevailed the more, from the fact that men then living
could tell of a magistrate in the northern part of Kiangsu who
suffered that awful death for withholding food in a famine, and
it was believed (erroneously no doubt) that none of the con-
spirators were executed.
Gold-leaf was needed to an unusual amount for the Emperor.
One of the craft represented to the magistrate that if he were
allowed to take a number of apprentices the work would be
greatly expedited, and having obtained permission, he pro-
ceeded to engage a great many apprentices. The "scoundrel,"
as our author styles him, violated in a flagrant manner a
law of the trade which disallowed an employer to take more
than one apprentice at a time. His conduct infuriated the
craft, and the word passed round "Biting to death is not a
capital offence." One hundred and twenty-three of them rushed
on the miserable man, each taking a bite. Death soon relieved
the victim of fiendish rancour. To make sure that none shirked

CHINESE GUILDS.
183
duty on that occasion, no one was allowed to quit the shop whose
bloody lips and gums did not attest to his fidelity. The murderer
who took the first bite was discovered and beheaded.*
Trades Unions are essentially anti-free-trade institutions. To
some free-trade means utter extinction, and naturally they are
impatient to avert that result, succeeding only in driving the
industry elsewhere,-e.g., combinations of associated labour at
Canton are causing the transfer of mechanic arts to Hongkong,
illustrations of which are furnished by the papers of that colony.
Native merchants imported from Birmingham a quantity of
thin sheet-brass for manufacturers of brass utensils at Fatshan,
throwing out of employment a class of coppersmiths whose busi-
ness consisted in hammering out the sheets heretofore imported
in a thick form; but the trade struck to a man, would have
none of the unclean thing, and to prevent a riot among the
rowdiest class of the rowdiest city in the empire, the offending
metal was returned to Hongkong. Further, a Chinese from
America the other day imported thence some powerful sewing
machines for sewing the felt soles of Chinese shoes to the up-
pers, but the native sons of St. Crispin dostroyed the machines,
preferring to go on as their fathers did, while the enterprising
Chinaman returned to Hongkong a poorer and sadder man.
Again, some years ago a progressive Chinaman set up a steam-
power cotton mill, only to be made useless by the very simple
plan of the growers refusing to send in a pound of cotton.
Filatures from France, effecting not only a wonderful saving in
time and money but improving the quantity and quality of the
output of silk, succeeded at Canton for a while, and were intro-
duced latterly by Chinese capitalists into the silk-rearing dis-
tricts, only to be destroyed and wrecked by the country-folk.
GUILD PENALTIES.
It will be observed that Guilds of every class have for sanc-
tions against infringement of their rules fines to be paid by
bearing the expense of Thespian entertainments and banquets;
as this is a peculiar characteristic of China's social life, it merits
The Magistrate of Ching-pu, near Shanghai, had his ears bitten off,
bit by bit, in 1852, by enraged villagers because of his extortions in the
matter of land-tax.

184
CHINESE GUILDS.
a word of explanation. Confucius refers to an ancient custom
which compelled archers who missed the target to take wine;
and we learn that on the conclusion of hostilities between two
contending states, a feast was provided by the loser for the
diplomatic representatives of the winner, on the occasion of the
conclusion of treaties of peace. Convivialities of the table, or
mat rather (for it was only in times comparatively recent that
Chinamen "sat with legs hanging down," that is, used tables
and chairs), have always been employed by them as means for
accomplishing public ends. In the feasts annually given by the
mandarinate for meritorious aged men, the sage recognised the
ceremony as affording a lesson in government by illustrating
deference due to seniority; and it taught the duty of subordina-
tion to rank.
It is not unlikely that the blending of conviviality and punish-
ment was a device of men of yore. This ingenious mode of
mitigating sanctions, rendering them conducive to urbanity and
harmony, is certainly no modern invention. Not only are festival
penalties inflicted on derelict and refractory members of Guilds
and Trades Unions, but on offenders generally. When quarrels
arise, umpires intervene or are called in, who condemn the
aggressor to go to the expense of a play and a dinner; the feast
taking place in a gallery affording a view of the stage and play
(the guests being the arbitrators, the two litigants, and select
friends), while the court is free to the public. Although those
compulsory entertainments and feast involve a certain degree of
discredit to the host, yet he has the satisfaction as host of being
treated with decorous politeness, a thing so dear to this cere-
monious people. Philosophers cannot but admire this form of
social jurisprudence, which is more likely to be commended than
generally imitated by Westerns.
CO-OPERATIVE LOAN CLUBS
Or ready-money associations, although not comprehended in
the term Guild, merit a paragraph to illustrate yet further the
"clubable" character of the Chinese. Every Chinaman, almost
every Chinawoman, belongs to or has belonged to one or more
associations, exclusive of the secret societies by which the empire
is honeycombed, yet there are no mutual aid societies for sickness.

CHINESE GUILDS.
185
Charity finds expression by certain benevolent services of com-
patriot Guilds, and by eleemosynary societies, but for temporary
loans to the impecunious there are associations of a description
entirely unique. A man in immediate need, say of $50, induces
nine friends to unite with him in forming a ready-money club,
each subscribing $5, which with his own share meet his neces-
sity. He has the use of the common fund for one month, when
the members meet and decide, commonly by throwing dice, who
next comes into possession of the money. In that manner each
member in turn has the use of the fand, when it is either
returned or the arrangement renewed. The sam subscribed
varies in amount from less than half-a-dollar to hundreds; and
the periods of use of the money vary from less than a month to
a year or more. Sometimes interest is paid in the following
manner: the first of $50 receives but $49, each member deducting
a dime for interest; the borrower for the second month receives
$49.10, and so on to the last. Failure of payment from any
cause is sure to be made good by the borrower's family. Great
varieties exist in the constitution and working of these clubs.
M. Simon gives details respecting seven money clubs.
REFLECTIONS.
I have been unable to discover that trade unionism in China
has been on the whole inimical to the public weal, while its
utility is obvious from several aspects.
I. Combinations of employers against society, by fixing a
uniform value on the products of manual labour, neutralise the
tendency which unrestricted competition has to reduce the pro-
letariat to abject dependence. Necessity is not laid on masters to
extort a maximum of wages, while combinations of workmen
check the sordidity of masters. It is probable that what society
might profit by unrestricted competition, it would lose by im-
poverishment and degradation of its humblest members, who
sometimes are the fittest to survive in the struggle for existence.
II. Obvious moral advantages accrue from the affiliation of
workmen for the promotion of legal objects. Self-respect and
self-restraint are cultivated, which is shown by the result of a
combination of Wênchow barbers. Nor is the establishment of
an unalterable scale of wages for numerous articles for sale in

186
CHINESE GUILDS.
shops, which generally justifies what is often inscribed on
signboards "Only one price,"-a trifling result of combination,
saving as it does much mean cheapening on one side of the
counter, and brazen mendacity on the other.
III. We have seen certain trades mutually binding each
other under penalties to turn out faultless work; the result is
that all the commodities found in shops of those particular
wares are always of standard quality and uniform price.
IV. We have seen also that these institutions are prone to
resort to tyrannons proceedings, and are capable of committing
atrocious crimes; but where the administrators of the law are
honest and intrepid, those evils are measurably restrained-
public opinion also exercising wholesome restraints, both as
regards workmen and employers.
GENERAL CONCLUSION.
In the foregoing survey of Chinese mercantile and industrial
life, the most notable feature observable is their capacity for
combining, which is one of the chief characteristics of civilised
men. To them organisation and combined action is facile
because of their inherent reverence for authority and law-abiding
instincts. Their docility is not that of a broken-spirited, emas-
culated people, but results from habits of self-control, and from
being left to self-government in local, communal, or municipal
matters; and as regards the State, they learn self-reliance. Were
a colony of the poorest and least cultured of these people placed
by themselves on an island, they would as soon organise them-
selves into a body politic as men of the same station in life
who had been tutored in rational democracy.
SUPPLEMENTARY
NOTES.
AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS.
What has been said above relates to a limited portion of the
toiling multitude,-to those who are competent to organise
for the common protection. It will not be considered wholly
irrelevant to the subject under discussion if I add a few
paragraphs respecting the masses who form the substratum
of the proletariat,-the field-hands, into whose minds the
thought of combination never penetrates.

CHINESE GUILDS.
187
The subject well merits a separate treatise, instead of a page
or two, for its elucidation. It has been proposed to the British
Parliament to institute inquiries in every civilised country to
obtain information respecting wages, for purposes of comparison.
The following facts respecting this part of China are consequently
in order. But first I must remark that, without a uniform
standard of comparison, statistical tables of compensation for
labour can be of little practical use; such a labour-gauge I
suggest for general adoption.
Let a scale be graduated by years from eighteen upward for
indicating the age which a field-labourer must attain when by
his own labour he can purchase enough of the soil that he
cultivates to afford him a maintenance; and then the number of
years further required to acquire as much additional land as
shall support him as a married man. Let it be considered that
a short period in which that condition is attainable denotes
prosperity, and a protracted period a condition of the State
which is adverse to its best interests. Gauged in this manner,
it will be found that China occupies no mean position among
civilised states.
Six parts of the rice region of Wênchow are owned by non-
cultivators, and four parts are tilled by owners of the soil.
Tenant farmers pay landlords one half of the rice crop,-one
acre yielding over 19 piculs, giving to each about $21, the owner
paying the land-tax, $1.80-every other expense being paid by
the farmer, to whom, however, the intervening crops all belong,
which are worth $15; consequently his share of the product of
the farm is $39. The proprietor, after deducting expenses,
receives something less than five per cent. interest on his
investment. Coming now to the field-hand whom the farmer
hires, we arrive at the substratum of labour.
The average
wages of an able-bodied young man is $12 per annum, food,
straw shoes, and free shaving. Deducting $4 for his clothing,
he saves $8 annually-or may do so. Ten years' savings will.
enable him to buy one-third of an acre of land (value per acre
$150), and necessary implements, by which he can attain by his
own labour a subsistence. In twenty years he can become
possessor of two-thirds of an acre and one-third of a buffalo,
and with six years more saving he may purchase a wife, with

188
CHINESE GUILDS.
whose assistance he can maintain himself on his own land, in
his own hut, and rear children. Thus, in twenty-six years from
zero, a Chinese farm-labourer may obtain what to him is a com-
petence. Ascertain now the number of years in which the same
result might be accomplished in all lands, and we shall have,
approximately, their relative wage rate. This labour-gauge
cannot, of course, embrace the important factors of decency and
comfort in living, nor the death-rate, which, with other matters,
pertain to a full consideration of the subject. The relations
between agricultural labourers and between landlord and tenant
give rise to no ill-will; all are satisfied by arrangements
developed in long bygone ages. Few are so poor as not to be
able to become possessors of soil. So minutely is land frequently
divided, holdings being as small at times as a sixth of an acre,
or less-owned, it may be, by a widow, or a coolie, and let out
to the cultivator of adjacent fields for half the yield of rice.
AGRARIANISM.
Having referred to the size of farms, I may be allowed to
digress further, and add a few remarks respecting attempts
that have been made to prevent the accumulation of land by
capitalists. A modern writer cites a passage from the
Analects, in which Confucius says: "In equal [allotments of
land, such as existed in ages not long antecedent to his own]
there were no poor,"-a construction which I am told is
sustained by certain commentators. That there were in those
early days restrictions on the transfer of land which prevented
it from being wholly monopolised by the wealthy there is no
want of evidence.
"Since the Han and Yang eras, the subject of limited and
equal possession of land has been under consideration." On
referring to the early Han history, we find the instance to which
he probably refers. Ai Ti, B.C. 6, in accordance with the
counsels of his ministers, K'ung Kuang and Shi Tan, issued an
edict limiting the amount of land to an individual to 50 acres,
'and allowing three years for the sub-divisions to be effected.
After that period, the land of any whose average exceeded that
amount was to be escheated, and the offender punished. Land
thereon became cheap, but before the period expired those
ministers were displaced by Tung Hsien (the Emperor's catamite)
and another creature of the same stamp, who reversed the plan of

CHINESE GUILDS.
189
their predecessors, and that endeavour to prevent monopoly in
land was frustrated.
Again an attempt of the same nature was made; this time
by the usurper Wang Wang, A.D. 9-22, who, as a part of his
policy to restore the customs of the early Chow and preceding
dynasties, enacted that the limit of land which an individual
might hold to be something less than 17 acres, the excess
to be divided among his clan or neighbours, without compensa-
tion, and that limited amount of land not to be alienable or to
be transmitted to heirs.
Death was the penalty which was affixed to violations of the
edict. Three years later the attempt to prevent pauperism and
to promote contentment had to be abandoned; offenders against
the law had become so numerous that the sanction could not be
enforced, and people were again allowed to buy and sell and
bequeath land without restrictions as before. Land-laws which
were adapted to an early stage of civilisation were not conducive
to promote the common weal at the comparatively advanced
stage which society had then attained.
An emperor of the Northern Wei dynasty, Hsiao Wen Ti,
A.D. 471-79, was moved to compassionate the condition of his
subjects whom violent and wealthy men had dispossessed of
their land, which he proceeded to restore to them, allotting to
every man about 7 acres of arable soil, and the same amount
to each woman, imposing only certain salutary conditions,-to
wit, within three years each allotment should be found to have
1,900 mulberry, 100 jajabe, and 60 elm trees, when those
portions of the lands which contained trees were to become
entirely the property of the cultivator, while the treeless rice-
fields were to revert at the cultivator's death to the State,
and punishments were inflicted on idle and dissipated cultivators.
There seems to have been good grounds for dispossessing land-
lords of territory on that occasion, and it is likely that for several
years uniformity of the acreage of farms was maintained.
I have no work of the Tang period to search for verification of
our author's statement that the subject was considered at that era.
Subsequently, however, an account is given in the General
History of an endeavour that was made in that direction,
which was attended with disastrous results. It was the work
of Wang An-shih, an erudite scholar, an accomplished writer,
whose poetry is still admired, and who was the originator of the

缺191-224
190
CHINESE GUILDS
style of composition which, legat the literary examinations;
who, moreover, was a man of stave dress, of winning manners
and persuasive eloquence; uprig and benevolent withal,
but lacking one endowment-in which, unfortunately for his
own fame and the welfare of the State, he vainly supposed
himself to possess in an eminent degree-statesmanship; yet he
aspired to the premiership. Confiding in the rectitude of his
motives, he was opinionated, and would brook no interference.
Plenary power was accorded to him by Chi Tsung, A.D. 1068-
86, for carrying out his schemes for regenerating political
society, the chief of which was to advance government money
to farmers at two per cent. interest, with the design of stimulat-
ing agriculture and increasing the revenue. The Treasury was
emptied for that purpose, but the channel through which the
money was to be conveyed to ploughmen absorbed it all on the
passage, that is to say, the officials stole it, which, with other
abuses connected with the measure, caused distress to men of
means and impoverishment of the people.
Under the next reign a capable and practicable minister came
into power, who reversed the revolutionary plans of Wang.
From that time to the subversion of the dynasty by the Mongols
the country had scant repose."
Agrarianism was not a part of Wang's plan, but the renation-
alisation of land still had advocates, one of whom, Chi Shun-tao,
premier of Li Tsung, in 1260, an avaricious, unprincipled
minister, aimed to enrich the Emperor and himself by despoiling
landowners.
It was decreed that all officers who possessed more than
17 acres of land should sell the excess to the Emperor. Six
departments in Chêkiang and Kiangsu alone yielded about
600,000 acres, which, however, was not all derived from the
mandarinate, but officers everywhere compelled private land-
owners to submit to the spoliation. The measure met with so
much resistance that in the next reign the unpopular minister
was shelved, and natural laws ceased to suffer legal infringement.
On his succession to the throne in 1736, Chien Lung was
memorialised in relation to the renationalisation of land
Wang's enrolment of all the people as militia was also a failure, but
some of its provisions still exist. In the early part of his career this
reformer was Magistrate of Ningpo, where a temple to his worship,
erected by farmers, is still maintained. For further information, vide
MAYERS' Manual,"
p. 245.