PROCEEDINGS.
Meeting of the 30th November, 1886.
This Meeting was held in the Society's Library, Museum Road,
Shanghai; the President (Dr. F. HIRTH) in the Chair.
The minutes of the meeting of 26th May last having been
already published in the Society's "Journal" were taken as read.
The Chairman announced that since the last meeting the
following gentlemen had been elected ordinary members of
the Society-Count A. von Butler and Messrs. W. S. Emens,
Ph. Lieder, J. M. Holst, Carl Flothow, Hugo Flothow, W. Ebbs,
A. Ellert, H. von Rücker, C. E. Müller, W. Melchers, Th. Meyer,
E. Hey, T. Latham, J. F. von Gundlach, E. Byrne, and F. Bor-
chardt.
In introducing Mr. Herbert J. Allen's paper, the Chairman
stated that its title-"Is Confucius a Myth?"-was of an essen-
tially sceptical character. In deciding to have the paper inserted
in the Society's Proceedings, the Council was chiefly guided
by the principle that, whatever its own opinions on any special
problem of Chinese literature or history might be, it would be
fair to any of our working members to place their opinions on
record, leaving it to those who hold a different opinion to reply
with counter-arguments. Scepticism was often the best means
to produce criticism; and although it did not seem likely that
many would embrace the views expressed in the paper, it might
be hoped that it would give rise to a discussion tending to
strengthen the arguments on one or other side of the question.
Mr. Allen's paper was then read by the Ven. Archdeacon Monle.
(The paper forms Article IX of this volume; see pp. 193-98.)
A discussion followed, and the substance of the arguments
advanced by the several speakers is given below:-
The Rev. Ernst Faber said that he would view the subject
from three different standpoints, namely, the historical facts,"
Chinese literature, and the relation between Confucianism and
Buddhism. As regards (1) the Historical Facts, Confucias esta-
blished a School of Philosophy. Many of his pupils became distin-
guished as officials, others as teachers-with numbers of scholars
at their feet. He is acknowledged, even in his own time, as the
greatest among all Chinese teachers. The Five Classics of which he
is the compiler were not intended to be religious canons, as Holy
Scriptures, but text-books for his school of advanced scholars.
241

242
PROCEEDINGS.
They are as such unsurpassed. His grave seems better authen-
ticated than any other grave of antiquity. Around there live
his descendants, and their family register is kept in uninterrupted
order. His grandson Tzu-ssu gained a great name, even if he
were not the author of the "Due Mean." Kung Fu (Mayers,
322), who died B.C. 210, is another connecting link between
the Master's own time and the Han scholars. The honours to
his memory began immediately after the sage's death, when Duke
Ai of Lu ordered a temple to be built and quarterly worship
offered. Imperial worship began during the Han dynasty, and
increased gradually to its present magnificence. The persecution
directed by Ts'in Shih-hwang against the followers of Confucius
and against his text-books proves that both were felt as great
powers at the time, about 220 B.C. In reference to (2) Chinese
Literature, Ssu-ma Ch'ien's history is a good authority, but not
the only one. There are a number of works still extant older
than his; for example, Tso Ch'nen, Mencius, Suen Tsz, Lü Pa
Wei, etc. Most of these ancient works were known to Ssŭ-ma
Ch'ien and used by him. Chang Tzu and other writers of the
Taoist school are paradoxical in their sayings and intend
to throw ridicule on Confucius. They have to be used with
caution. But even they acknowledge Confucius as a great
teacher and as the compiler of the Five Classics. The Lun-yü,
Analects or Discourses, the first of the Four Books, cannot be
a forgery. Its contents belong undoubtedly to the time prior
to the great Ts'in revolution. Two different copies of the work
were discovered long before K'ang An-kuo's. His old text only
decided in favour of one of the two texts already known. Many
parallels can be found between the Lun-yü and Tso Ch'uen,
Mencius, Li Ki, and other ancient works. No question of criti-
cism about the authenticity or integrity or credibility or right
explanation of any ancient Chinese document can affect in the
least the historical personality of Confucius. Historical China,
from the 6th century B.C. down to our day, rests on the his-
torical Confucius. Concerning (3) The Relation between Confu-
cianism and Buddhism, it may be urged that the four prohibitions
of Confucianists being somewhat similar to the four Buddhist
obstructions is no argument in the face of numberless points of
dissimilarity. Two may suffice here. To the Confucianist this
world is summum bonum, to the Buddhist it is summum malum.
The highest aim of Confucianists is to ameliorate this world till
lasting perfection is attained, whilst the Buddhists aim at its re-
duction into nothingness. The Buddhist use of the word "Lun" to
translate "Sâstra" proves as little that it is borrowed from Bud-
dhism as our own use of the word "King" for "Bible" proves that
"King" has been introduced from the West. The Buddhists have
a "Doctrine of the Mean ;" so have the Greeks and other nations.

PROCEEDINGS.
243
The Confucian Great Learning, however, differs from the Bud-
dhist Mahâyâna as much as a Chinese mandarin differs from a
Buddhist monk. The legends about Confucius are avowedly of a
later origin (Ts'in dynasty, see Shê-i-chi, Syst. Dig., p. 12, No. 25).
They may be from Buddhist or from common Asiatic sources,
but are rejected by all earnest Confucianists. Chinese Buddhism
does not assign the same year of birth, 551 B.C., to Buddha and
Confucius, but to the former the year 1025 B.C. Confucius
was named K'in from the shape of his head, a high, somewhat
hill-shaped forehead. The mark of a Buddha is "a coiffure of
flesh"
(see Dr. Eitel's handbook Uchnicha). The very slight
modification of the name of Confucius' father by which it is made
very like the name of Shakyamuni's father is as ingenious as
every other statement of this remarkable paper.
The Ven. Archdeacon Moule, at the risk of being considered
captious or hypercritical, ventured to take exception to the very
wording of the subject for discussion. Surely a person cannot
be called a myth. The word úoc is, he apprehended, applied
strictly first of all to any utterance true or false; and secondly,
and more popularly, to a legend, or professed work of fiction.
Confucius may be the subject of fictitious stories, and the story
about Confucius may be a myth, and so he himself be esteemed
a "mythical personage," but hardly a myth. The speaker was
aware that the word was used in this sense loosely; but if he
mistook not, the argument of the paper before them partook
somewhat of the loose character worn by its title. One is struck
at once by the extreme improbability of the theory that Confu-
cius is a mythical personage. That theory was far more incre-
dible than the story of the harps, lutes, bells, and musical stones
which let loose their objurgations and protestations when the
walls of Confucius' house were disturbed. That myths and
legends cluster round the person and history of the sage may
readily be admitted; but that that person itself is the creation
of myth-a mere shadowy fancy conjured up by scholars of the
Han dynasty was most improbable. The improbability seemed
to be two-fold. (1) It was extremely unlikely that the leading
scholars of that date could arrange anything like a consensus
for this lie-commanding unquestioning assent at the time and for
the future. (2) It was contrary to experience that the creation
of fancy should be so sober, and so prosaic, as, for the most part,
was the story of the life and works and death of Confucius.
There appeared to be some confusion in Mr. Allen's dates, or,
rathèr, confusion in the deductions from those dates. His main
thesis was that the scholars of the Han dynasty (dating from
B.C. 206 to A.D. 23 for the Former, and from A.D. 25-190 for
the Later Han), jealous of the growing power of Buddhism,
invented a rival Chinese sage, Confucius. Now if Buddhism

24-4
PROCEEDINGS.
entered China during the first century of the Christian era, e.g.
about A.D. 75, we are met by the fact, mentioned by Mr. Allen,
that Confucius had been canonised as "the illustrious Dake Ni,
lord of completed praise," at least seventy years before (A.D. 1);
so that a new creation of fancy was impossible if we accepted
the later date for the advent of Buddhism. But if we admit,
as Mr. Allen assumes to be the case, and as Dr. Eitel asserts
to be the case, that Baddhist missionaries peregrinated through-
out China as early as B.C. 260, we are met by a fact at least
as certain as this fact of the presence of Buddhism, namely,
that from B.C. 250 to A.D. 62. Buddhism was a comparative
failure in China; that it set itself, but to no great purpose, to
oppose Confucianism, already in existence apparently, and allied
itself to Taoism and popular superstitions. It was hardly for-
midable enough, therefore, during the Former Han dynasty to
have suggested the necessity for a purely native sage in opposi-
tion to Buddha. The few points of resemblance, mentioned by
Mr. Allen, as observable between Buddhism and Confucianism, are
as nothing compared with its differences. Taoism undoubtedly
copied largely from Buddhism, but this hardly necessitates the
belief that Lao-tzu is a "myth." Modern ritualistic Taoism
may be indeed the result of an endeavour to graft Buddhist
doctrine and forms of worship on to the philosophy of the
original Taoist creed; but surely it is a shock to history and
reason alike to speak of Confucianism as a link intended to
combine Buddhism with the more ancient faith of the country.
It was unnecessary here to enter on the question which has been
raised-and with at least as formidable an array of proofs as
Mr. Allen has adduced to prove his theory-as to the mythical
character of Buddha himself. But it might be added with
reference to Mr. Allen's suggested Confucian copy of Buddhism
in the alleged synchronising of the dates of the births of the
two sages in B.C. 551, that Chinese accounts place the date of
Buddha much further back, viz., from B.C. 949-688; whilst the
Buddhists of Ceylon have fixed the year B.C. 543 for the birth
of Shakyamuni Gautama Buddha.
The Rev. Dr. Williamson said that when he first heard the
announcement of the subject then under discussion he thought
that the Council had resolved to give them not a field night but
a pastime night. And he would not have objected to it, for
dulce est desipere in loco; although it might have been doubted
whether the platform of the Asiatic Society was a fit place to
call in question an article of our historic faith so universally and
on such strong grounds believed among us. After hearing the
paper read his perplexity was increased. He could not make
out whether Mr. Allen was in earnest or not. He could not see
how a scholar like Mr. Allen, acquainted with the Chinese

PROCEEDINGS.
245
language and literature, could seriously write such a paper as this;
and if not in earnest, he thought the writer, by analysing names
of persons and places, as others had done before him, could have
given them a far more amusing paper. However, "the highest
art is to conceal art;" and so Mr. Allen has proved himself an
adept in this matter. Reverting to the question before them he
said (1) that Confucius had a place in the archives of China as
a statesman and politician independent altogether of his writings;
and (2) that he was the main instrument of creating a period
of literary activity in China unsurpassed in the world until recent
times. These points had been well enforced by previous speakers,
and he would only remark that they might, on more plausible
grounds, question the existence of Socrates or even Luther.
Both these men marked an era. Political and literary
circles for centuries after them rung with discussions for or
against their theories; so with Confucius. Take away the per-
sonality of Confucius from China, and what can you make of its
literature or history? The chief reason for him speaking was
to give a testimony of a different character to the others. He
had visited the birthplace and the scene of Confucius' labours
three times; seen the temple erected on the site of his dwelling-
place, the well out of which he drank, etc.; conversed with his
lineal representative; and mingled with his numerous descend-
ants, many tens of thousands. But all this might have been the
outcome of some gigantic deceit on the part of some cunning
man or men. He had also visited the family graveyard, seen
the many thousands of graves, and counted them generation
after generation, going back through dynasty after dynasty one
by one to Confucius himself-almost, if not altogether, a perfect
register in mound and marble of that illustrious family; and he
had never felt the reality of antiquity so impressively as he
stood gazing at that God's acre. All the past generations stood
before him as if present-far outstripping the catacombs !
This graveyard, however, might have been also some gigantic
deception. It is quite within the limits of possibility that
a certain number of clever men might have built these graves
and graven the earlier of these stones. It cannot therefore,
he admitted, be logically proven from this or anything else that
Confucius ever lived. Alas! for Logic, showing them there is
something higher than logic to which we would do well to give
heed.
Mr. I. H. Ting regarded the actual existence of Confucius
and the genuineness of the classics as beyond doubt. To have
fabricated the narrative of his life would have been a work
of considerable difficulty, seeing that there existed no model
by which to frame it. Its simplicity alone was a strong recom-
mendation in its favour. By the whole nation, from the Emperor

246
PROCEEDINGS.
downwards, was Confucius honoured, and had there been the
slightest doubt in the minds of the scholars of the time that the
classics were fictitious, jealously of the honours conferred would
eventually have asserted its power and disturbed this singular
nnanimity. While no record exists to show that the ancients
believed Confucius to be a mythical personage, many circum-
stances serve to prove that from the earliest times he was
honoured as a great sage. Mencins in his works mentions Con-
fucius as a sage superior to all others. When we consider that
little over a century elapsed between the times of Confucius and
Mencius, it may be assumed that Mencius was acquainted with
those who had personal knowledge of Confucius. The historian
Ssu-ma Ch'ien mentions that he himself went to the kingdom
of Lu, visited the temple of Confucius, and saw the chariot used
by the sage, as well as other relics. Though we have no positive
evidence that "The Great Learning" and "The Doctrine of the
Mean" were written by the grandson of Confucius, yet the
absence of a rival claim is a distinct presumption in favour of
their reputed anthor.
The Rev. W. Muirhead, being unable to attend the meeting,
sent in the following criticism:-The idea of regarding Confucius
as a myth, and that mainly on the ground of his worship not
being observed till long after his time, and the books called by
his name being also an after-production, while they were
recovered and interpreted in a very legendary and hypothetical
way, seemed at first sight strange and startling. It is true the
idea has been reasoned out in the paper before us in a highly
specious form, and arguments have been adduced and statements
made which in the view of some might render the supposition
not an improbable one. We note, in passing, the idea might be
made to apply to other things and names whose existence and
reality in former days have all along been undoubted, yet in
virtue of the large amount of legendary matter on the page of
history, and the apparent want of strong, indisputable proof in
their behalf, they are regarded in a sceptical light, notwith-
standing, it may be, the grave importance attached to them in
every point of view. Indeed, the most unquestioned events of
ancient and modern times, with the persons who have figured
most largely in connexion with them, admit of being called into
account, as if they had never occurred or existed, showing that
the most extraordinary things can be advanced in support of an
idea, that anything, in short, can be said of anything, either
intentionally or otherwise, with reason or without reason, either
to defend a theorem or to show the absurdity of the defence.
We allude, e.g., to the argument of the late Archbishop Whately,
who, in opposition to the unbelievers of the evangelical narra-
tive, wrote a pamphlet to demonstrate that no such person as

PROCEEDINGS.
247
Napoleon I. ever existed; and we are bold to say that the work
forms an admirable illustration of the line taken by the sceptics
of the present day, in denial of the facts contained in the narra-
tive referred to. We are inclined to regard the idea before us,
as to Confucius being a myth, much in the same light. The
ground of the supposition is that the Chinese classics bearing
his name, not as their author, but as containing his sayings, did
not appear till long after the alleged period of his death, and
were discovered in a most problematical way, subsequent to their
conflagration by the first Chinese emperor. Their interpretation,
too, seems to have been then accomplished in an unsatisfactory
and uncertain form, and so it is conceived no reliance can be
placed on the books as connected with the sage, or as evincing
that he ever lived. In other words, is he not really a myth? Is
he not to be looked on as one of those remarkable individuals
who have appeared in legendary history, and who, though they
have never existed, or if they have existed, have attributed to them
sayings and doings with which they had little or no connexion.
Our thesis is in direct contradiction to this idea, and we maintain
the idea that the circumstances which are said to have occurred
after the burning of the classics do not invalidate the idea of the
sage's personal existence or the genuineness of his teachings
as recorded there. We take our stand at the period in question
and admit the destruction of the books by the order of the Chinese
emperor, together with the manner, as far as necessary, in which
the remaining copies are reported to have been found and inter-
preted. What then?
1. At that time the books were allowed to have been in
existence. It was no new idea that then dawned upon the
scholars of that day. The destruction that had taken place was
of recent occurrence, and it was a matter of deep and universal
regret that it had occurred. If any reliance is to be placed on
history at all, this point appears as conspicuous and trustworthy
as the conflagration itself, and these scholars were men of erudite
and stalwart minds, who felt they had lost a most valued treasure,
which had made them in that respect what they, and the nation
at large, really were. Whatever change had been brought about
in the matter of the written language, or difficulty had intervened
in consequence, which will be referred to in the sequel, we have
no ground for supposing the fact of the Confucian classics was
either called in question, or was an unknown thing, when the
time of the renaissance came about. It was anticipated. It was
longed for. It was hailed as an event of the greatest interest,
following one that was universally denounced.
2. The discovery was an occurrence that actually took place,
and in no very incredible manner. The most active efforts
were put forth for its accomplishment, and in view both of the

248
PROCEEDINGS.
recovery of the destruction, and the short-lived character of it,
we need not wonder at the success of the means employed.
That the books were found in out-of-the-way places is nothing
remarkable. We can easily imagine similar cases, and, more,
can refer to them as matters of positive history. Most valuable
works have been found in most unexpected quarters, even when
copies could have been more easily multiplied and more readily
got hold of. Persecution has again and again taken place in
different parts of the world, and both men and things were
supposed to have been stamped ont, but after the intervention
of long years, centuries indeed, they have been met with and
flourished abundantly. We need not go far to illustrate this.
And as to the books being found in an unknown character,
which few could understand, and which were explained in an
unsatisfactory manner, the same remark we have just made
fully applies, so far as it may reasonable go. The case of the
Jews in China may be referred to, who had lost the power of
reading Hebrew for seventy years before they came in contact with
us, though they had both their sacred books and the remembrance
of what they contained. Alike the knowledge of their books
as having been in existence, and the memory of their contents
on the part of those acquainted with them in early days, help to
substantiatethe reality of their author and of his teachings as
contained in them.
3. The character of the Confucian books, in the matter of
history and of moral or political instruction, verifies the claim
we now make, and which has been allowed all the ages through.
It is alleged in the paper before us that the rédacteur of the
books is allowed, from the necessity of the case, to have
interpolated more or less of the whole, and to have practically
written the work de novo. We might confidently appeal to
the entire aspect of the work in opposition to this idea, and
to the facts that then occurred. Every effort was made not to
rehabilitate the classics, but to discover them either in writing,
or by the memories of aged scholars, and both were made out
to be successful, without any contradiction having been tendered
against them, except in a few unimportant particulars. The
whole character and bearing of the books were out of the line
of invention or violent interpolation, and we repeat, the men
engaged in the work of redaction or discovery were not inclined
to accept anything that came to hand, in lieu of what they
actually wanted. There could not but be in the constitution of
society, in the civilization of the country, in the scholarship of
the upper classes, abundant evidence in support of what had
been handed down from earlier times, which the temporary
destruction that had recently taken place could not annihilate.
The gravity of truthfulness characterising the Chinese classica

PROCEEDINGS.
249
preclude in our view the idea altogether of the existence and
standing of Confucius being merely a myth. Whatever legen-
dary matter has been attached to his birth or any part of his
life, it is readily acknowledged to be such by his devoted
followers, and stands apart both from the character and teachings
of the man.
4. There are varions historical parallels which tend to
sustain our views of the Confucian classics and the reality of
their great subject. Shall we allude to an event detailed in 2
Kings, 22nd chapter? Owing to the troublous times of
Manasseh, the King of Israel, the book of the law that had been
handed down from the time of Moses, and deposited in the ark,
was evidently unknown for 60 or 70 years, and its discovery
excited the greatest astonishment. Again, Ezra on his return
from Babylon, where the captivity obtained for 70 years, gathered
the people together, and read and explained the same book of the
law, which was written in a language different from what the
hearers had been accustomed to. The Sybilline oracles and
numbers of other works might here be referred to as similar in
no small degree to the classics of China, and it would only have
been a surprise if they had passed through no such strange
experience as they actually did, without impairing their claims
as the genuine product of their professed authors, or materially
involving the corruption of their contents. The history of our
own Scriptures might well be adduced in illustration of our view.
5. The intelligence and scholarship bestowed on the redaction
or renaissance of the Chinese classics may be added in support
of their genuineness and authenticity. No less at that time than
now can we regard the Chinese as an ignorant and easily befooled
class of people, especially in their literary department. Every
possible care was taken of the work they had on hand. It was
too precious and important in their view to be done slovenly,
and the study and attention they have given to the correctness
of these classics ever since is only an indication of what was
done at a time when it was specially required. The record of
their action in the matter, not only by Imperial authority, but
as the expression of their intense regard for the work, compelled
them to do all they possibly could to secure the veritable thing.
That difficulties came in the way is true, and that there were
mistakes either in the rendering or the interpretation of the
original, as is the case with the present commentary, is not to
be wondered at, yet the character of the book as it now stands,
and the repatation of the men engaged in the re-forming of the
work, amply sustain the idea that, as a whole, it has been handed
down to us as it first appeared.
6. There is an utter dissimilarity in the construction of the
book to the Buddhist and Taoist literature that has come to us

250
PROCEEDINGS.
from early times. The charge has been made that it is
indebted in some respect to this source, either in its import or
in its authorship. We regard this as without a title of evidence.
Allow that the authorised commentator Chu-hi has written much
in this line of things, and, it may be, interpolated his views to a
certain extent, but this does not apply either to the original text
or to the spirit and sentiments of the entire book. There is a
complete dissonance between the one and the other in this matter,
and the idea hitherto expressed we believe to be true, that these
two latter systems are largely indebted to and modified by Con-
fucianism, and not vice versa. The course of things in China
all these past ages confirms our opinion that this is the case, and
whether the scholars of China have been favourable to Buddhism
and Taoism or not, there has ever been an acknowledged dif-
ference between them and their professed faith, excepting
perhaps that all are agreed in the inculcation of virtue.
7. The whole order of things in the State religion of China
and its civil institutions, with the character of its people, the
history of its literature, the story of its numismatics, etc., will
go to sustain our view of the genuineness and veracity of the
Chinese classics and the real existence of their ancient sage.
These particulars form too large a theme to dwell upon here, but
the one conclusion to which they lead in our view is simply this:
that there is an unquestionable continuity in the Chinese
records as transmitted from the earliest times, and as detailed
in the writings which bear the name of Confucius, either in the
way of personal composition, or redaction or instruction to his
disciples. Nay more, the renaissance that took place after the
burning of the books by Ts'in Hwang Ti did not seviously inter-
rupt the line of things that previously existed, and that we can
account for the name and influence of the Chinese sage by the
fact of his having really lived and been honoured and revered by
his followers as he actually was. The delay of his worship, the
lateness with which he was introduced into the Chinese ritual,
and the manner in which this was done, together with the
amazing power connected with him all through the Christian
era, can easily be accounted for, and there are many parallels
to it in Chinese and other histories. In a native point of view
he deserves the honour everywhere conferred upon him.
There
has been none like him in their usual song and universal acclaim.
That course of things is passing by, but it will not be by regard-
ing him as a myth, to which teachings of such high excellence
are not generally ascribed, but by acknowledging their true
value, and making such use of them, even with the name they
bear, in the interests of Christianity, and the advancement of
science, as shall tend to the enlightenment and well-being of
this great nation.

PROCEEDINGS.
251
Mr. G. M. H. Playfair, being also unavoidably prevented from
attending the meeting, submitted the following remarks:-
Napoleon Bonaparte died in 1821; in the same year a Fellow of
Oriel College, Oxford, afterwards to be known as Archbishop
Whateley, published a pamphlet it which he proved logically, by
reasonings analogous to those employed by critics of the authen-
ticity of the New Testament, that Napoleon had never really
existed. If this feat could be successfully achieved relative to an
individual just dead and still living in the minds of men, there can
be no possible difficulty in disproving the existence of any
historical personage, and still less in treating as a myth a pre-
historic character whose birth dates back twenty-four centuries.
It might well be possible to arrange the traditional facts about
Confucius in such a form as to prove, logically, that there never
was such a sage; the result would be an amusing jeu d'esprit, and
the more cogent the arguments were, the more amusing, from
its cleverness, the jest would be. But Mr. Allen has evidently
no intention of being funny; his communication is as grave as
could be desired. Being compelled, therefore, to take this paper
seriously, I consider the thread of argument used too slender to
support the weighty conclusion. It is not enough to hint that
the K'ang family may have conceived a gigantic literary fraud
for the purpose of glorifying their house: conjectures are not
proof; to insinuate that the story told about the recovery of the
lost books is improbable: there is nothing impossible in it, save
the weird sounds of music, no doubt the invention of a later
age; to compare certain recommendations ascribed to Confucius
with the commandments of Buddhism and Taoism; for we find
them nearly all in the Christian Scriptures, yet no one yet has
been bold enough to identify Buddha and Lao-tzu with Christ;
and the name of Confucius' father, which is alleged to bear so
close a resemblance to Buddha's supposed progenitor, is not
quite so like it as Cicero is like Sisera. It is still uncertain
whether the Tao-tê Ching is to succumb to the attack of our
late President, and Taoists all over the Empire are possibly in a
state of unpleasant suspense. But Confucianists may take
heart; the founder of their religion, in spite of the present
paper, is in no immediate danger of being proved as fabulous as
his own Chi-lin.
The Chairman said that though the discussion on the paper had
been of a one-sided character, they had been fortunate in hearing
the opinions of recognised authorities on the subject, and these
would doubtless be read with interest when published in the
Society's Proceedings.
With a vote of thanks to the Chairman, proposed by Mr. W.
Bright, the meeting terminated.

252
PROCEEDINGS.
Meeting of the 16th December, 1886.
This Meeting was held in the Society's Library, Museum Road,
Shanghai, Dr. R. A. JAMIESON (Vice-President) presiding, and
abont 50 members and friends being present.
The Chairman, in opening the proceedings, said that the first
business was to confirm the minutes of the meeting of the 30th
November, which having already appeared in the newspapers
would be taken as read. Since the last meeting four new members
had been elected, namely:-Messrs. H. T. Wade, P. E. O'Brien-
Butler, T. D. Burrows, and Dr. J. H. Focke. The next business
was the reading of a paper by Dr. D. J. Macgowan on "Chinese
Guilds or Chambers of Commerce and Trades Unions." The
Chairman having paid a high tribute to the work which Dr.
Macgowan had already done in increasing the acquaintance
of Europeans with the literature, history, and customs of the
Chinese, said that the writer of the paper had for many years
been closely associated with the Chinese, and had made unusually
good use of his opportunities. The subject was one which he
need hardly say was of the greatest interest to commercial people
as well as to officials, to whom all sorts of questions were likely
to arise. After remarking that the mercantile community would
be better able to judge of the merits of the paper than he, the
Chairman said that in all their relations with the Chinese when-
ever political questions arose they were always confronted with
that shadowy body known as the literati, while in matters of
commerce they were confronted by the less shadowy guilds,
which were a great embarrassment to foreign merchants in their
efforts to push trade in China.
Dr. Macgowan then read extracts from his paper on "Chinese
Guilds or Chambers of Commerce and Trades Unions." (The
paper is printed in extenso on pp. 133-192, forming Article VIII of
this volume.)
The Chairman said they had heard Dr. Macgowan's very
interesting and exhaustive account of guilds and their adminis-
tration in China, and now he should be glad if anyone could
throw any additional light on the subject.
The Rev. Ernst Faber considered that there was nothing left
for argument, as almost everything in the paper was a state-
ment of fact. He strongly recommended Dr. Macgowan's
contribution to all writers on Chinese subjects. Methodical
investigation is one of the surest means to arrive at the truth in
connexion with any subject. Dr. Macgowan's method does not
consist in describing impressions and advancing new theories,
but in a painstaking collection of facts in all their details from
various sources. This is no easy task, as not books nor antiqua
rian articles, all of which can be bought in shops, are required

1 %
PROCEEDINGS..
253
but phenomena of real life. Very few foreigners will succeed
in getting reliable and somewhat exhaustive information from
the Chinese on subjects which concern their material interest.
The guilds which had been described were characteristic of
Chinese life. But they do not stand isolated; there are other
corporations of a similar nature and, perhaps, of even great
importance, i.e., Chinese claus, or Village Communities pare
and simple, combinations of clans (or of fragments of clans)
into mixed communities, and confederations of villages. The
literati, or gentry, of the Chinese lose their shadowy character as
elders and headmen of villages. They are naturally the leaders
of the people. The guilds, without exception, employ such li-
terati to transact any business with the mandarins; they pay large
sums for such services and sometimes even for the honour of a
name as patron of the corporation. The literati have, in fact, their
share in every important Chinese business. How far, however,
the village community, the guild-hall and the public-hall act and
react on each other still remains to be explored. The reason
why the Chinese succeed so well with their guilds and other
associations, when Europeans often fail with theirs, is on
account of the peculiar nature of the law in China. Individuals can
easily find redress in the courts of law in Europe, but in China
this is not the case, the individual not being recognised by law
except a community becomes responsible for him. Thus it is,
that where the natural community of the clan or village
is found not to answer the purpose, Chinamen are forced by
circumstances into communities of a more artificial nature.
Without external pressure, the Chinese are as inadhesive to one
another as other people animated by selfish motives generally
Lawsuits before mandarins are moreover very expensive.
The mandarins, as a rule, understand better how to relieve their
clients' pockets than to help them to justice in questions of com-
mercial law and custom. It is a common practice among the
people to bring all cases of civil law before their elders or into
the public hall. These have a kind of local jurisdiction, allowed
by the Government, not consisting only in the power to adjust
matters, but also to inflict fines, imprisonment and corporal
punishment. Their testimony is, besides, commonly decisive
in criminal cases before the mardarin. The decisions arrived
at by the headmen of these corporations are, however, not guided
by a written law, but by local custom, which differs materially
in different parts of China, even in different districts of the same
prefecture. This indefiniteness of Chinese custom is a source
of much annoyance to the uninitiated foreigner. Some more
light should also be thrown upon the nature of Chinese partner-
ship, for we all know how difficult it is to get at the liability
of partners when a Chinese company fails. The relation between
are.

254
PROCEEDINGS.
employer and workman is another subject of great importance.
Apprenticeship, free labour, qualification of artizans, strikes
of workmen, all influence the market, as the employer has to
refund himself by an increased price on his articles, or become
bankrupt. Foreign trade is also greatly influenced by female
labour. This is more particularly the case with the cotton trade.
Myriads of poor Chinese women have to support themselves and
their children by spinning and weaving, the men being accus-
tomed only to care for themselves, if they have not old parents
who require regular attendance, but in many cases the daughter-
in-law has to maintain them too by her industry. Many useful
points have been suggested by Dr. Mcgowan's able paper, some
of which well deserve a separate and detailed treatment. We
should like to see such contributions more frequently brought
before the meetings of the Society.
Mr. Kingsmill said he had a serious objection to make as to
one point--that was when Dr. Macgowan got up and apologised
for bringing such a paper forward. All would agree that a more
interesting paper had not been read before the Society for many
years. It was such papers as Dr. Macgowan's that they would like
more particularly to have in the Society. Of course they didn't
wish to shut out scientific matters, but the present paper was the
most practical that had been brought before them for some time.
With regard to the absence of a civil code in China, it was the
same as in Europe from the 11th to the 15th century, when there
was criminal jurisprudence but no civil law. Guilds consequently
sprang up, and without them there was no redress for wrongs,
and even at the present day in the city of London there were
still remains of the necessity which drove sojourners from other
countries to form themselves into associations to enable them to
.live. China was far behind other countries in the matter of civil
law, and hence guilds had taken root. They knew what the
community had to suffer from the celebrated Swatow Guild.
It was of the greatest importance they should know a little more
about these guilds than they had hitherto done, living as they
did amongst them here.
The Chairman proposed a vote of thanks to Dr. Macgowan
for his valuable paper, and referred to the instructive remarks
which it had elicited from the other speakers. The vote having
been carried by acclamation, a similar compliment was p..
to the Chairman on the motion of Mr. Bright (the H
Secretary), and the meeting separated.