CORRESPONDENCE.
PROF. LEGGE TO THE EDITOR OF THE JOURNAL.
Oxford, 20th October, 1886.
DEAR SIR, In Nos. 1 and 2 of your Journal of the present
year I see that Mr. Giles, in his "Critical Notes on some
Translations from the Chinese by Mr. Parker," has taken the
opportunity to turn aside and launch a "feeble doubt" (imbelle
telum) against myself for my "misrendering" of a passage in
the Tso-chwan, under the 4th year of duke Hsüan. As I am
right in my translation, and Mr. Giles is wrong in his and in his
remarks on what he calls my error, I beg to be allowed to offer
the following observations on the passage in an early number of
your Journal.
The text of Confucius is to this effect:-In summer, in the
6th month, on (the day) Yih-yû, duke (Wan's) son, Kwei-shăng
of Chang, murdered his ruler I(夏,六月,乙酉,公子蹄生
HA). To this notice Tso-shih appends a narrative to show
how the event was brought about, for which I must refer your
readers to the 5th volume of my Chinese Classics, pt. i, p. 296,
and then subjoins some critical remarks (of his own apparently)
to explain the style of the notice. Those remarks proceed on
what I have called in my Prolegomena, pp. 5, 6, the "Praise and
censure theory," that finds in individual characters (or their
omission) the " righteous decisions" which Confucius claimed
that he had made in compiling his Ch'un Ch'iû. One of the
canons of the theory is, that when the name of a ruler is sub-
joined to the account of his murder in the notice, there is thereby
given a censure of him as having been a bad or worthless
ruler (, one who did not follow the right way of ruling);
and if the name of the slayer is also given, that is a condemna-
tion of him as the perpetrator of a criminal act. The in
Tso-shih's criticism, as quoted by Mr. Giles, does not mean, as
Mr. Giles says,
"when the murdered individual is mentioned
as prince," it means "when the ruler is named, or mentioned by
his name." The point of the criticism lies not in the designation
chün () or ruler, but in the use of the ruler's name in the
notice, the concluding character of it I ().

238
CORRESPONDENCE.
Mr. Giles says that I have "cautiously and wisely" inserted a
mark of interrogation ("?") after my translation; but the (?)
did not intimate any doubt of the correctness of my translation,
but that I questioned the justice of the canon, on his admission
of which (if he did not himself originate it) Tso-shih based his
critical remark. The praise and censure theory is rejected
generally by the best and most recent commentators on the Ch'un
Ch'iû. The whole of Tso-shih's own criticism, so far as it bears
on the point in dispute, is: "In cases of the murder of a ruler,
where he is mentioned by name, it indicates that he was a worthless
(or bad) ruler, and the mention of the minister by name indicates
his guilt." The name of the minister was Kwei-shăng, as given
in the notice, but he is not called "minister" in it, and this
is sufficient to determine the question of correctness as between
Mr. Giles' translation and my own.
I am tempted to offer a criticism on what Mr. Giles says is
"the idea" of the passage; but I do not write to censure him,
but to justify myself; and will leave the whole contention to the
judgment of those who have really studied the Ch'un Ch'iû and
Tso's supplement to it.
I am,
Yours sincerely,
JAMES LEGGE.
THE MARQUIS D'H. ST. DENYS TO THE EDITOR OF THE JOURNAL.
Paris, le 12 décembre 1886.
MONSIEUR, J'ai publié l'année dernière trois nouvelles inédits,
traduites du chinois, dont la première, Les alchimistes, a pour
titre en chinois
妙術丹客提金
Littéralement: En vantant leurs admirables recettes, les alchi-
mistes enlèvent l'or.
De son côté, M. Schlegel a traduit et publié en 1877, une
antre nouvelle intitulée
賣油郎獨占花魁
Le vendeur d'huile qui seul possède la Reine de beauté. Or, dans
le No. de votre Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, issued at
Shanghai, May 1886, à la page 289, on lit la curieuse mention
que voici :
Trois nouvelles chinoises traduites pour la première fois, par le
Marquis d'Hervey St. Denys, Paris. These are from the
-1. Mai-yu-lang-tu-chan-hua-kuei ()
already translated by G. Schlegel, Leyden, 1877.

CORRESPONDENCE.
239
Le rédacteur de vos Notices of new books and literary notes
suppose donc que signifie indistinctement en chinois
vendeurs d'huile on alchimistes, de telle sorte que M. Schlegel et
moi nous ayons pu donner au public la même nouvelle sous ces
deux noms différents ? ? ?
Ajoutons que, pour achever la confusion, on attribue plus loin
le titre chinois de ma seconde nouvelle à la troisième, et vice
versâ.
Permettez moi, Monsieur, de vous exprimer mon grand étonne-
ment de racontrer de pareilles notices bibliographiques, sur des
ouvrages relatifs à la littérature chinoise, dans le Journal of the
China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, et agréez, je vous prie,
l'assurance de mes sentiments les plus distingués,
MARQUIS D'HERVEY ST. DENYS,
de l'Institut de France.
In reference to the above letter, the following explanation
has been tendered by the writer of the notice referred to:-
SUUM CUIQUE. Our attention has been drawn by Professor
D'Hervey-Saint-Denys to a slight error which we have committed
in advertising his new book Trois nouvelles chinoises (see Journal,
Vol. xx, p. 289). To say the truth, we had not at that time seen
the book itself, and Cordier's Bibliotheca Sinca led us to believe
that the Chinese title of the novel entitled Les alchimistes was
Finding from Cordier's Bibliotheca that
it had already been translated by Mr. Schlegel, we mentioned
this in our brief notice (see Cordier's Bibliotheca, col. 812 and
818). Now it appears that the Chinese title of Les alchimistes is
****, and that this novel had never been translated
in any language. The blame should rest more on M. Cordier's
shoulders than on our own.
M. RONDOT TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE SOCIETY.
Paris, le 1er février 1887.
MONSIEUR LE PRESIDENT, J'ai l'honneur de vous prier de
présenter en mon nom à la Société le 2e volume de mon livre
sur les Soies.
Une partie de ce volume est consacrée aux vers à soie sauvages,
et plusieurs espèces chinoises sont l'objet de chapitres spéciaux.
Je souhaite que les faits que je signale attirent l'attention sur
les vers à soie sauvages de la Chine, plus nombreux qu'on ne le
pense et très intéressants au point de vue scientifique et au point
de vue technique.

240
CORRESPONDENCE.
Les vers à soie sauvages du mûrier, très abondants en Chine,
devraient être recherchés, car il ne paraît pas douteux qu'il y en
a plusieurs espèces, et nons n'en connaissons encore que deux.
Je vous prie d'agréer, Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de ma
considération très distinguée,
NATALIS RONDOT,
Chambre de Commerce, Lyon.