NOTES AND QUERIES.
THE MIRYEKS, or
"STONE MEN"
OF COREA.
The word miryek, pronounced miryök, is, as
stated by M. de Lacouperie, described in the
Dictionnaire Coréen-Français as "Statue de
pierre. Grande idole de pierre." Under the
head syek in, pronounced syök in, or sök in, the definition is
"Homme de pierre: statue de pierre représentant un homme." In
both cases the Chinese characters A, or "stone man," are
given as the respective equivalents of miryêk and syêk in. The
Corean word for "stone" is tōl, (pronounced long, as in the
English word told), and the Corean word for "man" is sarăm;
but the Dictionnaire gives no such word as tōl-saram. The
Corean word tōl may, however, be joined to Chinese words, e.g.
tol pi, tol htap (tap),
M. de Lacouperie
suggests that the word miryêk existed in Corea previous to the
adoption of the Chinese characters, in its special adaptation to
stone statues; and he implies that the religion which caused the
erection of the statues was forgotten or in the shade at the time.
It is a fact, however, certified to by Lieutenant Foulk, that the
same statues are described by the Chinese characters mi lék,
5, which, in Corean-Chinese, are pronounced mireuk, or
mirik; and, as the Corean vowels which the Dictionnaire writes
é and eu [] are much interchanged; whilst, moreover, the ม is
frequently elided both in speech and writing; there is evidently no
necessity for M. de Lacouperie's suggestion, and thus the further
implication also falls to the ground.
Eitel's Sanskrit-Chinese Dictionary says that statues were
erected in memory of Mâitrêya in India as early as B.C. 350; and
there can be no doubt that M. de Lacouperie's next suggestion is

NOTES AND QUERIES.
225
correct, namely, that miryek is a foreign word,-in fact Mâitrêya
[Buddha],, which, in Corean, would be miryêk poul
(pul). In Japanese the three characters become mirokubutsu; in
Cantonese nilêkfêt (niläkfat); in Pekingese milêfu (or fo); in
Foochow mila-huk (vulgar for milêkhuk); etc., etc. The great
Concordance, or Pei-wên Yün-fu, says that during the year
A.D. 610 a riot was caused at the capital of Sui Yang-Ti
[], by a number of men rushing through one of the
gates dressed as mi-lêh-fuh. Another extract says that Miléhfuh
was born at Benares. Still another extract says that in Hu
Kwang (previous to the Sui dynasty) the 8th day of the 4th moon
was observed as Milêh's birthday, under the style of Lung-hwa
Festival,, when the images of Buddha were all washed
in scented water.
M. de Lacouperie says that the double cap of the Corean
Miryêk is "highly suggestive of two of the currents of tradition
which are met with in Corea; " but he leaves us to guess what he
means. The slab and pendents on the cap, he says with some
apparent show of reason, are suggested by the Indian Pagoda-
umbrella, and justly adds that the Miryêk of Unjin is Buddhist.
There is still another way of accounting for the Miryêks. On
page 303 of the Chinese Recorder for 1885, it is explained that the
state of T'ai-fêng,
was founded by the Shinra priest-
prince Kung-i, , who, in A.D. 911, called himself Miryêk
Pul,, and always wore a golden turban and a square
robe when he went out. His capital was 20 li north of T'ieh-yüan
Fu in the Kiang-yuen (Kangwön) Province. Curiously enough
the same name was, according Dr. Hirth's China and the Roman
Orient, given to the king of Fulim at about the same date.
M. de Lacouperie says that the Coreans have the only real
alphabet of East Asia, and quotes Klaproth as an authority
(without source) for the statement that it was introduced into
Paktsi or Hiaksai in A.D. 374. The Grammaire Coréenne puts
it down to Syel Chong in the 8th or 9th century; but I never
succeeded in finding a Corean who knew anything about it.

226
NOTES AND QUERIES..
It seems very certain, however, that the Corean alphabet is
modified from the Sanskrit, as the following comparison will shew.
Sanskrit.
Corean.
English.
7
K
ΚΗ
7
क
KEFKNKEFLINK
GOTTPMRHN
J, CH
The above consonants are selected each as being reasonably like
the approximate English sound.
(understood.)
KAA
F
I (EE)
7
ㅓ
#1
O
AU YO
E Ê
AI YÊ
YÊI (YE)
The vowels in the two languages are almost entirely different,
but the above examples shew that much the same way of
differentiating them exists.

NOTE ON THE
EPHTHALITES
A.D. 450.
NOTES AND QUERIES.
227
In the "Journal" for March 1887 I stated that
this nation, mentioned by late Greek writers, was
in Chinese history the same with the race called
, and added that these characters were
formerly called Eptar or Eptat. I now remark that in the Wei-
shu the name is given as , ep-tar. In the Kwang-yün
is spelled A, yip. The final t of, as of other characters
where it occurs, was during the Tang dynasty sounded as * so
that tar is the pronunciation for Kwang-yün J. In southern
dialects, as at Canton and Amoy, tat is the sound.
The Ephthalites are stated in the Wei-shu to have been kins-
men of the Yue-ti (A) or Getæ, the Massagetæ of Hero-
dotus. They are also said to be a branch of the Ko-ku ()
race, and to have sprung from the Sacæ (). From the south of
the Altai mountains (II) they stretch to the westward of
Khoten. This information was obtained about the year A.D. 435
by Tung-wan and Kau-ming, sent as ambassadors to the western
kingdoms by the Wei Emperor. Tung-wan went as far as the
Usun country, the modern Ili, Lat. 44° Lon. 81°. The Prince of
the Usun said to him that the Palakna
and Cha-zhar
people desired to become subjects of the Wei dynasty and
send tribute. In consequence Tung-wan went to the Palakna
nation and Kau-ming to the Cha-zhar. Both were assisted by
interpreters sent by the Usun king. As the account makes plain
in the beginning of the chapter 102, on western countries in the
Wei-shu, Tung-wan came back by a route which lay eastward to
the Usun country. In Wei-yuen's map to the Wei-shu, printed
in Hai-kwo-t'u-chi, the nation Palakna is placed north-east of
Khokand and east of the Aral on a north branch of the Jaxartes,
by which is meant the River Sary-su, Lon. 68° lat. 47°. Sary-su
is Turkish for Yellow Water. The same author places the Eptar
nation between the Jaxartes and Oxus, while the Yue-ti nation,
* See Hirth, "Chinese Equivalents of the letter R in Foreign Names," J.C.B.
of the R.A.S., Vol. XXI, p. 217 seqq.

228
NOTES AND QUERIES.
their suzerain, is located on the south of the Oxus. As the result
of the mission of Tung-wan, sixteen kingdoms in these parts
entered into peaceful relations with the Northern Wei dynasty in
the 5th century, and sent tribute.
The Koku race is said, in the Wei-shu, ch. 103, p. 14, to belong
to the Red Dik race (), which we must regard as Turkish.
The Red Dik race in B.C. 605* are noticed as invading the Tsi
kingdom in Shantung. This was a thousand years earlier. It
could then be no other than the great Turkish race which thus
preserved its vitality through so long a period. We have a mono-
syllabic base Dik for the name Turk, without the insertion of r.
In the opinion of the native historian, the Koku, the Eptar, the
Getæ and the Sakai are all to be viewed as Turkish.
The Eptar nation, after the year 455, sent embassies regularly to
the Tai capital (Ta-t'ung-fu) in Shansi. In the year 524 they sent
a lion. At this time there were thirty small kingdoms subject to
them. The Eptar sovereigns intermarried with the Nonnon ()
race, a Manchu nation then powerful in Tartary. The Eptar
nation was at that time the supreme power to which on its north
Kong-ku, and across the Tsungling range the Khoten and Shalak
(Cashgar) kingdoms were in subordination. Hence we do not
wonder that the Ephthalites, as the Greeks called them, were men-
tioned in the Byzantine contemporary histories. Procopius, who
wrote an account of the Persian wars, A.D. 408 to 553, calls them
the White Huns, to distinguish them from the ordinary Huns of
Attila. The fact that they were known as Huns by the Greeks
and Armenians shows that they were of the Ural Altaic race.
Girard de Rialle arrives at this conclusion in regard to the
ethnological position of the Ephthalites in his Memoire sur l'Asie
Centrale.
From the earliest times the extension of the Turks is a fact
most remarkable. No race among all the Ural Altai nations can
be compared with them in permanence and vitality. For three
Legge's Tsochrcen, pp. 291, 293.

NOTES AND QUERIES.
229
thousand years they have wrought powerful effects on the stream
of human history, and during nearly all that time they have had
a wide extension and have ruled many subject races.
J. EDKINS.
"KANGAROOS
IN CENTRAL
ASIA."
Reply to Query (in Vol. XXII J. Ch. Br. R.A.S.,
p. 105). The animal t'iao-tu, the description
of which is quoted by H. D. F. from the Mêng-
chi-pi-tan, is the Mongolian Gerboa (Dipus
annulatus, A. M. EDw.,) discovered by P. A. DAVID in Mongolia
and Northern Chihli. This Rodent is closely allied to the Siberian
Alactaga (Dipus jaculus Pall). Other Gerboas or jumping rats
are known, from Egypt, Arabia, Central Asia, also from North
America. H. D. F. will find some remarks upon the Chinese species
in my paper on the Vertebrata of Chihli (J. N. Ch. Br. R.
As. Soc. Vol. XI, 1877, p. 55) and an excellent figure of it in
Professor A. MILNE EDWARDS' Recherches pour servir à l'histoire
naturelle des Mammifères," Paris, 1868-1874, Atlas, pt. x. A
specimen existed up to 1877 in the Petang Museum, Peking.
O. F. VON MÖLLENDORFF.
MANILA, 14th March 1888.