THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
By F. HIRTH, PH.D.
In the 5th year of Yung-lo (A.D. 1407) an office was
revived which had existed under various names and as a sub-
department of larger offices ever since embassies from foreign
states were received in China, i.e. since the Chou dynasty.
The new Office initiated by the enterprising emperor Yung-
lo was styled the Ssu-yi-kuan¹ and was placed under the
superintendence of the Han-lin-yüan or Academy of Sciences.
It was entirely entrusted with the intercourse the Chinese
Court then held with foreign nations, and one of its principal
duties was to superintend the training of interpreters who
were able to speak with the foreign ambassadors and to read
their credentials and other documents. It may be called a
linguistic school for Asiatic languages, or an Oriental college,
though not exactly in the modern European sense.
The new school, as it was organised in 1407, was divided
into eight divisions, each representing one of the languages
then considered important from a Chinese point of view. The
languages taught in these eight classes were Tartaric, Ju-
chih, Tibetan, Sanscrit, Arabo-Persian, Pa-yi, a language
written and spoken by the Shan tribes on the Yünnan frontier,
1
四夷館 under Yung-lo; but 四譯館 under the present
dynasty. The original style of writing this name, which then meant "the
Office of all foreigners" will help to explain the appearance of the character
ssu (four) in the modern name, which in view of the fact that ten, and
not four, languages were taught in the College, would seem quite
unjustifiable.

204
THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
Uiguric, and Burmese.2 Thirty-eight directors
were then
selected out of the educational department of the Board of Cere-
monies (Kuo-tzu-chien) and these as well as the students were
provided with a monthly allowance of rice as a stipend ; annual
examinations were held, when rewards in the shape of pro-
motion were given, while utterly inefficient students were
expelled from the college. In 1436 the Office of Official
Interpreter was created as a reward for the most successful
student. A regular system of rewards it seems was intro-
duced in 1453, when an ordinance appeared by which
triennial examinations were to be held; a student having
succeeded in a first term received a monthly stipend of a picul
of rice; the second degree, after six years' study, gave him
the rank of a Translator; and a further term gave him a
similar, still better Office. Unsuccessful students were allowed
a second trial after another term of three years. A student
who had failed on three successive terms was expelled, etc.
These rules were modified by the succeding Governments, but
the college appears to have flourished throughout the Ming
period. In 1579 the Siamese language was added to the
number of languages taught, and it is on this occasion that
we first read that natives (in this case Siamese) were
employed in teaching their language.
Details regarding the history of this institution during the
Ming dynasty will be found in the Ming-hui-tien, the chief
3
2 These were the languages taught at Yung-lo's time according to the
Tu-shu-chi-ch'êng. In the Wu-pei-chih, ch. 227, p. 1 seq., a larger list of
languages is given as taught in the Ssu-yi-kuan, comprising, besides the
above, Annamese, Japanese, Cambodjan, Javanese, Corean, Loochooan, a
language spoken in Sumatra, one of Malacca, Siamese and others. But
since Siamese is distinctly stated to have been introduced in the 16th
century, this cannot be the list of languages on the programme at the
beginning of the College.
3. See Wylie, p. 56. The above notes have been extracted,
as far as the time preceding the Kanghi period is concerned, from the
Tu-shu-chi-ch'êng. A similar account will be found in Rémusat's "De
l'étude des langues étrangères chez les Chinois" in Mél. Asiat., Vol. II.

THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
205
source for the study of Chinese Government administration
during that period.
When the present dynasty began to reign in China, the
college initiated two centuries before was by no means
neglected, and under Shun-chih, the first Ts'ing Emperor
(A.D. 1644 to 1662), a new system of rewards was introduced;
examinations were held twice a year, in April and in Novem-
ber, and the specimens of written translations were laid before
the Academy of Sciences, who it appears had to decide about
the expulsion of inefficient students. One of the College rules
implied the suspension of the monthly stipend issued to a
student, whenever anyone had to apply to the Board for leave
on account of the death of one of his parents.
According to the Ta-ts'ing-hui-tien the College was formally
re-opened in the year 1644 as a State department serving the
purpose of "translating the credentials and other documents
presented to the Court by the tribute-bearers coming from
distant countries." The following ten langnages were then
to be taught: Tartaric, Ju-chih, Arabo-Persian, Burmese,
the Pa-yi Shan language, Tibetan, Uiguric, Sanskrit, the
Pa-pai Shan language, and Siamese. The college was also
placed under the supervision of the Academy of Sciences. In
1658 the Tartar and Ju-chih languages were abandoned as
branches of the College, the former probably because since
the accession to the throne of a Manchu family there was less
difficulty in respect of them than there was under the Ming;
the latter because its literature was then extinct.
Under Kang-hi, it appears, a new impetus was given to
the study of these languages, for it was under his reign that
a work comprising vocabularies of the languages taught at
the College was written. Short specimens of this book have
and in Wylie's paper "On an Aucient Inscription in the Neu-chih language"
in J.R.A.S., Vol. XVII, 1860, p. 335 seqq.
4 See Rémusat, op. cit., p. 249. As I shall show hereafter, it is very

206
THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
been published under the title of Yi-shih-chi-yü (*)
in Section IX of the well-known collection of reprints, the
Lung-wei-pi-shu (). Short vocabularies will be
found there of Arabo-Persian, the Pa-yi language of the
Shans in Yünnan, Uiguric, Burmese, the Pa-pai Shan lan-
guage, Tartaric and Sanskrit. How poor this collection is,
however, even in quantity may be gathered from the fact that
the last-named language is represented by merely 42 Devana-
garí letters; the quality of the native characters given in
connection with these glossaries being still more unsatisfactory
owing to the difficulty no doubt experienced by the woodcutter
having to deal with material with which he was necessarily
unfamiliar. A much more complete vocabulary appears in
the same collection of the Tibetan language in two fascicules
under the name Hsi-fan-yi-yü (***).
All such prints are necessarily very imperfect; it would be
a mistake, therefore, to be guided by them in judging of the
state of linguistic studies in China. We receive a much more
favourable impression from the manuscript literature on the
subject. Unfortunately, it appears that manuscript glossaries
containing Chinese and foreign writing are exceedingly rare,
at least as regards certain languages. For, there is no lack
of Chinese and Manchu, or Chinese and Mongol dictionaries.
The most celebrated one, and I believe the only complete one,
which has become accessible to the learned world in Europe,
is the Manuscript sent to Paris by the Jesuit Father Amiot,
and described by Rémusat in his paper on the study of Foreign
languages in China.5 Two incomplete copies of a similar
Manuscript were said by Rémusat (in 1826) to exist in
St. Petersburg. I do not know whether any further copies
probable that this was by no means the first work of the kind emanating
from the Oriental College.
5 op. cit., p. 249 seqq.

THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
207
of this most valuable book have since been discovered. I
presume not, since Prof. de Lacouperie, in speaking of the
Pa-yi and Pa-pai Vocabularies of the Shan languages draws
his information entirely from the Paris copy, which it appears
bears the number 986 among the manuscripts of the
Bibliothèque Nationale, and since, if important matter had
been procurable in London or elsewhere, this author, who
is usually very careful in collecting the literature required
for his work, would have referred to it.
It seems, therefore, a matter of congratulation to the writer
of this note that he succeeded some time ago in procuring a
similar manuscript work, viz. a set of vocabularies of the
principal languages taught at the Ssu-yi-kuan College, with
a number of texts written in the native character.
The manuscript referred to is entitled Hua-i-yi-yu," and
such as it is, appears in 24 volumes or pên. I give the contents
so far as I am able to judge about them at present.
Vol. 1.-A Mongol Vocabulary arranged according to
categories, containing for each word the Chinese meaning in
the middle, the Mongol writing on the right, and the
approximate sound in Chinese characters on the left. All
other vocabularies are similarly arranged.
Vol. 2.-A Burmese Vocabulary. If this is identical with
the Burmese volume of the Paris manuscript, it belongs to
a language spoken in Eastern Pegu. Rémusat says of the
Paris manuscript: "il existe une identité parfaite entre ce
vocabulaire et l'un des dialectes des Birmans."
Vol. 3. By far the most important to us, is a vocabulary of
881 words belonging to the language of the Ju-chih (Nü-chih
or Nü-chên) Tartars, who occupied the country adjoining the
sea-coast between the boundary of Corea and the Amoor.
The Languages of China before the Chinese, London, 1887, p. 66 seq.
7 華夷譯語

208
THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
They are considered the ancestors of the present Manchoo race.
After successful warfare with their northern neighbours,
the Kitan Tartars, they had become strong enough to attack
China, and, after a few struggles with the corrupt Chinese
soldiery, succeded in establishing their rulers, who are known
as the Kin dynasty, as masters of the north of China until
they had to make room for still more powerful conquerors,
the Mongols. The Ju-chih or Nü-chên Tartars had no
alphabetic writing of their own up to a comparatively recent
period. Klaproth (Verzeichniss, etc., p. 90) informs us that,
previous to the invention of the Manchoo alphabet, about the
year A.D. 1600, Mongol characters were resorted to for the
purpose of representing Manchoo sounds, but that it was
found impracticable to express thereby all that was required.
There can be no doubt that a nation like the Kin Tartars
could not have anything approaching organisation in their
army, the one great feature of civilisation which they
certainly possessed, without a written language. And, on
examining the history of these bold conquerors as laid down
in Chinese records, we find that, no sooner had they
established themselves as a nation destined to rule over
other nations than they felt the necessity of inventing the
written character so much wanted for their further develop-
ment. Rémusat, seventy years ago, was fully aware of this
When Akuta, he says, the founder of the Kin
dynasty and the first emperor of the Nü-chên, reigning
under the dynastic title Tai-tsu [A.D. 1115 to 1123], adopted
a system of writing for his nation, he was guided by the same
motives as several Tartar rulers before him who had simply
imitated Chinese writing as the only style then known
among them. Akuta had to choose between the Chinese
characters and those already adopted by the Kitan Tartars,
fact.
8 Recherches sur les langues tartares, etc. Paris, 1820, p. 75 seqq.

THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
209
whose institutions he copied in many other respects.
Rémusat quotes the Tung-chien-kang-mu, the annals of
China, which under the year A.D. 1119, contain the follow-
ing entry: "In this year the Kin Tartars invented the
Ju-chih writing," and this passage is accompanied by the
following gloss: "The Ju-chih had no written character
from the beginning. After they had become acquainted with
the Kitan and the Chinese, they began to make use of the
characters used by those two nations. But the ruler of the
Kin (Akuta or Tai-tsu) gave order to a scholar named
Ku-shên to imitate the ch'iai-tzu style of the Chinese in a
manner similar to that in which the Kitan style had been
invented, and to apply it to the spoken language of the Kin
Tartars. It was thus that the Ju-chih written characters
first came into use. In the sequel a smaller [i.e. abbreviated]
style of writing the same language was invented; the
characters invented by Ku-shên being known as the 'large'
style." A comparison of these facts with the extracts
furnished by Mr. Parker from the Kin-shih, or History of
the Kin Tartars, and other Chinese records contain further
details on this question. Rémusat justly regrets not being
in the possession of any specimens of Ju-chih writing:
"Si l'on trouvait," he says, "quelqu'une de ces inscrip-
tions en caractères des Liao ou des Kin, on pourrait en parler
avec connaissance de cause, décider si les Tartares avaient
adopté les caractères Chinois purement et simplement," etc.
I have no doubt that the characters explained in this Ju-
chih Vocabulary are the same as those contained in an
impression from a lapidary inscription at Keu-yung-kwan, on
the great wall near Peking, laid before this Society by
9 See Appendix I. The matter of fact of these extracts was known to
Mr. Wylie, who, in the paper quoted above (Note 3) refers to the works
from which Mr. Parker translates extracts as contained in the P'ci-wén-
yün-fu.

210
THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
"
Mr. Wylie in 1864 (see Journal of the C.B.R.A.S., Vol. 1,
New Series, p. 134).10 Mr. Wylie then considered the
inscription referred to "the only veritable specimen which has
yet reached us of a long lost language, and of which a very
few specimens are known to be in existence. On having
made some remarks regarding the knowledge we possess
of the existence of this old written language of the
Ju-chih Tartars, he adds the following remarks: "A note
to Ma Tuan-lin's Antiquarian Researches' states that the
Classics and Histories of China were translated in this
character. There is little probability, however, that they
were ever printed, and the slightest chance of now meeting
with such a rare and curious literary treasure is too feeble
to be entertained. Among a number of books in this
character, in one of the imperial libraries in Peking, the
catalogue names one on the Neu-chih alphabet. The
importance of such an aid is obvious; but the stringent and
unrelaxing jealousy with which every foreigner is kept with-
out the dragon walls, effectually excludes the hope of any
assistance in that quarter."
10 I understand that rubbings of this stone inscription were sent to
Europe at the time. Mr. Haas, the Austrian Consul at Shanghai, informs
me that he sent a copy to the late Professor Pfizmaier, of Vienna.
11 In a previous paper ("On an Ancient Inscription in the Neu-chih
Language" in J.R.A.S., Vol. XVII, 1860, p. 335) Mr. Wylie gives the Hsü-
wen-hsien-t'ung-kao as his authority for this statement, and adds: "These
are most probably lost past recovery, but in a catalogue of the books in the
Imperial Library at Peking during the Ming dynasty we have a list of
fifteen books in the Neu-chih character." The list as communicated by Mr.
Wylie comprises the P'an-ku-shu (), the Chia-yü () and
several other well-known titles of Chinese books. It is quite possible that
sooner or later some of these Ju-chih texts will be discovered. The Chinese.
are faithful guardians of literary curiosities inherited from their forefathers,
and I feel confident that volumes of Ju-chih writing are still kept in public
and private libraries. Yet, whatever trouble we may take in order to hunt
them up will be in vain in this vast empire, and all we may hope for is that,
by some lucky accident, they may fall into the hands of a foreigner. The
ample use which the Chinese now make of the art of photolithography in
publishing facsimile editions of rare books may lead to making such hidden
treasures more accessible to the general public than they have hitherto been.

THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
211
It is by no means
Tibetan lama who
Now this written language has been carefully placed on
record in the manuscript volume before us.
connected with the system of Bashpa, the
invented the Mongol alphabet in 1269, but based on the
principles described in Chinese records. The system as laid
down in this volume is decidedly not alphabetical. Its main
principle appears to be the representation of the meaning of a
word by a conventional sign, in other words, the ideographic
system of the Chinese applied to Ju-chih or Manchoo roots.
The phonetic element has been combined with it, but merely
for grammatical purposes. That part of the Ju-chih word
which contains the meaning apart from any grammatical
termination will generally be found to be expressed by a
character which has no relation to its sound except that in a
few cases it seems that a distant relation exists between the
sound of a Ju-chih syllable and the sound of a Chinese
character which may have been used as a model in forming
the new Ju-chih sign. The first character in the word for
"sea," mederin, may be said to represent the syllable med,
since the second part may be shown from other examples to
represent the sound erin. The character referred to somewhat
reminds us of Chinese, in Cantonese mít. But such
similarities are apparently not the rule. Generally speaking,
the Ju-chih characters seem to have been arbitrarily invented
in a similar manner as nowadays code words are coined for
telegraphic purposes by using actually existing words in a
mutilated shape with an entirely new meaning. In the
majority of cases one character will be found to answer to one
syllable; but in many cases, too, one sign is used to re-
present a word of several syllables, just as a Chinese character
represents polysyllabic words in Japanese. Thus the word
for thunder, which is pronounced akdshan, is represented by
a character resembling Chinese lao, old, but having an

212
THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
additional horizontal line with a dot, thus, and no trace of
phonetic description may be discovered on comparing this
sign with any others. In other words, a Chinese character
has been substituted with either an omission or an addition,
if not both. In a few cases a Chinese character of the
corresponding sense has been made the basis of the new sign.
Thus the Chinese character for "moon " or "month" has
been used for the corresponding Ju-chih and Manchoo word
biya, but in order to distinguish it from the Chinese character,
a slight mark is added in the shape of a point, thus .
Inenki, the word for "day," appears as H. The phonetic
element, as I have remarked, seems to be principally employed
for terminations. The suffix of the infinitive of certain
verbs, me, will be found to be appended to the character or
characters representing the root of the word. It resembles
the Chinese character for "right," , yu, which in this case
has apparently been adopted without any mutilation whatever.
The character (Chinese 1, t'u, with a point on the right)
will be found to represent the syllable ûn, e.g. in menggun,
silver, or gun, jadestone; however, it requires a much closer
examination of the writing than I have bestowed on it, and
specially a certain knowledge of the Manchu language, which,
to my regret, I do not possess, to speak with authority on this
point. The vocabulary as represented in the Chinese transcrip-
tions of this manuscript seems to show that a large number
of words are identical with the corresponding Manchu words;
but it does not seem to confirm the complete identity of the
Ju-chih and Manchu idioms which has been assumed to exist
by Visdelou and Langlès on the ground of a Ju-chih vocabulary
derived from a Chinese printed work.12 So much seems
certain, that the principle of Ju-chih writing is not syllabic
in the majority of examples contained in our Vocabulary.
12 Rémusat, op. cit., p. 257.

THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
Vol. 4. A Sifan or Tibetan Vocabulary.
213
Vol. 5.-Uiguric (with the supplement in Vol. 10, in all
988 words). Klaproth's essay, "Sprache und Schrift der
Uiguren," once the only source for the knowledge of this
language, was based on the corresponding portion of the
Paris manuscript.
Vol. 6.-Arabo-Persian in exceedingly well written
characters.
According to Rémusat, the corresponding volume
in the Paris Manuscript represents Persian words in Arabic
writing. I do not dare to say anything about this volume
without the opinion of a competent Arabist.
Vol. 7. A vocabulary of the Pa-yi (), a Shan or
Lolo tribe on the Yünnan frontier, with native writing based
on an alphabet of probably Indian origin.
Vol. 8. A vocabulary of the Pa-pai (A), also a Shan
or Lolo tribe, with writings based on an alphabet similar to
the Burmese style, and possibly derived from the Pâli
alphabet. In reading the words of this, as well as the Pa-yi
language, it is important to first decipher the alphabet, since
the sound given in Chinese characters must necessarily be
an imperfect representation of the native word. Thus the
sound of the word meaning "cloud" is described by the
Chinese mo, the Papai transliteration reads mog; the
sound of the word meaning "flower-bud" (in Chinese) is
given as , tun, but the alphabetic writing describes it as
dum; "a melon" is represented by the Chinese sound,
ting, which corresponds to alphabetical diëng. Professor de
Lacouperie, who in his recent work The Languages of China
before the Chinese, p. 66, gives a short list of these words
from the Paris Manuscript, merely transcribes the Chinese
equivalents added by the editor of the manuscript. I avail
myself of this opportunity to say that by deciphering the
alphabet we shall not only obtain sounds much more

214
it
THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
approximate than the Chinese syllables appearing on the left
side of each word, but we may also possibly succeed in
tracing some of the syntactical features of the language
through the texts in Vol. 21. The numbers are in this
language represented by the following words (as transliterated
from the Pa-pai text): one, ning; two, sung; three, sam;
four, si; five, ha; six, lug; seven, chil; eight, piel (?); nine,
kau; ten, sob; hundred, lai. The Chinese origin of some of
these numerals seems obvious. But it is not in numbers
appears that we have to look for the relics of the primitive
vocabulary of these originally probably very uncivilised
nations, who may be indebted for all they know of arithmetics
to the Chinese, but in the names for objects of aboriginal
existence, such as bamboo, maignung; tree d'nmai; woman,
lugyong, etc. The alphabet seems very simple and is not
encumbered by ligatures. The text runs like Chinese writing
from top to bottom in columns read from the right to the
left; but it seems possible that this arrangement has been
made to please the Chinese, in order to have an opportunity
to raise the column when speaking of the Emperor in the
addresses to the Chinese Court. For the vowels a, o
and i appear on the right side of the preceding consonant,
corresponding to the top; the vowel u
appears on the
left side, corresponding to the bottom in the kindred
alphabetical systems.
Vol. 9.-A Siamese Vocabulary.
Vol. 10 is a supplement to Vol. 5 (Uiguric).
Vol. 11 is a supplement to Vol. 4 (Sifan).
Vol. 12 is a supplement to Vol. 6 (Arabo-Persian).
Vol. 13 is a supplement to Vol. 7 (Pa-yi).
Vol. 14 is a supplement to Vol. 2 (Burmese).
Vol. 15 is a supplement to Vol. 8 (Pa-pai).

THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
215
Vol. 16 is a Sankrit syllabary, probably a fragment taken
from a Purâna, as has been suggested by Rémusat in
connection with the corresponding portion of the Paris
manuscript. From what I am able to see now on comparing
these with the identifications extracted by Julien from a
number of larger Glossaries, 13 I doubt whether this volume
will reveal anything new on the subject treated upon by
Julien.
Vol. 17 is a collection of forty bilingual texts, 14 being
credentials presented by Central-Asiatic tribute missions to
the Court of China, each document being represented by
a Chinese and an Uiguric version. They were probably
written during the Ming dynasty, since they are addressed
to the Ta-ming-huang-ti (), though too much
stress need not be laid on this argument, if we consider
that, according to Ma Tuan-lin's account, the Ju-chih
Tartars stipulated, among other conditions of
peace with
the Chinese in A.D. 1117, that the Chinese Court should
recognise the style ta-ming-huang-ti 15 as that of the Ju-chih
ruler. The mention of certain official districts having existed
under the Ming, and not under the present dynasty, seems,
however, of indisputable weight. The forty addresses con-
tained in this volume came from Khamil, Ho-chou, Turfan,
Kao-ch'ang, and other places in Central Asia. The greater
part of these credentials contain an enumeration of the tribute
gifts offered; but they also reveal a fact not generally
known, viz., that, in the address to the Emperor, the return
13 Méthode pour déchiffrer et transcrire les noms sanscrits, etc. Paris,
1861, p. 25 seqq.
14 According to Klaproth ("Sprache u. Schrift der Uiguren" in
Verzeichniss, etc., p. 5) the Paris collection contains only fifteen of these
documents.
15 Ta-chin-kuo ta-shêng ta-ming-huang-ti (**
), which may be rendered by "Imperator sanctissimus et illustris-
simus imperii Kin." Cf. d'Hervais de St. Denys, Ethnographie des peuples
étrangers à la Chine, Vol. I, p. 449.

216
THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
gifts are named which the ambassadors desire to receive from
the Chinese Court for their monarchs.
Vol. 18 is a similar collection of memorials in Chinese
and Mongolian.
Vol. 19, one of the most interesting in the whole work,
contains twenty memorials in Chinese and Ju-chih. In these
texts I find mention made of several years in the 15th and
16th century, and one address speaks of the 60 or 70 years
which have elapsed since the reign of Chêng-t'ung (A.D.
1436 to 1450).
Vol. 20 is a collection of similar texts in Chinese and
Tibetan.
Vol. 21 shows us thirty memorials, in Chinese and in
the native character, from some of the chiefs, mostly bearing
a Chinese feudal title, of the Pa-pai tribes, perhaps also
neighbouring tribes making use of the Pa-pai writing. Some
of these addresses came from the Pa-pai-ta-tien, 16 another
from a tribe on the Kin-sha-kiang of Yünnan and Mêng-
yang. Apart from revealing the mysteries of one of the
Shan languages, these texts will help to elucidate the
historical phases of the ethnography of South-Western China.
Vol. 22 contains eighteen bilingual documents similarly
illustrating the language of the Pa-yi tribes in Yünnan.
Vol. 23 contains tribute addresses, in Chinese and Per-
sian (?), from Samarkand, Turfan, Khamil and Mecca. To
show what these addresses are like, I select one as the
type of the majority, the Chinese version of which has the
following sense: "Ta-chu-ting, envoy from the country of
Tienfang (Mecca) respectfully lays before his Majesty the
Great Ming Emperor the following articles of tribute, viz.,
150 catties jadestone and forty Western horses, and requests
as a gift of Imperial favour supplies of gauze, satin, tea,
16 八百大甸
17 雲南孟金沙江、

THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
217
porcelain bowls and porcelain dishes. On receipt of this
Memorial an Imperial Rescript was received saying that the
matter has been noted by His Majesty."18 It is a curious fact
that, from these memorials, tea, which was first brought to
Europe towards the end of the 16th century, appears to have
been in demand in Arabia long before that period.
Vol. 24 is a collection of Siamese texts, each accompanied
by a Chinese version. They are written as introductory
letters to gifts of tribute delivered to the Provincial Treasurer
of Canton, though the letters are addressed to the Emperor.
The gifts are usually divided, so much for the Emperor, so
much for the Empress. Some time after the year 1570,
for instance, of certain articles half the quantity offered to
the Emperor himself was added as a special gift for the
Empress. These gifts included on another occasion 200
catties of Opium (ya-p'ien) for the Emperor and 100 catties
for His Majesty's consort. Opium (a-fu-yung)19 was also
sent to Court as tribute by the Pa-pai tribes of Yünnan.
I place these details at the disposal of those who may be
interested in the matter with all due reserve, and I wish to
18 The Chinese text is probably a mere rendering from the Persian with
the omission of all the ceremonial by-work usually encumbering such
documents. It reads as follows:-
10 阿芙蓉
聖恩
旨賜
大
明
知奏葉十 皇天
道得磁四 百帝方
碗
磁討
進使
盤羅 斤貢臣
望段西 玉主
** 馬石 丁

218
THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
refrain from any further remarks for the present until I have
seen, or at least learned some more particulars about, the
Paris and St. Petersburg manuscripts. I understand from
Rémusat's description of the Paris collection that it was the
work of emissaries who had been sent by the Emperor Kang-
hi to the various countries represented at the Interpreters'
College, in order to study the languages, literature, manners
and customs, etc., on the spot. This is probably correct, and
the copy sent to France may be one of the copies prepared
after the return of the Emperor's emissaries under Kang-hi;
but Rémusat fails to give us any reasons why he places the
manuscript in this period. My own manuscript bears no
traces, so far as I can see at present, of having originated
during the present dynasty, and whatever dates or facts may
be utilised in determining the age of at least the texts placed
on record, seem to show that it is a Ming work of the 16th
century. Discrepancies in detail are also sure to be
discovered. To mention one, Rémusat (p. 253) states the
number of words in the Uigur vocabulary of the Paris
manuscript to be 914. Mine contains 988 Uigur words.
Moreover, the number of volumes and their arrangements
differ considerably.
I possess no particular proofs for the fact of the manuscript
having originated with the Oriental College referred to in the
introduction to this paper, except the great probability of it
being so and the existence of a few old volume labels of paper
covered with yellow silk which I found kept between the
leaves of certain volumes.
Hui-hui-kuan,
College; " another reads
"The Tibetan College," etc.
One of these bears the inscription
meaning "The Mahommedan
Hsi-fan-kuan, meaning
These labels, I must assume,
were detached from former covers having at some time or
other to be replaced by new ones, and, not being complete,

THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.
219
were simply thrown into the book for keeping; and as re-
presenting the sub-titles, which are nowhere given, it being
left to the intelligence of the reader to find out what each
volume contains, they clearly refer to sub-divisions of the
Ssu-yi-kuan, the only college (kuan ) of the kind so called.
The numbering of the volumes appears on the back in
running-hand numerals and may be quite accidental; indeed,
the
sequence chosen shows that it was not done by an expert.
But the foreign characters, such as the Persian, Uiguric and
other texts, are written with such decision that, whatever
their value will be found to be on having been examined
by experts in those languages, a mere glance at them shows
that they cannot be the work of purely Chinese copyists.
They look very much as if they had been written by natives
of each country, or at least by Chinese students who had
made very careful and long studies of the native writing.
Over and above the arguments, already mentioned, for the
work dating from the Ming dynasty, the following considera-
tions seem to throw some light on the age when this collection
was probably made. We have learned that Siamese was
first added to the number of languages taught at the College
in A.D. 1579. Since our Manuscript contains a Siamese
Vocabulary, it is therefore probable that the whole work is
not of a date earlier than this. On the other hand, the
collection contains Ju-chih texts, and since the Ju-chih
language is stated to have been abandoned at the College in
A.D. 1658, it is not likely that the Ju-chih Vocabulary
would appear in our collection if it had been compiled, or
even copied, after this date. Since none of the texts con-
tained in the work contain memorials addressed to an emperor
of the present dynasty, whereas a number of them may be
proved to belong to the Ming period, it is very probable that
the year 1644 is the latest date when they were collected.

220
THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.-APPENDIX.
APPENDIX I.
EXTRACTS FROM CHINESE WORKS, REGARDING
THE WRITING OF THE JU-CHIH AND
KITAN TARTARS.
By E. H. PARKER.
1. Extract from the Chapter on Wan-yen Hi-yin (F)
in the Kin History (, A.D. 1115-1234):
"The Emperor T'ai Tsu (, i.e. Wan-yen Akutêng, founder
of the Ju-chih, , dynasty; ), ordered Hi-yin
()to invent a character for the (new) state, to serve as a
standard. Hi-yin thereupon imitated the K'iai-tzu (or square form)
characters of China, and, following the Kitan standard, collected
together native expressions, and formed the Ju-chih character.
When the book was completed, T'ai Tsu was overjoyed, and
ordered its general circulation."
2. Extract from the Shu-shih Hwei-yao ():
"T'ai Tsu employed a number of Chinese, and taught them
how to take the Li Shu () character in halves, and add to
or mutilate it, and thus fashioned 1,000 Kitan characters, to take
the place of carved wooden message tallies."
3. Extract from the above Chapter on Wan-yen Hi-yin (see
Extract 1):
"The Emperor Hi Tsung (, A.D. 1135-1149) made the
Ju-chih character, which ran concurrently with the character
fashioned by Wan-yen Hi-yin. Hi-yin's were called the "Greater
Ju-chih character," and those made by Hi Tsung were called "THE
Ju-chih character."

THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.-APPENDIX.
221
4. Extracts from Yüan Hao-wên's Funeral Tablet to Lord Yelü
(Chu-ts‘ai?:元好問耶律公神道碑)
"The (Kitan?) Emperor Shih Tsung (, A.D. 947-951)
was a very ardent student of history, and commanded that the
T'ang History should be translated into the small character.
When this was done, he then separately circulated it in the Ju-chih
character for convenience of readers."
"The clerks of the History Department () were
appointed because practised in the greater and lesser Kitan charac-
ter, into which they translated the classics, and they put glosses
upon the original language, their style being clear and intelligible."
5. Extract from the Liao Shih, (*), Genealogical
Table:
"Ch'ang-wurh (), Prince of Ning (), third son of the
Emperor Shih Tsung, (, A.D. 947-951), was clever and
studious. He understood the Kitan and Chinese character, and
could make poetry."
6. Extract from the Chapter on Chang Tsung (, 1190-1209)
in the Kin Shi ():
"He was versed in the [Ju-chih] dynasty's language and
writing, and also in the Chinese written classics."
7. Extract from the Mêng-tah Pei-Luh (*), or
History of the Mongol Tartars:
"Their habits are simple, and they have the Uigurs as neigh-
bours. In their official correspondence with other states they
always use the Uigur character, which resembles the Chinese Flute
Music; but in their intercourse with the Kin states they use the
Chinese character."

222
THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.-APPENDIX.
APPENDIX II.
SPECIMENS OF JU-CHIH WRITING.
morin, a horse.
chôdashale=
khôdashame, to sell.
·mudur, a dragon.
chashale, to tell, to
inform.
gurun-ni wang, a king.
abkhai, heaven, sky.
件
niyalma, man.
方
tumen, ten thousand.
tugi, cloud.
此
arin, hill.

THE CHINESE ORIENTAL COLLEGE.-APPENDIX.
223
風
▶mederin, sea.
屯 erin, the seasons.
khalkhun, hot.
mengun, silver.
akhûn, elder brother.
kuline, to select.
右用桃右 米币 片中
uchebime, to respect.
chikha, money: a mace
(?).
khakha, a duck.