NOTICES OF NEW BOOKS AND
LITERARY NOTES.
W. HEYD, Histoire du commerce du levant au moyen-âge.
French version by FURCY RAYNAUD.
2 vols.,
Leipzig, 1885-6.
The German edition of this celebrated work, which contains
about all that may be known on the subject, viz., the trade to the
Levant and the East generally during the middle ages, appeared
in 1879 in 2 vols. The subject being a very important one, and
the author having dealt with it in the most exhaustive manner, the
"Société de l'orient latin," under whose distinguished patronage
many a learned work on the East has been laid before the literary
world, decided to encourage him in publishing a French edition,―
the work now before us. As this second edition contains much
additional information it is, of course, preferable to the first, and
may be considered the principal authority on all that relates to
Oriental trade during the period it describes.
The student of the history of trade in the Far East and
of Chinese traffic to the West will be specially interested in
the various passages relating to China, such as the relations
of the Arabs with China, Chinese junk trade to Ceylon, Indian
ports, Aden and the Persian Gulf, the early European travellers
to China, trade in Central Asia, etc.; and to the history of
Chinese produce exported to the West, such as silk, porcelain,
rhubarb, cassia, galangal, ginger (?), musk and nutgalls; and
the several articles of foreign origin which constituted the
import trade of China during the Sung, Yüan and Ming dy-
nasties, such as cotton, cotton and woollen piece goods, glass,
coral, ivory, pearls and precious stones; alum, frankincense,
ambergris, storax, gum benjamin and similar drugs; the precious

NOTICES OF NEW BOOKS AND LITERARY NOTES. 107
woods, as eagle, sandal and sapan woods; camphor, cardamoms,
cloves and nutmegs. Whatever has been written on any of these
goods by a medieval or modern author, whether European, Arab or
Indian, has been carefully collected, and a most detailed mono-
graphy is given upon every one of the articles traded in at the time.
The Chinese student of the foreign relations of China during that
period will find the study of this book an indispensable source of
information as regards the Western literature.
Contemporaneous Chinese authors abound with matter of fact
regarding several of the Oriental trade questions, and whenever
we have an opportunity to discuss the Chinese view about them,
we should not neglect to consider all that is known on the subject
on the other side. The study of this important work will prove
as suggestive to the student of the Sung, Yüan and early Ming
geographers as that of Yule's "Cathay" and "Marco Polo."
Chinese authors often contain useful information where we would
scarcely expect it but for being acquainted with the unsolved
problems of Oriental research. While rediscovering in their
accounts the tales of early European and Arab travellers, we are
often surprised to find they supply us with information looked for
in vain in every other literature. The provenance of the nutmegs
of medieval trade is one of these difficulties. According to Heyd
(Vol. 11, p. 644) Arab geographers confine their remarks on this
point to general terms such as "India," "the isles of the sea of
Kerdendj; "Marco Polo refers this article to the country described
by him as "Java Major," a term about which Pauthier and Yule
on the one hand and Peschel and Heyd on the other cannot agree.
The Chinese author who has contributed most towards the
knowledge of Arab trade of his time (the beginning of the 13th
century), Chao Ju-kua, says, in his second book, describing the
articles of foreign trade: "the nutmeg [] comes from the
inner parts of Huang-ma-chu [ and Niu-lun [4].
It is a tree resembling the Chinese juniper [#], growing up to ten
1
宋趙汝諸籓志二卷

108
NOTICES OF NEW BOOKS AND LITERARY NOTES.
chang in height, etc., etc." In the geographical part of his work
the two names referred to are given in a list of eight small
States, being dependencies of the kingdom of Su-chi-tan (
Canton Dial. Su-kat-tan), which name occurs also in a
work of the Ming dynasty, the Tung-hsi-yang-k'ao, and is there
so described as to justify Mr. Groeneveldt to identify it with the
country about Grissé, in the east of Java. This kingdom of Su-
kat-tan must have had distant possessions, since we find among
them Ti-wu (, Canton Dial. Ti-mat) or Timor, which place is,
in the second book, named as the origin of sandal-wood. It seems
to me that, by endeavouring to identify the details of Chao
Ju-kua's account, we may succeed in tracing the two names
Huang-ma-chu and Niu-lun (which may stand for Golun or Gorun)
to certain localities among the Molucca Islands. At a later period
we find Banjermassing mentioned as a country where nutmegs are
produced (Tung-hsi-yang-k'ao, ch. 4, p. 19; cf. Groeneveldt,
Notes on the Malay Archipelago, p. 107, in an extract from the
Ming-shih).
Another point of interest in the history of oriental trade is the
route by which rhubarb found its way to Europe. All the authori-
ties consulted by Heyd (Vol. 11, p. 667) seem to show that none
of it was forwarded by sea, the overland route through Central
Asia being alone used. But since rhubarb was found on the
market of Alexandria, Heyd hints at the possibility of its having
been sent by sea as well. This conjecture is fully borne out by
what we learn through Chao Ju-kua. Rhubarb, according to him,
was one of the staples of Chinese origin, carried by Arab mer-
chants from Chinese ports to San-fo-ch'i (i.e., the present Palembang
in Sumatra), the list comprising porcelain, silk piece goods,
samshoo, ginger and galangal. From thence the Arabs were in the
habit of distributing the produce of the Far East over the markets
of their own country as well as their foreign colonies in Africa, and
Chao Ju-kua distinctly mentions rhubarb together with lotus
flower tanks, silks, porcelain, etc., as an article of import on the
coast of Malabar, which he describes under the name of Nan-p'ı

NOTICES OF NEW BOOKS AND LITERARY NOTES. 109
() and of whose States he specially mentions Ku-lam
(Coilom), Hu-ch'a-la (Gujerat),2 Kom-pa-i (Cambay), Ma-lo-wa
(Malwa) and others. Cambay is, moreover, specially described as
a place where cargoes arrive by sea once a year from San-fo-ch'i,
and where Arab settlers live in great numbers. Rhubarb being
once on the Arab market in India, it is sure to have been brought
to Alexandria either by sea or by caravan routes.
I have quoted these two instances in order to show how Chinese re-
search may be turned to use in clearing up doubtful points in the history
of Oriental trade; and I hope to be able to contribute a small share
in this direction by publishing a translation of Chao Ju-kua's work.
The German work now before us will be of inestimable value in
confirming the accuracy of the Chinese data furnished, which would
be of little value if considered without such a commentary.
F. HIRTH.
CHINESE
BOOKS.
The Ping-tzu-lei-pien (7), like its sister work, the
Pei-wên-yün-fu, has been lately republished by the T'ung-wên-shu-
chu (), of Shanghai, and thereby a work rarely seen
in the hands of foreigners has been made accessible in a well-printed
facsimile edition of handy and convenient size. I have often heard
the opinion expressed among foreign students that the P'ing-tzu-
lei-p'ien is inferior to the P'ei-wên-yün-fu. Closer inspection
seems to show the reverse. The last-named work, it is true, may
be more useful as a complete "Concordance." This name, first
2 Gujerat was, according to Chao Ju-kua, one of the starting-points for
commercial expeditions to Zanzibar. He says, under the head of Tsêng-po
(i.e., Zanzibar): "The country produces elephants' teeth, raw gold, ambergris
and yellow sandal-wood. Every year the country of Hu-ch'a-la and the
settlements on the sea-coast of Ta-shih (Arabia) send out ships to barter with
this country, the articles of exchange being white cloth, porcelain, copper
and red cotton." Chao Ju-kua's records thus place us in the position to trace
the route of this one article, (porcelain) from China (say Zaitun) to Sumatra,
thence to Gujerat for transhipment to the coast of Zanzibar.

110 NOTICES OF NEW BOOKS AND LITERARY NOTES.
applied to it by Mr. Parker, is much more descriptive of the
character of the two works referred to, than the word "Dictionary."
In either work the student looks in vain for a definition of the
terms under which the numerous extracts from all branches of
Chinese literature are given. We are thus often disappointed in
trying to obtain a clue as to the meaning of a difficult passage
through these "Concordances: " the crux in such a passage may
consist in a single term, and this term may be a άa leyóμevov;
the Concordance, instead of explaining it, will simply quote
the only passage in which it occurs, and leave us as ignorant
as we were before. Still, both works are indispensable to every
Chinese reader who has them once on his shelves, and, though many
may seem to think they can get on without them, those who are
once accustomed to their use will never part with them.
As to the relative value of the P'ei-wên-yün-fu and the P'ing-tzu-
lei-p'ien, each of the two works has its own distinctive merits. The
former is fuller in articles; it contains about every term or phrase
of two, three or four characters which may puzzle the reader of
standard literature, and it is, therefore, more generally useful. The
second work is confined to less articles, and these are an accidental
collection rather than a systematic thesaurus; whatever does not
fit into the twelve categories, into which the work is divided (see
Mayers' "Bibliography of the Chinese Imperial Collections of
Literature," in China Review, Vol. VI, p. 290), is simply omitted;
and the categories are so arranged as to necessitate the omission
of thousands of important terms which occur in the P'ei-wên-yün-fu.
We have, therefore, before us merely a selection of the matter
which ought to constitute a complete concordance, made out on the
wrong system, because its division is neither logical nor exhaustive;
but such as it is, the Ping-tzu-lei-p'ien fully compensates for all
these shortcomings by giving for each term inserted the fullest
collection of passages imaginable; a comparison with the P'ei-wen-
yun-fu, which is the earlier work, shows that not only all the
matter contained, therein under a certain head is taken over, but
the matter has been considerably added to. Moreover, the arrange-

NOTICES OF NEW BOOKS AND LITERARY NOTES. 111
ment of the terms, it seems to me, is one more familiar to the
European mind, since bisyllabic terms are grouped according to the
first character, the terms and phrases contained in the P'ei-wên-
yün-fu being arranged according to the last character.
The two modes of arrangement supply each other, inasmuch as it
happens very frequently that one is anxious to know all that can be
said of a character, in its capacity of a first character, while on
other occasions one may care more for the last. Suppose we
were to look for the Chinese equivalent of the word which
through the Persians of the middle ages has become a well-known
term in Western trade, and which has long been suspected to be
of Chinese origin, the name kim-hwa (kimkhwab, kincob, kamkhā,
etc.), a kind of damasked silk (see Yule, Glossary of Anglo-
Indian Words, p. 368), the syllable kim or kam will easily suggest
Cantonese kam (), gold. In order to find out whether old
passages are on record in which this word enters into combination
with another word, the sound of which is hwa, the two together
having the meaning of embroidered silk, we need only refer to the
Ping-tzu-lei-p'ien, where about 200 bisyllabic terms beginning with
are given. Among them we find the term kim-hwa
(, lit. "gold flower") in the sense of "silk embroidery,"
and thus are in the position to answer in the affirmative Col. Yule's
query, who, in the work referred to, makes a conjecture to that
effect.
On the other hand, if the last syllable had been more
suggestive, the first one being unknown, the P'ei-wên-yün-fu would
have supplied the information required under the word hwa (E).
kam
Both works are the most excellent keys to Chinese literature. The
great sinologue who was asked his opinion about the age of the
famous porcelain bottles discovered by Rosellini in an Egyptian
tomb, alleged to have been opened the first time since the 18th
century B.C., was not obliged to depend on inquiries made by
native scholars ("recherches par des Chinois instruits," Julien,
Hist. et fabr. de la porcelaine chinoise, préf., p. xvII) in order to
prove that the inscription
(ming-yüeh-sung-chung
chao, "the brilliant moon shines amid the pine trees "), found on one

112
NOTICES OF NEW BOOKS AND LITERARY NOTES.
of these little flasks, was derived from a poet of the T'ang period;
the P'ei-wen-yün-fu would have supplied the information without
much trouble. 3
I merely mention these two instances in which reference
to the one or the other of these two hand-books would have
been useful for research in the European sense. The student
who has hitherto confined himself to K'ang-hsi's Tzu-tien, which in
the capacity of a dictionary proper is still the best ever published
of the Chinese language, will soon learn that his knowledge of
matters Chinese, whether linguistical, historical or geographical,
will increase whenever he may open a volume of either of the two
"Concordances."
F. HIRTH.
3 Ch. 77, fol. 7b., s. v.. The passage as quoted there has chien
() for chung (+), which does not alter the meaning.