PROCEEDINGS.
MINUTES of a MEETING held in the Society's Library, Museum Road,
Shanghai, on Tuesday, 25th October 1887, at 9 o'clock p.m.
Dr. F. HIRTH, President, occupied the Chair, and about thirty
members and visitors were present.
Mr. H. M. BECHER, a professional geologist, who had lately
returned from the Ping-tu Mines (situate 100 miles from Chefoo),
and who was about to start for Siam, read some notes which he had
prepared for the Society on "The Mineral Resources of Eastern
Shantung." In illustration of the lecture, the room was hung with
several maps of the province, among which were those of von
Richthofen, Fauvel, and Howard, and there was also exhibited on
the table many geological specimens gathered by Mr. Becher
during his residence in Shantung. In introducing the lecturer, the
CHAIRMAN took occasion to refer to the need for further co-operation
among the members. He said :-
So
It is nearly six months ago that we met in this room for the last
time, and although we are now long past the much-dreaded hot
season, this is nominally our opening session for the year. It
therefore becomes my pleasant duty to bid you welcome again, and
express my hopes that an active winter will make up for the absence
of life in our Society during this exceptionally hot summer.
far as I can see now, there is every prospect of a good season, since
a number of papers is either in hand or promised, which will be read
and printed, or printed merely, if not well adapted for an audience.
This evening I have the good fortune to introduce to the Meeting
one of our non-resident members, Mr. Becher, who has travelled or
resided in the interior of Northern China for a considerable period, and
who, from his experience as an expert, is particularly well qualified
to speak on the subject before us. It would be necessary now to
read the minutes of the last Meeting, but as they have already
appeared in our "Journal," I hope I may anticipate your consent

PROCEEDINGS.
117
in dispensing with this formality. Before we proceed to hear
Mr. Becher's remarks on the mineral products of the Shantung
province, I have again to announce the election of Professor
Wilhelm Schott as an Honorary Member of our Society, since the
regulations require that this should be done at two successive
meetings after the election by the Council. Our new honorary
member is apparently the most advanced in age on our list; he had
the rare good luck to celebrate his 85th birthday last month, and
the vigour of mind which he has enjoyed throughout his old days
may be regarded as a just reward for a life such as his, full of
scholarly activity. Let us hope that all our veteran honorary
members, of whom in point of age Père Zottoli, Dr. Legge, and
Sir Thomas Wade appear to be the next, will follow his example.
It has been the constant endeavour of the Council to stimulate
literary production among the members of the Society in general;
yet, although we cannot complain of entire want of success,
participation in the actual work we are supposed to do might be
more general. I make this remark with special reference to the
description of work we furnish. Every one of us has his speciality,
his hobby as we may call it; and every one rides his hobby as best
he can.
But the number of riders on our literary racecourse is
much too small, and the performances are not always in accordance
with the taste of the lookers-on. It is for this reason that I avail
myself of the beginning of the season to call upon all those who
can handle a pen to collect materials for notes, however short, if only
useful and contributing new matter to our knowledge of China.
It is a prejudice prevailing among many of our members that to do
useful work in our Society a certain amount of Chinese scholarship
is required. This is by no means the case. A keen observer of
human life and of things terrestrial generally will find ample
opportunity to collect useful information without knowing a word
of the language. While thanking our scholars for some of the
more serious contributions towards the "Journal," we cordially
invite the co-operation of those especially who can give us the
benefit of their experience in botanical, zoological, or mineralogical
questions; or in questions of commercial life, such as Chinese

118
PROCEEDINGS.
commercial law, etc. A step in the right direction, it appears to
me, has lately been made by one of our members most competent
to deal with legal matters, to collect information on one of the many
doubtful points in Chinese commercial law, if such unwritten law,
or usage unrecorded, may be so termed; and we shall, I hope, hear
the opinions collected on the subject in various parts of China at
one of our forthcoming Meetings. A series of papers on commercial
subjects would greatly enhance the value of our "Journal" in the
eyes of most of our financial contributors, and I would here repeat
that our Meetings and our "Journal" are open to all those who
can furnish useful information of any kind, whether theoretical or
practical. Our Meetings, I venture to suggest, might have a more
conversational character. Apart from the papers to be read and
the discussions following, it will be a pleasant feature of our evenings
if members will exhibit curious objects, illustrating Chinese indus-
tries or manufactures, antiquities and curiosities of all kinds. All
of us would like to look at them, if nothing else, and some of us
might be able to make useful remarks about them, which could per-
haps be printed in our "Proceedings." Mr. Becher now makes a
beginning in this direction by exhibiting some minerals collected in
Shantung, and I hope that during the coming winter season our
other members will not be backward in exhibiting old bronze vessels,
porcelains, native machinery and commercial products.
Mr. BECHER prefaced his lecture by saying that in choosing
"The Mineral Resources of Eastern Shantung" as the title for the
remarks which he had to offer the Society that evening, he wished
to limit himself to a subject fairly within his acquaintance, but he
could only expect to attract a small number of the members and
their friends, those, namely, who are to some extent students of
geology; those who have resided or have friends resident in
Shantung; and, lastly, those who, having a penchant towards the
fascinations of mining, are always glad to hear something about new
mineral fields. He was pleased to see many personal friends
amongst his audience, and hoped that anyone to whom his description
was not clear would not hesitate to ask for such further explanation
as he could give. In offering any remarks relating to such a well-

PROCEEDINGS.
119
known province as Shantung, he felt that only the speciality of the
subject was sufficient excuse for adding to the volumes which had
been written, particularly when he addressed this Society, many
members of which were probably well versed in the descriptions of
able authors whose experience extended over far greater time and
area than was afforded to his observations during about eighteen
months' sojourn in that country. He could, however, make no
excuse for the necessarily rather dry nature of the facts pertaining
to the proverbially hard, dry stone; but having expended most of
his geological theorising and long words lately on the Chinese Times,
he could afford to be only moderately mineralogical that night.
He must further rely on the small collection of minerals and rock
specimens on the table before them to furnish material for interest
and attraction should his text fail. (Mr. Becher's "Notes on the
Mineral Resources of Eastern Shantung" are printed in extenso on
pp. 22-38 of this volume.)
The Rev. Dr. WILLIAMSON, after paying a high compliment to
the paper just read, said that he had been all over the province of
Shantung and knew it better than Scotland, and he corroborated
a great deal of what Mr. Becher had said. There were in it a
great many places where galena and silver had been found, judging
by the number of specimens which he had seen from time to time.
He thought that Mr. Becher, however, had understated the impor-
tance of the quantity of asbestos to be met with in Shantung. There
was a place away to the south of Têng-chow-fu where the people used
at one time to make fireproof clothing out of asbestos, and he had
himself seen many specimens of it. He had at home a specimen
of the fibre which could easily be spun and woven, and he thought
that the existence of the mineral in Shantung was important,
as the asbestos industry was now attracting attention at home.
He corroborated what Mr. Becher had said about the coal-fields of
the western part of the province, and regretted that there were not
the means of bringing the coal to Shanghai, which could very easily
be done either by steamers of light draught or railways, for the con-
struction of which the country, being very flat, was admirably
adapted. The minerals and ground of the province were, however,

120
PROCEEDINGS.
undetermined at present and required to be settled by a systematic
survey.
Mr. BECHER said that one of the reasons why he did not attach
so very much importance to galena was that it took a great deal
of it to amount to any considerable value. As to asbestos, he was
sorry that he had not been able to see more specimens of it. He
thought that the richness of the iron and coal mines would have
a great effect upon the development of railways, by-and-by, in the
province.
General MESNY asked Mr. Becher to tell the Meeting something,
if he could, about the magnetic iron ore which he had often been
shown by Chinamen, who wanted to know from him how it could
be worked with profit. He had often seen in the province very
fine specimens of agates, used for making snuff-boxes and also
for spectacles.
Mr. BECHER thought that the value of agate was more appre-
ciated by the Chinese than by Europeans. He had often heard
that magnetic iron ore was found in the province, but until there
were the means of conveyance to bring it away it was not of much
importance.
Mr. KINGSMILL, who mentioned that he had recently made a
journey through Western Shantung, corroborated Mr. Becher as
to the existence of coal in that province, of extremely good quality,
which he thought could be made accessible either by the Yellow
River or by a railroad. He also spoke about the geographical
structure of the remarkable district to which Mr. Becher drew
attention, and commented upon the notable absence of fossils, which
prevented him giving any further opinion on the geological structure
of the mountains.
On the motion of the CHAIRMAN a hearty vote of thanks was
accorded to Mr. Becher for his entertaining paper. A vote of
thanks to the Chairman, moved by Mr. BRIGHT, brought the
proceedings to a termination.

PROCEEDINGS.
121
MINUTES of a MEETING held in the Society's Library, Museum Road,
Shanghai, on Friday, 18th November 1887, at 9 o'clock, p.m.
Dr. F. HIRTH, President, was in the chair, and there were about
thirty members and visitors present.
The CHAIRMAN in opening the proceedings said :- Following
the routine lately adopted at our Meetings, I wish, with the
approval of the members present, to propose that the minutes
of the last Meeting, which was held on the 25th ult., be
considered as read, since they contain nothing which has not
appeared in the local newspapers. The first business of the evening
is the announcement of the election of a few new members, viz.,
of Dr. Denton E. Peterson and Messrs. Hsü Chia-kuang and
Hsü Ch'iu-i. The Council have resolved to encourage the enlist-
ment of respectable Chinese gentlemen as members of the Society,
in anticipation of the fact that these may be able to considerably
assist us in promoting our general aims. In taking this step the
Council was chiefly guided by the consideration that while accord-
ing to the regulations the Society is open to members of all
nationalities, the example of our sister societies in India, who
count native Indians among their most useful members, has proved
successful in every respect. We now proceed to the scientific part
of this Meeting, and I would ask Mr. Jamieson to explain the
subject, which is properly his own, of the questions we have ad-
dressed to certain members and friends of the Society in the matter
of "Chinese Partnerships."
Mr. JAMIESON prefaced his remarks by referring to the difficulty
in obtaining accurate information on matters referring to civil
rights in China. All the text-books and the code of laws referred
exclusively to criminal matters. On that there was full and ample
detail.
A specific and appropriate penalty was provided for almost
every conceivable offence under the sun. You could learn exactly
how many strokes of the bamboo or how many years banishment
you would be liable to if you did such and such an act, but nowhere

122
PROCEEDINGS.
could one find what remedy there was in damages against another
by whom you had been wronged or even whether there was a
remedy at all. A person was liable to be bambooed if he refused to
pay his debts, but as to the circumstances which would be held
to constitute a debt, the law was silent. Take the common case of
the liability of partners if one wanted to find out how that stood,
the common answer you would get was "Oh! there is no fixed
rule-every case would be decided on its own merits." But partner-
ships had existed from time immemorial in China, and it could not
be doubted that there were some general rules on the subject. It
had therefore appeared to them worth while to use the machinery
of the Society to get the opinions on this subject of those best
qualified to give information. In order to keep the information as
precise as possible, the subject had been circulated in the form of
a special case as follows:-" A., B., and C. enter into partnership.
A. contributes Tls. 500, B. contributes Tls. 1,000, and C. Tls. 2,000
of capital, which may thus be regarded as consisting of 7 shares, of
which A. holds 1, B. holds 2, and C. holds 4. After a time the
firm fails with debts to the amount of Tls. 5,000 and at the
same time C. absconds. (a.) To what extent and in what proportion
will A. and B., according to Chinese mercantile law or customs,
be required to make good the debts? (b.) Supposing C. is
a member of a family of ample means, in which he has an
undivided share, (e.g. is one of three sons, father alive) to what
extent can the family property be made available to pay the debts
of the firm?"
Mr. JAMIESON, referring to the latter half of the proposition,
considered that it would perhaps make the discussion more
intelligible if he stated beforehand what is the meaning of the term
"family property," which in China bore a somewhat different
signification to what it did in Western countries. Suppose a
family consisting of a father, sons, and daughters, and possessing
certain property in land, or movables, or both. This property,
however acquired, is, strictly speaking, the property of the
family, and not that of any one individual in it. The father,
so long as he is alive, has the control of it, as indeed he has the

PROCEEDINGS.
123
control of all the persons composing the family, but he has no
power to leave it by will, or in any way to direct its devolution
after his death. Subject to his life interest, it belongs by inalien-
able right to all his sons or male descendants. Except by a process
sometimes, but rarely, resorted to, known as expelling a renegade
son, none of the male descendants can be deprived of their due share in
the inheritance. On the death of the father (or even in his lifetime, if
he so directs) the sons may agree to divide. If they so agree, the
property is divided into as many shares as there are or have been
sons, certain provision being made for the marriage of such of the
daughters as are yet unmarried, and each son or his descendants
takes a share. If a son should have happened to pre-decease his
father, leaving no natural-born son, a son by adoption is appointed
to him by the family council, and this adopted son takes his share
of the inheritance. Each son then forms the head of a new family
group, and the same thing goes on as before. Daughters are all
married off, as a matter of course, as soon as they come of age, and
have no claim whatever on the property. Even in cases where
only daughters are born, a male child will be adopted from a
collateral branch, or the next-of-kin in the male line, according to a
well-established rule, will come forward and claim the inheritance.
It is only in default of all kindred through the male line that
daughters will succeed. But the sons may agree not to divide, and
in families of any pretension it is by no means unusual to refrain
from dividing often for generations. In that case the property is
held in common, and is managed by the seniors of the family or
clan, who form a sort of "family council." All the earnings of all
the members are brought into a common pot, and out of that the
expenditure of each is defrayed. The property may be largely in-
creased by the energies and success of one, whether in trade or in
official life, or otherwise, but up to division it is all community, and
on division all share alike. No single member has a right to with-
draw and take out his share at pleasure. Division must be the
joint act of all. The question, then, is, supposing a member of
such a family engages in trade, and that after a successful career,
during which his profits may have gone to swell the common stock,

124
PROCEEDINGS.
he becomes bankrupt, can this family property, in whole or in part,
be made available to pay his debts?
Mr. JAMIESON next read the replies which he had received from
several gentlemen distinguished for their intimate acquaintance
with Chinese affairs, and including Mr. C. T. Gardner, H.B.M.'s
Consul at Hankow; Mr. Byron Brenan, H.B.M.'s Consul, Tien-
tsin; Mr. E. H. Parker, H.B.M.'s Consular Service, Shanghai ;
Mr. H. A. Giles, H.B.M.'s Consul, Tamsui; Mr. C. Alabaster,
H.B.M.'s Consul, Canton; Mr. P. G. von Möllendorff, Tientsin;
the Rev. J. Macintyre, Newchwang; Mr. Sü Fu-shêng, Shang-
hai; and an anonymous Chinese official. He also read an extract
from a petition presented in 1882 to the Government of Hongkong
by Chinese merchants in that colony, when an agitation was on
foot there to change the law in consequence of the unusual
crop of bankruptcies. Lastly, he read a paper by himself which
summarised the opinions expressed in the replies that had been sent
in. (These papers will be found on pp. 39-52 of this volume.)
A vote of thanks was unanimously accorded to Mr. Jamieson
for the trouble he had taken in connexion with the subject, and
especially for the excellent summary that he had prepared.
The CHAIRMAN, in introducing Mr. Carles, who read Mr. Parker's
paper on "The Armies of China," Mr. Parker not being able to be
present, said:-Mr. Parker's subject, "The Armies of China," has
been most exhaustively dealt with by Sir Thomas Wade in a paper
headed "The Army of the Chinese Empire," which will be found
in the 20th volume of the Chinese Repository, published in 1851.
Since then many books and papers have been written which contain
notes on the army and cognate subjects, all of them having a more
or less practical tendency; but none of them has succeeded in
superseding Sir Thomas' work, which is as yet the chief source
regarding the constitutional organisation of the army. The in-
formation contained in it is entirely drawn from the Ta-tsing-hui-
tien, the principal work on Government institutions, the Hu-pu-
tsê-li, dealing with financial questions, and the Chung-ch'u-ch'eng-
k'ao, a treatise on the army, published in 1825; with more which
the author draws from Chinese sources. This would seem to be a

PROCEEDINGS.
125
disadvantage in the eyes of those who care merely for practical and
modern information. Yet, it must be clear to anyone who is really
anxious to form an accurate idea of Chinese military matters, that
mere personal observation, such as many of our modern writers on
the subject have deemed sufficient, is a very poor substitute for a
systematic inquiry based on literary studies. However useful the
notes taken from life may be in showing how the theoretical
organisation bears on practical warfare, however indispensable they
may be in giving us an idea of what exists in reality as opposed to
what exists on paper merely, it appears to me that even the most
ingenious military expert cannot form a correct idea without con-
sulting such works as that of Wade's as a basis; and I avail
myself of this opportunity to recommend to our Society, as a useful
addition to a future issue of our "Journal," a second edition of this
paper, since the 20th volume of the Chinese Repository is a book
most difficult to be got. Mr. Parker's is also a literary paper, and
its value has to be judged in the same sense as that of Sir Thomas
Wade's; his Chinese authority is somewhat more independent and
more outspoken than the official works used by the latter, and also
a little more recent in date. It deals also with theoretical matters
rather than with the practical questions of the present day, but
those who propose to write or make studies in these will do well to
examine its details, for which purpose it will serve as a welcome
supplement to that of Sir Thomas.
Mr. CARLES read numerous extracts from the paper, to which he
added others from Captain Gill's more recent contribution on the
same subject. (Mr. Parker's paper will be found on pp. 1-21 of
this volume.)
The CHAIRMAN having thanked Mr. Carles on behalf of the
Society for his kindness in reading the paper at such a short notice,
announced that the subject was open for discussion.
Mr. KINGSMILL thought that Mr. Parker should have given
some other title to his paper, as it was not an actual description of
the army of the present day, which its title would lead one to
suppose, but merely of the army on paper of over forty years ago.
Since then great changes had taken place, and the Chinese troops

126
PROCEEDINGS.
were now a very well paid and well conducted body of men. They
got something like five taels a month, out of which they had to
keep and clothe themselves, and they paid considerable attention to
their profession. Travellers visiting the great camps now get
much civility from these soldiers. But what he thought was
wanted was not a description of the ideal army but of the real army
of China. He did not think it would do any good to print a paper
on the army of forty years ago. It contained nothing of the great
changes in the organisation of the army, brought about by the
Taiping rebellion, by what Mr. Parker called the "Opium War"
and by the French war of a few years ago. If the paper was printed
as it then appeared it would be accepted as giving information of
the army of China at the present time, and would be most
misleading.
The CHAIRMAN said that in the opening portion of the paper
Mr. Parker explained that it was a digest and a translation from
an authentic Chinese paper. It was essentially a paper of a
historical character. In order to understand the present organisa-
tion of the army it was necessary to go back to its historical
elements, and Mr. Parker never intended to give what
Mr. Kingsmill seemed to expect.
He
Mr. G. JAMES MORRISON remarked that Mr. Kingsmill had
found fault with the title of the paper, but he (Mr. Morrison)
thought that it was not the title which was most in fault.
considered the paper would be very misleading to people at home,
and even Mr. Carles in reading it was obliged to supplement by
extracts from the paper of Captain Gill.
Mr. CARLES, rising, disclaimed any intention of supplementing
Mr. Parker's paper, and said he merely used Captain Gill's work to
explain a few points in Mr. Parker's contribution.
Mr. MORRISON concluded by saying that the paper would be
very valuable to a great many people, but at the same time he
thought the title could be changed with advantage. The paper was
moreover a translation of a Chinese book of which they knew
nothing.

PROCEEDINGS.
127
The CHAIRMAN said that Mr. Parker's name was a sufficient
guarantee on that point; and it was not too late to change the title.
After some remarks from Mr. J. F. VON GUNDLACH, Mr. GEO.
JAMIESON observed that the "braves" were a new class in the
Chinese army; they were under stricter discipline and did a large
portion of the fighting of late years. They were, however, not
enlisted for any length of time, but for a campaign, and gave much
trouble in sending them back to their homes in Hunan. After the
French war an effort was made by certain Governors to do away
with the Green troops and substitute these troops, but it was not
adopted. He thought the Meeting was indebted to Mr. Kingsmill
and Mr. Morrison for calling attention to the title of the paper,
which he also considered somewhat misleading. Mr. Jamieson
then mentioned that some time ago he made a calculation of the
revenue of the Manchu Empire, and including likin and Customs
duties, it came to about 65 million of taels. The writer of the
paper set it down at 40 millions in 1840, and if that was the
amount before the Taiping Rebellion, he (Mr. Jamieson) was
disposed to think that his calculation must be nearly right. Of
this sum only about 14 or 15 millions went to Peking.
The Rev. ERNST FABER said he wished to see the paper supple-
mented; in its present state it was defective. There was nothing
said in it about armour, training, commissariat, drill, tactics,
military law, mobilisation, concentration, etc., of the Chinese army.
The paper, however, contained among the statistics of expenditure
an item which at the present was of special interest, namely, the
fact that the sum of 3,800,000 taels had been annually spent on the
Yellow River (Shantung and Honan provinces). This amount, if
brought down to the present year, would give a total of some
180,000,000 taels expended since 1840 on the Yellow River
embankment. Yet, had the money really been expended on it?
This was a point to which the attention of the Government officials
at Peking ought to be drawn.
Mr. CARLES said that with reference to the remarks of
Mr. Morrison he wished to say that he thought the best way to
explain some of the terms used by Mr. Parker was to read extracts

128
PROCEEDINGS.
from Captain Gill's paper, to which he invited the attention of the
audience, as it covered a great deal of the ground left untouched by
Mr. Parker.
Mr. P. J. HUGHES said that with reference to the remarks of
Mr. Jamieson he did not believe it was the case that all the
"braves" were disbanded at the close of a campaign. Their
leaders still retained with them, when possible, the troops who had
been with them in the field, or at all events troops from the same
part of the country as that which had furnished the field force.
The Huai region between the River Yangtze and the old bed of
the Yellow River is one of the two great recruiting grounds for
"braves" in China, the other being that mentioned by Mr.
Jamieson, the province of Hunan. The Viceroy of Chihli (Li
Hung-chang) had still with him braves from the Huai region, so
also has Liu, the Governor of Formosa. In Nanking and other
places on the Lower Yangtsze there are still large numbers of
"braves" who came from Hunan.
The CHAIRMAN intimated that the title of the paper before the
Meeting would probably be changed by the author.*
With a vote of thanks to the Chairman, proposed by Mr.
JAMIESON, the proceedings terminated.
*The title was subsequently changed. See Note* on p. 1.