ANCIENT PORCELAIN:
A STUDY IN CHINESE MEDIEVAL INDUSTRY
AND TRADE.
By F. HIRTH, PH.D.
1. THE AGE OF PORCELAIN IN CHINA.
The history of the invention of porcelain in China is
wrapped in mystery. Whatever the age of earthen pottery
may be, we possess no satisfactory record as to the date when
anything approaching porcelain, in the technical sense, was
first produced. Julien, in his celebrated work on the history
and manufacture of the Chinese porcelain,1 quotes the Annals
of the district of Fou-liang, in which the King-tê-chên potteries
are situated, in order to show that the invention of porcelain
reached as far back as the Han dynasty (206 B.C. to A.D. 220);
and, by means of an ingenious conjecture as to the period
when the name of the locality of the alleged first manufacture
was used, arrives at the conclusion that we have to place the
invention of the art between the years 185 B.C. and A.D. 87.
Julien does not give us the text of the passage referred to;
it is, therefore, difficult to judge on its merits. If the ques-
tion is merely one of terms, which it apparently is, it must be
considered extremely doubtful. The Chinese word yao,2 now
commonly applied to the various classes of chinaware, is an
2
1 Histoire et fabrication de la porcelaine chinoise, etc., par M. Stanislas
Julien. Paris, 1856. Préface, p. xx seqq.

130
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
entirely neutral term, and may mean pottery of any kind;
whereas porcelain proper, as distinguished from earthenware,
is now termed tz'.3 Chinese authors seldom make this
distinction, and when we find certain descriptions of pottery
mentioned in their works, we ought not to assume their being
either the one or the other, unless we have reason to believe
that the articles described be identical with certain specimens
existing at the present day. Of these, I feel confident we
possess none out of so early a period as the Han dynasty;
and even if certain articles should be mentioned under the
name of tz'u-ch'i, the term now applied to porcelain in the
modern sense, in passages referring to the Han period, it is
very likely that this word was used for pottery of a composi-
tion quite different from the one it now describes.
In other
words, it seems that so long as we have not seen porcelain
proved to have been made during the Han dynasty, it is
difficult to believe in its existence, the literary evidence not
3 or This word, though described as "hard and fine grained
pottery" (Lei-pien) in dictionaries of the Sung period,
is in the Shuo-rên, a glossary published in 100 A.D., explained as "pottery"
and nothing more (AL). The simple fact of the modern name
for hard porcelain occurring in an ancient text is, in my opinion, far from
sufficient to prove that hard porcelain then existed. For, as in Western
languages the meaning of a word may change within a few centuries, a
thousand years or more very frequently produce a similar effect in certain
terms of the Chinese language. If this were not the case, the use of
glossaries such as the Erh-ya and the Shuo-wên would be superfluous. Of
the two shapes now used for this character, the form, having the
radical shih (), "stone," at its side, might for this reason be taken as an
indication of the category of this name having been that of a hard or stony
substance. But this character, which is the proper name of loadstone,
has been borrowed in later centuries. The old and original shape is,
the radical being wa (E), indicating the category of earthen materials.
It appears to me that this very fact of later generations substituting for the
original sign a character of the same sound, but with a radical more
appropriate to the category of the word as it was at the time understood,
may be regarded as indicating a change from the original meaning.
Cf. Jacquemart, Hist. of the Ceramic Art., Transl. Mrs. Palliser.
London, 1877, p. 47.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
131
carrying with it the necessary conviction, owing to the
doubtfulness of terms.
I shall now try to explain the reasons which have led me
to conjecture that the manufacture of porcelain must have first
been practised on a larger scale during the beginning of the
7th century A.D.
The Cheng-lei-pên-ts'ao, the pharmacopoeia of the Sung
dynasty, compiled in A.D. 1108, under the head of
"Porcelain earth," or Pai-ngo, quotes from the writings
of T'ao Yin-chü7 that "this substance (pai-ngo) is now
much used for painting pictures."
5*, Ch. 5, p. 22. Bretschneider, Botanicum Sinicum,
p. 47, says of this work, "it is still extant, but I have not come across it."
It appears from Klaproth's Catalogue, that a portion of the work is contained
in the Royal Library of Berlin. I saw a copy in the hands of Father Heude,
at Sicawei, and succeeded in obtaining one myself, though this must be
called an exceptionally lucky find. I have since seen the title of this work
in a list of prices for Japanese reprints, but I am not able to say to what
extent the original has been reproduced.
6
There can be no doubt as to the terminology of this
ancient name of the mineral now known as Kaolin, for details regarding
which I would refer the reader to Geerts, Les produits de la nature
Japonaise et Chinoise, Vol. II, p. 370 seqq. This author says of t
(Jap. A-do) and (Jap. Haku-a-do), ces deux derniers noms
sont des noms génériques pour toute matière qui produit la porcelaine la
plus fine et la plus belle. Ils s'appliquent donc aussi bien aux pegmatites
et felsites ou feldspaths quartzeux, qu'à la terre à porcelaine véritable ou
Kaolin pur;" and, p. 376: "(Jap. Haku-a), ce nom inclut le
Kaolin et le pegmatite." Cf. Hoffmann, "Mémoire sur les principales
fabriques de porcelaine au Japon" in Julien's Histoire, etc., de la porcelaine
Chinoise, p. 283: "terre blanche à porcelaine;" and Porter Smith, Contribu-
tions towards the Materia Medica and Natural History of China, p. 127, s. v.
Kaolin. A list of ten localities in China and a large list of places in Japan,
where Kaolin is found, is given by Geerts, p. 273 seqq. According to the
Pên-ts'ao-kang-mu (ch. 7, p. 1) it is sold in square cakes, when it is used
for washing clothes and in burning the paste of white porcelain "
(*). Apart from this, the Kang-mu is more silent
on the subject than we should expect. The localities mentioned by Geerts
as those where Kaolin is found in China, correspond to the principal places
where porcelain is known to have been manufactured during the Sung
dynasty, viz., the neighbourhood of King-tê-chên in Kiangsi, that of
Lung-ch'üan in Chehkiang, Ting-chou in Chihli, Hua-t'ing ()
in Kansu, Ping-ting-chou (TM) in Shansi, Ju-chou ()
in Honan and Te-hua (1) in Fukien. Cf. Julien, p. 127 seq.
7
(see Note 8).

132
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
This remark is made in order to show that the article referred
to is not merely a medicine, but used for other purposes
as well; and according to the routine of so learned a writer
as the one quoted, he would have surely mentioned the use of
porcelain earth in the manufacture of chinaware if in his time
it had been so used on an extensive scale. T'ao Yin-chü was
a celebrated author on pharmaceutical, and indeed all scientific
subjects, who died in A.D. 536.8
The Cheng-lei-pen-ts' ao further quotes, under the same head,
from the T'ang-pén-ts'ao, the pharmacopoeia of the T'ang
dynasty, compiled about A.D. 650: "it (viz. pai-ngo, or
porcelain earth) is now used for painters' work and rarely
enters into medicinal prescriptions; DURING RECENT GENERA-
TIONS 10 IT HAS BEEN USED TO MAKE WHITE PORCELAIN." 11
It appears from these two passages that during the Liang
dynasty, i.e., in the 6th century A.D., when T'ao Yin-chü
wrote, the use of porcelain earth for pottery purposes was
unknown; but that it had come into practice for some time
back at the T'ang period, say during the century, i.e., a few
generations, preceding the compilation of the T'ang-pen-ts'ao,
or about the year A.D. 650. The same T'ang authority12
recommends a powder prepared of "white porcelain of Ting-
chou" 13 for certain medicinal purposes.
8 For his biography see Liang-shu, ch. 51, p. 12; extract in the
Tu-shu-chi-ch'êng, III, 14, ch. 210; Mayers, Man., No. 710; and
Bretschneider, Bot. Sin., p. 42. In the biographies his name appears as
T'ao Hung-ching (), but Yin-chü is the personal name by
which he is quoted as an author in the Chêng-lei-pen-ts'ao.
9. See Bretschneider, Bot. Sin, p. 44.
10
chin-tai, 近代
11
i pai-tzi wei chin以白瓷為之
12 Quoted in Cheng-lei-pên-ts'ao, 1. c., p. 32.
13 Ting-chou pai-tzu
The white porcelain of Ting-chou
was destined to play a conspicuous part among the ceramic industries of the
Sung and later dynasties. The passage referred to seems to show that
white Ting porcelain existed early during the T'ang dynasty, i.e. in the 7th
century A.D.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
14
133
It appears from a passage in the Sui-shu, the History of
the Sui Dynasty, whose reign extends from A.D. 581 to 618,
that Ho Ch'ou, alias Ho Kuei-lin, who, at the beginning of
the 7th century, was President of the Board of Works, and was
known as a refined scholar deeply versed in antiquarian
matters, endeavoured to recover the secret of manufacturing
glass, which had been lost since its introduction into China
by Indian or Syrian artisans about A.D. 42415; he is said to
have succeeded in imitating liu-li, i.e. opaque glass, which
could not be distinguished from real glass, by means of
" green porcelain." I am not able to judge whether such a
process is possible, and if so, whether the passage referred
to throws any light on the existence at the time of porcelain
in the technical sense.
For, the passage, as quoted, does not show whether Ho
Ch'ou invented green porcelain for the purpose of imitating
opaque glass, or whether he used it as a substance existing
before his time as an ingredient in fusing. Julien¹ who
quotes the identical passage from the Ping-tzu-lei-p'ien,
translates in the former sense. So much seems probable,
that from about the year A.D. 600 the porcelain industry
began to flourish in various parts of the Empire. T'ao Yü,
the manufacturer who turned out work which could be mis-
taken for jadestone, and was therefore called "imitation
jade," and Ho Chung-ch'u, mentioned by Julien 17 as having
founded potteries at the close of the Sui dynasty, may have
14
;*. See Sui-shu, J, quoted in P'ei-wên-
yün-fu, 8.v., T'ao-shuo, ch. 4, p. 17, and Tu-shu-chi-ch'êng, III, 14, ch.
214, p. 24.
15
See China and the Rom. Orient, p. 230 seqq.
16 Op. Cit., Préface, p. XXIII. The passage reads as quoted in the
Ping-tzu-lei-p'ien:
; Julien speaks
of "la porcelaine verte que fabriquait Ho-tcheou pour remplacer le Licou-li
(sorte de pâte de verre), etc."
17 ibid., p. XXIV.

134
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
made real porcelain, since at this period the use of porcelain
earth for pottery purposes must have been known. Yet, the
author of the T'ao-shuo¹s begins his treatise on ancient
porcelains with the Yüeh-chou potteries of the T'ang dynasty.
2. T'ANG PORCELAINS.
As to the various kinds of porcelain manufactured during
the T'ang period, which extends from A.D. 618 to 907, it is
most likely that we possess none but literary witnesses of
their former existence. I feel bound to add that my ex-
perience in this respect is necessarily very limited, and that
I merely repeat the opinion of Chinese connoisseurs.
Should anyone be able to produce a piece of porcelain in the
technical sense, proved on good evidence to have been made
during that early period, this would be a remarkable find
indeed. Chinese works on the ceramic art describe some of
the porcelains of the T'ang dynasty, but these descriptions
suffer from the defect, peculiar to all works on ceramic art, of
being next to useless without our having a chance to examine
specimens of what is described.
3.-SUNG PORCELAINS.
This chance we find exists with some of the Sung porcelains
inasmuch as it is not difficult to procure, on paying good
prices, specimens credited by Chinese connoisseurs with such
an age and possessing the characteristics described in Chinese
works. The latter, it must be admitted, may be too vague to
be considered the only guides in determining the age and
class of a piece of ancient crockery; but as supplementing the
tradition handed down among the Chinese themselves, such
records become highly valuable. The great difficulty is that,
18, published in A.D. 1774. See Julien, l.c., p. LXX.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
135
unless we have before us specimens of the class of porcelain
described, it is often impossible to understand the text. The
study of the literature should, therefore, be made dependent
on the study of real objects, so far as they can be obtained.
Failure in this, it seems to me, is the chief defect of certain
portions of Julien's work, which has become the basis of
about all that was written in Europe on Chinese ceramic art
after its appearance.
4. THE COLOUR CH'ING (BLUE or GREEN.)
Stanislas Julien is generally known as so accurate a
translator, and I am myself so full of profound respect
towards his sinological erudition, that, in pointing out errors
in his works, I think it right to do so with this reserve.
Julien's translation of those parts of his Chinese authority
which treat upon the porcelains of the Sung dynasty contains
an error which is perhaps excusable in a sinologue who has
never seen China, but which unfortunately becomes fatal to
the understanding of the text in all that relates to that
important class of old chinaware known as céladons. The
characteristic colour of the céladon is green, varying in shade.
The word which Julien translates by "blue," and which here
means green," since it appears in all the Chinese texts
describing porcelains which every Chinese connoisseur
identifies with the old céladons, is ch'ing. 19 Now, this word
66
19. It seems that there was every facility for Julien to check the
correctness of the translation of this term even without going back to the
terminology of the Japanese school, which, owing to their constant reference
to Chinese literature, is almost identical with that of the Chinese. The
recognised Japanese name for céladon porcelain is sei-ji (, in
Chinese ch'ing-tzu). Such a contradiction as is implied in the translation
(p. 73) "les porcelaines bleues de Tchang sont d'un ton pure comme le plus
beau jade," ought to strike every one who knows that jade is not blue, but
green; and the composition of the enamel as described on p. 206 seqq., in
§ XI ("composition des différentes sortes d'émail," Nos. 1, 2, 13 and 14),
which may be easily shown to have contained yellow colouring materials
besides the blue, ought to have been taken into consideration. M. Salvétat,

136
"
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
دو
ch'ing is a great stumbling-block to a European inasmuch as
we cannot understand that peculiar kind of colour-blindness
which has caused the Chinese to comprise under the same
name colours or certain shades of colours which we would
decidedly distinguish by several names. The Chinese word
ch'ing means green a priori; the colour of things sprouting,
such as plants; 20 the skin of bamboos is called ch'ing;21 examples
abound in Chinese literature in which this word is applied to
the foliage of trees. The olive is called ch'ing-kuo, 23 i.e.
"the green fruit," and ch'ing may in this case be properly
rendered by "olive green." Tsung-ch'ing, i.e. "onion green,"
is a colour often applied to old céladon porcelains in ceramic
texts; it would be absurd to speak of "onion-blue." On the
other hand, the same word is applied to colours which none
of us would call anything but blue, such as, for instance, the
blue cottons worn by the lower classes; and that this is not a
modern meaning may be gathered from a definition in the
ancient glossary, the Shuo-wen (XIII A), where the colours
the technical annotator of Julien's translations, is on the right track in his
footnote under the head of Tung-ch'ing-yu (p. 213), translated
by Julien with "émail bleu oriental," when he says: "Je crois qu'il s'agit
ici du ton si recherché que les amateurs appellent en France céladon."
If we consider that long before Julien's time the correct renderings had
been given in the famous letters on the King-tê-chên manufactures by P.
d'Entrecolles, and that Julien was fully aware of this discrepancy in his
translation (see Préface, p. XXVII; p. 56, footnote; and p. 231, note 2),
we cannot but wonder, how this question could be allowed to remain for the
last thirty years as it was, without eliciting further enquiries.
20 The Shih-ming (1), a glossary compiled during the Eastern
Han dynasty, quoted by K'ang-hi, says: 青生也像物之生色也
21 K'ang-hi, s.v.
22 Cf. von Strauss und Torney, "Bezeichnung der Farben Blau und
Grün in chinesischen Alterthum," in Z.D.M.G., XXXIII, p. 502 seqq.
23 The Pen-ts'ao-hang-mu (ch. 31, p. 6) says: "the olive is
called ch'ing-kuo, because, though ripe, it remains green (ch'ing)." Even
in modern Chinese the meaning "green" is quite common for ch'ing.
Ching-fan () is the tariff name for "Green Alum;" "Moss" is
called ching-t'ai (); "green peas are called ch'ing-tou (#).
"

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
"
137
ch'ing and huang (yellow) are said to yield lü (green). In
this connection ch'ing can mean nothing but blue. A grey
horse is called ch'ing-ma.24 As applied to porcelain we find
that the blue China of the Ming and present dynasties is called
ch'ing-hua,25 i.e. " blue ornaments." This may have led Julien
to assume that "blue was the proper rendering of this word
wherever it occurred in ceramic texts. But what, in the
absence of practical knowledge, he may have considered
methodical consistency, has proved to be a serious error in
this one instance. The result is that a large and very
important class of ancient porcelain cannot be traced in his
work, and that the several writers on ceramic art who used
it as a basis for Chinese information on the subject are not
able to say anything about either the provenance or the
history of céladon porcelains, the principal legacy left to
later generations by the ceramic schools of the Sung
dynasty.
5. PRINCIPAL CLASSES OF ANCIENT PORCELAIN.
Julien's work contains the description of a number of
classes said to have been manufactured during the Sung
period. Of these, several descriptions are now either
extinct or not traceable. Probably many of the porcelains
existing during the thirteenth century and previously were
of such delicate make as to be unfit to survive even to the
Ming dynasty, whereas the strong kinds, such as some of
the old céladons, which were of an almost imperishable
hardness and thickness, or the heavy Chün-yao porcelains,
have lasted to the present day. As a witness to this fact, I
quote a passage from Chang Ch'ien-tê, an author of the
24 青馬
25 青花

138
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
Ming period, who in his work, the P'ing-hua-p'u, an essay
"on Flower-pots and Flowers in Pots "26 remarks:
"In ancient times no vases were made of porcelain, and
up to the Tang dynasty [i.e. the beginning of the 7th
century27] all such vessels were made of copper; it was not
till then that pottery came into vogue. After this period we
find a large number of classes of porcelain, such as the kinds
known as Ch'ai, Ju, Kuan, Ko, Ting, Lung-ch'üan, Chun-
chow, Chang-shêng, Wu-ni, Hsüan and Ch'êng. 28 Amongst
antiquities, copper articles are the best; of porcelains, the
Ch'ai and Ju kinds, though the best of all, have ceased to
exist; the Kuan, Ko, Hsüan and Ting porcelains are the
most precious curiosities of the present day, whereas the
porcelains called Lung-ch'üan [the heavy, old céladons of
26 ME, quoted in K'o-chih-ching-yüan, ch. 36, p. 12.
The Imperial catalogue (ch. 116, p. 36) has only a few words to say about
this book, and unfortunately fails to give us the exact date of its publication;
but, since the author, Chang Ch'ien-tê, is distinctly called a Ming writer, it
certainly dates previous to the year 1644. We learn, however, in the notice
contained in the Imperial Catalogue (ch. 123, p. 7) of another work, which
greatly concerns us, the Ching-pi-tsang (), that its author,
Chang Ying-wên (X), alias Chang Mao-shih (1), was
the father of Chang Chien-tê, and that the preface to his work was written
by Chang, the son, in 1595. (Cf. Eitel, "Notes on Chinese Porcelain," in
China Review, vol. x, p. 310). It results therefrom that the Ping-hua-pu
must have been published within less than a lifetime from this date, and
probably several decades la'er than the Ching-pi-tsang was written. For,
while the father says in his work, with regard to Ju-yao: "I constantly
meet with specimens of it" (see Eitel, lc.), the son says that "the Ch'ai and
Ju porcelains have ceased to exist" (see above). I conclude from the two
passages that Ju porcelain, which was considered one of the most valuable
curiosities of the time, disappeared from the market towards the end of the
16th century; and it seems not improbable that the Japanese inroads on
China during the years 1552 to 1587, when the coast provinces from
Shan-tung down to Hainan were completely plundered by the enemy, have
considerably contributed towards this state of things, either by destruction
or by theft.
27 This remark tends to confirm my conjectures as to the period when
porcelain was first made.
28
柴、汝、官、哥、定,龍泉,均州,章生,烏泥,宣,成
See Julien, the passages referred to in his Index under Tch'ai-yao, Jou-yao,
Kouan-yao, Ko-yao, Long-t'siouen-yao, Kiun-yao, Tchang-ki, Ou-ni-yao,
Siouen-yao and Toh'ing-hoa-yao. The last two varieties represent the
earlier Ming porcelains.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
139
modern collectors], Chün-chow, Chang-shêng, Wu-ni and
Chiêng-hua are esteemed as objects of only secondary value."
6. CH'AI AND JU PORCELAINS.
The passage here quoted is of some interest inasmuch as
it shows that we need not trouble much about Ch'ai and Ju
porcelains, since these had, in the author's opinion, ceased to
exist in his time, i.e. as early as three hundred years ago.
There is little hope, therefore, to obtain specimens at the
present day, although it happens that Chinese dealers, having
fallen in with an ancient looking specimen which seems to
bear no resemblance to any of the now known categories of
the Sung period, offer it for sale as Ju, or even Ch'ai.
Chang Ch'ien-tê's assertion on this point is, however, but
partly borne out by Dr. Bushell's Illustrated Manuscript. 29
It is stated in the introduction to this interesting work, that
"the reign of Ch'ai [ie. the Emperor Shih-tsung of the
Posterior Chou dynasty, just preceding the Sung period,
A.D. 954 to 960] was the first to become celebrated for its
pottery, so that in the present day [16th century A. D.] men
search for a fragment of this porcelain without being able to
find one, and declare it to be but a phantom." 30 At the same
time, the collection described and illustrated by Dr. Bushell's
author contains several pieces of Ju porcelain; the surface
of these is described as "a pale bluish green coarsely
crackled" (Nos. 19 and 34) or simply "bluish green
29 S. W. Bushell, M.D., "Chinese Porcelain before the present Dynasty,"
in Journal of the Peking Oriental Society, vol. I. p. 65 seqq. This is of all
that has appeared the most important contribution towards the elucidation
of ceramic matters by means of Chinese records. Dr. Bushell has had the
good fortune to fall in with a descriptive catalogue of old porcelains, with
illustrations painted in water colours, by a collector and artist who lived
about three hundred years ago. No student of old Chinese ceramic art
should neglect this publication.
30 Cf. Julien, op. cit., p. 12.

140
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
(No. 22). Since the text, from which Dr. Bushell translates,
is accompannied by coloured illustrations, certainly a most
valuable feature, there cannot well be any doubt as to the
accuracy of the English version. Some of the Ju porcelains
appear therefrom to have been green, and not blue
as Julien, owing to the misunderstanding of the word
ch'ing, calls them. 31 The colour applied to them in
Julien's text is described as tan-ch'ing-se, 32 and Julien's
translation "couleur bleu pâle" should be exchanged against
Bushell's "bluish green." It might appear from Dr. Eitel's
translation from the Ch'ê-kéng-lu (Preface, A.D. 1366, see
China Review, vol. x, p. 309) that Ju-yao was
"manu-
factured" during the Ming dynasty. The passage referred
to reads in the translation: "under the present Dynasty
(Ming) the white porcelain ware of Ting-chow, being gritty
and unfit for presentation for the use of the Court, an order
was accordingly issued for the manufacture of the blue
[ching, probably "green"] porcelain ware in Ü-chau [Ju-
chou], etc." It is obvious, however, that since the author
quoted wrote his preface in A.D. 1366, the phrase "under the
present Dynasty" cannot relate to the Ming, whose reign
dates from A.D. 1368, but that the Mongol Dynasty (A.D.
1280 to 1368) is meant by it; if not the whole extract is a
quotation from the Sung author mentioned in the first
paragraph.
Apart from the Ch'ai porcelain, which apparently was
extinct during the Ming dynasty, and the Ju variety, which
must have been at least very rare, we have to direct our
attention to the Kuan, Ko, Ting, Lung-ch'üan, Chun-chow,
Chang-sheng and Wu-ni porcelains as objects well known in
Chang Ch'ien-tê's time and belonging to the Sung period
31 Julien, p. 63, seqq.
32 淡青色

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
141
(A.D. 960 to 1280), and out of these again [1] the Lung-
ch'üan (plain céladon), including the Ko (crackled céladon),
and Chang-shêng (oldest plain céladon), [2] the Chün-chow
porcelains, and [3] the white Ting-yao, are the varieties of
which traces may be found at the present day without too
much difficulty.
7.-TING-YAO.
The porcelains of Ting-chou, near the present Chêng-ting-fu
in Chih-li (Playfair, Nos. 548 and 7303), known under the
name of Ting-yao, may be regarded as one of the oldest kinds
known, if the passage quoted above from the T'ang-pen-ts' ao
(A.D. 650) refers to it. Its colour was mostly a brilliant
white, whence it is also known as Pai-ting, or white Ting
porcelain. Specimens of the Sung and Ming dynasty are still
seen in the hands of dealers and collectors. The peculiar
brilliancy of white Ting-yao can be easily distinguished from
the creamy white of what is known as Kien-yao, a class of
fine white porcelain made in Fukien, but it has been well
imitated in various periods at King-tê-chên. The Ko-ku-yao-
, lun, 33 one of the principal works on antiquarian subjects
written during the Ming dynasty, completed in A. D. 1387, and
therefore one of the oldest authorities we can quote, with
regard to the subject in hand, has the following on the
Ting porcelains of the Sung dynasty:
"Old Ting porcelain is valuable if the paste is fine, and the
colour is white and brilliant; low qualities are coarse and of a
yellowish colour. If it has marks as of tears, this is a sign of
33, quoted in the T'ao-shuo (t), ch. 2, p. 6. For
bibliographical details see the Imperial Catalogue, ch. 23, p. 4, and
Bretschneider, Bot. Sin., p. 162. This work is constantly quoted in the
native cyclopædias. It treats, in thirteen sections, on the following
subjects: (1) Old bronzes, (2) Old pictures, (3) Old manuscripts, (4) Old
inscriptions, (5) Old musical instruments, (6) Old ink slabs, (7) Curiosities,
(8) Gold and iron, (9) Old porcelain, (10) Old lacquered ware, (11) Silks,
(12) Rare woods, (13) Rare stones,

142
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
its being genuine. Specimens having ornamental designs cut
into the paste are the most excellent; plain pieces also are
good; those which have ornaments worked into (or painted
on) the enamel are of the second quality. The best specimens
were made during the periods Chêng-ho (A.D. 1111 to 1117)
and Hsüan-ho (A. D. 1119 to 1125); but these are difficult to
collect. Brown porcelain was also made at Ting-chou, and
a black variety resembling black lacquer in colour."
The remark about the different modes of showing the
ornament apparently refers to the division of ornamented
Ting porcelains as given in the Po-wu-yao-lan, a work
similar to the Ko-ku-yao-lun and also much quoted in the
cyclopædias, according to which the ornaments were distin-
guished as [1] engraved, or cut into the paste, [2] worked
into the enamel or painted (?) and [3] printed or pressed on
with a mould. 35 The ornaments chiefly represented on Ting
porcelain during this, the classical period of its manufacture,
were, according to the same authority, the Chinese peony,
the Hsüan-ts'ao (Hemerocallis fulva) and the Fei-feng, or
"Flying Phoenix. " 36
The Tao-shuo quotes another source to show that a
distinction was made between the plain, smooth kind and the
variety having ornaments in relief; that the enamel was added
to the paste, which was white already, and that the appearance
of "tears' marks," so highly spoken of in the Ko-ku-yao-lun,
was produced by the enamel being thus thrown on.
The
T'ao-shuo, 1.c., p. 7. I am not able at present to
give the date when this work was published; but since the Tao-shuo, ch. 3,
p. 6., quotes it in connection with all porcelains up to the reign of
Chia-ch'ing (A.D. 1522 to 1567) without there being a quotation from it
referring to later periods, we may perhaps guess its age from this fact.
357E7E DE Cf. Julien, p. 61: "avec des fleurs en
relief; avec des fleurs gravées en creux; avec des fleurs moulées." Julien
throughout translates hua by "fleurs;" but it should be understood that by
"flowers" the Chinese understand ornaments of every description.
36 Cf. Julien, p. 61,

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
143
brown and black varieties (of which I have never seen a
specimen) were not held in high value.
The real Ting-yao of the North has been well imitated
during the Yüan dynasty (A.D. 1260 to 1367) by one P'êng
Chün-pao,37 at Ho-chou in Kiang-nan. Of this class of por-
celain, the Ko-ku-yao-lun, whose author wrote not too long
after that time, says: "This New Ting porcelain (hsin-
ting-yao), is fine in paste and white in colour, and it looks
very much like real Ting-yao." Since the imitation is stated
to have been very breakable, it is not improbable that
nowadays the chances of being deceived by it are less than
they were five hundred years ago. The ingenuity of King-
tê-chên artists has probably since made up for this, and as
the material they used in their factories is much less
heterogeneous with Ting-yao than it is with other porcelains
of the Sung dynasty, such as the real céladons of Lung-ch'üan
or Chün-yao, collectors should be on their guard in this
respect.
8. CHUN-YAO.
The porcelains known as Chün-yao (or Chün-chou-yao) are
among the oldest we know of, both as regards literature and
existing specimens. The factories were situated in or near
the city now known as Yü-chou (Playfair, No. 8775) in
the Prefecture of K'ai-fêng-fu. The name of this district
of Yü-chou was Chün-chou or Chün-t'ai³s during the Sung
dynasty, whence the term Chün-yao has been derived. Julien
(p. 73) translates from the King-té-chen-t'ao-lu, that these
factories existed at the beginning of the Sung dynasty, which
would carry them back to the 10th century A.D.
37
Julien, p. 21.
38 均州;均台 Chin 均 often appears as 鈞, and sometimes
wrongly as . Cf. Julien, p. 74.

144
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
The following is a translation of what is said in the T'ao-
shuo on the Chün-yao of the Sung dynasty, specimens of
which have been preserved to the present day:
"The Liu-ch'ing-jih-cha³ says: 'It shows in gradual shades
the brilliant effects of all colours, very prominently the
t'u-ssu pattern10 and the ch'ing (green or blue) colour of a
blazing flame. '41
"The Po-wu-yao-lan says: "The highest quality consists of
pieces having a colour as red as cinnabar, and as green as onion-
leaves and kingfisher's plumage, 12 which is commonly called
the green
of the perrot and the purple brown colour of the
skin of an egg-plant fruit, or of pieces red like rouge, green
like onion-leaves and kingfisher's plumage, and purple like
ink black, these three colours being pure and not in the
slightest degree changed during the firing. Pieces which
have one or two numbers on the bottom 13 as a trade mark,
130 留青日札
40
, t'u-ssu-wên. Julien translates this term by "veines
imitant les soies (poils) du lièvre," and others have adopted this
much too literal translation; cf. Marryat, History of Pottery and
Porcelain, p. 200: "the most esteemed had veins resembling the fur of the
hare." A glance at the passages given under this head in the Ping-tzu-lei-
p'ien (ch. 214, p. 8) shows that t'u-ssu is the name of a vegetable parasite
and as such is associated with that of a similar growth called nü-lo ()
by the Chinese; it is the plant known to botanists as Cuscuta, or as the
dodder in common English. Cf. Porter Smith, Chinese Mat. Med., p. 87.
I am inclined to think that the metaphor implied in this name refers to a
peculiar crackled muster, which is neither the "crab's claw muster," nor
the "fish spawn muster" of the Kuan-yao and Ko-yao porcelains, and which
may be seen on some old specimens of Chün-yao.
火燄青
42 硃砂紅葱翠青. To a European eye the tints appearing in
old Chun-yao porcelains, besides the reddish colours, are perhaps rather
bluish than greenish; but it should be considered that, by the admixture
of white and red materials, the exact description must have been very
difficult to a Chinese writer. Probably no better metaphor could have been
found for the colour described than the plumage of the perrot (ying-ko-lü
41
), if we think of the red-tailed bird of a greyish plumage, which
is so superior to all other varieties for its linguistic faculties.
43. Julien (p. 74) translates: "les
vases qui portaient au-dessous du pied les charactères numériques i.,-
(un), eul (deux);" Eitel (China Rev., vol. x., p. 311): "specimens bearing

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
145
and are of a colour resembling pig's liver, since the red,
ching and green colours got mixed together like saliva
hanging down through not being sufficiently fired, are not to
be distinguished as different kinds. For, such names as
" mucus," or "pig's liver," which are given to this class of
porcelain, have been invented for fun's sake. Among these
porcelains, those which have bottoms like the flower-pots in
which sword-grass is grown, are considered the most
excellent; 15 the others, viz. those which have bottoms like
one or two numerical characters at the bottom." I have, against my
grammatical instinct, adopted the second rendering, since I have seen a
Sung specimen bearing the number (wu, five) as a trade mark. The
description given by Fortune (A Residence among the Chinese, London, 1857,
p. 86) of "the most ancient examples of porcelain" apparently refers to
this class of Chün-yao.
44
As is done in Julien's translation (pp. 74 and 75), where seven classes
are named, viz., (1) Mei-tzu-ching (1) or "green or blue, like
plums;" (2) Chia-pi-tzu () or "purple brown, like the skin of
the egg-plant fruit" (see above); (3) Hai-tang-hung (I) or "red,
like the Japanese pear"; (4) Chu-kan (F) or "pig's liver" (see
above); (5) Lo-fei (ii) or "mule's lungs;" (6) Pi-ti ()or
"mucus" (see above); and (7) Tien-lan (R) or "sky-blue."
45 此窯惟種菖蒲盆底佳甚
Julien, l.c., translates:
"Parmi les porcelaines de cette manufacture, on regarde comme excessive-
ment beaux les plats sous le pied desquels on a peint un glaïeul." It
appears to me that both the grammatical analysis and the general context
are against this rendering. The author here speaks of the bottom as that
part of the vessel from which the nature of the paste may be recognised,
because it is there not covered by enamel. Moreover, the three characters
chang-pu-pên ( li ) are quite a common term in Chinese, meaning
an ordinary flower-pot with a round hole through the bottom and a
saucer underneath to receive the water soaking through the earth with
which it is filled. The Chinese are much given to growing this graceful
grass in pots, whence all flower-pots of this description are called sword-
grass pots." The passage referred to has been entirely misunderstood by
Julien, whose rendering has given rise to the legend, having made the
round among writers on Chinese porcelain marks, that a bunch of sword-
grass was painted on the bottom of certain vessels as a factory mark. See
Chaffers, Marks and Monograms on Pottery and Porcelain (London, 1868),
p. 156;
Tchang-pou. The acorus, an aquatic plant, painted
under the foot of a vessel, designates it as being of the manufacture of
Kiun, of the finest quality, from 960 to 963." Cf. J. Marryat, A History of
Pottery and Porcelain, London, 1857, p. 209, and other works of the kind.
"

146
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
46
ton-shaped censers, Ho-fang jugs17 or Kuan-tzu, 18 are all of
a yellowish, sandy paste, for which reason they are not good
in appearance; they have been made in recent years at
I-hsing, the paste consisting of a gritty clay, though the
the enamel somewhat resembles the better class article; but
they do not stand wear and tear.'
"The Ching-pi-tsang50 says: 'Of Chün-chou porcelains the
best quality consists of pieces that are red like rouge;
the se-
cond quality is green (ch'ing) like onion-leaves and king-
fisher's plumage, and brown or purple like ink. Pieces that
are of a pure colour and contain one or two numbers as
marks on the bottom, are superior; pieces that show mixed
colours are in no demand.'
"The Tung-ya1 says: 'Of Chün-yao there are five
colours. A Yao-pien [i.e., a piece of porcelain which has
accidentally changed colour in the fire] exists at the time;
for, the [image of] Kuan-yin [the Buddhist Goddess of
Mercy] in the Pao-kuo Monastery 53 is a Yao-pien.'
46 坐墩鑪
47 合方
48, a very common shape of gallipot or flower-jar, well known
to collectors of King-tê-chên porcelain.
49 I-hsing-hsien (), a few miles up river near the western
shore of the T'ai-wu Lake. Foreigners resident in Shanghai occasionally
visit the place, which is known for its terra cotta potteries, imitating the
shapes of ancient periods. The cheap, handsome brown tea-pots hawked
about in the streets of Shanghai come from this place; a kind of green
enamel is called after this city. Cf. Julien, p. 197.
50
See Note 26.
51 The Tung-ya by Fang Mi-chih (). The author
took his degree of Chin-shih in A.D. 1640, and his work was published at
the very close of the Ming dynasty. Although enumerated among the
miscellaneous philosophers, this work is a sort of cyclopædia treating
upon the customary categories in 52 chapters. See Ssu-ku-chüan-shu-tsung-
mu, ch. 119, p. 11. The Tung-ya, in the passage quoted (ch. 33, p. 16)
remarks that "Chün-yao is of the same category as Ju-yao" (
-L). The T'ao-shuo omits this remark, possibly
because it was not considered correct.
52.
53 報國寺

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
147
9. KUAN-YAO.
Kuan-yao, or Mandarin Porcelain, is the produce of certain
Government factories. The Kuan-yao of the Sung dynasty,
as described by the early writers on porcelain, must have been
an entirely different thing from that which is sold as Kuan-yao,
even as old Kuan-yao, at the present day. I have never
been able to ascertain from the dealers the exact provenance
or age of these porcelains, but I am inclined to consider them
indentical with the Kuan-ku-ch'i (kouan-kou-khi) described
as King-tê-chên porcelain of the Ming and later periods by
Julien on p. 46. The objects shown to me in the native
shops were of a peculiar brownish green, a sort of bronze
colour which the Chinese describe as ch'a-ching (lit. tea-
green), whereas of the varieties described in the T'ao-shuo as
belonging to the Sung dynasty, one was "white and thin
like paper and inferior to Ju-yao," another was "very
much the same as Ko-yao [the ancient céladon crackle]
with three gradations in colour constituting their value, viz.
(1) a pale ch'ing-green, (2) a fallow white, and (3) grey. 51
The Ko-ku-yao-lun speaks of ch'ing-green playing into pale
scarlet, the shades being very different, though; the best ones
having the "crab's claw pattern,' 55 and "a red brim with
an iron coloured bottom." 56 This class of porcelain is said
151 粉青;淡白:灰色. However accurate the Chinese writer,
who had a distinct notion as to the exact shade he wished to describe, may
have been, the renderings of even the most painstaking foreign translator
have to be received with great caution, unless there be a possibility to
compare the description with a specimen of the class described, or as Dr.
Bushell has been in the position to do with a coloured illustration. It is
only by analogy with the few cases in which the identity is beyond doubt
that we may venture to furnish a translation of the names of colours for
unseen ancient porcelains.
55, "raies imitant celles des pattes de crabes" (Julien
passim), a term often used in describing certain crackled surfaces.
56
This and the former characteristic are usually as-
cribed to certain kinds of Ko-yao, or old céladon crackle. This term, which
literally translated means "red mouth, iron-foot" is of some importance

148
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
in that work to be of the same category as Ju-yao.
We see from all this that old Kuan-yao, which was made in
Pien-liang (K'ai-feng-fu, Honan) at first, and, since the
removal of the court of Sung emperors to the south, in the
southern capital, Hang-chow, as well as Ju-yao could be
ch'ing-green in colour, i.e., belong to the class now known
as céladons. The Ko-ku-yao-lun, quoted in the Ko-chih-
ch'ing-yuan (ch. 36, p. 15), even says that the Kuan-yao of
Hang-chow was imitated at Lung-ch'üan. Possibly some of
the old céladons which came to Western countries during the
period of Arab trade to the east, were made at Hang-chow,
the Quinsay of Marco Polo; but since the Ko-ku-yao-lun
describes them as "thin in paste," the chances are that they did
not survive, and that nearly all the Chinese old céladons now
in the hands of Western collectors came from the place
where the thick and heavy, green porcelain and céladon
in understanding one of the principal characteristics of old céladon
porcelain. The Pa-n-yao-lan, quoted in the Tao-shuo (ch. 2, p. 9)
explains it as follows: "As regards Kuan-yao, it should be known that the
porcelain earth found at the foot of the Feng-huang-shan (or Phoenix Hill)
near Hang-chow is red; for this reason the foot' [tsu, technically
that part of the bottom on which the vessel rests when being fired, and which
is therefore not covered by the enamel, especially applied to the rings seen
on the bottom of old céladon vessels, cf. Julien, p. 245: "bord circulaire
du pied d'un vase de porcelaine"] resembles iron in colour; this was at
the time called "red mouthed and iron-footed." The term "red mouth"
refers to the brim or opening of the vessel; the latter becomes red by the
enamel flowing down and away from it so as to be much thinner on the
brim than it is on the body of the vessel, which allows spots of red paste
to become visible(故口露紫痕)” The red or iron coloured bottom,
usually appearing in the shape of a ring, is a characteristic feature of the
Lung-ch'üan céladons; but, if the above explanation is correct, the bottom
of Lung-ch'üan vessels differed from Kuan-yao bottoms, since the paste of
Hang-chow céladons (the southern Kuan-yao) is said to be red in itself,
whereas that of the Lung-ch'üan-yao is originally white and merely turns
rd in the fire in such parts of the surface which are not covered by the
enamel.
57 Julien. pp. 47 and 65 seq. Julien, for the reason I have pointed out,
describes these porcelains, too, as blue. The probability that the word
ch'ing as applied to most of the Sung porcelains meant "green," and not
"blue," is supported throughout by Dr. Bushell's translation of his
illustrated book. As to Kuan-yao, all the kinds described therein, viz., the
Nos. 2, 5, 8, 13, 15, 17, 47, 50, 53 and 73, are of greenish colours.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
"
149
crackles were then made, the city of Lung-ch'üan. Besides
the Kuan-yao it appears that the varieties described as Tung-
yao (Julien, p. 67, seqq., where "green must be read
wherever "blue" appears in the translation) and some of the
Corean porcelains (Kao-li-yao, Julien p. 35) were céladons.
The T'ao-shuo does not mention Japanese porcelain among
the potteries of the Sung dynasty; but it says that the Po-
li-yao (lit. glazed pottery) of the "island barbarians" as
well as the enamel ware of Fo-lang58 were not real porcelains
and are therefore not described. The former may have been
Japanese earthenware.
10.-LUNG-CH'ÜAN-YAO and KO-YAO, THE REAL
OLD CELADONS.
The term "céladon" may
be understood to be known to all
collectors in Europe. It was in the first instance used for
a certain colour which had become fashionable during the
seventeenth century, when novels and poems describing
the idyllic pleasures of enamoured shepherds were the
order of the day in France. It was then that the hero
of a novel called "l'Astrée," by d'Urfé, lent his name
to this class of courtier in shepherds' clothes, who
played a prominent part not only in books but also on the
stage. The favourite colour in which they presented
themselves in theatrical plays was a kind of sea-green, mixed
with bluish or greyish tints, neither a decided green nor
anything like blue; in fact exactly what the Chinese call
58 島夷之玻瓈窑大食國之佛郎嵌 The tan-i or
"island barbarians are mentioned in the Shu-king (111. 1, 10, Legge) as
wearing fur clothing; it appears from this that this term need not
necessarily apply to the inhabitants of southern islands. Though the
tradition of the passage referred to is doubtful, some of the commentators
apply the term to Japan.

150
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
ch'ing colour in certain old porcelains. This colour, which
was then fancied by the elegant world, was named " céladon
after the shepherd so called, and was soon applied to the
old Chinese porcelains and all other porcelains that were
of a similar colour.
bani.
59
M. Jacquemart, speaking of Ceramic Art in Persia, says:
"Céladons are very common in Persia; they have the beau-
tiful sea-green tint of the old Chinese céladons, and are to be
recognised only by their style. Some are simply gadrooned
or fluted, others have ornaments in relief in good taste, "-
"Pétis de la Croix mentions another coloured porcelain in his
translation of the Thousand and One Nights,'-the Marta-
'Six old slaves,' he writes, 'less richly dressed than
those who were seated, immediately appeared; they distributed
mahramas [blue squares of stuff used to wipe the finger], and
served shortly afterwards, in a large basin of martabani
[green porcelain] a salad composed of whey, lemon-juice, and
slices of cucumber.' Chardin cites a green porcelain, which
seems to be the same. He writes: Everything at the king's
is of massive gold or porcelain. There is a kind of
green
porcelain so precious that one dish alone is worth four
hundred crowns. They say this porcelain detects poison by
changing colour, but that is a fable: its price arises from its
beauty and the delicacy of the material, which renders it
transparent, although above two crowns in thickness.' This
last peculiarity [says Jacquemart] has a great importance.
It is impossible to suppose travellers would here allude to the
sea-green céladon of which we have spoken above; this, laid
upon a brown, close paste, approaching stoneware, is never
translucent. In the martabani, on the contrary, a thin, bright
green glaze, is applied upon a very white biscuit, which
59 History of the Ceramic Art, transl. Mrs. B. Palliser, p. 151.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
151
allows the light to appear through. It is most wonderful that
a material so esteemed, and of so high a price, is not more
common in our collections.
Its name, on the other hand,
leaves no doubt of its Persian nationality. Martaban (Mo-ta-
ma) is one of the sixteen states which composed the ancient
kingdom of Siam; it would not be impossible, then, that we
must restore to this kingdom the porcelain mentioned in the
Arabian story."
The question raised by these remarks of Mr. Jacquemart
has lately been taken up again, and the origin of the céladon
dishes found in Arab countries, and there called martabani, has
become the subject of an unusually warm controversy. A
well-known Arabist, Professor Karabacek, of Vienna, in an
able essay, entitled "Zur muslimischen Keramik," and
published in the "Oesterreichische Monatsschrift für den
Orient,"
,"60 has advanced the theory that these céladon
porcelains are not of Chinese origin. On having discussed
the terminology of pottery articles as described in Arab
sources, the learned author says:
"So far, we may say, the terminology of Muslimic
porcelains has been exhausted, with the exception of one
name, viz., Martabûnî."
"While reserving to myself a more detailed discussion
upon this subject, I wish to state briefly that this name is
throughout the Muslimic Orient applied to the finest Céladon
porcelain, and that there cannot be the slightest doubt as to
this terminology."
"As it would take us too far away from the subject in hand,
I am not going to enlarge upon the question, naturally
resulting therefrom, as to the period at which the Arabs
became first acquainted with Chinese porcelain, although it
appears to me that the answer to this question and the fixing of
60 Vol. X, December 1884, p. 281 seqq.

152
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
the starting-point will at the same time be attended with real
progress in settling the doubts prevailing in respect to the
invention of porcelain in China."
"I, therefore, deal at once with another question, which, with
regard to the subject now in hand, is of much greater impor-
tance, viz., Has porcelain ever been produced on Islam
territory?"
Professor Karabacek endeavours to disperse what he con-
siders a prejudice, viz., the idea that during the middle ages
China was the only country where porcelain came from.
Wherever porcelain had been found under circumstances
suggesting great age, a class of scholars who, in the learned
professor's opinion are as exclusive as the Chinese themselves,
and who may be comprised under the name of "sinologues,"
came forward to claim the product as Chinese manufacture
sent abroad by the early traders to the Indian or Arabian
countries where they had been discovered. Professor
Karabacek, on the other hand, is of opinion that certain
porcelains, especially the "large, heavy, thick, green céladon
dishes with the well-known ferruginous ring on the bottom,
which have been found spread over all the countries of Arab
civilisation are not of Chinese origin. It appears that
either these heavy céladons or some articles related to them
are known in Arab literature by the name of Martabani.
Whether this name is, or is not, correctly applied to them
(a question which in the absence of local experience I would
never venture to decide), so much seems certain from Kara-
bacek's researches, that the celebrated encyclopædist Hâdschi
Chalfa, who died in A.D. 1658, says that "the precious,
magnificent céladon dishes and other vessels seen in his time
were manufactured and exported at Martabân in Pegu."
On this passage he mainly bases his theory of the non-Chinese
provenance of these characteristic porcelains. Against this,
"

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
153
the Chinese origin was again upheld by Dr. A. B. Meyer,
who maintains that, apart from the passage referred to, no
evidence can be brought forward to show that real porcelain
was made at Mulmein (Martaban), Rangoon, or Bangkok,62
but that porcelain was there of old as on the present day
imported from China. Dr. Meyer justly draws attention
to a number of passages from Ibn Batuta and other
Western travellers, to show that lively traffic in Chinese
porcelain existed in those days. At this point the question
assumes a polemic character, Professor Karabacek63 bringing
forward, from Arab and other sources, a further array of
arguments, in order to prove his case. Being an entire
stranger to Arab literature, and in the absence of any local
information as to the finds of céladon vessels in Western
Asia, India or Siam, I could never dare to say a decisive
word in so intricate a difficulty. It is, moreover, impossible
to form an opinion on articles one has never seen; for I have
to entirely depend on the authority of others, who declare
that céladon vessels possessing all the characteristics of
certain Chinese manufactures have been found in all parts of
the world formerly ruled over by the Arabs, such as Morocco,
61 Ueber die Herkunft gewisser Seladon-Porzellane und über die
Martabani's" in Oesterr. Monatsschr. für den Orient, Vol. XI, January
1885, p. 11 seqq.
62 The Tung-hsi-yang-l'ao (*), published about the year
1618 (Wylie, p. 47) and containing minute accounts of all the articles of
trade of the several countries with which China had commercial relations
in that period, devotes 22 pages to a description of Siam and gives a list of
38 articles of trade produced in, or exported from, that country. But
nowhere have I found an allusion to export trade in Porcelain in this
account. The only passage I have so far discovered in a Chinese author as
showing that porcelain was sent to China from abroad is a list of articles of
tribute sent to the court of the Ming emperors by the king of Bengal (such
tribute missions are stated to have gone forward from Bengal in A.D. 1408,
1414 and 1436). The Hsi-yang-kung-tien-lu (), ch. 2,
p. 11, enumerates among others presents: horses, saddles, glass-ware and
"white porcelain with blue (green?) ornaments" (E).
63 "Die Martabâni-Seladon-Frage," ibid, p. 29 seqq.

154
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
Egypt, Arabia, Persia, the East Coast of Africa; also in
India, Borneo, Ceram and other islands of the Archipelago.
Dr. A. B. Meyer, a few years ago, drew my attention to
this fact, and in order to enable me to make enquiries in
China regarding the origin of these porcelains, gave me the
following description of what may be considered their
characteristics:
"The céladon porcelain is extremely heavy. It is of
a light green colour, and I believe that, in selecting this hue,
the makers intended to imitate the colour of jadestone, and
that this was the reason why it was so much appreciated.
The articles which have been found in various countries
between the island of Ceram 64 on the one hand and Africa
on the other consist in dishes measuring up to about half a
metre, covered by green enamel all over with the exception
of a ring on the bottom, 1 to 2 centimetres in breadth and
holding from about 10 to 15 centimetres in diameter, and
being red-brown in colour. The paste consists of white
porcelain, but it appears that the red-brown colour of the
ring has its origin in certain changes of colour produced on
the surface of the paste in such parts as are not covered
by the enamel, that is, the ring on which the vessel stood,
while being fired. The ring on the bottom is characteristic
of these old céladons, and so is the heaviness and the colour.
The musters are of all possible kinds. Thus, for instance, the
fluted pattern is often seen. It is, like all ornaments
65
64 Chinese porcelain has been lately discovered in tombs as far east and
south as the Key Islands. See Verhandlungen der Berliner Ges.f. Anthrop.,
Ethnol. u. Urgeschichte, 1887, p. 328.
65 Prof. Karabacek in his second paper, l.c., p. 34, is at some pains to
show that this fluted pattern (Radialstreifen) is a specific ornament of
Siamese civilisation. It is a peculiar coincidence that, when I began my
search for céladons in China, the very first dish that fell into my hands
showed the fluted pattern. I have since seen numbers of them with the
identical decoration; nor is the fluted pattern confined to céladons or even
porcelains in general. The ancient copper vessels of the Chou dynasty have
it as well as the Greek pattern. Its very simplicity makes it the natural
beginning of all ornamental art.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
155
shown in these porcelains, produced by first impressing or
engraving it on the paste previous to the enamelling. By
putting on the enamel, the concave parts of the surface,
representing the pattern, were filled up deeper with this
semi-transparent material than the plain parts of the sur-
face, for which reason the white paste shines through in
brighter tints where the enamel is thin, whereas the pattern
appears in a somewhat darker shade. I have seen the lotus
flower in the middle of these dishes, or the fish ornament, or
some sort of a checkered pattern spread over the whole
surface. These dishes never bear a mark underneath the
enamel; it appears therefrom that they were made at a time
when the custom of marking the period of manufacture did
not yet exist. I daresay you will be able to tell me which
is the earliest date when such marks were used."66
Dr. Meyer
66 The custom of placing on record the date or period when a work of
art had seen the light is probably nearly as old as art itself in China. The
oldest sacrificial vessels, a description of which has been preserved in the
Po-ku-t'u-lu, viz., the bronze vases, tripods, etc., of the Shang dynasty
(B.C. 1766 to 1122) contained inscriptions, some of which represented the
names of monarchs. Cf. Thoms, "Description of Ancient Chinese Vases,
etc.," in J. R. A. S., Vol. 1, p. 57 seqq. and 213 seqq. Date inscriptions were
quite common during the Han dynasty. I have seen bricks containing a
clearly defined date of the Han dynasty. Bricks of city walls will often be
found to contain dates. I saw numbers of them recently immured in the
city wall of Kia-ting near Shanghai; they were marked with the reign of
Kia-tsing of the Ming dynasty (A.D. 1522 to 1567) and looked very well
preserved. Since that city had been destroyed and burned by the Japanese
in 1552, as I learned from a memorial tablet in one of the Kia-ting temples,
the mark on these bricks suggests the date of one of the several renovations
the wall has undergone in the course of centuries. I have no doubt that
marks were not confined to bricks during the Han dynasty, and that, if
we possessed a number of earthen vessels of that period, some of the better
ones would also bear marks. Unfortunately, my experience in this respect
is very limited. The oldest date I have seen on a piece of porcelain is that
on a pot of crackled Chün-yao of very ancient looks and declared a Sung
manufacture, at all events by the Chinese connoisseurs to whom I have
shown it. The inscription is chiselled into the bottom, which is, of course,
not covered by the enamel, and reads *, ta-sung-jên-chung,
referring to the Emperor Jên-chung of the Sung dynasty, whose reign
extends from A.D. 1023 to 1064. I bought it out of a collection said to
have come from the estate of the late banker Hu Sin-yang at Hangchow.
Julien's authorities mention the Ching-tê period (A.D. 1004 to 1008) as a
mark used in King-tê-chên, but it seems doubtful whether the custom

156
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
goes on to speak of certain marks which were seen engraved
on the bottom of some of the céladon dishes, which Prof.
Karabacek had declared to be of Siamese origin. The three
marks communicated by Karabacek are the following:
S
Of these the first is admitted to strongly resemble the
sign used in the Chinese running hand style for liu, six.
The third one has a decided similarity to Chinese, the
running hand sign for wu, five. The middle one is ex-
plained by Prof. Karabacek as representing the letter L in
the Peguan alphabet; however, this says not much, since
the mark is specially described as "tief eingegraben, mit
ausgezackten Rändern,"
,"67 which seems to be a strong hint
as to its having nothing to do with the manufacture of the
dish, since an owner's mark drilled or chiselled into the hard
paste after the completion of a vessel, may have been made
at any time and in any country.
Such is the position of the céladon controversy. Whether
the vessels referred to are, or are not, of Chinese origin,
I will not attempt to decide, and I publish these notes with the
distinct reserve that I wish not by any means to be rash in my
judgment. What I am going to suggest, however, is this, viz.:
actually originates at that time so far as other porcelains are concerned. I
may mention that Graesse (Guide de l'amateur de porcelaines et de poteries,
ed. 1880, p. 108 seq.) gives 21 marks of the Northern Sung dynasty, which
I must assume have been copied from the original vessels, either by himself
or by the authors of the catalogues from which he has compiled his guide-
book. In no case, however, may the absence of a mark be considered as
indicating great age. Monochrome porcelains especially are seldom marked,
no matter in what century they were made.
67 Monatschrift, etc., Vol. XI, p. 33. An interesting paper, recapitulating
the whole question, has since been published by Mr. George Müller-Beeck
in the Mittheilungen der Deutschen Gesellschaft f. Natur-u. Völkerkunde
Ostasiens.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
157
1. That thick and heavy céladon porcelains possessing
all the characteristics of the vessels, which I am
informed by Dr. Meyer were found in the former
Arab possessions and colonies, India and the Indian
Archipelago, are to be found in quantities in China
at the present day;
2. That although imitated in China, Japan and other
countries at present, specimens possessing the true
characteristics are declared by the Chinese familiar
with the local tradition to be several centuries old,
some of them dating as far back as the 12th century
A.D.;
3. That the place where originally nearly all these
céladons were made was at the city of Lung-ch'üan
(Lat. 28° 08', Long. 119° 09') during the Sung and
Yüan dynasties, and at Ch'u-chou-fu (Lat. 28° 26',
Long. 119° 57') since the beginning of the Ming
dynasty, say about A.D. 1400; both these cities
being situated in the south-west of the province of
Chêkiang;
4. That in all probability the Lung-ch'üan porcelains
were brought by river to Zaitun, one of the ports in
Amoy waters frequented by foreign traders, for ex-
portation abroad during the Sung, Yüan and Ming
dynasties, the period when Arab trade flourished at
this port;
5. That céladon porcelain, as
Chinese porcelain
generally, was carried from China to Japan, Borneo,
Sumatra, and Arabian countries at least as early as
the thirteenth century as an article of trade, thus
accounting for the comparatively large number of
specimens discovered there.

158
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
When Dr. Meyer wrote to me about the céladon question
in 1885, I had not yet paid any attention to this class of
article, which is not only of ceramic interest, but also of a
certain importance in the elucidation of commercial relations of
the East during the Marco Polo period. I began then to
search for specimens in Shanghai, and since, after the death of
Hu Sin-yang, the well-known financial operator at Hang-
chow and the owner of vast ceramic treasures, a number of
curious objects, including many ancient porcelains, had
reached the Shanghai market through various channels, the
difficulty of obtaining specimens was not great. I soon dis-
covered that porcelains, consisting of dishes, bowls, cups, vases,
censers, indeed almost every class of object which is usually
represented by this material in China, and possessing all the
qualities attributed to the céladons found in Western Asia and
Africa, viz., thickness, heaviness, rich olive or sea-green
enamel, the white paste and the characteristic ferruginous
ring on the bottom, are well known among the Chinese; that
they are all of them credited with great age, a few specimens
being agreed by all natives who are supposed to take interest
in the matter to have been made during the Sung dynasty.
My enquiries among the natives have convinced me in one
respect, viz., that, whereas with regard to many other antiqui-
ties it is often difficult to find two Chinese that agree, a most
decided uniformity of opinion prevails about this class of por-
celain. There is not an intelligent native student in China
who is not able to pick out a piece of Lung-ch'üan-yao, or a
Lung-ch'üan-ti,68 for such is the colloquial designation in the
north, from a large collection of similar objects without the
slightest hesitation. Further, there is only one opinion as to
the age of those specimens which are not wanting in any of the
characteristics. For, since the paste is originally white,
68 龍泉的

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
159
which may be proved by examining a broken specimen,
whereas all parts of the surface which were not covered by
enamel have turned red or brown in the fire, we have before
us an earth possessing a natural quality not possessed by
the produce of other kilns, viz., that of changing colour in
the fire. I understand from my Chinese informants that this
peculiarity cannot be imitated, not even at King-tê-chên, and
that in order to produce the ferruginous ring in other white
porcelains the bottom must be coloured artificially. This is
one of the chief characteristics, and one of the tests applied
by the natives consists in looking for accidental patches or
little spots where the enamel for some reason or other has
allowed the raw paste to look out, these spots coming forward
against the intentions of the manufacturer, since they reduce
the value of the vessel; if the colour of these patches is
genuine like that of the ring, it helps to increase the con-
fidence in its age, which, in all cases, must be of a date prior
to the closing of the factories at Lung-ch'üan and Ch'u-chou,
the original provenance. About this last point I have not yet
found any literary data, and it appears that we are entirely
dependent upon native tradition, by which no porcelain of this
class was made in that district since the beginning of this
dynasty, say the 17th century. To confirm or contradict this
important fact, careful local enquiry will be necessary.
The characteristics of this Lung-ch'üan-yao are also
peculiar to some specimens of another class of porcelain
known as Ko-yao. Under this name the greater part of all
Chinese crackled porcelain is sold; but we have to distinguish
between real or old Ko-yao and the Ko-yao of King-tê-
chên. The former is made of the same material as the
Lung-ch'üan-yao, is also as a rule thick and heavy, has the
ferruginous ring, the paste being white inside, but the
69 古哥窑

160
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
enamel is crackled and has a greenish (céladon) tint. 70 Since
both classes of porcelain were made in the same locality and
at the same periods, they should be treated together. The
Lung-ch'uan-yao and the Ko-yao, in other words the
plain and the crackled old céladon, are a pair of twin bro-
thers, very much alike in bone and flesh and offering none
but superficial differences. This fact has been well expressed
in a legend preserved in old Chinese records, which may or
may not be based on matter of fact, viz., that a pair of
brothers, Chang the elder and Chang the younger, were the
fathers of the two industries. In submitting a translation of
what the T'ao-shuo has to say on the two kinds of céladon,
I am guided by the idea that they are practically different
branches of the same industry. I would recommend the
student to compare by way of supplement the translations
of Julien and Eitel, 71 but to remember that in either version
the word ch'ing has been rendered by "blue" or "azure"
instead of "green."
Extracts from the Tao-shuo (ch. 2, p. 10 seqq.)
1. "The Ko-yao of the Sung Dynasty."
"The porcelain factories of Liu-t'ien at Lung-ch'üan" were
originally in the hands of two brothers, natives of Ch'u-chou,
whose surname was Chang, the elder of whom was
called Sheng-i (i.e., the first born), whereas the younger
brother's name was Shêng-êrh (i.e., the second born).
70 I am in doubt whether the "rice-coloured" specimens were made at
Lung-ch'üan, although some Chinese records say that this was the case.
Julien, p. 70: "On n'en estimait que deux sortes, celles qui étaient couleur
de riz, et celles d'un bleu [i.e. green, ch'ing] pâle dont l'émail était
parfaitement pur."
71
China Review, Vol. x, p. 309 seqq., and Vol. XI, p. 177 seq.
72 龍泉琉田

162
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
Kuan and Ko have been preserved to the present day, but it
is only the Ko-yao, of which it is not too difficult to obtain
specimens, owing to their peculiar heaviness, which enables
them to keep well, whereas it was difficult to preserve the
Ting and Ju porcelains for such a length of time.'
7. "The Lung-ch'uan-yao of the Sung Dynasty.
This is the pottery made by Chang Shêng-êrh, i.e. Chang
the younger, and since the porcelain made by the elder
brother was already called Ko-yao, while the younger brother
continued his factory at Lung-ch'üan, the old name of this
porcelain was Lung-ch'uan-yao.'
8.-"The Pai-shih-lei-p'ien says: The porcelain of
Lung-ch'uan is up to the present day called Chang-yao
[i.e. Chang's Porcelain] by the people of Wên-chow and
Ch'u-chow.'
9. "The Ko-ku-yao-lun (A.D. 1387) says: "The old
Lung-ch'üan-yao is now called Ch'u-ch'i [Ware of Ch'u-chou-
fu] or Ching-ch'i [Green Ware]. Old Ch'ing-ch'i [Green
Ware], if fine and thin in paste and of ts'ui-ch'ing-green
colour 8 is highly valued. There are specimens which are of
a pale ch'ing-green colour, 83 and there is a variety consisting
of basins which have a pair of fishes at the bottom or have
on the outer side brass rings serving as handles; they are of
thick and heavy make and not very superior.'
10. "The Po-wu-yao-lan says: 'The better specimens of
Lung-ch'uan porcelain are able to compete with Kuan-yao
and Ko-yao; but there is not much in the way of a crackled
surface or a brown paste; and owing to their being thick and
82 lit. Kingfisher's green. It is the green of luxuriant foliage,
as I conclude from a quotation in the Pei-wên-yün-fu, under this head:
****The green jadestone earrings, hairpins and other
ornaments worn by Chinese women are of the stone called fei-ts'ui-yü
E, lit. Kingfisher's jade.
83, lit. a mealy or mellow green.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
163
solid in make, they can stand a very good deal of wear and
tear and will not easily spoil.'
11. "The Ching-pi-tsang says: 'Old Lung-ch'üan porce-
lain is fine in paste, thick in make, and has an intense
onion-green or tree-green colour. 85 The better specimens
may compete with the Kuan-yao; but there is not much in
the way of a crackled surface, a brown paste and an iron
foot. Moreover, they can stand a very good deal of wear
and tear and will not easily spoil. But as the manufacturers
were somewhat clumsy, the workmanship shown in these porce-
lains cannot be classed as representing the ancient elegance in
style. When the white paste is so covered with green enamel
that, at the places where it is not put on thick, white patches will
shine through,-this is the porcelain burned by Chang Shêng
of the Sung dynasty and therefore called Chang-yao; when
compared to the [ordinary] Lung-ch'üan it displays greater
delicacy of workmanship.'
12. "The Chun-feng-t'ang-sui-p'is says: The green
porcelain made by the younger brother was pure and clear
like fine jadestone and much valued by the world; it re-
sembled the Kuan-yao in make. The porcelain made by the
elder brother was of a fainter colour.""
The author of the Tao-shuo remarks with reference to the
above extracts:
13. "If the P'ai-shih-lei-p'ien says with regard to the
manufactures of Chang the elder and Chang the younger
that their colour was green, though of different shades, that
their bottoms were iron coloured and that this colour was
86 春風堂隨筆
84 清秘藏
85 葱翠

164
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
also of different shades, that in olden times red bottoms were
heard of, though these were now seldom seen; and if the
Ko-ku-yao-lun also says that the colour of the old Ko-yao
was green of various shades; that it had iron coloured
bottoms with red mouths, and that the ancient Lung-ch'üan
green ware was of fine and thin paste, that leaf-green
specimens were valuable; and if the expressions "old"
and "ancient" in these remarks refer to the manufactures
of Chang the elder and Chang the younger, there should
have been no great difference between the two kinds from the
outset. The distinction mainly lies therein that the elder
brother made crackled porcelain, whereas the younger
worked uncrackled musters. The remark that the elder
brother made pale coloured specimens, the younger brother
thick and heavy porcelain, does certainly not refer to the
early time of the Chang family. Imitations of Ko-yao were
made at the end of the Yüan dynasty [in the middle of the
14th century]; the paste of which they were made was coarse
and scorched, and the colour was not good. 87 The Lung-
ch'üan factories were moved to Ch'u-chou-fu88 at the
beginning of the Ming dynasty [A.D. 1368]. The
porcelains made here were also green in colour, but the
porcelain earth while being burned would gradually not come
up to what it was before. It is said in the T'ung-ya of Fang
Mi-chihs that, to imitate the Ko-yao crackle it is impossible
to make the iron coloured bottom; if the imitated article yet
has this characteristic, the porcelain will not ring; and in
the like manner it is impossible to imitate the pale [céladon?]
colour of the Lung-ch'üan porcelain; if the imitation is yet
87 This remark occurs in the Ko-ku-yao-lun quoted in Ko-chih-ching-
yüan, ch. 36, p. 16.
88
about 75 miles down river in an easterly direction, half
way between Lang-ch'üan and Wen-chow.
89 See above note 51.
90 淡色

TH
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
165
pale coloured, it will not ring. This is one of the points in
which the superiority of the old becomes apparent.
"Further, the Po-wu-yao-lan says: 'Of Kuan-yao as well
as of Ko-yao vessels there are at this time pieces which have
changed colour during the firing (Yao-p'ien) and exhibit
figures resembling butterflies, birds, fishes, unicorns, or
leopards inasmuch as the colour in part of the original
enamel has by some unaccountable process during the firing,
undergone a transmutation into light brown or red brown."
[The remainder of the text quotes poetry and anecdote.]
The above records, translated from the T'ao-shuo may be
supplemented in some details from other records; but on the
whole the student will find that, on reading them together
with what he finds on Lung-ch'üan and Ko-yao, porcelains in
Julien's work and Dr. Eitel's renderings, he is in the
possession of nearly all the Chinese have to say on the subject.
The Che-chiang-t'ung-chih 1 contains an extract from the
local chronicle of the place, the Lung-ch'üan-hsien-chih,"
which speaks of the brothers Chang as the creators of the
well-known factories, "whose life-time is unknown." The
article produced by the younger brother is described as
"unsurpassed in its greenish lustre and pure and flawless
like handsome jadestone;" indeed, "any vase or dish made of
this material changed hands at the price of upwards of ten
taels."
The articles produced by the two brothers, i.e. the
oldest specimens known of the two classes of pottery, it is
stated, "are found among the household treasures of the
present generation, and are all the more difficult to be got."
According to another source, quoted in the work just men-
tioned, the Ch'i-hsiu-lei-k'ao, the brothers Chang lived
92 龍泉縣志
01 浙江志,ch. 107, p.28.
3. Cf. the P'ai-shih-lei-p'ien quoted in Ko-chih-ch'ing-
yüan, ch. 36, p. 15.

166
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
95
during the Southern Sung dynasty (A.D. 1127 to 1280), so
that we may be justified in assuming the Lung-ch'üan
céladon industry to date from some time in the twelfth century
A. D. A further quotation from a work called the Shu-yüan-
tsa-chi reveals the fact that there were two factories at Lung-
ch'üan; that the best ch'ing-tz'u or green (céladon) porcelain
was produced in Liu-t'ien 5 sixty li away from Lung-ch'üan,
and that an inferior article came from a village called Chin-
ts'un. The former place, we learn from the Kuang-yü-chi,97
was situated at the foot of a hill called Liu-hua-shan, 98 on the
top of which there was a lake of unsoundable depth, and the
inhabitants of Liu-t'ien formerly made their livings of the
pottery trade.
11. MEDIEVAL TRADE IN PORCELAIN.
To understand the position which a place of such im-
portance as the Lung-ch'üan district held in the porcelain
trade of the thirteenth century, we must consider what
channels of traffic led away from it to the leading coast-ports
of the time. These were during the Arab period Hang-chow,
the present capital of Chê-kiang, the Quinsai of Marco Polo,
and the port known as Zaitun, whether we may decide to look
for this crux of sinologues at Ch'üan-chou-fu, the site selected
by Klaproth and others before him, or at Chang-chou-fu with
its harbour at Geh-kong, or whether we follow the late
Dr. Douglas, 100 in making a compromise between the two
Wên-liang of the Ming dynasty. See
96 金村
94, by Lu
Bretschneider, Bot. Sin., p. 189.
95 劉田
97, ch. 11, p. 2. This is the work from which Biot drew his
information in compiling his "Dictionnaire des villes, etc., de l'empire
chinois."
98 琉華山.
99 See Phillips in J.R.G.S., Vol. XLIV, p. 97 seqq., and Chinese Recorder,
Vol. v, p. 327 seqq., and Vol. VI, p. 31 seqq.
100 J.R.G.S., Vol. XLIV.

"
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
167
extremes by declaring that Zaitun meant as much as "Amoy
waters generally. So much seems certain that, during the
Sung dynasty, traffic from Lung-ch'üan to either place did
not move to the east down to Wên-chow, but north and south
overland by river. The journey to Lung-ch'üan has been
lately performed by Mr. E. H. Parker, from whose account 101
it seems that the Wên-chow River which, on the map, appears
as the nearest outlet to the sea, is not favourable to navigation
owing to its shallowness and the obstruction of rapids, and that
there is hardly any traffic to be met with except in the most
miserable local craft. Mr. Parker gives us a different idea of
the river leading from the north of Lung-ch'üan, beyond the
hills, past Yen-chou to Hang-chow. Its trade in junks was
equal to half that between Ch'ung-k'ing and Sha-shih on the
Yangtze. In order to reach Amoy from Hang-chow overland,
a traveller leaves his boat and the last branch of the Hang-chow
River, in the neighbourhood of Lung-ch'üan; after a short
passage across the hills he hires a boat again and, starting
on the river of P'u-ch'êng on the boundary of Fukien,102 may
continue his journey by water, with only one interruption, as
far as Chang-chou or Amoy. In crossing the provincial
frontier from the Fukien side near P'u-ch'êng, Mr. Parker
abandoned the standard route leading north to connect with
Hang-chow waters, but, in order to reach Wên-chow, went
east to Lung-ch'uan. Between P'u-ch'êng and Lung-ch'üan
he "found a thickly populated and prosperous country, and
an excellent level road through the mountains." Every-
where in the neighbourhood of that city traces of wealth were
seen in the shape of public works, such as "a beautifully
paved, roofed and pavelled bridge," etc., although nowadays
"the district produces almost nothing for export beyond
101
Journal of the C.B. of the R.A.S., Vol. XIX, p. 27 seqq.
102 Parker, l.c., p. 87.

168
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
lumber and bamboo, the latter being sent to Shao-hsing near
Hangchow for use in the manufacture of fans."
It may be concluded from all this that the district of Lung-
ch'üan, which is now as poor as its neighbours, has had ample
resources in former centuries; the account of a level road cut
through the hills to P'u-ch-êng sounds like a wonder in such
an out-of-the way corner of a Chinese province; and it leaves
little doubt that the outward traffic of the district followed
the main route down the Fu-kien rivers to the great markets
on the coast of that province. This main route of overland
traffic, connecting at Hang-chow with the southern end of
the Grand Canal, follows the Chien-tang River up to beyond
Ch'ü-chou-fu; north of P'u-ch'êng-hsien in Fu-kien the
Southern Range is crossed, whence river passage is continued
by way of Yen-p'ing-fu to Yung-an hsien; there, after a
short trip by land, the river of Chang-chou-fu is joined at
Ning-yang-hsien.103 This route, which is used at the present
day by travellers fearing the perils of a sea voyage, was of
much greater importance in the days of Marco Polo, who
performed the same journey either wholly or partly in
A.D. 1288; for, as we learn from the historical records
respecting "grain transport' 104 it was only a few years
previous to this that the taxes paid in kind by the coast
provinces to the Mongol Court were entrusted to sea-going
junks, viz., in the 19th year of Chih-yüan, i.e. A.D. 1282; the
river passage, we may conclude therefrom, was then considered
a safer conveyance for merchandize; and if we are at all
entitled to assume that céladon porcelain was shipped abroad
103 See the Chinese itinerary Shih-wo-chou-hsing (1),
Vol. 11, p. 43: Chang-chou-fu to Yen-p'ing-fu; Vol, I. pp. 3 to 6: Yen-
ping-fu to Pu-ch'êng-hsien; Vol. I. pp. 7 to 12: P'u-ch'êng-hsien to
Ch'i-chou-fu on the Chien-t'ang River. I would ask the reader to trace
this route on any detailed map of China.
104. See Yüan-chien-lei-han, ch. 135, p. 17.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
169
by Arab traders at Zaitun, it seems natural that the Lung-
ch'üan cargoes joined the main route, from Hang-chow to
Amoy waters at P'u-ch'êng-hsien.
Now let us examine the facts relating to the porcelain
trade as stated by Marco Polo, the oldest of the European
writers who have at all mentioned this remarkable product
in their accounts. Speaking of the port of Zaitun, he says:
"The river that flows by the port of Zaitun is large and
rapid, and is a branch of that which passes the city of Kinsai
[Hangchow]. At the place where it separates from the
principal channel stands the city of Tingui. 105 Of this place
there is nothing further to be observed, than that cups or
bowls and dishes of porcelain ware are there manufactured.
They collect a certain kind of earth, etc., etc."
One has to know the style of Marco Polo's sketches, in
order to realise what he means by this passage. To him, the
two short trips by land, which may have detained the river
passage by a day or so, do not count in a boat journey of
several weeks; so far as his memory goes, he travelled by
river all the distance; but he recollects that, having started on
the river of Kinsai (Hangchow) which he describes as the
principal channel, he has to leave that river, to cross the hills,
and to join the river branch, for such it is in his eyes, that
leads to Zaitun. In this part of his journey, at P'u-ch'êng-
hsien, he found himself within a few miles of the porcelain
factories of Lung-ch'üan, and if the "excellent level road
through the hills" tried by Mr. Parker existed in those days,
the traveller must have been aware of his having passed the
place where all the céladon porcelains were made which he
afterwards found on the Zaitun market, awaiting exportation
105 Tiunguy, Pauthier, p. 532; Tyunju, Yule, Vol. II. p. 218. The above
quotation is from Ramusio's text as translated by Marsden, regarding which
see Yule, Vol. I, pp. 94 seqq. Yule's own version, though differently
worded, is entirely identical in the sense. I have not seen the Italian text."

170
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
through Arab traders to the various countries to which Arab
trade extended.
It seems to me that all this is very much in favour of
my identification of Marco Polo's Tingui with the city of
Lung-ch'üan. Colonel Yule, 106 who unfortunately was not
in the possession of these details of the Chinese side of the
question, is at some pains to show that the place referred to
by Polo must have been the porcelain city of King-tê-chên.
A river connection between this place and the Amoy or
Zaitun waters would not have been an impossibility, if we
allow for interruption by short overland passages; moreover,
since porcelain was not too many years ago taken in great
quantities from King-tê-chên by river across the Mei-ling
Pass to Canton, where it was painted for the European
market, nothing could prevent us to assume that a similar
route may have existed for transport to Zaitun; but I cannot
see what, in this case, could have possibly induced the
traveller to allude to its connection with the river of Kinsai.
And if we enquire into the relative importance of the two
places just at that time, it seems to me that Lung-ch'üan
was very much ahead of its rival. I have every reason to
believe that the King-tê-chên factories have in no way
participated in the porcelain export trade described by Marco
Polo. The varieties which came to the market of Zaitun were
according to Ibn Batuta "exported all over the world," and
were according to Marco Polo very cheap; the porcelain of
King-tê-chên was of high finish and, therefore, dear if at
all obtainable, and trade in it was not encouraged. This is
the natural conclusion we have to arrive at after the perusal
of the passages which tell us that during the Sung and Yüan
dynasties (i.e. since the beginning of the industry up to
about A.D. 1368) no porcelain was there made except by
106 Following Hugh Murray, Vol. II, p. 225.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
171
Imperial order and for the court. 107 The Ko-ku-yao-lun
(A.D. 1387), as quoted in the T'ao-shuo, tells us in this
connection that "the Imperial King-tê-chên porcelain" of
the Sung dynasty was thin and smooth, that it was white in
colour and had ch'ing (blue?) ornaments on it, and that it
was but slightly inferior to Ting porcelain. Moreover, the
encyclopædic works compiled soon after the Sung dynasty
mostly contain passages similar to the one I have quoted above
from the Ping-hua-p'u, in which the standard porcelains of
the Sung dynasty are enumerated; but I have nowhere seen
the King-tê-chên produce mentioned by the side of the
porcelains called Ch'ai, Ju, Ting, Kuan, Ko, Lung-ch'üan
and Chün. 108 Although existing as a domain of the court,
the factories destined to afterwards obtain proverbial fame in
the history of porcelain are not likely to have played a con-
spicuous part in the world's trade during the period preceding
the Ming dynasty.
The only place which may be said to have entered into
competition with Lung-ch'üan as a factory in the immediate
neighbourhood of Zaitun is the Tê-hua district, 109 which
formed part of the Ch'üan-chou (Chinchew) prefecture and
belongs now to the independent district of Yung-ch'un.
107 T.ao-suo, ch. 3, p.1:宋元皆有命則供否則止
According to another authority, quoted by Julien, p. 85, a register was
kept in each factory, in which the articles manufactured were entered;
clandestine manufacture was severely punished. The Chinese author con-
jectures therefrom that private factories were allowed on payment of a tax.
But the Chiang-hsi-ta-chih (k), quoted in Ko-chih-ching-
yüan, ch. 36, p. 18, is more explicit on this point in adding that "the
factories were not thrown open till the 35th year of Hung-wu (sic in
my edition, where 35 is apparently a misprint, since the Hung-wu
period extends from A.D. 1368 to 1399)."
108 None of the extracts translated by Eitel from Yüan and Ming
authors contains any mention of King-tê-chên porcelains except that of the
Hsüan-tê period (A.D. 1426-36) which has, of course, nothing to do with
ante-Ming porcelains.
Too 德化縣

172
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
This is the place which Pauthier 110 thought should be
identified with Tingui. It is true that Tê-hua is only within
about sixty miles from Ch'üan-chou-fu; yet it seems to be
out of the question, since the factories there did not exist at
the time of Marco Polo, for "c'est depuis les Ming qu'on a
commencé à fabriquer des porcelaines à Te-hoa." 111 Tê-hua
has since the Ming dynasty furnished porcelains of a fascina-
ting creamy white, a distinct class, which I believe constitutes
together with the Ting-chou white pottery the article known
as "blanc de Chine," and which is now known as Kien-yao
(i.e., Fu-kien porcelain); but the term Kien-yao has, like
the term Kuan-yao, more than one meaning: the Kien-yao
of the Sung dynasty was made at Chien-an112 of Chien-ning-
fu, and later on in Chien-yang-hsien in the north of Fu-
kien, 113 a place which is not much nearer to the probable
site of Zaitun than Lung-ch'üan. The author of the
T'ao-shuo, like Pauthier, apparently confounds the two
places, forgetting to distinguish between the Kien-yao now
in the trade, which came from Tê-hua, and the Kien-yao of
the Sung dynasty.114
If we consider that the porcelains made at Lung-ch'üan,
viz., the plain and crackled céladons, are in all old Chinese
records mentioned among the standard kinds beside the Ting,
Chün, Kuan and Ju potteries; and that specimens correspond-
ing in every respect not only with the description of Lung-
ch'üan ware furnished in the earliest books on record, such
as the Ko-ku-yao-lun, but also with the numerous relics still
110 Le livre de Marco Polo, p. 532, note 4. Pauthier quotes Ibn Batuta,
who says: "On ne fabrique pas en Chine la porcelaine, si ce n'est dans les
villes de Zeitoun et Sin-calân (Canton)." We know for certain that neither
of the two places, taking it for granted that the second name stands for
Canton, contained porcelain factories at the time, but that potteries existed.
in various other parts of the empire; and there can be no doubt that
the Arab traveller confounds the places of manufacture with those of
exportation.
111 Julien, p. 29.
112.
113 Julien, p. 18,
114 T'ao-shuo, ch. 2, p. 15,

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
173
existing, have been found in nearly all the countries to which
Arab trade extended; Marco Polo's remarks as to the site of
his porcelain town of Tingui seem to contain a broad hint
regarding the identification of this mysterious name.
So far about facts. To explain the name we cannot expect
Marco Polo's ear to have been more successful in catching the
exact sound of this as of most other names which occur in his
work, especially since he had to pass through regions where
dialects quite different from the northern idiom were spoken.115
During the Sung dynasty Lung-ch'üan was called Chien-
ch'uan. 116 The first of these two syllables belongs to a
group of sounds which may be pronounced dji" in the Shang-
hai dialect; and tien, tin or tiun for chien or kien would by
no means be an impossibility in these parts of China; the
vulgar pronunciation in the Fukien dialect of the second
syllable is chuig (Medhurst, p. 132). It is hardly necessary
to say more to those who are acquainted with the spelling of
Chinese names as handed down in the texts of Marco Polo's
Travels.
If once we have realised the fact that the céladon vessels
of the Sung and Yüan dynasties were to be found on the
market of Zaitun, there is little difficulty in showing how
their appearance in the Arab possessions and other foreign
countries may be accounted for. The Western sources descri-
bing or alluding to that lively trade carried on by the Arabs
between Zaitun and Arabia with the intermedial countries are
well known, and in order to avoid repetition, I confine myself to
referring the reader to such works as Yule's Cathay and Marco
Polo, Heyd's Histoire du commerce du levant au moyen âge and
115 Mr. Parker, l.c., p. 29, says: "The dialects of Tsing-t'ien and Ch'u-
chow [the prefecture in which Lung-ch'üan is situated] differ from that of
Wênchow about as much as the broad Hunan dialects differ from ordinary
Kwan-hwa. The dialect of Wênchow is the broadest, and the divergencies
of the Ts'ing-tien or Ch'u-chow dialects are generally nearer approaches to
the standard sounds."
See Playfair, No. 4650,
116

174
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
von Richthofen's China. Apart from Marco Polo's remarks on
the subject, Ibn Batuta speaks of porcelain as an article
which is in China of about the same value as earthenware is
in Arabia, and he states distinctly that it is exported to India
and elsewhere, passing from country to country till it reaches
Morocco. So far, Marco Polo seems to be the first Western
author who alludes to the trade in this commodity. I am in
the position to quote some remarks from a Chinese author
who, in all probability, wrote some time before Marco.
At the beginning of the 15th century, Yung-lo, the second
in the series of Ming Emperors, ordered the compilation of
a gigantic work, similar to the T'u-shu-chi-ch'êng of the last
century, and the manuscript known as the Yung-lo-ta-tien, 118
a copy of which, Mayers says, still exists in the Library of
the Han-lin college, was accordingly submitted to the
throne in A.D. 1407. The work being found too extensive,
it has never been completely printed, but in the manuscript
collection a number of rare works of periods preceding the
Yüan dynasty has been preserved which would otherwise
be lost; "and thus it has been possible to compile them
afresh and re-edit their texts, which by this means have once
more made their appearance in the world." The Emperor
Kien-lung had reprints made of the more important texts,
which have thus gone into circulation again on having been
dormant in a manuscript collection for over three hundred
years.
Among the works thus saved from oblivion is the Chu-
fan-chil of Chao Ju-kua. 119 The original edition of this
117 Yule, Cathay, p. 489.
118. See Wylie, p. 148 seq.; Mayers in China Review,
Vol. VI, p. 215 seqq.; Ssu-ku-chuan-shu-tsung-mu, ch. 137, p. 24 seqq.
119, in two books. See Ssu-ku-chan-shu-tsung-
mu, ch. 71, p. 10. The book is exceedingly rare, although it has been
reprinted more than once. A copy is apparently contained in the

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
175
book had been lost long ago, when the manuscript copy
contained in the Yung-lo-ta-tien was reprinted under Kien-
lung. 120
The author, Chao Ju-kua, it is stated by his
contemporary Ch'ên Chên-sun, held the post of Shih-po, 121
or Inspector of Foreign trade and shipping, in Fukien
during the Sung dynasty. I conclude from internal evidence
that the text is probably not older than the year A.D. 1205,
since a tribute mission from the Arabs to the coast of China
is mentioned in it as having taken place during the period
K'ai-hsi (A.D. 1205 to 1208). In his description of
Baghdad, Chao Ju-kua says that its kings are descendants of
Mohammed; this shows that he knew nothing of the over-
throw of the Abbassidan khalifate by the Mongols, which
took place in A.D. 1258. The time of Mohammed is spoken
of as "twenty-nine generations or six to seven hundred years
ago."
This would take us to some date not too long after the
year 1221.
I have dwelled at some length on this digression from the
subject in hand, as it seems necessary to prove the existence
of porcelain export trade to distant countries early during the
thirteenth century; for it is through Chao Ju-kua's work
Bibliothèque nationale of Paris. Pauthier mentions it in a footnote on
p. 53 of his De l'authenticité de l'inscription de Si-ngan-fou: "Tchou-fan-
tchi, Biblioth. imp., nouv. fonds chinois, No. 696, t. v1," and L. de Rosuy
has made use of it to a small extent in his Notices sur les îles de l'Asie
orientale (Paris, 1861).
120 Ssu-k'u-ch'üan-shu-mu-lu, ch. 7, p. 28.
121 See Ma Tuan-lin, ch. 206, p. 7. Ch'ên Chên-sun ()
a celebrated bibliophile, who published a catalogue raisonné of his own
collection of books, is said to have held office during the period Tuan-p'ing
(A.D. 1234-37). See the Imperial Catalogue, ch. 85, p. 10. Since he
mentions the Chu-fan-chih in his catalogue, this fact may be used as an
argument for Chao Ju-kua's work having existed about that time.
Unfortunately, I am not able to ascertain the date of the bibliographical
work referred to. It is not likely, though, that it appeared as late as A.D.
1277; for which reason I am now inclined to consider that author about half
a century older than I did on a former occasion (China and the Roman
Orient, p. 23 seq.)

in
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
177
"The Dyak representative of the blue-china school,
however, goes beyond the European devotee in his veneration
of old crockery. Among his greatest treasures are a series
of gudji blanga, a sort of glazed jar imported from China,
green, blue, or brown, ornamented with figures of lizards
and serpents in relief. These pots are valued at from 100
florins to as much as 3,000 florins (81. to 240l.) each,
according to size, pattern, and above all, old age combined
with good condition. According to the native legend, these
precious vases are made of the remnants of the same clay
from which "Mahatara" (the Almighty) made first the sun,
and then the moon. Medicinal virtues are attributed to
these urns, and they are regarded as affording complete pro-
tection from evil spirits to the house in which they are
stored. A very full account of the various legends connected
with these gudji blanga is given in Mr. W. T. H. Perelaer's
most interesting work, "Ethnographische Beschrijving der
Dajaks," pp. 112-120. That author, however, gives them
different names, the nearest of approach to that by which I
have always heard them called being Balanga."
"This china craze among the Dyaks has proved, as in
England, an excellent opportunity for the exercise of John
Chinaman's skill; and very clever imitations of old vases,
with cracks, chips, age-stains, and other indications of
antiquity, most exactly reproduced by them, are offered for
sale at Samarinda at five florins each; but, unlike many
London connoisseurs, your Dyak is never taken in by these
spurious gudji blangas, preferring to give hundreds of
guilders for a real specimen. Each true plastic relative of
the sun and moon has its pedigree, which is passed down
from generation to generation."
It appears that in some cases it is difficult to decide about
the provenance of the old pieces of pottery found among the

178.
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
Dyaks. Dr. Meyer, of Dresden, sent me a few years ago an old
glazed porcelain vessel with fine crackles, somewhat resembling
in shape the old céladon vessel described and represented on a
reduced scale on p. 163 of Jagor's Travels in the Philippines
(London, 1875), and which, as far as it is possible to judge
from the description (salad-green glaze and crackled), may be
a piece of crackled Lung-ch'üan or Ko-yao of the Sung or
Yüan dynasty. Dr. Meyer's pot, however, is finely crackled,
and the brown enamel as well as the general appearance of
the vessel puzzled me and my Chinese friends for a long time,
until certain analogies in the paste and the enamel led me to
believe that it is an old Chün-yao, having lost its intended
colour in the firing. I am bound to say, however, that such
identifications of old pottery are often very problematic and
as much dependent on individual judgment as similarities
existing between two human faces which may strike one
observer without being seen by another. Mr. Bock, whose
remarks on porcelain among the Dyaks I have just quoted,
has seen my collection, and informs me that vessels resembling
my old Lung-ch'üan céladons exist among the Dyaks; but it
appears that pieces of a surface which bears no resemblance
to any of the classical Sung and Yüan monochrome vessels
(Ting, Ju, Chün, Lung-ch'üan or Ko) are very common;
I am inclined to conclude therefrom that they come from
factories equally old, but less renowned, such as the place
where the Kien-yao 124 of the Sung dynasty was made, the
city of Chien-yang in the north of Fukien; this is all the
more likely since Chao Ju-kua, in his description of trade
with Borneo, specially mentions "brocades of Chien-yang" 125
124 Cf. Julien, p. 18, and p. 17, under the head of Ou-ni-yao,
(Wu-ni-yao, E), the two kinds being described under one head in
the Tao-shuo.
125 建陽錦

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
179
among the articles of import. Zaitun would have been as
near a market for the Chien-yang manufactures as it was for
those of Lung-ch'üan.
The relations between China and the island of Borneo are
probably of ancient date. I am not sure whether we may
not go beyond the author of the Hai-kuo-t'u-chih, 126 who is
joined by Mr. Groeneveldt 127 in assuming that the first
mention of Borneo is a short and doubtful passage in the
T'ang-shu referring to a tribute mission in A.D. 669. The
Liang-shu, 12
,128 the historical record describing the period
extending from A.D. 502 to 557, contains a detailed account
of the country of Po-li 129 as situated on an island in the sea
south-east of Canton, of which a translation will be found in
Groeneveldt's "Notes" (p. 80 segg). Although later Chi-
nese writers refer it to Sumatra, this identification seems
at least doubtful, and the possibility of its being a description
of some region in Borneo deserves to be considered in spite
of the traces of Buddhism contained in it. 130
opinion on this particular problem may be,
pen of Chao Ju-kua has placed on record an account of the
kingdom of Brni, 131 which, like most of his ethnographical
chapters, has furnished the basis of the account contained in
the Sung-shih. We may conclude from this account that
Whatever our
the industrious
navigation existed at the beginning of the 13th century
between Ch'üan-chou-fu in Fukien and the north-west coast
126
海國志,ch. 9, p. 10.
127 Notes on the Malay Archipelago (first edition), p. 101.
128
, ch. 51 p. 15.
129 婆利國
130 Cf. d'Hervey de Saint-Denys, Ethnogr. des peuples étrangers à la
Chine, etc., Vol. II, p. 457, note 1, where several opinions regarding this
country are mentioned. a Chinese scholar, Mr. Yang Wên-hui, being in
favour of the north-west coast of Borneo.
131
E, in Cantonese Put-ni. Regarding the linguistic identification
of this name see my notes on "Chinese Equivalents of the letter 'R' in
Foreign names," in J.C.B. of the R.A.S., Vol. XXI, p. 220.

180
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
of Borneo; that the city of Brni, wherever its site may have
been in those days, contained over ten thousand inhabitants
with a king, or chief, attended by a numerous suite and pro-
tected by a military force comprising over a hundred
"fighting-boats," his soldiers wearing copper armour. Three
days after the arrival of a Foreign vessel the king would
come on board with a large suite "to enquire after
the hardships of the journey;" the people on board
would then connect the ship with the shore by means
of a gangway covered with silk brocade to honour the
illustrious guest, and provide for a rich repast and liberal
presents for the king and the several grandees. Even then
the question of trading on shore was not spoken of, but the
king had to be further entertained with the delicacies with
which those who wished to trade to this country had to
freight their ship over and above their own provisions. This
bestowal of civilities, calculated to secure the good-will of
the monarch, lasted about a month, after which the court
regulated the conditions under which trade could be carried
on, the prices being agreed upon beforehand, and clandes-
tine trading being strictly forbidden. The king gave a grand
feast on his part when the vessel was about to return.
"the ship had to wait till the festival in honour of Buddha
on the full-moon day of the sixth month, before leaving the
anchorage; for, otherwise she would meet with bad weather
on the journey." "The Buddha of these people has no [other]
image; his dwelling consists of several storeys shaped like a
pagoda; below there is a small shrine giving shelter to two
pearls, this is called the Sacred Buddha. The natives say
that the two pearls were from the outset quite small, but
that they have grown to the size of a thumb. On the
Buddha's feast the king will in person offer flowers and
fruits for three days, when all the inhabitants, both men and
women, go there."
But

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
181
Among numerous other details regarding the manners and
customs of these tribes, which may with a certain probability
be regarded as the forefathers of the present Dyaks, Chao Ju-
kua notices their habit of using bamboo joints and the leaves
of the Palmyra palm 12 in lieu of dishes and cups, which
were thrown away after the meal was finished. This seems
to show that porcelain vessels were at the time not in vogue
for ordinary household use. Yet, our author, in his list
of articles of import, comprising foreign gold and silver coins,
imitation silk brocades, brocades of Chien-yang and other
silks, deers' horns, glass beads and glass bottles, bangles,
rouge, lacquered bowls and plates, distinctly mentions
GREEN PORCELAIN. 133 Chao Ju-kua knows nothing of the
custom, for which the Dyaks became afterwards known, of
burying the remains of their dead in earthen or porcelain
jars, since we are distinctly told that "to bury their dead
they have coffins which are brought to the hills where they
are left in tombs made of bamboo work, 134 and that they
offer sacrifice to the dead only once every year in the spring,
when ploughing is commenced, for seven consecutive years,
after which the sacrificing is given up." I may mention
that white porcelain is stated by Chao Ju-kua among the
articles of barter with which to buy incense, laka wood,
yellow wax and tortoise-shell from the natives of a number
of islands in the neighbourhood of Brni, the names of which
I am not able to identify. Whatever the use of porcelain
132 pei-to leaves.
133 Ching-tzu-chi ().
134 Cf. Bock, op. cit., p. 78 seq. "There were two forms of graves
generally adopted by the common people; one a small chamber, raised on
posts from ten to twenty feet high, in which the corpse was placed; the
other a somewhat similar structure built into a hole in the ground."
Further, "the Rajahs and the rich Dyaks do not let the bodies of their
deceased relatives remain in these burial places; but gather the bones,
after all the impurities have disappeared, place them in jars, and hide them
up far in the mountains-in caves." Mr. Bock says the Dyaks have
abandoned this practice since the supremacy of the Dutch.

182
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
vessels may have been at the time, the two passages in
Chao Ju-kua's work admit of no doubt as to its having been
imported with a certain regularity early during the 13th
century. It appears that the regular contact into which the
inhabitants of this coast came with the traders of Fukien
has tended to change their habits; for, we read in the
Tung-hsi-yang-k'ao, a work describing the far-eastern sea
trade of the 16th century and published in 1618, that "the
people of Bandjermassing 135 at first used banana leaves in
lieu of dishes, but that, since trade had been carried on with
China, they had gradually adopted the use of porcelain; that
they liked to bargain for porcelain jars, brought to them by
the Chinese, having dragons represented on their outer
surface; 136 and that they would keep the bodies of the dead
135
Wen-chi-ma-shen (X). Cf. Tung-hsi-yang-lao (
) ch. 4, p. 18; and Groeneveldt, op. cit., p. 106, where a similar account
is quoted from the Ming-shih, which in some instances copies the first-named
work.
136 "Among the Dyaks are found jars held by them in high veneration.
the manufacturers of which are forgotten; the smaller ones, among the land
and sea Dyaks are common. They are called Nagas, from the Naga, or
dragon, which is rudely traced upon them. They are glazed on the outside,
and the current value of them is 40 dollars; but those which are found
among the Kyan tribes, and those of South Borneo, and among the
Kadyans and other tribes of the north, are valued so highly as to be
altogether beyond the means of ordinary persons, and are the property of
the Malayan Rajahs, or of the chiefs of the native tribes. I never had an
opportunity of seeing one of these valued relics of antiquity, but am told
that, like the Nagas, they are glazed, but larger. They have small handles
round them, called ears, and figures of dragons are traced upon their
surface; their value is about 2,000 dollars. In the houses of their owners
they are a source of great profit, they are kept with pious care, being covered
with beautiful cloths. Water is kept in them, which is sold to the tribe,
and valued upon account of the virtues it is supposed to possess, and which
it derives from the jar which has contained it. By what people these relics
were made, and by what means they have been thus distributed and the
veneration for them so widely spread, cannot be at this time determined.
Some of the jars were sent from Banjor Massim to China by the Dutch,
who hoped to make a profitable speculation by their credulity; but the
artists of that country could not, though famed for their imitative powers,
copy these with sufficient exactness to deceive the Dyaks, who immediately
discovered they were not those they esteemed, and consequently set no
value upon them. From their price, it is presumed that these jars are very
rare." H. Low, Sarawak, quoted in J. Marryat, A History of Pottery and
Porcelain, 2nd ed., London, 1857, p. 385, note 8.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
183
in such jars instead of burying them." The use of porcelain
jars in lieu of coffins reminds one of the "potted ancestors"
so called by way of jest among foreign residents at Amoy
and Foochow, and the Fukien province is the only part of
China where, as far as my personal experience goes, the
custom of this mode of preserving the relics of dead bodies
prevails. Since the Chinese who traded to Borneo at
Chao Ju-kua's time as well as later on came from Fukien, it
looks as if this custom had been imported from that province
together with the material necessary for its practice.
Chao Ju-kua, whose work was written at least a century
prior to Ibn Batuta's, fully confirms for his own time what
the last-named traveller says of the 14th century with regard
to the trade in porcelain. In his accounts of the various
trading countries of the East, which abound with details hitherto
unknown, he generally gives us a list of either the articles of
trade produced in the country, or the staple articles kept
there for re-exportation; and in many cases he mentions a
series of Chinese articles imported by the "Foreign traders." 137
These dates and the identifications of the several countries
described by the Sung author, the results of which I hope to
place before the public on a later occasion, have placed me
in a position to mention certain localities to which porce-
lain was shipped soon after the year A.D. 1200, if not earlier.
The nearest of the countries mentioned is Chan-ch'êng 138
comprising a portion of Cochinchina, where Chinese porcelain
was exchanged in barter together with such goods as umbrellas,
137 Fan-shang (). I have not come across any passage
throwing positive light on this term, which means traders trading from
China to Foreign countries without implying whether they are natives or
Foreigners. Since the fan-shang are not mentioned in connection with the
import and export of goods west of Lambri to the north of Sumatra, I am
inclined to believe that they were Chinese merchants and that this island
was at the time the western terminus of Chinese navigation.
138 占城

184
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
gauze fans, lacquered ware, samshoo and sugar, against the
produce of the country; under Chên-la, 139 or Cambodja, we
find a similar list of Chinese imports. Borneo has been spoken
of already. In the account of Shê-p'o,140 or Java, the journey
to whose ports was made with the setting-in of the north-east
monsoon from Ch'üan-chou-fu within a little more than a
month, we read that "the Foreign merchants import imitation
gold and silver, and gold and silver vessels, silks, damasks,
a kind of medicine from Szechuen, orris root, cinnabar, green
and white alum, borax, arsenic, lacquered ware, iron tripods,
and GREEN and WHITE PORCELAIN, 11 in exchange of the
pepper produced in this foreign country, and the merchant
ships assembled there derive much profit from this trade."
way.
The most important place in the history of far-eastern trade
in this epoch is, however, doubtlessly, the country described
under the name of San-fo-ch'i.142 As to Java, journeys were
made to this port from Ch'üan-chou-fu in the beginning of the
winter season, junks passing the Straits of Lingas on the
The accounts furnished by Chao Ju-kua of this country, the
greater part of which has been taken over into the Sung-shih
(see the portion of that work translated by Groeneveldt) leave no
doubt that it was the principal link in the commercial relations
between Western and Eastern Asia all through the early part
of the middle ages.
All the produce of China and the coun-
tries south of it, such as Annam and the Malayan Islands, were
stapled up there for sale to the Arab traders, who in their turn
139 眞臘
140 闍婆
141 青白瓷器
142 in Cantonese Sam-fat-tsai This name has been
successfully compared to the Sarbaza of the Arabs (Serbeza: see Renaudot,
Ancient Accounts, etc., Engl. version of 1733, p. 61 seqq.). San-fo-ch'i is
the present Palembang in Sumatra. The principal argument in favour of
this identification is a passage from the Ying-yai-sheng-lan, in which
San-fo-ch'i and Po-lin-pang (3) are said to be the same place.
See Groeneveldt, op. cit., p. 62 seqq. and p. 73, note 1.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
185
imported the products of Europe, Western Asia, India, and
Africa for re-exportation to China and the other countries
of the Far East. Chao Ju-kua mentions as indigenous
products of San-fo-ch'i: tortoise-shell, gum camphor, certain
incenses, laka wood, cloves, sandalwood and cardamoms.
Besides these, he says, the Arabs bring from the West:
pearls, gum olibanum, rosewater, becho nut flowers, castoreum,
myrrh, aloë, asa foetida, putchuck, liquid storax, ivory, corals,
cats'
eyes, amber, foreign cloths and foreign sword-blades.
These were bought up by the "Foreign (Chinese?) Traders,"
who exchanged them against: gold, silver, PORCELAIN, silk
piece goods, sugar, iron, samshoo, ginger and galangal,
rhubarb and camphor. "As this country," our author
remarks, "has the control of the general thoroughfare which
all foreign sea traffic has to pass [viz., the Straits of Banca],
they make use of an iron rope as a bar, which gives them an
instrument for stopping at pleasure the pirates of other coun-
tries. When a merchant ship goes there, they will let her
pass, etc." The relations with China are stated to date from
the period Tien-yu of the T'ang dynasty (A.D. 904-907),
and since the name Sarbaza was known to the Arab travellers
of that period, translated by Renaudot and Reinaud, we may
assume that trade similar to that described by Chao Ju-kua
has existed in this emporium centuries before this author.
The possibility to carry porcelain as well as any other goods of
Chinese origin to any part of the Arab empire or to the Arab
colonies has certainly existed from the time that Arab trade
began to extend to the East.
A position similar to that of San-fo-ch'i was held in the
Eastern trade by a place called Lambri¹3 in the north-west of
143 Lan-ru-li (E), Amoy Dialect Lam-bu-li, apparently the
same place which in later Chinese records is called Nan-po-li (1).
See Groeneveldt, op. cit., p. 98, and Phillips, "The Seaports of India and
Ceylon" in J.C.B. of the R.d.S., Vol. xx, p. 211. I quite agree with Mr.

186
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
Sumatra. It is the last station before one enters the Indian
Ocean, in order to reach Ceylon from Sumatra, and the
country is tributary to San-fo-ch'i. In his account of
Coilom, a well-known sea-port on the coast of Malabar, the
present Quilon, Chao Ju-kua says: "It will take a Chinchew
junk 115 over forty days to arrive at Lambri; there the
winter is spent and, in the following year, a further journey
of a month will take her to Coilam." I am not sure whether
we may conclude from this passage that Chinese junks
actually sailed from Chinchew (Ch'üan-chou-fu) as far as
Coilam via Lambri; certainly it contains the positive state-
ment that Lambri was visited by Chinchew junks at Chao
Ju-kua's time, and that the journey was continued to India,
either in the same ships or after transhipment to Arab
vessels. The "hills" of Lambri furnish cats' eyes, red glass,
camphor, blue and red pearls, and in the country cardomoms,
tree bark, coarse and fine incense is produced; the "Foreign
Merchants" import, in exchange of these products: sandal-
wood, cloves, camphor (!), gold, silver, PORCELAIN, horses,
elephants and silk stuffs." Since the inhabitants are, in
another passage, stated to "use their hands in taking in
meals," and "use household vessels made of copper,"
Groeneveldt who places this country with Marco Polo's Lambri on the coast
of the present Atchin. The inhabitants at Chao Ju-kua's time were black.
and more or less savage; his account contains no traces of Arab civilisation.
The Hsi-yang-ch'ao-kung-tien-lu () by Huang Sheng-
ts'êng (), an account of Western countries chiefly based on the
reports of Chêng Ho's expedition under the Emperor Yung-lo, a portion of
which has been translated and published by the late Mr. Mayers in the
China Review (Vol. III, pp. 219-225 and 321-331, and Vol. IV, pp. 61-67
and 173-190), contains some notes on Nan-po-li (Lambri). At that time,
i.e. during the beginning of the 15th century, the king and the people were
Mahommedans. An island on the north-west coast was called Mao-shan
(Cf. Phillips, l.c.) consisting of a hill with a flat top which
serves as a land mark. The inhabitants. not more than 20 or 30 families, all
style themselves "King," for if you ask anyone for his name, he will reply:
Aku Rajah ("I am a Rajah").
145 泉舶
144
Canton Dial, Ku-lam.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
187
it must be assumed that the porcelain was imported either for
sacrificial purposes or, which is more likely, for re-exportation
by the Arabs. If we follow the tracks of medieval trade
farther west, we come to the next important station, the
coast of Malabar, which is by our author described under
the name Nan-p'i.146 Our author says of Nan-p'i: "This
country is very far, and the Foreign vessels [i.e., vessels
trading to Foreign countries] rarely go thither." 147 He
thereupon mentions the name of a Foreign family (father and
son), who lived in the southern suburb of Ch'üan-chou-fu
and were natives of Nan-p'i. "The products of the country
are brought to San-fo-ch'i, and the following goods are
returned in barter against them: lotus flower tanks, 148 silks,
PORCELAIN, camphor, rhubarb, cloves, camphor-drops, sandal-
wood, cardamoms and eagle-wood."
Chao Ju-kua's work places us in the position to trace the
export trade in porcelain even as far as the coast of Zanzibar;
for, this must be the country described by him under the
name of Ts'eng-po. 119 "The country of Ts'êng-po," he
146
, Nampi, Lampi. I shall avail myself of another opportunity
to prove the identity of this name with the coast of Malabar, including
Guzerate and Malwa. Of the localities specially mentioned by Chao Ju-kua
as belonging to this country it is easy to recognise without much trouble:
Coilam (see above), Guzerate (, Hu-ch'a-la), Cambay
or Cambaet (, Canton Dial. Kom-pa-yat), and Malwa (
, Ma-lo-hua).
147 This passage may be interpreted to mean that Chinese junks came to
Malabar in exceptional cases.
148, ho-chih. I am not able to say what they were made of,
but from an ancient passage quoted in the Ping-tzu-lei-pien I conclude that
they were used in growing lotus flowers, and since for this purpose a pretty
large reservoir must be required, it seems that they were made of
earthenware.
119, Canton Dial. Ts'ang-pat; the t representing in the sound
Zangbar. See "Chinese Equivalents of the Letter R," etc., l.c., p. 217.

188
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
says, "is on an island in the south of Hu-ch'a-la. 150 In the
west it bounds on large hills; its inhabitants are of Arab
descent and observe the rites of the Mahommedan religion;
they wear blue cotton cloth and shoes of red leather; their
daily food consists of rice or flour cakes and roasted mutton.
Their villages are mostly built terrace-shape in the ravines
of their wooded hills. The climate is warm, and there is no
cold season. The products are elephants' teeth, raw gold,,
ambergris, and yellow sandal-wood. Every year the country
of Hu-ch'a-la (Guzerate) and the settlements on the sea-
coast of Arabia send out ships to barter with this country,
the articles of exchange being white cloth, PORCELAIN, copper,
and red cotton." The porcelain, we have seen above, was
brought to Guzerate as part of the country of Nan-p'i by
way of San-fo-ch'i in Sumatra, and was thence sent south to
the Arab colony in Zanzibar. 151 If the accounts given by
150 Guzerate. The direction of the compass as given in Chinese ancient
and medieval authors is often quite as much at variance with reality as that
we find on the maps which have been left to us by the old Arab geographers.
Edrisi's map (A.D. 1154; Peschel, Gesch. d. Erdk., ed. Ruge, 1877, p. 145) shows
the coast of Zendsch about due south of that part of India where Guzerate
was situated, and Marino Sanuto's compiled from Arab sources (A.D. 1320;
ibid. p. 210) shows a similar disfiguration of the southern part of the
African east coast. An explanation of this error may be found in the
prevalence of eastern currents in the Indian Ocean which would have caused
sailers to steer a southern course instead of proceeding due south-west.
151 There can be but little doubt that the east coast of Africa was known
to the Chinese in its main characteristics during a comparatively early
period. I have already suggested the identity of the name Po-pa-li
(1), which occurs in the Hsin-tang-shu (ch. 221 B), with the
Somali of the coast of Berbera (see J.C.B. of the R.A.S., Vol. XXI, p.
219); and the term Kun-lun-ts'eng-ssu () in the sense of
black slaves which has lately been discussed by Prof. Terrien de
Lacouperie (Formosa Notes" in J.R.A.S., Vol. XIX. p. 446 seqq.) has
been connected years ago by Mr. Phillips (China Review, Vol. VIII, p. 188
seqq.) with the east coast of Africa especially the coast of Zanzibar, an
identification which I am glad to endorse. Chao Ju-kua, too, furnishes an
account of these tribes, from which the notes quoted by Bretschneider
(Arabs, p. 14) from the an-tsai-tu-hui are merely an abbreviated
transcription. This account which, like nearly all the other information
given by him, must have reached our author through the Arab traders at the
beginning of the 13th century, reads as follows: "The Kun-lun-ts'êng-ssu
occupy a country which lies on the sea in the south-west. It is connected

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
189
Chao Ju-kua of the exchange of produce between the Far
East and the west of Asia furnish sufficient evidence for the
existence of Chinese porcelain on the Indian and Arab
markets during the 13th century, the period which follows
was still more adapted to entertain such traffic. We need
hardly dwell on the fact that Mongol rulers were masters of
Bagdad as well as of Peking, and that constant intercourse
took place through Central Asia between the east and the
west of that gigantic empire. The journeys of Marco Polo
and Ibn Batuta are witnesses to the continuation of the sea
trade between the coast of China and Arab provinces, the
latter stating distinctly, as regards porcelain, that "it is
exported to India and elsewhere, passing from country to
country till it reaches us in Morocco." 152 The Chinese
themselves were during the Mongol period pervaded by a
desire to extend their power by maritime warfare, and what-
ever the success of Khublai Khan's expeditions against
Japan, Java and other southern islands may have been, they
show that maritime enterprise had not declined among his
subjects on the coast of China.
This tendency to extend the native navigation has certainly
never been greater than it was under the ambitious Ming
Emperor Yung-lo, whose celebrated delegate, the eunuch
with a large island. There are constantly large Pêng birds (a fabulous
bird; the Rukh; cf. Mayers, Manual, No. 560) who, in their flight,
eclipse the sun so as to remove the shadow of a gnomon. If one of these
birds comes across a wild camel, he will swallow it, and if one can get
hold of one of its wings one can make water-casks by cutting off the quills.
The country produces ivory and rhinoceros' horns. In the west there is an
island of the sea with great numbers of savages of a colour resembling that
of black lacquer and with curly hair. They are enticed with eatables and
made prisoners, after which they are sold as slaves to the country of Ta-shih
(Arabia). Since high prices are paid for catching them they are secured
with locks. It is said that they do not know the affection usually existing
between relatives."
152 Yule, Cathay, p. 478.

190
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
Chêng Ho,153 successfully carried Chinese arms as far as
Ceylon. The expeditions of his successor Hsüan-tê (A.D. 1426
to 1436) were of a more peaceful character, though not less
enterprising as regards distance. "In the 6th month of the
year 1430," we read in the Ming-shih,154 "the Emperor con-
sidered that he had been on the throne so long now, but that
those of the barbarians, who lived a little far away, had not
yet appeared at court and brought tribute; upon this Chêng
Ho and Wang Ching-hung again got orders to go to Hormus
and sixteen other countries. From this voyage they came
safely back."
This great expedition, which it appears from all we know
about it bore an entirely peaceful, if not commercial,
character, brought Chinese junks to several of the ports of
India, the south coast of Arabia, the port of Magadoxu on
the coast of Africa, and even as far as Djiddah on the eastern
coast of the Red Sea, the sea-port of Mecca. The trip to
Djiddah (Mecca, T'ien-fang) was made in company with a
fleet of Indian ships starting just at that time for the Red
Sea.155
153. See Mayers, "Chinese Explorations of the Indian Ocean,"
in Chin. Rev., vol. III, p. 220 seqq.; Phillips, "The Seaports of India and
Ceylon" in J.C.B. of the R.A.S., vol. xx, p. 209 seqq.; and Groeneveldt,
Mal. Archip., p. 41, seqq.
154 Extract translated by Groeneveldt, l.c., p. 44. Cf. Hai-kuo-t'u-chih,
ch. 14, p. 24.
155 The Ming-shih (quoted in Hai-kuo-tu-chih, ch. 14, p. 21) says:
"When Chêng Ho was sent to the western seas in the 5th year of Hsüan-tê
[A.D. 1430] he deputed one of his equals in rank to Ku-li (T,
Calicut on the coast of Malabar), who heard that Ku-li was going to send
men to Tien-fang (Mecca), and since the [Chinese] embassador's men had
a surplus of cargo, he got his ships to accompany them there and back,
waiting for the annual festival in order to purchase precious stones and other
valuable things and giraffes, lions and ostriches for the return journey."
This passage shows that the Chinese were supplied with cargoes of goods
more than sufficient for the Indian market at Calicut, and that the
expedition farther west to Arabia was undertaken rather for commercial,
than for any other purposes. To what extent commercial enterprise was
rife among the Chinese in those days may be gathered from the fact that

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
191
In Ceylon, we read in the records bearing on the traffic at
Chêng Ho's time, 156 GREEN PORCELAIN was an article of import
together with musk, silk, copper cash and camphor. Aden
and the Red Sea were visited in the same period. In his last
chapter the author of the Hsi-yang-ch'ao-kung-tien-lu gives an
account of Mecca and Medina under the name of T'ien-fang 157
with a detailed description of the Kaaba, 158 in which mention
is made of the fact that "when the annual term has come,
the Mahommedans of all countries will proceed to this temple
in pilgrimage, even though they may have to undergo a sea
journey lasting one or two years." The following passage
occurs in the same account (ch. 3, p. 11): "During the
reign of Hsüan-tê [A.D. 1426-1436], when Chêng Ho went
on an expedition to the western countries, he sent seven
interpreters 159 to T'ien-fang with supplies of musk, PORCELAIN
and silk piece goods. They went together with our (i.e.
"a number of Chinese emigrants had settled down in Ispahan (Yi-ssu-
pa-han, ), where they established shops, the goods they
sold being drawn by way of Samarkand (Sa-ma-erh-han,
4)."
The fact is mentioned in connection with a tribute mission from Ispahan
having arrived in China under Yang-lo (A.D. 1403 to 1425). See Yüan-
chien-lei-han, ch. 337. p. 25.
"
156 The only one now accessible to me is the Hsi-yang-ch'ao-kung-tien-lu
(see above, Note 143); but regarding this list of Ceylon imports, sec
Phillips, l.c., p. 214, whose translation from the Ying-yai-sheng-lan covers
the same ground. Phillips' rendering "blue porcelain basins and cups'
() should, for the reasons explained above, read "green porcelain,"
157 天方.
etc.
158 K'ai-a-pai. Cf. the account extracted from the Ming-
shik by Bretschneider, "Chinese Intercourse with the Countries of Asia,"
China Review, vol. v, p. 175, and the more detailed paper, compiled from
later sources, by Mr. H. Kopsch, "The Kaaba or Great Shrine at Mecca,"
ibid., vol. XIV, p. 95 seqq.
159, tung-shih. This is apparently the same class of employés
which are so well known from the old Canton factory times under the name
of "Linguists," this being the modern translation of the term. "The
linguists, so called, hold the rank of interpreters; they procure permits for
delivering and taking in cargo, transact all business at the custom-house,
keep account of the duties, etc." (Chinese Repos., vol. II, p. 302).

192
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
Chinese) ships 160 as far as that country, and after a year they
came back with return cargoes consisting of all sorts of
precious stones, giraffes, lions, ostriches and the like; and
they drew a plan of the Kaaba which they brought to the
Chinese capital; and the king of Tien-fang also sent his
subject Sha-hsien 161 and others who brought produce of the
country along with the seven interpreters to our court as
tribute."
The expedition here spoken of must have been undertaken
on a larger scale than we should expect of an ordinary tribute
mission; so we may judge from all we know about it through
Western sources. The reason why the Indian ships of Calicut
were sent to T'ien-fang or Mecca with its port Djiddah will
be found explained in Heyd's history of Oriental trade. It
appears that a political crisis had just then affected the com-
mercial relations between the chief ports of those waters.
The Indian ships had previous to this time been in the habit
of discharging Oriental cargoes at Aden, where they were
transhipped to Egyptian craft and became the property of
Egyptian merchants. Aden was until then the great staple
place for the exchange of produce carried East and West.
Since the year 1422, however, the prince of Yemen residing
there tried to enforce the privilege to have all the Oriental
goods arriving at Aden transported by caravan through his
own possessions, thereby securing a certain revenue to himself,
and in order to force the unwilling traders, would not allow
the cargoes destined for Egypt to leave his port, thus creating
demurrage and other losses. This act of violence caused the
Indian captains to look out for another port of discharge,
and in 1424 Djiddah, the port of Mecca, was selected.
These two cities had just been taken possession of by the
Sultan of Egypt, which implies that all the facilities
160 同本國船至國
161 沙瓛

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
197
which had been refused by the Prince of Aden were granted to
the Egyptian trade at Djiddah. In 1426, we are told, over forty
Indian and Persian vessels came to that port, and about five
years after, the arrival of several Chinese junks is recorded. 162
The exact year, in which the envoys of "the King of T'ien-
fang," who must have been a local governor under the Sultan
of Egypt, brought tribute to China, is given in a Chinese
account of T'ien-fang 163 as the year 1432. The Chinese ships
must, to judge therefrom, have left the port of Djiddah in 1431.
It would be useless to speculate as to the kind of por-
celain then imported at Djiddah, since it was just at that
period that blue and white, manufactured at King-tê-chên,
had come in vogue subsequent to the appearance on the
Chinese market of certain new blue colours, called Su-ni-po
and Su-ma-li,161 the provenance of which is as yet a mystery
to Foreign and Chinese students alike. But since Western
162 "En 1431 ou 1432, on y vit même arriver plusieurs jonques chinoises
qui n'avaient pas trouvé à écouler leurs marchandises à Aden dans de
bonnes conditions. On les y reçut avec empressement, dans l'espoir que
leur visite serait le début d'un traffic avec la Chine." Heyd, Histoire du
commerce du levant, vol. II, p. 445, quoting Quatremère, Mém. sur l'Egypte,
II, 291.
163 In the Hsü-wên-hsien-t'ung-k'ao, quoted in the Yüan-chien-lei-han, ch.
338, p. 25, where the year Jên-tzu (EIF) of the Hsüan-tê period is given
as the time of arrival in China.
161 Su-ni-po VE(Tao-shuo, ch. 2, p. 9; cf. Julien, p. 93) and
Su-ma-lit. The second name, which reminds one of our
smalt, derived from medieval Latin smaltum, is stated to have been used
in producing blue ornaments on King-tê-chên porcelains under Yung-lo
and Hsüan-tê (see quotation from the Shih-wu-kan-chu (***)
in Ko-chih-ch'ing-yüan, ch. 36, p. 19); Su-ni-po is mentioned in connection
with Hsüan-tê porcelain only, and it is specially stated that the supply of
this material was exhausted under Chêng-hua (A.D. 1465). The name
could be a truly Chinese transcription of the word "Schneeberg" under
which name the Saxon cobalt blue became afterwards renowned all over
the world. Unfortunately, the Schneeberg cobalt industry is probably out
of the question during so early a period as 1426, the beginning of Hsüan-
te's reign. But research among Arab or Persian records may show that
Chêng Ho's expeditions to the Far West of Asia had something to do with
the importation of these dye-stuffs.

198
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
purchasers had been accustomed to appreciate céladon dishes
from olden times, these being moreover much more adapted
for exportation owing to their hardness than the delicate
Hsüan-tê blue and white and other porcelains, 165 we may
consider Chêng Ho's expedition as another opportunity by
which heaps of these treasures may have reached Arab
soil in any part of the world. For, once in Djiddah, the port
where pilgrims from all the most distant places had to land
in order to visit Mecca, they may be said to have reached
THE market which had connections with more countries in
the Mohammedan world than any other.
Being in the possession of so much evidence furnished by
contemporaneous writers, we cannot possibly raise any
doubt as to the existence of export trade in porcelain at these
early periods. Now, if we combine this, the literary, evi-
dence with the fact that porcelains resembling in all respects
the heavy céladons known in China up to the present day as
Lung-ch'üan-yao have been found in various countries for-
merly under Arab rule and in the former Arab colonies, does
not this entitle us to assume that all these céladons have
taken their way from Lung-ch'üan by river to Zaitun
(Ch'üan-chou-fu, or thereabout), whence they were brought
to Borneo, Java, Sumatra, India and Arabia?
Among the recipients of céladon porcelains I have not
mentioned the name of a country where probably as many
specimens exist now as in all the others taken together,
China excepted, viz., Japan.166 The relations between China
165 Regarding the varieties then produced at King-tê-chên, see Julien,
p. 90 seqq.
166 It is possible that, apart from Japan, numbers of Chinese antiquities
will be found in the Loochoo Islands. For the Hsi-yang-kung-tien-lu, the
information contained in which refers to the beginning of the 15th century,
says (ch. 2, p. 15) of the Loochoo Islanders that "they are well read in
the Chinese classics and fond of Chinese illustrated books and antiquities
(好中國圖書古器).” Chao Ju-kua has a different tale to tell
about the Loochooans of his time, the 13th century; according to him,

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
199
and Japan are, of course, much older than the céladon period
I have described. At the time when Chao Ju-kua wrote,
Chinese literature was eagerly studied in that country, and
Chinese art was imitated in all its principal phases. Trading
relations existed to a certain extent. Chao Ju-kua, speaking
in his account of Japan of certain pine trees and the Lo
tree, 167 trees attaining heights of up to fourteen or fifteen
ch'ang, and measuring fully four Chinese feet in diameter,"
goes on to say that "the natives cut them into boards, which
they transport in large junks to our port of Ch'üan-chou
(Chinchew) for sale; 168 but that the people of Ch'üan rarely
go to this country."
"
The Japanese timber junks arriving at Ch'üan-chou-fu are
sure not to have left that port without return cargoes, and
since porcelain, especially green porcelain, was among the
staple articles of the latter, we may conclude that shipments
were made of it to Japan. In the case of Japan it is
hardly necessary to look for literary evidence proving the
importation of Chinese objects of art; foreign collectors
must be aware that of certain Chinese antiquities Japan is as
good a market as China herself. As regards Lung-ch'üan
"they were given to robbery, for which reason the merchants of other
countries did not go there." Cf. Léon de Rosny, Notices sur les îles de
l'Asie orientale, Paris, 1861, p. 18.
167
, shan-mu, Cunninghamia Sinensis; and, lo-mu,
which may stand for, lo-han-po, Japanese hiba, the Thujopsis
dolobrata.
168 TE M. Léon de Rosny, who has
furnished a French version of Chao Ju-kua's accounts of Japan and of
the Loo-choo Islands in his Notices sur les îles de l'Asie orientale,
renders this passage by: "les indigènes les transportent dans de grands
navires à Ou-tsiouen pour les vendre." The remark following, how-
ever, seems a sufficient hint regarding the place which is meant, ch'üan
() being the obsolete form for Ch'üan-chou (see Playfair, No. 1497,-3°);
and the use of wu () in the sense of "our," especially in that of "our
Chinese" as opposed to what pertains to foreign countries, is quite common
enough to fully justify my translation.

200
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
céladons especially I have seen as many old specimens in the
curio shops of Osaka and Kioto as I have seen in those of
Shanghai; thus, I bought at Kioto an onion-green céladon
bottle answering in all respects, except in size, the description
given of a Sung specimen in Bushell's illustrated Ming
manuscript (No. 23). Chinese works of art, and among
them ornamental antiquities, are as much appreciated by the
Japanese as they are by the Chinese themselves, and Japan
possesses a literature of its own regarding them.169
As re-
gards céladons, and especially the old Lung-ch'üan-yao,
there is but one opinion among the Chinese dealers as to the
unmistakeable craze existing in Japan for this class of
porcelain. I have no doubt that these old, imperishable
bowls and dishes would be less scarce in China but for the
plundering of Japanese pirates, who infested the districts
adjoining the coast of China on several occasions during the
Ming dynasty. Thus, in A.D. 1411 and 1417, many towns in
Chêkiang where, according to a passage in the provincial
annals, Lung-ch'üan céladons were among the household
treasures handed down from ancient times (see above, p. 165)
were pillaged by the Japanese. Similar raids were com-
mitted on the Chinese coast in 1421, 1426, and 1439.170
But on no occasion it appears the country has been more
systematically robbed than during the thirty or forty years
in the second half of the 16th century when Japanese buc-
caneers, aided by large numbers of discontented Chinese
subjects, became the terror of the coast provinces. On this
169 I mention as an instance a work written in Chinese, but published in
Japan and treating on Chinese antiquities of all ages up to the present
dynasty, the Shu-hua-nen-fang-t'u (X), treating in ten
volumes on paintings, manuscripts, bronzes, jadestone ornaments, etc., with
critical reasoning, a feature we often miss in similar works published in
China.
170 H. J. Allen, "Early Relations of China and Japan," in China
Review, Vol. III, p. 57 seqq.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
197
occasion they pillaged all the richest cities on and near the coast,
such as Hangchow, Soochow, Ningpo, Wênchow, Changchow,
and many of the second-rate cities in Fukien and Kuang-
tung; once they even marched from Hangchow through the
interior to Wuhu and threatened to take Nanking, though
with ill success on this occasion. 171
It is very likely that the
greater part of the treasures in old Chinese porcelain as well
as in bronzes and other branches of Chinese art now found
in Japan were sold there out of the plunder made during
that period, a period which for this very reason must have
greatly influenced the development of art in Japan itself.
12. CELADON IMITATIONS.
I am
As regards céladons especially, the Japanese were not only
among the early admirers, but also soon became clever
imitators of the Lung-ch'üan style, in which respect they have
become rivals to the genius of King-tê-chên artisans.
not prepared to say where and when céladons were first made
in Japan, and to what degree the oldest imitations resemble
the originals. I was told in Kioto that céladon porcelains
were made at Shikone about a hundred years ago, and I saw
a specimen in the Exhibition held in that city in June 1886.
Its paste was heavy and thick like that of the Lung-ch'üan
porcelain, but the enamel was thin and not so rich as that of old
Chinese specimens, the bottom pale, almost rose coloured;
the edges and corners, where the enamel was still thinner than
on the plain surfaces, was almost white in colour. The speci-
men referred to was marked 172 My Japanese informant
171 Hai-kuo-t'u-chih (), ch. 12, quoting the Ming-shih;
for English version by Sir T. F. Wade, see Chinese Repository, Vol. XIX, p.
135 seqq.
172 Hu-tung, "east of the Lake," in Japanese Koto, whence this class of
porcelain is called Koto-yaki (). The Shikone district occupies
the eastern shore of Lake Biwa, whence the name Koto is derived.

198
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
further told me that céladons had been made by Yeïraku 173
of Kioto, whose factory was closed about 25 years ago. Of
his work I saw at Kioto a handsome tripod, with pale enamel
and white bottom containing the maker's name in seal
characters. Imitations are, or were, also made at Imari near
Nagasaki. Poor stuff of modern manufacture comes from a
place called Santa, said to be 7 ri distant from Kobé.
I saw
it sold at Arima under the name of "Santa Pottery."
"174 Its
paste is light and sandy, more like earthenware than porcelain,
and the bottom coloured with a yellowish pink, the enamel
thin, but brilliant, and in some specimens showing delicate
cracks. Numerous objects are made of this ware, such as
censers, candlesticks, josses, plates, bowls, cups, flower-pots
and vases, all of which are given an elegant and pleasant form,
though their extreme cheapness is in proportion with the
labour bestowed on their perfection. None of the Japan
céladons, however, which I have seen could be confounded
with the Lung-ch'üan-yao of China, whatever their preten-
sions as works of art might be otherwise; nor am I under the
impression that even the best and most expensive pieces made
in Japan were made for the purpose of deceiving the pur-
chaser. The real Chinese old céladon is easily recognised by
those who have seen them in China, and as to imitating them,
the labour which it would cost to produce an exact facsimile
would hardly repay the maker in a country where genuine
specimens have been preserved in such numbers. Celebrated
173, in Chinese Yung-lo. "Le plus étonnant pasticheur qu'ait
produit l'art céramique." Gonse, l'Art Japonais, small edition, Paris, 1886,
p. 304. His real name was Zengoro Riozen, but when he had produced an
imitation of a certain specimen of Chinese porcelain of the period Yung-lo
(A.D. 1403 to 1425), the prince of Kiushiu presented him with a golden seal
bearing the above characters, and from this time his family adopted the
name Yeiraku (Yung-lo), the two characters being used as a mark on their
manufactures. Gonse, l'Art Japonais, large edition, Paris 1883, vol. II, p. 291.
174 三田陶器

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
199
makers both at King-tê-chên and in Japan frequently take
a variety of ancient porcelain as a pattern; if they actually
succeed in deceiving a connoisseur this must be considered
an achievement which not many can bring about; and fraud
of this kind cannot possibly have flourished on a large scale.
Great artists, and such are the only ones who will rise above
the gross impostures calculated to deceive the masses, soon
become the founders of independent schools by creating a new
pattern based on the imitative study of the old.
This has been prominently the case in China with several
of the artists who were given to the imitation of works of
former periods. Those who flourished at King-tê-chên have
apparently succeeded better in imitating the white Ting and
the early King-tê-chên porcelains than the works of other
factories such as the Chün-yao or the Lung-ch'üan céladons.
Among the celebrated imitators of old porcelain Chinese
records have preserved the memory of several artists of special
renown. Ts'ui Kung, 175 who lived during the middle of the
16th century, imitated Hsüan-tê and Ch'êng-hua porcelains;
Chou Tan-ch'üan,176 a contemporary of the former, but
reaching into the 17th century, is said to have excelled in the
imitation of ancient porcelains. Tradition says that he was
in the habit of selling his own manufactures to the rich
amateurs at Soochow, Sungkiang, and Ch'ang-chow in the
neighbourhood of Shanghai, and that connoisseurs were
deceived by him. His strength consisted chiefly in the imitation
of old white Ting-yao, a variety of porcelain which it must
have been much easier to counterfeit with King-tê-chên
materials than the more heterogeneal Lung-ch'üan produce.
One of the first imitators of old céladons must have been, if
ever there was such a personage, Hu-kung, "Mr. Pots," also
known under the name of Hu-yin-tao-jên, i.e., "the Taoist
175.Julien, p. 102.
176 Ibid, p. 103.

200
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
hidden in a pot," 177 who is said to have lived during the
Wan-li period (A.D. 1573 to 1619). These names are
apparently nicknames given to a clever artisan in allusion to
an old legend, preserved in the Shên-hsien-chuan, an ancient
work on Taoist immortals.178 According to this legend Hu-
kung was a fairy in Annam who carried with him an empty
pot, by entering which he could render himself invisible. 179
Hu-kung's imitative strength consisted in the manufacture
of pale green pots resembling the Kuan-yao and Ko-yao of
the Sung dynasty; but they were different in the crackle,
("ils n'étaient pas fendillés comme la glace," Julien). To a
certain extent it may be said that even the legitimate efforts
of the later ceramic schools began by the imitation of the
works of earlier periods. The workmen of the later Ming
periods tried to produce the Hsüan-tê colours; those of
K'ang-hi's time reproduced Ming colours and Ming patterns,
etc. If we see an ancient mark on a later specimen, there-
fore, this does not always mean that its manufacturer wished
to deceive his contemporaries; he merely impressed the name
of the period the style of which he tried to represent as a
matter of sport; for if he actually succeeded in deceiving the
eye of a connoisseur he would gain considerably in reputation
by this being known, and his work would be more valuable
by his confessing himself to the fathership than by selling it
1774; A. See Julien, p. 104, where the first
character is wrongly printed (Kun).
178 Wylie, p. 175.
179 Pci-nên-in-fu,ch. 1, p. 28; cf. Tu-shu-chi-chiêng III, 14, ch. 99.
The mark which this unknown artist placed on the bottom of his vases
reads Hu-yin-lao-jên (A; cf. Graesse, ed. 1880, No. 161 a)
and is explained by Julien as meaning "le vieillard Ou, qui vit dans la
retraite." It seems to me, however, that these four characters have rather
an epigrammatic sense and, if translated into Latin verse would be among
the most delicious of Martial's Apophoreta; for, "the old man," as the
clever maker styles himself, "is concealed in the pot" like the fairy Hu-
kung was in his, and although invisible, he himself, that is, his inventive
genius, is contained in it. It impresses me as the most sympathetic device
a ceramic artist could select as a mark.

ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
201
as an old relic. This explanation of the principle on which
imitations were made in former centuries and up to the
present day may not hold good in all cases, perhaps not even
in many; but it seems to apply to the céladons of Lung-
ch'üan. What I wish to say is that, even supposing that it
were possible to produce at a later period, in a different loca-
lity and with different materials, specimens resembling in all
details the heavy, old Lung-ch'üan-yao, it could not possibly
have paid the manufacturer to do so, since owing to their
extreme hardness old specimens of these are by no means
rare when compared to other porcelains made at the same
period; and since prices are in proportion therewith, the
imitator, who would have to bestow great skill and endless
trouble on his work, could scarcely compete with the ori-
ginals. Still, the attempt has been made, if not by way of
fraud, at least by way of study, and with the result of creating
new branches of the art.
It is in this light that I look upon the celebrated works of
Nien Hsi-yao, alias Nien-kung, which are known in the
market as Nien-yao, 180 and those of T'ang Ying, which are
known as T'ang-yao. 181 The former was superintendent of
the King-tê-chên factories under Yung-ch'êng (A.D. 1723 to
1735), and the monochrome porcelains made by him may be
called céladons in a certain sense, though it appears to me
that they originate from an attempt to imitate Chün-yao rather
than Lung-ch'üan-yao. Tang Ying, whose first connection
with the King-tê-chên manufacture dates from the year
1727, became the successor of Nien-kung under Kien-lung,
and his works are often found to bear the Kien-lung mark.
180
Julien, p. 108.
181 The manufacturer, Tang Ying (), occupies a
similar position in the history of Chinese pottery as Yeïraku does in
Japanese ceramics.

202
ANCIENT CHINESE PORCELAIN.
Among the many imitations of ancient porcelains manufac-
tured under his name 182 we find a large number of céladons.
But although distinguished by workmanship surpassing the
original pattern in finish, the T'ang-yao céladons I have seen
exhibited a certain mannerism by combining some of the old
characteristics with the new material. In them, the enamel
will be found faultless, but rather thinner than the Lung-
ch'üan enamel; the red ring, where it appears at all, is
carefully drawn as with a pair of compasses, and artificially
coloured; and there is no trace of the ancient clumsiness, or
even heaviness, to be noticed in the paste. These at least
may be called characteristics of the céladons professedly
known as T'ang-yao. They were apparently never made for
purposes of fraud.
Whether, besides these, T'ang Ying
made imitations resembling the originals closely enough to
deceive the eye of a connoisseur, I am not able to say; if
anyone has ever succeeded in this work, we must assume, from
the reputation he enjoys as an imitator, that he possessed
the necessary knowledge and skill for it.
182 "Il savait imiter toutes les porcelaines antiques les plus renommées
et ne manquait jamais de leur donner le même degré d'élégance et de
beauté." Julien, p. 109.