CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS: LIABILITY OF
THE INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS.*
PROPOSITION.
A., B., and C. enter into partnership. A. contributes
Tls. 500, B. contributes Tls. 1,000, and C. Tls. 2,000 of
capital, which may thus be regarded as consisting of 7 shares,
of which A. holds 1, B. holds 2, and C. holds 4. After a
time the firm fails, with debts to the amount of Tls. 5,000,
and at the same time C. absconds.
(a) To what extent and in what proportion will A. and
B., according to Chinese mercantile law or custom, be
required to make good the debts?
(b) Supposing C. is a member of a family of ample means,
in which he has an undivided share (e.g., is one of three
sons, father alive), to what extent can the family property
be made available to pay the debts of the firm?
REPLIES.
Mr. C. T. GARDNER :-The partnership described in the
heading is not common in China. As a rule, one head of firm,
say A., manages business; B. and C.'s shares in business are
loans to A.; B. and C.'s liability is limited to capital invested. †
*
Read before the Society on 18th November 1887. See "Proceedings."
† Say C. is managing head of firm. C.'s family will often secure C.
by pledging the family property. C. absconds. C.'s creditors will not
even then be able to take the family property, but may be assigned rents,
or be given equitable lien. The creditors will not be able to evict C.'s
family, but may with difficulty force C.'s family to sell a portion of the
property to pay or compromise claims.

40
CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
In case of such a partnership as described :-
(a) I.-Terms of Partnership known to Creditors.-Creditors
who have given credit to firm A., B., C., recover one-seventh
from A., and two-sevenths from B.
II.-Terms of Partnership not known to Creditors.-Creditors
will only recover seven-sevenths from A., B., if A. and
B. have pledged their credit to such creditors explicitly
or implicitly. If credit given to C. individually, creditor
cannot recover from A. or B.
(b) I.-Chinese law is very weak in the executive power
of courts to enforce civil decrees.
C.'s
II. The family property is commonalty, not individuality,
the legal tenants of which are the family council.
equitable interest in such property is not what we call
"negotiable." Hence the Chinese court cannot attach
absconding C.'s interest. The utmost a Chinese court would
do in such a case would be, in case C.'s family came to terms
on C.'s behalf with C.'s creditors, to facilitate C.'s family
recouping themselves from C.'s equitable interest.
In conclusion, I would state:-1st. That English legal
terms do not exactly express Chinese status and procedure.
Hence the above answers are only approximate. 2nd.
Owing to inadequacy of creditors' remedies, investments are
insecure and interest consequently high.
Mr. BYRON BRENAN:-(a) All the Chinese whom I have
consulted agree in saying that a just decision would be that
each partner should be made liable for that proportion of
the debts of the firm which his investment bears to the total
capital, unless one of the partners had been acting as
manager, when, if the losses were directly the result of his
bad management, he would be held liable to a greater degree

CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
41
than the others. All my informants state that there is no
law or fixed custom.
(b) The family property cannot be made available during
the father's lifetime, but a son would be made liable for the
debts of his father.
Mr. E. H. PARKER:-(a) There does not appear to be
any law governing this subject, and local custom would be
almost certain to vary in great commercial centres. In most
matters, however, both Chinese law and Chinese custom are
in accord with what the Chinese suppose to be common
sense; and, under the circumstances given, the reasonable
view is that A. should contribute one-seventh and B. two-
sevenths of the Tls. 5,000 for which the firm is liable; and this
view is taken by the well-informed (but not commercial)
Chinese authority consulted.
(b) If C.'s share is in any way indicated (though not in
his possession), the father would not be liable beyond that
share. Though the father is not liable for his sons' debts
(as a son is liable for the father's), yet the father would be
called upon to show (supposing the family property were
totally undivided in any way whatever) that there was no
collusion or fraud. The action of the creditors and the
arbitrators or court alike would be guided by the evidences of
good faith in C. and his family and in C. and his partners.
Such is the opinion of the Chinese authority mentioned.
N.B.-Debts to Government are often subject to definite
laws, and are not contemplated here.
Mr. HERBERT A. GILES:-(a) Every Chinese partnership
is represented by one individual member, who is solely
responsible to the outside world for the solvency of his firm.

42
CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
In case of insolvency, it is to him that creditors look for
payment of their claims. The money transactions of himself
and partners are matters to be arranged among themselves.
If either or all of the latter abscond, his liability remains
unaltered.
If the working manager absconds, the creditors usually
begin by laying hands on any of his property within reach,
and then proceed to examine the books. Should the original
shares, or sums invested by the other partners, be found to
have been fully paid up, and should there be no evidence of
any fraud, the liability of such other partners is at an end.
(b) A father who has cast off an unworthy son, or given
notice that he "will not be responsible for debts," may, if
pressed by the son's creditors, file a petition to the above
effect in the District Magistrate's Yamên, and obtain an
injunction in the sense desired.
Otherwise, the extent of a family's liability for a son's trade
debts is generally referred to arbitration.
Mr. CHALONER ALABASTER:-It would depend a good
deal on circumstances.
If A. was ostensibly the managing partner, the creditors
would go for him for the full amount, leaving him to try to
recover from his partners. If B. was the manager, they
would go for him. If C. was the manager, they would try to
get the whole amount of debt out of A. or B., whichever was
the man of substance, but with very little chance, failing interest
with the authorities or foreign pressure, as they would allege they
had merely contributed Tls. 500 and Tls. 1,000 to the capital
of the firm, that they had lost that, and were not further liable.
If the creditors were very persistent, and threatened to hang
themselves if not paid, A. and B., to avoid the consequences,

CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
43
would attempt to make a compromise, not otherwise; but
according to Chinese ideas neither A. or B. could be held liable
for more than their share of the debt, if that. In answer to the
2nd question, I believe an action might be brought against
the family for the full amount of C.'s debt; but if the father was
alive, he would have no share in the family property, though
he would have a reversionary interest.
Rev. JOHN MACINTYRE:-Theoretically and according to
the law of equity, as understood by the Chinese, A. and B.
ought to be mulcted only in proportion to their shares. But
as a matter of fact and inviolate custom, no distinction would
be made; and it would be a mere question as to whether
A. or B. were the more likely party to make good the loss.
The custom is to pounce on both alike, and to hang on most
tenaciously to the best payer. "Either or both"-is the
motto, "but by all means the best man." As to C., the
absconder, the case is one of absolute certainty: the family
is called on to make good the loss, and will be harried and
worried until it does so. Cases are reported to me which in
Western countries would be reckoned simply incredible. But
such is the hold the Family Idea has in China, and such their
notions of the family honour, that if A. and B. were not worth
the trouble of squeezing, the family of C. would be politely
waited upon by all the creditors alike; and some of the credi-
tors (I have known such a case) might even take up their abode
in the family, and remain there at the family cost, and share
the family opium-pipe, till duly bought off. Another case
is named in this city (Hai-ch'êng, near Newchwang) in which
a large property had got infinitesimally divided and subdi-
vided, leaving in course of time only one solvent and pros-
perous man out of a large number representing the original

44
CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
undivided property. Yet he became answerable for all calls
upon the original estate-and is now utterly ruined. This
seems an inexplicable, and certainly is an extreme case. For
to take a case not stated in the paper, but which ought
to be stated for completeness' sake:-If C. and his brothers
have already agreed with the father to break up the family
estate (fen-chia ), then each is free from all claims
made in the name of the other; the father is free of the son,
the son free of the father, and the brothers are free of
each other.
=
Mr. P. G. VON MÖLLENDORFF:-A. and B. have first of all
to pay their share, i.e., A., one-seventh =Tls. 714.29; B.,
two-sevenths Tls. 1,428.57. Should the third partner have
no means, they have to make good his share too (±
), if their personal property suffices. Against C. an
action is brought before the magistrate of his place of registra-
tion (Li-li pien-lan, chapter iii., pp. 1 and 5), and supposing
his undivided share in the family property is sufficient, the
four-seventh share (=Tls. 2,857,14) due by him is collected.
If found insufficient, his brothers, as long as the family
property remains undivided, have to make up the difference.
Each partner has first to pay in proportion to his share,
and cannot be asked to pay more, until all means to collect
the money due by the others have been exhausted.
If the debt cannot be fully paid by the partners, a K
(hsing-lung-p'iao) is sometimes given, referring the creditor
to better times. Such promissory note can be presented at
any time; even after the death of the debtor, his son and
heir is responsible to the amount of his inheritance (1
父債子還)

CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
45
A CHINESE OFFICIAL (anonymous):-1.-The answer to
the query (a) will be, that in ordinary cases A. and B.
would be liable to make good the debts in proportion
to the amount of their respective shares to the extent of
Tls. 2,142.86, of which A. would have to pay Tls. 714.29 and
B. the balance. There is no express law on this point, and cases
of this kind will have to be decided on their own merits and
according to equity; but I find that numerous cases have from
time to time been decided upon this principle, which may
fairly be taken to be the general rule applicable to such
cases. I am supposing the case now put as one of ordinary
partnership, the debts, amounting to Tls. 5,000, having been
contracted bonâ fide in the usual course of business; for if
there has been fraud, it would alter the case materially, and
the responsibility of A. and B. might be determined in a
different manner.
2. I take it that C. is a son who had hitherto done
nothing to increase the wealth of the family, and that the
Tls. 2,000 of the capital put in by him in business was not
furnished by his father, and that the name of the family has '
never been used in contracting the debts; in which case the
reply to the question (b) will be that, in accordance with the
well-known maxim, "The father's debts the son pays, the
son's debts the father ignores," the family property cannot
be attached to pay the debts of the firm.
Mr. SU FU-SHENG :-The answer is that they must all pay
up, proportionately to the shares, either the whole amount
owing, or, if so decided, a percentage on that amount,
whatever it be. If C. should have absconded, A. and B.
cannot be held responsible for it all; but, being partners,
they may be called upon to deliver up C. If C. have a family,

46
CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
or a father alive, or be one of three sons, and there is property
remaining, any of these may be called upon to pay up; and,
unless they pay, suffer attachment for the amount. In the
case of brothers, it depends upon whether they keep separate
households or not. If not separate, the brothers may be
ordered to make the amount good; but if they have already
separated housekeeping, the brothers cannot be called upon
to answer for it. But for personal debts you can only make
the family surrender his person: it is only in debts to Govern-
ment that the property can be confiscated in satisfaction.
no trace can be found of C. after his absconding, A. and B.
may be ordered to pay up their proportionate shares, in the
first instance, of what is due; yet the matter cannot
be allowed to stand there because A.'s and B.'s shares are
smaller. If the concern have been owned by the three men
in partnership, but C. alone have usually conducted the
business, then it would be necessary to await the absconding
C.'s recapture before deciding the case.
If
In short, the circumstances and ins and outs of such
problems as these differ perpetually, and China has no rigid
law to apply to all cases; all that can be done is to consider
the facts and try to deal equitably.
Mr. GEO. JAMIESON :-The general result to be gathered
from the foregoing papers, a result which is quite coincident
with my own reading and observation, may be summarised
as follows:-
In the case of an ordinary partnership, A., B., C., where
the terms are known to creditors and all the partners take
some share in the control of the business, in event of failure
each partner is liable only for a share of the debts propor-
tionate to his share of the capital. Thus in the case stated, A.

CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
47
would be liable for one-seventh, B. for two-sevenths, and C.
for four-sevenths. A. on paying up his seventh is entitled to
a clear discharge, and the creditors must get what they can
out of B. and C. This, I think, may undoubtedly be consi-
dered as the leading principle. But in the case of a firm where
there are one or more ostensible and managing partners and
one or several dormant partners who have put money in the
concern and receive their share of the profits, but who do not
further interfere in the business and are not generally known
as such to creditors, there will be a tendency to regard such
dormant partners as investors merely, and not as partners
proper. They will not usually be held responsible for any
part of the debts. If, for instance, A. and B. were such
dormant partners, and C. was the manager and ostensible
head of the concern, then on C.'s absconding the creditors
would have extreme difficulty in taking proceedings against
A. and B. They would almost certainly have to show that
A. and B. in some way contributed to the catastrophe or were
privy to C.'s absconding or were endeavouring to screen him
from justice. A. and B. would, of course, lose the capital that
they had invested, and they would be expected and required
to do all in their power to produce the absconding C., but
further than that they would not be subjected to legal moles-
C. and the other ostensible partners, if any, would
be deemed to be the sole partner or partners in the firm, and
would be liable to be proceeded against as such under the
general rule.
tation.
It would appear to follow from this that in the case of a
joint stock company, the capital of which is represented by
shares fully paid up, there would be considerable difficulty in
compelling Chinese shareholders to contribute to the liquida-
tion of the debts of the concern in event of failure, unless it
could be shown that there was a specific agreement to so

48
CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
contribute. I am of course speaking of a purely native com-
pany unconnected with any of the foreign systems for the
registration and control of such companies. A company of
this kind would probably be regarded, as in fact it is, as a
huge partnership in which the directors would represent the
ostensible or managing partners and the shareholders the
dormant partners.
The former would be responsible for the
whole of the debts, while the latter would most likely be held
blameless.
With regard to the second part of the question, viz., how
far the family property in which the absconding bankrupt
had an undivided share could be made available to meet his
debts, there is some difficulty in giving a precise answer.
The family property, as I have already described it, is such
as that, while on the one hand each son or his representatives
have an equal share in it, of which he or they cannot be
deprived, on the other the father has the control of it for life,
and may during his lifetime waste it or squander it as he
pleases. Though he cannot by will control the devolution of
it after his death, he may in his lifetime so use it that none of
the sons shall ever get to enjoy it at all. He may also by a
legal process cut out a son from the succession entirely,
but as this can only be done for grave moral turpitude,
and is rarely resorted to, it may be here left out of
consideration.
Take, then, such a case as the proposition suggests-an
absconding debtor who owns such an undivided share. There
· seems no reason why a decree, at all events, should not be
recorded against the family property to the extent of the
debtor's share. More especially would this be the case if the
share which C. put in the partnership was advanced from the
family property, and the profits of the concern, so long as
there were profits, were brought into the common stock.

CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
49
But the difficulty would be not so much in getting a decree
against the family property as in carrying it out. The usual and
ordinary way in which a Chinese Court enforces its decrees in
civil matters is not by seizure and sale of the goods of the de-
faulter, as we do, but by attachment, that is, by arresting
the person of the debtor and putting him in prison. To be in
debt and to refuse or be unable to pay is itself a criminal
offence, for which the offender is liable to punishment. The
arrest of the debtor is therefore the necessary preliminary to
the enforcement of any decree for the payment of a debt, and
until this is effected nothing can be done. For debts due to
Government-such as arise, for instance, from the defalcations
of an officer of Government-it is customary to seize and con-
fiscate by a summary process the property not only of the
defaulter himself but also that of his family. As an instance
of how that is done, I may mention a case which
appeared in the very last issue of the Chinese Times, dated
12th November, where it is stated that an officer of the
Government being short in his accounts, the officials
confiscated his property, and that proving insufficient, they
proceeded to confiscate that of his brother. Finding, however,
afterwards that he had a son possessed of means, they
released the brother's goods and seized the son's. In this case
evidently the family property had been divided. This,
however, is done rather by virtue of an order of the supreme
executive than by process of law, and does not affect the
general question. The usual and ordinary remedy is to put
the debtor in prison until he pays.
It is evident, then, that so long as C., the defaulter, can
escape arrest, no action can be taken against the family
property. The father's debt is the debt of the son, and all
remedies available against the former may be used against
the latter, but the converse does not hold good; the son's

50
CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
debt is not the father's, neither is it that of his brothers. None
of these can be imprisoned at the demand of the creditors,
and there being nobody to proceed against, nothing can be
done. The creditors must wait until his share of the property
has been separated from the rest and in the hands of one who
can be attached.
Sooner or later, however, the defaulter would be found and
thrown into prison, and then begins that see-saw of negotia-
tions with which almost all cases of the kind end in China.
It is a question of who can hold out longest-the debtor or
the creditor. The upshot is always a compromise of some
kind. The creditor or creditors take what they can get and
declare themselves satisfied, whereupon the debtor is released.
So far I have been speaking of what would probably happen
if the strict course of legal procedure were followed and no
more. But as everyone knows, there are various other
means by which creditors can enforce payment of debts
without having recourse to the authorities at all. They may,
as Mr. ALABASTER suggests, threaten to go and hang themselves
if not paid, or they may go and quarter themselves on the
family of the debtor, who do not venture to turn them out.
To get rid of these annoyances or for fear of worse troubles,
the debtor or his friends will pay or compromise or make
some arrangement as soon as possible. These incidents,
however, are beyond the scope of the present inquiry, which
has been confined to consideration of the extent of the remedy
which the law provides for a peaceful citizen who wishes to
have his strict legal rights and no more.
The general
conclusion is that the family property, if still undivided, may
by dint of exertion be made available for the payment of the
debts of any of its members, at least up to the extent of that
member's share, but that there is no simple or expeditious
method of effecting it. If the property has already been

CHINESE PARTNERSHIPS.
51
divided, the creditors will have no claim whatever against
the other shares.
SUPPLEMENTARY.
EXTRACT from a PETITION presented to the Government of
Hongkong by the Chinese Merchants in the Colony,
suggesting an alteration in the law of Bankruptcy and
the compulsory Registration of the Partners in Mercantile
Firms. (China Mail, 20th July 1882.)
Chinese partnership concerns in the interior always use the
real names in drawing up their partnership agreements.
Now whereas according to Chinese usage, whenever a shop
becomes insolvent, in all cases the full amount of deficit
has to be made good pro ratá by the partners acccording to the
amount of capital represented by them. There is therefore in
the interior no such practice as using fictitious names. But
as in this Colony the regulations, paying no regard to the
number of shares held in each shop, throw the blame, the
moment when bankruptcy occurs, invariably on those who
are men of substance, and require them to make full reparation
on behalf of the whole of the partners, the consequence is that
many use the name of some association, or the literary style
of an uncle or nephew, in signing the partnership agreement,
with a view to prevent being involved themselves. In case the
Government desire that the true names of the chief partners
should be reported, the undersigned pray that the matter may be
dealt with by an alteration of the laws now in force. If there
is a case of real insolvency the amount of liabilities should be
required to be made good by the partners of the shop con-
cerned, distributing the amount pro ratâ according to the
amount of capital represented by their respective shares, and
thus repaying the creditors.