REMARKS ON THE PRODUCTION OF
SALT IN CHINA.
By the late Archimandrite P. ZWEHTKOFF.
Retranslated from the German by W. R. CARLES.
From time immemorial the production of salt has formed
a subject of especial care to the Chinese Government, and
here it is necessary to remark that in the remotest periods
the salt trade was in China as highly esteemed as agriculture.
Annually, at the opening of the salt-works, princes were
present in person, and took an active interest in the first salt
boilings; it cannot therefore be surprising that with such
attention and encouragement on the part of princes, the salt
trade rapidly assumed large proportions and became an
important source of revenue to the State. In olden times in
China salt was principally obtained by boiling sea-water;
later on, however, i.e., under the Tang dynasty (620 A.D.),
people began to extract salt from the water of inland seas by
evaporation in the sun. The operation was extremely simple.
The earth on the banks of the lake was dug out, reservoirs
were made there for water, and the water was conducted to
them by ditches made on purpose, and leading from the lake
or, in some places, from the sea. The water dried up, and the
salt remained behind as a deposit. But the majority of salt-
workers in those days followed the old method of boiling.
As the success of the operation depended mainly on the
* Arbeiten der Kaiserlich Russischen Gesandtschaft zu Peking über
China, etc. Translated from the Russian into German by Dr. C. Abel and
F. A. Mecklenburg; Berlin, 1858, Vol. II, p. 495 seqq.

82
THE MANUFACTURE OF SALT IN CHINA.
condition and correctly timed preparation of the brine, the
superintendents of the salt trade began to evolve from time
to time different means of producing it. From A.D. 1132
the following method was introduced for preparing brine.
The whole of the sea-shore in the neighbourhood of the salt-
works was measured out and divided into a number of small,
regular squares; the surface layer of earth in each was
dug out; the ground was then strewn with straw, and the
earth that had been dug out thrown back upon it. The
name given to it in those days was lu, an oven. The
largest lu were not more than 2 ft. high and a fathom in circum-
ference;
but at the sides of the lu little ditches were made
for the brine to run off. After the ovens had been thus
arranged, the next step was to soak them with sea-water, and
as this was an easy task, it was entrusted to women and
children. After a short time the brine in the interior of the
ovens gradually formed and ran off into basins. In order to
test its degree of strength, small stones of a certain kind were
thrown in; if they remained on the surface, the brine was con-
sidered good; if they sank under, it was called sweet, and in that
case the ovens were abandoned for some other spots in which the
earth was more suitable. The brine when fit for boiling was
immediately poured into buckets and carried to the ovens. In
these were set large evaporating basins, and 3-5 of them were
always attached to each brine-oven. The boiling took place
at once and was continued without interruption: when ready
the salt was immediately shovelled out of the basins, and
fresh brine poured in, so that in 24 hours about 5 basins of
salt were boiled. Each basin turned out 3-5 piculs (about
18 pud) of pure salt.
After the 15th century the following method of procuring
brine was pursued in all salt-works on the sea-shore. Pits were
dug on the shore and bamboos were laid crosswise over them.

THE MANUFACTURE OF SALT IN CHINA.
83
The whole was covered with double mats, and sand was strewn
on the top.
Every morning and evening the covering of sand
was soaked with sea-water by the tide, and the salt liquor found
its
way into the pits. As soon as the water had retired from
the shore the salt-workers came out with flaming bundles
of straw to test the saltness of the moisture, and they were not
convinced of their work being good unless the salt vapour,
which rose from the pits, extinguished the fire. The
brine thus produced was drawn off and carried to the salt-
works, and salt was obtained from it uncommonly quickly.
Somewhere about the same date, at the salt-works in the
north, the most convenient plan was found to be to obtain the
salt by exposure to the air and sun.
In the present day, as of old, the salt trade occupies an
important place among the chief sources of imperial revenue.
An innumerable number of salt-works, scattered over different
points of the interior of China, are, under the direction of the
Government, left in the hands of private persons, but the
supreme direction of them, as well as the inspection of the
salt sales are assigned to certain officials appointed by the
Board of Revenue. These inspectors give the private farmers
licences for the purchase and sale of salt, and draw from them
the duties fixed by the Government. Each farmer is on
his side required to keep a strict watch on the direction and
regular course of labour in the salt-works, and to this end an
elder is appointed to every 10 ovens, who is charged, besides
supervising the workmen, with the duty of keeping a
journal, and noting down when and by whom such and such
a quantity of salt has been obtained, and how much has
passed out. At the close of every month, the elders' journals
are revised by certain persons who are selected by the local
authorities from the merchant class. These revisers are also
charged by every means in their power to co-operate with the

84
THE MANUFACTURE OF SALT IN CHINA.
officials towards the prosecution and extinction of smug-
gling.
At the present moment in China salt is produced under
three forms: sea-salt, lake-salt and well-salt. Sea-salt is
either boiled or obtained by exposure, and is found in all
the maritime provinces, viz., in Chih Li, Shan Tung, on the
banks of the River Huai, and in Che Kiang, Fu Kien and
Kuang Tung. Lake salt is obtained in Shan Si, Kan Su, and
Shen Si, and to a certain extent is imported from the country
outside the frontier, i.e., from the pasture-grounds of Chahar,
from Ordos and Kokonor. Well-salt is obtained in Kan Su,
Sze Chuen, and Yun Nan. The salt sales take place on the
authority of licences issued by the Government. In the
Province of Chih Li, by direction of the Board of Revenue,
1,160,046 such licences are offered for sale every year, and
each licence gives a title for the receipt of 300 catties of salt.
In Shan Tung 804,920 licences for 225 catties are issued;
in the salt-works on the Huai and in Che Kiang there are as
many as 2,690,889 licences covering 335-400 catties; in
Fu Kien 1,069,485 of 100-675 catties; in Kuang Tung
and Kuang Si 864,510 of 235-322 catties. In Sze Chuen the
number of licences is based on the consumption of the preced-
ing year, and there are two kinds of licence in existence there:
the one of 5,000 catties for the market by water, and the other
of 400 catties for export overland. In Kan Su 72,688 licences
for 178-200 catties are issued annually. On the receipt of
the licences the farmers are required to give a bond that the
salt shall be sold only in the districts named by the Government;
non-observance of this rule entails prosecution and confisca-
tion of their stock of salt. At the same time the fixed rate is
given them, at which they are to conduct the sales. These
rates are not the same everywhere, but lower for the districts
in the neighbourhood of the salt-works, and higher in pro-

THE MANUFACTURE OF SALT IN CHINA.
85
portion as the distance from them increases. Generally the
average price of salt in China may be taken as 40 tschoch a
catty, or 2 silver kopecks a pound.
The salt from the springs in Yun Nan and elsewhere is
given at a fixed duty to farmers, taken from among the well-
to-do villagers; but this salt is not sold at fixed, but at optional
prices. The Crown duties for all branches of the salt trade
are regulated by fixed ordinances, which are in harmony with
the land-tax; they form at the present moment an important
item in the imperial budget, for the total annual receipts from
the salt licences, etc., generally amount to Tls. 5,745,000 in
silver (i.e., more than 12,000,000 silver roubles), which
represent a quarter of the entire revenue of the empire.
We have said above that at present sea, lake, and spring salt
are used by the Chinese. Sea-salt is obtained in the most
important quantities, for which reason a quantity of descriptions
are found, in Chinese writings, of the manner in which it is
produced. We borrow from them some details.
The salt-works are dispersed over the whole extent of the line
of coast, and are considered better, or worse, in accordance with
the quality of their salt. In all of them the manufacture of salt
takes place at a fixed season, consecrated by time and custom.
According to Chinese notions, the 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th
months (April-July) are the most favorable for manufacturing
salt; and they maintain that at this time, when vapours are
rising from the ground, the exudation of salt comes into play
with them. In autumn the vapours gradually cool, for which
reason the exudation also diminishes by degrees; but in
winter, on account of the frost, the vapours disappear alto-
gether, and with them the exudation disappears as well. On
this account the manufacture takes place only during the
hot weather, and hardly any occurs in the winter. To obtain
sea-salt the Chinese employ two methods: they either boil the

86
THE MANUFACTURE OF SALT IN CHINA.
brine, or else they leave the sediment of salt in the sun to
evaporate.
The period of boiling is divided into three stages, the
technical names of which are (1) Shai-hui (sunning ashes),
Lin-lu (filtering brine), and (3) Fu-huo (boiling). The
preparatory manipulation, called Shai-hui, consists in the
following: on the very first day of opening operations in the
salt-works the sea-shore is cleared of weeds, and a beginning
is made by digging out the upper layer of earth and breaking
it up; this earth when broken up is turned over and over
with bamboo poles until it is fine and smooth.
Then sea-
water is brought from ingenious receptacles, which are filled
with water at high-tide, and the earth is moistened with it,
as with light rain, equally and thoroughly. Towards evening
the earth is shovelled to one side, and a long line of mounds
is formed of it, in order to protect it from rain during the
night. On the following day the procedure is the same as on
the previous day, except that the earth is carried to some
particular spot for safety. In fine weather it is taken out
again from time to time, and dried on the salt-grounds.
As soon as the earth has been thoroughly prepared, i.e., is
completely impregnated with salt particles, the workers take
it to the ovens. These ovens, which are shaped like chests,
9 ft. long, 2 ft. high, 6 ft. broad, and 3 ft. deep, are called
Lü; near each a well 8 ft. deep is dug. The floor of the oven
is strewn with rotten wood; above this are fine bamboos; on
them is a layer of brushwood; and above all is a layer of ashes
of plants. The prepared earth is shot upon this, beaten hard
and covered over with rice-straw. On this is poured sea-
water, which finds its way through all the inner layers, and
flows into the well as brine. Each oven in 24 hours gives
more than 20 tan (60 pud) of pure brine, which is drawn out
of the well and taken to the boiling oven to be boiled.

THE MANUFACTURE OF SALT IN CHINA.
87
The salt boiling continues without interruption throughout
the whole time of the operations. In each oven are several
pans of different sizes, part of which are to hold the cold brine,
part to boil it. Each boiling begins at 11 p.m. and continues
until 10 o'clock on the following morning, and during this
period salt is taken six times. As soon as the salt begins to
harden, pods of the tsao-chio tree (Gleditschia chinensis) are
thrown into the pans, in order that the particles of salt may
combine more quickly, and when the salt is ready the party
of men who are watching inform the others of it, in order
that it may be cleared out at once and the pans may be filled
with fresh brine. On an average 600 catties of the best brine
turn out 140 catties of pure salt, called by the Chinese
"fire salt" (huo yen). It appears in three qualities and
colours: white, dark and yellow; the white is the best, the
dark not so good, and the yellow much inferior and of a bitter
taste.
The second method (exposure to the air and evaporation in
the sun of saline sediments) is distinct from the first, in that
the brine is not boiled, but poured into peculiar paved tanks,
and left there to the sun and wind. For complete evaporation
two days in summer and 3-4 at other times are sufficient,
and indeed the N. W. wind is quite as favorable to this operation
as are the sun's rays; on the other hand, with unfavorable
winds, and in rainy weather, no salt is taken.
There is nothing peculiar in the manufacture of salt from
inland waters; we have therefore now only to speak of well-
salt.
In the S.W. provinces of China, salt is taken from the
belly of the earth, for deep wells are sunk, and this only
happens in the neighbourhood of mountains. The salt is
drawn from these wells by bamboo pipes, and conducted to
the works by channels of stone. The construction of the

88
THE MANUFACTURE OF SALT IN CHINA.
wells, as well as the manner of obtaining salt from them, is
somewhat remarkable.
The boring of the well is effected by means of a wooden
pile, tipped at one end with iron, and at the other provided
with a rope.
The workmen hold it by the rope, while they
drive it into the earth, wetting the hole from time to time in
order that the boring may proceed more easily. In this
manner they advance to the salt-spring, i.e., to a depth of
20-30, and in some cases of 100 fathoms. When the well is
ready, a crane is put up close to it for letting down and
drawing up the bucket, i.e., a pipe which is made of bamboos
from which the rind has been peeled off. This pipe is hollow,
but open, and provided at the base with a leathern valve,
which opens to let in the water at the foot of the well, and
closes of itself on being wound up. Crane and pipe are
connected by strong ropes with a revolving cross-beam.
Generally the crane is set in motion by oxen, which walk
round the well, to this side or that, quickly or slowly, according
as the bucket is ascending or descending. All the operations
attending the hoisting of the brine are conducted by signals or
blows on wooden boards. The brine obtained from the wells
in this fashion flows by ducts into the manufacturing pans,
in which it is boiled and transformed into pure salt. Instead
of fire-wood the exhalations of gas from the earth are generally
utilised for boiling the salt, which also are obtained by wells
and are of different degrees of strength. Bamboo pipes are
led from the gas wells to the pans, and there the gas, which
escapes out of openings in the pipes, is lighted.
There are a
white and a reddish kind of brine obtained from the wells:
the white, or the purest, yields a white salt in large quanti-
ties, and of a strong saline flavour; a smaller quantity is
obtained from the red, and the salt is somewhat sweet. Here

THE MANUFACTURE OF SALT IN CHINA.
89
again the quantity of the salt depends upon the nature of the
earth and the weather.
All
As in China the number of idle hands is great, an immense
number of workmen are employed at the works on the salt-
springs, as indeed is the case in every Chinese business, and
each of them is assigned some duty connected with the
work. Thus there are special persons detailed to inspect the
wells, the cattle, the crane, the ropes, the signal-boards, the
channels, the boiling, the pans, the fire, the fodder;
there are
also doctors, house-servants, smiths and other artificers.
this crowd of persons are subject to the contractors, to whom
is entrusted the sale of the salt on the spot, as well as its
market in more distant places. For the latter purpose,
special licences are issued for the export of salt by land and
by water. Besides the native inhabitants of Yun Nan, Sze
Chuen and Kan Su, the people of Hu (? Kuei) Chou, Hu
Nan, Hu Pei, and in some degree the barbarians, who are
known under the name of Fan and Man, all use the well-salt.
According to observations of the Chinese, well-salt is at times
damp and at others dry; it sometimes hardens, and some-
times powders; it gives a flavour to dishes and robs them of
their flavour; it expels damp and excites it. This salt presses
the inner parts together and causes consumption; sometimes
stomachic disorders are occasioned by its excessive use;
the savages use the red salt, and in consequence many of
them suffer from goitre.

NAMES OF THE SOVEREIGNS OF THE
OLD COREAN STATES, AND CHRO-
NOLOGICAL TABLE OF THE
PRESENT DYNASTY.
COMPILED BY
LUDOVICO NOCENTINI.
But little information is obtainable as to the names of
the sovereigns of the legendary period and of the first
Corean States, as the two A, E, and others.
As regards the first period, we are told only that the
legendary, styled, reigned in Corea and had
his seat of government at 平壤,afterwards at 白嶽山,
the present L. He ascended the throne B.C. 2331,
and his State lasted 1,212 years.
The next period commences with, who also held
his Government at the same capital (F). The Ci, or
Kwi, dynasty lasted 929 years, during 43 sovereigns. But
after or, the Viscount of Ci, or Kwi, who
succeeded to the throne B.C. 1122, only the last two
sovereigns are known, viz.,
lost his throne in B.C. 194.
name to, founded the
ferred his capital to
and his son, who
He afterwards changed his
State of, and trans-
. Then usurped the
throne and changed the name of the capital to E,
and the state lasted for a further period of 87 years.