NOTES ON THE MINERAL RESOURCES
OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.*
By H. M. BECHER, ASSOC. M. INST. C.E., F.G.S.
On commencing my work of inspecting the mineral
resources of this interesting field, or "prospecting Shantung,"
as it was called, I hoped and prepared myself for expeditions
throughout the length and breadth of the province. I was
only permitted, however, to become thoroughly acquainted
with about a quarter of the area, which, after all, is about
as large as half our native Isle, and which would take many
times the space of the two years allotted to me for a complete
survey. Though the general map of China, compiled mostly
from sources attributed to old Jesuit surveys, suffices for the
traveller to trace his routes between the frequented ports, and
even to follow the roads between most of the important cities
of the interior, there are probably few portions of the country
mapped with any degree of topographical accuracy; whilst
the Chinese maps present the most absurd appearance,
especially in the rendering of mountains, to the eye of the
European cartographer. Shantung has been more fortunate
than its neighbours in this respect, in that it has been mapped
by several European authors; the work of M. FAUVEL,
published in Paris, being quite a handsome production,
wanting only in perfection on the same score of the
mountains. In this direction I had hoped to make some
* Read before the Society on 25th October 1887. See "Proceedings."

MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
23
material contribution, whilst adding at the same time to VON
RICHTHOFEN'S geological picture; but, I regret to say, the
limited scope of my travels has reduced the realisation of my
intentions to the area I have to describe as North-Eastern
Shantung only. The accessibility of this province, its com-
paratively pleasant, temperate climate, the agreeable variety
of its landscape, with hills none too high for easy climbing,
small rivers offering little difficulty to fording, and intervals
of low, undulating ground with occasional plains-all these
offer exceptional facilities to the prospector in Shantung,
whilst he even profits by the misfortunes of his brother
labourer of the plough and spade in having the rocks laid
bare to his pick and hammer on the hill-sides which the latter
has denuded in his ruthless harvest of their vegetable covering.
Thus every traveller on the paths of Shantung can observe
the nature of the rocks beneath his feet, and several have had
something to say about them; but, as is not unnatural, that
something, from the pens of laymen, has generally had
reference only to the more attractive mineralogical features―
the valuable metals said to be found in those rocks. Another
aspect of geology also sometimes proves attractive to the lay
observer-the speculative consideration of the phenomena
produced by marvellous geological agencies; but this latter
requires more power of word-painting to fascinate general
attention than does the enumeration of mineral riches, and is
only most successfully dealt with by the popular geologist to
an audience in full view of the natural wonders of his theme.
My subject requires a brief reference to the geological
history and formation of the rock-masses which constitute
the base of the resources in question. I must be excused for
frequently borrowing the words of the most eminent writer
on the geology of "China," as he, VON RICHTHOFEN, has so
clearly demonstrated some of the points which it is necessary

24
MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
for me to refer to. At the same time, I most gratefully
acknowledge the advantage I derived from the sound basis
which he has established, and to which my own observations
can only contribute in detail. In his introduction to the
"Tektonik," or structure of the highlands of Shantung, he
writes:-
....
"The hill-forming rocks are divisible into two main series,
an older, which has been subjected to the most violent
disturbances, and a younger, though still very old series, the
strata of which are unequally spread over the surface of the
former.
From another point of view, however,
the area in consideration is separable into two distinct halves.
We have remarked the surprise with which the traveller in
crossing the Wei-ho suddenly finds the variegated rock
scenery disappear from his view. On the left hand the
undulating hill land is composed of almost all the representa-
tive strata of the Shantung formations of second and third
series. Beyond the broad, sandy river-bed, on the other
hand, none of these are seen, but only the oldest crystalline
rocks prevail. . . The dissimilarities of formation, which
are most apparent at this point (being only separated by a
sandy river-bed) are characteristic of the two divisions of
the highlands which we designate as Eastern and Western
Shantung.
"It is a remarkable fact that the internal structure of two
halves of the same mountain land, which are composed of
almost exactly similar formations, should present such a
difference of geological history. Briefly to recapitulate the
distinguishing features:-In the west a splitting up into
'flakes' took place on lines of no definite regularity,
followed by gradual displacement and upheaval, amounting
to 3,000 feet in places, in such a manner that all the flakes
have a gentle inclination to the north. On the other hand,

MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
25
in the east a compression of the gneiss was brought about by
a force acting at right angles to the ranges of this rock,
certain firmer portions retaining their original structure and
the intervening parts experiencing a crushing and breaking
up."
By these theories VON RICHTHOFEN accounts for the striking
difference of configuration in the mountains of the eastern
and western halves of the province; but, as I have to confine
myself mostly to the former, I give this passage chiefly to
explain why the mineral resources of the one may be expected
to differ from those of the other, and to point the argument of
absence of certain formations in either.
The break of continuity noticed by the Baron is certainly
most striking to every observer crossing the Wei-ho, but his
wholesale establishment of the big-fault theory from north
to south is not quite borne out by observations at the south
end of his line.
To come now to the subject-the consideration of the
mineral resources-of which, with reference to the west, I
can only speak from information, but from individual
experience in the east. I must first refer to the authorities
who have preceded me on the subject, and I will then show
how far I can hold, and in what I must disagree, with them.
First in rank of capability as an observer is undoubtedly the
German author already quoted, but as he also cites the
information of the Rev. Dr. WILLIAMSON and refers to the
evidence of the maps of FAUVEL and HOWARD, I will first
speak briefly of the last, and then return to compare notes
with the others.
Without going into circumstantial evidence for or against
the correctness of each locality favoured by a distinctive
parti-coloured patch in HOWARD'S map, and of indications
equally definitely but more modestly given in the others,

26
ESSAY ON
Vide SCHOTT, Verz., p. 47. One tale in KLAPROTH'S Chresto-
mathy, pp. 48-62; the same in French in St. Julien, Livre des
Récompenses et des Peines. Paris, 1835, pp. 18-27.
[Library: Paris.]
121. (Hsin ching), M. niyaman i nomun. In Manchu,
Chinese, Tibetan (with Manchu transcription). Svo.
Vide THONNELIER's Catalogue, p. 517, No. 3946. Is perhaps an
abstract of the pradjna pâramitâ hridaya sûtra.
[Library:-Paris.]
122. (Ssu shih êrh chang ching). The sûtra
of 42 sentences.
Vide Journal As., XI, (1848), pp. 535-57 for French translation
by GABET and Huc.
123-Fucihi i nomulaha (?) dehi juwe fiyelen nomun. The
sûtra of 42 sentences. In Manchu, Mongol and Chinese. 1 cover,
manuscript.
[Library-St. Petersburg.]
124.-Hian kie chien fo hao. The names of the 1,000 Buddhas,
in five languages-Tibetan, Sanscrit, Manchu, Mongol and Chinese.
2 vols., 4to. The Kalpa of the sages (bhadrakalpa).
[Library:-Paris.]
125.-Guwan s'eng di giyun i iletuleme acabuha bithei urgen be
targabure bithe. 1728. Kuan-shêng's discourse on the giving up
of the desire of rewards. A Taoist tract.
Vide WYLIE, Translation, p. xl.
126.—諸聖帝君訓誡世人之經(Chu shéng ti chin hsin
chieh shih jên chih ching), M. geren enduringge di giyun i jalan i
niyalma be tacihiyan targabure nomun. One leaf, 8vo. A Taoist
tract: Warning and Injunction to the men of this world.
Vide WYLIE, Translation, p. xxxix.
127.-Geren enduringge di giyun i jalan de tutabuha boobai tacihi-
yan i nomun bithe. 1 leaf, 8vo. A Taoist tract. Precious
Teachings left to the world. In Manchu and Chinese.
[Library:-v.M.]

MANCHU LITERATURE.
27
128.—關聖帝君覺世寶訓經(Kuan shéng ti chin chiao
shih pao hsün ching), M. enduringge di giyun kuwan mafai jalan de
ulhibure boobai tacihiyan i nomun bithe. 5 leaves, 8vo. A Taoist
tract. Precious Teachings for the instruction of the world. In
Manchu and Chinese.
[Library:-v.M.]
129.—X E F Tiên LX (Wên chang ti chặn gin chih viên),
M. wen cang di giyun enduri i butui erdemui bithe. 4 leaves, 8vo.
A Taoist tract. On secret virtues. In Manchu and Chinese.
[Library:-v.M.]
130.-
(Chieh yin wên), M. hayadara be targabure bithe.
6 leaves, 8vo. A Taoist tract. Warning against debauchery. In
Manchu and Chinese.
[Library:-v.M.]
131.一梓潼帝君感應陰女(Tzu tung ti chin lian jing
yin chih wên), M. dsy tung di giyun i butui sain de karulame
acabume bithe. A Taoist tract. On rewards and secret good
actions.
Vide WYLIE, Notes, p. 180; Manchu in KLAPROTH'S Chres-
tomathy, pp. 37-47.
132.一定清文祭祀條例(Chin ting chting wên chi ssu
t'iao li), M. hesei toktobuha manjusai wecere metere kooli bithe.
6 vols., large 8vo, 1765. In Manchu only. The Sacrificial Ritual of
the Manchus ; Vol. I-IV, describing the ceremonies and prayers
during the sacrifices; Vol. V enumerates the different sacrificial
vessels and utensils, of which Vol. VI gives 118 drawings.
Vide LANGLES, Rituel des Tartars-Mantchoux, Paris. 1804,
4to, 74 pp. and 10 plates; reprint from Notices et Extraits, VII,
pp. 241-308. C. DE HARLEZ, La religion nationale des tartares
orientaux, mandchous et mongols; avec le Rituel tartare, traduit.
Bruxelles, 1887. 8vo, 216 pp. and 8 plates.
[Libraries:-Peking, Paris, v.M.]

28
MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
This, however, does not help to confirm the reports of Coal
being said to exist at Têng-chow-fu, Lai-chow-fu, and some
other localities. I can only argue that the rocks which I
observed in those places lead me to expect anything but the
coveted coal-seams, whilst of three specimens brought to me
as dug from as many supposed outcrops, one proved to be
rotten basalt, another clay stained with manganese, and a
third (which had at least the excuse of being carbonaceous),
an impure graphite. The only semblance of a Coal oc-
, which bears a shadow of reality, is that in the oolitic
La-yang fish shales, but these rocks contain only patches of
what may be called fossil carbon of no practical importance.
currence,
To pass now to the metalliferous minerals, on which the
real gist of my subject depends. VON RICHTHOFEN has de-
spatched their consideration cursorily thus:-
"Shantung has acquired a renown for a fabulous
wealth of metals of various sorts still hidden from know-
ledge in the depths of the earth. Much has been written
on the subject, and the maps of European travellers are
so covered with indications of the most important metals,
that on seeing them one might believe to have before
him one of the most richly promising mining countries
of the world, and one cannot understand that the Chinese
have been unable during thousands of years to see and
pick up the riches which were evident to the eye of
European amateur mineralogists at their first casual passage
through the country. Seldom, however, has the vision of
travellers been blinded by the desire to discover rich mines
to a greater extent than here. The only metal to which
perhaps any importance attaches, Iron, receives the least
notice, and the frequency with which the others are mention-
ed is a direct exponent of the degree of profit which they
expected to be derived from them. First comes Gold, then

MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
29
follow Silver, Lead, and Copper. As in all the rivers of China
whose courses are wholly or partly through crystalline rocks,
gold is actually found in the drifts, though in exceedingly
small quantities, and its extraction by washing constitutes at
certain seasons the occupation of the poorest classes of the
people.
From the discovery of this fact the
belief in the mineral wealth was established, nor is it
dissipated to this day.
The occurrence of various
ores in Shantung admits of hardly a doubt, but workable
deposits have not yet been found." The only exception
which he admits is of Iron, ores of which, he says, occur
frequently.
At first one is really led to expect some show of minerals
from the appearance of the rocks at Chefoo, along the coast
east and west and southwards, inland. These rocks are of
the same formations which often are most productive of
metals in other countries, but as there are exceptions to all
rules as cakes do not always contain plums,-so these
favourable rocks are not particularly favoured. The gneiss
is much the same as the normal gneiss which contains the
numerous rich Silver lodes of the Saxon Erzgebirge.
Granite, though almost barren here, carries Gold in other
lands, and is the matrix of Tin in Cornwall, Australia, and
the Straits. Just such crystalline schists and limestones are
in places the country-rock of Lead, Copper, Iron, and other
metalliferous ores. To the expectations based on a favourable
appearance of the rocks further hopes are added by distinct
indications of metals to be seen even in the immediate
vicinity of Chefoo. In the walls of the Settlement itself,
besides finding a most fertile study of practical mineralogy,
eye of the expert is attracted by glittering surfaces of
comparatively pure Iron ore, of which a portion of the rock
consists, used as rough stone building material. The
the

30
MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
pedestrian on the hills near the harbour may pick up
fragments of this and other Iron ores, and, should his
curiosity lead him into a certain limestone quarry at the back
of the city, he may think he has discovered the veritable
source of China's Sycee in ponderous and silver-like lumps of
shining Galena, which really lie there amongst the débris of
the stone-workers. Extending his wanderings somewhat
further afield he may chance on solitary natives engaged in
mysterious grubbing amongst the boulders of the mountain
creeks, whose occupation is found on close observation to be
a mild form of stream Gold-washing, though no other tools
than an iron hoe and a rough wooden panning dish betray
the digger's calling. Should the Shantung gold-hunter,
thus caught, be propitiated before he beats a scared
retreat, or craftily dissimulates his labours, he may be
induced to show the stranger how he works his free claim
and exhibit his day's pile of "dust," carefully hoarded
in a very small goose-quill. Such scant indications of
hidden treasures when discovered, from Chinese report, by
Europeans soon after the opening of Chefoo, were sufficient
first to cause exaggerated rumours of mineral wealth, and
then an actual rush of adventurers to the place. These,
mostly unskilled prospectors, certainly found further proofs
of the existence of Gold-bearing stream deposits to encourage
them, but being quickly forced to decamp by the inhabitants,
they carried away still more glowing reports of the golden
riches they were unable to reap, and which the Chinese
guarded with such apparent jealousy. The last phase of this
inflated belief in the Shantung El Dorado is now transpiring
under the auspices of foreign Chinese officials and capitalists.
Several mysterious expeditions were made in recent years, at
intervals, to the reputed localities; natives were secretly
interrogated and trial pits surreptitiously dug, occasional

MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
31
specimens of Gold quartz and Galena being carried away in
triumph, as proof positive of the hidden mines wherewith to
beguile the outside subscribers. All the places, however, thus
visited by rival claimants for mining concessions may be
counted on a few fingers. An amusing exponent of the
traditional belief of the natives in the treasure of their
mountains appears in the favourite name of Chi-pan-shan
being given to three or four different hills in various parts of
the province. It was only, however, a few years ago that
open and authenticated search for mines was commenced, and
then the difficulty of locating any deposits worth working
became apparent. Only a single Gold mine, which had been
worked within recent record and was well known throughout
the district, proved worthy of re-opening, all others failing
to produce solid proof of their reputed riches; and the reasons
for their not being better known were ascribed to the
obstructiveness of local authorities, or the unwillingness of
the natives to allow mining on their lands. The concession-
ary prospectors had every power and facility to discover or
re-open mines in any part of the province, the only lack was
of mines, or of sufficiently abundant or promising outcrops of
any ores to induce active operations. Gold was, however,
the only metal particularly sought for, and of course widely
reported. Silver was traced in a few localities, but no
mines were systematically commenced on this metal. Of
other metals few traces were discovered, or even specimens
brought in for determination.
Returning to my plan of discussing the several metals
reputed, or known, to exist, according to their importance,
and expressing at the same time my opinion that VON
RICHTHOFEN'S hasty judgment was not far below reality, I will
take the Iron ores as first on the list. Here, again, I am
sorry, for the future importance of the eastern end of the

32
MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
province, that the palm belongs to the Iron ores found in the
west, for there alone are they in any abundance and purity
in close proximity to the fuel and fluxes necessary for their
utilisation. But, as again I can only speak definitely of the
occurrences which came under my observation, I must
relegate the established resources of the Tsi-nan-fu and
I-chow-fu Iron-fields to the acknowledged but unappreciated
resources of that better half of the province. I have obtained
several specimens of Iron ores, some of which are fine, rich
stones, but they represent only two occurrences of any
importance. As, however, my attention was not especially
directed to this unattractive metal, to the Chinese eyes, I
would not say that other and larger deposits may not be
found in this region. The best locality known to me is at
Chi-fu-tao, the hilly peninsula to the north-west of Chefoo
Harbour, and known to Europeans as the Bluff. The ore
consists of black specular and micaceous Hematite, contained
in more or less proportion throughout a bed of quartzite rock,
which is but one of the regular members of the mica-schist
series. The greater part of the bed is too poor to be
considered practically an Iron ore, but portions and pockets
would probably be found of sufficiently high grade for smelt-
ing on examination of the outcrop, which extends almost all
along the ridge of the Bluff hills, and continues in the same
course on the lighthouse island, Kung-tung-tao. Though
the oxide of Iron is itself a fine pure mineral, its association
with quartz only would make this a most refractory ore for
the blast furnace, but, should the better quality be found to
smelt well in admixture with limestone, or perhaps with
other ores, to be obtained by sea from other localities, on the
coast, it is yet within the range of possibility that our little
port of Chefoo may become the embryo Chinese Barrow-in-
Furness, Essen, or Creuzot, from which shipbuilding material

MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
33
will be distributed north and south, and guns, steel rails, and
other necessaries of the coming Iron Age be transported
inland on the railways of Shantung. No equally extensive
deposit to this is found in other parts of the crystalline
schists to my knowledge, but numerous little veins and
stringers of specular Iron ore are frequent in the gneiss of the
auriferous regions, having no further importance than
mineralogical interest and bearing clues to other minerals.
The finest sample of Hematite in my collection is that
obtained from a small vein in the Cambrian quartz conglo-
merates of the Têng-chow-fu Bluff, but this, too, is practically
an insignificant occurrence. The commonest form of Iron
ore found in this part of the province is an impure Limonite,
which is frequent in the limestone beds overlying the
crystalline schists, especially along the north-east coast.
This, however, is a mineral of peculiar importance, not as an
Iron ore, but as representing the outcrop of sulphuretted
minerals, of which it is the product of surface decomposition,
and as such I shall have to mention it again anon. Though
apparently an abundant source of Iron ore, mentioned by VON
RICHTHOFEN as found in stalactitic deposits, its veins would
not be found to produce the same material in depth, and,
such as it is, the mineral is probably too impure to yield a
good quality of Iron.
Next in importance to Coal and Iron we may consider the
Gold of Shantung, though, as in other parts of the world
where this seductively precious metal is found, its remu-
nerative production, that is to say, the practical value of its
resources, remains a matter of speculative uncertainty—until
established by demonstration. Gold was undoubtedly found,
and as surely produced in this country, before the age of
enlightenment of many other parts of the world, including
that of the red man by his white prospecting brother on the

34
MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
famous Pacific slopes, but no rich finds of "pay-gravel," no
"Eureka gulches" or "Cherokee flats" have followed the
discovery on this side to enrich the Shantung digger and
elevate him to the standard of the denizens of Sacramento
Valley, though he has had a hundred times the number of
years for its development and his own. Even if we allow
that his forefathers have exhausted the placers, and left the later
generations nothing but the bed rock to work on, surely some
stronger argument than the inferior intelligence of John
Chinaman must be necessary to account for the wealth of this
richer California remaining unnoticed by him till to-day.
With all due respect to the opinion of VON RICHTHOFEN on the
one side, and that of the optimist prophets of the coming
golden age of wonders on the other, I venture to maintain a
modest estimation of my own of this subject, though I hardly
venture to predict from my short experience any absolute
certainty of the results of pending trials. The source of the
Gold, which still constitutes an item of regular production in
small stream washings, is undoubtedly traceable to quartz
veins in the gneissic country rocks of the well-defined
auriferous regions. The question is, how far these original
sources are in themselves suitable for exploitation. That rich
outcrops of free milling Gold rock are not abundant is evident
from the fact that only very few traces of workings on such
are to be found amongst a people who are by no means ignor-
ant or slow to profit by the occurrence of the precious metal
when it pays them to get it. The other alternative remains that
quartz containing too small a percentage for extraction by
any but the most skilful treatment may exist in quantities,
though it has proved valueless to the natives, who never learnt
any but the rudest methods of dealing with it. From actual
examination and practical test I am convinced that the
greater number of quartz veins are but small and of low

MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
35
grade. The larger veins are often almost barren, whilst the
richest streaks are generally far too minute and irregular to
be profitably followed through the rock. I am sorry I have
no statistics on the actual annual production of Gold from
native washings, whilst the out-turn of the only Gold mine
and mill established is yet too uncertain a problem for
conclusions. Such as they are, the auriferous rocks are
widely distributed over the eastern end of the peninsula.
Three places are, however, especially reputed as centres, viz.,
Ning-hai, Chi-hia, and Ping-tu, whilst other small districts
collect little parcels of Gold-dust to supply the travelling buyers
who make periodical visits in its quest from Chefoo and other
markets. It is hoped by the present adventurers to find and
work mines in all these districts; but up to the present, Ping-tu
only has afforded a lode worth the re-opening of ancient work-
ings, no second lode of sufficient size and richness having
been discovered elsewhere. Even in the Ping-tu district many
other promising-looking outcrops, on which systematic
explorations were commenced, had to be abandoned as worth-
less. I have prepared an abstract of 99 assays of auriferous
samples from which the average of the Ping-tu mine quartz
proves to be from one to two ounces of Gold per ton, whilst
that of other quartz veins seldom averages more than half an
A further unfortunate characteristic of these ores is
the prevalence of Pyrites and consequent combination of the
precious metal, which is thus not all what is known as
"free" for extraction.
ounce.
The only other metalliferous ore actually found and said to
have been produced in Eastern Shantung is Galena, Lead ore
containing Silver, the latter (sycee) metal of course forming
the attraction, and dignifying its reputed localities with the
posthumous fame of Silver mines. Most of the occurrences
are too insignificant to map, and it is hardly probable that

36
MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
any will afford material for mining, but in the west
larger deposits are reported at Chi-chuan, on which it is
proposed to commence extensive smelting operations, although
the resources of the mines themselves have not been establish-
ed. Several samples from Chi-chuan, Kü-cho and other
spots showed most of this Galena not to be very rich in Silver,
generally from 20 to 30 ounces per ton. Besides these, no
actual ores of Silver have been found to my knowledge.
Copper ores are still more conspicuous by their absence in
anything like abundance. I have seen no Copper lodes, but
only a few specimens from the I-shui district.
Quicksilver and Tin, though figuring on FAUVEL'S and
HOWARD'S maps, appear to be only of legendary existence,
which is to be regretted, as mines of these ores would be of
great value to the Chinese, who use both metals largely.
Jade and precious stones complete the category of Shan-
tung's reputed mineral resources. Of the former I have only
seen the mock variety used for common stone ornaments, whilst
common, valueless Garnets are the only representatives of the
latter, much to the loss in intrinsic value of my collection.
Having disposed of Mr. HOWARD'S "Principal Mineral
Productions," I have, in conclusion, to mention a few less
sensationally attractive minerals, not figuring on the map,
but which really do contribute to the resources of the
country; and I must also briefly refer again to one and the
only class of metalliferous outcrops in which I discovered a
fertile and interesting object for mining exploration.
The possible existence of a certain class of valuable metal-
liferous deposits, as indicated by numerous strong ferruginous
outcrops, deserves some special attention; such outcrops are
found only in the limestone rocks which VON RICHTHOFEN
classes as uppermost members of the archaic metamorphic
schist series, though numerous insignificant traces of similar

MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
37
Iron oxides occur in the gneiss beds. The most characteristic
occurrence is at a place called Chin-kuo-san, one of a low hill
range along the coast between Chefoo and I-chow-fu (VON
RICHTHOFEN: Kin-sun-san), where the abundance of limestone
fragments strewing the surface of the low hills, especially on
the south-western slope, is remarkable. These can easily be
traced to solid masses in the rock of more or less size and
regularity, the largest being on the crest of the hill, where a
temple is perched, marked as "Pagoda Hill" on the charts,
and, conformable to the strike of the limestone, its course
can be followed east and west along the ridge and on neigh-
bouring hills of the low range. The mineral, Limonite, is
hydrous oxide of Iron, more or less mixed with carbonates of
Iron and lime, oxide of maganese, and some quartz, and on
closer examination parts of it are found to be of pseudo-
morphous crystalline structure, the shape of the crystals
being modified cubes peculiar to pyrites. This peculiarity
indicates the origin of these outcrops to be in the decomposi-
tion of bodies of sulphuret minerals, chiefly Iron pyrites, and
gives a degree of probability to the supposition, based on
native report, that Galena is to be found at Chin-kuo-san.
These outcrops are therefore to be regarded as favourable
sites on which to commence future explorations for mineral
deposits which may be found in depth to carry Lead, Silver, or
Copper ores. It is worthy of note that similar though much
larger ferruginous outcrops, between limestone and quartzite,
cap bodies of these sulphurets in the Chi-chow district,
province of Anhwei, where limited prospecting operations
have opened up quite a promising ore body.
A mineral product which really is mined and produced in
considerable quantities, especially at Lai-chow-fu, is Steatite
or Soapstone, found here in more or less purity and largely
prepared for local use and exportation in the form of shih-fen-dse.

38
MINERAL RESOURCES OF EASTERN SHANTUNG.
This, a fine, white, non-plastic, pipeclay-like substance,
is, I believe, mostly used for washing and bleaching purposes.
Varieties of the Steatite rock are also mined as an ornamental
product, the beautifully marked hwa-shih, some of which is cut
into slabs and carved in various forms, which have procured
for the mineral the name of "Pagodite" in Europe. Similar
minerals are also found in other parts of China and in Corea.
Quartz crystals form another source of desultory mining'
amongst the villagers in some of the higher ranges of granitic
hills, particularly near Ping-tu and Chi-mi. The pure,
unfissured mineral is used for the manufacture of spectacle
lenses, which, when of a uniform, light, smoky-grey colour,
are highly valued by the Chinese. Beautiful specimens of
the black crystals are found and sold as ornaments, and
Dr. WILLIAMSON mentions some of the peculiar violet hue,
which constitutes the amethyst.
Asbestos occurs more or less frequently in the crystalline
calcareous rocks, not, however, in sufficiently fibrous form to
be of commercial value.
It is not at all improbable that when the days of geological
surveys dawn on China, other valuable minerals will be
discovered in Shantung, such as natural phosphatic fertilisers,
or the ores of Sodium and Aluminium-that metal of the
future. The necessary ingredients for glass are now found
and utilised in its manufacture at Po-shan, and I have little
doubt that some of the limestones would afford hydraulic
cement. When, therefore, the Coalfields of the west are
allowed to expand their resources, to supply the blessing of
cheap fuel throughout the province, and the industries consum-
ing the power to be generated by abundant Coal, come into life
with the march of progressive culture, the true mineral resources
of Shantung, other than those on which a partly fictitious
reputation has depended, will be recognised and appreciated.