NOTES ON THE EARLY HISTORY OF THE
SALT MONOPOLY IN CHINA.
By F. HIRTH, PH.D.
If it is true that even at the present day certain tribes of
Bedouins, on the Arabian peninsula, entirely abstain from the
use of salt in their meals¹ it is equally true that in the
history of all civilised nations we find traces of salt having
been among the earliest products of international industry and
commerce. We possess a large literature not only on the
modern state of its production and taxation in Western
countries, but also on the historical phases of this important
factor in the development of public resources. 2
In ap-
proaching the beginnings of the treatment of this commodity
as a subject of national revenue, we find that in the west, too,
salt was taxed, if not made a government monopoly, at the
earliest periods of national life. A nation once accustomed to
the use of this article will not easily give it up. As an indis-
pensable commodity it was, therefore, from remote antiquity,
not only a most handy medium for indirect taxation, but also
a great source of international power to the producing
countries; and as such it must have been a more efficient
means to exact political advantages from the neighbouring
states than even warlike efforts. In ancient times, when the
1 H. v. Maltzan, Reisen in Arabien, Vol. II, quoted in Hehn, Das Salz,
eine kulturhistorische Studie, Berlin, 1873, p. 16. In the last-named work an
interesting collection of passages from ancient and medieval authors,
regarding the use of salt with various nations, will be found.
2 See A. Schmidt, Das Salz, eine volkswirthschaftliche und finanzielle
Studie, 2nd Ed., Leipzig, 1874, p. IX: "Literatur."

54
44
EARLY HISTORY OF
modes of manufacturing salt were much more imperfect than
they are now, the production being chiefly confined to the
sea-borders, it must have been an easy matter for a maritime
state to bring an inland neighbour to terms by cutting off the
supply in one of the principal necessaries of life; and it
appears to me that the production of salt and its trade to the
interior is not among the least reasons why the occupants of
the sea-coast so frequently gained the supremacy over their
inland neighbours.
In China, the history of salt taxation may be said to repre-
sent the principal features in the history of political economy
generally. The earliest mention of the use of salt appears in
the Yü-kung. The great Emperor Yü (2205-2197 B.C.)
had called upon the province of Ch'ing-chou to supply
the court with "salt, fine grass-cloth, and the productions of
the sea, of various kinds; with silk, hemp, lead, pine-trees, and
strange stones, from the valleys of the Tai, etc." Ch'ing-
chou is described as the country lying between the sea and
the Tai mountain. This answers to the present Shantung.
The coast of Shantung must have indeed been the first part of
the present empire where this important industry was practised;
certainly the evaporation of sea-water on the southern coast
did not follow but with the appearance of civilised life among
the southern barbarians.
During the Chou dynasty (B.C. 1122-249) we find officers
appointed for the administration of salt matters.
Yen-jén, lit.
salt-men, are mentioned in a list of the court officials during
that period, but since they appear amidst a host of appa-
rently inferior employés, such as butchers, tailors and shoe-
4 青州
3 Legge, The Chinese Classics, Vol. III, Pt. I, p. 102.
5 Chou-li () ch. 1. p. 4 (in the recently reprinted Sung edition
of Thirteen Classics). Cf. Plath, Ueber die Verfassung und Verwaltung
China's unter den drei ersten Dynastien, Munich, 1864, p. 77.

THE SALT MONOPOLY IN CHINA.
55
makers, and since Ma Tuan-lin, in his list of Chou officials,
made out on a modified plan, includes them among his
wu-ming-kuan, who appear to have been officers of a lower
order as opposed to the yu-ming-kuan, possibly "officers
without a commission," it looks as if in the early days of the
dynasty they had merely to regulate the purchase and consump-
tion of salt for the Imperial kitchen, or for sacrificial purposes.
We learn, however, from the Liang-kuang-yen-fa-chih, that the
earlier salt-officers of this dynasty were palace-officers, who
had under them the control of certain gifts to the court
payable in salt, although no preventive measures approaching
anything like a system were in existence. The idea of the
salt monopoly as a regular branch of government administra-
tion must be ascribed to the celebrated statesman Kuan Chung,
alias Kuan I-wu, who died B.C. 645, after a public
career of forty years, during which time, as prime minister to
the Duke Huan of the little state Ch'i,10 he raised his
native country to the rank of a powerful state.
We are
fortunate enough to possess the greater part of a work on
legislation written by this ancient authority, and although
it is generally understood that later commentators have made
additions to the text handed down in the present editions,"
the philosopher Kuan or "Kuan-tzu," for under this name
he has become famous as an author, deserves to be studied by
6 Ch. 47, p. 32 (ed. 1523). 「無命官;有命官
8, Canton, 1835,-a record of all that pertains to the
history and management of salt matters in Kuang-tung and Kuang-si, with
an introduction on the history of the salt monopoly in China, generally.
The Han-wei-ts'ung-shu, a collection of works of the Han and Wei dynasties
(see Wylie. p. 209 seq.), contains a book on Salt and Iron, the Yen-t'ich-lun
(), whichi, of course, treats merely of the ancient phases of the
question.
9 管仲;管夷吾, also known as the philosopher Kuan-tzů,
(F) Cf. Mayers, Manual, p. 91.
10. Mayers, op. cit., p. 68.
11 Wylie, Notes on Chin. Lit., p. 74.

56
EARLY HISTORY OF
those who wish to acquaint themselves with the early
development of political principles in the Far East. If the
ideas handed down under his name are really those of a
writer of the 7th century before Christ, we cannot but
admit that in certain respects he was far ahead of any of his
Western contemporaries. His lifetime, reaching into the early
days of Royal Rome, and the work of bis life being done before
Solon the Athenian was born, Kuan Chung may be regarded
as having furnished the very type of a statesman in the modern
sense. By collecting facts for purposes of government admi-
nistration, and by endeavouring to describe such facts in the
shape of a numerical formula, he may, in the proper sense
of the word, be regarded as the oldest "statistician" of all
nations. The method which he adopted in persuading his mo-
narch to introduce taxes on salt may in all respects be called
statistical. The Duke, in a conversation with Kuan-tzu, his
minister, had consulted him on government affairs, and
received the advice to levy taxes upon salt, hitherto not a
source of public revenue. "How is this to be done?" the
Duke enquired, 13 upon which the philosopher replied:
"In a family of ten individuals, there will be ten consumers
of salt; in a family of a hundred, there will be a hundred
consumers. A male adult will consume five sheng (pints),14
12 Cf. Wappaus, Einführung in das Studium der Statistik, ed. Gandil, Leipzig,
1881, ch. 1: Begriff der Statistik. 13 See the works of Kuan-tzu, ch. 22.
14. The scholiast adds that of salt 100 sheng are equal to 76 catties
12 taels and a small fraction. Kuan Chung's average for a male adult it
seems therefrom would amount to 60 shêng, or about 46 catties or 61 lbs. per
annum, or at least half of that, say 30 lbs.; women are stated to consume
but three-fifths, and children two-fifths. If we give the highest and lowest
estimates and each of the three classes of consumers an equal share in our.
calculation, the annual average would amount to about 30 lbs. per individual.
Necker estimated the consumption in those provinces of France which had
purchased an exemption from the gabelle (pays francs rédimés) at about
19 lbs. for each individual. (Administration des finances, tome II, p. 12,
quoted in McCulloch's Comm. Dict. s. v. Salt.) McCulloch (ibid.) estimates
the average at 22 lbs. for each individual in England. Kuan Chung's lbs. 30
or more would probably come to some similar amount if we could calculate
the difference in weight caused by the quality of Chinese salt, which is very
damp and not refined.

THE SALT MONOPOLY IN CHINA.
57
52
or at least half that quantity, of salt every month; a
female adult, three shêng, or at least half of this; a child, two
sheng, or at least half of this. These are the averages for
salt consumption." Kuan Chung continues his reasoning by
calculating from these averages the consumption not known at
his time, for the whole country. "In a country of ten
thousand chariots,"
15 he says,
"the number of consuming
individuals may be set down at ten millions." Upon these
salt-consumers the prudent philosopher recommends to levy
a tax payable by the dealers in this article; this, he said, would
be an impost which nobody could escape. With a similar
calculation he recommended the introduction of a tax upon
the iron produced in the country. The officials in charge of
the iron works (t'ieh-kuan) had reported that every woman in
the country must have a needle and a knife, that every field
labourer must have a plough, a spade, and a cooking pan, a
cart, a hatchet, etc.,-all these being necessaries of life, a tax
upon which would be a regular source of public revenue.
This conversation of Kuan Chung's with his Duke led to
the institution of the salt and the iron monopolies, both of
which not only yielded the desired revenue, but also became
a great stimulus for the succeeding governments to do all in
their power to promote production as well as consumption.
We know that the iron industry of China assumed important
dimensions during the following centuries. Chinese iron
must have been of very superior quality, since not only the
countries of Central Asia drew their supplies from the Far
East, but even the Roman market, as we know from Pliny,
who says, that of all kinds of iron coming to Rome the
15 Sheng (), "chariots" being the literal translation. Cf. Mencius
book I, 1, 1, 4 (Legge, Classics, Vol. II, p. 2). Legge remarks: "The
emperor's domain, 1,000 le square, produced 10,000 war-chariots. A
kingdom producing 1,000 chariots was that of a how, or prince." According
to Kuan Chung, the chariot should be assumed to comprise a thousand
individuals.

58
EARLY HISTORY OF
Chinese (sericum ferrum) is the best.16 The salt produced
on the Shantung coast during the Chou dynasty was not only
consumed in the country of Ch'i, but we are informed that
the states of Liang, Chou, Sung, Wei and T'u-yang were in
great trouble when the usual supply of salt did not come
forward from Ch'i, not to speak of the frontier nations, the
Hsiung-nu, etc., who were then entirely dependent in this
respect. The salt monopoly introduced by Kuan Chung thus
became the source of immense wealth collected in the state of
Ch'i, and was the basis of a regular system of administration
known as yen-fa, i.e., "the method of salt administration."
It appears that there are no records to show that a similar
system existed in other parts of the coast during the Chou
dynasty, but the account from which I have derived most of
my information, states that the revenue derived from the
salt and iron monopolies had, during the Ts'in dynasty (B.C.
255-209) grown to about twenty times the amount gained
during the Chou period."
It appears that native records have no extraordinary changes
to mention up to the Han dynasty. During the reign of
Kao-ti (B.C. 206 to 194), we are informed in the Shih-ki,
the people of Wu-chih,-a district city in the ancient
principality of An-ting, somewhere in the present Kan-su
Province, 18 became rich from salt and iron, and the
Liang-kuang-yen-fa-chih remarks that at the time the two
articles were not forbidden. It appears therefrom that the
salt and iron monopolies introduced by Kuan Chung had been
16 Pliny, XXXIV, 14 (41) 145. Cf. China and the Roman Orient, p. 225
seq., note 2. The iron industry of China came into prominence since the
Ts'in dynasty (B.C. 255-202).
17 Liang-kuang-yen-fa-chih (See above, Note 8.) Cf. Ma Tuan-lin, ch. 15.
p. 4b; Ch'ien-han-shu, ch. 24a, p. 15.
18 See Shih-ki, ch. 129. p. 6 (in quoting the historical records
I refer to the palace edition of A.D. 1739). According to a scholion to this
passage the old district city was situated 40 li east of An-ting hsien in
Ching Chou (E), i.e., about lat, 35° 38', long. 104° 50'.

THE SALT MONOPOLY IN CHINA.
59
abandoned. The city of Wu-chih, being situated close to the
frontier countries in Central Asia, it looks as if the market from
which the west drew its supplies of both salt and iron was in the
hands of its inhabitants during the Han dynasty. I am not
prepared at present to collect notices regarding its trade, but the
simple fact, as stated in the Shih-ki, is apt to raise our curiosity,
since a staple place for Chinese iron in the extreme north-
west of the empire must have been connected with the trade
in Seric iron through Central Asia to Syria and Alexandria.
As regards the administration of salt matters it was during
the Han dynasty that some sort of monopoly was again
introduced. During the several wars carried on by the
Emperor Wu-ti, with the Hsiung-nu and other nations in
Central Asia, the expenses of which had been further enhanced
by such costly expeditions as that of Chang Ch'ien to the
countries of the West, the resources of even so rich a country
as that of the Han were bound to dwindle down, and when,
in the Yüan-Shan period (B.C. 122 to 116), the Imperial
prince had been placed in command of armies all over the
empire, a financial crisis demanded immediate steps towards an
improvement. Two of the advisers of the great monarch
were then specially named as having created an efficient
system based on the revival of the salt and iron monopolies,
viz., Tung-kuo Hsien-yang and K'ung Chin.20 In their
memorial to the Emperor they advanced the following
arguments :21 "Whatever treasures may be concealed in
the ground or in the depths of the sea are a priori the property
of the Crown.22 If your Majesty be so disinterested as to
郭咸陽. He occupied the post of a tsai-luan-shiz 材官吏
19
Tu-shu-chi-ch'êng, III, 14, ch. 551, p. 2 (in quoting this work I would refer
the reader to Mayers' numbering of the categories and sections as given in
China Review, Vol. VI, p. 219 seq.)
20 FL 1.
21 Shih-ki, ch. 30, p. 9.
22 shao-fu (F), lit. "the minor treasury," explained by the scholiast
as representing the Emperor's private budget as opposed to the state treasury
under the ta-ssu-nêng ().

60
EARLY HISTORY OF
place them at the disposal of the state treasury in support of
the public revenue, the people will thereby be able to appro-
priate the produce of the land and the sea and thus become
rich and prosperous; but salt and iron officers should be
appointed with authority to summon the people for boiling
salt with implements and vessels belonging to government,
the clandestine manufacture being punishable by the culprit's
left foot being put in irons, and the vessels and implements
used in committing the fraud being forfeited to Government."
The originators of this plan were thereupon called upon to
organise a new system carrying out this idea, and the service
of salt as well as of iron inspectors (yen-kuan, t'ieh-kuan) it is
stated dates from that period.
In the year B.C. 110 the Censor Sang Hung-yang 23
recommended the appointment of "collectors of salt and
iron taxes, on the principle of adjusted taxation," 24
according to which system 28 chün, or principalities, out
of the 110 which constituted the 13 provinces, or chou,
of the Western Han, were each to have an administrator of
salt matters, or yen-kuan. But the levy of a salt-tax was not
the thing the people liked, and political economists soon set
to work, though in vain, to find arguments against it. We
read that under the Emperor Chao-ti (B.C. 86 to 73) stress
was laid, in a prize essay, on the dislike shown by the people
against the salt and iron taxes, although Sang Hung-yang,
the originator of the scheme, had quoted the example of former
23. See Chien-han-shu, ch. 66, pp. 8 and 19.
24 均輸鹽鐵官. From the following passages I conclude that
Sang Hung-yang's system, though likewise a sort of monopoly, differed from
the system adopted during the Chou dynasty in this respect, that formerly
private people paid a tax for being permitted to work salt and iron, which
they sold at pleasure, whereas now the Government monopolised the manu-
facture as well as the sale; the sale, on the plea of adjusting the price,
which, however, was maintained at such a high rate as to yield a high tax;
for, as we shall see hereafter, the poor were thereby forced to live upon
unsalted meals,

THE SALT MONOPOLY IN CHINA.
61
emperors, when the profit made by the government out of the
manufacture of these two necessaries was held to be solely
made in the interest of the people, on the plea that it
covered war expenses and thereby helped to keep up the
peace; it had been the principal argument of Sang Hung-
yang's scheme that "by neglecting the salt and iron taxation,
the resources for keeping the boundary states in order were
bound to fail, and the enemies of the country would gain the
upper hand." The learned essayist remarks against this: "As
to quoting the example of former emperors, the sense of
justice for which our forefathers were known, is in direct
contradiction with the doctrine taught by Sang Hung-yang.
In ancient times the price of salt was equal to that of grain
or rice, but since the Government has monopolised production
in order to render prices uniform, salt has become dear, and
the poorer classes have to work their fields with wooden
ploughs and use their hands in lieu of weeding-hooks [because
of the new tax upon iron], and live upon unsalted meals."
The Government remained deaf against such complaints, and
the salt and iron monopolies were kept in force for a century
when, under the Emperor Yüan-ti (B.C. 48 to 32), they
were suspended for three years. What became of them after
this period is not quite clear, but it appears that some sort of
taxation existed. The salt question, it seems, came to the front
again under Ming-ti, of the Eastern Han dynasty (A.D. 58 to
76). It was again a financial crisis which summoned the
inventive genius of the then prominent statesmen to advance
arguments for and against the several remedies suggested.
Chang Lin,25 president of a board of Government, came to the
conclusion that salt, being one of those necessaries of life which
25. Tu-shu-chi-ch'êng, III, 14, ch. 234. p. 26. According to
the biographical work Wan-hsing-tung-pu () quoted there, he
merely revived the system introduced during the reign of Wu-ti,

62
62
EARLY HISTORY OF
none, not even the wealthy, could do without, was the fittest
subject of taxation, and he proposed that its sale should again be
taken in hand by the authorities. 26 It was in vain that a
party of politicians, headed by Chu Hui, 27 a distinguished
patriot, protested; Chang Liu's proposals were accepted and
remained in force during the Emperor's lifetime. His succes-
sor, Chang-ti (A.D. 76 to 89) changed the system again by
creating something similar to the former salt and iron tax
officers, and again the patriots protested, this time headed by
one Chêng Chung.28 Under Ho-ti (A.D. 89 to 106) the
prohibition of the manufacture of salt and iron was again
abolished. This state of matters seems to have lasted till
close to the end of the Han dynasty, when, during the Chien-
an period (A.D. 196 to 220), commissioners were again
appointed to control the sale of salt, on the plea that buffaloes
should be bought from the net proceeds; these it was
intended should be placed at the disposal of the people
as an encouragement in agricultural labour, with a view to get
emigrants and vagrant folks to return to their homes. It is
remarked in our account that, although salt was not
forbidden at the time, a tax had to be paid which could not be
remitted.
During the period of the Three Kingdoms (A.D. 220 to
618), it appears that each of the three governments then
dividing the rule over China had its own system. Kuang-
tung, as part of the Kingdom of Wu, had its salt adminis-
trated by an officer residing at Tung-kuan, on the East
26 Cf. Hou-han-shu, ch. 73, p. 3.
27. For his biography see Hou-han-shu, l.c. p. 1 seqq.; Tu-shu-
chi-ch'êng, III, 14, ch. 66, p. 16.
28. In charge of the state treasury (ta-ssu-nêng,)
from A.D. 81 to his death in A.D. 83. Tu-shu-chi-ch'êng, III, 14, ch. 494,
p. 4. For fuller biography see Hou-han-shu, ch. 66, p. 1 seqq.

THE SALT MONOPOLY IN CHINA.
63
River, whose title was ssu-yen-tu-wei. 29 During the Tsin
Dynasty (A.D. 265 to 420) salt and iron taxes were under
the special control of a board of finances called to-chih,30
with local officers in the different principalities.
When China was again ruled over by two courts, a deficit in
the public revenue caused the Government of the southern part
under Wên-ti in A.D. 561 to levy a tax upon "the boiling of
sea-salt;" and after the empire had been re-united, we find
under the year 583 the record of an edict which places the
free use of the "salt-marshes "30 and of the "salt-springs" 31
at the disposal of the people. It seems doubtful whether the
sea-coast participated in this privilege.
During the first century of the T'ang dynasty the monopoly
was not enforced with much strictness. At the beginning of
the eighth century it appears that great portions of the lower
orders of the population were without occupation, and that
evil results threatened from insufficient production on the one
hand and the imminent growth of proletarianism on the other.
129 司都尉
30
و
lit. the board "calculating expenditure." This was the authority
in charge of all public property, and it had to "calculate. the production of
salt and iron (計算鐵之數).”
30 鹽池, yen-ch'ih. Tang records speak of 18 salt-marshes worked
by Government officials. The most important ones within the present
Eighteen Provinces were those at the bent made by the Yellow River in
surrounding the Shan-si Province on its south-western corner, near the city
of Chieh-chou () in Shan-si. Their history, geography, administra-
tion, etc., will be found minutely treated upon in the Ho-tung-yen-fa-pei-lan
(f), published in A.D. 1790, in 8 vols. Probably salt
was manufactured on a small scale in these districts from remote antiquity,
but the production cannot have assumed large dimensions up to the Han
period, since we are told that the first Government inspector was there
appointed in connection with Sang Hung-yang's scheme (B.C. 110).
31, yen-ching, in Szechuen and Yünnan. Regarding those
of the first-named province, see Imbert, in the Annales pour la propagation
de la foi, vol. III, p. 369; extract in Chinese Repository, Vol. XIX, p. 325,
and Huc, A Journey through the Chinese Empire (Engl. Ed., New York,
1855), Vol. I, p. 300 seqq. During the T'ang dynasty 640 salt-springs were
worked under Government supervision.

64
EARLY HISTORY OF
This was apparently the state of the empire in A.D. 713,
when one of the Emperor's advisers, Liu T'ung 32 made the
proposal that menials and agriculturists without occupation
should be employed in salt and iron works, and after this
the collection of taxes upon the salt-marshes, of which there
were eight, of the salt-springs, of which there were 640, and
of the salt-works in Yu-chou (the country about Peking), in
Ta-t'ung (in Shensi) and Hêng-yeh 33 was placed under the
control of the To-chih 34 or Board of Finances. A further
change was brought about during the period Chien-an
(A.D. 758 to 760), when the Salt and Iron Tax Com-
missioner, Ti-wu Chi 35 proposed that out of the unsettled
population those who occupied themselves with the manufac-
ture of salt should be styled t'ing-hu 36 (cottars?), who were
to do labour in salt-works kept on Government account
and therefore to be exempted from all other socage.
More-
over, on transporting salt from place to place in the interior,
a transit tax of 10 per cent was to be levied on the market price.
It must be understood that salt and iron were then worked
entirely on Government account; for, it is further on record
that the clandestine manufacture and sale of these products
was liable to punishment. This arrangement must have had
its drawbacks, since counter-proposals were soon made by
Liu Yen,37 the great scholar and financial operator
of that period. He, too, in his turn held the post
of a Salt and Iron Commissioner, 38 and as such became the
originator of a system similar to that existing up to the
32
The text of his memorial to the throne is given by Ma
Tuan-lin, ch. 15, p. 15.
33 幽州大同横野.
37
3.4 度支 35 第五琦
36 亭戸.
For his biography see Hsin-t'ang-shu, ch. 149, p. 1; Tu-
shuu-chi chiêng, III, 14, ch. 335, p. 95; Mayers’ Manual, p. 135.
38 鹽鐵使

THE SALT MONOPOLY IN CHINA.
65
present day with regard to rice and grain, according to which
salt was to be transported by Government from the place of
production to the consuming districts and there stored up in
quantity. The tax levied upon the transport of salt from the
place of manufacture to the more distant districts had the
effect of raising prices at an unreasonable rate, and if the
dealers, who it appears had speculated on the price of this
indispensable commodity in times of scarcity, did not come
forward with their supplies or demanded unreasonable prices,
the Government would interfere by selling their stock at a
standard rate, which could not be increased, however distant
from the producing district a place might be, or however
unfavourable the conjunctures of the trade had become. The
salt thus held ready for the market by Government was
styled ch'ang-p'ing-yen, 39 i.e., "salt at never changing prices."
Liu Yen, like some of his predecessors, declared it as the
chief principle of administration, that "the budget must be
covered by the taxation of indispensable necessaries." 40 In
his memorial to the throne he declares that too many officials
are a source of trouble to the people, and advises to return
to the old system in appointing inspectors
41 over the t'ing-
hu, or cottars; the salt manufactured by them, he said, should
be sold to the dealers without asking whither they re-sold it;
but the Government should at the same time take in hand
the transport to distant districts and establish salt-granaries
for storage with a view to underbid the dealers in the event
of their driving prices up to unreasonable rates. By the
adoption of this scheme the Government would secure its
revenue while the people would not be exposed to
any such trouble as a salt famine. Liu Yen made the
30 常平
41 li .
40 因民所急而稅之則國用足

66
THE SALT MONOPOLY IN CHINA.
observation that salt should be made during the dry season,
since heavy rains interfered with the settling down of rich
brine; this, he was of opinion, was a question for the Go-
vernment to consider, who should instruct their officials to
assist the people with advice in this respect. Liu Yen's
system implied the abolition of the provincial salt-tax and
of certain dues, previously levied upon the salt-junks trading
to the interior. Whatever the details of this new scheme
may have been, we are told that when Liu Yen took charge
of the finances the annual net proceeds of the gabel amounted
to 400,000 mien (about as many dollars); till up to the period
Ta-li (A. D. 766 to 780) they had risen to six millions and
constituted about one half of the entire revenue of the Empire.
It is with regret that we read in the biography of an official
who did so much for the financial welfare of his country, that
he fell a victim to political intrigue by being put to death
as an enemy of the throne. For, when the order to confiscate
his property was put in execution, it was found he had died
possessed of no other effects than a few books. 13
(42) Mayers, l.c., p. 135.