CORRESPONDENCE.
MR. W. W. ROCKHILL TO THE HON. SECRETARY.
U.S. Legation,
Peking, September 17th, 1887.
DEAR SIR, In Mr. E. H. Parker's article on the "Manchu Relations
with Tibet," published in the last number of the Society's Journal,
p. 296, note 1, he remarks that the dates as given by me in a note
published in the "Journal " in 1885 disagree with his by one year.
The fault is mine; my dates should agree with those Mr. Parker
gives, for I quoted from the Hsi-tsang-fu, written by the President
, who, to quote Mr. Parker (p. 295) "got a look" at the
Domesday book of Lh'ara.
In printing the Tibetan names of the Tali Lamas some errors
occurred which Mr. Parker has reproduced. Thus No. 1 should
be read Dge-hdun; No. 2, Dge-hdun; No. 5, Nag-dvang;
in No. 8 this word in also misspelt doang for dvang. A few
other remarks suggest themselves.
p. 294.
Mr. Parker's Takburi temple is better known as the
Chapori temple, near Potala.
p. 295. Tsong k'a-pa was called jyalwa (not karwa), corres-
ponding to the Sanskrit djina, "the most high."
p. 303. The Chinese garrison at Lh'ara is stationed at Trashi,
not Tesh.
p. 303. Lolungtsung is not Shobando but Lhorang dzang, two
stages east of that place..
p. 304.
Chinese authors distinguish two Lu rivers, and the one
referred to here is, they distinctly declare, not the great Lu chiang.

114
CORRESPONDENCE.
In fact, Mr. Parker's translation, a few lines farther on, says the
same thing when it tells us that, "if you go through the Lohits
west you come to Bhotan." I am not prepared to say, however,
what the received name of this Nu or Lu chiang is.
Very truly yours,
W. W. ROCKHILL.
MR. E. H. PARKER'S REPLY TO ABOVE.
H.M. Consulate General,
26th September, 1887.
SIR,-
I have nothing to say in reply to Mr. Rockhill's
observations, except that I should esteem it a favour if you would
consent to express my thanks to him through your "Journal" for
pointing out the inaccuracies enumerated by him, as to which he is
a better judge than I.
I take this opportunity of calling attention to another grave
inaccuracy, purely of my own. I have translated the words
as "for intriguing with the Ulanpu tribe." It
should be "and defeated him (Galdan) at Ulanput'ung." I had
no educated Chinese at hand to consult when I translated this
passage, which puzzled me much; but I have since found out that
Galdan was defeated by the Emperor K'ang-hi at the place in
question.
I am,
Yours faithfully,
The Hon. Secretary,
China Branch, Royal Asiatic Society.
E. H. PARKER.

CORRESPONDENCE.
115
DR. EDKINS ON MR. GILES.
In page 321 of the Journal for last year Mr. Giles has referred
to a translation of mine in an article written last year which does
not satisfy him. It is from Lie-tsi, Ch. 3, p. 7:
E
TL, "whether it is a dream or not is what I cannot
distinguish." 欲辨覺夢惟黄帝孔丘“if you wish to have
waking and dreaming distinguished it is only Hwang-ti and
Confucius that can do so."-I substitute this.
I beg to assure Mr. Giles that the paper on the Place of Hwang-
ti in early Taoism was written to explain what that place was and
not to make a veiled attack on him, as he, without reason, says.
His views are bibliographical. They do not, if correct, displace
Lau-tsï from his throne. The quotations in Chwang-tsï, Lie-tsï,
Han-fei-tsï, vouch for Lau-tsi's reality and the nature of his
teaching. We whose studies lie in ancient China may still rely on
the results of our researches without fear on those points.
J. EDKINS.