LITERARY NOTES.
A New Historical Work.
In the work Sheng hiün, now published, there is a
selection of imperial edicts published during each reign. In
the whole work there are 250 volumes divided into 40 yellow
fasciculi; the distribution is irregular. Shun-chih and his father
and grandfather have assigned to them eight thin volumes.
The greatest of the Emperors, Kang-hi, () has 12 volumes,
and his son Yun-cheng ten. Chien-lung has 72 volumes;
Chia-ching 40, Tau-kwang 36, Hien-feng 24, and Tung-chih
48. The work is arranged under thirty headings for one Emperor,
under thirty-six for another, under forty for a third, the
number varying. The edicts in the reign Tung-chih are the most
voluminous in the whole collection. This is an account of the re-
bellions, the edicts in regard to which, under one heading only,
occupy 16 volumes. Throughout this work the emperor is the
nominal historian, but many edicts are composed for him by the
cabinet ministers, and when he is a minor this is always the case.
Each emperor has his name as a title to his own collection of
edicts. Thus ***is the title to the 72
volumes of the Chien-lung collection. It must have been the
Emperor Chia-ching's thought to expand the Sheng hiün to their
present size, and it was probably on account of his filial regard for
his father. It seems too bad that the Emperor Kang-hi should
have only one-sixth of the space which is in this collection assigned
to Chien-lung. But in the , Shih-lu, Kang-hi has 1,000
chapters, and this is the full chronicle from which both the Sheng-
hiün and the Tung-hwa-lu are selected. The Sheng-hin collection
is charged 32 taels by the Peking booksellers. They paid a sum

LITERARY NOTES.
231
for the copy (said to be three hundred taels) and printed it at
their own expense. Consequently there are printers' errors. The
Shih-lu is printed in the palace for the use of the emperor and his
friends and relatives. Foreigners cannot see it.
J. EDKINS.
KELLY & WALSH, LIMITED, PRINTERS, SHANGHAI.