THE "TENT THEORY" OF CHINESE
ARCHITECTURE.
BY S. RITTER VON FRIES.
When reading the proceedings of the meeting of the Royal
Asiatic Society on the 21st February, as published in the
North-China Herald, I noticed that Mr. CARLES, one of the
members present, in commenting on Dr. EDKINS' paper on
"Chinese Architecture," expressed his surprise that the learned
author had made slight reference to the Tent Theory, and
even doubted whether it was a tenable hypothesis that the
curved roofs of Chinese buildings had developed out of and
were a remnant of ancient tent-habitations.
In regard to the theory, I venture-though a layman in
matters of architecture-to express my view, hoping to elicit
in this way information from some of the learned members
of our Society who have entered into this question, and
arrived perhaps already at a definite result, either supporting
or upsetting my argument.
My conviction is, and I hope to be able to prove it, that
Dr. EDKINS was perfectly correct in abandoning a hypothesis
which cannot be upheld substantially. The few "proofs " which
Mr. CARLES brings forward, find, are as little an obstacle to
discarding the tent theory as they are a support of the same.
If we are to assume that the shape of the tent was so
familiar to the Chinese that they continued to preserve the
same even in their structures of masonry, we must in the
first place be able to show that the dwellings of the natives
ever consisted of tents. In which period of the history of

304
THE TENT THEORY
this people, wonderfully complete as it is, do we find a hint
of their having lived in tents? If we go so far back as to
the mythical sovereigns Yu Ch'ao () and Huang Ti
(), we read that they taught the people to build houses
and cities. Of course this is myth; but would even myth
abstain from mentioning the existence of tents altogether,
if they had been the first and usual form of their quarters at
any time? The Chinese fully realise the fact that a nation
in its childhood is uncivilised, and they are not ashamed to
relate that their ancestors "ate hairs and drank blood,"
before some one of the Sui-jên family (AF) discovered
fire. Why, then, should they ignore the tents, which they
would doubtless have kept longer than that strange food and
beverage, especially if we find it reasonably assumable that
this form of dwelling had any influence on their architecture.
I have nowhere come across a passage yet which would show
that the Chinese were formerly in the habit of making use
of these portable structures as constant habitations. In the
absence of such a passage, I must also put the question:
were the Chinese ever a nomadic tribe, so as to require tents,
or so as to be in circumstances to find them useful? As far
as I am aware, the Chinese neither consider themselves, nor
are they by Western historians described, as nomads. We
have every reason to believe that they were as early as
possible a settled people, and essentially agriculturists, (note
Shên-nung, the divine husbandman) a mode of life which
in itself excludes migration. In the face of these facts, we
should, I should say, require very strong proofs to believe
that the Chinese were, instead of cave and hut dwellers, at
any time dwellers in tents. That tents have been employed
by them on their numerous warlike expeditions, even in
remote antiquity, I am quite willing to concede, as they
could have learned their usefulness in such cases from their
northern nomadic neighbours.

OF CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
305
The next point in favour of my argument is etymological.
Do any of the characters, or part of them, which bear the
signification of house, dwelling, home, etc., have the slightest
reference to a tent-like structure? Do not the radicals
(mien) and F (hu) unmistakably point to both a cave
and a dwelling with doors, indicating surely that a tent
cannot be meant? Finally, the expression chang-fang, meaning
a tent, is a compositum, and therefore naturally also of more
recent invention.
If it is not possible to adduce proofs in either history or
language in support of the tent theory, by what circumstances
then, I may be allowed to ask, are we forced to assume,
in spite of this significant silence, that the shape of the tent
is the cause of the characteristic form and arrangement of
Chinese buildings? The singularly curved roof, I am told,
is such a prima facie proof. I venture not only to disbelieve
that the usual Chinese roof has derived its shape from the
tent, but to go farther, maintaining that such a curve has
scarcely anything in it parallel to a tent at all. The outlines
of the latter are necessarily straight, and it is the space
between the framework, covered with cloth, skins, and the
like material, which would bend and show a curve, and this
again principally with tents having a triangular profile, which
are the sort least likely to have been used. The yurt which
the Tartars, Kirghese, and Kalmuks construct is round and
often hemispherical, and bears no resemblance whatever to
the Chinese house. The surface of the roof of native houses
is not bent, but the masonry or beams at both its ends, also
sometimes the ridge of the house, show the typical curve.
The roof surface, on the contrary, is perfectly even and bears,
especially in the South, obvious traces of split bamboo roofing
alternately showing the concave and convex, the convex
parts swelling upwards like ribs, which form it has been
found useful to follow even in tile roofs. It is therefore

306 THE "TENT THEORY OF CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
evident to me that the Chinese house of the present age
originated from caves and huts, and the apparently puzzling
flourish of corners and ridge of the roof of buildings can,
if it must be derived, just as well have been caused by the
uneven forms of the rude material used to build the primæval
hut. I am, however, more of the opinion that this peculiarly
shaped line was no inheritance of days of yore, but is an
artistic embellishment given to the gradually more improved
houses and temples. That wooden buildings apparently
induce the constructor to add projections to the roof and
increase its ornamentation I find illustrated in the primitive
houses of peasants in some parts of the Austrian Alps, where
the wide outstretched rafters at the corners are very often
decorated with fantastic carvings, and those on the long side
of the roof are bent upwards, and are utilised at the same
time to support the eaves. Most of the Chinese ornamenta-
tion, which Dr. EDKINS rightly asserts ought to be considered
Buddhist, is incongruent with that indigenous fondness for
the rectangle which is exhibited in their architecture, furni-
ture and dress, and I can therefore not suppress my doubt
whether the characteristically curved roof is originally
Chinese. There is, I am perfectly aware, neither in India
nor anywhere else an exact parallel to it to be found, which
we might consider the original of that form, and I consequently
express my doubts with reservation. The archaeological
remains of Egypt, the country which seemingly had the same
propensity for a geometrical arrangement as China, show
uniformity in every branch of the plastic arts, because they
are all equally Egyptian.
In concluding, I solicit a renewed attention on the part
of the learned members of the Society to this interesting
question.