CORRESPONDENCE.
THE PRESERVATION OF THE NESTORIAN TABLET AND
OTHER ANCIENT MONUMENTS AT SI-AN-FU.
The following correspondence on this subject has passed
between the President of the China Branch of the Royal Asiatic
Society and the doyen of the Diplomatic Body at Peking:-
SIR,
CHINA BRANCH OF THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY,
SHANGHAI, 24th February 1890.
In accordance with a resolution lately passed at a meeting of
the Council of the China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, I
have the honour to bring to Your Excellency's notice the condition
of the interesting monument at Si-an-fu known as the Nestorian
Tablet. Your Excellency will see from the accompanying photograph
that it is now entirely exposed to the weather. When it was seen
some years ago by the Rev. A. WILLIAMSON, who has handed me
this photograph (taken by a recent visitor) for transmission to
Your Excellency, it was supported by a brick wall. This wall has
now been removed, and the monument, being quite unprotected, is
likely to suffer rapid deterioration. There are several other tablets
in its vicinity of great historical interest to China, and it is thought
that the high officials at Peking might possibly be induced, on
Your Excellency's representation, to take steps for the protection
of all these monuments. On behalf of the Asiatic Society, I
venture, therefore, to beg that Your Excellency will be good enough
to mention the matter in the proper quarter, with a view to the

CORRESPONDENCE.
137
conservation of these monuments, and especially of the Nestorian
Tablet, which has so long attracted the attention of all interested
in the history of the ancient relations between China and Western
countries.
I have, etc.,
(Signed)
P. J. HUGHES,
President of the China Branch
of the Royal Asiatic Society.
To H.E. Herr M. VON BRANDT,
Minister of the German Empire,
Doyen of the Diplomatic Body,
PEKING.
SIR,
GESANDTSCHAFT DES DEUTSCHEN REICHS ZU PEKING,
PEKING, 15th March, 1890.
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter dated 24th February, referring to the Nestorian Tablet at
Si-an-fu, and to inform you, in reply, that my colleagues and
myself have had great pleasure in forwarding the request of the
China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society for the preservation of
this interesting relic of ancient times and Christianity to the
Tsungli Yamên, and in recommending it most warmly to the
attention of His Highness Prince CH'ING and their Excellencies
the Ministers.
P. J. HUGHES, Esq.,
I have, etc.,
(Signed) M. VON BRANDT,
Minister of the German Empire.
President of the China Branch
of the Royal Asiatic Society,
SHANGHAI.

138
CORRESPONDENCE.
SIR,
GESANDTSCHAFT DES DEUTSCHEN REICHS ZU PEKING,
PEKING, March 25th, 1890.
Referring to my letter of 15th inst., I have the honour to
bring to your knowledge that the Tsung-li Yamên have informed
my colleagues and myself that they have written to the provincial
authorities of Shensi to see that the local authorities take the
necessary steps for the protection and preservation of the Nestorian
Tablet at Sianfu.
My colleagues and myself would feel very much obliged if the
members of the learned Society whose President you are would let
us have from time to time such information as they may be able to
get as to the efficacy of the measures adopted by the local
authorities.
I have, etc.,
P. J. HUGHES, Esquire,
(Signed) M. VON BRANDT.
President of the China Branch of the
Royal Asiatic Society,
SHANGHAI.
SIR,
CHINA BRANCH OF THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY,
SHANGHAI, 2nd April, 1890.
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Ex-
cellency's letters of 15th and 25th March on the subject of the
protection and preservation of the Nestorian Tablet.
The members of our Society, to whom I shall take an early
opportunity of reading your letters, will be much gratified to learn

CORRESPONDENCE.
139
that the provincial authorities of Shensi have been instructed by
the Tsung-li Yamên to take the necessary steps for the protection
of the Tablet.
On behalf of the Society I beg your Excellency and your
colleagues to accept my sincere thanks for the interest which you
have shown and the trouble you have taken in this matter.
I have, etc.,
(Signed) P. J. HUGHES,
President.
To His Excellency
Herr M. VON BRANDT,
Minister of the German Empire,
Doyen of the Diplomatic Body,
PEKING.

LITERARY NOTE.
We hear that Prof. LEGGE of Oxford is engaged in preparing
a new English version of the Chinese philosopher Chuang-tzu. In
order to be quite independent in his renderings, the learned
translator proposes to take no cognizance of Mr. GILES' translation
of the same work.
It will be interesting to observe to what extent the two
authorities will agree or disagree.

PREHISTORIC CHINA.
By ERNST FABER, DR. THEOL.
INTRODUCTION.
Prehistoric China!
Prehistoric means "before history."
Not that we should suppose China had ever been without a
history. Life, and especially human life, means history.
Wherever there is life there are changes of various kinds,
and there is development of some kind. We have, therefore,
to take the word "history" in a narrower sense, as "Writing
on History." Prehistoric China, then, means China as it
existed before reliable historical records were written about its
state and the events of life within its boundaries.
Chinese history begins with the Annals of the feudal state
of Lu, 722 B.C., published by Confucius 240 years later.
Though even this work has suffered somewhat by the doctrinal
tenets of Confucius, still we find in it a statement of facts
and a natural order of events. There are also other records
of that period preserved by which many statements of the
Confucian text can be verified and others rectified. Of the
time before the eighth century B.C. we find no such trust-
worthy historical records in China. Although there are still
a number of documents in existence supposed to belong to
earlier periods, we have no unquestionable evidence of their
authenticity, but strong arguments to the contrary. The
safest position that can be taken under such circumstances is
to regard all documents of such earlier literature of China as
productions of the time of Confucius and succeeding ages.
Many of those works, are, we admit, based on earlier traditions
and, it may be, even on earlier written memoranda, but facts