PROCEEDINGS.
MINUTES of a GENERAL MEETING held in the Society's Library,
Museum Road, Shanghai, on Friday, 21st February 1890, at 9 p.m.
Mr. P. J. HUGHES (President) occupied the chair. There were
about 30 persons present.
The HON. SECRETARY (Mr. W. Bright), in opening the proceedings.
said that as the business of the last meeting of the Society,
held on the 20th December, had been fully reported in the daily
newspapers, he thought that, with the permission of those present,
the minutes might be taken as read. At the last meeting the
President had mentioned that the abstract of the replies to the
Weights, Measures, and Currency circular was in course of
preparation by Mr. Morse. It was now his duty to report to the
meeting that the abstract had been received, and would form a valuable
addition to the current fascicule of the Society's Journal, which was
shortly to be published. The thanks of the Society were due to their
correspondents for their replies, and especially to Mr. Morse for the
great pains he had bestowed on the preparation of the summary.
The Circular for 1890 on "Inland Communications" had just been
issued, and would, he hoped, elicit even more numerous and exhaustive
replies than resulted from the issue of the last Circular. The
information sought on the present occasion to be obtained from all
parts of China and Corea had reference to the main roads, the con-
dition of the ancient and modern roads, particulars of noteworthy
bridges, viaducts and tunnels, of modes of conveyance, rate and cost
of travelling, cost of carriage of goods, and accommodation for
travellers. He might add, in conclusion, that, owing to the difficulty
experienced in some cases of obtaining subscriptions from members,
the Council had decided to remove from the list the names of those

310
PROCEEDINGS.
who had failed to pay their subscriptions for the past three years, and
to print in the next fascicule of the Journal a notice to the effect that
members whose subscriptions were a year in arrear would receive no
further publications of the Society.
The PRESIDENT said that he had much pleasure in announcing the
election, since the last meeting of the Society, of the following gentle-
men: Messrs. MAX GOEBEL (Consul-General for Belgium), F. M.
GRATTON and FERD. RINKEL. In the name of the Society, he desired
to thank M. Janet for his kindness in arranging and classifying the
specimens of butterflies in the Museum. He had been requested to
intimate to members that they would greatly assist their indefatigable
Hon. Librarian (Dr. Faber), in his arduous labour of re-arranging
the books in the Library, if they would kindly return without delay
any works which might happen to be in their possession. There were
at present some forty books missing; the absence of such was, to say
the least, exceedingly inconvenient. The lecture on "Chinese
Architecture," which they were to have the pleasure of hearing from
Dr. Edkins that evening, would, he was informed, treat the subject
from the historical point of view. The well-known learning and
ability of the lecturer entitled them to expect a lecture of more than
ordinary interest, and he was glad to see many present, though
doubtless there would have been a much larger audience had not the
weather been so severe. Among those present he noticed some who
had travelled extensively in the interior, and who had doubtless come
across remains of ancient edifices and seen the cave and rock dwellings
described by Dr. Williamson in his interesting work, Journeys in
North China. There were other gentlemen-and perhaps ladies, too-
who, although they had not gone so far afield, had closely observed
the facts within their reach, and who might possibly favour the meeting
with the results of their observations. Last, and perhaps not least,
there were present professional gentlemen able, as he hoped they would
be willing, to tell them something about Chinese architecture regarded
from the standpoint of Western science. He had no doubt that thus
many novel and interesting facts would be elicited, and a flood of light
thrown upon a subject which, as far as he knew, had not hitherto been
discussed at a meeting of the Society,

PROCEEDINGS.
311
Dr. J. EDKINS then read extracts from his paper on "Chinese
Architecture," which is printed in extenso pp. 253 seq. of this volume.
In the discussion which followed,
General MESNY thought that the different interpretations of
scholars in regard to the caves and kilns arose from the use of the
same character to express both, as was the case in Shansi and Kansu,
though in Szechuan the caves were known by a distinct name. The
loess referred to by the lecturer resembled chalk, was easily worked,
and was used for making cabins, beds, stoves, etc. The ornaments
which he had noticed round the graves of Emperors were usually in
pairs; there were two torches, two goats, two horses, two men, and
so on. The graves had large tablets, with inscriptions similar to
those on tombstones in Western countries. The cap (or mao-tzu) at
the top of the tablets had designs of dragons holding balls-
presumably of fire. There were caves of the Tang dynasty ten or so
miles west of Honan-fu executed out of solid rock, and many of them
very large. Excepting the porcelain pagoda at Nanking, the pagodas
he had seen were mostly of brick.
•
Dr. FABER said that he had followed with much interest the
valuable paper of Dr. EDKINS, and only regretted that he found it
impossible to remember the great number of minor details. He wished
to ask the lecturer a question, namely, "What was the characteristic
feature of Chinese architecture?"-in the sense that we speak of
parallel lines forming the characteristic of Greek architecture, of the
vertical line with pointed arch of Gothic, and of the round arch of the
Roman style.
Dr. EDKINS replied that he considered the roof the characteristic
feature of Chinese architecture.
Dr. FABER, continuing, said that the roof was certainly very
characteristic of Chinese architecture. Architecture, however, was
not merely workmanship, but a science and an art. The roof could
not be considered as an object in itself, but only in connexion with
the building to which it belonged, and of which, as an organic whole,
it must be a part. Herein Chinese architecture was deficient. The
ground plan was sometimes well proportioned, but the leading from it
to the superficial roof was seldom perfect, except, perhaps, in small

312
PROCEEDINGS.
open garden-houses, in which the Chinese excel. Though the roof
was not exclusively supported by walls, but by pillars also, the pillars
in themselves showed no artistic perfection. They had commonly a
pedestal, of which there were various forms in China, but no capital.
Only very rarely was a rough beginning of such to be seen in China.
The upper portion of the pillar was pierced by cross-pieces, commonly
of wood. This piercing pointed to wood-construction as another
feature of Chinese architecture. For this reason no vaults were to be
met with, the very few exceptions, on the Omei Mountain and in
graves, pointing to foreign workmanship. Dr. Edkins had mentioned
a building entirely of stone; it would be interesting to get more
particulars about such. Then with regard to the Ming-t'ang, they
had been told that it was a square building with a round roof. To
accomplish that in an artistic way, to the satisfaction of cultivated,
æsthetic ideas, meant the highest perfection in architecture. It
would mean an anticipation of Michael Angelo and Wren, 3,000 years
ago. But we might as well believe in the squaring of the circle by
the Chinese. Probably a round roof was simply put on a square one.
That the Ming-tang, at the Tai Mountain, was more magnificent
than other buildings of the kind was due to the near relationship of
the Duke of Lu, commonly called Chow Kung, to the Imperial house
of the Chow, and to his great merits in establishing that dynasty in
China. He was invested with the feudal State of Lu, and special
privileges were granted to him. Some of these referred to the Ming-
tang. This was a large building for ancestral worship, for audiences,
and for the reception of the Emperor on his tours of inspection.
There were four other buildings of the kind in China at the time, the
principal one being at the Imperial residence. In the Li-ki they
were told that the Emperors of the Shang and Hsia dynasties had
similar buildings under other names. Though that kind of building
served for religious as well as for political purposes, it did not follow
that all ancient Chinese buildings were devoted to religious observances.
There were very early notices in Chinese literature of markets,
of walled cities, of granaries and other store-houses, of stables,
towers, etc. All such buildings were doubtless very prosaic in outline,
only serving for the immediate necessities of life. The designs of all

PROCEEDINGS.
313
larger buildings in China exhibit an immense waste of space; the
principal impression was received from the vast dimensions, which,
according to Burke, are always the sign of a common and low
imagination. Of more or less beauty, however, were the gates and
gateways, and, as a branch of them, the memorial arches. Their
ornamentation was often beautiful. But even in their ornamentation
the Chinese rarely, if ever, exhibited congruity of detail. The details
were often perfect, but they were seldom in such full harmony with
other details as to present to the spectator the pleasing aspect of a
harmonious work of art. The distinction of a classical and post-
classical period in Chinese architecture was scarcely tenable, and
certainly of but little importance. Very marked, however, was the
Buddhistic period. No mention had been made of the influence of
Mohammedan architecture in China. There was undoubtedly such
from Arabia (for example, in Canton), from Persia, and from
Turkestan. It was possible that the superiority of the architecture
of the Ming dynasty could be traced to that source.
Dr. WILLIAMSON said there were comparatively few allusions to
the buildings of the Chinese in ancient books, and it would be easier
to describe their dresses than their dwellings. The few which existed
had been utilised by Dr. EDKINS. There was no doubt that the
lecturer was right in saying that the first end was geometrical,
and this was also true of contemporaneous architecture. The
carly Babylonian and Assyrian architecture was emphatically
geometrical-usually rectagonal-crowned often with a dome
or an octagon; so also with the earliest Egyptian. The Great
Pyramid was a geometrical problem from base to apex. And in
regard to these the lecturer was also right in saying that science
preceded superstition. Those two styles of architecture seemed to
have had no beginning, but to have sprung up in their richest glory
like Minerva full grown and armed from the brain of Jupiter. This
was true likewise of the most ancient Egyptian statues, alike as
regards size, expression, and finish. In regard to the second stage.
the speaker thought it was very likely that Ts'in Shi Huang had
obtained his ideas of parks and gardens and other of his public works
from the royal palaces of Babylonia, which appeared so unexpectedly

314
PROCEEDINGS.
in China, as with the touch of a magician's wand. Ts'in Shi Huang
lived in the distant north-west, and there could be no doubt that
there was far more intercourse in those times between Central Asia
and Asia Minor than was once supposed.
Mr. HUGHES (the President) suggested that the resemblance
between the Chinese house and the Mongol tent might account for
the style of Chinese buildings. He had not heard that subject
referred to in the course of the discussion, and perhaps there were
some present who could enlighten them with regard to it.
Dr. EDKINS stated that he knew that that was a favourite theory,
but he had not much faith in it.
General MESNY having made a brief reference to the resemblance
between the portable canopy used at military reviews, to shelter the
inspecting officer, and the concave roofs met with in China,
Mr. CARLES said that he was rather surprised to hear the learned
lecturer call in question the origin of Chinese architecture.
It was
not only the outer slope of the roof in a Chinese house which bore a
resemblance to a tent; there were many other features in common.
In building it, the wooden framework was first placed in position,
after which the brickwork was filled in, the sequence of work being
the same as that with a tent's pole and its covering. Further, the
rafters overlapped the pillars to a degree which, though natural in a
tent, was certainly not necessary in a more stable structure. There
was also a complete absence of any arch; but perhaps the most
striking resemblance between a Chinese house and a tent lay in the
divisions corresponding to the spaces between the poles or pillars,
which necessarily, with the exception of the central space, were
equidistant from each other. Nor, again, was it only in the interior
of the house that the resemblance existed. The main building was
slightly raised above the others, and was approached by a pathway
flanked by the buildings of secondary importance. The women's
quarters were at the back of the main building and thus screened
from sight. No communication existed between the different buildings,
and if it was desired to pass from one courtyard to another, the
passage lay outside the intervening buildings, and not through them.
All these conditions were such as would exist in a camp, the chief's

PROCEEDINGS.
315
tent being on a slightly higher ground than the rest, the approach to
it being guarded by his officers' tents, and the communications from
one to another being not under cover, but in the open air. There
was another curious feature to which it was perhaps worth while to
call attention in passing. The stone socket (sang-tun) in which the
main pillars stand is cut away on its lower side to such an extent that
only a comparatively small portion of it rests on the stone slab
beneath it. This, of course, is a weak point in the structure, but
may be due to the fact that formerly the socket rested in the earth
and not on a stone slab, when, of course, it would be advisable to
reduce the size of the lower portion in order to admit of its easier
reception into the earth. This, too, might point to the time when a
substitute was sought for tent-pegs in the erection of solid buildings.
There were other buildings than those of the type which had been
referred to. For instance, at Soochow the Wu-liang Tien or Beamless
Hall, and at Peking the Drum Tower, were specimens of structures in
brick and stone, the like of which were found on a smaller scale at the
cemeteries of persons connected with the Imperial family. In view,
however, of the resemblances which existed, in appearance, interior
arrangements, and general plan, he held that the original idea of a
Chinese house was drawn from tents and tent life.
Dr. FABER said that in regard to the design of Chinese Yamêns
and similar buildings, he thought that Mr. Carles' arguments were
quite conclusive. He also agreed with General Mesny that the
concave roof was an imitation of the lines of a tent or portable
pavilion. Curved roofs were, according to all Chinese authorities, as
ancient as Chinese architecture. They might believe that, as it
marked a peculiarity of Chinese artistic feeling, which showed
unmistakably a horror of straight lines, especially horizontal ones.
The forms on the wall-pictures exhibited before them that evening
were no valid argument against it, for they knew that Ts'in Shi
Huang showed a great interest in going against every custom
prevailing during the Chow dynasty, which was then crushed, and a
new era in social and political life, not merely a new dynasty, was
inaugurated with irresistible power and relentless cruelty. A few
ancient relies at one place in China could never be conclusive in

316
PROCEEDINGS.
regard to the state of things at other places, and, still less at
other periods.
Mr. G. J. MORRISON stated the usual points in architecture were
construction, outline, and ornamentation, and as regards construction
in Chinese buildings his experience led him to the conclusion that its
principal feature was its utter badness. There was hardly a building
erected so as to last. In pagodas bricks were used, and such
structures lasted longer than most others. Wood formed the chief
part of the majority of the buildings. The outline was the point to
which Western architects liked to pay most attention. In Chinese
buildings, except perhaps as regards the roof, and except in the case
of pagodas, there was very little outline. The outline of the semi-
circular bridges was pleasing to the eye, and had greater attention
been paid to the foundations, they would probably have remained to
the present day. The pleasantest feature of most Chinese buildings,
and on which the greatest care was evidently bestowed, was the
ornamentation. In this real merit could be discerned, and the work
was well worthy of the study of those interested in such subjects.
Dr. FABER proposed a vote of thinks to the lecturer for his very
interesting lecture, and a similar compliment having been paid to the
Chairman, the meeting adjourned.
MINUTES of the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING held at the Society's
Library on Monday, 19th May 1890, at 9 p.m.
Mr. P. J. HUGHES (President) in the chair. Between 30 and
40 persons were present, including ladies.
The SECRETARY read the Reports and Accounts for the year
1889-90.-
The CHAIRMAN observed that the accounts showed a balance of
Tls. 530, and Tls. 70 had since been collected. The Reports showed
that satisfactory progress had been made during the past session.
The Museum had not been so much favoured as usual, and it was
hoped that sportsmen would bear this institution in mind. After

PROCEEDINGS.
317
expressing a hope that the incoming Council would accelerate the
work of printing the papers accepted by the Society, the Chairman
said he hoped members would enable them to still further increase the
attractiveness of their Journal by reviving the "Notes and Queries"
which used to form an interesting item in the Transactions. Accounts
of journeys in the interior would be acceptable, especially if read by
the traveller himself. In this connexion he would remark that
gentlemen who might happen to visit Si-an-fu in Shensi would confer
a favour by reporting, as suggested by his Excellency Mr. von Brandt,
on the efficiency of the measures taken for the protection and
preservation of the Nestorian Tablet. It would be remembered that,
at the instance of some missionary friends, the Council had a letter
written to Mr. von Brandt on the subject, and that His Excellency
and his colleagues had induced the members of the Tsung-li Yamên
to interest themselves in the matter and to instruct the local
authorities to take the necessary steps for the preservation of this
monument of the early relations between China and the West. The
meeting would be glad to learn that Dr. Bretschneider had promised
a paper on the "Botany of the Chinese Classics," being the second
part of his Botanicon Sinicum, published by the Society ten years ago.
On the motion of Mr. P. G. VON MÖLLENDORFF, seconded by
Dr. JAMIESON, the Report and Accounts were adopted.
On the motion of Mr. M. F. A. FRASER, seconded by
Mr. MENCARINI, the following gentlemen were elected to constitute
the Council for the ensuing year:-Mr. P. J. HUGHES, President;
Dr. EDKINS and Mr. VON MÖLLENDORFF, Vice-Presidents;
Mr. W. BRIGHT, Hon. Secretary; Mr. THOS. BROWN, Hon. Treasurer;
Dr. FABER, Hon. Librarian; Mr. CARL BOCK, Hon. Curator of the
Museum; Dr. JAMIESON, Rev. A. WILLIAMSON, LL.D., and
Messrs. VON HAAS, PLAYFAIR and D. C. JANSEN, Councillors.
The CHAIRMAN observed that several of the retiring Council had
deserved particularly well of the Society during the past year, among
them being Dr. Faber, Dr. Jamieson, Mr. Bright and Mr. Bock.
Dr. JAMIESON then proceeded to read a paper by Mr. E. H. Parker
styled "Notes on the Nestorians in China." (This paper is printed
at pp. 289 sqq. of this volume.)

318
PROCEEDINGS.
Dr. EDKINS said he disagreed with the author of the paper in the
conclusion he arrived at. There was a regular trade carried on by
the Arabs between Bussorah and Canton, and the Nestorian
Christians, having to come to China and coming from the same part
of Asia as the Arabs, would naturally come by the same route.
The author had been unwise in confining his attention to one book,
which was a very unsafe thing to do in reading Chinese history.
Mr. W. BRIGHT then read a paper by S. Ritter von Fries, on
"The Tent Theory' of Chinese Architecture." (This paper is
printed at pp. 303 sqq. of this volume.)
Dr. FABER thought the writer of the paper rather missed the point
of Mr. Carles' argument. Mr. Carles did not mean to express the
idea that the curved roof was derived from tents like those of the
Mongols, or that the ancient Chinese must have lived in such tents.
On the contrary, Mr. Carles pointed to several yamêns and other
existing buildings as having derived their shape from structures in
an encampment. Dr. Edkins, on the other hand, based his
argument on some tablets which had been discovered in a certain
place in China as indicating that in ancient China the curved roof
was not known. They had learned, from Mr. Parker's paper just
read, that it was not wise to confine oneself to one book; and it
would not be wise to confine oneself, as he considered Dr. Edkins
had done in his lecture on "Chinese Architecture," to one monument,
especially one belonging to a dynasty in which all the ancient
customs of China were set upside down. The shape of the roof was
shown in a line fastened above and below but not stretched tight.
Dr. EDKINS thought the imitation of a tent was probably imported
into China from other nations.
General MESNY thought some reason for the use of the curve in
Chinese buildings might be found in the former use of bamboos with
projecting ends.
Dr. WHITNEY said that from ideas gathered from the natives
themselves it was probable that the whole thing arose from
superstition. The Chinese never make a road straight for any
considerable distance. Every here and there a crook is made, the
idea being that any evil influence travelling along the road will be

COUNCIL'S REPORT.
319
dissipated at the bend. The same idea had probably been applied
to the roofs of houses.
The proceedings terminated with a vote of thanks to the Chairman.
COUNCIL'S REPORT FOR THE YEAR 1889-90.
The Council of the China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society
beg to present their Report on the operations of the Society during
the year ended 30th April 1890.
1. Council. The office-bearers and members of Council elected
at the Annual General Meeting held, under the presidency of
Dr. R. A. JAMIESON, on the 28th May 1889, were as follows:-
P. J. HUGHES, M.A.,
W. R. CARLES, Esq.,
P. G. VON MÖLLENDORFF, Esq.,
WILLIAM BRIGHT, Esq.,
Rev. ERNST FABER, DR. THEOL.,
CARL BOCK, Esq.,
R. M. CAMPBELL, Esq.,
JOSEPH EDKINS, D.D.,
W. S. EMENS, Esq.,
J. H. FOCKE, DR. JUR.,
R. A. JAMIESON, M.A.,
Ven. Archdeacon MOULE, B.D.,
President.
Vice-Presidents.
Hon. Secretary.
Hon. Librarian.
Hon. Curator of Museum.
Hon. Treasurer
Councillors.
Of these, Messrs. W. R. CARLES and R. M. CAMPBELL,
Dr. J. H. FOCKE, and the Ven. Archdeacon MOULE resigned
towards the end of their tenure of office, the first-named owing
to his transfer to another port, and the others owing to their
departure for Europe.

320
PROCEEDINGS.
2. Members.-The number of members on the roll at the end of
the period now reported on comprised 8 Honorary, 24 Corresponding,
and 218 Ordinary Members (including in the last-mentioned category
7 Life Members). The total number of members has decreased
somewhat, owing to a recent decision of the Council regarding the
erasure from the list of members of the names of those whose subscrip-
tions were much in arrear: the decrease, however, is to a certain extent
more apparent than real, as many persons who on leaving China
wished to resign their membership neglected to inform the Society of
their intention. It is with much regret that the Council have to
report the decease during 1889 of two prominent and learned
Orientalists, Prof. W. Schott and Colonel Henry Yule, C.B.,
both of whom were Honorary Members of the Society.
3. Meetings. At the meetings held since the date of the last
Council's Report papers on the following subjects were read:-
"Government by Women in Eastern Asia," by D. J.
Macgowan, Esq., M.D.
"Prehistoric China revealed by the Chinese Written Characters,"
by Dr. Ernst Faber.
"
Chinese Architecture," by Dr. J. Edkins.
The reading of these papers was followed by interesting discussions,
notes of which will be found in the minutes of the meetings. In
addition, the following papers have been accepted, and will be read at
the Annual General Meeting: -
"
Notes on the Nestorians in China," by E. H. Parker, Esq.
"The Tent Theory' of Chinese Architecture," by S. Ritter von Fries.
4. Journal. Such of the papers mentioned above as have been
accepted for publication will appear in the current volume, as also a
valuable "Essay on Manchu Literature," by Mr. P. G. von Möllendorff,
and an abstract, prepared by Mr. H. B. Morse, of the replies to the
Society's Circular on the " Weights, Measures, and Currency of
China." Incomplete as the information contained in this abstract
may be, it has been thought well to publish it, and at the same time
to solicit further particulars from those in a position to furnish them,
so as to allow of the information being amplified at an early date.

COUNCIL'S REPORT.
321
In the current volume will also be found the correspondence between
the President of the Society and the Doyen of the Diplomatic Body
at Peking concerning the preservation of the Nestorian Tablet and
other ancient monuments at Si-an-fu; and the Council would here
beg to tender their thanks to the members of the Diplomatic Corps
for the interest they have evinced in the subject, and to the Chinese
High Authorities for their ready willingness to undertake the necessary
measures for the protection of these historical treasures.
5. Officers' Reports.-Appended are the Treasurer's, Curator's
and Librarian's Reports. From the Treasurer's Report it will be
seen that the Society's financial position is exceptionally satisfactory.
The balance standing to credit in the Society's Account is Tls. 532.81,
being an increase over that of 1888 of Tls. 379.23; while the
Museum Account shows a credit balance of Tls. 120.64. An increase
has to be noted in the sale of the Society's Journals, thus affording
satisfactory evidence of the growing appreciation in which the early
as well as the more recent publications of the Society are held both
in China and abroad. The Treasurer reports that repeated applications
to many members have failed to secure the payment of their annual
subscriptions. Some of the $615 stated in his Report as outstanding
under this head has since been paid in, but a considerable sum still
remains to be collected. Judging that members who have not
responded to the Treasurer's applications do not desire to have their
names borne on the Society's roll of members, the Council, in
January last, decided to remove from the list the names of those who
have failed to pay their subscriptions for the past three years, and
henceforth members whose subscriptions are one year in arrear will
receive no further publications of the Society, while, as a reminder,
the names of such members as have not been heard from for two
years will in the published list be printed in italics.
The Curator's Report gives a list of the specimens presented
during the year. While thanking those who in their up-country
trips, in whatever province they may be, think of the needs of the
Museum, the Council cannot but regret that the collection is still
below the standard, as regards variety, that they and all students of

322
PROCEEDINGS.
natural history desire to see it reach. The Council have to thank
M. Janet for his valuable services in arranging and classifying the
collection of butterflies in the Museum.
The Librarian reports favourably of the work in connexion with
the Library, and the thanks of the Council are due to Dr. E. Faber
for his untiring zeal and devotion to its interests. Much solid work
has been done, and a great advance has been made towards arranging
in convenient order, binding, numbering, and cataloguing the works
in the Library, and in utilising to the utmost extent the limited
accommodation the room affords.
30th April 1890.
WM. BRIGHT,
Hon. Secretary.