REVIEW.
AN EXPOUNDER OF DARK SAYINGS.
"CHUANG TZU, Mystic, Moralist and Social Reformer;" Translated
from the Chinese by Herbert A. Giles, H. B. M.'s Consul at Tamsui.
London: Bernard Quaritch, 1889.
We live in days of which the most striking characteristics are an
advance by leaps and bounds in all departments of science, and an
iconoclasm of creeds as thoroughgoing, in its way, as Luther's revolt
from Popery, and much more widespread. Some there are who
would connect the two phenomena in a chain of cause and effect, and
not without plausible grounds. However that may be, it is certain
that the old-fashioned hard-and-fast bounds of most creeds, like to
the superannuated defences of many a continental town, have been
contentedly dismantled by those within, or have fallen flat before the
trumpet blasts of modern thinkers from without. Had these trum-
peters been none but godless men of science, as the lovers of the old
battlements at one time maintained, the symptoms would not have
been so serious as they actually are; but when the higher dignitaries
of the Church recruit the ranks of the levellers, and demolish, with a
hearty good will, here the six days of the creation, and there the bolts
and bars of an everlasting hell, it is no wonder that people in general
begin to wake up, and take advantage of their enlarged horizon, to
speculate whether there be anything worth knowing beyond the
ruined boundaries which hem them in no longer.
The vast majority of the respective flocks still remain, doubtless.
contented and unquestioning within the sheepfolds of Protestantism
and Roman Catholicism, but there are an increasing number of
truants, who place the honest doubt which leads to enquiry above the
cut and dry tenets of any creed, who decline to admit that, "another

MR. GILES' TRANSLATION OF CHUANG-TZU.
225
man's doxy" is necessarily heresy and schism, and who on the whole
gain in Charity where they lose in Faith. And it is consoling to
know that a good authority appraised the former at a higher value
than the latter.
The spirit of the age is, in brief, a spirit of enquiry into other
men's beliefs, with the inevitable result that the enquirer finds there is
much commendable, where he would once have been taught to believe
all was beyond question condemnable. Audi alteram partem, is the
motto of the day. Let us hear what the so-called Turk, Jew, In-
fidel or Heretic has to say before we decide that he is (almost) past
praying for. Fetischism may eventually find partisans, or at least
apologists, for aught we can tell at any rate Buddhism, Mahomet-
anism, Confucianism and Taoism have their admirers, and with
respect to all creeds, whether religious or philosophical, there is a
general feeling growing up that we ought to understand before we
condemn.
The works of Chuang-tzu, as Mr. GILES is careful to point out,
have no title whatever to be classed among the Sacred Books of the
East, unless we make a radical change in the ordinary meanings of
words. It is also true that Confucianism, which has often been
vaguely spoken of as the religion of the educated Chinese, has no
claim to rank as a religion. Of Confucius, Mr. GILES writes, (p. IX),
"He taught his countrymen that duty to one's neighbour comprises
the whole duty of man. Charitableness of heart, justice, sincerity
and fortitude sum up the ethics of Confucius. He knew nothing
of a God, of a soul, of an unseen world. And he declared that the
unknowable had better remain untouched."
This is an excellent definition of Confucius' doctrines, and to define
Agnosticism scarcely a word would have to be changed. Con-
fucianism had never heard of a Supreme Being: Agnosticism has,
but decides that God is a possibility without being a necessity. The
wavering Christian has a tendency therefore to become practically a
Confucianist, his Confucianism being termed Agnosticism because
it retains an ineradicable tinge from a past belief. And in like
manner the lukewarm Confucianist of the East, tired of what
Mr. GILES calls the "hard and worldly" doctrines of his prophet,

226
REVIEW.
degenerates into the untrammelled far niente follower of Chuang-tzň
and Quietism.
Enough has been said to show that the enquirer into the moral
systems of the Far East, who should neglect the study of Chuang-
tzu, would have unduly narrowed his field of research. But there
are few indeed of such seekers after knowledge, even among the
remnant possessed of a fair acquaintance with Chinese, who could
crack so hard a nut as Chuang-tzu in the original. An earlier
version, from the pen of Mr. BALFOUR, was, it is true, in the
field, but it must be admitted that Mr. GILES has brought to
the task maturer powers, a greater practical knowledge of a
translator's requirements and a more thorough command of forcible
and idiomatic English. It is a difficult, nay, an impossible, task
to divest a translation of this length of all the parfum de
l'antiquité," and the Eastern flavour which is essential to it; and,
even if possible, such a deodorizing process would be undesirable.
The smell of the oil is pleasant enough to those, who can appreciate
what an arduous work the seven years of toil for his uncouth
Rachel has been to the author. Whatever gratification Mr. GILES
may derive from the completion of his labour of love, I trust he
will remember he owes a debt of gratitude to his precursor. In
1882 he wrote, "I personally have no reason to be otherwise
than grateful to Mr. BALFOUR for attempting a translation of
the Divine Classic. His effort stimulated me to do that which I
should in all probability never have done-read the works of Chuang
Tsze from beginning to end." There may be some who doubt the
lasting character of Mr. GILES' gratitude and who yearn with me
to see him take in hand some abstruse but interesting author, who
has hitherto escaped translation at the hands of a LEGGE or a
CHALMERS, a BALFOUR or a BEALE. It is distinctly a matter for
congratulation that, having, shortly after its appearance, satisfactorily
demolished Mr. BALFOUR'S version in the China Review, Mr. GILES
dismisses the offender on this occasion with a Parthian kick at the
end of the Introduction, and in a few disdainful lines condescends to
"let the foolish yeoman go,"

MR. GILES' TRANSLATION OF CHUANG-TZU.
227
Writing chiefly for a class to whom the language of Chuang-tzu is
unknown, Mr. GILES has succeeded in laying before them a translation
which, while conveying the purport of the original accurately, as far
as a cursory inspection has enabled me to judge, is couched in smooth
and lucid English, vastly easier of comprehension to the Western
reader than the original is to the Chinese. For such as s appreciate
caviare, the book will have an undoubted attraction. It cannot be
said to be light reading, nor is it a work of such a kind that, when
once taken up, you cannot relinquish it till it has been read to the end.
On the contrary, even a reader to whom Browning is clear, will often
have to lay Chuang-tzu down in order to think a passage over. Many
a page will have to be read yet once again before the author's drift is
grasped, and there are not a few sentences which will have to be treated
as enigmas and given up.
For instance, we have on page 19 the following words:" To take
a finger in illustration of a finger not being a finger is not so good as
to take something which is not a finger." Perhaps Mr. GILES under-
stands what the above means; I confess, I do not. In any case the
fault does not lie in the translator, it is an accurate version, I should
say, of the Chinese; but if Mr. GILES does understand it, I think he
might have enlightened meaner mortals in a note, for the import is far
from self-evident. Possibly this passage belongs to the third class of
renderings referred to on page xiii. In wrestling with the obscurities
of his author, Mr. GILES adopted three sensible rules,-"Where there
is a consensus of opinion [among the native commentators], I have
followed such interpretation without demur. But where opinions differ,
I have not hesitated to accept that translation which seemed to me to
be most in harmony with the general tenor of Chuang-tzu's philosophy.
And where all commentators fail equally, as they sometimes do,
[see for an instance page 329,] to yield anything at all intelligible,
I have then ventured to fall back upon what Chuang-tzu himself
would have called the light of nature,' [for which see page 19.]"
It is doubtless by virtue of Rule III that Mr. GILES has been
able to present some sort of a version of many a passage which
would otherwise have had to be omitted. It would have been useful
if such passages had been indicated by an asterisk, placed within

228
REVIEW.
brackets, or otherwise distinguished. In a few instances, however,
the fact is mentioned in a note. This bold determination to conquer
where so many native commentators have failed, is evidence of
considerable moral courage and laudable self-confidence, and those
who know Mr. GILES well, will feel sure that, in the absence of
authoritative native decisions, the interpretations of "CHAI FU TZU"
are as good as any procurable from his peers.
I do not propose to enter on a consideration of the contents of the
book itself; if any desire to know what Chuang-tzu has to say, are
there not booksellers? But it will not be out of place to offer some
remarks on the way in which the work of translation has been
done. Mr. GILES has taken a hint from Mr. IGNATIUS DONNELLY,
and in so
doing has placed his reviewers somewhat at a disadvantage.
The author of the Great Cryptogram," it may be remembered, did
not offer a complete elucidation of his alleged discovery. He
contented himself with giving a specimen of the results of his calcula-
tions, with some of the main features of the system by which these
results were arrived at, and then with the calmness of conscious"
worth-or, the colossal impudence of brazen imposture-invited the
public to take the rest on trust. Similarly Mr. GILES announces
that this wholly English reproduction of Chuang-tzu is to be followed
shortly by a supplement, consisting of such textual and critical notes
as involve the use of Chinese characters in elucidation of his transla-
tion. It is obvious that to criticise renderings, while still unprovided
with these coming explanations, is to work at a disadvantage. I
shall, however, make a few observations of this nature, always pre-
mising that I am quite prepared to find Mr. GILES has in reserve
arguments which may justify, even in my own eyes, renderings to
which I now feel impelled to take exception.
of
At the end of his Introduction Mr. GILES states, that "only one pre-
vious attempt has been made to place Chuang-tzu in the hands of English
readers." Of the works of Chuang-tzu, as a whole, this is perfectly
true. But portions have found a translator between the
appearance
Mr. BALFOUR's book in 1881 and the present version. It will be instruc-
tive to place some of these translations side by side, numbering them
1 (Mr. BALFOUR), 2 (the other translator) and 3 (the work under review).

1
MR. GILES' TRANSLATION OF CHUANG-TZU.
2
3
229
(a) "You are as ob-
stinate in your opinion
as a man who keeps
running round and round
in the same circle."
(b) This relief from
the anxieties of life and
death is as great as that
experienced by one who,
being strung up by the
heels, is suddenly cut
down."
(c) "When a corner is
hacked (with a knife) it
requires afterwards to be
carved and worked."
(d) "In the beginning
of all things, there was
not even nothing. There
were no names, these
began afterwards."
(e) "Though a loud
noise may be unheard by
those who are close by."
() The perfect man,
though he walks in ob-
scurity, meets with no ob-
structions."
(2) "I never meet with
favourable times in my
capacity of ruler."
"You might as well try
to imprison a man by
marking the ground round
him."
"A man suspended in
the air may cut down ano-
ther suspended man, but
not himself."
"Guard them (men's
hearts) from all external
injuries."
"At the beginning of all
things there was nothing;
but this nothing had no
name."
"A great truth cannot
penetrate rustic ears."
"The perfect man can
walk under water without
difficulty."
"I do not serve my
prince as the times re-
quire."
(h) "Things which "The former (the su-
come together fortuitous- perior man) having had
ly without any special no motive in contracting
cause or raison d'être, the intimacy, will have
afterwards part company no object in breaking it
in an equally fortuitous off."
manner."
[p. 55] "Beware, be-
ware, move cautiously
on!"
[p. 81] "I am simply
****hanging in the
air, unable to cut myself
down."
[p. 123] "But try to
cut and polish it."
[p. 143] "At the be-
ginning of the beginning,
even nothing did not
exist. Then came the
period of the nameless."
[p. 154] "Grand music
does not appeal to vulgar
ears."
[p. 231] "The perfect
man can walk through
solid bodies without ob-
struction."
[p. 243] "Officially, I
am not a success."
[p. 254] "The friend-
ship of the mean man
begins without due cause,
and in like manner
comes to an end."

230
1
REVIEW.
2
3
(i) He looked south-
wards [to the abode of
Lao Tsze] and was dis-
pleased."
() "Saying, Oye,
O ye who are alone the
first to incur the great
troubles that there are
upon the earth, are you
not robbers, are you not
murderers?"
"He became king but
did not leave off [teach-
ing."]
"[To this Lao-tzu] re-
plied, "My son, my son,
are you then going to be
the first to rid us of the
great curses of the world
with your Do not steal,'
and Do no murder'?"
fp. 2941 "On hearing
of this, Kêng Sang Ch'u
turned his face to the
south [towards the abode
of Lao Tzu] in shame."
[p. 344] O Sirs, O
Sirs, there was trouble
upon earth, and you
were the first to fall into
it.'
'I would say, Perhaps
you were robbers, or
perhaps murderers?'"
In the case of some of these passages, it is almost incredible that
meanings so utterly diverse should be extractable from them. And
it is, if possible, still more incredible that any one considering the
renderings of, for instance, the sentence marked (c) in the 2nd and
3rd columns, should be able to maintain that the Chinese language
is never ambiguous. Yet these two renderings are from the same
hand, for translator No. 2 is no other than Mr. GILES himself, as
may be seen in the China Review for July 1882. And who, in the
face of Mr. GILES' new rendering of passages (d) (i) and (j) can
doubt that Mr. BALFOUR will be able to gather some crumbs of
consolation for the stripes of 1882 from the pages of Mr. GILES
Chuang-tzu of 1889 ?
passages
that
It would be eminently unfair to deduce from the above
Mr. GILES seven years ago had only an elementary knowledge of the
Chinese language. Not only unfair but grossly illogical, for to draw
a universal conclusion from premises of which one at least is particular,
is a fallacy such as would make him of Stagira turn in his grave.
Yet it is sometimes done. The just conclusion to draw is that in
1882 Mr. GILES had given Chuang-tzu only a hasty consideration,
and has seen reason to modify his opinions since.
In striving to put Chuang-tzu before the English reader in as
easily intelligible a form as possible, and perhaps in some instances

MR. GILES' TRANSLATION OF CHUANG-TZU.
231
from a wish to be graphic or to turn a sentence neatly, Mr. GILES has
ended by being at times misleading. What I would chiefly complain
of is the rendering by one English word of divers Chinese expressions.
which while perhaps reducible to one general category, are still of
many distinct shades of meaning. It is a translator's peccadillo
which Mr. GILES shares with the authors of the Authorised Version
of the Bible, so he errs in good company: but as this very laches
formed one of the strongest arguments in favour of a revision, it is a
pity it was not avoided here. The most glaring instance is of course
the word "God," which some sinologues would say does not occur
once in Chuang-tzu, but which nevertheless will be found liberally
sprinkled throughout these pages. Waiving the objection which
might be made that the Chinese can hardly be said to have a word
for "God" (with a capital letter) at all, it would have been open to
Mr. GILES to select any one character which he thought would bear
the rendering, and to have restricted the use of the English word to
passages where that character occurred. But take the following
sentences:-
(1) I played as a man, drawing inspiration from God."
(2)
(3)
(4)
[p. 177.]
Its name is then of-God." [p. 194.]
Were I to prevail upon God to allow your body to be
born again." [p. 225.]
It is the delegated image of God." [p. 282.]
(5) God will punish them." [p. 302.]
The unwary reader would take it for granted, and justifiably so,
that "God" in each case represents the same idea in Chinese. But
so far is this from being the case, that in each of the five the idea is
different. In (1) it is Tien, Heaven; in (2) Ti, a ruler or Emperor:
in (3) Ssu Ming, the Controller of Destiny: in (4) Tien Ti, Heaven
and Earth; and in (5) Kuei, a devil, or, as translated on p. 236, a
bogey. Only in this last instance does Mr. GILES explain in a note
this somewhat startling specimen of catachresis.
This wholesale reduction of many terms into one occasionally lands
Mr. GILES in a difficulty. For instance on page 41 there is a

232
REVIEW.
passage, "He who is inwardly straight is a servant of God. And
he who is a servant of God knows that the Son of Heaven [the
Emperor] and himself are equally the children of God."
Here each of the words italicized represents the Tien of the
original; so that we have the anomaly of the same character translated
in two different ways in as many lines. What Mr. GILES' dilemma
was is of course obvious enough, but if he had elected to translate
Tien in the usual way the dilemma would not have presented itself.
and the result would have been rather clearer and more nearly what
Chuang-tzu meant to express.
Another case of misleading (here, I fancy, with the idea of being
more graphic,) occurs on page 40:-"It will be as though you took fire
to quell fire, water to quell water, which is popularly known as 'pouring
oil on the flames." The enthusiastic proverb-hunter might well be
excused for thinking he had run to earth in Chuang-tzu an excellent
equivalent for a Western saying. But on turning to the Chinese
he would find nothing about oil, nothing about flames, and not even the
word "pouring." The Chinese is simply "making matters worse"
or, more literally, "aggravating" [the difficulty or, situation].
Mr. GILES would have been quite justified in inserting in a note that
in Europe we should speak of "pouring oil on the flames," but he
ought to have kept it out of the text.
On
P. 135 we read "Sovereignty begins in virtue and ends in God"
(i.e., Heaven). I should say it is doubtful whether the character
cheng, here translated "ends," will bear that interpretation. "Is
perfected" appears nearer the mark. But this is a case in which the
promised supplement may enlighten us. Supposing, however, that
"ends" is tenable, I wonder Mr. GILES resisted the temptation of
giving the dictum a prophetic turn. Translated, as it well might be,
thus, "Sovereignty originated in pre-eminence and ended in divine
right," it would have been startlingly applicable to the history of
monarchical institutions.
We must look to the supplement, I presume, to reconcile the
translation of a sentence on p. 137 with the original. The former
reads, "He will not account a throne as his own private gain,"
but the Chinese, at least in the text I have followed, has no

MR. GILES' TRANSLATION OF CHUANG-TZU.
233
mention of a throne, but has instead "the profits of a
generation."
But with a wholesome fear of this ingeniously minatory
supplement, which may reduce me to confusion when it appears
before my eyes, I refrain from further textual criticism, and
will close this notice with a hearty commendation of Mr. GILES'
Chuang-tzu to the attention of the reading public, by way of
valediction.
G. M. H. PLAYFAIR.