PROCEEDINGS.
MINUTES of a GENERAL MEETING held at the Society's Library on
Saturday, 14th December 1889, at 9 p.m.
The chair was taken by Mr. P. J. HUGHES (the President).
About 40 persons were present.
The CHAIRMAN, in opening the proceedings, said that the lecture
which Dr. Macgowan had kindly undertaken to give that evening,
was one which could not be otherwise than instructive and interesting,
as it referred to a subject which had at least the charm of novelty to
the general public. It was true that "Gynaecocracy," or "Gynarchy,"
as he should prefer to call it, was probably known to some of them
under a more familar title as applied to a system of Government in
the domestic circle. It was understood, however, that the lecturer
did not propose to treat the subject as a social question of the
present day, but as a political and historical question of the past.
It was unnecessary to go through the form of introducing Dr. Mae-
gowan to a Shanghai audience. As the Nestor of sinologues, he was
known to most of them and respected by all; and his many valuable
contributions to their knowledge of China and the Chinese had made
his name familiar as a household word. He was sorry that the
unavoidably short notice which had been given and the severity of
the weather had prevented the attendance of many who would other-
wise have been present; but among the numerous and representative
audience there assembled, the lecturer would be glad to recognise
some of his old friends and fellow-labourers in the field of Chinese
literature; and he (the Chairman) had no doubt that Dr. Macgowan
would receive the attentive and appreciative hearing which he well
deserved,

PROCEEDINGS.
235
Dr. MACGOWAN, proceeding to read extracts from his paper on
The Gynæcocracies of Eastern Asia," remarked that the unmelli-
fluous word shortened by Sir WALTER SCOTT into gynocracy
meant simply what in domestic matters all right-minded men
enjoyed the sway of woman. On the present occasion it referred
to political domination, yet it was not to be regarded as bearing on
the question of the enfranchisement of women, but as a contribution
to anthropological sociology, though perchance something might be
found which could be made to fortify the views of advocates and
opponents of that momentous question. He added to these prefatory
remarks that he eschewed the use of the term "female" as not
sufficiently respectful to the dependent sex-to whom the fittest, the
reverential, sacred term "woman" or "lady" should be applied.
Ethnographical observations commenced the discourse, to show the
conditions of aboriginal peoples whom the Chinese found on the
Yellow River on their arrival from Akkad. The Chinese then
possessed the rudiments of civilisation, of which the aboriginals were
destitute. That this irruption of the Chinese was anterior to the
invention of cuneiform writing in Akkad was probable, because of
their use of quipos or knotted cords in keeping records. Dr. Mac-
gowan added parenthetically that on a future occasion he would explain
his views respecting quipos, as they, and not mere tradition, were the
base of Chinese archaic anuals, and that from those quipos the
carliest form of Chinese written characters was evolved. Anterior to
these quipos, judging from certain neighbouring tribes, notched sticks
were employed, which was an improvement over a plan by which
certain Mongol Sachems kept account of the number of their soldiers
and cattle. Into a hole in the floor of the tent sheep droppings were
deposited, a pellet being dropped in or subtracted on every addition
or loss of man or animal by counting the store of pellets, the
strength of the army or number of horses could be known. With
regard to the tribes which the Chinese found existing on reaching
their future home, Dr. Macgowan remarked that the philosopher of
Universal Love-Motzu, proto-altruist and arch-heresiarch-whose
sun was rising when the sun of Confucius was setting, enunciated
views on the evolution of the State and Family which are in accord

236
PROCEEDINGS.
with those of modern anthropologists. Men at first were in the
lowest state of savagery: there was no Golden Age as depicted by
sages and political philosophers until men felt the necessity of a
remedy for the anarchy that prevailed. Practices of self-deformation
were, some of them, remarkably curious, such as those of drinking
through the nostrils, extracting of front teeth and substituting dogs'
teeth, head-flattening, etc.; the most striking was the attempt to
raise a polydactylous race, by destroying all children who came into
the world with the usual number of fingers and toes, and thus the
tribe had a dozen fingers and as many toes. Self-deformation
might be taken as a differentiation between man and brute; not even
the anthropoid ape disfigured his visage to improve his beauty; he
did not tattoo himself, nor did his mate resort to tight-lacing. Man
alone was given to such conceits. The first Queendom described was
that which was established in Tongking at the beginning of the
Christian era, the occasion being an attempt to throw off the Chinese
yoke. In relation to the suppression of that rebellion, Dr. Mac-
gowan remarked that the Chinese army would have extended its
conquests in the South until the Dragon could lave in the Straits
of Malacca, but for malaria, which in a single year destroyed half
their number. But for that fell foe Chinese conquests would have
annexed the entire Malayan archipelago long ago, and Canton would
have become a northern port of China. Jungle-fever alone prevented
Burma becoming a Chinese province in the latter half of the last
century. The most remarkable gynecocracy was established on the
South of the Karakorum Pass in Kashmir by a tribe of Chiang, who
in the third century B.C. were driven from Eastern Turkestan. The
sufferings of their flight across the Gobi desert and ascent of the
Karakorum Pass must have caused them to reach their destination
with very few surviving women, and polyandry was the result, and
the system of plurality of husbands led to the establishment of hearth
rule. Women were few and became dominant. In the course of
their history the Karakorum Chiang, wearied by civil wars consequent
on contested claims to succession to the sovereignty, resolved to vest
the chieftaincy in a line of women, and applied to a dominant clan
for two maidens to be their queen and vice-queen, which was

PROCEEDINGS.
237
queen
accorded, and when these died without female issue application was
again made for a brace of girls as successors, a large amount of gold
being sent as a present to the clan which enjoyed the hereditary right
of keeping up the line of women sovereigns. Her majesty the
of the Karakorum Chiang held a levée every five days in a nine-
storied palace. No male held office except in the army, which was
under the command of a generalissimo. Attempts at display were
made at this court, the most striking feature being the horns which
adorned the head-gear of the ladies, each sporting gold horns indica-
ting the number of husbands possessed. Among a tribe of barbarians
in the south tufts of hair indicated the number of husbands which the
dames possessed. Comparing this court with the contemporary
court of Heraclitus it is probable that while the barbaric display of
the former would jar on the aesthetic sense as compared with the
magnificence of the court on the Thracian Bosporus, yet the
decorum of the simple pagans placed them on a plane higher than
that of the licentious Christian court. How long this polity existed
it was impossible to discover; probably more than a century, possibly
several centuries. It was not likely that of their own accord the
Chiangs abolished woman rule; it probably existed until the State
was subjugated by more powerful neighbours. Their constitution was
the ideal of a commonwealth-rule with the consent of the governed;
it did not appear that they became dissatisfied with their peculiar
institution, seemingly they were content with the gentle, suave,
benign and not unwise sway of mothers, wives and sisters. The
whirligig of time had brought the descendants of the founders of this
gynecocracy under woman's sway; the Empress of India now ruled
in that region and with the free consent of the governed. It was
noteworthy that the men of this queendom, where women were
excluded from every office except chieftainship, were less advanced
in civilisation, less martial, less virile than those who committed the
entire administration of the country to their wives. Whether their
higher civilisation was due to that cause, or whether their greater
progress induced them to adopt the polity, cannot be ascertained.
Usurpation by a son of a queen led to the abolition of woman's
dominion in the country, which became absorbed by China, when its

238
PROCEEDINGS.
polyandry was gradually changed to less discivilising polygamy ; and
when their land became denationalised, each cultivator becoming owner
of the soil he cultivated, they entered on a march of improvement, as
did the Chinese when at the revolution (China's sole revolution, the
only interruption in the continuity of her evolution), to which cause,
with eligibility of every man to office, is due the progress that she has
made. Erstwhile husbandmen enjoyed their land in usufruct only,
during which period China was stagnant, or engaged in internecine
strife. The lecturer went on to give notices of Malayan, Papuan,
Siamese, Japanese and Corean gynecocracies, concluding with those
of China, empresses and female regents. It was not until the approach
of the revolution that cases occurred-these cases were already known
to history, and might here stand over, with the remark that fears of
usurpations of empresses dowager acting as regentesses led sometimes
(under the Northern Wên in imitation of Hung Wu) to the murder of
mothers of heirs apparent, a practice restricted to an alien dynasty and
strongly denounced by Chinese writers. It was chiefly among the
aboriginal inhabitants that women chieftaincy obtained to this day.
There was seldom an age in which one tribe or another did not afford
examples-the more primitive the condition of these tribes the slighter
was sexual differentiation as regards public governmental affairs, both
civil and military. It was rumours respecting tribes of this kind which
gave rise to fables and myths in Greece regarding Indo-Scythian
Amazons. To the list of women rulers of China, which included
empresses of execrable character as well as of character the most ex-
emplary, must be added that of the illustrious lady who has just retired
from a regency which must give her a conspicuous niche among the best
rulers of her sex. A few remarks were added respecting the court of
Rock-tiger, who for a few years held portions of Shensi and Shansi
under his sway, shortly before the establishment of the Northern
Wei. His Majesty Rock-tiger had a body of maidens numbering
ten thousand, duly co-ordinated into seven ranks. To the cleverest
was assigned the duty of superintending the astrological observatory
-to check the predictions of the male Bureau. More interesting
was his cavalry, a thousand strapping girls wearing jaunty, crimson
caps, on steeds gaily caparisoned, as a body-guard.

PROCEEDINGS.
239
Dr. EDKINS said that they had had presented to them a very
interesting subject treated in a very interesting manner. It is
well for the progress of ethnology to draw on the literatures of
Asiatic countries for fresh facts. In the books of ethnologists
of the present age, published in Europe and America, attention
was devoted too exclusively to the modern savage as he was
found in islands scattered about the ocean, but they could only
arrive at safe conclusions in ethnology by joining the old facts
collected in national literatures with the newly-gathered stories of
modern travellers. This contribution of Dr. Macgowan's to their
Journal would be welcomed by the ethnological and anthropological
societies of the West. Prof. Huxley had divided races into three-the
black, the tawny, and the white. He laid down a line from Lapland
to the Malayan archipelago, and placed the Turanian or yellow
races to the north and east of this line. Perhaps proximity to
that line had something to do with the appearance of Amazons
in history. In Homer they occupied a prominent place. Gy-
nocracies had played a great part near that line, apparently
from the union of race characteristics of opposite kinds, and quite as
much from their clashing and rivalry. In regard to the origin of
female rule, it was, he thought, the consequence of regency, and
the hereditary principle in Governments was the principle on
which it rested. In China for a quarter of a century resident
foreigners had had the opportunity of judging of the success or failure
of rule by a woman. The opinion was unanimous that the country had
been wisely ruled. The fact was that woman was naturally possessed
of those faculties which, improved by education, have led to its being
frequently recognised in times ancient and modern that the govern-
ment of a State was safe in her hands.
Dr. Bock and Dr. FocкE added a few words, and a hearty vote of
thanks was accorded to the lecturer.
The meeting terminated with a vote of thanks to the Chairman.

240
PROCEEDINGS.
MINUTES of a GENERAL MEETING held at the Society's Library, on
Friday, 20th December 1889, at 9 p.m.
The chair was taken by Mr. P. J. HUGHES (the President).
There were about 50 persons present.
In opening the meeting the CHAIRMAN mentioned that as the
proceedings of the last meeting of the Society, which was held on
the 14th instant, had been reported in the local press, he would, with
the permission of the meeting, dispense with the formality of reading
the minutes. There were, however, a few matters not mentioned at
the last meeting which it was desirable to notice. He was informed
by the Honorary Secretary that the replies to the questions circulated
by the Society early in the year on " $ Currency and Measures" had
come in neither as readily nor as fully as was expected. Mr. Morse,
who had kindly undertaken the duty of editing the replies, reported
that the abstract of the papers which he was preparing would "be
useful only to circulate for amendment and amplification." When
the abstract was complete, it was proposed to print and circulate
it, in order that the information might be checked and supplemented.
It was hoped that all interested in the subject--and it was one which
should be specially interesting to all engaged in commerce-would
aid in making the information as full and precise as possible.
He might add that at a late meeting of the Council it was suggested
that the subject for a similar series of questions to be put in
circulation next year should be "The Roads and General Means of
Communication and Travel throughout China." With a view of
obtaining information on this important subject, a list of questions
was in course of preparation. When referring at the last Meeting
to the forthcoming papers intended to be read or published, he
should have mentioned that they had in the press a valuable paper
by Mr. von Möllendorff on "Manchu Literature." It was also
his duty to announce that since the Annual General Meeting
of the 28th May the following gentlemen had been elected
members of the Society :-The Rev. E. T. Williams and Dr. R. C.
Beebe, of Nanking; Messrs. A. D. Startseff and G. Martinoff, of
Tientsin Messrs. Chesney Duncan and T. E. Hallifax, of Corea;

PROCEEDINGS.
241
Messrs. Claude A. Rees and Otto Messing, of Shanghai. He now
begged to invite Dr. Faber to favour them with some account of his
paper on "Prehistoric China as revealed by the Chinese Written
Character." The paper in its original form had been accepted
for publication by the Council and would appear in the Society's
Transactions at an early date.
Dr. E. FABER then read extracts from his paper on "Prehistoric
China as revealed by the Chinese Written Character," which is printed
in extenso on pp. 141 seq. of this volume.
Dr. J. EDKINS said that the exposition by Dr. Faber of the
formation of the Chinese characters was most interesting and would
prove useful, it was to be hoped, in alluring to the study of the
Chinese writings a larger circle of students. In regard to Dr. Faber's
chronology he thought it very far in the wrong. By assuming the
age of Chinese writing to be no earlier than about 800 years before
Christ, Dr. Faber placed himself in opposition to Confucius, to
Mencius, to the Han dynasty scholars, to the classical school of the
Tang dynasty, to the Sung dynasty critical school, and to the
scholars of the present dynasty, who had carried research much
farther than it had been carried before and in a perfectly independent
manner. Dr. Faber was prepared to treat the classics as legend,
and in doing so he was going against much valuable evidence. For
example, there was the astronomical proof of the genuineness of the
first parts of the Shu King. The Pleiades were now at the winter
solstice about 145 degrees distant from the sun. But in the
Shu King the Pleiades were only 90 degrees from the sun at the
winter solstice. The precession of the equinoxes was nearly a
minute a year. Taking it at fifty seconds, in 71 years the place of
the Pleiades had moved a degree; hence the observation in the
Shu King must have been made about 2,108 years before Christ.
Anyone could make the addition of 50 seconds a year, and he would
find it so. In this case we found astronomy in accord with Chinese
chronology, and we had better, then, accept the statement of scholars
in regard to the books in which this and three other similar observa-
tions of stars were found. Not that the book was entire or uninjured.
It consisted of fragments, and in it there were many gaps. But

242
PROCEEDINGS.
those of an astronomical kind showed that its earlier portions
deserved their confidence. With this view the contents of the book
agreed. The Emperor Yau gave his three daughters as wives to
one husband, the Emperor Shun. Such a thing could not have
happened in the China of the Chow dynasty or at any later period.
The book that contained it must therefore be much more ancient.
So with the geographical chapter, the Yü Kung. Dr. Faber said it
was written in the Chow dynasty. But against this view was the
fact that it had no Chow dynasty names. Its territorial divisions
were the Nine provinces, the Kieu cheu, names which had given
place to others in the times of the Chow. So it might be shown in
regard to the Yi King, the book of divination, that the names of
five-sixths of its 64 sections were older than the Chow period and
that they must have been the accepted names of the divining symbols
many centuries before B.C. 1120, the time of Wên Wang. The
completion of the system of Chinese writing only about three
centuries before the age of Confucius was not capable of being
harmonised with the fact that Confucius admired antiquity and
studied with great reverence the classics which he edited. If they
were such new productions, we should have found proof of it in his
writings. So with Mencius. Mencius at the end of his work
spoke reverentially of the line of ancient kings and sages ending
with Confucius, a hundred years before himself. They were, he
says, parted at intervals of 500 years or more. Yau and Shun,
Tang and Wên, were his moral and political heroes; and to his
knowledge the oldest of these lived more than 1,600 years before
his own age. The passage was a splendid ending to a brilliant
book and came from one who was a professed expounder of the
doctrines of the ancient sages and was personally extremely fond of
history. Thus Dr. Faber placed himself in direct opposition not
only to Confucius but also to Mencius. Then it should be remem-
bered with what earnestness the scholars of the Han dynasty laboured
to restore the ancient classics. Could these able and learned men
have been so far mistaken about these books as Dr. Faber's hypo-
thesis implied? It was impossible; and so with the learned classical
school of the Tang dynasty. It was no easy task to overthrow

PROCEEDINGS.
243
the results of their careful and laborious vigils. Then came the
school of the Sung philosophers, followed at due interval by the
critical school of the present dynasty. Truly it was a long array of
authorities, distinguished for deep scholarship and critical acumen,
to whose views and wide knowledge this theory of the late origin of
Chinese writing is opposed. The critical school of the present
dynasty, beginning with the seventeenth century and still flourishing,
was specially worthy of respect. The "Bell and Vase" school of
research began its career in the Sung dynasty. At present there
were about fifty vases in the imperial collection marked in books as
of the Shang dynasty; and in the inscriptions on these vases there
were many characters which were written phonetically, so that the
phonetic principle must have been adopted several centuries before
B.C. 1120. Lastly, to account for the orderly development of the
language since the first poetry was written, they needed the whole
of the extent of the Chinese historical chronology, and could not
do with less. A single tone took about a thousand or fifteen
hundred years to grow up into accepted use. This natural law
would find its scope for action much too cramped and confined
within the restricting limits of Dr. Faber's new hypothesis. Re-
cognising the utility of Dr. Faber's analysis of the characters and
his study of their construction, his chronology of their origin needed
to be firmly rejected, although he had supported his views with so
much learning, so much Chinese reading, and so much knowledge
of the subject.
Dr. WILLIAMSON, who said he agreed with Dr. Edkins on the
subject of chronology, and who put a number of questions to
Dr. Faber on points raised, mentioned that 3,000 years before Christ
the Akkads, whose writing had only lately been deciphered, had
libraries of two kinds-clay bricks and papyri-and hymns to their
gods.
Mr. KINGSMILL said that were he to differ from the writer of the
paper it would not be, as the last speaker, on the score of his
having postdated the introduction of writing into China. Rather,
he thought, that he had assigned too early a date for the use of the
written character as a means of disseminating literature. There was

244
PROCEEDINGS.
evidence, and very strong evidence too, that even so late as the time
of Confucius the written characters were not so far developed as to be
available for expressing thought and language generally. There
was nothing unique in the spectacle of a nation advancing to a high
level of civilisation without the possession of a written literature;
the case of India, situated nearer to Europe and the West was a case
in point. The Rig Veda was on good grounds assigned an antiquity
of about fifteen hundred years before Christ, yet it was not till the
successors of Alexander opened a path for Western civilisation that
writing was introduced into India. The ancient Sanscrit literature
was during all that period handed down by oral tradition, and not
only the Vedas themselves but, extraordinary to relate, a mass of
explanations and comments exceeding in size the original. Again,
on the landing of the Spaniards in Central America, they found an
advanced civilisation co-existing with an entire absence of writing:
quipos did indeed exist and were used for keeping tallies and as
remembrancers of the great events of history, but the idea of their
representing language had never dawned on the inhabitants of those
countries. Mencius, who had been appealed to on the other side
and whose authority they would scarcely doubt, was very explicit
on the condition of affairs in China. " When the traces of the
royal power of Chow were extinguished, the art of ballad-making was
forgotten and annals came into vogue," he tells us (IV. 2. XXII).
As a matter of fact the period of the destruction of the capital by
the Turks (cir. B.C. 770) marks the close of the ballad era. It
seems difficult for us, brought up amidst the surroundings of a
literature some two thousand five hundred years old, to realise the
condition of a people well advanced in civilisation without the aid of
letters, yet we have only to look back along the current of our own
history to find that but for external circumstances we might have
been in similar case. The old ballads sung by the bards at the court
of the Welsh princes were the exact analogue of the ballads of the
Shi King, and so late as B.C. 541 we find (Shi King XXXI) the
King of Wu sending his brother Kicha to the capital of Lu to hear
and see their representation, a work of complete supererogation did
the ballads, as we are gravely told, exist in writing at the time.

PROCEEDINGS.
245
Again, in B.C. 529 we find the assistant recorder of Chow praised
for his profound knowledge in understanding the three fun, five tien,
eight sol and nine kiu. He, however, fails when he is asked about
the K'i shao.. "If he doesn't know this," is the remark, "how should
he know anything more distant?" Even so late as the time of Con-
fucius we find no mention of writing and reading. True, Dr. Legge,
by one of those strange instances of mistranslation which are the
scandal of sinologues, makes Confucius ask his son, "Have you read
the Odes?" but the word rendered "read" is "hsio"-to learn by
heart. The Sün Yü bears internal evidence that it was not composed
till long after the time of the sage, probably some three generations,
for in Mencius and his contemporaries we find unmistakable allusions
to writing and reading, while not a single mention is made of either
in the works attributed to Confucius. When, therefore, he tells us
Confucius was afraid when he had made the Ch'un-t'siu, we find
him using the same word "make" which is applied to composing a
ballad. What Confucius really did make, and the result of which
he feared, is hardly to be considered as what we recognise as the
text of what is now called the Ch'un-t'siu, but then were lectures
delivered to his disciples, which afterwards, written down in the time
of his grandson, became known as the Tso-chwan or "Assisting
Narrative
erroneously rendered as Tso's narrative, for whose
composition a special sage, Tso King-ming, has been invented by
the myth-makers. The Ch'un-t'siu itself was doubtless in existence
in Confucius' time, but its structure shows that it was at best but a
rude description of writing. Even as now printed, with its necessary
particles supplied, it contains scarcely one thousand characters:
in its original state it must have contained much fewer, and was
probably not much advanced beyond the stage of quipos. It was
not history, but merely the pegs on which history could be hung, and
to enable it to be of any service the court shis handed down orally
from one to another the tradition of the events. This was the work
of Confucius, and as soon as the art of writing was sufficiently
advanced to enable language to be portrayed it resulted in the
present Tso-chwan. He had himself paid much attention to the
early literature of China with reference to the subject of Dr. Faber's
he had taken up the subject with no foregone conclusion, and
paper;
95

246
PROCEEDINGS.
the result was that he had to discard the genuineness of much of the
so-called early literature. Allusion had been made to the Shu King,
and he must express surprise that Chinese students had been unable
to recognise the composite character of the work as handed down.
The earlier portions of the Shu more especially are of this descrip-
tion, and consist of rude rhymes, generally of four characters.
embedded in a crust of later verbiage which is frequently little better
than a mass of rubbish. The most trustworthy of the ancient
works, the so-called Book of Odes, really the ballads of the Chows,
was, he was sorry to notice, but little understood by Chinese
students, but a careful study could not fail to correct many of the
errors into which they had fallen. Of similar construction to the
Shu was the Yih King, a copy of which he had brought with him.
If the cabalistic accretions were removed from the text they would
find left behind what were probably meant to represent rude versicles,
and some of these he had translated and gave a specimen. The
so-called early history of China, as the early history of many of the
other nations of antiquity, began in myth and ended in legend.
Besides this there was a vast amount of pure invention. They had
heard quoted the pretended bases of the Shang dynasty, and his
hearers would no doubt be surprised to learn that the 28 so-called
Kings of that line were simply an old rendering of the twenty-eight
mansions of the lunar zodiac. They would find these constellations
appearing in ancient Persian in the Bundahesh, in India in the
Surya Siddharta, and in old Chinese in the ordinary received twenty-
eight Suh. Whence the names preserved in the Kings came he
was not at the moment prepared to say, but their relations were
apparently with the West, and the lists of the sovereigns bore internal
evidence of having been evolved in the Han dynasty. It was
doubtless comfortable to some minds to receive this mass of verbiage
and rubbish as representing an ancient literature, and he envied
Drs. Edkins and Williamson the frame of mind which led them to
accept it because it was more agreeable to do so than to seek deeper
for the truth. Unfortunately, with the writer of the
paper,
unable to bring his mind to this compliant state, and was glad in
the interests of scientific truth that Dr. Faber had been bold enough
to cast to one side the fetters of an unwholesome tradition.
he was

PROCEEDINGS.
247
Dr. FABER warmly thanked all the speakers for their interest in
his paper, which had moved them to express their opinions on the
subject. He quite agreed with Dr. Edkins that Chinese authors
should be treated with respect and that their views should receive
careful consideration. Chinese authors, however, were not so un-
animous as Dr. Edkins' assertions implied. The principal dates in
his lecture were taken from the best Chinese authorities. Neither
Confucius nor Mencius, to whose authority appeal had been made,
furnished any direct evidence in regard to the age of Chinese writing.
Dr. Edkins seemed even to have forgotten the famous saying of
Mencius, "Better no Shu King, than to place entire confidence in it!"
Whether the established Chinese chronology was true or false did not
at all affect the line of his argument. Mr. Kingsmill, who had
given much careful study to Chinese antiquity, had already satisfac-
torily answered that point. He might, however, be permitted to
remind Dr. Edkins that even on chronology Chinese authors do not
agree. There was, for example, a difference of more than 200 years
between the respective chronologies of the Sz Ki and of the Han
books. W. F. Mayers (Chinese Reader's Manual, p. 366 Note)
says: "Numerous dissimilar schemes of chronology have been pro-
pounded by historical compilers, whose mutually antagonistic views
sufficiently attest the unreality of the date for their speculations."
There were almost no chronological data in the earlier parts of the
Shu King. Chronology was still uncertain in the earlier time of the
Chow dynasty; not even the chronology of the state of Lu, the
native country of Confucius, could be determined beyond the beginning
of the "Spring-Autumn" Annals, 722 B.C. Sze-ma Kwang, A.D.
1009-1086, got the credit of fixing the standard chronology; but
he would call the attention of students to Choo He's account of the
matter. He told them:-"When Kwang first made a chronological
scheme, his earliest date was the 1st year of Wei-lee (B.C. 424).
Afterwards he extended his dates to the time of Kung and Ho
(B.C. 840). After this, again, he made his Examination of
Antiquity,' beginning with the period of highest antiquity,' but he
could give no dates of years earlier than the time of Kung and Ho.
It was Shaou K'ang-tsie (A.D. 1011-1077) one of the most fantastic

248
PROCEEDINGS.
writers of the Sung period, who constructed an arithmetical system
and used history to paste it up, and who pushed his calculations
up to the 1st year of Yao."-(Dr. Legge, III a, page 83, Note.)
Thomas Fergusson, in his Chinese Researches, has done a great
service to Chinese students by bringing together into one volume the
results of all that has been written on Chinese chronology and cycles.
After 268 pages of examination of evidence his verdict is: "The
chronology of the Chinese can therefore only be considered as an
elaborate fictitious contrivance, to put in narrative and historical order
the traditions that have filtered through the outskirts of ancient
civilised Central Asia, towards Chinastan; where at different periods.
outcasts and adventurous military chiefs, and even colonies, have
found a dwelling-place, and have brought thither with them the
traditions of their former homes, which gradually their descendants
have imagined were those of ancestors, who had lived all the time of
those traditions in China; and thus they appropriated them for their
own glorification and that of their adopted country." Mr. Fergusson
makes a very important remark on p. 3 of his work :-"It is partly
because the annals of those undoubtedly ancient nations (Egypt,
Babylonia, Assyria, etc.,) make no mention of a coæval empire of
China, that a reasonable doubt is suggested as to the reality of the
chronology on which the antiquity of that empire is founded: for had
China been in those times the seat of science and civilisation, and of
the extent and power which are attributed to it, China would have
had such a remarkable prominence in the social world that it could
not have been unnoticed or unrecorded. It is this absence of any
mention of China from the records of known ancient nations that
even justifies a refusal to receive any part of its ancient history except
with hesitation, and that also necessitates a most careful investigation
as to its truth." Dr. Edkins referred to the marriage of Yao's two
daughters to Shun as not in accordance with later Confucian
morals. If not a myth, this story, however, compared favourably
with stories related in the Tso-chuen, about the time of Confucius,
and not at all in accordance with the moral standard of the
Confucian classies. That geographical names were commonly older
than any books which mention them, should not need mentioning.

PROCEEDINGS.
249
Dr. Edkins seemed, moreover, to have forgotten that the division of
China into nine provinces was ascribed to Chuen Hü, about 300 years
before Yü, the names of which were the same as those of Yü,
(Legge, III a 94.) The Emperor Shun, on the other hand,
is said to have instituted the division of the empire into 12 provinces,
(Legge, p. 38.) As Yü was co-regent with Shun, we find the two
divisions of the empire, of which Yü's was regarded as the earlier and
Shun's the later, very improbable. [See the chapter on the Chow
Li, p. 202.] What the speaker had said as to geographical names
applied also to the ancient names of the diagrams of the Yi King. He
had no objection to names, only to their writing. Phonetic writing,
he maintained, was not older than 1200 B.C., probably 800 B.C.
He begged a careful consideration of the statistical table of written
characters in the paper.
Dr. Edkins' apparently strongest argument
was taken from astronomy. "In the Shu King the Pleiades were
only 90 degrees from the sun at the winter solstice." Dr. Edkins
did not state that the stars mentioned for the summer solstice and
those for the two equinoxes could not be seen at the time in China.
(Chalmers in Legge III a, Pref. 92.) Dr. Edkins' assertion
was in direct opposition to Dr. Chalmers' statement, who says:-
"No doubt there was a tradition to this effect at the time when the
Shu King was compiled, for the author, knowing nothing of the
precession of the equinoxes, could not have adjusted them to the time
of which he was writing. His examination of antiquity' (first
sentence of Canon of Yao) was so far accurate, although the details
of his narrative may and even must be mythical. Even Yao himself
may be so
The value of the astronomical part of the
Canon of Yao, as a confirmation of the received chronology, has been
much overrated. According to the obvious interpretation of the text,
Yao had reason to expect the stars he mentioned to be in the
equinoctial and solstitial colures. But what his reason was we are
left to conjecture. It might be personal observation; or it might be
tradition from his great grandfather, or from Noah himself." Thus,
if Dr. Edkins wished his assertion to be of any value, he should first
have shown that Dr. Chalmers was wrong. Dr. G. Schlegel published
in 1875 a large volume of 927 pages and atlas, Uranographie

250
PROCEEDINGS.
Chinoise. This learned author found Chinese chronology to be far in
the wrong, and calculated, from the astronomical data of the Shu
King, the year in question at 17,827 B.C., or, according to another
calculation by the same author, at 16,916 B.C. The difference of
900 years is, of course, trifling in comparison with that of Dr. Edkins'
persistently defended chronology, which amounts to about 15,000 years!
They might reasonably expect that Dr. Edkins would first settle
accounts with other astronomical sinologues before, on such basis,
proposing another firm rejection" of a view based on firmer ground.
The astronomical statements in the Shu King were too vague to be
of any scientific value. Not a single star was mentioned, but a
whole constellation. Dr. Chalmers (Legge, III a, Pref. 95) says:-
"The angular value of the 28 mansions varies from 1° to 30°, and
modern books differ materially from the older ones as to the
dimensions of each." Nothing was said as to whether it stood at
the horizon or at the culminating point, nothing whether in the
evening, at midnight or at dawn. Dr. Edkins simply presumed
that the Chinese, 4,000 years ago, were able to determine, to a
minute, the culmination of a constellation by mere eyesight, for no
instrument was mentioned. Dr. Edkins further presumed that they
could determine the exact time of six o'clock. Yao himself thought
it better to verify his star-observations by "the length of the day,"
"the movements of the people" and "the condition of birds and
beasts." Further, Yao sent his four officers in four directions;
according to some commentaries, to the four extreme borders of the
then known Chinese provinces. Their reports could then not have
reached the emperor until after a period of several months. All
these details pointed to traditions outside of China, which were never
understood by the Chinese. Dr. Edkins picked out only one fact
and fitted that to his purpose. They might be sure that on such
ground no scholar would agree with Dr. Edkins and "firmly reject"
the solid and careful arguments of this paper.
Dr. JAMIESON said that he had felt it a great privilege when a few
minutes before he had received a note from the Honorary Secretary,
asking him to propose a vote of thanks to Dr. Faber for the interest-
ing and valuable paper they had just listened to a paper, he had no

PROCEEDINGS.
251
hesitation in saying, which would prove the most important that
had ever appeared in the Transactions of the Society. Those who
had once been or were still students of history knew by sad ex-
perience that all history voluntarily constructed was liable to be
deformed by falsehood; and without any unjustifiable amount of the
scepticism which had been denounced by Dr. Edkins, it might be
said that no record so formed, no matter how sacred or monumental,
was worthy of implicit credence. But here the history, unconsciously
inscribed on the language itself, was necessarily and infallibly true.
There would needs be differences in the interpretation of it, but
whereas, in the case of ordinary history, false interpretations of false
records led us into a geometrical progression of error, we had, on the
ground which Dr. Faber had broken, only to make sure of our
interpretation by careful analysis in order to arrive at certain truth
regarding the periods corresponding to the documents. The case
was strictly analogous to that of the past history of our globe
lithographed on the eternal rocks, where the animals and plants
of ages long gone by had left indelible impressions which had only
in comparatively recent times found their interpretation. Over these,
countless generations of our predecessors had walked all heedless of
the treasure beneath their feet. It was a like treasure that Dr.
Faber had brought to light, and he (the speaker) was confident that
he expressed the feeling of all who had heard Dr. Faber's exposition,
when he proposed a hearty and appreciative vote of thanks to the
lecturer for doing for Chinese what Max Müller and other eminent
scholars had done for the primitive Aryan language.
The vote of thanks was carried by acclamation, and the meeting
terminated with the usual compliment to the Chairman.