CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
BY J. EDKINS, D.D.
To understand the architecture of a country it is necessary
to have some knowledge of antiquity. All architecture rests
upon the past and embodies the ideas of the men of earlier
generations. If, for example, we approach a Gothic cathedral,
we observe it may have on the outside rows of statues sculptured
on the front, representing the prophets and apostles of
scripture. They are intended to shew that the Christian
religion, for the conduct of the worship of which this splendid
church was built, was founded on the teaching of the men
whose statues we see. If they are in rows, as in Wells
Cathedral, there is an idea borrowed from Greek art, which
loved to represent battles, religious processions, gymnastic
contests, feasts, marriages and court pageants in this way.
Entering we pass the font, which reminds us that baptism
admits a man to the Christian assembly. The thought then
occurs that the door of the building is the gate of admission
to the congregation, and that the building is symbolical in
all its principal features. In the nave occupied by the
assembly of worshippers, the congregation, which is entered
by baptism, is symbolized. The aisles may possibly be
separately assigned to men and to women, but are the parts of
the one church. The mysteries and highest truths of the
Christian faith are symbolized by other chief features of
Gothic architecture. The whole has an adaptation to impress
both the cultivated and the ignorant. Architecture in such
a case has an effect of the most striking kind on minds

254
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
endowed with genius. So it was with Milton, whose familiar
words I shall be pardoned for using here as a noble
introduction to my subject:-
:-
But let my due feet never fail
To walk the studious cloysters pale,
And love the high-embowed roof,
With antick pillars massy proof.
And storied windows richly dight,
Casting a dim religious light:
But the poet wished to describe the effect of music as well
as of architecture on the worshipper, and he adds :-
There let the pealing organ blow,
To the full-voic'd quire below,
In service high, and anthems clear,
As may with sweetness, through mine ear,
Dissolve me into ecstasies,
And bring all heaven before mine eyes.
Gothic architecture is a medium for religious impression,
and its parts are adapted for the conduct of Christian
worship. Provision is made for the reader, the preacher,
and the musical features of the service. The high arches
of cathedrals are not only intended to symbolize celestial
aspiration, but also to allow of deep impression being made
on the audience by full and reverberating waves of sound.
I.-CLASSICAL CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
It may be asked, if such be the aim of Gothic architecture
and its successful result, what is the aim of Chinese architec-
ture, and is it effective within its own sphere, only having
regard to its original ideas?
First, I remark that in classical Chinese architecture there
is no distinction of an essential kind between sacred and
secular buildings. The farther we go back the more clear

CLASSICAL STYLE.
255
does it appear that the palace was a temple and the temple
was a palace. This same circumstance in the architecture
of the Assyrians struck LAYARD and other students of
Assyrian antiquities. The same fact appears in the old
Chinese records. We are told in one of the first chapters
of Mencius that Chi Siuen Wang, King of the Ch'i country,
asked him if he should order the Ming tang in his territory
to be destroyed, as many persons advised him to do. Mencius
said, No; it was the hall for the emperor to announce
correct principles of government in the assemblies of the
barons. If you wish to act as a king ought, and practise
the duties of a wise ruler, do not destroy it. This was his
advice. The emperors formerly came, when they visited
Tai shan, to hold here a great feudal assembly, to sacrifice
to ancestors, to sacrifice to heaven and to reside in it them-
selves during their stay. This, we partly learn from Panku,
who relates that Han wu ti, on visiting Tai shan, found there
the foundations only of the Ming tang of the Cheu dynasty.
The time would be about B.C. 120. The altar and the hall
were gone at that time. Cheu kung, the great sage, sacrificed
to his deceased father, Wen wang, in the Ming tang of the
Imperial residence, placing his tablet in a subordinate position
at the time of sacrificing to Shang ti. This was to confer
the greatest possible honour upon his deceased father. In the
Ming tang there was worship offered to the sun and moon,
also an altar for burnt sacrifice, in which case the victim was
laid on wood and burnt. When the covenant was made
between sovereign and feudal barons the emperor sat on a
throne nine feet high during the Cheu dynasty, three feet
high in the Shang dynasty, and one foot high in the Hia.
The throne was a dais, and the emperor sat on it cross-legged.
The commentator on the Chow-li, from whom I learn these
1 See I Kau kung ki, the supplement to the Chor-li.

256
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
particulars, adds that when the covenant had been determined
on, the fact was announced to the bright spirits, and therefore
the hall was called the "Bright Hall," which is the meaning
of the name Ming tang. We gather from this, by the way,
the true explanation of the common phrase "Shen ming,"
spirits and bright intelligences. This phrase is much used in
modern Chinese for worshipped beings who are believed to
come and throng round the spots where sacrifices are offered
and prostrations made. They also scrutinize and reward or
punish the actions of mankind.
2. In the construction of the ancient palaces of the Chinese
emperors there were three objects kept in view. They were for
religious purposes, for feudal audiences and consultations, and
they included private apartments for the emperor. The
feudal compacts needed to be confirmed by religion. The
emperor was chief sacrificer, and there never was in China
any notion of local sanctity in buildings. All the reverence
attached to a palace is on account of the emperor, the
brother of the sun and moon, and his ancestors.
It became convenient, when the sovereign was at home in
his capital, for the worship to be performed at spots removed
from the palace, but down to the present time the ancestral
hall is still attached to the palace on the south-east. So also
the great halls and courts where the emperor meets the
princes and high officers are connected with the palace. The
altar of the spirits of the grain and land is also as near to
the palace on the south-west as the temple of ancestors on the
south-east. The arrangement of buildings in the capital at
the present time is therefore in principle like the old classical
arrangement, which combines the three ideas of temple, hall
of audience and private residence.
In the building of the Imperial capital all favourable
circumstances must be combined. There was in ancient times
no feng shui. This is a recent superstition. But it was

CLASSICAL STYLE.
257
required to have lucky portents and begin laying out a city
upon a lucky day. Cheu kung the sage measured north and
south with the gnomon's shadow. The gnomon was eight
feet long. The time was noon on the day of the com-
mencement of spring B.C. 1109. He used plummet-line
and mason's rule, and the latitude was that of Honan fu, or
34° 43' 15'. The mats he used to lay out the palace were
six English feet long, and his measuring-rod four feet and
two-thirds long. This also is the English foot, the old
Chinese foot being taken at eight inches.
The principal roof of the Ming tang was circular. The
building beneath was square at the base. The idea was that
of imitating the form of heaven and earth. It had nine
rooms and eight windows.
There were two other chief buildings called Pi yung and
Ling tai. The Pi yung was on the east, as it is now in
Peking. It contains at present the stone classics, cut by order
of the Emperor Chien lung, and the Imperial act performed
there is the exposition of the classics before the assembled
court. The old Pi yung was devoted to music, archery and
the like functions. The Ling tai was employed a
as a cluster
of offices for those officers who were engaged on preparing
the calendar and calculating eclipses.
We find in the Kau kung ki that the dimensions of the
Hia dynasty ancestral temple are given. It is there said to
have been 14 feet deep and 173 feet wide. There were five
rooms occupying the north-east, south-east, north-west, south-
west and centre; each was fifteen feet square; the middle
one was three feet wider from east to west than the others.
There were nine steps on the ascent. There were windows
as well as doors to each of the five principal rooms. The
doors were four and the windows eight. Lime made of
shells was used in ornamenting the building. At the main
door was a separate hall, said by the Erya, a very ancient
authority, to have been a school-room.

258
rooms.
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
In this account of a Hia dynasty temple we see that the
five elements' philosophy had a voice in the arrangement of
The idea of the architect would be conformity to
nature as interpreted by the physical theory of the time.
The same occurs in the round hall of the Chow architecture.
Roundness means the shape of heaven. The same architec-
ture makes the circle rest upon a square, which is the earth's
figure, according to the common idea of the Chinese in
ancient and modern times.
In the Imperial temple of the Shang dynasty the idea of a
double roof was introduced. The length of the hall was
56 feet. The emperor's platform was raised three feet. The
roof was made double on all four sides. The object in this
was to lend an air of greater richness and dignity to Imperial
buildings.
In the Chow dynasty temple the breadth was 54 English
feet and the depth forty-two feet. The height of the Imperial
dais was six English feet. There were no chairs in those
days. They were first used in China in the Buddhist period.
In the plan of a house the ancients were influenced by
filial piety, which caused them to begin with the ancestral
hall in the south-east of the plot of land set apart for the
building of the palace. This, according to the Chow-li, was
the idea of the architecture of B.C. 2200. Religion, as
people then understood it, was a powerful sentiment in their
minds. So in the First Book of Kings it is recorded first
that Solomon built the house of the Lord and afterwards the
king's house and the house of the forest of Lebanon.
The double roof mentioned as an accession of luxury, when
compared with the simplicity of the Hia and ascribed
to the Shang dynasty, B.C. 1766, has always continued
to be a favourite ornament with
noticed particularly in gate-towers,
at the corners of walls. A desire
the Chinese. It is
pagodas, and towers
was felt to increase

CLASSICAL STYLE.
259
the appearance of gorgeousness in the imperial dwelling,
and magnify the difference between the king's house
and that of the common people. This effort became
greatly intensified in the Chow dynasty. Then the palace
assumed the majesty and beauty of the Ming tang. Many
separate buildings began to be erected for each function
of the king. The servants of the king or emperor (we
may call him by either title) had the most multifarious
duties to perform, and the offices were multiplied almost
beyond belief; so in Peking at the present time the palace
buildings and offices of Government are counted by
hundreds.
So far as we have yet gone it will be observed that archi-
tecture was at first geometrical. Houses were built to the
southward, and they faced north, south, east and west.
The circle and the square were both introduced in imperial
architecture. The simplest geometrical forms constituted the
basis, and ornament was added later. The ancient Chinese
built of brick with a wooden framework. The provinces
which the nation then occupied are chiefly plains and broad
valleys. The chief constituent of the soil is the loess, which is
partly a subaerial deposit and has partly become diluvial
and alluvial by the action of rivers overflowing every summer.
There is also a good deal of yellow clay. Bricks were easily
made out of these constituents. The climate was milder than
it is now, and the labours of house-building were carried on
in the winter. Nothing was found so convenient as brick for
house-building, and nothing lends itself more readily to
geometrical manipulation.
Chinese architecture then had nothing to do at first with the
imitation of tent forms. The suggestion has been made that
the concave shape of the eaves of Chinese buildings shews
that the people love to remember the nomade life which they
once led when they occupied tents of a conical form or shaped

260
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
like a house-roof. No such concave curve is seen in any old roof's
in sculptures hitherto brought to light. In the Chinese books
which contain illustrations to the classics the roofs of temples
are indeed turned up at the eaves, but this, I think, must be an
error. It would arise partly from an incorrect way of
representing in perspective the lines round a corner, and partly
from the habit which most people have of carrying the present
into the past and making their ancestors responsible for their
own peculiarities. The early architecture of the Chinese was
plain, geometrical and practically useful. The love of
fantastic curves in the lower part of roofs came into vogue
later, and must be sought rather in Buddhism.
In the Book of Odes we have the grandfather of Wen-
wang removing to the south of Chi-shan in Shan-si. This be
did for the sake of peace. The tribes of Tartary annoyed him.
He left them his old territory and cultivated new lands. He
built a new home, and in erecting it used the plumb-line
and a wooden wall-frame. Boards are roped together and
earth is filled in between them. Such earth hammered down
constitutes a wall, and this is still the mode of building used
in the north in making earthern walls. When the wall is
washed away by rain they build another.
was adapted to an undeveloped state of society, and building
by this method allowed houses to be very rapidly erected.
Two doors were sufficient-the kau men, or "high" gate or
outer enclosure gate, and the inner or answering or central
gate.
This simple style
On account of the universal belief in omens it was usual
to divine by the tortoise to know if the locality selected was a
good one. In ancient China we can judge of the customs of
the people in the second millenium before Christ by the three
older classics. In the Book of Odes, building was not com-
menced without an omen of a favourable character. This was
done when Tai-wang moved south-west from the valley of

CLASSICAL STYLE.
261
the King river, in which lay his old residential city Pin, to the
south of Chi-shan, in the valley of the Wei river. He then
inscribed on the shell of a tortoise certain lines, and upon
scorching it received such an answer that he knew that the
site he had arrived at would be suitable. The cardinal points
were determined and the simple laws of ancient architecture
were followed.
Orientation was made an important point, and there was
provision for religious ceremonies. A burnt sacrifice, for
instance, was offered even in front of private houses in summer,
and on that occasion the altar was on the south-east, the
worship being that of the god of fire. This seems to shew
that the worship of the five elements was intimately connected
with the ancient rules of house-building.
Beside the kau men and ying men, there was a gate called
the "tiger gate," from a picture of a tiger drawn there, as the
symbol of bravery. This was to add to the dignity of the master
of the house. It was outside the kau men. Within was the
"pheasant gate," from the representation probably also of that
bird drawn there. Outside of it were lofty pillars or flag-
posts and standard measures for markets to follow.
The art of house-building was spread among the Tartar
tribes by the Cheu family when they took refuge from the
tyranny of the Shang dynasty in the Pin country, fifty miles
north-west of Si-an-fu, and rather near the western boundary
of the province of Shen-si. There the aboriginal tribes had
lived in loess caves.
This kind of house is there very conve-
nient, warm, well-protected and economical. The loess deposits
where they occur are found in the valleys with a vertical front
of uncertain height varying from a few feet to several hundred
feet. The rude savages who had been living in a single room
were taught to make double chambers and upper rooms by
their new friends from civilized China. This their friends
did by instructing them in the art of making bricks in kilns.

262
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
This seems to be the meaning of the passage t'au fu t'au hine-
"they taught the aborigines to make double houses and dig
caves with the help of the kiln." Yet the commentators
explain the passage differently, as if it was meant to say that the
people were taught to live in kilns, and LEGGE explains that
the houses were shaped like kilns. In RICHTHOVEN'S China
there is a picture of houses in five stories one above another,
all of them having arched windows and doors. There is an
outside staircase connecting the houses of each story. On the
opposite page is another front of a house hollowed out of a
loess bank. It is fenced by a low wall on the outside. This
house, hollowed out of a loess bank, communicates with the
outside simply by three windows and a door.
On the whole the classical architecture had square and
round buildings and double roofs, but it lacked the arch, and
the modern t'ing-ts: was still undeveloped. Halls were matted.
There were no chairs, but there were low tables. Lucky days
were selected for building. The emperor's throne was a high
dais on which he sat cross-legged and facing the south.
His personal suite stood behind him and on his right and left.
The ministers of state stood in rows on the east and west. In
the open space between them, individuals came forward and
prostrated themselves to speak to the emperor and answer
questions. There were three audience-halls, that of the daily
audience for a few persons, near the private apartments, that
of the court generally, more to the front, and that of
great
festivals, still more to the southward. The arrangement was
something like what it is at present in Peking. The ministers
held batons in their hands, or writing brush and tablets. In
the larger assemblies the greater part of the nobles and offi-
cers prostrated themselves in their places in an open-paved
court which was unroofed. The emperor and his suite were
on a raised platform which was roofed. In ancient times
North China had a mild climate in winter, and the grandees,

CLASSICAL STYLE.
263
clad in fox-skins, would not feel cold. The ancestral temple
is specially marked out for admiration in the Four Books,
just at the end, where Confucius is compared to a house whose
encompassing wall is much higher than that of all common
persons. An observer may see the beauty of a common house by
looking over the wall. But the wall of the house of Confucius
is several yards high. The disciple, in fervent love for his
master, adds that it is with him as with an ancestral temple.
It must be entered if its beauty is to be seen. When he said
this he was thinking of the double roof, the vermilion pillars
of the hall, and within the tablets and the offerings, with the
beautiful ornamented vases placed in order before each.
Before perspective was ever studied the perspective lines of
light and shade caused by these objects would be in his mind,
and he would pronounce the effect of the whole to be beautiful.
It was the most fitting image he could find to represent the
superiority of his master to all other men.
Architecture is introduced with the gnomon and its shadow.
A vessel of water is hung up by a string so as to obtain a
level. When meeting with this in the Chow-li, that valuable
repertory of archaeological knowledge, no reader will fail to
picture to himself the ancient artificer clad in coarse linen in
summer, or sheep-skin in winter, determining for himself the
level of water for the wall of a house he is building. To have
his work strictly according to the cardinal points he marks the
shadow of his
gnomon. For imperial use there was a gnomon
of which the length was eight feet, or 5 of our English feet.
They had the plumb-line, by which they could make the
pillars of wood, which supported the roof, perfectly straight.
They had also the mason's rule, which they called kurei, and
they used it to secure that the bricks of their walls should be
laid evenly, and the walls themselves be both horizontal and
and vertical.
According to the Chou-li the ancient art of house-building

264
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
was controlled by astronomy. It is mentioned that the
mason's rule-kwei-was placed level with the sun at his rising
and at his setting. The builders also looked at stars by night
to ensure a perfect level, and to obtain an exactly south façade.
In the old architecture of China this was viewed as very
important, as it was also in Egypt and Babylon. In these
countries the old civilization produced this scientific element
in the buildings of the time. Heaven, earth and man are in
harmony according to the Chinese idea, and the emperor's
palace could not be erected otherwise than facing the south,
four square, and with its four walls strictly north, south, east
and west. At present it is admitted that the architecture of
the pyramid builders was wonderfully accurate in its aspect
as regards the heavenly bodies. The great pyramid was
not only a tomb for the sovereign, but an observatory from
which the stars as they passed the meridian could be observed
from its interior with extreme exactness. It is therefore not
more than what we might expect to find the art of the builder
of palaces in old China also, but in a rougher way, controlled
by astronomy and the principles of trigonometry. This part of
the modern art of architecture in the West is without doubt
traceable to the early Asiatic and African civilization, just as
the trigonometry and geometry of the Greeks were suggested
to them by the plumb-line, the water-level and the gnomon.
It was not Euclid that discovered the properties of the right-
angled triangle. They were known to Pythagoras, and
before the time of Pythagoras they were familiar to the wise
men of Babylon and of Egypt. He travelled in those coun-
tries and he was the first to introduce geometry among his
countrymen. China also knew, eleven centuries before Christ,
the properties of the right-angled triangle.
The capital city must be a square of nine li, and there being
about six li in an English mile, the whole circumference is a
mile and a half. It must be square and have three gates in each

CLASSICAL STYLE.
265
wall. It is the city in which the emperor resides. In front
of it on the south-east is the ancestral temple, and on the
south-west is the altar of the gods of the land. This is just
the arrangement followed in Peking in the plan of the palace.
In front of it on the east is the Temple of Ancestors, and on
the west the Shê tsi t'an. The Emperor Yung lo erected this
palace and the Manchus inherited it, occupying the old
imperial residence when they conquered the country. But it
is otherwise with the gates. According to the ancient plan
the emperor's city had twelve gates leading from it. Behind
was the market, and in front the emperor met the court every
morning. Each of the twelve gates led to a street broad
enough to allow of a carriage-way in the middle and a trottoir
for men on the right and women on the left. The modern
arrangement is different.
Imperial editions of the classics, such as the
Chin ting Cheu kwan Yi su, contain illustrations which
deserve study, because they are the result of the profound
examination not only of old texts but of sculptures rescued
from mounds. Attention should be given to the well system
of agriculture in this connection. Ancient China was always
feudal, and the emperor could command the service of the
people of each barony. Agriculture was the basis. The
workers of the soil gave a share of their work to the cultiva-
tion of common land. In providing for labour in the erection
of palaces and imperial temples, the feudal system supplied it,
and as that system was based on the justice and benevolence
of the sovereign, the people came, says an old classical record,
like sons to work for a parent.

266
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
II. ARCHITECTURE OF THE POST-CONFUCIAN AGE..
The architecture of the time when the power of the
sovereign had declined in China became special by the
changed conditions. Feudal chief's ascended independent
thrones and fought with each other for supremacy. A
struggle for hegemony became an evil which was chronic.
There was a two hundred years' war, and machines were
constructed for taking cities, the mode of making which is
described in Mêtsi.
This state of affairs led to rivalry in palace building. The
Imperial revenue was in the hands of the feudal chiefs, and
with the people's money they built beautiful palaces and
surrounded them with pleasure-gardens. Among them may
be particularly mentioned the park and palace of the Wizard
Mountain, just beyond I-chang, at the entrance to the
beautiful land of Szchwen, where there is now a British
Consul and a foreign community of merchants. The fact
that the gorges should have been selected as the spot chosen
for the site of a feudal palace plainly shews that poetic feeling
ruled. In fact, at that time, there sprang up a school of
vigorous poetry which has never failed since to influence the
literature of this country. The romantic element could not
fail, therefore, to appear in architecture, and so we find it.
In the architecture of the Han dynasty there is a most
remarkable grouping of romantic creations with a reprodue-
tion of historic scenes of an exciting and didactic kind, for
there are both. Should someone ask, how was the spirit of
poetry introduced into palaces and temples in their construc-
tion? the answer must be, by painting and sculpture. It is
said in the Shi ki that "the Emperor is lord of the Four

POST-CONFUCIAN STYLE.
267
Seas. All people constitute his family. If his palace were
not ornamental he would not possess sufficient dignity. The
palace must therefore be richly ornamented." In the palace
they recognized the need of depth in the suite of rooms
or courts through which the visitor is conducted to the
audience-chamber. The architect built with this in view;
he had to conceal the sovereign and his family within a
succession of courts. He had to provide him with pleasure-
gardens. This was imitated by the sovereigns of all the
kingdoms of the Chinese heptarchy. Their palaces and
parks became all the property of the Chin dynasty in the end
of the third century before Christ. By the Chin Emperor's
command a palace was built in the Wei valley, near Hien
yang, the capital, to represent that of each defunct kingdom,
and the peculiar construction employed in erecting the palaces
of each with their ornaments would here be reproduced.
The Ah fang was the most splendid, being the favourite
palace of the Chin Emperors. We can tell the style of
the architecture, for it is believed by Chinese critics to be
represented in the Chia-siang sculptures. In the scene
referred to we find roofs, pillars, low couches, and various
architectural details fully represented. There is an audience-
chamber in a pleasure-garden; above it is a gallery, and in
front of it a large, high tree. The gallery presents a queen
sitting on a dais with five female attendants. Below is a king,
or noble, seated on a dais, before whom two officers are
prostrate and knocking their heads against the ground. The
queen wears a five-leaved crown, and the king the court-
hat of the time, rising in front by a straight line deflected
outwards and having a flat top falling to the crown. The
roof of the gallery has men for its supports, that is to say,
the pillars of the roof are Caryatides, and like Mount Atlas
personified. The roof of the audience-chamber is supported
by round pillars having three simple straight mouldings

268
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
above, which relieve the angularity. The round wooden
pillar rests on a round stone as now in the modern Chinese
style. The roof is tiled without the modern concave. At the
ends of the upper roof-line large bricks are deflected upward
and outward to a point, to remove the angularity there.
Peacocks and monkeys are sculptured on the roof-line, as
also winged men and various birds walking or resting.
A great peculiarity of the mythological period was the
representation of historical scenes. It was before the age of
theatrical representation which began in the Tang dynasty,
but was only thoroughly inaugurated at the end of the Sung.
The historic groups on the sculptured walls of the Chia-siang
ancestral chapel are an example of how architecture makes
use of history as a teacher. The great men of past times
live again before the visitor's eye. As he passes along the
ancestral chapel in its three compartments the guide points
out to him on the eastern wall of the central hall the sculp-
tured form of Fu hi, founder of the national civilization, who
was, as I suppose, an ancient Chinese monarch, who received
reverently from Babylon certain instructors in architecture
and civilization, and to express this thought vividly he
appears with the mason's rule in his hand. What gave him
power over the people was scientific and civilizing wisdom.
The termination of his body is partly that of a fish. It ends
with a fish-tail, denoting that the sculptured idea is foreign.
In the classics, Fu hi had not a fish-tail. He was a man like
other men, but we are now in the age of mythological
architecture. He is closely joined by intertwining of the tail
with that of Tsang kie, who also holds a mason's rule right
angled. Shen nung follows with the plough, and the Yellow
Emperor, who first taught the people in the loess country
to dig wells, to divide their fields evenly for irrigation, and
to wear dignified robes with broad sleeves and a girdle.
The Emperor Yau follows, who taught morality; Shun

POST-CONFUCIAN STYLE.
269
succeeds him, who taught astronomy; and Yü, founder of a
great dynasty, who, when immense floods checked the labours
of agriculture and drove the people to the high grounds to
live in tents, undertook the control of the rivers, and restored
the land to the cultivators. Then the rise of the Chow
dynasty is pointed out with scenes from the history and
poetry of the classics. This is followed by groups of an
exciting character such as assassinations and battles from the
age of Confucius and the two centuries which followed. The
rise of the Chin Empire is also sculptured.
Here battles
on bridges and in rivers and in the air occur, with tiger-
hunts, grotesque groups to excite laughter, and many festive
scenes.
With such sculptured groups the emperors and princes
of the Han dynasty adorned their palaces. The artists of
those times were extremely fond of grotesque scenes and
monstrous shapes. The sculptured halls of that age are
reflected in the poetry, which consisted of long descriptive
pieces, like THOMSON'S "Castle of Indolence or the separate
books of the Faerie Queene. The princes of the house of
Lieu gathered round them a choice school of literati and
engaged them in discussions on the history of early times
and on philosophical and religious dogmas. They talked
about Confucius and Lau tsï, and wrote books for the princes
and for the emperor.
The subjects on which they wrote
were politics, history, popular mythology, architecture and
astronomy, and they compiled these works in prose or in
poetry. A good number of them remain to us, and the dis-
covery of the Chia-siang and other inscriptions and sculptures
is a great help to the understanding of China as it was in
the Han dynasty.
I learn from Lieutenant D. MILLS, who wrote to me in
February 1887, when he had just visited the spot where these
sculptures were exhumed, that, "the valley in which they

270
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
occur is about five square miles in area, and that the excavation
was less than ten feet deep, but it would fill up quickly." The
two gate-pillars stand in the excavation, rising about ten feet
above the ground. The stone of these pillars has weathered
brown. A large number of slabs have been taken out of the
soil, and are now set up in an oblong tiled building, fifty feet
by twenty, lining its walls without any orderly arrangement.
Since the erection of this house other slabs have been dug
out, and are piled on the ground in the house, which has no
room for them upon its walls. The cutting on the sculptured
slabs is about a tenth of an inch deep.
There would be village temples in the Han dynasty, erected
to ancestors, as also to the gods of thunder, rain, and wind,
and to the Great Bear and the gods of grain and agriculture.
All have perished, because they were constructed with a
wooden framework. The reason why this ancestral chapel
of a prince, consisting of three chambers, has survived the
storms and frosts of seventeen centuries, is that it was of
stone.
A stone chapel with a stone roof entirely or almost entirely
consisting of sculptured slabs and unsculptured slabs, was
exposed to winds which blew dust upon it, and floods which
dashed silt round it and filled up its interior, till it became
buried more than twelve feet deep. The two stone pillars
in front of it were twenty-five feet high, and are now buried
to about that depth. This is a fact which shews what winds
and floods can do in seventeen centuries in raising the soil.
It also shews the supreme excellence of stone architecture,
which is capable of preserving to us these valuable memorials
of the China of the Han dynasty. The chapel dates from
A.D. 147. The Pantheon is older by 174 years.
Lieutenant D. MILLS, in his visit to the Chia-siang inscrip-
tions in situ, observed no traces of wooden beams in any of
the stones belonging to the original chapel buildings. The

POST-CONFUCIAN STYLE.
271
Pantheon in Rome when it has stood for eighty-three years
longer will be two thousand years old. It is a circular building
with a stone roof. The ancestral chapels in Shantung were
rectangular stone buildings with two gables which fell in part
many centuries ago, but the loess, with friendly assistance,
buried the sculptured stones under the soil. The buildings
would in part be standing till quite recently, or the
sculptured stones at least were preserved in good order
where they fell. So far was this the case that the native
archæologists have been able to tell us to a large extent what
part of the buildings was occupied by each particular stone.
The question must here be confronted, how much of
the Han dynasty architecture is of foreign origin? In
the Archeological Survey of India, kindly lent me by
Mr. KINGSMILL, we find in the 1st volume, published in 1871,
the question discussed how Greek sculpture is found occupying
a place in Buddhist architecture. To this question General
CUNNINGHAM replies, that Bactrian Greek sculptors would find
ready employment for their services among wealthy Buddhists,
just as later in the time of the Mogul Empire goldsmiths
and artillerymen were employed by the sovereigns. It was
a Buddhist custom to make gifts of statues and pillars to the
monasteries. This gave continuous employment to many
skilled workmen. In the city of Mathura, which lies on the
Jumna between Delhi and Agra, there is a colossal image
of Buddha the Teacher, measuring one foot across the palm.
It would be thirty feet in height. The Chinese have such in
their country, where the stone is easily cut and the Buddhist
zeal of the community favoured the production of this kind of
work. The statue was from 20 to 24 feet in height. Buddha
In the Island of Jersey there is a stone chapel erected A.D. 1111.
Its roof is of stone.
It has stood more than 700 years-a signal instance
of the permanence of stone roofs-but the roof has been replaced recently
by a new one,

272
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
is represented as the Teacher, explaining the law to his
disciples. It should be remembered that the coming and the
laughing Buddha are one. In one of the female figures the
attitude is peculiar. The left hand is brought across the
right breast while the right hand holds up a small portion
of drapery. The head is inclined slightly to the right
shoulder. The hair is dressed in a new fashion, with long curls
on each side of the face, which fall from a large circular
ornament on the top of the head. This figure has a plump face
with a broad smile, and it is one of the best specimens of unaided
Indian art which General CUNNINGHAM had met with. He
goes on to notice specimens of Greek sculpture mixed with
that of the Hindoos. The costumes of the sculptured figures
are Hindoo, Greek and those of some other unknown nation.
There is represented in one place a Greek altar such as was
dedicated to Bacchus. Adjoining a well-carved elephant in
one place are certain inscriptions which contain the names of
five Greek kings, including Alexander and Antiochus.
In the fifth volume of the Archeological Survey of India the
Doric character of architecture in Cashmere is illustrated.
In some localities in North-Western India there was Indo-
Corinthian and in other localities Indo-Persian. The Ionic
style was introduced in Taxila and the Corinthian in
Gandhara. All these styles flourished for several centuries.
Thus, as far as stone was used in building, the imitation of
Greek architecture and sculpture would naturally follow, and
would spread into distant countries. But India, like ancient
China, was well wooded, and, therefore, wooden pillars and
beams continued to be used.
In the case of monasteries, pagodas, tombs and bridges, with
certain other structures, stone was held to be better as a
material. Civilization, commerce and national intercourse
brought more and more wealth to the communities, and these
buildings were erected by the gifts of individuals. In such

BUDDHIST STYLE.
273
cases there would be a tendency to imitate Western art. This
would gradually lead to the arch in bridge-building. So also
the broad verandah, necessary in India to shade a bungalow
from the sun, would lead to broad roofs, which were after-
wards imitated by the Chinese.
The influence of Greek art would enter as an element in
the Han sculptures in the following manner. The country
being rich and at peace, many foreign improvements would be
adopted. Workmen would be conveyed from a distance to
do work for wealthy persons. These workmen would be
instructed by skilled masters, who were either Greeks or the
pupils of other masters who were taught by Greeks. In this way
we may account for sculptured horses represented successfully
in attitudes which without a long apprenticeship could not
easily be produced.
III. BUDDHIST ARCHITECTURE.
The third period of Chinese Architecture is the Buddhist.
When the Hindoo Missionaries came to China to propagate
their religion, they were lodged in an official building, called
a si, and in consequence of this their monasteries were called
si ever after. But the form they took in building was that
of the Vihara, the Sanscrit name for a Buddhist monastery.
The Buddhist monastery in China may have native Chinese
features in some things, as when, for example, we find there
the hall for ancestral tablets, in which the deceased priests of
the monastery are honoured with worship, wooden tablets
being used, just as in Confucian ancestral worship. But the
great outline is Indian.
There may be gate lions, one on each side of the gate. The
gods of native Hindoo polytheism are placed in the entrance-

274
"
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
hall. This is the locality in which the defenders of the
Buddhist faith should be honoured. Here also is found the
laughing Buddha, the Buddha of the future. Then come the
bell and drum towers. Within is the teaching-hall of Buddha.
The normal height of the statue known as the "teaching
Buddha is 16 feet, which probably is represented by ten
feet eight inches in English measurement. Much smaller
figures are commonly used. The pictures or statues on the
east and west or right and left of Buddha are his audience.
They consist of the gods of Brahminism, and of renowned
Buddhist saints. Behind in another large hall is either the
sleeping Buddha, or the ascetic Buddha, or the guiding
Buddha, who is called Omit'o Fo, or the Buddha of the future,
Maitseya, surpassing all the forms of Buddha in height. The
other buildings are numerous. They provide living-apartments
for the abbot and the monks under him, refectory, rooms for
guests, kitchens, store-rooms, library, halls for the worship
of the inferior divinities of Buddhism, and for the complete
representation, so far as practicable, of the Buddhist world of
worship, of suffering, of joy, of punishment, of salvation. In
a Buddhist monastery the object of the architecture, and of
the sculptured and pictorial representations, is to exhibit the
world as it appears to the Buddhist. Buddha is enthroned on
the lotus as teacher and redeemer, and the universe pays him
homage.
The lion is not an Indian animal, but is or was Persian
and Syrian. The Buddhists borrowed it as an ornament in
their mythological conceptions from that part of the world.
The whole ideology of Western Asia pressed into India in the
age of the Persian dynasty of Cyrus and in part before that
time. The lion very soon appears in the Buddhist books,
though not in the lifetime of Buddha himself. Why, then,
did the disciples of Buddha in North-Western India eagerly
adopt this animal as a symbol, the animal being foreign.

BUDDHIST STYLE.
275
It was because they were disputants, and in combating with
Persians, Greeks and men of other races who engaged in
religious disputation, they found that the lion was considered
king of beasts and the symbol of victory. It is found, for
example, in the Book of Genesis and other parts of the Bible
as a symbol of power, courage and victory. The north-western
Buddhists adopted it, as they did images and cosmogony from
the nations which lay on that side of India, and used it in the
service of their religion.
The pagoda was specially a Hindoo mausoleum for relies of
Buddha. It is surprising how little it is used in Japan or in
Lamaism. Osaka has but one pagoda and Tokio none. It is
very much connected with the feng shui superstition, which
was never adopted by the Japanese, and with the worship of
relies. The number of stories is always odd, because odd
numbers are male while even numbers are female. To benefit
a locality the pagoda must have the power of Yang, the male
principle. It is the dark principle Yin which does mischief.
Pagodas are often built entirely of stone or brick. Quite
commonly they have sculptured entablatures representing the
life of Buddha, or scenes in the biography of some Buddhist
saint.
Many pagodas are very pretty objects, and they have come
to be a special characteristic of Chinese architecture. The
curling eaves of Chinese buildings are probably an imitation
of some early pagodas. They were erected in large numbers
from the sixth century onwards, and since China has no
explanation to offer of curling eaves, it seems necessary to
assign them to a foreign source.
The erection of pagodas was a test of the skill of native
architects, many of them being lofty, and built without wood.
That they have been fairly successful in erecting strong
buildings is evidenced by the fact that there are more old
pagodas existing than there are old houses or temples. From the

276
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
seventh century onwards, there are still structures of this class.
There is an octagonal pagoda in Peking of thirteen stories,
and it dates from the year A.D. 600. The sculptured figures
are all of moulded brick, and this is the material which has
been largely used in erecting this pagoda. It is 275 feet
5 inches in height. This building, so high and so well
preserved, is a good specimen of the durability of some
Buddhist work in China.
The efforts of Buddhist architects were very much directed
to the provision of images of a large size and great variety.
Several types grew up which had to be constantly reproduced
in new erections. Buddhism teaches contemplation, and
by images as well as by books. The propagators of
this religion aimed to gain the popular ear by appealing
impressively to the eye.
does so
The second form of
Buddha is therefore
Around are seen his
In some other hall
The laughing Buddha at the gate indicates that the religion
there professed is the pathway of joy.
Buddha is that of teacher. The teaching
the central object in the principal hall.
audience of divinities and human beings.
is represented the ascetic Buddha, it may be with unshorn head
and the attire of a hermit. The sleeping Buddha is quite a
favourite subject. Some examples of this type are very ancient,
coming down from the Tang dynasty, and made of sandalwood
or copper. The guiding Buddha leads the soul to Paradise.
The rock-hewn Buddha, of 16, 30 or 60 feet high, is like the
laughing Buddha, the Buddha of the future.
Another effort made by Buddhist architects was to represent
the Buddhist world in its completeness, or specially some part
of it. Five towers on a lofty terrace represent the universe,
as north, south, east, west and centre. Such is the Wu t'a
si, or monastery of the five pagodas, in Peking. When
ordered to pray for rain, the Buddhist priests arrange the
images in a square in some spot in the fields which appears

BUDDHIST STYLE.
277
suitable. The arrangement is made on this principle. Rock-
work is much used to represent imaginary worlds. Mud or
clay is the material, and paint of many colours is used to deck
out in the gayest finery grottos, bridges, winding-ways among
mountains, temples and lakes. Some scene may have been
drawn by a poet, or the writer of a Buddhist work in
A time comes when a decoration is required in a temple under
repair. The scene of a book is then realized in mortar and
paint.
prose.
Other features in Chinese house-building which are a
tradition of the Buddhist age are the screen before the gate,
and the figures on the roofs. Both these features are con-
nected with feng shui, which, being an article of popular belief,
it becomes requisite to protect buildings from the mischief
likely to be caused by evil beings moving towards a house
and capable of doing harm to the inmates.
The screen of brick-work, built like the character pa (eight),
does not appear in old sculptures and has no ancient equivalent.
It is an unpleasing feature which ought to be dismissed from
modern architecture, but feng shui, unfortunately, insists
upon it.
So it is with the little monsters seen on the line of a roof
or on the projecting ledges below. They must, like the stories
of pagodas, be in odd numbers, in order that the Yang principle
may prevail over the Yin. Though their forms are so sinister
looking, they are all friendly, and their ugliness is put on for
effect's sake. Their office is to deter evil spirits. The dragon
and monkey are the types of these figures. Both are in odd
numbers; the larger is the dragon, usually one only, while the
smaller is the monkey, which may be three, five or more.
I have been at some pains to learn what they mean, and this
is the result. It is probably one of those architectural
peculiarities which the Chinese may claim as their own.
But this is not certain.
From Shanghai to Suez, all along

278
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
the southern coast of the continent of Asia, the people believe
in the active agency of evil spirits constantly in motion and
seeking opportunities to inflict evil on mankind. Against
them protectors are sought for of every available class, and
among them are these creatures which suit alike the Arab,
the Persian, the Hindoo and the Chinese.
The result was that in house-building it was felt to be
necessary to use protective measures against the forces of evil
always threatening danger to men. The gate-screen and the
small monster on the roof have the same office as the charm
pasted over a door, or the amulet, the small bottle, the bronze
mirror, carried on the person. They were supposed to have a
magical effect of a defensive nature.
The result was disastrous in an architectural sense. The
gate-screen conceals the entrance, and is placed where it is
not wanted. It must as such be unpleasing. But popular
superstition clings to the gate-screen. It lives still after
many centuries of useless encumbrance. Outside the gate
there is the pa character wall, within the gate is a screen.
On each side is a lion. On the roof of the chief building are
metamorphosed monkeys and dragons. We can bear the
animal shapes for the sake of the grotesque, which human
nature loves, but we cannot bear with the same equanimity
the hiding of the front view. Our European training has led
us to appreciate the excellent effect of an open view in front.
To shut off from view the front of a building, is a mistake.
Gilding images was common in India about A.D. 500, and
probably earlier. The Buddhists, by introducing the practice
of gilding Buddha's image, greatly increased the impressiveness
of their temples. This was a new element of beauty added to
their architecture, which did not fail to affect the people
powerfully in many ways. Let this point be well considered.
In Europe, cut stone assumes a dark hue, especially in England.
We enter a Chinese Buddhist temple as we see it in Hangchow

MODERN STYLE.
279
or in Peking. The beautiful colour of the gold image,
untarnished after many years, is felt to be in itself pleasing.
We then become conscious that to gild Prince Albert's
Monument in Hyde Park and the statue of Victory in Berlin,
was a useful preservative against weathering. The Chinese
learned the effective use of gold in ornamentation from the
Buddhists.
IV. ARCHITECTURE OF THE MODERN PERIOD.
Printing commenced in the tenth century and, the Sung
dynasty attaining power at that time, was accompanied by a
Tauist revival. Of this there are several indications. The first
Emperor, Chau t'ai tsu, had a Tauist friend, Chen twan, who,
with the emperor's powerful aid, forwarded his own religious
views. The predilections of the founder were shared by his
descendants. Among them, Hwei tsung was a great lover of
Tauism. The Fukien goddess Ma tsu, the sailor's favourite,
belongs to this period. So also does the worship of Kwan ti,
the god of loyalty, the favourite divinity of soldiers. Lü tsu,
or Lü chun yang, the famous Tauist of the latter part of the
eighth and the first half of the ninth century made Tauism
popular near Lu shan, on the north-west shore of the Poyang
Lake. Temples began to be erected to him in the twelfth
century. The early Sung dynasty was then a time of rapid
progress in popular Tauism. Nothing marks modern China
more than the spread of Tauist worship in imitation of
Buddhist worship, and this took place specially in the tenth,
eleventh and twelfth centuries.
This fact implies a rapid spread of temple-building; that
is to say, Buddhist architecture was imitated most extensively
at this time. It was a foreign art in several respects, and

280
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
through its being very full of idealism, it won its way to the
heart of the Chinese. As to the form of the monastery and
the arrangement of the halls, this imitation doubtless began
in the Tang dynasty. But there was then no extensive national
imitation embracing all parts of the empire. This appears to
have taken place in the Sung dynasty, as the examples just
given combine to show.
In a large Tauist temple, such as the Tung yo miau, in
Peking, in the first small halls at the door in the neighbourhood
of the Bell and Drum towers, are certain military images.
They indicate protection to the religion of which this is
a temple. In this they simply repeat the idea of the hall of
the four kings who, at the entrance to a Buddhist Monastery,
take the part of the defenders of Buddhism. Beyond is the
hall in which the god of the east mountain is worshipped.
He takes the place of the teaching Buddha of Buddhism.
In the temple of the god of medicine in Peking, in front are
distinguished physicians of antiquity. Behind them is the
central idol, that of Yü hwang. Farther still behind is the
hall consecrated to the worship of the Three Pure Ones.
Such a disposition of the halls and statues is mostly taken
from the Buddhists.
We see, then, that the Confucianists had in the Sung
dynasty ceased to be enemies to Buddhism. They saw that
the foreign idolatry was popular, and they decided to leave it
to work out its own future. They made deities of native
origin, like Li chun yang, Ma tsu and Kwan yü, and every-
where temples were erected in their honour. Temples had
been Confucian and Buddhist. They now became Confucian,
Buddhist, and Tauist. An extraordinary number of new
temples must have been erected in the Sung dynasty by the
Tauists. The emperors favoured them, and this led the
people to favour them also. The Cheng hwang miau
in each district city and prefectural city seems now to be an

MODERN STYLE.
essential part of Chinese intitutions.
281
But it is not in fact
older than the Sung dynasty in most cities. I have noticed
one which was erected in A.D. 917, in the Wu tai period, so
that probably this type of temple was first introduced in the
Tang dynasty, but it was the partiality of the Sung imperial
family for Tauism, and the tolerant political tone of the Sung
literati, which spread this sort of temple and other types of
Tauist sacred buildings throughout the empire.
In the Sung dynasty, the first part of the modern age of
Chinese architecture, we have the results of the devotion of the
nation to Buddhism during seven centuries. Two great
forces have animated the nation since that time. The one
was the Confucian and Tauist revival of the Sung dynasty,
the other was the school of critical research of the present
dynasty. The Confucian revival led to political toleration, and
so foreign architecture, for example, might be imitated without
offence. The principles of the Chinese Government from the
tenth century forward have allowed men of different religions
to reside together, and the magistrate is expected to keep the
peace between them if they offend. The consequence is, that
Hindoo, Moslem and new European architecture, in the
erection of the sacred buildings of each religion, are seen
together in China. Toleration of foreign religious tenets has
favoured the mixing of styles in buildings and in art
generally. This freedom of choice has been encouraged by
the critical attitude of the literati in the present dynasty.
China is now more eclectic than it ever was.
The school of critical research which has flourished during
the last two centuries has paid special attention to the classics,
and among them to the Chow-li, whence facts on ancient
architecture are gathered. It is singular that there should
be important differences of opinion on the manner in which the
Temple of Heaven ought to be built, and whether Confucius
ought to have a statue in his temple or not. The result of

282
of art.
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
researches in the Ming dynasty led to the abandonment of the
statue of Confucius and the restoration of the old Confucian
tablet. This was an instance of recoil from Buddhist views
Yet in some cities the statue remains, the decree of
the emperor on the subject not having been very peremptory.
But the spirit of modern China is against the use of statues
in Confucian worship. The Buddhist love of statues in
temples does not in any way influence the true Confucianist,
who glories in his freedom from popular Buddhism. So also
during last century it was decided not to have dual worship
at the Temple of Heaven, but to worship there only the
Supreme Ruler.
The Sung dynasty architecture is not specially known by
examples, because it has been outshone by the works of the
Yuen and the Ming dynasties, but it may be studied, because
books printed with engravings exist, and there are much fuller
details and materials for research in that age than previously.
For the ancestral temple, for example, it is interesting to find
that Chu fu tsi made inquiry into it, and determined its
essential features. The Chinese art of the Golden dynasty
in North China remains in a few octagonal pillars inscribed
with Buddhist charms. Sanscrit and Chinese characters are
here seen cut in limestone.
Art rose higher in the Yuen dynasty, and the Chü yung kwan
arch and inscription, which have stood for six hundred years,
shew that China at that time undertook to develope new types
of architectural work. But the Yuen dynasty architecture
was surpassed by that of the Ming dynasty. It was then that
Chinese art rose to its greatest height. The Emperor Ch'eng
tsu, of the Yung lo period, was the greatest of the Ming line.
It was he that made Peking what it is. The plan of the city,
the tombs, the great bell, the fortified passes in the Great
Wall are his. These and the grandeur of the city gates and
wall belong to the Ming dynasty and to him in particular. In

MODERN STYLE.
283
the time of Shun chi and Kang hi, an effort was made to
improve the astronomical observatory. This was done by
removing the observing instruments from the tower and
replacing them by machines cast by VERBIEST and some pre-
sented by the French king. Underneath the tower is the
chamber for observing the length of the shadow at the winter
solstice and on other occasions. Peking is the only capital in
the world on whose wall is seen a collection of large bronze
instruments intended for astronomical observation. They lend
a character of refinement to the city to which they belong.
The influence of the Emperor Chien lung was directed to
the production of substantial architecture in various styles.
His Buddhist, Confucian, Moslem and Italian erections were
well done in their day. Yet now the relentless changes
wrought by time have reduced many of them to a ruinous
state. His Italian structures at Yuen ming yuen were burnt
in the war of 1861. High civilization and refinement led
this Emperor to look kindly on fashions of all nations and to
take pleasure in introducing them into his country. It will
never cease to be a subject of regret that the buildings in the
parks outside of Peking were burnt. There must be some-
thing wrong when it is found necessary to burn works of art.
In the changes made by the Emperor Chien lung in the
temple of Confucius there is a distinct aim to restore the
ancient classical structure--the Pi yung kung. The brevity
of classic texts renders exact restoration to a large extent
conjectural. In this case there is a circular marble tank.
In the centre is a hall in which is a throne for the Emperor
when he expounds the classics. The south face of this hall
consists entirely of lofty doors admitting light through thin
bamboo paper.
In the architectural works of the present dynasty, as of the
Ming, the feng shui ideas have never been abandoned.
China has ceased to build new pagodas for the sake of riches

284
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
and prosperity to a locality, but she puts the old ones in
repair when money can be obtained for the purpose. The
roofs of temples are still ornamented with a view to feng shui
opposite to the openings of lanes in Peking. Lions are set up,
or stones with the powerful name of the Tai shan god, to
frighten away demons who might be intending to come that
way. The superstition of feng shui is retained in house
architecture even in this age of growing knowledge. In
judging of Chinese architecture there are two chief divisions
of work to be looked at. The one is its general excellence,
the effect of dignity, solemnity, richness and grandeur on the
whole. The other is the special excellence of the parts. In
both there is room for the greatest genius. In regard to the
former, it may be noticed that the greatest triumph of Chinese
architecture is in the effect on the whole. In the Ming
tombs we have the perfection of Chinese power of arrange-
ment. It is a ride of seven miles from the entrance of the
valley to the tomb of Yung lo. The valley is occupied by the
thirteen tombs. At the entrance the marble gateway attracts
special attention. Ninety feet long by fifty high, composed
of marble, and seeming to be roofed with tiles, it is seen from
a great distance, and it has stood for three centuries and a
half. On nearer inspection it is found that the roof is cut
marble, and when this fact is observed, the whole structure is
seen to be a remarkable triumph of architecture. The P'ai
leu of China takes the place of the triumphal arch of Europe,
and this one at the Ming tombs is the best in the country.
It was erected at a time when the Chinese building and bell-
casting art reached their culminating point. The original red
and
green colours have long since weathered down to a sober
grey. Passing this we proceed through several avenues of trees
and several gateways till the avenue of animals is reached-
a truly striking feature. Lions, unicorns, camels and elephants
stand and kneel in pairs. The four elephants are each cut

MODERN STYLE.
285
from one stone. They are 13 feet high and 14 feet long.
Thus it is seen that the Chinese are capable of Egyptian
effects in working in stone if only their country did not
consist of alluvial plains, which necessitate a brick architecture.
Then the hall for sacrifice is the third great feature. It is
70 yards long by 30 deep. The teak pillars, 12 feet round
and 32 feet high, are 32 in number. The building is
64 feet high. It is reached by a marble ascent of 18 steps,
and is surrounded by beautifully-carved balustrades. The
roof juts out 10 feet beyond the walls on which it rests. The
fourth great feature of the Ming tombs is the tomb itself,
above this passage.
In front of it is a mass of solid stone-
work which supports the monumental stone on which is
inscribed in characters of enormous size the posthumous
name of the Emperor Yung lo, who died A.D. 1425. Beneath
is the coffin-passage, 39 yards long, conducting to the
tomb-door, and the visitor arriving there ascends to the
platform above by a long staircase. Here the stone, three
feet thick, two yards wide, and high in proportion, with the
Emperor's name on it, may be observed. It was originally
painted with vermilion. Then there is the mound, half a mile
in circuit, containing a hemispherical chamber, in which is the
coffin. The chamber is large enough to hold probably
400 persons.
many
In this work of construction we see Chinese architectural
skill at its acme of
remarkable features
So
power.
combine in the Ming tombs that we must in this instance
award to Chinese architecture the praise of success in im-
parting to the imperial tombs an air of great dignity and
solemnity.
Chinese art is to be praised for the lightness and grace of
the curve of a heavy roof. The Greek loved to see lines of
beauty at the head of a column, and a succession of columns
seen in vanishing perspective has a very lovely effect. The

286
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
effort of Chinese art is rather to lighten the appearance of
heavy masses of timber in a roof by curves and the use of
coloured tiles.
In the modern style we find the shaft of a column carved
with dragons, and this mode of ornamentation has lately
become commoner than it was. It is observable in the guild-
houses of Ningpo and Hankow. If in Shanghai commercial
guilds should build new houses suitable for theatrical per-
formances, this kind of ornament would be adopted.
We also find in modern style a special development of the
ting ts. This first occurs in the sculptured halls of the
Han dynasty. An ornamented roof rests on pillars. The
pillars enclose a space which is open all round. We see it in
the baldacchino of Romish cathedrals, in the kiosk of Con-
stantinople, in the summer-house or arbour or bower of a
pleasure-garden, and in the building over the stage of a
Chinese theatre. The roof of a t'ing tsi may be very simple,
as when made square with four slopes, or very complicated,
as when gables and slopes alternate. Examples of rich
variety in the roofing are seen in many theatres and in the
corner towers of the Peking Palace wall.
In the Temple of Heaven the altar is carried to its highest
point. Its circularity, its marble pavement and its numerical
arrangement deserve attention. It is 90 feet wide at the
top where the emperor kneels on the circular stone in the
middle. He faces the north while kneeling, and in front of
him is the tablet of Shang ti, the Supreme Ruler. Round
the circular stone are eight concentric circles of marble
stones. Nine stones make the first of these circles. Double
that number form the next. Twenty-seven, thirty-six, forty-
five, fifty-four stones form the next four circles. The three
outer circles have sixty-three, seventy-two and eighty-one
stones. These circles represent, the universe, which consists
of nine concentric spheres. This symbolism also occurred

MODERN STYLE.
287
in Western Asia, and the city of Ecbatana, for example, was
built on a plan which exhibits the same principle as its
foundation. The marble stones on the middle and lower
terrace of the altar are also placed in circles. Outside of
them are the boundary-walls of the altar, which are also
circular. The lower terrace is 210 feet wide and the middle
one 150 feet. There are four flights of steps connecting the
upper, middle and lower terraces. The altar is 16.95 feet
high. When the emperor worships here, which he does
twice a year, he acknowledges Shang ti as his superior, he
himself representing the universe symbolized in the mystic
numbers of this unique and beautifully-proportioned structure.
We also find bridges greatly improved in the modern
style by adopting the arch. This came in with Buddhism,
for we find it in the pagodas. At present it is used when
it is desired to span rivers by bridges. Made with an arch
for foot-passengers, such structures look well to the eye,
but they are inconveniently steep, being often 30 feet in
height. Such bridges are made with steps so that they are
crossed easily by burden-bearing coolies. Beasts, however,
cannot easily use them, which is a great defect. The ap-
pearance of these bridges is agreeable to the eye, and they
last long, because the superincumbent weight is efficiently
sustained in the most economical manner by the arch. Many
bridges in modern style would be better for being not so
steep as they are, and for not being made with steps. They
ought to be built not only for longevity and elegant ap-
pearance, but for the convenience of traffic. The custom
in China is for the rich to erect bridges and dams from
charitable motives, and in order to obtain benefits in return
from the unseen
is forthcoming,
The
powers.
money
however much may be required, because of the charitable
disposition of the donor. It might be, however, better used
than it often is, and much greater convenience for the public

288
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE.
secured. There is often a want of economy in the expen-
diture. The Chinese are ready to give, and many of them
are very rich, but they might give more wisely than they do.
Ultimately, in regard to railway construction in this
country, the rich natives will bear a chief part of the burden.
There is a large quantity of wealth in their hands. For this
purpose, at present, they will not give as they would for a
costly bridge. No one would praise them for it. They do
not think that the unseen powers, that make men rich and
give men many children and grandchildren, will favour the
opening of railways as they do the construction in convenient
spots of bridges and embankments. When they learn to
feel this, and are convinced that the Buddhist doctrine of
moral fate which influences their actions approves of railways,
the money will come and come in abundance.
For illustrations of Chinese Architecture the reader is referred to
works containing plans, engravings and photographs. Among these may
be mentioned THOMSON'S Views of China, the plates to Macartney's
Embassy, Père ZOTTOLI'S Cursus Litteratura Sinica, Mémoires concernant
les Chinois, and various recent books of travel in China.
The number of photographs taken by natives is now so great that there
is scarcely a remarkable building in any part of China of which a good
photograph may not be obtained at Shanghai or elsewhere.