THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
By P. G. VON MÖLLENDORFF.
PREFACE.
In 1878 I read an essay on the Family Law of the
Chinese before the North-China Branch of the Royal Asiatic
Society at Shanghai, which appeared in the Society's Journal
[N.S. vol. XIII (1879) p. 99-121]. I had been largely
indebted to Mr. E. H. PARKER, H.B.M.'s Consul, for valuable
notes relating to my subject, and in a lengthy review of my
essay in the China Review [vol. VIII (1879) p. 67-107] that
gentleman again added a number of suggestions and observa-
tions. These together with new investigations of my own
have made it desirable to republish the old essay, with the
necessary alterations and additions.
Of the legal literature of China I have principally
consulted the Statute Law and the Ordinances of the present
dynasty
(Ta-ching-lü-li), of which the laws
relating to the present subject have been translated by
Mr. G. JAMIESON in the China Review [vol. X (1881)
p. 77-99].

132
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
In the arrangement of the subject before me I have taken
as a basis the Roman law, which, owing to its logical structure
and general completeness, has become a typical system, and
has formed the foundation of the jurisprudence of all Euro-
pean nations. I have chiefly consulted the works of PUCHTA,
MACKELDEY, DERNBURG [Privatrecht, 2nd ed., vol. III, 1881]
and others, for the Canon law WALTER'S Kirchenrecht.
For the Jewish law the interesting work [in German] of
S. MAYER on the Laws of the Jews, Athenians and Romans,
furnished comparisons, ideas and suggestions. Since the first
edition of my essay, the Realencyclopädie für Bibel und
Talmud [by Dr. HAMBURGER, 2 vols. and 3 Supplements
(1870-1892)] has become a standard work, to which I am
much indebted.
Some sentences have been quoted from MAINE'S Ancient
Law, 6th ed. 1876, and from J. F. MCLENNAN's Studies in
Ancient History, 1876, specially chapter II, p. 13 ss. I have
also made use of C. N. STARCKE, The Primitive Family in its
Origin and Development, London, 1889.
The frequent comparisons with Jewish and Roman Law
have been made with the object of proving that the Chinese
laws and customs are pervaded by the same spirit of common
humanity as those of other ancient peoples.
I have constantly consulted the valuable Chinese-English
Dictionary by H. A. GILES, Shanghai, 1892, and the excellent
Nederlandsch-chineesch Woordenboek by G. SCHLEGEL, 4 vols.
1886-90. The latter is a mine of information and far too
little known. The trouble of having to use it with the
help of an English-Dutch pocket-dictionary is too slight to
stand in the way of its general use.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
133
Introduction.
A.-On Marriage.
1. General Remarks.
2. Requirements for concluding marriages.
3. Betrothal.
4. Marriage.
5. Relation of husband and wife to each other.
6. Dissolution of marriage.
7. Bigamy.
8. Polygamy and Polyandry.
9. Second nuptials and violation of the time of mourning.
B.-On Patria Potestas.
1. General Remarks.
2. On the rights of both parents with regard to their
children.
3. On the rights of the husband with regard to his wife.
4. On the duties of the children towards their parents.
Ancestral worship.
5. Acquisition of patria potestas.
a. By marriage.
b. By procreation.
c. By adoption.
1. General Requirements.
2. Special Requirements.
3. Effects of arrogation and of adoption.
6. Termination of patria potestas.
C.-On Guardianship.
Alphabetical Index.

134
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
INTRODUCTION.
As in the ancient Jewish state, the family is the unit of
the Chinese; on its model the state is governed, and from the
social conditions of the families the family law received its
foundations. In this sense the state is called the family of
the nation (kuo chia) and prefects and magistrates are
popularly styled (fu mu kuan), parent officials.
The Chinese family life, with its sexual purity coupled
with filial piety, has greatly contributed towards the main-
tenance of the Chinese nation. Everything revolves round
the family as the centre, and the family circle with its natural
conservatism has had a beneficial influence towards the
outside world. The Chinese family life compares favourably
with the somewhat too loose bonds of the occidental,-in fact,
in family life China presents herself at her best.
In the Chinese mind law¹ (li li) and general custom
(kuei chi) are mixed up and cannot be kept separated.
A Chinese judge will always modify the rigour of the law
if local usage differs from it; and a Chinese will invariably
be in favour of ch'ing li (the application of special
circumstances) in each case. In this sense the term "family
law" is to be understood not merely as a statement of the
Chinese family laws (leges) but including also general usages,
which will have to enter largely into a future codification of
the Chinese law, especially private law.
Tradition tells us very little of the family life of the
Chinese in antiquity. Its foundations can be clearly recog-
nised in the classical writings; in the Shiking, or Book of
Odes, we even find traces of marriage by capture.
Generally speaking the li have been superceded by the li, but in the
marriage laws the lü are still mostly in force.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
135
The Chinese family (chia) embraces, like the Attic
ozos and the Jewish mishpachah, all members of the same
household which stand under one head or pater familias
(家長 chia chang, 家主chia chu, 家君 chia chin), without
distinction, whether they have entered the family through
marriage or adoption, and including servants and slaves."
It is obligatory that all members of the family bear the same
family name (Ehsing) as in India, Greece, and Rome.3
Even with adoption a kind of quasi relationship is formed.
In the oldest time of Chinese history the number of
families may have been the same as the number of clans; the
ancient term po hsing (the Hundred Family names, the
people) occurs in the Shuking [I, 2 and frequently]. The
idea that there exists a kind of relationship between families
bearing the same name has lived up to the present time [see
below "Impediments to Marriage"].
Within the family the Chinese distinguish four grades
of relationship, which follow according to the proximity of
descent, without distinguishing thereby between consanguinity
(nei chin) and affinity (wai yin). Genealogical
tables are given in the (ta ch'ing lü li), vol. I,
fol. 1-6. Compare W. H. MEDHURST, Journ. Ch. B.R.A.S.,
1853, "Marriage, Affinity, and Inheritance in China" [see
also Dr. LEGGE's Liki, vol. I, p. 202-209]. C. N. STARCKE
[The Primitive Family, p. 201-3, 206, 298] discusses the
different terms of Chinese relationship, but his authorities
family.
The Prussian Landrecht [I, 1, § 3] also includes the servants in the
3 MCLENNAN, l.c., p. 217.
See VON DER GABELENTZ, Chinese Grammar, p. 360.-S. WELLS
WILLIAMS [in his Syllabic Dictionary, p. 1242] dates back the beginning of
family names to over 3,000 years, without, however, quoting any authority
in support of this statement. See also H. A. GILES, "The Family Natues,"
Journal Ch. B.I.A.S., vol. XXI (1887) p. 256. G. JAMIESON, "Note on the
Origin of the Family Names," Ch Rev., vol X. (1881), p. 89-93.
18

136
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
were not free from error. The Relationships are presented by
G. SCHLEGEL in his Woordenboek [vol. I, p. 1343] in a
tabular form, in which, however, the relationships by adoption
are omitted, the others are given in the Tsiang-tsiu (Amoy)
dialect of the lower classes. A. J. MAY has compiled a list of
all relationships in the China Review [vol. XXI (1894), p.
15-39], which also is not quite complete and expressed in
Cantonese. G. JAMIESON [China Review, vol. X (1881), p.
199-200] gives also a table of the kindred on the male
side only.
The above-mentioned four grades of relationship, with the
legal time for mourning, given hereafter, are taken from the
useful little letter-writer (huan hsiang yao tsé,
Important Rules for the Officials and the People), by Lu
JUN-HSIANG (), Shanghai, 1892, 2 vols. 16º.
1st grade. Term of mourning three years (usually re-
duced to 27 months). Called chan tsui (mourning
garments with frayed edges). For man and wife: the hus-
band's parents. For wife and concubine: the husband.
Term of mourning one year. Called chi nien.
For man: sons, wife of eldest son, grandsons (descended from
wife), uncle and his wife, daughters if unmarried, brothers,
sister if unmarried, nephew (brother's son), niece (brother's
daughter) if unmarried. For wife: her parents and grand-
parents. For concubine: wife of husband, husband's parents,
sons (her own and those of the wife and of other concubines).
This term of one year is also kept by a man of double sacra
(-i tzu shuang t'iao) on the death of his own
parents.
toň ts'ui
Term of mourning five months. Called
(mourning garments with unhemmed, but even cut edges),
with the addition chang ch'i, i.e. in the lifetime of the
parents. For man: the great-grandparents, the great-great-

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
137
grandparents, the grandparents, the wife. If the parents are
already dead, the term of mourning is only three months
(pu chang ch'i). For wife: her great-grandparents
and great-great-grandparents.
2nd grade.-Term of mourning nine months. Called
ta kung (the greater merit). For man: the wives of
sons (others than the eldest), grandsons (others than from
first wife), married daughters, male and (unmarried) female
cousins (children of paternal uncle), married sisters, wife of
nephew (son of brother), married nieces (brother's daughters).
For wife husband's grandparents, husband's uncle, husband's
daughter-in-law (wife of a younger son or of a concubine's
son), husband's nephew's wife, husband's married niece,
grandsons.
3rd grade.-Term of mourning five months. Called
hsiao kung (the lesser merit). For man: grandson's wife,
granduncle (brother of grandfather) and his wife, unmarried
grandaunt, granduncle (son of great-granduncle) and his
wife, brother's wife, male cousins (of the same surname),
married female cousins (daughters of elder paternal uncle),
unmarried female cousins (of the same surname), nephew and
unmarried niece (grandchildren of paternal granduncle),
son and unmarried daughter of nephew (brother's son),
mother's parents, mother's brother, mother's sister. For wife:
husband's aunt, husband's brother and the latter's wife,
husband's sister, husband's second cousin, unmarried female
second cousin of husband, husband's grand nephew and
unmarried grand-niece.
4th grade.-Term of mourning three months. Called
ssu ma (coarse hemp garments). For man: wives of
grandsons, grandsons of more distant relations, the married
female relations which come under the 3rd grade if unmarried,
the wives of relations of the 3rd grade, etc. etc.

138
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
For a complete list of all relationships and to illustrate
the five kinds of mourning (wu fu) seven tables would
be required:-
1.-A man mourning for his kinsfolk.
2.-A
3.-A
دو
93
دو
دو
mother's kinsfolk.
wife's
"
"
"
"
"
her husband's
"
"
دو
4. A wife
5.-A married woman mourning for her own kinsfolk.
6. A concubine mourning for her husband's
7.-Mourning for step-fathers and fathers by adoption
and for step- and foster-mothers.
دو
Tables 1 to 6 are printed in English in LEGGE's Liki
[vol. I, p. 209].
Slaves (nu ts'ai) are also counted as belonging to
the family; under the name of chia shén tzu are
designated those which have been bought; chia
sheng tzu or chia ch'an tzu are those born in the
family, children of slaves, vernae, oixitat, and the Jewish yelid
bayith (Jerem., 2, 14). Slaves are generally well treated, and
their position in the family is more like that of the Jewish ebed,
not like that of the slaves amongst the Greek and Romans.5
The Chinese master may punish his slave, but not
excessively. In ancient times criminals were made slaves as
a punishment (kuan nu, slaves of the state).
The Manchu family names are not publicly known. The
Manchus, whose Emperors reign over China since 1644, do
not use their family names (Ehsing, Manchu: hala) since
the reign of the Emperor KANGHI (1662-1723), but only their
personal names (ming, Manchu : gebu). The surnames are,
however, known within the clans, and the law concerning
them is, with some modifications to be indicated later on, the
same for the Manchus as for the Chinese.
5 E. J. EITEL," Slavery in China," Ch. Rev., vol. X (1881), p. 283-284.
6 Liki, XXXVI, 48, LEGGE, vol. II, p. 363,

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
A. ON MARRIAGE.
1.-GENERAL.
139
"
uxorem
The ancient Roman conception of marriage was
habere liberorum quærendorum causa," and the same one-sided
view was accepted by the so-called "enlightened epoch" of
last century, seeing in marriage nothing but the aim for the
procreation and bringing-up of children.
Fundamental institutions like marriage cannot be defined,
but can only be approximately described. Better than the
old conception is the definition given in l. 1 D. de ritu
nuptiarum, 23, 2: "nuptiæ sunt conjunctio maris et feminæ,
consortium omnis vitæ, divini et humani juris communicatio."
The sentiment is here decisive, and as the means at the
disposal of law have little influence of the sentiment, the
influence of law over marriage can only be a limited one.
The highest moral standpoint was reached by the Jews,
who took marriage as "covenant" [Mal., II, 14] to which
God is a witness.
How and when marriage became a recognised institution
with man is perhaps an idle question. Some take it that the
communion of women in prehistoric times had to be conquered
by the exogamous marriage by capture, and that the later endo-
gamous marriage by capture formed a transition stage towards
marriage by contract. Others again deny that primitive man
ever lived in promiscuous intercourse. C. N. STARCKE³ quotes
DARWIN [Descent, II, p. 362] and MAINE [Early Law, p. 206,
216] "It is improbable that sexual intercourse was ever
H. PAUL, Grundriss der Germanischen Philologie, vol. II, 2, p. 142.
8 The Primitive Family, p. 242.

140
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
perfectly free, since the passion of jealousy is so strong in the
whole animal kingdom that it cannot be supposed to have been
dormant in primitive communities of men."
Of the primitive condition of the Chinese, when the
founders of the Chinese empire entered in the north-western
part of China, we know next to nothing. Previously to the
Chou dynasty (1122-255 B.C.), according to the commen-
tators of the Shiking, a general laxity of morals prevailed, and
it was not until the Chous laid down proper rites regulating
marriage that promiscuous intercourse (yin pen,
lewdness) ceased. But this judgment of the modern commen-
tators is altogether unjust, and has no other foundation but
the wish to excessively glorify the Chous. According to our
idea the home life as depicted in the Shiking is a moral and
happy one; it may be contrary to the present Chinese ideas
of a life surrounded by all sorts of rites and usages, but it is
altogether decent and morally irreproachable.
"By the united action of heaven and earth all things
spring up," says the Liki [LEGGE, vol. I, p. 439], "thus the
ceremony of marriage is the beginning of a [line that shall
last for a] myriad ages." The importance of marriage is
thus emphasized [Liki, vol. II, p. 264]:-" Marriage is the
union of the representatives of two different surnames in
friendship and love, in order to continue the posterity of the
former sages, and to furnish those who shall preside at the
sacrifices to Heaven and Earth," and [p. 266]:-"Yes, the
ceremony of marriage lies at the foundation of Government."
Marriage is thus regarded by the Chinese as necessary
and indispensable, and the best proof of this is furnished by
the fact that, excluding priests and nuns who are not allowed
* Two proverbs express it: 大禮有三千婚姻最重
ta li yu san chien, hun yin tsui chung (Of the 3,000 rites marriage is the
most important), and寧可成一房不可敗一戶 ning leo cwêng
ifang, pu k'o pai i hu (Better establish a home than cut off one).

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
141
to marry, it is scarcely possible to find an old bachelor, and
an old maid is a rarity.
Chinese law further recognises the importance of
marriage by giving a long list of marriage laws. 10 We must
add, however, that marriage is not absolutely compulsory,
nor is celibacy punished, as was the case under the Jewish
law and the Attic code of Solon."
The Chinese distinguish between two kinds of marriage
which, not incorrectly, may be termed connubium and concu-
binatus. In the first case they are obliged to be content with
one wife (chi), who, like the Jewish and Roman, unlike
the Greek, wife, shares the rank and honour of the husband.
This wife is almost invariably chosen by the pater familias¹³
from a family of equal position and circumstances; but the
latter is not a conditio sine qua non and the requirement of
equality of rank which led in Europe during the Middle Ages
to the absurdity of marriages on the left hand (matrimonium
ad morganaticam) 14 has been almost unknown in China. The
wife is generally a woman with small feet.
Concubinage is, however, at the same time permitted,
and marriage with several concubines (ch'ieh) is allowed.
The number of these, besides the one wife, is not limited by
law, but only one wife is permitted.
The better classes do not give their daughters to a man
already married; Manchu girls are not allowed to become
concubines.
10 G. JAMIESON, "Translations from the Lü-li, or General Code of Laws,"
China Review, vol. VIII, vol. IX, vol. X, p. 77-99 (the Marriage Laws).
Among the Israelites each man was obliged to marry, and could be
forced by the authorities to fulfil his duty until he had a son or a daughter;
compare Pollux, III, 48; VIII, 40 (MAYER, L.c., vol. II, p. 286).
12 Like the Romans, § 7 J. de nuptiis, 1, 10.-1. 2 C. de incestis et in-
utilibus nuptiis, 5, 5.1.1 D. de his qui not. inf. 3, 2.-There is an excep-
tion when a man is a filius familias for two families [see below under
"Adoptions"].
13 As in Biblical antiquity, Gen. 24, 21; Exod. 21, 9.
"In Germany finally abolished by Reichsgesetz of 6th Feb. 1875.

142
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
Whilst the marriage with the wife (chi) is concluded
by the parents of the two parties, the man is allowed to
choose the concubines himself. These may be of low rank,
even slaves, and have, without regard to priority of marriage,
equal rank among themselves, but are subjected to the au-
thority of the wife.
The husband has not the right of degrading his wife,
without sufficient reason, 15 to the rank of a concubine, nor
of raising a concubine to the rank of a wife whilst the wife
is alive.
The wife is considered the mother of all the children
born in the family16 and is honoured by the latter as their
mother.
The reason for the greater number of marriages with
concubines is barrenness of the wife.17
2. REQUIREMENTS FOR CONCLUDING MARRIAGES.
A.-Absolute Impediments to Marriage.
The attainment of puberty required by the Roman¹s and
Canon law, of a certain age, as prescribed by modern legis-
lation, as a pre-requisite for concluding marriage, is not
known to Chinese law. It is, however, an established custom,
that men marry when over twenty years of age, and that girls
are rarely given in marriage before their fifteenth year. But
as there are many exceptions in the laws in favour of persons
15 See below, "Impediments to Marriage."
16 The same in Jewish law [see MAYER, Z.c, vol. II, p. 339] and in
Mohammedan law [see G. ROSEN, in Ztschrift D. M. G., vol. XXII, p. 543].
17 This is probably the case with all polygamic peoples.-The ancient
Jewish custom was (MAYER, l.c., vol. II, p. 339]-as it was considered a
disgrace to have no children-the wife in such case induced her husband to
take a maid-servant as concubine, the children born by the latter were
considered hers and she was no longer childless.
13 Pr. J. de nuptiis, 1, 10.-1. 14, D. 23, 1.-1. 4 D. 23, 2.
10 Tit., X, 4, 2 Lib. sext. Decret., 4, 2.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
143
under fifteen years of age, we may consider the latter as the
age required for marrying. Very early marriages are not as
common in China as is generally believed the common
practice is to provide early in life a suitable wife for the son
and a husband for the daughter, and to marry them when
their character is formed.20 In China puberty commences
at the same age as in Europe. The old idea that puberty
arrives earlier in hot than in temperate climates is exploded
by modern investigations.
Suitability of age is generally recommended, as also that
a young girl should not be married to an old man.21 But
an early marriage in China is understood in the sense of
an early settlement in life."
Non-attainment of puberty, disease, or other defects
(as insanity, deafness and dumbness, etc.) are considered
impediments, if no notice of them has been given in the
marriage contract.
The defect of eunuchs naturally debars them from
marrying. The right of having eunuchs (t'ai-chien,
lao-kung) is an Imperial prerogative, and is also
granted to the highest members of the Imperial family. It
is also a prerogative of the king of Corea, who ranked with,
but before, Imperial princes of the 1st order (ch'in-
wang). As eunuchs have to serve and to live in the palace
(nei kuan), it is for this reason alone impossible for
them to marry.23
There are, however, eunuchs at Peking who had children
before their mutilation and who may obtain permission to
visit their families from time to time. Cases may occur
19
Cp. Sirach, 7, 27; 42, 9-10.
21 The same in the Talmud.
Compare the German proverb "jung gefreit, hat keinen gereut."
See Shiking, I, 11, 1 and II, 5, 6 [LEGGE, vol. III, p. 157 and 239].

144
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
where a eunuch, who by intrigues in the palace has risen
position of honour, takes a wife pro forma and adopts
a son for the succession. 24
to a
B.-Relative Impediments.
1.-On Account of Relationship.
"25
Marriage between relations of all grades of agnatic
relationship is prohibited; "cognates cannot marry any one
of the generation above or below, but may marry any one
of the same generation, not being agnate." For the
relationship by adoption the prohibition does not remain in
force after the first adoption has been dissolved by a new
one. 26
It may be here observed that there exists in China no
relationship between the husband and his wife's sister, as
is the case according to the Canonical, and after it the
English law. In fact, since the Emperor SHUN married the
two daughters of YAO [2357-2255 B.C.],28 such marriages
are of frequent occurrence in China, probably because a
wife finding that a concubine will be taken prefers to share
the affection of her husband with her sister rather than with a
stranger.
See G. C. STENT, "Chinese Eunuchs," J. of N.C.B. of R.A.S., vol. XI
(1877), p. 143.
G. JAMIESON, l.c., vol. X, p. 82.
This was contrary to Roman law.
Based, as far as I can see, on Lev., 18, 18: "neither shalt thou take
a wife to her sister to vex her, beside the other in her lifetime;" which
can only apply to marrying two sisters at the same time, and not to
marrying the sister after the wife's death.
Mengtzu, V, I, 4 [LEGGE, II, p. 220]. From the Liki [vol. I, p. 132]
it would appear that SHUN had three wives.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
145
Altogether, there is no relationship between the relatives
of the husband and those of the wife (called yin-ch'in).
Relationship is always implied by the fact of bearing
the same family name :-tung hsing pu
wei hun yin (those of the same family name do not inter-
marry).29 Considering that for a population of 400 millions
only about 43830 family names exist, this impediment
appears severe in the highest degree. In the course of
ages 31 it happened that whole communities were composed
of people with the same surname, so that men desirous of
marriage had to look elsewhere for wives, and often to under-
take for this purpose expensive voyages. Where a surname
has two distinct origins, persons of the same surname may
intermarry, provided that their line of ancestry can be traced
from the separate stock,
tung hsing pu t'ung
tsung (of the same surname but of different ancestry), e.g.
persons of the name of ch'e. On the other hand, families
of the same ancestry have branched off under a different
name and do not intermarry, as and, both pronounced
hsü, who were one family until the reign of YUNG-CHENG
[1723-36].33 It is the same with ch'en and yeh, and
with yang and yi. An expedient to mitigate this
Endogamic marriage is excluded. In the Institutes of Manu it is laid
down that a "twice-born" man (i.e., one belonging to the sacerdotal,
military, or commercial class [Manu, X, 4]) might elect for nuptials "a
woman not descended from his paternal or maternal ancestors within the
sixth degree and who is not known by her family name to be of the same
primitive stock with his father" [see MCLENNAN, p. 84].-The American
Indians profess to consider it highly criminal for a man to marry a woman
whose totem (family name) is the same as his own, and they relate
instances where young men, for a violation of this rule, have been put to
death by their own relatives [see MCLENNAN, p. 97; C. N. STARCKE,
p. 32]. The Australians are also divided into branches (murdoo), within
which marriage is forbidden.
30 408 simple and 30 double ones [see H. A. GILES, "The Family
Names," J. of N.C.B. of R.A.S., vol. XXI (1887), p. 256].
The prohibition occurs in books as early as the Tso chuan (1)
and the Lun yü ().
32 H. A. GILES, l.c., p. 256.
33 H, A. GILES, l.c., p. 265, 283.

146
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
law has also been found. During the reign of YUNG-LO
[1403-25] those families who took part in the grain
transport were called military families (chun chia), the
others being called families of the people (min chia).
Since that time the distinction between chin and min
has been maintained, and marriages between a chin and a
min family bearing the same surname are permitted,―almost
the only exception to the above-mentioned prohibition.
Amongst the Manchus, Mr. PARKER says, cousins
descended through male ancestors and having the same
surname may intermarry after the fifth generation; but I
have not been able to verify this statement.
It will thus be seen that in China, as throughout America
and Australia, the clan is exogamous, that is, marriage within
the clan is forbidden.34
2.-On Account of Affinity.
Marriage is not allowed with sisters of the wives of
ascendants or descendants, with the father's or the mother's
sister-in-law, or with the sister of the son-in-law.
35
Further, marriage is forbidden with the step-daughter
and with female relations within the fourth degree of relation-
ship, with a widow of a relative of the fourth degree, or
with the sister of the widowed daughter-in-law. Marriages
with widows of relatives of a nearer degree are considered
incestuous.
Decapitation is the punishment of marriage with the
father's or grandfather's former wives, 36 or with sisters of the
father.
31 C. N. STARCKE, Z.c., p. 44.
35 As in Canonical law, cap. 8, X, 4, 14; WALTER, Kirchenrecht, § 310.
3 Reuben lost his right of primogeniture for such incest [Gen., 35, 22].

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
147
Whoever marries his brother's widow is strangled.37 The
re-marriage of the childless widow to her deceased husband's
brother, the so-called levirate, 38 was of common occurrence
with many nations in ancient times 39 and is still in vogue in
the Caucasus.10 Among the Jews this custom existed before
Moses, but was confined to the case of the widow being
childless [Deut., 25, 7].
In China, as already mentioned, the levirate is prohibited,
but some assert that the Mohammedans in Peking practise it,
and that it also occurs in the district of Huai-an in the
province of Kiangsu. A writer in the China Review [vol. X
(1881), p. 71] asserts its practice for the provinces of Kiangsi,
Hupeh and Szechuan. I have not been able to find the
slightest trace of it, and it can never be of the same importance
with the Chinese as with other people (e.g. to keep the family
property), as posthumous adoption, the Chinese substitute for
it, fully meets the object.11
3.-On Account of other Reasons.
To marry during the legal time of mourning is prohibited
[see above, p. 7].
Marriage with concubines is, however, not punished in
this case, unless either the bride or the bridegroom is in
37 Decapitation, i.e. mutilation of the body, is a heavier punishment
than strangulation.
35 Or the dispensation from it through the ceremony of taking off the
shoe (chaliza) of the Jews [Deut., 25, 7; Ruth, 4, 7].
In India [BOHLEN, Indien, vol. II, p. 182], Persia [KLEUKER,
Zendavesta, vol. III, p. 226], the Gallas [BRUCE. R., II. p. 223], and many
other peoples [see C. N. STARCKE, lc., p. 165]. It existed amongst the
Huns and in ancient Corea [see E. H. PARKER in Transact. of As. Soc. of
Japan, vol. XVIII, part II (1890), p. 169].
40 BODENSTEDT, Die Völker des Kaukasus, p. 82.
11 G. JAMIESON [China Review, X, p. 83] says: In view of the severe
penalty for it, it is scarcely possible that the levirate can be practised in
any part of China,

148
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
mourning for a parent, or the bride for her late husband,12
even if the marriage had never been consummated. It is
considered to be a time of mourning for children or grand-
children if father or mother or grandparent is confined in
prison for a capital offence. In accordance with the principle
of Chinese marriage-i.e., that the pater familias makes the
marriage contract,-marriage is in this case permitted if the
head of the family in prison gives his assent. The usual
ceremonies and festivities are, however, to be omitted.
Marriage is forbidden with a woman who has committed
a crime and has fled for fear of punishment. In this pro-
hibition is included marriage between an adulteress and her
seducer.43
Whoever forces the wife or daughter of a free man to
marry either with himself or with a son, grandson, younger
brother, or nephew, i.e., with a filius familias, is to be
strangled.
According to Roman law marriage could not be concluded
between persons who stood to each other in the relation of
guardianship, as tutor and pupilla." In China these are near
relations, as only relatives or adoptive parents are able to
exercise the right of guardianship and to acquire through it
the patria potestas. A runaway female slave is not allowed
to marry, as she can be lawfully given into marriage by no
one except her master.
Popular opinion is against a widow (kua-ju)
marrying again. The Liki [LEGGE, vol. I, p. 439] says:-
"Once mated with her husband, all her life she will not
The same as in Roman law, according to which widows and their new
husbands were punished if remarried before the end of the time of
mourning [1. 1, 11-13, pr. D. de his qui not. inf., 3, 2.-Const. 2, C. 5, 9].
Also prohibited by Roman law [1. 26, D. de ritu nuptiarum, 23, 2.-
1. 13, D. de his quæ not. inf., 34, 9.-1. 29, § 1, D. ad legem Jul. de adult,
48, 5.-Nov. 134, si quis autem, c. 12]; also by Attic law [1. 11, § 11, D. ad leg.
Jul. de adult., 48, 5], and by the Jews [MAYER, l.c., vol. II, p. 320].
"1. 66, D. de ritu nupt., 23, 2.-C. 5, 6.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
149
change, and hence, when the husband dies, she will not
marry again." If after the death of her husband she remains
under the power of her husband's father or brother, whose
power over her is, however, of the slightest, she will be
prevented by them from tying a new matrimonial knot.
There are even cases in which a widow instead of remaining
in the family of her former husband successfully repudiates
any connexion with it and disregards its wishes. The proverb
expresses the popular mind in this respect: if heaven wants
to rain or your mother to marry again, nothing can prevent
them (天要下娘要嫁無法可制 tien yao hsia niang yao
chia wu fa k'o chih). It is, however, not considered decent
for a widow to marry again, and one who refuses all offers in
this respect (or who does not want to add another fiddle-
string
mei hsin hsu hsien) may receive for her
faithfulness an imperial reward in the form of a gateway
(or p'ai-fang or p'ai-lou), which is erected in the
place where she lives. After the bestowal of such reward
she is not allowed to change her mind. 15 Should the
head of the family try to force her into a new marriage,
she is not obliged to obey. If she commits suicide-the
common expedient of the unprotected female in China-
the head of the family is punished. If, however, the marriage
be concluded, she shall live with her new husband, the
marriage presents, or rather the purchase-money paid for her,
being forfeited.
It is a rule that, in order to secure greater impartiality,
officials cannot hold office in their native province. For
the same reason they are not allowed to marry a woman
45 It was considered decent, according to the national feeling of the
Romans, that a widow should remain single, univira meant the same as
castissima. Such a one was highly esteemed and received the wreath of
chastity [Val. Max., II, c. 1; Prop., IV, eleg. 12; Puchta, Inst. III, p. 177].-
The Jews, on the contrary, were much in favour of a second marriage of
young widows [MAYER, l.c., vol. I, p. 322].

150
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
under their jurisdiction, or out of a family that has an
interest in the performance of their official duty. An official
who is related to one of the parties is not even allowed to
sit as judge.46
On account of inequality of rank, marriages between
officials and actresses or singing girls are not allowed.
Such marriages are also forbidden to the sons or grandsons
of nobles with hereditary rank (disparagium, mésalliance),
the punishment in such cases being degradation to a lower
class of nobility and eventually loss of it.17
A widow of a man of rank may not remarry.
Buddhist priests (ho-shang) and nuns (Eni-
ku), and those Taoist priests (tao-jen) and nuns (
tao-ku) who do not shave their heads, but bind the hair
in a net or head-band (wang-chin 18), are not allowed
A similar thought prohibited in Rome marriage between a preses
provinciæ and a woman of his province [l. 57, pr. D. de ritu nupt., 23, 2.-
Cod. Theod., 3, 11.-Cod. Just., 5, tit. 2, 7].
There are in China 9 classes of hereditary nobility: 5 (chio) and
4 (y). The 5 chio are: kung duke, hou marquis, Fürst
(often called marquis), 1 po count or earl, tzu baron, nan
baronet. When the nobility conferred is not "hereditary in perpetuity"
(shih hsi wang t'i), each descendant takes one rank lower
than his father; so that the son of a kung becomes hou, the son of a hou
becomes po, and so forth, nobility ceasing altogether with the son of
a tzu. The 4 yü are military nobility.
In Corea the nobility is divided into four political parties (ssu
se, Cor. sa säk). These were formerly called Apei jen, Cor. puk in
(northerners), nan jen, Cor. namin (southerners), tung jen,
Cor. tongin (easterners), hsi jen, Cor. sie-in (westerners). After
splitting into factions they are now called (1) lao-lun, Cor. noron,
the most powerful party, a branch of the former sie-in, (2)
namin, the largest, which has completely absorbed the tongin,
(3) 小論 sioron, the inconsiderable remaining portion of the 西人
sie-in, which at present has joined the noron, (4)
siopuk, the
only remaining branch of the pukin and in league with the namin.
The members of each party do not intermarry with those of another.
The old Chinese fashion, still in use in Corea [called mang-ken].

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
151
to marry. Only Taoist priests (tao-shih, or FI
men-chu) who shave their head and plait their hair like
other Chinese, in fact lay brothers, may marry.
A priest who obtains a woman under the pretence that
she shall marry another, and who then marries her himself,
is severely punished.
Marriage is impossible between male slaves and free
women.19
Any impediment to marriage renders the marriage
already concluded null and void; 50 the impedimenta are
always dirimentia. Ignorance of them exempts the parties
from punishment, but the marriage is dissolved. In accord-
ance with the sense of the marriage contract the parties who
signed it are punished if the marriage laws are transgressed,
the go-between only if he was aware of the illegality; but
husband and wife are not punished unless they are sui
juris. If the father, grandfather, or uncle signed the
contract, they alone are punished; if it was another relation,
he is punished as principal, and husband and wife as
accomplices. The purchase-money is in each case forfeited,
except when the parties were ignorant of the existence of
of the impediment.
A dispensation in cases of impediments to marriage is
not admissible.51
In China difference of religion has no influence upou
marriage.
According to the laws of the Lombards, parents had the right o
killing or selling their daughters, if they married one in socage [MAYER,
l.c., vol. II, p. 301]; in earlier times marriage between a free woman and
a slave was not sanctioned, and the slave was put to death if he took
the free woman by force [GRIMM, p. 324. See C. N. STARCKE, L.e., p. 106].
50 As in the time of JUSTINIAN [$12, J. de nuptiis, 1, 10; C. 5, 8]. Modern
legislation distinguishes between impedimenta juris publici which render
a marriage null and void-e.g., incest, bigamy, and adultery-and impedi-
menta juris pricati which make the marriage invalid, if only private
interests are involved.
St Also unknown to the Jews [see MAYER, Z.c., vol. II, p. 315].
20

152
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
The law says that it is forbidden to intermarry with
some of the savages; but this is not carried out in practice.
In Formosa the Chinese constantly intermarry with the
savages; that is to say, arriving singly they readily take
savage girls as wives, chiefly from the settled tribes (
shu-fan), who have adopted Chinese surnames.
3.-BETROTHAL.
A. The Contract.
The mutual promise of marriage formed with the
Romans an act of social and moral importance as a prepara-
tion for marriage. In China the parties concerned are not
the principal ones. The conclusion, however, of a justum
matrimonium has to be preceded by a contract, 53 in which
the amount of presents (arrhæ sponsalitice) and the latest
day for concluding the marriage are fixed. When made,
the contract, if in writing (li-shu), is signed by those
persons in whose patria potestas bridegroom and bride
stand; the latter never sign it, unless both have no older
relations. This last condition, and the fact of the son
holding office, being the only cases in which a filius or a
filia familias becomes sui juris. This is the chief distinction
between the Chinese and the Roman marriage.
Before the contract is signed presents are sent to the
family of the bride (na-tsai, in common parlance
Elo-ting, giving of earnest). Then cards, with the names,
birthdays, etc. inscribed thereon, are exchanged (
32 G. JAMIESON, China Review, X, p. 88.
t'ung-
63 Known by the Romans [1. 2, D. de sponsalibus, 23, 1] and by the old
German law [EICHHORN, Rechtsgeschichte, §54, $188, §321].

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
153
keng, spoken of as wên-ming, asking of names).
When the parties are satisfied with all this, agreement is
expressed by sending proof (na-chéng, commonly
called
wên-ting, settling the language), when the
contract (li-shu) is exchanged.
Thus the animus matrimonii, the intention of husband
and wife to form a connexion for life, can, with the above-
mentioned exceptions, have no place in China. In Rome
the assent of the pater familias was required, but could only
be refused for special reasons; husband and wife, however,
were allowed free choice. Among the Chinese the heads
of the families alone choose, and the inclination of the
principal parties is never consulted.
If the son is absent from home, or if by mere chance
a love match does happen, the assent of the parents has to
be obtained: chu ch'i ju ho? pi
ku fu mu (how do we proceed in taking a wife? announce-
ment must first be made to our parents).54 [Shiking, I,
VIII, Ode VI, 3.]
The preliminary negotiations are carried on by go-
betweens (媒 mei-jen, 媒媾 mei-kou, 中人 clung-jen
and mei-p'o), who, mostly women, form an important
part in the whole transaction. Male and female, says the
Liki [vol. I, p. 78, LEGGE], without the intervention of the
matchmaker, do not know each other's name. Although
the proverb asserts that nine out of ten go-betweens are
swindlers (shih mei chiu k'uang), still as without
clouds in the sky it cannot rain, so without go-betweens a
match can never be made (天上無雲不下雨,地下無
51 Emperor SHUN married without thus informing his parents, fearing
they might prevent him from doing so [Mengtzu, IV, XXVI, 2. LEGGE,
II, p. 189]. He considered that obtaining posterity was the higher
duty.

154
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
tien shang wu yün pu hsia yü, ti hsia wu mei
pu ch'eng ch'in).55
Before the signature of the contract by the heads of
the families, both parties convince themselves of the truth
of the statements regarding the persons of the bride and
the bridegroom, that they are sound in body and mind, and
that they are not older than stated. The festivities of the
betrothal then commence. As lies in the nature of the case,
the age of the betrothed parties-except that it be too
great is of no consequence.56 It often happens that a
betrothal is entered upon by friendly families at a time when
bride and bridegroom are not over three or four years of
age. The betrothal of unborn children is forbidden.
B. Effects of Betrothal.
The contract of betrothal gives both parties a right
to sue for the conclusion of marriage.57 The party who
refuses to keep the contract is punished with fifty blows,
and the court enforces the marriage. Where the contract
35 Other proverbs are:
ch' ch'i ju ho,
fei mei pu tê, how is it taking a wife? without go-between it cannot be
done [Shiking, I, VIII, Ode VI, 3-4. Compare Liki, I, 78, LEGGE, II,
p. 297]. Or
ch'i pi tung mei, marriage must be negotiated
through a go-between.
The Jews also use go-betweens (shadchân), the Greeks had female go-
betweens popptat; in Rome a nuptiarum conciliator was similarly
employed, who, if present at the marriage, was called auspex nuptiarum.
Compare the Roman law [2. 14, D. de spons., 23, 1]: in sponsalibus
contrahendis aetas contrahentium definita non est, ut in matrimoniis-
si non sint minores quam septem annos.
57 The same according to the Canonical, but not according to the old
Roman law [1. 2, §2, D. de divers. repud., 24, 21; 1, 2, D. de spons., 23, 1; 1. 134,
D. de verb. obl., 45, 1; Const. 2, C. de inutil. stipul., 8, 39. It was not until
the time of the Christian Emperors that loss was entailed by repudiation
without proper cause [1. 5, C. de spons., 5, 1]. Compare the English breach
of promise cases.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
155
is not made in writing, the acceptance of presents is taken
as proof of the agreement.58
The betrothal may even be maintained if the family of
the bride enters into a second betrothal ; and only in case the
family of the first bridegroom waives its claim may the bride
marry the second bridegroom. The presents are in this case
to be returned.
A forcible abduction of the bride before the time fixed
for the marriage is punishable, as is also any delay on the
part of the bride's family beyond that time.60
A singular situation arises if a filius familias is betrothed
during his absence from the family, his grandfather,
father, uncle or older cousin, i.e., a person in whose potestas
he stands, having, in the meantime, chosen a bride for him,
and having signed the contract. If the son has married,
the betrothal made by the head of the family is dissolved.
Otherwise the contract made by his family takes precedence
over the one made by himself.
c.-Dissolution of the Betrothal.
If after signing the contract it appears that false state-
ments have been made by the family of the bride, then the
contract is void, the presents are returned, and the pater
familias of the bride receives eighty blows. The punishment
for a like fraud on the part of the bridegroom's family is
more severe, and the bride keeps the presents. Should the
58 In ancient times the Jews celebrated betrothal and marriage at the
same time; considerably later, in the 3rd century A.D., the betrothal
consisted in sending the bride something valuable or a document, declaring
at the same time that he took her to be his wife. By this she became so far
his wife that any breach on her part was punished with death.
59 The Roman law punished this with infamy [1. 1, 1. 13, D. de his qui
not. inf., 3, 2; Const. 18, C. ad legem Jul. de adult., 9, 9].
Go Roman law allowed an action for delay of marriage where without
sufficient reason the delay extended over two or three years [Const. 16, C. de
epise, aud., 1, 4; Const. 2, 5, C. de sponsal., 5, 1; Const. 2, C. de reprod., 5, 17].

156
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
fraud be discovered after the marriage, an action for divorce
can be entered.
If the betrothal be dissolved before marriage, either
through the death of bride or bridegroom, or through
withdrawal of both parties (repudium voluntarium), or
through a delay on the part of the bridegroom's family for
over five years, or through an impediment to marriage
just arisen or only just discovered, then the presents
have to be returned. If the marriage be not concluded,
through the repudium of one party, the party innocent of the
dissolution of the betrothal gets back or keeps the presents.
The fact of bride or bridegroom having been punished
for theft or fornication gives a right to the other party to
cancel the contract.
4. CONCLUSION OF MARRIAGE.
"The ceremony of marriage," says the Liki [LEGGE,
vol. II, p. 428], "was intended to be a bond between two
[families of different] surnames, with a view, in its retro-
spective character, to secure the services in the ancestral
temple, and, in its prospective character, to secure the con-
tinuance of the family line. Therefore the superior man
set great value on it. Hence, in regard to the various
[introductory] ceremonies, the proposal with its accom-
panying gift [always a goose ]; the inquiries about the
[lady's] name; the intimation of the approving divination;
the receiving the special offerings; and the request to fix the
day; these all were received by the principal party, as he
rested on his mat or leaning-stool in the ancestral temple."
When the parties desire to conclude the marriage,
presents of silks (na-pi, spoken of asta-li, the

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
157
great ceremony) are sent to the father of the bride, and a
further document (li-shu, like the first one, also called
hun-shu, the horoscopes of the betrothed couple)
passes.61 This is the marriage contract stipulating the sum
for the bride, which sometimes amounts to thousands of
taels. The marriage is therefore preceded by a purchase,
which is no mere sham transaction like the Roman coëmtio,
but corresponds to the purchase of the ancient German
laws and to that of the Jewish law. 62 By accepting
the purchase-money, the father 63 of the bride sells and
manumits his daughter to the bridegroom's family, to which
she henceforth belongs. Then a date is fixed (ching-
chi, commonly called Hsung-jih, sending the day), and on
that day the presents, together with her furniture, boxes of
clothing, eatables, etc., are paraded through the streets to
the bridegroom's house, and the bride herself is brought in a
closed red chair with music to her new home, where she is
personally welcomed (ch'in-ying). The bride and bride-
groom then kneel together before the ancestral shrine (
pai-t'ang, pai-tien-ti, to worship heaven and earth)
of the latter's family. They next drink together the nuptial
cup (chin)-usually two cups tied together by a red string 65
-and the marriage ceremony terminates (ch'eng-li).
61 The Jewish kethubah papń Tobias 7, 14) and the Roman
conscriptio, contained the obligations undertaken by the husband. The
Roman contract itself was called pactio nuptialis, γαμικαὶ συγγραφαί, the
document itself tabule nuptiales.
62 See MAYER, l.c., II, p. 353.
63 The Talmud says: The matrimonial purchase-money belongs to the
father [MAYER, l.c., II, p. 326].
The conclusion of the Jewish marriage consists in the bride being led
by the bridegroom into the nuptial chamber or being received into the
bridegroom's house. The latter ceremony is to-day represented by the
chuppah or canopy, under which betrothal and marriage are celebrated at
the same time [ride M. SACHS, Gebetbuch der Israeliten (Breslau, 1892),
p. 466].
65 According to the Liki [LEGGE, vol. II. p. 429] two halves of a
melon-This bridal drink [Brauttrunk] was also known to the Germans
[v. WEINHOLD, Die deutschen Frauen im Mittelalter, pp. 225, 264].

158
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
The wife leaves her family for ever (ch'u chia) 66 and
belongs to the family of the husband, 67 i.e., she considers the
parents of her husband as her own, and mourns for them
legally a longer time (three years) than for her parents (one
year).68
69
In China, then, the church has nothing to do with
marriage; neither are the usual ceremonies and festivi-
ties absolutely necessary for the conclusion of a justum
matrimonium, as long as the consensus matrimonialis exists
between those persons who sign the marriage contract. In
fact when the bride has been brought up in the family of her
future husband, as sometimes happens, the red chair and the
parading of presents through the streets become useless. 70
But, like the Jews, the Chinese invite guests, relations, and
friends," who keep up the festivities for three days. During
these three days the bride is accompanied by bridesmaids
(ta-chin), who constantly attend on her. A peculiar
custom is the so-called brawl-room (nao-fang). During
the first three nights the newly married couple are con-
stantly disturbed by practical jokes executed by relations (in
some provinces even by complete strangers), everybody trying
The same expression is used for a man who becomes a priest or a
maiden who joins a nunnery.
The Chinese custom requires a man to cleave to his father and mother
and to compel his wife to do the same. Christianity by requiring a man to
leave his father and mother and to cleave to his wife [Matth., 19, 5; Gal.,
4, 22-28; Eph. 5, 31] has not expressed the popular sentiment and is not in
accordance with Roman and modern law precepts. The beautiful words
addressed by Ruth, the Moabite, to her Jewish mother-in-law Naomi
(Ruth, 1, 16. Comp. 2 Sam., 15, 21] are often quoted in marriage sermons,
but only mean that Ruth, the ancestress of the house of David, joins the
Jewish faith.
According to the Jewish law, the family of the mother is not called
family [MAYER, 1.c., II, 283].
See later on, under "Adoption."
70 See SMITH, Chinese Characteristics, p. 116.
Thus giving due importance and sufficient publicity to the ceremony
[Liki, 1, p. 78 (LEGGE)].

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
159
to obtain clothes or other objects of necessity or value from
the bridal chamber, which the bridegroom has to redeem on
the following day with wine, cake, etc.
Marriage, therefore, as we have seen, is concluded in
China by the will of the parties concerned being expressed
in a public manner. So it was according to Roman law 72
and, closely following it, the Canonical law,73 until the
Concilium Tridentinum (1545-63) introduced a formal act
and made marriage a religious institution. This led to
the doctrine of the indissolubility of the marriage bond,
and the church arrogated to itself the exclusive right to
decide in matrimonial cases. From that time began the
differences between state and church which are only now on
the point of being settled.
In the ordinary course of events the Chinese wife brings
no dowry (Echia-chuang, chuang-lien) to her
husband. Still she may inherit, or she may be sui juris and
possess money, land, or houses. In this case she can have
her rights protected in the marriage contract.74
Whilst the acquisition of a wife is called marriage (*
ch'ü-ch'i, ch'eng-ch'in, ch'eng-hun), the ceremonies
of which have a sacramental character, the expressions for the
acquisition of a concubine (li or mai or chih
ch'ieh) point to the inferiority of the action. The union is
concluded without music and without the red chair.75 The
punishment for transgressions against the marriage laws in
21. 22, C. de nuptiis, 5, 4.
73 Cap. I-X, de spons. et matr., 4, 1.
71 Compare the special dowry contract of the Romans, pacta dotalitia
(the document itself being called dotis tabule). The Jews also mentioned
the dowry (nedunya. Compare Ezech., 16, 33) in the kethuba; the dowry,
whether consisting of movable or immovable goods, but in most cases
comprising female slaves, was called sson barzel (pecus ferreum).
The same with the Jews: wives with nuptials and with marriage
contract, concubines (pilegesh) without either; the same with the Greek
; different, however, with the Roman pellex [1. 144, D. de verb.
signif., 50, 16; Nov., 18, c. 5].
21

160
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
the case of a concubine are less severe than in the case of
a wife.
is
Marriage is called hun-yin; to marry a husband
chia-fu for wife and concubine alike (
nan hun nu chia, the man marries, the wife takes a husband).
[Compare the Italian casare].
5.-RELATION OF HUSBAND AND WIFE TO EACH OTHER.
Through the marriage the wife becomes, as was the case
according to the law before Justinian, 76 not only uxor but
comes also into the manus mariti. She ceases to be sui juris,
if she ever was it, and leaves the patria potestas, if she stood
under it.77
It is in consequence of the way in which the wife comes
into the power of her husband that she acquires very few
rights with the marriage. Though she shares the rank and
honours of her husband, 78 she has no right to demand
conjugal fidelity from him," whilst she, by sinning against it,
commits a heinous crime.
It is a cause for divorce if the wife beats her husband
[a case probably as rare in China as with us, and, when it
happens, more likely to be quietly endured than brought into
court], but the husband has the right to inflict corporal
punishment on her. He is, however, punishable if by doing
this he inflicts a wound; but he escapes with a fine if he
and his wife are willing to be divorced.
See MACKELDEY, Lehrb. des röm. R., 14th ed., II, p. 266; compare Gaji
Instit., § 49, § 108 ss., 11, § 86 88.
MACKELDEY, l.c., II, p. 274, note; Gaj. Inst., III, § 14, 24.
8 As the Roman uzor shared the dignitas mariti.
"Unlike the Romans [Noc., 117, c. 9, § 5 liceat mulieri propter hanc
etiam causam matrimonium dissolvere]. In ancient times the Chinese hus-
baud's adultery was punished by castration (fu-hsing).

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
161
The wife owes the husband implicit obedience, and is
not allowed to leave the house without his permission. If
she disobeys, her husband may sell her to another as a
concubine.
The wife belongs to her husband's family even after his
death; 80 if she leaves it, either to return to her own or to
marry again, she has to leave behind her husband's estate,
including what she brought with her. But her husband may
have been the oldest member of his stock; in that case, after
his death his power is transferred to his wife, and one not
unfrequently hears of an old lady managing the family estate
with only one son assisting her, the others living in other
provinces and receiving their orders from her. After her
death the family property is divided (fên chia ch'an)
amongst the sons, who then become sui juris and register
themselves as new families or households (hu).
The wife cannot possess property of her own as long as
her husband lives; everything she possessed before entering
into the manus passes into the hands of her husband, 81 so that
even property inherited by her remains with the husband
after the marriage has been dissolved, unless it had been
otherwise stipulated in the marriage contract. Although,
therefore, the questions of dos, parapherna, pacta dotalitia,
and donatio inter virum et uxorem do not really exist in
Chinese law any more than they existed in the ancient Roman
law, still a divorced wife or a widow will always take her
jewellery and silks away with her. And it is in such that
any donatio of the husband is invested.
so Similar to the Roman law [1. 22, § 1, D. ad municip. et de incol., 50, 1:
vidua mulier amissi mariti domicilium retinet].
81 See MACKELDEY, l.c., vol. II, p. 275; Gaj. Inst., II, § 86, III, § 82;
Ulp., XIX, § 18.
Gaj. Inst., II. § 98: si quam in manum ut uxorem reciperimus, ejus
res ad nos transeunt.

162
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
The husband is not liable for debts contracted by his
wife before marriage, unless she was sui juris and had no
family when he married her.
If the husband changes his residence, the wife is obliged
to follow him if he wishes it.83 Poor people change their
domicilium only to emigrate to another province; people of
the better classes generally leave their first wife at home, to
educate the children and to look after the family property,
and take a concubine at the new place. The emigration of
females to foreign parts is prohibited.
With all his power the husband is not allowed to hire
out his wife to prostitution, although it does occur that a
man whose wife has not borne a son, and does not allow him to
purchase a concubine, hires for a time the wife of another to
get a son by her. This is unlawful and not considered
decent.85 But it is lawful for a man to enter into a contract
with a widow and hire her for a certain number of years,
until he gets a son by her. In this case the woman need not
leave her former husband's family.
6.-DISSOLUTION OF MARRIAGE.
Marriage is naturally dissolved by the death of either
husband or wife. Another cause for the dissolution is
divorce. This may be either enforced by law or be a
voluntary act.
"The question is a disputed one with us [see DERNBURG, l.o., vol. II,
p. 10].
The same in Jewish law [Lev., 18, 20].-In Rome lenocinium facere was
punished with infamy [1. 1, 1. 4, § 2, 3, D. de his qui not. inf., 3, 2-1. 43,
§6-9, D. de ritu nuptiarum, 23, 2j.
83 The Hindu in such cases will have recourse to "nigoya," i.e., hand over
his childless wife to another man to obtain a child. See STARCKE, l.c., p. 142.
“分家 fèn chia, 分妻 fen oki, 分鴛 jen yian, which expressions
are also used for a one-sided divorce, when the husband sends his wife away,
the Greek απόπεμψις.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
163
a. A divorce must take place if there exists an impedi-
ment to marriage, or if the wife commits adultery. The
husband has in the latter case the right to kill both adulterers,
if he surprises them in flagrante delicto.87 If he does not kill
the wife, she is punished and sold as a concubine, the pur-
chase-money for her being forfeited. If the adulterer kills
the husband, the wife is strangled.88
b. A divorce may take place-
1. If both husband and wife are willing to dissolve
marriage (owing, e.g., to incompatibility of
temper).
2. If the wife leaves the house against the will of
the husband; 89 should she marry whilst absent,
she is strangled.
3. If the wife beats her husband.
4. If the marriage contract contained false state-
ments.
5. If the wife has one of the following seven faults:
barrenness, sensuality, want of filial piety to-
wards the husband's parents, loquacity, thievish-
ness, jealousy and distrust, or an incurable
disease.
The husband, however, is obliged to keep her in spite of
one or several of the above-mentioned faults if she has kept
the full term of mourning for three years after the death of
67 Comp. Lev., 20, 10. The husband who kills both and thus maintains
the purity of the family is invariably rewarded by the local official and
praised by the people. A correspondent from Tsing-kiang-p'u describes
such a case in the North-China Daily News of 19th Nov. 1894, and, evidently
dissatisfied with the morality of the transaction, adds: "the most deplorable
feature of the case is the fact of the official's letting the murderer go scot
free, and public opinion justifying him fully in winking at such brutality."
88 Compare 1. 43, § 12, 13, D. de ritu nuptiarum, 23, 2.
59 On account of the suspicion of adultery; the Canon law required more
than mere suspicion, e.g., cap. 12 X, de præsumptionibus: witnesses who
solum cum sola, nudum cum nuda in eodem lecto jacentem ea ut credebant
intentione, ut eam cognosceret carnaliter, viderunt.

164
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
his parents; or if his family, having been poor at the time of
the marriage, have since become wealthy; and, lastly, if the
wife has no other relations to whom she may return after
the divorce.
When the divorced wife leaves the house, the husband
may give her a bill of divorce (hsiu shu, fên shu), a
specimen of which is printed in G. SCHLEGEL'S Woordenboek
[vol. I, p. 1053].
According to Roman law the action for divorce was a
private one, open to wife and husband alike.90 The Chinese
wife may only bring an action if she thinks her husband is
willing to give her her liberty, or if her husband has beaten
her cruelly, or if she was deceived by false statements in the
marriage contract, or if her husband was or has become a
leper.91
:
The effects of the dissolution of marriage are the
following the marriage is considered as having never been
concluded; the wife returns to her family, if the latter will
receive her, the children remaining with the father, and the
purchase-money being given back to the husband, except when
the latter was the cause of the divorce. If the family will not
receive her back, she becomes sui juris. All relationship
through the wife ceases with the divorce.92
A third way of dissolving a marriage is the official
declaration of death, if the husband has absconded and has
not been heard of for three years. The wife abandoned can
901. 2, C. de inut. stipulat., 8, 39.-1. 14, C. de nuptiis, 5, 4.
"The Canon law has made marriage indissoluble [Conc. Trid. sess., 24,
de sacramento matrimonii, cap. 7. Compare also Matth., 19, 6]. During
the so-called enlightenment of last century the facilities for divorce were
carried almost as far as in China and had to be considerably reduced. In
the United States the most frivolous rules as to divorce seem to exist, and
it appears to be granted from arbitrary motives.
The same in Roman law [1. 3, § 1, D. de postulando, 3, 1.-J. de
nuptiis, 1, 10].-The Canon law is of course different.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
165
then demand such a declaration, especially if the family of
her husband will not or cannot pay for her maintenance.
The time within which, after dissolution of marriage, a
legitimate child can be born is fixed by Roman law at from
182 to 300 days, or 10 months, by modern legislation at from
210 to 302 days. In China a pregnant wife is rarely or never
divorced, but after she has left the house of her husband for
good the child she bears cannot be claimed by him.
7. BIGAMY (shuang shih).
As before mentioned, the wife who maliciously leaves
her husband and marries another during the lifetime of her
first husband is strangled.
If the husband, in the lifetime of his first wife (chi),
marries another (ch'i, not a concubine ch'ieh; he is
allowed to have as many of the latter as he likes), the
marriage is null and void; the wife returns to her family,
and her father keeps the purchase-money, unless he knew
of the existence of the first wife. In this case the money is
forfeited.
A man who does double sacra is excepted (L
i tzu shuang t'iao); his marriage with a second wife (chi)
is not considered bigamous.
S. POLYGAMY AND POLYANDRY.
In ancient times we find no people strictly monogamous.
Polygamy was universally practised, generally without dis-
tinction between the wives, but sometimes a kind of
monogamy existed side by side with permitted polygamy,
i.e., one wife and several concubines. In this case the latter

166
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
were slaves and subjected to the wife. 93 Sensuality did not
always lead to it, frequently the barrenness of the wife and
the tendency to strengthen the family influence by having
many sons was the guiding motive. Amongst the Jews it
was an ancient custom which the Mosaic legislation neither
cancelled nor sanctioned, expecting that time only could
effect a change in a custom of such antiquity. In the Old
Testament [Deut., 21, 15] it is rarely mentioned :-
Abraham took Hagar as a concubine and divorced her when
his wife bore a son.94 But he had other concubines beside
Hagar [Gen., 25, 6]. Jacob had two wives, Leah and Rachel,
and besides two concubines, Bilha and Silpa, whose sous
were all legitimate. Esau had many wives. King Solomon's
polygamy, which probably sprung from his love of splendour,
is severely censured [1 K., 11, 1. Comp. Matth., 18, 25;
Luke, 1, 5]. In the 11th century polygamy was finally
abolished, at least for the Jews in Europe, by R. GERSCHOM,
of Worms, in consultation with several other authorities.
In China the case stands similarly. If the first wife is.
barren, a concubine is purchased, but almost always with
the consent of the wife. Filial piety demands that the
family be continued, so that there be worship at the ancestral
graves.96
The concubines stand under the authority of
the wife, their children regard her as their mother, for
whose death they go into mourning for three years. It
is self-evident that this is only an external form and that a
child will always love its own mother. The statement of
See C. N. STARCKE, 1.c., p. 261.
Ishmael was his legitimate son, and that Abraham, instigated by
Sarah's jealousy, sent him away too, was wrong.
In Talmudic times the concubine (pilegesch) was a legitimate wife,
but without the contract (hethuba), given only to the first wife.
Mengtzu, IV, XXVI, 1 [LEGGE, II. p. 189]:-
pu hsiao yu san wu how wei ta (having no descendants is the greatest
of the three undutiful acts).

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
167
T. UNGER, in his book on marriage," that the children of a
concubine treat their mother with contempt, is based on
some misunderstanding.
Amongst the lower classes in China polygamy is not
the rule. In the better classes the first wife is frequently
but slightly younger than her husband, and fades, in conse-
quence of nursing her children too long-sometimes five or
even six years,-earlier than her European sister. She remains
at home to look after the children and the property, whilst
her husband-official or merchant--is often absent for years.
It is then that a concubine is taken, though rarely as long
as the first wife is young.
Polygamy has been called the "fruitful source of so
much anguish and death by suicide." This is a sweeping
statement. Most cases of polygamy occur in well-to-do
families, whose means permit to them the maintenance of
separate establishments for each wife, and the family life is
not always disturbed.98
Though undoubtedly a great evil, polygamy is so deeply
rooted that reform cannot readily be effected. Even Chris-
tianity has no direct prohibition against it, and Bishop
COLENSO was of opinion that a convert with a plurality of
wives was not required to put any of them away."
100
In Corea, where practically the same family laws
are in force as in China, the children of concubines do
"Die Ehe in ihrer welthistorischen Entwickelung, quoted by C. N. STARCKE,
l.c., p. 158.
58 Although a proverb says: 一婥美妾嬌非閨房之福 pi mei
chick chiao fei kuei fang chih fu (beautiful maids and lovely concubines
are not a blessing of the ladies' apartments); or
ch'ü ch'i ch'ü tê ch'ü ch'ich chi sê (we marry a wife for her virtue, a
concubine for her beauty).
Only a bishop was required to be the husband of one wife [1 Tim. 3,
2 ; Τit. 1, 6, 7 : μίας γυναικὸς ἀνήρ.
100 Letter to the Archbishop of Canterbury: Cambridge, 1862.
22

168
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
not inherit the noble rank of their father (they are called
ilmiöng).
Polyandry, which has to be treated in this chapter, is
in China proper found exclusively in the prefectural city
of Ting-chou (TF), in the province of Fukien, whose
inhabitants speak the Hakka dialect. This polyandry of
Fukien, carried by emigrants to Formosa, is of local origin,
being caused by the extreme poverty of the above-mentioned
district, in which, again, only the very poorest practise it.
Here the brothers, who are the husbands of one wife, live
with her alternately for some period. In the same place
child murder is of common occurrence, so that infanticide
and polyandry seem both to spring from poverty. MCLENNAN
asserts that infanticide took its rise from the nomadic life
of the primitive hordes, and that polyandry was the natural
consequence of it, because women were scarce [Studies,
p. 131, 134]. This was certainly not the cause of the
Fukienese polyandry.101
9.-SECOND NUPTIALS (kou) AND VIOLATION
OF THE TIME OF MOURNING.
After the death of the first wife, remarriage by the hus-
band is permitted without any delay. The requirements of
the household may often render it absolutely necessary.
The widow, however, against whose remarriage custom is
101 Polyandry is practised in Tibet, Kunawar, and among the Todas
[C. N. STARCKE, 1.c., p. 163]; it is described as follows:-Should there be
more brothers, and they agree to the arrangement, the juniors become
inferior husbands to the wife of the elder; all the children, however, are
considered as belonging to the head of the family [see MOORCROFT &
TREBEK, Travels, I, p. 321. C. N. STARCKE, p. 134].-C. R. MARKHAM
[Narrative of the Mission of George Bogle to Tibet (London, 1876), p. 336]
quotes HORACE DELLA PENNA [1730] as an authority for saying that the
wife attributes the offspring to him by whom she says she was with child.

FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
169
ed, has to mourn three years for her husband,
e is not allowed to marry."
102
of a man of rank is not allowed to marry
nd has left his wife, she may claim a divorce,
ssion to marry again, but she has to wait
s if the husband were dead.
custom exists in some parts of China, e.g.,
arriage between a widow and a widower,
advanced age, is concluded with the under-
he widow belongs spiritually to her former
en she dies her body is claimed by his family
h him.
widow is called ch' hou hun, to
band
kai chia, or fan t'ou
田丈外號孟嘗君即齊田嬰之子曾相齊
-ON PATRIA POTESTAS.
1. GENERAL REMARKS.
ule according to the Roman law of the
ian, all persons who depend on a pater
ndfather, father, uncle, mother, or husband,
nder patria potestas. Such persons are
e wives of the pater familias or his sons
of mourning ended after 10 months, the breach of
1. 1, C. 11, §1, and §3, D. de his qui not. inf., 3, 2.
nse of cap. 5, X, de secundis nuptiis, 4, 21, is slightly

田
168
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
not inherit the noble rank of their father (they are
ilmiöng).
Polyandry, which has to be treated in this chapt
in China proper found exclusively in the prefectural
of Ting-chou (f), in the province of Fukien, w
inhabitants speak the Hakka dialect.
This polyandry
Fukien, carried by emigrants to Formosa, is of local orig
being caused by the extreme poverty of the above-mention
district, in which, again, only the very poorest practise i
Here the brothers, who are the husbands of one wife, live
with her alternately for some period. In the same place
child murder is of common occurrence, so that infanticide
and polyandry seem both to spring from poverty. MCLENNAN
asserts that infanticide took its rise from the nomadic life
of the primitive hordes, and that polyandry was the natural
consequence of it, because women were scarce [Studies,
p. 131, 134]. This was certainly not the cause of the
Fukienese polyandry.101
9.-SECOND NUPTIALS (ou) AND VIOLATION
OF THE TIME OF MOURNING.
After the death of the first wife, remarriage by the hus-
band is permitted without any delay. The requirements of
the household may often render it absolutely necessary.
The widow, however, against whose remarriage custom is
101 Polyandry is practised in Tibet, Kunawar, and among the Todas
[C. N. STARCKE, 1.c., p. 163]; it is described as follows:-Should there be
more brothers, and they agree to the arrangement, the juniors become
inferior husbands to the wife of the elder; all the children, however, are
considered as belonging to the head of the family [see MOORCROFT &
TREBEK, Travels, I. p. 321. C. N. STARCKE, p. 134].-C. R. MARKHAM
[Narrative of the Mission of George Bogle to Tibet (London, 1876), p. 336]
quotes HORACE DELLA PENNA [1780] as an authority for saying that the
wife attributes the offspring to him by whom she says she was with child.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
169
generally opposed, has to mourn three years for her husband,
in which time she is not allowed to marry.102
The widow of a man of rank is not allowed to marry
again.
If the husband has left his wife, she may claim a divorce,
or rather permission to marry again, but she has to wait
for three years, as if the husband were dead.
A peculiar custom exists in some parts of China, e.g.,
at Ningpo a marriage between a widow and a widower,
usually both of advanced age, is concluded with the under-
standing that the widow belongs spiritually to her former
husband, i.e., when she dies her body is claimed by his family
and is buried with him.
To marry a widow is called ch' hou hun, to
take a second husband
kai chia, or fan t'ou
chia.
B.-ON PATRIA POTESTAS.
1.-GENERAL REMARKS.
As was the rule according to the Roman law of the
time before Justinian, all persons who depend on a pater
familias, either grandfather, father, uncle, mother, or husband,
stand in China under patria potestas. Such persons are
therefore either the wives of the pater familias or his sons
102 The Roman term of mourning ended after 10 months, the breach of
which was punished [7. 1, C. 11, §1, and §3, D. de his qui not. inf., 3, 2.
Nov., 22, c. 22]. The sense of cap. 5, X, de secundis nuptiis, 4, 21, is slightly
different,

170
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
and daughters or more distant descendants on the male line,
or slaves. The patria potestas is the same as the domini
potestas, the power of the master over his slaves, according
to the ancient Roman law.
The children of a pater familias are either legitimate
or illegitimate.
If a man has got a girl with child, he must marry her;
if he has a wife already, he must take her as a concubine.
But in any case, even if he is prevented by death from
marrying her, the child is considered his legitimate offspring.
The master may dispose of the children of his slaves in
marriage (chu hun), but has to obtain the consent
of the child's parents if he wants to dispose of them in any
other way.
Illegitimate children whose father is known but who
are not made legitimate per subsequens matrimonium or
adoption (ssu tzu), and children of prostitutes (tsa
chung, mixed seed, vulgo quesiti), 103 stand under the power
of the mother, whose family name they bear.
Where many individuals of the same surname live close
together a clan (tsu or ts'u) is formed with a patriarchal
constitution, which consists of individuals, not of families.
The oldest and most respected of the fellow-clansmen (
ts'u jen) is elected elder of the clan (
ts'u lin,
tsu chang, ts'u lao, ts'u hsiung). By him the
genealogical register of the clan (ts'u p'u) is kept,
and the ancestral temple of the clan is under his management.
If the clan is poor, the elder determines the contributions
for the spring and autumn festivals to be paid by each house-
hold, and divides the sacrificial meat (tsu jou) amongst
them. But frequently there is clan property (ts'u
t'ien), left by a wealthy clansman. In that case the different
10 Compare the Jewish mamzer, spurius, nothus, the child of adultery
or incest [Deut., 23, 3; Sach., 13, 6, bastard].

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
171
households have nothing to pay, and any surplus is divided
amongst them. Sometimes there exist endowments for a
clan school, and from them candidates of the clan who are
successful at the public examinations receive handsome
rewards.
Where a clan has thus been organised the greater part
of the father's power passes into the hands of the clan
elder. Meetings of the clan are frequently held, in which
clan affairs, family questions, business matters, politics,
etc., are freely discussed. Members of the clan who mis-
behave themselves are punished, a common punishment being
to debar a man from joining in the ancestral worship and
from sharing the sacrificial meat for the space of one year
(ting tsu i nien). A more serious punishment
is to be turned out of the clan altogether (ch'u tsu);
but on those who continually disgrace the clan by crimes,
capital sentence is passed and carried out by drowning
(Eyen ssu) or by burying alive (huo mai).
The officials hardly ever interfere with clan decisions,
but out of this imperium in imperio sprung during the Ts'in
dynasty [ch'in, 255-202 B.C.] a law called
i san ts'u, by which the whole clan was made responsible
for the crime of a single clansman. This law, to all
appearances cruel and brutal, is after all but a natural
consequence of the unity of the clan, claimed whenever it is
advantageous to the clan interests. In modern times it is
only applied in cases of rebellion, high treason, and similar
crimes.
2. ON THE RIGHTS OF BOTH PARENTS WITH REGARD
TO THEIR CHILDREN.
The patria potestas over children, whether legitimate or
adopted, is unlimited, The father (or after his death the

172
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
mother) 101 can do with them as he likes; he may not only
chastise, but even sell, expose, or kill them.105 The latter
occurs often enough, especially with girls, if the family is
too poor to bring them up. Infanticide is not prohibited,
but whenever it spreads too far (especially in the province
of Fukien) 106 the officials issue proclamations against it.
Moreover, it is generally considered blameable, and the
voice of the people is raised against persons who carry the
abuse of the father's power thus far.107
The power of the father over his son does not cease as
long as the father lives, unless the son enters the government
service, 108 when the father, desiring to exercise his rights
over him, has first to obtain the consent of the Emperor.109
Over the daughter the father's power exists until she comes
into the manus of a husband.110 If her marriage is dissolved,
she
may return into the power of her father; as a widow,
however, she remains in the family of her former husband.
The duty of the parents is expressed in the proverb
兒成雙女成對一生大事已完 erh chééng shuang ni
ch'eng tui i shêng ta shih i wan (when sons are paired and
daughters mated the principal business of life is accomplished).
104 Therefore not like Gaj. Inst., I, § 104.-§ 10, J. de adopt., 1, 11:
feminæ nec naturales liberos in sua potestate habent; but the same as
the law of the Visigoths, MAYER, 1.c., II, p. 416.
10 The same power was given the father by the Romans [§ 2, J., 1,9;
Gaj., Inst., 1, §55], by the Gauls [CESAR, de bello Gall., VI, 19], and
by the Visigoths [lex Wisig., IV, 2, § 13], MAYER, 1.c., II, p. 416.
10 Infanticide was not wholly suppressed in Guzerat [see SCHLAGINT-
WEIT, Reisen in Indien, etc. (Jena, 1869), I, p. 60].
10: CH. PITON, L'Infanticide en Chine, Bâle, 1887.
108 In publicis locis atque muneribus atque actionibus patrum jura cum
filiorum qui in magistratu sunt potestatibus collata interquiescere paululum
et connivere, etc. AULUS GELLIUS, Noctes, II, 2. See GIBBON, Rome,
chap. XLV (ed. 1815), vol. 8, p. 54.
10 The same according to the ancient German law [MAYER, 1.c., II,
p. 443].
110 As in Jewish law [MAYER, 1.c., II, p. 440].

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
173
and
3.-ON THE RIGHTS OF THE HUSBAND WITH REGARD
TO HIS WIFE.
The wife follows her husband wherever he likes to go,
may not leave the house against his will. The husband
has the right to chastise her, but not to inflict a wound
[see above, "Causes for Divorce"]. He has not the right
to kill her, except where he surprises her in flagrante
delicto.
He cannot, without sufficient reason, degrade his wife
to the rank of a concubine. He may not hire her out to
another man.
4. ON THE DUTIES OF CHILDREN TOWARDS
THEIR PARENTS.
As long as the parents are alive, it is the duty of the
children to show them reverence and obedience (hsiao
shun) and, if necessary, to nurse and support them. 111 The
son shall, if father, mother, or grandparents are over eighty
years old, or feeble and ill, remain at home, 112 unless another
son over sixteen years old lives with them. Officials
especially are bound by this command, but should anyone
use this as a pretence in order to quit his post, he is severely
punished.
Filial Piety is called the fundamental virtue [Lunyü, I, 2. LEGGE,
I, p. 2. See also E. FABER'S Systematical Digest, and the essay
"What
is Filial Piety?" by various authors, in the Journ. of the N.C.B. of R.A.S.,
vol. XX (1886), p. 115-144. Compare the Jewish kibbud am macm, reverence
for father and mother].
112 See Lunyü, IV, 19 [LEGGE, I, p. 35].

174
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
As long as parents, grandparents, or husband are in prison
on account of a capital crime, the children, grandchildren,
and wife are not allowed to participate in festivities and
amusements of any kind. Disobedience towards parents or
neglect to supply proper support is, on the motion of the
parents concerned, severely punished 113 by the officials.
Descendants are not allowed to enter an action against
ascendants; they are not obliged to denounce crimes com-
mitted by them or to appear as witnesses against them,
except in cases of high treason, rebellion, etc.
This exemp-
tion extends to all members of the same household, even to
servants and slaves.
In fact the whole of Chinese life is theoretically based
on filial piety; 114 on it the well-being of the family is built,
and on this again society in general, and even the Empire
itself, relies.115
After the death of the parents the descendants take
their place and see that their memory is kept unsullied.116
It is their chief duty to strictly keep the term fixed for
mourning and to rigorously perform the sacrificial cere-
monies at the ancestral shrines and at the graves. The
coffin has to be buried, if at all feasible, in the native soil,
113 According to Lev., 20, 9; Deut., 21, 20-21; 27, 16; Prov., 30, 17,
even disrespect to parents was to be punished by death.
114
***wan shan hsiao wei hsien (of all the virtues filial
piety is the foremost).
115 Comp. Exod., 20, 15; Deut., 5, 16; see also PLATO, opera [ed. Didot]
vol. II, p. 327; Jalkut, I, § 830: who has parents and does not reverence
them has disgraced God.
The son is responsible for the father's debts to the amount of his
inheritance,
fu chan tzu tê fu chai tzu huan.
11 See Lunyü, II, 5 [LEGGE, I, p. 11].

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
and only then are the funeral ceremonies completed (
ch'eng lien).118
175
All ancient nations regarded it as a sacred family duty to
bury the dead with honours and to preserve their memory;
filial piety towards the departed was considered a general
duty of humanity (jen).119 On the ideas of the Greeks and
Romans, BOECKH [l.c., p. 422] says: the whole of the cult of
the dead is based on belief in the immortality of the soul,
which belongs to the highest antiquity. In the popular belief
of the Greeks the souls of the departed were reduced to
unsubstantial shadows through the Homeric conception of the
world turned to a sensual life. In contradistinction to this,
old cults were maintained, by which the dead were honoured
as heroes and blessed spirits, as by the early Italians in the
cult of the dii manes.
Belief in the immortality of the soul is very ancient,
and with it came the natural wish to let the deceased
participate in the family feasting; hence a cult of the dead
sprung up. 120
The Egyptians held a similar belief.121 Just as unci-
vilised people of our times, especially on the Dark Continent,
reverence their dead and believe in the invisible existence
11s The onerous nature of this duty may be gathered from the case of a former
Customs Taotai of Shanghai, FENG CHUN-KUANG (), who in
1878 went as far as Kansu, in the north-west of China, to fetch the coffin
of his father and to bring it overland to Canton, his native province. The
difficulty of the voyage, on which many ceremonies had to be performed,
exhausted the dutiful son to such an extent that he succumbed when only
half the voyage was completed. His brother took his place and continued
the voyage with the two coffins.
11 See BOECKH, Encycl. & Methodol, der philol. Wissenschaften, 2nd ed.
(Leipzig, 1886), p. 421.
120 H. PAUL, Grundriss der Germanischen Philologie (1891-93), vol. I,
p. 998.
23
H. BRUGSCH, Die Egyptologic (Leipzig, 1891), p. 180.

176
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
of the departed and in their influence for good or evil on the
surviving, so also with the Egpytians was the dead the
subject of special reverence. In Egypt the cult of the dead
was exaggerated. They believed in a second life, which was
assumed to be on the pattern of the temporal. They gave the
dead all sorts of things - in the beginning, perhaps, the proper
ones, later on common and worthless imitations.
Dim and hazy as was the conception of a future life with
the Greeks, Romans, and Egyptians, so is it with the Chinese.
In fact, like the Egyptians, the Chinese consider the departed
as taking the same interest in family matters as when alive,
and serve them as such.122
The religious belief of the Chinese is not very profound,
and their worship at different temples is influenced not so
much by a belief in the special efficacy of a particular idol as
by the unpoetical hope of reward for offerings-all too charily
made, a hope somewhat akin to that of a man who stakes
his money and his faith-on a number in a lottery. In
this sense they believe that the invisible spirits of the departed
are hovering round their old homes and may benefit those
who appeal to them, but might also be revenged on
those who disregard and neglect them. Filial love is the
moving spirit; habit and an indistinct fear are, however,
closely allied with it.
This cult of the dead has been called Ancestral Worship,
and stamped as idolatrous by the decennial Missionary
Conference of 1890.
Now what is this cult?
Each Chinese house contains an ancestral shrine (t'iao,
chia ssu, chia t'ang), in which the wooden tablets
of the ancestors (神牌 shén p‘ai, 神主 shén clu, 神木 shén
ти, also called chia shen) are placed, with the names,
rank, and dates of birth and decease of the various ascendants
12 See Liki [LEGGE, 11, p. 311].

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
inscribed thereon.
177
Before these incense is daily offered with
prostrations (pai), and twice a month offerings of eatables
are spread, again with prostrations. Besides this house-shrine,
each clan possesses an ancestral temple (tsung miao),
in which also tablets are placed, either of wood (shen
mu) or of stone (shen chu).123 In spring and autumn
periodical rites are performed by the clan, accompanied by
sacrifices of meat (tsu), at this temple, together with
ceremonies at the graves of the ancestors.
Ancestral Worship is called 124 pai shén chu, to
"pai" the tablet of a deceased parent or ancestor, or
pai tsu tsung, to "pai" the ancestors. pai means [GILES]
to pay one's respects to, to make obeisance, to worship, to
visit (e.g., pai k'o, to make calls). All family affairs
should be announced (ku) to the spirits [see Liki. LEGGE,
I, p. 78] and their blessing invoked (chu tsung). The
offerings (chi ssu) should be made in a sincere spirit
to all ancestors, however remote (祖宗雖遠祭祀不可不誠
tsu tsung sui yuan chi ssu ри k'o pu chiêng).
At the Ch'ing-ming festival, 125 in the spring, the ancestral
graves are visited and swept (pai fên, pai sao).12
Then meat is offered (tsu), and paper money (RA
123 For an illustration of their arrangement, see China Review, vol. IV
(1875), p. 296.
121
shen, spirits, gods, divine, supernatural, mysterious [GILES], should,
on account of the use of the word in the sense as here, never stand for God.
That this is the true and only standpoint to take the author endeavoured to
show in the China Review [vol. VI (1877), p. 273] by translating the articles on
shang-ti and shen from the great Manchu Dictionary, the highest
authority on the point, having been published with Imperial assistance. The
term shang-ti exactly corresponds to the Hebrew El eljon in Genesis,
ὁ ὕψιστος Θεός.
125
B, one of the 24 terms into which the year is divided, the 16th
of the 2nd moon, about March.
12 Greeks and Romans also honoured the memory of the dead by periodi-
cal sacrifices at the graves [BOECкH, Z.c., p. 422].-The Jews also have a
yearly visit to the grave, the so-called "Jahrzeit." Their service in memory
of the dead (hazkarat neshamot) is part of their synagogical liturgy. The
All Souls Day of the Church is the same, when supplications are made
for the souls of the faithful deceased.

178
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
chin yin chih) and different articles for the use of the departed,
also made of paper, are burnt in front of the tombs (
127
fen chien shao chih). The following is a prayer recited on
this occasion: We have come to sweep your tomb, to show
our gratitude for your protecting care, and now we beseech
you to accept our offerings and make our posterity prosperous
and happy.128
A funeral repast, at which the sacrificial meat is eaten,
concludes the ceremony."
129
This, then, is the form the so-called Ancestral Worship
takes in China. The subject in its bearing on Christian
converts was first discussed as early as the 17th century.
The Jesuits saw nothing idolatrous in this form of wor-
ship, and, perceiving the strong hold it had taken on the
Chinese mind, allowed their converts to continue its prac-
tice. Christianity was then on the point of conquering
China. Subsequently rival sects set up a cry and accused
the Jesuits of too great leniency towards heathen practices.
Pope and Emperor were appealed to. The former at last
gave a final verdict against ancestral worship, which the
Emperor resented; in consequence of this dispute the cause
of Christianity was blighted. The Roman Catholics have
ever since disallowed ancestral worship.
The Protestant missionaries have for a long time been in
doubt about this cult. Many voices had already been raised
against it, when at the last Missionary Conference (1890)
The heathen custom of burning clothes and other articles at the funeral
of the dead was permitted to the Jews, as this custom is also mentioned in
the Bible [see Sanhedrin, p. 526]; it is called "serephah" [see HAMBURGER,
Suppl., II. p. 83]. It was evidently an old Egyptian rite [see BRUGSCH,
1.c., p. 180]. One of the oldest customs of all Germanic tribes was to place
in the tomb of the dead something which had been treasured or regarded as
indispensable by him while living see H. PAUL. L... vol. I, p. 999]. Even
in this century it is customary in Sweden to place in the coffin tobacco-
pipes, knives, and even a full bottle of whisky [WEINHOLD, Altnord.
Leben, p. 493. H. PAUL, Lc.. vol. 1, p. 1600].
12 W. A. P. MARTIN, Hanlin Papers, Second Series (1894), p. 346.
See H. PAUL, l.c., vol. I, p. 998.-The idea that the dead invisibly
participate in the meal we find everywhere. Compare the Irish wakes.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
179
the question was put to the vote and it was decided "that
this Conference affirm the belief that idolatry is an essential
constituent of ancestral worship." The Conference con-
demned all idolatrous customs, all customs that recognise any
being as worthy of worship aside from the true God.
Dr. YATES, a well-known missionary, says [p. 612] that
three evils come from ancestral worship:-
1. Betrothal of children at an early age, by which
millions are made miserable for life."
Now it is well known how much our line of thought is
influenced by general custom. What appears to us as want
of freedom and even severity does not appear so to the Chinese
mind. The Chinese consider marriage as a business, in which
the erotic element need not enter at all or is perhaps con-
sidered troublesome. This was also the view taken in Europe in
former ages 130 and the betrothal of children was a common
practice. The romantic love in marriage is a thing of modern
times. But even now it is not considered a necessary
factor; equal aims and equal interests are more conducive
to a happy union than mere love.
We cannot hold ancestral worship responsible for early
betrothals.
2. "Polygamy, the fruitful source of so much anguish
and death by suicide."
Polygamy, as we have already said, is certainly an
evil, but it is still practised by the great majority of
mankind. "Anguish and death by suicide," said to be
provoked by polygamy, are, in my opinion, not of frequent
occurrence in China, because the evil is firmly established
and the Chinese woman hardly considers it as baneful.
In the majority of cases, but not in all, barrenness of the
wife and the desire to have children lead to polygamy.
Love of splendour, the wish to have a large family (and
130 PAUL, Grundriss, vol. II, 2, p. 217.

180
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
hence greater influence), and carnal considerations have
as much to do with it as ancestral worship. But before we
judge others, ought we not to inquire into our own position?
Have we realised the ideal of marriage of one man with one
woman? or have we, to use the words of a modern author,
rounded Seraglio Point, but not passed Cape Turk yet?
3. "The heavy tax in support of this worship."
The daily expenditure of 360 millions in joss-sticks
alone 13 certainly comes to a respectable total at the end of
the
year,
and the spending of so much money may be called
an utter waste, but it can hardly be called an evil, and is not
a heavy tax on the individual.
A paper by Dr. MARTIN [Record of Conf., pp. 619-631]
pleads for tolerance; Dr. H. BLODGET [ib., pp. 631-654]
condemns ancestral worship as antagonistic to Christianity;
Dr. E. FABER has given a concise and terse résumé of the
whole question [pp. 654-655].
Now religious Conferences and Councils have invariably
been failures when absolute truth was to be ascertained, and
I am afraid this last Conference was no exception to the rule.
It is more than doubtful whether idolatry is really an
essential constituent of ancestral worship. Idolatry is "the
worship of idols, images, or anything made by hands, or
which is not God" [Webster]. If the Chinese "worship"
their dead as idols, they also worship their living parents
in the same way, for the ancestral rites are but a continuation
of the filial love shown to the living. In such rites there
is no "worship" in our sense of the term, and by substituting
"cult" the baneful spell of the word is broken.
Ancestral worship is only external religion, but it has
taken deep root in the hearts of the Chinese. Only thorough
teaching can undermine it. A true convert to Christianity
131 As W. WILLIAMS [Middle Kingdom, vol. II, p. 279] has done; he
computes the yearly expenditure at one dollar per head.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
181
will soon give up the superstitions closely connected with
ancestral worship, and we have for this a good example in
the Chinese Mohammedans, who with their better creed soon
gave up the superstitious practices. The early church acted
more wisely than our modern missionaries, for old customs
which appeared dangerous to the new creed, but the sudden
prohibition of which would have been unwise, were changed
into Christian festivals. England and Germany offer many
examples of this practice [comp. BEDA, Hist. eccl., I, 30,
ed. HOLDER].
The difference between the sacrifices to God and those
offered to ancestors is well drawn in the Liki [LEGGE, vol.
I, p. 413] "In the sacrifice to God we have the utmost
expression of reverence, in the sacrifices of the ancestral
temple we have the utmost expression of humanity."
In India a somewhat similar cult of the dead existed, 13:
but as to its present state I have no authorities.
5. ACQUISITION OF PATRIA POTESTAS.
Patria potestas may be acquired (a) through marriage, (b)
through procreation, (c) through adoption, and (d) through
purchase, the last method differing in nowise from (a) and
(c). If the person who acquires patria potestas in one of
these four ways stands himself under patria potestas, then
he acquires it for his pater familias:-
(a.) By Marriage.-The wife belongs after marriage
to the family of her husband, and stands in his
manus or in the patria potestas of that person under
whose patria potestas the husband stands.
(b.) By Procreation.-Children come under the
patria potestas of their father, whether born by a
wife or by a concubine.
13 W. CALAND, Altindischer Ahnencultus. Das Gradda, nach den
verschiedenen Schulen dargestellt. Leiden, 1893.

182
sons.
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
(c.) By Adoption.-To explain this institution, most
important in Chinese law, we take the Roman law
as a type. 133
A man may adopt a person as son or daughter, or, if he
formerly had sons, as grandchild, but not as brother, wife, or
concubine. In China nearly all adoptions take place in child-
less families, and among these the greater part are adoptions of
Five per cent of all families in China possess adopted
children [E. H. PARKER].13 What is said with regard
to adoption among the ancient Greeks holds good for the
Chinese-The dying out of a family was to be prevented,
as by the desolation of the house the dead lost their religious
honours, the gods of the family their sacrifices, the hearth
its flame, and the forefathers their name among the living.
The oldest recorded instance of adoption in China is
that of SHUN being received into the family of Emperor YAO
[2200 B.C.]
Adoption, like marriage and the acquisition of slaves, rests
in China upon purchase, concerning which a contract is made,
with the difference that the word "wife," "son," "daughter,"
or "slave" is specifically mentioned in it. The most frequent
case is the adoption of a nephew by a childless uncle. This
nephew is generally a younger son, who then leaves his
father's family and his son becomes the grandson of the adopt-
ing uncle. If there is only one nephew whose duty it is to
continue the line of his father, he has to marry another wife (
chi), whose male issue is considered that of the uncle. The
nephew has thus to perform double sacra and is called "one
son with two ancestral halls" (Fitzu shuang
G. JAMIESON, "The History of Adoption and its Relation to Modern
Wills" [China Review, XVIII (1889), pp. 137-146].
134 Compare l. 37, pr. D. de adopt., 1, 7.
135 Compare the law of Manu, IX, 127, 159: the Hindu considers it a
religious duty to have a son, by whose means he may pay off his debt
to his forefathers. If without offspring he must adopt a child.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
183
t'iao). He mourns the three years' term for his adoptive
father and only one year for his parents. If he leaves
only one son, the latter has, like his father, to marry two
wives; the issue of the one is that of his grandfather, that of
the other continues the uncle's family. When two sons are
obtained the ancestral hall is completed (chéng t'iao).
This, then, constitutes the only case where a Chinese may
have two wives (chi) at the same time.
Where there is no son or nephew, but only a daughter, a
son-in-law may be taken into the family, who leaves his own
family without being actually adopted. This is called
chao hsü, inviting a son-in-law.
It being prohibited in China for officials to hold office
in their native province, adoption becomes the means of
avoiding this restriction. The official in question is adopted
into a family of another province, acquires thus a right of
domicile (chi) in the province of his adopted parents,
and may now hold an office in the province originally his
native one. In the same way confiscation of property is
prevented by adoption, if such confiscation is imminent on
account of the crimes of near relatives.
The general reason for
chieh tsung tzn.
cheng chi (taking over the succession),
(going over to be heir), or
adoption is to continue the stock,
Adoption of agnates is called
kuo ssu
kuo ssu (going over to the
sacra). There is a distinction between this and the adoption
of a stranger :-Fi tzu (or nü) and
(or nü) godchildren or filü lustrici, or
chi tzu
yang tzu
(rearing a child). As long as the former is possible, few will
resort to the latter fiction. The adoption of cognates is
called kuei tsung (returning to the stock).
24
A.-General Requirements of Adoption.
As the main idea of Chinese adoption, it may be stated

184
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
that only children out of families who bear the same family
name may be adopted, as otherwise, according to the Chinese,
the difference between families would soon cease to exist.
No special requirements are prescribed for the adopter,
and the law fixes no age limit under which one may not
adopt, 136 although it is usual for the adopter to be older than
the person to be adopted. Foundlings under three years'
old
may be adopted without further ceremony.
An adopter may emancipate the adopted, and adopt him
a second time.137
The wife, acquiring after the death of her husband his
patria potestas, has therefore the right of adopting; 138 she
has, however, to ask the consent of the nearest male relation
of her late husband, for adoption as well as for datio in
adoptionem. She has further the right of preventing the
legitimate or adopted sons of her former husband from
giving themselves into arrogation against her wish.
The adoption of one's younger brother or one's uncle,
even if the latter is younger than the nephew, is not allowed;
for the same reason the uncle may not adopt a nephew who
is older or of the same age as himself.
An interesting case is that of a foreigner desiring to adopt
the two illegitimate children he had by a Chinese woman who
had subsequently absconded. According to the law of his
13 As is the case in Roman law [§ 4, J. de adopt., 1, 11: minorem natu
non posse majorem adoptare placet; adoptionem enim naturam imitatur
et pro monstro est, ut major sit filius quam pater. Debit itaque is qui
sibi per adoptionem vel arrogationem filium facit, plena pubertate, id est
xviii annis præcedere. L., 40, § 1, D. de adopt., 1, 7].
13: Not so in Roman law [., 37, § 1, D. de adopt., 1, 7: eum quem quis
adoptavit emancipatum vel in adoptionem datum iterum non potest
adoptare].
12 The same in ancient Egypt [see MAYER, 1.c., II, p. 427], but not so in
Rome § 10, J. de adopt., 1, 11: feminæ quoque adoptare non possunt.
Const., 5, 1. de adopt., 8, 48: mulierem quidem quae nec suos filios habet in
potestate, arrogare non posse certum est].

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
185
country he could only legitimise his children, so long as their
mother was living, by subsequens matrimonium. This was
impossible, as the woman could not be found. The Chinese
authorities were then asked to allow these children to take the
foreign nationality of their father; and after obtaining this
permission, the children were adopted by the father.
B.-Special Requirements of Adoption and Arrogation.
Whoever wants to give himself into arrogation must ask
for the consent of the nearest relations of his former pater
familias. If he has elder brothers alive, their consent also
must be asked. In the lifetime of his father the son may
give himself into arrogation, even without the consent of his
father or his relations, if the father is insane and poor, so
that the son by the arrogation acquires the means of support-
ing him. If the father is far away the son is allowed to be
arrogated, but the father may, on his return, claim back
his son.
According to its nature, the datio in adoptionem is,
properly speaking, a sale (venditio), to which only the consent
of the pater familias is required; the person to be adopted is
not asked except he be a son holding office. In practice,
however, it never happens that an adult married son is sold
into adoption against his own free will. The wife of the
adopted follows her husband, but the children remain in the
family of the pater familias. 139
A man having sons of his own may not adopt a stranger
as their elder brother, but he may adopt grandchildren, as
According to Roman law the children of an arrogated person followed
their father, while the children of an adopted person remained with their
grandfather [C. 2, § 2, D. de adopt, 1, 7 is qui liberos in potestate habet, si se
arrogandum dederit, non solum ipse potestati arrogatoris subjicitur, sed et
liberi ejus in ejusdem fiunt potestate tamquain nepotes. I., 40, pr. D. de
adopt., 1, 7: quod non similariter in adoptione contingit, nam nepotes ex eo
in avi naturalis retinentur potestate.-L., 26, 27, D. ibid.: ex adoptivo natus
adoptivi locum obtinet in jure civili].

186
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
sons of his legitimate or adopted sons. After his death the
latter have the right to dissolve such adoptions.
Brothers may, after the death of their parents, give their
elder or younger sisters into adoption, but not without the
consent of the latter.
Even after death a filius posthumus may be adopted
for a man by his relations or friends, in case he died
without any male descendants; preference is given, in
such cases, to a nephew of the deceased. By special grace
the Emperor may do this for princes of the blood or high
dignitaries, but in all cases with the consent of the male
relatives of the deceased. 110 By this means the levirate, as
stated above, becomes unnecessary.
c.-Effects of Arrogation and of Adoption.
141 The
In China the effects are in either case the same."
adopted becomes agnate of all agnates of the arrogater or of
the adopter. Altogether, the adopted son (or daughter) has a
better position than the natural one, as he cannot be sold
without the consent of his natural parents, unless a second
adoption be of real benefit to the child. He has all the rights
of a son (or daughter). In the case of inheritance, natural as
well as adopted sons take precedence of all daughters.142
Should the adopter have sons born after the adoption, so that
the original cause for the adoption no longer exists, he
cancel the adoption, if the parents are willing to take back
the child. The child, however, must be kept if no member of
his family lives to whom he can return; only officials may
thus be left without family.
may
10 This adoption after death was also known to the Greeks [see MAYER,
l.c.. II, 429, who quotes Demosth, and Isæus].
Not so in Roman law [1. 1, 1. 23, D. de adopt., 1, 7.-§ 2. J. de adopt.,
1, 11.-Const. 10, pr., § 5, C. de adopt., 8, 48.-§ 13, J. de hered., 3, 1].
142 See CH. ALABASTER, "The Law of Inheritance," China Review, vol. V
(1876), pp. 191-195.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
187
The adopted child being regarded as the real child of his
adopted parents, these must give their consent if the child
wants to commence a three years' mourning after the death of
his natural parents. An official is not allowed to mourn two
terms of three years, but only one term for his adopted father,
as mourning means in this case withdrawal for the time from
official life.
6. TERMINATION OF THE PATRIA POTESTAS.
With the death of the father his power passes to the
mother, and after her death to the eldest son, who then
has also power over his younger brothers and elder and
younger sisters.
The father's power does not cease throughout his lifetime,
except with his own free will or where the son holds office.
Unless with the special permission of the Emperor, the father
cannot in the latter case exercise power over his son. As
already mentioned, the son becomes quasi sui juris if the
father is insane and at the same time poor.
Excepting where the father gives himself into arrogation,
so that his children come under the power of his arrogater,
the father's power may cease with his will:-
1. By sale into adoption, by which the son acquires
agnate rights in the family of his adopted father.
2. By sale of a daughter into marriage, she becoming
an agnate in her husband's family and entering his
manus.
3. By permission to the children to enter a religious
order. They then lose their family name and leave
the family connexion altogether (Hch'u chia).
4. By exposing the children in tender age. The
finder may lawfully adopt them if under three

188
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
years of age.113 If older, they are not allowed
to be exposed, and only the ways mentioned under
No. 1 and No. 3 are left to the father to rid himself
of his child.
In contradistinction to the Roman law, 144 the father may
relinquish his power even against the wish of his children.
An emancipation in the Roman sense, by which the
emancipated person becomes sui juris, does not exist in China.
After the death of the father the daughter becomes sui juris,
if a widow and having sons, the son only in case he has
a family.
C.-ON GUARDIANSHIP.
If at the time of the parents' death the children are still
very young (under seven years), and no head of the family
exists who has ipso jure a right to the patria potestas, the
father's power devolves upon one of the male relations of the
same surname (tung hsing chin chi), if no
testamentaria tutela has been ordered. If no such relation
exist, then one among the male relations of a different sur-
name (wai hsing chin chi) is chosen. To be
without any such relationship is in China an impossibility.
If after the father's death no relation is willing to take the
responsibility of the patria potestas upon himself, such
guardian has to be appointed (Et'o ku, to confide an
orphan to any one,
shou t'o ku che, a guardian).
113 Const. 2, 4, C. de infant, erpos., 8, 52. Nov. 153, c. 1 (non gloss.).
Nov., 89, c. 11, pr.: solvere jus patriæ potestatis invitis filiis non
permissum est patribus.

THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
189
The guardian has the full patria potestas and, like the
father, retains it, with the above-mentioned exceptions, as
long as he lives. The property of the child, of which the
guardian has the full usufruct, continues to be the child's.
When a widow remarries, the children by her first
husband come under the power of the second.
But if a son
of her first husband returns, with the consent of the second
husband, to his father's family (ku teu kuei tsung,
an orphan returning to his ancestors), a guardian has to be
appointed.
Between tutor and pupilla a marriage is impossible; it
would be considered incestuous.

190
190
THE FAMILY LAW OF THE CHINESE.
INDEX.
Adoption
135, 144, 182 | Marriage
"
posthumous-
Adultery
147, 186
148, 160, 163, 173
contract
Ancestral worship
174, 176
Mengtzň
Mesalliance
Betrothal
152
Bigamy
Bridesmaids
Mohammedans -
165 Mourning, time of 136, 147, 158, 183, 187
158 Nao-fang (brawl-room)
139, 156
152, 157
144, 158, 166
150
147, 181
Burial
158
174
Nigoya (Hindu) -
162
Children 171; exposing children 187; Nobility
illegitimate 170.
Nuns
Clan
135, 170
Nuptial cup
.150, 169
150, 187
157
Concubinage
141, 159, 166
Officials
- 149, 172, 173, 183, 187
Corea -
113, 150, 167
Orphans
148, 188
Death of husband, declaration of
16
Pater familias
135, 169
Deceased wife's sister -
144
Patria potestas
169, 171, 181, 187
Divorce 160, 162, 169, 172; bill of
164
Polyandry
168
Dowry
159 Polygamy
166
Eunuchs
Family
names
"
Filial piety
Go-betweens
God, name for
Guardian
143 Presents
134 Priests
135, 145 Puberty
173 Rank, inequality of
153 Relationship, grades of
152, 155, 156
150, 187
142
150
135
147, 168, 189
152
.
135
177
148, 188
Husband and wife
Impediments
151, 160, 173
142
Infanticide-
168, 172, 187
Remarriage
Savages
Servants
Shiking
Shuking
Law and Custom-
Levirate
134
Shun, Emperor
147, 168
Liki
140, 144, 148, 153, 154,
156, 158, 176, 177, 181
Slaves
Term question
Wife -
Manchu
Manu-
138, 141, 146
Widow
145, 182
Yao, Emperor
- 131, 140, 143, 153, 154
135
144, 153, 182
135, 138, 151, 170
- 177
141, 160, 165, 182
- 148, 150, 168, 172, 189
144, 182