EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE AND
SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
By Z. VOLPICELLI.
E então se verá quão incertas são as cousas da China, de que nesta terra se
trata com tanta curiosidade, & de algus enganados fazem tata conta,
porque cada hora estão arriscadas a muytos desastres & desaventuras.
Chap. LXVI FERNAO MENDEZ PINTO.
First Settlements in China.
The early Portuguese Settlements in China form an in-
teresting study, as they mark the furthest advance of that
European nation which led the way in the continuous move-
ment of colonial and commercial expansion which has been
going on for the last four hundred years, and which forms
such an important factor in the modern history of the world.
The cause of Portuguese expansion lies, I think, in her
geographical position, in the West of Europe on the shores
of the Atlantic; in fact all the other nations of Europe which
have formed or attempted to form colonial empires-England,
Spain, Holland and France-are all similarly situated. Great
historical events which cover a long period of time must have
an underlying cause of permanent nature, and none is more
so than geographical position. The causes of Portuguese
precocity in colonial growth are principally historical: her
people severely trained, like the other races of the Iberian
Peninsula, by secular struggles with the Moors, early acquired
a secure independence which afforded leisure and resources for
maritime enterprise. While Portugal had driven out the
5

34
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
infidel, the struggle was still going on in the rest of the
Peninsula and it was long of such uncertain result that none
of the Spanish kingdoms could dare weaken itself by wasting
its strength in wars with Portugal. At the same time a series
of prudent sovereigns refrained from meddling with Spanish
affairs. So that Portugal not being either attacked by her
continental neighbours, nor attacking them, enjoyed a tran-
quillity and peace which could be found nowhere else in
Europe towards the end of the Middle Ages. This rest and
security were well employed by Portugal in devising and
carrying out a vast plan of commercial expansion.
Here we see at once the difference in the origin of the
Portuguese Colonial Empire compared to that of other nations.
The rest, even when most successful, as in the case of England,
have expanded unconsciously, either seizing opportunities
which presented themselves or driven to conquest by circum-
stances they have never carried out a plan elaborated for
years or persevered in against every discouragement and diffi-
culty, though with the certainty that immense wealth would
be the reward of success. In fact Spanish expansion was due
to the casual acceptance of the services of a foreign navigator
who had offered them before to Portugal and was going to
offer them to other nations. France and England, more out
of spirit of imitation than deliberate policy, followed in the
wake of Spain, and were glad to pick up the lands discarded
by the Spaniards, who in their thirst for gold could see
no other wealth, and called them of little account.¹ Holland
made her first expeditions more to annoy Spain than to
develop her trade, though she succeeded very rapidly in
achieving the latter purpose.
Portugal, on the contrary, started with a clear plan though
fraught with many difficulties-the discovery of a new trade-
1 Tierras de poco conto.

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
35
route, which she saw must give her for a long time the mono-
poly of eastern commerce. This was a new departure in
history; hitherto all the products of further Asia had been
brought to the European markets through the Red Sea or the
Persian Gulf, and the wealth and prosperity of the Italian
maritime cities during the Middle Ages, was owing to their
monopoly of the carrying trade of those products in the
Mediterranean. The genius of Prince Henry the Navigator
inspired him with the bold plan of reaching India by a direct
sea-route round Africa, thus securing for Portugal not only
the monopoly enjoyed by the Italians in the Mediterranean
but also that of the Arabs and Indians in the Indian Ocean.2
To this purpose nearly a century of unceasing exertion
was sacrificed. Prince Henry, the originator of the enterprise,
died without seeing it fulfilled with success. Four kings-
John the Great, King Edward, Alfonso V. and John II-passed
away in succession. Still the Portuguese did not grow tired
of what seemed a hopeless task. Slowly but unceasingly they
crept along the African coast, discovering islands and doubling
capes, until at last the end of the long continent was reached,
and in 1486 Bartolomeu Diaz doubled the last terrible Capo
Tormentoso (Stormy Cape), which his sovereign, to encourage
mariners, styled of Good Hope.
It would be too long and foreign to my subject to deal in
detail with the successive expeditions which led to this
final brilliant result, but I cannot refrain from noticing
one which from its strangeness will show us how fertile in
resources were the Portuguese, and how tempted they must
have been at times to abandon their continual and fruitless
navigations and try some other plan. In the course of
These are not merely historical reflections a posteriori but were the
ideas which inspired the Portuguese throughout their conquest, as may be
seen in the speech of the great Dalboquerque before the final attack on
Malacca.

36
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
their discoveries on the western coast of Africa, they
heard from the natives that right across the land there
was a Christian kingdom. As this agreed with what was
stated in a chapter of Marco Polo, it was thought sufficient
basis for another plan by Prince Henry-to try a land-route
across the continent parallel to that pursued by the Arabian
caravans, and reaching to the Christian state, which would
then protect one end of the line while the Portuguese occupied
the other. Alfonso de Paiva and Pietro Covillan were sent
to explore this kingdom, and their voyages, though they never
returned themselves to Portugal, led to the discovery of
Abyssinia, which for over a century remained under the
political and religious influence of Portugal. This strange
alliance between two peoples so distant from each other, and
which never either before or after had anything in common,
forms such a curious historical episode that I have thought it
might prove interesting to notice it. In fact it can only be
explained by the daring spirit of enterprise which then
characterised the Portuguese nation, and is a brillant instance
of their fine qualities. The continuance of their relations
with Abyssinia, the military expeditions and the missionaries
they sent there, even after the sea-route to India had been
found and proved to be practicable and profitable, show the
broad political sagacity of the Portuguese Viceroys in India,
who saw the strategical importance of Abyssinia in a war
against the Mahomedans to destroy the old trade-route
through the Red Sea. Now that, after four centuries, commerce
has gone back to her old route, this fragment of history has
acquired fresh interest, and I drew attention to it in a series
of articles in the Italian papers about three years ago.
If Portuguese enterprise and perseverance were so con-
spicuous during a century of discouraging attempts, it is no
wonder they shone brilliantly when the whole commercial
wealth of Asia lay open to them. Vasco de Gama reached

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
37
India in his first voyage only in 1497, and yet the Portuguese
had reached Malacca in 1509, and proceeded to explore the
island of Sumatra; in 1516 Duorte Coelho navigated along the
coast of Cochinchina and Siam. This rapid expansion was only
a further development of the old plan of Prince Henry. They
had doubled the Cape of Good Hope in order to trade direct
with India, and gather themselves all the gains hitherto
distributed among Arab and Venetian middlemen along the
old commercial route; on reaching India, they found
that a large part of the trade there was also a transit one
which enriched other middlemen along further trade routes,
and the Portuguese, consistent in their commercial principles,
determined to explore the Spice Islands and carry on the
trade direct. Of course this commercial revolution ruined
many and it was not carried out without much opposition,
which showed itself sometimes by violence and at other times
by the more dangerous arts of fraud and treachery. Arabs,
Indians and Malays were all against these bold intruders that
upset the commercial traditions of centuries.
The Portuguese, however, were too flushed by success to
care for casual losses incurred by local hostility, and too well
trained by their trials of a century to fear any enemy they
might meet in Asia, and they continued their explorations and
mercantile adventures. Their possession of Malacca, which
was thoroughly conquered by Alfonso Dalboquerque in 1511, at
once opened up relations with China, both private and public.
Malacca was then a great emporium of trade frequented by
merchants of every country in the Far East besides those
from India, and while the Portuguese were preparing for the
final assault, they received proffers of assistance from six
Chinese junks which were at that time in the port. This
unexpected friendship arose from two causes: the Chinese
had been spared by the Portuguese when they burnt the ships
of the Guzarates in the harbour, and they had been vexed

38
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
and annoyed by the King of Malacca who had detained them
for the purpose of using them in another military expedition.
The arrival of the Portuguese fleet and the dangers which
menaced the King entirely drove out of his mind all thought
about the Chinese, and they with characteristic coolness
understood the situation, and quietly one by one slipped
on board their junks and went to offer their services to
Dalboquerque. His answer shows how the genius of that
great man was able to reconcile the noblest principles with
the furtherance of the interests of his king and country. He
declined their assistance, because if his enterprise did not
succeed as well as he trusted in God it would, the Chinese
would be persecuted by the King of Malacca for the part they
had taken in the attack. The Chinese then asked permission
to go back to their own country, promising to treat the
Portuguese well wherever they met them, in consideration of
the kindness they had received. At the same time they
informed Dalboquerque of the difficulties he must encounter
in his projected attack as the Javanese, Persians and
Guzerates had assembled a large army and numerous artillery
in the place, and they did not think he could win. He
thanked them for their advice and asked them to wait a few
more days so that they might see the valour of the Portuguese
and report it to the King of China on their return. After a
few days the Chinese asked again permission to leave as their
monsoon had arrived and any delay would be injurious to
their navigation. Dalboquerque this time consented because
the first attack had already been made, and the valour and
skill shown by the Portuguese must have convinced them
that final success was no longer doubtful. He only asked
them to touch at Siam (Sião) on their way and leave
there Duarte Fernandez, whom he intended to send as
messenger to the king.
granted.
This request was very willingly

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
39
The sagacity of Dalboquerque had thus arranged matters in
such a way that the first reports about the Portuguese in
China should be of the most favourable description; they had
shown great valour against their powerful enemies and a
generosity towards weak strangers which must have seemed
extraordinary to the Chinese accustomed to the violence and
brutality of the Malays. Events that followed soon proved
the wisdom of Dalboquerque's conduct. When the Por-
tuguese took Malacca, the king fled to the kingdom of Pão,
and sent an ambassador to the court of Peking, asking for
succour from China on account of the ancient friendship
between the two countries.³
The fall of Malacca, then the great commercial port of the
East, had caused an immense sensation throughout all the
neighbouring states, so that when the ambassador reached
Peking, after a long voyage over land from Canton, he was
subjected to long questionings about the Portuguese, their
great Viceroy, and their mode of fighting. He was able
to give a full account of the whole war, as he had been
an eye-witness; but all his eloquence in describing the
affronts his master had received from the Captain of the
King of Portugul was insufficient to obtain an army and
fleet to reinstate his sovereign. The Emperor of China
was determined to keep on good terms with the Portuguese,
because they had treated kindly his merchants, and intended
to allow them to trade in Malacca.
After they had securely established their power in Malacca
by building a fortress, the Portuguese were not long in
profiting of the advantages for trade of their new position.
They had simply to continue the traditions of the place, which
was the emporium of the Far East where merchants flocked
from all parts of the Indian archipelago, from Cochinchina
3 An ancestor of the king had visited Peking in 1411, and done homage as
vassal.

40
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
and the southern parts of China. In 1516 Rafael Perestello
made the first voyage from Malacca to China in a junk,
and he brought back such good information and the profits
of his mercantile venture were so great that a large expedi-
tion was fitted out the next year. Fernão Peres de Andrade
sailed with four Portuguese ships and four Malay vessels
and was accompanied by George Mascarenhas in another
ship. The appearance of such large vessels filled with
strange-looking men in the Gulf of China (as the China Sea
was called by the Portuguese) caused great consternation
among the natives; but Fernão Peres de Andrade, who had
served under the great Dalboquerque at the taking of
Malacca, took care to follow the wise conduct of his former
chief. He did not forget his mission of pioneer of new
extensive commercial relations of his country, and determined
that the first impressions (always so important and lasting)
of his countrymen on the inhabitants of the strange unknown
land should be of the most favourable kind. He kept his
men well in hand and distributed presents so liberally that
the Chinese, struck with the mild behaviour of men possessed
of such powerful ships and arms, consented that he should
be allowed to trade at Tamao in the island of San-shan, where
later S. Francis Xavier died and was buried. The location
of the grave of the great Catholic Apostle of the East in
the small island which was the first trading station of the
Portuguese, is symbolical of their future action in China,
which was as energetic in the diffusion of religion as in the
promotion of commercial interests. It is probable that Tamao
was not a special place assigned to the Portuguese, but a
port already frequented by Malay-Indian merchants, where
they met the Chinese merchants and exchanged commodities
until the end of the monsoon, when all business was settled
up and the island abandoned until next season. Throughout
all their commercial enterprises the Portuguese seldom

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
41
founded new places but preferred occupying those which
were already renowned as marts. It was sufficient for them
to connect the great commercial centres of Asia to the sea-
route they had discovered.
The permission to trade at Tamao satisfied the enterprising
Portuguese only as a first step towards the establishment
of commercial relations with the great empire of Eastern
Asia. They at once began to extend their explorations and
negotiations. George Mascarenhas took advantage of the
presence at Tamao of some ships from the Liu-kiu Islands,
to follow them in their homeward voyage. He was thus able
to explore the southern part of the eastern coast of China
with a rapidity and security that would have been impossible
had he travelled alone. He probably touched at places on
the coast of Fokien and Chekiang, and led the way in the
trade which afterwards centred in Chinchew and Liampoo.
Fernão Peres de Andrade, on the other hand, was allowed
to go to Canton with two vessels, and there negotiated so
successfully with the local government that he obtained
permission to trade with China and Canton. His stay at
Canton was very short, as he had to go back to Tamao to
assist his other six vessels, which were threatened by an attack
of pirates.
Fernão Peres de Andrade continued to show
the greatest justice and probity in all his transactions, and
before leaving Tamao, proclaimed that he was ready to redress
any grievance and make up any loss that had been incurred
by or through any misconduct of his men.
Up to this time the intercourse between the Portuguese
and Chinese had been of the most friendly nature, and an
extensive secure trade, besides many other advantages, would
have been derived from it, at once, if the inconsiderate action
of men of unruly passions had not destroyed all the good
effects of the wise, benignant policy of Alfonso Dalboquerque
6

42
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
and Fernão Peres de Andrade. In 1518 Simão de Andrade
arrived at Tamao with a ship and three junks. His conduct was
entirely opposite to that of his brother: he began to treat the
Chinese with oppression, and disregarded all considerations
of international law. Without permission he built a fort
at Tamao, and exercised sovereign authority, ignoring the
jurisdiction of the Chinese officials. He is also accused of
committing acts of piracy, of enslaving the Chinese and
kidnapping girls on the coast. Under such a commander it
was natural that the men should commit the worst.excesses.
At last the abuses became so intolerable that the Portuguese
were blockaded by a Chinese fleet which would have starved
them into submission if a gale had not luckily enabled three
of their vessels to successfully run the blockade in 1521.
The bad conduct of Simão de Andrade not only stopped
Portuguese trade at Tamao, but it led to even worse conse-
quences, ruining negotiations which if carried on in the spirit
of Dalboquerque might have obtained official sanction from
the Emperor to trade between China and Portugal. When
Fernão Peres de Andrade arrived in 1517 he brought with him
Thomé Pires, an intelligent man of prepossessing appearance,
who had been appointed by the Governor of Portuguese India 1
to go as envoy to the Emperor of China and propose friend-
ship and free trade between the two countries.5 De Andrade
mentioned this fact to the high authorities in Canton when
he went there, and before leaving he landed the envoy and
his retinue. It was a long time however before Thomé Pires
could even get permission to start for Peking. The ambassador
who had been sent by the dethroned King of Malacca, though
Lopo Soares de Albergaria.
Thomé Pires was not a man of very high distinction, as he was an
apothecary who had been employed in choosing drugs in India, but his
natural qualities rendered him the most suitable, as he was pleasant in
manner and most inquisitive in finding out things, and had a quick intellect
for business (sec João de Barros).

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
43
he had been unable to obtain armed assistance to reinstate
his master, had been successful in rousing suspicions against
the Portuguese at the Court of Peking, and the first answer
the Portuguese mission received was that they must evacuate
Malacca. At last, in 1520, on the 15th January, Thomé Pires
was allowed to go to Peking to explain matters and defend
his country against the slanders of its enemies. He started
in three vessels gaily bedecked with flags and silk awning
and bearing the arms of his country.
He did not reach
His departure in-
Peking till the 11th January of 1521.
creased the malevolence of the inveterate enemies the Maho-
'metans of Canton, who there as everywhere feared that the
advent of the Portuguese meant the collapse of their secular
monopoly in trade. They spread the report that the Portuguese
wanted to ruin all shipping, so that they might remain the
sole carriers of the trade of the whole world. Unfortunately
at that time the overbearing piratical conduct of Simão de
Andrade bore out their statements, and the former mild
behaviour of his brother and the friendly embassy of Thomé
Pires, in the light of later events, seemed only the deceitful
advances of treachery. The mandarins of Canton reported
that the Portuguese, pretending to be merchants, really came
to spy the country that they might afterwards conquer it.
In consequence of all these representations the diplomatic
character of Thomé Pires' mission was not recognised, and
the new Emperor Chia-ching sent him and his retinue back
to Canton to be kept in prison as spies.
These untoward events took away all chance of success
from a second official commercial expedition which about.
that time reached China. In 1521, in the fleet which left
Lisbon for the newly-discovered Indies, among the other bold
adventurous Portuguese there was Martim Affonso de Mello,
who was entrusted by King D. Manuel with an important
mission for China. He was to go to Tamao and make friend-

42
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
and Fernão Peres de Andrade. In 1518 Simão de Andrade
arrived at Tamao with a ship and three junks. His conduct was
entirely opposite to that of his brother: he began to treat the
Chinese with oppression, and disregarded all considerations
of international law. Without permission he built a fort
at Tamao, and exercised sovereign authority, ignoring the
jurisdiction of the Chinese officials. He is also accused of
committing acts of piracy, of enslaving the Chinese and
kidnapping girls on the coast. Under such a commander it
was natural that the men should commit the worst.excesses.
At last the abuses became so intolerable that the Portuguese
were blockaded by a Chinese fleet which would have starved
them into submission if a gale had not luckily enabled three
of their vessels to successfully run the blockade in 1521.
The bad conduct of Simão de Andrade not only stopped
Portuguese trade at Tamao, but it led to even worse conse-
quences, ruining negotiations which if carried on in the spirit
of Dalboquerque might have obtained official sanction from
the Emperor to trade between China and Portugal. When
Fernão Peres de Andrade arrived in 1517 he brought with him
Thomé Pires, an intelligent man of prepossessing appearance,
who had been appointed by the Governor of Portuguese India ¹
to go as envoy to the Emperor of China and propose friend-
ship and free trade between the two countries.5 De Andrade
mentioned this fact to the high authorities in Canton when
he went there, and before leaving he landed the envoy and
his retinue. It was a long time however before Thomé Pires
could even get permission to start for Peking. The ambassador
who had been sent by the dethroned King of Malacca, though
Lopo Soares de Albergaria.
Thomé Pires was not a man of very high distinction, as he was an
apothecary who had been employed in choosing drugs in India, but his
natural qualities rendered him the most suitable, as he was pleasant in
manner and most inquisitive in finding out things, and had a quick intellect
for business (see João de Barros).

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
43
he had been unable to obtain armed assistance to reinstate
his master, had been successful in rousing suspicions against
the Portuguese at the Court of Peking, and the first answer
the Portuguese mission received was that they must evacuate
Malacca. At last, in 1520, on the 15th January, Thomé Pires
was allowed to go to Peking to explain matters and defend
his country against the slanders of its enemies. He started
in three vessels gaily bedecked with flags and silk awning
and bearing the arms of his country. He did not reach
His departure in-
Peking till the 11th January of 1521.
creased the malevolence of the inveterate enemies the Maho-
'metans of Canton, who there as everywhere feared that the
advent of the Portuguese meant the collapse of their secular
monopoly in trade. They spread the report that the Portuguese
wanted to ruin all shipping, so that they might remain the
sole carriers of the trade of the whole world. Unfortunately
at that time the overbearing piratical conduct of Simão de
Andrade bore out their statements, and the former mild
behaviour of his brother and the friendly embassy of Thomé
Pires, in the light of later events, seemed only the deceitful
advances of treachery. The mandarins of Canton reported
that the Portuguese, pretending to be merchants, really came
to spy the country that they might afterwards conquer it.
In consequence of all these representations the diplomatic
character of Thomé Pires' mission was not recognised, and
the new Emperor Chia-ching sent him and his retinue back
to Canton to be kept in prison as spies.
These untoward events took away all chance of success
from a second official commercial expedition which about
that time reached China. In 1521, in the fleet which left
Lisbon for the newly-discovered Indies, among the other bold
adventurous Portuguese there was Martim Affonso de Mello,
who was entrusted by King D. Manuel with an important
mission for China. He was to go to Tamao and make friend-

44
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
ship with the king of China, and then establish, either there
or in any other place found most suitable, a fortress where
the Portuguese might carry on their trade in a settled way.
He was to be the captain of this fortress. He was also informed
that the business was much facilitated on account of another
mission having been already sent to the King of China by
Fernão Peres de Andrade. Martim Affonso de Mello started
with six vessels from Malacca to carry out his instructions
on the 10th July 1522 and he arrived at Tamao in
August. A great deception awaited him: the ambassador
Thomé Pires, who was to have smoothed the way for his
negotiations, was then in prison, and the rich presents he
had brought for the Emperor of China had been stolen by the
official underlings. Simão de Andrade with his Portuguese
had been driven out of Tamao the year before. The Chinese,
emboldened by this military success against the formidable
strangers, and by the humiliation inflicted on the embassy,
were prepared to attack the Portuguese with a large squadron
and destroy them as pirates. Martim Affonso tried to parley,
and sent boats to the admiral of the squadron, but as they did
not return he saw that things were in a hopeless state of
hostility and that it would be folly to risk himself in the
harbour. As he was sailing away the Chinese attacked him
in great force. The Portuguese, heavily outnumbered, defended
themselves with the bravery which rendered them famous
at that time throughout Asia, but unfortunately one vessel
was destroyed by the explosion of the powder magazine, and
another was taken by the Chinese, though after such a strenuous
resistance that Martim Affonso was able to escape with the
rest. He reached Malacca in October whence he sailed back
to India with the monsoon.
This was the last attempt in the 16th century to establish
trade between the two countries on an international basis.
Its failure however did not prevent merchants continuing to

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
45
trade privately either with the connivance of the mandarins
or by a certain display of force. It was a business full of
risk and danger, because the Portuguese had to fight not only
against the Chinese authorities, when they were hostile, but
also against their commercial rivals the Mahometans, especially
their deadly enemies the Guzerates and against the pirates
of every nationality that then swarmed along the coasts of
Asia. The profits of a successful commercial voyage were
then so great, that it paid the risk of a total loss through
piracy or typhoons. It must also he held in mind that piracy
cut both ways, and though it might entail loss of ships and
cargo, it might also bring the capture of a rich prize of the
enemy.
The bad conduct of Simão de Andrade at Tamao and the
sea-fights which ensued did not prevent Portuguese vessels
from frequenting it at a later date. In 1554, Lampacao, an
island close to Macao, was fixed as a place of foreign trade, and
three years later this was transferred to Macao. Before these
dates the Portuguese traded, and are said to have established
even what we should call settlements, at Chincheu and Ningpo.
They were impelled to do this not only from the desire to
open new channels of trade, but also to remove at such a
distance from Tamao that they should not be affected by the
reports of the past misconduct of some of their countrymen. On
examination we shall find that the principal trading stations at
that early period were three-in the South successively Tamao,
Lampacan, Macao; in the North, Liampo (Ningpo) and
about half-way between them Chincheu. They correspond
very nearly to the first treaty-ports, which is not wonderful,
as the choice of trading-stations is dependent on causes of a
In the attack on Malacca under Dalboquerque, the Commentaries
mention that the Guzerates, on account of commercial jealousy, were the
worst enemies of the Portuguese, exciting the king against them with false-
hood and calumny.

46
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
permanent nature, such as geographical position and proximity
to regions of production; therefore the Portuguese only followed
in the routes pursued for centuries by Mahometan traders, and
the English at first did the same. This identity of location now
leads us to consider whether there may not be points of resem-
blance between the life of these early settlers and that of the
residents in the Far East, during this century. It will be the
object of the remainder of this paper to describe life as it
was then in China, and to show that, though more than
three centuries have passed yet many things have remained
unchanged.
We have several accounts of European life and enterprise
in China in the 16th century, but the fullest and most
picturesque is that which we find in the Peregrinação of
Fernão Mendez Pinto. Unfortunately this author has had a
very bad reputation: they have punned upon his name and
called him mendacious Pinto, and Congreve has perpetuated this
opinion by his famous line "Mendez Pinto was but a type of
thee, thou liar of the first magnitude." Modern criticism
which has revised so many judgements of the past, is more
indulgent towards him and admits that his book contains a
true account of his adventures though embellished by his
fervid imagination. I am afraid I cannot agree with this
favourable view. I have carefully read several times all the
parts of his work which refer to the present subject, and
whenever it was possible I have checked his dates and facts:
the result has been to find him generally inaccurate, and I do
not think his work is of any historical value. I shall give
later on the several instances of inaccuracy I have detected.
I have been tempted, when I was exasperated at the discovery
of some incongruity or palpable exaggeration, to discard him
altogether, but I reflected that even works of fiction are often
of some historical value, as they show the current of thought
of the times and derive their colouring from the bias of men's

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
47
minds. At the same time I was struck by finding occasionally
either descriptions of places which corresponded to existing
facts, or notices of national character and customs which agree
with all that our later experience of China has taught us.
I think then, that the Peregrinação of Fernão Mendez Pinto
may give us much useful information if we extract it with the
following restrictions: never to rely upon him exclusively for
the proof of any important historical event; to accept his
accounts of people and customs only when they agree with
what we know of them from later knowledge, in which case the
agreement is strong evidence that he must have seen what he
describes correctly; lastly, we may rely on him exclusively to
give us a general view of the life of the roving Portuguese
adventurers of that time in the Far East. On such a point
his inaccuracy is of little moment, nay, perhaps advantageous,
it would lead him to give a fuller picture of those strange
times. If he describes exploits which never happened to him,
he must have invented them of such a nature as to correspond
with the real experience of his fellow adventurers, so that they
might seem probable and be pleasant to read. His work then,
instead of being an account of the adventures of one man,
would be of those of his nation at that epoch in the Far East.
I shall now give a brief account of the causes which
brought our author to the coast of China and what he saw and
did there.
Fernão Mendez Pinto, after many other misfortunes, was
attacked on the coast of Siam in a ship belonging to some
Portuguese of Patane by the pirate Coja Acem, a Guzerat
Moor, who had vowed deadly enmity to the Portuguese nation.
With the greatest difficulty our author and two others escaped
with their lives, and after many hardships were able to return
to Patane and report the loss of their ship and rich cargo.
Amongst the losers by this transaction, there was a certain
Antonio de Faria, who had sent by the ill-fated vessel a cargo

48
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
of merchandise from the sale of which he hoped to pay 12,000
crusados he owed to merchants in Malacca. He now found
himself penniless and indebted. He dared not go back to
Malacca and face his creditors, so he swore on the Gospels to
go in search of the corsair and be revenged of his loss. He
succeeded so well in enlisting public sympathy for this project
by describing the loss of Christian lives there had been, and
the danger to commerce in allowing such a pirate to rove with
impunity, that all the Portuguese in Patane assisted him in
fitting out his expedition; the rich ones subscribed money to
provide a ship and arms, the poor ones offered their services
as soldiers. Amongst the latter there was F. M. Pinto, who,
as he pithily puts it, had only been able to save from the
disaster his poor person with three dart-wounds and a stone-
cut on the head, which had endangered his life three or
four times, and had compelled him to have a bone taken out
before leaving Patane.
In 18 days Antonio de Faria was able to gather 55 fighting
men, and he started for the island of Ainão, where it was
reported Coja Acem was to be found, on Saturday 9th May
1540. It was a long time before he could come up with his
enemy and carry out his vow, but he did not lose his time, as
he was able to scour the whole coast up to Liampo (Ningpo)
and destroy many other pirates. F. M. Pinto, in his usual
pious style says: God, who draws good from evil, allowed
Coja Acem to commit his piracy that Antonio de Faria
might form the resolution to go in search of him and so
This is the first inaccuracy of F. M. Pinto, which I will point out: the
9th May 1540 was not a Saturday but a Sunday. Not only is F. M. Pinto
incorrect but he is not even consistent, because later on in Chapter LXXI
he says that the 14th May 1542 was a Monday, while to agree with his former
statement it should be a Saturday (the 14th May 1542 was really a Sunday).
These mistakes are trifling, and natural in a man who could have kept no
notes in the midst of so many shipwrecks and adventures, but his pretension
to minute accuracy in dates when he could not possess the means of doing
so, shows a looseness of statement that shakes our faith in him. Later on
we shall find more important instances of this nature.

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
49
destroy many other robbers who deserved such punishment
at the hands of the Portuguese nation. It will give an
idea of the dangers of maritime commerce in these seas at
that time, to know that in less than 18 months from the coast
of Cochinchina up to Ningpo, Antonio de Faria destroyed six
famous pirates besides others which are not mentioned. Most
of them had taken several vessels and killed many Portuguese.
Generally a short history of the previous career of each pirate is
given as soon as he has been defeated and killed. Some of these
pirates had lived with the Portuguese, had been baptised, married
to half-caste daughters of respectable Portuguese, and had
assumed, either at conversion or from bravado after a piratical
victory, some famous foreign name. The sea-fights are described
very minutely and are mostly alike after a general discharge
of artillery the vessels grapple each other, and at close quarters
keep up a constant fire of musketry and discharge of darts,
until at a favourable moment the stronger or more daring
side throws powder-canisters on the enemy's deck and sends
its boarders to complete the victory; severe hand-to-hand
fighting with swords and battle-axes then ensues until the
losers are all killed or have jumped overboard. Sometimes a
few prisoners are taken, but it is only for the purpose of
putting them to the torture and getting some information;
if they refuse to or cannot give it they are tortured to death.
The most ruthless cruelty does not prevent the actors indulg-
ing in frequent invocations to God and the Saints, and the
8 Mas como he costume de Deos nosso Senhor de grandes males tirar
grandes bees, permitio pela inteireza de sua divina. justiça, que do roubo que
Coja Acem nos fez na barra de Lugor, como atrás fica dito, nacesse a
Antonio de Faria determinarse em Patane de o yr buscar, para castigo de
outros ladrões que tão merecido o tinhão á nação Portuguesa." In all the
Portuguese writings of the time we find this vein of religious thought in-
spiring their commercial and warlike expeditions: they considered that God
had sent them on a special mission to Asia, and that he was always further-
ing their schemes and averting dangers. Such an ever present consciousness
of Divine assistance must have been a great source of strength to the nation.
"This method of attack was preserved by the Chinese pirates up till quite
lately.
7

50
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
most common measure of time for a short desperate struggle
is the time required to recite some prayer: thus F. M. Pinto,
describing the final rush of some pirates discovered in their
hiding-place in a captured vessel, says, "they attacked us in a
muck and the fight was so desperate that in less than three
credos, which it took us to finish them, they had killed
2 Portuguese and 7 others besides wounding 20 more."
It is very
curious to notice how Antonio de Faria was slowly
and insensibly drawn on from his original purpose of simply
revenging his wrongs, to become a chastiser of piracy, then
little better than a corsair himself, and finally to grow so bold
as to attack and burn a town. His first engagement was
forced upon him, as the pirate took him to be a merchant and
tried to surprise him by night. Other pirates he attacked
because he thought they were Coja Acem, and thus getting
gradually accustomed to bloodshed and lawless violence he
came at last to carry off a poor bride that was going by sea
to her husband, and on the coast of Ainão he went so far as to
levy a kind of maritime black-mail. The Chinese merchants
who had watched one of his successful fights from their junks,
were so frightened that they sent a deputation offering him
20,000 taels of silver if he would protect them as king of the
Antonio de Faria consented to this, and issued regular
passes for their protection. F. M. Pinto gives the text of
these curious documents 10 and adds that there was such a
rush for them, that one of Faria's men who had been appointed
to write them, and received 5 taels for each junk and 2 for
every smaller vessel, made more than 4,000 taels in 13 days,
besides rich presents from the merchants who were in a hurry
to get their passes first.
sea.
10 Seguro debaixo de minha verdade ao Necodá, foão, para que possa
navegar livremente por toda a costa da China, sem ser agravado de nenhum
dos meus co tanto que onde vir Portugueses os trate como irmãos & asinavase
ao pé Antonio de Faria.

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
51
The successful cruise of over seven months in the Gulf of
Cochinchina (Gulf of Tonking) had powerfully increased
A. de Faria's armament. He had kept the best of the captured
vessels and armed them with Portuguese prisoners he had
liberated or with piratical sailors he had pressed into his
service. He now had four ships and over 600 men under his
command. His successes, however, did not drive from his
mind the original purpose for which he started, and he was
always bent on finding Coja Acem. His men did not share
these sentiments, they were tired of the long navigation, and as
an immense booty had been accumulated they were clamorous
for a division of spoils so that they might go to India or
where they listed to enjoy the wealth they had won. They
were on the point of carrying out this plan, and were only
waiting for the monsoon to go back, when a dreadful storm,
which all their skill could not weather, drove them ashore on
an island (called Robber's Island) near which they were
anchored. All the vessels, booty, arms were lost and most of
the crews were drowned. A. de Faria, who had been saved
with about 50 of his men, kept up their spirits, and by his
fertility of resources succeeded in escaping from the desert
island, though in an unscrupulous way. Having observed
the arrival of a Chinese fishing vessel, he hid his men, and by
stealthily getting between the Chinese and their boat, he
managed to capture the latter by a bold rush, and went out to
sea, leaving the unfortunate Chinese to take his place on the
island. This was but the first of several similar enterprises.
As he was sailing towards Liampoo, the nearest port where he
hoped to find Portuguese, he took out eight sailors from a fishing
boat, as his men were too weak to work his vessel. Later on,
"Here is another instance of chronological confusion. F. M. Pinto says the
shipwreck occurred in October i.e. at most 6 months after the departure
from Patane, and yet some time before they had been sailing for over
7 months in the Gulf of Tonking!

52
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
while he was at a place called Xamoy, he reflected that his vessel
was not fit to take him as far as Liampoo, so he attacked in
the night a small junk which was anchored in a solitary place,
and cutting its cables went out to sea. By this succession of
bold piratical acts, from utter destitution on a desert island he
had succeeded in providing himself with a good sea-worthy
vessel and native crew.
Antonio de Faria was continuing his voyage to Liampoo in
his newly-acquired ship when he met a large junk which at
once bore down to attack him, firing 15 pieces of artillery.
He encouraged his men as well as he could to fight bravely
against such terrific odds; but before they came to close
quarters they saw on the high bows of the junks a lot of men
with red caps. As these were always worn then by the
Portuguese in their naval expeditions, Faria's men began to
have a ray of hope, thinking they might be fellow country-
men travelling from Liampoo to Malacca, and showing them-
selves as much as they could on the deck, they were over-
whelmed with joy by hearing a friendly shout from the junk-a
boat was then lowered and among its crew came two Portuguese.
These were very well received by A. de Faria, and they
informed him that the captain of the junk, a Chinese corsair,
Quiay Panjão, had 30 Portuguese on board, and that he was
a great friend of their nation. This report served to establish
cordial relations between the two pirates, and they agreed to
travel together, Quiay Panjão offering to assist A. de Faria in
all his enterprises with a hundred men and fifteen pieces of
artillery, provided he got a third part of the booty. A. de Faria
consented, and according to his pious custom swore on the
Gospels to keep this compact.
This Chinese pirate, Quiay Panjão, is a curious figure, and
shows us another aspect of the life of that period. The
details of the long cruise of A. de Faria are a proof that the
Portuguese of the 16th century in the East, like the English

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
53
of this century, were only a small governing body. They
used natives of the different countries not only to work the
ships but also as auxiliaries in fighting, and reserved them-
selves for intelligent direction or for action at times of great
emergency. In fact when A. de Faria, before his shipwreck,
commanded over 600 men, he had only about 50 Portuguese
among them. The presence of Portuguese on board a
Chinese piratical junk shows that they consented also to be
employed as a kind of mercenaries by friendly natives who
had recognised their high military qualities. We shall see
later on that Quiay Panjão was of great use, by his acquaint-
ance with the people of the coast, in procuring for the
Portuguese all that they required for their ships. His
conduct will make us understand how the Portuguese were
able at that time to carry on their commercial expeditions
notwithstanding that all official attempts to obtain free trade
for them had failed.
His new Chinese friend advised A. de Faria to go at once
to Chincheo, where he would meet other Portuguese, and
where they might learn something about Liampoo. There
was a rumour then about the country that the King of China
had fitted out a fleet of 400 junks with 100,000 men on
board, and had sent it to Liampoo to drive out the Portuguese
and burn their ships and houses, because he did not wish
to have them any longer in his country, as they were not
faithful, quiet people as he had formerly been told. I mention
in full this report because we shall find it elsewhere and
because it refers to one important historical event on which
I shall have much to say. When A. de Faria reached
Chincheo, he found five Portuguese vessels there, and was
received with great joy and festivity. Nothing was known
about Liampoo except that the Chinese said there were many
Portuguese wintering there, besides others newly arrived
from Malacca, Çunda, Siao and Patane, and that they were

54
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
transacting their business very quietly. The large fleet had
not gone there and was probably at the Goto Islands to
support an ally of the King of China.
Having found out what they wanted they prosecuted their
voyage to Liampoo, with a reinforcement of 35 soldiers
they had picked up from the five Portuguese vessels they
had found at anchor at Chincheo. After sailing for five
days against head winds they caught sight of a small fishing
vessel manned by eight Portuguese, most of them wounded.
These, on being taken on board, gave a sad account of their
misfortunes. They were the sole survivors of a ship that
had left Liampoo for Malacca and India seventeen days
before, and had been attacked and taken by a Guzerate pirate
called Coja Acem. After a brave resistance they had been
overpowered by the enemy, who was 500 strong and had
seven vessels; eighty-two of them were killed, among which
eighteen Portuguese, and nearly as many taken. A. de Faria
listened to their story with great interest, cross-examined
them, and enquired what had been the probable loss of the
pirate himself, and whether the damages sustained by his
vessels would not compel him to remain some time in the
river where they had left him. As soon as he had elicited
all the information he required, A. de Faria took off his cap
and knelt on the deck and made a long prayer aloud,
begging God to give him strength and victory against this
cruel slayer of the Portuguese, whom he intended to seek as
he had sought him heretofore, to punish him for the evil he
had committed for so long. All his crew approved him
shouting, "A elles! a elles! co nome de Christo" (At
them! at them! in the name of Christ).12
Before engaging in such serious business as
a death
struggle with a formidable pirate like Coja Acem, it was
12 This cry corresponds to the "A lor! a lor!" of the Italian sailors in the
middle ages during the internecine wars of Genoa and Venice.

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
55
necessary to make full preparations, and A. de Faria put
back to Lailoo, a port eight leagues astern. Here the
assistance of Quiay Panjão was invaluable.
He had many
relations in the place and he obtained permission from the
Mandarin to buy all they wanted. F. M. Pinto at this point
is enthusiastic about China, and says that of all countries in
the world it is the most abundantly supplied with all that
one may want. 13 Judging from the list of purchases made
by A. de Faria certainly its resources, in a small place of 300
or 400 people, were taxed to the utmost. He sold the two
small vessels he had, and bought two large high junks and
two rowing vessels; he engaged 160 sailors and provided
himself with cables, chains, ropes, anchors, naval stores,
provisions, cord, sulphur, bullets, darts and other kinds of
warlike material. The armament when complete was very
formidable. There were more than 500 men, both sailors
and soldiers, among which 95 Portuguese, all brave deter-
mined fellows; they had 40 pieces of artillery and 160
muskets; 900 canisters, 400 of gunpowder and the rest of
quicklime, as used by the Chinese, and 4,000 darts. Where
the money came from to buy all these things is not very
clear. A. de Faria had lost all the treasures he had won,
in the shipwreck, and the common funds must have been
furnished by Quiay Panjão, who thus showed great confidence
in the future victories of his friend.
The little fleet sailed for the river where Coja Acem had
been busy refitting his vessels, and an experienced Portu-
guese dressed as a Chinaman was sent to explore the position
of the enemy.
He returned reporting that the pirate was
at anchor with a large portion of his forces on shore, and
that it would be easy to destroy him. Sailing up the river
13 Porque esta excellencia tem a terra da China sobre todas as outras, ser
mais abastada de tudo o que se pode desejar, que todas quantas ha no mundo.

56
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
with wind and tide they reached the enemy about dawn. He
kept such good watch that as soon as they appeared a bell
was rung and the pirates on board and on shore began to
rush to arms. A. de Faria, seeing that a surprise had failed,
shouted to his men to attack at once in the name of Christ
and Santiago. A general discharge of musketry and artillery
cleared the enemy's decks. F. M. Pinto grows quite
eloquent in his description of the wild scene which followed.
The enemy could not repair the disadvantage of having
their forces divided, and this gave the Portuguese an easy
victory. As soon as the pirates on shore tried to join their
comrades, their boats were sunk by the well-aimed artillery
of the Portuguese. A last effort was made by Coja Acem
himself, who shouting "Lah hilah hilah lah Muhamed roçol
halah!"15 encouraged his men by all the promises of Ma-
homet's Paradise to destroy the hated Christians, but A. de
Faria, after making a similar religious exhortation to his
men, with an allusion to Christ put on the Cross for them
whom he would not abandon, sinners as they were, to the
heathen dogs, rushed at Coja Acem with a two-handed sword
and knocked him down with a blow on his cap of mail and
then severed both his legs with a second blow. This was
the sign for a desperate melée, because all the Mahometans
rushed on A. de Faria and the Portuguese rushed to his
rescue, and, as F. M. Pinto puts it, in less than two credos
48 of the enemy and 14 of his men, amongst which five
Portuguese, were killed over the body of Coja Acem.
A briga se travou entre todos de maneyra. que realmente confesso q
não me atrevo a particularizar o que nella passou, inda que me achey
presente, porque ainda neste tempo a menham nao era bem clara, & a
revolta dos inimigos & nossa era tamanha, juntamente co estrondo dos
tabores, bacias, & sinos, & com as gritas & brados de hus & dos outros,
acompanhados de muytos pilouros de artilharia, & de arcabusaria, & na
terra o retombar dos ecos pelas concavidades dos valles, & outeyros, que as
carnes tremiño de medo.
13 This romanisation of an Arabic sentence is very good and shows that
F. M. Pinto must have had a good ear for languages, because it is probable
he did not know Arabic.

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
57
The victory was most complete: all the enemy were either
killed or drowned and their vessels, loaded with wealth, became
the prize of the victors. A. de Faria behaved very liberally
to his people: he gave to the Portuguese from Liampoo all
that they had lost in their ship, and he ordered that all slaves
should be liberated. He committed, however, an act of such
barbarity that even F. M. Pinto, who by this time must have
been accustomed to atrocities of every kind, was shocked.
After landing he proceeded a short way into the country, and
came upon a temple which was full of sick and wounded men
that had been left there by Coja Acem. As soon as these
poor wretches saw A. de Faria they gave a great cry,
beseeching for mercy, but he refused to grant it, saying that
it was not proper to give life to those who had killed so many
Christians. He ordered the building should be set on fire in
six or seven places, and as it was of tarred timber covered
with dried palm-leaves it burned rapidly, and the scene was
dreadful and heartrending on account of the horrible shrieks
which the miserable creatures uttered when the flames spread
everywhere. Some tried to escape by jumping from the
windows, but they were spitted on the points of lances by
Faria's men who were waiting for them below.
A. de Faria remained on the spot where he had destroyed
his great enemy nearly a month, to enable the sick and
wounded to recover, and then he resumed his course for
Liampoo loaded with all the wealth of Coja Acem. His mis-
fortunes were not yet over, because a dreadful storm destroyed
two junks and a lorcha, and he lost more than a hundred men,
amongst which 11 Portuguese and 200,000 crusados worth
of goods. F. M. Pinto makes some sad remarks 16 about the
16 E estas pancadas tais tem esta costa da China mais que todas as das
outras terras, pelo que ninguem póde navegar seguro nella hu só anno que
lhe não aconteção desastres, se com as conjunções das luas cheyas se não
meter nas calheitas dao portos que tem muytos & muyto bus, onde sem
nenhum receyo se póde entrar, por toda he limpa, tirado somente Lamau
Sumbor, que tem hus baixos obra de meya legoa das barras da parte
do Sul.
8

58
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
dreadful storms to which navigators of the China coast are
exposed to, and which it must have been very difficult to
weather with the small vessels and imperfect knowledge of
the period.
During the storm some of the shipwrecked
Portuguese had been thrown ashore and there they had been
seized and carried off as prisoners to a neighbouring town
called Nonday. A. de Faria, in his endeavours to get back
these men, was by a curious series of circumstances forced
into another piratical adventure of much greater importance
any of his former ones.
than
The negotiations for the release of the prisoners between
the Mandarin of Nonday and A. de Faria are very amusing,
and furnish us probably with only a slightly coloured picture
of what official transactions were at that time. As soon as
it was found that the shipwrecked sailors were in prison at
Nonday, A. de Faria was advised by the Chinese to write
a petition to the Mandarin asking for them, and promising
to pay a ransom if necessary; a present also was sent. The
mistake of writing a petition as if he were a Chinaman,
and of sending a present, were at once put down to their true
cause his anxiety to get back his men-and this feeling was
played upon until he could stand it no longer, and a rupture
took place. The answer of the Mandarin came scrawled in
the margin of the petition, and according to F. M. Pinto was
to this effect: Let your mouth come before my feet, and after
being heard I shall show you if you will get justice. A. de Faria
was very angry at this ill-mannered answer, as he saw it would
be difficult to liberate the prisoners. After some consultation
he sent what should have been sent the first time, a letter
between equals, with none of the ceremonies of the Gentiles,
and not in form of a petition. The request for the prisoners was
repeated, 2,000 taels was offered for them, and it was added
he would not leave the coast until the men were given back.
He hoped in this way to frighten the Mandarin. F. M.

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
59.
Pinto says that two
grave mistakes were made in the compila-
tion of this letter, which ruined the whole business: first, to
say that A. de Faria was a respectable merchant of Liampoo,
who traded peacefully there and always had paid his duties;
second, to say that, as the King of Portugal was brother to the
King of China, the Portuguese came there to trade just as the
Chinese were allowed to trade at Malacca. These two points
displeased the Mandarin. He did not like any official refer-
rence to the trade clandestinely carried on at Ningpo, and the
assumption of equality between the kings of the two countries
upset all his preconceived notions and made him furious.
His answer came on a broken piece of paper, and began by
calling A. de Faria the bad egg of a flesh-fly engendered
in a filthy dung-hill; then he said that at first, touched by his
humble petition, he was disposed to favour, and had pity on
him, but now after his insolence in daring to meddle with the
Emperor and other Heavenly things far above his meanness
he deserved no mercy and was ordered to leave the coast at
once, at once without delay. When A. de Faria heard the
contents of the letter from the tansuu17 (as they called the
interpreter), he was very angry, and after consulting his men
it was decided to attack the place and free their captives
by force.
They sailed up the river and anchored close to the city.
After another fruitless attempt to come to a pacific solution
they marched to attack the city. They were 300 strong includ-
ing 70 Portuguese, and they had 160 muskets, besides lances
and other weapons; their vessels were also disposed so that
they could be supported by artillery. F. M. Pinto remarks
on the great display of flags and shouting on the walls, and
says it was of people who trusted more in words and external
17 This is probably the rendering of tung-shih, and would show that
F. M. Pinto must have picked up a few words of Chinese otherwise he could
not have remembered this one when he was writing his book.

60
00
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
show than in actions. Over a thousand men came out to
meet the Portuguese and began to skirmish in a wild way,
though at a safe distance, and he says it looked as if they
were thrashing corn on a thrashing-floor, they wheeled about
in such confusion. When they saw that the Portuguese were
not frightened by all these warlike demonstrations they
gathered together in some disorder. A. de Faria ordered a
general discharge of musketry, and charged the enemy with
such vigour that they fled wildly to the city and were slaugh-
tered helplessly as they crowded on the bridge over the city
moat to get through the gate as fast as they could. This
butchery over, the Portuguese, still pursuing the remaining
fugitives, came to the gate, where they found the Mandarin
himself with a picked body of 600 soldiers. These fought very
well, so that it took four or five credos before the Portuguese
could secure victory, and this was owing more to chance, as a
lucky shot killed the Mandarin, which so disheartened his
soldiers that they fled right through the city and out again at
the opposite gate, the Portuguese all the time pursuing and
driving them before them like a herd of cattle. A. de Faria
only allowed half-an-hour to his men to carry off what they
liked from the city, as he was afraid the enemy might come
back with reinforcements from the country. After an hour
and a-half, as his men would not desist from plundering, A. de
Faria set fire to the town in ten or twelve places, and as it
was built of pinewood, F. M. Pinto says that in a quarter of
an hour it burnt like a thing of hell.18
In the above passages of F. M. Pinto there is nothing that
is improbable and much that resembles what we know of
China both before and after that period; there may be some
exaggeration, and the adventures are perhaps too many for the
experience of one man, but this does not affect the use we are
Is Que parecia cousa do inferno.

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
61
making of his book, i.e. to get a vivid picture of the life of the
Portuguese adventurers in China. We learn from him that
piracy was then rampant on the coast, but so has it ever been
up to the introduction of steam, and sporadic cases have
happened even since. We find that Portuguese merchants
frequented Chincheo and Liampoo, and this is highly probable
because Mahomedan merchants had done the same for centuries,
and the Portuguese simply supplanted them everywhere.
The negotiations with the Mandarin at Nonday bring out one
or two points which the later history of China has made us
familiar with the refusal of the Mandarins to recognise
officially clandestine trade which they knew existed and could
not or would not prevent, and the assumption that the
Emperor of China is superior to all other monarchs of the
world. Such facts must have been picked up by F. M. Pinto
in China, and he must have witnessed similar negotiations
whether at Nonday or elsewhere. Before following our
author in a subject of much greater importance, where he
treats of facts of a strange nature, i.e. the extensive settlement
of the Portuguese at Liampoo and its complete and sudden
destruction by the Chinese-facts which require the strongest
corroboration before we can accept them from an author given
to exaggeration and loose statements-let us see what we can
glean from another writer of the period.
Gaspar da Cruz, 19 a Dominican friar, in his Tractedo da
China, gives us incidentally some account of the Portuguese
traders of that time. He says that after 1554 commerce was
carried on very quietly and no ship was lost except in
unusually bad storms, while before that date, as there was
constant fighting between the Chinese and the Portuguese,
the latter had often to run out to sea to avoid the enemy's fleet
He came to China as a missionary on a Chinese junk, and must have
had a certain knowledge of the language. His remarks on all snbjects are
very sensible.

62
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
and thus exposed themselves to storms in ill-sheltered places.
In the above-mentioned year Leonel da Sousa (capitam moor)
agreed with the Chinese to pay duty if they allowed him to
trade, and after that Canton was opened to the Portuguese
with great profit and satisfaction to both sides. He says that
the disturbance caused by Fernam Perez Andrade20 had raised
such hatred against the Portuguese that they were called
"fancui," 21 which means "men of the devil," while after the
pacification of 1554, though they were not called Portuguese,
yet they were styled "fangim" which means "men of other
coasts." Father da Cruz then goes on to explain that the
Chinese cannot leave their country, and if they do so they are
obliged to remain abroad to avoid punishment, and this accounts
for the presence of so many Chinese in Malacca and elsewhere.
This class of Chinese outlaws furnishes the Portuguese with
all the assistance and information necessary for navigating
and trading on the coast of China: they have relations and
friends ashore from whom they can get provisions and with
whom they can arrange business, and when it comes to paying
the Customs duties they ask a Portuguese friend to lend them
his name, for which they pay him a consideration 22. These
foreign-residing Chinese, after the conduct of Andrade had
stopped trade at Tamao, encouraged the Portuguese to go to
Liampoo, as in that part of the coast there were not many
cities, but large villages of poor people who were only too
glad to sell provisions to the strangers. These Chinese used
to act as middlemen between the Portuguese and native
merchants in all their transactions, and used to give bribes to
the Mandarins that they might wink at the trade. We
He mistakes him for his brother. As may be seen, this author spells the
name differently from F. M. Pinto.
According to this account Simão de Andrade would be the prototype
for which the term "fankwai" was coined, a term which has been so liberally
applied since to all foreigners, however weak and harmless they might be.
This is still practised in China, and shows how little influence three
centuries have had in changing character and customs.

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
63
recognise in them the ancestors of our old friends the com-
pradores. This clandestine commerce went on for a long while
without coming to the knowledge of the Emperor and great
provincial authorities, so that the Portuguese, growing bold,
began to trade also at Chincheo and the islands near Canton.
Matters progressed so favourably that the Portuguese went so
far as to remain all the winter at the islands of Liampoo and to
settle permanently, and with such freedom that the only thing
wanting was that they should have a pillory and gallows.23
But as the Chinese who were with the Portuguese, and some
of the latter, began to overstep all bounds and to rob and to
kill, the whole business came to the knowledge of the great
provincial authorities and of the Emperor. He ordered at
once that a large squadron should be fitted out in Fokien, to
drive all the robbers off the coast, especially those of Liampoo.
The merchants, both Chinese and Portuguese, were reckoned
among the robbers.
The fleet set sail, and as the winds were
not favourable, instead of going to Liampoo they steered for
Chincheo, and wherever they met Portuguese vessels they
fought with them. The Portuguese continued fighting for
many days in the hope that they might find some opportunity
of selling their goods, but as none offered itself they decided
to depart. The captains of the Chinese squadron on hearing
of this sent a messenger secretly one night, saying that if they
would give them something they might go on trading. The
Portuguese, delighted at this message, sent a rich present, after
which there was no difficulty in selling and buying goods.
This happened in 1548; the following year the vigilance of
the squadron was more strict. With all their care however
By this the author means territorial jurisdiction, the right which the
Chinese always contested with the Portuguese.
This clandestine trading of the Portuguese is very similar to what
happened in this century before the Treaties were concluded, when the opium
traffic was carried on secretly by armed vessels called gun-brigs, which used
to land their cargoes among the islands of the southern coast where their
native accomplices were ready to receive them. Namoa Island, I believe,
was a favourite spot for such rendezvous,

64
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
they could not prevent, among the chain of islands that line
the coast of China, some merchandise from being smuggled
on board the Portuguese vessels. It was not sufficient
however to load the ships for their return voyage, nor had all
the cargo they had brought been sold, so it was agreed two
vessels with 30 Portuguese should remain to dispose of the
unsold goods. The Chinese, by a clever stratagem, succeeded in
seizing these ships; they provoked the Portuguese until they
came on shore to fight, and the fleet that was hidden behind a
headland then swooped down on the defenceless vessels. The
Portuguese on land, deprived of their means of escape, were
made prisoners. The Mandarin who had commanded this
attack, proud of his victory, determined to get all the glory he
could out of it, and devised a still more brilliant scheme. He
dressed up four of the Portuguese with long gowns, night-
shirts and caps, and declared they were Kings of Malacca.
Four large flags with their names were carried in front
of them, and whenever he entered a village or town there
was a great noise and flourish of trumpets, and criers
proclaimed the great victory of the Mandarin over four Kings
of Malacca. This farce was kept up a long time, but, as to
keep the truth secret he had to kill all the Chinese who
accompanied the Portuguese, the relations of the murdered
men made such a clamour that a special enquiry was made.
After much difficulty, because the Portuguese could not
understand, nor be understood by the enquiring officials, and
the only interpreter for a long time was bribed to falsify their
statements by the guilty Mandarin, the fraud was discovered
and the greater part of the Portuguese regained their liberty.
Those who had not been made to represent the part of Kings
of Malacca had been dragged about in hen-coops (cages) with
only their heads out, and were obliged even to eat and drink
in that uncomfortable position.25
25 Even in this century foreigners have been carried about and exposed to
the public gaze in cages,

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
65
The above account from da Cruz shows us that the
Portuguese in the first half of the 16th century carried on
their trade in much the same way as other foreigners did
in the same portion of the present century. It seems to
indicate also that the Portuguese had established near Ningpo
something like what we should call a settlement.
F. M. Pinto goes much farther and describes Portuguese
Liampoo in glowing terms. He says there were 3,000 people
in it, among which 1,200 Portuguese; that 300 were married
to Portuguese and half-caste wives; that there were more than
1,000 houses, some of which cost 3,000 or 4,000 crusados, 26
seven or eight churches, and two hospitals on which they spent
every year 30,000 crusados. Japan had only been discovered
two years, and Liampoo monopolised the trade with that
country, which was so profitable that money employed in it
was doubled three or four times. He estimates the trade of
the place at three millions of gold.27 A regular administration
was established, and he gives the titles of a lot of officials.
The Portuguese were so independent that F. M. Pinto is
astonished and remarks that the public scriveners in their acts
used to write "and I so and so, public notary in this city of
Liampoo, in the name of the King our Lord," just as if they
were living between Santarem and Lisbon. If F. M. Pinto's
description is correct, Liampoo must have been the Shanghai
of the 16th century. In fact, he says it was considered a
more noble and wealthy place than any in India or all Asia.
Now all this, according to him, was wiped out by the Chinese
in five hours. Before discussing this subject let us see how
he got his personal knowledge of the place.
After the burning of Nonday, A. de Faria and his Chinese
ally Quiay Panjão arrived at two islands which were then
26 F. M. Pinto makes the crusado equal to two-thirds of the tael.
He means of crusados, as appears from other places,-and would be
equal to 2 million taels.
9

66
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
called the Gates of Liampoo. They did not wish to go direct
to the Portuguese settlement, because if their piratical attack
on Nonday was generally known, their presence there might
compromise the safety of their countrymen. He describes the
islands as well-wooded, distant from each other two musket-
shots, with a depth of water of twenty to twenty-five fathoms
and good anchorages between them; they were three leagues
from the Portuguese settlement. This description corresponds
very well to the islands forming Blackwall Channel, and we
might take the settlement to have been at Chinhai.28 Later
on F. M. Pinto says that the Chinese town (probably Ningpo)
was seven leagues from the settlement. To make this agree
with Chinhai we should have to make the leagues shorter than
what we have assumed them for the distance from Blackwall
Channel, but probably the Portuguese knew the distance from
Ningpo very imperfectly. A. de Faria sent at once the two
merchants from Liampoo who had been robbed by Coja Acem,
to report his arrival to their fellow-citizens, and declare that
he would go and winter elsewhere if his presence should
injure them. The merchants of Liampoo were touched at
this considerateness, and being very grateful to A. de Faria for
all he had done in clearing the sea of so many of their piratical
enemies, they prepared for him a magnificent reception.
As for his alarm about the Nonday affair, they told him not
to trouble himself about such a small matter, as China was
then in such a confusion that even the burning of a large place
like Canton would attract little notice. F. M. Pinto then
describes the intestine troubles of China on account of the
death of the Emperor.29
The reception of A. de Faria in Liampoo was most
gorgeous, crowds of boats with musical instruments came to
A Portuguese resident has told me that one can still see the arms of
Portugal on a gate of Chinhai.
"This is another error; Chia-ching did not die in 1541 but in 1567.

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA
67
meet him, and the shipping in port (twenty-six ships, eighty
junks and many more smaller vessels) was all decked out
with green branches and festive arches. When he landed
they made him a speech praising his heroic deeds and
declaring he was greater than Alexander, Hannibal and Julius
Cæsar. On his way to the Church they erected a wooden
tower with lifelike figures to represent the heroic action by
which Faria's ancestors had won their armorial bearings.
In church the whole sermon also ran on his exploits, and
when the preacher was told that he exaggerated things a little
he said: I speak true, because A. de Faria has saved me
7,000 crusados which that dog of Coja Acem had robbed from
the vessel which we sent to India.
The narration of all this splendial reception is prefaced by
the remark that the author had witnessed the destruction of
the whole settlement, and he adds the sad sentence on the
uncertainty of things in China which I have chosen as the
motto of this paper. It is strange that though he says he was
an eye-witness of the disastrous end of this flourishing place,
and he describes minutely so many other of his personal
adventures, he gives us no particulars of what he was doing
on that occasion. After five months residence in Liampoo
he accompanies A. de Faria in another wild expedition to
plunder seventeen tombs of the Kings of China in the island
of Calepluy, which Similau, a Chinese pirate, had said were
full of gold which could be easily carried off in their ships.
They leave on the 14th May 1542, and after many disasters
and shipwrecks, after F. M. Pinto has been in captivity near
the Great Wall and has been over to Japan, he returns again
to Liampoo and leaves it without saying anything about its
destruction. It is only more than fifteen years after that
time, at the end of his book, while he is describing the
flourishing state of Macao, that he reverts to the subject as a
moral lesson to those who might feel too confident in their

68
EARLY PORTUGUESE COMMERCE
new settlement at Macao. Then he says again that he was an
eye-witness to the total destruction of the place, and he says it
happened in 1542. Now this is impossible for many reasons.
In the beginning of 1542 he was enjoying himself at Liampoo
with bull-fights and hunting, and the rest of the year, at least,
must have been taken up by his long voyage north as far as
49° latitude, by his captivity, and by his voyages to Japan.
Besides, by the passages of Father Da Cruz it seems that the
Portuguese were still at Liampoo as late as 1548. As the
foundation of the whole story is doubtful, I think it needless
to give the circumstantial account of the causes that led to
the disaster; for the same reason I say nothing about the
destruction of the Portuguese at Chincheo.
Though we cannot believe that F. M. Pinto was present at
the burning of the Portuguese settlement at Liampoo, nor
accept his version of it, yet it looks likely that there may be
some kernel of truth in it. Da Cruz says that a fleet was
sent in 1548 to drive away the Portuguese, and probably
later on they achieved their purpose. It was quite sufficient to
stop trade to render the place an undesirable residence to the
merchants, and we may believe that though there was some
bloodshed no such carnage took place as Pinto wishes us to
believe. As we know that the Mandarins ageed to concentrate
foreign trade in 1554 at Lampacao and in 1557 at Macao, it is
probable that the Portuguese were driven away from Liampoo
and Chincheo some time before these dates. Such events
would cause sensation among the traders and adventurers of
the Far East, and F. M. Pinto felt probably that he must be
present at such an important event, and therefore assigns it to
the year 1542, when he was so long at Liampoo. It would
not do for him to miss such an adventure, and he worked up a
dramatical description of the catastrophe.
The adventures of F. M. Pinto, marvellous as some of them
are, must be considered to have generally a small substratum

AND SETTLEMENTS IN CHINA.
69
of truth and to be based, if not on what he saw or did, on what
he heard others had seen or done. Taken in such a light he
gives us a picturesque view of the life of those times, and if
we reflect we shall find that in most cases we can find a
modern parallel to all he describes. Even the last mad
enterprise of A. de Faria, which cost him his life-his
expedition to rifle the tombs of the Emperors of China-has
something to match it in our times, for not many years ago
here in Shanghai, at the instigation of pious missionaries,
with the assistance of princely hongs, OPPERT fitted out his
expedition to rob the tombs of the Kings of Corea.