MILITANT SPIRIT OF THE BUDDHIST CLERGY
IN
CHINA.
BY J. J. M. DE GROOT, PH.D.
It is a well-known fact that the first of all the command-
ments of the Buddhist creed is "Thou shalt not kill," and this
has always stood at the head of the precepts of the Buddhist
code in China, ever since its introduction into the empire.
Many of our readers will therefore be surprised to learn, that
Chinese books contain many passages relating to Buddhist
monks who freely indulged in carnage and butchery and took
an active part in military expeditions of every description,
thus leaving no room for doubt that warfare was an integral
part of their religious life for centuries.
This interesting phenomenon, which seems to have hitherto
escaped the attention of sinologists, will be made a subject
of close examination in the present paper. In the first place,
we propose to throw light upon it by giving, in chronological
order, a series of extracts which describe such Buddhistic feats
of arms, all obtained from the best historical authorities, and
subsequently to endeavour to account for the same by consulting
the leading code of the laws of the Church. We do not doubt
that the matter will be found highly instructive as illus-
trative of the spirit of the Church during many centuries in
the Middle Kingdom.
It is recorded in
the emperor
the History of the Wei Dynasty that
Hiao-wu, who ascended the throne of the
northern part of the empire in the year of our Lord 532, had

MILITANT SPIRIT OF THE BUDDHIST CLERGY, ETC. 109
in his military retinue the General Karmadana
Hwui-chen, who carried on his back the Great Seal and in
his hand a sword 1. Chapter 213 of
the New History
the Older
Yuen-tsing,
of the Thang Dynasty, and chapter 124 of
History of this house, narrate the story of
a Buddhist priest of Mount Sung in Honan, who, though
an octogenarian, was at the head of a mutiny in 809 and, as
such, was made a prisoner after an unsuccessful attack on the
town of Loh-yang. Condemned to have his foot chopped off,
he said in a tone of contempt to the executioner, who could not
get his sword through the ankle-bone: "He can not cut off a
leg, and yet he is called a strong fellow." Then putting the
limb in a better position himself, the work was done.
The
Tuh-sheng-tsah-chi relates in its first
chapter: "The Yuen-thung convent of the Lu mountains is
"situated at the foot of the Peak of the Horse's-ear, and is
"a renowned Chaitya on the left bank of the Yangtsze.
During the Southern Thang dynasty it was endowed by the
"emperor with a thousand khing of land, so that the provision
"made for the support of several hundreds of disciples was
"
extremely abundant and plentiful. When the royal army
"crossed the stream, the monks, having formed themselves
"into a vanguard, advanced to prevent this; but the city of
"Kin-ling (Nanking) surrendering shortly afterwards, they
"retired. If Li Yuh had loved the people as much as he
"loved the monks, the people also would all have known how
"to make a grateful return to his dynasty."3
See, Jih-chi-luh chapter 29.
The last monarch of the Southern Thang dynasty. This dynasty was
annihilated in 975, when their capital (Nanking) was captured by the first
emperor of the house of Sung.
*廬山圓通寺在馬耳峯下江左之名刹也,南唐
時賜田千頃,其徒數百眾養之極其豐厚。王師渡
江寺僧相率為前鋒以杭未幾金陵城陷,其眾乃
遁去。使若李煜愛民如則其民亦皆知報國也

110
MILITANT SPIRIT OF THE
It is especially in the first half of the twelfth century, when
the northern part of the empire was conquered by the Kin
Tartars and lost to the Sung Dynasty, that we see Buddhist
monks appear as combatants. The 362nd chapter of
the History of the Sung dynasty introduces us to a military
priest 趙宗印 Chao Tsong-yin, appointed 節制軍馬
Commander-in-chief of the infantry and cavalry in a
campaign against the Kin Tartars; collecting Buddhist
monks he formed a corps known as 以儈為一軍號
the squadron of victorious monks.
At the end
"The monk
abbot in the
of chapter 455 of the same work we read:
"Chen-pao was a native of Tai-cheu and an
"Wu-tai monastery in the Shansi mountains. During the
"troubles of the Tsing-khang period (A.D. 1126) he practised
"military manoeuvres in the mountains with his disciples.
"The emperor Khin-tsung sent for him, engaged him in
"a conversation in a side-hall, and showed him special
"favour by bestowing rich presents upon him. Returning
"to his mountains, Chen-pao collected more troops to
"assist in subduing the enemy. The district was without
"a governor,
the enemy advanced in countless numbers;
"for days and nights he repelled them, but finally he
"could make head against them no longer. Convent and
"cells were reduced to ashes. The chieftain of the enemy
"issued orders for Chen-pao to be caught alive. Brought
"before this chief, he contradicted him bluntly showing no
"signs of faint-heartedness; and still the astonished leader
"could not make up his mind to put him to death. By the
"intermediation of the prefect Liu Tao he tried in a hundred
"ways to persuade him to espouse the cause of the rebels,
"but Chen-pao turned a deaf ear to him, and said: 'Our law
"forbids us to betray our trust; I have promised the emperor
"of the Sung dynasty to die for him; how can I violate

“my promise?,
sword."4
BUDDHIST CLERGY IN CHINA.
111
Cheerfully he suffered death by the
In chapter 401 of the History of the Sung Dynasty we
have the following episode, dating from 1160, and relating to
the same struggle between the houses of Sung and Kin.
"At
“ the death of Liang, a military chieftain of the Kin dynasty,
“the brave men of Chung-yuen rose to a man. Keng King
"levied troops in Shantung, and Sin Khi-tsih advised him
"to firmly resolve on an expedition southwards. The Buddhist
“monk E-twan was fond of speaking about military matters,
“and Khi-tsih had associated much with him in his leisure-
“hours. During the latter's stay in the army of Keng King,
"E-twan raised over a thousand men. One night he stole the
“ seals and fled. Keng King, mad with rage, wanted to put
“Khi-tsih to death, but the latter said: 'Allow me a delay
“ of three days; if within that time I do not catch him, I will
"forthwith consent to die.' Calculating that the monk would
undoubtedly hasten to the Commander-in-chief of the Kin
"in order to tell him stories both false and true, he pursued
“him post-haste, and having overtaken him, he parted his
"head from his trunk, and then returned to report what he
"had done."5
"
*僭眞寰代州人,為五代山正。靖康之擾與
其他習武事於山中。欽宗召對便殿賚隆耨。
眞實還山,盆聚兵助討。州不守敵眾大至晝夜
拒之力不敵。舍畫焚。下令生致眞寶至則
抗詞無撓異之不忍殺也,使郡守匋誘勸
百力,終不願。且日吾法中有口回之罪,吾旣許
宋皇帝以死當妄言也。 怡然受戮
5
金主亮死中原豪傑並起。耿京聚兵山東,辛
楽疾卽勸京決策南向。僑義端者談兵, 棄疾
間與之遊,及在京軍中義端亦聚眾千餘｡義端
夕竊印以逃。京大怒,欲乘疾,乘疾日,匈我
日期不獲就死未晚揣必以虛實奔告金帥,急
追獲之,楽疾斬其首歸報。

112
MILITANT SPIRIT OF THE
In chapter 455 of the History of the Sung Dynasty we
read: "Muh Kien-chi was a Buddhist monk from E-hing in
"Shang-cheu. In the first year of the Teh-yin period (A.D.
"1275) he raised a body of volunteers to keep the country-
"people under restraint; the emperor thereupon appointed
"him governor of Lih-yang. In the winter of the same year
"he perished on the battle-field, and the title Grandee of
"Military Merit was conferred upon
him. The monks of
Man-ngan also levied troops at that time, and bore as they
" marched banners with inscriptions of this tenor: 'We
"subdue the Maras,' and 'In times of danger we act the
"
"
'part of military leaders, but when the difficulties have been
"settled, we become monks again.' In course of time they
"too were defeated and killed." 6
The military spirit was still in full vigour with the sons of
Buddha during the Ming dynasty. "In the Kia-tsing period
"(1522-1567) the dignity of general was conferred upon
"Yueh-khung, a monk of Shao-lin (Honan province). When
"Man Piao called warriors into the field to make head against
"the Japanese in Sung-kiang, over thirty of his disciples
"formed themselves into a squadron, and killed a great many
"Japanese with iron clubs. They all perished on the battle-
"field." That the monks of that same Shao-lin convent
have been long famous for their dexterity in the noble
art of fencing, is obvious from the fact that, already prior
to the seventeenth century, there existed a book entitled
Fencing Manual of Shao-lin. The author was one
莫謙之常州宜興人也。德祐元年斜合義士
捍禦鄉閭,詔為溧陽尉。是冬沒于戰陳。贈武功
大夫。時萬安亦起兵,舉旗日降魔,又曰, 時危
聊作將,事定復為旋亦敗死。
【嘉靖中少林僧月空受都督,萬表檄禦倭於松
江,其徒三十餘人自為部伍,持鐵棒擊殺倭甚
-Jih-chi-luh, chapter 29.

BUDDHIST CLERGY IN CHINA.
8
113
Wu Yü-chang. Finally, to quote chapter 292 of
the History of the Ming Dynasty:-"Shi Ki-yen, a
"kü-jin of the Ch'ung-chêng period (1628) was transferred
"as Governor to Shen-cheu (Honan province). A rebellion
"broke out. Sacrificing his private means he raised troops,
"and intrusted the Buddhist monks of Shao-shih with the
"work of drilling them."
So far for the bare historical facts. No doubt many more
of the kind are on record, and a much larger number still,
never committed to paper, are for ever buried in the dark
womb of oblivion. How, now to account for the martial
conduct of a monkish community, which at first sight is
entirely incompatible with the spirit of their creed, the very
first and most holy commandment of which strictly forbids
the shedding of blood, even of the smallest animal?
It is most natural to look for a solution of this question
in the books of law of the Church itself. If you visit a
monastery in the empire, and ask the inmates which are the
precepts on which they frame their religious conduct, in
order to insure advancement on the way to salvation and
final deliverance, the first answer always is that they chiefly
have regard to one book of commandments only, viz. the
*Fan-mang-king or "Sutra of Brahma's Net."
Whoever, it is said in theory, conforms himself accurately
to the ten principal and the forty-eight minor commandments
laid down in this little book, he shall naturally become a
bodhisatwa, that is to say, a member of the class of beings
which is second to Buddha alone. For according to the
doctrines of the Mahâyâna school, a school that has always
been preponderant in China, the bodhisatwas enjoy the highest
8 WYLIE, Notes on Chinese Literature, page 124.
『史記言崇祯中舉人,還知陜州,當街,記
言出私財募士,聘少室訓練之.
15

114
MILITANT SPIRIT OF THE
state of bliss accessible to them, a state lying on the very
verge of buddhaship.
The Fan-mang-king, or Brahma-jala-sútra, has always pre-
ponderated in China as the chief code of law of the Mahâyâna
school. Tradition uniformly attributes its introduction into
the empire to Kumaradjiwa. Relying, it appears, on the sole
authority of Sang-Chao, a contemporary monk of great
ability and learning, the authorities all assert also, that the
great apostle drew it from a much larger Sanskrit work of the
same name, containing no less than 112 chapters; the rest
were never put into a Chinese garb at all, nor has the
original work ever been unearthed by European Indianists.
Mr. GRIMBLOT has, indeed, published a "Brahma-jâla-sutra"
amongst his "Sept Suttas Pâlis" [Paris 1876]; but this
work turns out, on close examination, to have nothing in
common with our Chinese Mahâyâna code, except the title.
We have found the Chinese version of GRIMBLOT'S Pâli text
in the 14th chapter of the Dirghagama
sútra, under the title Sutra of Brahma's Move-
ments, which would in Sanskrit be "Brahma-jâla-sûtra." 10
Turning over the pages of the Fan-mang-king we forthwith
fall in with the following leading commandment, placed at
the very head of the whole series of fifty-eight:-
"Or
"Buddha said: If a child of Buddha kills, or tells another
"to kill, or provides another person with the means of killing,
expresses himself in terms of praise of a murder, or feels
delight at seeing the perpetration of a murder ;-further, if
"he kills by means of spells, imprecations or incantations, or
"is the cause or occasion, the means or instrument of a
"murder (in any of these cases he is pârâjita). Anything
"endowed with life, thou shalt not wilfully kill. Indeed, a
10 A complete translation of the Fan-mang-king, prepared by us, with an
elaborate sketch of its influence on the church and the laity, is now going
through the press, and will appear next year in the Transactions of the
Royal Academy of Sciences at Amsterdam.

BUDDHIST CLERGY IN OHINA.
115
"bodhisatwa should awake in himself everlasting feelings of
"pity and commiseration, and, with submissive and obedient
"heart, avail himself of every fit occasion to save and protect
"all living beings; but if, on the other hand, he should give
"freedom to himself to murder with an easy mind a being
"endowed with life, it is a bodhisatwa's crime entailing
"párájita."
"11
Parajita means "expulsion," to wit, from the Sangha, or
the communion of saints embracing all human beings who
aspire to the highest holiness, with the dewas, bodhisatwas
and Buddhas. Any one who violates one of the first ten
commandments of the Fan-mang-king is párájita, i.e. "he
is cast out beyond the limits of the sea of the Buddhas" (
U), he loses all prospect of ever being saved, and
is reduced to one of the three lower paths of transmigration,
which embrace the infernal beings, the hungry ghosts (prétas),
and the animals.
Around the above highest commandment of the Church
are grouped a series of others, likewise tending to prevent
destruction of life. The 3rd of the minor commandments
interdicts the use of all animal food; the 12th prohibits
dealing in cattle; the 32nd keeping dogs or cats, as these
animals are always seeking to destroy rats. Possessing or
selling sharp weapons, nets, or snares is forbidden in Nos. 10
and 32. The 33rd commandment does not even allow a
child of Buddha to look at armies, regiments, warriors,
commanders, robbers, or rebels, and the 11th runs thus:-
"If thou art a son of Buddha, thou shalt not, for the sake
"of gain or food, or out of depravity, carry messages for a
11
佛言,若佛子,若自殺,教人殺,方便殺,讚歎
殺,見作隨喜,乃至殺,殺因,殺,殺法殺業,
乃至一切有命者不得故,是菩薩應起常住慈
悲心,孝顺心,方便救一切眾生,而反自恣心
快意殺生者,是菩薩波羅夷罪.

116
MILITANT SPIRIT OF THE
"state. When armies and regiments meet, and troops are
« raised to fight against one another, immense numbers of
"living beings are slaughtered; hence a bodhisatwa is not
"even allowed to set foot in an army, neither to move to
"and fro between armies-how much the more is he then
"forbidden to rebel against the state. He who wilfully does
"so commits a defiling sin of the lesser category "1
" 12-that
is to say, a sin of a deep dye, but not entailing parajita.
Having thus shown that the supreme lex scripta of the
Buddhist code is as explicit in forbidding bloodshed and
warfare as it could possibly be, we have now to bring forward
evidence that there are also plenty of elements in it to prompt
the clergy at any time to occupy themselves with the bloody
work of arms. We have such an element in the very first
instance in the general spirit of devotion to all living beings
which reigns supreme in the Mahâyâna community, and is
brought to the front on every page, nay, in every line of the
Fan-mang-king; in fact, if we were to pass in review all the
passages referring to it, it would be necessary to translate the
whole 58 articles.
Though forbidding, on one hand, the bearing of arms and
the shedding of blood, that spirit of devotion culminated, on
the other hand, in peremptory commands to save all living
beings, even animals, from death, and to take all the misery,
that could befall them, upon one's self. "If thou art a
"child of Buddha," so says the 20th commandment, "then
"perform the work of liberating living beings for the
"sake of commiseration. Any male person is thy father, any
"female person thy mother-in fact there is nobody from
"whom thou hast not received thy life in the course of the
12 若佛子不得為利養心故通國使命,軍陳合
會,興師相伐,殺無量眾生,而菩薩尙不得入軍
中往來,况故作國賊,若故作者犯輕垢罪.

BUDDHIST CLERGY IN CHINA.
117
"successive periods of existence thou hast passed through.
"All living beings of the six paths of transmigration 13 being
"thus thy parents, thou murderest thy own father and mother
"if thou killest or eatest any of them, and also thy ownself of
"former times. Therefore, always perform acts of saving
"life, as receiving life through a continuous chain of existences
"is the everlasting law. Also, exhort others to save living
"beings from death; and when thou seest a person of this
"world attempt to murder an animal, then thou shalt by all
means save and protect it, and deliver it from its misery and
"distress." 14
"
This article is also important as giving an insight into the
ideas underlying the Buddhist doctrine of respect for life,
and affords the whole clue to the solution of the question
under discussion. Bearing in mind that in the Flowery
Kingdom, as amongst savage and semi-savage peoples in general,
warfare has always been simply the greatest destruction of
human lives imaginable, no exceptions being made for either
sex or age; and considering moreover that, in times of war,
no third alternative is left the people, they must either suffer
death by the sword or death by starvation in a country com-
pletely laid waste, it can not surprise us to see Buddhist zealots,
with the said article of their law in their recollection, unite
in regular bands to check the raids of rebels and stay the
shedding of blood by keeping them beyond the borders of
their parish. It could not occur to them that the prohibitions
against the carrying of arms were made in order to neutralize
13 Dêwas, men, asûras, infernal beings, prêtas, and animals.
14
若佛子, 以慈心故行放生業。一切男子是我
父一切女人是我母,我生生無不從之受生,故六
道眾生皆是我父母,而殺而食者卽殺我父母,亦
殺我故身。故常行放生生生受生常佳之法。教
放生,若見世人畜生時,方便救護,解其
苦難

118
MILITANT SPIRIT OF THE
that highest commandment of the law to save life on all
occasions, and by all possible means. Where thousands of
innocent people could be saved from certain destruction by
killing a comparatively small number of slaughtering enemies,
the question how to interpret the law would not trouble their
minds very long. Moreover, had not the great Indra, the
highest dewa of their Church, set an example by destroying
numberless hosts of maras, those sworn enemies of universal
peace and order, who were continually collecting together to
harass Dewas, men and Buddhas in endless conflicts?
So we see, how little the Buddhist monks cared for the
letter of their law, and how much stress, on the contrary, they
laid on its spirit. But there were more commandments in
their religious code prompting them to place their own lives
at stake in order to save those of others: "A bodhisatwa
"must take upon himself all outrage and injury that could be-
"fall any living being whatsover; the evil he meets he must
"himself cheerfully bear, the good he must resign for the benefit
"of others." 15 They may even have been stirred up many a
time to the fanatical throwing away of their lives in defence
of the hearths and lives of their parishioners by the following
commandment (No. 16), embodying the highest ideal of self-
sacrifice for the sake of others: "Even to starved tigers,
"wolves and lions, and to the whole host of hungry ghosts
"thou shalt entirely throw thy own body, flesh, hands and
"feet, in order to feed and nourish them." 16
Two virtues ever stood foremost in China amongst all ethical
principles, viz. hiao and shun, or implicit submission,
respect and obedience to all persons in authority, from the
15菩薩應代一切眾生受加毁辱,恶事向自己, 好
-the seventh great commandment.
16 乃至餓虎狼師子一切餓鬼悉應捨身肉手足
而供養之

BUDDHIST CLERGY IN CHINA.
119
emperor down to parents and teachers. The Fan-mang-king
also lays the utmost stress upon these, preaching them with
great emphasis over and over again on every page. Conse-
quently, it is not to be wondered at that the book in the hands
of the votaries of the Buddhist law should have played
the part of a magnifying glass which caused the two
ancient native virtues to swell into a peremptory order to
support the throne of the father and mother of the realm, even
at the cost of their blood and lives. No doubt we have here
one of the manifold reasons why Buddhism has found very
great favour in the eyes of many emperors, and why imperial
donations of large tracts of land to monasteries and convents
are frequently recorded in the annals of the empire. Indeed,
many a statesman must have naturally considered it an act of
political foresight to create all over the realm powerful settle-
ments of loyal subjects, which, in times of danger, could be
quickly turned into strongholds, garrisoned with soldiers
entirely devoted to the imperial cause, and resolved at all times
to sacrifice their lives on patriotic grounds. It might, of
course, occur to those ecclesiastical warriors in some single
instances to enlist under the banners of the opposite party;
but in times of rebellion there is sure to be some diversity
of opinion on the question who is the lawful heir to the
throne.
A last reason for the warlike behaviour of Buddhist monks
we see in an imperative order of the Fan-mang-king to all
devoted Buddhists to afford protection to the Sam-Pao, or
the triad embracing the Buddha, the Law and the Priesthood.
No one, says the book, can ever hope for the Bodhisatwa
dignity, unless he conform in every respect to this most holy
duty of all Buddha's children. Now, defending the Sam-Pao
is identical with protecting monasteries and sanctuaries
against hordes of invaders and rebels, who, as is fully proved
by the history of all periods, have never manifested one whit

120
MILITANT SPIRIT OF THE BUDDHIST CLERGY, ETC.
more clemency for religious than for secular buildings.
Indeed, when a convent is destroyed, the Buddha to whom
it was dedicated comes to grief, because his worship is sud-
denly brought to an end; the Dharma suffers also because
preaching and printing tracts come to a violent standstill;
and, finally, the Sangha have a very bad time of it, owing
to their being bereft of the home which not only afforded
them food, raiment and shelter, but also the opportunity to
work themselves up to perfection and salvation.