A COMPARATIVE TABLE
OF THE
ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
BY T. W. KINGSMILL.
Astronomical history may be said to have had its beginning
about the year 2150 B.C. when the astronomers of Chaldea
substituted solar for lunar observations and marked out the
zodiac into the twelve constellations which with little change
still hold sway. Prior to the introduction of the reform the
moon had kept guard over the calendar, and the commence-
ment of the year was connected with the position of the
full moon in the zodiacal asterisms. Owing however to
the fact that the anomalistic month, the period in which
the moon makes the complete circuit of the ecliptic, was not
commensurate with any number of solar days, being about
an hour and eighteen minutes above twenty-seven and a-
half days, a difficulty was always experienced in the accurate
division of these asterisms, which were made to vary from
twenty-seven to twenty-eight. Gradually the latter number
seemed generally to have prevailed, though the Indians seem
frequently to have preferred the lower number twenty-seven.
This however is of little consequence, as the principal asterisms
are sufficiently well marked in all. There seem to be evidences
of a former very wide extension of the division of the lunar
zodiac. In China the suk or lunar stations have held
their own in popular language to the present day. Indian
astronomy hands down their history from very early times,

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
45
and the Bundahesh tells of their existence in ancient Persia.
In Arabia they have come down as the twenty eight manâzils,
and the mazzaroth of the books of Job and II Kings have
by competent authorities been interpreted to indicate their
extension into ancient Chaldea and Palestine. We
may there-
fore reject as frivolous the strife between authors as to their
birthplace, and accept them as in the widest sense of the
term Asiatic, and date back their origin to the prehistoric
tribes of Central Asia before the great dispersal of the
Aryans.
There are evidences that the older astronomy did not yield
without a struggle to its more modern rival. As in Europe
in the sixteenth century, the illiterate crowd demanded back
the ten days which they alleged had been stolen from them
by the reform of the calendar, so we find in India that the
substitution of the constellations in conjunction for those in
opposition was held to be an interference with the course
of the heavenly bodies. Thus we learn that when Balarama,
the Indian Hercules, was about to be born to Vasudeva of
his wife Devakî (the stars in the right leg of Bootes) the
king of Mathurâ, who had been warned that a son of hers
would kill him and overthrow his kingdom, seized the pair,
put to death their six children already born (the months)
and imprisoned Devakî, waiting for its birth to kill the yet
unborn child. By divine agency the child was transferred
to the womb of his other wife Rohinî, who was still at liberty
and so escaped destruction. A comparison with the list of
Chinese asterisms, where f Kioh (Spica) in conjunction with
Devakî is still the first asterism marking the vernal equinox,
throws light on the astronomical character of the myth, which
however from its mention of Devakî can hardly be older
than the second century B.C.
Fragments of similar myths remain here and there in
Chinese lore. Thus the Shu king [III. 1. "Songs of the Five

46
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
Children"] tells us how T'ai k'ang went to hunt to the south
of the Loh, whence for a space of some ten decades (of days)
he had not returned. Coming back to the Ho he finds his
passage threatened by the great hunter I, prince of Kiung
(the Empyrean), who dethrones him and seizes the government,
which he holds for twenty-seven years. The story is easily
explained. The sun (T'ai k'ang) at the autumnal equinoxes
crosses the equator and wanders amongst the southern
constellations; coming back at the equinox he finds the great
hunter Orion pointing his bow at the equinox (at about 1600
B.C. in R.A. 3. h.) The rule of the usurper for twenty-seven
years does not appear in the Shu king, it refers plainly to
the twenty-seven (or twenty-eight) suk, i.e. a whole solar
year till the next vernal equinox. I is in Chinese lore the
archer
par
excellence who always draws his bow to the full
and will not change his method. He appears in connection
with the fabulous emperor Kuh, and in the myth of Yao
we learn he shot arrows into the air to deliver the moon
during her eclipse.
As the Greeks, following the Babylonian epic of Gisdhubar,
tried to make history out of the astronomical legend of
Hercules and his twelve Labours, founded on the progress
of the sun through the twelve zodiacal signs, it is not
surprising that we find similar myths wrought into the
so-called early history of China. Thus we learn that the
especial solar hero of China, the great Wu shun, had to undergo
his trial of twenty-eight years before attaining the rank of
Ti, going in fact through the twenty-eight zodiacal asterisms.
In the spring (the second month) we find him at the eastern
Yok (T'ai tsung) the vernal equinox, represented by the
T'ai shan on earth as by Aldebaran in the heavens. In
summer (the fifth month) we find him at the southern Yok
(the solstice), represented below by the Hwang shan, above
by Regulus. In autumn (the eighth month) he gains the

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
47
western Yok, on earth the Hwa shan in Shensi, above Antares,
the autumnal equinox, while in mid-winter he attains to
the extreme northern limit, reaching in the eleventh month
the northern Yok, the winter solstice, on earth the Hang shan
in Shansi, and in heaven represented by the star Fomalhaut.
He it is who in Chinese lore instituted the twelve chow
divisions (of the zodiac), raising twelve mountains (the signs),
and demarcating them by J ch'ün (rills), their appointed
boundaries. However the myth gained its entrance into
China, whether directly from India, or more probably from
a common source north of the Himalayas, it cannot be
dissociated from the Indian myth of Vishnu, the two names
being in effect phonologically identical. The institution of
the twelve chow (from root dal, to divide) seems to show
that already the Babylonican division of the ecliptic had
penetrated to eastern Asia. In China, till the reorganisation
of the calendar under the Hans, it had never received much
popular sanction, and the older division has never been ousted
from the recollection of the people.
Sundry attempts founded on astronomical formulæ have at
various times been made to establish a chronology in China.
Some of these bear evident traces of their foreign origin, while
others are as evidently Chinese. The most popular makes the
state to have begun with ten dynasties, the united number
of whose reigns mounts up to 216, evidently related to the
number of minutes (21,600) in the great circle of the zodiac.
The ten dynastic periods must be referred to the same source
as the ten antediluvian kings of Berosus whose united reigns
amounted to 120 sari of 3,600 years or 432,000 years in all,
where the same number is repeated, or the ten antediluvian
patriarchs of Genesis v. whose united years, deducting the
overlap between the births, amounts to just 7,200 and is still
divisable by the ideal number 3,600. As no trace of these
computations are to be found in China prior to the Han

48
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
dynasty, during a portion of which (the reign of the Emperor
Wu) communication was fully established with the Parthian
state, which included a great part of Mesopotamia, there is no
difficulty in tracing their origin directly to the plains of the
Tigris and Euphrates. As we shall see later on, the medium
was Persia, and when in the year B.C. 105 the Emperor Han
Wu ti finally determined to begin a new cycle, it was to Persia
he looked for the annual title. He directed that the first day
of the eleventh moon should be observed as the beginning
of the new era to which he gave the name of T'ai ch'u (Grand
Beginning) and intended to substitute for the old cyclical
characters a series of names of foreign introduction. Other
sovereigns had previously attempted a reform, but had met with
so much opposition or been so busily engaged struggling for
existence that nothing could be done. From the times of
Li and Yü of the Chows (878 to 770 B.C.) no record had been
kept; the princes had never proclaimed the commencement of
the year, and the people were dispersed or killed at the
hands of the hostile tribes of the I and Tiks, so that no one
had any clue as to the course of time. In Siang Wang's
time three intercalary months were added in the one year
625 B.C., which the Tso chwen blames. Afterwards, in the time
of the Warring States, till Tsin attained to empire, affairs
were still worse. As no written record goes back beyond the
year 721 B.C., we may discard all attempts to found a chronology
antecedent to that date, a task which indeed Sz-ma Tsien
did not attempt, but it is evident that we cannot place any
reliance on the calendar even in the early portions of the
Ch'un ts'iu period, from the evident mistakes in the times of
the solar eclipses recorded, which have all the appearance of
having been calculated backwards from crude tables.
The records of even the Chow dynasty I have elsewhere
pointed out begin in myth, and the story of the destruction of
the earlier line and the removal of the capital from Shensi to

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
49
Honan is surrounded with a final coruscation which repeats
even to details the stories of the fall of the previous Hias and
Shangs. It and the fairy tales of the handsome Muh, of his
eight horses, his visit to the realms of Si wang mu (Sumêru),
and his feasting with the K'wenlun (Gandharvas), are a fit
sequel to the burst of myth with which the record opens, of the
Chinese Dioskuroi, Wu and Chow, and the battle against the
herdsmen on the field of Mukye, as the rising sun suffused
the sky with the bright colours of the dawn. The Chows
were in fact a myth-loving people, and their long journey
from the land of Pin to their final resting-place at Loh in
Honan constitutes an epic quite as fanciful and as interwoven
with nature myths as the Iliad itself. Many of these myths
I have at various times had the opportunity of investigating,
and the same features of reverence for the powers of nature,
and the habit more especially of clothing with human habili-
ments the movements of the celestial sphere, which has
prevailed with so many other nations, found here its fullest
development. To the euhemeristic character of the later
Chinese, who in perfect good faith adopted these myths and
sought to incorporate them into history, we owe their pre-
servation, and the critical mythologist can here and there pick
out of the purple stream a few relics of hard fact, or genuine
tradition which enables him to feel his way cautiously to the
consideration of the older condition of the Tien hia. From
earliest times the Chinese have had a lunar calendar, and
to the present day the division of the ecliptic into the twenty-
eight lunar mansions or suk (i.e. resting-places) prevails; it
is therefore by no means surprising to find that they have
entered largely into the so-called history of China. Above
I have referred to the case of Wu shun, for so rather than
Shun of Wu should the great Chinese solar hero be called, as
also to the case of T'ai k'ang and the hunter I, but it is in the
so-called dynasty of Shang or Yin, the one representing the
7

50
50
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
sun when above the equator prior to the time of leaving
the Ho, and being phonetically connected with shang
(upper), and the latter originally meaning deflected, bent,
indicating its position during the winter half of the year, that
the full development of the myth is to be found.
That the names of the so-called sovereigns of Shang and
Yin were really astronomical is a fact that has struck most
thoughtful critics. With the sole exception of T'ang, whose
name I shall explain further on, they are all compounded with
the calendaric stems, two of which only are absent; Kia and
Ting occur each six times; Kang, Jen and Yih each four;
while a single name is compounded respectively with Ki,
Jen and Wu. Tsu (a beginning), t'ai (great), and siao (small)
account for most of the prefixes, while lin and t'an are
evidently the different renderings of the same word. So
far as we know, the Chaldæans divided their
year, prior
to the introduction of the duodenary system, into ten parts,
and it is possible that some trace of this division may have
penetrated to China and resulted in the "ten stems." It must
however be remembered that in Rome, prior to the time of
King Numa, the year was said to have likewise been divided
into ten months, so that the resemblance does not necessitate
actual connexion. However it was, an old division of the year
and probably of the zodiac into ten parts prevailed widely
and reached as far as China. The archaic form of the words
used to denote the terms forbids any surmise as to their origin,
but they must have been in use long before the introduction
of the "twelve branches," whose Persian origin is clear.
attempt to effect a compromise between the decimal notation
and the twenty-eight lunar constellations probably resulted in
twenty-seven of the twenty-eight names handed down. The
key has however been lost, and the presumed length of the
reigns have been put down in arbitrary figures. The one
exception to the cycle name appearing in the list of asterisms
An

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
51
is that at the head-Tang ch'eng-which may be rendered
as T'ang the Completer, the keystone of the celestial arch,
completing the year. Accordingly we find T'ang surrounded.
with all the glories of the solar hero, reproducing exactly the
story of Ch'ang, otherwise Wan wang, the founder of the
Chows. The state is in darkness, Kih, the "Cruel" or
Kwei the last "stem" of the previous dynasty (or year)
had plunged it in anarchy; he engages the state in a contest
with the chief of fii Shi (Erelus) and the latter, to propitiate
him, gives him his daughter Mê hi (Megha, the Clouds).
The universe was disturbed; the earth shook; mountains were
moved; rivers dried up, while in the heaven itself two suns
fought for victory to show their detestation of his acts. Then
the people turned to Tang-but a disguised form of
or Yang the Glorious, the sun himself at whose rising
the darkness of winter is dispelled and the glad new year
begins. T'ang has for his minister Iyin, who is
appropriately a dweller in Sin, the "dawn land," for is
phonetically connected with Ushas and Aurora, both names of
the dawn. I yin had originally an initial S, which leads us to
identify him with the Surameya or Hermes of the west, an
identification well borne out by his frequent flittings from
T'ang to Kwei (light to darkness) and by his reported skill
in cookery, to which the legend says he owed his introduction
to Tang. Correcting the so-called chronology by the recur-
rence of the "stems," and revising in accordance with Mencius
the common allowance of thirty-three years to T'ai kia, we
get a length of 560 years, which is just twenty times twenty-
eight, and the lowest number which would permit of the two
systems being combined. This would agree with the crossing
of the Ho (the equator) by P'an kang, the equivalent of
Wei, the seventeenth suk, the autumnal equinox circiter
B.C. 1600 actually occurring with the full moon in that asterism.
The vernal equinox did, 600 B.C., correspond with a full moon

52
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
in Kang, the second of the asterisms, and the fact that we
must make T'ang to correspond with Kioh (Spica virginis),
which marks the beginning of the Chinese asterisms of the
accepted system, points to a late origin for the scheme, possibly
as late as 400 B.C.
More primitive in Chinese. lore is however the accepted
division of the zodiac into 28 suk or lunar stations correspond-
ing with the 28 Nakshatras or halting-places of the old
Indian Astronomy. The division, as we have seen, is of great
antiquity, as it is found not only amongst the Aryans of
northern India but amongst the Iranians, whence it spread
to the Arabs at a later period. The controversy has raged
violently as to whether its introduction is to be referred to
India or China, and like many other themes connected with
ethnology and comparative philology it has afforded a battle-
ground for French and German savants. The former, led by
BIOT, have generally asserted their Chinese origin; the latter,
under the dictatorship of WEBER, have as strongly supported
their Indian birth. Professor WHITNEY, on the part of American
orientalists, has been rather disposed to favour the Indianists,
and in the Journal of the American Oriental Society [vol. VIII,
1869] has given a review of the entire subject. Under the
auspices of the same Society the Rev. EBENEZER BURGESS in
1860 published a translation of the Surya-Siddhanta, the most
authoritative of the Indian works on the subject of the old
Indian Astronomy, and to this and Professor WHITNEY'S résumé
I am largely indebted.
It is fortunately not necessary to revive the question of the
Chinese or Indian origin of the asterisms, or to excite any fresh
enmity between the contending camps. Both are equally
right and equally wrong. The birth of the Nakshatras was
in fact prior to the dispersal of the eastern Aryas and Iranians.
Indians and Chinese owe their traditions to a common source
in Central Asia, possibly not far removed from the ancient

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
53
Baktria. Tradition tells us how at the early dawn of human
history Aryan tribes migrated across the Himalaya and Hindoo
Kush, following the valley of the great river; and settled in the
fertile lands of north-western India, bringing with them their
language and cult, which subsequently became paramount and
in greater or lesser purity extended over the entire of the
Peninsula. The traditions of the Iranians afford us a clue as
to the impelling cause of the movement, which will account
for many of the observed facts in the early history of the
Aryans. In the Zamyad Yasht the Zend-Avesta describes the
earthly paradise of Yima Kshaetra, where none of the evils
ordinarily incident to mankind were to be found. It was not
however to last, for Yima forgot his duties and the Azhi
Dahaka chased him from his kingdom and slew him. Tradition
never tires of the beauties of Airyana Vaejo; here was no cold,
no heat, no old age, no death till Yima's transgression brought
all the evils in its train, and winter and its concomitant ills of
cold, snow and frost came to render uninhabitable the once
happy land. Nor was the change of climate the only evil
that befel it; along with the cruel winter came the still more
ruthless invader the tyrant Zohak, as the Shahnameh calls him,
who after the death of Yima for a thousand years oppressed
the inhabitants till in turn Feridun, a descendant of his victim,
revenged his blood and locked up the tyrant in a mountain
cave in Demâvend. The story amidst a setting of myth
retains a genuine tradition. The ancestors of the eastern
Aryans dwelt in the heart of central Asia, in a pleasant
climate, happy and contented, and increased in number and
the arts of civilization. From a cosmical cause, probably con-
nected with the drying up of the old central seas, we know
from other sources that the climate of the entire of central Asia
has since the beginning of history, and probably for many
ages before, been undergoing a gradual desiccation. Chinese
tradition is here at one with Iranian and both are borne out

54
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
by the existence in the howling desert of ruins of once opulent
cities. Not only did the deterioration of climate affect the
districts inhabited by the Aryans, but it compelled the northern
Turkish tribes, once dwellers in the vast plains north of the
Altai, to break up their habitations and pour down on the
Aryan settlers, pushing them east, west and south. One
branch, as we have seen, crossed the Himalaya and Hindoo
Kush, carrying into India the benefits of civilisation. Chinese
tradition stored up in the Shi king and the pages of Mencius
concerns itself with the fortunes of yet another branch. At a
period of some seventeen centuries B.C. we find the ancestors
of those Chow tribes, who afterwards established the first empire
in China, laboriously moving east under the guidance of a
leader called [Shi, III. 2. vI] Kung liu, i.e. Kere daspa, and
taking up their abode in Pin, in old Chinese Fan or Van.
Whence they came or why they broke up their former homes
tradition tells us not. How long they remained there we know
not, but the end came at last. Mencius [I, Part II. chap. xv.]
tells us how the Tik, i.e. Turkish, barbarians came down on
the rising settlement. The inhabitants offered them tribute of
furs, but they would not desist; they gave them dogs and
horses, but to no effect; they offered cornelians and jade, but in
vain. Their king, Tai, called his elders together and told
them, "What these Tiks want in our territory; to save you
I will leave." He withdrew with a large portion of the tribe,
crossed the Liang shan, and took up his quarters at the foot
of Mount K'i, now the T'ien shan. Other fragments enable us
to identify the road taken as that subsequently traversed by
MARCO POLO, by CHARCHEN and LAKE LOB. At the former
the Shi king [III, 1. VII.] describes a battle the remembrance of
which lived long, for Tsin many hundreds of years afterward
still preserved the captured drums and coats of armour. At
Ki the fugitives had a temporary rest; they cut down the
forests and underwood which at that time occupied the land,

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
55
opened out roads and erected dwellings by the sides of the
How long they remained we
hear of them, under pressure
streams [Shi king, III, 1. m.]
are not told, but the next we
still, they are attacking the north-west of China. The myth of
T'ang is repeated. Chow sin, the last of Yin-Shang, is defeated
by the brothers Chow kung and Wan wang, and the dynasty
of Chow settles in Shensi, whence, like its congeners in north-
western India, it was destined to spread its cult, and partly its
language over what one day was to be the Empire of China.
More completely, because in smaller number, the race lost its
characteristics, being absorbed in the mass of aboriginal tribes;
and more completely in the process of assimilation the language
lost its external signs and dwindled by degrees into the
modern monosyllabic speech of China. So completely did the
intrusive races cut off the connection of the new settlers from
their ancient compatriots that the very name they loved to call
themselves by the "Aryan men"--became in the degraded
dialect of the new state Li-min, and in the course of time,
when the blood of the settlers had died out, was interpreted by
the race which had absorbed them as meaning the "black-haired
people." The twenty-eight lunar stations of the Chinese are
thus directly derived from the time when the ancestors of
the Vedic Indians, the Chows and the Iranians, lived in close
proximity to the site of the Airyano Vaejo, and from what
we shall be able to discover below it will be evident that the
connexion between the Chows and the Indian stem was
closer than that between them and the Iranic branch. This
approximation is evident in the changes of consonants
and vowels. Modern Chinese, though it has cast off all
inflexions, and for the most part resolved all dissyllabic words
into monosyllables, preserves in many cases the halves of the
divided word which it has converted into synonyms, but
which in the spoken language are generally found combined
to convey intelligbly the meaning to the ear.
Initial

56
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
consonants, when tenues, are generally preserved unchanged,
dentals, palatals, and latials being however largely confused;
mediæ are transferred to the lower tone series, and in the
majority of cases change into the corresponding explosive or
rather ultra-surd. R initial becomes or ng, r final ng or
n, or sometimes having first become is dropped after
lengthening the syllable. Velar sounds are preserved or change
into u, and the sibilated gutteral generally remains k but
sometimes becomes sh. Final consonants in the older dialects
remain, being generally represented by the tenuis of their
class. Notwithstanding the extreme variation to which the
language has submitted, these changes will be found to
prevail with great regularity in the older dialects, Cantonese
especially, which may be adopted as the key.
WEBER concludes that the Chinese asterisms must be of late
introduction, not earlier than the second or third century B.C.,
from the fact that the list as usually presented begins with
Spica. The series itself however presents evident traces of
an older origin, though the literature on the subject does not
extend beyond the Han dynasty. The Chinese never took
kindly to the solar zodiac, and most of their astronomy suffers
from a grand misunderstanding: by some extraordinary error
in the introduction of the zodiac they have contrived to
reverse the constellations so that the constellations said to
represent the months actually go backwards. Thus while
yu (yau) is made correctly to correspond with Taurus, its
successorsü (süt) goes backward to Aries, the two series
again crossing at mão in Scorpio. These discrepancies are
however numerous and mark plainly how little original there
is in Chinese astronomy.
As usually displayed by the Chinese then the circle of the
zodiac is divided into twenty-eight parts, marking roughly the
daily advance of the moon through the stars. From the
nature of the case the correspondence cannot be very accurate,

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
57
but still was sufficiently close to strike the early inhabitants
of mid-Asia. They also noticed that the position of the full
moon amongst the stars varied from month to month and
season to season; and hence before accurate observations were
made of the path of the sun, the moon answered not only as
a divider of months but also as an indicator of
years. Such
was the state of astronomy when the eastern Aryans, confining
the latter term to the Indo-Iranians and their congenors,
were dispossessed of their original home by the intrusive
Turkish tribes from the Trans-Altai. The following table
shows its connection with the Persian system :-
:-
Equivalent
Months.
Old Persian
(Bundahesh).
Parsi
(Le Normant).
12 Stems.
Chinese
Equi. Phon.
in Old
Language.
EQUIVALENT SIGNS.
By Chinese.
Correctly.
March
Fravardin
Farvardin
西 yau ûr
Taurus
Taurus
April
Ardavahist
Ardibihisht
sut ard
Aries
Gemini
May
Horvadad
Khordâd
June
Tir
Tir
喜 hai
子 tsze tar
ghur
Pisces
Cancer
Aquarius
Leo
July
Amerôdad
Murdâd
August Shatvairô
Shahrêvar
September Mitrô
Mihr
寅 yan
卯 mau mar
ch'au dhvar Capricornus Virgo
vir
Sagittarius Libra
Scorpio
Scorpio
October Âvân
Abân
shan? çar
Libra
Sagittarius
November Atarô
Adar
sze dar
Virgo
Capricornus
December Dîn
Dai
午,
January Vohúman
Bahman
wi
wu ? dhwa Leo
? vat
Aquarius
Cancer
Pisces
February Spendarmad Shpandarmâd shan sfar Gemini
Aries
THE ASTERISMS.
The new year beginning at the vernal equinox was naturally
then represented, not as in later times by the Pleiades but by
the stars in the forefront of Scorpio, the (Fang) of the
Chinese, the "Chamber" or, as we shall see later on, the Carcer,
called also the Ho (Fire) or Ta ho (Grand Fire), a name
transmitted from an earlier time when it referred to Antares.
8

58
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
As the leader of the old asterisms Fang is, according to the
Rev. Dr. CHALMERS, occasionally used instead of the more
frequent she or suk to denote as a general term the
individual asterisms. Fang being thus the representative of
the meaning, as she of the sound of the Sanscrit Kshayas (a
habitation, halting-place). The name, the fire star, more
properly belonged to Antares and is a survival of the still
earlier period, of which we shall find occasional traces, when
the annual return of the equinoxes was marked by the full
moon in conjunction with Aldebaran and Antares respectively.
Scorpio is still further connected with the calendaric
branch mao, which in turn represents the Parsi Mihr, a
corruption of old Persian Mithra, the equivalent of the month
of September, when the sun crossed the equator at the autumnal
equinox. The Sanscrit name Anurâdhâ (the Completed),
corrupted in the Bundahesh to Nur, points to its position as
finisher of the year, and recalls the time when Antares marked
the equinox. Its deity in the ancient Hindoo mythology was
appropriately Mitra, the representative of the more important
old Persian Mithra, who ruled the day as Varuna did the
night. The Arab Manzil al Iklil (the Crown) apparently
indicates the importance of the group.
The second suk, the fifth on the ordinary list, is generally
known as sam (the Heart), which recalls the corresponding
Arab Manzil al Kalb, of like meaning. The name is probably
of comparatively modern introduction and refers to the
Tsing Lung (the Blue Dragon) of the quadripartite
division of the zodiac, of which it forms a fair centre. The
more ancient name, as we have seen, was Ho, or Ho-sing
(the Fire Star), referring to the ruddy Antares, the chief of
the group. The Indians called the asterism Jyeshtha (the Eldest
Born), indicating its position as the original head of the series.
The Nakshatra is represented as a pendent ear-jewel, which
the three stars Alpha, Sigma and Tau Scorpionis, of which

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
59
it is composed, may be fancied to resemble. The Chinese also
call it Hiah (hat), the "Linchpin," but the phonetic element
is probably similar to that in the Indian name Jyeshth. In the
Bundahesh it is Gêl, possibly connected with the same root as
Jyeshta.
No. 3 (sixth in the usual roll) is Wei (the Tail). The
use of the term may be explained in more modern star lore as
forming the tail of the Ts'ing lung (the Azure Dragon). In
the Indian system it becomes Mula (the Root), the explanation
of which is difficult; Mula and Wei (in Cantonese Mi) both
however mean the end, extremity, and are probably phonetically
connected. It has been suggested by BURGESS (Surya
Siddhanta) that the name Mula (the Root) was given from the
position of the group near the southern horizon at its culmina-
tion. At B.C. 2000 the lowest point was only 28° south of the
equator, so that the idea could hardly have originated south
of 50° North Latitude. The asterism in India bore the alter-
native name of Vichritâu (the separators or spreaders, as of
two branches bifurcating from a single root).
The Bundahesh calls the group Garafsa, apparently connected
with gareva (womb), from root garev (to hold, take hold of).
If the idea were that the year was born out of this station, it
would carry the origin of the name and of the lunar zodiac
to a date anterior to 4000 B.C., regarding which it is interesting
to compare the notes on Chinese wei, No. 14.
No. 4 (seventh in the ordinary list) is Ki (the Winnowing
Tray), an asterism which has left its impress on the legends of
the east from Persia to China. In the story of the extinction
of Yin and the triumph of the Chows, it appears as F,
which we may translate as "Viscount" Ki, though usually the
suffix tsze, like Sanscrit tar, represents the doer. Ki was in
attendance at court till in the waning days of Yin the tyrant
Chow-sin put him in prison; and one of the first acts of the
rising house of Chow was to release him and restore his

60
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
patrimony. The myth is transparent: at the approach of the
autumnal equinox B.C. 1200 the constellation of the Winnowing
Tray faded away in the evening twilight. One of the first
marks of the approaching solstice was its reappearance in the
glow of the morning as the sun passed on through the stellar
zodiac. This latter portion of the tale found another expression:
Ki, according to the authorities, when he saw the extinction
of Yin inevitable, fled away. When the Chows came to the
throne, they sought him and found him in the land of the
Saffron dawn Châosien, i.e. Korea. Ki disdained to
take service under another sovereign, and founded the line of
Korean Kings. At the recension of the early books in the
time of the Han dynasty the astronomical origin of the myth
was not quite forgotten; so the commentators tell us [LEGGE'S
Chinese Classics, III. 278] that Ki's name was Sü yü,
i.e. (A)Shadha, explained below.
The Winnowing Tray, Sanscrit çûrpa in Zend çufra, was
one of the instruments given by Ahura Mazda to Yima in
Airyana Vaêjô in token of royal sovereignty. The second
Fargard of the Vendidad tells us how Yima went forth to
the stars of the south. He touched the earth with the golden
çufra and pierced it with the gold tipped goad, and prayed
"Extend O bounteous Armaiti, enlarge and spread O bearer
of cattle and oxen and men [see HAUG's Essays on the Parsis].
So in Indian lore Çurva-nakha (having nails like a winnow-
ing tray) takes a prominent part in the story of the war
between Râma and Râvana.
By the Hindoos the asterism corresponding to Ki included
also the next, Tau, divided however into two, Pûrva (hither)
and Uttara (further) "Ashadhâ." Ashâdha is said to mean
unconquered, which is more than doubtful; it is more probably
connected with root çi (to sleep), and means "a seat or place
of abode." The Hindoos accordingly represented the two
asterisms as a bed, but also as two elephants' tusks. The

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
61
Bundahesh calls the corresponding group Varant, while the
Arab Manzil is an Na'âim (the pasturing cattle). The latter
might have an allusion to the time when the full moon in the
bow of Saggitarius marked the season for the cattle to descend
from the mountains to the plains of mid-Asia.
The name
Varant may possibly be connected with Zend vouruvathwa
(having broad herds) [Yasht, 13. 130].
Tau (the Ladle), still
The name in Chinese
No. 5, eighth on the ordinary list, is
known in Europe as the Milk Dipper.
is common to this group and the seven stars of Ursa Major,
both approaching in form the ordinary ladle or dipper of
the Chinese peasant, the stars being P., 2, p,,, and t, in the
shoulder and bow of Sagittarius. The word tau, corresponding
to Greek Topúva, in Latin trua or trulla, is one which has
spread from the Atlantic to the Pacific. The division of the
asterism was probably not original, and hence some confusion
between the titles of the station. The Arabs place their
Manzil in the head of Sagittarius, and call it al Baldah (the
Town), while the corresponding group in the Bundahesh is
Gâu (the Ox). For some forty-five degrees in Capricornus and
Aquarius the zodiac is unmarked by any conspicuous star
group, and a considerable amount of uncertainty prevailed
as to the position of the Mansions, and the original namers
of the asterisms seem to have gone far afield for suitable
objects.
Probably for these reasons the Indians adopted as their
Nakshatra the distant Vega in Lyra, 2000 B.C., rather more
than forty degrees north of the equator and some sixty off
the ecliptic. To the constellation Lyra the Chinese gave the
name of the Chih-nü (or Weaving Women), a name still
familiar and associated with the legend that once a year
on the seventh day of the seventh moon Altair crosses the
celestial river (the Milky Way) to visit Vega. In the Shi king
[III. 1. In] the myth of Wan Wang shows clear traces of its

62
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
astronomical origin, and here we find an allusion to another
version of the story. The ballad tells us [verse 5]:
15
大那有子
俔天之妹
REKE
親迎于渭
造舟爲梁
不顯其光
In
yon wide realm a lady lies,
Of Indra's home the richest prize.
Propitious be the omens then,
As by the Wei2 he meets his bride!
His skiff he steers athwart the tide,
Too dazzling bright for mortal ken.
The Indians
The (Celestial Ship) still waits in the Milky Way
(&of Perseus) to ferry over the fair bride.
gave the name of Abhijit (conquering), a name of
apparently late introduction, to Vega and its companions.
No. 6, or nine in common account, is the 4 Niu (the Ox).
Although the name here is ancient, the group selected by the
Chinese seems of comparatively late introduction and consists
of the inconspicuous stars above the head of Capricornus. In
India the Nakshatra is Çravana and is identified with the first
magnitude star Altair and its companious in Aquila. In the
Bundahesh the corresponding asterism is Goî, which latter
in connection with the last (Gâu, the Ox) may be looked
upon as a corruption of Zend Gaoya (the Ox leader). It
almost certainly represents Altair, and this star or group of
stars in Chinese is still known as 4 Kien-niu (the Ox
leader), in Cantonese Hin-ngau. The same idea prevails in
ancient Greek lore where zeipw is the most eminent of the
Centaurs, the friend of Hercules, by whom he was accidentally
killed, but was subsequently by Zeus himself placed amongst
the stars. But Kentaurus (the Ox leader) also in former
'In-t'ien, the visible heaven, the abode of Indra.
Wei here is the celestial river, the Milky Way.

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS..
63
times included the Eagle, and Cheiron was apparently the star
known to us as Altair. Cheir-ôn and the Chinese K'ien (in
older form Hin) are both variants of the root ghar (to take,
lead), and the idea is symbolised in the myth which makes
Cheiron educator of the principal heroes. In ancient times,
when the sun crossed the equator in the Pleiades, Altair was
seen high in the firmanent as the watchers looked for the vernal
equinox, and was the last star to fade in the light of the rising
Even so late as the time of Euripides we find the chorus
in Rhêsos singing:-
sun.
"What watcher succeeds to my vigil?
Already the bright stars are sinking
And the seven-rayed Pleiads peep o'er the horizon;
In the Zenith aloft soars the Eagle;
Awake! Why delay? From your couches
Arise, and prepare for the vigil."
The Indian Cravana or Croni, by which the constellation
was known, is said to be derived from the root çru (to hear),
and the constellation is supposed to represent an ear. More
correctly it is a softened form from hri (to seize, draw), and
identical in its meaning with the others. The Arab Manzil al
Bula (the Devourer) bears no philological connexion with the
others.
No. 7 (10) is by the Chinese placed in an inconspicuous
cluster in the forepart of Aquarius just over the back of
Capricorn. This is however not its original position, which
was in the better defined group of the Dolphin. By them it
was known as Nü (the Women or the Girl), the allusion
not being very clear. SCHLEGEL suggests it was intended to
mark the time when the labours of the field being over domestic
work fell to the women of the family, but this would not tally
with the fact that originally the full moon occurred in Nü
prior to the summer solstice. The Indians called their more
clearly defined station Cravishtha or Dhanishtha, said to be
irregular superlatives meaning "most famous" or "richest,"

64
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
but why they should have adopted these names is not attempted
to be explained. Dhanishtha may probably be derived from
from dhanu-s (a bow) rather than from dhan-am (wealth).
The Bundahesh at all events names the corresponding station
Muru (a bird), in Zend meregha, from a root marg or varg
(to hunt), to which root may possibly be referred the Chinese
name of the Dolphin (P'ao or Hu) with a meaning
altered to Gourd. The Dolphin has always in ancient as well
as modern times been associated with hunting.
No. 8 (11) in the Chinese is Hü, which may be translated
as the Waste or Desert. The original meaning is to leave,
relinquish, and is applied to the vacant space adjoining
Aquarius. This corresponds with the Arabic Sa'd as-Su'ud
(Felicity of Felicities). The original constellation of Said
(Felicity) must have included the greater part of Aquarius
and Capricornus, extending from alpha Capricorni, Sa'd adh
Dhabih, to eta Aquarius, Sa'd al Akhbiyah. The name is
curious and probably was given as the space wherein was
situated the station of the full moon at the summer solstice
at various periods from 2500 B.c. to the Christian era. No
corresponding asterism occurs in the Indian series, but the
Arab and Chinese names throw considerable light on the
nearest Indian Nakshatra explained below. The Bundahesh
calls the asterism in order here Bunda, with which we may
compare Zend buna (ground, basis), Sanscrit budhna. The
same root reappearing in Latin fundus, Greek Buluós, Porós,
old Norse botn (bottom). About 1600 B.C. the full moon here
attained the lowest portion of her course marking the summer
solstice, which circumstance has evidently afforded the old
Persian name,
and affords a reason too for the placing here
of the Chinese suk.
With that curious absence of original observation and the
entire want of the faculty of verification which essentially
characterises the Chinese as a race, the Hü is in the Shu king

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
65
45
connected with the autumnal equinox. The circuit of the
heavens is divided into four, marked respectively by the
stars Alphard, Antares, Sadulsund and the Pleiades. About
2350 B.C. the longitudes of these stars were respectively
(approximately) 85°.30', 189°.30', 263°.30' and 0. No very
close approximation, and evidently blundered from an earlier
tradition when Aldebaran and the Hyades marked the
equinoctial colure. The star ninety degrees from the colure
was supposed to mark not only the equinoxes, which roughly
it might do, but the solstices, which it certainly could not do,
by crossing the meridian at those periods at sunset. Thus
the Shu king [I. 6] in its mixture of old rhythm and modern
gloss tells us―
以
U!!!!
秋
成
毯毛獸鳥夷民厥
He commanded Ho chung
To take his station on the west in the obscure valley
Reverently to make offerings to the Sun;
To pacify and arrange the entire of the west.
In the midst of the empyrean was the star Hü
By which to determine mid-autumn.
The gloss mistaking the allusion adds, "The people rest, the
birds and beasts renew their coats."
No. 9 (12) in the Chinese is Wei (danger, peril). Hither
circiter 2350 B.C. wandered the full moon at the summer
solstice. What was the idea of danger we may see exemplified
in the legend of T'ai K'ang in the Shu king quoted above
[p. 46]. Chinese Wei however comes from the same primitive
root as Sanscrit bhi (to fear), and this offers an explanation of
the corresponding Indian Nakshatra Çatabhishaj or Çatabhishâ.
This is usually taken to mean the Hundred Physicians, or
Remedies, from an assumed verbal root bhishaj (to heal). More

66
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
naturally the word is derived or corrupted from Çatabhishâ
(the Hundred Dangers). The "danger" referred to probably
indicating that the path of the ecliptic might not return.
From a comparison with the Arabic name Sa'd al Akhbiyah,
(the felicity of tents), taken in connection with the fact
mentioned above that the chief stars in this region all
bear the name Sa'd (felicity), even to the present day the
names Sadalmelik and Sadalsund for alpha and beta Aquarii
remaining on our celestial charts, we might presume an Aryan
form Catabhajat or Çatabhajini (the hundred felicities). If so,
the original appellation doubtless came from an allied root
bhuj (to bend, curve), corrupted when the name ceased to have
meaning as the bending place of the sun or moon's path, into
bhishâ, bhishâ, bhajat, or wei, or, translated, into Arabic Sa'd
(felicity). The Bundahesh places here the asterism Kahtsar,
which possibly may represent Zend Çatazareta (the Hundred
Oppressions) or Çatazarâ (Hundred Pains).
The ancient importance of the Asterism is shown by its
having in Indian lore been placed under the special regency
of Varuna, the old supreme deity of the Aryas. As Varuna is
associated with the waters of heaven, so the mansion is in
modern astronomy placed in Aquarius comprising the stars
α, v, & & n.
Nos. 10 and 11 (13 and 14) in Chinese Shat and Pik
respectively, the Indian Purva and Uttara (former and latter)
Bhadrapada, representing the well marked quadrilateral in
Pegasus. The Chinese name of the first, Shat (the house)
must originally have included both asterisms, as in Indian lore
did Bhadrapada (happy foot). Dividing the two, the second
part became Pik (the wall or partition). The Bundahesh gives
for the former Vaht, possibly a corruption of the Indian name,
and for the second Miyân, Zend Maidhyâna (the middle)..
The asterism is also known to the Indians as Proshthapada,
which we are asked to accept as "carp foot" or "ox foot,"

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
67
a rendering hardly exceeded in absurdity by the Chinese.
Proshtha, we may however derive from prush (to rain or to
burn) and render the word "rainy foot" or "rainy pace," and
this will throw light on the Arabic Manzils al Fargh al
Mukdim and al Fargh al Mukhir (the two spouts of the water
jar), the full moon passing in early times the constellation
during the Indian rainy reason.
Fargh and Chinese Pik, the latter formerly in the lower
tone, are apparently phonetically connected, and the Indian
name may be a corruption of Bhagapadâ from bhaj (to divide,
apportion), which gives to Bhaga a secondary meaning of
"good fortune." If the original idea was of dividing, we can
account for the Chinese Pik of similar meaning, as well as for
the Persian Miyân (the middle), but the division of the Lunar
Zodiac by the full moon at the summer solstice in the constel-
lation cannot have taken place later than about 3500 B.C.
On the whole I am disposed to look for some original form
such as Bhargavâ from bhrajj (to scorch) and to connect it
with the Indian myth of Brigu. The Persian (Bundahesh)
Vaht, Indian Bhadrapadâ, Chinese Pik and Arab Fargh have
thus a common phonetic origin.
No. 12 (15) in Chinese Kwai (the stride). In the Indian
system the Nakshatra is Revati (abundant, wealthy) from root
râ (to give), the full moon in the constellation marking anciently
the beginning of harvest. The Chinese name is connected
with the root varg (to go), whence our "walk," and the form
Revatî may be connected with rinv (to go, follow). The Parsi
form in the Bundahesh is Kaht, probably connected with root
kah, Sanscrit kas (to go), and the Arabic is Batn al Hüt (the
belly of the fish), where Hüt represents the constellation Pisces
(the fishes), in Greek Ix0úss, Ix0ús is not improbably con-
nected again with 'ixos (a footstep) from root vię (vik) to
enter, approach, and Hüt and Kaht if not etymoloyically are
certainly phonetically connected as well as Chinese Kwai,

68
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
وو
We may thus follow the modern constellation of the Fishes
to an older form meaning the "step' or "stride," from the
conspicuous Quadrilateral of Pegasus to the well marked stars
Alpha and Beta in the head of Aries forming the next stopping-
place.
No. 13 (16) Lou (the stage, terrace). We have now
arrived at a region of the heavens which has ever been the
theme of the poet and the mythologist, and which has left an
indelible mark on our fancies and our arts. The Pleiades
and Hyades, the mighty hunter Orion, the two Dogs with the
star Sirius, almost a sun himself as he shines in the vernal
sky, the Dioscuri with their quaint legends, not to speak of the
Ship Argo and the other wonders of the southern sky, have
formed the foundation of much of the romantic literature of
the nations of the antique would. Even to the present day
in the world of art their influence survives, while our folk-
lore is full of legends of the young vernal sun and the con-
stellations he meets with in his passage through the zodiac.
The two stars Alpha and Beta of the Ram form a not inapt
portal into the fairy land, and with them astronomy, poetry
and myth begin to blend. The Chinese name Lou (a raised
stage) has little in its external appearance of the poetic, yet
it has lent itself to one of the prettiest legends of the dawn-
land. We find in the Indian scheme these stars called the
Açvinâu, the Twin Horsemen, the harbingers of Ushas, the
dawn, "the earliest bringers of light in the morning sky, who
in their chariot hasten onwards before the dawn and prepare
the
way for her."
When at the first beginnings of astronomy the sun was in
conjunction with the Pleiades at the vernal equinox the
heliacal rising of the constellation was anxiously looked for as
the token of the opening year. The stars then seem, in India
at all events, to have been called the Daçvins (the Peepers),
from the root daç or damę (to shine). In Chinese the phonetic

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
69
lou almost certainly had an initial d; we see this in the
corresponding phonetic (now liu) which respresents also a
root damę, the Greek Sáz (to tear or rend). In its form
lou (a story, a stage), the word is identical with t'ai.
then lou equally with the Indian word meant the Peepers,
which in the earliest dawn ushered in the glad new year. When
the equinox travelled backwards from Taurus to Aries, the
stars lost their significance as the forerunners of the year and
Daçvinâu (the Peepers) grew into Açvinâu (the horsemen or
vedettes). Similarly in the Arabian calendar the stars were
called ash Sharatân (the Tokens), a name which finds its
signification in the fact that there also they were the token of
the arrival of the glad new year.
In the Shi king, [II. 4. II] we find under the heading of the
Pak k'ü (the Yoke of White Horses) a hymn which
compared with the Greek myth of Eos and Tithonos is worthy
of record. The allusion is apparently to these two stars.
SPRING SONG.
Ode to the "Vedettes."
Shine on, ye glowing steeds of day,
Our meadows wide with light suffuse:
Halt in your course; your progress stay;
This morning's dawn to close refuse.
My cherished love, all care aside,
May one long day with me abide.
Shine on, ye glowing steeds of day,
O'er our wide fields your radiance send:
Halt in your course; your progress stay;
This night beyond all nights extend,
My cherished love, oh happy bride!
May one long day with me abide.
Shine on, ye glowing steeds of morn,
While burning thoughts my bosom fill,-
What though of noblest lineage born,
In modest ease for aye be still:
For aye forget your aimless quest;
Your anxious thoughts be lulled to rest.

70
70
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
Shine on, ye glowing steeds of day,
O'er yon wide valley stay your light,
There in a patch with verdure gay
My loved one lies, a jewel bright;
Nor covets gems nor golden showers,
While happy hearts beguile the hours.
[SHI, II. IV. 2.]
The Parsi Padêvar we may refer to Zend Paitidaya (the
Outlooker, Peeper), from the stem dî (to see) equivalent of
Sanscrit dî (to shine) and allied to damę, above.
No. 14 (17) Wei (the belly, stomach). In Indian
lore Bharani (the bearer) i.e. the Vulva, Muliebre pudendum;
the Arab al Butain (the little belly). The allusion in all three
is plainly to the approaching birth in the Pleiades of the new
year's sun. It may be noticed here that already the solar
phenomena were superseding the lunar with regard to those
asterisms from 13 (Lou) onwards. We can therefore fix
approximately the age of the names at about 2100-2300 B.C.
The name in the Bundahesh is Pêsh Parviz (the Attendant
Pleiad) from root pię (to tie, bind).
No. 15 (18) Mao (to burst forth, flourish); the Pleiades.
From the earliest times the Pleiades have been celebrated in
mythology and folk-lore. In the book of Job [xxXVIII. 31]
we find the question asked "Canst thou bind the sweet in-
fluences of the Pleiades or loose the bands of Orion?" where
Kimah or the "Seven Stars is the name applied to the
asterism. In the year 690 B.C. we have in the Ch'un ts'iu a
curious allusion to the Perseid meteors. "In summer in the
4th moon the stars fell like rain." Apparently referring to
this the Shi king [I. II. 9] sings:-
"With brilliant trains the meteors fly
Orion and the Pleiads by;
They pass away with hissing sound.
Our quilts around our heads we bend
Vainly the omen to forfend."

year
ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
71
In the Indian system the Pleiades are known as Krittikâ,
from the root kart (to cut), the meaning being that they are
placed at the division point of the heavens, the name having
been given when the sun in Pleiades marked the beginning
of the at the vernal equinox 2350 B.C. A Greek legend
makes them to have been placed in the sky at the death of their
sisters the Hyades, which possibly refers to a yet older time,
cir. 3000 B.C., when the equinox ceased to be marked by the
latter. The Arabs, under the name of ath Thoraiyâ (the
Cluster), seem to have preserved a recollection of the Greek
Taurus, the name of the Sign in which they were included
under the subsequent solar zodiac; they also called the group
au-Najm (the Constellation) from its commanding position
as the head of the asterisms. The name in the Bundahesh
Parviz, in modern Persian Pervîn, has not been explained, but
it, Greek Pleiades and Chinese Mao, are probably connected
with the Sanscrit root vrimh (to increase), to which also is to
be referred the Latin Vergilia (connected with virga, a
sprout), the Latin form being apparently the nearest to the
original. The name evidently had its origin in the temperate
zone where the bursting forth of nature at the vernal equinox
is most marked, and so we can account for the loss of it in
India and Arabia, where the names were derived simply from
the beginning of the year.
Pat
No. 16 (in the usual notation No 19) is in Chinese
(Pih) and corresponds with the Hyades. In the Shi king the
asterism is called the Tien pih, which may be translated
as the Celestial Finishers (i.e. of the year) in allusion to the
fact that the Hyades were the last stars to disappear in the
western horizon at the approaching new year. The Shi king
[II. v. 9] sings:-
**
liti
排施
有載
畢
行
KKN
17

72
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
which may be probably translated :-
Fowler's Net.
Sinks (in the west) the T'ien pih
As the year completes its circuit.
From the shape of the asterism the Chinese explain it as the
Shi [II. VII. 2] sings again in a spring song:-
"The teal are ready to flit
The Pih is spread out as a net."
None of the asterisms have suffered so much verbal corrup-
tion as the Hyades, and the Persian term Paha as given in
the Bundahesh is the only one recalling the Chinese Pat.
The Indian name is Rohinî (the Ruddy), alluding to the
colour of its principal star, while the Arabs have called it ad
Dabarân (the Follower), i.e. of the chief asterism, the Pleiades.
The Latin name is Suculæ (the sow's litter) identical with
the Greek 'rades, a patronymic from s rather than a
derivative from . The origin of the name in either case is
however unknown, and it may be suggested that the Greek form
is possibly a corruption of verépa, like the Arabic dabarân,
meaning the "followers," and the Latin name was a loan
word introduced after the original meaning had been forgotten.
The connection of the Hyades with rain was early believed in
by the Chinese; the Shi [II. VIII. 8] tells us that when the
moon passes the Pil there will be heavy rain, a statement,
however, difficult to reconcile with observation.
No. 17 (20) is in Chinese Tsze (the deer's head and
antlers), lamda, phi¹ and phi² in the head of Orion. This
corresponds with the Indian Nakshatra Mrigaçîras (the deer's
head), as well as the Bundahesh Avêsar, as if Urvîçara
(Wide-head). The Arab al Hak'ah (the Brand) has no appar-
ent connexion with the others either in sound or meaning.
In later times the constellation became itself the "Rebel" or
the "Hunter." Job [XXXVIII. 31] speaks of loosing the belt
of Kesil (the Rebel), and, as we have seen supra, T'ai k'ang (the

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
73
sun) in returning to the equator found the passage obstructed
by I, the prince of the Empyrean, who dethroned him and
whose Cantonese form (Ngai) suggests a root ending in ",
probably vor and so the equivalent of Greek Orion as if con-
nected with ou-pos (a watcher, guard). I, as we have have seen,
pointed his bow at the Pleiades, and so Orion forces his way into
the chamber of Merope, and in consequence is condemned to
lose his sight, only restored when long after the vernal equinox
he is seen rising in the east to court the glare of the rising sun.
No. 18 (21) is in Chinese T'sam, which we may compare
with sham (shan) to "overflow, submerge." It consists,
according to the Chinese, of Betelgeux, Rigel and the stars
in the belt and shoulders of Orion. The corresponding
Indian Nakshatra is Ardrâ (moist), and is said by BURGESS
(Surya-Siddhanta) to represent only the star Betelgeux; the
Bundahesh calls the corresponding constellation Besn, perhaps
Zend Barezanh (a summit), but more likely corresponding to
Bâzn, arm, i.e. Betelgeux. Practically there is no difference in
right ascension between Tsze and Tsam, the latter overlapping
the former both east and west, and it is very characteristic
of the little progress made towards correct definition that the
two stations should have continued in popular tradition in
countries so far parted as Persia and China.
With a slight attempt at discriminating their fifth and sixth
Manzils the Arabs have placed the latter in the feet of
Gemini, and have given it the name of al Han'ah (the Pile),
the application of which is not however very plain. In so
doing they have encroached on the next Chinese suk.
Both Indian and Chinese names seem to have an allusion
to the prevalence of the spring rains when the sun is in
conjunction with Orion, as by the Romans the latter was also
denominated Aquosus (watery).
No. 19 (22) is in Chinese Tsing (the Well) and consists
of the stars in the knees and feet of Gemini. Tsing (a well)
10

74
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
takes its name rather from the fact of its being dug out, as
may be seen in the form tsing (a pitfall), than from the
welling of the water, and I should therefore be disposed to
look upon the name as modern and derived from the grouping
of the stars ε, 5, 2, 4, 2, 7, 5, Genimorum, which may have
recalled the character J. It thus in part occupies the place
of the last Arabic Manzil.
The corresponding Nakshatra Punarvasu, more naturally
is marked by the two conspicuous stars Castor and Pollux,
to which in Greek lore have been transferred the attributes
of the Açvinâu (No. 13). The name Punarvasu (Repeated
Riches) is evidently a corruption of an earlier form, perhaps
Punarvarsha (Returning Rains), which may be possibly
compared with the Bundahesh Rakhvad, if the latter be
referred to Zend Rakhçvaidhi (Excessive Water). The
corresponding Manzil adh Dhirâ (the Paw) is said on the
authority of IDELER to refer to the constellation of the Lion,
made by the Arabs to include parts of Cancer and even
Gemini.
In this asterism we distinctly recur to the older Lunar
terminology, suspended in the previous six groups owing
to the movements of the sun at the vernal equinox having
in early times become of more importance than the lunar
phenomena.
No. 20 (23) is the Chinese Kwei, a name of ill omen
applied to the manes of the departed, used generally in the
Confucian books in antithesis to Shen (celestial beings).
Etymologically the name is connected with Sanscrit vrittas,
qui vixit, hence the dead, and represent a root vart (K)wart
(to turn). The name had perhaps better be written kwei (a
jewel), and corresponds with the cluster called by the Greeks
párva (the Manger) the Latin Præsepe. Possibly an older
name was Vartnî (the Crib), from which the Greek and
Chinese names, as if the former were for páprva (the Returners)

.
ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
with which compare note on No. 9
75
Wei. The solstitial
colure passing the asterism about 900 B.C. This latter fact,
as in the somewhat similar case of f Wei, accounts for the
meaningless names applied to the Indian Nakshatra Pushya
(nourishing), Tshya (auspicious) or Sidhya (prosperous). As
in the last station the Arab name el Nathrah (the Nose-gap)
implies a former greater extension of the constellation Leo.
The corresponding station named in the Bundahesh is
Taraha, regarding the position and meaning of which I can
offer no explanation.
No. 21 (24) is in Chinese Liu (the Willow) the five
stars in the head of Hydra marked n, σ, d, e, p, forming a
circular cluster, as a garland, whence its name liu (the
willow) is but another form of liu (to bind), and agrees
perfectly with the Indian name for the same group of Âçleshâs
(the entwiner, embracer), from the similar root çlish (to embrace,
join). The name of the corresponding group in the Bundahesh
is Avra (the Cloud), literally the Water-bringer. The
difference in longitude between this and the last group kwei
hardly amounts to five degrees. About 2390 B.C. the differ-
ence in right ascension was much greater but gradually
decreased, and for this reason possibly the Arabs invented
a new Manzil composed of Cancri and 2 Leonis, which they
named at Tarf (the Lion's Glance).
(the
No. 22 (25) in Chinese sing (the star) consists of Alpha
Hydra and is usually grouped with the few small stars in its
immediate neighbourhood. It is one of the seasonal stars
mentioned in the Yao-tien [Shu, I. 4] where it is called
Bird. The solitary dignity of the star and its position
as marking the winter solstice by its conjunction with the
full moon doubtless led in Chinese to its being known simply
as "the star," a similar reason influencing its Arabic name of
al Fard (the Solitary), a name still retained in our celestial
charts,

76
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
The corresponding Nakshatra in the Indian system is
Magha (the Mighty), consisting of Regulus and the other
stars in Leo, popularly called the Sickle. The Bundahesh
calls the station Nahn, probably Zend Nâonha, the Nose (of
the Lion) as in Arabic it is el Jeb'ha, the Front (i.e. of the
Lion). The ancient Greeks knew Regulus as Basilikus (the
Kingly), as the Arabs called him Malik (the King) from his
ruling the solsticial colure.
No. 23 (26) is
extend" (a bow).
The stars x, 2, 4,
perhaps be compared
No. 24 (27) is Yik (the Wing, Flank), possibly in
connection with the next, the Crossbar. It is composed of
the principal stars in Crater.
Chang, translated usually as "to draw,
Here it probably represents the "archer."
and in the last coil of Hydra may
with the bow.
These two asterisms have no connexion with the correspond-
ing Indian Nakshatra, the Phalgunyas in the tail of Leo.
The meaning of the name is not clear. The same stars form
the Arab Manzils as Zubrah, the Mane (of the Lion) and
as Sarfah (the Turning-point). The Bundahesh gives Miyân,
Zend Maidhyâna (the Middle), and Avdem (unexplained) as
the corresponding stations, perhaps both Parsi and Arabian
names point to a reminiscence of the ancient position of the
solstice twenty-three centuries before Christ.
No. 25 (28) is Ch'en (the Crossbar) of the chariot of
which Yik is the flank. We are now rapidly approaching
the end, and this perhaps is the reason why these asterisms
seemingly represent the different parts of a chariot. Ch'en
comes from a root meaning "to turn, to twist," whence
apparently its application to the crossbar. The Indian name is
Hasta (the hand, or the elephant's trunk); possibly the Chinese
chariot became converted in India into an elephant, a not
unlikely transformation. The Arab Manzil steps aside here
to the right, including the head and breast of the Virgin

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
77
of the modern zodiac; it is called al Auwâ (the Barking
Dog), which accompanies the chariot, seemingly corresponding
with the Parsi Mâshâha (Zend Mashyôvanha), the domestic
animal. The Greek Protrygeter (the Fore-grape-gatherer,
Virginis) refers to the solar rather than the lunar connexion,
the star rising heliacally just before the time for grape
gathering.
In this connection f Kioh (the Horn) No. 26 (1) probably
means the Pole of the chariot and points to an earlier use
of the term Spica (the Point), afterwards, when the Virgin
came to be associated with the autumnal equinox, made the
"ear of wheat." In the Bundahesh it is Spûr, Zend Cpare-
gha (the Point), the Arrowhead spoken of in the Mihr
Yasht for the protection of the chariot of Mithra along the
heavenly way, the Ecliptic. The Indian Nakshatra is here
simply Chitra (the Brilliant) while the Arab Manzil as Simak
is a proper name, probably corrupted from Spica.
No. 27 (2) is K'ang (the Neck, or more probably the
Yoke, which in ancient times rested on the neck and to which
were attached the breast-straps). The Celestial Chariot was
now rapidly approaching the end of its annual journey and
was about to reach the goal which we shall find in the next
asterism described below. When with the precession of the
equinoxes the lunar stations had lost these allegorical meanings,
the comparatively insignificant stars of the Yoke were not
thought worthy to mark the track of the sun (or moon), and
the bright Arcturus was selected to mark the station in later
times, called by the Indians Svâti, said to mean "a sword," or
rather "the good goer" if from su-at. Apparently however
the word is connected with the Husra of the Bundahesh in
Zend Huçrayanô (well goer).
The Arabs adopted substantially the same stars as the
Chinese to mark the Manzil, iota, kappa and lambda of the
Virgin, which they called al Ghafr, translated as "the Cover,"

78
A COMPARATIVE TABLE OF THE
a meaningless term, but evidently derived from a form which
represented the Latin Jugum, Greek yua and Chinese
Kang, and pointing here as elsewhere to the nearer approach
to the original of the Chinese form.
With No. 28 (3) Ti (the bottom) the long procession closes;
but ti, as well as meaning "the foundation" also indicates
"to reach," hence the place reached,-"the Goal." Amidst many
trials and dangers and past many stations of greater or less
importance the chariot of the Year has arrived at its terminus.
As in the Roman games it started from Fang (the
Chamber), the Carcer of the circus and now has arrived at
the Meta. It has crossed the equinoctial river in spite of the
adverse darts of the mighty hunter Orion, and now with his
arrow pointed at the terminus the archer Chang drives his
chariot into the Goal.
The curious coincidences which mark the names of the
stations, the resemblances now between Chinese and Indian,
again between Chinese and Greek or Arab, and oftentimes
between the latter and old Persian, show that neither can lay
claim to have been the founders of the system. On the other
hand the fact that in all, with the exception of a few Arabic
names evidently not original, the roots can be traced to Aryan
sources, while the descriptions answer best in the northern
temperate zone, point to some spot in Central Asia between
Mesopotamia and the Pamîr as the originial home of the
inventors.
Notwithstanding the wide extension of the lunar mansions,
which at one time must have been popularly received from
China on the one hand to Greece on the other, the system
cannot have prevailed for many centuries. The nomenclature
distinctly points to a period when the equinoctial colure passed
through or near the Pleiades at one intersection and at the
other through the "Claws" of Scorpio, which would fix the
date as near as may be to 2350 B.C. Traces indeed exist of

ANCIENT LUNAR ASTERISMS.
79
still earlier nomenclature of the principal groups reaching to
about 3000 B.C., when Aldebaran and Antares marked the
equinoctial points, but these earlier names do not seem ever to
have been worked into a system and exist only sporadically.
If however the completion of the series of lunar stations,
and the astronomy to which they gave rise, cannot he dated
before 2350 B.C., we find that the system cannot have had
more than two centuries of unchallenged existence. Evidence
as strong goes to prove that when the astronomers of Chaldea
adopted the solar signs, and marked the beginning of the year
by the solar culmination of the constellations, the Pleiades
still occupied the place of honour, marking a date not later
than 2150 B.C.
To this date approximately the division of the entire of the
then visible heavens into constellations has been assigned by so
good an authority as the late R. A. PROCTER, who has more-
over pointed out the curious fact that the region surrounding
the south pole of the day remained unplotted till in the 18th
century a new school of astronomers arose who sought to preserve
the memory of themselves by dubbing every petty cluster
with a name of their own choosing. Those generally accepted,
such as Octans or Antlia Pneumatica, not to speak of absurdities
such as the Oak of Charles II or the Sceptre of Branden-
burgh, sound strangely out of place besides the grand old
constellations. Even from these we may learn a lesson, and
the mapping of the celestial sphere carefully studied is a
record of much that is interesting and much that is valuable
in the history of humanity.