WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH
AND IMMORTALITY.
By A. FORKE, Dr. Jur.
WHO is Wang-chung? This question would most likely
first of all be suggested by the theme of this paper. Of Plato,
the famous Greek philosopher, all have heard, and perhaps
read something, and for any more detailed information you
have only to look up an encyclopædia.
If you do the
same for Wang-chung, you are sure to be disappointed.
Therefore, I may be allowed to give some brief notice of his
life and writing, before I enter on my subject.
Even among Chinese literati Wang-chung is very little
known, and yet he is one of their first thinkers and critics.
In order to fully appreciate him one must perhaps be a Euro-
pean. I cannot do better than to introduce him with some
words from Mayers' Chinese Reader's Manual:-"
-“ Wang-chung
is," he says,
"a philosopher perhaps the most original and
judicious among all the metaphysicians China has produced."
"In the writings derived from his pen, forming a work in
thirty books entitled Critical Disquisitions, Lun-heng, he
handles mental and physical problems in a style and with a
boldness unparalleled in Chinese literature. He exposes the
exaggerations and inventions' of Confucianists and Taoists

WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY. 41
with equal freedom, and evinces in the domain of natural
philosophy a strange superiority to the fantastic beliefs of his
countrymen."
In his autobiography, forming the last book of the afore-
said Lun-heng, Wang-chung tells us that in the third year
Chien-wu, i.e. 27 A.D., he was born in the city of Shan Yü, in
Hui-chi district, the modern Shao-hsing-fu in Chekiang; and
further on we are informed that, when he was 70-71 years of age
he felt his death approaching. Thus we may safely assume
that he died in 98 A.D., that is to say, his life fell just in the
beginning of the later Han dynasty. According to the article
on Wang-chung in the Cyclopædia of Surnames, translated
by Hutchison in the China Reveiw, Vol. VII., page 41
(1878-1879), Wang-chung's death would have taken place in
A.D. 89. Although I have not the Chinese text at hand, I
presume that this must be a mistake of the translator. A
year, Yung-yüan, as he translates, and which he identifies
with A.D. 89, does not exist, but only a period Yung-yüan
extending from A.D. 89-105, within which lies the year 98.
Mayers makes Wang-chung live, I do not know on whose
authority, from A.D. 19 to circa A.D. 90, but these dates
cannot be correct, since they differ from those given by
Wang-chung himself.
Already as a boy Wang-chung showed by his earnest
and solitary ways that he was different from other children.
He did not like to catch birds and cicadas, or play with
money like his companions. Books instead exercised a
peculiar charm on the mind of the youthful scholar. When
sent to school to Loyang, then capital of China, he would
roam about the market-place to have a look at the books
exposed there for sale which he was too poor to buy. His
memory is said to have been so good that, when he had read
a book he knew it by heart. He calls himself a devourer of
6

42 WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY.
ancient literature, yet he did not only devour it, as most of
his countrymen do, but he also digested it; nor was he afraid
of trying his critical genius on those writings, old and sacred
though they were.
Wang-chung's teacher at Loyang was Pan-piao, the
father of the celebrated historian Pan-ku, author of the
history of the later Han dynasty, and with the latter he cer-
tainly was acquainted also. Having completed his studies he
returned to his native place and first became a school-master.
Afterwards he entered the official career, but did not climb
very high on the official ladder; perhaps because his views
were too opposed to the general beliefs. The last office he
held was that of a sub-prefect of the Capital.
Besides his chief work, the Lun-heng, Wang-chung
wrote the Chi-su, a sarcastic treatise on the depravity of
manners and morals in his time, in twelve chapters; the
Cheng-wu, a book on Government; and, when already an old
man, the Yang-hing-shu, on the nourishment of nature. Of
all these works the Lun-hêng alone has been preserved. It
forms part of the Han Wei-t'sung-shu, a collection of writers of
the later Han and Wei epochs. Its title, "Lun-hêng," almost
corresponds to the German word "Erwaegungen," for it
means "to discuss" and "to weigh." Wang-chung discusses,
in the eighty-five separate essays of which the work is com-
posed, a great variety of different questions, and weighs the
right and wrong as with a scale. He was induced to write
these essays, says the autobiography, by the great number of
erroneous books current at his time, which contained much that
was unfounded and insincere. "He did away with all that
was specious and fictitious in literature. He defended the
full importance of the real and sincere. He scattered those
customs which were destructive in their tendency, and
restored those of Fuh Hi." The compilers of Chien-lung's

WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY. 43
Imperial Catalogue take a somewhat different view. Having
objected to his language being too fierce, they go on to say :--
"His two sections Mencius Satirized' and 'Confucius
Interrogated amount to an energetic sharpening of his
pen to use it in keen rivalry with those worthies and sages.
We must term them wayward and perverse, designed really to
display talent and secure fame. He desired in everything to
be pre-eminent, even proclaiming that his grandfather was
perverse and stupid, in order to manifest how much he himself
excelled. He was exceedingly mad. His discussions are
nevertheless for the most part examinations and criticisms of
the false, and probe the manners of the age." The praise
which Yu-chun-hsi, in his Prefatory Notice to the Lun-heng,
pours down on its author is unrestricted. People of the
Han period, he remarks, were fond of fictions and fallacies.
Wang-chung pointed out whatever was wrong; in all his
discussions he used a strict and thorough method, and paid
special attention to meanings. Rejecting erroneous notions
and all flattery, he came near the truth. He was not afraid
of coming into conflict with the worthies of old. Thus he
furthered the laws of the state, and opened the eyes and
ears of the scholars. People reading his books felt a chill
first, but they then repudiated all falsehood and became just
and good. They were set right and discarded all crooked
doctrines. It is as if somebody amidst a clamouring crowd
in the market-place lifts the scale: then the weights and
prices of wares are equitably determined and every strife
ceases.
Wang-chung is, it seems to me, not so much a dogmatic
philosopher, like Confucius or Chuang-tse; but rather a critic
and dialectician who does not put forward a system of
philosophy, but makes it a point to controvert with his
inexorable logic the erroneous doctrines of Confucianists and

44 WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY.
Taoists, as well as popular superstitions. In this respect one
might call him the Chinese Voltaire, for his principle aim
was to enlighten the minds of his countrymen and rid
them of old fashioned ideas and antiquated beliefs. There is
hardly any other Chinese philosopher who could vie with him
in logical acumen. His arguments do not start from precon-
ceived and aprioristic ideas, but are based on facts furnished
by experience, the only progenitrix of knowledge.
Three chapters of the Lun-hêng, those on Confucius and
Mencius, and the autobiography, were translated by Hutchin-
son in Vol. VII and VIII of the China Review. The auto-
biography contains some biographical notices and a very
clever defence of the Lun-heng against various charges
brought against it and its author. The fact alone that
Wang-chung dared to criticize the two Sages, which in the
eyes of an orthodox Chinese scholar is little short of a
sacrilege, gives him a claim to our sympathy, for in science
there are no sages or absolute authorities. Wang-chung's
method in criticizing Confucius and Mencius consists in
finding out contradictions and discrepancies between their
different sayings, or between their dicta and their action.
Several reproaches levelled at them under this head are well
to the point. In some instances, however, Wang-chung
carries his fault-finding a little too far and loses himself
in hair-splitting. Sometimes he even misunderstands the
classics, and overlooks, as it were, the easiest and most
natural explanations, seeing difficulties where there are none.
To the general principles of Confucianism he seems to take no
exception; not even to the exaggerated ideas on the effects of
morality propounded by both Confucius and Mencius.
One of the most brilliant pieces of sound critic and sober
judgment Wang-chung gives us in his essay on Death,
forming the last chapter of Book XX of the Lun-heng. The

WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY. 45
question is, what becomes of the human soul after death?
Wang-chung views it from a Chinese standpoint and
accordingly tries to prove that the human soul after death
does not become a ghost, or a spirit which possesses any
knowledge and might hurt people. Translated into more
abstract language this proposition means that the soul after
death has no personal, self-conscious existence and cannot
exercise any influence in the world of the living.
What Wang-chung's own opinion on the human soul is,
he states very clearly. He asserts that the soul wholly
depends on the vital force which has its seat in the blood. It
is, so to say, an attribute or a phenomenon of the vital force.
When by death the human body decays, the blood is decom-
posed and the vital force residing in it destroyed, which
destruction necessarily results in the annihilation of its appen-
dix, the soul, also. Before man is born, his soul forms part of
the original vapours.
It is a diffuse and formless mass like
the contents of an egg before it is brooded, a mere force or a
scrap of air without conscience or intellect or any of the
characteristic faculties of the human soul. At the birth a
part of the original vapours coagulates, as it were, and enters
the body, in which it stays during lifetime. When the
person dies, it is dispersed and scattered, and returns into its
former aërial state, losing thereby its individuality and all
purely spiritual faculties.
Thus Wang-chung denies the existence of ghosts or
spirits, that is to say, of personal spiritual beings without a
material body. To controvert the theory of the immortality
of the human soul, he puts forward two negative arguments.
One is the forcible popular argument of all disbelievers in
immortality from the fact that the spirits of the dead have
never given any sign of their existence, nor even manifested
themselves in life, he infers that there are none. If all the

46 WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY.
men that have ever lived were immortal, he thinks there
would be innumerable millions, they would fill every place,
and at every step one would stumble against a ghost. How
comes it then that we do not perceive the least of all these
multitudes of spirits?
The other argument is a kind of a deductio ad absurdum,
showing that the hypothesis of immortality would lead to
untenable consequences. Wang-chung reasons like this:
There is no fundamental difference between the human
creature and other creatures. If we give immortality to the
one there is no reason why we should withhold it from the
others, which means that all the animals are immortal. This
consequence is impossible, therefore our first premise that the
human creature is immortal must be wrong.
Wang-chung's other deductions are based on experience.
He compares the soul to a fire. When a fire is extinguished,
the burnt-out ashes cannot flame up again; in the same way,
he concludes, there can be no revival of the soul after the
body is destroyed. The body is as necessary a substratum to
the soul as fuel to the fire. As little as a fire can burn with-
out fuel quite of itself, there can be no soul without a body
living quite by itself.
That the human soul after death cannot be self-conscious
or possess any knowledge Wang-chung proves in two dif-
ferent ways:-
The mental faculties altogether depend on the body; as
long as the body is in order, they are all right also. When,
by sickness or other reasons important organs of the body
are injured, the soul is affected too. The worse the sickness,
and the consequent disorganisation of the body, the more the
mental faculties become disturbed and deranged. Now,
when the disease reaches its climax in death and results in
completely destroying the body, the disorganisation of the

WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY. 47
soul must attain its height too, which is complete annihilation:
for it would be impossible to imagine why the soul could be
partly destroyed by a derangement of the body, but should
not be at all affected by the complete destruction of the body.
As far as self-consciousness is concerned, Wang-chung
opines that sleep, a faint, and death are all the same. When
a man awakes from a faint he returns, as it were, from death.
If during sleep or a faint people are utterly unconscious,
although they have their body, the necessary substratum
and mediator of the soul, from which it derives all its know-
ledge of the outer world, perfectly intact, they cannot possibly
be self-conscious still after death, when they have lost this
very body.
On any questions of importance it is only fair to hear
the two sides. In our case, where there is the question
whether a philosophical foundation for the belief in im-
mortality exists or not, no one could better represent the
other side than the father of idealism, Plato. We find his
views on the subject in the beautiful dialogue of Phaedön;
where Plato relates the last interview his master Socrates had
with several of his disciples, before he was forced to drink
the poison. Whereas Wang-chung denies the immortality,
Plato avers it. Of course only one of the two can be right;
to decide which requires a critical examination of their
diverging opinions, especially of the arguments produced.
Plato's first proof is based on the proposition that the
contrary grows out of its contrary. The bigger, he says,
grows out of the smaller, and conversely the smaller out of
the bigger; the stronger out of the weaker, the worse out of
the better; sleeping out of waking and waking out of sleep-
ing; thus, he continues, out of life comes death and out of
death life. Consequently, all living creatures must die; the
dead come to life again, all the living are born out of the

48 WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY.
dead. Plato imagines to have thus laid a scientific foundation
for the metempsychosis. He places the souls of the departed
for a certain time into Hades, for before they are born again
under another form they must be somewhere; at all events
they must exist, because else they could not be regenerated.
Plato concludes his ratiocination with the remark that, if
everything living died not to revive again, at last there would
be no life left on earth; for all the matter from which life
could spring would be used up.
These reasons may seem plausible at first sight, but they
are wrong nevertheless. By the above quoted words, "the
souls could not be revived if they did not exist," Plato himself
shows us how unsolid the basis is on which he founds his
argument. That a soul cannot be created out of nothing
means nothing more than that a something cannot grow out of
nothing. Something being the contrary of nothing, accord-
ing to Plato's theory that a contrary grows out of its contrary,
it ought to be possible: the soul, a something, ought by
death become a nothing, and this nothing, afterwards become
a soul again. The premise that contraries originate contraries
in the form in which it is enunciated by Plato is erroneous.
The very way in which he arrives at it indicates that there
must be something amiss. He begins by saying that the
bigger grows out of the smaller, the stronger out of the
weaker, etc., opposing comparative to comparatives, and then
all of a sudden goes over to the positive degree, stating that
waking comes out of sleeping, and life out of death. Why
does he not say that big becomes small and small big, white
black and black white, good bad and bad good, something
nothing and vice versa? Because, though being an idealist,
and taking as little notice of reality as possible, he could not
place himself in direct opposition to the most common
experiences. The abstract rule that the contrary grows out

WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY. 49
of its contrary must be considerably restrained and modified.
The kernel of truth in it is that a relative contrary grows out
of its relative contrary, but there is no general rule to the
effect that every contrary changes into its absolute contrary.
If a thing grows, its former shape is comparatively smaller
than the future one and the future comparatively bigger than
the former, but every small thing does not become a big one
or every big one small. Life and death being such absolute
contraries one cannot either conclude that life must come again
out of death and that therefore the human soul is immortal.
Plato's fear lest in default of the transmigration of souls
every life on earth must cease at last would hardly induce
anybody nowadays to embrace that antiquated doctrine.
The production of new life does not at all necessitate the
preservation of human and animal souls.
To demonstrate the immortality of the soul Plato
operates with contraries still in a different way, but very
unsuccessfully. He holds that every idea excludes the
opposite idea. Snow does not admit the idea of warmth, there
can be no warm snow. When the warmth approaches, the
snow recedes or is destroyed. The same with fire: when the
cold comes near it, it goes back or is lost, but it does not
admit the cold and become a cold fire [Chapter 52]. Thus
the soul, the bearer of life, does not admit its opposite, death;
and therefore must be immortal [Chapters 54, 55].
This is a sophism pure and simple. We can again
refute it with Plato's own words:"The snow does not
admit warmth; when the warmth approaches the snow
recedes or is destroyed," for in exactly the same way we
might say-The soul does not admit death; when death
approaches the soul recedes or is destroyed. Plato here
confounds logic and reality. What he predicates of the soul
applies only to the idea of soul, and what he says of snow and
7

50 WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY.
fire is partly to be referred to the ideas of snow and fire
and partly to the real snow and fire. That in logic an idea
excludes its opposite is perfectly true. A fire can never be
thought of as cold, a movement never as standing still, but
that does not imply that a real fire can never be extinguished
or a real movement never be brought to a stop. The idea of
rich excludes the idea of poor; is it therefore impossible
that a rich man should ever become poor? What holds true
in the field of logic is not necessarily so in the domain of
reality. Therefore though life is a logical attribute of the
conception of soul, it does by no means follow from this that
all the human souls must live for ever.
Apart from the proposition about contraries, Plato
arrives at the conclusion by his ideology that the soul has
lived before birth without a body. Learning, according to
that theory, is nothing else than remembering ideas known
beforehand, but forgotten for a while. When we perceive
objects these lost ideas come back to us. Since external
objects never correspond exactly to our ideas-such as equal,
good, true, just-but only approximately, these ideas cannot
have been derived from these objects. Our perception of
objects by seeing, hearing, touching, etc. begins immediately
after our birth, therefore we must have possessed those ideas
before; ergo, our soul, the bearer of ideas, existed before we
were born and got a body. Plato believes that the ideas have
a real existence in the realm of ideas, and that the bodyless
soul saw them there. If it were true that the soul could
dispense with a body in a former existence, the probability
would certainly be very great that it might do so after death
also. But Plato's deductions are wrong; he completely
misunderstands the real nature of ideas.
There can be no doubt that all our ideas are derived
from the things around us; they are abstractions from

WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY. 51
concrete objects, or circumstances,-creations of our own
brain, which only exist in our minds, but have no real
existence of their own. By means of the logical laws we can
form ideas which have no equivalent in nature at all, e.g. the
ideas of nothingness or a mathematical line. Nevertheless,
even these are derived from nature by leaving out of con-
sideration certain qualities of things, such as the three
dimensions, which are lacking in the idea of nothingness, or
the notion of breadth, which is wanting in a mathematical
line. Likewise, no man attains to the ideal of perfect good-
ness, truth or justice, yet these ideas are not aprioristic, but
taken from mankind, an arbitrary abstraction being made of
all bad qualities. Moreover, the experience that children
during the first month after their birth, though able to
perceive objects, are quite destitute of ideas, tells against
Plato's theory that ideas are acquired by the soul before
birth. The acquisition of ideas is a very slow process;
they are learned together with the language, each language
being the repertory of the ideas of a people. Last, if our
soul had lived before our birth, we would assuredly have
a remembrance of such a state, since during life the
memory of the same soul extends over periods of many
years.
Plato's most famous argument, by which he endeavours
to prove that the soul, as something simple and non-composed,
cannot be destroyed, is the following:-Everything composed
can be dissolved and decomposed again; that which is simple
and uncompounded can never be dissolved. All composed
things are visible, whereas the uncompounded are invisible
and formless. To this latter category belong the ideas as well
as the soul, which has no form and is invisible. Consequently,
it cannot be dissolved or destroyed, and therefore must be
immortal [Chapters 25-29].

52 WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY.
Undoubtedly, the soul as something immaterial, that is,
not composed of material parts, cannot be destroyed by being
divided into its constituents like the body, because it has
none; but that would not prevent it from being annihilated
otherwise than by falling to pieces. An undivisible whole
might be destroyed by contraction or shrinking till nothing
is left, or it might vanish all at once. Kant, in his Critic
of Pure Reason, submits still another possibility, that the soul
could perhaps perish by a gradual relaxation of the moral and
mental faculties.
Having shown the futility of all the arguments set forth
by the great Greek philosopher, who completely fails to
establish the thesis of immortality, it remains for us to
examine now how far we can agree with Wang-chung's
opposite view. His opinion that the human soul is only
a detached part of the original vapours, into which it returns
after death, is quite Taoist. We find the same ideas expressed
in a Taoist essay, the T'ai-hsi-ching, translated by Balfour in
his Taoist Texts [pages 63-67], which opens with the words :-
"The embryo is formed by the concretion of congealed breath;
and the embryo, being brought into existence, the breath
begins to move in respiration." The commentary, which seems
now to form part of the text, remarks on this:-"The genera-
tive auræ of the Great Empyrean all constitute one breath.
The great or Universal Spirit lying in readiness becomes
united with the embryo, and the embryo, being thus united
with it, develops respiration." Here we have even Wang-
chung's idea about the production of the spirit by coagulation
of a part of the original vapours repeated. The T'ai-hsi-ching
also clearly distinguishes between the vital force, or breath,
and the spirit. The spirit, it says, is the intelligent part
of the breath, and at the same time identical with the
will.

WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY. 53
I am not going to concern myself with a discussion of
this ingenious pantheistic theory, as it would lead us too far
away from the question at hand. Suffice it to say that there
are no compulsory reasons for recurring to such a hypothesis,
for which nature does not afford us the slightest support.
Why should a spirit not be born without having been part of
the Great Spirit or the Mundane Soul before, into which it
must necessarily return again?
Since Wang-chung takes the soul to be something very
much akin to a breath, it is quite natural that he should
negative its personal and self-conscious existence after death;
for a breath mixed up with another breath cannot well retain
its individuality.
Although one may demur to Wang-chung's pantheism,
it is not so easy to detect any flaw in his arguments against
immortality. What can be said against the surmise that there
are no spirits of the dead, because they do not show themselves?
The conclusion is not apodictic, but very probable. We do
not expect that they should appear in a body; but being spirits
like our own, why do they never give the slightest sign of their
still being alive, or communicate directly with our spirits?
Is it possible that the souls of our dearest friends, who, while
alive, loved us more than anything in the world, should by
death so completely forget us that they do not take the
slightest notice of us? Would they not, to alleviate our grief,
assure us at least that they are still alive? An all-loving
superior being could certainly not object to their bringing us
this consolation, which would turn our despair into joy.
What harm could there be in it? The departed souls would
certainly do so, if they could, but the probability is that they
cannot, because they exist no more. A common objection
raised against this argument is that there are many things in
the world, e.g. the growing of a tree out of a kernel, or the

54 WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY.
production of fire or light, which we cannot understand, and
which exist nevertheless. This objection is not conclusive; for
in all such cases we see the result or arrive at it by science,
only the how we cannot understand: but there is not a single
instance where we are perfectly convinced of a thing, though
we do not perceive the result at all. Such an instance would
be that of immortality. If we could see the immortal souls,
as we see growing trees or the burning fire, or establish their
existence by philosophy, our belief would not be shaken by
the fact that as to the how, we are left in the dark.
The statement that if men are immortal all the animals
must be so too, requires perhaps some further explanation.
Wang-chung only says that there cannot be made a difference
between the human and other creatures. Why? Because
their spirits are essentially the same; they are made, so to
speak, of the same stuff; I say so to speak because in reality
they are not made of any stuff at all; there is a quantitative
but not a qualitative difference. Au animal has, like man, the
sensations of sight, hearing, touch, taste, scent; it feels
pleasant and unpleasant emotions-joy, sorrow, fear, anger; it
has a memory, and can even reason to a certain limited extent.
All these faculties are purely spiritual and immaterial; if they
are preserved in the human soul after death, they must be so
in the animal soul also. Consequently, every animal, be it
ever so simply organised, if it has only a glimpse of a soul,
must be immortal; all the most filthy insects, vermin, in-
fusoria, must live for ever. This consequence must be un-
bearable for everybody who in the organisation of the world
sees a certain aim. There are animals which only consist of
a mouth and a belly, and the sole occupation of which is
devouring others, sleeping and propagating themselves. For
what purpose should their spirits participate of immortality?
In order to go on eating? Yet, if we deny immortality to

WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY. 55
any of those spirits, that of the human spirit falls to the
ground too, for a rule concerning the destructibility of
spirits could not hold with some cases and with others
not.
Pure speculation alone, such as used by Plato and other
idealistic philosophers, does not afford us a key as to the real
nature of the human soul. This requires observation; we
have to ascertain how the soul appears to us, and to draw our
conclusions with regard to immortality from these observa-
tions. Wang-chung does it; his strongest points are just
those proofs based on experience. He compares the soul with
a fire, inferring that as a fire cannot burn without fuel quite
of itself, the soul can have no existence independent of the
body. This comparison is a very lucky one. Light as well
as warmth and sound are immaterial and incorporeal, yet they
cannot exist without a material substratum; there must be
something that burns, if light or warmth is to be produced, and
every sound requires the collision of substances. This principle
that immaterial things exist only as long as they are connected
with a material basis, and cease to exist as soon as their
substratum is destroyed, applied to the immaterial soul means
that the soul cannot live without its material basis, the body,
to which it owes its existence; just as a light owes its to the
burning candle, a fire to the burning coals and the tune of
a flute to the air's striking against the sides of the instrument.
Light, warmth and sound must not be confounded with the
waves of light, etc. with which they are always connected and
of which they are the phenomena or manifestations. These
waves are, of course, material; but the concomitant and
co-existing apparitions of light, warmth and sound are
immaterial, they have no dimensions and no weight.
This ratiocination rests on the presumption that light,
warmth and sound have a real existence in the outer world,

56 WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY.
whence through our nerves they are transmitted into our
brain, where they produce the sensations of sight, hearing
and feeling. A great number of philosophers, however, do
not share this naïve and natural view, holding that all these
natural phenomena are not real, but exist only in our brain;
that of things of the outer world we only know how they
appear to us, but not whether they really exist or how they
are. Supposing this to be the case, yet the way in which
our various perceptions are produced would remain the same.
The material impressions we receive from the external objects
are wired on the nerves into the brain, and there coupled with
immaterial sensations. These transformations of the material
into the immaterial cannot take place if the nerves are
destroyed, or if the brain, the centre in which all sensations
are produced, is dissolved, as an electric spark cannot be
transmitted to a certain place if the wire is broken. The
soul after death would therefore be devoid of all sensations
and completely cut off from intercourse with the outer
world. This loss of a part of the soul would entail the loss of
the others too, for what should it desire, what dislike, what
be glad of, and what sorry at, what think, if it has absolutely
no objects to which these sentiments and thoughts might
refer or by which they might be evoked?
That the soul can be partly destroyed by the sickness of
the body is an undeniable fact. Wang-chung draws from it
the consequence that the complete destruction of the body
must result in the complete annihilation of the soul. If an.
important organ, e.g. the eye or the ear, are spoilt, a part of
the soul is lost also, viz. the faculties of sight and hearing;
if the brain is decomposed by encephalosepsis, the mind
becomes deranged. How should it then be possible that, if
the same organs are destroyed by death, and if the brain is
decomposed by death instead of by sickness, the soul should

WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY. 57
not be influenced at all by it, but remain quite intact? Death
is, as Wang-chung says, the highest degree of sickness; its
ravages can therefore not be less, but must be much worse
than those of a simple disease such as blindness, deafness or
encephalosepsis; they must necessarily lead to the extinction
of the soul. To acknowledge the effects of diseases on the
mind, but to disown those of death, would be as if somebody
admitted that a small stone can be split into several pieces by
the blow of a hammer, but would not believe that the same
stone can be crushed and reduced to powder by the fall of a
huge rock.
The soul can be cut away gradually, together with the
brain. It has been shown that by extirpating part of the
brain the individual loses part of his mental faculties, such as
memory, sight, will. If this operation could be continued
without causing the individual's death, until the brain is
entirely extirpated, all the mental faculties would be gone
also, and we would then have a man living without a soul.
It can make no difference whether the brain is extirpated with
a scalpel or dissolved by the chemical process of putrefaction.
The soul has no independent existence, for, as the Taoist
treatise Yin-fu-ching [Balfour, Taoist Texts, page 56] says:-
"The mind is produced from matter and dies with matter;
the working faculty resides in the eye.-Man has no mind [as
existing apart from his body]; his eye is his mind. What the
eye sees the mind acquires; what the eye cannot see, the
mind does not obtain." The general idea of this remarkable
passage is that the human mind is nothing but the produce
of the body, especially the eye, which in forming the mind
takes such a prominent part; as such the mind shares the fate
of the body and dies together with it.
Let us suppose that a man is born blind and deaf and
receives no special education. His soul would be very poorly
8

58 WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY.
developed and inferior to that of the higher classes of animals.
If he were to be paralysed to boot, so that he could not feel
anything, his only sensations being smelling and tasting, his
mind would be hardly superior to that of the most simply
organised animals. He would perhaps feel joy and displeasure,
but with his limited field of perceptions he could not form ideas
nor develop an intellect. If we take away the two remain-
ing senses also, the man would have no soul whatever, and be
nothing more than a vegetating organism. Receiving no
impressions or impulses from the outer world, he could not
know sentiments like joy, sorrow, fear, anger; and no objects
being furnished to him by the senses, he could not form ideas,
and without ideas could not think. Supposing the soul were
self-existing and not the product of the body, it would assert
its independence, and not lose the greatest part of its extent
by defects of the body, nor dwindle to nothing, when not
supported by the five senses. And, furthermore, if the soul
cannot exist without the five senses it must be lost when they
are destroyed by death.
Sleep and death have been compared together from time
immemorial. Wang-chung carries the comparison so far that
he asserts the identity of both, and, considering the soul
alone and leaving the body out of the question, he is right.
What becomes of the soul when a man is asleep and has no
dreams? It ceases to exist. That it is evoked again when
the sleeper awakes does not remove the fact that during the
sleep all the mental faculties are abolished; that instead of the
soul we have then a void, a blank, a nothing. The soul
is no stuff, no substance existing still beside the various
faculties of which it is composed, but these faculties are
the soul. If not a single one is at work, there is no soul
at that time, though afterwards it may be produced again.
Sleep is the mechanical life of a body without a soul. The

WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY. 59
body of the sleeper is still alive, but his soul is temporarily
dead. It can revive, because the body to which it owes its
existence is still intact, only the nerves are so relaxed that
they cannot give rise to any sensation. When by the
beneficial and restoring influence of sleep they have been
strained again, they produce the soul as before. If by the
mere relaxation of the nerves the soul is lost, how much more
must this be the case if by death the same nerves are not
only loosened a little but completely destroyed. We see that
the reasons given by our philosopher to establish the mortality
of the soul are all sound and good. The comparison of the soul
with the light of a burning candle is most instructive. It
suggests to me another similar analogy which, I believe,
elucidates the real nature of the soul and its relation to the
body still more clearly; with which, therefore, I should like to
sum up and to terminate this disquisition. The human soul is
like the music played on the violin, the body like the violin.
In both cases we have a connection of the immaterial with the
material. As the different tunes are elicited from the violin,
sensations and thoughts are produced by the body. The soul
is no substance, as is sometimes wrongly supposed, nor is it a
unity, a whole, for in a given moment it never exists in its
entirety, but at each moment there is only a very limited
number of sensations or thoughts. In the same manner we
never have the whole piece of music together, but we hear
one tone after the other; when the one has died away, the
next is produced. One cannot speak therefore of the existence
of a melody, as one speaks of the existence of the violin. The
latter exists at every moment, the melody only when it is
played, and then not as a unity, but divided into tunes, of
which each lives only for a short moment. So it is with the
soul also; it has no real existence as a whole like the body.
When the brain does not work, the soul does not exist. That

60 WANG-CHUNG AND PLATO ON DEATH AND IMMORTALITY.
which really exists are the various sensations, feelings and
thoughts, each as short-lived as the tone of the violin, produced
at one moment and dead at the next. The so-called life of
the soul is a chain of the generations and deaths of its
constituents. When one sensation has subsided a new one
appears, and when one thought has died away a new one takes
its place, to leave it immediately afterwards to the next-comer.
The chords of the violin being unstrung, you may touch
them with the fiddlestick ever so much, they do not give a
sound. If the nerves are unstrung and loosened during
sleep, external impressions or impulses are unable to create
any sensation.
As soon as the chords are strung again
and the nerves straightened you may get music from the
violin, and soul from the body. If the chords and the
cerebral nerves are cut it is impossible to produce either
music or soul. And, lastly, smash the violin and the music
is gone for ever; destroy the body and there will be no soul
any more.