ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
By P. G. VON MÖLLENDORFF.
Sure, He that made us with such large discourse,
Looking before and after, gave us not
That capability and godlike reason
To fust in us unus'd.
SHAKESPERE: Hamlet, Act iv., Scene 4.
Of all the sciences linguistics is the youngest. The
discovery of Sanscrit at the end of last century acted quite as
a revelation, and with its help alone did it become possible to
reconstrue the oldest forms of the various languages belonging
to the Indo-European family, for many of which we did not
possess sufficiently ancient documents. With the introduction
of the comparative method the science of languages became a
popular study. Till then each language had been investigated
by itself, now its relationship to others could be traced.
The aim of linguistics is to know all languages spoken
on the face of the earth. As a science it is therefore
thoroughly anthropological, since man is man only through
language, and since languages are the true expression of the
human intellect, which latter can only be fathomed by
language. In these not only the words as sounds describing
things are essential and characteristic, but in the same degree
the whole grammar, by which associations of ideas are
expressed. To understand human speech in every detail we
must know its whole growth, in all its divisions, through all
11

82
ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
its phases. Not until we know all languages shall we be able
to understand their peculiarities; only by a knowledge of all
the languages are we enabled to obtain a perfect picture of
the universal intellect of humanity; only by its language can
the human soul be known.
This, then, is the aim of linguistics, viz. to embrace in
its fold all human languages.
Created in Europe, this science naturally turned its first
attention to the Indo-European languages. Special investiga-
tion is the first step in all scientific research, and so it was
here. Not until the single languages have been minutely
examined are we allowed to proceed with the comparison of
several of them and unite them into one linguistic family.
Comparative Philology has to gather, first of all, the
linguistic facts in the completest and purest form from the
single languages. Then we may compare these with each
other in all their bearings and draw the logical results from
this inquiry, keeping, however, always in mind the diver-
gencies which we find, and which are sometimes of greater
importance than the congruities.
Our own linguistic family, which stands nearest to us,
has, naturally received our first attention: the Indian,
Iranian, Celtic, Italian, Thrako-Illyrian, Hellenic, Letto-
Slavonian, and the Germanic groups have been carefully
investigated. The task of this investigation was to show
which were the forms of the original speech of this family
before the separation, and how the single languages evolved
out of it. This is the way it was done (B. Delbrück) :-A
certain form occurs in all the languages; deduct what is the
special growth of each language, and the remainder is the
original form. An "acre" is in Sanscrit ajras, Greek pór,
Latin ager, Gothic akrs. Now we know that in Gothic k
evolved from g, and that an a was lost before s. We thus

ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY. 83
find from Gothic the form agras; further, Greek o comes
from a, and we there find the same form. And so with each
language.
The forms of the original speech are called pre-ethnical,
as having existed before the family dispersed. In this sense
we speak of pre-Grecian Greek. It is interesting and
instructive to study works in which the pre-ethnical stage is
taken into consideration, as in B. Delbrück's "Greek Syntax"
(1879) and "Old Indian Syntax" (1888).
Where we have grammars and dictionaries of languages,
the whole language has to be compared with the other; as
far as the most remote corner on either side, nothing should be
left unnoticed by the student. The nature of the relationship
must always be kept in view, whether descendant or
ascendant, as in Anglo-Saxon and English, or collateral, as in
Greek and Latin. The historical method is most important in
its application to linguistics.
In order to obtain an insight into the psychological
moment, investigations carried through a number of languages
on one and the same subject are most helpful; such are: on
the Dual Number, the Passive Tense, the Numerals, Personal
Names, Grammatical Gender, Duplication, and others.
In this way we obtain a thorough knowledge of how all
the languages of one family are related to each other, and
this is the all-important task of linguistic science. This has
been denied; someone has asserted that the thorough
explanation of the ethnological list in Genesis (chap. x.)
should be the exclusive aim of this science; only after its
solution the science of languages will take that place with
regard to religion which belongs to it. But this man forgot
that linguistics is a free science and no longer a mere ancilla
theologiæ.

84
ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
Before a comparison can be undertaken, it is absolutely
necessary to settle the original form of speech of a linguistic
family which was common to all its members before their
separation. We can only compare the original speech of one
family with the original speech of another. Before the
phonetic laws within one family have been settled, comparison
with another family cannot be recommended, as it necessarily
leads to disastrous results.
Thus we find in a late publication the assertion that
Mongol murun "river," Manchu muke, Korean mul,
"water;" Latin mare, English mere, "lake," are all the
same word. Now Latin mar-e, root mar, means "barren,"
infertile compare Sanscrit marú, "desert," "sandy waste,"
whilst the Mongol, Manchu, and Korean words come from a
root mu, meaning "water."
Another equation is Mongol bos imp. "stand up"-French
debout, "upright." The Mongol is related to Turkish böt-mek,
"to grow," "to rise;" debout comes from bout, "end,"
"point" mettre debout, "to place on end," or "upright."
Premature comparison between Indo-European and
Semitic words leads to the same result. The Indo-European
phonetic laws are well known, and the original speech of this
family is, so far as our present investigations are advanced,
generally recognised. Semitic roots, however, have not yet
been successfully reduced, owing to their peculiar construc-
tion. Most Semitic words consist of three consonants, and
we do not know whether the third consonant represents an
additional meaning, whether an inseparable suffix was added,
whether the extension was made by a prefix, or whether the
root has been extended in the middle, as is done in many
languages. Another solution lately proposed is hardly
worthy of serious consideration, viz. that each word consists
of two roots of which the first ends with the same consonant

ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY. 85
with which the second begins, e.g. Hebrew qâtal, "to kill,"
composed of qat +tal, both words of the same meaning.
There is no analogy of this process in any known language,
and the idea that any Semitic language possessed right
through its vocabulary a double set of words (like "look-see"
or Chinese k'an-chien) is not tenable. Besides, the
grammatical systems of the two families are entirely different.
Neither can be derived from the other, and the distinction
between them is so great that they cannot be reduced to an
original unity.
The grammar of each linguistic family is ready-made
from the very moment when the languages belonging to it
came into existence. In its germ lies the whole of the later
development. To presume a pre-grammatical relationship
is a scientific impossibility; an original form of speech which
gradually acquired grammar cannot be imagined, just
as little as a period when man was without speech (homo
alalus).
An example will show how careful comparisons between
Indo-European and Semitic roots have to be conducted.
Hebrew ngûg, "a round cake," has been compared with
Latin coquere, "to cook." Now, ngug is connected with
Arabic ngaja med. "to bend," "to curve," so that the
Hebrew ngûg was named from its round form. On the other
hand, Latin coquere is connected with the Sanscrit root pak'
"to cook," p and k interchanging as in "quinque" and
πέμπη
English "leg," and Hebrew regel, "foot," have been
compared with each other. Leg is derived from a European
root lak, "to bend" (as the leg at the knee), whilst regel,
from ragal, "to run about," in Syriac "to flow," Arabic
rajila, "to go on foot," points to the original sense of moving
forward.

86
ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
The beginning of speech was probably gesture; an idea
was expressed by pointing to the object. If the latter was
absent, gesture would, by describing it, communicate the idea.
Thus we find two-fold gesture language: demonstrative and
descriptive. These would lead to different beginnings among
different races.
Another kind of word creation is direct and indirect
onomatopoeia. Words made in this way gradually came into
general use, and are frequently so changed by long use that
their origin becomes quite unrecognisable. Languages have
all been gradually developed; none came suddenly and
perfectly into existence. Nor is language ever finished, but
is the constantly changing work of the human brain, to
enable articulated sound to express our thought. We hardly
notice this constant change: one word falls into disuse, a
new word takes its place. In 500 to 600 years language is so
altered that it is no longer readily understood. We find
to-day a difficulty in reading Chaucer's works.
Languages originally related go their own ways after
separation has taken place. They diverge more and more in
the direction once taken, like Latin and German. Both
started together, then each went its own way, which by its
original tendency was practically the same, but duo si faciunt
idem, non est idem, two never do the same thing in the same
way, and how different are now modern Italian and modern
German!
We call certain languages poorer than others, but do so
unjustly. Some have simply not yet been prepared for the
reception of new ideas by some great intellect. There is no
language on earth which is unable to express everything
that has been thought in it.*
*Compare BOILEAU, Art poétique, Ch. 1, v. 153, 154:-
Ce que l'on conçoit bien, s'énonce clairment,
Et les mots pour le dire arrivent aisément.

ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY. 87
We have old and new languages, like Chinese and
French, but not rich and poor ones. Richness may consist
in a superfluity of words without any appropriateness in their
use. A variety of borrowed words in a language for mere
shades of meaning may even be a sign of poverty, as in this
way the language gradually loses the power of expanding its
roots. But even in the enumeration of words in a language
we are often mistaken. The English dictionaries contain, or
are supposed to contain, all words used by any author in
English, technical, scientific, provincial, Scotch, slang.
The German dictionaries accept pure German words only;
technical and foreign expressions are referred to special
collections. The dictionary of the French Academy rejects,
from a purist's standpoint, not only terms purely technical
and provincial, slang, etc., but also words as yet used by but
few authors and not yet recognised by common usage. In
this way many a good word may receive official approbation
somewhat late, while barbarous words (like "electrocution"),
on the other hand, are refused admission into the language.
All men belong to one and the same species, all races
can interbreed and have done so frequently. There is only
the difference in the time of their evolution which creates any
disparity between them. Language is the really character-
istic and recognisable feature which separates nations, some-
times almost the only one. And what enormous differences
do we discover in the languages of the various nations! The
physiological inequality between languages is sometimes very
great, as we find by comparing the grammars of Sanscrit and
Chinese.
Shall we ever be able to find a clue why a certain sound
is used for the representation of a certain idea? I am afraid
never, especially when we find in numerous languages the
same combination of sounds used for ideas of the very opposite

88
ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
meaning, like "cold," kalt, and Latin callidus, "warm."
Lucretius, the great Roman philosopher, says that utility
gave things their names, but this is not so, with the few
exceptions of onomatopoetic words. Surely utility would
have taught all men to name things alike, and the enormous
variety of human speech would have never grown up.
How did all these variations spring forth? How did the
different languages and dialects come into existence ?
The first hordes, small communities of a few hundred
men, lived closely together; any impulse to innovation in the
language made by individuals was easily and quickly
assimilated with the habits and inclinations of the others.
Unification was brought about without any difficulty. Each
such horde, in its seclusion, believed that its language was
the only one in existence. Meeting in its wanderings a horde
of a different race whose language it did not understand, it
thought this language a mere barking of dogs or twittering
of birds. The idea, however, that other nations had
languages of their own, was gradually acquired by them, and
with the knowledge of a foreign language their own lost its
high value as being the only one; still their pride caused
them to maintain that theirs was the most ancient.
As soon as the horde grew in numbers and its members
spread over a larger area, but still keeping up communication
among themselves, the situation became changed. Unification
in speech still took place, but it required a longer time to
accomplish than formerly in the smaller community. Between
the single groups perceptible differences remained, as some
would still use the old term, whilst others already employed
*De rerum natura, v., 5, 1027:
At varios linguæ sonitus natura subegit
Mittere et utilitas expressit nomina rerum.
But nature forced the different sounds of speech
To go forth, and utility gave things their names.

ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY. 89
the new one. Unification stopped altogether as soon as
communication became interrupted, with a boundary of
communication a linguistic boundary was created.
The originally small horde assumed large dimensions,
single groups separated in order to find new hunting or
grazing grounds. Communication then becomes interrupted,
variations of speech and dialects spring up, which, according
to the stage of the language at the time of the dispersion,
may develop into independent languages, as must have been
the case with the Indian languages of North America.
The germs of dialects which thus grow out of the mother
speech are contained in the latter, something independent,
and yet not disconnected from the language. How far they
may, later on, diverge from the mother speech, depends
entirely on the stage to which the language had advanced at
the time of the separation. If separation took place early,
before a sufficient stock of words had accumulated, then the
dialect had to create independently, or borrow elsewhere, new
words for new ideas. To some extent we are enabled to
decide when the separation took place, by investigating,
whether all the dialects participate in certain peculiarities: the
case suffixes, the tenses, the harmony of vowels, the numeral
system, i.e. the quinary, the septenary of the Ural-Altaic
mother speech, the decimal of the Indo-Europeans, the
duodecimal of the Etruscans, the vigesimal of the Caucasians.
What we find the common property of all the languages
of a linguistic family must have already existed before the
separation.
Thus we find that the Semites have always remained
close together, the structure of their languages is identical,
and their roots are identical. The Indo-Europeans did not
separate until their speech was far advanced. The Ural-
Altaians possessed, with the exception of the Zyrianians, the
12

90
ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
harmony of vowels, and the septenary systems of numerals;
their eight is ten less two, their nine is ten less one, etc.
Many languages separated early, when there were but
few necessities of life; and the language, therefore, was but
little developed, when generic terms had not yet been created
and perceptions of the senses were prevalent. In such a case
the numbers of words common to all the dialects will be found
to be small within a family of cognate languages. With the
structure of the language it is similar. There is in all
languages a point of perfect organisation beyond which the
organic structure never changes. Had this point been reached
before separation took place, then all the dialects will exhibit
the same phenomena in their structure. If this was not the
case, then every dialect will develop in an independent way
and may even become a new mother speech of new, totally
different, dialects.
Where larger hordes assembled under one man's leader-
ship a commonwealth was formed. With such an epoch the
unification of language recommences and a large area is
conquered by one speech. One dialect obtains preponderance;
all the others have to submit to its absolute sway. The
conflux of several dialects is one of the principal moments in
the formation of languages; and refinement of speech, which
could not develop during the period of separate existence of
languages, is largely due to the association of many dialects.
Without such creation of a state no large linguistic area can
be formed, and languages dissolve into dialects and variations,
whose mutual relationship must, in the course of thousands of
years, become impossible of investigation. Such dissolutions
we find, for instance, in the Caucasus and in the Himalaya
mountains, which teem with languages, to all appearances
totally different from each other. In Brazil-it is a curious
fact that no native state was ever organised on the eastern

ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY. 91
side of the American continent-language changes from tribe
to tribe, even from hut to hut. Guarani, with Tupi, an
excellent dialect of Guarani only lately recognised as such, is
perhaps the only language which is understood over a wider
area.
The same decomposition will also come to pass, should
any of the great languages at present spoken in the world
become the universal language. For some time the mother
country with its press and its literature may exercise a
unifying influence, but gradually the language must again
split into numerous dialects and variations, and the process of
their unification into groups will have to be repeated. This
organisation of states took place at an earlier period with
some races than with others. Favoured by a better climate
and by superior soil, some were able to evolve earlier from the
barbarous stage.
Favourable circumstances caused them to
progress in civilisation and to invent lasting forms of society.
The Assyrians settled in fertile Mesopotamia. The Jews lived
in Palestine, the converging point of three continents, where
they found splendid opportunities for an early intercourse
with other nations, and thence their cousins, the Phenicians,
developed, at the dawn of history, a surprising commercial
activity. The Arians invaded the magnificient land of the
five streams and met with inferior races, whom they easily
ruled. The Egyptians produced their high civilisation in the
fecund Nile delta. The Chinese settled first in the broad
plains east of the Yellow River, and from there established
their millenial empire.
These nations rose to a high degree of civilisation, and
inferior races, with whom they came in contact, were raised
by them from a lower condition and accepted many words
into their vocabulary which, on account of their antiquity, can
but in rare cases be recognised. Loans of this kind took place

92
ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
at different periods, and in some cases names for the same
idea have been borrowed twice during different periods of
speech. They appear to us like different geological strata,
and the rise and fall of the influence of civilisation from
without has been likened to the coming and going of the
waves of the sea (Wellentheory).
Thus Eastern Asia bears a distinct imprint of Chinese
culture and language. Chinese borrowed words of different
periods are found in Manchu, Korean, Japanese and the Indo-
Chinese languages; to the latter, on the other hand, China
owes a great part of its vocabulary. Especially was Chinese
writing an important factor in introducing civilisation into the
adjacent nations. A similar influence was exercised by the
Semitic culture among the nations living on the Mediter-
ranean. Phenician writing was brought to Greece, Etruria,
and the whole of Italy, and from thence adopted by all
Europe. Certain words, like the names for the horse, the
dog, the different grains, salt, honey and others, seem to have
been widely borrowed from the three or four centres of
civilisation during ancient times.
An extraordinary influence over languages has at all
times been exercised by religion. The first object of worship,
the sun, the bestower of life and light, has the same name in
many languages: Sanscrit surya, suri, Lithuanian saulé
(saulya), Zend hvare, Celtic "heul," "haul," Gothic sauil,
Latin sol, Greeks, hos, are the same words as Hebrew
el, eloah (the plural èlohim points to an original polytheism),
Arabic allah, etc.
In the same way Pali literature was brought to Ceylon
by Mahendra, son of King Açōka of Maghadha, in the middle
of the third century after Christ, as the language of Buddhism.
Later on it was introduced into Burma and Siam. Thence
Singhalese and the Indo-Chinese languages possess a rich

ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
93
stock of Pali words in their vocabularies. Islam has done the
same with Arabic words in Northern India, Afghanistan,
Persia, and the Turkish-speaking parts of Asia and Europe,
and also among the Malays. Our missionaries are at present
exercising a similar influence with their translations of the
Bible all over the globe.
Such various influences have been felt by almost all the
languages, over the general growth of which we have just
cursorily glanced. We know of nearly 1,000 languages, but
of these, according to a most competent judge in these
matters, the late Mr. von der Gabelentz, only about one-fourth
is grammatically known. These 1,000 languages have been
classed under about 100 families, between which science can
as yet discover no relationship. Many, it is true, have not
yet been sufficiently examined to allow us to determine
whether they deserve specific rank among languages, or
whether they should be classed as dialects or mere variations
of another speech.
They are distributed over the globe as follows:-
Europe
Asia
Africa
America
Australia
Polynesia
60
... 300
230
270
140
Melanesia
Micronesia, etc.
In all 1,000 languages.
The great majority of the living languages possess no
literature; in many only the Bible, or parts of it, exist.
Translations of the Bible have so far been made in about 300
languages or chief dialects. Of many of the dead languages,
only the name has been handed down to us.

94
ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
Linguistics, as a science, is of too recent a date to enable
us to assign to each language its genealogical or physio-
logical place, or to draw up in sufficient completeness a
scientific system for all. It has existed as a science, properly
so-called, only about 80 years, and has, in spite of patient and
indefatigable research, mastered but a small part of its
material. But gradually and in time this work will be
accomplished, and all the languages spoken on the earth will be
examined and classified in accordance with the method already
tested in the treatment of the Indo-European group. So far,
only the latter has been treated exhaustively. But also the
Semitic, the Ural-Altaic, the Malayo-Polynesian, the Dra-
vidian, the Indo-Chinese, and a few other linguistic families
have received the attention of scientific linguists; others, as
the American languages and the African Bantu forms of
speech, have been treated in a general way.
A most difficult work lies still before us, which must be
accomplished by labourers in this science, but only those
should be admitted as co-workers who have thoroughly
mastered the craft. Some who enter the arena of comparative
philology, to all appearances so easy, and yet teeming with
extraordinary difficulties, as free-lances, come to the work
wholly unprepared, sometimes even with no suspicion that
this, like any other science, requires a thorough training.
Such do more harm than good, especially as they rush in with
confidence and assurance where angels (q.d., experts) fear to
tread.
Science will persevere with the investigation and com-
parison of languages, and the results will become progressively
surer and more far-reaching. Languages, now considered as
isolated creations, will, when we become better acquainted
with them, be found to be related to others; all linguistic
families will be amplified and new families will be defined.

ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY. 95
But whether beyond the different families we shall find
a higher unity between the families which so far have not
been proved related, or whether we shall ultimately discover
a close connexion of all the linguistic stems of the earth, is a
question of limitations. If we do so, we shall have solved the
ethnographical problem of the descent of man from one
pair.
From the theological standpoint the plea for one original
language common to all men (the lingua primava) is not
indefensible. It was formerly quite a popular belief, and
many languages (Hebrew, Egyptian, Chinese, even Basque,
Flemish and Scythian) have been, in turn, named, according
as the author was guided by theological, patriotic, or some
other prejudice.
From the scientific standpoint the question in itself is
legitimate, so long as the method by which its solution is
attempted is thoroughly scientific; all others are to be rejected
without mercy.
Such questions as the origin of language, the descent of
man and nations, the origin of the universe, are knotty riddles
which have incited thinking men of all times to attempt their
solution. The very difficulty of the questions has induced the
would-be solvers to use them as a touchstone of their mental
powers. But in the absence of scientific methods, such
glossogonies, anthropogonies, ethnogonies, and cosmogonies
remain empty speculations.
On these points great help has been expected from the
science of language, by which so much light has been thrown
on ethnographical problems. But in vain. A certain unity
of culture is explained by the unity of human nature and by
the general uniformity of the objects and circumstances,
which in different localities, quite independent of each other,
are certain to produce the same results. Tertullian knew

96
ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
this, and said: "All the races are one man, differing only
in name; one soul, differing only in language; one spirit,
differing only in tone."
The old mythical history does not help us; the Tower of
Babel and the confusion of tongues make confusion worse
confounded, although religious prejudice continually drags
'them into the discussion. Dante thinks that Hebrew was the
lingua della grazia, and therefore remained the same after the
confusion of tongues as before, and that the other languages
are alone lingue della confusione. The numbers 70 and 72
-that is the number of languages after the confusion,
according to the Talmud-still haunt the brain of some people
who allow their
"
godlike reason
To fust in them unus'd."
It is a curious fact that, wherever tribes came in their
wanderings, they found men who had been there before them.
The Shumir-Accadians found the Assyrians; Cain met people
with whom he allied himself in marriage; the Phenicians
discovered people in Great Britain who worked tin mines and
were probably not Celts, certainly not Teutons.
In all nooks and corners of the earth we find people
driven back into distant valleys by the dominant race, people
who have lived an isolated existence for ages and whose
languages are totally different from those of their conquerors.
The Basques of the Pyrenees are an example of this kind.
Their language, split into many dialects, has not yet been
classed with any of the linguistic families, although the late
Professor von der Gabelentz, in a posthumous work (1894),
has tried to prove its relationship with the Berber languages
of Northern Africa. The numerous tribes of the Caucasus;
the Papuans scattered over the linguistic area of the
Polynesians; in the northern part of Asia the Camchadales

ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY. 97
and other so-called Palaio-Asiatic nations; some minor
languages on the American continent; the Miaotzŭ in China
and others show the same phenomenon. In the sub-
Himalayan country, between the rivers Kali and Tishta,
Hodgson ("Kôsh, Bôdo, and Dhimál Tribes." Calcutta,
1847) met with a perfect Babel of numerous aboriginal
languages and dialects, "What a wonderful superfluity of
speech and what a demonstration of the immense impedi-
ments to general intercourse characterising the earlier stages
of our social progression."
Many languages have entirely disappeared, without
leaving any traces behind them. Others have been handed
down to us in inscriptions, but they are extinct and have left
no progeny. Such is the language of the Shumir-Accadians,
found in Assyrian inscriptions, and that of the Etruscans,
whose inscriptions, written in Phenician letters from right to
left, we are able to read, but to the language thus revealed we
are unable to assign its scientific place: it is neither Semitic,
nor Ural-Altaic, nor Greco-Italic, as its decipherers have from
time to time asserted.
Everywhere we find a plurality of languages, which
seems to exclude, a priori, a common relationship.
There is, moreover, an extraordinary divergence in the
grammatical structure of the different linguistic families.
We find languages with flexibility and great freedom in the
position of words as the Indo-European; we find the strange
system of the tri-literal Semitic languages in which the chief
modifications depend on a change in vowels and whose three
consonants of the root have not yet been reduced to two.
We have the agglutinative Ural-Altaians with a rigid position
of words. As if greedy to express all their ideas at once, the
polysynthetic languages of North America force a number of
ideas into one single compound. There are the African Bantu
13

98 ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
languages which, with the exception of Hottentot, radically
different from them, occupy a large portion of Southern and
Eastern Africa, and which exclusively use prefixes, in
contradistinction to the Ural-Altaic which exclusively use
We find in Eastern Asia languages with tones which
modify the meaning of homonyms by giving them different
intonations, as the Chinese with its dialects and some of the
so-called Indo-Chinese languages.
suffixes.
A strange difference appears between the Melanesian and
the Polynesian languages. The latter, in spite of the vast
space over which they spread, are merely dialects of one
mother speech; among the Melanesians, whose homes are
close together, every little island has its own language,
sometimes even several.
If all languages were offsprings of one mother, they
would show more similarity among themselves, not only in
the vocabulary, but also in the way of expressing thoughts.
But if it be said that they may have separated from the
original speech at a time when language was yet limited and
possessed no grammar, then it is not worth our while to
search for this too remote relationship, which, pursued step
by step, must by necessity become the farther the thinner,
until long before we have reached its beginning it disappears
under our hands in the twilight of the past.
The same reasoning will prevent us from ever deciding
whether the polysyllabic structure was evolved out of the
monosyllabic, or whether monosyllabism represents the worn-
out condition of previous polysyllabism.
Another difficulty will meet us more or less in all lan-
guages. Words change in the course of time their meaning,
and, as by mere similarity of sound without equality of meaning,
a relationship can never be established, we are obliged in such
cases to inquire into the history of the languages in question.

ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY. 99
Where this fails us, we are powerless. Trench, in his
book "On the Study of Words," has given us a number of
examples in this respect from modern times. We may be
sure that such changes of meaning were quite common in
antiquity too.
To this we have to add the onomatopoetic words which, as
expressions in universal use among men of all races, are apt
to mislead the inquirer. Then we find formations of words by
analogy with other words which are quite frequent in all
languages, and further popular etymologies, which date back
very far, for either of which we rarely find the true key.
The verbal stems, which express ideas relating to actions and
qualities, have mostly quite undefined limits of meaning:
thus we find our verb "to see," German sehen, corresponding
in sound and original meaning to Latin sequi, "to follow,"
Greek recat; Italian and French use the verb "to chew
(Latin, manducare), mangiare, manger, for the old Latin
edere, "to eat." Latin dicere, "to speak," originally meant
"to point to," Greek sixvvpt; "Blue," German blau, agrees
phonetically with Latin flavus, "yellow" (in different shades
like Greek Eaós).
Another difficulty is presented by the formative elements
added to the roots: it is vexing to find that, except in a few
cases, we are quite unable to explain their origin in a
satisfactory manner.
In all these difficulties we meet the same cause: it is
impossible to pursue the linguistic material beyond a certain
point, where our science inscribes ne plus ultra, so far and
no farther, and beyond which our understanding cannot
reach.
Linguistics has, like all human sciences, its limitations,
and when we transgress them we enter the domain of hazy
speculations.

100
ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY.
We must be satisfied with the result within our reach.
Science will undoubtedly be able to classify gradually all the
1,000 languages under linguistic families, and the present
number of these families will certainly be reduced in time.
But when we commence the comparison of the different
families, we are sure to encounter unsurmountable difficulties.
This ordinary arithmetic will show.
the
The best known family is the Indo-European,
number of roots found common to all its languages amount to
about 2,000. We are entitled to assume, that every other
linguistic family can be reduced to the same number of roots,
so that we have 2,000 roots of one family to be compared
with 2,000 roots of another. Considering the difference in
space and time between two original forms of speech, we are
entitled to expect the same results in other languages, which
we have found in the Indo-European, i.e. the farther and
the longer two languages have been separated from each
other, the smaller will be the number of words common to
both.
Let us again assume, that on comparing two original
forms of speech with each other, we find one half of the 2,000
roots to be common (one fourth even, I should say, will be
found too high a figure), the number of roots after each
comparison will be reduced to 1,000. If we begin by
comparing the Indo-European with the Semitic original
speech, we thus obtain as a result 1,000 roots. Comparing
then the Semitic and the African Hamitic speech we again
get 1,000 roots. After comparing these two quantities, each
of 1,000 roots, with each other, we reduce this number by
one half, to 500. If we apply this method to the other
linguistic families, a very simple calculation will show us
that, after repeating the process 11 times, we shall find but
one word common to all the languages so far compared. I

ON THE LIMITATIONS OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY. 101
leave it to you to imagine what will be the result after
treating all the 100 linguistic families in the same way!
With regard to proving an original speech common
to all races, science must always pronounce the verdict non
liquet.