ON THE CHINESE COINS
AND SMALL PORCELAIN BOTTLES FOUND IN EGYPT.
By NATALIS RONDOT.
1
Dr. Edkins, in a communication read before the China
Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society on the 24th of January
1894, spoke about the small Chinese bottles found in various
parts of Europe and said they were used for containing
medicines.
He specially remarked on two of these bottles, found at
Arles by the Rev. James Johnston, of London, and both
bearing Chinese inscriptions; one read: "Only in this
mountain;" and the other: "The Yangtze-kiang stretching for
three thousand miles;" the former sentence is from a T'ang
dynasty poem; I will refer again to it in the following pages.
Another member of the Royal Asiatic Society, the
Rev. W. Muirhead, recalled, at the time of this communication,
the opinion formerly expressed by Sir Walter Medhurst that
Arabian travellers to China had taken back medicine bottles
and left them in the tombs of Egypt and other ancient ruins.
In this way the curious fact might be explained that the
bottles of the Tang dynasty should be found in such places.
Another member, Mr. Volpicelli, was of the same
opinion, and added that the Chinese medicine bottles found
'Journal of the China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, New Series,
Vol, xxvii., pp. 247 and 248, December 1895.

ON THE CHINESE COINS, ETC.
67
in Egypt and Europe had probably been introduced there by
Arab merchants, whose most flourishing period of trade with
China was during the T'ang dynasty, and, indeed, verses, or
parts of verses, written at that time, i.e. during the 7th, 8th
and 9th centuries, can be read on the bottles.
I thought the story of those bottles had been cleared up
after the researches and discussions in which I took a part
about forty years ago, but the remarks presented at the Royal
Asiatic Society in Shanghai induced me to reconsider the
subject.
I was studying the subject for several years, chiefly in
1852 and 1853, and was helped in it by my friends, Stanislas
Julien, Auguste Mariette, W. H. Medhurst, S. Wells Williams
and Sir John Bowring, but I thought it useless to publish the
account I had prepared, and which was advertised by Stanislas
Julien in 1856 in the preface to his History of Chinese
Porcelain, as the conclusions at which I had arrived seemed
to be generally accepted.
I had the opportunity of seeing at the Louvre Museum in
Paris, in 1851, some small Chinese porcelain bottles brought
from Egypt and nearly all collected by Clot-Bey; some had
the picture of a flower and a Chinese inscription on them, the
others were covered with ornaments in very slight relief.
I was struck by the likeness of these bottles to others of
the same kind I had seen in China in 1845 at a porcelain
factory in the Fokien province.
Such was the starting-point of my special researches.
My first care was to get drawings of all bottles of the same
kind kept in the public and private collections to which I had
access; by so doing I brought together about fifty drawings.
These porcelain bottles seem to have been used for
containing medicines; they are from four to seven centimeters
high and the body is flat; the greatest number are covered

68
ON THE CHINESE COINS
with ornaments moulded in the paste and coated with enamel,
generally coloured in pale green; others have on each side
either flowers or flying bats, painted with a few strokes of the
pencil, and verses or parts of verses written with a running
hand; some of them have part of their surface green and
rough.
I will speak afterwards about the inscriptions, but one
fact is certain some of the bottles have been found in Egypt,
some in Syria (and in the south of France?); none of those
findings seem to have preceded the beginning of this century,
or at least they were not announced before that time.
I first devoted my efforts to making sure of the genuine-
ness of the original finding.
I will begin with those found in Egypt-yes, they have
been collected in Egypt-do they come from old tombs as
asserted? This is not proved.
Rosellini has described one found by himself, said he, in
an Egyptian tomb "not previously opened, and built, if
judged by the style of the hieroglyphs in the Pharaonic period
shortly posterior to the 18th century B.C." [I monumenti dell'
Egypt, etc., Pisa, 1834, part II, fo. 337.]
Rosellini was quite sure that the tomb had not been
broken open before his visit, and this is what he wrote to
Sir John Francis Davis:-"I broke down myself the small
brick wall obstructing the entrance to the vault and went into
one of the three tombs, where I found, with other Egyptian
objects laid in a small basket made of interwoven palm leaves,
the said small bottle." 2
I had in hand the original French text of Rosellini's declaration sent
to me by Sir J. Francis Davis [letter of the 16th of August 1852]. I knew
Sir J. F. Davis in 1845-46 at Hongkong, during his governorship of the
island.

AND SMALL PROCELAIN BOTTLES FOUND IN EGYPT. 69
...
Was not Rosellini imposed upon? Mariette thought so
and wrote to me, on the 20th of April 1853 :-"Yes, Rosellini
has possibly been present himself at the actual finding of the
bottles in the unbroken tomb and we must believe his
assertion on this point.
But the question is to know
if the tomb had never been really opened before that time,
and I am all the more doubtful respecting this because I am
myself well aware how the Arabs prepare with incredible
dexterity the findings they will cause you to make on the
day after."
Other bottles found in Egypt had been brought to
England. Sir J. Gardner Wilkinson mentioned them in
the book he published under the title of Manners and
Customs of the Ancient Egyptians [Part III, 1837, fo. 106
to 109]; he had then no doubt of their antiquity; after a
certain time he was less positive, and I read in one of his
letters dated 12th of August 1852 :-"I am quite convinced
that the bottles have been found in the tombs near Thebes,
but as the country people are obliged to work secretly, the
exact date of the tombs, from which the bottles come, cannot
be fixed now;
I had four or five in my possession and saw
more than twenty of these bottles. Though it is not possible
to decide positively about their antiquity, there is a probability
that they are at least as ancient as the Cesars or the Ptolemies.
We can suppose they passed from China to India and thence
to Egypt, containing some product much valued there.
In 1836, Sir J. F. Davis published his book The
Chinese, or General Description of the Empire of China.
He reproduced Rosellini's opinion, and in reference to the
discussion about these small objects which had then in
England excited great curiosity, he observed that they were
similar to the snuff-bottles then made in China; nevertheless
he acquiesced in Rosellini's and Wilkinson's ideas [Part II.]

70
10
ON THE CHINESE COINS
Sir John Francis Davis came to Paris in 1836 and
consulted Stanislas Julien about the Chinese inscriptions
which he could not read. Julien then showed him how
impossible it was to refer them back to the 18th century B.C.,
as the writing inscribed on them was used in China only
since the years 48 or 33 before our era.
Davis was only half convinced; I mean that he admitted
they were not so old as was supposed, but continued to take
his findings as genuine, even in his last books; it seemed to
him "extremely curious, but at the same time very perplexing"
that so many Chinese bottles had been found in the old
Egyptian tombs.
In 1837, Rosellini's opinion was still admitted as the
truth, and this "finding of Chinese bottles at Thebes, in deep
excavations" was combined with the assertion that "figures
of characters, undoubtedly Chinese by their faces and
costume, were found painted by the Egyptians amongst the
foreign nations represented on one of the oldest tombs in the
same place" [Champollion, Figeac; Egypte ancienne 1847,
fo. 85].
We now come to 1852 and 1853, when my observations
took a definite form.
The bottle found by Rosellini was regarded as specially
interesting. Rosellini brought it to Florence, where it was
kept in the Egyptian collection he had formed there; he had
sent a drawing of it to P. Lepsius, the celebrated Egyptolo-
gist, and this gentleman communicated it to Stanislas Julien,
in a letter dated 7th of August 1836.3-On one side, an
amaryllis in flower was printed in a cartouche, and on the
other were Chinese characters written incorrectly.
I have yet in my possession the letter from Lepsius and the drawing
sent at the same time.

AND SMALL PROCELAIN BOTTLES FOUND IN EGYPT. 71
On the 20th of August 1852, I sent a copy of this
inscription to W. H. Medhurst, Junior, then secretary to the
Superintendent of Trade at Hongkong, and received his
answer on the 26th of October. Mr. W. H. Medhurst had
been able to read the sentence, to translate it, and to discover,
with his Chinese teacher's help, the poem from which the
verse was taken; it must be read as "Hoa khai yeou yih
nien, i.e. The flowers blossom and this is a new year," and is
part of a sonnet found in a small text book of poetry for
children's use named Thsien-kia-shi. The sonnet is
assigned to Wei ying wou, living during the reigns of
four T'ang emperors, between 702 and 795 A.D.
This bottle found in an Egyptian tomb regarded by
Rosellini as unbroken and as being nearly 3,600 years old,
bore on it its date, and this date was derived from a verse
written during the 8th century of our era.
I did more, I gave to W. H. Medhurst and to my friend
S. Wells Williams eleven other inscriptions copied from
Chinese bottles, brought from Egypt and kept in the Louvre
Museum or communicated by Sir Gardner Wilkinson; I sent
also the same to my friend Sir John Bowring, then British
Minister to China, who was deeply interested by these
enquiries.
The first result obtained was that the inscriptions were
not written in the ancient characters. They were not even
in the characters called Tsau-shu, or grass characters, nor in
characters known as Hing-shu. They were all in mixed
writing, participating in each of these forms of the characters,
and they were inaccurate, as ignorant workmen could have
hastily written them on cheap and common ware.
In fact, the eleven inscriptions were reduced to five, as,
under various forms, some presented the same text; amongst
them, two had the same sentence as that of Rosellini "The

72
ON THE CHINESE COINS
flowers blossom and this is a new year." One, found at
Coptos, is at Alnwick Castle in England, and has an amaryllis
on one side; the other is at the Louvre Museum, and has on
the side a kind of Petunia.
No. 1.-Rosellini's bottle.
No. 2.-Bottle found at Thebes, communicated by
Sir Gardner Wilkinson. Other bottles in the Louvre Museum.
[On one side, an amaryllis in flower, on the other "Ming
youei song tchong tchao-The clear moon shines through
the firs-this is the third verse of a sonnet named Chan-kiou-
thsicou-ming-An autumn day in the mountains-Written
by Wang wei, a poet living during the Kaïyouen period-
702 to 745 A.D., under the Tang dynasty.]
No. 3.-Bottle at the Louvre Museum and at the Lepsius
collection in the Berlin Museum. [On one side, an amaryllis
blossom, on the other "Tchi-tsaï-tse-chan-tchong." Only in
this mountain-the third verse of a quatrain-"In search of
the missing," written by Kia-teou, living under the reign of
Houï-tchang, of the Tang dynasty [831-837 A.D.] We
have already seen that Dr. Edkins has mentioned one bottle
found at Arles as presenting the same inscription.
No. 4. A bottle found at Thebes, communicated by
Sir G. Wilkinson-Liaou-tih-cheou-jin-tchi. "What a few
can feel."-Last verse of a quatrain written by Tchao-yong,
who died during the reign of Chin Tsong (1068-1085), Song
dynasty.
No. 5. A bottle at the Louvre Museum. [On one side
a sunflower blossoms, on the other side "Hang-hoa-hong-li-
The almond tree blossoms all over the country." Part of a
verse written by Sou-tong-po, living under Chin-tsong,
1068-1085, Song dynasty.]
These decipherings and translations were communicated
to me in October and November 1852, by W. H. Medhurst

AND SMALL PORCELAIN BOTTLES FOUND IN EGYPT. 73
[letter of the 26th of October 1852] and S. Wells Williams
[letter of the 26th November 1852], and their interpretations
were very slightly different.
The inscriptions preserve to us verses from poems of
the T'ang and Song dynasties, i.e. between the 8th and
11th centuries of our era, and the poems from which the
verses are taken having been found, Stanislas Julien,
S. Wells Williams and Medhurst have proved that the poems
could not be older, as shown by their style, form and
character.
Stanislas Julien was the first in 1836 to be convinced of
the error of the archeologists, who thought these Chinese
bottles were as old as the Pharaohs, by appealing to the
fact that the Chinese characters written in the "tsao" or
running hand was not used in China before the emperor
Youen-té (between 48 and 33 B.C.) and if it be observed that
the writing of the inscriptions on bottles is often more
related to the Hing-chou, i.e. the free running hand, we
obtain a date rather less ancient, seeing that the Hing-chou is
only as old as the emperor Houan-ti (147-167 A.D.)
W. H. Medhurst did not specially examine the writing,
as it was very inaccurate and sometimes executed in a style
extremely crude; however, allowing a certain importance to
this fact, he thought the writing could not be anterior to
229-260 A.D.
Another consideration was left-the material of the
bottles. They are of different qualities, some are certainly
made with porcelain; Stanislas Julien thought the discovery
and use of porcelain in China could only be placed between
185 B.C. and 87 A.D.; Medhurst specially quotes on this
point a writer living under Tai-shi of the Tsin dynasty,
(260-268 A.D.); let me add that in 1844, during the
negociations which ushered in the signing of the Franco-
10

74
ON THE CHINESE COINS
Chinese treaty, one of the Chinese envoys, Chao-chang-li,
well acquainted with the antiquities of his country, affirmed to
me that the manufacture of porcelain could only be traced
back as far as the middle of the 6th century.
In short, the antiquity of the small bottles in question
must be absolutely rejected.
This once settled, we must assert that none of the reliable
explorers of Egyptian monuments has ever met Chinese
bottles. I have the evidence on this point of Champollion,
Lenormant, Lepsius, Emmanuel de Rougé, Mariette.
Lenormant wrote to Stanislas Julien in 1852, that to his
knowledge, these bottles were never found [in Egypt] except
in the ruins of houses in the villages, together with other
vases either Arabian or Persian.
Mariette also wrote to myself on the 20th of April 1853:
"The small Chinese bottles were always sold on the Arab
markets as curiosities and objects of luxury used to adorn the
shelves in the Turkish houses.
I was able to buy
myself two of them on the Gizeh market; a friend of mine
showed me some from the Siout market; another friend told
me he had seen many in Damascus and other Syrian towns.
The liking for Chinese curios has always been strong all
over the Levant, and the caravans, coming every year to
Cairo, either from Persia, by the Isthmus of Suez, or from
Mecca, by Djeddah and Cosseïr up to Geneh, a town very
near to Thebes, spread numerous specimens through all
Egypt, though, I must say, the same taste for Chinese articles
seems slowly to disappear, since French fancy articles have
become the fashion in these Musulman countries.
"To sum up, the Egyptian Arabs will never acknowledge
the Chinese bottles as antiquities, and it is only at Thebes that
the natives will dare to sell them as such."

AND SMALL PORCELAIN BOTTLES FOUND IN EGYPT. 75
I will now speak of the information I collected in China.
One single Chinese testimonial favourable to the antiquity of
these bottles is known to me; it has been produced by
Sir J. F. Davis, whose ideas on the subject have been but
slightly modified. We read in his book on China, published
in 1852 "Our guest (the Shanghai Taotai) to whom we
showed a Chinese bottle found in the Theban tombs in Egypt,
declared in favour of its antiquity, on account of the polished
foot, which is always rough in the modern porcelain ware."
[Part II, fo. 65.]
I wonder Sir J. Francis should have given in such a
matter so much confidence to this Chinese Taotai.
I must come back to my starting-point.
I was sent in 1845, by the French Minister, to Tchang-
tcheou-fou, capital of the Fokien province, at a distance of
a day from Amoy. In returning, I stopped in the small town
of Chima, situated on an arm of the Tehang river and near to
some porcelain factories. An enormous quantity of bowls,
cups, goblets, vases, statues, made of a coarse and extremely
cheap porcelain from this part of the Fokien province, is in
demand in the Indian Archipelago. They are specially
manufactured at Pia-long, whence the junks take the various
products to Chima.
I bought some of these wares in the China stores, and
amongst them small coloured bottles with ornaments in low
relief, some white, others pale green, yellow or greenish dark
blue.
At the same time, I did not see there bottles with flowers
painted in white cartouches or with inscriptions. Certainly
some of the bottles at the Louvre and Berlin Museums were
very similar.
My personal evidence will be confirmed by that of
S. Wells Williams. When I requested him to give his

76
ON THE CHINESE COINS
opinion about the inscriptions on the bottles supposed to have
been found in the Egyptian tombs, I explained to him that
vases similar, but without inscriptions, were every day made
in Fokien, and asked him to look in the Canton shops to see
if there were not some like those found in Egypt.
On the 26th of November 1852, Wells Williams answered
me as follows; "I send you herewith painted drawings of
bottles I could find here (at Canton) in the shops; you will
see two of them have in cartouches the same verses as those
I translated for you. One reads: "Ming youï song tchong
tchao (Moon shines through the firs)"; the other: "Tchi
tsai tse shan tehong: (Only in this mountain)." But, as you
will observe, the characters are written with a running hand
sufficiently exact and more legible for the greater number of
buyers.
A rather larger square bottle, not similar to those found
in Egypt, presents, on one side, two verses from a poem of
Wei-ting-wou, who was living in 770 under the Emperor Tai-
tsung, and on the other side two verses from Sou-tong-po,
who lived at the time of Chê-tsung; on the two other faces,
an aster or a chrysanthemum in blossom.
The majority of the bottles, continues Williams, have
no inscriptions on them. I suppose these with ornaments
in relief are more common at Amoy and Tchang-tcheou
where you bought them. I went myself or sent to about
fifty shops, and saw only three vases with verses written on
them: that is, those I mentioned to you; they are generally
ovals.
The bottles with narcissus in blossom on one side and
bats on the wing on the other are very common¹; I only saw
* Mr. Olfers pointed out to me that the Lepsius Collection in the Berlin
Museum contains bottles brought from Egypt and showing also bats on the
wing.

AND SMALL PORCELAIN BOTTLES FOUND IN EGYPT. 77
one with the narcissus or the cymbidium. There are large
numbers of these small bottles of so-called antique shape with
flowers but without inscriptions; they are sold for four to
eight cash apiece and are used for containing snuff or
medicines." Briefly, Williams concluded against the antiquity
of the bottles found in Egypt.
He observed that, at the time of his writing in 1852,
there existed yet an important export of porcelain and
earthenware to India, and that small vases or bottles were
specially sought after for storing medicines, oils, perfumes, etc.
W. H. Medhurst, following Dr. Medhurst, concurred on
most of the points with Wells Williams. He remarked,
however, that the small vases, commonly made of coarse
porcelain, had been probably used for medicines only The
Chinese, who use tobacco snuff have bottles of less
coarse material and very often rather finer. The Chinese
sailors and coolies so commonly met with in the Indian
Archipelago and Indian seas carry as a rule with them during
their travels drugs and medicines of more than one kind.
Before I devote my attention to the coins, I cannot but
mention that, about the end of the last century some seals
were found in a peat-bog in Ireland which were considered to
be Chinese.
The small difficulty about the Chinese bottles found in
Egypt is, to my mind, resolved.
These bottles are modern; the verses written on them as
decorations are extracted from popular poems, written between
the 8th and 11th centuries. The actuality of their fabrication
is proved by the assertions of merchants at Canton, who said
they knew very well those objects of every-day sale, that they
were very cheap, and that those with inscriptions were scarce
on account of the small demand from sailors; and finally

78
ON THE CHINESE COINS, ETC.
I saw myself the bottles at Pia-long and in China, one of the
centres of manufacture of this ware.
Chinese coins have also been brought from Egypt, and
they were supposed to be ancient.
A former member of the Egyptian Institute, J. Marcel,
who was superintendent of the National Printing Office, had
a small collection of Chinese coins, divided into three parts.
In the first part were coins formerly belonging to the
abbot of Terson, a scholar very much interested in Asiatic
objects of art and research; in the second part were coins
given to Marcel by Klaproth, who had collected them in
China. In the third part were coins bought by Marcel in
Egypt, either from Arabs who pretended to have found them
in old Egyptian tombs, or who sold them together with
Egyptian antiques, without explaining their origin; or from
pilgrims who, after proceeding from India or Central Asia to
Mecca, extended their journey to Cairo.
I will only remark on this third part of the collection,
first that they are very common coins, and that, during my
residence in China, about fifty years ago, they were, with
more or less abundance, in active circulation.
Marcel gave me the coins bought by him in Egypt;
I classified them. They consist of 83 specimens, belonging
to 41 different kinds of coins issued between the 11th and
19th centuries (specially 17th and 18th.) Thus
will see
you
that they are all recent, and it should be noted that Marcel
had bought them during the last years of the last century and
the first two or three years of the present.