SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
BY ERNEST BOX.
Folk-lore, as its name indicates, is the lore or wisdom of
the common folk. It deals with the customs and superstitions,
the legends and myths of the people. From a study of
these and the thoughts underlying them, we are able to
learn something of the forces at work shaping and moulding
the life of the people.
I wish to give you some selections from notes which
I have made during the last eight years, 1890-1898, on local
folk-lore. The district from which they have been gleaned is
Shanghai and the country a hundred miles around, embracing
a part of South Kiangsu, and the northern part of the
Chehkiang Province. My purpose in making a study of this
subject was to learn what I could of the contents and
working of the Chinese mind, and thereby to get a glimpse
of the universe as it appears looked at through Chinese eyes.
I shall not on this occasion attempt to deal scientifically with
the various facts which will come before us, either from the
point of view of their relative antiquity, or in comparison
with the folk-lore of other lands. Our chief concern will be
to learn, as far as possible, the nature of the relations which
the people in this district regard themselves as sustaining
towards the mysterious powers and forces around them,
influencing their lives for weal or woe.
As a child I remember a certain pathway in my native
place which passed through the village churchyard. It was
fringed on either side with funereal yew and cypress, and
14

102
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE,
when the shades of night cast their gloom over the place,
the white grave-stones on either side became suggestive of
ghostly faces, and every slight rustle in the trees seemed
like the movement of mysterious spirits hovering around.
Disbelieving, yet powerless to throw off the feeling of uncan-
niness which oppressed him, the child, following an instinct
which centuries of education had not eradicated, would at
last give way to his fears and speed like the wind along
the dark pathway, and through the tall iron gateway of
the churchyard, which would swing back with a loud crash,
and, as the child thought, effectually cut off his ghostly
pursuers.
Here in this strange land we find these same instincts
of fear, not, as with us, existing merely as faint shadows,
but having a force and potency which makes the existence
of countless hosts of spirits hovering around, a more real
fact than even that of a man's fellow human beings in the
flesh. To have these spiritual forces on one's side, or at
least neutral, is, therefore, naturally the prime consideration
of men.
To make a foe of one who is a fellow human
being is bad enough, but it is as nothing to the terror which
possesses him who believes he has incurred the enmity of one
or more of these dread beings. Hence the thousand and
one ways and means by which the Chinese seek to secure
the favour and appease the wrath of the mysterious and
powerful spirits with which their universe is peopled.
Having grasped this fundamental fact, which more or less
underlies all the phenomena we are to consider here,
we shall be in a better position to understand the curious
customs and superstitions which a study of Shanghai folk-lore
brings to our notice.
As a writer has said: "when all nature is mysterious
and full of unknown activities any natural object or
occurrence which appeals strongly to the imagination, or

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
103
excites sentiments of awe and reverence, is readily taken
for a divine or demoniac life."
may
"A supernatural being as such is not necessarily a god,
but becomes one only when he enters into stated relations
with a community of men." We therefore distinguish
between the gods of the people and the other spirits; the
former having a more intimate and friendly relationship
with men, the latter, as strangers, being more or less
regarded as foes and avoided as dangerous. The relation
of man to the god is that of the worshipper, the relation
of man to the spirits is one in which superstition and
magic play a prominent part. The lines between these two
are not clearly defined, but the distinction is an important
one, and helps us the better to understand the part these
powers are supposed to play in the daily life of the people.
We will first notice a few of the local customs which
throw light upon the conception which the people have of
their gods, and the relationships they have with them; dealing
afterwards with the spirits in general.
1. THE PEOPLE AND THEIR RELATION TO THE GODS.
If you go to an idol-maker's shop where there are
images of various deities in different stages of progress,
from the rough block of wood to the finished article with
human features, you will be told, if you enquire, that
these are not yet living gods, but are only the forms
which later on are to be possessed by some deity who will
make it a part of himself, as the human body is the
organ of the human soul. There is therefore some special
ritual performed by the priests, differing in different
places, by means of which the image is consecrated and
becomes the abode of the god.
In the Ping Hu district, south of Shanghai, the custom
is to take the newly made image to some open space, and

104
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
there to watch until the first living thing passes by; a snake,
rat, or any other creature. This is captured and imprisoned
alive in the image, an aperture in the back of the figure
having been made for this purpose. The image then
becomes alive, and the god whom the figure was made to
represent is supposed to have taken up his abode in it.
A variation of this is seen in some places where the idol
is placed at the foot of a bridge and the people wait until a
dog is seen crossing over, when guns and crackers are fired
and the dog's spirit is supposed to pass into the idol, which
thus becomes possessed of life. With this life the idol also
becomes possessed of all the attributes which are supposed to
belong to the deity in question.
The different gods have their different spheres of
influence, and are conceived of as being able to help those
who approach them as worshippers along those lines. Some
are especially efficacious in conferring wealth, others in
bestowing offspring, and still others in averting calamity
and healing sickness. There is, for instance, a temple in
the country at Sinza, just beyond Shanghai, called the
"Temple of the Sun," patronised by the women of the
district, the god of which is supposed to have special
power over sickness. Those seeking medical advice prostrate
themselves before the idol and then take a bamboo tube
full of bamboo tallies, or slips, each with a number attached.
The suppliant on her knees shakes the tube until one of
the slips falls out. This is taken to the priest, and a
docket with a corresponding number is given her containing
the answer to her prayer, and the advice she has come to
obtain. This is called Jeu tsien, or "Enquiry by
Lot," and the answer is called Tsien Küeh, or the
"Secret of the Lot." I procured one hundred of these
oracles numbered consecutively, and will give the translation
of a few to illustrate the nature of the power which it is

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
外交部藏書
105
supposed the gods have, and how they are conceived of as
utilizing the forces of nature for man's benefit.
No. 2. To nourish the principle of life and suppress
the fires that consume you is not difficult.
You must have Buddha in the heart, this is the
remedy.
Take a stick of ink, rub it on a slab with well water
until it becomes a thick paste.
Take this, then seek quiet and repose. I promise
you restoration of health.
Directions for use.-Take a stick of fine ink and some
water just taken out of a well, rub the ink on the slab till
I have a thick mixture, add a little more well water. Taken
on an empty stomach recovery will be the more speedy.
you
No. 8. You are of an obstinate disposition, never
willing to confess your faults.
Sickness has come to you, you are irritable, and your
mind is like tangled hemp.
I advise you to comb your hair and wash your feet.
Take one year old flowers of the allspice, boil them
and drink.
Directions for use.-Take some of last year's allspice
flowers, wash them in clean water, add some dew, boil the
whole together, and take three doses of the same.
No. 12. As you constantly perform charitable deeds
you have been able to store up secret merits.
Thanks to the destiny appointed you by the Buddha,
your life has not come to its end.
Take yeast, the ashes of incense, and earth from the
east wall. (.)
Beat all together in a mortar and pour on rice water.
Directions for use.-Yeast, incense ashes, earth taken
from the east wall, each one mace. Grind together to
powder, pour on rice water. Take three doses.

106
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
No. 17.-Scheming each day until every device has
been exhausted.
In
your heart
of your family.
you have but one concern, the enrichment
You must know that this world's hours pass swiftly
by.
Except you humble yourself before the Lotus Throne,
the hour of repentance is already past.
Directions for use.-Ashes from the incense burner,
one dose.
Unless you trust in the Buddha and recite
prayers, all remedies you may seek will be in vain.
No. 21. Do you say that incense ashes taken as
medicine is of little efficacy?
Can you know what the friendly help and subtle
power of the gods can do for man?
In the morning swallow rice water and the 1,000
tassel flower. (7)
One dose-you are well! Sickness will have left you.
Directions for use. Take one pinch of incense ashes
from the burner, add some 1,000 tasselled flowers. Boil
well, add rice water, mix together and drink.
pure
No. 31.--Crouching Dragon's Liver (F) and
incense ashes, river water, boil to thick soup, drink two cups
full. For a whole day eat no flesh and destroy no life!
The spring of life will expand, the propitious star will
come.
Directions for use.-Crouching Dragon's Liver is the
earth from beneath the kitchen furnace. Take three mace of
this and one pinch of clean incense ashes; boil in river water
and drink.
you
No. 32. The demon of sickness has long troubled
and
you are unable to cast off your despondency. Your
mouth has been saying "yes" when your heart said "no"-
your nature is deceitful.

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
107
To-day you come seeking help. You should repent of
your sins.
Take the snuff of lamp wicks, bamboo leaves and a gold
hair pin.
Directions for use.-Take the snuff of three lamp wicks,
twelve bamboo leaves washed in clean water, and one gold
hair pin. Take these three and boil together in river water.
you do not possess any gold ornaments, take two mace
of the golden yellow dendrobium in place of it ().
If
Amongst other remedies, not the least curious, is the
following: Collect tea leaves from seven different families, a
little from each, take some boiling river water and pour on
the leaves, drink some each day until the sickness has
departed, then stop.
Some of the ingredients prescribed are of such a nature
that I have thought it best to withhold the translation as
unfit for mention in a public lecture.
I have given these particulars as illustrating the relation-
ship which is held .to exist between the gods and their
worshippers on the one hand, and the gods and nature on
the other. Man seeks in his gods the help which superhuman
power possesses over the forces of nature, and which makes
him as a worshipper better able to defend himself from the
mysterious and evil forces which ever threaten his existence.
But it is not in sickness alone that the people come
before the gods and enquire of them by lot. Almost every
concern of life where some important decision has to be
made, or where advice is needed, is brought before the
gods for their guidance and help.
A few years ago in a time of drought, the people of a
town called Doodeu (Ta-t'uan), south-east of Shanghai,
sought the help of one of their gods, carrying his image
around their fields in procession. Not long after the much
desired rain came, and there was great rejoicing. In a

108
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
neighbouring town called Sing-zahng (Hsin-chang) a
similar appeal to their own deities had proved of none
effect. A deputation therefore was sent to Doodeu to
borrow the idol, in the hope that his beneficent power
would be exercised in their behalf. The idol was lent
them by the Doodeu people, but whilst carrying it to
their own town, along a path that ran by the river-side,
by some accident one of the men slipped and the idol
fell into the river. The conclusion that everyone came to,
was that the god was not willing to use his supernatural
powers for strangers, refusing to help any but his own
worshippers who had a definite connection with him. They
therefore gave up their mission and returned the idol to his
temple again.
We have here illustrated not only the conception that
the gods have mysterious power over the forces of nature,
but also the idea that such powers are only exerted in
certain localities over which the god has jurisdiction, and
on behalf of certain persons who stand in a definite
relation to him, and as his worshippers have a claim upon his
services.
.
It is difficult for Western minds to understand the
curious relationships which the Chinese people have with their
gods. On the one hand they are treated as superhuman
beings who are to be approached with awe and reverence
befitting their great power, whilst on the other hand they
are, on certain occasions and in certain aspects, treated as
though they were human beings, and able to come into
human relations with men.
It is a common practice in these parts for parents to
give their children to the god of some temple for adoption.
Standing in so close and vital relationship to him they
are supposed to be thereby effectually protected from the
innumerable evils which threaten the young life.

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
109
A curious incident in this connection came across my
notice a few years ago.
The Chehsien of P'ing-hu presented
his young grandson to the city god for adoption. The
child thus becoming the adopted son of the god the question
was raised as to the relationship of the official himself to
the god, now that his grandson had become the son of the
god. Had he not thereby made himself the father of the
god?
This of course could never do, for, having made
himself the father of the god, how could he go to the
City Temple and prostrate himself as aforetime, and as
official duty still required. The "Relations" had thus
got sadly mixed up and no one seemed able to untangle the
threads.
Some time ago when one of the idols at Lutien, a
place a few miles north-west of Shanghai, was being carried
round the town in procession, amongst the onlookers was
a young woman belonging to the family of my Chinese
writer. Soon after she was taken ill, and she then told
her family that when passing her the idol had smiled on
her, and that now he had come to claim her as his bride.
Soon after she died, and a marriage ceremony having been
gone through, an image was made in her likeness and
placed by the side of the god, and she is worshipped by
the people to-day as the wife of the god.
Other cases have come under my notice in which a
husband has presented his own wife to the god. A room
was specially furnished in the precincts of the temple where
the woman lived, and she was regarded as standing in
relation to the god as wife to her husband.
It is well known that, as has been stated above, the
people regard their own local deities whom they worship
as having duties to perform on behalf of those who are their
worshippers. If these duties are not performed satisfactorily
the gods are liable to receive chastisement at the hands of
15

110
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
the people, just as are the mandarins who fail to fulfil
their duties.
It is therefore no uncommon thing to hear of such
treatment of the gods in times when there is severe
drought, floods or pestilence. Other occasions also arise
when such remedies have to be made use of. Outside the
city of Nan-wei (Nan-h'ui), to the east of Shanghai, there
are embankments to protect the land from the sea. The
land between the embankments and the sea is watered by
means of a canal passing under the embankment, but
regulated by water gates. The priest of one of the temples
in the neighbourhood claimed that the god of his temple
had charge of this gateway, and that without his consent
the gate could not be opened. A new official declined to
follow precedent and refused to visit the temple to secure
permission. In consequence of this, as it was said, the
water could not be made to flow through, the god being
gravely displeased at the disrespect shown him. The official
commanded the idol to appear before him in his Yamen.
The image was carried there and when in the mandarin's
presence the god was commanded to prostrate himself as is
usual with persons on trial. The idol was then placed face
down on the ground and the mandarin soundly rated him
for his insubordination and condemned his evil conduct in
refusing to allow the water to pass through the gateway,
though he knew it was necessary for the welfare of the
people. He then commanded the runners to inflict forty
blows as a punishment for the idol's evil deeds. This was
done and the people saw nothing extraordinary in it all, as
it was in harmony with their conception of the mutual
relations existing between the gods and themselves.
Their treatment of the gods is often most child-like
and ludicrous. I saw once in a large temple courtyard
some clay images which had been undergoing repair. New

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
111
arms and legs, ears and noses, had been put on, and the idols
placed out in the sun to be dried and hardened before being
painted. On closer inspection I found that a small piece
of red paper was pasted over each eye. On enquiry I was
told that this was done whilst the repairs were being made
lest the idol should see what was going on and be angry
at the treatment. When the process was complete the
covers would be removed from the eyes. In this way the
idol was mended with impunity. "What the eye sees
not, the heart grieves not.'
On a recent occasion whilst travelling in the neighbourhood
of Sung-kiang, a friend and myself visited a small river-side
shrine patronized by country people. Inside there were
some images in the last stages of decay. The arms and
feet of several had fallen off, some rough dirty straw and
a wooden stick protruding being all that remained of the
limbs. More striking still, the faces and bodies of the
idols were punctured with innumerable holes, giving them
the appearance of being pock-marked. We soon found that
this was produced by swarms of hornets, which had made
their nests in the images and were busy flying in and out
through the holes. And yet, in spite of all, the half-burnt
candles on the altar showed that the images were still
worshipped as gods, and their protection sought by the people
residing in the neighbourhood. This may be accounted for
by the fact that this spot, originally perhaps some thicket
or grove, which, when the ground was first cleared, was
thought to be the abode of a spirit, had for many generations
been associated with the worship of the supernatural powers,
and that the place, even more than the images, was regarded
as the haunt of the being whose protection they desired.
Many other features illustrating the relations sustained
between the gods and men might be given did space permit.
Such for instance, is the rôle given them as judges;

112
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
those who have been wronged presenting their petitions
should they have failed to procure justice in the ordinary
courts.
Then again there are the theatrical performances which
are provided by their votaries for their entertainment, and
the feasts which are made in their honour. The essential,
the god, the
spiritual part of the food is partaken of by
worshippers themselves taking the rest, the god and the
people sharing in a common meal and thus renewing their
covenant relationship. Have we not here ideas, in the germ,
which we may with profit make use of in seeking to elevate
and purify the religious life and conceptions of the people?
From the various side-lights given us in the above
sketches taken direct from the life of the people, we may
gather the following among other important facts. The
gods are spirits or supernatural beings who have on the
one hand power over the forces of nature and possess a
knowledge of its secrets, and on the other hand stand in
intimate relations with some section more or less large of
the community, who in return for the due performance of
certain acts of ritual have the right to expect the powerful
help of the god in the concerns of their daily life. Failing
this help he is regarded as having broken his contract, and
is worthy of condemnation. The strength of the worship
of idols lies in the conviction. that as body and soul are
united to form a man, so there is supposed to be a real
union of the material and spiritual in the idol. And so
real does the body appear to them to become that the gods
are regarded as entering into the closest relations with
men through sight, hearing, taste and the various other
organs of the body. There are traces also of what is
perhaps an earlier and less developed conception in which
the god is associated rather with a definite locality than
as an actual embodiment in some particular idol.

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
113
II. THE PEOPLE AND THEIR RELATION
TO THE DEMI-GODS.
Before dealing with the relations of the people to
spirits, I must first briefly touch on an intermediary class of
beings which are sometimes spoken of as Demi-gods. These
are a class of spirits which for the most part are associated
with some one or other member of the animal or vegetable
kingdoms; and which, in some cases, are conceived of as
having power to change their form, and even, it is said,
to assume human form. Amongst the animals which I
have found to be held in special reverence by the people
in this district, and to whom supernatural powers are
ascribed, are, in addition to the dragon and other
mythological creatures, the tortoise, fox, tiger, cock, stoat,
toad, otter, fish and snake.
A few years ago near Nan-wei, a countryman found a
large tortoise in an earthenware vessel. The mouth of the
vessel was smaller than the tortoise, and the fact of its
having, as it was supposed, passed through an aperture
smaller than itself caused it to be regarded as possessing
mysterious powers. The rumour of the wonder-working
power of this tortoise soon spread through the district,
and people came from all directions to worship it. Incense
was burnt before it, and each one purchased from the lucky
discoverer some of the sacred water in the vessel. So great
was the demand for the water that the man had to refill
the vessel every night. Finally an official interfered and
put a stop to the proceedings by breaking the pot and
liberating the tortoise.
This year (1898) when in Gahze, Kia-shen, a Chinese
gentleman, brought me a white tortoise which was supposed
to possess mysterious powers. If kept in the house, it
would protect it from the risk of fire. If carried in a ship,

114
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
it would protect that vessel from shipwreck. One other
peculiarity claimed for this tortoise was that it acted as a
compass, always facing south. This last claim I was able
to test for myself, and, after repeated experiments, I found
that the tortoise did, for some reason or other, on every
occasion turn itself round until it faced south.
There is also a tortoise with a jointed breast-bone which
keeps away snakes from the house, and a green-haired
tortoise-a specimen of which I have seen,-which is able
to protect its owners from the perils of fire.
Though there are now, so far as I know, no foxes in
this part of the country, yet the belief in the supernatural
power of the fox is to be found in most places. In the
Yamens at Soochow, Sung-kiang and Kahting there is,
I am told, in an upper storey, an empty room called the
Woo Sien Leu, or the "Fox Genii's Chamber."
In the course of official business a great number of
documents are accumulated in the archives of the Yamen.
Sometimes these are urgently required and the person in
charge is unable to find them. He then lights some sticks
of incense and prostrates himself, beseeching the help of
the fox god. Shutting up all the windows and doors,
he leaves the room for a time. Returning after an interval
he will find, it is said, thanks to the kindly help of the
fox god, one volume or packet sticking out beyond the
others; this will be the manuscript or volume he is in
search of. There are also strange stories told of the
Woo-li-tsing, or "Fox Apparition," which, sometimes
as a wraith, and sometimes in the form of a human being,
mingles with men and works with strange power and subtle
influence upon them.
There are also certain fox taboos which have to be
carefully avoided, lest harm befall the unwary person who
chances to break them.

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
115
The virtues of the tiger's bones are well known to
all as a specific in sickness. In many parts of this district
on the 5th day of the 5th moon the children's faces are
daubed over with yellow ochre and the sign E painted
on their foreheads, signifying the tiger; who is king of
the beasts, and whose help is sought in frightening off
evil
powers and influences which on this day are especially
active.
Most of the animals mentioned above are supposed to
have the power of changing their form, and of coming and
going in a mysterious way. Some say these are animals
who were once men and who will after many years be
permitted to regain, permanently,' the human form. The
contact of these creatures, whether in apparitional or human
form, with human beings, is a dangerous thing, sickness
and death generally resulting. The neighbour of a Chinese
friend of mine in Lutien fell sick. It was suspected that
one of these apparitional animals was the cause of the
sickness. Some young men armed with swords watched
by the sick person's couch at night to keep off the dreaded
visitor. In the middle of the night the woman cried out
"The toad man has come!" The young men all shouted
noisily to frighten it away. Suddenly they saw a toad on
the table. They struck at it, but it mysteriously disappeared.
It was a Toad Tsing or apparition. Shortly after the
woman died.
The cock, according to Groot, is "the chief embodiment
of the great yahny element, which represents the light,
warmth and life of the universe." The significance of this
we shall see presently in connection with funeral customs.
It is sufficient here to say that, like the fox, toad and other
animals, the cock is also supposed to have the power of
changing itself into human form, and, in this form, to inflict
injury on man.

116
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
The snake, as is well known, is often regarded with
feelings of awe and veneration. To injure a snake which
has found for itself a domicile in your house is regarded,
as I know from personal experience, as a dangerous thing
to do; whilst to purchase a snake that has been captured,
and liberate it is a good deed that will not go by unrewarded.
I have come across several temples in this district in
which the snake is especially held in honour. The familiar
legend of the Hangchow White Snake" which appeared
oftentimes in human form, and was possessed of magic
powers, may serve to illustrate the fact which I am
stating as to this class of supernatural beings allied to
both man and beast.
"
Serpent worship naturally suggests tree worship.
Traces of this ancient form of worship are also to be
found in this district. At Minghong (Min-hang), for
instance, there is an old giant tree which the Chinese of
the place told me was the abode of a god, and therefore
a sacred tree. I was told if the tree was dug up or cut
down the person doing so would die.
Closely allied to this, as a part of nature worship, is
the reverence paid to the gods of the rivers and of caves,
the gods of fire and of thunder, and other deities more
or less associated with the powers of nature.
There are two ceremonies observed in this district which
seem to have their origin also in nature worship, and which
we may mention here.
On the 1st day of Spring, Li-ch'un, the head
official of the Native city of Shanghai goes in his sedan chair,
accompanied by a large retinue, to the outside of the
East Gate to "Meet the Spring". An ox is led
by some person in the procession, properly a child, who is
called
T'ai-sui, or "the revolution of the seasons,"
and is supposed to represent the spirit of fruitfulness

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
117
(cf. Phrygian Cybele). The ox is called 4, and its
body is painted with various colours signifying the " Royal
Astronomer's determinations as to the character of the
coming season-red, for instance, intimating a drought.
99
Towards the end of the year, at the festival of "Frost's
Descent," Shuang-chiang, there is a somewhat similar
ceremony called "Meet the Descent of Frost."
On this occasion, however, a military official is chosen, as
he has authority over destructive forces and is supposed to be
able to protect the people from the baneful influences of
the winter season.
There is another very interesting custom in this district
in connection with the worship of nature, viz., the celebration
of the "Flowers' Birthday" on the 12th day of the 2nd
Chinese month. The women and children prepare red
papers, or silk favours of various colours, and on the
appointed day suspend them on the flowers and the branches
of flowering shrubs. The women and children then recite
certain laudatory and congratulatory sentences, and prostrate
themselves. By this worship it is supposed that a fruitful
season can be assured. This custom is a social, and, not
as above, a public and official one.
We now come to our third division:-
III. THE PEOPLE AND THEIR RELATION TO THE SPIRITS.
As we have already stated, man's relation to the spirits is
not the same as that which exists between man and the gods;
the latter is friendly, the former is more or less one of
hostility. In the latter, the spirit of worship is to some extent
brought into play, in the former, superstition and magic are
the most prominent factors.
It must, however, be borne in mind that here in China
the spirits must be divided into two classes;-those which
belong to a person's own immediate ancestry, which are
16

118
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
members of his own family, and therefore in normal
circumstances friendly; and other spirits, whether human
or superhuman, which are linked by no ties to the person,
but are strangers and naturally hostile. The cult of ancestor
worship is too well known to require special treatment from
me. I shall therefore in this paper confine my attention
to the relations which the people bear to the spirits generally.
For convenience and clearness I have, following Dennys",
arranged the material I have collected relating to this
branch of our subject under the heads of: (1) Birth and
Childhood, (2) Marriage, (3) Business and Social Life,
(4) Sickness, (5) Death and Burial, and (6) After Death;-
shewing how their conception of the spirit world and the
relation of the spirits to men enters into and affects each
of these departments of human life.
1.-The Spirits and their relation to Birth and Childhood.
are
We have already noticed that to the Chinese mind the
universe is peopled with innumerable spirits who
conceived of as possessing power to harm all who in any
way incur their hostility. Their malignant influence is
supposed to be especially active at certain important crises
in human life. One of these is childbirth. With a view
to ward off evil influences on such occasions, various
superstitious practices are resorted to. To this superstitious
fear also is to be attributed the dread many of the Chinese
have lest a child should be born in the street, beneath the
eaves of their house; or lest, by visiting a house at that time
or in other ways, they should be brought in contact with
the malignant influences associated with childbirth.
The charms of all kinds which may be seen on the
persons of growing children point to the same fear of injury
from evil spirits. The silver collar round the neck which is
Folk-Lore of China; by N. B. Dennys.

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
119
never removed, small locks, bags with stones, or other
charms, are a few only of the devices resorted to. The
following four characters on children's hats, or on the locks
suspended from the neck, may often be seen in this district
"May the danger of this crisis be safely
passed."
The life of a child up to fifteen years of age is supposed
to pass through crises in fate, a crisis taking place at
intervals of three years. There are ways, however, by means
of which the perils of these dangerous places in life's
pathway may be avoided or diminished. One of the
methods adopted in a number of places around Shanghai
is the ceremony called, kwo-kwan, or "Passing the
Barrier," or place of crisis. The Taoist priests erect a sort of
guard house of bamboo poles, reeds and paper. Led by the
priest the children, each carrying a dragon flag, pass under
the structure, and go in procession through the gateway
or bridge in the interior. The priest all the time uses
his magical powers to keep off the evil spirits while
the children are passing. A great crowd gathers to watch
the ceremony, and there is much excitement. When all
have safely passed there is of course great rejoicing. In
one of the cities where this custom is observed, Nan-h'ui,
I came across another curious attempt to ward off danger
from the ill-will of the spirits. A child was brought to
visit me about nine or ten years of age, dressed as a girl but
with unbound feet. I found that the child was really not
a girl but a boy, the only male survivor of a well-known
family in the place. All the other male relations having
died it was thought by the women of the family that the
spirits had some special spite against the house. The
question then was asked, how may the child be saved from
their malice? The device hit upon was to pass off the male
child as a girl. All females in China being regarded as

120
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
holding an inferior position, it was thought, that dressed
as a girl, the child would be beneath the notice of the
spirits' malignant spite, the dress deceiving the spirits into
believing that the child really was a girl. The children of
the town used to call him by a nick-name "Siau Nyi Koo"
or "Little Nun." Accompanying me for a walk one day
with other children, I plucked a red flower and was about
to stick it in his dress. He told me that he was not
allowed to wear anything red as it was dangerous for him
to do so. Red is associated not only with festivity, but, as
in this case, with unpropitious ideas, such as crime
and death, red being the criminal dress. Most of will
be familiar with the religious processions which take place
three times each year, when an idol is carried through
the streets followed by large numbers of children and not
a few adults, dressed in red garments and wearing
manacles. They are doing penance as prisoners of the god,
having in sickness confessed their sins; and vowed, if granted
restoration of health, to do public penance. Parents do
this for their children when their sickness is long or
dangerous.
2.-The Spirits and Marriage.
you
When a wedding is about to take place a proclamation
is issued by the family informing the gods of the fact,
notifying them as to the date, and requesting them to
graciously protect the household on that auspicious day
from all evil spirits and unpropitious influences.
This
document is burnt together with incense and a plentiful supply
of paper money. The two spirits of Harmony
Hwo Hoh Rh Sien, are worshipped by the young couple
on the wedding day, with a view to obtaining their
blessing on the union.
In China, where betrothals are contracted in childhood,
it often happens that one of the contracting parties dies

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
121
before the time appointed for the marriage. Sometimes,
in the case of the future husband dying, the young girl
will refuse to marry any other person, and a ceremony
called or "Grasping the Tablet Wedding
Ceremony," will take place, when the living bride is joined
in wedlock with the deceased person to whom she was
betrothed, whose spirit is supposed to have taken up its
abode in the ancestral tablet.
A curious incident in this connection occurred this very
year (1898) in Lutien, mentioned supra. A native of
that place succeeded in gaining the coveted honour of
becoming a Hanlin. In earlier life he had been betrothed
to a young girl who died. Later on he married some
one else and has now a family. Hearing of the great
honour which had befallen him who had once stood in
the relation of a prospective son-in-law, the family of
the deceased girl, who were people of means, entered into
an arrangement with the Hanlin, who was in straitened
circumstances, by which a marriage was celebrated between
the spirit of the girl who had died years ago and the
successful scholar. Her coffin was removed to the latter's
burial ground in great state, and at the wedding celebration
everything was done in the best of style. It did not
seem to matter in the least that at the time of the
wedding the bridegroom was away in Peking, he and
his family obtained the much needed cash, and the bride's
relatives in the flesh obtained honour and a name in having
a Hanlin as son-in-law.
3.-The Spirits and their Relation to Business and Social Life.
I have not time to treat of the thousand and one ways
by means of which that mysterious quality called "Luck
is wooed by John Chinaman. Arrangements of walls and
door sills, the avoidance of unpropitious words and deeds,

122
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
and countless other devices all play a part in the scheme.
I will give but one illustration.
In Kahding there is said to be a silk shop which
possesses a Fu Yang Fah. This is a spirit or god
of luck which is kept in a bag, and ensures the possessor
becoming rich.
Fu Yang is a city in Chekiang, where, as I am told,
there is a shop which sells "Lucky Spirits." Many bags
are suspended in the place, with strange characters inscribed
on them, each bag contains one of these imps. When
purchased, care must be taken in carrying the bag home.
Before crossing a bridge, the purchaser must call out the
name of the imp, or he will become frightened and escape.
Having reached home the imp must be hidden in a
secret place. It will not be long before business begins
to prosper. By the aid of magic the imp will cause inferior
goods to appear to the eyes of the customers, as goods of
the first quality. After the space of some years the imp
is supposed to make his escape. This is accompanied with
a loss of prosperity, business at once beginning to decay.
The spirits in various ways interfere with the life of
the people, and cause them distress.
In one city where an old Memorial Tablet was being
repaired, it was feared that the earth spirits might be
incensed and inflict some calamity on the people. Every
shop in the neighbourhood therefore had suspended over
it dummy figures of men made like 5th of November
guys, with bows and arrows, spears and guns, all held up
threateningly as though to attack any evil spirits that
dared to molest those who dwelt within.
During the China-Japanese war a line of telegraph
wires was erected along the Pootung coast, connecting the
various beacons for defensive purposes. Passing by the
line of telegraph in an out-of-the-way place, I
saw,
much

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
123
to my amusement, dummy men with guns stationed on
the roofs of the cottages, as though shooting at the spirits
that passed along the wires, to keep them from working
their ill-will on the people and the place. The idea being
that messages were carried along the wires by means of
spirits. The strange noises made by the vibration of the
wires being put down to the passing along of these imps.
In all cases of the disturbance of the ground,
especially of earth which has long been waste, danger is
risked of the spirits of the earth taking offence. To this
belief is doubtless due the custom, which, if the people
are to be credited, is even in these parts secretly observed,-
of propitiating the spirits by human sacrifice.
It was freely reported that this was done recently in
building one of the silk filatures at Soochow.
I am also informed that in the potteries in Kiangsi,
a new furnace is secretly consecrated by the shedding of
a child's blood, as a sacrifice to ward off evil influences or
accidents.
In connection with sacrifice it may be stated that it
is the custom to formally open a newly-built theatre by
killing a cock, and sprinkling its blood over the stage.
There is no doubt that a careful study of some of
these secret practices of the Chinese would give us the
key as to the origin of the vile charges they have been
in the habit of bringing against foreigners.
4.-The Spirits and their Relation to Sickness.
When living in P'ing-hu, a city in North Chehkiang, it
surprised me very much to discover that amongst the common
people doctors were seldom consulted in cases of sickness.
Buddhist and Taoist priests, fortune-tellers, and various
classes of men and women
whose business was to have
dealings with spirits, were regarded as best able to cure

124
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
diseases. The reason for this is doubtless to be found in
the belief everywhere prevailing that sickness is for the
most part the work of the evil spirits; and that either the
help of the superior spirits or gods must be enlisted, or
the spirits be frustrated in their evil designs by the use
of magic and incantations.
I have collected a list of some extraordinary things
used as medicine and supposed to have what may be
called magic virtue, but a medical journal is more suited
than a public lecture for details such as these. We have,
however, already spoken of the charm of incense as a
specific in sickness. I have known cases where people
with sore eyes have entirely lost their sight by rubbing
the inflamed organ with incense ashes taken from the
temple.
A woman whom I knew personally a short time since,
being anxious on account of her mother's serious illness,
cut off a piece of her own flesh and boiled it to a broth.
It was given to the mother to drink without her knowing
what it was to have known would have destroyed its
efficacy.
In Gahze (Kia-shen) it is the custom when one is sick
to take a few cash and wrap them up in red paper, and
unobserved, to throw the packet into the street. Whoever
picks up the package-and there are plenty of strangers
who do not know, or beggars who do not care-will, it is
believed, carry away in his own person the sickness from
which the other has been suffering. Characters such as
the following are often written on the paper EK
, "I sell out my interest in a bad cold."
In Ch'angshu, north of Shanghai, there is a modification
of this idea. His medicine is carefully prepared, and in
addition to the sick person himself swallowing the dose,
the mixture is at nightfall thrown out into the roadway;

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
125
and he who treads upon it in passing by will catch the
complaint which the other person is desirous to be freed
from. I have, since my notice was first drawn to this
custom, frequently seen the medicine-herbs lying in the
pathways of the city.
When any member of a family is seriously ill, a witch
woman will often be sent for to search for evil
spirits. By the use of incantation and magic the spirits,
if there be any, will be discovered, and a report as to the
quality and number of them will be given, with directions
as to how they may be ejected.
Taoist priests generally are called in to expel the evil
spirits. Having captured the spirits they sometimes put
them into an earthenware vessel, a cover containing a magic
character being put over it, and the spirits are then safely
carried away by the priests. As already stated, these
suppositionary spirits are sometimes sold to people by
the Taoists and others as having the power to confer
prosperity on those who possess them. The price I am
told is from $20 to $40.
Among other expedients adopted in sickness are the
following: If a wedding is taking place near the sick
person's house a valuable specific is to cut off a piece of
the bridal dress and make soup of it for the sick.
贖魂 Shu Hwun,
"Redeeming the soul." When
a sick person is at the point of death and is already
unconscious, it is supposed in some cases that he has
already been carried off by the "runners" of the Lower
Regions. The friends then take the man's clothes and
proceed to the temple with paper money and redeem the
man's soul. The spirit having been released and handed
over to them, is then wrapped up in the clothes, and the
party return to the sick man's room believing his life has
been given back.
17

126
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
Pao Jun, "Going surety." Another method
is to write the sick man's Pah tsz', or horoscope,
which gives the year, month, day and hour of his birth.
Several of the sick man's friends will take this document
to the temple, making gifts of paper money, and offer
themselves as sureties for the good conduct of the person
in question.
Tsié sheu, "Borrowing years." The sick man
in this case is supposed to have reached the limit of his
life and is sick unto death. Friends and relatives will
agree together to each make a present to the man of one
or more years of his own life. In the temple, or by the
aid of Taoist or Buddhist priests at the house, a ceremony
is gone through, in which the years of life so presented
are deducted from each person's span of life and the whole
given over to the sick man, who thus, by the generosity
and self-sacrifice of his friends, secures a new lease of life.
Kiai sing siu, "Cutting off or changing a
person's star." Sometimes sickness is attributed to the
person having an unlucky star. Certain ceremonies are
performed and magic exercised by means of which the
sick man's evil star is changed for a new and propitious one.
Kiao Hwun, "Calling back the life." In cases
of sudden sickness or during a fainting fit the spirit is
often supposed to have been startled out of the body; and
it is customary to take the person's clothes and go on to
the roof or round about the house and call back the
person by name, lest his spirit should fail to find its way
back to the body.
This is more often done in the case of small children,
who are apparently at the point of death.
Shao t'i shan, "Substitution by burning."
Among other devices to escape the fatal hour of death is
the following:-The sick person's characters or horoscope

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
127
are written down on paper; and through the medium of
fire sent to the spirits, requesting them to find some other
living person with a similar horoscope, and to take that
person's soul and bring it and give it to the sick man in
exchange for his own. The sick man's soul is then
transferred to the other person's body, and causes his
death. When recovering, the person whose soul has been
changed is almost a stranger to his own people, differing
in speech and habit, and he himself scarcely recognises
them. Care has to be taken lest the new soul should
seek to return to its old haunts.
5.-The Spirits and their Relation to Death and Burial.
In Ping-hu and other places it is customary for the
mourners on their return from a funeral to pass over a
fire, which is lit at the threshold of the door so that
all deadly influences may be cut off, including the evil
spirits who are supposed to have been responsible for the
death which has occurred.
Another way of cutting off the evil influences is to
break a rice bowl over the grave.
In some cases, where the spirit of the dead person is
supposed to have possessed a low vitality, life is borrowed
from some animal for the purpose of aiding the spirit by
strengthening it for its arduous journey. In the city just
mentioned it is the custom, when a young woman dies not
long before the time appointed for her marriage, to bury
a live fish with her body. She is thought to have died
before her time on account of her low vitality, and the
life of the fish is supposed to mingle with her own and
strengthen it for its journey to the spirit world.
In an earlier part of this paper we said that the cock
was regarded as possessing to an extraordinary degree the
life element, the yahng of the universe. This accounts

128
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
for the sight often seen in a funeral procession, where
it is customary for a live cock to be placed on the coffin
as it is being carried for burial.
دو
Another common sight is the burning of paper
money and paper clothes, and paper houses furnished
throughout. Recently at Lutien I saw a paper house as
large as a cottage, containing three rooms furnished in the
best Chinese style. A poor Chinese widow who was
childless, and had no one to sacrifice to her "manes
when she died, had been saving up her money for some
years to purchase this paper house. It was, on this day,
to be burnt with appropriate rites by the priests, and sent
before her for her use in the lower regions when she
came to die.
It is not at all uncommon for large piles of valuable
clothing to be burnt at the death of a member of a
family for the benefit of the spirit in the shadow world.
A poor ghost is considered to have a very hard time, as,
having no money, he is at the mercy of all wicked spirits
who care to molest him.
In forwarding the gifts to the spirits, great care has
to be taken, as there are always fierce spirits-hungry
ghosts hovering round to get possession of the good
things for themselves. You may sometimes see in the
streets of Shanghai a heap of paper money enclosed in
a circle of chalk or lime which has been drawn round
it to keep off the spirits. It is impossible for them to
cross this magic circle, at least, that is the opinion
commonly held.
At the time of the funeral it is the custom in some
places to take two knots of cotton thread and fasten them
to a stick of bamboo shaped like a sword. These are
placed in a basket with paper money, and carried with
the coffin to the grave. The priests take these knots and

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
129
The pall
wave them to and fro whilst reciting prayers.
or coffin cover is then placed on the ground, and the
knots are carefully wrapped up in it; one of the spirits
of the dead man having, it is thought, passed into them.
The whole is handed to the chief mourner who hastens
home, and, having fixed the two sword sticks on either
side of the deceased person's tablet, hangs the knots of
cotton upon them, and the spirit then passes into the
tablet and is worshipped by the family. By them it is
not regarded as impossible for the spirit of the dead to
be in two places at the same time. Each soul is conceived
of as a trinity, one spirit being in the ancestral tablet, one
in the grave, and one in the place of departed spirits or
Hades.
6. The Spirits after Death.
The relation existing between the departed spirits and
the living in China is much closer than it is usually
considered to be with us in the west.
In the Ping-hu and Gahze districts it is commonly
believed that after about a year the souls of very young
children are allowed to return to their home, re-enter the
mother's womb, and in due course be re-born. It is
a common sight to see the small coffins there with a hole
burnt in the side to permit the escape of the spirit.
There are also certain festivals when the spirits are
allowed a holiday and may visit their old haunts. Feasts
are prepared for them by the living members of the family,
and generous offerings made in paper money, dollars and
bank notes, or any paper things such as clothes, sedan-chairs,
rieshas (in Shanghai), opium pipes, or any other things which
they might wish to possess.
In this way by the generous offerings of friends, and
an occasional visit to the upper world, the relations between
the living and the dead are maintained.

130
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
In most cases, however, the return of the spirits to the
upper world is attended with considerable danger to men,
because the great majority of spirits set free are strange
spirits, whose own relations have not looked after their
interests. Many, too, are of criminal instincts. Even with
one's own spirits there is a danger lest they should imagine
themselves not dealt fairly with by the members of their
families yet alive. And again there are those spirits which
are, and always have been, non-human demons. The spirits
and demons therefore are almost universally regarded as
a source of danger and peril.
To appease these evil spirits and procure their goodwill,
there is therefore at stated occasions a free public official
distribution of paper money for the benefit of all and sundry,
called the Feast of Hungry Ghosts!
In the country places you may any evening see the
cottagers come out as it gets dusk with a bowl of rice,
or a handful of cotton seeds, which are placed in a little pile
at a spot where cross paths meet. After lighting some sticks
of incense or a candle, the person prostrates himself in
worship, beseeching the spirits to accept his offering, and
refrain from harming his household during the night. Till
this is done they dare not retire to rest.
Travellers out late at night in the streets of the inland
towns are often to be heard calling out with discordant noises
to frighten away the spirits who are supposed to be lurking
every street corner.
at
A person whom I knew at Ping-hu used always to shut
up his house at sunset and retire with his family for the
night, fearing to open the gate again lest the spirits should
enter. A Chinese friend of mine who lodged there had to
find rooms elsewhere, because, coming home after sunset,
the landlord said he let in these evil spirits when he opened
the door.

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
131
The spirits of suicides and drowned persons are regarded
as especially malignant in their evil influence on mankind.
In both of these cases it is supposed that the spirit has to
procure a substitute, whose death will, according to Buddhist
teaching, allow him to proceed on his journey to the spirit
world.
Such
We have here in this idea of Tao t'i, "Seeking
a substitute," the explanation of not a few of the customs
of the people which strike one as cruel and barbarous.
for instance as their disinclination to save a drowning
person lest they themselves should be dragged down as a
substitute by the spirit of one previously drowned there, who
it is supposed is endeavouring to secure a substitute and
effect his own escape.
There is another class of spirits which is held in the
greatest fear, viz., those spirits which have power after death
to re-animate their corpse, and inflict harm upon any who
may fall into their clutches. In local parlance they are
called Jang sz (Kiang shi) or "Rigid corpses," and
it is supposed that at nightfall, and especially on moonlight
nights, they come out from their coffins and lie in wait
for belated travellers. These they pursue, and having caught
them crush the life out of them, dragging them into their
coffin as their prey. It is the old legend of the vampire
in a new dress. I have heard a number of these stories
from my Chinese friends, who, in the evening time, when
travelling with me, beguile the hours with stories of the
common folk and their beliefs. The Jung s, it is said, is
able to fly. It pursues children who wander near its haunt.
It fears the ringing of a bell. The story is told of a man
who for a whole night rang a bell near to the place where
one of these Jang sz was supposed to be, and effectually drove
it away from its haunt. In the morning, however, his
hand was found to be palsied, and it remained so till death.

132
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
A broom or sieve is as effective as a bell in putting
the vampire to flight.
Among other explanations given me of this strange
being is that a corpse becomes a Jang sz, as the result
of tears which the mourners have shed over the body.
Also that if the coffin of a Jang sz is opened to the sun
it will lose its power to re-animate the body.
is fatal to it.
Sunlight
On the other hand, if a rice ball is put into the mouth of
a Jang sz, it can once again become alive, though liable to
be suddenly re-transformed into the old condition as an
inanimate corpse.
A story is current that, in Kahding, a young man
passing by some deserted grave mounds and coffins, saw
a beautiful young woman with whom he fell in love, and with
her consent led her home and made her his wife. She
bore him three children, and they lived happily together
for some years. One day, however, the husband and wife
quarrelled, and the wife suddenly disappeared. The husband
in great distress sought her, following her footprints until
he reached the spot when he had first met her. There he
saw, sticking out of one of the coffins, just a corner of
his wife's dress, caught in the coffin lid as it had been
hurriedly closed. He then knew that his wife was a Jang sz
and returned home disconsolate. He is still living, so it is
said, in the city of Kahding, a few miles north of Shanghai,
as also his three children. (cf. Undine).
Yen-kw'ei, or
which at night crushes
When any one is heard
cause is supposed to be
Stories are also told of the
night-mare demon, the incubus
its victims whilst they are asleep.
groaning in his sleep, and this
due to the night-mare demon, you must on no account enter
into the room, but must either call aloud from the outside, or

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
133
open the door and throw in a broom,-a potent preservative
against the wiles of evil spirits. If you hurriedly enter
in, the person attacked is liable to be crushed to death
by the night-mare demon.
The efficacy of the broom suggests another topic, viz.
IV. TABOOS AND HOW THEY MAY BE AVOIDED.
Taboos are of two kinds (1) Those that protect the
sanctity of holy places and the prerogatives of the gods;
(2) Those associated with supernatural dangers arising from
the presence of hostile spirits.
The first class has already been illustrated by the
injunction against touching a tree which has been made the
abode of a god. There is also the avoidance of sacred
names. Of the second class I have only time for one or two
local illustrations.
1.-Household Taboos.
Certain actions and seasons are regarded as tabooed, i.e.,
to be avoided as unlucky. The origin of the taboo is in
most cases not easy to discover.
18
(a.) Chicken on the Roof.-This is regarded as
unlucky. A Chinese neighbour of mine was endeavour-
ing one day to drive off a chicken which had flown
on to his roof-top. In doing so he fell and broke his
leg. Thus the belief of the people in the ill-luck of a
chicken on the roof was signally confirmed.
(b.)-Saucepans must on no account be scraped on
the first and fifteenth days of the month.
(c.) If a hen is sitting on eggs and it thunders,
it is unlucky. Some heavy furniture must be dragged
to and fro over the floor to make a noise so that the
thunder cannot be heard.

134
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORK.
(d.) If a child has small-pox and it thunders it is
unlucky-the pustules will be suppressed. The remedy
is the same as above.
(e.) Ke Dung (Kai t'un).-All unpropitious
words are taboo on the first day of the New Year.
Lest children should thoughtlessly give utterance to
such words the precaution is taken by their mothers
the preceding night, when they are asleep, to take
some paper and wipe their mouths, thinking thereby
to remove the ill effects of any such expressions as
they may give utterance to. This done, as it is put,
"their words are not to be regarded as words."
2.-Boat Taboos.
(a.) When travelling in a boat care must be taken
not to place one's chopsticks across his rice bowl.
The reason given is that such a position suggests a
boat going aground.
(b.)-Rice left behind on the side of the copper
in cooking must not be called by its usual name
Fan chi, because the character also signifies an
obstruction or stoppage, and the sound is similar to
slow, being used in place of it, the latter character
meaning "quick."
(c.) It is unlucky to pass under a bridge when
a woman is crossing it.
(d.) There are many days on which it is unlucky
to start on a journey. This can be avoided by procuring
a charm protecting you from one hundred unlucky days.
(e.) Many bridges are found in this district called
"Dumb Bridges." It is very unlucky for anyone to
speak whilst the boat is passing through.
3.-Silkworm Taboos.
In North Chehkiang during the season when the silk-
worm is spinning its cocoon, no callers are allowed, and

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
135
every precaution is taken to preserve the silkworms from all
harmful influences. One feature which this takes is to make
a large number of words, used in every-day life taboo, on
account of their association in sound or meaning with what
is unpropitious. A new set of words or phrases has therefore
to be used at this season in place of those current at other
times. A few examples are given below:-
Usual word:-
Salt, yien suggestive of yien-yeu-a slug,
replaced by sea sand.
Oil, suggestive of a word signifying the creeping
motion of snakes, replaced by
established.
insufficiently
Candle, (guttering of a burning candle, suggestive
of caterpillar falling over on to its side), replaced
by Oil stick.
Bamboo shoots, suggestive of signifying
to injure or spoil, replaced by
Turnip.
Tea, suggestive of a snake, replaced by Broth.
Ginger, suggesting (the rigidity of death),
replaced by hot and pungent.
Death, (unpropitious), replaced by
Great Peace.
To go to the Theatre (Taboo, because where there
are theatricals every one leaves work and goes off
on pleasure, and it is feared the silkworm will cease
working), replaced by
sound of
the drum and gong.
Peach leaf, suggesting to flee, replaced by
leaf which suggests productiveness.