THE CHINESE SYSTEM OF FAMILY RELATIONSHIP
AND ITS ARYAN AFFINITIES.
By THOS. W. KINGSMILL.
Of the early migrations of the Aryans we know com-
paratively little, except that in the history of humanity the
earliest apparition of the race is of comparatively modern
origin.
At the dawn of modern history we find Aryan tribes well
established in Europe, in Greece, Italy, etc. About fifteen
hundred years B.C. Aryan settlers made their appearance
in the north-west of India, and in a comparatively short
period profoundly modified the language and institutions of
that peninsula, where they became the dominant race. In
ancient Sogdiana, Chorasmia and Bactria the native peoples
were Aryans, mostly of Iranic race, and akin to the Sanscrit-
speaking tribes who descended on India. The story of the
Shah Nameh is but a congelation of the ancient legends,
fragments of which are preserved in the Zend Avesta, and
the few other remains still existing of old Iranic lore.
Jemshid was a great and virtuous sovereign who ruled his
large territory stretching from Media to the Jaxartes with
justice and benevolence; but evil times came upon him in
his old age, for the tyrant Zohak from the north attacked
The
him, wasted his country and put himself to death.
glory of the state partially recovered under his grandson

62
THE CHINESE SYSTEM OF FAMILY RELATIONSHIP
Feridun, but for the future the Turkish tribes remained a
menace to the very existence of Iran. The dynasty ended
with the defeat and disappearance of Gershasp, again at the
hands of the Turkish tribes, and Afrasiab for many years
tyrannised over the children of Iran.
In this disappearance of Gershasp, the Kereçaçpa of
the Avesta, begins Chinese history; for there is good
reason to connect the Kereçaçpa of the Yaçna and Zam-
yad-Yasht with the Gershasp of the Shah Nameh, on the
one side, and the Kungliu, the ancestor of the Chows
mentioned in the Shi King, or Classic of Chinese Ballads, on
the other.
The story of the occupation of North-western China by the
Chows, a word more correctly rendered, by the substitution
of the Anglo-Saxon diphthong eo for ow or ou, as Cheo,
follows the lines of the early irruption of the Sanscrit-speaking
peoples into India. The Cheos became the predominant
tribe, introducing their civilisation, their cult, and to a very
large extent their language, over the aboriginal tribes who
were largely pastoral, and spoke languages allied to the
Indo-Chinese peoples of to-day.
The Ballads of the Ta-Ya, containing the stories of Kungliu
and his march, the glories of Tanfu, of Ki, Wanwang and
Wuwang, and the siege of Ts'ungyung (Darshan), the
Troy of China, now Charchen in the desert of Gobi, contain
the precious story of this migration from Bactria to the
North-west frontier, and afford the wanting link to join the
traditions of China with those of upper Asia.
following paper I have only considered a small part of this
wide subject, the similarity, in cases amounting to identity,
of the family system of China and the Aryans.
In the

AND ITS ARYAN AFFINITIES.
63
In explanation of the remarkable change from the
polysyllabic and highly inflected Aryan languages, from
which in a great degree the modern Chinese has derived its
vocabulary, I cannot do better than quote at large the
remarks of Professor WHITNEY [Life and Growth of
Language; H. S. King, 1875, p. 105].
Speaking of the parallel case of the growth of the uninflected
and almost monosyllabic English of to-day he remarks:-
The English is, in truth, of all the languages of its kindred, the one which
most remarkably illustrates that mode of linguistic change consisting in
the loss of formal grammatical distinctions by synthetic means; there is no
other known tongue which, from having been so rich in them has become so
poor; none which has so nearly stripped its root-syllables of the apparatus
of suffixes with which they were formerly clothed, and left them monosyllabic.
All this has come about mainly through the instrumentality of the tendency
to ease and abbreviation, a tendency which in this department of its
working, especially, makes truly for decay; the conservative force, the
strictness of traditional transmission, has not been sufficient to resist its
inroads. Much of the loss has been the work of the last few centuries;
and there is no difficulty in pointing out causes which have at least
quickened it. When men learn a strange language, by a practical process,
they are apt especially to make bad work with its endings; if they get the
body of the word, its main significant part, intelligibly correct, they will
be content to leave the relations to be understood from the connection.
This was what helped the decay of the Latin tongue, and its reduction, in
the mouths of Italians, Celts, Iberians, and others, into the corrupted and
abbreviated shape of the modern Romanic dialects; and the irruption into
England of the French-speaking Normans, and their fusion with the Saxon-
speaking English, added an appreciable element of force to a tendency which
was perhaps already sufficiently marked in the later Anglo-Saxon.
These words may almost serve to indicate the change in
China. The native inhabitants of the land in the transition
period after the conquest of Ts'in had fused the Empire
into one, acquired the language of the predominant race, as
do their descendants of to-day, as a pidjin. This was assisted
by the idolic character of the written language in which the
phonetic element was almost non-existent. One word, one

64
THE CHINESE SYSTEM OF FAMILY RELATIONSHIP
sign was the rule, and this emphasised the natural tendency
of the race to slough off inflexions and unneeded syllables.
In many cases a slightly different though allied method was
adopted; words were decapitated, and different though allied
meanings given to each part, bhartar for instance was the
old word for brother. Separate signs were given to bhar
and tar, and the former was taken to mean elder, the latter
younger brother. So a form like harb-as (Gr. apn or apπvia)
represented a bear; now we have hiung the black bear, and
p'i bears in general, etc.
Mr. George Jamieson [China Review, Vol. X, pp. 77 to 99]
and Mr. P. G. von Möllendorff [Transactions C. B. R. As. Soc.,
Vol. XXVII, pp. 131 to 189] have given us valuable and
almost exhaustive notes on the family laws of China as
affecting relationships. With this side of the question I do
not propose to deal. Both papers indicate the resemblances,
frequently amounting to identity, between the family law of
China and that of ancient Rome; and this is more especially
noteworthy in the broad distinction existing in both systems
between Agnate and Cognate relationships.
The system of family law still existing in China is traceable
up to the period of the predominance of the Cheo tribes, who
some twelve centuries before our era entered China from the
North-west. The language and cult of these tribes as exhibited
in their most ancient literature, and more especially in the
Shiking, or Classic of Ballads, has distinct Aryan affinities [see
Pro. C. B. R. As. Soc., Vol. XII]. This ancient work for the
most part must be attributed to various periods antecedent to the
seventh century B.C., though not reduced to writing for many
centuries afterwards; it contains frequent allusions to the family
life of the immigrant tribes and their marriage customs, and it is
therefore neither illogical nor improbable that we have to refer
to similar sources the origin of the family system.

AND ITS ARYAN AFFINITIES.
99
65
The Chinese system, as it exists at present, is marked by
a peculiar dualism. Not only have agnatic relationships a
distinct terminology, but the distinction is carried into the
detail of each. Thus elder brothers are sharply defined from
younger, elder uncles from those of birth subsequent to the
father of the speaker, female direct ancestors from male,
junior sisters from senior, and the principle is carried out to
every minute detail of family life.
The dualism is not entirely confined to China, but is
common to all the eastern Asiatic nations with whom from
time to time the Chinese have come in contact. My knowledge
of the languages and history of these northern and eastern
frontagers is insufficient to enable me to speak with authority
on the origin of the practice, but in many cases it may be
traced directly to Chinese influence. The following notes are
intended to show the growth of the division in China itself,
and are drawn mainly from Aryan sources. It will thus appear
that, with the exception of the broad distinction between agnatic
and merely cognatic relationships in which China agrees with
the general Aryan system, the minor distinctions are of later
growth than the great migration of the Cheos.
-Taking first the simplest. We find in Chinese
the widespread name for father, Sans. pitri; Gr. pater; Lat.
pater, etc., reappearing in the book language as fu or more
at length in the colloquial as fu'-t'san (Pek. fu-t'sin or ch'in)
, where t'san is clearly the representative of tar.
-Equally in conjunction with the Sans. matri;
Greek méter; Lat. mater, our mother, we find the Chinese
mû, colloquially mû'-t'san (Pek. mu-ch'in). There was no
possibility of dividing the simple idea of father and mother,
so except that in the written language the second syllable has
disappeared from sight, the words as spoken have suffered
little from the wear of centuries.
9

66
THE CHINESE SYSTEM OF FAMILY RELATIONSHIP
-The decapitation of the word is complete in the
word hing-tai-(Pek. hsiung ti) brother; still used as a single
word in the colloquial, though in the book language
decapitated, hing we are told being the elder, tai the younger
brother. According to the Chinese idea, these words,
originally separate, have been joined together to make the
compound more recognisable by the ear. There is abundant
evidence to be found that the contrary was the case, and that
the dissyllable in these so-called compound forms was the
original.
Shiking, I. iii. 1, gives an example of the use of the
compound term:
亦有兄弟
不可以據
"I have a brother indeed, but cannot depend on him."
The form, in Cantonese fong' (Peking hwang), shows
that the original sound of had an aspirated consonant for
its initial; the terminations ng points to final r. We are
thus led to bhar. Tai in like manner in the second syllable
indicates dar or tar. The original word was when the ballad
was composed bhartar. The word thus falls in a parallel
line with Sans. bhratri, Lat. frater, Goth. brôthar, our own
brother. There is in the Shi no authority for the modern use
of as elder brother, though, as before, does occur with
the elision of in the written text.
The only instance in which the character occ
occurs
alone in the Shi is in I. ix. 4.
兄日嗟予弟行役
where it refers to a sister, as explained below; "my brothers
say, alas! our sister is taken captive!" The line is corrupt,
consisting of seven, instead of four feet, has been used
instead of

AND ITS ARYAN AFFINITIES.
67
Tsê tai'-(Pek. tsze, or chie ti) sisters. The
characters used are somewhat uncertain. For the first we
have with similar pronunciation, but also or 'tsze.
As in the former case the word has been decapitated and
or has come to be used for elder sister. A more frequent
word for younger sister is Can. mui (Pek. mei), literally
the favourite. The phrase tsze mui is a veritable compound
and has come largely to supersede the older form.
Tsê tai follows the analogy of hing tai, and we find its
nearest representative in Sanscrit svasri, sva-'tsê, sri tai'.
The Gothic form is almost identical, svistar; whence Ang.-
Sax., sweoster, Ang., sister. The Lat. soror shows considerable
decay, as also, though in a less degree, the Chinese.
The usual word for younger sister, mui or mei is
connected with mei, fair, well beloved. According to the
Sanscrit grammarians a similar origin is claimed for svasri,
which is said to be a form of sv-asti, joy, delight.
-Tsô 'pi (Pek. Tsu pi) Ancestors, atavi. The
characters frequently in the Shi occur together. We have
twice, Shi, IV. I. (II.) 4 and IV. I. (III.) 5 the formula in
sacrificial hymns.
為酒篇體
烝畀祖妣
"The sweet sacrificial wine we present steaming to our ancestors."
Here as usual in more modern times we find the Chinese
have decapitated the word, itsô is made to imply male, il pi
female ancestors. The nearest analogue is the Sanscrit
Sava-s, the sun (or moon) in his generative capacity, from
the root su or sû, savâmi, whence one of the most usual names
for the sun-Savitri, the Generator. We find a duplicate to
this identification in the word tsô laevus, left, the Sanscrit
savya.

68
THE CHINESE SYSTEM OF FAMILY RELATIONSHIP
The root su is made to mean to generate, give birth to,
procreate. It may possibly be connected with satavas,
proavus, atavus, as if savus by elision of initials. The a is
short throughout.
In Shiking, II. IV. 5, we read:-
似續妣祖
築室百堵
"Continuing [in the path of] his ancestors, he set up a
many-walled household."
The phrase here is apparently inverted, but the reason
is not far to seek. The scribe who first wrote down the
ballad wished to make a rhyme to, and . This only
proves that at the time of the inversion cir. 150 B.C. the
decapitation was in progress and the word could be understood
either way.
From the same root su (sav) proceeds, in both
Chinese and other languages of the same stock of the Cheos,
the general word for descendants 'tsze-sün (Pek. tsze
sun). Shi, I. I. has it :-
宜爾子孫
振振兮
"Meet it is that your descendants should be illustrious."
Here again in modern use the word is decapitated,
being taken to mean son or child,
grandson or grandchild.
As
Originally it seems to have been a reduplicated form, as aorist
sushave, and desiderative forms as sushûshâmi occur.
from this root forms as Sans. sûnu-s, Gr. huios, Goth. sunus,
etc. arise, it might seem that Chinese sun
might represent
the same form. The phonetic element in seems however
to point
to ser, so we are thrown back on a form as sûvari,
which occurs in the phrase bahu-suvari (bearing) many

AND ITS ARYAN AFFINITIES.
69
children, sushvar or a word closely akin might well have
been the original from which the Chinese descended.
fu 'fu, husband and wife. The words here have
always been separate, and differ only in tone; both are derived
from a root bhar to bear. In Sanscrit the corresponding
words are bhartri, husband, lord; and bharya, wife.
The more usual and formal word for wife is however
ts'ai (Pek. ts'i, Wade, incorrectly chi). This is to be
compared with Sans. dâra-s, uxor, from root dâr, drî, to rend;
the wife originally being "torn," I 'ts'u, from home, either
literally or metaphorically [of Shi, II. vi. 10]. The bride
under the circumstances was euphemistically said to "return"
kwai (Pek. kwei) Shi, I. i. 6.
子之于歸
"My sweetheart is coming to wed me;"
or not altogether willingly, Shi, I. xv. 1.
女心傷悲
殆及公子同歸
"The girls' hearts are sore and restless
As the time approaches to join their husbands."
or
hwan yin
Another ancient name for marriage is . now
written hwan (Pek. hwen, Can. fan). It is probably more
frequently used in the reduplicated form
(Gr. gignosko). It is the homologue of Sans. jam in words such
as jampati, husband and wife; Gr. γαμ in γάμβρος, γαμέτης γαμέω.
The word is referred to root jan from which Saus. jani, woman,
wife, mother.
In the Yih King we get an ancient form of the word
[diagram 3, line 2]:-
如匪寇婚媾
"As bandits they capture [for themselves] wives."

70
THE CHINESE SYSTEM OF FAMILY RELATIONSHIP
This form here is
hwan keo', but the use seems to
imply affection rather than force. So Shi, II. VII. 9.
靚爾新昏
以慰我心
“[When] I have met my beloved [san fan, beloved]
"How glad will be
So Shi, II. VII. 9.
my heart."
兄弟昏姻
無胥遠矣
"Brothers and relations should not be distant in their
intercourse."
From this springs the use in modern Chinese of the
word yin for relations generally, but cognates rather than
agnates.
-The general connection of the Chinese family
system with that of the Aryan does not cease when we leave
the more marked agnatic relations, and proceed to review the
relationship on the female side. I will here begin by again
quoting the Shi King as our most trustworthy guide in our
researches into the antiquities of China.
In the Shi [II. VII. 3] we find :-
荳伊異人
况甥舅
"Why are they enemies-Brothers by blood and affinity?"
-Shang kiu here stands for brothers-in-law or
agnatic
other close cognates in contradistinction to
brethren. As such we find a perfect analogue in Sanscrit,
where we have çvaçura-s, father-in-law (husband's or wife's
father), çvaçurau, (dual) father-and-mother-in-law; çvaçurya,
brother-in-law, husband's or wife's brother; kulî, wife's elder
sister. In Greek again we have hekuros for sfekuros, father-in-

AND ITS ARYAN AFFINITIES.
71
law, and hekura, mother-in-law. In Latin socer represents the
former and socrus the latter, the word reappearing in Gothic
svaihra, swaihrô and A.-S. sweger, sweor.
Corresponding to this we have in Chinese a general term
for cognates (female) ku;-tai-ku and siuku, elder and
younger sisters of husband; yung ku husband's mother;
ku so sisters-in-law generally, to be compared with kuli
above from kula, family, as Chinese ka or kia.
But we have also forms as sai' (Pek. si) for male
cognates, a son-in-law, as opposed to sik, (si), female
cognates, daughter-in-law, apparently decapitated as from an
original Siksai (çvaçur-a) and with these, more or less
confused, the form as above or , 'so or sao, an elder
brother's wife, a distant form of the same word, doubtless
decapitated. These agree more or less closely with Greek
or Sanscrit, and run also parallel with Latin. None of the
other languages contain a complete series.
The Sanscrit form çvaçura is apparently composed of the
possessive pronoun sva and çura, Greek koûros, kuros, with
which the European and the Chinese forms agree. The word
must then have existed prior to the dispersion of the race.
There was throughout apparently an instinct that the word
was compound, and hence the Chinese have done less violence
than in other cases in dividing it, which they have however
somewhat awkwardly done by making the first part, shang,
the name of relations on the female side in a descending
grade, and kiu of those in ascending order.
This process commenced, though it was not completed,
before the reduction of the ballads to writing; thus Shi, II.
I. 5.
既有肥牡
以速
"I prepared a fatted steer, to attract my uncles [maternal]."

72 THE CHINESE SYSTEM OF FAMILY RELATIONSHIP, ETC.
Here chu kiu is used in antitheses to chu fu',
patruus, to express cognate rather than agnate relations.
In the same verse as above quoted we find the rhyme
changed:--
既有肥羚
以速 父
"I prepared a fatted lamb, to attract my uncles [paternal]."
According to the scholiast these were the titles used by
the Wang in respect of the junior princes, as they had their
surname different or identical with that of the senior house.
Throughout the Shi King chu is most frequently used as
a possessive pronoun, the equivalent, as above, of Sans. sva-s,
â, m.
These coincidences, following, as they do, regular rules
are not merely accidental, but radical. Taken in connection
with laws almost identical, they go far to prove that the
ancestors of the immigrant tribes in China were not far
removed in blood from their congenors in Northern India and
Greece, and that the separation took place not many centuries
before 1500 B.C.-the usually accepted period of the Aryan
immigration in India.