REVIEW.
CHINA,
HER HISTORY, DIPLOMACY AND COMMERCE FROM THE
EARLIEST TIMES TO THE PRESENT DAY.
By E. H. PARKER, Reader in Chinese, University College, Liverpool, etc.
London: John Murray, 1901.
49
That a professed Chinese student should write a sensible book
on China may be accepted as a satisfactory development of the day;
and it is still more satisfactory that the work should mark the
beginning of the new century. Speaking of the pretended early
history of the land, he says: "I have been through it all once in the
original, and will therefore be more merciful to those who do me
the honour to read me than I have been even to myself. I will not
inflict any of it upon them-not so much as a summary-I sweep it
totally away." Of Confucius, he says: "He wrote merely as a
pedagogue, utilising these events as lessons for the ruling princes,
and with the single object of magnifying the imperial or royal
supreme house."
He speaks highly of Sz'ma Ts'ien's "great
history," "which practically tells us all that is known of ancient
times, and may be considered as the true basis of all Chinese
history," and on these lines consistently begins his story with the
great First Emperor" of the Ts'in dynasty, whose shadow
overarches the current of passing events in the "Flowery Land"
even to the present day.
Of the China or Serica-for it was to Shihwangti's empire that
the first collective name by which China became known to the West
7

50
REVIEW.
was due-he, quoting the late W. F. Mayers, says that it extended from
the north of the present Chihli to the Yangtsz, and from the Lake of
Tungting to the Eastern Sea. It, however, extended in a north-west
direction to the extreme west of the present Kansuh. This large extent
of territory was inhabited, he tells us, by people, in common with their
southern neighbours of Indo-China, speaking monosyllabic languages
marked by a peculiar system of tones,-a fact, however, even so late
as Shihwangti's time, only partially true so far as these northern
tribes were concerned,-the dominant races speaking languages
originally highly inflected, and only by degrees assimilating with
the undoubtedly monosyllabic tongues of the aboriginal inhabitants.
To what race these aboriginal tribes belonged is one of the
undiscovered problems of ethnology; but from them in the main is
descended the modern Chinese people, mixed, however, largely with
immigrant blood of the dominant race, whom the first traces of
authentic history show us as entering the modern China from the
north-west, and slowly and painfully making their way along the
course of the Yellow River, then called by them simply the Ho, the
river par excellence. Pressing on these from the north and north-
west were a race or races of nomads "then called," as Mr. Parker
reminds us, "Hiung-nu," or rather Hiung Nu, for the words are
distinct. Mr. Parker compares the position of the Chinese people
with these nomade frontagers to that of the Roman Empire with its
northern frontagers and its Carthaginian foes, a simile only very
partially correct. More near is the comparison he makes with the
growing American Union, where, as he remarks, the earliest settled
states were conceived on a very small scale, while each of the newer
covered an area comparable with the whole of the older China. The
Ts'in Shihwangti, or First Ts'in Emperor, belonged to a race
"more or less foreign" to the Chinese, that for five centuries had
been encroaching on the "hegemony." Amongst the more
important annexations had been that of the valley of the Upper
Han, the present district of Hanchung. From this point of vantage
Shihwangti crossed the mountain range bordering Sz'chwan on the
north, and poured into the territory of the Shuks, or rather

CHINA. HER HISTORY, DIPLOMACY AND COMMERCE.
51
Pashuks, then, as we learn, dwellers in caves. Mr. Parker only
incidentally mentions this conquest, which however from its
leading the way to the subsequent attacks on the Yueh States was
of supreme importance. Who these Pashuks were is unknown, but
their remains and the few facts mentioned by Sz'ma Tsien point to
their having been well advanced in civilisation prior to the Chinese
conquest. The interest is enhanced by the fact that it seems to
have been unlike that prevailing in contemporary China.
From this point Mr. Parker's narrative becomes exceedingly
interesting. Professedly it is painted with a broad brush and does
not concern itself with details: this method of writing has its
advantages in giving a general view of the subject but has also its
countervailing defects in giving in many cases wrong ideas of the
details ;-still, as almost the first attempt to render an intelligible
account of the troublous period between the fall of the After Han in
A.D. 220 and the establishment of the powerful dynasty of T'ang
in 618, it will prove acceptable even to advanced students. Of the
work of the earlier Han emperors in opening up communication
with the rest of the world Mr. Parker speaks at some length, more
especially to the reception of a so-called "embassy" from the
Roman Emperor Antoninus. There is no reasonable doubt that an
envoy of some sort did appear, but we may question the exact
composition of the embassy. He moreover falls into one of his
characteristic errors in asserting [p. 48] that both Roman and
Chinese accounts make it perfectly clear that an early sea trade
existed with China by the Indo-Chinese port of Rangoon, etc.
Reinaud, so long ago as 1863, in his Relations Politiques et
Commerciales de l'Empire Romain, tells the story of the relations of
Mark Antony with the successors of the Greek kings of Bactria.
Later, Propertius in his third Elegy speaks of the hero of his
poem-
Te modo viderunt iteratos Bactra per ortus,
Te modo munito Sericus hostis equo,
Hibernique Getæ, pictoque Britannia curru,
Ustus et eoa decolor Indus aqua.

52
REVIEW.
whom the walls of Bactra have lately seen for the second time,
apparently as an envoy from Augustus himself. Florus, too, speaks
of an embassy sent to Augustus in Spain :-"ita hunc apud
Hispaniam, in occidentis ultimo, supplex cum gentilitio munere,
eous Indus et Scytha boreus oravit." Reinaud quotes Virgil also,
speaking of the silk of China in connection with the forests of
India
Velleraque ut foliis depectant tenuia Seres.
Aut quos Oceano proprior gerit India lucos,
Extremi sinus orbis.
and points out that the road was by means of the ports on the
Malabar coast, already well known to the Romans, whence, as the
valley of the Indus and both flanks of the Hindu Kush were
included in the realm of the Indo-Scythian kings, approach to
Bactria and thence to China was a by no means difficult task.
But from Sz'ma Tsien himself we have news of com-
munications having existed and of Roman subjects being engaged
in hostilities against China. In the year 102 B.C. the king of
Yarkand had insulted the Chinese agents at his court and killed or
expelled all the Chinese residents, whereupon the Emperor Wu-Ti
determined to punish him and laid siege to his citadel. Amongst
the preparations made by the rebellious sovereign we find him
engaging engineers from Ts'in (Syria) to dig artesian wells for the
supply of the besieged. Again in 82 B.C., when Chao-Ti was
closely pressing the weakened Hiung Nu, we find that certain
Syrian troops were actually assisting the nomades. It is of course
quite possible that these men of Syria may have been free-lances,
but the fact remains that there was little or no difficulty in the way
of intercourse, and that in fact it was a matter of by no means
uncommon occurrence.
Both Roman and Chinese authorities complain of the exclusive
and selfish policy of the Parthians in obstructing all overland
communication between east and west; and this, coupled with the
desire of pushing the trade in silk, besides the political object of
outflanking the Parthian monarchy, it was that resulted in the

CHINA. HER HISTORY, DIPLOMACY AND COMMERCE. 53
encouragement of marine commerce. As, however, the Roman
Empire passed into less active hands and the mercantile spirit of
the Romans degenerated, this trade gradually dwindled, until on the
division of the Chinese Empire it became practically extinct. This
effacement of the Empire as a world-power continued till at the
beginning of the seventh century a new dynasty came into power
that quickly made its influence felt in Western Asia.
The epoch of the rise of the T'ang dynasty was contemporaneous
with one of the most remarkable events in human history-the
growth of the Mohammedan Power,-and in order to study its
development it is necessary to follow the rise of the Caliphate. In
A.D. 622 occurred the Hegira. In 632 Mahomet died, and
immediately after commenced the Saracen inroads into the old
Persian kingdom of the Sassanides. In 640 occurred the Battle of
Nahâvend, when Persia finally passed under the dominion of the
Caliphs and her monarch became a fugitive. In 618 the Chinese
Li Shimin, having defeated the notorious Yang-Ti, placed his father
on the throne and established the T'ang; himself succeeding in
627 and occupying the throne till 650, under the title of T'ai Tsung,
he extended widely the limits of the Empire. The course of events
in Central Asia was in his favour. Towards the latter end of the
sixth century the Turks seem to have been divided into two main
tribes, the Western Turks proper-the successors of the old Hiung
Nu and the Eastern, apparently Uvars-the Avars of Gibbon and
the Jwanjwan of modern Chinese. The old Turks desiring an alliance
with the Uvars were so deeply insulted that war was declared and an
alliance made with the King of Persia in 554. After finally
defeating the Uvars the two kings agreed to divide their conquests,
and in this scheme Transoxiana fell to the Turks, who for a short
time exercised a suzerainty over the Tokharian realm, the sovereigns
of which were successors to the old Ephthalite power. In 711 the
great Mohammedan General Kutayba, having completely reduced
Persia, succeeded after a difficult campaign in extinguishing the
last remains of the Indo-Scythian kingdom and carrying Islam
across the Pamirs and so into immediate contact with the Chinese

54
REVIEW.
Empire. I have stated these facts at some little length because
Mr. Parker seems to have entirely misconceived the current of
events. Indeed [page 65] he actually states that in 628, "after a
century of tyranny the Persians threw off the Turkish yoke. Pirous,
the son of Yezdedgird, escaped from their vengeance to Tokhara
and appealed to the Emperor of China," etc.
As a matter of fact, during the sixth century Persia under its
own native dynasty of the Sassanians had extended its limits almost
as far as those of the ancient empire ruled over by Xerxes. At the
death of Anushirwan in 578 the Persian rule extended from the
Mediterranean to the Jaxartes, and he himself was considered the
most powerful monarch of his age. It is unfortunate that serious
errors of the sort, which a little more careful study of his authorities
would have enabled Mr. Parker to eliminate, occur throughout the
book, and must prevent its becoming-what with Mr. Parker's
first-hand acquaintance with his Chinese authorities the work
might have become-a standard work on Chinese history. As it
stands, each individual paragraph has to be tested by reference to
the authorities before being accepted.
As Mr. Parker states, however, the T'ang dynasty opens up
for China a new period of western intercourse. Li Shimin threw
his empire open to the fugitives from Western Asia, and we find
several matrimonial alliances between the Imperial family and the
rulers of the West; Firuz, son of the last Sassanian monarch, was
honourably received and appointed to high office, and Nestorian
Christianity, Zoroastrianism, and even Judaism, were not only
tolerated but were handsomely endowed; through these channels the
knowledge of Western arts was considerably advanced, and under a
new name China commenced to have a second time intercourse with
the decaying empire of the Cæsars. We now hear for the first
time the Western Empire spoken of as Fulin, a name which
Mr. Parker confounds with the later Fulang. Though apparently
so like in sound, the two words have an essentially different origin.
In modern times Constantinople is known to the Eastern people as
Stambul, a corruption of the Greek phrase és
"To

CHINA. HER HISTORY, DIPLOMACY AND COMMERCE. 55
the City."
This is generally attributed to the Osmanli Turks, but
the phrase seems as old at least as the Persian siege of the city in
625, when it came to be known to the semi-barbarous hordes
who assisted Khosroes II as Polin. "All roads," said in the days
of its grandeur the proverb, "lead to Rome," and in these later
days all ways led to "The City," by which name the then
capital came to be called. In like manner in the day of its
grandeur the ancient Syrian Empire was known widely as τὸ Ἀρκεῖον,
"The Government," a phrase which likewise penetrated to China,
where we find it as an alternative appellation to Ta-Ts'in, the
earlier Roman Empire, spoken of as Likien.*
Fulang of course came by sea in subsequent times when the
Arabs re-opened the sea road, and brought with them the word
Feringhi, by which they in turn knew the kingdoms of Western
Europe.
Like all other dynasties, the T'ang in turn came to decay, and
during the tenth century China was again split up into petty
principalities continually at war one with another. During this
period two states came prominently to the front, of neither of which
Mr. Parker seems to have had knowledge; this is the more curious
because of one of them he speaks, but always under a wrong name.
In the reign Teh Tsung he describes a contest in Sz'ch'wen between
"the Tibetans and Siamese," wherein the Chinese with some of
their Western neighbours took a hand. The nation whose
encroachments were at the time a source of trouble to the decaying
power of the T'angs was, however, the important Indian kingdom
of Cambodia or Ciampa, then at the height of its power, the
building of the great palace of Ankor Thom having been actually
contemporaneous with the period of the Five Dynasties. During
this period great and important changes likewise occurred in
Central Asia which had an important effect on Chinese trade. In
976 a former Turkish slave, Sambuktagin by name, founded the
Ghaznean dynasty and was succeeded by his son the celebrated
*Cf. modern Provence, from the Latin Provincia (the "Province"), or
our modern use of "The Dominion " for Canada.

56
REVIEW.
Mahmoud of Ghazni. Mahmoud's rule extended from Kashmir to
Khorâssân and reached far into Persia. To Mahmoud's succeeded
another dynasty that had even a greater effect on the current of
events in China. The ancient Turks, driven back by the Han
Emperors, had not been exterminated but continued to live along
the basin of the Jaxartes. In the tenth century lived a celebrated
chieftain, by name Seljuk, who succeeded in re-uniting the tribes and
handing down his name as the eponym of a dynasty, the Seljukian.
Seljuk, as successor to the Hiung Nu, claimed descent from Tur,
the son of Feridun, and called himself the thirty-fourth in lineal
descent from Afrasiab. Towards the latter end of the tenth century
Mahmoud granted a fief south of the Jaxartes to Seljuk's son
Mikhail, who seems to have taken up his residence in Kashgar, the
K'angku of the Shiki. Under him the empire seems to have spread
so as to include the whole of the tract called by the Arab writers
the Maverâ ul Nehr, or Transoxiana, but it remained for his sons
Tugrul and Daud, otherwise Chakir, the Shaowu of Ma Twanlin, to
cross the Oxus into Khorâssân. From this they advanced rapidly
westward, conquered Mesopotamia, and even got as far as Georgia.
Tagrul dying, the empire descended to Daud's son Alp Arslan. Alp
Arslan is one of the celebrated characters of history, and his contest
with the Greek Emperor Diogenes, whom he took prisoner, is
known to all students of Gibbon. A curious reminiscence of the
fact comes from Chinese sources: Remusat quotes at some length
Ma Twanlin's Antiquarian Researches, published in the early years
of the fourteenth century, and which contain extracts from all the
earlier sources. Speaking of "Ho," Khorâssân, he says: "This
country is south of the Nami River [Murghab] and forms part of
the old Kashgar realm. The king, of the family of Shao wu, is
related to the King of Kashgar. In his palace in the Royal City
[apparently Merv], on the northern wall are portraits of the
Emperors of China, on the western wall those of the rulers of the
states forming the kingdom of Fulin [Constantinople], and on the
eastern the portraits of the Turkish and Brahmin Sovereigns. This
establishment of the Seljukian Power seems however to have

CHINA. HER HISTORY, DIPLOMACY AND COMMERCE. 57
interrupted the overland trade route through Central Asia, and we
hear for the first time of the development of an extensive marine
trade. Of this period Mr. Parker remarks, that during the whole
period of the Tungusic" reigns in North China-the tenth to the
thirteenth centuries-the "Arabs only found their way once or twice
to the North.
On the other hand, nearly thirty Arab
missions are mentioned between 968 and 1116 as arriving by sea."
Dr. Hirth is also quoted in connection with this large coast trade,
the headquarters of which were at "Kanfu," somewhat ridiculously
made out to be the small local port of Kanp'u on Hangchow Bay
-a simply impossible port for foreign trade, owing to the strong
and uncertain currents of the Bay. Kanfu was, of course, simply
the Arabic transliteration of Kwang [chow] fu, the Canton of the
Portuguese. Mr. Parker makes use of the somewhat indefinite and,
in its general use, misleading term Tungus to denominate the once
important Shiwei tribes, who at one time ranged from the King-an
Mountains to the seaboard of Manchuria, and whose name was
evidently Ushwar or Usuri. If taken as the analogue of the Tung
Hu of Sz'ma Tsien no great harm would be done by continuing the
use of the term to denote the original eastern branch of the Turkish
nation. Used, as it is by the Russians, to denote the Samoyede
and other tribes of Northern and Eastern Siberia, it is misleading.
On the other hand, Mr. Parker says truly "But the Hiung Nu,
and Tunguses [Kitans, Nuchens, Manchus] will often reappear.
As to the Mongols, they seem to have been Turkified Tunguses."
As a fact we do not meet with the term Mongol much, if any,
before the time of Marco Polo, and a great part of the confusion
still surrounding the ethnology of Eastern Asia is due to the
persistent error of accepting this late term as an ethnic distinction.
Speaking of the modern trade routes in Eastern Asia,
Mr. Parker remarks :-" With one or two exceptions the beaten
tracks are exactly the same now as they were 2,000 years ago,
both by sea and land. The marts, with similar rare exceptions,
are either the old marts, or are very near them, or have a special
traceable reason for their modified existence. Even the peoples are
8

58
REVIEW.
the same peoples, mixed or displaced here and there by conquests,
famines, or other cataclysms." This is of course more particularly
true of the ancient routes to Western Asia, where geographical
considerations have at all times forced trade into certain well-defined
lines. Even here considerable changes have taken place, the
importance of which we are perhaps disposed to under-estimate.
Those changes are both ethnic and geographical. Dr. Sven Hedin's
recent travels have thrown much light on the physical changes
incident on the encroachments of the desert, which have practically
obliterated the old southern road by Khoten and seriously affected
the northern by Lake Lop. The changes in population have been
no less marked. When history opens, these districts were inhabited
by settled populations in a high stage of civilisation. The inroads,
first of the Hiung Nu and afterwards of races still lower in the scale
of civilisation, have effected a complete change in the ethnic
condition of Chinese Turkestan, so that trade with Western Asia
has ceased to exist.
Of the commencement and growth of European trade
Mr. Parker gives a short but interesting account, and his views and
statements are naturally entitled to much weight. His summary
of the various treaties and conventions is alone a sufficient raison
d'être for his work. He however commits many characteristic
errors in his description of the earlier ethnology of Northern Asia
which go a long way to spoil an otherwise trustworthy sketch of
relations with those northern tribes which subsequently came to be
included in modern Russia. This is the more to be regretted inas-
much as the matter is entirely redundant to the issue. We do not
know, for instance, who were the "Huns" of Ammianus, but they
certainly were not Hiung Nu. On the other hand, the "Juju" or
"Jwanjwan" were as certainly "Avars" or "Uvars "; while traces
of old Gothic tribes are certainly to be found in the old Wusuns
and Tahia, and reached even further east. Even the Wigurs,
generally looked upon as characteristic Turks, and who certainly in
historical times spoke a pure Turkish language, must be looked
upon as ethnologically in the main the descendants of those light

OHINA. HER HISTORY, DIPLOMACY AND COMMERCE. 59
haired, blue-eyed peoples of Inner Asia, by whatever name we may
eventually have to call them-Goths, Ugrians, Avars or Fins,-and
who originally spoke languages of distinctly Gothic type.