INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
Déchiffrées par VILH. THOMSEN,
Professeur de Philologic comparée à l'Université de Copenhague.
By E. H. PARKER.
WE have already elsewhere" on a previous, occasion
noticed the first part of this work comprising pages 5 to 54,
published in 1894; as Professor Thomsen informs us in his
6
Remarques Finales" at the end of the present volume.
The preparation of the remainder has been unavoidably
delayed through the accident of his illness. The parts which
we now have before us embrace the "Transcription et traduc-
tion des textes (Monuments I et II);" the "Introduction;"
the word for word romanised transcription, with translations,
of each separate face of each of the two Monuments; Notes;
Additions and Rectifications; Analytical Index; Turkish
Lexicon; Turkish Grammar; a new English translation of
Monument I; and the above-mentioned "Remarques
Finales," justifying his own views on certain open points.
As Professor Thomsen justly reminds us in his Intro-
duction, the Chinese histories are much better authorities
upon the early Turks than the Byzantine authors, such as
Menander Protector and Theophylactus Simocatta. In
presenting us with a sketch of Turkish history from the
Chinese point of view, Dr. Thomsen follows mainly the
memoir upon the subject published by the late Stanislas
Julien. The Turks lived in felt tents, led a nomadic life, and
1
The Academy (? Dez. 1895) and The Eng. Hist. Review (July 1896).

2
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
generally had manners and customs which correspond to the
Tartar life of to-day as seen in the Mongols, and also to the
description given us of the ancient Huns of Europe, the
Hiung-nu of early China, and the modern Kirghiz of the
Russian steppes. Dr. Thomsen frankly tells us that he has
had to take his Chinese translations second-hand, and there-
fore we need not be surprised to find that he has been led
into repeating a few errors which the light of the recently
discovered inscriptions enables us once more to expose. Thus
the chief officers of the Turks included what translators call
the Ye-poou, Bout, Tik-k'in, Sou-li-pat, and To-toun-pat. In
justice to Julien, however, it must be stated that whilst he is
the chief authority for the Chinese narrative, the above forms
are not his own, but those amended by M. Gustave Schlegel,
Professor of Chinese at the Leyden University. Yep-hu
(not Ye-pou), which the Chinese themselves tell us to call
Ziep-hu, turns out to be the Turkish word jabgu, a title
applied to the different Viceroys or Cæsars-so to speak-
who ruled as "satraps of the blood" under the Supreme
Khan. Bout is a misreading of the Chinese, and should be
Shet as yet the word has not been satisfactorily identified
with any Turkish form. Tik-k'in is the Turkish Tägin, as is
amply proved by the Orkhon inscriptions. M. Déveria of
Paris had, however, already several years ago satisfactorily
proved this in a journal called the Toung Paou. Owing
to faulty Chinese printing, most sinologists have hitherto
read te-le; and even such excellent authorities as the late
Archimandrite Palladius of Peking have thus been misled into
identifying it with a supposed Mongol word dere. Sou-li-
pat (an error for Ki-li-pat) stands for some such sound as
djiriful; the remaining word has not yet been identified at all.
The next point is the original locality of the rising
Turkish power when first the name Türk (meaning "helmet")

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
was taken as a political designation towards the middle of
the sixth century. The bold generalisations of de Guignes
have here again propagated error far and wide. Nothing
could be more positive than the Chinese reiterated statement
that the Ordous and Etznai region, north-east of Kokonor,
was the original site of the Turkish encampment; true, their
power afterwards extended to the Altaï, and it may well have
been there that Zemarchus, the ambassador of Justin, was
received by the Khan Dizaboul (probably meaning "the
Zabgu Di"-either a numeral or a name in A.D. 568); but,
apart from the fact that the Ektag Mountains of Menander is
at the present time, according to Dr. Thomsen, unknown in
the region of the Altaï, there is every reason to suppose on
other and more specific grounds that quite another neighbour-
hood was meant, which further research will perhaps enable
us in time to identify.
The Manchus may be reasonably supposed to know as
well as any one to what race they themselves belong.
Previous to their conquest of China, they amalgamated all
the tribes belonging to their own stock, and came to the
conclusion that the Tungusic Solons of the Amour River, as
they are now still called, were the true lineal representatives
of the former Khitans or Cathayans, who ruled North China
for several centuries, until close upon Marco Polo's time.
Yet, in describing the conquests of the Turkish Khan Mokan
-whose names and titles have been severely mauled by
successive translators-Dr. Thomsen still expresses doubts
whether the Khitans were not of Mongol race, as though, if
such had been the case, the Mongols, when they became
great, would not have eagerly claimed descent from renowned
ancestors who for centuries drew humble tribute from China.
The tribe of Mung-wa is certainly mentioned amongst the
most northerly races of Khitan stock; but, even if the one

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
name of an obscure tribe only affiliated to the Khitan were
enough to made Mongols of that tribe, and again through it
of all the Khitans, we are distinctly told by the Chinese that
the language of these northerly races was much the same as
that of Tungusic tribes, who have since been proved to be the
ancestors of the Manchus. Moreover, is it known yet what
exactly was and is the "Mongol race," i.e. what is its true
relation to the Turkish race, and what ancient tribe
mentioned in Chinese history does it lineally represent?
It is highly probable, as we have foreshadowed
above, that the Dizaboul of the Byzantines was not the
Supreme Khan Mokan at all, though it is quite certain that
Zemarchus' interview with him in 569 took place during
Mokan's reign, which lasted from 553 to 572. Dr. Thomsen,
following de Guignes, assumes that the Tápdor of the Greeks
was the Turkish Khan Tat-t'ou; but neither he nor
de Guignes assists us by specifying what the Byzantines
said about Tardou, or what his rank was. The Chinese state-
ments are very positive, but they too are insufficient: still,
it is possible to supply the hiatuses by necessary conse-
quence. Thus, we are told that Tat-t'ou (a name which
numerous Chinese precedents justify us in assuming to have
represented the sound Tar-du) was uncle of the fifth Khan
Shapuro (son of the second Khan Isiki, son of the first
Khan Tumen), who was nephew of the fourth Khan Tapur.
It thus follows almost of necessity that Tardou was a son
of Tumen. The Chinese also tell us that Tardou, when he
usurped the Supreme Khanship in A.D. 599, had been "Khan
of the Western side" and had arrogated to himself the title of
Buka Khan. We are therefore inclined to connect this
Chinese title of Buka and the Chinese-Turkish tägin with
Abulghazi's "Butakin, grandson through Zagsu of Tumana."
The Chinese themselves tell us that Tardou's successor in the

9. 外交部藏書
INSCRIPTIONS DE ORKHON.
5
west-for his pretensions to the Supreme Khanship were
soon defeated-was Nili, son of Yangsu, son of Tumen. It is
fair therefore to assume that the Dizabul whom Zemarchus
met was the zabu or jabghu (i.e. the viceroy) of the west,
under his brother, or possibly his uncle, Mokan, and that this
viceroy was either Tardou himself, or a son or nephew of
Tardou bearing the title of tägin. This supposition is
strengthened by the fact that Tardou's grandson subsequently
reigned in the west from A.D. 619 with the title of t'ung
jabgu, the Chinese word t'ung meaning "general" or
"suzerain," and here most probably not standing for any
Turkish word. Again in 580, during the reign of the fourth
Khan, we find a Chinese author actually mentioning Tardou
as a menacing rival of the Supreme Khan (his brother)
Tapo: it is surely therefore not unreasonable to suppose that
he was equally menacing under the other brother Mokan in
569, and that it was he, and he alone, who had relations with
Constantinople and Persia. It may be here mentioned
that the Chinese are inconsistent touching the relationship of
Mokan to his father Tumen, as they in at least one place call
him "younger brother" and not "son."
3
After innumerable wars and intrigues, the Turkish
Empire was at last broken up by the Chinese in A.D 630,
when the twelfth Khan Hiet-li, or Gheri, was taken prisoner.
However, the new Chinese system of native Turk Governor-
ships did not last long. In 681 Kutlug, a descendant of
Gheri, and it seems himself son of another Kutlug, once
more proclaimed himself independent Khan. In 690 or 691
he was succeeded by his brother Me-chuc or Mörchör-the
Turkish sounds intended being of course mere suggestions
where they are not found in the Turkish texts. Under Mör-
chöör the Turkish Empire became almost as extensive and
formidable as it had been under Mokan and Gheri. For

6
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
services rendered to China, he received the title of Li-kung-
pao-kwo, or, "he who has rendered service to and shewn
gratitude to the Empire,"-a designation somewhat mutilated
by Dr. Thomsen, owing, as usual, to his translators' in-
accuracies. But Mörchör soon fell out with China. The
appointment of his son as "little Khan" over Kutlug's son
and his own brother, who were respectively Viceroys of the
west and east, each commanding an army, shows once more
how easily Dizabul might have been mistaken by the
Byzantine for Supreme Khan, just as, seven centuries later,
Rubruquis found Sartuk and his father Batu settled in Russia
in quasi-independence, nominally under the Supreme Khan
reigning at Karakorum. The wars which Mörchör carried on
with his neighbours enable us to identify the words Turgäs
and Karluk in their Chinese disguises, and after the fall of the
Western Turkish family of Asena, these Turgäs and Karluks
secured the Khanship. In the end, after a successful
campaign against the Bajirku (? Baikals) of the Tula River,
Mörchör was killed in A.D. 716, and his head was sent as a
trophy to China. The Eastern Asena family was at last
conquered by the Ouigours.
Before, however, the Turkish Empire of the eastern
Asena branch fell a prey to the rising Ouigour power, it
enjoyed a season of great prosperity under Kutlug's son
Mogilan or Megiklen, successor of Mörchör, and known also
as the "little Shah," and the "Bilga Khan," or "Wise
Khan." Mogilan owed his throne entirely to the efforts of
his younger brother the tegin Kül, upon whom he conferred
the ancient Hiung-nu title of "Cæsar of the east," in
Turkish "Left Doghri," in Chinese "Left Worthy Prince."
The most important and complete of the discoveries recently
made on the Orkhon is the original stone tablet put up
to the memory of the great and doughty Prince Kül by

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
7
order of the Chinese Emperor. This tablet is still in
a state of almost perfect preservation, and, the Chinese
inscription being perfectly legible, it followed that if any
frequently recurring Turkish letters could be made to
correspond with the Chinese characters for "Türk" and "Kül
Tegin," the key to the whole Turkish epic would be discovered.
Copies of the whole were at once sent to Europe, and in due
course the above-mentioned key was first assumed, then
discovered, and finally applied by Professor Thomsen, who at
last came to the conclusion that the Turkish alphabet was
remotely derived from some form of the Aramaan. The
Russian Academician Dr. Radloff, a profound Turkish scholar,
next proceeded to apply the principle thus discovered by
Professor Thomsen to the decipherment of all the other
inscriptions, most of which unfortunately were badly
mutilated. Dr. Thomsen meanwhile was prevented by illness
from keeping pace with Dr. Radioff, who, in 1894 and 1895,
published his excellent translations and glossary. The
present work by Dr. Thomsen reviews as it proceeds the work
of Dr. Radloff; it also furnishes one or two new translations
cof the Chinese texts, and supplies us with a number of
exegetical notes in elucidation of the whole matter.
The above indicates some of the essential features of the
sketch of Turkish history given to us from Chinese sources by
Professor Thomsen, and necessary for the better under-
standing of our subject. As we have previously remarked,
Professor Thomsen, whilst quite competent to check the
accuracy of individual Chinese words, frankly acknowledges
that for his translations in this department he has had to
depend upon the work of others. Hence we find such
inaccuracies as "the Shen-yu" (an ancient Hiung-nu title)
instead of a city or province also called Shen-yu; "poisoned
by Mei-lou-tch'oue," instead of "by the mei-lou Tch'oue"

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
(?-Chör), this being a title common to the Ouigours, Kirghiz
and Turks; indeed, as we shall see further on, tch'oue or chue
was also a title; "the Ambassador Ho-ling-thsioner" for "sent
Ho-ling-thsiouen"; and numerous other little errors such as
the extreme care and caution of Dr. Thomsen in other
departments leads us to believe he would have avoided had he
been in a position to go carefully over the original Chinese
himself.
Professor Thomsen next proceeds to give us an account
of the interesting monuments as they wore found. Reduced
facsimiles have already been published by the Finno-Ougrian
Society of Helsingfors and by the Russian Academy on behalf
of Dr. Radloff, in two magnificent albums, which appeared in
1892. The Turkish inscriptions are much more voluminous
than the Chinese, and themselves tell us that they were cut
into the stone by the practised Chinese handicraftsmen who
had been sent to the Orkhon region by the Chinese Emperor
to engrave the Chinese characters. One of the first trans-
lations of the Chinese inscription in honour of Kül tegin,
made by the late M. von der Gabelentz of Berlin, was con-
siderably improved upon in 1892 by Professor Schlegel of
Leyden. Professor Thomsen now publishes as an addendum
an entirely new English translation, which again slightly
modifies that of Schlegel.
When we say that the singular Turkish inscription on
the first monument in honour of Kül tegin alone contains
more than 10,000 characters or syllables, and that the second,
in honour of Mogilan, contained, when complete, still more, it
will easily be understood that matter sufficiently extensive to
fill the pages of a small weekly periodical, and introducing to
us an entirely new alphabet and style of thought must be of
surpassing interest. In the first the Khan gives us a short
résumé of anterior Turkish history, and then proceeds to

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
It
9
recount in detail the exploits of his brave brother: a singular
peculiarity being the great importance apparently attached to
the names and pedigrees of the war-horses ridden. Though
the carving of the letters was done by Chinese workmen, we
are told that Yollig tegin, brother or cousin of Kül and Mogilan,
was actually the one who composed certain portions of the
epic. As to which part is the prologue and which the
epilogue, which portions emanate from Bilga Khan and
which from Yollig, these are technical points upon which
Drs. Thomsen and Radloff in some cases differ, but which are
altogether too technical for us to pronounce upon. Monument
No. 2 repeats a great deal of what is said in No. 1 so far as
Bilga Khan himself is concerned, but in the former, Kül
tegin's doughty deeds are entirely omitted from the narrative,
and the younger prince is not so much as even mentioned.
is especially unfortunate that so much of the second Turkish
inscription is mutilated, for mention is made in it of exactly
the same events as are recorded in Chinese history, and it
would have been exceedingly interesting to have further
confirmation of statements which, though there is no reason
to doubt their accuracy in any point, of course become
additionally clear and convincing when put in other language
and contexts. It often happens that a turn or expression
susceptible of a double meaning in either Chinese or Turkish
when alone, at once crystallises into an absolute one when the
two languages stand side by side. Regarding the general
interpretation of the Turkish inscriptions, Dr. Thomsen points
out, as he is fairly entitled to do, that there is a profound
difference in principle between the method followed by
himself and that pursued by Dr. Radloff, whether it be as to
the accuracy of the readings, as to the pains taken to consult
all available versions of the original Turkish texts, or as
to the proper plan to follow in submitting a transcription.
2

10
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
Dr. Radloff, who in the opinion of Dr. Thomsen occasionally
follows too closely the modern Turkish dialects of the north,
has in the savant's opinion been led to treat this last point
somewhat arbitrarily, and thus to give an incorrect idea of
the true language of the inscriptions: consequently, as might
be expected, the real bearing and the interpretation of the
historical details do not receive at Dr. Radloff's hands that
full measure of justice to which Dr. Thomsen's more
deliberate methods consider them entitled. In short (if a
popular simile may be applied to two such distinguished
savants), it has been a race between the hare and the tortoise,
each arriving at much the same goal in the end, but the hare,
in process of bounding, doubling, and scampering along,
leaving many indications of hot haste in overcoming obstacles
for the cautious tortoise to medidate upon and avail himself
of at leisure; naturally, in careful detail, the tortoise must
necessarily often appear to have advantage of the hare.
Dr. Thomsen also makes certain prudent reservations
regarding the precise date of the inscription. There can be
little doubt that the Chinese histories, when carefully studied
dynasty by dynasty, in those chapters which relate to their
own and foreign calendars, will throw considerable light upon
this question; but meanwhile it may be fairly held open to
doubt, whether the Turks, in a certain measure, made use of
the Chinese calendar, meant a lunar year, the complete years
of a given Khan's age, the year following the completion of
such sum of years, or what not, in cases where a definite date
is assigned to a given event; these doubts of course generally
arise in connection with the winter and spring time, when the
difference between the beginnings of lunar and sclar years
must necessarily occur. It is, however, interesting to note
that out of five instances where the year of the Khan's age
and also that of his brother Kül is mentioned, the former in

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
11
four cases is distinctly shown to have been one year older than
the latter in one single instance the difference is two years;
but this is just the point when, owing to one of the two men
having been born in a certain month, that particular month
might come after the completion say of the 30th year of the
one and before the completion of the 31st year of the other;
or vice versa. It may be interesting to note here a
peculiarity in Chinese chronology which enables us, once
given the requisite pains to find it out-to discover the
precise Gregorian date of any event of which the cyclic year,
moon, and day are furnished. Every one of the sixty cyclic
signs must occur at intervals of 60 years, or days, and there-
fore when any man's age is given in cyclic language, the
subject must be either 71 or 11 years of age; the day must
either be the 3rd of the ides or 60 days earlier or later; the
moon is of course on a somewhat different footing, as there
are only twelve moons in each year, notwithstanding this,
however, the intercalary thirteenth moon never causes any.
confusion, as it simply counts as the shadow of the moon
which preceded it, just as our 29th of February makes no
legal difference in the case of events falling on that day.
It must be recollected also that a greater interest than
usual attaches to these Turkish inscriptions, apart from the
fact of their being about the earliest of their kind in
existence, on account of their being, as Dr. Thomsen expresses
it, "Vierges encore de toute souffle du monde mahométan."
The Khan Mogilan died in A.D. 734: Ziyád, brother of the
Caliph Omayya b. Abi Sofyan, only crossed the Oxus to
attack the Western Turks in A.D. 676. This was during the
reign of the Eastern Khan Mörchör (uncle of Mogilan),
who had at that date little or nothing to do with the Western
Turks. These had then for some years been in a state of
anarchy, nominally under Chinese Viceroys or native

12
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
Viceroys owing allegiance to China. In A.D. 703 the
Western Khan Hien had to take refuge in China on
account of Mörchör's encroachments, which continued
up to the fall of his kinsmen, the Asena family in the
west, and the rise in their place of the Turgäs branch of
Turks. In A.D. 730 we hear of Turgäs and Turkish envoys
struggling for precedence at the Chinese court; and, as
Mörchör died in A.D. 716, it is evident that, even supposing
the Turgäs of Issikul were in any way under Mussulman
influence, such influence could not have in any way affected
the bloodthirsty Mörchör, who was the common enemy of
both Turgäs and Chinese. Kotaiba, general of the Caliph
Walid I in Transoxiana, is believed to have carried his suc-
cessful arms up to the Chinese frontier early in the 8th
century; but Kotaiba was murdered in A.D. 714. Between
A.D. 720 and 723 Maslama, General of the Caliph Yazid II,
conducted expeditions against Ferghana and the Khozars
of Armenia: the latter are specifically mentioned by the
Chinese as being a Western Turkish tribe. Under the
Caliph Hisham, who died in A.D. 743, decay had already set
in, and the family of Omayya was shortly after supplanted by
the Abbasids. M. Gabriel Déveria, in his Histoire de l'Origine
de l'Islamisme en Chine, informs us that the Persians rejected
in 628 the yoke of the Western Turks, and that Yezdejerd III
had to take to flight, in the course of which he was killed by
the Arabs, whilst his son Pirouz III succeeded in reaching
China via Tokharistan. The Chinese Emperor, though ready
to grant him asylum, had no desire to embroil himself with
the Arabs, and in the year 651, received favourably a mission
sent to him by the Emir al Momenin Othman. In 661 the
the Chinese Emperor sent to the west a mission charged with
the duty of transforming into Chinese prefectures the whole
country between Khotan and Persia. Pirouz himself was

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
13
made Administrator. In 670, however, Pirouz (and it
seems his son) had once more to seek refuge at the Chinese
court, where he was allowed to build a temple of his own
religion. In 678 another attempt was made to establish
Pirouz or his son upon the Persian throne, but nothing came
of it. These details are simply given here to make quite
clear what Professor Thomsen asserts, namely, that with both
Persians and Western Turks under Chinese influence, it is
quite safe to suppose that the Eastern or Northern Turks,
who were separated from the Arabs by these two nations,
could hardly have been yet even indirectly affected by the
Mussulman propaganda.
We may well quote in original a few of Professor Thom-
sen's own words regarding the style of the incriptions :-
6
"Comme trait typique. il faut surtout signaler la
"figure. . . qui consiste à exprimer la même idée en deux
"phrases coordonées . . sous forme d'antithèse. Non
"seulement cette figure donne au style un cachet tout par-
"ticulier de force et de charme, mais . . . elle se présente
également à nous comme un auxiliaire extrêmement
"important relativement à la juste intelligence de beaucoup
"de passages
Si nous y ajoutons encore que bon nombre
"des métaphores . . . se retrouvent aujourd'hui même dans
"la poésie populaire de diverses tribus turques, . . . tout ceci
"vient se resumer une impression tout à fait à part que
"laissent ces anciennes inscriptions. On dirait presque de
"lointains échos d'une épopée nationale, tour à tour triom-
"phants et pleins d'une douloureuse tristesse, qui viendraient
" nous frapper, émanant de ces pierres moussues dans
"lesquelles la voix se ranime aujourd'hui !"
Our space will not allow of a close examination into all
the points of difference between Dr. Radloff and Dr. Thom-
sen; but we may indicate one or two here and there. In the

14
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
opening sentences of Monument I the Khan speaks of the
Turkish Empire as extending from the Kadirkan Mountains
on the East to the Iron Gate on the West. Professor Radloff
reads Kadarkan, and takes it to be an ordinary adjective,
meaning "wooded." There can be no question that the
Iron Gate is not the one of that name at Derband on the
Caspian, but the one near Samarcand, ten English miles,
or, according to Dr. Thomsen's citation, sixty-three English
miles, south-east of the city of Kash. The question raised
by Dr. Thomsen whether the word idioksis can refer to the
division of the Turks into so many "arrows" or tribes, is
certainly an interesting one; but it must be pointed out that
the use of the word "arrows in the sense of "tribal
division is only mentioned by the Chinese as having been in
use among the later Western Turks. Such points as these,
however, cannot be expected to deeply interest the general
reader, and can in fact only secure the attention of even
specialists when they have both Radloff's and Thomsen's
complete transcriptions before them to make clear what is meant.
One very remarkable and interesting point has arisen in
connection with the Turkish inscriptions which brings the
Greeks, Tartars, and Chinese accounts incontestably into one
force, and furnishes at least one common point de repaire
touching the identity of which there can be no doubt.
Theophylactus Simocatta, in his account of the Turks,
mentions one of their colonies called Taugast, which name, so
far back as 1828, Klaproth had already shown must neces-
sarily refer to China, though he was unable to explain the
raison d'être of the term. The Chinese, in describing the city
of Almalik near Kuldja under date 1221-4, state that the
inhabitants of that place styled the Chinese Tau-wha-shi, a
name which they do not attempt to explain, but which
Bretschneider twenty years ago compared with the Turkish

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
15
word tamgad. In the Orchon inscriptions Tabgash is
consistently used in the sense of "Chinese." The Turkish
word Tüpüt, for "Tibetans," corresponds precisely with the
Chinese Tupo (commonly read T'ufan). There was also an
Ouigour tribe called Tupo: but the inherent quality of both
the first and second syllables etymologically excludes the
supposition that this can possibly be meant, apart from the
fact that they lived in the extreme north so late as the 7th
century. The Apar of the Turks naturally suggest to us the
Avars of Europe; but the Chinese distinctly mention the
A-pah (the etymological value of which is A-bar) as being an
early Ouigour tribe whose chief is mentioned as coming over
to China in the 8th century. The Avares of T. Simocatta
cannot possibly be these, but are much more likely to be the
Chinese Yüe-ban, who disappeared from Chinese ken during
the 6th century, appearing in Eastern Europe about A.D. 558,
according to Menander Protector. Dr. Radloff makes one
tribe Parpurim out of what Dr. Thomsen divides into two,
namely, the Apar and Apurim. Dr. Thomsen is probably
right, for Dalobian Khan, the first schismatic Khan of the
west, had also been known as the A-po Khan: this was at the
beginning of the 7th century, and the title was continued
after Dalobian's death. About the Kirghiz and Kurikans
there is no manner of doubt: Turkish and Chinese accounts
agree perfectly. The Chinese describe the Kirghiz language
as being the same as that of the Ouigours, though Dr. Thom-
sen seems to doubt if they were originally Turks. The latest
authorities cited in the Encyclopædia Britannica describe
their speech as "pure Turkish in structure, but mixed
with Mongolian, Persian, and even a few Arab words."
Menander calls them Xerxis, and the Khan Dizabul is said
to have given a Kirghiz slave to Zemarchus in A.D. 569.

16
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
cannot
Their southern frontier were the T'anman mountains
described by Professor Thomsen, apparently through mis-
apprehension, as Tangnou. The "Thirty Tartars"
well be other than the Tungusic hordes known to the
Chinese as Shih-wei or Shirvi,3 the southern branch of
which we are told was subdivided into twenty-five tribes,
and the northern into nine. Amongst these tribes were the
Mung-wa, probably the future Mung-ku or "Mongols."
From the earliest times the Chinese describe the Tartars as
being north-west of the Kitans or Cathayans, which is the
exact position which all accounts agree in giving to the early
Mongols. Just as the Cathayans were a Tungusic race
bordering on, and therefore presumably mixed with, the
Turks, so would the Mongols, who according to Rémusat,
grafted Turkish traditions upon their own history naturally
allow their native tongue, whatever it was, to become largely
affected by Turkish. The essential differences however
between the Mongol and Turkish languages are not very
clearly brought out in Rémusat's learned treatise upon the
Tartars, which, in truth, is full of serious errors, and only
intended at best to be a suggestive or preliminary study.
Both Dr. Radloff and Dr. Thomsen agree in making
the first Turkish ancestor to be Bumin Khan, and this
Bumin cannot be other than Chinese Tumen,-Abulghazi's
Tumana; but it is just as difficult to suggest an explanation
of this difference in nomenclature as it is to account for the
Thirty Tartars of the Turks being called by the Chinese Shih-
wei, or of the Tatabi of the Turks being called Hi or K'umo-Hi
by the Chinese. The Djarud Mongols now occupy the territory
once held by the Hi, and it is remarkable that, whilst classing
them as a Tungusic race, the Chinese mention them in
detail along with other Turks, and not along with other
Tunguses: hence we may safely assume that certain border

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
17
tribes were of mixed blood, just as we find whole villages of
the people of Alsace-Lorraine as much German as French,
and the same with other frontier peoples in Europe.
pas-
The passages referring to the gods of the Turks-the
gods of land and water,-together with the half dozen
sages preceding them, receive somewhat different treatment
at the hands of the two professors: for an outsider the
general meaning arrived at is much the same, and at any rate
the Chinese make distinct mention of both "Earth" and
"Water" worship, so that we may be content to leave the
exact grammatical bearings of each allusion to specialists in
the Turkish tongues. What is certain at least is that the
religion was still pure Shamanism, without the faintest trace
of Mussulman, Christian, or Buddhistic influence.
There is one passage in which, though totally ignorant of
the Turkish language, we think that Dr. Radloff must be
right and Dr. Thomsen wrong. This is where the Khan
Bilza, recounting the early exploits of his father Kutlug, says:
"Das Volk aber hatte seine türkischen Sitten aufgegeben,"
which Dr. Thomsen translates: "il abolit les peuples et
leurs institutions turques." Both agree in the following
sentence that "the people were once more brought back to
the institutions of their fathers," so that it is more reasonable
suppose that Dr. Radloff's version is the correct one, that is,
if the original Turkish words can be made to bear it. On the
other hand Dr. Thomsen is probably right in making two
officials-the yabgou and the chad-out of what Dr. Radloff
turns into "eine Jabgug-Schad." Jabgu, or in the objective
case jabging, is a most interesting word: the Chinese call it
yep-hu, but tell us specially to pronounce the initial as a
sibilant, and thus the words being both in the lower tone,
the total effect is meant to be zep-ghu or jeb-hu, so far at
least as we can calculate back old forms from a comparison
to
3

18
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
of modern dialacts: the meaning they attach to it is "the
agnates" of the Khan, and they appear often to use the
term loosely in the sense of "the prince," "the viceroy," very
much as in the later Roman Empire there were one or more
Cæsars under or nearly co-ordinate with a supreme Augustus.
In one instance the Khan of the West is given the title of
"Suzerain Zep-hu," or in Chinese "Tung Zep-hu," which,
in the absence of any other way of accounting for the name
Dizabul, leads us to suppose that the syllables zab-ul must be
a Greek corruption of jab-hu. The schad, written in Chinese
shah or shat, do not appear among the earlier Turkish
officials, and possibly may be a form of the Persian word
which we usually write Shah. Right and Left officials styled
chat are also mentioned in the eighth century, whilst the
Khan Mogilan himself was also known as "the Little Shat."
Just as the ancient Hiung-nu title doghri was used alterna-
tively with its Chinese form "Wise Prince," so the Left and
Right shat or ch'ah may have been used simultaneously with
the older title, which was in fact borne by Mogilan's brother,
the tégin Kül or Köl. At the same time we can hardly
agree with Professor Thomsen that Kutlug's son Mekü, who,
according to the Chinese, was made Left chesah during his
uncle and predecessor's reign, is the same person as Kutlug's
son Mekilien (Mogilan), who is described as being Left Wise
Prince when his uncle died. Meanwhile it may be pointed
out that 699 is the date the Chinese give for Mekü's appoint-
ment, whilst Mogilan tells us, "I was appointed in my 24th
year," which, as he was eight when his father died in 690 or 691,
would make him twenty-four in 706 or 707. Further scrutiny
of the Chinese records will probably elucidate this point. The
Tardouch tribe, over which Mekü was appointed schad, may
possibly be the Turks called sha-t'o by the Chinese; but
though the position of the Sha-t'o agrees with that assigned

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
19
to the Tardouch, it must be confessed that the history of the
sha-t'o says nothing of any such event.
Dr. Thomsen does not appear to be able to come to any
definite conclusion as to who the Tokouz-ogouz or "Nine
Ogouz" were, though he appears to see clearly that in a
general sense the Ouigours must be meant. As a matter
of fact, in A.D. 742 the Nine Clans are specifically
mentioned by the Chinese under the head " "Ouigours."
After the collapse of the Turkish power, the Ouigour Khan
was settled by the Chinese Emperor in the old Turkish
country, and took the title of Kutlug Bilga. He removed
his ordo to a spot 600 English miles north of the northernmost
bend of the Yellow River between the River K'un (Orchon)
and the Uteken Hills, having the "mouth of the desert 100
(English) miles to his north " and then possessing
"the
whole of the Nine Clans' land." The "mouth of the desert"
must mean the road from Kiachta to Uliasutai. The only
difficulty about the names of the Nine Clans is to decide how
the ungainly Chinese syllables are to be divided and grouped,
and when properly grouped, what Turkish syllables they are
intended to represent; they appear to be something like
Ghutukar, Küramurkar, Merkasikher, Amurtik, Kazar,
Ghurrusu, Yokmurkar, Gheizamur, and Yokrakar, the last
being the family name of the ruling Ouigour tribe. More-
over, in the history of the Turks proper, the Chinese say that
Kutlug (i.e. the father of Mogilan, who boasts that his father
conquered the "Neufogouz") "rallied the remnants of his
men, and proceeded to rob and raid the Nine Clans, appoint-
ing his younger brother Mörchör (uncle of Mogilan) as
schad, and his son Tusik Beg as "Jabgu." The "Bar
Khan," who puzzles Dr. Thomsen so much, is undoubtedly
"Pah-se Beg" who is mentioned in 649 as having sur-
rendered to China. As Kutlug died between 690 and 692,

20
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
the jump of 43 years would not be excessive, especially as
"Bar" may
be a hereditary title like " Bilga." Mogilan
says that his uncle succeeded his father "d'après l'usage," or
"nach der Sitte;" but the Chinese tell us he usurped the
throne, which rightfully belonged to Mogilan.
Paragraphs 16 to 19 disclose several serious discre-
pancies between the translations of Dr. Radloff and those of
Dr. Thomsen, but these we must leave to specialists in the
Turk dialects. Mogilan describes the Khan of Türgäs as being
of Turk breed "like ourselves." This corresponds with what
the Chinese say: "they-the Türgäs-were branch families
of the Western Turks," and "the Turks were their neigh-
bours on their north-east." The Chinese accounts of this
war agree perfectly with Mogilan's statements. They add
that, after the Turks had retired eastwards, one Suluk, chief
of the P'olo (? Bara) tribe, set up as (Türgäs) Khan. This
must surely be the "Bars Beg" of whom Mogilan speaks;
but unfortunately this part of the Turkish text is mutilated.
However, he states clearly that he gave a sister in marriage
to Bars, whilst the Chinese say that Suluk had not only a
Turkish wife, but also a Tibetan wife and a Chinese wife, or
at least one sent from China. There is a wide difference
between Dr. Radloff's "dem hatten wir unsere sechs Stämme
der Kuntschajug verliehen," and Dr. Thomsen's "et nous lui
donnâmes ma soeur cadette pour épouse." Dr. Thomsen's
quoncu-jug-if we suppose it to be the accusative in ug of the
Chinese word kung-chu, "a princess,"-is at least translatable,
and in accordance with fact, whereas kuntschajug has no
apparent meaning at all. The Manchu princesses given to
the Mongols are still called kung-chu, and there are several
instances in Turkish history of Chinese Emperors conferring
this title (meaning "daughter of the Emperor") upon women
of Turkish blood, just as the title ch'in-wang or "prince of the

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
21
blood" is and was conferred upon foreign Tartar princes and
Kings of Corea.
Chinese history does not support the accounts given by
Mogilan of the conquests of Mörchör over the Kirghiz: but
they state that this people had no intercourse with China before
A. D. 648, when, hearing of the submission to the Chinese
Emperor of the various Ouigours, they also sent tribute; so
that we are probably safe in assuming that the Chinese heard
nothing of any Turk conquests in the far west.
The Kengu-
Tarman of the Kirghiz, which Dr. Thomsen describes as
inconnu, and suggests may be the modern Tarbagatai, is
undoubtedly the T'an-man range, touching which the Chinese
say "The Kirghiz are away 1,000 (English) miles to
the north-west of the Ouigours and impinge on the T'an-
man Hills to the south." After this passage occurs in
Dr. Thomsen's version the following, which, so far as we can
discern, does not appear in the Turkish at all, certainly not
in Dr. Radloff's translation: "le frère cadet ne connaissait
pas son frère ainé le fils ne connaissait pas son père; " but,
as Dr. Thomsen himself says: "en attendant, je dois moi-
même renoncer à en trouver la solution
of certain passages
in the immediate context, we may assume that the Turkish
text is a little unsatisfactory here: at any rate the divergences
of opinion between the two savants here become more
accentuated. Dr. Radloff's "dichten Bergwalds" is not
likely to be so correct as Dr. Thomsen's "forêt sacrée
d'Eutuken," for in the Chinese histories the U-te-kien
Mountains are over and over again mentioned, not, as
Dr. Thomsen says, in the same sense as Mount Toukin,
but evidently near it. As early as A.D. 390 the Uk-ti-kien
appears as the name of the chief of a tribe called Heh-t'up-lin
(? Ghurtürin), and the Ouigour tribes called Yen-do or Sie-
yen-do are stated to have occupied the Ut-tuk-kün Range,

22
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
which would be near Urga or Karakorum.
In flying before
the Tibetans for refuge in China, the Sha-t'o Turks followed
the line of the U-te-kien Hills. The Ouigour Khan's ordo
was between the Orchon and the U-te-kien Hills 600 miles
north of the northernmost bend of the Yellow River.
It thus
becomes almost a certainty that, whether one or more of
these names is or is not identical with the other, the U-te-kien
Range must be south of the desert and not far from China,
and no doubt the same in effect as Rashid-eddin's Utikan.
Dr. Radloff translates: "Zusammen mit meinem Bruder
da zwei Schad waren," against Dr. Thomsen's: de concert
avec mon frère et les deux chads." Our previous remarks
upon the possibility of shah being a mere Persian form of the
ancient doghri, or "Worthy Prince," may be consulted.
According to different Chinese statements Kül was a Worthy
Prince and Mogilan was also one; Mekü was a shah, and
Mogilan was a shah; Kül was also a doghri. We have
shown that Mekü cannot well be the same as Mogilan. The
presumption seems reasonable that there were three brothers,
and that shah, doghri and hien-wang ("Worthy Prince") all
three mean "Cæsar" or "Viceroy." In fact the Yollig tegin who
composed the inscription is more likely to be a fourth brother
than a cousin. Mogilan here again couples the Kitai and the
Tatabi in one. The Japanese it may be remarked, by a
process called nigori or "thickening," convert the initial into
ab when the syllable beginning with h follows another ending
with a vowel. Thus hi-hachi, or "fire-box," becomes hi-bachi.
In a paper upon the similarity between certain Burmese and
Japanese peculiarities (published by the Japan Asiatic Society),
we have also drawn attention to a form of nigori in Burmese.
Even in Corean the same thing exists to a limited extent. If,
then, we assume that the word Tata is merely a qualificatory
of Hi (as the Chinese style the people who are always

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
23
coupled with the Kitans), we thus get the "Hi Tartars" or
Tata-bi. A Chinese work called the Chêng-tsz Tung says:
The Tata occupy land north-west "of the Kitan, and their
horde emanates from another branch of the Sha-t'o [Turks]."
In the first century a Chinese general named Tou Hien "pushed
as far as 5,000 li (1,800 miles) from the Chinese frontier into
the heart of the Tata (or Tatar) country." In 630 the
Turkish Khan Gheri "was severely defeated at a place in
Tata land" called Yin Shan, and in A.D. 880 the Sha-t'o
Turks, after revolting in North Shan Si, "had to take refuge
with the Tata (or Tatar), a race akin to the Moh-hoh [or
ancient Manchus]." In 966 the Tata (or Tatar) "a race
akin to the Moh-hoh, living north of Ordous, sent tribute" to
the Sha-t'o Turkish Emperor then ruling over part of China
as a vassal of the Kitan Emperor to his north. After Tou
Hien's great victory, the Tunguses "occupied the Northern
Hiung-nu Khan's territory." At the beginning of the 3rd
century we read of a powerful Tungusic chief named T'a-tun,
and several centuries earlier a "Middle T'a-tun or T'a-tui
land" is mentioned much farther west. De Guignes and
others make the scene of Tou Hien's victory somewhere near
the Irtish; but the utmost that we can extract from the
obscure and complicated evidence is that the Modern Urga
region, in fact, the region of the Orkhon, Kerulon and
Onon is really meant. All that we can say for certain is that
the Tata were north-west of the Kitans, and 1,600 miles
away from China; that they afterwards occupied lands once
inhabited by races of (what was later called) Turkish stock;
that they are variously described as Turkish and Tungusic;
that they are grouped by the Chinese historians with Turks
when called by the name Hi; that Persian historians connect
the word Tatar with the Mongols; and that everything points
to Mongols, Tatars, Tatabi and Hi being an intermediate or

24
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
mixed race wedged in between the Turkish and Tungusic
stocks.
A considerable part of Inscription I is also repeated
upon Inscription II, i.e. a part of the Turkish inscription
upon Kül tegin's stone is repeated in the Turkish
inscription upon Mogilan's stone: the last sentences of
this common portion are thus differently translated by
Dr. Radloff and Dr. Thomsen: "Die trefflichen Stämme und
die Chanswürde habe ich gross gemacht, das Volk in den
vier Ecken verfolgend, habe ich zur Ruhe gebracht, ohne
Feindschaft hingen meine Chane an mir;" and "Parmi
ceux dont le peuple, et les kagan se joignirent à moi (?) j'ai
fait du bien (?). Beaucoup de peuples aux quatre coins du
monde ont été pacifiés par moi, et amenés à cesser les
hostilités, beaucoup se sont soumis à moi." It will thus be
seen that, when the original text treats of abstract rather
than concrete ideas, difference of opinion, not sufficiently
grave to imbue the outsider with any feeling of doubt as to
the capacity of either savant to give us the best general
sense, may fairly arise owing to the vagueness of the original
text, and the lack of sufficient historical data to enable
translators to realise the exact point alluded to.
On the death of his father Kutlug, Kül married the
widow, "il tint lieu de mari," "ist zum Manne geworden."
In a note Dr. Thomsen says: "on ne doit pas entendre
effectivement épousé." On the contrary, both amongst the
ancient Hiung-nu (i.e. Turks) and Sien-pi (i.e. Cathayan
Tartars) it was the invariable rule for a son to marry his
step-mothers, so that we must either suppose the Katun,
or queen, to have been a step-mother, or believe that, as
Dr. Thomsen suggests, Prince Kül merely protected his own
natural mother as a husband would have done. The Tartars
certainly never married their natural mothers, and in the one

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
25
case when a Chinese Emperor (Kao Tsung) married his
father's concubine (afterwards the Empress Wu) it is almost
certain that a laxity so abhorrent to the Chinese mind was
borrowed from Turkish ideas. Indeed the founder of the
Tang dynasty seems to have had Turkish blood in him on his
mother's side.
:
Menander Protector mentions the subjection by the
Turks of the Sogdians (Sogdaitai) and Haïathals (Ephthalites),
and the Turks themselves mention, when Kül was twenty-six
years old (i.e. A.D. 709-10), an expedition against Alti-
Tchoub (Six Tchoub) and the Sogdak (called by the
Chinese Suk-têk). Dr. Thomsen says the Chinese make no
mention of this conquest; but the following statement from
the T'ang History undoubtedly alludes to it: "Ulega, after
a severely contested but unsuccessful fight with the Caliph
Empire, begged assistance, which was refused, from the
Emperor afterwards he prayed that his son Turghot might
be made Prince of Tsao, and Mörchör Prince of Mi.
Granted." We have already seen that between 708 and 713
Arab diplomacy was successful at the Chinese Court. The
Peh-shi, or History of the Toba Tunguses (contemporary
with Tumen Khan), says that "Mi, Ts'ao and six other
states have become part of the powerful state of K'ang" (i.e.
N.E. of Caspian); and the Sui-shi or History of the Sui
(contemporary with the first nine khans) says that these
states were all governed by princes of Yüe-chi (i.e. Ephtha-
lite) descent. The "Six Tchoub may perhaps refer to the
Ten Western Clans, or Ten Arrows, of the Turks, who were
re-organized about A.D. 630 into Five great Chüe of the
Turuk tribe under the Eastern Viceroy, and Five Djigin of
the Nushpir tribe under the Western Viceroy. The Five
Turuk were east of the khan's capital (Suiye) near Issekul,
and the Five Nushpir were west. After several revolutions

26
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
one Ilbirok Shapora Jabgu Khan came to the throne, and
the K'ang states admitted his authority; he formed an
alliance with China in 641. Western Turk history after
this becomes very confusing, but the Emperor Kao Tsung
divided their territory into departments up to the frontiers
of Persia. This appears to have been under the Khan Ghoru
about A.D. 659. In 679 Su-ye was made the headquarters
of the Chinese Resident, and strongly fortified. The Turk
Mörchör is said to have made marauding attacks in
A.D. 705-6, and then the Türgäs replaced the Western Asena
family, and one Uchile became Khan. Further close
research will be necessary to identify the Ulega and Turghot
mentioned above, as the passage is an isolated one; but very
probably Ulega is a misprint, with two characters subverted,
and should be Uchile, for the Chinese tell us that in 703 the
"Ten clan domain had been encroached upon by Mörchör
and Uchile;" at any rate we have shown that the Chinese
actually do, to all intents and purposes, mention the Sogdian
conquests, and they also mention a chie named Tut or Tur in
A.D. 714 as being Viceroy over the Five Nushpir.
The Ongtoutouk or Ungtuduk of the Turks is the
Chinese "General (tu-tuk) Wang," or Wong-tsun, who in
720 organized a combined attack upon the Turks; wang can-
not here mean "King," as suggested by Dr. Thomsen. The
Chinese describe how the Turks defeated this combination.
The Turkish inscription goes on to say that "when Kül was
thirty-one" (i.e. about 715) he fought a battle with
Tschatscha-Sünki or Tchatcha-sengun, who, as Dr. Thomsen
rightly supposes, is the Turkish general (tsiang-kün) employed
by the Chinese, surnamed Sha-cha, with personal name Chung-i;
this man is mentioned by the Chinese as fighting against
Mörchör in 698-9, and also against the Cathayans at about
the same date; we are bound to assume, therefore, that he

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
27
continued to serve another fifteen years or so. In fact the
Chinese state that somewhere between 705 and 711 he was
tried by court-martial for suffering a defeat at Mörchör's
hands.
..
The name Jeginsilig-Beg (or Yeghin), given by Kül to
one of his best horses, probably represents the word which we
have hitherto translated Ghekin, a Turkish title borne by
Mogilan's grandfather Kutlug, the initial of the first Chinese
syllable having an inherent "power" capable of becoming
either a guttural or a soft aspirate. "Dans son armure et
son . . ?i atteignit de fléches plus de cent," says
Dr. Thomsen, against Dr. Radloff's: "Als Ersatz für diese
nahm er hundertfache Vergeltung, und anstatt ihrer Trefflich-
keit (?) nahm er für jeden Kopf den Werth eines Tümän,"
a very considerable difference. Dr. Radloff's "die Landver-
walter die Ulug-Erkin" is more likely to be Dr. Thomsen's
"les Yér-Bayirkou (et?) les Ouloug-Irken (?);" for we
are told by the Chinese that in 716 Mörchör marched north
to punish the Pa-ye-ku. This syllable Pa (t) is the same as
that used to spell the names Abar tribe and Bars Khan.
The Ouloug or Ulug must be the Chinese U-lok-hou or U-lo-
hun of the "Yü-ki-ni (? Irken) water," living near the River
Onon, and mentioned as early as A.D. 443. The T'ang his-
tory mentions the U-lo-hu amongst those tribes (the Hi)
which we have already suggested were early Mongols, and
probably these were too. They were also called U-hu, but the
Chinese tell us this is a corruption of speech: this last name
was also one of the many names given to the early Ouigours:
the Cathayans were on their south, the Moh-hoh (Manchus) to
their east, and the Wu-wan Tunguses to their north. They
were 1,500 English miles from Ta-t'ung Fu in Shan Si, and
2,100 from Si-an Fu in Shen Si. One of the early Ouigour
Khans, who took the Sanskrit name of Bodhisatva (or

28
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
P'u-sat), is said to have had an able mother named U-lo-lun.
Thus everything points to the Ouloug being of Ouigour stock.
The mention of the Altyn-jish or Golden Mountains, in
connection with the Irtish or Ärtisch River and the Kirgiz and
Türgis conquests, makes it perfectly clear that the Altaï are
here meant ; but these cannot possibly be the same as the
Kin Shan or Golden Mountains south of which ancient Turks
lived. There are many Kin Shan in China, and Williams'
map gives one range, Altyn Tagh, about half-way between
the Irtish and Kokonor: even this is far west of the old
Turkish position, and nothing could be more certain than that
this last was somewhere not far north of modern Kan-chou
Fu.
Dr. Thomsen's explanation of the Turkish term Kara
Türgis or Black Türgäs as indicating what the Chinese
term the "black faction" under Suluk as distinct from the
Yellow faction under Sokor, is undoubtedly correct; besides,
the Chinese tell us that Mörchör had in 711 set out to
chastise Sokor. Also meritorious is his identification of
Jinchu-ügüg, "la rivière des Perles," with the River
Sogd, or Zarafshan ("spreader of gold "), the Polytimetos or
"precious" of the Greeks. In a fragment of Monument III
the Chinese inscription mentions a Chên-chu River (meaning
"Pearl River"), and M. Déveria is undoubtedly right in
suggesting that this name is an imitation of the Turkish
sound. As often happens in Chinese, it has been possible
also to imitate the meaning: Chên-chu is still colloquial
northern Chinese for "pearl," its true meaning being "true
pearl." De Guignes mentions a Chên-chu River in the Ili
region, not far from the old capital of the Wu-sun Tartars,
and Chên-chu was not only the name of a Sie-yen-t'o Khan,
as pointed out by M. Déveria, but also of one of the Western
Turk jabgu or Khans. In one place connected with these

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
29
fights Dr. Thomsen and Dr. Radloff translate very differently;
the former has: "c'étaient des hommes braves qui nous
avaient attaqué," against "er hatte sich an die Tochter eines
Helden gemacht."
"
Next follows the transcription on the North side of the
stone. Dr. Thomsen's "il lutta contre le Kochou-toutouk"
has more
reason about it than Dr. Radloff's Zusammen
fassten sie sich;" for the toutouk of Ho-chou (near Turfan),
as suggested by Dr. Thomsen in one of his final notes, is
probably meant. But there is perhaps a still better alternative.
The Türgäs general Ko-shu Han served the Chinese at just
this time, and in A.D. 747 was appointed Viceroy of An-si:
since the Emperor T'ai Tsung's time the viceroy of this place
had had under him the whole west, including Su-ye, Kashgar,
Kuche and Khoten. If Ko-shu was old enough in 747 to be a
viceroy, we may assume that twenty or thirty years earlier-
especially as the Turkish dates are vague about here—he was
old enough to fight against his own countrymen. The
Turkish inscription says: "Kül tegin ayant 37 ans, le peuple
des Karlouk devint un vaillant ennemi." Dr. Thomsen put
this Karlouk expedition down to about A.D. 714. The
Chinese histories say: The Kor-lo-luk soldiers were sturdy
and always ready to fight in the 1st year of K'ai-yüan
[A.D. 713] they came twice to court." But nothing is said of
their rising power until A.D. 742; so that we may well
suppose their missions were sent to China in order to obtain
protection against the Turks. Dr. Thomsen's battle "près de
la sainte source (?) du Tamag" becomes in Dr. Radloff's
hands "auf dem Berge Tamgydyk kämpften wir." Possibly
this place may be what the Chinese call the T''am-han Hills,
23 English miles north Karahodjo, the residence of the first
Khan of the Sie-yen-t'o people when they rebelled in A.D. 603
against Chulo, Khan of the Western Turks. The Turkish

30
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
inscription, having just stated that the Karlouk war took place
when Kül was thirty-seven years old, now unaccountably goes
on to say that "this battle took place when Kül was thirty years
of age," and again: "Kul tegin avait alors 41 ans." On both
occasions seated upon his charger, Alpchaltchi, which horse
again appears [in A.D. 716] "quand l'empire de mon oncle
fut épuisé." The battle near "la ville de Togou " is "bei
der stadt Silki-togo" in Dr. Radloff's version, but neither
this word nor the "Izgil" nation can be as yet at all
identified. The tribe of the "Edinz" against whom Kül
fought at an unidentified place called Kuschligak are styled
"Oguz" by Radloff, apparently by mistake. Dr. Thomsen
identifies them with the A-tich of the Chinese; but this is
not very satisfactory, as the Chinese historians tell us the
A-tich were once called A-shet or A-shi (t): moreover the
sound A-tiek is doubtful, as it is occasionally written a-pa (t),
and has already done part duty, as above mentioned, for
a-bar. Still, one Hie-tie Sz-t'ai, which
66 Sz-
to mean
appears
t'ai, chief of the Hie-tie, is mentioned in connection with the
a-tieh or a-pah, and it is also stated that, about A.D. 715-6,
he came over with his horde to the Chinese interest; was
granted the imperial surname of Li; and under the name Li Sz-
t'ai continued to serve China; so that this passage may
well
refer to the Ediz. As for the River Tschusch, or Schusch, can
this be the Chu or Su-ye River near Issekul? There can be
no doubt that the eleven men "de la race des Tongra" killed
pendant les funerailles de Tonga "tegin" were, as guessed by
Dr. Thomsen, persons of the Tung-lo tribe of Ouigours
during the obsequies of Tung-o t'e-kin, who, according to the
Chinese, was killed in A.D. 714 whilst attacking the modern
Urumtsi: the Chinese say: "from A.D. 650 to 750 little or
nothing was heard of the Tung-lo, since their first visit to the
Emperor T'ai Tsung." Dr. Thomsen translates "nous luttâmes

"
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
31
contre les Ogouz à Ezghenti-kadaz," and Dr. Radloff
Kämpften wir mit den Ogus unterhalb des Asgänti." It
is difficult to hazard any reasonable suggestion touching
Ezghenti, but a river called Shi (t) Kien or Shirgen is
mentioned, near the Mung-wa tribe, as flowing into or out of
the Kerulon. The two translations are here very wide apart.
Dr. Thomsen has; "Iet transperca deux hommes [....].
Cette armée [fut tuée ?] là. Après avoir hiverné dans la
forteresse d'Amga-Kourgan, nous mîmes en marche, au
printemps, l'armée vers les Ogouz;" and Dr. Radloff: "Aber
zur Stadt ging es nicht. Dort tödteten wir viele Ogus. Aus
Furcht Zogen wir in der Ebene des Jyschsap mit einem
Heere gegen die Ogus." Where the two learned Doctors
disagree to this extent we may be excused from suggesting
anything better; but it is the more unfortunate that
there should be so wide a divergence here, as this was the
battle in which Kül lost his life. Chinese history mentions
his death in A.D. 731, and also the very stone (which has
just been discovered on the Orkhou) sent and engraved in his
honour by command of the Emperor: it is added that
Mogilan, who was poisoned in A.D. 734 by the Mei-luk Chör,
had exactly the same honour paid to his memory. One of
the Chinese envoys sent to condole was Lü Hiang, and it is
therefore more probable that Dr. Thomsen's recording of the
Turkish as "Isiyi Likeng" is right than Dr. Radloff's "Isji-
Liki." Just as Ilo-chou was Ko-shu, so does Iliang become
Keng for want in Turkish of an : in modern Japanese all
the Chinese hare k, without one exception. The "böläne
vom Türgäs-Chan" are more correctly given by Dr. Thomsen
as the "CLON from the Khan of Tibet": the initial B is
silent, and such Tibetan officers frequently appear in Chinese
history as lun. The whole of this portion, giving a des-
cription of the envoys sent by various states to offer

32
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
condolences, is translated by Dr. Thomsen with more
apparent show of likelihood than by Dr. Radloff. The Khan
of the Kirghiz sends Tardouch and Iuantchou-tehour (Rad-
loff's Inantschmur). The word Tardouch has already been
discussed. The six Chinese characters Hop I-nan-tchou Mo-
ho are found on another stone fragment, and are evidently
intended for "Alp Iuantchou Mogho," the last being a title
common to many Tartar tribes. The Tehang-Sengun sent by
China is undoubtedly the tsiang-kün or General Tchang
who, the Chinese histories tell us, went with Lü Hiang to
condole.
We now proceed to the inscription on the south side of
the stone, which Dr. Thomsen regards as the introduction to
the whole. The Khan addresses himself to his relatives,
nobles, and people generally. The officers which he calls his
schadapit cannot be identified with any of the Turkish titles
which the Chinese try to give us, such as apo, djilifat (M.
Schlegel's soulipat), etc. The "tarkats (?)" of Dr. Thomsen
may be the same as the tarkan, which the Chinese always call
tat-kan, and which are perhaps the Khan named Tourkhanth
of the Greeks, or more likely still, the tarkhan officer of
Menander. Mogilan announces that he has carried his arms
into the Chinese province of Shantung, but this hyperbole
probably refers to services performed in his uncle Mörchör's
time; he adds: "mais je n'ai nullement touché à la mer (?),"
or, according to Dr. Radloff: "bin aber
nicht zum
Talui hinübergegangen." The Nine "Ersins," which seem
to have separated him from Tibet on the south, are a real
puzzle the Sha-t'o Turks occupied a position between the
Turks and Tibetans, and half a century later their chief
accepted the Tibetan title of (B)LON above described. Mogi-
lan here lays stress on the fact that the Eutuken forest was
the original seat and centre of Turkish authority. From this

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
BB
point he conquered the Bayirkou to the north, and the Nine
Ersin to the south; and, whilst in this country, he entered into
relations with China. There are considerable differences here
between the two translators of the Turkish text, and certainly
Dr. Thomsen's arguments in favour of his own views appear
to us to be convincing. Dr. Radloff seems to have misappre-
hended the sense of several consecutive passages. However,
in face of the deliberate opinion of so distinguished a Turkish
scholar, we make these observations with all proper reserve;
simply remarking that Dr. Thomsen's account seems to agree
better with the meagre specific facts recorded in Chinese
history, and with the general language used by the Chinese
in other places. The Turkish and Chinese accounts perfectly
agree so far as touches the setting up of the stone, and the
arrival of competent workmen from China.
It is stated on the north-east corner of the stone that Kül
tegin died in the "year of the sheep." The day only, and
not the moon is given, but as his funeral took place in the
9th moon, it must have been before or in the autumn. It is
perfectly easy to calculate back all the "sheep" years: the
Chinese place his death in the 19th K'ai-yuan (A.D. 731) and
the stone is dated the 20th K'ai-yuan: that one of the half-
erased characters is "seventh" and not "tenth" moon is the
more probable inasmuch as the Chinese workmen would
scarcely go north during the winter. Dr. Thomsen works
out the date of the stone to be the 1st August A.D. 732, and
his reasoning seems conclusive on every point: this would
place Kül's death in March 731.
The south-east, south-west and west sides of the stone
contain only a few words: on the west side occurs the
isolated name "Inantchou Apa Yargan-tarkan," which is
interesting when compared with what has already been said
touching most of those syllables.
5

34
HE
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON,
MONUMENT II.
This stone, in honour of Bilga Khan (Mogilan) himself,
stands to the south of Kül tegin's tablet. Unfortunately the
Chinese inscription is not nearly so well preserved as that
upon Kül tegin's monument: indeed, the legible sentences are
so very fragmentary that there is scarcely more than the date
(A.D. 734) to suggest to us that it really was in honour of
Mogilan at all. The Turkish inscription, however, is much
more satisfactory, though even of that very much is
irrecoverably lost, owing to the ravages of time. Like that
upon Kül tegin's stone, it begins by telling us that he suc-
ceeded his uncle (or, as Dr. Thomsen seems to take it, his
father) and was composed by the tegin Yollig: a considerable
part of it, that is the historical retrospect, is word for word
the same as in Monument I, which of course enables the
translators to be additionally sure of the exact meaning.
Mogilan then goes on to say that in his 27th year he made an
expedition against the Tangout. The Tibetans were known
to the Chinese by this name, but at a much later date:
Dr. Thomsen suggests that a Turkish race is here meant. It
is perhaps more likely to refer to the Tang-hiang, a nation of
Tibetan stock which then inhabited the Kokonor region; for,
in their history of the Sha-t'o Turks, the Chinese mention at
this very date that these last moved a little north in order to
avoid the Tibetans: there seems no reason, at the same time,
why the word Tangout should not have existed long before the
Chinese learned to make use of it.
In his 29th year Mogilan conducted an expedition
against "un peuple de ma race au nom sacré de Basmil," or,
as Dr. Radloff has it, "das Volk meines weisen Basmal-
Ydykut." There can be little doubt than the Basmil are the

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
35
Pat-sik-mi or Pat-sik-mit of the Chinese, whose resort was
north of Urumtsi and south-east of the Kirghiz; they were
first heard of by the Chinese about A.D. 580, and they were
part of the combination formed by the Chinese general Wang
in A.D. 720, when the Cathayans from the east and the
Basmil from the west were to coöperate against the Turks,
but which combination, according to the Chinese, was con-
founded by the astute policy of Mogilan's premier and father-
in-law, Tunyukuk. The events and dates agree perfectly in
the Turkish and Chinese accounts. The following year "the
Tchik and Kirghiz became our enemies," says Mogilan.
Possibly the Tchik are a nation styled Sih or Sip by the
Chinese, and coupled with the Basmil by them. Or perhaps
the Shih or Shik state (Tashkend) may be meant. The
Karluks for a time held possession of Smaller Shik state
(about thirty miles from Tashkurgan), Dr. Thomsen goes on to
say:
"En passant le Kem (l'Iénissei) je fis une expédition
contre les Tchik." Dr. Radloff has it: "Ich zog eilig (?)
gegen die Tschik aus." Dr. Thomsen is probably right, for
the Chinese tell us that the Kirghiz used to cross the Kiem
River in boats. Centuries later Genghiz Khan assembled the
various tribes at the River Kien, and the Chinese tell us the
Kiem "flowed north-east into the sea of the north"; east of
the Kirghiz were the three "snow-shoe and sledge-using"
Turk tribes called Tupo, Mireka, and Otchi, all under chiefs
of djigin rank. The Basmil were also known to the Chinese
as Orotchi. It would thus seem that some such stray Turks
as the Yakut tribes (who call themselves Sokhalar or Lokha)
lived east of the Kirghiz, for the Chinese tell us the "Snow-
shoes" and sledging Turks lived in birch-bark huts, and were
often vassals of the Kirghiz. In the attack upon the Kirghiz
"en traversant la neige, qui avait la hauteur de ses lances,"
is Dr. Thomsen's version of the "das Geschlecht Batymy

36
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
Räuber schimpfend" of Dr. Radloff. There must be some
serious misapprehension here.
After telling us
what he did in his 37th year,
Mogilan goes back to his 30th year, and his Bishbalig
or Urumtsi expedition. Here are repeated many of the
divergences in translation which characterise Kül tegin's
accounts of the same transaction as rendered by the two
distinguished savants. Mogilan speaks of crossing the Togla
River in his wars with the Nine Ogouz. Dr. Thomsen rightly
identifies this with the Toula, which, in fact, the Chinese often
write Tuk-loh. Another battle took place near Andargou or
Ourgou: if the latter reading be correct, it is tempting to
recognize in it the modern word Urga; but, as Professor
Thomsen suggests, this all hangs upon the question whether
the present word Urga actually existed 1,200 years ago.
Mogilan, like Kül, mixes up his own and his uncle's reigns in
the most confusing fashion after coming to the throne "je
marchai en aval de la Selinga," which is very different from
Dr. Radloff's "und man legte sie in's Grab (?)." In his 34th
year the Ogouz took flight and entered China. Perhaps this
corresponds with the Chinese statement that "on Mörchör's
death the Ikien gherifa of another tribe, with the Tung-lo
and Sih all come over to us." This Ikien may possibly be
what the Turks call Ezghendi, or perhaps the Sz-kiet tribe,
which moved south to seek Chinese protection about fifteen
years earlier, may be the Ezghendi. Then "Le peuple Tatabi
était soumis au Kagar Chinois." This is confirmed by the
following Chinese statement concerning the Ili: "In the
spring of the 5th K'ai-yuan [A.D. 717] their leader came
to court, and was given a titular princess in marriage."
Dr. Thomsen fixes the date of the wars with the Tatabi and Kitai
at 721-2, and this agrees very well with the Chinese statements,
according to which some time between 714 and 730 the Kitai

INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
37
or Cathayans, after alternately siding several times with the
Turks and Chinese, at last forced the li to join the Turkish
interest. The Kou-sengun, or General Ku, of the Turkish
inscription is perhaps Ko-t'u-kan or K'o-t'u-yü (variously
printed in the Chinese), who was the leading Cathayan chief
at this period, K'o-t'u-kan was at last routed by the Chinese,
and this fact, coupled with his taking alternate sides, would
perhaps account for Mogilan's sending his son to condole after
K'o's or Kou's death. Dr. Radloff takes a different view;
he has it: "Als mein ältester Sohn an einer Krankheit
gostorben was, benachrichtigte ich den Kung-sängün."
When Mogilan goes on to say that he reigned in all twenty-nine
years both as shah and Khan, he is perhaps right, for though he
only came to the supreme Khanship in 716, he had been shah
since 706, and, like Mörchör's son, known as the "Lesser
Khan," may well have had rank as a minor Khan.
In giving a short account of his father Mogilan's
obsequies, the son and successor (whom the Chinese call
I-jan, and who reigned till 739) mentions the Turkish (and
also Hun) custom of gashing the face as a mark of grief: this
also is specified by the Chinese as a Hiung-nu practice.
Tounyoukouk is mentioned amongst the mourners; but if
this is the same man as the one spoken of above, he must
have been a centenarian, for he was already seventy years of age
at Mogilan's accession. Another mourner was Taman-tarkan.
The name Tah-man or Tat-man appears a century earlier in
Western Turk history, and, like A-pa-tarkan, may refer not
only to a person but to a tribe.
Regarding Mount Tu-kin, which, as we have seen,
Dr. Thomsen regards as another form of U-te-kien (though
we cannot quite see our way to agree with him), this, the
Chinese tell us, was "north of the desert," which practically
means near the Orkhon. But another Tu-kin is mentioned

38
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
as being south of the desert, and it was to this latter Tu-kin
that the 9th Khan Turli, or Tuli, moved about A.D. 600.
This second Tu-kin has not the same initial as the first in
ancient Chinese, and has rather the inherent power Du-kin: it
may possibly be a form of U-te-kien, which was also south of
the desert; but there is no specific evidence in favour of such
a view.
It is only fair to Dr Thomsen to state that many of the
points, which appear in the foregoing review in the form of
emendations and criticisms, have already been anticipated by
him in his final notes, added after the bulk of his work was
in the press.
It is also right that we should here correct a
mistake into which we, in common with Dr. Thomsen, have
inadvertently fallen. To the Russian savant M. N. Iadrint-
zeff, and not to the Finnish savant M. Heikel, belongs the
honour of having first discovered the Turkish inscriptions on
the Orkhon in the year 1889.
NOTES ON MR. PARKER'S PAPER.
The Huns of Europe.-Mr. Parker seems to incline to the erroneous
opinion put forward by de Guignes that the Hunni of the fourth century
in Europe were the same tribe as the Hiung-nu of Sz-ma Tsien. Although
in the first century B.C. the Hiung Empire as such broke up, there is no
record of the migration of the tribes, such as would be implied by their
presence on the Dnieper in the early part of the fourth century A.D. The
Hiung-nu were in fact a branch of the Turkish tribe of the Niruns, whom
later we find associated with the Darlegins on the River Onghin. [Howarth,
part I. 38.]
The initial Hiung is merely the early transcription of Kara (Black).
the leading sept having apparently been known as the Kara Nirun. The
Nirun, by an earlier transcription, appear in the Shiking generally as
Jung and we find the particular tribe in the Tsochwen transcribed
as Kiang Jung, and elsewhere the tribal attribute is translated as

Yen
INSCRIPTIONS DE L'ORKHON.
39
Dark." There is little doubt that the Huns were really a Turkish
tribe. The earliest allusion in Chinese literature to these Turkish tribes is
in the Ballads of the Shiking, where we find them spoken of as Tiks, a
name phonetically connected with the Zend Dahâka. The name covers several
subordinate tribes, amongst which it is instructive to find the C.
Himyun or Himwan, apparently the ancestors of the Komans; and
another the , Hunchuk [Shiki, ch. 110] or Hunduk. Now as the
Latin adjective Hunniscus and such outlying forms as Hun-dsach, Hunk
would seem to indicate, not to mention the modern German Ungarn, there
was apparently a final k in the name by which these people called them-
selves, and if we wish to trace their ancestry to sources known to the
Chinese we must look to the Hunduks, rather than the Kiang Jung or
Hiung Nu.
In this connection it is interesting to observe that Jengis Khan
subsequently traced his origin up to the same tribe of the Niruns.
Shen-yu. According to the T'sien-Han Shu the meaning of the
word thus transliterated is "majestic grandeur." It is the equivalent of
the Turkish Tenvir (light, brightness).
3 Shihwei is the more modern form of the sound represented in
the archaic language by Sienpi. Both words are phonetic renderings of
Ushear or Usuri, the latter according to Gabelentz still a Manchu tribal
name.
Doghri.-These Hiung-nu Princes were known respectively as
the Right and Left, where is evidently for and the compound
is to be pronounced Doghri, in modern Turkish Doghru (straight, correct).
Tegin. I know of no Turkish title to which this can refer, nor
do the earlier records throw any light on it, unless indeed (which seems
possible) it is an attempt to render into later Chineze the Doghri spoken of
above.
An
I have not ventured to follow Mr. Parker into his other identifications
as my researches have not led me into the later history of the tribes.
attempt to render K'ilipat on p. 2 as djirifal is, however, palpably an error;
Khalife is the more likely transcription.
THOS. W. KINGSMILL.