THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
By W. R. CARLES.
Much has been written by early travellers of the glories
of the Grand Canal on which it is not necessary to dwell,
the present object being to show the physical difficulties
which in its construction and maintenance had been faced and
how far it was of value as a commercial route, and
incidentally for the purpose of which it had been maintained
during the present dynasty, viz. as a route for grain transport
to Peking. No claim is made to any original research from
Chinese documents. The historical part of the paper is
mainly based on what was written by Mon. P. Gandar, the
Peking Gazettes of the last fifteen years, and the published
travels of a few foreigners. The southern portion of the
Grand Canal, extending from Hangchow to Chinkiang, was
constructed between 605 and 617 A.D. The main difficulties
to contend against were an influx of the salt waters of the
Tsien T'ang Gulf and floods from the Yangtze. The
magnificent sea-wall on the coast of the Ts'ient'ang Gulf was
not constructed until 910 A.D., but embankments of a strong
description were existing at an earlier date. So much
damage would result to the silk districts of Soochow, Kahsing
and Hoochow from an invasion of salt water that no water
connection has been made between the Gulf and the Canal.
From the Yangtze the entrances to this section of the Grand

MR. CARLES ON THE GRAND CANAL
OF CHINA.
A CORRECTION.
In the year 1895 Mr. W. R. CARLES, at present
H.B.M's Consul at Tientsin, furnished the China Branch
of the Royal Asiatic Society with a paper on "The
Grand Canal of China," which was ordered to be
published in the Journal. Owing to the sudden
death of the Chairman of the Editorial Committee,
the manuscript became lost. The Committee, how-
ever, having a summary of the paper, published the
same in the Journal, Vol. xxxi, No. 1. By a
mistake this summary, for which Mr. CARLES is not
responsible, appears as the original paper, whereas it
merely forms a part of the report of the proceedings
of the meeting at which the paper was given. The
Editorial Committee very sincerely regret the mistake,
and it is but justice to Mr. CARLES to make this public
explanation.
March, 1900.
JOSEPH EDKINS,
THOS. W. KINGSMILL, Committee.
E. T. WILLIAMS,

THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
103
Canal are very small. The chief entrance is near Tant'u, ten
miles below Chinkiang. There are numerous bends before
the canal joins the river, and a small bar extends across part
of the entrance. This point is about twelve miles below Kwa.
In the summer a nearer approach to Kwa is obtained by a
canal which runs under the wall of Chinkiang and has an
exit near the British Concession. In the winter this is
completely silted up, and traffic is only possible by the lower
branch, but as the wind is generally easterly, the connection
between Tant'u and Kwachou is unattended by difficulty. A
more serious difficulty is met with near Tanyang, twenty
miles south of Tant'u, where the water is often so shallow in
winter that boats are unable to pass. The section of the
canal between Hangchow and Chinkiang is 780 li in length.
The country through which it passes is the richest in the
province, and it constitutes part of the delta of the Yangtze.
The only difficulty in levels is that at Tanyang, which place
forms the line of division of the two drainage basins. The
section of the Canal between the Yangtze and the Hwai River
is both the most ancient and the most interesting. It was
opened in 486 B.C., and at the time was fed by the Yangtze.
It was not until 1071 A.D. that the waters of the Canal
flowed from north to south. The length and size of the
Yellow River and the absence of any mouth of the Hwai
River on the coast seem to have blinded Europeans to the
importance of the latter river. It is the Hwai which drains
the north of Kiangsu, of Anhwei and the province of Honan.
In its course it receives seventy-two tributaries, from the
S.W. corner of Shansi downwards. The Yellow River drains
but little of the country on either side. The Wei on the
North and the Hwai on the South receive almost the whole
rainfall of the surrounding districts. For commercial
purposes the River Hwai is the more important, and this fact

104
THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
was evidently realized when the Canal was first constructed
some 2,400 years ago. There have been interruptions of
traffic by the Canal extending over many years; new routes
have been traced out, and a double line of canals was once
constructed parallel with each other. At no time has the
hand of man completely mastered nature, but none the less
this link has been formed and maintained in more or less
effective condition since it was first opened.
At the present date the Canal is fed by the waters of the
Hwai or through the Hungtse Lake and a series of other
lakes parallel with the Canal, which act as reservoirs. The
Hwai at one time ran with the Yellow River to the sea
south of Shantung, but the old bed of the two rivers is now
practically dry. As the level of the Hwai is considerably
above that of the Canal, several cha, or weirs, had to be con-
structed to check the current of the river and provide a depth
of water sufficient for boats to ascend to the high level.
With the change of course in the Yellow River, the difficulties
of the passage have somewhat diminished, but the system is
unsatisfactory and does not secure a uniform depth of water.
There are times in the year when there are only a few inches
of water, and at other times travellers find it expedient to
leave their boats and travel overland for a short distance to
avoid the delay occasioned by meeting a current, estimated
by Mr. G. J. Morrison as of over ten miles an hour.
The Hwai River, having been diverted from its old course,
now runs through the Lakes into the Grand Canal, and
thence eventually to the Yangtze, through a series of lakes
and canals, one of which runs parallel with the Yangtze for
a distance of over 140 miles. Le Père Gandar speaks of the
current, after passing through the lakes, as so strong as to
render the Canal, which carries off its waters, unnavigable.
These same lakes and canals served to carry off a large

9 外交部藏書
105
THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
portion of the waters of the Yellow River during the great
inundation of 1887-9.
The country to the East of the Canal has also been utilized
for the carrying off of surplus waters. This tract of country,
known as the Hwai Ho, is below the level of the waters of the
Canal, and is estimated by Père Gandar to contain nearly
8,900 square miles. This immense tract of country is
confined on the east by a large Canal and embankment, the
latter to protect it from inundations by the sea, to which there
are some eighteen outlets. Threatened alike by Yellow and
Hwai Rivers on the north, by the Hwai River and Grand
Canal on the west, and by the sea on the east, its conser-
vation as one of the great rice-producing areas in China
seems to render more to the credit of Chinese engineers than
any of their more notable works. From time to time it has
been devastated by floods from the sea or the Yellow River,
but the damage done to the land has been quickly repaired
and its dense population hardly suffers from such attacks.
In addition to the accidents by storm and flood it is subjected
to the milder inundations caused by the opening of a pa to
relieve the Grand Canal from excessive pressure. The
importance of these pa has led to strict rules being framed as
to the conditions under which their opening is permissible.
The diversion of the waters of the Hwai River to the
Hungtse Lake, and through it to subsidiary lakes which feed
the Canal, has rendered necessary the construction of numerous
strong embankments to guard against a sudden freshet.
At the northern end of this section of the Canal, 400 li
from Chinkiang and opposite the town of Ts'ingho, is the
important town of Ts'ingkiang-pu. This, in winter, forms the
terminus of boat traffic.
The grain-fleets which travel direct from Yangchow to
Tientsin need to be raised to the level of the bed of the Hwai
14

106
THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
by
River, and have to be dragged over "haul-overs
capstans manned with crews of 300 or 400 men before they
can reach the old bed of the Yellow River. Ts'ingkiang-pu
may be regarded as the terminus of the Canal used for
commercial purposes. Beyond that point the Canal is a
purely artificial undertaking for the so-called provision of
Peking with grain.
Over the 1,200 li of canal beween Hangchow and Ts'ing-
kiang-pu, boats of 800 to 1,000 piculs burden can travel with
ease, and the water is greatly frequented. On the 1,200 li
from Ts'ingkiang-pu to the Wei River in Shantung the
obstruction, caused by the cumbrous movements of the grain
fleet, is in itself almost sufficient to kill all the traffic.
The portion of the Canal between Tsingkiang-pu and
the present bed of the Yellow River differs entirely in its
physical conditions from that which has just been described.
It is shut off from the sea by the mountains of Shantung, and
the only outlet to the sea is by the Yen Ho, a very fine canal,
almost in a straight line to Haichow, a town on the coast
near which the Japanese threatened a landing. This portion
of the Canal is fed by the River Wên, which flows from the
east and meets the Canal at a place called Nanwang, where
its waters flow north and south. There are some lakes and
morasses bordering the Canal, the line of whose demarcation
has sometimes been so confused that boats have been able to
travel across them, leaving the line of the Canal.
This
section is less exposed to damage than the south part, but its
maintenance has always been a costly matter, and the
dimensions of the Canal are consequently reduced.
Before the Yellow River changed its course in 1850, the
part near Nanwang formed the main difficulty in the passage
of the grain fleet to the north, but now the depth of water
in this portion of the Canal seems to be greater and the

THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
107
difficulties are small compared with the passage of the Yellow
River and the entrance to the northernmost section of the
Canal. A rise of eight feet has to take place in the river
before boats can enter the northern section from the Yellow
River, and the fleet has often to wait for a month before the
rise occurs.
The passage of the river itself is not without
danger on account of submerged villages and walls. This
portion of the Canal is described as "a mere ditch," flooded to
let the grain junks pass, and immediately closed again, as
its defective construction and the mud-laden waters of the
Hwang Ho, with which it is annually flooded, render its
re-excavation every year a necessity. As a means of communi-
cation between north and south the Canal need not be
considered, as not a single vessel except the junks carrying
the tribute rice ever passes.
Near Lintsing Chow the Canal joins the Wei River, and
from that point to Tientsin the navigation is only exposed to
the ordinary difficulties arising from floods. But the grain
fleet which started in February or March from Yangchow
cannot afford to dally on the way, for unless they are back
within a month it is unlikely that they will be able to recross
the Yellow River in the same year.
Communication from the Yangtze with Peking is
generally considered to have been established during the Yuan
dynasty, and such was actually the case. But the com-
munication was very imperfect, and the grain transport by
that route existed only in a small degree. Floods occasionally
interfere with the adoption of the inland route, and in 1850
Tao Kwang ordered the sea route to be again resumed, both
on account of economy and also on account of the dangerous
class of men engaged in the rice transport. Soon afterwards
the Yellow River changed its course, and the Taiping
rebellion for a long time prevented much attention being paid

108
THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
to the Canal; but in 1865 Li Hung-chang, then Viceroy at
Nanking, secured the repair of a large extent of the embank-
ments. In 1887-8 the Yellow River floods interfered with
the carriage of grain by the Canal to Peking. It is thus
evident that the inland route has even in late years, after the
experience of over four centuries, been constantly obstructed.
In the early part of this century, however, the quantity
of grain transported by the Canal from Shantung, Honan,
the River Provinces, Hukwang and Chekiang exceeded
4,000,000 piculs. This transport was in the charge of an
officer holding a Viceroy's rank, and eight Taotais, besides an
immense staff of men, and the fleet consisted of boats of 800
to 1,000 piculs capacity.
At the present day the grain carried by the Canal
appears to be limited to a portion of the tribute sent from
Shantung and Kiangsu, and is not more than 220,000 to
230,000 piculs. The rest of the tribute is either sent by sea in
junks or steamers, or is paid for in silver remitted to Peking.
The same official staff seems to be maintained that was needed
in former years, but the boats are of much smaller capacity,
carrying only 300 to 400 piculs of rice.
The difficulty experienced in transmitting the present
small quantity of tribute rice leads to wonder as to what was
done when the whole quantity was carried by canal route.
In the first month of the year the fleet for the north Kiangsu
tribute grain is collected at Yangchow, where the rice which
has been bought up in the neighbouring districts of Paoying
and Kaoyu is stored. The quantity sent is under 120,000
piculs, but over 800 boats are required, and the loading of
these occupies so much time that the fleets, consisting of about
fifty boats each, which sail in company, do not reach Ts'ing-
kiang-pu, 340 li distance, before April. In another forty
days they have reached Shantung, 400 li further on the road,

THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
109
and from thirty-three to forty days are required to cover 326
li to the Yellow River. As the north branch of the Grand
Canal is five feet above the level of the Yellow River, a rise
in the waters of the latter has generally to be awaited. The
delay occasioned by this in the crossing varies from a week to
seven weeks.
The passage of the river by the fleets generally occurs
in the latter part of July or beginning of August, and by the
end of July or middle of August they enter the River Wei,
and pass out of Shantung, to the Governor's great relief.
From that point to Tientsin the passage is apparently easy,
for notice is seldom taken of their movements by the Peking
Gazette; but by the end of September their difficulties begin
again, as they approach the Yellow River on their return
journey. In some years they fail to recross the river, but
generally after immense exertions they are dragged across,
and get back to Yangehow in time for the next year's rice.
The total distance by water from Yangchow to Tientsin
is just under 2,500 li, and the double journey of the fleet
occupies a whole year, during which the attention of the
officers of the Transport Department and the assistance of the
Provincial Governors are indispensable.
The rice transport seems to exist for the benefit of the
Canal, but Mr. Kingsmill asserts that "not a single vessel
except the junks carrying the tribute rice ever passes'
through the portion of the Canal connecting the Yellow
River with the Wei River.
Is the Canal a success or not? Those who have
travelled on any portion of its waters between Hangchow
and Chinkiangfu will undoubtedly say "Yes." The towns
on its banks, the string of boats on every reach, and the life
on its banks, all testify to the usefulness of the Canal and its
satisfactory condition. But as a Government transport route
t

110
THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
to Peking the Canal is little less than a failure, and its main-
tenance is an outrageous burden on the nation. The portion
in Shantung between Ts'ining and Lint'sing Chous is that
which has most completely baffled Chinese engineers. There
are two "Divides," one near Nanwang and the other to the
north of the Yellow River near the junction with the Wei
River, which occasion constantly recurring difficulties; but
the difficulty which is most insoluble is the crossing of the
Yellow River. If the water in the river is low, boats cannot
enter the Canal. If the water is high the crossing is
dangerous. If the depth of the river is suitable, and the
Canal is open to admit the grain fleet, the result is always
the deposit of an amount of sediment from the water of the
Yellow River which entails dredging operations.
DISCUSSION.
Mr. KINGSMILL, who had been called on by the late Futai of
Shantung, Chang Yeo, to survey the portion of the Canal passing
through that province in the spring of 1887, was able to speak
with some experience on the subject. From Tientsin to Hangchow
the water communications had been profoundly changed during
historic time; and it is doubtful if anywhere in the world human
energy had been more effective in modulating the face of the
country. The Grand Canal could not be separated from the
Yellow River, the changes in which had from time to time seriously
affected the communications between north and south. The
references to the opening of water communication between the
Yangtze and the Hwai in the Ch'un T'siu period, mentioned by
Mr. Carles, were, he believed, descriptive of the opening of the first
canal between the Hungtsze and Kaoyu lakes, a work which in
subsequent times assisted largely towards the modern position of the
water drainage.
Looking back to the most ancient of Chinese records, we find
in the Yukung a reference to the position of affairs in Chihli and

THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
111
Shantung. The main branch of the Hwang Ho flowing down from
the point where it entered the plain at Mangtsin, hugged the foot of
the high plateau of Shansi, and entered the sea at Tientsin. But
besides this main discharge the river divided itself into several arms,
the southern of which took a course almost identical with the present
outfall. These are collectively spoken of as the Kiuho or Nine
rivers, and traces of several of these arms yet remain. By degrees
the channel of the river became confined to one outlet, which flowed
by Ocheng, then through Kaot'ang and passing Pingyuan hien
entered the sea at the boundary line between Pechili and Shantung.
Towards the end of the twelfth century, when the Sungs were driven
south of the Yangtze, a breach occurred near Changch'iuchen in
Tungp'ing chow, and the waters made their way south to join the
Hwai near the present Ts'ingkiang-pu. This bed seemed to have
afforded the first indication of the present canal by Ts'iningchow.
In this course the river continued for some 90 years, till in the
disturbed time of Kublai, A.D. 1289, the right bank again gave way
near Kaifeng, and the river took the course it occupied till 1854.
It flowed for some space in the bed of the Hwai, and judging from
its position still after the great breach of 1854 must for a
considerable period have continued to flow in a well defined channel.
Peking rose into great prominence during the Mongol dynasty, and
the hint given by the former flow of the river from Changch'iu to
Tsingkiang-pu was not lost, and it was determined to utilise the
channel for a canal. There was thus but one link wanting, and that
was to unite the summit level at Nanwang with the Wei, and so
complete the water road to the capital. Unfortunately those
entrusted with the work struck the Wei too low down, the fall from
the Tawang-miao at Nanwang to the Wei at Lints'ing, a distance of
about 106 miles, being over 30 feet. To overcome the rush of water,
chas, which obstructed the flow, were constructed, and these proving
insufficient the channel was made to wind about in the most erratic
manner, a distance of 220 li being prolonged to 275. The bed of
the Yellow River having a constant tendency to silt up, by degrees
the Hwai was led to flow into the Hungtsze, and thence through

112
THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
the cross canal, of which he had spoken, into the Kaoyu lake. From
the latter canals were cat towards Siennü-miao, till gradually the
whole discharge of the Hwai, instead of joining the Hwang Ho,
became diverted to its present course, flowing a little east of Yang-
chow and thence descending to the Wanfukiao near Siennü-miao.
At first there would have been comparatively little difficulty in
crossing the Hwang Ho at Tsingkiang-pu, but as the bed rose the
difficulty became greater, and elaborate precautions had to the taken.
In 1854 the Hwang Ho again burst its embankments, but this time
on the left or northern side. The waters spread out over a large
district in the prefectures of Tungch'ang, Tsinan and Wuting, and at
last selected the channel of the Tat'singho. In the outburst a large
portion of the Canal was destroyed, and the whole of the section
north of Wenshang hien rendered useless. Afterwards, when the
Hwang Ho became more settled in its bed, attempts were made to re-
open the section. The surface of the Hwang Ho at Shilipu he had
found in June, 1887, to be four feet over the summit level of the canal,
and this was a position fraught with danger. Again the irruption
of the river had cut off from its supply at the summit level taken
from the Wen River the entire of the section between the river and
Lints'ing. Attempts had been made to utilise the water of the
Hwang Ho, but that is so loaded with sediment that the channel had
to be dug out annually. There was no other source of supply
available on the left bank of the river, and under the circumstances
he had reported to the Chinese Government the advisability of
carrying the clear waters of the Wen Ho under the bed of the
Hwang Ho, and forming on the north bank a clear water dock to
which vessels would have access by a lock from the river. Between
that and Lints'ing three or four locks would have to be formed; and
this would enable the Canal to be kept permanently open, unless of
course in winter, when it would be frozen. There was really no
serious engineering difficulty in the case, the greatest being the
works necessary for carrying a sufficient quantity of water under the
Hwang Ho to supply the northern section. Mr. Kingsmill, to
explain the conditions, read various extracts from his official reports

THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
113
made at the time to H.E. Chang Yeo, the Governor of the Province,
and a man sincerely desirous of improving the condition of his rule.
Mr. G. J. MORRISON said he knew the Grand Canal pretty well.
The only part he had not personally examined was the portion
between the Yellow River and the Wei River, but he had seen the
junction of the Canal with both these rivers. He had also travelled
considerable distances along the Yellow River and along the Wei
River, not only that part which formed a portion of the Grand Canal,
but the part above the junction. The portion of the Grand Canal
south of Tsingkiang-pu was undoubtedly a useful waterway, but the
portion between Tsingkiang-pu and the Wei River considered as a
canal was, in his opinion, beneath contempt. When people
travelled by way of the Grand Canal as far as Tsingkiang-pu they
invariably made a land journey of a few miles to avoid the sluices,
and in almost all cases continue their journey to the north by cart.
Mr. Morrison however said he had taken boat again as soon as the
sluices were passed and gone by boat till stopped by want of water.
From what he saw during a dry season he believed there was always
more than sufficient water to supply a canal provided with proper
locks. The difficulty of providing against damage from freshets was
considerable, but by no means insuperable. The Yellow River had
cut through the Canal, and a proper crossing could only be made by
locks, as suggested by Mr. Kingsmill. The latter gentleman's
proposal to carry clear water across the River by means of an under-
ground pipe was ingenious and feasible, though there might be other
ways of accomplishing the desired object of supplying the western
length of the Canal with clean water and keeping out the muddy
water of the Yellow River. Such works could not however be
spoken of as improvements of the Canal; they amounted to con-
structing a canal along the line of the present ditch. Regarding a
remark in the paper as to the bed of the Yellow River being
above the country, Mr. Morrison said that the first time he saw the old
bed it almost took his breath away. He walked up an embankment
say 35 feet high, and on getting to the top the bed of the river lay
only 15 or 20 feet below him, showing that it was 15 to 20 feet above

114
THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
the country. The bed appeared to be level all across, but subse-
quently he had occasion to level accurately across the bed of the
Yellow River where it had been left dry by the breach of 1888, and
he then saw there was a slight slope towards the centre, and
that the lowest part of the bed was not more than about 5 feet
above the country. This state of affairs existed west of Kaifeng fu,
and all along the old bed leading to the Yellow Sea. Any breach
in the bank west of Kaifeng fu was therefore a very serious affair,
and it might well happen that when a breach took place, as it did
some 40 years ago, it could not be repaired, although the late breach
was eventually repaired in a most praiseworthy manner.
From a
short distance east of Kaifeng fu along the new course to the Gulf
of Pechili through Shantung the river-bed was below the level of
the country. Although, therefore, in time of great flood, banks
might be broken and considerable damage done, the damage was
not likely to be of a permanent character, as the river would return
to its old course as soon as the flood subsided.
Dr. EDKINS said that Chinese archæologists hold that in ancient
times when there were three mouths to the Yangtzekiang, the
southernmost flowed into Hangchow Bay. Its course was along
the present Grand Canal for a good part of the distance to Hang-
chow. This was the Chekiang, a name perpetuated in the modern
designation of the Province. This theory was developed by Yuen
Yuen, Governor-General of Canton, at the beginning of this century.
Before the Yuen dynasty the tribute grain from the Kiang
provinces went to Kaifeng fu, and this rendered water communication
from Chenkiang to that city important. The route probably lay
from the Hungtse Lake by the Hwai and the Ju. Thus the way for
the Grand Canal made by Kwo Showking in the Yuen dynasty was
in part prepared. In Peking a few years ago he saw General
Wilson, who came to China to offer assistance from an American
syndicate to construct railways. He proposed to make one at the
summit level of the Canal, where 70 English miles of a channel too
often dry present great difficulties to the Chinese. The summit
level is fed by water from the Taishan chain which comes out west-

THE GRAND CANAL OF CHINA.
115
ward from the Shantung Promontory. It is chiefly the Wen Ho
which feeds the Canal at this point. They now heard from
Mr. Morrison that engineering could effect all that was required.
It would be a worthy achievement of western engineering to help the
Chinese in their difficulties. They were too wretchedly poor in
country parts. That philanthropy which makes the whole world kin
would be well employed in raising a vast population of industrious
working men, so that they may enjoy the comforts of a civilized life.
15