2
MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
empire like an old shoe, and enjoy his own personal
principles."
Mencius says: "When one sees a great man, look down
on him. Don't notice his pomp and grandeur." "The able
and virtuous monarchs of antiquity loved virtue and forgot
power, and so of the scholars. They delighted in their own
principles, and were oblivious of the power of princes.
Princes must treat them with respect."
Mencius inculcated the family relations, the chief
of which is filial piety. "But if a man cannot keep his own
way, how can he serve his parents?"-thus emphasizing
personal purity. Morality and politics are intimately blended
in Mencius' mind.
God. Mencius did not say much about God, but what
he does say endorses the glorious sayings of the ancients.
Mencius spoke of "the evil man, who could bathe and fast
and worship God." The ancients spoke of God much as do
the Christians. For instance: "To cultivate a field and eat
the crops; to dig a well and drink the water, unconsciously
following the law of God."
The great king Wen, Mencius' ideal ruler, is said in
the Book of Rites to have "worshipped God and thus to
have attained to happiness." The evil king Cheo is said
not to have worshipped God, and thus to have lost his life.
"Only God is constant; the good are rewarded and the evil
punished." "God is all-knowing, self-controlling, all-
controlling, and one."
Social Relationships.
Mencius, as the early Bible writers, lays great stress on
the family and the relationships.
"Affection between father
and son; righteousness between ruler and officer; the
establishment of husband and wife; proper order between

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
3
old and young." The importance of the family as the root of
the state, even though he did not oppose bigamy, since he
did not disapprove of Shun taking the two daughters of Yao
to wife, as Jacob took Leah and Rachel, shows that Mencius
had a better morality than that of Plato, Fourier, and some
other socialists. It might seem a good plan to try and breed
men as we do animals after the method of Plato and others,
but it would be most demoralizing. Following the law of
God, and having marriage in honor, is the true way, and
monogamy still more excellent.
The ancients, however, were never thoroughly instructed
to have but one wife, even in the Bible. One husband and
one wife was never clearly taught till the time of Jesus.
Abraham and Sarah felt justified in adopting concubinage.
Children are a blessing to the Chinese sages as to the Old
Testament patriarchs.
Plato was an earlier Malthus, and very much afraid of too
great a population, and had various ways of prevention; such
as prudence, getting rid of offspring, colonization. Mencius
and the other great sages of China had no dread of over-
population. It is strange that the atheistic doctrines of
Malthus should have originated in Christian England. Under
present social arrangements, the advent of machinery in China
will teach the people the dangers of over-population. Imagine
an island with ten thousand agriculturalists under one or
a combination of landlords, with primitive implements,-
the ten thousand are necessary to cultivate the island. Let
machinery, enabling one man to do the work of ten, be
introduced, and one thousand men will do the work of the
island. This one thousand who had struggled hard to get a
job, would look upon the population as too plentiful, and
seek to prevent any further increase, and try to promote
emigration.

4
MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
Mencius as a Democrat.
Mencius' political system is more like that of Moses than
of most of the ancients. Mencius is an individualist, Plato a
socialist. Mencius believes in an empire and an emperor, but
the rulers elected by and working in the interests of the
people-a limited monarchy. Mencius is almost as democratic
as Thomas Jefferson. Plato believed in the philosopher being
the ruler; Mencius believed in the rule of the princely man.
Mencius says: "Honor the virtuous; use the able, and heroes
will be in power. Then the scholars of the empire will rejoice
and become officers." If the virtuous and benevolent are not
relied
the state will be empty and vain."
on,
I quote a few passages to show Mencius' democratic
principles. The ruler in choosing officers acts in this wise:
"If the ministers say such a one is a man of ability, it won't
do. If all the officers say he is able, you can't use him. If
the people all say
he is able, examine him and afterwards use
him."
This is the way also in dismissing an officer.
In executions: "If all the ministers say this man should
be executed, don't listen. If all the officers say you can kill,
it won't do. If all the people say you should kill him,
examine and see if you should kill, and afterwards execute
him." "Therefore you say the people do the execution."
This resembles trial by jury, as I suppose only representatives
gave voice for the people.
Mencius: says: "The people are the most important element
in the nation. The tutular deities (the preservation of whom
represents the stability of the country) are next, and the
prince is least important." This is like the Book Classic:
"The people are the foundation. If the foundation is sure,
the country is safe and peaceful."

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
5
These sayings are the origin of the amount of democracy
the Chinese already possess, as the saying of Jesus, " He that
is chief among you, let him be servant of all," is the origin of
our democracy. There is no thought of slavery in Mencius,
but his ideal was a country of free men, dependent on no
fellow man, and the common people making their living from
the free land. Plato and Lycurgus had in their ideal a
country of fighters, and the farming and rough work done
by a large class of human brutes, the Helots. More in his
Utopia has not lost the idea of slavery, the slaves to do the
rough work and butchering.
Mencius believed in pleasures for the people. King
Hwui, of Liang, at his fish-pond, asked Mencius, "Do the wise
and good princes like fish-ponds and deer-parks?" Mencius
showed how King Wen had large parks and fish-ponds, yet
the people rejoiced, because the ancient good princes enjoyed
them with the people. The people desired to see the evil king
Cheo die, even if they died with him, because he selfishly
tried to enjoy his parks alone.
In democracies, or where the people have control, public
parks are always laid out. In autocratic countries like China,
the great parks and pleasure gardens are private property of
the officials and the rich. The Duke Wang of Tsi asked Mencius
about the music. Mencius told him that if he enjoyed music
greatly, his country would be near to having a good govern-
ment. He also told him that his pleasures and pomp and
splendor irritated the people, because they saw the contrast
between this grandeur and their distress. "There is but one
way if your majesty will take your pleasure in company with
the people, you can gain the empire." He showed the duke
how his subjects were killed for poaching in his parks, but in
the park of King Wen the people could catch pheasants and
hares and cut grass and fuel.

6
MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
If Bellamy's dream is ever realized, there will be common
or socialistic music by telephone. It will be necessary to
much improve the phonograph, or I fear Mencius would
prefer the ancient music.
he
Education.
In the benevolent government, care was taken of the
different schools to teach the doctrines of filial piety and
brotherly love. Mencius showed the importance of feeding
and giving comfort to the people to make them virtuous, but
says: "Mere feeding without teaching them would make
them like beasts." Names such as Tsiang, Su, Hioh, Hiao, for
different kinds of educational institutions, show the importance
made of education. Probably education was nearly universal
in Mencius' model republic-the kingdom of King Wen.
Archery was also taught, and this would enable the people to
defend themselves in case of an invasion.
Free Trade.
Mencius says:
"If there is mere inspection and no
customs tariff, the travellers of the empire would be pleased,
and desire to travel on his roads." Although Mencius does
not make the long argument against restrictions of trade and
show, from the injury of such restriction, the absurdity of
tariff and licensed monopolies, he lays down the principle very
emphatically. Adam Smith shows from history the failure
of tariffs. Mencius lays down the principle of free trade.
Adam Smith did not hope to be able to destroy tariffs, and
considered it Utopian to think of succeeding. Mencius
denounced these restrictions emphatically, and
"An-
ciently the establishment of frontier gates was to guard
against violence. Nowadays it is to exercise violence
(plunder)." We all feel this way when we must pay duty.
says:

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
Tai Chung Chi said he would gradually lessen taxes and
tariffs until next year, and asked Mencius his opinion.
Mencius said: "Here is a man who every day steals one of
his neighbour's chickens. Some one says to him, 'Such is not
the
way of a good man.' By your leave, I will diminish my
appropriations and will take only one fowl a month until next
year, when I will make an end of the practice." "If you
know it is wrong, act quickly; why wait till next year."
In his discussion with Hu Hing, he favors division of
labor and free exchanges.
War.
Mencius says:
"A people is not bounded in by dykes
and borders. A kingdom is secured not by the strength of
mountains and rivers. The empire is overawed not by the
sharpness and strength of arms." "He who has principles,
has many to assist him. He who loses right principles, has
few to assist him." He rebukes rulers for grabbing territory
by the slaughter of men, and though at the present day
called good ministers, in ancient times they were called
robbers of the people. In a benevolent government, with
light punishments and taxes, educated as to the human
relationships, the people could with sticks drive away their
more barbarous neighbors, even though well armed."
King Wu, one of Mencius' heroes, when he had pacified
the country, dismissed his horses to the south of Hwa Shan,
in Shansi, and placed his cattle in the wood of Taoling near
Siganfu; wrapped up his spears and lances in tigers' skins;
stored his chariots and armor in the store-houses, and notified
the empire that they would not be used again. This resembles
Washington's ways with the armies of a republic rather than
the method of a Napoleon.

R
8
MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
Mencius' System of Benevolent Government.
Like Moses, Plato, the Gracchi, and other great reformers,
Mencius makes the proper division of the land form a very
important plank in his platform. He says: "A benevolent
policy starts with a proper division of the fields. If the
fields are not properly divided according to the character
#tsing (a well) the public wealth is unevenly distributed.
A square li (a li is one-third of a mile) by two strokes
across two strokes, is divided into nine equal squares.
Eight families each received a square, one hundred mu or
fifteen acres; and in company first cultivated the center
square, whose crop paid the tax or socage. Afterwards, the
people cared for their own private squares. In the residence
part of towns and villages, each citizen had five mu in which
he planted his mulberry grove, and the women cultivated the
silkworm, and at fifty years of age silk was worn. They had
pigs and poultry. With this allotment ("the acre and a cow"
of Joseph Arch), the people were well fed, contented and
happy, like the ancient Romans before the growth of Lati-
fundia. In the towns, from Chu Hi we learn that the division
was also according to the character . The center square
was for the palace; the one in front of it for the temples
and public buildings; the one behind for the market,
and the three squares on each side for the residence of the
people. In the market, a ground rent was charged, "Shi
chan er puh chen," and there was no tax on goods. The
Cheu Li says: "There was no taxing of houses, goods or
persons." It was evidently a ground-rent tax commended by
so many of our ablest political economists. King Wen,
Mencius' hero, "had no starvelings in his dominion." As the
result of this land policy, Mencius says: "The ancient sages so
ruled that they made foodstuffs as cheap as fire and water,"

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
9
and I have not much doubt but that if Mencius' plan were
adopted it would have this effect. If in a community every
one is a worker, either with brain or hand, if there is absolute
freedom of exchange, and there are no appropriators, the
market can be considered a pool. No one takes out of the
pool without putting in something of equal value. How can
there be exhaustion? In such a state of society, we would
as freely give out of our physical wealth as we now give out
of our moral and intellectual wealth, and with as little fear of
exhaustion. Mencius says: "By charging only a ground-rent
and no taxes on goods and houses, the merchants of the world
would desire to do business in such a market." In this
saying he anticipated the methods of some of our home cities
that offer remission of taxes on goods, plant and buildings, for
terms of years to encourage business and manufacturing.
Mencius was not tied down by the letter of the law, but
said, after he had described his Utopia to Bi Chan, minister
of Teng: "This is the gist of the matter, you can adapt it
yourself." The great officer Tung Chung Shu, of the Han
Dynasty, and Chang Tsz, of the Sung Dynasty, tried to re-
establish this ancient method, but failed, no doubt on account
of the selfishness of the plutocrats.
Mencius and the Politicians.
Mencius despised the great ministers of his own day and
those just preceding him. Kwan Chung and Yen Tsz he
looked upon as mere politicians. China was divided in the
time of Mencius, like Europe of to-day, into several contending
states. Officers such as Chang I and Su Tsing were the
Bismarcks and Salisburys of that time. Mencius had no use
for these men and desired to establish a real Utopia. We, in
our day, can see nothing noble in the European combinations
which allow the "unspeakable Turk" to go unpunished for
2

10
MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
his atrocities against Christians. Mencius says: "The way a
princely man serves his prince is by earnestly leading him
into the true path and fixing his purposes on humanity." He
called "those who by alliances and by war endeavored to grab
territory, robbers of the people." What a rebuke is this to our
so-called statesmen in the way China has been treated!
"Following present day policy without changing the customs,
if a ruler did become emperor he could not retain the empire
for one morning." Mencius' ideal emperors, King Wen and
Cheng Tang, gained the empire by first establishing just rule
in their own dominion, and then' gaining the empire was a
growth rather than a conquest. Cheng Tang had only seventy
li to begin with, and King Wen only a hundred li. If England
could adopt the plan of Mencius with his free trade, site taxes,
and remission of all rates, duties, licenses, etc., along the
Yangtse, her sphere of influence would grow as Hongkong
grows, on account of its good government. England would
gain the hearts of the people; oppressors would be ousted or
converted in time, and China would become a great nation.
How would the expenses of such a government be met? Not
by a national debt, nor by tariffs, nor by rates, but by ground
rent. Let all the ports be treated as is Kiao Chow under
German rule. Levy a large tax on ground rent. Make the
mines pay a full royalty, railway lands a heavy franchise tax,
and agricultural lands a tax on rent, and there would be an
abundant revenue and a lessening of the burdens of the people.
I believe Mencius has given us the principle by which China
must be governed if she is to attain great prosperity.
Mencius' Courage and Manhood.
After describing the Utopia of King Wen to Hwui, king
of Liang, he contrasted the king's policy with that of a
benevolent policy. He says: "Your dogs and swine eat the

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA. 11
food of men. People are dying of starvation on the roads,
and you do not know to issue the stores of grain to them."
"When the people die, you say it is not owing to me, it is
owing to the year." In what does this differ from stabbing a
man and killing him, and then saying, "It was not I, it was
the weapon"? Mencius said: "Is there any difference
between killing a man with a stick or with a sword?" The
king said: "There is no difference." "Is there any difference
in doing it with a sword and with a style of government?"
The king said: "There is no difference." Mencius said: "In
your kitchen there is fat meat, in your stables there are fat
horses but your people have the look of hunger, and in the
fields there are those who have died of famine. This is
leading on wild beasts to devour men. Beasts devour one
another and men detest them for so doing. When the rulers
as parents of the people, as it were, lead beasts to devour the
people, what kind of parents of the people are they?" Under
the trust kings of free America, should a teacher, preacher,
lawyer or member of Congress talk in this way, he would be
in danger of being blacklisted. Mencius was in danger of
being boiled in oil, like the papers said happened to the
Russian minister. Andrews, Bemis and others have only lost
good positions by offending those combinations of landlords
(the trusts). Mencius says in another place: "I love life and
I love righteousness, but if I can't have both, I will take the
righteousness. As I love both fish and the delicacy 'bear's
paws,' and if I can't have both I will take the more desirable
one, the bear's paws." Mencius quotes the philosopher Tseng
with approval: "Tseng reported Confucius as saying, 'If
on self-examination I find that I am not upright, shall I not
be in fear of an old pauper? If I examine myself and find
I am upright, I will go forward against thousands and tens of
thousands.' This is moral courage like that of Luther going

12
MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
to the diet of Worms. He says again: "In talking with the
great, don't take notice of his grandeur. He has only fine
houses and lots of women. I have my principles, why should
I fear him?" He said to Suen, king of Tsi: "The prince
looks on your officers as earth and grass (something to be
trampled on). The officers then look on the prince as a
robber and an enemy." King Suen asked the duty of a
minister, Mencius answered: "If the prince is false he should
be admonished; if warned several times and he heeds not,
change him. The king got mad and changed color."
Mencius said: "I can't but answer the truth."
Mencius as a Level-headed Reformer.
He was not carried away by strange and perverse
doctrines. He despised the principles of Yang, "each one
for himself," and of Meh who taught "to love all equally,"
or universal love. One from selfishness and the other from
being too general in his affections would destroy the relations
of prince and father. He rebuked the ascetic principles of
Cheng Chung, a very Diogenes, who fasted till he could not
see and then ate wormy plums. He said: "One must be an
earth-worm to follow him. The worm eats earth and drinks
the yellow stream." Mencius rebukes his carefulness in only
eating food produced by the righteous, an idea that was carried
out by the anti-slavery agitators of the United States, and
showed the impossibility of his house and clothes and food
being all made by the just and not the unjust. Mencius, as
Jesus, did not wish "to take the people out of the world but to
keep them from the evil." When Mencius was teaching Wen,
prince of Teng, his policy of land division and government,
a certain Hu Hing taught "that the sovereign should go into the
fields and labor with the people and eat the fruit of his own
toil, and that he should prepare his own morning and evening

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA. 13
meal, and yet carry on the government." He asked: "Does
Hu Hing raise his own grain and eat it?" "Yes." "Does
he make his own coats and hats?" "No, he exchanges grain
for them." "Does he make his own food-boilers and earthen-
ware?" "No, he buys them with grain." Mencius then
shows him that men cannot live by farming alone; that there
must be all kinds of trades and manufactures, and that we get
our desires gratified by exchanges. He also shows that there
are special men qualified for government and that these should
be supported by the other workers. He illustrates by some
of the ancient worthies: the emperor Shun appointed Yu who
controlled the flood and for eight years passed by his own
door and could not enter it, he was so busy. How could he
take time to farm? He also appointed ministers of agriculture
to teach the cultivation of grain, a minister of education, etc.
And then he asked: "Did the great rulers Yao and Shun till
the soil?" "Hu Hing would make all articles the same in
value, a yard of silk and a yard of hemp, large and small
shoes," etc. Mencius said: "It is the nature of things to be
unequal in value, even as much as thousands of times." Tolstoi
edited a book written by a leveler like Hu Hing, who taught
that everyone should raise his own grain. I forget the jaw-
breaking Russian name of the writer. If Tolstoi had not
already been converted from the error of his way, Mencius
could turn him. We see from this that Mencius is no crank
with a wheel or twist in his brain.
KWANG CHUNG,
Minister of Wang, duke of Tsi. His first method was after
the ancients, "to support the army at farming, yang ping
yu lung." The people were arranged into an army in
times of peace, so as to be ready for a war. There were five
in a squad, ten squads or fifty in a troop; four troops or two

14 MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
hundred in a company; ten companies or two thousand in a
regiment; five regiments in a division or an army. The
different bodies had their respective leaders. The soldiers
were well drilled and no one was allowed to move from his
own village, so that those in the same company recognized
one another, and at night knew one another's voices. This
would prevent mistakes in killing friends for enemies. They
were friends for joy and sorrow, fellow villagers who would
stimulate one another to fight to the death. Every spring
the ruler, the duke, was to have an inspection. Kwang
Chung told them that with such an army he could resist the
strongest enemy and protect the empire. It was successful,
and made the duke virtual ruler of the empire. He made
laws to forbid the different occupations and trades from living
together, as their talk gave mutual offense. The children
then naturally followed the occupation of their father. He
made mines and the salt works public property, the profit of
which was government revenue. This was not original with
him, but he emphasized it. He established government houses
of prostitution to draw merchants from abroad, and raised a
large revenue from these places.
SHANG YANG,
Minister of Duke Hiao, of Tsin, used the ten company
method, making the people mutually responsible for crime.
The country was divided into tens and multiples of ten, with
head men of these divisions. In case of crime, the whole band
of ten was involved. If the whole division or a member of the
ten gave up a criminal there was a reward. In case of con-
cealment, there was a punishment. He made laws to reward
the industrious of any occupation by cancelling his statute
labor. A lazy man's wife was taken as a slave by the ruler.
Men of war were specially honored as in Plato's republic,

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
15
and a rich man without martial merit was in disgrace.
Private feuds were heavily punished. He altered the ancient
method of dividing the fields that Mencius recommended
by throwing the boundaries of the fields into the open field
-by cultivating the boundaries and so destroying them. For
this, he is held up to execration by all generations. He is
considered the greatest evil officer of Chinese history. In
the story of the Han dynasty, he is said to have made land
private property, and the rich became great landlords and
the poor "had not enough land to stand an awl upon." The
rich lived in luxury and the poor were cold and starving, and
often became outlaws and robbers as a consequence. He had
the heir-apparent punished by his severe laws, and when the
duke died and the heir became duke, Shang Yang was in
disgrace. He tried to escape, but he had made a law that no
inn-keeper could receive a guest without a passport. He
could thus get no hiding-place, and in despair said, " Wei
fah tsz pi" (I have made a law to ruin myself). He was torn
to death by five horses. "An evil man leaves an ill savor
for ten thousand ages."
TSIN SHI HWANG, FIRST EMPEROR,
destroyed the feudal system and established thirty-six pro-
vinces with governors, and took away the military power
of the nobles, as Henry the Seventh did for England. The
people were not allowed to use any iron knives, even for
cooking or eating. The rich used silver and the poor used
bamboo knives. He established a large standing army and
ruled by force. He destroyed all the historical and classical
books, so that all past history should be forgotten and he
himself considered the first emperor. He also desired the
people to be ignorant so as to be more easily ruled. He put
the finishing touches to the destruction of the ancient division

16 MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
of the land. Popularly it is said that to build the great
wall one out of every three men and two out of every five
men in a family were taken as government slaves for this
public work. This Emperor of Tsin was led to make exten-
sive canals in Shansi by a trick of an officer of the kingdom
of Han. The Han kingdom desired to keep the kingdom of
Tsin busy at home industries and delay their being absorbed
by Tsing, the Russia of the day. The emissary who stimu-
lated Tsing to this work was found out and about to be killed,
but said, "What I have done will only spare Han for a few
years and will be a permanent benefit to Tsing."
SAN HUNG YANG,
Minister of the Emperor Wu, of the Han Dynasty, was
the son of a merchant of Loh Yang, the capital. He was
very stingy and miserly in his ways. His was the "ping
juun" or leveling method. The people were authorized to
send their taxes to the capital in the leading products of their
districts instead of rice and silk. These products were kept
in stock in great government stores, and besides this constant
purchases were made when goods were cheap. The govern-
ment became a great mercantile trust with the intention of
destroying the great merchants. This was a socialistic plan
to keep the goods cheap. It is not exactly Bellamy, but like
him, in giving great powers to the officials. The historical
commentator said: "Wealth is only so much if it is not in
the hands of the people, it is in the hands of the officials, and
though direct taxes are not increased, the people are robbed
and impoverished by their profits being taken away. The
country got into such a state of distress that robbers arose
everywhere, and rebellions, so that if the Emperor had not
changed this policy, the dynasty would have been destroyed.
Added to this, there was a great drought and famine. Puh

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA. 17
Shih said the Emperor's duty was to live on his rent, and
blamed San Hung Yang trying to get profits out of business,
and advised that San Hung Yang should be boiled alive in oil
and good rains would come from Heaven. San Hung Yang
also established the method of selling official positions for
revenue, and making money for the government by commu-
ting the punishment of crime by fines, enabling the rich to
sin and pay.
As the Nankin proverb says: "Shen wan San
killed a man and saved himself by money." San Hung
Yang represents many of the ideas of the socialists. I suppose
had he lived in our day he would have been jealous of the
manufacturing and trade combinations and attempted to
bring them under government ownership. All plans such as
those of St. Simon Proudhon, Louis Blanc, Bellamy, etc.
must inevitably prove failures, as did those of San Hung
Yang. If Bellamy should succeed in establishing his
methods, it would end in the officers being rich, the people
poor, and robberies and rebellions.
Chu Foo Tsz, in the Sung dynasty, established granaries
in each county to help the farmers in time of famine.
"
WANG AN SHI,
of the Sung Dynasty, established several laws called the
new method." First, plans of irrigation to improve the
waste land and thus to profit the government by the rent.
Second, the grain-sprout method. When the grain had
sprouted, to cause the people to reckon the profit expected on
the crop and lend this amount of money to them at twenty
per cent., repayment to be made when the crop was ripe.
Third, change in the rice tax. Instead of rice, sending the
main staple of the place in equal value as taxes. The officials
took this to places short of such production and sold it at
a great profit. Fourth, house protection, ten in a band with
3

18
MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
a head, five tens or fifty in a larger band or company;
sixteen companies or eight hundred men in a regiment, with
a colonel in command. These bought bows and arrows
themselves, drilled and formed a militia. Fifth, replaced
statute labor by taxes according to the rank and quality of
the person-an income tax. Sixth, mortgaging houses and
property to the government at twenty-two per cent., which
was doubled at the end of the year. If the loan was not paid
in the fixed time, double interest was charged. Seventh, the
house protectors nourished horses for the government, and if
these horses died they had to replace them. These were for
cavalry in the army. Eighth, a heavy salt gabel, so that the
people could hardly eat salt. Ninth, the "fantien," a new
measurement for fields, a square of a thousand steps was the
unit. The farms were arranged into five qualities and were
taxed according to productiveness. Great officers as Sz
Ma Kwan opposed him, but Wan An Shi was able as a writer
and met them. The people were miserable, impoverished, and
tore down their houses to pay their official debts. An officer
named Tseng Chao made a cartoon and sent it to the Emperor
showing the miserable appearance of the people, and nearly
stopped the new method, but the Wan An Shi party con-
quered by a desperate effort, and banished Tseng Chao. The
great poet Su Tung Po made a poem ridiculing Wan An Shi
and his policy. The failure in all these socialistic methods
is the dishonesty of officials. Some Populists are now desiring
government loans; they would work the same way. Ready
money used up wastefully, and later nothing with which to
pay the debt.
"The pig-styes and chicken-roosts all become official
property" was the saying from that time, showing where
wealth would go under Populist loans.
Emperor Shen Tsung this method was suppressed under the
After the death of the

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA. 19
wise administration of Sz Ma Kwan during a minority of
Kin Tsung. But on the Emperor attaining his majority,
it was re-established and finally destroyed the dynasty.
MORAL.
The moral I wish to draw from this desultory paper is
that the people should not be treated as children with some
great man as shepherd of the sheep to care for all their wants.
The people should have nothing but liberty, such as Adam
Smith, Herbert Spencer and others have shown. Adam
Smith says the duties of the ruler are to protect the people
from foreign and domestic enemies and keep up the public
works and buildings. Spencer demonstrates more elaborately
what Adam Smith said before him. Give the people absolute
"freedom as long as the equal freedom of others is not
interfered with." That includes safety to life and security
to property in things and ideas. Freedom of trade, freedom
of speech, etc. And of the greatest importance, a right to a
full and free environment. Every organism has an environ-
ment which nourishes and sustains it. Take it away from this
environment and it dies. Deprive it partially of any part of
its environment, and it is more or less injured. Plants grown
in cellars, children in the crowded slums, show faults in
environment. Man must have sunlight, air, rain, a proper
temperature and land or he dies, or if partially deprived of
these, his life is in so much lessened. Herbert Spencer
demonstrates this clearly in the earlier editions of Social
Statics. Mencius anticipated him in demanding the equal
rights of all to the earth as well as to the other elements of
his environment. Our present day politics make no proper pro-
vision to get the people on the land. In this, Mencius' Utopia
is a Utopia indeed to the landless nineteen-twentieths of the
people. The one-twentieth who own the natural opportunities

20.
MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
21
I
may oppose Mencius at this point, but he has the truth.
don't mean to claim that Mencius' democracy is as well
developed as that of Spencer or Jefferson, that his free trade is
as well elaborated as that of Adam Smith, or that his manage-
ment of the land question is as clear and well defined as that
of Spencer, Dove and George; I only claim that the prin-
ciples of democracy, free trade and equity with regard to
land are there and can be compared with our present day
ideas as Chinese gunpowder and the compass can be compared
with the modern article. Some day China will be enfranch-
ised from customs, likin landlordism, arbitrary government
and public debt, and Mencius will be appreciated as he
deserves.
A concrete example of Mencius' plan, somewhat modified
to suit modern requirements, would give us a good idea of
what we should learn from Mencius. Let us next year call
on Mencius to govern Shanghai. Of course we, the people of
Shanghai, cannot do anything constitutionally as the landlords
monopolize the voting power. But let us do it as our cousins
the Americans did when they opposed George the Third.
Let us combine and refuse to pay any taxes till we get
representation. We should begin now and organize and
hold public meetings. England spent much blood and treasure
to give the Outlanders representation and thus just taxation.
We are more oppressed under our present arrangements in
Shanghai than were the Outlanders. Suppose we thus get a
one man one vote system, as we did in Kuling, and call on
Mencius to help us.
The land of Shanghai is worth about Tls. 200,000,000.
This at 4% would bring in Tls. 8,000,000 revenue. We
would then have a common fund of nearly eight times as
much as our present tax fund. In addition to our present
common benefits we could have free water, free telephone, free

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA. $21
hospitals, free schools for natives and foreigners, free baths,
free electric transportation, and even a free hot water and
steam supply. The ordinary clerk and writer, steamboat officer
and engineer, could marry and live luxuriously on his salary.
This is the literal interpretation of Mencius' site tax, his
popular combinations when "In going out and coming in
they were friends, they mutually protected one another from
enemies and in sickness, they helped one another." "They
took care to keep up schools."
We could have in Shanghai a better Utopia than Plato,
Marc, or Bacon ever dreamed of. We should not despise
Utopias. We are living now in Bacon's Utopia and have
most of the things he recommended in New Atlantis.
The scientific 19th century is the result of Bacon's making
philosophy go about doing good as did our Master.
A discussion following the reading of the paper. Mr. Kingsmill
pointed out that in many respects the author had misapprehended
the precepts of the sage. With the socialistic views of Mr. Macklin
he had nothing to do, but it was not fair to the memory of the
ancient Chinese teacher to attribute to him these views. It is a
fact that with Mencius the people were everything and the rulers of
secondary consideration. Above all Mencius was an economist,
and his views will well bear comparison with those even of
Adam Smith; he was, however, no mere faddist, nor did he object to
such taxation as was neccessary for the support of the government.
Mr. Macklin quotes Mencius [Book III., p. ii., 8] as objecting
to taxes and tariffs. It is worth while to translate the passage,
as Mr. Macklin misses the point. Tai Yingchi asks the sage
about his tariffs. "As for tithes, I am unable at the moment to
take off the probibitory [E] rates. If you advise it I will lighten

22
MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
them, and next year remove them altogether."
Mencius with the
true instinct of the free-trader likens this to robbery, and asks
"If the thing be wrong why continue it for a year?"
The point of the objection rests on the word cheng [E].
Cheng means to restrain, prohibit, and is only applied to taxation
by Mencius where it is likely to act as a check on the circulation of
commodities. "Tariff for Revenue," was in fact the idea of the
teacher.
So of the "tsing," or ninefold division of land, Mr. Macklin
is at fault in attributing it to Mencius. The sovereign of T'eng
(one of the petty states which preserved up to the time of Mencius
its independence in the Hegemony) consulted Mencius about the
Tsing," or "Allotment" system, which still prevailed in those
portions of the land which had not passed into allodial occupation,
and was cultivated by boors [f],-the equivalent of the Anglo-
Saxon "folcland" as distinguished from the "alod."
"
Mencius is not very enthusiastic about it, but gives some
practical advice. An older authority had laid down "In the
regulation of the land there is no better system than that of
co-operation [folcland], no worse than a fixed charge." As to the
best means to effect this the ruler was in doubt, so he sends his
minister to the sage to ask [M. III., p. i., ch. ii, 13]. "If you
would lay the foundations of benevolent rule, you must begin with
accurate definition of boundaries. If these be not correctly settled
there cannot be uniformity, and the grain assessment will not bear
equally. This is the reason why oppressive sovereigns and corrupt
ministers have ever neglected the proper definition of boundaries;
with fair division of the land and due assessments your master may
sit in peace on his throne."
"T'eng is but a small country, yet it has its upper classes and
boors; if there were no upper ranks there would be no one to carry
on the government; if there were no boors there would be no one
to produce food for the others. In the folcland let the nine
square division, and co-operation in the nine to one scale prevail. In

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
23
the allodial districts let each from the highest to the lowest
contribute his tithe. The upper, say, on fifty mow, the rest on
twenty-five.
"On the folcland, when a death occurs, there is no need of
going outside the community; the community occupying the land
in common can itself arrange who is to go out and who to enter.
Each then will have an interest in the common weal, and will
mutually aid the sick and infirm, and the people be bound by mutual
ties."
"A square li constitutes, say, a tsing, and a tsing contains
nine hundred mow. In the centre is the public field, and round it
eight families each with one hundred mow; all will first attend to
the cultivation of the public field, and when this is finished each is
at liberty to look after his private lot. This is the general system;
marshes or unproductive lands can readily be alloted by yourself and
the prince."
Such was the position of much of the land in China even as
late as the time of Mencius, and it is in striking agreement with the
conditions existing in England during the Heptarchy. In China,
as in England, "the land thus left, of which the usufruct under
certain conditions was enjoyed by the freemen, was called Folcland,
terra publica. It was distinguished from the edel by not becoming
absolute property in the hands of individuals." "Folcland was
subject to rents of divers kinds, and reversion. The folcland could
also be applied to reward great public services, in which case estates
of alod, or edel, were carved out of it and presented to him whom
the community desired to honour."*
as elsewhere, produced like results.
been overrun by conquering races,
partitioned it amongst their followers on condition of service.
Like circumstances in China,
Both England and China had
who annexed the land and
Mencius saw, however, the defects of the system, and advocated
free trade in land as in other commodities; his method of ventilating
his ideas was parabolic.
* Kemble: Saxons in England [Vol. I., chap. XI].

24
MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA.
One day, he tells us, "there came along from Tsu a scholar,
one Hsü-ning who professed to be a follower of Shenneng. 'I hear,
Prince, you are ruling your land on the principle of benevolence.
Give me a steading, and I'll become a subject.' He had ten
disciples who all wore cast-off clothes and sandals of pack-thread,
and wove mats for a livelihood.
"There came along also one Ch'en-siang, a disciple of Ch'en lang,
and with him his brother Sin. They had trudged all the way from
Sung with their ploughshares on their backs. We have heard,
Prince, you rule your kingdom on the principles of the sages, and
that you yourself are one. We would like to become subjects of a
sage.'
.
"The prince having satisfied both, one morning Ch'en-siang met
Hsü, and was greatly delighted with him, so much so that he
abandoned his own doctrines and acknowledged himself the other's
disciple. Meeting Mencius on the road he pointed out to him the
excellence of the new doctrine. Your Prince is a most worthy
fellow; but he does not as yet fully comprehend the "Doctrine.""
A sage prince should, equally with his subjects, plough the land for
his daily food, and cook his own morning and evening meals.
Now our prince has his granaries, treasure-houses and magazines;
how can he be called a sage?"
Mencius was equal to the occasion. "Hsü ploughs his land, and
consumes the produce?" "Certainly." "He also weaves his own
cloth and makes his clothes of it?" "By no means, he wears cast-
off clothes." "He has a cap, then?" "Yes; a sackcloth one."
"Did he make it himself?" "No; he gave some corn in exchange
for it." "
Why did he not make it himself?" "That would
interfere with his ploughing." "He has doubtless a kettle or pot of
some sort to cook his food; and an iron for his ploughshare?"
"Certainly." "They are his own make, doubtless?" "By no
means; he swopped them for grain."
"But this swopping of grain for his household things-is it
not doing a hurt to the potter or the founder? And on the other
hand, the potter and founder in giving their wares in exchange for

MENCIUS AND SOME OTHER REFORMERS OF CHINA. 25
corn, do not they do an injustice to the farmer?" "How could you
suppose such a thing?"-"Well, well! but why does not Hsü do as
the founder and potter and make all these things for his own use?
And why does he go about in such a stupid way swopping his things
with a lot of workmen, and giving himself so much trouble?"
Ch'en explained that the two avocations were incompatible and
that the same man could not carry on agriculture and craftmanship,
an admission which Mencius turns to account to give an economic
lecture. A sovereign has other things to do besides labouring with
his hands. "Some labour with their minds, some with their hands;
there are those who direct and those who produce."
Ch'en returned to the argument. "If Hsü's doctrine were
followed there would not be two prices in the market, nor deceit in
the country." Mencius replied "Things naturally are of different
values. Some are worth a thousand times as much as others, and if
it were attempted to equalise values the whole kingdom would be
thrown into confusion. "If large shoes and small shoes were to be
of the same value, who would make them?"
Again [III., p. ii., 4] he proceeds: "If you do not provide
the means of interchange of commodities and products, so that the
surplus of one may supply the needs of another, then the farmer will
find his corn accumulating in his granaries, and the housewife
discover that her cloth is a drug." Finally he winds up the
passage by showing that it is not a man's intentions, but the work
that he has performed that entitles him to reward.
All these are in these modern days trite, and it may be
needless aphorisms, but in the time of Mencius, some twenty-four
centuries ago, when as yet there was no science of economics, they
mark him out as a man far in advance of his age. This is
Mencius's true claim to distinction, and not his presumed socialistic
tendencies, which in truth only exist in the imagination of the
speaker. That the hazy and cártilaginous Confucius should have
been accepted by his countrymen as their guide and philosopher,
instead of the more nervous and manly Mencius, is only in
accordance with what we have been compelled from bitter experience
to learn of the native element in China.