THE
CHINESE SOPHISTS.
By A. FORKE, Ph.D.
What can we expect from the study of Chinese
philosophy? "In the philosophical systems of the Hindoos
and the Chinese there are still hidden treasures, in which the
anticipation of scientific discoveries, the results of thousands
of years of occidental research, is most striking." Such are
the words of Edward von Hartmann, the most famous living
German philosopher. Much labour has been spent in
Europe on the Indian Vedanta philosophy, which had such a
marked influence on Arthur Schopenhauer. "The Upanishads,
says the author of the Parerga and Paralipomena, are the
outcome of the highest human wisdom. They afford the
most remunerative and sublime reading possible in this world,
which has been the consolation of my life, as it will be that of
my death."2
I do not see why the many germs scattered
over the vast field of Chinese philosophy should not have a
similar fertilizing influence on some philosophical European
mind also. The deep impression caused by the Tao-te-king
will support my view. But much work remains to be done
before Chinese philosophy will take its proper place in the
history of philosophy. The burden of this task lies with us
who are living in China and studying her language and
literature, for, while great care is bestowed on all her sister
Philosophy of the Unconscious Mind, Vol. I, p. 26.
Parerga and Paralipomena, Vol. II, pp. 427 and 428.
1

2
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
languages in Europe and America, Chinese, the oldest of all,
but the youngest in the curriculum of our high-schools, is
treated as a step-child by public opinion. This paper is
meant as a move in the direction just indicated.
In the 4th and 3rd centuries B.C. we can distinguish
five different schools of thought in China. Their founders are
Confucius, the moralist and ritualist, Chuang Tse, the mystic
and pantheist, Mê Ti, the philanthropist and optimist,
Yang Chu, the Epicurean and pessimist, and the sophists
Hui Shih and Kung Sun Lung. The two latter schools must
have had a very ephemeral existence. They left scarcely a
trace behind them.2 Of the three former that of the Mihists
for a long time held its own against the orthodox school of
Confucius which at last succeeded in supplanting it.
pien
The technical Chinese term for Sophist is
shih, literally a disputant, a debater, a controversialist. The
Greeks were wont to connect this same idea of controversy
with that of Sophistic. Their sophists were past masters in the
art of Eristic. They knew how to defeat their opponents by
arguments. Protagoras averred that every proposition might
be proved and refuted with equally good reasons, and later on
the sophists used to teach their pupils the ordinary sophisms
as a means to confound their antagonists. Socrates, Plato
and Aristotle both opposed and despised the sophists, and
their view has been adopted and for many centuries echoed by
European scholars.
The Chinese regard their sophists in very much the same
light. Chuang Tse³ says of them that by specious premises
they impose on peoples' minds and drive them into false
conclusions, but that though they win the battle in words,
Chuang Tse, XXIV, 17.
On Yang Chu [cfr. my paper in the Transactions of the Peking
Oriental Society, Vol. III, No. 3].
3 Chuang Tse, XXXIII, 26.

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
they do not carry conviction into their adversaries' hearts.
Of Hui Tse in particular it is stated that he made it his chief
object to contradict others, wishing to gain fame by defeating
everyone. Yo Cheng Tse Yü, a disciple of Mencius, utters
similar diatribes against Kung Sun Lung.³
However, in spite of these withering judgments passed
by their contemporaries of other schools, neither the Greek
nor the Chinese sophists are mere impostors, as their
antagonists would have
us believe. They are true
philosophers, and their standpoint is as good as that of many
others. The Greek sophists were the first to philosophize on
the subject, its perceptions, opinions and impulses. Most of
them maintained the impossibility of a true objective
knowledge. Protagoras held that man is the measure of
all things [πάντων χρημάτων μέτρον ανθρωπος], of those things
which exist that they exist, and of those things without
existence that they do not exist. Therein is but a relative
truth. Things are as they appear to the observer, and they
are so only to him, not to everyone; because others are
differently affected by the same things. Gorgias went a step
further, and boldly asserted that there is nothing, and that, if
there were anything, it could not be perceived.
to do
Hegel and, especially, the historian Grote were the first
away with the old prejudice that the Greek sophists were
mere quibblers and jugglers with words, showing that their
teachings are not at all lacking in acumen or originality, and
that their rhetorical extravagances are but one side of their
philosophy. Their Chinese compeers stand perhaps still more
in need of a champion, for their writings are sò quaint and
paradoxical that at first sight people will feel tempted to
condemn them as sheer nonsense. So far as I know, there
has been only one foreign scholar who concerned himself with
Chuang Tse, ibid. 【樂正子舆 3 Lick Tse, IV, 10.
2

4
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
the Chinese sophists. Balfour devotes some pages to them in
his Scrapbook, but treats only of Hui Tse, whom he knew
from Chuang Tse. He fully endorses the latter's strictures
on the "arch-Sophist" Hui Tse, which he calls dignified and
to the point.
In the interesting catalogue of ancient works contained in
the Han-shu [Cap. XXX] the sophists are very appropriately
classed together with the Dialecticians of which
altogether seven are enumerated: 鄧析 Teng Hsi, 尹文子
Yin Wên Tse, 公孫龍子 Kung Sun Lung Tse, 成公生
Chêng Kung Shêng, Hui Tse, Huang Kung, and
Mao Kung. The works of the three first-named are
still extant, the others lost. Of these dialecticians Têng Hsi,
Kung Sun Lung, Hui Tse, and perhaps Mao Kung, are
looked upon as sophists. Mao Kung is said to have lived
contemporaneously with Kung Sun Lung, of whom I am
going to speak more in detail, and to have professed very
similar views. Of Cheng Kung Sheng and Huang Kung we
learn that they flourished about the time of Li Sse, the
famous minister of Chin Shih Huang Ti [C. B.C. 208].
Huang Kung was a great scholar in Ch'in and wrote
poetry which was incorporated in the Collection of Poetry of
the Ch'in dynasty published in the Han dynasty.
From Cap. I, divided into two sections, which under
the name of Yin Wen Tse has come down to us from the
Han period and seems to be a genuine production of the
philosopher himself or of his disciples, we can form a pretty
clear idea of what the so-called dialecticians were like. The
term dialectician may appear a little too high-flown. I use it
in default of a better one, since it characterizes at least the
Mayers' rendering of [Manual, p. 343] as the school of
writers on official station is not correct. The discussions of the dia-
lecticians have a much wider scope than official station, which, it is true,
is very frequently touched upon by them.

外交部藏書
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
5
line of argument peculiar to this philosophical school. Their
dialectic is of the most rudimentary kind. From their
unsystematical reasoning to the subtle logic of an Aristotle
there is still a long way, yet in both cases the principle is the
same. The Chinese mind has never risen above these
rudiments and developed a complete system of logic, perhaps
because it is altogether too illogical in itself.
Yin Wên Tse lived in the reign of king
Hsüan of
Chi [342-324 B.C.] and Kung Sun Lung relates an
interesting discussion which he had with this prince. His
arguments mostly turn on the relation of words to their
[real] objects. There ought to be a perfect harmony.
between the two. Things must be given their right names:
what is good should be called good, and what is bad be
named bad. According to this correct standard things are
to be treated; only he who deserves honour is to be
honoured, not the unworthy.3 Sovereign and subjects must
keep within the spheres marked out by their names. That is
what Yin Wên Tse understands by the expression Ethe
rectification of names. Truth is always truth and falsehood
falsehood; but, alas, in this world a lie very often takes the
place of truth. It is not objective truth which reigns supreme,
but that which the general opinion, the consensus omnium,
declares to be truth, although it be falsehood.5 And there is
one more cause of error, viz. individual likes and dislikes, which
vitiate our judgment. One man likes sweet things, another
sour ones. What appears good to one person appears bad to
another, πάντων χρημάτων μέτρον άνθρωπος, as Protagoras says.
So it happens that the same word conveys to different persons
quite different ideas.
'He was not, however, a disciple of Kung Sun Lung [who lived
two centuries later] as Dr. Faber states [Doctrines of Confucius, p. 19].
2 Yin Wên, p. 1.
3 Loc. cit., p. 7.
。犯聚者為非順聚者為是[p.6].
*Loc. cit., p. 5.
P. 2.

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
Yin Wên Tse distinguished three categories of words, or,
properly speaking, of attributes: (1) words describing things,
such as square and round, white and black, (2) words
approving or disapproving, e.g. good and bad, noble and
mean, (3) comparative words, e.g. wise and stupid, to love
and to hate.¹
There is not much in these distinctions, yet they are
remarkable for their tendency. That Yin Wên Tse clearly
discriminates between objects and their attributes or between
subject and predicate is clear from the following passage:-"In
the expression 'a good ox' good is a general designation of
things, whereas ox denotes the shape of a thing. . .
If we
say 'a good horse,' good is again combined with horse. Good
therefore is a general term, and not limited to a certain place.
If we say 'a good man,' good belongs to man.
Hence good
is not man, and man is not good. Therefore, the expressions
good ox, good horse, good man, separate of themselves,"
viz. into object and attribute."
We are so familiar now with these categories of subject
and predicate that we can hardly realise that their first
discovery and enunciation was really a great scientific
triumph. In this respect does Yin Wên Tse again resemble
the Greek sophists, who likewise made the first grammatical
researches. Protagoras distinguished propositions according
'to their modes and found out the genera of nouns. Prodicus
lectured on synonyms.
'一日命物之名方白黑是也二日毁譽之名善
惡貴賤是也三日況謂之名賢愚愛惜是也[p. 1].
“好牛....好則物之通牛物之定形...
設復言好馬則復於馬則好所通無方也設復言
好人則彼屬於人也好非人人非好也則好牛好馬
好人之名自離[p.2].

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
7
A great part of Yin Wên Tse's book is taken up
with the usual commonplace reflections on government, that
inexhaustible source of the platitudes of the literati.
Such a
In order to get a clearer view of the Chinese sophists it
would be well to draw a sharp distinction between sophisms
and paradoxes. A sophism is a false argument, a faulty
syllogism, comprising premises and conclusion.
sophism or fallacy is e.g. the following of the teetotaler:-
"That which prompts man to rash and inconsiderate acts and
ruins his nervous system is an evil. Wine does this.
Therefore wine is an evil"; or that of the fatalist given by
Cicero "If it is man's fate to recover from a certain
sickness, whether he employ a physician or not, he recovers.
If he is doomed not to recover, whether he employ a
physician or not, he does not recover. In both cases there is
fate. Therefore it is of no use calling a doctor." A paradox
is a proposition contrary to received opinion, which, though
absurd in terms or appearance may yet be true in fact.-
[Webster]. It is but the result, the conclusion of an argument,
the premises being left to the imagination of the hearer.
An excellent illustration is the famous dictum of Proudhon,
Property is theft." The effect produced by a paradox on
the mind of the hearer is very great. It puzzles him and
compels him to think. He finds himself in the dilemma of
either solving the problem or of admitting his own inability.
Therefore many writers make use of paradoxes, some more,
some less.
As regards the Chinese sophists, we find fully developed
sophisms with major, minor and conclusion only in Kung
'Si fatum tibi est, ex hoc morbo convalescere, sive medicum adhibueris
sive non, convalesces; item: si fatum tibi est, ex hoc morbo non
convalescere, sive tu medicum adhibueris sive non,-non convalesces.
Et alterum utrum fatum est: medicum ergo adhibere nihil attinet.
[Cicero de fato, 12].

8
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
Sun Lung. Of Têng Hsi and Hui Tse paradoxes alone have
been preserved. These sophists were not the only inventors
of paradoxes. The Taoist literature teems with them. Can
there be anything more paradoxical than Lao Tse's saying
that "perfect virtue is not virtue, therefore it is virtue.
Common virtue never parts with virtue, therefore it is no
virtue" [Tao tê ching, Cap. 38] *1, or the assertion that "not
leaving one's house one knows the world, not looking
through the window one sees the ways of Heaven. The farther
one goes, the less one knows. Thus the Sage knows without
going out, names without seeing, completes without doing
anything" [Tao tê ching, Cap. 47]. We cannot be surprised
that the Taoist philosophers uttering such sentiments were
also sometimes called sophists by their adversaries.
Besides the sophists already mentioned, viz. Têng Hsi,
Hui Tse, Kung Sun Lung and Mao Kung, Chuang Tse
[Cap. XXXIII, 26] introduces one more, Huan Tuan,
probably the same as Han Tan, mentioned by Lieh Tse
[Cap. IV, 10], of whom nothing more than the name is
known. We are no more fortunate in regard to another
sophist, Tien Pa, who must have lived in Ch'i about the
3rd century B.C. He found fault with the old emperors, and
would dispute on the separation of hard and white and on the
identity of like and unlike. Hundreds of people believed in
him. Lu Chung Lien ff, the famous minister of Ch'i,
1 上德不德是以有德下德不失德是以無德
*This is not quite fair to the compiler of the Tao teh king, who has
enough sins to anwer for. and in old Chinese when the work was pre-
sumably written were identical in form as in sound, tak, [see China
Review, XXIV, 185]. I translate :-
The superior (man's) virtue effects nothing for the reason that it has
acquired all.
The inferior (man's) virtue, not being free from (a bent towards)
grasping, for that reason has not (the ability) to acquire.
2不出戶知天下不見天道其出彌遠其知彌
少是以聖人不行而知不見而名不為而成

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
rebuked him, saying that he was like an owl, cursed by
everybody. This remonstrance impressed the poor sophist so
much that he never dared to talk any more, which is of
course nonsense.
It is not improbable, that Chinese Sophistic is a product
of Mihism. After Mê-ti died, his school split into
three branches, which recognised as their teachers
Hsiang Li, Hsiang Fu and Têng Ling. These
schools, Chuang Tse informs us,³ regarded each other as
schismatics, quarrelled over the "hard and white" the "like
and unlike" and argued over questions of "odd and even."
Chuang Tse mentions Hsiang Li Chin' and
Têng Ling Tse, but not Hsiang Fu, and instead of them two
others, Ku Huo and
Chi Chih. Ku Huo is
Ku Kuo. The
Tang Ku Kuo, a
presumably only another way of writing
Lü-shih-chun-chiu speaks of one
Mihist of the Ch'in state, living at the court of King Hui
[B.C. 337-311]. Another Mihist of the West, of the
name of Hsieh Tse, went to call upon King Hui.
Tang Ku Kuo, afraid lest his colleague should gain more
influence over his royal patron than he, warned the king
against him as a sophist, a consummate debater and dangerous
character. The king then declined to hear him.
I find a further proof that the Mihists had sophistic
tendencies in Chapters 40-46 in the work which goes by the
name of Mê Ti. It was not written by Mê Ti himself
any more than the works ascribed to Confucius, Chuang Tse
or Lieh Tse were composed by those philosophers, but must
have originated in the Mihist school or schools. It requires a
1 淵鑑類函 Cap. 298 辯
Han Fei Tse, L, 10.
Chuang Tse, XXXIII, 18.
*Hsiang Li is the surname, Chin the Lü-shih-chun-chiu, XVI, 16.
"Tang must be the surname.
2

10
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
thorough critical revision, for, as it now stands, it is a
congeries of at least three masses of heterogeneous writings.
The work gives Mê Ti's teachings under three different forms,
each chapter or book being divided into three parts, all
treating the same subject. Those three corresponding
chapters may be compared to the three synoptic Gospels,
which also seem to have been derived from some common
source. Perhaps we have in these corresponding chapters
records of Mê Ti's sayings handed down in the three Mihist
schools referred to by Han Fei Tse. The final chapters [51-
71, on warfare and tactics] have undoubtedly nothing to do
with Mê Ti. Nobody could have denounced war in stronger
terms than he has done, and it seems incredible that the same
man should have taught the art of fighting and of attacking
or defending cities. Neither can chapters 40-46 embody his
views, for Mê Ti himself was no sophist at all, as we see from
all the other chapters. Besides, he is never called a sophist
by other writers, which would have been the case if he really
had been one. Chapters 40-46 seem to contain aphorisms of
the sophistic followers of Mê Ti. The text of these chapters
is now so corrupt that it is almost unintelligible, and the few
passages one can make out are absurd and childish. As the
other philosophical chapters are perfectly consistent, we are
perhaps justified in assuming that the pseudo-sophistical part
of Mê Ti's work is a clumsy later forgery intended to
supplement the original chapters which have been lost. I now
propose to give a sketch of the three principal sophists and
their doctrines, as far as they have come down to us.
I. 鄧析子TÊNG HSI Tse.
Our oldest authority about Têng Hsi is Lieh Tse. He
tells us that Têng Hsi lived in the Chêng state contempor-
aneously with Tse Chan, a celebrated Minister of State.

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
11
His sayings were very ambiguous, and it was very hard to
grasp his meanings. He was a great jurist, and composed
the so-called Bamboo Code, which was put into force in
Chêng. To the administration of Tse Chan he gave so much
trouble that the latter put him to death. Although this
fact is confirmed by Yin Wên Tse [p. 8] and F
Hsün Tse, we had better follow the authority of the Tso-
chuan, according to which Têng Hsi was not executed by
order of Tse Chan but by one of his successors,
Sse Chuan, in the 9th year of Duke Ting of Lu, i.e.
B.C. 501. Tse Chan had already died in B.C. 522, the 20th
year of Duke Chao of Lu. From Book VII [4 seq.] of
Lieh Tse, which in fact belongs to Yang Chu, it would
appear that Tse Chan and Têng Hsi were, at one time at
least, on good terms, since Tse Chan consulted Têng Hsi in
his family affairs. That Têng Hsi should have had some
friction with other politicians of his country is not to be
wondered at, for as the author of a new penal code he must
have held a prominent position. In one passage² Lieh Tse
introduces our author in the midst of his disciples, taunting
another philosopher and his followers on the score of the
unproductiveness of their labour. They were, he says,
unable to maintain themselves, and a burden to the state,
which had to feed them. Dr. Faber seems to infer from this
narrative that Têng Hsi held democratic views. I doubt
whether this be correct, because in his writing Têng Hsi
appears rather to be a votary of absolutism.
In the Han-shu [Cap. 30] Têng Hsi, as we have seen,
ranks among the dialecticians. The Chien-lung Catalogue,
however, and the Collection of Hundred Scholars consider
him as a jurist, probably on account of the Bamboo Code.
'Lich Tse, VI, 5.
Faber, Licius, pp. xiv and 94.
Lich Tse, IV, 9.
‘子書百家

12
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
The remains of Têng Hsi consist of two chapters, which are
already mentioned in the Han-shu. They contain a series of
detached aphorisms on various subjects, which have perhaps
been collected by his disciples. Chinese critics do not doubt
their genuineness as a whole, and I think that we can safely
accept their view. There are several curious parallelisms of
the text with that of the philosopher Kwei Ku Tse
and one such with Chuang Tse [Cap. X], but I have the
impression that it is rather the philosopher of the Dragon
Valley who culled from our author. The one parallel with
Chuang Tse does not prove much. Besides, it must be
remembered that the Chinese, even of our time, being fond
of showing their erudition and vast learning, like to quote
ancient authors without acknowledging the source.
Provided
that the work of Kwei Ku Tse is a genuine production, its
author
may have done so likewise and in good faith.
There is another difficulty, however, namely the incon-
sistency of some of the aphorisms, which are in some instances
very conflicting, one of two controverting and excluding the
other. The reason seems to be that some are the outcome of
Têng Hsi's philosophical theory, others the expressions of his
That theory and practice in the same individual
mutually clash is not infrequent, even with people other than
philosophers. Perhaps these apparent divergencies admit of
still another explanation, as will be seen further on.
common-sense.
Let us
Why was Têng Hsi then accounted a sophist
hear some of his sayings:-"He who really hears," says he,
"can hear where there is no sound; he who really sees, can
see where there is no sight; he can lay his plans conformably
to what is not yet manifest, and take the necessary
precautions against what has not yet come to pass. Not
on
Entitled the chapter on "Unkindness" and
"the turning of names," the theme referring only to the subjects treated at
the beginning of each chapter. Cfr. Chuang Tse.

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
13
hearing with the ear, he apprehends the inaudible, not seeing
with the eye, he perceives the immaterial, not scheming with the
mind, he grasps what is not evident, not meditating with the
intellect, he conforms to what has not yet come into existence."
[Appendix I, 3.]
"Looking at what is not there, one obtains that which
one sees; listening to what has no sound, one obtains that.
which one hears. Hence the immaterial is the root.
of the material, the soundless is the mother of sound.".
[ 16.]
And "The doctrine when understood cannot be ap-
prehended, cannot be practised. He who knows the great
doctrine does not know it, and thus obtains it; does not
practise it, and thus completes it. He has nothing, but
nothing fails him. Holding the empty, he finds out the full
truth." [ 10.]
That Têng Hsi's contemporaries were at a loss how to un-
derstand such words, and took them for mere sophistry without
either rhyme or reason, intended only to dupe and mystify
people, is quite natural. But what does Têng Hsi really
mean? He tells us pretty clearly in the last paragraph.
"The eye is prized for vision, the ear for hearing, the
heart for justice. If we see with the world-eye, there is
nothing which we do not see. If we hear with the world-
ear, there is nothing which we do not hear. If we think
with the world-intellect, there is nothing which we do not
understand. Possessing these three faculties, one preserves
them in inaction." [ 27.]
Têng Hsi discriminates between ordinary perceptions,
ordinary knowledge and real perceptions or real knowledge.
「天下之目... 耳
•
.
.
智盧

14
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
Real knowledge is of a much higher order than what
commonly goes by that name. It enables the knowing to per-
ceive things before they have come into existence. They see
the future as if it was present, hearing sounds which have not
yet been produced and perceiving forms which are still latent.
And whence do they derive these sensations? Not from
their organs of sense-the eye, the ear, not even their mind
or intellect: they must see with the world-eye, hear with
the world-ear, think with the world-intellect. These three
expressions denote one and the same thing, that which by a
curious coincidence Schopenhauer also calls "das ewige
Weltauge" (the eternal world-eye). It is nothing else than
the Brahman of the Hindoos, the Tao of the Chinese, the
Mundane Soul or the Absolute of modern philosophers. In
order to see with the world-eye or think with the world-intellect
the individual mind must be completely absorbed by it. The
soul must be merged in Tao or entirely identify itself with the
Absolute. It is impossible to clearly describe this mystical
process. Only Mystics know it or at least pretend to do so.
Têng Hsi, therefore, may well say that he who knows this
great doctrine does not know it, i.e. he feels it intuitively, but
his mind has no part in it, and he can give no account of it.
We find this same mysticism under different forms all
over the world. In Sadananda's Vedantasára¹ [188 and 191]
we read that after a student has become firmly convinced that
he himself is the infinite, undivided Brahman,-by its nature
eternal, pure, reasonable, redeemed, true and the highest bliss,
-his individual intellect is overpowered by the self-shining,
highest Brahman, which is identical with the inner soul, just
as the light of a lamp is overpowered by the light of the sun.
The effusion of the Holy Ghost in the Acts of the
Apostles is similarly described. The Spirit sat upon the
'In Bochtlingek Sanscrit Chrestomathie [p. 281].

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
15
Apostles and filled their minds. Their tongues became fiery
and they began to preach in other languages, as the Spirit
taught them.'
Peter declared that it was but the fulfilment
of a prophecy that God would pour out his Spirit, and that
their sons and daughters should prognosticate and have visions,
and their elders dreams." In other passages it is said that the
Spirit fell down upon the audience. The individual minds of
the Apostles were overpowered, outshone, effaced by the
brilliancy of the Spirit. They could not use their own
intellect to speak languages which were absolutely unknown
to them, but had recourse to the world-intellect, which spoke
through them.
The Holy Ghost is the pivot of the speculations of the
Mystics in the middle-ages. We have the following curious
statement of Jacob Boehme :-"I say before God . . that
I myself do not know what happens to me. Without being
pushed I do not know what to write. Whenever I write, the
Spirit dictates to me and gives me grand and wonderful
knowledge, so that I often doubt whether I am in this world
with my own mind, and I am full of joy, because I receive
true and certain knowledge; and the more I seek, the more
I find." Bernard de Clairveaux and his school speak of
inward contemplation as the source of a certain knowledge
of the Unseen. This inward revelation is called the deeper
mystical knowledge, the illumination of reason by the Spirit, a
supernatural knowledge and an immediate perception, higher
than all reason, therefore obtainable only by a few elect.¹
The author of the Philosophy of the Unconscious Mind,
von Hartmann, is the most modern representative of this kind
of mysticism. The Unconscious Mind, the Absolute, is
Acts, II, 3 and 4.
Eod., 17.
Acts, X, 44, and XI, 15.
I quote from v. Hartmann, Philosophy of the Unconscious Mind
[Vol. I, pp. 311, 312], who regards the Mystics as his predecessors.

16
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
especially at work in all animal and human instincts, in the
inspirations of artists and men of genius, in dreams,
somnambulism and visions, and besides leads and controls the
Conscious Mind.
But let us return to Têng Hsi. Another consequence of
his mysticism is his view that everything positive evolves
out of its negative, "Honesty is evolved out of what is not
honest, justice is born from what is not just" [¶ 10].
"Anger originates from no anger, action from no action,"
[16]. I presume that in all these cases the negative
is the mystical principle, which is devoid of any moral or
other human quality, and yet the only source of everything
positive. The true mystic does not pay attention to
contraries, for in the Absolute there are no contraries, all
seeming contrasts are blended into one. The same opinion is
expressed by Chuang Tse.¹
The practical side of mysticism is inaction and quietism
[10 and 19]. Contemplation is regarded as the
highest virtue. The mystic does nothing by himself on
purpose, but is pushed by the Spirit, as Jacob Boehme says.
He follows his instincts and inspirations. Thus he is not
absolutely passive, but only in so far as it is not he who
really acts, but the Spirit who acts through him, using him as
his tool. With these restrictions Têng Hsi might well set
up rules for practical government and discourse on the duties
of princes. It is always understood that they must not act of
their own accord but be prompted by the Spirit.
The ideal man of Têng Hsi is not only inactive but also
dispassionate and contented. He takes everything easy.
Owing to his intimate connexion with the mystical principle, he
possesses an extraordinary perspicacity, and all his devices are
unfailing [20]. Accordingly Têng Hsi does not think
Chuang Tee, II, 20.

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
17
much of such qualities as intelligence, strength, nobility and
wealth, and refuses to bow to people endowed with these gifts
which are so much coveted [¶ 23]. The Confucian Sages
he heartily despises for being the associates of rascally princes,
and holds them accountable for the existence of robbers, vice
being in his belief the necessary correlate of worldly virtue
[¶ 17].
On the moral state of the world Têng Hsi utters some
bitter truths. "Those who steal property," he s says, "are put to
death, those who steal kingdoms become princes" [¶ 17].
And not mankind alone but even Heaven is impeached of
injustice and unkindness. Offences are punished even if the
culprits have been compelled to do evil by poverty and distress.
Heaven has no sympathy with His creatures, for He does not
prevent disastrous epidemics or other calamities by which
people come to an untimely end, even those who for their
virtue ought to have a long and happy life [¶ 1]. The
critic of the Chien Lung Catalogue mildly rebukes Têng Hsi
for this remark. The author of the second preface to Têng
Hsi's work, who uses the pseudonym of 弇州山人
(Yen-chou hermit), feels so scandalized that he thinks that
Têng Hsi fully deserved the capital punishment meted out
to him at the hands of Sse Chuan.
By his dialectical studies Têng Hsi seems to have been
induced to establish some distinctions between synonyms
[16]. [That the Greek sophist Prodicus lectured on
synonyms has already been mentioned.] These distinctions
are, however, quite arbitrary and useless. For debates Têng
Hsi gives some practical hints how to defeat the opponent,
but repudiates all dialectical tricks [7]. An adversary
of the sophists could not have more earnestly advocated fair
play in all discussions.
Têng Hsi's theory of government is in some degree
amalgamated with his dialectic. He enjoins upon the rulers
3

18
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
of states to ascertain the truth by verifying all that
they hear. Great stress is laid on these inquiries, which
Têng Hsi calls investigations of names [¶ 2]. Princes
are not only cautioned against over-activity and too
much interfering with their subjects [¶ 3], but inaction
is held up to them as an ideal [14]. As we have
already seen, this does not mean absolute quietism. The
princes must not act of purpose, but spontaneously, following
their nature and yielding to their inner voice.
Têng Hsi condemns all artificiality and speaks in high
terms of the simplicity and honesty of olden days. Cruel
punishments such as tattooing or cutting off the criminal's feet
or nose seem to him unnatural and therefore useless, because
people are not improved thereby but hardened and brutalised.
He therefore pleads for mild penalties [¶ 19]. We are
perhaps right in assuming that Têng Hsi's penal code
introduced reforms in the criminal procedure, mitigating the
severe punishments in vogue at that time. The result,
however, seems not to have been very beneficial. When
Tse Chan died he admonished his successor, Tse Tai Shu
*, to use severity in governing the people. Tse Tai Shu
did not do so, but tried to be mild. The consequence was
that the Chêng state was infested with robbers which the
Prime Minister then had to suppress by force¹. Perhaps,
later on, Têng Hsi was personally held responsible for
the failure of his system, and had to pay with his life.
Politically Têng Hsi is by no means democratic, but
an absolutist [ 2]. In his state-car the sovereign is the
charioteer, his officials are the horses, the people only the
cart-wheels [3].
In conclusion, I may add that Têng Hsi has much in
common with the Taoists. Much more paradoxical than
Têng Hsi is.
Tso-chuan, B. X. 20,

THE OHINESE SOPHISTS.
19
II. HUI SHIH.¹
He was a contemporary of Chuang Tse, living at the
court of King Hui of Liang, whose reign lasted from
370-335 B.C. Liang is another name for Wei, referring
Ta Liang,
to the new capital of the Wei state
the modern Kai-feng-fu in Honan. Owing to constant
attacks from the rival kingdoms of Chi and Chao, King Hui
removed his capital from An-yi in Shansi to Ta-liang.
Hui Tse survived his friend and patron king Hui: his
lifetime must, therefore, have fallen into the latter part
of the 4th century B.C. According to the commentator of
the Li-shih-chun-chiu, Kao-yu, of the later Han
time, Hui Tse was a native of the Sung state.³
Hui Tse is generally believed to have held the position
of a Minister of State in Liang, although the Shi-chi,
in the chapter on the House of Wei, does not mention it.
Hui Tse's influence over King Hui must have been very
great. Not only did the latter confer upon him the
honorary title of Chung Fu, in remembrance of
the famous statesman 管仲 Kuan Chung or 管夷吾
Kuan I-Wu, but he is even reported to have tried hard
to yield his kingdom to him, which Hui Tse, however,
did not accept. The Lü-shih-chun-chiu, which is our authority
for this story, says that it was sham on both sides, king
and minister wishing to acquire fame by pretending
to imitate Yao and Shun. Hui Tse seems to have had
some influence with the son and successor of his royal master
also. The latter was about to celebrate the funeral of his
father, when there was a heavy snowfall. All the dissuasion
Shih is the The philosopher is generally called Hui Tse.
Lü-shih-chun-chiu, XXI, 1.
Loc. cit., XVIII, 12.
Chuang Tse, XVII, 17.
Shi-chi, Cap. 44.
Li-shih-chun-chiu, XVIII, 14.

20
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
of the other officials was in vain, and it was Hui Tse alone
who prevailed upon the king to postpone the interment.¹
At all events Hui Tse was a great man in Liang. We
learn that Chuang Tse saw him travelling with a hundred
carriages.
Hui Tse worked out new laws for the Liang state,
which pleased the people as well as King Hui but were
opposed by a certain Ti Chien,³ who must have had
some standing with the king. The Lü-shih-chun-chiu says
that the king saved his kingdom by listening to the advice
of Ti Chien. During the whole reign of King Hui his
state was distracted with war. Out of fifty battles he is said
to have lost twenty. In the last year of his reign he invited
scholars from all sides, told them how unfortunate in war
he had been, and asked their advice. It was then that
Mencius had those famous interviews with King Hui which
open the first book of Mencius' work.
5
Perhaps Hui Tse had his share of responsibility in the
wars waged by King Hui. Kuang Chang at least,
another adversary of his, lays the blame on him in the Lü-
shih-chun-chiu, where Hui Tse defends his aggressive
policy."
Hui Tse's greatest opponent was the Taoist philosopher
Chuang Tse. However different their views, they respected
one another. A more generous tribute could not have been
paid to the memory of Hui Tse than that paid by Chuang Tse
saying that since the death of Hui Tse he had lost his material
and had no one left to talk to. On the other hand, it is
too much to say that they were intimate friends, a belief which
'Eod., XXI, 1.
Huai-nan-tse, XI, 17.
3 Lü-shih-chun-chiu, XVIII, 12 and Huai-nan, XII, 2.
Lü-shih-chun-chiu, XVIII, 14. Eod., XVIII, 13.
Shih-chi, Cap. 44.
Lü-shih, XVIII, 13 and XXI, 8 seq.
Chuang Tse, XXIV, 18.

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
21
appears to have been common in the Han period to judge from
the fact that in the Hou Han-shu Chuang Tse and Hui Tse
were ranked as a couple of friends like Po Ya and Chung
Tse Chi¹ They disputed together and were on friendly
terms, but nothing more. Chuang Tse went to visit Hui Tse
in Liang. Hui Tse was at first afraid that Chuang Tse came
with the intention of superseding him as minister.² When
Chuang Tse's wife died, Hui Tse went to condole with
him.3
The conversations between Chuang Tse and Hui Tse as
related in Chuang Tse must be taken with great reserve.
They were probably never held, but invented by Chuang
Tse's pupils with a view to glorify their master. The philoso-
phers of other schools, above all Confucius, seem to have
been introduced only as foils for Chuang Tse to make the latter
shine more brightly. They cut very poor figures; either they
receive instructions from Chuang Tse or are taken to task by
him, but they never say anything clever on their own account.
The violent attacks upon Hui Tse in the last chapter
of Chuang Tse do certainly not represent the latter's views.
But this chapter is evidently of much later origin than
the others, and, as Giles points out, simply a summary
by the first editors of Chuang Tse. Hui Tse is very hardly
dealt with in the Lü-shih-chun-chiu.5 Hsün Tse criticises
him and his paradoxes.
Hui Tse must have been a very prolific writer. His
works are said to have been so numerous that they would
have filled five carts. It is to be regretted that not a single
one has come down to us. They were already lost in the Han
dynasty, for the Han Catalogue contains the significant entry:
C. Pétillon, Allusions littéraires, p. 99.
3 Eod., XVIII, 20.
Chuang Tse, XVII, 17.
Eod., XXXIII, 23 seq.
Lü-shih-chun-chiu, XVIII, 14. Hsün Tse, XV, 4, XVI, 6, XVIII, 3.
Chuang Tse, XXXIII, 23.

22
THE OHINESE SOPHISTS.
"Hui Tse one chapter." What we know of Hui Tse's
doctrine are his paradoxes, of which the greater number have
been recorded in Chuang Tse and some few in Hsun Tse.
These paradoxes have been a stumbling-block to the
Chinese commentators and the European translators.. Some
native scholars opine that they are riddles defying any attempt
at unravelling them. Legge concurs with this view. Balfour
agrees with those who declare these aphorisms to be devoid of
sense. Giles ventures to explain their meaning, but his ex-
planations are most of them so forced and unnatural that
they cannot be correct. Hui Tse asserts that "a fowl has
three legs." According to Sse Ma Piao's
comment,
adopted by Giles, the third leg would be volition. "Ying
(the capital of Chu) is the world," because, says Giles, you
cannot say it is not the world. "A horse lays eggs" would
mean only that names are arbitrary. Hui Tse tells us
that "a tortoise is longer than a snake." The Chinese
commentators and Giles submit that longer means longer
lived.
To the paradox "A white dog is black" Sse Ma Piao
and Giles add the ridiculous comment that a white dog is
black, if his eyes are black, part standing for the whole.
Another commentator says that if a dog is not black but
white, its whiteness may be regarded as its blackness!
None of these scholars has found the clue to Hui Tse's
queer sayings. Although Chuang Tse impresses upon us that
Hui Tse's own son searched his works for some clue in vain,
and that it is impossible to derive from them a general
principle, I presume that I have discovered it. To my mind
Hui Tse denies the existence of space and time, in short of
the reality of the world; and his paradoxes serve only to
‘惠子一篇
2 Chuang Tse, II, 19.

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
23
illustrate this idea. My reasons are the following. The
paradoxes enumerated in Chuang Tse are headed by the
fundamental axiom "The infinitely great, beyond which there
is nothing, I call the great Unit. The infinitely small, within
which there is nothing, I call the small Unit." Thus Hui Tse
recognises two opposite poles-the unlimited Infinite, beyond
which there is nothing, and the Atom, which has no dimen-
sions and within which there is nothing. The conception of
the Atom without dimensions as the smallest unit of Substance
leads Hui Tse into a dilemma or an antinomy, which in his
paradoxical style he formulates thus: "That which has no
dimensions cannot be heaped up, and yet it spans a thousand
Li." It means that there is space, there are distances of a
thousand Li. The matter filling up these thousand Li is com-
posed of Atoms, but these unsubstantial Atoms heaped up or
put together will never measure a thousand Li. One may
combine ever so many millions of mathematical points, they
never give more than one mathematical point. Out of the
multiplication of non-dimensions there can never result a
dimension. In this way Hui Tse perceived space practically,
but could not construct or conceive it theoretically. Con-
sequently he assumed it to be unreal, a mere illusion of our
senses. From his maxim: "One must love all beings
equally, for heaven and earth are one and the same," it would
appear that he believed in some uniform entity. Time being
so closely connected with space, i.e. with the movement of
bodies, Hui Tse while denying the existence of space could
not well uphold that of time, and along with space he had to
give up things and their attributes or qualities.
That Hui Tse really held these views I infer moreover
from the striking resemblance his paradoxes bear to those of
Giles does not seem to have grasped this simple truth, for in his note
to the above paradox he states that mathematical points collectively fill up
space.

24
THE OHINESE SOPHISTS.
the Greek Eleatic philosophers Parmenides and especially
Zeno, who by their arguments attempted to prove that the
assumption of a multitude of things, of movement and of time,
is erroneous. Zeno argues that if there were a multitude of
things, they must be at the same time infinitely small, their
constituent particles being without dimensions, and infinitely
great owing to their unlimited multitude. Hui Tse's first
axiom contains the same idea.
To show the impossibility of movement Zeno reasons as
follows: A body moving in a certain direction will never reach
a certain goal. In order to finish a certain distance, it must
first have finished half of it, and, before this half is finished,
half of this half, and so on ad infinitum. The given distance
can be divided into an infinite number of smallest distances,
to pass through all of which would take an infinite time, which
amounts to saying that the moving body could never reach its
goal. The same ratiocination is at the bottom of Zeno's
famous sophism on "Achilles and the Tortoise." Achilles run-
ning after a tortoise cannot overtake it, because the moment he
reaches the place where the tortoise was, it has already left it
again. The two paradoxes of Hui Tse: "Cart-wheels do not
triturate the ground" and "The finger does not touch, the
touching never comes to an end" must be understood in the
same sense. The wheel does not touch the ground nor the
finger an object by reason of the infinite divisibility of space,
an infinite number of atoms still lying between things
apparently in touch. Hui Tse's last paradox is very much
akin to "Achilles and the Tortoise": "If every day you chop
off half of a stick one foot long, you will not have finished
with it after ten thousand generations," i.e. never, you can go
on dividing and dividing for ever.
In Simplicius ad Aristotle Phys., fol. 30.
Aristotle Phys., VI, 9.

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
25
Zeno asserts that a flying arrow is at rest. Hui Tse
shows that the idea of movement is self-contradictory by
saying that "There is a time when a swiftly flying arrow
is neither moving nor at rest." It cannot be at rest, for we
see it moving; and it cannot move, because we do not under-
stand how a movement through a space composed of an
infinite number of atoms is possible within a limited time.
Parmenides denies the reality of time. Real entity, as
he conceives it, is uncreated, indestructible, a whole, single,
unmoveable and eternal, it has not been and it will not be, but it
is now, a continuous One. I may be allowed to quote a
modern poet who more paradoxically describes real existence
as past and present at the same time:-
Ich bin schon lange begraben,
Ich weiss, dass ich einst war.
Ich koste des Lebens Gaben
Und athme immerdar.
Ich gankle, ein lüsterner Falter,
Unsterblich im flüchtigen Schein.
Ich kenne nicht Jugend, nicht Alter,
Ich bin das ewige Sein.'
Hui Tse does not mean anything else when he says
"The sun sets when it is in the zenith. Creatures die when
they are born." "Going to Yüeh to-day, one arrives there
yesterday."
Someone might object that I credit Hui Tse with ideas
which may be Greek or modern but are alien to the Chinese
25
Heinze-Ueberweg, Geschichte der Philosophie, Vol. I, p. 78.
ἀγένητον ἐὸν καὶ ἀνώλεθρόν ἔστιν, οὗλον, μουνογενές
τὲ καὶ ἀτρεμὲς ἠδ᾽ ἀτέλεστον, Οὐδέ ποτ᾽ ἦν οὐδ᾽ ἔσται, ἐπεὶ νῦν ἔστιν ὁμοῦ
πᾶν, Εν ξυνεχές.
Karl Bleibtren.
"I have been buried long ago. I know that I was once. I enjoy
the pleasures of life, and breath evermore.
I flutter, a wanton butterfly, immortal in transient light. I know
not youth, nor age, I am Eternal Existence.

26
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
mind. To those who think thus I would recommend the study
of Chuang Tse, where amongst others they will find the
following passage:-
"There is nothing under the canopy of heaven greater
than the tip of an autumn spikelet. A vast mountain is
a small thing. Neither is there any age greater than that
of a child cut off in infancy. P'êng Tsu (the Chinese Methu-
saleh) himself died young. The universe and I came into
being together; and I, and everything therein, are One."
Here Chuang Tse denies the reality of space and time
quite evidently, and his paradoxes are very much like those of
Hui Tse. He starts, however, from another basis, viz. the
relativity of all our notions, such as great and small, old and
young, good and bad, which induces him to identify and thus
dissolve all contraries. Chuang Tse dissents from Hui Tse's
atomistic views, maintaining that the Atom as well as the
Universe must possess form and therefore dimensions.
To sum up, I believe that the paradoxes of Hui Tse are
intended to illustrate the unreality of space and time and
their attributes. A hypothesis is considered a good one if
it establishes a general principle which explains things in an
easy, natural way. I trust that mine does. It is based upon
and evolved out of Hui Tse's own sayings. It shows that the
Eleatics, Parmenides and Zeno, as well as Chuang Tse, use the
same or very similar arguments to prove that our visible world
is sham and illusion.
Against space the following paradoxes are directed :-
II. "That which has no dimensions cannot be heaped
up, but it spans a thousand Li," which has already been
mentioned.
III. "Heaven is as low as earth. A mountain is on a
level with a lake," which Hsün Tse gives in the following
Chuang Tse, II, 20.
Eod., XVII, 10.

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
27
form-I. "Mountains and pools are equally high, heaven
and earth are level." This means to imply that height and
depth are imaginary, that their contrast is not real.
1X. "I know that the centre of the world lies north of
Yen (the modern Chili) and south of Yüeh (Fukien)." If
such be the case, the distance between these two states cannot
exist, which involves the existence of space in general.
X. "One must love all beings equally, for heaven and
earth are one and the same," has been noticed.
XIII. "Ying (the capital of the kingdom of Chu) is the
world," then the world cannot have the extension which we see.
XXII. "A tortoise is longer than a snake." This must
not be taken literally. Hui Tse wants to show that the differ-
ence in length between the two creatures is only a seeming
one. In fact there exists neither length nor shortness.
II. Chi (a state in Shantung) and Chin (in the province
of Shensi) are conterminous. This is a counterpart to No. IX.
That space is divisable ad infinitum is brought home to
us in the aphorisms:
:―
XIX. "Cart-wheels do not triturate the ground."
XXI. "The finger does not touch, the touching never
comes to an end," already mentioned.
XXIV. "A handle does not fit in a chisel," there
being still innumerable atoms between the chisel and its
handle.
XXXI.-"If every day you chop off half of a stick one
foot long, you will not have finished with it after ten thousand
generations," also referred to.
The reality of time is negatived in the following
paradoxes:-
IV. "The sun sets when it is in the zenith."
VII." Going to Yüeh to-day one arrives there yester-
day."

28
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
XI. "There are feathers in an egg," i.e. the feathers of
the young bird which exists already although it has not yet
been born. Future and present are the same."
25
XXVI. "There is a time when a swiftly flying arrow
is neither moving nor at rest," mentioned before.
XXX." An orphan colt has not had a mother." Past
and present being the same, the colt was already an orphan
when it had its mother.
Without space
All things are conditioned by space.
things cannot be as they appear to us. They cannot have
those qualities which we see in them. This is implied by the
following propositions :-
VIII. "Linked rings can be separated," i.e. without
breaking them. Connexion and separation have no reality.
XII. "A fowl has three legs." Hui Tse does not
mean that a fowl really has three legs, but only wants to
refute the illusion that it has two. Being without dimensions
it has neither body nor legs.
XXIII.-"A square is not square, and a circle cannot
be considered as round."
XXIX.-"A white dog is black."
Geometrical forms and colours have no real existence.
That the nature of things is quite different from what we
fancy, Hui Tse tries to make clear by the following paradoxes.
It must always be borne in mind that they are not to be
taken au pied de la lettre but cum grano salis. They are only
negative. The positive and categorical form is nothing but
a dialectical façon de parler:
XIV." A dog can be regarded as a sheep."
XV. "A horse lays eggs," i.e. is a bird.
XVI." A nail has a tail." IV. "A hook has a barb."
Then both would be animate beings.
XVIII. "Mountains speak."

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
29
XXVII. "A dog is no hound," because the categories
and species which we use for the classification of things do
not exist.
Some few paradoxes-XVII, XX, XXV and XXVIII
-do not fall under the above scheme. On XVII "Fire is
not hot and XX "The eye does not see," I am going to
discourse more fully while speaking of the third sophist.
"
III. KUNG SUN LUNG.
There are
two philosophers of this name who are
frequently confounded. One is Kung Sun Lung, styled
Tse Shih, a native of Wei, or, as others say, of
Chu. He was a disciple of Confucius and 53 years younger
than his master, and must therefore have been born in 498
B.C. The sophist Kung Sun Lung hailed from the Chao
state. His honorary title was Tse Ping. We learn
from the Shi-chi that Kung Sun Lung lived in the Chao
state and argued on hardness and whiteness, like and unlike
[Cap. 74], and that the Prince of P'ing-yuan treated
him with great consideration until Tsou Yen made
his appearance, who discredited him so much with the Prince
that he was dismissed [Cap. 76
The Prince of
P'ing-yuan played an important part in the struggles which
preceded the downfall of the Chou and the establishment of
the Ch'in dynasty. His personal name was Shêng. He
was a younger brother of King Hui Wen of Chao [B.C.
298-266] and acted as Prime Minister under King Hui Wên
and his successor
Chün died in B.C. 250.
King Hsiao Chêng. P'ing-yuan
When in the year 256 Han-tan, the
Cfr. the great Cyclopedia of Surnames
and the 尙友錄
Kung Sun is the surname.
I wonder on what authority Giles [Biographical Dictionary,
No. 1031] states that Kung Sun Lung was said by Tsou Yen to be the
wisest man in the state of Chao.
Vide Giles, loc. cit., No. 1652,

30
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
capital of Chao, was saved from Ch'in, whose troops had
invested it, Ping-yuan Chün was going to donate Prince
Hsin-ling of Wei with some territory of Chao in
recognition of services rendered during the siege of
Han-tan. It is on record that Kung Sun Lung saw his
patron on this occasion, and by his remonstrances induced
him to give up this scheme. We learn from this that Kung
Sun Lung was alive about the middle of the 3rd century B.C.
It appears that King Hui of Chao also was disposed to take
Kung Sun Lung into his counsels, for we find him at court
talking to the king on disarmament and universal love
the ideal of Mê Ti. Hui Tse, as we have seen, was in
favour of war. Kung Sun Lung discussed this same subject
with King Chao of Yen³ [311-279 B.C.], to whom he
paid a visit.
At Ping-yuan Chün's residence Kung Sun Lung gave
a proof of his dialectical skill. The states of Ch'in and
Chao had made a covenant to the effect that Chao should
help Ch'in to carry out its designs, and that Ch'in would do
the same for Chao. Shortly afterwards Ch'in attacked Wei,
and Chao wished to come to Wei's assistance. The King of
Ch'in sent an envoy to complain of the violation of the treaty,
according to which Chao had to co-operate with Ch'in, not to
oppose it.
At the instigation of Kung Sun Lung, Chao
retorted by saying that Ch'in had to help Chao to carry out
its designs, that now it wished to aid Wei, and that in not
helping Chao in this Ch'in was breaking the agreement.
It was at the court of P'ing-yuan Chün also that Kung
Sun Lung met with his chief opponent LK'ung Chuan,
a descendant of Confucius in the sixth degree and grandfather
of Kung Fu JL, the alleged author of the apocryphal
Shi-chi, Cap. 76. Lü-shih-chun-chiu, XVIII, 2. Loc. cit., XVIII, 15.
Huai Nan Tse, XII, 12. Lü-shih-chun-chiu, XVIII, 10,

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
31
work of LFK'ung Tsung Tse. The debates of Kung
Sun Lung and K'ung Chuan are found in various forms and
in various authors.1
Kung Sun Lung was the head of a school and had
disciples in Chao.
mentioned in
the commentary
One of them,
Liu Hsiang's
Chi Mu Tse, is
Pieh-lu, quoted in
to the Shih-chi [Cap. 76].
The two passages referring to Kung Sun Lung in Liel
Tse [IV, 11] and Chuang Tse [XVII, 15] are both spurious..
In both of them Kung Sun Lung is brought into contact with
A
Prince Mou of Wei, a son of the Marquis Wên of
Wei [425-387 B.C.] This prince lived about a hundred
years anterior to Kung Sun Lung. There is besides internal
evidence to show, as Faber and Giles have done,³ that these
two references to Kung Sun Lung are later additions to the
works of Lieh Tse and Chuang Tse.
The Han Catalogue mentions a work of Kung Sun Lung
in 14 chapters. Of these eight were already lost before the
Sung dynasty, so that now only six chapters remain. They
are so peculiar, so entirely different from other productions,
and to a great part so cleverly written that we have no reason
to call their authenticity as a whole in question. Cap. I
contains one lengthy repetition which ought to be omitted.
The greater part of Cap. IV is, I believe, spurious. The
reasoning is so puerile and out of keeping with the other
chapters that it bears quite the features of a clumsy forgery.
In Kung Sun Lung, [Appendix III, Ch. 1], in Kung Tsung
Te's chapter on Kung Sun Lung, Lü-shih-chun-chin, XVIII, 11 and
Lich Tse, IV, 11.
Huai Nan, XII, 12.
Faber, Licius, p. 96 and Giles, Chuang Tse, p. 217.
In addition to those passages already given, Kung Sun Lung is
mentioned in Huai Nan [XI, 14], where his principal tenets are alluded to,
and in Yang Tse's Fa-yen
[II, 4], where it is said that he put
forward many thousands of strange propositions.
Chien Lung's Catalogue, Cap. 117.

32
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
The work is now generally published together with the
commentary of Hsieh Hsi Shên of the Sung
dynasty, which is not worth much and no great help to the
understanding of the very difficult text, because it interprets
every clause, though purely logical, in a phantastic moral
sense. It is a pity, therefore, that two other commentaries of
陳嗣古 Chên Sse Ku and 賈士隱 Chia Shih I are lost.
According to ancient authors, Kung Sun Lung's discus-
sions chiefly turned on three subjects-the white horse¹,
hardness and whiteness or the third in abeyance, and like
and unlike. The first two subjects are treated in Kung Sun
Lung's work but not the last. The last eight chapters were
probably partly devoted to it. It is doubtful therefore what
Kung Sun Lung's views in regard to like and unlike have
been. Huai Nan Tse [loc. cit.] says that Kung Sun Lung
discriminated between like and unlike, and separated hardness
and whiteness. Chuang Tse makes Kung Sun Lung say that
he knew all about "the identification of like and unlike, the
making the not-so so, and the impossible possible."5
tradition ascribes to Kung Sun Lung paradoxes very similar
to those of Hui Tse [some are quite the same], it is very
likely that Kung Sun Lung also denied the reality of like
and unlike or of contraries, and held that space and time,
within which these contraries confront us, are illusive.
Since
Whereas the remaining paradoxes of Hui Tse are only
detached fragments from his works, unsubstantiated and un-
proved, the sophisms propounded in Kung Sun Lung are fully
developed and abundantly supported by arguments. We
Kung Tsung Tse [chapter on Kung Sun Lung].
Chuang Tse, XVII, 15; Huai Nan, XI, 14; Shi-chi. Cap. 74.
Kung Tsung Tse, loc. cit., Lü-shih-chun-chiu, XVIII, 11.
別同異離堅白
然不然可不可. Although this
合同異
probably anterior to the Han period.
passage is an interpolation, it has nevertheless some value as an old record,
Lich Tse, IV, 11.

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
33
may assume that Hui Tse's works were similarly arranged.
The six chapters, except I and VI, are written under the
form of a dialogue, Kung Sun Lung defending his views
against the attacks of an opponent. Cap. I relates the debate of
our philosopher with Kung Chuan, whom he tries to convince
of the truth of his thesis that a white horse is no horse, citing
Confucius and Yin Wen Tse as his authorities. The same
theme is thoroughly discussed in Cap. II, where reasons pro
and con are given. From Cap. III we are to learn that all
our definitions are wrong. What we see are only phenomena,
not real entities. The chapter is highly sophistical, the word
definition being used in two different senses, which causes
great confusion. One feels quite giddy, when reading it, and
it requires much mental concentration to catch the meaning.
I will read the beginning of the chapter, which is a good
specimen of Kung Sun Lung's way of reasoning.
5
"Thesis.-There are no things which are not
defined, but those definitions are no definitions.
"Antithesis. So far as there are no definitions
on earth, things cannot be called things. If what is
on earth is not defined, can things be said to be defined?
"Thesis. Definitions there are none on earth,
things there are on earth. It is impossible to maintain
that what exists on earth is the same as what does
not exist.
"Antithesis. If there are no definitions on earth,
things cannot be said to be defined. If they cannot be
said to be defined, they are not defined.
"Thesis.-Things though not defined are never-
theless not undefined. There are no definitions on earth,
and things cannot be said to be defined, but that
does not mean that they are not defined. It does not
mean that they are not defined, for there are none but

34
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
defined things.
There being none but defined things,
definitions are not definitions."
Cap. IV opens with the sophism that two does not
contain one, nor right nor left. The rest of the chapter is
spurious. Its sophisms are too absurd to be taken au sérieuse.
Cap. V treats of the hard and white, and Cap. VI of
words and their objects. It reminds us of the dialectician
Yin Wen Tse.
Cap. II on the white horse and Cap. V on the hard and
white are by far the most interesting and deserve to be gone
into a little more fully.
What Kung Sun Lung means by saying that a white
horse is no horse we learn best from himself. Cap. II
begins as follows:-
"
horse?
Question.-Is it possible that a white horse is no
"Answer.-Yes.
"
Question.-How?
"Answer. A horse denotes a shape, white a colour.
Describing a colour one does not describe a shape,
therefore I say that a white horse is no horse.
"Question.-There being a white horse, one cannot
say
that there is no horse. If one cannot say that there
is no horse, can the existence of the horse be denied?
There being a white horse, one must admit that there is
a horse; how can whiteness bring about the non-
existence of a horse?
"Answer. When a horse is required, yellow and
black ones can all be brought, but when a white horse
is wanted, there is no room for yellow and black ones.
Now let a white horse be a horse! It is but one kind
of those required. Then, one of those required, a white
horse would not be different from a horse. Those

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
35
required do not differ. Would then yellow and black
ones meet the requirement or not? In so far as they
would meet the requirement or not, they would
evidently exclude each other. Yellow as well as black
horses are each one kind; they correspond to a call
for a horse, but not to a call for a white horse. Hence
it results that a white horse cannot be a horse.
"Question.-A horse having colour is considered
no horse. But there are no colourless horses on earth!
Are there, therefore, no horses on earth?
"Answer. Horses of course have colour, therefore
there are white horses. If horses had no colour there
would be merely horses. But how can we single out
white horses, for whiteness is no horse?
"A white horse is a horse and whiteness. Such
being the case, I hold that a white horse is no horse."
Etc. etc.
Now what is our opinion? To whom do we award the
palm, to Kung Sun Lung's opponent, who very ably advocates
the common-sense view that a white horse is a horse, or to
Kung Sun Lung contending that a white horse is no horse?
I think that both are right. A white horse is a horse and also
no horse. The ambiguity arises from the word horse. Kung
Sun Lung takes it in the sense of a horse in general, in the
abstract; his antagonist understands by it a horse in particular.
A white horse is a horse in particular, a species of the genus
horse, but it is not a horse in general. The idea of a horse
includes colour, but not a specific colour like whiteness.
Kung Sun Lung holds that a thing does not remain the
same as soon as any of its qualities is insisted upon. The
same idea was enunciated in Greece by the Cynic Antisthenes,
a disciple of the sophist Gorgias and of Socrates. He
maintained that only identical or analytical judgments such as

36
"
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
"A man is a man
or "Good is good" are possible, but that
one cannot say that a man is good, no subject admitting
of any other predicate than itself.¹ Aristotle himself, who
made the refutation of fallacies his special study, is very much
puzzled by a sophism corresponding exactly to that of our
sophist that a white horse is no horse. There was a musician
Koriskus. Now Aristotle asks: Is the musician Koriskus
the same as Koriskus? According to Grote, Aristotle holds
that, because the musician Koriskus includes two Categories
(Substance and Quality), he cannot be properly compared with
Koriskus simply, which is the Category of Substance only.
We have seen that Kung Sun Lung had the same doubts about
shape (Category of Substance) and colour (Category of
Quality) in regard to the white horse. The very simple
solution of the sophism, which we have given, escaped both
philosophers.
What Kung Sun Lung says on the white horse is
ingenious, but not of great philosophical value. His treatise
on the hard and white, however, deserves our highest praise
unreservedly. Though sophistical in form, its contents are
highly philosophical. The qualities of things, such as
hardness or whiteness, are, in the belief of Kung Sun Lung,
unknown to us. The names we give them do not describe
what they really are. They are something indefinable, and
cannot therefore be inherent in their objects. If they really
were part of their objects, they ought to be always there,
which they are not. Consequently they must have separate
existences. These existences have the peculiarity that they
are intermittent, they vanish when not perceived by us.
Whiteness exists only as long as we see it, hardness as long
as we touch it. These qualities cease to exist together with
our sensations of their existence. Kung Sun Lung says that
Plato, Sophist, 2516, Aristotle, Metaph., V, 29. Grote, Aristotle, p. 410.

THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
37
when not perceived they separate or hide. This is the mean-
ing of the paradox that a stone, hard and white, are together
two things. At a given moment the mind can be
conscious only of the existence of the stone and its hardness,
when it has recourse to touch, or of the stone and its whiteness,
when it sees it. So it is only aware of two things, not of
three. The third is in abeyance, it exists only virtually, but
comes into being again when focussed by its proper organ of
sense. To bring about the sensation of whiteness there
must be light, an eye, a mind, and the colour. If we can rely
on Chuang Tse's testimony that Hui Tse already pondered
over the hard and white, we must understand his para-
doxes that the eye does not see, and that fire is not hot, as
meaning that light and warmth are in reality not such as they
appear to us. Kung Sun Lung's wonderful critique of our
perceptive faculties recalls to us the modern Idealists Kant,
Fichte and Schopenhauer, who, more radical than Kung Sun
Lung, assert that things and their attributes are nothing
but creations of our mind, which have subjective but not
objective existence, thus evaporating the whole visible
world into nothing.

38
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
(1)
(Appendix I.)
TENG HSI TSE.
CAP. I.
Unkindness.
Heaven is not kind to man, the ruler is not kind to his
people, the father to his son, the elder to the younger brother.
Why do I say so? Because Heaven cannot remove disastrous
epidemics, nor keep those alive who are cut off in their prime,
nor always grant a long life to good people. That is unkind-
ness to the people. Whenever people break holes through
walls, and rob or deceive others, and lead them astray, want
is at the root of all these offences, and poverty their main
spring. Albeit; yet the ruler takes the law, and punishes
the culprits. That is unkindness to the people. Yao and Shun
swayed the Empire, whereas Tan Chu and Shang Chun¹
continued simple citizens. That is unkindness to sons. The
duke of Chou put Kuan and Tsai' to death, that is unkindness
to younger brothers. From these examples, which may be
multiplied, we see that there is no such thing as kindness.
(2)
The duty of the ruler consists in critically examining
the names of things and investigating the truth. His officials
are expected to receive the law from him and promulgate his
commands. The inferiors must not take the law into their
own hands. As long as the sovereign wields his power,
'The sons of Yao and Shun said to have been unworthy of the Empire.
These two brothers of the duke rebelled against their imperial master
Chêng Wang, their nephew, and were overpowered by the duke.

APPENDIX.
39
everything is well governed ³. A prince is confronted with
three difficulties; an official may become guilty of four faults.
Which are the three difficulties? To rely only on one's
entourage is the first. To elect scholars for official posts
according to their names is the second. To keep up old
friendships and take an interest in persons that do not come
near one is the third. And which are the four faults? The
first is to be the recipient of extraordinary favours without
accomplishing anything extraordinary. The second is to
be in a high position, and do nothing in the government.
The third is to be unjust in one's official dealings. The
fourth is to lead an army into battle, and take to one's
heels. If a prince is free from these three difficulties and his
officials from the four faults, they will secure tranquillity to
their country.
(3) A prince's power is like his carriage, his authority like
his whip, the officials are his horses, the people his cart-
wheels. If his power is strong, the carriage is safe. If his
authority is recognised, the whip hits well. Obedient
officials make good horses, and, if the people are peaceful, the
wheels turn quickly. Should in a country there be anything
amiss in this respect, there will be a disaster. The state-car
is upset, the horses bolt, the wheels break, and everything
inside the carriage is smashed. A great danger indeed!
For a long time past like and unlike could not be
separated, right and wrong not be determined, white and
Têng Tse advocates a pure despotism.
'A prince seldom learns the truth, hearing only so much as his coun-
cillors think fit.
5 The name viz. the character of officials does not always correspond to
their real worth.
This paragraph has no connexion whatever with the preceding with
which it is connected in the text. I therefore have separated it in the
translation,

40
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
black not be divided, pure and unpure not be regulated. He
who really hears, can hear where there is no sound, he who
really sees, can see where there is no sight. He can lay his
plans, conformably to what is not yet manifest, and take the
necessary precautions against what has not yet come to pass.
That is the only method. Not hearing with the ear he
apprehends the soundless, not seeing with the eye he perceives
the immaterial, not scheming with the mind he grasps what
is not yet manifest, not meditating with the intellect he
conforms to what has not yet come into existence.
(4)
If a prince conceals his person and hides himself, the
lower classes are all unselfish. If he closes his eyes and shuts
his ears, the whole people are in awe of him.
A wise ruler ascertains the truth by a critical examen of
names, and establishes his power by finding and fixing the
law, and establishing his authority. Well versed in outward
forms, he does not wait to derive his distinctions from events,
and when having tested the doings of others, he employs them,
he does not lose thereby, but does so to advantage 10. When
a wise prince has made one investigation", all things take
there fixed place. For names outward things are of no use 12.
Knowledge cannot be merely based on that of others i.e. one
must search for it in one's own self 13.
"How this knowledge is to be obtained, we hear in the sequence.
The text again connects the two paragraphs.
"The wonderful effect of inaction.
10 The meaning of this paragraph is very obscure and mere guesswork.
"Concerning the ultimate cause of everything. When he has attained
to that knowledge, everything becomes clear and settled to him.
12 It is essential to have one general principle, from which all relations
expressed by words can be deduced. Outward things alone, as we perceive
them, do not teach us what they really are, and how therefore they must be
called.
"Knowledge comes from within, not from without, is subjective, not
objective.

(5)
(6)
APPENDIX.
41
In governing the ruler must not exceed his power, and
the officials not get into confusion. All the state-functionaries
have their special departments and exercise their judicial
rights. The sovereign studies names to find out the truth,
whereas his inferiors receive his instructions, and do not
disobey. What is good, he tries to increase, what is bad, to
remove. He does not reward, because he is pleased, or punish,
because he is angry. That may be called a government.
A person carrying a heavy load on his shoulders feels
oppressed by the length of the road. He whose aim is glory,
is distressed, if deserted by the people. The one carrying
a heavy load is worn out by the length of the road, and does
not attain his purpose. The exalted one, if deserted by the
people, may exert himself ever so much, he cannot govern.
Therefore, the wise man estimates the length of the road,
before he takes up the load, and an intelligent ruler tests the
people, before he sets about governing. One does not hunt
bears or tigers in kennels or harpoon whales in fresh-water
ponds. Why? Because bears and tigers have not their
dens in kennels, and ponds are not the waters where whales
live; just as the people of Chu did not sail against the current,
or that of Chên fold up their flags, or as Chang Lu did not
become an official and Lü Tse covered his face for shame 14.
(7)
If anybody is not treated with consideration abroad,
it is because he is not polite. If anybody is not beloved
"I have only been able to trace one of these four allusions. In Mê-ti,
Chapter 49, towards the end, we learn that the people of Chu when fighting
that of Yüeh on the Yangtse would always attack with the current. These
allusions are evidently meant to show that what is not appropriate must not
be done. Chang Lu and Lü Tse are proper names, but nothing is known
about them. Probably we must insert "not" before "did not
cover his face for shame," because all the preceding clauses are in the
negative. Why Chang Lu and Lü Tse behaved, as they did, we do not
know.
6

42
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
where he lives, he does not show himself kind. He who does
not find employment despite all his talk, is not trustworthy.
He who seeks without finding, has not made a good beginning
to start from. He who plans without the approval of others,
has no principles, who finds no adherents in his projects has
lost the true path 15.
Since praise is bestowed according to circumstances, the
deeds may be the same, but they are called by different
names 16.
If of two persons who are alike one uses his
opportunity, the energy exerted by him is only equal to that
of the other, but his glory is double. The reason is that he
relies upon influence beyond himself.
Disputations are not listened to 17. Empty words did
not yet find an echo. Actions which do not improve an
unsatisfactory state of things are not belauded. Hence in
discussions one merely discriminates various categories, lest
they injure one another. One arranges how different classes
have to follow each other, so that they are not mixed up.
One elucidates purposes and explains meanings, but does
not aim at contradictions. To adorn one's speech with a view
to create confusion or to use ambiguous words in order to shift
the ground of the discussion is not the ancient method of
dialectic 18.
Without forethought one is unable to cope with sudden
emergencies, just as soldiers, who have not drilled when at
leisure, are unfit to oppose the enemy. If in the palace
15 People are to a great extent themselves responsible for their misfor-
tunes or the failure of their projects, something being wrong with them.
This paragraph must be separated from the preceding, which is not
done in the Chinese text.
17 A new clause again.
18 Teng Tse here distinctly repudiates those dialectical tricks with which
he himself is charged as a sophist, and states in plain words the aim and
method of a true logic.

(8)
APPENDIX.
43
schemes are prepared for an area of a thousand li, and
admirable plans made in the commander's tent, then a
hundred battles give a hundred victories, and we have an
army like that of Huang Ti.
Life and death depend on fate, wealth and poverty on
time. He who sorrows over an untimely death, does not
understand fate, and he who frets over poverty and misery,
does not understand time. If a man feels no fear in danger,
he knows Heaven's fate, if he is not oppressed by poverty
and want, he is aware of the regular change of time.
If in a year of famine the father dies in the house, and
the son expires near the door, they do not complain, because
they do not see each other. If people go to sea in the
same boat, and have a storm on their way, their chances to
be rescued and their dangers are about equal, and their
sorrows the same. Persons spreading the nets and hunting
together cry out and regularly answer the calls, and their
booty will be nearly equal. Feeling bodily pain one cannot
but cry out, and, if a man is full of joy, his face will laugh 20.
To give a weak person a thousand stone to carry, to
direct a lame one to catch a running horse, to chase a swift-
footed animal in a parlour, or to wish a monkey to show its
quickness in a cage, all this is against reason. He who acts
in such a way nevertheless, is like a man who puts his clothes
on upside down, and then cannot find the collar.
To treat as intimate friends those whom their deeds place
at a great distance from us, but as strangers those who are
near us; not to employ people, when they are there, but to
"Huang Ti is credited with having organised wild beasts into an army
by which he routed his opponent Yen Ti (Wang Chang, Book II, Chapter 4).
20 People suffering (as in the case of the common sea-voyage) or enjoy-
ing themselves together (as when hunting) will give vent to the common
feeling.

44
(9)
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
run after them, when they are away"; these four follies 22 are
a source of much pain to a wise sovereign.
In muddy water there are no fish swimming about,
moving their tails, under an oppressive government there are
no gay and jolly scholars. The commands being too numerous,
the people have recourse to deceit, the administration
interfering too much, the people begin to be unsettled. To
have only the end in view, and not care for the root is like
helping a man about to be drowned by throwing stones upon
him, or like putting out fire by throwing in fire-wood.
(10) The doctrine when understood 23 cannot be apprehended 24,
cannot be practised. He who knows the great doctrine 25, does
not know it 26, and thus obtains it; does not practise it, and
thus completes it 27. He has nothing, but nothing fails him ;
holding the empty 28, he finds out the full truth. Thus all
things are done. Honesty is evolved out of what is not
honest, justice is born from what is not just 30.
Talking without restraint is called recklessness, and
speaking without controlling one's words ignorance. From
looking at their shapes, one learns to know bodies. Following
This passage occurs in Kuei Ku Tse, III, 3, but the subsequent
argumentation is quite different.
"They are as devoid of sense as the instances given in the first part of
this paragraph.
23 Mystically understood.
By the intellect.
25 By intuition.
28 In the ordinary sense of the word.
27 Inaction and quietism are practical mysticism.
23 The terms: "nothing" and "empty" describe the nature of the mystic
principle.
2# The text has 忠言, evidently a misprint for 忠由 or 忠生, as shown
by the corresponding clause.
The mystical principle is the source of all virtues, though itself devoid
of any moral quality, therefore neither honest nor just.

APPENDIX.
45
up their principles, one gives things their correct names.
Finding out their reasons, one understands the feelings of
others. Is there anything that could not be accomplished or,
if spoiled, be made good again in this way?
That which has objects, is purpose, that which has no
externals, is virtue. What requires others, is action, what
requires nobody, is the right way. Thus virtue is not active 31.
Stopping in a place, where one must not stop, one is lost.
Taking for the right way, what is not the right way, one is
not on the right way, and falls into traps.32 Though one's
purposes be not good, one's aspirations not honest, one's deeds
not correct 33, one's words empty, yet one can do everything,
provided one gets hold of the truth.
(11) To say that honour is not like disgrace is no correct
statement, and to pretend that obtaining is not like losing no
true saying. Not advancing one goes back; not enjoying
one's self, one is sad; not being present, one is absent. This
is what common people always think. The true sage changes³
all these ten predicates into one 35.
The great dialecticians distinguish between actions in
general, and embrace all the things of the world. They choose
31 The virtue of the mystic is purely contemplative and emotional, not the
ordinary practical virtue which requires objects to work upon.
I read instead of which is out of place here.
33 Not good, not honest is not equivalent to bad or dishonest. A mystic
has no purposes, no aspirations like ordinary people. The statement that
his purposes are not good is a pars pro toto, his purposes are neither good
nor bad, for he has none. His sole aim is to get hold of what he believes to
be the truth. Having obtained that, he is perfect, and can do everything
without the slightest effort, spontaneously.
"I take to be an abbreviation for
"to alter."
35 The true sage does not care the least for honour and disgrace,
obtaining or losing and all these contraries, which play such an important
rôle in this world. To him they are all one and the same.

46
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
what is good, and reject what is bad. They do what must be
done in the right moment, and thus become successful and
virtuous. The small dialecticians are otherwise. They
distinguish between words and establish heterogeneous
principles. With their words they hit each other, and crush
one another by their actions. They do not let people know
what is of importance. There is no other reason for this than
their own shallow knowledge. The ideal man 36, on the other
hand, takes all the things together and joins them, combines
all the different ways and uses them. The five flavours, he
discerns in his mouth, before he has tasted them. The five
virtues, though residing in his body, are nevertheless extended
to others. There is no certain direction which he follows.
He rejects justice before the eyes. Measures to suppress
disorder, he does not take. He is contented, having no
desires; serene, for he takes everything easy. His devices
are unfailing, his perspicacity enters into the smallest minutiae.
(12) A ship floats on the water, a cart rolls on the earth.
That is their natural movement. Those who do not govern
know that they need not prepare for the future 37.
(13)
When a stone breaks the axle-top or the waves shatter
a ship, one is not angry with the stones or the waves, but one
blames the workman for his lack of skill 38, and does not use
The bad dialecticians and controversialists multiply distinctions and
differences, which exist but in their imagination, the great dialecticians
distinguish only between some few general principles. The ideal man, i.e.,
the mystic does not make any distinctions at all. He has no fixed purpose,
but instinctively always hits the right and knows things, which others do
not understand after long study.
They follow the natural course of things, by which everything
is settled of itself without the interference of any government or
administration.
23 The text: 水鯸折 轕水 破舟不怨水石而罪巧拙 must be
corrupt giving no reasonable sense, I would read:
舟不怨石水, etc.

APPENDIX.
47
his vehicle any more. Thus the knowing fall into errors,
the prudent skirt danger, and those who have eyes are dazed.
Therefore there is only one rule which does not change. Not
relaxing in one's principles for Chin's or Chu's sake, not
altering one's appearance for Hu or Yueh 39; bent on one aim,
unwavering 10, walking straight on, never at random: if one
practises that one day, the whole world will follow suit, and
there will be the doing of the non-doing.
(14) Seeing with one's own eyes, one sees, borrowing other
people's, one is blind. Hearing with one's own ears, one
hears, borrowing other people's one is deaf. A wise ruler
knows that, and accordingly clearly distinguishes between
what he has to do and what he has to avoid.
A prince must be like the sunshine on a winter-day,
or the shade in summer 11. Then all creatures will obey
him unforced 12. While he quietly lies down, his deeds are
done of themselves, and while he amuses himself walking
about, his government works spontaneously. The rolling of
eyes, grasping of hands, and flourishing of whips and sticks
are not its necessary premises 13.
(15)
If persons around a prince do not
reason is his knowing and not knowing.
connected with are not addicted to him,
stand by him, the
Those who though
are to all outward
Old Chinese states not quite as civilised as the others. The Hu
(Mongols) and the Yüch in Chekiang did not dress like the Chinese
proper.
49 The identification of the individual with the mystical Unknown
by meditation.
"The sun gives its warmth spontanously, not on purpose, and so does
the shade its freshness.
42 Feeling his benign influence.
43 There is not absolute inaction, but the ruler does not bustle about.
He does not scheme or use artificial means, his only guide being the
inspiration of the mystical principle.

48
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
appearance his intimate friends, but inwardly they are
strangers to him. His real friends, if far away, forget to
respond to his call, and strangers, who are near him, forget
that nothing connects them with him.
If people while near do not find employment, their
plans are frustrated". If they are wanted after they have
gone, they do not forget that they have gone 45. In case
a prince does not condescend to those near, their hearts
become estranged from him, and if he thinks of them when
far away, he furthers their aims ¹. Therefore does an
intelligent ruler take great care in choosing his men, and
the scholar likewise in offering his services.
CAP. II.
The turning of words.
(16) For a long time the world has been led astray by the
words grief and despair, pleasure and joy, anger and wrath,
sadness and melancholy. Now I propose to restrict despair,
joy, anger and melancholy to self, and grief, pleasure, wrath
and sadness to others 17. Between supporting and leading,
"Kuci Ku Tse, III, 3 has the same passage, but in a different context.
45 The latter half of this clause Kuci Ku Tse loc. cit. reads as:
事中 來世 instead of 無違行也
45 Not forgetting the slight they have received first, they take their
revenge when the prince is in need of them.
"I fail to see how people can be led astray by these synonyms, and
how the arbitrary limitations proposed by Têng Tse could be of any use.

APPENDIX.
49
declining and blaming, reason and right, agreeing and self
there is the greatest difference 18.
The art of speech consists in the following: With the
intelligent speech must be based on vast learning, with the
learned on dialectic, with dialecticians on equanimity", with
the noble on power, with the wealthy on influence, with the
poor on profit, with the brave on boldness, with the stupid on
demonstration. That is the art of speech 50. One does not
succeed, if one starts before having thought the matter over;
one reaps very little, if one begins the harvest too soon.
One must not say what is not proper, nor do what is
not correct to avoid danger. Nor must one take away
anything, if not allowed to do so for fear of punishment, nor
dispute on things which are not debatable, lest the word
escape. The swiftest horse does not bring back a wrong
utterance nor overtake a rash word. Therefore he is called
an ideal man who never utters bad words nor listens to
wicked talk.
When officials are appointed, the unintelligent are unable
to fill a post, the clever are not compliant, the benevolent
not attached to one person, the bold do not make advances,
those who trust others cannot be trusted. Not to be guided
by men's human qualities when employing them is what I
call divine 51
15 The entire passage seems to be corrupt and devoid of sense.
19 With an able adversary one must never lose one's temper, always
keeping clear-headed.
50 For a paralled cfr. Kues Ku Tse IX, 8. He writes
於辦“with the stupid on dialectic”批 for Tseng Tse's 愽, a bad
reading, for with stupid people one needs no dialectic, but demonstration
as Têng Tse says. For "equanimity" Kuei Ku Tse has The last
sentence he has changed into: "with the guilty one
must speak on energy."
31 Choosing the right man instinctively is the proper thing.
7

50
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
Anger originates from no anger, action from no action.
Looking at what is not there, one obtains that which one
sees, listening to what has no sound, one obtains that which
one hears. Hence the immaterial is the root of the material,
the soundless is the mother of sound.
The truth discovered through researches into names is
the highest truth, and names given in accordance with truth
are perfect names. By combining these two methods to an
equal degree so that they complete one another one finds
objects and their names.
(17) When the rivers are dried up, the valleys become empty,
when the hills fall down, the streams are blocked with the
débris. The sages being dead, the big robbers do not come
to the front, and the land enjoys peace. If the sages do not
die, the big robbers do not stop 52. How do we know that
it is so? If one measures something with pecks and bushels,
it is stolen together with the pecks and bushels. If one
weighs it with balance and scales, the balance and scales are
stolen too. If one relies on something owing to a token
or a seal, it is stolen with the token and seal. What is
instructed in benevolence and justice is stolen with
benevolence and justice to-boot. How so? Those who steal
property, are put to death, those who steal kingdoms, become
princes. Since in the palaces of such princes, benevolence
and justice are still to be found, have they not been stolen
likewise? That big robbers usurp princely rights is a great
success, of which robber Chê could not boast. The sages are
responsible for it 53.
The existence of sages calls forth robbers (of which princes and
conquerors are the worst) just as dried up rivers make the valleys empty
or crumbling hills block the streams.
This paragraph with some unimportant variations towards the end
is to be found in Chuang Tse, Cap. X.

APPENDIX.
51
Likes and dislikes, goodness and wickedness, any
attempts at reforming these four are useless. Courtesy and
bad manners, politeness and arrogance, any offence in regard
to these four can be made good. Those who are simple and
honest and know how to endure pain and disappointments do
not offend, and have not to make amends. That is everlasting
virtue. With those who always talk about trust, but cannot
be trusted in what they do, or who will discourse on goodness,
but do nothing good, one must be on one's guard.
(18) The first principle of government is not to allow private
interests to prevail. The greatest success consists in
restraining the people from quarrelling. In the government
which we have now, there is action: individual interests are
in conflict with the government, and the confusion is worse
than as if there was no government. A ruler is set up, and
there the strife begins. The stupid people fight with the
ruler, and the confusion is worse than it would be without a
ruler. Therefore in a well principled state no actions,
neither selfish nor altruistic are done. A ruler is elected, and
the stupid people do not oppose him 55. They are one with
their sovereign, things are decided according to law. That is
the proper way for a state. A wise ruler at the head of his
ministers finds out people's reputation by inquiring into their
conduct. From their reputation he learns how they appear to
others, and from their appearance how they really are.
Afraid of severe punishments, his subjects dare not yield to
their selfishness.
(19) The heart is fond of quietude, the intellect likes to roam
far and wide.56 When the heart is quiet, it obtains what it
51 This was the state of affairs during the Spring and Autumn period, an
incessant series of struggles of the different states and of the different
factions in each state.
55 I read instead of
Têng Tse remarks on a certain antagonism between thought and
sentiment.

52
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
wants, when the intellect roams far and wide, schemes and
plans are laid. The heart dislikes agitation, and the intellect
narrowness. The heart being agitated, one loses one's
temper; the intellect being narrow, its many projects fail.57
In good times the manners are free and easy, in
troublesome times they are very ceremonious and difficult to
observe. In remote antiquity the music was sound and not
plaintive, now it is depraved and licentious. In remote
antiquity the people were honest and simple, now they are
deceitful and over-active. Once exemplary punishments
were used, and nobody committed an offence 59. As soon as
an attempt is made to better by tattooing and cutting off
people's noses they lose all sense of shame. Then there is
more disorder than order.
Yao put up a drum for those who had to made
complaints, Shun a wood for those who wanted to impeach
some one. Tang had censors, Wu warnings engraved in
metal. These four sovereigns were sages, and yet they took all
these pains.
Li Lu killed Tung Li Tse, and Su Sha 60 murdered
Chi Wên, Chieh executed Lung Fêng, and Chao¹ disembowelled
Pi-Kan. These four princes were criminal rulers, therefore
they hated sages
like enemies. Hence there is as much distance
between the wise and the stupid as between a valley several
57 A parallel Kuei Ku Tse XIII, 12, but differently argued.
53 On exemplary punishment see Edkins, "Siün King, the
Philosopher" in J. R. As. Soc. Vol. XXXIII page 49. They consisted
merely in a change of dress, the criminals having to dress in a certain
way according to their offences.
59 The usual praise of the good old time.
Legendary rulers. Li Lu is mentioned in Chuang Tse, Chapter 10, of
Su Sha I find no trace.
"The tyrants Chieh and Chao are well-known and used by the Chinese
as typical representatives of wickedness.

APPENDIX.
53
thousand feet deep and a mountain several ten thousand high,
or between the deepest Hades and the loftiest mountain peak.
(20) A wise ruler leads his people as a charioteer his coursers,
without a bridle, and as a man walks over ice with a heavy
burden on his shoulders 62. Those near him he treats like
strangers, and strangers like near relatives. If he is prudent
and thrifty, he is blessed with happiness, if extravagant and
dissipated, misfortune arises.
A sage leads an easy life. In his own generation he
seldom finds his peer. The nature of all things is repose (it
needs no punishments with whips and sticks)-silence (there is
no noise, no cries). Then the families are well supplied, and
so are the individuals, and the whole world enjoys universal
peace. One sees everything clearly and distinctly, and
knows what is hidden 3. One surmises what has not yet
happened, and beholds what has not yet come to pass. That
is what is called the invisible spirit and the invisible mystery.
(21)
If a sovereign cannot keep his independence and likes to
rely on his subordinates, his knowledge becomes more and
more narrowed and his position more and more precarious.
Pressed from below he has not his hands free, and conforming
in all to the people, he cannot uphold his dignity. His
knowledge is not sufficient for the administration, his power
to mete out punishment, and there is no link between him
and the people. If then a sovereign gives rewards, because
he. is pleased, one must not imagine that one has done
something meritorious, and if he punishes, because he is
angry, one must not consider it a condign penalty. Because
sovereigns will not control their pleasure and anger,
rewarding and punishing at will, and like to leave all the
2.e., with the utmost care.
63 By inspiration from the invisible spirit or mystery.

54
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
responsibility to their officials, one kingdom after the other
has been lost, and many a prince has been assassinated.
The ancients had a saying that many mouths can melt
metal, and that three men are as dangerous as a tiger.
That ought to be a warning.
(22) The nature of man is such that in discussions he desires
to have the last word, and what he has begun he likes to
put through. A wise man does not envy others for their
excellence on account of his own shortcomings, nor is he
jealous of other people's successes, because he himself
failed 65.
If a prince follows those who give good advice and re-
wards them, and exposes them who give bad advice and punishes
them, thus cutting off the way of depravity and evil, and
doing away with all licentious talk, his subjects will take
the key, and his attendants hold their tongues, and he can be
called an intelligent ruler. Those who do good, the prince
rewards, those who do evil, he punishes. He treats the
people according to the manner in which they show
themselves, and requites them conformably to their accom-
plishments. He follows a sage, and therefore can make use
of him. He does so in a reasonable way, and therefore can go
on for a long time. The sovereigns of the present day
have not the ability of Yao and Shun, but are anxious to
have the same government. That plunges them in utter
confusion and darkness, and things are not cleared up at
"Quoted by Kuei Ku Tse IX, 8.
Kuci Ku Tse IX, 8 has the following parallel which is much less
reasonable: 困人之情出言 則欲聽舉事則欲成是故智者不用
其所短 而用愚人之所不用其所拙而用其愚人之所工 故
Tith
"A wise man does not put forward his own shortcomings
but stupid people's accomplishments, not his own deficiencies, but the
successes of those stupid people. Therefore he does not get into trouble. (?)

APPENDIX.
55
55
all. In vain they strive for the semblance of a government,
but are incapable of bringing order into the general confusion.
(23) Sorrows begin after one has obtained an appointment.
A disease breaks out, when the patient has already recovered
a little. Misfortune is the outcome of idleness. Filial conduct
is lost through the wife. Of these four things one must take
great care at the end as much as at the beginning.
The wealthy must help the poor, the young and strong
the old. Those who are dominated by their propensities and
yield to their desires, will become extravagant and brutal.
Therefore I hold that there is no reason, why we should
esteem people for their nobility, or think much of them for
their talents, why we should look up to them, because they
have money, or bow to them, because they are strong and
bold. He who acts up to this, deserves the name of a
perfect man.
(24) For those who have a proposition to make the greatest
difficulty is to get a hearing, for those who want to do
something, to carry it through. To carry through something
the circumstances must be favourable, to get a hearing the
hearer must be favourably predisposed. Therefore throwing
a heap of fuel on a fire, one must first light it, and watering
a level ground, one first soaks it. Touching a kindred note
one always gets a response 66. That is the only practical
way 67.
(25) If, after a prince has established his laws, those who
abide by them are rewarded, and those who break through
66 Wishing to perform something one must make the necessary
preparations, as the circumstances may require. One seldom attains one's
aim directly, one must prepare one's way, as when making a fire or watering
a field.
67 Kuci Ku Tse VIII, 7 gives this whole paragraph, but in a much more
diffuse style. His lucubrations make the impression of a clumsy paraphrase
of our passage, which he did not understand well.

56
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
the restrictions are punished, such a prince is called a silly
ruler and his state a lost state 68.
(26) A wise man stands quietly between right and wrong, and
good and evil are distinguished 69. A prudent man keeps
quiet between what is desirable and what is not, and going
forward and backward are well defined 70. If a wise man
cannot distinguish between right and wrong or a prudent one
between what is desirable and what is not, they are frauds.
(27) The eye is prized for vision, the ear for hearing, the
heart for justice. If we see with the world eye, there is
nothing which we do not see. If we hear with the world ear,
there is nothing which we do not hear. If we think with the
world intellect, there is nothing which we do not understand".
Possessing these three faculties one preserves them in inaction.
68 Only a mystic can say so. In many other aphorisms Teng Tse himself
says the contrary.
"He does not use his reasoning power like other mortals, but distin-
guishes between good and evil intuitively.
* To 有別 must correspond 有類, not 無類 as the text has it.
"The same passage with slight changes occurs in Kuei Ku Tse XII, 10.
For 心貴公 he writes 心貴智 and 以天下之心愿者則無不通 at
the end.

57
APPENDIX.
I
II
(Appendix II.)
CHUANG-TSE.
CAP. XXXIII.
The Empire Tien-hsia.
=
Hui Shih was a man full of ideas. His writings would
fill five carts. But his doctrines were contradictory, and what
he said not to the point. Trying to explain the meaning of
things he said :-
III
IV
The infinitely great, beyond which there is nothing, I
call the great Unit. The infinitely small, within which
there is nothing, I call the small Unit.
That which has no dimensions cannot be heaped up,
but it measures a thousand li.
Heaven is as low as earth. A mountain is on a level
with a lake.
The sun sets, when it is in the zenith. Creatures die,
when they are born.
I
II
The Chinese commentators quite misunderstand this and the next
fundamental proposition.
Balfour's translation:-"The whole Universe may be filled with matter,
even though there be no foundation for anything to rest upon" is a great
mistake. Giles omits the important part "cannot be heaped up," which
Legge renders by "will not admit of being repeated."
III The statement is quite categorical, therefore Legge's repeated "may
be's" are superfluous.
IV
Balfour's "that sunset is the same as the meridian," to which he adds
"in that one is the result of the other," as well as Legge's "the sun in the
meridian may be the sun declining," are both wrong. Their renderings
8

V
58
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
Great likeness is different from small likeness, both
I call small likeness and small difference. If things are
completely alike or completely different, I speak of great
likeness or great difference.
VI
limit.
VII
VIII
IX
X
Although there is no limit in the South, there is a
Going to Yueh to-day, one arrives there yesterday.
Linked rings can be separated.
I know that the centre of the world lies north of Yen
and south of Yüeh.
One must love all beings equally, for heaven and earth
are one and the same.
Hui Shih believed that this sort of thing was looked upon
by the world as a great performance, and would enlighten
the dialecticians, and the dialecticians of the day were
delighted with it. He said further:-
XI
There are feathers in an egg.
V
VI
would be no sophisms, which we must have here. The same applies to
Balfour's "that animal life comes from death, and death from life," which
besides is at variance with the Chinese text.
This is a definition very similar to No I. Hui-Tse says that all relative
similarities and differences, even those commonly called great, are small,
absolute likeness and absolute difference he calls great. The text is
ambiguous, hence every new translator gives a new version. Balfour and
Giles are far from the mark, as are the Chinese commentators.
This is the first antinomy in Kant's "Critic of Pure Reason." Kant
tries to show that the infinity of time and space can as well be proved as the
reverse.
VII There is nothing said about the intention to go which Balfour
interpolates.
IX
Yen is in Chili, Yüeh in Fukien. There is a great distance between
the two, which must be denied if the middle of the universe is to be near
these two States.
ΧΙ
Not upon an egg (Balfour).

APPENDIX.
59
XII
XIII
XIV
A fowl has three legs.
Ying is the world.
A dog can be regarded as a sheep.
XV
A horse lays eggs.
XVI
A nail has a tail.
XVII
Fire is not hot.
XVIII
XIX
XX
XXI
Mountains speak.
Cart wheels do not triturate the ground.
The eye does not see.
The finger does not touch, the touching never comes
to an end.
XXII
A tortoise is longer than a snake.
XII
Cf. the sophistic reasons given by Kung Sun Lung, page 75 Sse Ma
Piao's explanation, adapted by Giles, that the third leg is "volition" is very
poor.
XIII
XVI I translate "nail" with Balfour and Giles, not "tadpole" as Legge
does, who has the authority of several Chinese commentators on his side.
It appears to me that this paradox must be analogous to that given by
Hsün-tse II, 7" A hook has a barb." The explanation given by some
Chinese, that "tail" refers to the shape of the Chinese characters: T
Ying is the capital of the kingdom of Chu, an insignificant place.
is forced.
modern philosopher, is a
Sse Ma Piao submits that
XVII This proposition, quite familiar to the
stumbling-block to the Chinese commentators.
heat is not the only quality of fire, another writer speaks of insects or
reptiles, said to live in fire, in which case it cannot be hot, a third suggests
that in wet and cold places one does not feel the heat.
XVIII This does not refer to echoes, for that would be no sophism.
Mountains speak like living beings.
XIX
XXI
Cf. Kung Sun Lung, page
The idea is the same as of No. XX, viz. that an object, moving against
another, never reaches it owing to the infinity of space. Legge's translation
that "the finger indicates, but need not touch" is meaningless. Balfour and
Giles make the mistake of dividing the one sentence into two separate ones.
Balfour moreover mistranslates:-" the finger does not point."
XXII
The Chinese explanation, that a tortoise is longer than a snake, because
longer lived, repeated by Giles, or because it surpasses () the snakes in

60
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
XXIII A square is not square, and a circle cannot be
considered as round.
XXIV
XXV
A handle does not fit in a chisel.
The shadow of a flying bird has never yet moved.
XXVI There is a time, when a swiftly flying arrow is neither
moving nor at rest.
XXVII A dog is no hound.
XXVIII A yellow horse and a black cow are three.
XXIX A white dog is black.
XXX An orphan colt has not had a mother.
XXXI If every day you chop off half of a stick one foot
long, you will not have finished with it after ten thousand
generations.
its knowledge of future events, is very unsatisfactory. "Longer" without
further addition does not signify "longer lived" or "cleverer" in Chinese
any more than in English.
XXIV Cf. Nos. XX and XXII, Giles reads:"A round hole will not
surround a square handle," but the text says nothing about round or square.
Besides a handle sticking in a hole is never surrounded by it, but by the
object containing the hole.
XXV
The shadow does not move, at every movement a new shadow is
created. The different shadows following one another make the impression
of one and the same shadow moving.
XXVII This is the reverse of No XIV.
XXVIII Cf. Kung Sun Lung, Cap. V.
XXIX The explanation that a white dog is black, if his eyes are black, part
standing for the whole (Sse Ma Piao and Giles) is as ridiculous as that of
Lu Shu Chih saying that, if a dog is not black, but white, its whiteness may
be regarded as its blackness.
XXX
This paradox may have a deeper metaphysical sense, or be based only
on the sophism, that an orphan could not have a mother, because then it
would not be an orphan. Present and passed time are wrongly identified.
XXXI Balfour misinterprets this remarkable apophthegm, saying, that after
ten thousand generations nothing will be left. Just the contrary, there will
be something left for ever.

APPENDIX.
61
19
(Appendix III.)
KUNG SUN LUNG TSE.
CAP. I.
Investigations Chi-fu.
[Kung Sun Lung was a dialectician of the time of the
Six Kingdoms. Dissatisfied with the divergence and the
confusion between words and their real objects, he used his
peculiar talent to discuss the alleged inseparability of whiteness.
Pointing out analogies in other objects, he argued on this
theme of whiteness.]
(1) He said, "A white horse is no true horse. That
means, the word "white" serves to designate a colour, and
the word "horse" to designate a shape. Colour is not shape,
and shape not colour. Therefore in speaking of colour one
must not adjoin shape, and in speaking of shape one must not
add colour. Now, to make one object out of the combination
of both is not correct.
(2)
If you
look for a white horse in a stable, and there are
none but black-coloured ones, they cannot satisfy your
demand for a white horse. Since they cannot satisfy that
This first paragraph, giving a short sketch of our author, seems to be a
later addition, and introductory remark, which has crept into the text. In
Kung Sun Lung's own school, where his book undoubtedly originated, he
would not have been called a dialectician of the time of the Six Kingdoms.
This must be an addition of a later editor. I therefore put it in brackets.
The Six Kingdoms are: Chi, Chu, Yen, Chao, Wei and Han, which
had formed an alliance in the third century B.C.

62
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
demand, the horse sought for is not at hand.
not at hand, a white horse is indeed no horse.
Because it is
An extension of this method of discrimination would set
words and objects right, and thereby change the aspect of the
whole world.3"
Kung Sun Lung met with Kung Chuan in the house of
the prince of Ping-yuan in Chao. Kung Chuan said. "I
always heard that you were a very reasonable man, and for a
long time already wished to become your pupil. Only I
cannot accept your doctrine that a white horse is no true
horse. Please discard this theory, and I will be very glad to
your pupil."
become
Kung Sun Lung replied. "What you say there, Sir, is
preposterous. The disputation on the white horse is just what
makes my
fame. Now, if you bid me to give it up, I would
have nothing to teach. Besides, he who wishes to learn, is, as
a rule, in knowledge and wisdom inferior to the teacher.
Your request would be nothing else than that you teach me
first, before you learn from me. To teach the same man first,
from whom you are going to learn afterwards, is illogical."
(3)
"Moreover, even Confucius accepts my view, that a
white horse is no horse. I have heard that the king of Chu
drew his bow, and put on arrows to shoot snakes and
rhinoceroses in the Yün-mêng Park. But he lost his bow.
The world indeed would be changed, if all the words spoken
corresponded to real objects, and there would be no more lies, no errors.
But Kung Sun Lung is mistaken, if he supposes that his attempts at logical
discriminations could bring about such a radical change.
*Grandson of Confucius in the 6th degree, grandfather of Kung Fu
FL, the alleged author of the work passing under the name of Kung
Tsung Tse, 孔叢子. Cf. the Genealogy of Confucius 孔子世家
The prince of Ping-yuan was son to King Hsiao Chêng of Chao. He
died in B.C. 250. The Shi-chi devotes to him a special chapter, Book 75.
The following story with almost the same words is inserted in Kung
Teung Tse's chapter on Kung Sun Lung.

APPENDIX.
63
His attendants wished to search for it, but the king stopped
them, saying, "The king of Chu has lost the bow, and a man
of Chu will get it, what need to search for it?"
When Confucius heard of this, he said, "The king of
Chu is good and kind, but not quite perfect." And he went
on saying, "When a man gets rid of his bow, and another
man finds it, it is all right. But why must it be a man of
Chu?" Confucius thus makes a difference between a man of
Chu, and what is called a man. Therefore, it is wrong to
impugn my distinction between a white horse and what is
called a horse. You, Sir, are versed in the teachings of the
literati, but reject what is admitted by Confucius. You are
desirous to learn, but would fain induce me to discard what I
might teach. Under such conditions men a hundred times
as clever as I would not be able to undertake the task."
Kung Chuan could say nothing against this.
(4) [Kung Sun Lung was the guest of the prince of
Ping-yuan in Chao. Kung Chuan was a descendant of
Confucius. When both met, Kung Chuan said to Kung Sun
Lung: "While living on the borders of Lu, I heard of you.
Kung Sun Lung would make us believe that Confucius agrees with
him in saying that a man of Chu is no man, whereas his real meaning is,
that a man is no man of Chu, i.e. that the category of man is not limited to
the State of Chu, but embraces all mankind. Confucius objects to the
"Lokalpatriotismus" of the king of Chu, who would leave his bow to an
inhabitant of Chu only, if the king's words must be understood in this way.
This passage, which I put in brackets, must be an interpolation,
because it is nothing else than a paraphrase of the preceding paragraph.
Since Kung Tsung Tse in his chapter on Kung Sun Lung has this same
passage almost verbatim, I imagine that he took it from the text of our
author, and that afterwards some reader added it again to Kung Sun Lung
as a parallel passage. First a note, it was later on by inadvertence
incorporated into the text.
The disputations of Kung Sun Lung and Kung Chuan at the court of the
prince of Ping-yuan are alluded to in Lich-Tse, B. IV, 11., Lü Shih Chun
Chiu, B. 18.

64
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
I greatly admired you for your wisdom, and was much
pleased with your conduct. To receive your instructions has
been my desire for a long time. Now, at last, I have the
pleasure of meeting you. There is only one thing, which I
cannot accept, that is your theory of a white horse not being
a true horse. I beseech you to drop this doctrine, and I am
willing to become your disciple."
Kung Sun Lung rejoined, "What you say there, Sir, is
preposterous. My system is based on the thesis, that a white
horse is no true horse. If you deprive me of that, I have
nothing to impart. To learn from me when I have nothing
to teach, would be unreasonable. Moreover, only he could
wish to learn from me, whose knowledge and wisdom is not
equal to mine. Now, to demand that I should give up my
view, that a white horse is no true horse, would be first to
teach me and afterwards to learn from me. First to instruct
me, and then to use me as a teacher would not be admissible.
What you ask of me is like what the king of Chi said to Yin
Wên 10.
(5)
The king of Chi" spoke to Yin Wên as follows, "I am
very fond of accomplished men, how is it that in Chi there
are none?"
Kung Tsung Tse spoils everthing by writing
"
that a
white horse is no white horse." Such a thing Kung Sun Lung never said.
Kung Tsung Tse completely misunderstood him. This makes it evident
that the original passage belongs to Kung Sun Lung, not to Kung Tsung Tse.
19 Kung Tsung Tse, loc. cit., tells the interview of the king of Chi with
Yin Wên Tse, though in a somewhat abridged form, having most likely
culled it from Kung Sun Lung.
"Yin Wen lived under king Hsüan of Chi, B.C. 342-324. Dr. Faber
fixes his reign at B.C. 454-404 (Doctrines of Confucius). His statements loc.
cit. that Yin Wen Tse was a disciple of Kung Sun Lung, and that the latter
was a pupil of Confucius, are both wrong.

APPENDIX.
65
Yin Wên replied, "I should like to know what Your
Majesty understands by an accomplished man."
The king of Chi could not say. Yin Wên went on, "Let
us suppose that here we have a man, who serves his sovereign
loyally and his parents filially, who is faithful to his friends,
and at peace with his fellow-citizens. Endowed with these
four qualities, can he be styled an accomplished man?"
The king of Chi rejoined, "Exactly, that is just what I
call an accomplished man."
Yin Wên said, "If you had such a man, would you
employ him in an official capacity?"
The king replied, "I would be only too glad, but I
cannot find such a man."
All that time the king of Chi set high store upon
courage. Therefore Yin Wen asked him saying, "Supposing
such a man was insulted in open court amidst a crowd of
people, but did not dare to fight, would you use him as an
official?"
(6) "If a great lord, quoth the king, does not avenge an
insult with his sword, he is dishonoured. A dishonoured man
I would not like to have in my employ."
Yin Wên remarked, "However, he who, when insulted,
does not draw his sword, does not lose thereby the four
above-mentioned qualities. Not having lost these, he is still
a gentleman. But Your Majesty would first take him into
your service, and afterwards not. Is then a gentleman, as
described before, no gentleman?"
The king could not answer. Yin Wên said, "Now,
there is a prince, who wishes to govern his State.
If anyone
is guilty, he condemns him, and if he is not, he condemns him
nevertheless. If a man has distinguished himself, he rewards
him, and if he has no special deserts, he rewards him also.
Yet he complains of his people not being well behaved. Can
he rightly do that?"
9

66
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
The king of Chi answered in the negative. Yin Wên
observed, "It appears to me that your officials in governing
Chi used this method."
The king said, "I believe that my administration is as
you say. Therefore, although my people are not well
regulated, I dare not complain. Is it that my mind has not
thought deeply enough?"
Yin Wên said, "If you admit why should I not be
outspoken? Your commands state, that whoever kills a man,
must die, and who injures him, has to suffer bodily
punishment. People in awe of your commands, do not
venture to fight when insulted, thus upholding the royal
commands. But the king himself says that, whoever does not
resent an affront with his sword, is dishonoured, which word
means a censure. You disgrace him, although he is not
to be blamed, and accordingly would strike his name from the
official lists. Not to use him any more as an official is a
punishment. Thus somebody not guilty is punished by Your
Majesty. And in case you disgrace a man, who dares not
fight, you must honour him, who does. The distinctions
conferred upon him are marks of approval. Approving of
him, you will give him an official post, which means a reward.
You reward the undeserving. Those rewarded by you are
the same whom your officials put to death. What the
sovereign approves of, is condemned by the law 12. Thus
rewards and punishments, approval and condemnation, are
confounded one with the other. Under these circumstances,
even a man ten times as able as Huang Ti 13 could not keep
order.
12 Yin Wên Tse's criticism can, even nowadays still be applied to those
countries where duelling is forbidden by law and punished, but where at
the same time officers, who do not avenge an insult sword in hand, are
dismissed from the service.
13 The mythical emperor.

APPENDIX.
The king of Chi did not know what to answer.
29
67
I regard your words as like those of the king of Chi.
You object to the white horse being no horse, but cannot
give satisfactory reasons for doing so, therein acting in a way
similar to the king of Chi, who could express his partiality
for accomplished men, but was unable to distinguish between
gentlemen and no gentlemen.
CAP. II.
On the white horse-Pai-ma.
Question. Is it possible that a white horse is no
horse?
Answer.-Yes 14.
Question.-How?
Answer. A horse denotes a shape, white a colour.
Describing a colour, one does not describe a shape,
therefore I say that a white horse is no horse 15.
Question.-There being a white horse, one cannot
say that there is no horse. If one cannot say that
there is no horse, can the existence of the horse be
denied? There being a white horse, one must admit
that there is a horse, how can whiteness bring about
the non-existence of a horse?
"The respondent is Kung Sun Lung; the questioner is the champion of
common sense.
15 A horse is a shape only, a white horse a colour and a shape. A shape
cannot be identical with a shape and a colour.

68
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
Answer. When a horse is required, yellow and
black ones can all be brought, but when a white horse
is wanted, there is no room for yellow and black ones.
Now, let a white horse be a horse 16. It is but one
kind of those required. Then one of those required, a
white horse, would not be different from a horse 16.
Those required do not differ. Would then yellow and
black ones meet the requirement or not? In so far as
they would meet the requirement or not, they evidently
exclude each other. Yellow as well as black horses are
each one kind, they correspond to a call for a horse,
but not to a call for a white horse. Hence it results
that a white horse cannot be a horse.
Question. A horse having colour is considered no
horse. But there are no colourless horses on earth!
Are there therefore no horses on earth.
Answer. Horses of course have colour, therefore
there are white horses. If horses had no colour, there
would be merely horses. But how can we single out
white horses, for whiteness is no horse?
A white horse is a horse and whiteness. Such
being the case 17 I hold that a white horse is no horse18.
Question. A horse not yet connected with white-
ness, is a horse, and whiteness not yet connected with
A horse in general.
" The text reads: 白馬馬與白也馬與白馬也故日白
I presume that in the second clause the second character
must have been interpolated. Kung Sun Lung after having maintained
that colour is not shape, cannot suddenly say that a white horse is a horse
and whiteness, i.e. a horse and a white horse. Either the whole second clause
is a later addition, or the before s interpolated.
In that case the second clause is only a repetition of the first, a mode of
speech not infrequent in deductions, which I try to express in my translation.
18 See Note 15,

APPENDIX.
69
a horse, is whiteness. When horse and whiteness are
of a white horse, which means
combined, one speaks
that they are united.
give them such a name.
If they were not, one could not
Ergo it is not right to say
that a white horse is no horse.
Counter-question (Kung Sun Lung).-If we
regard a white horse as being a horse, can it be said
that a white horse is a yellow horse 19?
Answer.-No.
Answer (Kung Sun Lung).-The idea of a horse 20
being different from that of a yellow horse, there must
be a difference between a yellow horse and a horse.
A yellow horse being different from a horse, a yellow
horse cannot be a horse. If a yellow horse is no
horse, to hold that a white horse is a horse, would be
like flying in a lake or placing the inner and the outer
coffins in different places 21. This would be very
illogical reasoning and random talk.
Question. If there is a white horse, one cannot
say that there is no horse, viz., without white colour.
In case the idea of a white horse is eliminated, then
indeed one cannot speak of a horse. Should, therefore,
only a horse correspond to the idea of a horse, and
should a white horse not be accounted a horse, then,
when we believe, that there is a horse, we could not
say that this horse is a horse.
Answer. If with white things whiteness is not
emphasized but forgotten, all is right. If in reference
19 If a white horse were a horse, it ought to be a yellow horse too, for a
yellow horse is also considered a horse. This is at the root of Kung Sun
Lung's question.
20 Which Kung Sun Lung in his counter-question has assumed, e.g. to
be equivalent to that of a white horse.
11 Two very unreasonable things.

70.
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
to a white horse one speaks of whiteness, and
emphasizes it, it is no whiteness.22
The idea of a horse neither excludes nor includes
any colour. Therefore, yellow and black ones are all
welcome. The idea of a white horse excludes and
includes colour 23. Yellow and black ones are all
excluded owing to their colour. White horses alone
correspond. If there is nothing that excludes, none
are excluded. Ergo a white horse is no horse 24.
CAP. III.
On definitions Chih wu.
====
Thesis-There are no things which are not
defined, but those definitions are no definitions.26
"I presume that the somewhat eccentric idea of our author is, that
there are white things and white horses, but that their whiteness must not
be touched upon, for as soon as one speaks of the whiteness of a horse, the
subject of the remark is no longer horse and there being no horse, whiteness
perishes also.
It includes whiteness and excludes all the other colours.
24 Because it would exclude all the other different coloured horses. The
idea of a horse must include every variety of horses, and therefore cannot
have any specified colour as whiteness.
25 Kung Sun Lung's view is given in the "thesis," his opponent's in the
"antithesis." It is not very easy to correctly separate thesis and antithesis
in the text, as the characteristic word "he replied" is wanting.
Men define all things by specifying their attributes, such as whiteness
and hardness (colour and cohesion), but these definitions are no definitions,
i.e. they are not correct definitions, because all the attributes of things are
in reality not such as they appear to us. Hardness and whiteness for
instance are not hardness and whiteness in the sense in which an
unsophisticated mind regards them. They exist only, while we perceive
them, otherwise they hide or vanish i.e. do not exist, as shown in Cap. 5.

APPENDIX.
71
Antithesis. So far as there are no definitions on
earth, things cannot be called things 27. If what is on
earth, is not defined, can things be said to be defined? 28
Thesis. Definitions there are none on earth 20,
things there are on earth. It is impossible to maintain
that, what exists on earth 30, is the same with what
does not exist 31.
Antithesis. If there are no definitions on earth,
things cannot be said to be defined. If they cannot
be said to be defined, they are not defined.³
Thesis. Things though not defined are never-
theless not undefined. There are no definitions on
earth, and things cannot be said to be defined, but
that does not mean that they are not defined 33. It
does not mean that they are not defined, for there
are none but defined things. There being none but
defined things, definitions are not definitions 34.
Antithesis.-There being no definitions on earth,
all that is produced from things, though having
its proper name, is not to be considered as defined.
To call things defined, which are not considered
defined, would lead to the co-existence of definiteness
The opponent takes the common view that things which are not
definable, are not real things, all real things being definable.
This contradiction the opponent will not admit.
29 True and correct definitions.
50 Things.
31 Definitions.
The opponent takes the word definition always in one sense, not in
two "definition" and "correct definition" as Kung Sun Lung does.
33 Defined though not correctly, since all soi-distant definitions are wrong.
31 The common definitions are not real definitions.
15 As Kung Sun Lung apparently does, for his antagonist is not aware of
his taking the word definition in two quite opposed meanings, the one
negativing the other.

22
72
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
and indefiniteness. It is impossible to assert that,
what is thought not to be defined, is not undefined.
Definitions, moreover 36, are connected with the world.
Thesis. Because there are no definitions on earth,
one must not pretend that things are not defined.
Since they cannot be said to be not defined, there are
none not defined. There being none undefined, all
things are defined.
A definition 37 is not no definition, but a defini-
tion referred to an object is no definition.
Antithesis. Supposing there are no definitions of
objects in the world, who would boldly say that there
are no definitions? And if there are no objects, who
could boldly say that there are definitions? 38
Thesis. There are definitions in this world, but
no definitions of objects 30. Who would flatly assert
that they are not definitions, contending that without
objects there are no definitions? 10 Besides, definitions
are of themselves not definitions, they do not become
definitions, when they have been referred to an object.
25 See Note 27.
17 A definition in se, in the abstract.
28 Objects are the necessary substrata for definitions.
The so-called definitions do not define their objects.
40 Definitions cannot derive their truth from objects.

APPENDIX.
73
(1)
CAP. IV.
On accommodation=Tung-pien.
Question. Does two contain one?
Answer Two does not contain one.12
Question--Does two contain right?
Answer. Two has no right.42
Question. Does two contain left?
Answer. Two has no left.
Question.-Can right be called two?
Answer.-No.
Question. Can left be called two?
Answer. No.
Question. Can right and left together be called
two? 43
Answer. Yes.
Question 11-Is it allowed to say that a change is
not no change?
Answer. Yes.
Question. Can one speak of a change, if one part
is right?
Answer. Certainly.
Question.-If you interchange one part of a pair
[which part is affected thereby ?]
Kung Sun Lung is the respondent.
12 One is contained in two practically, but it does not form a constituent
part of the general notion of two. This is more evident in the proposition
that two has no right; it may have, but it is not necessary, e.g. in saying
two days or two kings, there is not a right and a left day, or a right and a
left king.
43 Right and left together are two, but two is not always right and left,
as we have seen. Subject and predicate cannot be simply transposed.
Every horse is an animal, but every animal is not a horse.
"There seems to be a lacuna in the text, which I have tried to fill in the
translation. Perhaps still more words have been left out.
10

74
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
Answer. The right.
Question. When the right has been changed, how
can you still call it right? And, if it has not been
changed, how can you speak of a change? 15
Answer. If two [as you say] has no right nor
left, how is it, that right and left are two? 16
[Thesis 7. A ram and an ox joined are not a
horse. An ox and a ram are not a fowl.
[Question. How so?
Yet this alone
not a ram,
[Answer. A ram is only different from an ox. A
ram has upper front-teeth, an ox not.
does not entitle us to say, that an ox is
and
a ram not an ox. They might not both have those
particular teeth, and still belong to the same species.
A ram has horns, and an ox has horns. Yet one
cannot say, therefore, that an ox is a ram, or a ram an
ox. They might both have horns, and yet belong to
quite different classes. Rams and oxen have both
horns, horses not, whereas horses have long tails, of
which rams and oxen are destitute. Therefore, I say
that a ram and an ox joined are not a horse.
That
45 When the right and left of a pair are interchanged, they change their
names, right becomes left, and left right. I do not see anything particular
in that.
If two is composed of right and left, it has, of course, right and left.
But there are many twos not so formed, therefore Kung Sun Lung argues
that two in the abstract contains neither right nor left.
"The end of this chapter I consider as spurious. The reasoning is so
inept that the whole appears to me as a very clumsy forgery. There is not a
particle of Kung Sun Lung's dialectical acumen in it. The interpolator
must have thought that every queer and paradoxical statement is considered
very profound by the public, even if devoid of sense. The two parts
forming the bulk of this chapter, differ in form from the others. The
dialogue is a sham, for the opponent, who might easily expose the imbecility
of his adversary's argument, says nothing.

APPENDIX.
means that there is no horse.
75
15
Consequently, a ram
is not two, and an ox is not two, but a ram and
an ox are two, that shows that a ram and an ox are
not a horse 18. If they were considered to be, then
such statement would be made with regard to two
animals belonging to two quite different classes like
right and left.
[A ram has wool, and a fowl has feathers. One
can certainly say that a fowl has one leg. Its legs are
two. Two and one make three. One may also
contend, that an ox and a ram have each one leg.
Their legs number four. Four and one make five.
Thus oxen and fowls have five feet each, and fowls
three 19. Therefore I hold that an ox and a ram do
not make up a fowl. Because there is no fowl, they
are no fowl 50. Between a horse and a fowl it is
better to decide in favour of the well-gifted horse 51.
It is evident that the non-gifted animal cannot belong
to the same category. To place it there would cause
a confusion of words and be a senseless undertaking.
[Question.-Take some other objects to discuss.
[Thesis.-Green with white is not yellow 52, white
with green not jade-colour. 53
[Question. How so?
[Answer. Green and white do not mix together 5.
When mixed they keep aloof from one another. They
4s Much ado about nothing. We do not want a proof that an ox and a
ram are not a horse, and certainly not such a stupid one.
19 The technical terms for this sort of sophism is fallacia sensus compositi
et devisi.
50 Utter nonsense.
31 Why? There is no question of superiority.
Of course not.
53 Yes, it is.
54 They do mix,

76
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
do not approach each other. When brought together,
neither loses its position. Not losing its respective
position each stands apart, keeping its own place.
Right and left are not blended. Thus they do not
become one in green, nor one in white.
How then
should they become yellow? 55
[Yellow is the right colour 56. It is the right
thing. It means that in a state there are a prince and
his ministers 57, and that therefore there will be power
and longevity.
[Furthermore, if green is blended with white,
white does not overpower it, which it would, if it
could. Since it does not triumph, wood injures
metal 5. Wood injuring metal, jade-colour is pro-
duced, which is not the proper thing.
[Green and white do not mix. When mixed, they
do not overcome one another, and consequently are
both in evidence. If they fight for being seen,
colour becomes like jade.
the
[Better than jade-colour is yellow. The horse is
yellow. Could it be classed together with jade-colour?
The fowl has jade-colour? Could the fowl be said to
be opposed to jade colour?
[When there is tyranny, prince and minister
quarrel, and both wish to shine. Both wishing to
shine, there is darkness. When there is no light, the
3 Rubbish.
It is the colour of earth and therefore much appreciated.
5 The commentary says that a state (land) corresponds with yellow, a
prince with white and the ministers with green. If they all keep in their
proper spheres (colour), things are quite right.
23 Wood corresponds with green, metal with white. There is a fixed
system of permutations, according to which the five elements with their
attributes are thought to overcome each other.

APPENDIX.
77
government is not properly conducted. In default of
proper conduct, words and their objects do not
correspond, and a mixed colour prevails. Therefore,
I
say that both shine. When both shine, and the
way is lost, it is hardly possible to find it again.]
CAP. V.
(1)
On the hard and white ===
Chien pai.
Question.-Are hard, white and stone three?
Answer 59-No.
Question. Are they two?
Answer. Yes.
Question.-How?
Answer. There being no hardness, one finds
whiteness, which process gives two, and there being
no whiteness, one finds hardness, which gives two
likewise.co
Question. Upon finding whiteness one cannot
say that there is no whiteness, and on finding
hardness one cannot say that there is no hardness. A
39 Kung Sun Lung is the respondent.
"In his next answer our philosopher explains that by "there being no
hardness," "there being no whiteness" he denotes the state, when the mind
has no perception of hardness or whiteness. At a given moment it has only
the sensation of the existence of the stone and of one of its attributes of
hardness, when it has recourse to touch, or of whiteness, when it
has recourse to sight. So we are at that moment only aware of two, not
three things.

78
(2)
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
stone being thus conditioned, are there not three
things? 61
Answer. When seeing, one does not perceive
hardness; perceiving whiteness, one finds no hardness.
When touching, one does not perceive whiteness, but
hardness. In perceiving hardness one does not find
whiteness 62.
Question. If there were no whiteness on earth,
one could not see a stone, and if there were no
hardness on earth, one could not speak of a stone.
The hard, the white and the stone do not exclude one
another, how could the third 3 be hidden?
Answer. It hides itself, not influenced by any
alien agent.61
Question.-Whiteness and hardness are indispen-
sable constituents of a stone pervading each other.
How do they hide themselves spontaneously?
Answer. One perceives whiteness, and one per-
ceives hardness, but seeing and not seeing 65 separate 66.
The not seeing separates 67. The two do not pervade
each other there being separation.
That which
separates, hides 67.
The questioner is of opinion that hardness and whiteness have both
objective existence, and that they are not creations of our mind.
They are sensations produced by different senses.
63 The third entity, either whiteness or hardness.
"There is nobody who takes it away. It is the nature of those entities
to disappear, to enter into non-existence, when not perceived by sight or
touch.
No seeing is touch.
"Sight and touch are something radically different.
67 That sensation, which is not at work, separates, from that, which is
just felt by the sentient being. Separation means that it is not perceptible,
but absent for the time being.

APPENDIX.
79
19
(3)
Question. The whiteness of a stone and the
hardness of a stone, seeing and not seeing are two
things, and together with a stone three things. They
permeate one another like width and length. And
how should they not be in evidence?
Answer.--When a thing is white, its whiteness is
something indefinable, and when it is hard, its hardness
is indefinable 68. If something unknown and indefinable
is added, it cannot be inherent in the stone.
Question.- -If round about the stone there is not
that quality of hardness, there is no stone, and without
a stone, one cannot speak of its whiteness. Those
qualities which cannot be separated from the stone
must have real existence, and cannot perish.
Answer.--A stone is one, hard and white are two,
but as far as they are in the stone, they are either
The
tangible or intangible, visible or invisible.
intangible separates from the tangible, the invisible 70
hides from the visible. Who will say, that hiding is
not the same as separation?
69
Question. Because the eye cannot behold hard-
ness nor the hand grasp whiteness, one cannot urge
that there is no hardness or whiteness. Their organs
of perception are not the same, and cannot be
interchanged. Hard and white have different spheres
in the stone, how shall they separate?
Answer. Hardness is hardness, not through its
connexion with the stone or with any other thing.
That which does not own its hardness to any
combination with something else, must be hard of
itself. It does not harden stones, etc. but is hard.
68 This recalls chapter III.
"Or visible.
70 Or tangible.

80
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
Whenever such hardness cannot be found on earth,
it is hidden 71.
As
one
If whiteness is really not white of itself, how
could it whiten stones, etc.? If whiteness is necessarily
white, it is so without causing things to be white".
With yellow and black colour it is the same.
long as a stone is not provided with whiteness 72,
cannot speak of a hard and white stone. Hence
whiteness ceases.
Cessation means that it usually
adheres to the objects. It is much better to follow
this natural course than to connect these qualities
with their objects by force in order to find out their
nature.
Furthermore, when whiteness is beheld by the
eye, it is seen by means of light. When it cannot be
seen by light, both light and eye do not give a vision.
Then the mind might still see it. But when the mind
does not see it either, vision ceases 73.
Hardness is perceived with the hand, which
knocks against something. Thus knowledge is derived
through the hand and knocking. In default of such
knowledge the mind does not know either. In such
a case one speaks of absence of the mind. When the
mind is absent, the world is left alone, and all is
right 74.
"Hardness and whiteness are not inherent in the object, but have
separate existences. Yet their independent self-existences are intermittent,
they vanish, when not perceived.
72i.e, as long as it is not looked at.
"And the colour disappears.
The real objective world.

APPENDIX.
CAP. VI.
Words and reality 75.=Ming-shih.
81
Heaven and earth together with their productions
are things. If they are treated as things, and nothing
more, there is reality. If what is real is treated as
real without any wild speculation, there is order. By
getting out of order you fall into disorder.
observing order one obtains correctness.
By
By calling right, what is not right, you cast
suspicion on what is right. If you call right what is
real, in doing so you give it a correct name.
When the name is correct, it responds to this
and that. If you call it by this name, but this thing
does not respond, then this denomination is a mistaken
one. If
you call it by that name, but that thing"
does not respond, then that denomination is a mistaken
one. If you represent what disagrees as what agrees,
you will have disagreement and confusion.
If that is called that, and agrees with that, it
responds to that, and name and object are that. If
this is called this, and agrees with this, it responds to
this, and name and object are this. Thus we make
that agree which agrees. Making that agree which
agrees, is correct.
Calling that that, we confine ourselves to that,
and calling this this, we confine ourselves to this,
which is right. Making this that, one has that and
* There is not much in this chapter. Nearly all the propositions are
tautologies.
76 I read 而此不唯乎此. The text has 而行. The analogy
with the preceding clause calls for
11

82
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
this, and making that this, one has this and that, which
is wrong.
A word ought to correspond to its object.
Knowing that this is not this ", one knows that this
is not in this, and therefore 78 does not call it so.
Knowing that that is not that, one knows that that is
not in that, and consequently one does not give it that
That is the highest aim ! The sage emperors
of old would thoroughly examine words, and their real
objects, and be careful in what they said. Excellent,
indeed, those sage old emperors!
name.
7 After 非 in the text a 此 must be added:知此之非此也
instead of 知此之非也
75 The character must be altered into :. The
parallelism with the following clause necessitates these corrections.

APPENDIX.
83
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
(Appendix IV.)
LIEH TSE, Booк IV, 11.
"Yo Chêng Tse Yü¹ said [to Prince Mao of Chung-shan]:
"How should a pupil of Kung Sun Lung not gloss over
his short-comings? But I will tell you some more fallacies
of his. He mystified the king of Wei saying that:
VII
Thoughts are not from the heart.
Definitions do not hit the point.
Things can never be reduced to naught.
A shadow does not move.
A hair will lift 300 piculs.
A white horse is no horse.
An orphan colt has not had a mother.
Words fail me to describe how he mixes up all categories,
and turns all relations upside down."
Prince Mao rejoined, "You do not understand his
excellent words, and think them wrong, but you are in the
wrong yourself 3.
A disciple of Mencius.
A son of the Marquis Wên of Wei (425-387 B.C.) Chung-shan
was the name of his principality. He is quoted as the author of a small
work in four chapters in the Han Catalogue.
I
i.e. from the material heart. They are the work of the
immaterial mind. Cf. Kung Sun Lung Cap. V., page
said that the eye does not see, but the mind.
,
where it is
II
As show in Cap. III.
III
See Hui Tse's paradox, No. XXXI.
IV
Hui Tse, No. XXV.
VI
Cf. Cap. I. and II.
VII Hui Tse No. XXX,
The first three explanations given by the Prince are very
unsatisfactory.

84
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
Without thoughts hearts are all equal. Without defining
one always hits the mark 5. That things are reduced to
naught, is what always happens. That the shadow does not
move, means that it changes. A hair will lift 300 piculs, if
they are exactly balanced. A white horse is no horse,
because shape and attribute are at variance."
What does that prove?
That is a Taoistic way of putting things, but not in accordance with
either Kung Sun Lung's or Hui Tse's views.
Kung Sun Lung and Hui Tse just maintain the contrary.
Exactly balanced, 300 piculs on either side of a balance, when the
smallest plus placed on one side will make it go down.

APPENDIX.
85
I
II
III
IV
V
(Appendix V.)
HSUN TSE.
CAP. II, 1.
Mountains and pools are equally high, heaven and earth
are level.
Chi and Chin are conterminous.
That which enters by the ear issues from the mouth.
A hook has a barb.
There are feathers in an egg.
Utterances like this are difficult to uphold, nevertheless
Hui Shih and Têng Hsi were bold enough to undertake their
defence.
I
Cf. page 57, No. III.
II
The Chi State was in Shantung, Chin in the province of Shensi,
both wide apart.
III This dictum is very puzzling. Does it mean that every sound
heard penetrates into the ear, and from there goes out again by the mouth?
Or does it convey the idea that every answer, given by word of mouth, has
been evoked by what we have heard? The Chinese scholiasts refer to
echoes, but no mention is made of mountains.
V
See page 58, No. XI.

86
鄧子
周 鄧析撰
無 厚 篇
TENG TSE-CHINESE TEXT.
(3)
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
(2)
(1) 天於人無厚也君於民無厚也父於子無厚也兄於弟無厚也何以言之天不能屏勃厲之氣全天折之人使
善之民必壽此於民無厚也凡民有穿劄爲盜者有詐偽相迷者此皆生於不足起於貧窮而君必執法誅之此
於民無厚也堯舜位爲天子而丹朱商均爲布衣此於子無厚也周公誅管蔡此於弟無厚也推此言之何厚之
循名責實君之事也奉法宣令臣之職也下不得自擅上操其柄而不理者未之有也君有三累臣有四責何謂
三累惟親所信一累以名取士二累近故親疏三累何謂四責受重賞而無功一責居大位而不治二責理官而
不平三責御軍陣而奔北四青君無三累臣無四責可以安國
勢者君之輿威者君之策臣者君之馬民者君之輪勢固則與安威定則策勁臣順則馬長民和則輪利爲國失
此必有覆車奔馬折輪敗載之患安得不危異同之不可別是非之不可定白黑之不可分清濁之不可理久矣
誠聽能聞於無聲視能見於無形計能規於未兆慮能防於未然斯無他也不以耳聽則通於無聲矣不以目視
則昭於無形矣不以心計則達於無兆矣不以智慮則合於未然矣君者藏形匿形羣下無私掩目塞耳萬民恐

CHINESE TEXT-APPENDIX I.
(7)
(6)
蔡法立威是明王也夫明於形者分不遇於事察於動者用不失則利故明君審一萬物自定名不可
以外務智不可以從他求諸己之謂也
() 治世位不可越職不可亂百官有司各務其刑上循名以督實下奉教而不違所美觀其所終所惡計其所窮喜
不以賞怒不以罰可謂治世
夫負重者患塗遠據貴者憂民離負重塗遠者身疲而無功在上離民者雖勞而不治故智者量塗而後負明君
親民而出政獵羆虎者不於外國鈞鯨鯢者不於清池何則图非羆虎之窟也池非鯨鯢之泉也楚之不沂流陳
之不朿麾長盧之不士呂子之蒙恥
夫游而不見敬不恭也居而不見愛不仁也言而不見用不信也求而不能得無始也謀而不見喜無理也計而
不見從遺道也因勢而發譽則行等而名殊人齊而得時則力敵而功倍其所以然者乘勢之在外推辯說所非
聽也虛言向非所應也無益亂非舉也故談者別殊類使不相害序異端使不相亂諭志通 廾務相乖也若飾
詞以相亂匿詞以相移非古之辯也慮不先定不可以應卒兵不閑習不可以當敵廟算千里帷幄之奇百戰百
勝黃帝之師
死生目命貧富自時怨天折者不知命也怨貧賤者不知時也故臨難不懼知天命也貧窮無懾達時序也凶
之歲父死於室子死於戶而不相怨者無所顧也同舟渡海中流遇風救患若一所憂同也張羅而歌唱和不差
者其利等也故體痛者口不能不呼心悅者顏不能不笑責疲者以舉千鈞責兀者以及走冤逸足於庭求狻
捕於檻斯逆理而求之猶倒裳而索領事有遠而親近而疎就而不用去而反求風此四行明主大憂也

88
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
(11)
(13) (12)
(14)
(9) 夫水濁則無掉尾之魚政苛則無逸樂之士故令煩則民詐政擾則民不定不治其本而務其末譬如拯溺錘之
以石救火投之以薪
(0) 夫達道者無知之道也無能之道也是知大道不知而中不能而成無有而足守虛責實而萬事畢忠由於不忠
於不義音而不收謂之放言出而不督謂之闇故見其象致 循其理正其名得其端知其情若此何往
不復何事不成有物者意也無外者德也有人者行也無人者道也故德非所履處非所處則失道非其道不道
則語意無賢慮無忠行無道言虛如受實萬事
夫言榮不若辱非誠辭也得不若失非實談也不進則退不喜則憂不得則亡此世人之常眞人危斯十者而爲
一矣所謂大辯者別天下之行具天下之物選善退惡時措其宜而功立德至矣小辯則不然別言異道以言相
射以行相伐使民不知其要無他故焉故淺知也君子幷物而錯之兼塗而用之五味未嘗而辨於廿五行在身
而布於人故何方之道不從面從之義不行治亂之法不用惔然寬裕蕩然簡易略而無失精詳入纖微也
夫舟浮於水車轉於陸此自然道也有不治者知不豫焉
夫木擊折轉水房破舟不怨木石而罪巧拙故不載焉故有知則惑有心則岭有目則眩是以規矩一而不易不
爲秦楚緩節不爲胡越改容一而不邪方行而不流一日形之萬世傳之無爲爲之也
夫自見之明借人見之闇也自聞之聰借人聞之聾也明君知此則去就之分定矣爲君當若冬日之陽夏日之
陰萬物自歸莫之使也恬臥而功自成優游而政自治豊在振目抬腕手據鞭朴而後爲治歟

CHINESE TEXT-APPENDIX I.
89
(16)
(5) 夫合事有不合者知與未知也合而不結者陽親而陰疎故遠而親者忘相應也近而疏者忘不合也就而不用
者策不得也去而反求者無違行也近而不御者心相乖也遠而相思者合其謀也故明君擇人不可不審士芝
進趣亦不可不詳
世間悲哀喜樂嗔怒憂愁久惑於此今轉之在己爲哀在他爲悲在己爲樂在他爲喜在已爲嗔在他爲怒在己
爲愁在他爲憂在己若扶之與攜謝之與議故之與右諾之與己相去千里也夫言之術與智者言依於博與博
者言依於辯與辯者言依於安與貴者言依於勢與富者言依於豪與貧者言依於利與勇者言依於敢與愚者
言依於說此言之術也不用在早圖不窮在早稼非所宜言勿言非所宜爲勿爲以避其危非所宜取勿取以避
其咎非所宜爭勿以避其聲一聲而非駟馬勿追一言而急駟馬不及故惡言不出口苟語不留耳此謂君子
也夫任臣之法閭則不任也慧則不從也仁則不親也勇則不近也信則不信也不以人用人故謂之神怒出於
不怒爲出於不爲視於無有則得其所見聽於無聲則得其所聞故無形者有形之本無聲者有聲之母循名責
實實之極也按實定名名之極也參以相平轉而相成故得之形名
(17) 川竭而谷虛丘夷而淵實聖人以死大盜不起天下平而故也聖人不死大盜不止何以知其然爲之斗斛而
量之則幷斗斛而竊之爲之權衡以平之則幷與權衡而竊之爲之符璽以信之則幷與符璽而竊之爲之仁義
以教之則非仁義而竊之何以知其然彼竊財誅竊國者爲諸侯諸侯之門仁義存焉是非竊仁義邪故遂於大
12

90
(18)
(19)
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
(20)
90
盜霸諸侯此重利也盜趾所不可桀者乃聖人之罪也欲之與惡善之與惡四者變之失恭之與儉敬之與傲四
者失之修故善素朴任惔憂而無失未有修焉此德之永也言有信而不爲信言有善而不爲善者不可不察也
其治之法莫大於私不行功莫大於使民不爭今也立法而行私與法爭其亂也甚於無法立君而爭愚與君
夫亂也甚於無君故有道之國則私善不行君立而愚者不尊民一於君事斷於法此國之道也明君之督大臣
緣身而責名緣名而責形綠形而責實臣懼其重誅之至於是不敢行其私矣
心欲安靜慮欲深遠心安靜則心策生慮深遠則計謀成心不欲躁慮不欲淺心躁則精神滑慮淺則百事傾治
世之禮簡而易行亂世之禮煩而難遵上古之樂質而不悲當今之樂邪而爲淫上古之民質而敦朴今世之民
詐而多行上古象形而民不犯教有墨劓不以爲恥斯民所以亂多治少也堯置敢諫之鼓舜立誹謗之木没有
司直之人武有戒慎之銘此四君子者聖人也而猶若此之勤至於栗陸氏殺東里子宿沙氏戮箕女桀誅龍逢
紂刳比干四主者亂君故其疾賢若仇是以賢愚之相覺若百丈之谿與萬仞之山若九地之下與重山之巔
明君之御民若御奔而無轡履氷而負重親而疎之疎而親之故畏儉則福生驕奢則禍起聖人逍遙一世罕匹
萬物之形寂然無鞭朴之罰莫然無叱咤之聲而家給人足天下太平視昭昭知冥冥推未運觀未然故神而不
可見幽而不可見此之謂也
(21) 君人者不能自專而好任下則智日困而數日窮迫於下則不能申行隨於國則不能持知不足以爲治威不足
以行誅無以與下交矣故喜而使賞不必當功怒而使誅不必值罪不慎喜怒誅賞從其意而欲委任臣下故亡
國相繼殺君不絕古人有言眾口鑠金三人成虎不可不察也

91
CHINESE TEXT-APPENDIX I.
(27) (26) (25)
(24)
(2) 夫人情發言欲勝舉事欲成故明者不以其短疾人之長不以其拙病人之工言有善者則而賞之言有非者顯
而罰之塞邪枉之路蕩淫辭之端臣下閔之左右結舌可謂明君偽善者君與之賞偽惡者君與之罰因其所以
來而報之循其所以進而答之聖人因之故能用之因之循理故能長久今之爲君無堯舜之才而慕堯舜之治
故終顯殞乎混冥之中而事不覺於昭明之術是以虛慕欲治之名無益亂世之理也
25) 患生於官成病始於少瘳禍生於懈慢孝衰於妻子此四者慎終如始也富必給貧壯必給老快情恣欲必多侈
侮故曰尊貴無以高人聰明無以籠人資給無以先人剛勇無以勝人能履行此可以爲天下君
夫謀莫難於必聽事莫難於必成成必合於數聽必合於情故抱薪加火燥者必先燃平地洼水濕者必先濡故
曰動之以其類安有不應者獨行之術也
明君立法之後中程者賞缺糧者誅此之謂君曰亂君國曰亡國
智者寂於是非故善惡有別明者寂於去就故進退無類若智不能察是非明不能審去就斯謂虛妄
且貴明耳貴聰心貴公以天下之目視則無不見以天下之耳聽則無不聞以天下之智慮則無不知得此三術
則存於不爲也

92
92
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
莊子天下篇
CHUANG TSE-CHINESE TEXT.
半萬世不竭
鳥之景未嘗動也鏃失之疾而有不行不止之時狗非犬黃馬驪牛三白狗黑孤駒未嘗有母一尺之棰日取其
有卯丁子有尾火不熱山出口輪不跟地目不見指不至至不絕龜長於蛇矩不方規不可以爲圓鑿不圍飛
地一體也施惠以此爲大觀於天下而曉辯者天下之辯者相與樂之卵有毛鷄三足郢有天下犬可以爲羊馬
之謂大同異南方無窮而有窮今日適越而昔來連環可解也我知天之中央燕之北越之南是也汜愛萬物天
也其大千里天與地卑山與澤平日方中方睨物方生方死大同而與小同異此之謂小同異萬物畢同畢異此
惠施多方其書五車其道舛駁其言也不中歴物之意日至大無外謂之大一至小無內謂之小一無厚不可積

CHINESE TEXT-APPENDIX III.
35
93
公孫龍子
KUNG SUN LUNG TSE-CHINESE TEXT.
(3)
(4)
Car. I. 跡府第一
公孫龍六國時辯士也疾名實之散亂因資材之所長爲守白之論假物取彎以守白辯
(1) 謂白馬爲非馬也白馬爲非馬者言白所以名色言馬所以名形也色非形形非色也夫言色則形不當與言形
則色不宜從今合以爲物非也
2) 如求白馬於底中無有而有驍色之馬然不可以應有白馬也不可以應有白馬則所求之馬亡矣亡則白馬竟
非馬欲推是辯以正名實而化天下焉龍與孔穿會趙平原君家穿日素聞先生高誼願爲弟子久但不取先生
以白馬爲非馬耳請去此術則穿請為弟子龍日先生之言悖龍之所以爲名者乃以白馬之論爾今使龍去之
則無以教焉且欲師之者以智與學不如也令使龍去之此先教而後師之也先教而後師之者悖且
白馬非馬乃仲尼之所取龍聞楚王張繁弱之弓載忘歸之矢以射蛟兕於雲夢之圃而喪其弓左右請求之王
日止楚王越弓楚人得之又何求乎仲尼聞之曰楚王仁義而未遂也亦曰人亡弓人得之而己何必楚若此仲
尼異楚人於所謂人夫是仲尼異楚人於所謂人而非龍異白馬於所謂馬悖先生修儒術而非仲尼之所欲
學而使龍去所教則雖百龍固不能當前矣孔穿無以應焉
公孫龍趙平原君之客也孔穿孔子之葉也穿與龍會穿謂龍曰臣居魯側聞下風高先生之智說先生之行願
受業之日久矣乃令得見然所不取先生者獨不取先生之以白馬爲非馬耳請去白馬非馬之學穿請爲弟子
公孫龍日先生之言悖龍之學以白馬爲非馬者也使龍去之則龍無以教無以教而乃學於龍也者悖且夫欲

94
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
(6)
學於龍者以智與學焉爲不逮也今教龍去白馬非馬是先教而後師之也先教而後師之不可先生之所以教
龍者似齊王之謂尹文也
(5) 齊王之謂尹文曰寡人甚好士以齊國無士何也尹文曰願聞大王之所謂士者齊王無以應尹文曰今有人於
此事君則忠事親則孝交友則信處鄉則順有此四行可謂士乎齊王曰善此真吾所謂士也尹文日王得此人
肯以爲臣乎王曰所願而不可得也是時齊王好勇於是尹文日使此人廣庭大眾之中見侵侮而終不敢圖王
將以爲臣乎
王日鉅士也見侮而不鬬辱也辱則寡人不以爲臣矣尹文日唯見侮而不鬬未失其四行也是人未失其四行
其所以爲士也然而王一以爲臣一不以爲臣則向之所謂士者乃非士乎齊王無以應尹文日今有人君將理
其國人有非則非之無非則亦非之有功則賞之無功則亦賞之而怨人之不理也可乎齊王日不可尹文曰臣
竊觀下吏之理齊其方若此矣王曰寡人理國信若先生之言人雖不理寡人不敢怨也意未至然與尹日言
之敢無說乎王之令日殺人者死傷人者刑人有畏王之令者見侮而終不敢鬬是全王之令也而王日見侮而
不鬬者辱也謂之辱非之也無非而王辱之故因除其籍不以爲臣也不以爲臣者罰之也此無罪而王罰之也
且王辱不敢鬬者必榮敢鬬者也榮敢關者是而王是之必以爲臣矣必以爲臣者賞之也彼無功而王賞之王
之所賞吏之所誅也上之所是而法之所非也賞罰是非相與四謬雖十黃帝不能理也齊王無以應焉故龍以
子之言有似齊王子知難白馬之非馬不知所以難之說以此猶知好士之名而不知察士之類

CHINESE TEXT-APPENDIX III.
95 Car. II. 白馬論第二
CAP. III.
111
白馬非馬可平日可日何哉曰馬者所以命形也白者所以命色也命色者非命形也故曰白馬非馬日有白馬
不可謂無馬也不可謂無馬者非馬也有白馬爲有馬白之非馬何也日求馬黃黑馬皆可致求白馬黃黑馬不
可致使白馬乃馬也是所求一也所求一者白者不異馬也所求不異如黃黑馬有可有不可何也可與不可其
相非明故黃黑馬一也而可以應有馬而不可以應有白馬是白馬之非馬審矣日以馬之有色爲非馬天下非
有無色之馬也天下無馬可平日馬固有色故有白馬使馬無色有馬而已耳安取白馬故白者非馬也白馬者
馬與白也馬與白馬也故曰白馬非馬也日馬未與白爲馬白未與馬爲白合馬與白復名白馬是相與以不相
與爲名未可故曰白馬非馬未可曰以有白馬爲有馬謂有白馬為有黃馬可乎日未可曰以有馬爲異有黃馬
是異黃馬於馬也異黃馬於馬是以黃馬爲非馬以黃馬爲非馬而以白馬爲有馬此飛者入池而棺槨異處此
天下之悖言亂辭也日有白馬不可謂無馬者離白之謂也是離者有白馬不可謂有馬也故所以爲有馬者獨
以馬爲有馬耳非有白馬為有馬故其爲有馬也不可以謂馬馬也曰白者不定所白忘之而可也白馬者言白
定所白也定所白者非白也馬者無去取於色故黃黑皆所以應白馬者有去取於色黃黑馬皆所以色去故唯
白馬獨可以應耳無去者非有去也故曰白馬非馬
物莫非指而指非指天下無指物無可以謂物非指者天下而物可謂指乎指也者天下之所無也物也者天下
之所有也以天下之所有爲天下之所無未可天下無指而物不可謂指也不可謂指者非指也非指者物莫非

96
96
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
指也天下無指而物不可謂指者非有非指也非有非指者物莫非指也物莫非指者而指非指也天下無指者
生於物之各有名不爲指也不爲指而
天下無指者物不可謂無指也不可謂無指者非
Car. IV. 通變論第四
且指者天下之所兼
非指者物莫非也 开非指也指與物非指也
使天下無物指誰徑謂非指天下無物誰徑謂指天下有指無物指誰徑謂非指徑謂無物非指且夫指固自
非指奚待於物而乃與爲指
(1) 曰二有一乎日二無一日二有右乎日二無右日二有左乎日二無左日右可謂二乎曰不可日左可謂二日
不可曰左與右可謂二乎曰可曰謂變非不變可乎日可日右有與可謂變乎日可日變隻日右日右茍變安可
謂右茍不變安可謂變日二苟無左又無右二者左與右奈何
(2) 羊合牛非馬牛合羊非鷄日何哉日羊與牛唯異羊有齒牛無齒而牛之非羊也羊之非牛也未可是不俱有而
或類焉羊有角牛有角牛之而羊也羊之而牛也未可是俱有而類之不同也羊牛有角馬無角馬有尾羊牛無
尾故曰羊合牛非馬也非馬者無馬也無馬者羊不二平不二而羊牛二是而羊而牛非馬可也若舉而以是猶
類之不同若左右猶是舉牛羊有毛鷄有羽謂鷄足一數足二二而一故三謂牛羊足一數足四四而一故五牛
羊足五鷄足三故曰牛合羊非鷄非有以非媽也與馬以鷄寕馬材不材其無以類審矣舉是謂亂名是狂
(3) 舉日他辯日靑以白非黃白以靑非碧日何哉日靑白不相與而相與反對也不相鄰而相鄰不害其方也不害
其方者反而對各當其所左右不驪故一於青不可一於白不可惡乎其有黃矣哉黃其正矣是正舉也其有君

CHINESE TEXT-APPENDIX III.
97
97
Car. V. 堅白論第五
臣之於國焉故強壽矣而且青驪乎白而白不勝也白足之勝矣而不勝是木賊金也木賊金者碧碧則非正舉
青白不相與而相與不相勝則兩明也爭而明其色碧也與其碧寕黃黃其馬也其與類乎碧其鷄也其與暴乎
暴則君臣爭而兩明也兩明者昏不明非正舉也非正舉者名實無當驪色章焉故曰兩明也兩明而道喪其無
有以正焉
(1) 堅白石三可乎日不可曰二可平日可日何哉日無堅得白其舉也二無白得堅其舉也二日得其所白不可謂
無白得其所堅不可謂無堅而之石也之於然也非三也曰視不得其所堅而得其所白者無堅也拊不得其所
白而得其所堅得其堅也無白也
曰天下無白不可以視石天下無堅不可以謂石堅白石不相外藏三可乎日有自藏也非藏而藏也曰其白也
其堅也而石必得以相盛盈其自藏奈何曰得其白得其堅見與不見離不見離一一不相盈故離離也者藏也
曰石之白石之堅見與不見二與三若廣修而相盈也其非舉乎曰物白焉不定其所白物堅焉不定其所堅不
定者兼惡乎其石也日循石非彼無石非石無所取乎白石不相離者固乎然其無己日於石一也堅白二也而
在於石故有知焉有不知焉有見焉有不見焉故知與不知相與離見與不見相與藏藏故孰謂之不離
(3) 曰且不能堅手不能白不可謂無堅不可謂無白其異任也其無以代也堅白域於石惡乎離日堅未與石爲堅
而物兼未與爲堅而堅必堅其不堅石物而堅天下未有若堅而藏白固不能自白惡能白石物乎若白者必
白則不白物而白焉黃黑與之然石其無有惡取堅白石乎故離也離也者因是力與知果不若因是且猶白以

98
THE CHINESE SOPHISTS.
Car VI. 名實論第六
公孫龍子 終
目以火見而火不見則火與目不見而神見神不見而見離堅以手而手以捶是捶與手知而不知而神與不知
神乎是之謂離焉離也者天下故獨而正
天地與其所產焉物也物以物其所物而不過焉實也實以實其所實不曠焉位也出其所位非位位其所位焉
正也以其所正正其所不正疑其所正其正者正其所實也正其所實者正其名也其名正則唯乎其彼此焉謂
彼而彼不唯乎彼則彼謂不行謂此而此不唯乎此則此謂不行其以當不當也不當而亂也故彼彼當乎彼則
唯乎彼其謂行彼此此當乎此則唯乎此其謂行此其以當而當也以當而當正也故彼彼止於彼此此止於此
可彼此而彼且此此彼而此且彼不可夫名實謂也知此之非此知此之不在此也則不謂也知彼之非彼也知
彼之不在彼也則不謂也至矣哉古之明王審其名實慎其所謂至矣哉古之明王

CHINESE THXT-APPENDIX IV.
99
96
列子仲尼
LIEH TSE--CHINESE TEXT.
樂正子輿曰子龍之徒焉得不飾其闕吾又言其尤者龍誑魏王曰有意不心有指
不至有物不盡有影不移髮引千鈞白馬非馬孤犢未嘗有母其負類反倫不可勝
言也公子牟日子不諭至言而以爲尤也尤其
【夫無意則心同無指則皆至
改
也髮引千鈞勢至等也白馬
非
馬
形
名
雕也孤犢
盡物者常有影不一
嘗有母非孤犢也

100
CHINESE TEXT-APPENDIX V.
能之
荀子不苟篇
HSÜN TSE-CHINESE TEXT.
山淵平天地比齊秦襲入乎耳出乎口鉤有須卵有毛是說之難持者也而惠施鄧析