26
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING
(Province of Cheh-kiang).
By The Rev. W. GILBERT WALSHE, B.A.
The history of that part of China in which Shaohing
is situated may be said to synchronize with the period of
China's received history.
In the days of Yao and Shun [2357-2208 B.C.]
the place had several designations, which are evidently
indicative of its wild, mountainous character, such as Mao-san
, Grassy Hill, and Yao-hü, the latter of which still
obtains in the locality known as Yü-yao, which is said
to have been the birthplace of the Emperor Shun. It was
also called Tung-hai or Eastern Sea, and its people
Tung-i 東夷 or Eastern Barbarians, or Nan-man 南蠻,
Southern Wild Men, an appellation which continued until the
time of Mencius. The natives are said to have tattooed
their bodies and cut their hair short.
In the time of Yao
in the Hwang-fuh
[2357-2255 B.C.] it was included
or Wild Domain, and was without
any orderly system of government or ruling class until the
time of Yü禹
There are several places in the present Fu which are
associated with the name of Shun [2255-2205]. His
mother is said to have been a native of the present district of

THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
27
Yü-yao and Shang-yü There is a temple to his honour
at Pai-kwan, and a procession takes place there
annually on the 16th of the 6th moon, his reputed birthday.
The river here is called Shun-kiang or Shun's River.
There is another temple dedicated to him at Swang-kang-k'i,
in the hill districts, and a procession held on the 27th of
the 9th moon, the festival being made the occasion of a great
fair to which the natives gather from all the surrounding
districts. This temple is a very fine one and is beautifully
situated on the brow of a hill, a broad terrace in front
commanding a delightful view of the valley beneath and the
silver stream which winds through it.
The successor of Shun, the great Yü [2205-2197 B.C.],
popularly called by Europeans the Chinese Noah, had
many associations with this part of the country, and the
elaborate system of waterways in the present prefecture is
attributed to his initiative. At the completion of his great
drainage operations and on his accession to the throne he
ordered his ministers to meet him at T'u-san I, in the
eighth year of his reign, a district not far from the present
Ki-san-men at the south-east corner of the city of
Shaohing, and which is said to have been the native place of
his queen.
Here he meted out rewards to his deserving
officers and appointed officials of various grades, hence the
name Kwei-ki was given to the district, as the place of
meeting and investigation, where the emperor met his officers
and investigated their claims to merit and reward.
It is said that a hill called Punishment Dyke, which
still exists in the north of Kwei-ki, is the very spot where
P'ang Feng-she
was put to death by Yü's orders
as a punishment for his slowness in obeying the summons
of his chief. P'ang Fêng is said to have been so tall as to
necessitate the executioner mounting a bank in order to

28
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
make an effective stroke at his head, and the name of
Punishment Dyke was given to this bank.
At this time Kwei-ki was included in the new province
of Yang-chow, one of the nine which Yü created.
The manufacture of the celebrated Shaohing "wine," or
rice-spirit, is attributed to this period. I-ti, about
whose history we know nothing, is said to have produced it
on the suggestion of the emperor's daughter; and though Yü
was fain to acknowledge the excellence of the compound
he denounced it as the potential source of much future evil
to the state, a prediction which we may thankfully say has
not been realized in any great measure.
There are very many stories recorded in the local
histories, telling how Yü learned the secret of draining the
country by the acquisition of a jade tablet hidden by the
Yellow Emperor in one of the local hills, and the very hill
where the discovery was made is still indicated; but as these
myths are evidently of late origin and probably from Taoist
sources they need not occupy our attention this evening.
An effort has also been made to identify Hêng-san
with Wan-wei-san in Kwei-ki; but as the chief
interest attaching to Mount Hêng is in connexion with the
tablet known as the "Tribute of Yü," and as the tablet
which exists in Shaohing bearing that name did not originate
there, but in Hunan or elsewhere, it is a matter of small
importance to endeavour to establish the connexion.
Here Yü is said to have sickened and died, and was
buried in a coffin made of Wu-t'ung planks encased
in reeds and deposited in the tomb which is still pointed out
to visitors. His successor K'i [2197-2188 B.C.] took
steps to have the tomb preserved and the Spring and Autumn
Sacrifices maintained, but not till the time of Shao-k'ang
[2079-2057 B.C.], the sixth of Yü's line, was any permanent

THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
29
building erected. This prince sent Wu-yü, the son of
his concubine, to Kwei-ki to preserve the tomb of his great
ancestor and perpetuate the solemnities of the Spring and
Autumn. There he spent a miserable existence in the zareba
he constructed and denominated with the high-sounding
title of Principality of Yüeh, or Beyond the Border Kingdom,
Yüeh meaning to "overstep," or "pass the bounds," a
name still applied to the city of Shaohing, which is still called
in the epistolary style Yüeh-küin
From the time of Shao-k'ang [2057 B.C.] to the Chow
dynasty [] is a long step, but we read that Wu-wang E,
the first chief of the line [1122-1115 B.C.] made Yüeh one
of his forty-four principalities, and his successor Ch'eng-wang
received the submission of the Prince of Yüeh in 1091 B.C.,
and Muh-wang a few years later smote the people of
Yüeh, probably after a rebellious outbreak on their part, and
emulated the example of the great Yü by assembling his
ministers at T'u-san .
Six hundred years later Yüeh comes into prominence
in connexion with its quarrel with the neighbouring state
of Wu The Prince of Wu, Ho-lü, invited Yüen-
ch'ang (?), the Prince of Yüeh, to assist him in his campaign
against Ch'u, but the prince not only refused to do so
but also attacked Wu in the absence of Ho-lü. The latter
returned to punish Yüeh, and in a great battle near the
modern Kia-hying the Prince of Yüeh was killed.
His grandson Kow-tsien took up the quarrel with
Fu-ch'a , the successor of Ho-lü, but was defeated, and
in his fifth year surrendered himself a prisoner to the state of
Wu. The story of his parting from his ministers and people
is told with infinite pathos by the chroniclers. His wife,
and his faithful minister Fan-li, insisted on sharing his
exile, and an immense number of his people escorted him

30
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
to the banks of the Tsien-tang river. One of his
chief advisers, Wen-tsong fil, came forward and said
to Kow-tsien: "Imperial Heaven preserve and help you
and turn your present position of humiliation into one of
triumph. Adversity is the root of virtue; sorrow is, as it
were, the vestibule of happiness. Those who fear men will
perish, but those who submit themselves will rise to honour.
Sire, though you are at present in the power of Wu you will
not in the future suffer tribulation. It is a deplorable thing
that you and your ministers must be separated--no loyal man
is without grief on account of it-this Imperial Heaven
knows." Here he presented two cups of wine. Kow-tsien
took the wine and, looking up to Heaven, sighed and drank
without speaking.
The various ministers then came forward and promised
to apply themselves to the various departments of government
during the prince's absence. Fan-li said: "Vengeance is my
duty." Kow-tsien said: "Let each of you undertake each his
own special duty and thus lessen my sorrows," and so he
went.
On arrival at the capital of Wu, Fu-ch'a placed his
prisoners in a stone-built prison, put a ring through Kow-
tsien's nose, gave him a wood-cutter's hat and set him to cut
grass and feed his horses. The princess, his wife, was made to
sweep the stable floor and draw water for the beasts, and thus
for three years the chief employed himself and never shewed
a sign of ill-temper. One day Fu-ch'a saw the trio sitting on
the ground and still maintaining their relative positions just
as if they had never left the palace, and was so pleased with
this and with Kow-tsien's bearing on several occasions that
he determined on releasing them, and after a banquet, at
which the exiled prince made a flattering speech, they
were escorted to the Snake Gate, and Fan-li pulled his

THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
31
into further
master's chariot back to Yüeh, where they were received
with the utmost enthusiasm, and Fan-li at once set
himself to the task of developing his scheme of vengeance.
It would be alien to the subject of this paper
to go
details, however interesting, and so it will suffice to say that
6,000 youths were selected and treated as the king's sons
and trained in all the arts of war for 20 years, and at the end
of that time they were led, with 4,000 others, called Instructors
-an army of 10,000 heroes-against Wu. But first I must
remark that Fan-li had other methods of subjugating the
enemy than by the employment of military arts. One of these
was the gift of the beautiful Si-s it, and a constant stream
of costly gifts to supply which the resources of the state
were largely taxed, and Wu was given a share of all that was
valuable and rare. We read of specially fine trees being cut
down and the timbers presented to him, and the employment
of a large number of women in the manufacture of a species
of grass-cloth of which the name, still preserved in Kuh-
san or Kuh Hill, 10 li to the east, serves to remind
us, Kuh being the name of the fibre from which the cloth
was made. In the first encounter not a soldier of Wu was
touched. The only quarrel was with the prince, and he was
killed or driven to suicide.
It was during this period, prior to the defeat of Wu, that
the city which now goes by the name of Shaohing was
first built. Fan-li produced a model of the proposed city
based upon the Eight Symbols, with three sides flat and one
rounded, the walls pierced by eight gates, four being water
gates and four dry, that facing north-west having no enceinte,
or outside wall, in order to indicate the subjection of Yüeh,
that being the gate which faced towards Wu. Over the gate
was a belvedere called the Flying Dragon, and the gate was
called Heaven Gate, whilst that on the south-east was called

32
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
Earth Gate and had a number of large stones buried beneath it
to represent a subterranean gate corresponding to the Heaven
Gate. The day after the completion of the city [about the year
480 B.C.] it was discovered that a new hill had appeared
during the night, to which the name of Flying Hill was
given, or Uncanny, or Spirit Hill. It is said to have been
originally an island off the coast of Shantung, in the
district of Lang-yia R, and the story of its flight reminds
us of the tradition about the Isle of Man transporting itself
from its old site in Ulster, leaving the large hole now occupied
by Lough Neagh. On this hill a pagoda was in course of
time erected and called the Answering Heaven Pagoda.
The hill is also called Kow-tsien's Peripatetic Terrace,
because he is said to have studied the Heavenly portents from
the top of it, and it was a place eminently suited for the
purpose of divination, as it is said to resemble the back of a
tortoise.
The whole neighbourhood abounds in memorials of
Kow-tsien.
There is a temple near one of the city gates which
contains his effigy, and which is called the Temple of the
Prince of Yüeh.
There is Heo-san
Ky'ön-t'ing-san
L, or Roaring Hill, also called
or Mastiff's Pavilion, where he is
said to have reared his hounds, and where he captured a
white deer.
There is the San-chiao-ho, within the city, which
commemorates the fact of his thoughtfulness for his soldiers.
Some one presented him with a hamper of spirits; not
caring to consume it all himself, and there being not enough
to supply the whole army, he ordered it to be emptied into
the canal, and the soldiers were then able to partake of a
dilute measure, which at least bespoke the generosity of the

THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
33
prince, if it did not serve to inspire them with a certain
amount of "Dutch courage."
There is the pavilion on the city hill, built by Fan-li
with a view to watching the approaches to Wu, and called
the Flying Wing Tower, afterwards called the
Pavilion of the Five Oleas, rebuilt in the Golden
Dynasty by the Prefect Tiao-iah and again in the 15th year
of Kia-tsing [1537] and now known as the Sea View
Wang-hai-t'ing.
Pavilion
There is a hill 5 li to the south where he reared golden
pheasants and pigs, and which is still called Golden Pheasant
Hill 錦鷄山
There is the Iris Hill
II, near the West Gate,
where he plucked and ate a leaf of the bitter iris, which grows
there, to shew the bitterness of his feelings at Wu's continued
sovereignty.
U,
Fifty-five li to the south-east is Jeh-tsu-san
where Eo-yia-ts forged the three famous blades for
Kow-tsien, to each of which was attached a particular name,
and in the production of which he is popularly said to have
sacrificed his two sons in order that their vitality might
possess the weapons and make them invincible.
There is the Worm Mound or Szechuen
Mound Hill, which is said to have flown all the way from
Szechuen, carrying with it a whole family engaged in making
brocade and utterly unconscious of the fact that they had
travelled thousands of li from their original province.
There is Tin Hill, 50 li to the east, where he dug
for tin and found silver and lead, after which the hill rumbled,
or, as the record puts it, "laughed," and rolled over on its side.
But I am afraid I am wandering into the realms of fiction,
and must hasten to assure you that I do not vouch for the
5

34
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
accuracy of these statements but this one fact, viz. that the
names remain and are associated with the Prince of Yüeh.
I must not, however, omit to mention the fact that not
far from the city he planted a number of fragrant trees, and
that this spot became afterwards memorable under the name
of Lan-t'ing or Epidendrum Pavilion, the favoured
resort of the famous penman Wang Hi-che, to whom I will
presently refer.
The name of the beautiful Si-s P, the beau-ideal of
feminine grace and charm, is still associated with many places
in the neighbourhood. She was born in Chü-lo-san II,
now called Chü-lo-san II, in the district of Tsu-ki
, and there is a temple containing her effigy not far
from the district city, and on the bank of the river which
runs past the city there is an inscription cut on the face
of a large rock to this effect: "This is the spot where Si-s
aired gauze." The inscription may still be seen from the
river, but the rock face is so steep that it cannot be read
from the land side.
The almost equally famous beauty Chêng-tan is
also said to have been a native of Tsu-ki.
Before closing my references to Kow-tsien it may be
interesting to notice that the city he built is supposed to
represent a sleeping dragon. The belly is occupied by the
site of the prefectural yamên, the back is represented by the
hill on which the Sea View Pavilion stands, the East Gate
is the mouth and the West Gate the tail.
After the defeat of Wu, Yüeh grew enormously in area
and was denominated a chow . In 467 B.C. the seat of
government was removed to Lang-yia in Shantung, and
Kow-tsien was created a viscount of the reigning dynasty.
Nearly a hundred years later the capital was again restored
to its southern position, and we find that during the Ts'in

THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
dynasty when Prince Chêng
First Universal Emperor
known as Kwei-ki-küin .
35
assumed the title of
[B.C. 221] the city was
Shih Hwang-ti is said to have paid a visit
in 209 B.C. to this, the most southerly part of his newly-
acquired territory, with a view not only to inspect his
new domains but also to offer a sacrifice at the shrine of
Yü, and the people of Yüeh were now permitted to call
themselves Ming R, or recognised subjects of the state, instead
of the old title of Barbarians, which had been their heritage.
The emperor ascended a hill some 40 li from the city, from
which he endeavoured to view the Eastern Sea, but was over-
taken by a shower of rain and took shelter under a clump of
pines which grew on the summit, and so grateful was he for
their timely shelter that he conferred upon them the title of
Wu Ta Fu, or Five Chief Ministers, and the hill is still called
Ts'in-wang-san or Ts'in Observation Hill. There is
a place at Yü-yao where the emperor is said to have watered
his horse, and which is, for this reason, called Ma-chü
There is a village called Hiang-li-san, some
20 li from the city, said to be inhabited by the descendants
of the celebrated Hiang-yü, who distinguished himself
in the long struggle with Shih Hwang-ti which ended in the
establishment of the Han dynasty.
and
During this dynasty the emperors Kao-tsu
Wên-ti successively sent officers to act as prefects of
Kwei-ki, and it was during the latter reign that the name
of San-ing first came into prominence [170 B.C.]. San-
ing and Kwei-ki are the two hsiens into which the present
city is divided.
We learn that in the year 151 B.C. Kwei-ki reverted to
the Han dynasty, so we may suppose that a period of rebellion
had intervened.

36
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
The historian Sze-ma Ts'ien [B.C. 163-85] in
the course of his travels is said to have paid a visit to Kwei-ki
to see the tomb of Yü, and made several notes of interest in
connexion with it which are still preserved.
During the time of the Three Kingdoms [220-260 A.D.]
the district was governed for a time by two lieutenants of
Ts'ao-ts'ao, the brothers Sün-ts'êh and Sün-k'üan
who were invested with the titles of Marquis of Wu and Prince
of Wu respectively, the latter of whom eventually assumed
the title of emperor.
The
There are some Han dynasty associations still connected
with the district which I must not omit to mention.
chief of these is the story of Ts'ao-ngo, whose tomb is
still to be seen in the courtyard of the temple which bears her
name. She was a maiden of 14 who lived during the early
period of the Han dynasty. Her father having been drowned
in the river, she perambulated the banks for 17 days and nights,
weeping incessantly, in the vain hope of recovering his body,
and at last threw herself into the water, whereupon her dead
body was observed to rise to the surface clasping the corpse
she had so long and faithfully sought. A temple was erected
to her memory in order that her filial piety might become an
example to posterity, and on the walls there is a very interesting
series of pictures representing the various scenes in her long
quest and its happy conclusion. A huge masonry erection
covers her remains, and a figure of the damsel, now deified,
occupies a niche in the temple.
There are two other tombs to later heroines in the same
enclosure, and their effigies occupy a place by the side of
Ts'ao-ngo.
It is said that a Chih-li man from Han-tan-hsien
erected a tablet to the memory of the maiden, which was
called the Han-tan-pei . A Han dynasty scholar, named

THE ANCIENT OITY OF SHAOHING.
37
Ts'ai-yung had added eight characters in the form of an
enigma which when combined and transposed produced four
characters reading "A most admirable record of virtue."
Tsao-tsao 曹操 and his minister Yang-siu 楊修 paid
a visit to this tablet, and the latter succeeded in interpreting
the enigma, much to the disgust of Ts'ao-ts'ao, who retorted,
"If I had walked another 30 li I should have guessed it
myself."
The name of Ts'ai-yung, to which I have just referred, is
also associated with a place near Shaohing called Ko-ts'ao
Here he is said to have spent a night and was
awakened by sounds of music emanating from the roof.
He examined the rafters and found the 16th to be capable
of producing music, and from it he carved a flute, hence the
expression Ko-t'ing-chw'an-ti, a rafter flute from
Ko pavilion.
The Taoist patriarch Mei Fuh, who sought in vain
to counteract the designs of Wang-mang, betook himself in
despair to a life of meditation about the year 14 B.C., and the
name of Mei-san I, or Mei's Hill, 18 li from the city, and
Mei Fuh-li, Mei's Lane, attests the fact of his sojourn
in the hills of Kwei-ki.
It was during the Han dynasty too that the prefectural
yamên was built and the name Ts'ing-pei-t'ang, Clear
White Hall, given to it in memory of the good prefect Liu-
ts'ong who, when he was retiring, was escorted by all
the people as far as Tsien-ts'ing and was presented
with a thousand cash by each man, of which he only
accepted one, hence the name Clear Cash, given to the
place.
Thirty li north-west of Shang-yü is Tung-san
東山,the retreat of the great statesman 謝安 Sieh An
[A.D. 320-385] who was contemporary with at least five kings

38
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
of this dynasty and who steadfastly refused all invitations to
take office until he had reached the age of 40 years, and even
when he had attained the highest offices in the state his only
wish was that he might return to his literary recreations.
A characteristic story is told of him in Mayers' Reader's
Manual: "When the capital was menaced by the advancing
forces of Fu-kien, he sat one day over a game of chess
with a friend, when a despatch was handed to him, which
he calmly read and then continued the game. On being asked
what was the news, he replied: 'It is merely an announcement
that my young people have beaten the enemy.' The intel-
ligence was, in fact, that of the decisive rout of the invaders by
the
army under his brother Sieh She and his nephew Sieh
Hüan. Only when retired within the seclusion of his private
apartments did he give himself up to an outburst of joy."
[Mayers, p. 181, ed. 1874.]
ti
There is nothing further deserving of notice until we come
to the Eastern Tsin dynasty. During the reign of Muh-
[345-362 A.D.] there lived in San-ing the celebrated
penman, Wang Hi-che E. He was in the habit of
resorting to the beautiful pavilion and gardens at Lan-t'ing
or Epidendrum Pavilion, not far from the city, to
which reference has already been made; there he amused
himself with his favourite pets and his literary friends. A
tablet still exists by the side of a pool where he watched his
geese disporting themselves, and the two characters
Goose Pool, which still exist on the stone, are said by some to
have been written by his own hand. Through the centre of
the gardens runs an artificial stream which winds in and out
amongst the little rock-edged banks, and along this the scholars
were wont to arrange themselves and drink wine out of the
little cups which were sent floating down the stream from its
upper reaches, and thus obtain inspiration for the composition

THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
39
of those poems which made their names and the place itself
famous.
On the 3rd of the 3rd moon, in the year 356 A.D., being
the 9th year of Yung-ho F, Wang Hi-che with a dis-
tinguished company of scholars met at Lan-t'ing to celebrate
the solemnities of the EE Shang-sz, as that day is called.
They first underwent a species of baptismal rite which
consisted in the washing of the borders of their robes,
indicative of inward cleansing with a view to warding off
calamities, and then surrendered themselves to the delights
of beautiful scenery with the accompaniments of poetry and
wine, music being the only delightful element lacking on
the occasion. Wang Hi-che decided that the day was a
"red-letter day" and worthy of lasting record, and so he
wrote the celebrated Lan-t'ing Preface (), which is now
indelibly carved in stone on the spot, written by a hand no
less illustrious than that of the greatest of the Manchus, the
Emperor K'ang-hi, more than a thousand years after the
event.
Within the city there is the Rosary Monastery which
is said to have been Wang Hi-che's town residence and
which, with the adjoining hill, still called the Wang Family
Hill, he bequeathed to the Buddhists.
There are two or three places in the city which remind us
of the great writer, such as Ti-san-ch'iao, where he
responded to the solicitations of an old lady who begged him
to write on a fan for her, and it appears the said old lady
endeavoured to run a wholesale business in fans written by
Wang, and so pestered him with commissions that one day
he flung away his pencil and refused to supply any more
autographs, hence we find Pi-fei-lung, or Flying
Pencil Lane, a lasting monument of the uncharitable deed.
But even then it seems his troubles did not cease, for there is

40
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
another lane still in existence, called To-p'o-lung
**
or Dodge-the-old-woman Lane, where he was fain to escape
from her blandishments.
Towards the close of the T'ang dynasty a native of Hang-
chow named Ts'ien-kiao [851-932 A.D.], who had dis-
tinguished himself in early life as a salt smuggler, rendered
signal service to the state, and was made governor of his
native region and afterwards ennobled as Prince of Wu and
Yüeh. He it was who changed the name of the ancient Si-
ling or West of the Tomb to its present name of Si-hing
Pas he considered the former name of ill-omen whilst his
camp was stationed there.
We must pass over the intervening period and note the
history of Kwei-ki during the Northern Sung dynasty
which closed in the year 1126 A.D., and the Southern Sung
dynasty which succeeded it.
In the year 1105 A.D., the 4th year of Hwei-tsung
the emperor ordered that the temple of Yü, which had been
repaired during the Liang dynasty [502-556 A.D.],
should be rebuilt, the grave restored, and the Spring and
Autumn sacrifices be resumed.
reign of Kwang-tsung
Some 90 years later, in the
[1193 A.D.], the temple
was again restored. The ridge beam consisted of the
trunk of an enormous almond tree which had been swept
to the vicinity of the temple during a rain-storm. A
celebrated artist painted a figure of a dragon upon it so
lifelike that it actually became the incarnation of a living
dragon. One morning it was discovered that the beam was
enveloped in reeds and dripping with slime, which was
easily accounted for by the fact that the dragon had sprung
into life and, dragonlike, had flown away to do battle with
another dragon in the neighbouring waters. It was there-
fore decided to fasten the ridge pole with a chain, but in

THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
41
course of time the beam was stolen and a worthless piece of
timber substituted, the thief being cute enough to chain up
the new beam as before, so that the change was not observed.
From time to time the temple has been repaired, and
succeeding emperors have added tablets, but the tablet which
surpasses all in interest, viz. the Kow-low-pei, belongs
to a later period.
During the Sung and Yüan dynasties the sacrifices to
Yü were offered at a temple which existed at T'u-san,
but the temple fell into ruin during the early part of the
Ming dynasty and the place of sacrifice reverted to its old
position, the present temple of Yü in Kwei-ki.
It is the practice of the present dynasty to send a minis-
ter to the temple once in three years and on great occasions
to burn incense at the shrine, and during the late war with
Japan a special envoy arrived at Shaohing for this purpose.
The reputed descendants of Yü are still entrusted with
the charge of the temple, and the senior member is entitled
the "Iron-headed B.A.," because of the honorary degree he
is said to receive and the iron button which he is permitted
to wear on his cap.
When Agutha JJ, of the Golden Dynasty, imprisoned
Hwei-fung, the young Prince Hsiao-k'ang made his escape to
Ningpo closely pursued all the way, but on reaching Kwei-
ki he was able to maintain himself for three years, having his
court at the prefectural yamên and his harem at the Ta-san-s
He took the title of Kao-tsong, but another
of his titles was Shao-hing. After three years he removed
his capital to Ling-an, the modern Hangchow, but before
his departure the people desired that he would leave them
some memento of his presence among them for so long, and
the prince is said to have replied: "Tê-tsung of the
Tang dynasty, on his visit to Liang-chow, renamed
6

42
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
the place after his own title, Hing-yüan : I will do the
same to Yüeh, and let it be henceforth known as Shao-hing."
We must leave Kao-tsung in his new capital and return to
our immediate subject, in spite of the temptation to linger
over his subsequent history and the romantic career of his
faithful companion and minister Yoh-fei, whose tomb
is still to be seen not far from Hangchow, where the trees all
bend in the direction of the south, as if unwilling to incline
towards the rebel north, and where the iron figures of the
enemies who compassed his murder are to be found prostrate
and mutilated, the objects of universal execration and
contumely.
The Emperor Li-tsung [1225-1265], who was
adopted by is said to have been born at Hong-ch'iao
, a place outside the West Gate, and the tombs of five
emperors of this dynasty and of one empress are to be found
at Tsan-kwong, outside the Wu-yün-mên
.
An interesting monument belonging to this period is to
be found at Chwang-ch'iao H, where there is an ancient
temple to a Taoist recluse who had a very chequered history.
Amongst the tablets here is a marble one which gives the
impression of great antiquity, but the most curious feature
of the whole place is the shrivelled and crouching figure of
the recluse himself, mummified and preserved by periodic coats
of wax, and occupying a little shrine to himself. The figure
is that of an aged and diminutive man, doubled up and
very attenuated, but the flesh on the face is still plastic to
the touch. It has been the object of worship probably for
centuries and was at one time a most popular saint or divinity,
as we may judge from the fact that the temple property
covers more than 3,000 mow of hill and 200 of arable land.
During the Mongol or Yüan dynasty, in the 16th year
of S-tsu, the name of Shao-hing-fu was changed to

THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
43
Shao-hing-lu, which was the Mongol equivalent for tao or
circuit, but reverted to its old designation in the second year
of Hung-wut of the Ming dynasty.
The Pien-shih or funeral stone over Yü's tomb
was broken in two during this period and a wooden cupola
was erected over it to protect it from the elements; but the
wooden uprights supporting the roof rotted away in course
of time, and a Shao-hing prefect named P'eng-i substi-
tuted the present stone pillars. I may say that there are
many popular theories as regards the object represented by
this stone. Some have suggested that it was P'an-ku's
needle, but, as we are aware, P'an-ku's weapon was an axe if
anything, and that his work was separating rather than
joining. It is said to represent a steelyard weight in shape,
and has a hole near the top similar to that through which the
cord passes.
Another theory is that it represents a whale
or some sea monster specially selected for its gigantic strength
as a fitting guardian of the tomb and its precious contents.
Perhaps the most reasonable explanation is that the stone
was used to balance the coffin as it was hoisted into the air
and let gradually down into the deep well in which it lies,
hence the hole in the top by which it was connected with
the pulley. It is said to be as old as the grave itself. I may
here refer to the Kow-low-pei, which I have already mentioned,
as we have now arrived at the Ming
the reign of Kia-tsing or She-tsung
dynasty. During
of this dynasty,
on the 15th of the 12th moon in the year 1542 a prefect
from Ch'ang-sha
as Yü's Tribute
brought a rubbing of the tablet known
from Yoh-lu-su-yüen at the
foot of Mount Heng and presented it to the Shaohing
prefect Tsang Ming-tao, who had the characters
engraved upon a large stone tablet which still exists; but no
one was found who could interpret them until a man from

44
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
Ch'en-tu professed to be able to do so, and wrote the
modern equivalents for the ancient characters beneath them.
The tablet at Yü's temple does not throw very much
light, I am afraid, upon the much debated question of the
original history of the tribute of Yü.
A house in the city is still pointed out which bears the
name of Creeper Study
Tsing-t'en-su-wöh, which
was the home of the celebrated Ch'ü Wen-ts'ang,
famous for his abilities and his practical jokes; the latter form
the subject of innumerable tales which are familiar to most
Shaohing men, and which, like the tricks attributed to Dean
Swift and the jokes of the "Paddy" are largely apocryphal.
It is said that his end was unfortunate, for having been
summoned to the imperial presence, he had taken off his
heavy ceremonial hat whilst waiting in an antechamber,
and a centipede found its way into it, and when he resumed
it at the audience the creature stung his head so painfully
that he was rendered absolutely speechless, and his shame and
mortification were so great that he died of grief.
During the reign of Wan-li a very fine image of
Buddha was carved out of the solid rock about eight miles
to the west of Shaohing at a place called
Ch'i-sing-
yien. Here in the midst of a great quarry some enormous
masses of stone rise sheer from the ground to a great height.
The softer portions were probably quarried away, and the
harder parts were thus left undisturbed. In the heart of one
of these great rocky pillars is carved the figure of Buddha
to which I have referred. It is in a sitting posture. Its
height including the pedestal on which it is seated is about
40 feet; the knees measure about 20 feet across; a man can
lie down in one of the open hands and be hardly seen from
the ground level, and each of the finger-nails is about a
foot in length. It is very well proportioned and well worth

THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
45
a visit. There is a smaller figure of Buddha of the same
character at
Hia-fang-ch'iao dating from the time
of Ch'êng-hwa 1 [1465]: it is about 25 feet high, and its
base is quite a considerable height above the ground level.
Another figure, much larger than either of these, is to be found
near Sing-ch'ang, but its proportions are not so good
and it is not solid stone, being largely built up of brick; it is
about 75 feet high.
Of the present dynasty, the emperors K'ang-hi and
K'ien-lungare both said to have visited Shaohing and
left their imperial autographs upon many of its monuments.
An immense tablet at Lan-t'ing bears the royal handwriting
of K'ang-hi on one side and that of K'ien-lung on the other.
To describe or even enumerate the objects of interest
in Shaohing and the neighbourhood would be impossible
within the limits of this paper, but I cannot close without
some reference to three special features connected with
Buddhism.
First, the temple on the Hsiang-lu-fêng or Censer
Peak, a few miles from the city, where is a temple perched on
the very summit of the high peak which bears this name.
Here there is a stone image of Kwan-yin, which, like that of
the Goddess Diana, is said to have fallen from heaven, and
to have been dredged up from a canal by a countryman of
the village at the foot of the hill. It was an object of worship
for a long time in the village, and at last it was decided that
a fitter shrine for it would be the top of the neighbouring
peak, and a temple was erected and hundreds of steps were cut
on the rocky slopes. During the 1st and 2nd moons thousands
of pilgrims ascend the hill, and the long procession of lantern-
bearers streaming up the narrow pathway presents a most
weird sight to the watchers in the city. Free rice-gruel and
tea are supplied en route to all who wish to partake, and

46
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
the donors expect that their liberality will be fully repaid by the
participants in another stage of existence. There is an inter-
esting boulder of immense size quite near the top which
appears to hardly touch the ground, and pilgrims are in the
habit of placing small twigs under it, as if to prop it up, an
act of charity on their part which is said to be a sure
preventive of pains in the legs which might otherwise follow
on the long climb. The Hsiang-lu-fêng temple is also called
the Southern "India", as distinguished from the famous
Northern "India" near Hangchow, and is one of the great
centres of the worship of Kwan-yin in China, another being
the island of P'u-t'u.
The second interesting relic is to be found at the base
of the Censer Peak on the further side from Shaohing. Here
is a very large and well-kept temple which has had a change-
ful history. It contains a "Tooth of Buddha," so-called, which
the priests relate was presented to the temple a long time
ago, and which used to attract thousands of worshippers by
the fame of its supernatural lustre ; but, alas, an iconoclastic
prefect, jealous of its popularity, had it thrown into a fire,
and though it was rescued from destruction it ceased to demon-
strate its mysterious properties. It is now to be seen enshrined
in an iron casket in the form of a pagoda. As well as I
can remember it is triangular in shape, about 6" x 5", and is
probably part of the jawbone of an elephant.
The third relic is some considerable distance from the
city, in the Sing-ch'ang-hsien, and consists of a very
ancient Buddhist Sutra written upon the leaves of the
palmyra palm. It is said to be a complete edition of a some-
what similar Sutra which was discovered in an imperfect
state in the T'ai-chow district. The writing is held in very
great veneration, and visitors are expected to go through the
ceremony of washing hands and lighting candles before they

THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
47
are permitted to inspect it. I made a photograph of it some
years ago which was unfortunately too small to be of any
great service, but the late Professor Max Müller ventured the
opinion, when the details were submitted to him, that it is
probably some four or five hundred years older than the T'ai-
chow book. It is not easy to obtain access to it, owing to the
jealousy of some of the monks and their fear of offending
the local gentry, but it is much to be hoped that an effort
will be made to secure a permanent picture of what may prove
to be a most valuable and interesting literary relic. It is
probable the Buddhists in Japan have already secured a
facsimile, as a Japanese monk is said to have laboured
most diligently in copying it out in writing some years
ago.
A great disaster happened to the ancient city in the 11th
year of Hien-fêng [1862] when on the 29th of the 9th
moon, the "Long-haired" advanced from Ko-ch'iao and took
possession. The T'ai-p'ings, as they called themselves, worked
fearful havoc in the city, and for a long time the streets were
impassable on account of the number of corpses and the
wrecks of buildings. Many of the women and children had
been sent to the hills before the occupation of the city whilst
their husbands "remained by the stuff," but alas in many
cases they never met again. The bodies of infants were
exposed under every rest-shed, abandoned by their mothers in
the terror of their flight, and a whole generation was practically
annihilated. Meanwhile the rebels dressed themselves in the
finest silks and satins, in the manufacture of which the Shao-
hing people excel, and every morning hundreds of boats laden
with produce arrived at the gates of the city, brought by the
country-people, who to save themselves from extinction had
taken the oath, and accepted the small flags which the rebels
distributed as a mark of loyalty and a protection against

48
THE ANCIENT CITY OF SHAOHING.
attack. The whole country was ravaged, and many evidences
of the "fury of the oppressor" remain to this day both in city
and country. The temples and monuments suffered severely,
and the mummied recluse, about whom I have spoken, was
carried about from place to place by his attendant priests lest
he should fall into impious hands, and was at last deposited in
a large hole cut into the solid rock some distance from his
temple. The splendid Pagoda was stripped of its
balustrades, and a determined effort was made to secure the
ornamental metal work at the top which is supposed to
contain a precious pearl which has the power of resisting the
force of the wind. Foiled in their effort they then attempted
to burn the pagoda, and now it remains a massive column
without any balustrades or outworks, despoiled indeed but
triumphant over man and time.
I must not linger further over details. Shaohing is full
of historic places, and almost every bridge and temple has an
interesting story. It is no longer in its prime but every-
where bears traces of its former greatness. The manufacture
of the Shaohing rice-spirit still flourishes, and the looms of
Shaohing weavers supply a large proportion of the costly
materials supplied annually to the imperial court. The
manufacture of vessels of brass is also very extensive, and the
largest of the Chinese bells which are to be seen in the British
Museum, was cast just outside the Ch'wang-an Gate
Perhaps the most flourishing occupation of Shaohing at
present is the preparation of tinsel articles for use in ancestral
worship. You are perhaps aware too that the Shaohing
"S-ye' or yamên secretaries are found throughout the
empire it is said that there are three things which are found
everywhere "under Heaven," viz. "bean-curd, sparrows
and Shaohing men.”