1007
SEALING AND WHALING IN THE
NORTHERN PACIFIC.
By E. BRASS.
Of all the mammals living in the Pacific, the group of
seals comes first, from a commercial point of view. Especially
the fur seal, otaria ursina, has roused general interest, as well
by the special conditions of its life as by the international
complications which have arisen out of the merciless pursuit
of this valuable animal.
Between Alaska and Kamschadka two groups of rocky
islands of volcanic origin rise grimly out of the ocean, plains
and sheltered valleys covered with a scanty grass vegetation
in the interior, the outer rim naked cliffs and rocks and
shelving terraces towards the beach. These grey inhospitable
shores form the home of the fur seal. The northernmost, the
Commodore group, consisting of Copper and Behring Islands,
belong to Russia, the Pribilof group, south-east of the former,
consisting of the islands St. Paul and St. George, belongs to
the United States of America. Every spring, in the month of
May, the fur seals appear here in large processions. First
comes the vanguard of old bulls, which inspect carefully and
suspiciously the old "rookeries." Everything appears in
good order, and now follows wild fighting for the best places.
The places next to the surf belong always to the strongest.
About the middle of June the better halves appear, swimming
in long files, shy and bashful, but eager to be wooed and won.
And the wooing is rather wild. While the gentleman on the

80
SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC.
ground floor has secured already one wife and is stretching his
flappers lovingly towards a second, a gentleman of the next
floor has meanwhile unlawfully appropriated the first, but
may be robbed in his turn in the next moment by some-
one living on the third floor. Long and hot is the fighting,
and the bellowing of the excited bulls may be heard a long
distance. But finally everything is settled, and the fair ones
distributed among the different harems.
The selfish old gentlemen at the lowest terrace have
managed to secure ten or twelve lady friends each, while the
less favoured ones on the higher ranges must be satisfied with
three or four. Higher up still, on the grassy slopes, the young
bachelors of one to four years of age reside, who are considered
too young yet to undertake the cares and pleasures of a
household, intermixed with the young and playful maidens.
Some grim old grandfathers, called "wigs," are also relegated
to these regions. Alas, their teeth are not sharp enough any
more, and their limbs have lost the nimbleness required in the
struggle for the survival of the fittest.
Shortly after the landing the young ones are brought
forth, and about a week later the new honeymoon begins.
The young one, when born, is covered with a short black
bristly fur without any underwool, and called "black pup."
After three months the greyish underwool begins to form, and
the name "grey pup" is given to the animal.
Within nine months the formation of the fur is finished,
brown bristly tips, and a fine silky light brown underwool.
At the end of August, the males, which have not taken any
food during their long honeymoon, leave the island, followed
about the middle of September by the whole crowd of females
and pups. But the females have not lived on love alone
during this period, but have made fearful havoc among the
scaly denizens of the deep.

SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC. 81
Only the immense wealth of the ocean can sustain the
damages which a million of hungry seals create among the
fishes. The whole winter is passed by the fur seal on the
open sea, never touching land, sleeping during the night on
the surface, lying on their sides with the flappers out of the
water. A grown-up fur seal of respectable length is six feet.
The front flappers have no visible toes, the back feet, which
grow together with the tail, have long sharp nails.
The flappers are covered with a rough leathery skin,
which enables the animal to climb the rocky cliffs with
comparative ease.
Shortly after the landing of the seals the slaughter
begins. A number of Aleutes, armed with heavy clubs, try to
separate a troop of 400 to 500 young bachelors, which, as
stated before, remain always on the upper slopes, and drive
them towards the interior. Only these young males from one
to four years old are killed on the islands. This driving must
be done very carefully, as the seal, gentle as he is as a rule,
makes desperate use of his sharp teeth if driven too hard.
Every two or three minutes they must be allowed a rest, and
the driving is only possible on wet days, when the grass is damp.
Arrived at the slaughter-place, a knock on the head with the
club finishes them. A few cuts with the knife, and the skin
with the blubber is removed.
The skins are then roughly fleshed, salted, put in bundles,
and shipped by special vessels to London. Here they are
assorted into small pups, large and middling pups, which are
more valuable than the larger skins of the adult seals, the
small and middlings. The whole output is then sold by
auction, those from the Pribilof group in November, those
from Copper and Behring islands in March. The former
ones, known in the trade as Alaska skins, are better in
quality still. The upper hair of the skin is then removed by
11

82
SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC.
a special process, and the wool dyed a glossy dark brown, in
which state the fur is known to everyone. Formerly this
could be done only in London, but now there are large
establishments in Leipzig, Paris and New York. The sealing
industry has passed through many different phases. Origin-
ally the hunting was very irregular, everyone tried to catch
as many as possible.
The Russians once burned 300,000 skins to avoid
glutting the market. Later they regulated the sealing,
limiting the killing to about 50,000 annually.
After the cession of Russian America to the U.S., the
monopoly of the sealing was given to the Alaska Commercial
Company in San Francisco, which was only allowed to kill
annually 100,000 seals, and use only native Aleutians for the
killing. The latter received $0.50 gold for each skin,-good
wages, as a skilled man can kill and skin about 50 seals a day.
$1.00 had to be paid to the government; freight, salt and
sundries came to about 50 cents more. As the skins fetched
from $10 to $20 gold apiece, no wonder that the company
paid 80 to 100 per cent dividend. In 1869 the firm of
Hutchinson, Kohl & Co., in San Francisco, obtained the sole
right to catch seals on the Commodore Islands, restricted to
60,000 seals annually for 20 years, from the Russian govern-
ment, and sold the concession to the Alaska Commercial
Company, which possessed also fur trading posts along the
whole coast of Alaska. After the expiration of the lease, the
concession was given to a Russian Company in St. Petersburg.
Up to about 12 or 13 years ago, the seals were well
protected: American cruisers watched the Pribilof group and
warned all vessels off, and a similar vigilance was kept by the
Russians on their shores. At least a million seals assembled
annually on the rookeries. But the prize was too valuable to
be let alone. From Victoria and Vancouver in British

SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC. 83
Columbia, a number of small schooners of 20 to 100 tons
were fitted out, Tacoma and Portland, Oregon, followed suit,
and pelagic sealing began. The herds of seals, which kept
during the winter in the open sea, were followed up and killed
ruthlessly. Pregnant females, pups and old ones, fell to the
shots of the eager hunters. Some schooners returned with
4,000 to 5,000 skins on board; and as 50 or 60 schooners
were employed, the destruction dealt to the seals may be
imagined. The seals appearing on the breeding grounds
decreased rapidly.
On the Russian islands it was still worse. Schooners,
not satisfied with pelagic sealing, appeared in the neighbour-
hood of the islands, and, waiting their opportunity of a foggy
day, sent their crews ashore and secured some thousand seals
right on the rookeries. Russian warships were always on the
look-out, and many schooners were seized and brought to
Vladivostok, where I saw myself at least a dozen of these
confiscated vessels.
A curious case happened while I was in Yokohama in
1891.
The British schooner Arctic was seized by a Russian man-
of-war while she had only 80 skins on board. The ship's
papers were taken away, and the captain told to follow to
Vladivostok with his vessel. During a fog the ships got
separated, and the schooner headed straight for Behring
Island, killed 3,000 seals, and sailed to Yokohama without
papers. The port could not be entered, but a boat was sent
in. The Russian Ambassador applied at once to the Japanese
authorities to have the schooner and cargo seized, but in the
meantime the Edgar had gone out, piloted the Arctic in, and
two hours later the cargo, worth £10,000, was on board the
P. & O. steamer Verona. The Americans went a step further
than the Russians, and declared the whole Behring Sea a

84
SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC.
closed sea, and seized every vessel fitted out for sealing, i.e.
having raw salt on board.
This gave rise to international complications, as Canada
(or, rather, England) did not acknowledge the right of
America to a larger extent of sea than three miles from low-
water mark round the Pribilof Islands. A large number of
lawsuits were pending against the U.S. Government for
damages.
Then, in 1893, a conference between England and
America took place in Paris. It was finally agreed that
pelagic sealing should be restricted to the summer months,
from April to September, and that the sea within a radius of
30 miles from the Pribilofs should be considered American
water. On the other hand, America agreed to restrict the
annual killing on the rookeries to 7,500 seals, and pay the
damages awarded to the owners of the unlawfully seized
schooners. These damages, by-the-way, are not paid yet, as
far as I am aware. These measures helped a little, but not
much. In the spring 20 to 30 schooners are to be seen in
Yokohama harbour alone, and there are still 60,000 to 80,000
seals killed by pelagic fishing. This amount is not startling in
itself, but, as I stated above, the females and young ones are
caught indiscriminately, while on the rookeries only surplus
young
males were killed. The damages done by pelagic sealing
are evident. Recently another attempt was made to protect
the seals by concerted measures of the interested powers, but as
the U.S. insisted that Japan should join the conference and
England objected, the whole thing came to nought. Japan
does not take part at present in the sealing industry, though
there are seals on the Kuriles, and the Japanese ports
are largely used by the American and Canadian sealers.
Moreover, the best seal-hunters are natives of the Bonin
Islands, but Japan forbids their signing on any but Japanese

SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC.
85
vessels. Nevertheless a number of these intrepid half-castes
manage to elude the vigilance of the Japanese authorities.
A short time ago the news was reported that America refused
admittance not only to raw sealskins, otherwise than those
shipped by the Alaska Company, but also of sealskin garments,
if not accompanied by a certificate that the raw material was
Alaska seal. That comes practically to a prohibition, as in
the auction room a sealskin does not wear a label "a victim
of pelagic sealing" or "killed by permission of the Company."
The result will not be to stop pelagic sealing, but will only
enable the Alaska Company to obtain a higher price for their
produce, as they hold now a monopoly of sale in the United
States, the largest market for fur sealskin. But I think the
rule cannot be enforced for long, unless permission is given to
the company to slaughter more than 7,500 seals annually, as
this number is quite inadequate for the requirements of the
trade. To protect the seals effectually, the only means, in my
opinion-as pelagic sealing could never be stopped as long as
it pays so well-would be to issue a certain number of licenses
annually to Canadian and American vessels to kill only a
specified number of seals each, say 1,000 or 1,200; a govern-
ment agent to accompany each vessel, and see that the
obligations of the license are fulfilled. The charge for the
license must be high, and if possible only a limited number of
licenses issued.
Any vessel then found in Behring Sea or Japan Sea
fitted out for sealing without a license should be confiscated.
If first a close season of one or two years was fixed,
afterwards the yearly killing of 20,000 or 30,000 pelagic
seals, and 50,000 or 100,000 seals on the rookeries, would do
no great harm.
The most valuable fur-bearing animal is still more liable
to extinction.
This is the sea otter, enhydris marina. Their

86
SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC.
abode is of very restricted area. If you draw a line from
Yesso to Vancouver Island, and another from Norton Sound
in Alaska to the Anadyr in Siberia, the enclosed part shows
the only home of this beautiful animal.
But while in the beginning of this century every bay
and sheltered nook, each lonely rock and island, was full of
the playfully gambolling animals, now they are very rarely
met with. In 1896 20,000 skins were brought in one lot to
Canton alone. When I joined the fur trade in 1876 about
7,000 annually came altogether on the market, and now only
about 1,800 are caught every year.
The skin is the finest and most valuable fur in existence.
A full-grown skin measures about six feet in length by four feet,
and costs in the London public sales from £50 to £250.
The best quality are dark glossy black, regular marked
with white hairs, called silver tips, then follow plain blacks,
then the brownish, the grey woolly ones; so-called donkeys
are the cheapest. The biggest market for them used to be
China, but the price is far too high for the Chinese, and
Russia takes the bulk of the output. Only a few skins are
imported into China every year by a very circuitous route,
first to London, then by way of Moscow, Nizhni Novgorod
or Irbit, to Kiachta on the Chinese frontier: there they come
into the hands of the celestials, having changed hands at least
a dozen times during the transit.
The sea-otter is not a gregarious animal, and keeps for the
larger part of its existence to the water, a life for which its web-
footed flapper-like feet are well adapted. Only to bring forth
its young does the sea-otter seek the land on some secluded
cliff or rocky island. Their food consists of small fish, shells
and crayfish. In their native haunts everyone's hand is
against the poor otter. The natives of the Aleuts or Kuriles
follow them in their leather boats or baidarkas, often for days

SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC. 87
and days out on the swelling waves of the open ocean, a
large number of boats paddling in long line. As soon as a sea
otter is sighted, the nearest man tries to harpoon it, while
the others close round in a wide circle, to catch it as soon as
the unfortunate animal rises again to the surface.
The skin belongs always to the man who hits it first,
or, if by two harpoons, to the owner of the harpoon next to
the head. The meat is shared among all the hunters.
A number of American schooners are also employed, but
use Aleutian hunters, while in Japan only one foreign-owned
schooner follows this pursuit, returning generally with about
30 or 40 skins at the end of the season. The only way to
preserve this beautiful animal would be for the nations
concerned to declare a close season for at least three or four
years; if not, it will be exterminated in a few years, like
Steller's seacow, which lived in Behring Sea in shoals of
thousands till the end of last century. They were ex-
terminated in about 20 years, so that a perfect skeleton is
worth now £1,000. The other members of the seal family
are not very important in a commercial sense.
The largest is the walrus, Trichechus sus marus, an animal
of 20 feet length and about 11 to 12 tons weight. It lives
along the northern shores of Behring Sea and the Arctic
Ocean, and is found in small herds of 10 to 20, always near
the coast. The tusks, of about 12 feet in length, give very
good ivory, the skin is used for the manufacture of machine
belting, and the oil is also valuable. They are killed by the
natives, and occasionally by boat crews of the whalers. It is
rather a fierce animal, and defends its life very determinedly.
Not much smaller, but quite harmless, is the sea lion,
otaria stelleri, which is to be found everywhere on the eastern
shore of the Pacific. They live on shellfish, fishes, and even
waterfowl, doing great damage to the fisheries. The oil is very

88
SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC.
fine, but the skin is valueless, the leather being spongy and
the hair stiff and bristly. Well-known is the colony of sealions
opposite the Cliff House in San Francisco. The other seals,
called altogether "hair seals," are very numerous everywhere,
in at least 10 different species. Luckily for them they do not
live in large herds, like phoca Gronlandica in the northern
Atlantic, and therefore it does not pay the foreign sea-sealer
to hunt them. The Indian, Tuski or Esquimo follow them in
a sportsmanlike manner in their lonely kayaks, armed with
lance and harpoon, on their native element. The cruel,
murderous slaughter, where the defenceless creatures are
killed with clubs while on the ice, in untold thousands, and
the sucking pups, to save trouble, are killed by kicks of the
heavy seaboots in sight of the frantic mothers, is reserved for
members of civilised nations. Quite another pursuit is the
whaling, which has been called the sport of kings. This
industry has been rather neglected of late.
The whales which occur in the Northern Pacific are to be
divided into three groups. First the balaena, which furnish
the whalebone; second physeteride, or toothed whales; and
third, the delphinidæ, or porpoises.
Among the former group the most important are the
bowhead, balaena mysticetus, and the Pacific right whale,
balaena cullamac. These are the only ones regularly pursued
by the whaling fleet. They are the giants of the ocean, often
60 feet long and up to 150 tons weight, of which the
unwieldy head takes about a third. They have no teeth, but
the gum is covered with baleen in rows of 300 to 400 vertical
plates of 10 to 15 feet in length and 10 to 12 inches wide, the
well-known whalebone.
One right whale or bowhead has often 30 cwt. of this
valuable commodity taken out him, of a rough value of
£2,000. Of whale oil such a monster gives about 25 tons,

SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC. 89
worth £600,-a lucky catch indeed for the fortunate whaler
who gets it. But these leviathans of the deep are getting very
rare, and have taken refuge among the ice floes of the Arctic,
whither the American whaling fleet follows through Behring
Strait.
The other kinds of balaenæ are principally the Japan
whale, balaena siboldii, and the sulphur bottom, balaena
sulphurea. These give a whalebone of an inferior quality, but
more oil than the right whale. But on the other hand they
are much quicker and more wary than the latter, and therefore
the Americans don't care much to follow them, and thus they
are still plentiful in the Japan and Behring Seas.
Still more energetic and of less commercial value is the
fin whale, balaenoptera velifera, which reaches a length of over
100 feet, but cannot be taken at all by the antiquated methods,
because he would take a whaleboat from which he had been
harpooned at a speed of 30 miles an hour through the water
for a space of two days before he could be tired out.
In large shoals the humpback, megaloplera versabilis, is to
be found in all parts of the Northern Pacific. I passed
myself once in a steamer on the Corean coast through a troop
of thirty-five of them. If caught, one of these gives about
20 to 25 tons of oil, and about 8 or 15 tons of inferior short
whalebone.
Among the whales with teeth, the most important is the
sperm whale, physeter macrocephalus, a fellow of 60 feet length
with an immense square head, with a very narrow and small
lower jaw, which resembles partly the bill of a bird. The
mouth is armed with several hundred conical teeth of 4 or 5
inches in length, which pass as currency among several of the
South Sea Islands, and are used as material for fine carving
on the South American coast. The head contains the well-
known spermaceti, which is very expensive now, and the
12

90 SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC.
ordinary sperm oil is also much dearer than common whale
or seal oil. In the bladder sometimes large lumps of
ambergris-a greyish stuff-are found, and used in the same
way as musk.
The sperm whale is not frequent in the north, and prefers
as a rule the southern hemisphere. He is rather fierce, and
resents any intrusion on the part of whaleboats, crushing
them between his mighty jaws. There are even cases known
where the fury of a solitary bull was vented on the whaling
ship itself, the whale using his head as a ram and smashing
the planks like a nutshell.
The whaling is at present in the Pacific exclusively in
the hands of Americans, especially from Rhode Island, New
Bedford, Martha's Vineyard, etc. There are still a number of
sailing vessels in use, and only a few whaling steamers, while
the latter are always used on the Atlantic side of the Arctic.
Formerly the whalers used to fish during the winter for
sperm whales in the southern seas, and during the summer for
right whales in the Japan and Behring Seas. But since the
latter got rare here the whaling fleet goes every summer
through Behring Strait into the Arctic, wintering mostly
south of the Strait, on the Tsuski peninsula or Alaska, from
whence special vessels, sent out from America, carry home
the result of the season; 30 or 40 vessels are employed here
in the whaling, and sometimes they make a very good haul.
I remember a few years ago that a small schooner from San
Francisco, of 150 tons, went right up to the mouth of the
Mackenzie River, wintered there, and caught 16 right whales.
They took only the whalebone, which represented at the time
a value of $70,000, and left the oil behind, as they had
no room for it. Generally whale fishing is managed as
follows.

SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC. 91
Each vessel, usually of about 300 to 500 tons register,
carries 4 or 6 specially built light whaleboats, with sharp
stems on both ends, each rowed by four oars, and steered by a
long oar over the stern.
In the bows of each boat is placed a double-barrelled gun of
special construction, a harpoon gun. From one barrel is fired
the harpoon, from the other the bomb lance, a sharp steel
blade with short shaft, to which an explosive shell is affixed,
which explodes as soon as the iron is buried in the whale's
body. Next to the gun stand wooden tubs with 600 fathoms
line coiled up, which are attached to the harpoon before firing.
Each vessel has a large crew, 30 or 40 hands, besides the
captain, a navigating officer for each boat, a harpooner, a
boat-steerer, and the necessary carpenters, coopers, etc.
When the whaling grounds are reached, a sharp look-out
is kept from an old cask, fixed in the crosstrees, the "crow's
nest."
As soon as the spout of a whale is sighted, the alarm
"there she blows" is given, and feverish activity prevails at
once on board. The whaleboats are lowered, the lines fixed,
and each boat races the other to be the first to get fast to a
whale.
As soon as the shot is fired, the command is given to "back
water," to keep out of reach of the tail, with which the furious
monster lashes the water into foam. But this paroxysm does
not last long. Either the whale darts forward with the speed
of a torpedo-boat, and receives the deadly shot of the bomb
lance as soon as he slackens speed, or he dives straight to the
bottom. In the latter case it depends how deep the sea is; if
deeper than the length of lines, the latter must be cut or the
boat would be dragged under. In case the lines are long
enough, the whale reappears on the surface in 15 or 20
minutes and receives then his quietus.

92
SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC.
Some of the harpoon guns are so constructed that the
shell is fixed to the harpoon, but I have heard that this
arrangement does not work satisfactorily.
After killing, the whale is brought alongside the vessel,
and then the crew cuts the blubber with sharp spades under
the supervision of the "speccioneer." The blubber is cut in
one continuous strip of 2 feet in width, to which a hook and
chain is attached. The other end of the chain is run through
a block on the yardarm and hauled on till the whole blubber
is taken off. The latter is then cut in large cubes and stowed
in iron tanks below. Formerly the blubber was boiled down
on board, but now it is taken home, because the boiling on
deck was rather dangerous, and does not give as much oil as
can be got at home by modern appliances. But the smell in
the hold during summer can well be imagined. After flaying,
the carcase is left to sink.
The whole proceeding is very wasteful, and pays only
where there is a sufficient number of right or sperm whales.
The Norwegians have inaugurated a much better system,
at present, on their own shores in Vardoe and Vardsoe, but
the system would work out very well out here and pay
splendidly.
A number of stations are established along the coast,
from which small but strong steamers of 50 or 60 tones cruise
regularly. The harpoon gun is fixed in the bows of the
steamer and the whale chased direct without the intermission
of boats. By these means even the fast ocean runners, the
fin whales, are captured, because they are soon too tired to
drag the whole of a steam tug, while the lines are strong
enough to act as towing ropes. If larger vessels should be
employed, the lines of course would snap at once. The
captured whales are towed to the station, and here every part
is used besides the oil and whalebone. The bone grease is

SEALING AND WHALING IN THE NORTHERN PACIFIC. 93
extracted, the bones ground into bone meal, and the whole
mass of flesh, blood and intestines worked into fish guano.
By these means even the common small whales are worth
the catching, and also the different kinds of porpoises, which
are plentiful, would give good returns. At present they are
only hunted by the natives. The principal members of the
dolphin group are the white whale, beluga catadon, an animal
15 feet long and one ton weight, and pretty yellow white color,
of which many thousands are met with.
Also in shoals of thousands the little grind whale, or
blackfish, globiocephalus scamonii, is to be found.
The common porpoise, phocaena vomerina and delphinus
styx, which are frequent everywhere, give not only good oil
but the skin makes very strong leather. The other dolphins
orca gladiator and orca ater, bear their name, the "Killer,"
with right, because they are murderous brutes, which attack
the whales with the greatest fury, regardless whether it is a little
whale or the monster right whale, tearing away large pieces
of blubber and flesh till the leviathan succumbs to the loss
of blood. The whole fellow is about 10 feet long but very
quick and ferocious, generally hunting in small troops. They
ought to be exterminated, as they do great damage.
As I remarked before, there is no whaling carried on
now in the China and Japanese seas, except by natives near
the shore. In 1890 a small company, the Eastern Whaling
Company, was started in Japan, with three steam schooners.
But the company was rather unlucky. Two of the vessels
went down in the first season uninsured, and the enterprise
was given up, though the third schooner had captured three
bowheads. If a company with sufficient capital and modern
methods would be started it would be a paying concern, and
another flourishing branch would be added to the industries
of the Far East.