CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
refers is not directly stated, it will be indicated by a place
name printed in italic type; and it should not be assumed
that the statements made apply to other places than those
which are named. Completeness cannot be claimed either
for the list itself or for the account of any one of the
instruments. The aim has been to make the number of
instruments as complete as possible in limited time and to
secure that whatever information is given shall be accurate;
but I am very conscious that even this has not been achieved.
Where books have been used, more or less detailed references
are generally given.
The origin of Music and musical instruments in China
must be extremely remote, for it seems unreasonable to doubt
that the great classical instruments existed in the second
millennium B.C. in possibly as perfect a form as they have
to-day. But lacking the ability to examine for this purpose
the civilization of ancient China from a more critical point of
view, I have not thought it worth while to repeat the
traditions, however much truth they may contain, of the
invention of this and that instrument which may be found in
several European books.
A distinction may be noticed between the ancient native
instruments with well defined monosyllabic names and the
comparatively modern, perhaps foreign, instruments. The
names of the latter are often transliterations, or of a
descriptive nature. The ancient reed and stringed instru-
ments especially, though few in number, yet seem to be
superior to the more modern in construction; and in this
connexion it may be interesting to remark the different
relative importance given to noisy instruments of percussion
in the Confucian, and in popular, orchestras. Of the forty-
four instruments which accompany the hymn to Confucius
all play the tune or a part in harmony except the six scarcely

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
3
audible Ch'ung Tu, while even between the lines or verses
only three drums and the Chu and Yü are used. But in a
Taoist band of six instruments five may be untuned instru-
ments of percussion; and in the theatre the proportion of
noise to music is as four or five to one. China is like other
Asiatic nations in not using mechanical appliances like keys,
bellows, etc.; but is perhaps rather peculiar in having no
harp or bagpipes. Mrs. T. Richard, however, reproduces a
Chinese drawing of an "ancient harp" with twelve strings,
constructed like the old Persian harps [Engel, p. 59]. The
foreign instruments and music seem, according to Chinese
authorities, to have come chiefly from or through the tribes
west and north of China, while the musical systems of Persia
and Arabia seem to have had but little effect on Chinese
music, and the use of only a few instruments can at all
probably be traced to the great intercourse which existed
between those countries and China in the middle ages. The
Reverend F. W. Galpin writes: "I cannot help thinking
that India has supplied some instruments, specially those used
with a bow. In much later times the single beating reed as
seen in the popular La Pa or Ch'un Kuan must have come
from the west. It is characteristic of Arabia and the
Mohammedan countries, and is also found in India."
In the following list the name of each instrument is
given first in Roman letters according to the spelling of
Professor Giles' Chinese-English Dictionary, secondly in
Italics according to the Petit Dictionnaire Chinois-Français
by F. S. Couvreur, S.J., and lastly in Chinese characters.¹
The names of several instruments and especially of musical
toys are often vague and are subject to local variation, and
Some exceptions will be found to this statement, but it is hoped that
they are not such as to cause real difficulty or confusion.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
no very definite principle has been followed in the selection
of one from several names to appear in capital letters at the
head of an article. Names of places are, with the exception
already mentioned, printed in Roman letters, and all other
Chinese words in Italics and, with very few exceptions,
according to the spelling of Giles' Dictionary. The French
spelling of at least one name for each instrument is added out
of respect for the fact that several of the most useful books on
the subject are in the French language.
It may be convenient to give here the dates of the
chief Dynasties referred to below:-The Three Dynasties
B.C. 2205-255, namely Hsia 2205, Shang 1766, Chou 1122-
255, Han B.C. 206-A.D. 220, Chin 265-419, Sui 589-
618, T'ang 618-907, Sung 960-1278, Yüan (Mongol)
1264-1368, Ming 1368-1644, Ch'ing (the present Manchu
Dynasty) 1644.
The books referred to are:-
BOOKS ON MUSIC AND CEREMONIES.
Lü Lü Ching I, six volumes, dated the first
day of the year ping shen of Wan Li, i.e. in 1596, and written
by one Chu, a member of the Imperial family, with the
titles Tsai Yu and Chéng Shih Tzu 鄭世子. It is
divided into the Inner Section, the first four volumes, and
the Outer Section, volumes five and six. The names of
sixty-eight books consulted are given besides the Twenty-one
Histories and the Thirteen Classics. The first three volumes
deal with the theory of music, giving the dimensions of the
standard pitch-pipes, the mathematical proportions of the
notes of the scale and so on. The fourth volume gives a
careful account of the ancient musical instruments with very
good drawings. In the copy used the fifth volume was

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
5
missing. The sixth volume treats of many subjects connected
with ancient music, introducing further remarks on several of
the instruments and a number of tunes to songs from the
Book of Odes. Music and musical instruments are dealt with
from a purely antiquarian point of view. The book is very
highly praised by Amiot, and seems indeed to treat the
subject in a scientific and unbiassed way. It seems to have
had but little influence on the authorized music of the present
dynasty.
References to this book, unless otherwise marked, are to
the leaves of the fourth volume; and the author is called by
his title Tsai Yü, for the sake of conformity with Amiot.
A number of works by the same author are printed in a
uniform edition with this. Those which have been looked
at are chiefly occupied with the posture dances of different
periods and for various services.
Wen Miao Yo Shu X, eight volumes, 1629.
This was apparently the Music Book of the Confucian temple
at Yangchow. The musical system used is nearly the same
as that of the Lü Lü Ching I, which is often quoted. The
history, measurements, scale, etc. of each instrument are
given, followed by the special notation required, and the
part to be played, by each, in full. The book is remarkable
for clear and simple arrangement.
Yi Chih Li Lu Chéng I御製律呂正義, five
volumes, 1714. The first two volumes deal with the scales,
the third and fourth give the history, measurements, etc. of
the classical instruments. The fifth volume is about European
music. See Additional Note B and Wylie's Notes on Chinese
Literature (1901) p. 120.
Pi Pa Pu three volumes, 1818. See IV,
B. a. §§ 3 (1), below.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Wên Miao Ssu Tien K'ao X, ten volumes,
1878. A manual of the Confucian ritual, intended apparently
as a book of reference and not to be used as a service book.
Wên Miao Ting Chi Pu
Tone volume,
1878. This is the service book used at the Confucian temple
at Hangchow. See Vol. XXXIII of this Journal, Notes
on the Ting-chi, etc., by the Rt. Rev. Bishop Moule.
MISCELLANEOUS WORKS.
Ch'üeh Li Tsuan Yao, three volumes, 1694.
This is an illustrated handbook of Chieh Li or Ch'ü Fu
, the home of Confucius in Shantung. The pictures of
the instruments and of the Mimes suggest that there at least
the old fashions of the Ming dynasty lingered long after the
foundation of Manchu rule.
Ch'i Hsiu Lei Kao t. The reminiscences and
miscellaneous knowledge of a native of Hangchow named
Lang Ying ẞ, who lived in the fifteenth and sixteenth
centuries.
Tséng Pu Shih Lei Fu Tung Pien 增補事類賦統編,
forty volumes, nineteenth century. A collection of quotations
from poems arranged by subjects. It was first published as
Shih Lei Fu in the Sung dynasty and has been often enlarged
and reprinted.
Tui Hsiang Tsa Tzu, one volume. A school
book containing long lists of nouns, proper names, and so
forth. Each word is accompanied with a picture.
Chen Chung Meng Hsieh T'ang Tzu Ke Tu Shuo
澄衷蒙學堂字課圖說, eight volumes. An illustrated
book prepared for the school founded at Shanghai by Ch'ên
Chung (Ching Chong). It is quoted below as Tzu kê t'u
shuo. On music it is not necessarily a great authority.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
7
DICTIONARIES.
Erh Ya T'u
A recent photo-lithograph repro-
duction of an edition of the Erh Ya which was re-printed
early in the nineteenth century from the illustrated edition of
the Sung dynasty. The Erh Ya is said to have been written
c. B.C. 400, but the medieval illustrators fortunately made
little or no attempt to "restore" the ancient musical instru-
ments, and so probably show what the various things were
like in the Sung period.
Kang Hsi Tzu Tien, 1716, is quoted as
Kang Hsi.
EUROPEAN WORKS.
This
Mémoire sur la musique des Chinois, tant anciens que
modernes; par M. Amiot, Missionaire à Pekin. 1776, forming
the sixth volume of Mémoires concernant les Chinois.
is probably the best European work on Chinese music which
exists. The author bases his work principally on the books
of Tsai Yü and Li Kuang Ti. The illustrations and a great
deal of the First Part (on musical instruments and the
origin of Music) are taken direct from Tsai Yü. It is
curious that Amiot's list of authorities is an exact copy of the
list given by Tsai Yü, and excludes the Lü Lü Ching I
and the book of Li Kuang Ti. The Second Part is an
intricate discussion of the question whether the intervals of
the scale are of different magnitudes or all the same, like those
of the tempered European scale. It seems that the scale was
formed of a series of twelfths which would give unequal
intervals, but that at a very early date the octave was divided
artificially into equal semitones. This was again forgotten at
the end of the Chou dynasty, so that the Han musicians
considered the transposition of tunes on instruments of fixed

8
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
pitch impossible. It is interesting to note that the Greeks
used "equal temperament" in the fourth century B.C. The
Persians had it in A.D. 800; and it is also found in India.
Musical Instruments in the South Kensington Museum,
London, 1874, by Carl Engel. Besides the descriptive
catalogue of the instruments, the book contains a history
of musical instruments in general. It is quoted below as
"Engel."
. .
Chinese Music, Shanghai, 1884, by J. A. Van Aalst.
Catalogue
du Musée Instrumental du Conservatoire
Royal de Musique de Bruxelles, par Victor-Charles Mahillon.
Gand 1886, 1893. It is quoted as "Brussels Catalogue"
with the number of the instrument. My indebtedness to this
book will be constantly apparent in the following pages.
A Paper on Chinese Music, Shanghai, ? 1899, by
Mrs. Timothy Richard.
The Chinese Repository, Vol. VIII, contains an interest-
ing article on some Chinese musical instruments by G. T. Lay.
The China Review for August 1882 contains an article
on the Sheng by F. Warrington Eastlake.
The Journal of the North China Branch of the Royal
Asiatic Society contains articles bearing on the present subject
by Dr. Syles, Dr. Edkins, N. B. Dennys, G. E. Betts,
and Bishop Moule.
My attention was first directed to Chinese musical
instruments by my Father's Paper on the Half-yearly Sacrifice
to Confucius, printed in Vol. XXXIII of this Journal,
and my interest increased by a correspondence with the
Rev. F. W. Galpin which that Paper elicited. Mr. Galpin is
too well known for it to be necessary to say what an
advantage I have enjoyed in having his most kind and
constant help in the preparation of this list. And I have to

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
9
thank him specially for having finally taken the trouble to
read through and re-arrange with many valuable annotations
the whole of my manuscript. Three friends to whose keen
interest and wonderful fund of information I owe very much
are gone beyond the reach of earthly thanks, my sister Mary,
Mr. P'an Sung-chou of Hangchow, and a Pekingese
gentleman named Wang who was introduced to me by
Mr. W. H. C. Weippert. To Mr. Wang and to Mr. Weippert
himself I owe among other things all the information
embodied in Additional Note D; and to Mr. P'an, besides
countless smaller debts, great help in the preparation of
Additional Note F. My original design was to give an
accurate description of all the existing instruments I could
find, excluding all mention of their past history or present.
use. The addition, almost insensibly and in a very partial
and irregular manner, of some remarks on the history and
uses of several instruments, as well as of a few notices of
instruments no longer found, has not I hope made the work
less interesting. That I have been able to make such
additions at all is very largely due to the kindness of the
Rev. Timothy Richard in lending me his copies of the books
Wên Miao Yo Shu and Lü Lü Chêng I, of Mr. Ting Hsiu-fu
in allowing me to use the Wên Hsien Tung K'ao from his
great library at Hangchow, and especially of my brother
H. W. Moule who gave me fifteen volumes of Tsai Yü's
works including the great Lü Lü Ching 1. The addition of
historical notes has turned my list to some extent into a sad
record of stagnation and too often of change and decay; but.
my work, which was chiefly done in the leisure hours of a
year spent at Shanghai, will be more than repaid if it
succeeds in helping towards the understanding of even an
insignificant detail of Chinese life or in rousing a little even.
of pitying interest in this great empire of the East.

10
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
CLASS I. Sonorous Substances.
Section A. Rhythmic.
1. CHU (TCHOU) . A wooden tub with the sides
sloping outwards towards the top, about two feet square, and
standing on a pedestal three or four inches high. It is
constructed with a square frame at the top and uprights at
the corners, the sides being fitted in as panels. The frame is
golden bronze coloured, three of the sides are painted green
and white outside, and all the inside is black. In the fourth
side, which is painted grey, is a round hole, and on the
inside of each of the other sides a raised disc [see Plate XII].
The Chu is only used at State services, and at the
Confucian festival it stands to the north-east on the terrace
in front of the Hall, with the round hole facing west. The
performer stands on the east side of the instrument and
strikes it with a mallet inside (on the north disc) three times
before each verse of the Hymn to Confucius. The mallet,
called Chih , has a small green head and a red handle.
Anciently it was fixed to the bottom of the Chu on a pivot,
and the performer reached it apparently through the hole in
the side which still survives' although the mallet has been
disconnected since the Sung dynasty.
'On the worship of Confucius, see Vol. XXXIII of this Journal :-
Notes on the Ting-chi, etc., by the Rt. Revd. G. E. Moule, D.D.
At Ping-yin in Shantung the Chu has no side hole, nor corner uprights.
It is 28 inches square at the top, 23 inches at the bottom, and 17 inches
high. The pedestal is 7 inches high.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
11
The ancient Chu had not the top frame or the uprights,
but consisted merely of five boards of Chiu¹ wood half an
inch thick, and was 24 inches square at the top, 18 inches
at the bottom, and 18 inches high; the hole was six inches
in diameter, and the mallet had a head 10 inches long.-
Tsai Yü, f. 77.
The form of the Chu is that of a grain measure; and it
is said to have been used in the worship of Heaven from
primeval days as an acknowledgement of the advantages
which men derive from a civilized life.-Amiot. See also the
reference to Tsai Yü under No. 2 below.
2. YÜ (IU). The figure of a couching tiger carved
in wood, about 2 feet long, and lying on a wooden
pedestal. On the back of the tiger is a piece of wood with
twenty-eight parallel grooves cut across the top and down
either side, leaving a row of teeth, Chü Yü, along
which a bamboo stick called Chên (about 16 inches
long, with the upper end split into twelve divisions) is
rapidly drawn three times to mark the end of the music at
the Confucian services. The tiger is painted yellow with red
and black markings, and the pedestal red bronze and gilt.
The Yü stands to the north-west of the Terrace in the Temple
of Confucius. The sound seems to be caused largely by the
rattling together of the divisions of the stick. The Chü Yü
were formerly like the teeth of a saw and extended all along
the back of the tiger. Tsai Yü says that the Yü is made of
Ch'iu wood, and that the stick should he of the same wood
10 inches long, 1 inch wide, and 0.1 inch thick.-f. 78.
The use of the bamboo stick dates from the Tang dynasty.
It is not right to hit the tiger on the head. The pedestal was
originally a plain inverted box, perhaps acting as a resonator.
Catalpa Kempferi, Giles s.v. .
1. A.

I. A.
12
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Amiot
says that the attitude of the tiger shows the submission
of all animals to man, and that the teeth were anciently tuned
to give six whole tones¹ [see Plate XII].
Tsai Yü says [f. 76] that the Chu and Yü derive their
respective uses and positions from their correspondence with
the two Diagrams Chen and Kên ; and the Chu, as
proclaiming the beginning, typifies Music, while the Yü,
marking a finished act, typifies ceremony. The hammer fixed
inside the Chu is called Chih to signify the calm uniformity
which is characteristic of Music as naturally inborn; while
the Yü is made like a tiger to signify the variety (*)
characteristic of ceremony which is artificial and external.
"The Book of Changes says (Li [li] suggests the
idea of) one treading on the tail of a tiger, which does not
bite him. There will be progress and success," and so the
Yü, shaped like a tiger, is what the ancient kings took to
display a warning not to forget danger in the midst of peace."
3. (1) CHUNG TU (TCH OUNG TOU) A
clapper formed of twelve slips of bamboo strung on a leather
thong. Each slip should measure 12 inches long and
1 inch wide. They are used, tied up in a sheaf, by the
'On this Mr. Galpin remarks: "In its earlier form therefore it was an
instrument with a distinct tonality. Wooden tongue-vibrators giving a
perfect scale are found amongst many Eastern and Central African tribes."
The instrument is, however, put in this Section rather than in Section B,
because (i) it seems possible that Amiot mis-read Tsai Yü, who says [f. 78]
that in the Sung and Yüan dynasties the Yü was struck six times, (ii) the
Yü for at least some centuries has been rhythmic and not tonal, and (iii)
it is from a Chinese point of view inseparably connected with the Chu.
Legge's note to this, in Sacred Books of the East, says: "The coming
scatheless out of such danger further suggests the idea of 'progress and
success' in the course which King Wăn [Wên] had in his mind. And
according to Appendix VI, that course was 'propriety,' the observance of all
the rules of courtesy [? typified by the tiger]. On these, as so many
stepping-stones, one may tread safely amid scenes of disorder and peril."

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
13
singers at the State services, being held in the right hand and
struck against the palm of the left hand to mark the time.
The words to be sung should be engraved on the slips.
According to Van Aalst [p. 74] the clappers now used at the
Confucian service are called Shou Pan F; and are made
of wood, each piece being about 16 inches long, 2 inches
wide at the upper, and 2.5 inches at the lower end. It seems
to be uncertain whether wood was anciently used as well as
bamboo or not.
The thing is interesting as preserving the form of book
which was used before the invention of paper; but the use in
music may also be very ancient, as it is perhaps mentioned in
the Chou Li, c. B.C. 1000. Amiot says that the Ch'ung Tu
holds a distinguished place amongst the representative
instruments less because it produces the "wood sound" than
because it recalls the invention of writing; and that it is used
at the Sacrifice to Heaven, when thanks are given for the gift
of writing as well as for all other benefits.
Tsai Yü, whose description is given above, does not seem
to allude to the very different thing given in the Chou Li
and in the Wên Hsien Tung Kao [v. Additional Note F]
under the name Ch'ung Tu. This was a bamboo tube about
7 feet long and 5 or 6 inches thick, which was struck
against the ground to beat time. Other varieties called Ying
, and Ya E, seem to have been more like the Chu.
3. (2) A CLAPPER used at Tientsin. It is formed
of two pieces of wood or split bamboo, each about 6 inches
long and 2 or 3 inches wide. A small stick is fixed across
the middle of each piece as a handle, and the ends of these
handles are joined together by a hinge so that the two pieces
of wood can be clapped against each other. It is used, not
very commonly, by men who have nothing else in their hands
I. A.

1. A.
14
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
as they walk along the street. The man generally raises the
clapper above his head and gives one loud clap at about every
tenth step. What inquiries I was able to make only received
the answer that the thing was a toy, but it seems possible that
it has some further meaning or use than the mere occupation
of idle hands.
Two
3. (3) CHIEN PAN (KIEN PAN)
slips of bamboo, each measuring 30 inches long and inch
wide, and having 4 inches at the top bent back. Much
larger specimens may also be seen, and they are sometimes
ornamented with notches cut along their edges. The Chien
Pan are held up in the left hand and tapped slowly against
each other by a movement of the fingers. They are used
with the Yu Ku [II. A. 3.] principally by blind men, and are
said to belong to the country north of the Yang-tze where
they are often met with, though they may also be seen at
Shanghai. Those measured were made at Hangchow, but the
Yü Ku and Chien Pan are very rarely used there. In
Shantung the long slips of bamboo are commonly replaced by
two pieces of hard wood a foot or less in length.
Two small oval plates of iron joined together with
string are sometimes used like the Chien Pan with a drum to
accompany songs and recitations.
3. (4) A CLAPPER made of a piece of red-wood
about 8 inches long, 1 inch wide, and inch thick. The
lower side is cut away for about two-thirds of the length, the
piece cut off being joined on again with a brass hinge so that
it can be clapped against the upper part. At the end of the
upper surface is a thin brass plate pierced by two brass pins
with polygonal heads; and on each pin is hung a small disc
of brass with five or six holes in it. This instrument was
seen in the City Temple at Shanghai, used to accompany

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
15
songs in a dramatic recitation. In his right hand the 1. A.
performer held a thick piece of bamboo with which he would
strike across the end of the clapper at frequent intervals.
4. (1) A RATTLE, similar to the above, said to be
used by singing girls north of the River. It is formed
seemingly of two separate pieces of wood or bamboo which
are held in the left hand; and the elaborate brass discs are
replaced by two cash. The piece of bamboo held in the right
hand has teeth along the edge like a saw, and the vibration
caused by drawing it across the edges of the other pieces
makes the cash dance and jingle.
4. (2) A SISTRUM or rattle said to be used by singing
girls north of the River. It is described as a bamboo pipe
two or three feet long. Two narrow slits are cut in the pipe,
extending nearly its whole length, and on opposite sides. Four
or five bamboo pins are put through the pipe at right angles
to the slits, and on each pin, inside the pipe, are hung two
cash. The instrument is held in both hands, and is struck
rapidly against the shoulders and other parts of the body
keeping time with the song. It may occasionally be seen at
Shanghai.
4. (3) LIEN HUA LO [or LAO] (LIEN HOUA
LO). A rattle formed of four slips of bamboo,
each about 4 inches long and 1 inch wide, with a fifth piece
about 7 inches long, joined together by a tape which passes
through two holes near the top of each slip. Between each
of the smaller slips of bamboo eight very small brass cash are
threaded on the tape, four on either side. The longer piece
has the top pointed and two large notches below the point
on either side, and below these the holes for the tape. This
piece is held in the right hand and is shaken so as to make
the four smaller pieces clap against each other. Rattles of
different form are said to be also called Lien Hua Lao. One.

J. A.
16
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
seen at Soochow had the long piece longer and the shorter
pieces replaced by one quite short and broad piece of bamboo
or wood. The specimen described above was used by a
beggar at Shanghai, and smaller ones have been seen in
Hangchow, but the rattle is said to come properly from further
north and it has been met with at Chi ning and Chou ts'un
in Shantung. The performer holds in his left hand bamboo
castanets [I. A. 5.].
Lien Hua Lao is said to be the refrain of the Lotus Song
which this instrument properly accompanies.
4. (4) NAO CHIN CHIEH (NAO KIN KIAD)
This consists of four or five oblong iron plates
joined loosely together by two strings (tied to holes in the
two upper corners of each plate) so that they overlap each
other when the strings are stretched out. It is the sign of
itinerant knifegrinders at Shanghai, Hangchow, and
occasionally at Peking. The man holds one piece of iron in
his hand letting the others hang loose and swing against each
other as he walks; and at frequent intervals he shakes the
instrument so that the plates clap against each other in turn
three or four times, and then brings them up into his hand
with a jerk. The first piece, which is held in the hand, is
sometimes made of wood or bamboo.
4. (5) CH'UAN LING (TCH OUEN LING).
A metal ring made to produce a sound by being twirled
rapidly on a stick. It is one of the signs used by itinerant
physicians. The professional skill of the man is said to be
judged by the height at which he is able to spin his ring,
very little being thought of one who cannot keep it at least
level with the top of his head. A specimen seen at Shanghai
was a hollow ring containing small balls and with a slit round
the outside, and it was twirled on the man's finger instead of
on a stick.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
17
Some doctors make rattles by putting loose iron discs on
to the handles of the files which they use for reducing their
drugs to powder. Such rattles may be seen in the City
Temple at Shanghai. The file is a heavy one, with one end
made thin to form a handle; on this are two thin convex
dises about 3 inches in diameter, with a flat one between
them thicker and rather smaller. The end of the handle is
split and the two parts bent back into rings so that the discs
cannot fall off. Others again put similar discs on to the
middle prong of a sort of trident to form a rattle.
4. (6) Corn-cutters [1] at Ilangchow and elsewhere
put two or three brass rings on to the axis of the little
leather-seated campstool which they carry with them, and
use that as a rattle.
4. (7) SHOU CHIU (CHEOU KIOU) FIR. A
pair of hollow iron balls without any opening, each containing
a smaller iron ball which makes a tinkling sound when it is
moved. The diameter is about 1 inch. Pao-Ting, the
capital of Chih-Li Province, is noted for the manufacture
of these balls, which are twisted about in the hand for the
primary purpose of keeping the fingers supple. They may
constantly be seen at Peking, but are not common about
Shanghai.
TIEH MA
4. (8) YEN MA (IEN MA)
(TIE MA), or YÜ K'O (IU K'O). These are
described as being a number of small plates of metal, stone,
or commonly now of glass, hung by silken threads to a wire
hoop which is hung under the eaves of a summer-house. The
plates make a tinkling and ringing sound as they touch one
another moving in the breeze. They are also hung from the
lintels of doors or windows. Yü K'o is an ancient literary
name. They are mentioned as early as the eighth century.―
Kang Hsi s.v..
I. A.

I. A.
18
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
4. (9) Tinkers have a number of oblong brass plates
strung on two parallel pieces of wire, which are fixed to their
apparatus so that the spring of the yoke by which it
is carried makes the plates clash against each other. The
rhythmic jingle thus caused is a characteristic sound at
Hangchow, Shanghai and elsewhere. The device is [?] not
used in the north.
Certain pedlars have a small iron plate which they tap
with an iron bar to announce their presence. Others will
clink two of their tools together for the same purpose.
4. (10) At the great annual fair at T'ai An in Shantung
vast quantities of toy rattles are sold. They are generally
either hollow clay figures of men or animals, or closed
wooden cylinders with a handle fixed to one end. A third
kind is made of two small tin plates fitted together so as
to leave a small space between their edges, with a tin
handle fixed through the centre. All three kinds enclose
a few loose balls-probably small pellets of clay or hard
dry seeds.
The
5. P'AI PAN (PE PAN). Castanets formed
of three pieces of wood tied loosely together. Red-wood or
box seem to be the woods most commonly used. The
measurements at Shanghai are: length, 10.5 inches; width,
near either end, 2.5 inches, in the middle, 2 inches.
outer surface of each of the two outer pieces is slightly
convex. They are used in the theatre, being held in the
left hand by the man who beats the Pang Ku [II. A. 2],
and also at other musical performances, at funerals, and
by beggars. The performer holds one piece of wood firmly
in his hand so that a slight turn of his wrist brings it
against the other two pieces which hang loosely over his
thumb.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
19
Tsai Yü [f. 50] mentions the P'ai Pan, but from his 1. A.
drawing and description elsewhere the thing seems in his
day to have consisted of six pieces of wood. And each piece
was broader at one end than at the other, and thinner at the
edges than in the middle, and near the narrow end had two
holes for the string. Castanets with six pieces of wood seem
to be still used in some places; and there is also a small
variety of which each piece is about 3.75 inches long.-
Brussels Cat: 651, 652. At Peking, besides the common
kind, there are smaller castanets made of three straight flat
slips of wood 7 inches long and 1.5 inch wide; and also larger
ones 16 inches long and 2.5 inches wide, consisting either of
three pieces or of eight thin pieces with two thicker pieces
at one side tied rather tightly with yellow silk cord.
[see Plate XII.]
The fondness of the Chinese for audible time-beating
is very characteristic, and from these common castanets is
derived, perhaps, one name for musical time-Pan yen
Pan stands for a 'bar', and also for the accented beat in a
bar. Time is described as one pan one yen' or 'one pan
three yen', quick time is called chin pan, slow time man
pan, and so forth.
Castanets made of two thick pieces of split bamboo
joined together by a string are seen in strolling bands at
Shanghai, and are used by certain pedlars and by beggars.
6. WOOD-DRUMS. (1) PANG TZU (PANG
TZEU). This consists of two pieces of red-wood
measuring, at Shanghai, about 7.25 inches in length. One
piece is 1.25 inch wide and 1 inch thick, flat below and
rounded above. This is held over the hollow palm of the left
hand and is struck with the second piece, which is round-
1 Ling Ising hsiao wu p'u IN f. 5.

1. A.
20
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
measuring 0.75 to 0.875 inch in diameter. For the
accompaniment of certain tunes both in the theatre and at
private performances, the Pang tzu takes the place of the
Pang Ku and P'ai Pan, and is used with the smaller Ti
[III. A. b.] and Hu Hu [IV. B. c. §§]. The tunes in
question are known as Pang tzu Tiao.
A similar thing, with the larger piece of wood replaced
by a piece of split bamboo, is used by hawkers of sweetmeats.
6. (2) A short stick held in the left hand and struck
on the end with a slip of wood about 2 inches wide and
0.25 inch thick. This has been seen used by a fortune-teller
at Chi-ning-chow in Shantung. A beggar in the same
town was observed with a similar instrument, only the stick
was heavier and the slip of wood was shaped something like
a spade.
R.
6. (3) HSIANG CHIH (HIANG TCH'EU)
This is a piece of red-wood about 2 feet long with a cord
passed through a hole in the middle of it. It is struck with a
short stick. A pair precedes the coffin at funerals in Peking.
The gentle irregular tapping of the Hsiang Ch'ih has a most
weird effect.
At funerals in Hangchow a large slip of wood or
bamboo is carried in the procession and beaten with a regular
rapid stroke.
6. (4) PANG (PANG) . A tube of bamboo 15
to 25 inches long and 3 or 4 inches thick. It is closed at
each end by a knot of the bamboo, and has a slit cut in one
side extending nearly the whole length. It is beaten with a
wooden stick. It is used by night-watchmen at Hangchow
and [?] many other places, and also by itinerant cooks who
hang it to their apparatus so that they can beat it as they
walk. It does not seem to be common north of the Yang-tze.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
21
It
6. (5) PANG (PANG) or TO (TOUO). A
wood-drum used by watchmen in Peking and elsewhere.
is a piece of ch'iu wood 9.75 inches long, 4.25 inches high,
1.875 inch thick at the bottom and 0.875 inch at the top-the
sides slightly convex. In the top is a slit about 7.5 inches
long and 0.5 inch wide from which the block of wood is
hollowed out to a depth of about 3.5 inches, the sides being
left about 0.2 and 0.25 inch thick respectively. The thing is
very roughly made, and the measurements of different
specimens vary considerably. One much smaller and a little
different in arrangement is described in the Brussels
Catalogue, 649. Specimens about 30 inches long are used in
the guard rooms at the Gates of Peking. A small one may
be seen at Shanghai used by a street cook, and the instrument
is not unknown at Soochow. A long narrow specimen has
been observed at Chou-ts'un, but elsewhere in Shantung the
variety with a handle seems to be preferred. A straight
piece of hardwood is used for the stick. [see Plate XII.]
6. (6) PANG . An instrument differing from the
above chiefly in having a handle fastened into the under side.
It is very common in western Shantung where it is called
Pang-tzu and is the sign of vendors of bean-curd. It is often
made of mulberry wood. A variety seen in Peking had the
handle fixed to the thinner edge and was shaped and
hollowed just like the Mu Yü [6. (8) below], except that the
ends were cut off straight instead of being rounded, and
there was no carving.
6. (7) YÜ PANG (IU PANG) . A piece of
wood carved to represent a fish, with a slit along the back
from which the body, is hollowed out. The mouth is also
That is the slit is carried the whole length of the instrument and
returned down the ends, finishing about the middle of either end in a round
hole through which the hollowing is chiefly done.
1. A.

1. A.
22
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
hollow, a ball of wood being left inside which is loose but too
large to come out. It is often found hung horizontally in
the cloisters of Buddhist monasteries-for instance, at the
Ling Yin Ssu near Hangchow. At this monastery it is said
to be struck before the Tien tzn [I. B. I (2).] to announce the
meal hours. At the Chao Ch'ing Li Ssu at Hangchow the
fish [about 7 feet long] and the iron Tien tzn hang side by
side in the cloister outside the refectory. A small specimen
in a Taoist temple near Shanghai measures about 3 feet in
length. The Yü Pang is also used in the offices of certain
officials. Specimens differing slightly in form from those in
the temples may be seen outside the guard rooms at city
gates.
This instrument is said to be the true Wooden Fish, the
thing now so called representing perhaps only the head of
a fish. In general appearance it is not unlike the Teponaztli
of the Aztecs [Engel p. 77], but it is more simple than that in
construction.
6. (S) MU YÜ (MOU IU). The Wooden Fish.
This is a block of camphor wood, wedge-shaped and partly
hollow, and with the thick part rounded on the outside. The
thin edge is ornamented with carving, and in the middle of it
is a loose ball in a cavity from which it cannot fall out. The
whole is usually painted scarlet with the carved work gilded.
It is struck with a heavy wooden stick with a pointed knob.
The thing is laid on a special stand, or on a cushion on a
table; or when small it is carried in the hand; but it is rarely
hung up.
The width varies from 1 inch to about 3
feet. It is used constantly by Taoist and Buddhist priests at
services both in the Temples and in private houses, and when
they are collecting alms; and the small sizes are used also by
pilgrims. The fish, with no eyelids, is a symbol of wakeful
attention, and so the wooden fish is used at prayers.
A fish

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
23
of Tung wood is mentioned by Huai Nan Tzu, a famous
philosopher of the second century B. C., as used when
praying for rain in the Autumn. [see Plates VII, fig. 1,
and XII.]
6. (9) AO YU (NGAO IU). An instrument
only distinguished from the last by being wider in proportion
to its length and thickness. Very large or
very small
specimens are rarely seen at Hangchow or Shanghai; the
ordinary width is about 10 or 12 inches. It is specially used
by Taoists. The Ao is a "certain sea-monster said to carry
the Peng Lai mountain on its back; this mountain is the
abode of the Hsien, Genii. The Ao sustains the pillars of
heaven. Ao Tou, the Ao's head, is an ornament on the
outside of the roofs of Chinese temples. Tu chan Ao
T'ou [to stand alone on the Ao's head]-to attain the
highest degree of literary rank" [Morrison's Dictionary
s.v. Ngaou].
The making of Wooden Fish is a separate craft, and the
shops where they are made and sold contain, as a rule, very
little else.
A board
6. (10) HSÜ PAN (SIU PAN)
measuring about 30 inches by 18 inches and 2 inches thick.
One hangs in the cloisters of the Ling Yin Monastery near
Hangchow, and is said to be used as a curfew-being struck
about eight o'clock in the evening-and also to summon the
monks to extraordinary meetings. The two upper corners of
the board are cut off. It is hung by a cord passed through a
hole near the upper edge.
7. HUAN TOU (HOUAN TEOU). An
instrument used by itinerant barbers at Peking and elsewhere.
It consists of two curved claws of iron, joined together at
their thick ends, with the points just touching each other.
A short bar of iron is put between the claws and pulled
1. A.

I. A.
24
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
rapidly out between their points, causing them to vibrate
violently and produce a loud ringing sound. The length is
about 13 inches. [see Plate XII.]
8. (1) PO (POUO) Brass cymbals joined
together by a long string put through a hole in the centre of
each. The size varies considerably. They are perhaps
universally used in theatres and by priests, as well as at the
performances which take place in private houses at the New
Year. Large cymbals are used by the priests of the great
Lama temple at Peking [III. C. 2 (4)]. A pair about 24
inches in diameter and producing an astonishingly loud sound,
have been seen attached to the Lo-Ku-Ting [II. A. 2 (2)]
at Shanghai. [see Plate VII, fig. 2.]
There seems to be some uncertainty about the names used
to distinguish the different varieties. At Hangchow the larger
ones are said to be called Nao Poor Ta Po, the
smaller, Ch'a Po[at Peking, Hsiao Ch'a érh]. Others
asy that Nao are small cymbals formed of simple convex plates
without the flat rim of the Po. At a shop in Peking the larger
were called Ta Ch'a, the smaller Nao. Nao seems also to
mean a kind of bell used in the army, and to be used for brass
instruments as opposed to drums-[Morrison s.v.]. Small
toy cymbals, called at Hangchow P'in p'in ch'a, are very
common.
Dennys says that "the smaller kinds were invented by
Mu Shih-so, in the after Tang dynasty [A.D. 923-936]. The
larger sort were first brought from India"; and elsewhere
that but slight mention is made of gongs and cymbals by the
old writers.
It is said that at Soochow cymbals are made to 'fly',
meaning perhaps some trick of throwing them up so that they
clash in the air. Cymbals so used are called Fei Po k.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
25
8. (2) HSING ERH (HING EUL). A pair of 1. B.
hemispherical or conical bells without tongues, struck against
each other. Each has a hole in the centre through which a
string is passed. They are said to be used by priests. They
are not common about Shanghai, but may be seen at Hangchow
and at Peking. A pair at Peking, 2½ inches in diameter,
were shaped more like cymbals, but made of thicker metal.
They are called also Péng Chung
The Indian
Munjeera [Engel p. 171] seems to be the same instrument.
[see Plate XII.]
9. A toy very common at Hangehow. It is formed of
a cardboard body like a deep pill box. A short string attached
to a little stick passes through a hole in the bottom of the box
and is kept from slipping out by being tied to a cross-bar rather
shorter than the diameter of the box. When the box is twirled
round the stick it also revolves on the string and the friction
of the cross-bar inside produces a very loud harsh noise.
Section B. Tonal.
1. (1) TIEH PAN (TIE PAN), or TIEH
PAI鐵牌 A piece of iron about 1 foot long and 2
inches wide, thicker and broader in the middle than at the
ends and slightly curved both in its length and breadth. It is
used by blind fortunetellers, who give it four or five rapid
strokes with a short iron bar, which they then allow to lie
loosely against the end of the instrument so that the vibration
makes it rattle. It will produce two different notes. It may
be seen at Hangchow, Shanghai and elsewhere.
1. (2) TIEN TZŬ (TIEN TZEU). A gong
of elaborate ornamental outline cast of iron or brass and hung
in a wooden frame. It is seen at city gates and in temples,
and also at Yamên gates, where it is struck when the magistrate

I. B.
26
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
passes in or out. An iron one in a temple near Peking has a
date of the sixteenth century. A good modern brass gong,
about 4 feet in diameter, hangs near the refectory at the
Lang Yin Monastery and is used to call the monks to meals.
The size varies from about 1 to 4 feet in width or diameter.
The shape is difficult to describe. The whole would generally
fit, roughly, into a circle. In the upper half there are two deep
indentations leaving between them a sort of peninsula, which
forms the head [generally foliated] by which the gong is hung.
The remainder of the outline [more than a semicircle] is more
or less indented or foliated in the manner of the conventional
Chinese representation of a cloud. The surface of the gong
has generally some ornament and an inscription, both in relief."
Each watch of the night [keng] is divided into five tien.
Soldiers on guard are supposed to sound the watches on a
drum, and the tien on a Tien tzn.
1. (3) LO (LO)
larger specimens used in processions are sometimes made like
a plate with the outer edge of the rim turned over, others are
merely a slightly convex disc with the edges turned over. It
is used in the processions of Mandarins and at funerals, and
for various domestic purposes, as well as by watchmen and
pedlars, and on the stage. In a procession there are usually
a pair of the largest size each hung to the end of a small beam
which the performer puts on his shoulder with a couple of
bricks tied to the other end to counterbalance the gong. The
surface of the large gongs is often polished in one or two
concentric zones, the intervening spaces being left dull.
The diameter varies from a few inches to 2 feet or more.
There is a variety with a deep depression in the centre, and
the two kinds are said to be distinguished as yin and yang,
but
this distinction is at least not universally known.
this sort are beaten with a wooden stick with a head of plaited
A circular brass gong. The
Gongs of
See Chinese Art vol. I. fig. 63.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
27
string or rags, sometimes covered with cloth or leather. Their
use is perhaps universal. The best gongs are said to be made
at Soochow. The metal is called hsiang tung, sounding
brass, and is said to be composed of copper and zinc with
perhaps five per cent of tin. The ordinary gongs are said, at
Hangchow, to be hammered when the metal is red hot, and
not cast as has been sometimes stated. [see Plate VII, fig. 4.]
1. (4) TANG TZU (TANG TZEU). A flat
brass gong about 1 foot in diameter, with the rim 2 inches
wide turned over at right angles. It is hung to the roof of
the Lo ku t'ing [see II. A. 2 (2)] at Shanghai, where the name
seems to be doubtful. At Hangchow it is called Tang tang
tzu, and is said to be invariably used at Buddhist services.
Taoist priests use it also, beating it more rapidly than the
Buddhists do. The name Tang tzu is applied to smaller gongs
of this shape used in processions at Peking, and also to a
slightly different gong there, which is said to be used by priests
and is hung from an horizontal arm fixed into an upright,
which the performer holds in his hand. Both upright and arm
are usually turned, and painted red; the gong is attached to
the former by one and to the latter by two strings.
1. (5) CHIN KU (KIN KOU) A circular
brass gong about 14 inches in diameter, with the rim curved
over. There is a raised boss in the centre and a depression
carried round near the edge. The sound has very little
ring in it.
At Hangchow it is called Tang Lo. It is said
to accompany the bride's sedan in wedding processions. At
Peking it is called Tung Ku A smaller gong of
something the same pattern is used in processions at Peking
and called Tien erh [see Plate VII, fig. 3.]
1. (6) PAO CHUN CHIH (PAO KIUN TCHEU)
. "To let gentlemen know." A circular brass
gong, 4 to 6 inches in diameter and nearly flat. It is hung
I. B.

I. B.
28
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
by two strings to a light bar, to the middle of which is
fastened a small wooden hammer. It is used at Hangchow
and elsewhere by blind men when walking along the streets.
It is rarely seen at Peking or at Shanghai. The gong used
for this purpose in Shantung, and called Hsüan tzu, is like a
cymbal, with a raised boss at the centre. A larger flat
gong, hung and struck in the same way, is used at Soochow
by pedlars. [see Plate VII, fig. 5.]
A brass
1. (7) TANG LO (TANG LO)
gong about 8 inches in diameter. The surface is flat, the
edges turned up and finished with a narrow flat rim. It is
fastened at three points to a wire ring which is fixed into a
wooden upright with a broad base. It is used, standing on a
table or held in the left hand, by Buddhist and Taoist priests,
and is struck with a small wooden or bamboo hammer.
1
F
1. (8) LING TZU (LING TZEU)
The
Peking name for a pedlar's gong similar to, but usually
smaller than, the above. The gong is hung by three or four
strings in a wire ring which is fixed to the end of a wooden
handle. To the ring one or two beads [or hard pads of cloth]
are hung by a leather lace and horn ring, so arranged as
to hit the middle of the gong when the instrument is
twirled. It is used by sellers of thread at Peking and
elsewhere. The wire ring is larger in proportion to the gong
at Peking than in other places.
At Hangchow a similar gong, 4 or 5 inches in diameter,
with the beads tied to holes in its edge, is attach ed directly to
the wooden handle instead of being hung in a ring.
At Peking itinerant menders of crockery hang a small
gong to their apparatus, and on either side of the gong a
small iron hammer with brass head is hung by a chain from a
Called Tang in Tui hsiang tsa tzu.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
29
sort of brass outrigger, so as to hit the gong as it swings with
the man's walk. This arrangement is also seen in other parts
of Chih li and in Shantung.
1. (9) TI TANG (TI TANG)
gong shaped like a shallow bowl, about 4
ĐỂ T
A brass
inches in diameter
and 13 inches deep. The metal is much thicker than that of
most other gongs. It is carried by a loop of string passed
through two small holes in the rim, and is struck with a slip
of wood about 7 inches long and 2 inches wide called Lo pan
鑼板 It is used sometimes in funeral processions in
Shanghai [II. A. 2. (2)] where it is played by one of a band
of small boys, and in Peking; and its pathetic note is also the
well known sign of sweetmeat sellers from north of the river.
The name is not certain.
1. (10) HSIANG PAN (HIANG PAN). A
thick oblong plate of brass about 16 inches long and 10 inches
high with the two top corners cut off and with a string loop
attached to a hole [or two holes] near the upper edge. It is
struck with a long stick. It has been seen in use [? by some
pedlar] in the streets at Hangchow, but is said, at the shops
there, to be used by Buddhist priests.
A vertical
1. (11) YÜN LO (IUN LO).
wooden frame standing on a carved base. The framework is
so constructed as to form ten square spaces arranged in three
vertical rows, two with three squares each, and the middle
row containing four squares. In each space is hung a
circular plate. The ten plates have all the same diameter,
but vary in thickness so that they give different notes. The
plates are struck with a light hammer with an ivory head.
The instrument is said to be chiefly used by Buddhist priests,
and also by the bands which give performances in private
houses. The scale is:
1. B.

I. B.
30
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
The total height is about 30 inches, the width 18 inches, and
the diameter of each plate 3.74 inches.
The above description is taken chiefly from the Brussels
Catalogue, 661. M. Mahillon adds the statement that the
number of vibrations of plates of the same substance and
shape varies as the thickness of the plates and in inverse
ratio to their surface. The same rules seem to apply to
bells also; and the application of the two rules together
produces the rule that the vibrations of [similar]
bells vary inversely as the cube roots of their weights
[Brussels Cat. 667].
The Yün Lo is very common at Peking where it is used
in processions; but is rarely seen about Shanghai.
A slab of
2. (1) TE CHING (TE KING)
sonorous stone. It is used at the Confucian Services,
hanging at the west side of the terrace opposite to the Po
Chung. The frame in which it hangs is like that of the
Po Chung except that it is supported on the backs of white
ducks instead of tigers. It is struck at the close of each line
of the Hymn to Confucius, and like the Po Chung is tuned to
the key note appropriate to the season. The one used at
Hangchow for the Spring service and tuned to Chia chung
is shown at Plate I, fig. 1. The average thickness is
17.5 sixteenths of an inch.
The stone is of a blackish colour with white veins. Wen
Miao Yo Shu does not give this instrument, so that it possibly
was not used in the Ming Dynasty.
A
2. (2) PIEN CHING (PIEN KING)
set of sixteen stones of the same shape as the above. They
stand in the Confucian temple at the front of the terrace and
to the west, and correspond in all respects to the Pien Chung.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
31
The Pien Chung and Pien Ch'ing both play the tune at the 1. B.
Confucian Service, but the bell is struck at the beginning of
each long note and the Ching at the end.
The set at Hangehow are not, as a fact, in tune with the
bells. The stones are all of the same superficial size but
differ in thickness. The thickness of each piece [in sixteenths
of an inch] at a given angle is shown below:-
Note. Thickness. Note. Thickness. Note. Thickness. Note. Thickness.
A sharp 10
D
14
B
11
D sharp 14.5
F sharp 15.5
G
A sharp 201
16
B
22
C
12
E
14
G sharp 17
C
21
C sharp 15
F
16
A
22
C sharp 26
The thickness of each piece is intended to be uniform
but they have all been rubbed down in parts in the process of
being tuned. The sides of the stones are decorated with gilt
clouds and dragons, and on the edges of each are the date
[at Hangchow, 1870], the name of the place and the note,
all in gilt letters. [Plates I, fig. 1, a. and XII.]
The present system of tuning the Ching by their chick-
ness alone dates from the Sung Dynasty; Tsai Yü's rule for
both bells and Ching is to take the length of the pipe for any
given note of the scale as the unit of measurement in making
the bell or Ching of the same note; the nominal measurements
of every piece are thus the same, but 'inch,' 'fen,' etc. mean
the 10th, or 100th, part of the length of the pipe giving the
note in question. He supports his view that this was the
ancient method by the fact that a set of Chou Dynasty Ch'ing
discovered in Shansi at the end of the twelfth century varied
in size from 5 to 30 inches [f. 62]. Plate I, fig. 2 shows the
ancient Huang-chung Ch'ing after Tsai Yü. Tsai Yü does
not give the shape of the Ming Dynasty Ching; Wén Miao
Yo Shu shows them rectangular, but a drawing of the kind

I. B.
32
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
cannot be taken as a proof. The illustrated Erh Ya shows
the single Ching of a shape which is fairly common in
curiosity shops, with the two arms equal and the lower
angles rounded off. A specimen of uncertain date is shown
at Plate I, fig. 3. It was discovered at Shao Hsing in 1899
and is now built into a wall there. It is said to be a sham.
The use of sham or dummy Ching is mentioned by Tsai Yü
who says that T'ai lu stone-a dark blue lime-stone with
white veins was commonly employed for the
purpose. The
proper stone to use then, as now, was a blackish stone with
thin white veins obtained at Ling-Pi (in An Hui.
Various kinds of jade were anciently used to make the Ching.
Amiot has a long article on sonorous stone. He says that
true jade is agate, and mentions the allusion to metallic
sounding stone in Pliny. The Aztecs had instruments made
of a very resonant stone, but they were quite unlike the
Chinese in shape [Engel p. 81].
Pieces of sonorous stone are also cut into various
fantastic shapes. They are used as ornaments or curiosities
and not in musical performances. One procured at Hangchow
was in the shape of a narrow leaf about one foot long. A
second from the same place was carved to represent clouds
and would be called Yun Pan . It was about 18 inches
high and 17 inches wide. There were five deep incisions in
its edges, and the divisions so formed gave notes of different
pitch. The stone is reddish brown and looks like coarse-
grained wood. Others are made of half-transparent green or
white 'jade,' and of other stones. They differ from the
proper Ching, among other points, in often having the surface
of the stone more or less carved. There seems to be no
general name for these ornamental stones.
Good specimens of sonorous stone exist at Chü-fu, the
home of Confucius in Shantung. They are not musical

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
33
instruments, but are built into a balustrade or put to other I. B.
uses as ordinary stones. These stones are a kind of lime-
stone and come from a quarry not far from the city.
.
The earliest mention of stone gongs by a European writer
is perhaps in Trigault's De Christiana Expeditione [p. 369],
in what may be Ricci's own account of the Confucian
orchestra as he saw it at Nankin at the close of the sixteenth
century-ij
ad pulsanda quilibet instrumenta se
accinxerunt: è quibus erant ex ære campano tintinnabula,
pelues, alia è saxo, è pelle quædam velut tympana, è fidibus
nonnulla, tibiæ inflabantur, & organa quædam, in quæ
ventus non follibus, sed ore insufflabatur: quædam alia
brutorum figuram referebant, & bacillis in eorum dentes
adactis, ex inani ventre sonum reddebant. hæc simul
omnia pulsabantur, eo concentu, quem fingere sibi quisq;
potest.
3. (1) CHING (K'ING). A brass bowl which at
Buddhist services sometimes stands on a cushion on a table
in front of the principal shrine. It is struck with a straight
round stick. A small specimen at Hangchow measures about
7.5 inches in diameter and 3.25 inches deep; and the metal
is 0.125 inch or more thick. They are perhaps generally
deeper than this in proportion, and 10 or 12 inches in
diameter. Cast iron or brass Ching of various sizes with
inscriptions and ornament in high relief are also common.
The small plain variety is said to be hammered and not cast.
The Ching is often seen in Taoist temples also; there is a
large one, for instance, in the Tai Miao at T'ai An in
Shantung.
A fine specimen, of brass or white copper, about 30
inches in diameter covered with inscription and ornament,
may be seen at the Chao Ching monastery at Hangchow.
4

1. B.
34
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
It stands to the east close in front of the chief shrine of the
temporary Large Hall. The stick is about 1 foot long and
perhaps 2 inches thick; the handle, which is thinner, having
red string plaited round it. This large monastery, one of the
most flourishing about Hangchow, may perhaps be taken as a
typical instance of a Buddhist establishment. East of the
shrine is a Wooden Fish, about 30 inches wide, on a square
wooden stand. The two heavy sticks [each about 3 feet long]
with which it is beaten are placed in two hollow bamboos
tied to the front of the stand. Before the shrine are twelve
tables on which are laid vestments, incense and other things
wanted for the services. On three of these tables [along the
front of the Hall] are musical instruments:-On the first, a
pair of cymbals and two small Wooden Fish of different
sizes; on the second, a small Ch'ing of beaten brass, a Yin
Ching and a gong [Tang Lo I. B. 1. (7)]-the last with a
very light springy bamboo hammer, the head of which is
formed by leaving part of the bamboo thick while the rest is
cut away very thin; and on the third table a hand drum
[II. A. 5. (1)]. To the east of this last table stands a large
drum [Tang Ku II. A. 6.] over which is hung on a curved
piece of wood a small plain brass bell. High up in the
south-west corner of the Hall is a yet larger drum lying on its
side in a wooden chamber, and in a similar situation, in the
south-east, hangs a bell. In the great Hall at the back, built
for a famous bronze statue of Buddha, is another large T'ang
Ku; and high under the eaves hangs a small bell. In the
cloister close by lies an old cracked bell of rather unusual
shape and ornament. It is about 4 feet 6 inches high and
3 feet in diameter, and the metal is 4 inches thick at the
mouth. Wind-bells are hung from the corners of the temple
roofs. For a description of the Fish and Tien Tzu, see
I. A. 6, (7) and I, B. 1. (2).

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
35
3. (2) YIN CHING (IN KING) or CHI (KI)
[Tui hsiang tsa tzu]. A brass hemispherical bell without
a clapper, 2 or 3 inches in diameter. It is fixed by a string
or nail put through a hole in its centre to a wooden or
bamboo handle about 10 inches long. There is sometimes a
pad of cloth between the bell and the top of the handle. It
is used by Buddhist priests at Hangchow, being held mouth
upwards and struck with a light iron rod which is tied to the
handle. The bell is sometimes cased in a lotus flower made
of red, blue and white cloth. The best Yin Ch'ing are said to
be made at Tien T'ai, and specimens from that place seem to
be superior to others in tone and in finish. The bell is fixed
to the handle with a brass pin and rests on a small brass lotus
flower. The rod with which it is struck is of brass with a
slightly swelling iron head welded on. [see Plate XII.]
4. (1) CHUNG (TCHOUNG) This is the
general name of bells without clappers. The common form
is circular with a dome-shaped crown, the diameter of the
mouth being not much greater than that of the crown, and
there is usually a round hole in the middle of the crown.
The lower edge or mouth of the bell is generally waved or
scolloped. The bell is hung by cannons, which in smaller
specimens generally take the form of a dragon attached to the
crown by its four feet, in a cage which is as a rule moveable,
though in the northern provinces the monasteries often have
a tower or a small stone pavilion for their principal bell
instead of the movable wooden cage. Such bells are hung
so as to swing slightly when they are struck, but perhaps
never in any way that resembles the hanging of Church bells
in England.
Tsai Yü always writes
"In Shantung this is done to a ridiculous extent, the indentations
reaching sometimes halfway up the bell.
I. B.

1. B.
36
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
may
be
Small bells are generally made of brass, larger ones of
brass or other alloys of copper, or commonly of iron. Bell
metal according to the Chou Li [Tsai Yü f. 53] should consist
of 6 parts of copper and 1 of tin, and it
inferred from Van Aalst [p. 52] that this rule is still some-
times followed more or less. These proportions are very
different from those used in England, where the old bell
founders used 3 pounds of copper to 1 pound of tin with
sometimes a little more tin or antimony-addition of tin
making the metal more brittle. The metal of the Westminster
bells is composed of 22 parts of copper to 7 of tin, and 13
to 4 is the proportion of copper to tin recommended by
Lord Grimthorpe. Chinese bell founders early in the
seventeenth century used 4 parts of copper to 1 of 'Ling
An tin'-Wen Miao Yo Shu, III f. 7; and in the eighteenth
century, copper 63 parts; zinc¹ 27 parts; lead 10 parts-
Lü Lü Chêng I, IV f. 41. From information obtained at a
foundry at Hangchow it seems that when bells are cast of
brass [or bronze] the metal is now usually got by melting
down other brass things; but if new metal is to be used it is
made of 75 parts of copper to 25 of zinc [chien ]. The
addition of tin [si] improves the tone but makes the
metal so brittle that not more than 2 or 3 parts in 100
are added.
The height of these bells varies from a few inches to
about 14 feet-the height of the Great Bell near Peking. The
bells in Confucian and Buddhist Temples are generally from
2 to 5 feet high. The Great Bell was cast in the years of
Shantung.
Ar
white ch'ien.
Zinc is still known by this name, Wo yüan, in parts of
The Hangchow founders distinguish lead and zinc as black and

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
37
Yung-Lo, that is at the beginning of the fifteenth century. I. B.
The diameter of the mouth is between 9 and 10 feet, and the
metal there is about 8 inches thick. The weight has been
estimated at 53 tons. There is a large hole in the crown.
Outside, the surface is divided into seven horizontal bands.
On the east side is the date, and on the west a raised disc
on which the bell is struck. The cannons and hanging gear
are covered with Sanskrit characters; there are several
concentric circles of the same on the crown, a row round the
outer border of the lower edge and a few more in other
parts; the rest of the bell, inside and out, is covered with
extracts from the Buddhist classics in Chinese, containing
probably not less than a 160,000 words. All the characters
are in sharp high relief. The bell is only rung while the
Emperor prays for rain; it is struck with the end of a heavy
beam hung horizontally so that it can be swung against the
disc mentioned above. The sound is very good in quality
and deep. Every note of the scale sung under the bell by
an English visitor was repeated very softly by echo, and
certain notes seemed to make it ring. The bell is hung on a
timber frame standing in a small square hall at the back of
a Buddhist Monastery, and an altar with censer and candle-
sticks is placed before it. [see Frontispiece]. The difference
between Chinese and European bells is well shown by a
comparison of the above measurements with those of the great
bell at Moscow, as given by Engel [p. 127]: "Its weight
is 443,772 pounds [about 198 tons-this suggests that the
weight of the Peking bell has been over-estimated], its
height, 21 feet 4 inches; its diameter, 22 feet 5 inches; and
its thickness, 23 inches. It was cast in the year 1653."
M. Mahillon points out that the comparatively poor and weak
sound of Chinese and Japanese bells is due to the thinness of
the metal [Brussels Catalogue, 667].

1. B.
38
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Another very large bell is said to hang in the Bell Tower
at Peking, and to be used to strike the watches of the night
and as an alarm bell. And a third used formerly to be at
Nankin, lying on its side half-buried in the ground. The
part above ground afforded lodging to beggars.
The connexion of bells of various kinds with religious
services seems to be at least as close in China as it is in
Europe, and it is interesting to note that the ceremony of
baptizing bells which dates from the eighth century has had
its counterpart in China. We read : "The King [Hsüan of
Chi] asked, Where is the ox going? The man replied, We
are going to consecrate a bell with its blood."-Legge's
Chinese Classics, Mencius Bk I. Pt 1. Cap 7, 4.
Bells of the form described are perhaps comparatively
modern. They are found in Buddhist and Taoist temples.
In Confucian temples one hangs in the principal hall or,
more correctly, at the Ta Ch'êng Gate. This Confucian bell
is perhaps properly called Yung f, and it is tolled for several
minutes at the beginning and end of the services. Wen Miao
Ssu Tien K'ao [Sect. VI f. 7] says that a Yung Chung
existed at Ch'üeh Li in Shantung, but that the state music
only required the Po Chung [see below], and so the use of
such a bell at Hangchow may be a recent revival, or perhaps
a local survival, of an old custom. The name Yung occurs in
the Book of History and in the Book of Odes, and is explained
as meaning a large bell by both the Erh Ya and the Shuo
Wen-Kang Hsi s.v. The bell in the Soochow Fu temple
An iron bell, perhaps 7 feet high and 4 feet 6 inches in diameter, which
is in constant use in a temple () near Hangchow is said to date
from the Tang dynasty. The earliest dated bell I have noticed is a small
iron one in T'ai An of the year 1303. The earliest bell date in Europe seems
to be 1202, and in England 1296 [A Beok about Bells p. 45].

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
39
stands at the west of the Ta Cheng Gate. The body of it is
decorated with large separate leaves in high relief and round
the edge are the eight Diagrams.
In Buddhist monasteries in the north, and in the chief
Confucian temple at Peking [Van Aalst], the large bell and
drum have each a small tower in one of the front courts, the
bell usually being on the east and the drum on the west side.
Bells without clappers are perhaps peculiar to Eastern
Asia.
4. (2) PO CHUNG (POUO TCHOUNG) M.
A bell of pointed oval section with a flat crown to which a
round handle is fixed: low down on the handle is a ring by
which the bell is hung to a large ornamental frame. The
uprights of the frame stand on the backs of two carved
tigers, and it is surmounted by a long-legged hawk. This
bell is used at the Confucian services, standing on the east
side of the terrace, and it is struck once before each line of
the Hymn to Confucius. The body of the bell is divided
into two parts, the upper part being adorned with thirty-six
bosses in four groups of nine. Modern specimens have
smaller bosses on the lower half also, which in the old bells
was left plain.
Each Confucian Temple is supposed to have two Po
Chung, one tuned to F for the spring service, and the other
to B for the Autumn. The use of this bell is a revival of
ancient usage.
At one period a round Po Chung may have
been used [Van Aalst], and it seems possible that no single
bell was used in the Confucian worship at the beginning of
this dynasty or at the end of the Ming dynasty, though
little evidence has been found to show when they fell into
disuse. The revival may possibly date from the discovery of
an ancient specimen in Kiangsi in the year 1759 [Wén Miao
Ssu Tien K'ao, § VI].
I. B.

1. B,
40
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
The illustration [Plate II, fig. 1] is taken from Tsai Yü
[f. 53], who in his turn took it from the Po Ku Tu
published in the reign of Hsüan Ho [A.D. 1119-1126].
On f. 55 he says that many ancient bells were dug up in the
Sung dynasty and were accurately described in the Po Ku
Tu and that bells of three sizes, dating from the Chou dynasty,
which he had himself seen, corresponded with those in that
book.
The Te Chung
was a bell of the same kind,
smaller than the Po Chung and larger than the Pien Chung.
The use of it is not required by the modern state ritual.
4. (3) PIEN CHUNG (PIEN TCHOUNG).
A set of 16 bells hung in two rows of eight, one row above the
other, on a frame like that of the Po Chung. They are tuned
to the twelve notes of a complete octave and the four top
notes of the octave below, and are used at the Confucian
services, where they lead the orchestra. All the bells are
externally of the same size and differ only in the thickness of
the metal; they are barrel-shaped, with a flat crown to which
is fixed a sort of loop of metal for a handle-see Plate II,
fig. 2. At Hangchow the bells are decorated with dragons
in relief, and have engraved inscriptions giving the date,
note, and so forth; but the decoration ought apparently to
consist of the eight Diagrams. This pattern is said by Van
Aalst to date from the reign of K'ang Hsi [A.D. 1662-
1722] and is shown in Lü Lü Chéng I, of that date. The
measurements in that book are-height 9.5 inches;
diameter, at the top 6.5 inches; in the middle, 9 inches; at
the mouth, 6.375 inches; the metal is about 0.2 inch thick
for the middle huang chung note and twice as thick for huang
chung an octave higher. In the Brussels Catalogue, 667,
M. Mahillon gives the rule for finding the relative weights of
bells required to produce certain notes, with the result that a

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
41
bell giving the note C will be twice as heavy as one giving
the third, and eight times as heavy as one giving the octave
above C. Tsai Yü attains the same result by making each
dimension of the C bell double the corresponding dimension
of the bell giving the octave. Lu Lu Chéng I gives the
following:-
Note.
Huang chung
Thickness of Metal.
Weight.
216 oz.
432 oz.
0.1598 inch (Chinese)
0.3196 "
37
Huang chung (octave higher)
thus applying another rule which has been quoted above-
[1. B. 1. (11)] from M. Mahillon. But the octaves of the
other notes are found apparently on quite another principle!
Anciently the Pien Chung were of the same shape as the
Po chung, and continued so down to the end of the Tang
dynasty [A.D. 900]. The first alterations were made in
the Sung dynasty, when the ring at the side of the handle
was moved to the top so that the bell hung straight instead
of obliquely-Tsai Yü f. 48. A bell answering to this
description is shown at Plate II, Fig. 3. The drawing was
made from a specimen in a curiosity shop at Shanghai.
The handle seemed to be solid on the inside were four
vertical raised ribs, two on either side: the metal was thin.
The ancient bells differed in size according to their
note, and it does not seem to be certain when the plan of
making them all of the same apparent size was first
introduced, but it was certainly before the end of the Ming
Dynasty. Tsai Yü [f. 48] says that the then modern bells
were "round like an earthenware jar" and all the same size;
and Wên Miao Yo Shu shows the sixteen all of one size,-
straight-sided round bells with convex crowns¹, and each one
'The section of a bell of this shape from the Confucian Temple of T'ai
Ta'ang in Kiangsu is given on Plate II, Fig. 4.; but there is nothing to.
show the date of the bell or that it was one of the Pien Chung.
I. Bi.

1. B.
42
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
with a distinct form of ornament; but it does not seem
certain that they were different in shape from the modern
bells.
The curious and very handsome frames to which the
bells and stone Ching [I. B. 2.] are hung in the Temple of
Confucius are probably innovations of the enterprising Sung
dynasty, which it is hard for us to regret, though they
appeared very vulgar to Tsai Yü in the sixteenth century.
The illustrated Erh Ya of the Sung dynasty has the frames
of both bell and ch'ing standing on the backs of ducks, the
pendants of the former hang from the beaks of phoenix heads,
and of the latter from the mouths of dragons, and there are no
"hawks" at the top.
Wen Miao Yo Shu shows the frames
supported on tigers [or lions] and ducks respectively, as at
the present day, but the phoenix and dragon heads above are
transposed and the hawks have been added. The frames
now used at Hangchow are much the same as this except
that the phoenix heads are replaced by dragons and that the
hawks also carry long tassels. Wên Miao Ssu Tien Kao
[A.D. 1878] say that phoenix heads are correct for the frame
of the Ch'ing according to Imperial Edict.
1
5. (1) LING (LING) . This is the general name
for bells with clappers, and, standing alone, perhaps refers
more particularly to the small hand bells used by Taoist and
Buddhist priests. These are not often more than 4 inches
high, excluding the handle which is usually large in
proportion and often elaborately constructed. A common
form of handle is a trident, others represent the Eight Genii,
and so on. The whole bell is generally made of brass, and
the outer surface and the handle are covered with ornament.
See Vol. XXXIII of this Journal.-Notes on the Ting-chi, illustrations.
It is also applied to quite different instruments.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
43
At a service at the Tien Hou Kung in Shanghai the
band consisted of six instruments:-Flute [Ti], drum
[Tang Ku], gong [Tang Lo], cymbals, a small bell [Chung]
and a hand bell [Ling]. The Ling was held in the right
hand with the handle inclined outwards, the clapper being
held in the left hand and allowed to fall at regular intervals;
and at the end of a section of the service it was rung by
being rapidly shaken. All the instruments were played very
quietly except the flute which played the tune, which the
priests were singing, rather loudly.
The Ling is common at Hangchow. And several have
been seen at a service in the Lung Fu Ssu, a Lama temple in
Peking, used with cymbals, etc. and a large horn. [see
Plate VII, fig. 6.]
China.
5. (2) LO TO LING TANG (LO T'OUO LING
TANG). A Camel bell, used in the north of
Camels usually go in strings of about seven-the
nose of one tied to the tail of the next in front. The driver
leads or rides the first camel and the bell is hung round the
neck of the last, in order, as it is said, that the driver may
know as long as he hears it that his string is intact. The bell
is made of six pieces of metal-the circular iron crown, 5.5
inches in diameter; the sides about 13.5 inches high formed
of two pieces of thin sheet iron; and a rim, also in two
pieces, of thin copper 2 inches wide: a curved iron handle is
rivetted to the crown. The mouth is oval. The clapper is
a piece of the branch of a tree about 3 inches high and
2.5 inches in diameter, and it is hung by means of an iron
staple driven into one end and a bit of string passed through
a hole in the centre of the crown. Better bells have a
carefully made wooden clapper¹ about 3.5 inches in diameter
Bells with wooden clappers have been known in China for a long time.
The wood bell, to which Confucius is compared in a well known passage
() of the Analects, is explained as a metal bell with a wooden
tongue.
I. B.

I. B.
44
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
with two brass rings below to which are fastened tufts of
camels hair. An alternative clapper is a spherical iron bell,
about 2.5 inches in diameter like the horse bells described
below. It is made of two cups with rims welded together:
at the top is a large ring, and below two pairs of holes joined
by narrow slits. Inside is a small loose piece of iron.
The outside of the bell is sometimes painted and, at the
New Year, decorated with a square of red paper, with a lucky
character written on it, pasted on either side; and tassels are
sometimes hung to the clapper. The measurements and
shape given are subject to considerable variation.
The steady
clank of this rude bell is one of the most characteristic sounds
of the Peking winter.
5. (3) MA LING (MA LING)
Horse bells.
This
a. A single hemispherical brass bell with an iron clapper,
hung to the collar of a horse, mule, donkey or camel.
is used at Peking, Hangchow and elsewhere. The diameter
of the mouth is about 3 inches. At Peking it often has a
curious double clapper. At Hangchow it is also called Tu
Ling or single bell to distinguish it from-
b. The more common string of small bells fastened in a
row round the collars of horses, donkeys, etc. These are very
much like the Yotl of the Aztecs [Engel p. 81], having no
opening but a narrow slit, and each containing a loose ball of
metal instead of a clapper. They are of various shapes and
sizes; the most common being a sort of oval or pear-shaped,
and unusually large specimens measuring 3 inches long and
2 inches in diameter. Another common form is like a pair
of slightly opened oystershells.
At Soochow and at Peking little bells with clappers are
very commonly used in this way. At the former place the
pear-shaped kind are occasionally used by pedlars-four or

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
45
five of them tied to a pliant twig which is fixed to the man's 1. B.
apparatus. Very small specimens are tied round the necks of
pet dogs.
The use of bells on horses is, or used to be, enforced by
law at Hangchow.
Horse bells are also called Hua Ling [Tzu kê t'u
shuo] and Hsiang Ling, and at Hangchow 'Lion's
heads'
[Shih tzu t'ou . Large bells of this kind-4
or 5 inches across-may be seen in Peking, where they are
said to be fastened to the paper lion in certain processions,
and are called Lion bells [Shih tzu Ling]. [see Plate VII,
fig. 7, 7.]
c. The above varieties are usually made of brass. Iron
bells like the camel bells, but far smaller, and usually more
flat in horizontal section, are most commonly used, singly,
for pack mules and donkeys in North Kiangsu and Shantung
and Chihli, though the other varieties are not unused. The
clappers of these flat bells are often made of an iron ring.
Such iron bells are also fastened to the collars of mules
drawing luggage carts in Peking-carts for passengers seem
very rarely to use bells of any sort-and to the beam by
which a mill is turned. Yet more roughly made bells of the
same general pattern are occasionally used by beggars. These
bells are in some ways not unlike the ancient iron bells found
in Ireland and other parts of Europe.
5. (4) FENG LING (FOUNG LING). Wind
Bell. A bell with a clapper hung under the corners of the
roofs of temples, pagodas, pavilions and occasionally of private
houses. The head of the clapper is formed of an horizontal
cross of nearly the same length and breadth as the diameter
of the bell, so that a slight movement in any direction will
bring one arm of it or another against the bell. To the
middle of the cross is hung a thin plate of brass shaped like a

1. B.
46
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
fish's tail and projecting below the mouth of the bell so that
it may be moved by the wind and swing the clapper. At
Peking plain brass bells about 7 inches high are used; the
clapper has a trefoil plate instead of a cross. A curious
specimen may be seen hanging on a pailow [a rather unusual
situation] inside the south gate of P'ing-yin in Western
Shantung. The bell is perhaps 8 inches high, with its edge
so deeply indented that it looks more like an iron tassel than
a bell, and instead of having a clapper it is hung inside a
hemispherical cage formed of a belt of iron supported by two
bent straps of iron crossed. Iron seems to be the metal
preferred for these as for other bells, both small and large, in
Shantung. The familiar name at Hangchow is Feng To
風鐸
The effect produced by the bells on a pagoda is curiously
like that of the bells of a large flock of sheep on the South
Downs. It is said that the orignal intention of these bells
was to scare away birds. Bells on a pagoda in Burmah are
mentioned by Marco Polo in the thirteenth century [Engel
p. 300]. See also Additional Note F.
Wind bells are, I believe, sometimes made square in
section.
A bell
5. (5) LING TANG (LING TANG)
used by itinerant sellers of oil in the neighbourhood of P'ing-
yin in Shantung. The body is of cast iron and of the same
pointed oval shape as the PO CHUNG [4. (2) above], but
with a simple loop for handle. It is hung by a long cord or
strap to the yoke on which the oil is carried. The lower
edge is notched or waved like that of a Chung, a feature not
common in bells with clappers, and the surface usually has
some simple ornament.
Ling Tang merely means a bell and is not, even
locally, appropriated to the present instrument.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
47
6. K'OU CH'IN (K'EOU K'IN) . The Jews
harp. In Peking it is commonly played by street boys.
It is made of iron and appears to be nearly identical
with the European instrument and with the Indian Murchang
[Engel p. 172]. The length of the frame is 33 inches, the
greatest width 1 inch; width at the points, inch. The
length of the tongue, measured straight, is 4 inches, of
which inch projects behind the frame: an additional inch
at the thin end is bent down at a right angle and the end is
turned over to form a ring. It seems to be quite unknown
about Shanghai or in the south. Mrs. T. Richard writes on
p. 20 of her Paper :-In a Chinese book of the twelfth
century there is a picture of the Jews harp.
I. B.

48
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
CLASS II. Vibrating Membranes.
Section A. Rhythmic.
1. PA FANG KU (PA FANG KOU) A
A tambourine formed of an octagonal frame in each side of
which is a quatrefoil hole. In seven of these holes are little
brass jingles on pins, and from the eighth hang silk tassels.
One side of the frame is covered with snake skin. The
diameter is 5.75 inches, the depth 2 inches. It is said to be
used by singing girls at Peking.
2. (1) PANG KU (PANG KOU) A circular
frame, made of six wedges of [?] chi wood kept together by a
brass hoop and having a round hole in the middle, covered
with cow skin which is fixed with iron nails-professedly 128
in number. The skin is stretched so tight as to be perfectly
rigid. It is beaten with two light bamboo sticks without
heads. The diameter of a Shanghai specimen is 10.25 inches,
the diameter of the central opening 2.25 inches, the height
3 inches. It stands on a folding wooden or bamboo tripod
when in use. The name is vulgarly pronounced Peng Ku
among Pekingese actors. At Shanghai it is said to be called
Pan Ku [see Plate VII, fig. 8.]
This hoop-drum is a very common instrument, used
chiefly in the theatre where it acts as leader of the orchestra,
which seems to be generally composed of the following
instruments -Pang Ku, Tang Ku, a large and a small
gong [Lo], cymbals, P'ai Pan and, during the songs, a fiddle
At Hangchow this is written E

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
49
[Ching Hu]. The Hsien tzu and Yueh Ch'in are also used.
The So Na is heard when military or funeral processions are
introduced, and the La Pa [blown apparently off the stage]
in certain military pieces and to mark the close of each scene.
The above orchestra is replaced for certain plays by the Pang
tzu as leader with its proper accompaniment of Hu Hu and
Ti tzu.
2. (2) PAN T'ANG KU (PAN TANG KOU)
堂鼓 A circular wooden frame about 14 inches in
diameter, 3 inches high and 1 inch thick; kept together with
an iron hoop and with skin stretched over one side. It is
hung in a horizontal position in front of the performer by
means of a blue and white cord passed over his shoulders and
fixed to two opposite points of the frame. To the half of the
circumference furthest from the performer is fixed a square
apron of red cloth embroidered. It is played with the usual
thin bamboo sticks. Eight of these drums formed part of
one of the many bands in a large funeral procession seen at
Shanghai in 1902. Other instruments used in the same
procession were:-by Taoist priests, Shou Ku, cymbals,
hand bell [Ling], Hsien tzu, Sheng, Ti tzu in pairs, and
Hsiao singly. The lay bands used all the above except the
Ling, and in addition, Pang Ku, Tien Ku, Chang Ku [carried
under the left arm], the ordinary gong about 2 feet in
diameter and always in pairs, Tang Lo, P'ai Pan, Shuang
Ch'in, Erh Hu, So Na, Chi Na, large T'ai P'ing Hsiao, and
one small Hao Tung. A military band on horseback played
several of the above instruments and also a pair of large Cha
Chiao. A T'ang Ku was carried in the Lo Ku Ting-a
sort of shrine carried by four men-to the roof of which were
hung a gong [I. B. 1 (4).] and a gigantic pair of cymbals.
The foot soldiers in attendance were preceded by a pair of
the large variety of La Pa.
5
II. A.

11. A.
50
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
At Peking this drum is hung in an iron hoop only slightly
larger than the drum, and is carried in the way described
above. At Hangchow a similar drum, called Pao Ku, is
placed in a tray formed of a hoop of bamboo laid on two
sticks, of which the ends rest against the performer's body.
2. (3) MAN TOU KU (MAN TEOU KOU)
The Loaf Drum. A hollow hemisphere of wood
constructed like the Pang Ku and kept together with a brass-
hoop. There is a round hole, about 2 inches in diameter, at
the top. The convex side is covered with skin fixed with iron
nails. The diameter is about 9 inches. It is said to be used.
on the stage like the Pang Ku, and to be a southern
instrument. It is fairly common at Hangchow but rare at
Shanghai. [Plate XII.]
The Little
2. (4) HSIAO KU (SIAO KOU)
Drum. A circular body of wood, made in four pieces, about
2 inches high. The larger head, which is covered with
cow skin, is about 3 inches in diameter. The skin is fixed
with large-headed iron nails. This drum is used by rag
collectors in Peking, and is struck with a split withy 9 or 10
inches long with a strip of leather wound round the end to
form a head.
3. YÜ KU (IU KOU), or YÜ TUNG (IU
TOUNG). The second is the commoner name, and
Yü Ku is sometimes applied to a somewhat similar drum
said to be made at Soochow and described as a bamboo pipe
painted red or black, about 12 inches long, 4 inches thick at
the larger end, with one head covered with snake skin and with
a vibrating tongue inside. The Yu Tung is a bamboo pipe
26.5 inches long, and about 2.75 inches in diameter, with
the larger end covered with a piece of bladder. It is said that
it should be held with the open end downwards in the palm
of the right hand and struck with the fingers of this hand,

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
51
the upper end resting against the right shoulder. It is used
chiefly by blind fortune-tellers and by beggars and is properly
and usually accompanied with the Chien Pan [I. A. 3. (3)]
held up in the left hand. The specimen measured was made
at Hangchow. At Shanghai it is called a northern instru-
ment, and it is not uncommon in Northern Kiangsu and
in Shantung. Specimens seen in use have been invariably
tapped on the covered end. Both Yü Tung and Chien Pan
may be seen 3 feet or more in length. The outside of the
pipe is sometimes carved, and the ends and knots of the
bamboo mounted with bands of brass. The name Yü Ku is
perhaps more common in Shantung.
In December 1903 a small company of strolling musicians
were seen at P'ing-yin in Shantung using the Yü Tung in a
rather unusual way. One man was sitting down with his
brass mounted Yü Ku laid across his knees and was tapping
the covered end of it with his right hand. The second
performer was a boy standing and holding a Yü Ku more or
less horizontal and tapping it with his right hand, and
occasionally turning it up and blowing on the bladder so as
to produce a loud whistle-thrice repeated. The third man
was holding a cymbal which he was using as a gong. No
Chien Pan was used.
"The Yu Ku dates from the Sung dynasty, when it was
called Tung Tung Pu"-Ch'i Hsiu: Sect. 24.
This is the
4. (1) TAO KU (TAO KOU)
old and book name of the common rattle drum vulgarly
called Yao Ku [Iao Kou] or, at Ningpo, Huo Lang
[Houo Lang] 1. It is a small drum with a stick passing
through the body and projecting on one side to form a
handle. When the drum is twirled quickly backwards and
forwards the ends are hit by two beads hung one on each side
of the body. The modern drum varies from 2 to about
II. A.

11. A.
52
1
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
12 inches in diameter, the larger ones being flatter in shape
than the smaller. It is used at Hangehow by itinerant sellers
of cotton cloth and braid and at Shanghai by sweetmeat sellers,
when it is called Yao t'ang ku, and measures about
3.5 inches in length and 2 inches in diameter. [see Plates
VII and XII]. At Chi Nan in Shantung a very small drum
on a handle about 2 feet long is used. The heads of this
variety are of snake-skin. In the same part of Shantung
sellers of cloth use drums about 12 inches in diameter and 2
inches deep, their instruments being sometimes made entirely
[including the heads'] of copper or of foreign 'tin'. At
Peking the drum is occasionally made hexagonal, and as
many as three may be seen threaded on the same handle.
Sometimes there is on the same stick with the drum and
struck in the same way a small gong either hung in a wire
ring or fixed directly to the stick. This may be seen for
instance at Hangchow, Soochow and Peking. At Hangchow
the combined drum and gong is called Ting ting tang érh or
Ting tung tang érh, and would-be purchasers hail the pedlar
by this name.
At Peking a large drum surmounted by two
gongs is used.
A toy rattle drum sold with the Mi Ta Lang at
Shanghai is made of a piece of split bamboo bent into an
oval and entirely covered with paper. It is pierced with a
stick which projects about 6 inches. The greater diameter of
the drum is 2.5 inches, the thickness about 0.5 inch. A
thread finished with a small knot of wax is fixed to either end
of the oval body. Tiny tin rattle drums are sold at the
T'ai An fair.
Tsai Yü mentions the T'ao Ku in the Ling hsing hsiao
wu p'u as a common instrument in his day. The ancient
1 This drum is called Huo Lang Ku êrh.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
53
Tao Ku was much larger than the modern, but was barrel- 11. A.
shaped like the smallest modern varieties. It was used
in religious ceremonies."
4. (2) MI TA LANG (MI TA LANG) B.
A toy rattle sold at Shanghai. It is a clay drum attached to
a small clay figure. The opening, over which a paper 'head'
is stretched, is inch in diameter, reduced to at the back,
which is not covered. The whole drum is about 3 inch thick
and 1 inch in diameter. The height of the clay figure is 2
inches. A wire arm from the shoulder is bent downwards at
right angles and fits loosely into a thin bamboo stick, just
below whose top are fixed four tin arms. The drum is struck
with a little slip of bamboo which is passed through a twist of
string, stretched from the wire arm to a lower bamboo arm,
and alternately lifted and let drop by the tin arms of the stick
when the thing is twirled. A similar toy is made in the form
of a man sitting in a cart and beating a drum. At T'ai An
in Shantung this toy is common at the great Spring fair, and
is called Hsien Jen Ta Ku fill A-the fairy drummer.
5. (1) SHOU KU (CHEOU KOU)
Hand
Drum. A ring made of five or six pieces of wood, with the
outer edges bevelled and skin stretched over both sides. The
measurements at Shanghai are greatest diameter, S inches;
diameter of the central opening, 5 inches; height, 2 inches.
It is sometimes fixed by the side to a wooden upright standing
on a circular base. It is used by priests, who tap it with
their fingers, at funerals and at services in private houses,
where it may stand on a table opposite to a small bell
[Chung].
A pair of these drums is still in use in the Confucian temple at
Tai An in Shantung. The same temple also possesses a Chu (with no side
hole), Yü, set of Pien Ch'ing, set of Pien Chung of small size, two Po Fu,
three larger drums, and two Shé without strings.

11. A.
54
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
5. (2) A flat DRUM is used by blind men in the
streets at Peking. It is about 12 inches in diameter and 3
inches thick, and is carried by a string loop-the man
holding the drum and drum-stick in one hand.
A drum
5. (3) TIEN KU (TIEN KOU)
said at Shanghai to be used in the theatre in place of the
Pang Ku. It is a wooden dise made in five pieces, with a
circular hole in the middle and covered on both sides with
skin. The shape is like that of two plates put face to
face. The greatest diameter is 8 inches; diameter of either
head, 5 inches; diameter of the central hole, 2 inches;
height, 2 inches. It is beaten with two light bamboo sticks.
[see Plate VII.]
5. (4) A flat DRUM, about 2 feet in diameter, with a
wooden handle fixed into the side and probably traversing the
body. It is used by the Lamas of the Yung Ho Kung at
Peking, and is perhaps a Tibetan instrument. In a procession
an attendant carries it on his shoulder, and it is beaten by a
priest walking behind. The stick is curved like the shaft of a
carriage, and has a small knob at the top. The Japanese have
a similar but much smaller drum [Brussels Cat. 684].
Beggars in Peking sometimes use a small drum which
they hold by a cord handle underneath.
A drum
6. (1) CHIN KU (TSIN KOU)
used in Confucian Temples, placed vertically in a box or frame.
In the Temple at Hangchow it is at the west side of the
Ta Cheng Gate and is beaten before and after the service,
when the Sage's spirit is welcomed and bidden farewell. The
head of the drum is about 6 feet in diameter¹.
'At Soochow this drum is about 6 feet long and 6 feet in diameter,
and stands horizontally on trestles at the east side of the Ta Chiêng Gate,
with a similar drum about 3 feet long by its side.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
55
It does not seem to differ essentially from the T'ang or
Chan Ku. It appears that this drum should be hung [?]
horizontally, and in the great Temple at Peking one still hangs
in the Eastern Tower [Van Aalst pp. 53, 75]. The true name
is not easy to find. Wên Miao Ssu Tien K'ao says that the
Yung bell and the Fén drum still exist at Ch'üeh Li, standing
at the Ta Cheng Gate [Sect. VI f. 7]. The Erh Ya says
"The large drum is called Fén", and the drum in question
is the largest used at the Confucian services.
The Sung
dynasty illustration of the "large drum" shows the modern
Ying Ku and Tsai Yü [f. 65] gives Fén as an alternative
name for the Tsu Ku, a large drum of the same nature as the
Ying Ku. Chin is Tsai Yü's name for his drum which is
most like the modern Ying Ku; so that neither Chin or Fén
seem quite satisfactory names of the present instrument.
Fen (Fenn) may perhaps be thought the better of the two.
The bodies of barrel-shaped drums seem to be called
Kuang E, and are said to be made of willow
A barrel-
6. (2) YING KU (ING KOU).
shaped drum supported in a horizontal position by a post
which stands on a foot made of four wooden tigers arranged
in the form of a cross. The post passes through the drum and
has a large silk canopy fixed to its top. The drum stands in
the south-east corner of the terrace in the Confucian Temple,
and is struck three times after each line of the Hymn to
Confucius. The whole drum with its stand is elaborately
ornamented with gilt and painted designs. The length is 43
inches, the diameter of the heads 29 inches.
Wen Miao Yo Shu calls this drum Ying or Chien ;
under which names Van Aalst gives quite a different instru-
ment, saying that the two kinds of Ying Ku are in use together.
Tsai Yu in his list of ancient drums [f. 66 etc.] has the one
in question under the name Chin [also called Chien, Lu,
II. A.

11. A.
56
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Lei, or Ling], 66 inches long; and a similar but yet
larger and undecorated drum called Tsu or Fén Two
drums just like the modern Ying, but with small side drums
attached, are called respectively Hsuan [or Tien ]
standing to the west, and Ying to the east. Tsai Yu's
Ying is Amiot's Yn, 100 inches long and with the post
driven into the ground. In Vol. VI f. 50 he says that the
modern Ying is the Chien Ku of the Sung and Yüan
Dynasties, with the side drums taken off; and that the Po Fu
was wrongly made to do duty for the side drums. The Ying
of the illustrated Erh Ya is hung by a ring in its side to a
crossbar supported on two uprights. Garnier's Voyage
d'exploration en Indo-Chine, Vol. I p. 415, shows a large
drum hung in precisely the same manner in a Temple in the
North of Laos. Chieh Li Tsuan Yao shows the Ying
like the modern instrument. [Compare Plate XIII.]
Ku
6. (3) PO FU (POUO FOU). A barrel-shaped
drum 18 inches long, 9 inches in diameter at the ends, and
about 13 inches at the middle. The body is coloured scarlet
and has a scarf of yellow silk fastened to rings on the upper
side; and the heads are painted with a dragon's head and with
clouds. The performer strikes it on both heads with his
fingers. A pair of these drums, laid on stands which vary from
about 1 foot to 3 feet in height, are used at the Confucian
services and struck twice after each beat of the Ying Ku.
[see Plate XII.]
The ancient Po Fu seems to have been a straight-sided
drum, and was played lying on the performer's knees. The
modern instrument is more like the popular Hua Ku. In
Wên Miao Yo Shu it is called Fu Kuff. Ch'üeh Li Tsuan
Yao shows the straight-sided Po Fu.
drums.
The drum is made to this day with a ring at each side, as if for side

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
57
There is sometimes
6. (4) HUA KU (HOUA KOU) E[see Plate
VIII]. A barrel-shaped drum like the above. It was formerly
called Yao Ku, and this name occurs in a verse of Su Tung-p'o
who lived in the eleventh century :-The sound of a hundred
Yao Ku is like thunder in the Spring. 1 It has two rings on
one side to which a sling is attached.
inside an arrangement of wires which make a slight jingling
when the drum is beaten. It is used, hanging from the right
shoulder, in theatres and by strolling bands. At Shanghai
the body seems to be usually black, but the popular name-
"Flower Drum"-is perhaps explained by Dennys' remark
"The barrel is generally, but not always, ornamented with
drawings of flowers, etc." The length is 10 inches, the
diameter at the heads, 4g inches, in the middle, 6 inches.
The size may vary considerably. A smaller specimen from
Hangchow had no wires inside and was painted red [see
Plate XII]. A toy variety about 7 inches long and 3 or 4
inches in diameter is sold in the instrument shops at Shanghai.
The body, only slightly curved, is made of a piece of bamboo.
Cheap wooden drums are sold to the pilgrims at T'ai An in
great quantities.
The Hua Ku is an ancient instrument and was formerly
used in the State services under the name of Ya Ku
Indeed it seems possible that it is the Po Fu that is disused,
and that the so-called Po Fu is really the Ya Ku. Ch'ueh Li
Tsuan Yao has both, calling the Ya Ku Tao Ku, and saying
that the skin should be painted with clouds and the barrel
with flowers. The skin for both Po Fu and Ya Ku, Amiot
says, was boiled as well as tanned, and the barrels were filled
with rice husks. Tsai Yü [f. 70] says that the Po Fu, played.
1. But see Chang Ku [II. B.] below, with.
the reference there to Additional Note F.
'
11. A.

II. A.
58
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
by a man sitting inside the Hall, marked the lines of the
Hymn for the singers; the Ya Ku [identical with the
Hua Ku] did the same for the Mimes, and the performer
stood outside the Hall. Both drums measured 14 inches by
7 inches.
6. (5) T'ANG KU (TANG KOU)
[see Plate
VII]. A barrel-shaped drum which is hung vertically by four
or [three] rings in its sides in a frame consisting [for smaller
specimens] of four [or three] curved uprights joined by cross
pieces below. The actual size varies considerably, but the
height is generally about equal to the greatest diameter. The
heads are of cowskin, the barrel is usually painted black at
Shanghai. Two wooden sticks without heads are employed.
It is used in theatres, private houses, military camps and
stations, etc., and in temples:-Large specimens being
found in most Buddhist Temples and smaller moveable ones in
Taoist Temples.
Tsai Yü shows a similar drum [called merely Ku and
described as a common instrument] hung vertically by cords
from two rings on opposite sides, in a square upright frame
[Ling Hsing hsiao wu p'u f. 4].
The Tang Ku is said at Shanghai to be the drum which
is carried in processions in the pavilion called Lo Ku Ting
[II. A. 2 (2)]. The drum is placed on end in the bottom of
the T'ing and is covered with a board in which is a round
hole through which the top of the drum is visible. A
different drum is perhaps used for this purpose in the south
[Dennys].
It is commonly used at Peking for funeral ceremonies
and processions, usually lacquered black with gilt ornament;
the uprights of the frame sometimes straight and 6 or 7 feet
high. Drums of the same shape are also carried in processions
without frames, but slung at the back of a boy and beaten by

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
59
another boy walking behind. These are either black and gilt
or plain gilt. [see Additional Note F.]
CHAN KU (TCHEN KOU)
The
6. (6)
War Drum. This appears to differ from the Tang Ku only
in its proportions, the height being about half of the diameter.
It is used by soldiers; but it is perhaps interchangeable with the
Tang Ku, as soldiers may be seen using the latter and a priest
has been seen buying the Chan Ku. At Peking drums of
this shape are commonly used in processions, being slung over
a man's shoulder by a ring in the side and beaten by another
man following. The body is there commonly gilded, elsewhere
it is usually black. Toy drums of this shape are made for the
pilgrims at T'ai An.
6. (7) A DRUM said to be used by cavalry. A
specimen seen at Hangchow had an urn-shaped body about 12
inches high. The diameter at the top was about 10 inches;
at the bottom, about 6 inches. It is hung, probably over the
shoulder, by a cord fastened to opposite sides of the top.
7. HA MA (HIA MA). A clay frog. The
body is hollow and over the underside, which is open, a piece
of stout paper is stretched. Through the middle of this paper
a single horse hair is passed and prevented from coming out
by a knot inside. When the wetted finger and thumb are
drawn rapidly along the hair the vibration produces a loud
harsh sound not unlike the croaking of a frog. This is one
of the many toys sold at the fair which is held every spring
for the benefit of pilgrims at T'ai An in Shantung.
II. B.
1.
Section B. Tonal.
CHANG KU (TCHANG KOU)
The
body of this drum is formed of a bamboo pipe, 18 inches long
and 2 inches in diameter, with a wooden bell fixed to either

II. B.
60
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
end. One of these is cup-shaped, 5 inches long and 7 inches
across the mouth; the other is like the bell of a trumpet and
measures 9 inches in diameter. The heads are formed of skin
stretched over iron rings. That at the cup-shaped end is of
cow skin and is 10 inches in diameter; the other is a disc
of snakeskin sewn into a ring of cowskin, and is 11 inches in
diameter. The heads are kept in position by yellow cords
which are bound tightly round the middle of the bamboo pipe.
Eight loops of this cord are attached to eight wire hooks,
which are fastened to the ring of either head. Each cord of
every loop is connected with the nearer cord of the adjoining
loop by means of a moveable leather ring. When these rings
are pushed towards the heads they separate the pairs of cords,
which would naturally be close together, and thus shorten the
loops and tighten the heads. The whole body is painted black;
the total length is 29 inches. The performer is said to hang
the drum in front of him by a strap over his shoulders, and to
beat both heads with his hands [but compare II. A. 2. (2) ].
It is used in processions at Shanghai and perhaps in the
south. The Chang Ku is perhaps the only Chnese drum of
which the heads can be tightened by means of cords.
The Rev. F. W. Galpin writes: This drum with braces
might have been introduced from India where such methods
of tuning are common." This is perhaps confirmed by a
passage in The Middle Kingdom [vol. II. p. 98]: 'One treatise
on beating drums scientifically dates from about the year 860
A.D., and contains a list of about one hundred and twenty-nine
symphonies, many of which are of Indian origin.' For the
tuning of drums in China in former times, and for the various
names of this particular drum, compare Additional Note F.
[see Plate XII.]

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
61
CLASS III. Wind Instruments.
Section A. Flutes and Whistles.
a. Vertically blown.
1. HSÜAN (HIUEN) or . A small egg-shaped
whistle made of black clay. It has a blow-hole at the apex,
four small finger holes on one side and two on the opposite
side. Amiot says that the addition of a sixth hole to the
primitive five was an improvement of the Chou dynasty.
Wên Miao Yo Shu, Chieh Li Tsuan Yao and Lü Lü Chêng I
however draw and describe the five holed variety, so that the
sixth hole is more probably quite a modern addition.¹ The
Reverend F. W. Galpin writes: "The Hsuan gives the
following scale :-
I
2 3 4 5 6 holes open
The first note is got by turning the lips downward and
blowing lightly. It will be noticed that the five hole Hsüan
gives the octave C-C. The sixth hole gives D, and it
seems probable that the low C was omitted-it is hard to
get." It seems to make no difference in what order the holes
are opened. [see Plate VIII.]
Wên Miao Yo Shu [VI f. 3] says however that an instrument of
the Sung dynasty had six holes; and that about A.D. 1035 a seven holed
Hsüan is mentioned. See Additional Note F.

III.A.a
62
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
The süan is traditionally one of the most ancient of
Chinese instruments, and is highly prized. It is only used in
the State services. The height is 23 inches; greatest
diameter, 24 inches, diameter of the base, 1 inch, diameter
of the blow hole, inch.
The ancient instrument was, according to Tsai Yü
[f. 37], longer in proportion to its diameter, modelled
apparently on a large goose's egg with the thick end cut off.
The height was 3.5 inches, the diameter, 2.4 inches. There
were four finger holes 1.7 inch from the bottom and equally
distant from each other, and a fifth 0.5 inch from the bottom,
forming an inverted isosceles triangle with two of the upper
holes. The smaller variety was of the same height, but
1.75 inch in diameter. Tsai Yü says oddly that the goose's
and hen's egg only gave the size and not the shape of the
larger and smaller Isüan respectively. The finger holes,
whether five or six, have been unsymmetrically arranged
throughout the present dynasty.
case.
2. (1) P'AI HSIAO (P'AI SIAO)
Pandean
Pipes. Sixteen small bamboo pipes fixed in a row in a wooden
Each pipe has a notch cut in the upper edge like that
of the Yo. The pipes are tuned to the twelve notes of a
complete octave and the four top notes of the octave below.
The pitch of this instrument and of the Pien Chung and Pien
Ch'ing seems to have been lowered in this dynasty so that Huang
Chung is the fifth note instead of the first as it was in the Ming
dynasty and before. The pipes are now arranged with the
longest at the ends of the row, and the shortest in the middle;
and in length from 11.5 to 4.75 inches. Wen Miao Yo
Shu called the P'ai Hsiao, Féng Hsiao [a name which
appears in Ch'üeh Li Tsuan Yao also], and names eleven other
varieties. But for the wooden case, the P'ai Hsiao retains
vary

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
63
very nearly the form of the ancient Hsiao, which is thus the
only one of the old wind instruments to survive practically
unchanged.
From Tsai Yü we learn that in the Sung dynasty the
pipes were all of the same length and were fixed in a simple
frame, as is shown also in the illustrated Erh Ya. The
lower ends of the pipes were stopped, and they were tuned by
means of holes cut in the required positions in their sides.
The wooden case [Tu ] was added in the Yuan dynasty,
and was then black with gilt ornament. In the old Hsiao
the lowest note was on the left side, and the scale went
consecutively from left to right; in the Sung dynasty this
order was reversed [f. 16]. In the Ming dynasty the ancient
plan had been restored. [see Plates XII and XIII.]
The P'ai Hsiao is used only in the State services.
The Rev. F. W. Galpin has Pan pipes called Shao,
without a case. The instrument was perhaps got in the
south, as it is, at least, uncommon about Shanghai, or in the
north.
2. (2) YO (IO). A vertical bamboo flute open at
both ends. A little notch with bevelled edge to blow against
was cut at the upper end, and there were three [or possibly
six] finger holes near the lower end. Tsai Yü [f. 17] says
that with all the holes shut the instrument gave Kung [D],
or, blown harder, Chih [A]; with the lowest hole open,
Shang [E], or Yü [B]; with the two lower holes open,
Chiao [F sharp], or Ho [C sharp]; and with the middle hole
closed and the upper and lower holes open, Chung [G]. The
Yo tuned to Iluang Chung of the lower octave had the
following measurements:-length, 20 inches; diameter,
0.707 inch; internal diameter, 0.5 inch. The diameter of
the finger holes was 0.25 inch, and their centres were 3, 5,
and 7 inches respectively from the lower end of the pipe.
III.A.a

I.A.a
64
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Tsai Yü had seen a genuine specimen of the ancient Yo,
and another is recorded to have existed in A.D. 1119.
[see Plate III, Fig. 1.].
As
The Yo is now obsolete except as a wand used by the
Mimes in ritual dances; and this has been the case certainly
since the sixteenth century, if not for two thousand years
past. The form of pipe is preserved in the P'ai Hsiao.
now used the Yo is a pipe 22 inches long, open at both ends,
and with six roughly made holes. Wén Miao Yo Shu shows
a short pipe with two finger holes near the lower end and a
blow hole near the upper end, which is adorned with a
dragon's head carrying a large pendant [Fig. 1. a.]. This
transverse Yo is mentioned by Tsai Yü.
2. (3) FENG HUANG HSIAO (FOUNG HOUANG
SIAO) or TUNG HSIAO (TOUNG SIAO)
a
Plate III, Fig. 2. A bamboo pipe made in the same
way as the Yo, except that the top is closed by a knot of the
bamboo. In this knot a notch is cut joining that in the side.
There are six finger holes, the first five on the upper side and
the sixth underneath. There are also lower down the pipe
two holes side by side underneath, called in Lü Lü Chéng I
'holes for emitting sound'. They are used for attaching
loop to hang the instrument up with. The pipe should be cut
from the root of the bamboo with the knots [nine in number]
close together at the lower end, which swells into a sort of
bell and is tipped with bone. The length varies a good deal;
a long specimen from Hangchow is about 27 inches long, and
to inch in diameter. One at Shanghai measured 23
inches by inch. The pipe is stained dark brown or black
and varnished, and usually has an inscription of some kind
2出音孔. Finger holes are called in books Nung 孔, hsiüch 穴
or ch'iao in common speech, yen
;

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
65
engraved on it. It is perhaps never seen with black bands
like the Ti tzu.
It is commonly used at weddings, funerals, and other
religious ceremonies, and is said to be a favourite instrument
with the educated classes. A cheap variety is sold in the
streets of Shanghai. The partial covering of a hole to
produce certain notes, as directed in Wen Miao Yo Shu, is
pointed out in the Brussels Catalogue [714.-a Japanese
flute] as 'intéressant' and apparently rare; but it is a
device constantly required with most Chinese flutes.
In the Confucian ritual this instrument is called simply
Hsiao. It has no bell, and is coloured scarlet, and measures
22 inches in length. Wen Miao Yo Shu gives a special
notation for the Hsiao, but this is not now used. The
scale of the ritual variety ascertained by the Reverend
F. W. Galpin, is :-
III.A.a
I
12 1-3 I-4 1-5 236 1-6
Jetc.
The Hangchow specimen described above gives:-
3
0
I
[2
1-3 1-4 1-5 1-6 6
Of the origin of flutes with the above arrangement of
finger holes little seems to be known; and the relation of the
Hsiao to the ancient Ti¹ is not very clear. Van Aalst
[p. 70] says that the Hsiao was invented in the Han dynasty,
and introduced into state ritual in the Yüan dynasty, as will
be seen also in Additional Note F. Bamboo. c. Tsai Yü
The ancient Ti was certainly a vertical flute. The question is whether
it was the Feng Huang Hsiao or, as Tsai Yü maintains, a whistle.
6

II.A.a
66
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
[f. 24] writes: The Annals of the Chin and Sung dynasties
both have the rules and measurements of the Chang Ti
..
this
is the thing now called Tan Hsiao
Lu Li Chêng I, Vol. III, f. 11 has 'The Hsiao is
what was anciently called Chang Ti.' Wen Miao Yo Shu
has Chu Tzu [twelfth century] says: what is now called
Hsiao Kuan is the ancient Ti; the Yan-Hsiao is the ancient
Hsiao [Pan pipes], the Yün Hsiao is the P'ai Hsiao.' and
'from the Tang dynasty the vertical flute was called
Chang Hsiao, the transverse, Ti.'-Vol. V, ff. 18, 22. The
modern school book Tzu kê t'u shuo says that the Hsiao
is the ancient vertical Ti, and this is clearly the common
opinion.
a
Tsai Yü however seems to be right in saying that the
Hsiao superseded [as playable instrument] the Yo, which it
very nearly resembles, rather than the Ti. He says too that
the Yo was anciently called Hsiao
[ff.
17, 24], though
this perhaps does not affect the question. The invention of
the Hsiao was perhaps the first step in the evolution of the
Ti [whistle] from the Yo. It follows that either Tsai Yü
is wrong in saying the ancient [i.e. c. B.C. 1000] Ti was
a whistle, or that the tradition of the Hsiao by Yeh Chung
in the Han dynasty is wrong.?
The Hsiao Kuan is described in Additional Note F. Bamboo. p, and
was certainly not the Fêng Huang Hsiao; but then it was identical with
the Ch'ang Ti, and the Ch'ang Ti was what Tsai Yü called Tan Hsiao, and
Tan Hsiao was at least probably what we now call Fêng Huang Hsiao. The
extreme confusion of names and vagueness of description make the question
too intricate.
The origin of the arrangement of the finger holes of the Hsiao is in no
degree made plainer by the determination of the relation of the Hsiao to the
ancient Yo or Ti. Possibly what happened in the Han dynasty was the
invention of a new arrangement of finger holes on a flute whose principle
was already ancient.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
67
The Erh Ya throws very little light on the question,
unless it is by the omission of the name Ti. It gives Hsiao
[Pan pipes], Kuan, and Yo. When the name
revived, it may have been applied to the wrong instrument.
Ti was
The Sinku-Hachi-the corresponding flute in Japan-
has the top open like the Yo, and part of the edge bevelled,
but has no notch. There are four holes in front and one
behind. Brussels Catalogue, 714.
Whistles
2. (4) KO LING (KO LING)
carried by pigeons. The correct name is used at Hangchow.
At Peking they are called Shao-tzu F, whistles, or Hu-Lu
gourds. They are made either of a small hollow gourd,
with the top replaced by a whistle, or of short bamboo pipes
with similar whistles at the top, or, generally, of various
combinations of these two methods. Horn is sometimes used
instead of a gourd. At Peking, the place most noted for
their manufacture and use, there must be thirty or forty
different varieties, and the number of whistles on a single
specimen varies from one to twenty-five. A simple variety
differing very slightly from the Pekingese patterns is made at
Hangchow. A slip of bone or bamboo fixed to the under side
is used to attach the whistle. This slip of bone is put between
the two middle feathers of the pigeon's tail and secured below
with a piece of wire; and the two feathers are tied together
so that the thing cannot slip out behind. The diameter of
a large gourd is perhaps 4 inches, of a small one 1 inch.
The use of these whistles is said to date at least from the
Sung dynasty. A reference to the Ko Ling is quoted from
Wang Yen-Hung of the Ming dynasty, in the Kuang Shih
Lei Fu, a sixteenth century revision of the Sung dynasty
Shih Lei Fu, last published in 1700 or 1765. Ma Tuan Lin
does not seem to have known the Ko Ling-see Additional
Note F. [see Plate XII.]
III.A.a

III.A.a
68
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
A
2. (5) TI KO TZU (TI KO TZEU)
whistling top. As made at Peking the body is a ring of
bamboo with wooden top and bottom: the sides are convex
with projecting rim at either edge, and are bound with two
bands of silk. There are two openings with bevelled edge to
form a whistle, on opposite sides of the body, and the inside
is divided into two unequal compartments so that two
different notes are produced. The body is pierced by a
bamboo pin 6.5 inches long, the lower end, which is pointed,
projecting 1.25 inch. The height of the body is nearly
1 inch, the diameter about 1.5 inch. The top is spun on the
ground and is steadied, while the string is pulled, by a piece
of bamboo with a hole at one end through which the string
passes. The size varies. The wild shriek of this top as it
starts is a well known sound at the temple fairs in Peking,
where there are usually two or three stalls devoted to the sale
of this and the double-headed top described below.
A roughly made top of the same kind is found in
Shantung and elsewhere. At Shanghai it is called Ti Weng
Ti Ko Tzu, Pigeons on the ground,' is the
Hangchow name, and the spinning of such tops is said to
have been a very favourite amusement for the pleasure
parties about the West Lake there before the T'ai Ping
rebellion.
2. (6) K'UNG CHENG (K'OUNG TCHENG)
A double whistling top consisting of two drums like
that of the single top, one on each end of a short wooden
stick. The top is spun in the air, balanced on a string which
is passed twice round its waist. Each end of the string is
tied to a stick, and a peculiar jerking of these sticks makes
the top spin. When a great speed is attained the turn of the
string is slipped off, and the performer then makes his top

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
69
run up and down on the string, flings it thirty feet or more III.A.a
into the air and catches it again on the string behind his
back, and so on.
There are many different sizes, of which the larger
weighing some pounds and made of wood coloured black, are
perhaps peculiar to Peking. The measurements of a small
bamboo specimen from Peking are:-Total length, 4 inches:
thickness of each drum, inch; diameter, 3 inches; diameter
of the boxwood axle, at either end, 1 inch; in the middle,
inch. Each drum has two openings giving different notes
and is divided inside into two compartments; the opening for
the lower note measures by 7 inch, and for the higher
note by inch; and the compartment for the latter is
about one fourteenth part of the whole interior space. There
are sometimes four whistles in each drum. The drums are
bound with silk in grooves near the edges. The sticks are
willow sticks about 21 inches long, and the string is 78 inches
long.
At Peking, when the days are cold early and late, but hot
at noon, in the Spring or Autumn, it is called 'Ka Ka
weather from a distant likeness to the shape of this top
[large at the two ends and small in the middle], which
appears to be the typical instance of the shape known as
Ka Ka.
A rough instrument similar to the above is made at
Shanghai, where it is known as Ti Wang Niu, T'ien Weng
天嚟,Chéé Ling 扯鈴, or Fei Ling 飛鉿. The total
length of an average specimen is 5 inches; thickness of each
drum, 2 inches; diameter, 2 inches. Length of the sticks
[bamboo], 10 inches; of the string, 55 inches. The tenth
month and, more especially, the New Year seem to be popular
times for spinning Tops at Shanghai, and certain shops are
full of them at those seasons, making them of different sizes

III.A.a
70
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
and proportions, but never very large, or with the drums so
flat as those made in Peking. A slightly different shape is
made in Shantung. [see Plate XII.]
2. (7) A toy sold at Shanghai about New Year's time,
formed of a round piece of wood 2 inches in diameter.
There are four notches in the edge into which are glued
empty nutshells of the Pai Kuo (Salisburia adiantifolia) with
a slit cut across each to make a whistle. There are two small
holes in the wooden disc through which a long string is
put, the two ends being afterwards tied together. One end
of the string loop thus made is held in either hand, and it is
alternately pulled and let go in such a way as to make it
twist and untwist itself, spinning the disc with its nutshell
whistles rapidly backwards and forwards as it does so.
3. (1) T'AI PING HSIAO (T'AI P'ING SIAO)
A bamboo pipe 16 inches long and inch in
diameter, with a whistle head formed by nearly closing the top
with a wooden plug and cutting a hole in the pipe, & inch
from the top, and usually at the back. There are six finger
holes 1 inch apart; 2 inches above the sixth is a hole
covered with a thin membrane taken from the inside of a reed:
underneath and 18 inch below the lowest finger hole are two
holes side by side through which an ornamental tassel or a
string to hang the thing up by may be tied ; and below these
again, but on the upper side, are two more holes. These latter,
if the holes underneath are covered, will give two semitones
below the ordinary compass, but they are not intended to be so
used. A skilful player could probably get two complete
octaves with the six finger holes. The fifth and octave of the
lower notes are easily produced by leaving the sixth hole open:
the octave of each note can also be got by blowing harder, and
the lowest holes will give the twelfth also. The scale begins
approximately on B flat. The membrane is sometimes

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
71
protected from the rain by a flap of leather tied to the pipe.
The better instruments sold in shops are stained dark brown
and varnished. The commoner form at Shanghai is a cheap
kind sold in the streets, made of green bamboo and often
prettily ornamented with patterns scratched on the surface of
the pipe. The smaller ones have generally the finger-holes
and the membrane-covered hole only; a large specimen with
the extra holes is about 14 inches long.
All the holes of this whistle correspond very nearly with
those of the Ti tzu. [III. A. b. 2.] It is not, as a rule, used
in theatres or at religious ceremonies; a large pair, bound
with silk like the Ti tzu, may however be seen in funeral
processions at Shanghai. The instrument is well known at
Hangehow and at Peking. In Shantung it is called Hsiao
Ti Plate III., Fig. 3.]
'
The principle of the T'ai Ping Hsiao is the same as that
of the ancient Ti.[Plate III., Fig. 4.], as described by
Tsai Yü [f. 24.]. He supports his idea that the Ti was a
whistle thus: An ancient poem on the Ti speaks of it as
the Ch'u, a name which it seems to have got from being a
favourite instrument with the people of Ch'u in what is now
Hunan. And a whistle called Ch'u, with two finger holes,
existed in the sixteenth century. The ancient Ti had three or,
less probably, six finger holes. Secondly, he found the Ti
described on good authority as identical with the Yo [2. (2)
above] in all other respects, but longer. This, he argues, can
only mean that, since the Ti and Yo were of the same pitch,
they would need the same length of open pipe and consequently
the wooden plug in the whistle head of the Ti would need
a little extra length of pipe, or rather that the extra length of
the Ti can only have been to accommodate such a plug. It is
perhaps not unfair to add that a whistle is to this day called
Hsiao Ti. This Hsiao Ti answers more nearly than any other
III.A.a

II.A.a
72
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
existing instrument to the description of the Hsiao Kuan of the
thirteenth century [Additional Note F.], and the persistent
application of the name Hsiao to this whistle supports the idea
of the possible identity of the two. If, as thus seems possible,
the Hsiao Kuan was a whistle, Tsai Yü may probably claim
Chu Tzu as a supporter of his view that the ancient Ti was a
whistle [see above under Feng Huang Hsiao].
A Ti made from Tsai Yü's description gave the following
scale. [The letters under the notes indicate the holes to be opened.
a means the lowest hole, b the second hole and c the third;
a, b, or c means that the hole in question is only partially open.]
a ab abc
a a ab ab ac abc
a
ab
b
etc.
ab
a a abc
ab
3. (2) HUA MEI CHIAO TZU (HOUA MEI
KIAO TZEU)
A whistle used to imitate the
singing of birds. It is a pipe of bamboo 1.5 inch long and
0.875 inch in diameter, open at both ends.
A square hole is
cut in the side near one end, and the part immediately above
this hole is left projecting 0.25 inch beyond the top of the
pipe. This projecting part is split in its thickness from the
top down to the hole, and the outer half is raised, and kept in
position by two wedge shaped slips of bamboo.
A square
mouth-piece is thus formed which directs the breath against
the sharp edge of the hole. The performer gets different notes
by opening and closing in various degrees the upper end of
the pipe with his chin and the lower end with his hand. The
compass is considerably more than an octave. The measure-
ments vary a good deal, Sellers of cheap whistles and flutes,

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
73
in the streets of Shanghai usually have a string of these
whistles also. In Shantung they are called Hua Mei Shao êrh.
Hua Mei is the name of a thrush Leucodiopteron Sinense
(Giles s.v.). [see Plate VIII.]
3. (3) SHAO ERH (CHAO EUL)
made of dark grey clay and sold in Peking.
. Toy whistles
They are made
of several different shapes. One is in the shape of a bird, with
red and white markings on the back. It is blown through the
head, the whistle being in the throat. On each side of the
body is a finger hole, so that three notes can be produced.
The length is 2.875 inches. Another specimen, shaped like a
fish and better modelled than the bird, is about 2.5 inches long,
and has no finger-hole. The notes are very shrill [Brussels
Catalogue, 704, 705, 706.] Similar whistles, [called sometimes
Ku Kuai] rather more roughly made and varying much more
in size and note than those sold in the streets of Peking, may
be had at the annual fair in T'ai An.
These whistles seem to be very much like those obtained
in Mexico and Central America; and a somewhat similar thing
is made in Spain. At Cairo there are plaster whistles of about
the same size and make [Engel pp. 66, 143, 224].
A very
at Shanghai.
small tin whistle in the shape of a cock can be got
3. (4) Toy whistles sold at the fair in T'ai An.
a. Mien Hua Ch'e Tzu EF. A bamboo pipe
about 5 inches long with the whistle cut at the lower end.
The wind passing through the pipe turns a tiny spinning
wheel. At Peking a similar whistle is made with four or
five wheels of gaily coloured crinkled paper, just touching
each other so that when the first is turned it moves the rest.
b. A very small whistle forming the tail of a jointed
bamboo dragon.
III.A.a

III.A.b
74
the
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
c. A piece of bamboo 3 or 4 inches long with a whistle at
upper end and the lower end nearly or quite closed.
d. Shui Chiang 7. A small bamboo whistle
2.5 inches long inserted into the side of a larger bamboo 5 or
6 inches long. The latter is closed at the bottom with a knot
and filled with water. The size varies. It is used to imitate
the singing of birds.
4. CH UI CHI ERH (TCH'OUEI KI EUL)
A toy made at Hangchow. It is a hollow brass
disc, inch in diameter and about inch thick, concave below
and convex above with a handle at one side inch long. The
blow hole, inch large, is in the middle of the upper side, and
there is a finger-hole of the same size in the middle of the lower
side. The notes produced are very shrill. Street boys make
a whistle on the same sort of principle with two copper cash.
At Peking a little whistle is made of a strip of tin of
which one end is wrapped over with a second piece of tin so as
to form a passage for the air, while the other end is curved
over so that its edge meets the current of air.
b. Transversely blown.
A bamboo flute used only
1. CH 1H (TCH'EU)
in the State services. The length is 17.75 inches, the external
diameter, 1.1875 inch. The blow hole is 5.6875 inches from
the right hand end, and the pipe is stopped close above it.
The other end has a stopper with a small hole in the centre.
There are six finger holes arranged like those of the Feng
Huang Hsiao, the first five on the side furthest from the
performer, the sixth on the near side. The five holes are
separated by spaces of about 1.25 inch, the lowest being 3.375
inches from the end. The sixth hole is equally distant from
or left hand. The Ch'ih is made in pairs-right and left handed.
Compare Additional Note E.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
75
either end. The scale, as ascertained by the Reverend HI.A.b
F. W. Galpin, is :-[vide Plate III, Fig. 5.]
a
ac ad acd a-e a-f a-g h open
The use of a flute of this nature under the name of
Ch'ih seems to date at least from the Sung dynasty.
The Sung illustrations to the Erh Ya show a flute with
three holes near one end and one on the opposite side-
near the other end [Plate III, Fig. 7.], thus perhaps
preserving a likeness of the three-holed Hêng Chui..
Lu Lu Chéng I gives the modern instrument.
In the Ming
dynasty the small hole in the covered end was used as a
finger-hole and there were only four holes in front, as may be
seen in the picture in Wén Miao Yo Shu and is described by
Tsai Yu in a section headed The modern Ch'ih is no Ch'ih."
Ch'üeh Li Tsuan Yao shows this four-holed instrument, and in
Wen Miao Ssu Tien K'ao we read: The Shih Tien K'ao-
釋與者 says: P'ao Hsi made the Chih of bamboo. The
notes are mournful and in tune with the Hsüan. It is 14
inches long, with the ends open, and has variously ten, nine,.
eight, seven, or six holes. Nowadays there is one hole at the-
back, four in front, and one in the stopper.'
Tsai Yu had examined a genuine specimen of the ancient
Ch'ih, and his account of it is here given as the instrument
appears to be of special interest.
"While the contents of the illustrated books up to the Tang dynasty
all have some things correct and some mistakes, yet those that follow
true principles are still many; but from the Sung onwards the errors are-
increased greatly. For example, of the five sorts of Bamboo Sound"
The
Chinese distinguish eight qualities of sound, produced
respectively by instruments of eight different materials. [Additional
Note F.]

III.A.b
76
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
instruments not one is correct. As a rule the ancient instruments were
delicately made, small and short; the modern are coarse, large and long.
In fact, from the disuse of the millet foot and the mistaken use of the
contemporary foot, the T'ai Chiang of recent times has made the
transverse Tact for the Ti, the Single Hsiao for the Yo, and
what is called the P'ai Hsiao has wrongly added a wooden case
disregarding the old fashion of the Han and T'ang, and what they call
Ch'il and Yo are faulty, coarse, vulgar, and ridiculous. Once at the
house of an antiquary I saw an ancient instrument, the copper 3 coloured
as if it were varnished, rather like a poem jar [] hollow in the
middle, its two ends were covered; in the centre of neither of the covers
was there any hole. In front, on either side left and right were three
holes, in all six holes; the diameter of the holes was one fên and a half.
Only in the middle one hole on top opened upwards, with a diameter of
perhaps three fên. On the back were engraved three characters :-all
of the ancient Chuan style exceedingly unusual, namely, Huang Chung
Chih."
:
"The size of the circumference and diameter of the two ends was
identical with the cash of Kai Yüan currency: laying cash side by side,
fourteen of them corresponded with the length of the Chih. What was
called the Great Ch'il was one foot and four inches long. Musicians
credibly record that the diameter of the Kai Yüan cash was one inch of
the ancient millet foot. Measured with a thin slip of bamboo the
diameter of the hollow was seven fên; the thickness of the pipe, one fên
and a half. Blowing it produced a sobbing sound, its notes were
harmonious and refined; a veritable relic of the Three Dynasties, rare and
invaluable. The Erh Ya [B.C. 400] says: The large Ch'ih is called
Yin Note-The Chik is made of bamboo; its length, 1 foot 4 inches;
circumference, 3 inches; one hole opens upwards inch [sic] 3 fên, called
Chiao; it is blown transversely the small variety 1 foot 2 inches.'
The millet foot' is equivalent to the ancient Hsia dynasty foot,
which Tsai Yü generally uses. The length of the pipe giving the note
Huang Chung was taken as one foot, and it was found to be equal to one
hundred millet corns laid side by side. Thus the foot was divided into
ten inches, and each inch into ten parts called fên. The inch is the same
as the English inch.
Tai Chang seems to have been the title of some high
officer in the Board of Rites, or of the Board itself.
On f. 17 this same Ch'ih is said to have been made of copper
[or bronze].

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
77
......The Kuang Ya says: "Eight holes......a quotation from Sun Yen
says: The Ch'ih wails, the sound is like an infant weeping.' Chéng Ssu
Nung's edition of the Chou Li says: Ch'ih seven holes.........'
". The works of Chu Hsi have: "Chih: 1 foot inches
long, 3 inches round, seven holes, one hole facing upwards 3 fen in
diameter, altogether eight holes; blown transversely." The instrument
seen at the present day had only seven holes including the blow hole.
The fact that former scholars have made eight holes is due to their
mistaken following of the Kuang Ya. Only Chêng Ssu Nung is correct
in making seven holes [ff. 24, 25]."
In a separate paragraph Tsai Yu gives the positions of
the seven holes. They were so arranged that their centres
divided the whole length of the pipe into six, and into four,
equal parts. That is to say the blow hole was in the middle,
and the three finger holes on either side were distant 2, 3,
and 4 inches respectively from the centre of the blow hole
[see Plate III, Fig. 6.]. He says too that it was impossible
to assign definitely a given note to a given hole.
A pipe of the above dimensions, but with both ends open,
gives a chromatic scale from E to A sharp. The Reverend
F. W. Galpin writes:-With one end open I get the following
rough scale:-
III.A.b
I
12 123
-0-
4
45 456 1-6
With both ends stopped it will not give a proper scale at
all, though notes ranging from
to
or even higher with harmonics, can be produced. Mr. Galpin
writes again:-If the bore were larger it might be made
Numbers placed below or above a musical note indicate the hole or
holes to be opened to produce the note. Corresponding numbers will be
found in the illustrations.

111.A.b
78
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
to play in the same way as the Hsüan on the principle of
the musical Resonator.
No authority has been found for opening either one end
or both the ends; and it is to be noticed that the difficulty of
producing a scale did not make Tsai Yü doubt the genuine-
ness of his specimen.
The Chinese connect the Hsüan [III. A. a. 1.] and Chih
together, and in the Book of Odes it is written: 'The elder
brother blows the Isüan, the younger blows the Chih. In
the modern reproductions of the two instruments the similarity
of their tone is quite noticeable, especially in the lower notes.
2. (1) TI (77) Plate III, Fig. 8. A pipe of
bamboo with generally not more than one knot, and tipped
with bone. There is a variety with three or four knots, and the
pipe stained and varnished like that of the Isiao. The total
length is 26.25 inches, the diameter not quite 1 inch. The pipe
is stopped just above the blow hole, which is 10 inches from
the left hand end. The part above this is often a separate piece
of bamboo. The other eleven holes are the same in arrange-
ment and use as those of the T'ai P'ing Hsiao [III A. a. 3.
(1).] Mr. Galpin informs me that the device of covering a
hole with membrane was not characteristic of the English
Recorder as is sometimes stated; but that in the early years
of the last century a transverse flute, called the Voice Flute,
was produced in London with a membrane exactly like that
of the Ti. In China the membrane has been used for at
least six centuries [v. Additional Note F.] It is now found
as a rule on the Ti and T'ai Ping Hsiao, and occasionally on
the single reed Kuan tzu [III. B. c. 1.]
2伯氏吹塤仲氏吹
"It is worth noting that the Ti has no back hole as on the Hsiao, but
six instead of five in front."-F. W. Galpin.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
79
The pipe is lacquered black or, more commonly, left the ill.A.b.
natural colour of the bamboo and bound with silk at frequent
intervals the silk bands being afterwards smeared over with
some black material. Ti tzu is the common name at Peking
and Shanghai; at Hangchow it is always Ti érh.
The Ti tzu is very commonly used by amateurs, by the
popular bands called Ku ch'ui puor Chui Shou
F, at weddings and funerals, at the State services, by
blind fortune-tellers [Brussels Cat. 689], by Taoist priests
and a certain sect of Buddhists, and to accompany the K'un
Chiang music in the theatre. Being the commonest
instrument of fixed pitch it is used in the theatre as the
standard for the strings and voice, the different keys
being named with reference to the position on the Ti tzu of
the note Che [the outer string of the Hu Ch'in] in each.
The part for the Ti in Wén Miao Yo Shu is written in
the same notation as that used for the Hsiao. The scale of
the modern ritual Ti is:-
-0-
etc.
For further particulars about the scale of the Ti and Hsiao,
see Additional Notes B and C.
The Ti used at the State services has the ends ornamented
with the head and tail of a dragon carved in wood, and,
like all the wind instruments for ritual use except the
Sheng, is coloured scarlet. [see Plate XII.] The length,
excluding the head and tail, is 23 inches. Tsai Yü
mentions the gilded dragon's head [f. 24], and condemns the
red colouring as intensely vulgar, saying that bamboo
Lung Tou Ti . It is occasionally used at funerals also,
but the pipe is then uncoloured, and has the ordinary black bands.

III.A.b
80
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
instruments should be made of naturally black bamboo, and
wooden instruments covered with black lacquer as the Chin
and She still are. Flutes, he says, in the Yüan dynasty
were coloured green like the wu t'ung leaf, with red bands
[f. 26]. Wen Miao Yo Shu [V. f. 25] shows the Ti without
the head or tail, and without the membrane hole or the two
lower holes; and the string of both Ti and Hsiao passes
through very small holes on opposite sides of the pipe instead
of large holes close together underneath. Lü Lü Chéng I
omits the membrane hole, but has the rest as in the modern
Ti tzu. A specimen of the usual proportions, but made of
brass and engraved with characters and with a very delicate
"hawthorn" pattern, has been seen at Shanghai. Iron
flutes are made at Hangchow. A cheap [bamboo] variety
is sold in the streets of Shanghai, Peking, and other
places.
We gather from Tsai Yü that the Ti was derived from
the Chiang people, whose Ti had three holes according to
the Shuo Wen, and was the same as the sixteenth century
Hưng Chui th "From the Han dynasty onwards only
popular bands used it, and it did not get into classical
music....... Anciently there was no transverse Ti, and in
fact it is a foreign instrument" [f. 22]. Lu Lu Chéng I
says that it came from the North, and was used by cavalry,
and again [III. f. 28] quotes from a book of the Sung
dynasty: "The transverse Ti¹ is the small Ch'ih; if it has
a mouth-piece it is called I Tsui Ti
"Wen Miao
Yo Shu also, in a long list of Ti, mentions one with a
mouth-piece.
The popular transverse Ti [see under 2. (2)] is still called Heng Ti
in Shantung. This name, spelt Hwang-teih, is applied to the horns
Hao Tung and La Pa in some European books. see Brussels Catalogue,
139, 140.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
81
2. (2) PANG TZU TI (PANG TZEU TI).
[Plate III, Fig. 9]. A smaller variety of Ti, named from
the fact that it is played with the Pang tzu [I. A. 6. (1)].
The total length is 17.5 inches, the diameter about 0.625
inch, and the centre of the blow hole is 4.5 inches from the
end. The lowest note is in unison with the third note of the
larger Ti. The connexion of this instrument with the
Pang teu suggests that it belongs properly to the North or
North-west of China, but the specimen measured was made
at Shanghai. The properly made flutes used in the North,
where the bamboo does not grow well, are imported; the
smaller popular instruments are often made locally of
imported bamboo. One small shop in Shanghai stated that
they exported about fifty flutes daily.
The larger and smaller Ti are sometimes distinguished
as male and female, like the "male and female voice" of the
clock of Trinity College at Cambridge.
A still smaller popular Ti, about 12 inches long, is sold
in Peking and elsewhere in the North. It has generally
blow hole, six finger holes, membrane hole and two holes
below for the string.
III.A.b
The ancient flutes are clearly distinguished by Tsai Yü
[f. 27] as follows:-
"As to the four instruments Kuan, Hsiao, Yo, Ti, they are much
alike; only a pipe without holes, blown separately is a Kuan; (several
pipes) blown joined together, without holes, form a Hsiav; a pipe
(with holes) blown like a Hsiao is a Yo; blown like a Ch'u, it is a Ti.
These four instruments are all about the same in length and thickness.
The Ch'ih alone is not the same in size, and the manner of blowing it is
different."
With regard to the Kuan, Tsai Yü probably refers only
to the most ancient times. The Erh Ya distinguishes three
7

III.B.a
82
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
sizes of Kuan; and the name occurs also in Mencius:-
"Now your Majesty is having music here
The
people hear the noise of your bells and drums, and the notes
of
your fifes [Kuan] and pipes [Yo], and they all with aching
heads knit their brows and say to one another That's how
our king likes his music!'" A proper musical instrument,
rather than a set of separate pitch-pipes, is evidently
intended in both places. The Sung illustrations to the
Erh Ya show a double pipe very much like the modern
Kuan tzu [III. B. a. 1. (1)]. It is possible that Kuan, in the
Erh Ya and Mencius, stands for Ti, which the Erh Ya
otherwise omits; and the Tzu kê t'u shuo says that the
Ya Ti was anciently called Kuan. A note to Kuan'
in the Chou Li says: Like the Ti but smaller, two are
joined together and so blown." See Additional Note F.
6
Flutes now in use seem all to have six finger holes,
either, as in the Ti or T'ai Ping Hsiao, all on one side
with a seventh hole covered with membrane, or five on
one side and the sixth on the opposite side as in the Hsiao
and Chih.
Section B. Reeds.
a.-Double Reeds.
or two
1. (1) KUAN (KOUAN), Plate IV., Figs. 1, 2.
A cylindrical pipe of redwood, tipped with bone and fitted
with a reed about 3 inches long. There are seven oval
finger holes on the upper side and either one
underneath. The length is-with nine holes, 8.25 inches ;-
with eight holes, 7.25 inches; and the diameters of the two
varieties, 0.75 inch and 0.5 inch respectively. The reed is
kept in shape by a band of brass wire. The Kuan tzu [as it
is generally called] is used-but not very commonly-at

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
83
weddings and funerals at Shanghai and elsewhere. The II.B.a
name means a pipe or pipes, and was anciently applied
to a set of separate pipes without reeds, which gave the
notes of the chromatic scale and were used as a standard of
pitch.
The scales, taken from the Brussels Catalogue [695,
696], are:-
ii
I
2 3 4
5 6
7 8
G
0
0
2.
I
2 3 45 6 7 S 9
i is taken from an instrument like the smaller one
above; ii is the scale of a pipe nearly 11 inches long. The
lowest note of the larger instrument described above is
At Hangchow the pipes are sometimes made of bamboo
either naturally speckled or ornamented with a hot iron.
A larger specimen examined was 7 inches long and inch
in diameter; a smaller one, 73 inches long and inch in
diameter.
All the instruments seemed to be rather old.
Except in the number of finger holes, eight instead of nine,
they corresponded exactly with the description of the Pieh Li
in K'ang Hsi.
Tsai Yü, in Ling hsing hsiao wu p'u f. 6, gives the
larger variety as Tan Kuan or single pipe [elsewhere
as T'ou Kuan ], and two of the smaller, joined together,
as Shuang Kuan or double pipe; and both to be used

III.B.a
84
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
in the lesser ritual of Ling Hsing. The smaller pipes have
not bone tips, but otherwise both instruments seem to be
identical with the modern Kuan tzu, and they are described
as then in popular use. Lu Lu Chéng I includes the
Tou Kuan alone of popular instruments, so that it was
probably used in some State service then also. The two
varieties are distinguished as Ta Kuan and Hsiao Kuan
, and the instrument is said to have come from the
Chiang, a tribe bordering on the West of China.
1. (2) PI LI (PI LI)
The Pekingese sound
for the first syllable is Pieh. K'ang Hsi [s.v. quotes the
following account: "The pipe made of bamboo, the head
[reed'] of reed,-the same kind of thing as the Hu Chia,
but with nine finger holes []. The note is Chiao f,
and the sound mournful [pei ]. It is also called Pei Li,
and Chia Kuan 笳管 Li is also written Li ."
Tsai Yü [f. 12] says that the Tou Kuan [see above] is the
same kind of instrument as the Hu Chia or Pieh Li. The
Brussels Catalogue has "695. Kouan, Kwan-tze ou Pi-li."
The instrument [or certainly the name] is now, to say the
least, far from common in some parts of China; but from
the above descriptions it was evidently very much like the
Kuan ten, except that the pipe was made of bamboo. An
old scholar at Hangchow used to recall hearing the Pi Li
used in the Examination Hall [] there, for the ceremony
vulgarly called Chui Kuei W, which does not now take
place. He vaguely recalled it as "bamboo above and metal
below." One long note was sounded on it at dusk, for the
real purpose, he said, of inducing the Yin Chi, and
was at once followed by the drums and gong of the night
watch. See also under Kuan tzu [above] and Additional
Note F.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
It should be added that Giles [s.v.
85
translates Pi Li III.B.a
"the Tartar horn," and K'ang Hsi, under the same word,
speaks repeatedly of a horn [f].
1. (3) HU CHIA (HOU KIA)
[s.v.] has: "The section of the Shih Chi
Kang Hsi
[c. B.C. 90]
on Music says the Hu Chia is like the Pieh Li, but without
holes. In later ages it was used in the train of the Imperial
carriage. The Chia made by Po Yang when he fled to
Hsi Jung was a rush leaf rolled up and blown
29
It is said that at the same temple where the Ku kuai
[III. B. b. 1.] is sold, wooden pipes without finger holes and
with a reed made of a leaf rolled up are also sold to the
pilgrims. Mr. Galpin writes: "This would be a double reed.
Tubes of green willow bark slipped off the stem are used for
double reeds in the same way in England."
An instrument called Chia is said to be still made at
Peking in the Summer, and was described by a native as a
reed or rush coiled up into a pipe.
At the festival of Tuan Wu, when onions are specially
eaten, it is said that a similar thing is made by children at
Shanghai of the onion leaves. The children in Shantung
do this at any time when onions or leeks are available.
The illustration [Plate IV, Fig. 3.] is from Tzu kê t'u
shuo, and though it does not agree with the above description,
probably represents some real instrument. Mr. Galpin
writes of this that it "reproduces in the Far East the Hornpipe
of the Welsh, the Cromorne or Krumhorn of the European
nations. It apparently consists of a cylindrical tube pierced
with three holes terminated at the lower end with a natural
horn and having at the upper end a double reed [similar to
that used in the Kuan tzu] covered with a cap. The
instrument is blown through a small orifice in the top of the
cap. I can hardly believe that this is not a picture of a

III.B.a
86
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
medieval European instrument which had found its way out
to China. A fine Stradivarius violin was discovered in the
Celestial Empire, and in the Berlin Ethnographical Museum
there is a specimen of a Rackett or Sausage Bassoon grouped
with the Chinese instruments, but made in Europe in the
sixteenth or early seventeenth century. The principle of the
'covered' reed is found in India, but only, I believe, with
the single reed. The European Krumhorn had a double
reed."
2. HUA CHIAO (HOUA KIO) . An instru-
ment of this name seems, if it is not still in use, to have only
lately become obsolete; but it is hard to make out quite what
it was.
At Hangchow it is said to have been the same as the
Pi Li. Dennys calls it 'a military brass instrument,' giving
an alternative name, Wu Tung Chiao, which
suggests wood. Tsai Yü [Vol. VI. f. 19.] arguing that
certain ancient music cannot have been purely instrumental,
says that words were sung even to the three note scale of
the Hua Chiao, an instrument which would not produce a
complete scale. The picture book Tui hsiang tsa tzu has a
drawing of the Hua Chiao [Plate III. Fig. 4.] on which
Mr. Galpin writes: "The illustration is intensely interesting.
It shows a covered reed applied to the resonator form of
instrument we find in the Hsuan. The neck-like part is the
blowing tube; inside is the double reed [apparently the
artist has tried to show it] at the lower end of the globular
resonator are three large finger holes. I have made a rough
model of this instrument, of course with no definite scale to
guide me. The instrument gave the following series of notes
with a Kuan tzu reed-all holes closed-nothing; one hole
2
Wu Tung is the name of a tree.
Chinese scholars seem to be very uncertain what
this phrase, which is well known, really means.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
87
open-D; two holes open-E; three holes open-F natural.
I do not know of any instance of the reed [either double or
single] applied to a globular resonator." It will be noted
that the somewhat vague recollection at Hangchow of the
likeness of the Hua Chiao to the Pi Li, which certainly had
a double reed, and Tsai Yü with his reliable evidence as to
the scale of the Hua Chiao, both tend to confirm Mr. Galpin's
very interesting interpretation of this at first sight unpromising
illustration.
3. (1) SO NA (SOUO NA) . A conical pipe
of red wood fitted with a brass mouth-piece to which a loose
disc is attached by a chain, and with a moveable brass and
copper bell.
A small straw reed bound round the middle
with copper wire is put on to the mouth-piece. There are
seven finger holes on the upper side and one underneath.
The total length is 17.75 inches; the length of the mouth-
piece, 2.5 inches; of the pipe, 10 inches. The external
diameter of the pipe is 0.5 to 1 inch; of the bell, 5.375
inches. The scale is :-
III.B.a
It is a common instrument almost invariably used at
funerals at Peking, Shanghai, and many other places. At
Peking the So Na is regularly made of two sizes, the larger
being about 19 inches long; and an old and ornamented
specimen seen there was about 23 inches long. At T'ai An,
in Shantung, specimens made wholly of brass and copper may
be obtained. The Shantung name is Wa Wa érh.
The similarity of sound between So Na and Zourna, the
name of a Persian oboe, is pointed out by M. Mahillon
[Brussels Cat. 697], and the description of the Zourna

III.B.b
88
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
[Engel p. 167] would do quite as well for the So Na except
that the former has not the brass bell.
3. (2) CHI NA (KINA). This is a smaller
variety of the So Na. At Peking and perhaps in the South',
but not about Shanghai, it is called K'ai Ti
The total
length is 11.25 inches; the bell is 2.5 inches long and
3 inches across the mouth. A specimen at South Kensington
[Engel p. 184] has nine finger holes instead of eight which
is the usual number at Shanghai.
A specimen from Hainan [Plate IV., Fig. 5.] is 10.5
inches long; the mouth-piece, made of horn, about 2 inches
long and with the disc fixed. The pipe and moveable bell
are both of some hard wood with ornamental grain. The bell
is made in three pieces, and is 2 inches long and 2.75 inches
in diameter. The interior diameter of the pipe varies from
0.0625 to 0.75 inch. There are eight finger holes apparently
bored with a hot iron. The local name for the instrument is
Tit笛子.
The names So Na, a meaningless transliteration, and Ti,
borrowed from the flute, both suggest a foreign origin for
these instruments.
b. Free Reeds.
1. KU KUAI (KOU KOUAI)
A toy which
is sold or given every Spring to pilgrims to the Mao Shan
, a hill south-east of Nanking. It consists of a drum of
bamboo about 1.125 inch high and 1.75 inch in diameter.
Both ends are covered with pieces of bamboo and there is a
partition in the middle. In the centre of each end a small
free reed tongue is cut.
Two little bamboo pipes are put
Another southern name is perhaps Hsiang Ti, which appears
as Heang-teih in some European works.-see, e.g. Brussels Catalogue 119.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
89
into the side as mouth-pieces and the reeds can be sounded
either by suction or by blowing. Two different notes are
produced. [see Plate VIII.]
A similar thing [called Shéng tzü ] is sold to
pilgrims at T'ai An. Here the reeds are inserted into the
sides of short bamboo pipes. Two pipes are fastened side by
side, or the reeds are put at the two ends of a single longer
pipe, which has a division in the middle. Each reed has a
blowing tube, like those of the Ku Kuai, let into the side of
the pipe.
These toys are interesting as preserving perhaps the
original form of the free reed.
2. (1) SHENG (CHENG). A small hand-organ,
composed of bamboo pipes with free reeds, fitted into the top
of a wooden air-chamber which has a mouth-piece at one side.
A detailed account of an ordinary specimen made at Shanghai
in 1900 or 1901 follows, and will probably apply on the whole
to those made in other parts of China. [see Plate XII.]
a. The Air-chamber [Sheng Tou or P'aois of
wu-t'ung wood scented with camphor and lacquered black;
circular, with convex sides. The top is made of hardwood.
The diameter at the top is 2 inches, at the bottom 1 inch,
the height is 2 inches. The sides and top are about inch
thick. A round piece of ivory, inch in diameter, is let into
the bottom, perforated with five holes. There is a horizontal
partition inch thick half way between the top and bottom.
On the middle of this partition stands a solid drum of wood
about 1 inch in diameter, reaching to the top and leaving a
passage of inch round itself for the air. The air-chamber is
sometimes made of redwood polished.
b. The Mouth-piece [Chou or Tsui is of wood,
1 inch long. The height at the inner end is 1 inch, at the
outer end, 1 inch, the greatest width is inch. The lower side
III.B.b

III.B.b
90
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
is straight and level, the upper side curves so that the highest
point is nearly level with the top of the air-chamber. The
outer end is covered with a piece of ivory, egg-shaped and
with concave surface, inch thick at the sides, with a hole
inch high and inch wide below, growing narrower towards
the top.
C. The Pipes [Hsiu Chua
.
It
or Kuan, seventeen
in number, stand in holes round the top of the air-chamber,
touching each other except in one place where there is a gap
of about inch. They are kept together by a band of horn,
level with the tops of the shortest pipes. Each pipe is of black
bamboo with a tapering foot of hardwood about 1 inch long.
Nearly half of this foot is visible above the air-chamber. At
the lower end half the thickness of the foot is cut away for the
length of inch, and the part of the central cavity thus
exposed is covered with a very thin brass reed [Huang
The tongue of the reed is 3 inch long and 1 inch wide.
points upwards and has a little spot of wax stuck to it near the
free upper end. The pipes are arranged so that all the reeds
face the side of the air-chamber. Each sounding pipe has a
long narrow slit on the inner
finger hole near the lower end.
be closed to make the pipe speak. The measurements of
the pipe for the lowest note Ho [A] are:-total length,
11 inches; external diameter, 3 inch; internal diameter,
3inch. Length from top of the reed to bottom of the
narrow slit, 9 inches. This last measurement, for the pipe
which gives Ché [E] is 63 inches, and for the Liu [A] pipe,
4 inches. The lengths of the pipes, measured from the top
of the air-chamber, are as follows:-three pipes [of which two
are dumb] of 5 inches, four [of which one is dumb] of
side, and a circular
The finger hole must
The diameters of all the pipes are nearly the same.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
91
7 inches, four [of which one is dumb] of 8 inches, four of
10 inches, two of 13 inches. The dumb pipes have no reed
or finger hole.
The Sheng is now tuned to the Ti tzu. Each pipe has
commonly a red label bearing the name of its proper note and
the notes which should be played simultaneously with it. In
the table below the pipes are numbered consecutively,
beginning at the left hand side of the gap in their circle.
Pipe. Proper Note.
Approximate To be accompanied
III.B.b
equivalent.
with
15
Ho
A
3.
F sharp
7
Ssu
B
11.
B Sve
5
I
C
14
Shang
D
13.
D Sve
8
Che
E
15. A
4
Chef
E
15. A
3
Kung
F sharp
7, 11.
B, B Sve
6
Fan
G
2
Fan
G sharp
10. C sharp
12
Liu
A
14 15. D, A
11
W1'22
B
8, 7. E, B
10
I
C sharp
13
Shang
D
G. G
The finger holes of 3 and 4 are on the inside of the pipes
and are covered with the first finger of the right hand.
It will be seen in the above table that the European scale
begins on Shang [D]. G sharp is possibly a mistake.
1
Mr.
Hermann Smith gives the second pipe slightly flat as
compared with the sixth, and suggests that it is so tuned in
order to give a perfect fourth with the tenth pipe. In the
instrument here described the second and tenth pipes are both.
raised a semitone as compared with the notes given by
Mr. Smith. Compare Additional Notes A. B. C.
The World's Earliest Music pp. 203-5, etc. This book, which I
first saw after my own notes were written, contains far the best account of
the Sheng that I am acquainted with.

III.B.b
92
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Li Li Cheng I gives the above notes, but with no
C sharp, and with E repeated an octave higher. Wen Miao
Yo Shu has the chromatic scale with the notes arranged so
that the longest pipe gives the lowest note and so on. In
modern instruments the notes seem to be arranged perhaps
[as in the ancient instrument] to suit the fingers, and
certainly without regard to the apparent length of the pipes.
The slits on the inner side of the pipes are certainly designed
to regulate the pitch of the notes.
Gentle blowing makes several reeds sound together,
whether, in most cases 1, the finger holes are open or closed;
as one blows harder other reeds sound, but with very hard
blowing the pipes will speak only if the holes are closed,
when each gives, as a rule, the same note as would be
produced by suction. There can be no doubt, however, that
the right way to sound the instrument is by suction, though
the performer may possibly blow also to get certain effects.
The only primitive instrument outside China sounded in this
way seems to be the Mexican Acocotl or Clarin-a single pipe
about 8 feet long [Engel p. 73]. The suction principle
distinguishes the modern American reed organ from the
harmonium. The free reed used in these instruments was
copied from the Sheng in the eighteenth century, and had
been unknown in Europe before that time.
Besides small variations there seem to be two recognized
sizes of Sheng. The Brussels Museum has a specimen about
3 inches longer than the one described above. The small
kind seems to be the only one known at Shanghai, and the
larger is found at Peking. Those used by the Lamas from
Peking [III. C. 2. (4)] seemed to be considerably larger than
the common Sheng, and had also the old-fashioned coffee-pot
Some of the reeds give their proper note thus only when the finger
hole is open.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
93
spout mouth-piece, perhaps made of pewter, which is now
rarely seen. A manual published in 1872 names and gives
drawing of the larger and smaller Sheng, and shows the old
mouth-piece-apparently fitted into one of the modern shape.
The instruments used in the Confucian temple at Hangchow
and dated 1870 have only the modern mouth-piece. A Sheng
in the South Kensington Museum [Engel p. 188] is said to
have the following scale :-
III.B.b.
Compare Brussels Catalogue 137.
A specimen seen at T'ai An in 1906 was noticeably
larger than the usual size, the total length being about 2 feet,
and the diameter of the pipes nearly 4 inch. The instrument
had these peculiarities-of the seventeen pipes all had finger
holes and only three [1, 16, 17] were dumb; the top of the
air-chamber was covered with a brass-plate, and there was no
hole in the underside; the mouth-piece was long and only
slightly curved. There was no opportunity of taking
accurate measurements or testing the scale.
What follows is taken from Tsai Yü's "Introduction to
the Gourd Sound 2" [f. 28]. In prehistoric times, when
learning was scarce and manufactures rude, P'ao, the round
gourd, was used to make the larger and smaller Sheng, Hu
the bottle gourd, was used to put wine or medicine in.
But the Princes of the Three Dynasties encouraged learning
and handicrafts; and glue, varnish, horn, and wood took the
place of the round gourd; gold and tin 3 of the bottle gourd ;
2 皇朝祭噐樂舞錄
See p. 75, Note 1.
3
*金錫

III.B.b
94
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
.
and there can be no doubt that the wooden body of the Sheng
dates from the Three Dynasties, although it retains its old
name of Gourd. "It is clear that when [the ancients] speak
of the Piao, they mean what we now call Sheng Tou, and it
is right to call it Pao, but a mistake to call it Tou. The
substitution of wood for a gourd is extremely good, and its
origin also is remote. It cannot have been done but by the
sages of the Three Dynasties. .. I hear that the cave-
dwelling Man still use gourds for the bodies of their
Sheng.
The second way [to make a Sheng] is to
take t'ung wood, because it is light, and carve and fashion a
gourd-shaped body, and to take tsao wood, because it is
hard, and bore holes in it, to make the top face of the
'gourd'; in the middle make it solid like the common Sheng;
if it is not solid you waste breath and it is hard to blow [].
Outside the gourd' fix the mouth-piece which is called the
beak [chou], in shape like the neck of a goose, and varnish the
whole black." The classical differs from the common Sheng
in having the circle of pipes like a ring without break, and
all the holes face outwards. "The difference from the
common Sheng consists" Tsai Yü himself says "only in the
gourd shape [i.e. globular], and the notes are not the
same.
6
From this Introduction it appears that the common Sheng
of the sixteenth century was practically identical with the
modern instrument in the shape-elongated, not round like a
gourd and solid core of the air-chamber; and in the number
and arrangement of the pipes-seventeen, with a gap in the ring
and two holes facing inwards. The notes were "not the same
as the chromatic scale of the classical Sheng, and may have
been those of the modern. On the other hand the words
'seventeen reed Sheng' and the absence of allusion to dumb
pipes may show that all the pipes had reeds. Wen Miao Yo

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
95
Shu has organs both with seventeen and with thirteen reeds.
The remarkable difference between the modern mouth-piece
and that described is not mentioned, so that it is possible that
the present shape had not been introduced. The old form is
clearly drawn in Chieh Li Tsuan Yao. There is no reference
to the horizontal division of the air-chamber, or to the opening
underneath in either the classical or the common Sheng.
[see Additional Note F.]
The Musical Annals of the Yüan History say that the
Sheng introduced from Mohammedan lands at the time of the
universal union [i.e. under Kublai Khan] had bamboo reeds
[Tsai Yü f. 35]. Arabian and Persian instruments do not
seem to include anything like the Sheng. The Indian Poongi,
a gourd with a horn mouth-piece and two pipes with bamboo
reeds [Engel p. 166], may possibly be the instrument to which
the book refers.
The Sheng is now used in the State services, and
occasionally at funerals [II. A. 2. (2) ], as well as by amateurs.
In the Hung Lou Meng it is mentioned among other
instruments commonly used in keeping up the feast in the
eighth month. When played it is held with the pipes nearly
horizontal and pointing to the performers right. It is said
that men who play the Sheng die early of consumption.
2. (2) LIU SHENG (LIOU CHENG). "There
were thirty-six bands, six instruments to one band, and six
sounds to one instrument. These instruments are constructed
with bamboo pipes having brass reeds. The largest sized
instrument is made of the trunk of a tree hollowed out. A
bamboo pipe 14 feet long with reed and mouth-piece is placed
in the hollowed tree trunk. No. 2 instrument has three pipes
14 feet long. No. 3 to No. 1 [? 6] have six pipes and reeds
respectively, but each shorter than the other." The above is
taken from a description of the seventh-moon festival of the
III.B.b

III.B.c
96
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Hei Miao tribe in Western China-[Journal of the C.B.R.A.S.,
Vol. XXXIII. No. 2-Social life of the Miao tsiï by G. E.
Betts].
The reed is not described, but the instrument is said to
represent the Shing in its most primitive condition [Engel p.
187], so that the reed is probably like that of the Sheng.
Engel also says that the instrument has a mouth-piece at right
angles to the pipes.
instrument
Garnier's Voyage d'Exploration en Indo-Chine [p. 345]
describes the Khen [also called Phan] as an
peculiar to Laos; composed of from ten to sixteen bamboo
pipes arranged in gradually increasing length, tied together in
pairs and joined transversely by a larger bamboo. This is
provided with a mouth-piece and communicates with the pipes
by means of holes which can be closed with the fingers.
It produces consequently as many notes as there are holes
closed. They are made of all sizes from 3 to 12 feet.
The Khen is commonly played with a fife or hautboy called
Chủ
c.-Single Reeds.
1. CH'UN KUAN (TCH'OUENN KOUAN) **
or, more commonly, LA PA (LA PA), Plate IV,
Fig. 6. A bamboo tube 5.625 inches long and about 0.5
inch in diameter, with six finger holes. Into the top of the
tube is fitted a mouth-piece of bamboo, 1.5 inch long and
0.25 inch in diameter, closed at the end and with one side
flattened. This flat side is cut so as to make a passage for
the air and to form a single external reed. The scale is :-

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
97
It is used and sold by itinerant toy-sellers at Hangchow,
Shanghai, Peking, and elsewhere; and it is perhaps worth
noticing how entirely it is regarded as a child's toy, only the
larger forms at Peking being ever, as far as has been
observed, included in the stock of the men who sell cheap
flutes and whistles in the streets. Large quantities are made
in the precincts of the City Temple at Shanghai. Two
pipes are sometimes joined together as for instance in
Shantung, where they are called Tui Hsiao
Larger
specimens are made at Peking, and the reed is often cut in
the pipe instead of in a separate mouth-piece. Some
specimens have a seventh hole covered with membrane. The
length is, about 10 inches, but the size is subject to much
variation. The name at Peking is Kuan tz F.
A common toy is made of a pipe of reed or bamboo a
few inches long, with the end cut obliquely and slightly split.
Into this split is put a small piece of dry leaf to act as a
vibrating reed. One or more of these is attached to a toy of
some form-very often the wind coming through the pipe is
made to spin little globes of brightly coloured paper; or they
are fixed to sticks which carry sugar figures of various birds
or animals.
2. LA PA. At Peking the little pipe with leaf
reed last described is sometimes put into the top of a conical
clay pipe about 4 inches long.
d.-Mechanically Blown.
Reeds formed of a leaf or of thin paper vibrating on the
end of a small tube are put inside clay figures of cocks, frogs,
rabbits, etc. etc. which are provided with bellows made
of stout paper.
The reed is like that described under c. 1.
and 2. above. These toys are common at Hangchow, Peking,
and in Shantung, and probably elsewhere.
III.B.d

III. C.
98
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
The Ribbon Reed, that is a piece of skin or thin leaf put
between the lips and so set in vibration by the breath, is not
unknown to Chinese schoolboys. Mr. Galpin writes: "I
do not think it is used in the East in any really musical
capacity. The American West Coast Indians have it in
rather an elaborate form." See also under Hu Chia above,
and Additional Note F.
Section C.
Cup-mouth-pieces.
The
1. HAI LO (HAI LOUO). A Conch.
small end of the shell is broken off to form a mouth-piece.
The shell is left just as it comes from the sea and of course
varies in size, the average length being perhaps 12 or
14 inches. In the north shells of more various shape and
colour are used instead of the plain white shells which are
usually seen about Shanghai. The conch is commonly used
by boatmen in Chekiang and in the neighbourhood of
Shanghai; and it is said to be used by the priests of the
Buddhist sect called Ying Fo, and by Lamas. See under
Kang T'ou below, and Additional Note F.
A
2. (1) HAO TUNG (HAO TOUNG)
brass, or copper [Van Aalst], instrument with one sliding
tube. It is used at funerals and also, according to Van
Aalst, for military purposes. The ordinary length is about
36 inches. The mouth-piece is a flat disc or cup. The
following is the description of a brass Hao Tung from
Peking: A straight-sided bell' 12 inches long and 4.625
to 3.5 inches in diameter: to the flat top of this is fitted a
conical pipe, 5.75 inches long and 1.75 to 0.875 inch in
diameter, with a bulb 0.5 inch from the top, 2.25 inches in
diameter into this fits a sliding conical tube 17.5 inches
long and 0.875 to 0.375 inch in diameter.
The mouth-piece

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
99
is hemispherical with a flat rim, 1.875 inch in diameter. The
total length is 34.375 inches. [see Plate IX.]
This is the only form of Dao Tung known about
Hangchow and Shanghai, though larger specimens about
4 feet long may be seen at Hangchow. But the commoner
instrument at Peking is a far larger thing and slightly
different in shape. The 'bell' is larger in proportion than
in the specimen described above, and has a rounded top.
From inquiries made at Peking it seems that the 'bell' is
sometimes made of wood and sometimes of iron-in both
cases with brass hoops-, but that good instruments are made
entirely of brass. In any case the inside of the bell is
coloured red, and the outside is gilded, or sometimes red with
gilt ornament, and the sliding tube is usually red. The meas-
urements of a larger specimen are:-bell, 30 inches long,
16 inches across the mouth; tube fixed to the top of the bell,
12 inches long-the bulb on this tube may be in the middle
or at the top of the tube; sliding tube, 42 inches long.
A pair of these is always used at funerals in Peking, being
hired for the purpose from the undertakers. They are
played stationary, with the bell resting on the ground.
When the procession moves the performer slings his instrument
across his back.
The curious 'bell' of this instrument seems to have the
effect of diminishing the number of notes which the conical
tube would naturally produce [Brussels Catalogue, 139].
2. (2) LA PA (LA PA). A brass horn with
one or two sliding tubes. It is properly a military instrument
and may constantly be seen in pairs in front of a body of
soldiers, or at city gates, or wherever soldiers are posted.
At Hangchow the fire brigades blow the La Pa as they come
back through the streets after putting out a fire. In the
III. C.

III. C.
100
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
theatre the end of each piece is marked by a few notes on the
La Pa, and the practice has given rise to the metaphorical
expression in Peking chui t'ai
[the La Pa] is
blown-meaning 'it is all over,' there's an end of that'.
At Peking itinerant knife-grinders use a small La Pa about
30 inches long, round the thin end of which they wind string
till it is about an inch thick. It is said that their instruments
as well as those used on the stage or at funerals are commonly
called chien tzu F, while the military instrument may be
called Hao. There are several different sizes of La Pa.
One with two slides is 44 inches long and 5.5 inches across
the bell [Engel p. 185]. Larger specimens commonly used
by soldiers, with only one slide, are about 5 feet long and
12 inches across the bell. An incomplete instrument has been
seen at Hangchow which would not have been more than
about 15 inches long when perfect. The bell of the La Pa is
more like that of an European instrument. The La Pa has
usually, in common with the Hao Tung and Cha chiao, a
bulb near the top of the lower joint, designed apparently to
help to keep the mouth-piece pressed against the lips. Of
these bulbs M. Mahillon writes: Depuis le commencement
du XVe siècle, [voir le tableau représentant le Couronnement
de la Vierge de Fra Angelico, au Musée du Louvre à Paris],
nos anciennes trompettes sont toutes munies d'une boule
semblable; il serait intéressant de savoir si l'idée appartient
à l'Asie ou à l'Europe [Brussels Cat. 743].
The sliding
tubes of these instruments are not meant to change their
notes, but to reduce their length when they are not in use.
The notes are in the relation of-
(Van Aalst)

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
101
Shops entirely devoted to the making of these horns are . c.
found at Soochow, a place noted for the manufacture of brass
instruments. [see Plate IX.]
La Pa represents the Mongolian word Rapal [Giles,
S.v.].
At
2. (3) CHA CHIAO (TCHA KIO) Lf [see
Plate IX]. A horn like the La Pa, except that the lower
tube is curved So that the bell faces the performer.
Van Aalst, who is my sole authority for the above name,
writes: "It is of various sizes, and is used at wedding
processions." At Shanghai it is also used at funerals, the
performers being sometimes mounted on horse-back.
Hangchow, Shanghai, and Peking it is commonly called
La Pa; at Hangchow it is also called Wan Hao Tou
頭; and in Shantung Hao 號‧ At Peking it is said to be
used at funerals and weddings; it is generally gilded and
sometimes bound round with red cloth; larger specimens
are about 6 feet long measured straight. At T'ai An
specimens about 3 feet long are made with two bells, the
curved part of the tube being gradually flattened and then
divided into two tubes, each division ending in a small bell.
The above three horns are all plainly depicted in the
frescoes of the great temple (Tai Miao ) at T'ai An,
which date, according to the priests, from the sixteenth,
seventeenth, or eighteenth century.
A conical
2. (4) KANG TOU or TA WANG.
bronze [or brass] horn with one slide. The total length
is about 10 feet. The lower half is more or less ornamented.
A pair of these instruments were seen in the band of the
great Lama Temple [Yung Ho Kung] of Peking in March
1900. They were used in a funeral procession, the lower end
being carried in a sling by an attendant. The note produced
was very deep and gruff. The names are uncertain.

III. C.
102
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
An account of the Embassy to the Court of the Teshoo
Lama in Tibet [London, 1800] says:-"First were ten persons.
with huge trumpets, which they sounded resting one end upon
the ground; next followed twenty men with large tabors,
a sort of drum about 3 feet in diameter, fixed by the
side upon a pedestal and beaten by a long elastic curved
iron; then came twenty men with cymbals, and two with
the sea-shell." [Engel p. 134].
The instruments used by the Peking Lamas on the
occasion referred to were--besides these horns-drums,
cymbals, smaller [?] curved horns, flutes, and organs.
3. HAO (HAO). A horn distinguished from the
La Pa only by the curious flattened mouth-piece. It is fairly
common at T'ai An in Shantung, where it is distinguished
from the La Pa neither by its name [Hao] or uses, but I
have not seen it elsewhere, though it is very unlikely that the
specimens mentioned below came from T'ai An. The following
is the Rev. F. W. Galpin's description of a specimen in his
possession:" Length of tube including bell, 3 feet 5 inches.
One slide and ball-knob half way along the tube. The
mouth-piece, which is the most interesting part, is narrowly
oval being inch in width and only inch at its greatest
breadth. The cavity is inch. The tube is inch in diameter
at the mouth-piece and is very slightly conical for more than
half its length at the widening of the bell it is 14 inch the
bell is 5 inches across. I have obtained the following series
of notes:-
The form of mouth-piece shows a close affinity to the
Double Reed principle." Mr. Galpin's specimen is called

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
103
Ah tu, a name which stands perhaps, in a southern dialect,
for Hao t'ou. A similar instrument exists at Brussels
[Catalogue, 741]. In the T'ai An instruments the upper
edge of the mouth-piece seen in profile has a considerable
curve, low in the middle and higher at the two ends. [see
Plate IX].
4. KANG TUNG (KANG TOUNG) . A
curved horn of copper with brass rim and ornament, made to
resemble a dragon with open mouth. The length is 16 inches
measured straight; the apparent diameter 3 inches to 1 inch.
There is a short internal tube of small diameter hidden inside
the upper part adjoining the mouth-piece. The outer tube is
made in two pieces, and the joint is covered by the brass
dragon's head. Mr. Galpin writes:-"It is not capable of
producing the natural series of harmonics, but any notes formed
in the inner tube by the pressure of the lips are intensified by
the bell-like extension of the outer tube. This curious principle,
which enables the performer to produce every note in the
octave, is found in some of the medieval European horns.
See Brussels Catalogue, 1164."
It is said to be used in Peking in processions and by the
Lamas, and it may perhaps be a Mongolian instrument. A
specimen made of silver is said to have been seen in a temple
in Mongolia. The characters given at Peking for the name
do not seem to represent the sound correctly. [see Plate XII.]
5. In the glass-blowing district of Shantung numbers of
glass horns are sold as toys and for keeping up the New Year.
Two specimens measured at T'ai An were 45 inches long, 0.25
to 0.625 inch in diameter, 1.875 inch across the bell; and 30
inches long, 0.25 to 0.5 inch in diameter, and 1.75 inch across
the bell respectively. The longer specimen had the mouth-
piece broken off, the shorter had a cup shaped mouth-piece.
This difference was evidently intentional, as all the longer
III. C.

III. C.
104
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
instruments ended in a rough broken edge and were bought
and sold without any notion that they were defective; whereas
a short horn minus mouth-piece was discarded at once. The
tube which is slightly conical, in most cases diminishes again
in diameter near the bell, owing probably to the drawing of the
glass. In some specimens the bell is replaced by a bulb with
quite a small opening. The longer forms give a great number
of harmonics. They were found to produce clearer notes
when sounded by suction, but the common native method of
playing them is by blowing. [see Plate IX.]
A
KU [KU] TANG (KOU [KOU] TANG)
very popular toy made in the glass-blowing district of
Shantung. It is a flat glass bulb, from 2 to 6 inches in
diameter, with a thin tube from the middle of one side for
mouth-piece, the whole thing being rather like a wine decanter.
The tube is put into the performer's mouth, and the bottom,
which is extremely thin, is made to vibrate with a loud
crackling noise by drawing the breath quickly in an out.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
105
CLASS IV. Stringed Instruments.
Section A. Air-vibrated.
The
1. (1) FENG CHENG (FOUNG TCHENG) .
Wind Harp. This is a bow made entirely of bamboo.
string is a very thin slip of bamboo about inch wide with a
small piece left thick at each end to catch in notches which
are cut in the end of the bow; and this is a piece of whole
bamboo 2 or 3 feet long. It is tied to the frame of a
paper kite so that the string will catch the wind just above the
head of the kite. These bows are made at Hangchow. They
are also called Feng Ch'in . The name Feng Chéng was
formerly applied to the bells which hang from the eaves of
Temples [Chi Hsiu Sect. 22]. Kang Hsi [s.v. Cheng] quotes
a rather obscure sentence which may refer to this instrument,
and if so takes it back at least to the T'ang dynasty.
1. (2) YAO PIEN (IAO PIEN). A bow
used like the last. It is strung with narrow ribbon and has a
sort of cylindrical bridge below the notch at either end of the
bow, which is a very rough piece of bamboo about 5 feet long.
It is made at Shanghai and commonly used there in the Spring.
2. YAO CHIN (IAO KIN). A Kite Harp
made in Shanghai. It consists of a frame of light bamboo
bent into the shape of a bottle gourd, with seven straight
bamboos fastened across it. On each of these cross-pieces is
stretched a narrow ribbon fastened at either end to a rough
tuning peg.
The thing is hung to the string of a large paper
kite, and the seven ribbon strings' make a loud humming
sound which may be heard at a great distance. [Plate X.]

IV.B.a
§
106
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
There are said to be many other varieties of kite bows
and harps at Peking and Nanking, where kite-flying is carried
on every Spring with the utmost enthusiasm.
The only air-vibrated instrument known in Europe is the
Eolian Harp.
Section B.
Hand-controlled.
a.-Plucked strings.
§. Without a neck.
1. CHIN (KIN). A horizontal psaltery consisting
of a sound board of curved section with a raised ridge near
the tail or broader end, and closed below with a flat board in
which are usually two round or oblong openings. The curved
board is about inch thick down the middle, but considerably
thinner on either side; the flat board is about 3 inch thick.
The wood should be wu t'ung lacquered black or brown,
but for modern instruments Shan (cunninghamia sinensis) is
commonly used. The head and the ridge are made of some
hard wood. There are seven silk strings tied to two jade or
wooden pegs
which are fixed to the under surface near the upper
end. From these pegs the strings are brought up over the
head and stretched along the sound board, each ending in a
bow knot above the raised ridge. Over the knots are passed
loops of silk which come up through seven holes in the tail of
the instrument and are fixed into loose pegs or knobs of jade
or hardwood. When these pegs are turned, the silk loops
being twisted grow shorter and so tighten the strings. This
method of tuning appears to be unique; although an analogous
principle has been applied to the piano by Brinsmead. Along
one side of the sound board are inlaid thirteen studs [Hui ]
of different sizes marking the places where the strings may be
stopped. They should be nails of gold from Li Shui [k]

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
107
in Chekiang, but are commonly circles of mother o' pearl.
M. V. C. Mahillon has found that by stopping a string at
these thirteen points in succession the following notes are
got:-
IV.B.a
§
And he shows that the exact intervals differ perceptibly
from those of the theoretic Chinese scale. [Brussels Cat. 759]
A comparison of these notes with those given by Tsai Yü
shows that the Ch'in has not been materially changed since the
sixteenth century. It is curious that the only note marked
outside the diatonic scale is the minor third, and that in the
two upper octaves the notes are those of the common chord.
The Ch'in is probably of immense antiquity, and is justly
regarded with considerable respect. Traditionally it had at
first only five strings, but Tsai Yü says that the 'five stringed
Ch'in' was merely the seven stringed instrument tuned to
the five-note scale, and that the strings known as Wen and
Wu were
so named from their tones, soft and brilliant
respectively, and not because they were added by King Wen
and King Wu [Amiot]. For information about the tuning
and playing of the Ch'in and the peculiar notation employed
see Vol. XXXIII, p. 149 of this Journal, and the books of
Amiot, Van Aalst, and others. Mr. G. T. Lay wrote in the
Chinese Repository [Vol. VIII, p. 41]: "Dr. Young, who
subjected a vibrating string to a microscope for the purpose
of getting some practical hints as to the nature of the harmonic
chord, observed that it was a sort of spiral or trochoidal
movement; and its form, and of course the quality of its
sound, depended upon the manner in which the force was
applied to it. The Chinese were in possession of this fact
ages ago, inasmuch as they directed the right hand to be

IV.B.a
108
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
thrown into almost as many positions as it is capable of
receiving. The value of these rules may be easily illustrated
by experiment."
The Ch'in is used at the State services, and is said to
have been so used since the days of Fu Hsi, the founder of
Chinese civilization. It has also been, and perhaps still is, a
popular instrument with amateurs of the educated class.
Most instrument makers keep one or two Ch'in in stock, and
old specimens are comparatively common. The instruments
generally seen correspond very nearly with Tsai Yu's middle-
sized Chin. Plate V. shows a specimen which is dated 1790
and was made at Soochow. The names of the parts are taken
from Kang Hsi: a, 'head,' shou ; b, tail,' wei ; c,
'dragon lips,' lung ch'un ; d, 'phoenix feet,' feng tsu
; e, 'waist,' yao, called the 'fair woman,' mei nü
f, shoulder,' chien ; g, 'sound holes,' yüeh, the
longer called lung chil鹊池, the shorter féng chao 鳳沼;
h, 'narrow ridge,' lin yüeh ; i, 'higher ridge,' yüeh shan
;k, 'city road,' ch'eng lu, i.e. a slightly raised
strip outside the yüeh shan; 1, 'wild goose feet,' yen tsu E
upper side is called the 'belly,' fu, the under side the
'back,' pei, or the fairy,' hsien jen A, and the tuning
The
pegs are called chén . Tsai Yü, more naturally, calls the
broader end the head and the narrower the tail.
2. SHE (CHE) A horizontal psaltery, curved
above and flat below. The upper part is a frame of camphor
wood with three divisions, into which are fitted three panels
of wu t'ung wood forming the head, body, and tail of the
instrument. The head and body should be in the same
straight line, the tail [as now the head also is¹] being bent
Two old Shê are preserved in the Confucian temple of P'ing-yin in
Shantung, which have the head correctly in a straight line with the body.
Their measurements are:-length, of head, 9 inches; body, 69 inches; tail,
16 inches: width of head, 21 inches. Their colour was apparently scarlet.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
109
downwards. At either end of the body is a raised ridge
about 1 inch high and a row of twenty-five small holes.
There are twenty-five silk strings all of the same thickness
and sometimes coloured red. Each string is put through one
of the holes by the ridge at the head and secured inside with
a knot; it is then stretched along the body and tail' and
returned round the end, and entering the sound box through
a large hole in the underside of the tail is brought up
again through one of the small holes near the lower ridge.
Here it is tied round the part of the string which has already
passed over the hole, bringing it close down to the board,
and the end is finished off in an elaborate knot on top of the
ridge. Each string should have also a moveable bridge,
but now the She is tuned to the five note scale and only the
first ten strings are used or provided with bridges. Until
perhaps the present dynasty it was tuned to the chromatic
scale, the lowest note being the note of the first string of the
Ch'in stopped at the tenth point [Tsai Yü]. Lu Lü Chéng I
gives what seems to be the source of the modern system :
The first twelve strings and the last twelve are tuned alike-
chih, yu, Kung, shang, chiao, chih, yü, Kung shang, chiao,
chih, yü,-while the middle string is marked Huang Chung.
The She is peculiar in having no mechanical means for
tightening the strings. The four specimens at the Confucian
Temple at Hangchow are lacquered black with dull gilt
ornament. Each lies on a pair of ornamental trestles. The
total length is about 80 inches, the breadth 18 inches, the
length of the head 8 inches, of the tail 173 inches; the
thickness of the sound box in the middle is not quite
3 inches.
I have been unable to make sure whether the strings are stretched
in this way, or whether after traversing the body they are taken down
through the second set of holes and carried round the tail in the reverse
direction to that described above.
IV.B.a

JV.B.a
§
110
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
The She is now used only at State services, and the art
of playing it is in many places practically lost. Confucius is
recorded to have played the Shé, singing to its accompani-
ment. The Chinese prefer it to the Chin, and Amiot
wrote of it in 1776. "Nous n'avons en Europe aucun
instrument de Musique qui merite de lui être préféré. Je n'en
excepte pas même notre Clavecin, parce que les sons aigres de
cordes de métal, et le bruit que font quelquefois les touches
fauteraux, affectent désagréablement une oreille un peu délicate."
The She is the only survivor of the few instruments which
had a compass of two chromatic octaves. The ordinary
number of sixteen notes in instruments giving a fixed
chromatic scale is due possibly to the requirements of the
ancient tunes. In the Sung dynasty it was pointed out that
there were only twelve divisions of the octave and that,
consequently, chromatic instruments should not have more
than twelve notes.
The She is said to be a descendent of the ancient K'ung
Hou, an instrument of twenty-five strings [Kang Hsi].
The Music Book at Ch'ü Fu in Shantung, called Sheng
Men Yo Chih
printed in 1716 and reprinted in
1887, tunes the Shé as follows: the first twelve strings to the
notes of the middle octave, D-C sharp, and the upper twelve
strings to the notes of the upper octave, while the thirteenth
string has the note "the middle string is the highest and is
not played."
The Confucian orchestra, as given in the same book,
is: -Clu柷,Yu 敔, Po Chung鎛鐘, Po Ching 鎛馨,
Hsian Ku 懸鼓, Pien Chung 編鐘, Pien Ching 編馨
Ying Ku 楹鼓 Tsu Ku 足鼓,Tao Ku 跳鼓,Tèng Ko
Chung 豋歌鐘Têng Ko Ching 豋歌馨, Po Fu 摶拊
[in the Hall], Tien Ku
She Sheng [with 17
[outside the Hall], Ch'in,
reeds], Hsuan [five holes],

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
111
Chih篪 Feng Hsiao 鳳簫, Shuang Kuan 雙管[five holes
near the top of each pipe], Tung Hsiao [seven holes],
Lung Ti龍笛.
3. CHENG (TCHENG).
Engel [p. 182] has: "Tehe.
A smaller kind of
Wood mounted with
Shé.
bone. Sixteen thin brass wires. L. 3 ft., 2 in. W. 8 in."
The Rev. F. W. Galpin has a specimen, purchased perhaps
at Hongkong, with fourteen brass wires. The instrument
shops at Hangchow, however, say that it has properly fifteen
silk strings. At Peking a pair of Cheng has been seen, each
5 or 6 feet long and with fourteen silk strings.
The Cheng seems to differ from the Shé chiefly in the
depth of the body, which is 4 or 5 inches for an instrument
about 4 feet long. Van Aalst says: "It is used in
preference to the sé at imperial receptions and on joyful
occasions." The Shuo Wen describes it as a stringed instru-
ment with a bamboo body. A note in the music section of
the Shih Chi also mentions bamboo, but with reference
probably to quite a different Chéng. Another old book says:
A sort of Shé, originally with twelve strings, but now with
thirteen-Kang Hsi. [see Plates X. and XI.]
*,
A rather different instrument, called Fu Chin
with allusion to the story of Chu Ko Liang, is made at
This must not be confused with Cheng, the French spelling of Sheng,
[III. B. b. 2.]. Chêng often appears as Tseng in European books.
Compare also Brussels Catalogue, 150. The instrument there.
described and figured has fourteen brass strings; and also a vibrating wire
inside it. The small size of this specimen, less than 39 inches long, and the
shape, which is more like the Ch'in than the Shê, suggest that the wire-
strung Cheng is a southern instrument distinct from that found at
Hangchow or Peking. A similar instrument in the same collection
[No. 761] is from Tonkin; and five of such instruments [played by women]
appear in a photograph of an Annamese band. Tsai Yü evidently intended
to indicate the northern silk-strung instrument by the name Chêng.
IV.B.a

IV.B.a
§§
112
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Hsü chou in Kiangsu. It differs from the ordinary Cheng
in having the tail reduced to about 1 inch in length, and in
having tuning pegs. These last stand upright in three rows
of five across the head of the instrument. The strings pass
down through holes in the head, as in the Shé and Chéng,
and are fastened to the lower ends of the tuning pegs. The
specimen examined was about 4 feet long; the bridges.
were elaborately carved, and the whole instrument covered
with designs in various colours.
§§. With a neck.
The body is
1. YUEH CHIN (IUE KIN).
circular, made of two discs of wu t'ung wood, between which
is fitted a ring of boxwood. The diameter is 14 inches, the-
height about 1 inch. The neck is of redwood and 10 inches
long; from the body to the nearest tuning peg is 43 inches.
The scroll is bent sharply back, curving up again
the end. There are four silk strings, which are tuned,
according to Van Aalst, in pairs at the interval of a fifth.
Van Aalst's description and picture do not quite agree with the-
instruments seen at Shanghai, showing among other things.
openings in the sound board which are not found in any of the
instruments of this kind either at Shanghai or, according to a
Cantonese gentleman, in the South. The strings of all these
instruments except the Hsien tzu are attached to a piece of
wood [Fu hsien fixed to the sound board as in the
European guitar. A better made specimen, only 1 inch high,
had the top and bottom boards fitted into the circumference,
which was made of redwood. It had also three frets on the
neck and seven on the sound-board, while the commoner
instruments have two on the neck and eight on the sound-
board. The Pekingese Yüeh Ch'in have the latter arrangement,.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
113
but each of the eight frets on the sound-board is divided, the
further half being placed to give a slightly sharper note than
the nearer half. The instruments at Peking and Hangchow
have not the sharp bend in the neck. There is a variety with
the body octagonal, and another with a segment cut out of
each side of the circular body. [see Plate X, fig. 3.]
2. SHUANG CH'IN [CHOUANG KIN]
.
As made at Shanghai this consists of an octagonal body with
curved sides, of which the greater diameter is 9.5 inches, the
lesser 8.5 inches, and the height 1.375 inch. The sides are of
redwood 0.5 inch thick, the top and bottom are wu t'ung
boards. The redwood neck is 31 inches long, 1.25 inch wide,
and has thirteen ivory frets. There are four strings tuned
like those of the Yüeh Chin. The frets give the following
notes [Brussels Catalogue, 779]:-
IV.B.a
§§
An inferior variety has a rather larger body with straight
sides. The Shuang Ch'in is the least common of the guitars-
specially in the North-but it is sometimes used in large
processions [see II. A. 2. (2)]
3. (1) PI P'A (P'I P'A) Plates X and XI.
The name is said to be properly called Pi P'a, and is
sometimes also written Pi Po . Other names are
Hu Céin 胡琴, and Hun pu ssù 渾不似, which is commonly
written [Shih Lei Fu Sect. 44]. Pi and Pa
are said to be the technical terms for two different actions
in lute playing [Kang Hsi s.v. Pi]. A lute with a pear-
shaped body [Fu ] of curved section covered with a flat
sound-board of wu tung. On the neck [Ching ] are
four large rounded ridges [Hsiang of ivory, horn, or
9

IV.B.a
§§
114
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
wood, which are used as frets on certain occasions, and
above and below these on good instruments are small plates
of ivory with inscriptions engraved on them. The scroll
[Feng-wei t'ou is of redwood and bends back from
the neck nearly at right angles, but is curved upwards
again at the end. The upper angle formed by the bend is
called Shan Kou II, the angle below is Feng Huang T'ai
There are four or six silk strings. The four
strings are normally tuned to Ho, Shang, Ché, Liu-say
D, G, A, D. When there are six strings the second and
fourth are tuned with the first and third respectively. An
old six-stringed instrument at Shanghai had the first and
second and the third and fourth strings very close together.
The total length of this instrument was nearly 42 inches, of
which were occupied by the curved scroll. The greatest
width was 12 inches, and the greatest thickness 2 inches.
There were twelve frets [Pin on the neck and sound-
board. A commoner number of frets is ten.¹ Of the four
Hsiang the first raises the note one tone, the other three one
semitone each. The P'in give the following intervals:-
ten frets
.
-0-
I
2
3
45 6 7 8 9
twelve frets
boke
-0-
B
B
20
I 2 3 45 67 8 9 IO II 12
At Brussels there is a specimen with eleven frets, of which the
second is used only for the second string, and the tenth is divided, the part
under the first string being arranged to lower the note of that string by a
semitone. The same instrument has a vibrating wire inside it. [Brussels
Cat. 158].

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
115
The Shuo Wén says that the Pi Pia was played on
horse-back; and the Feng Su Tung, of the second century,
says that it was 15 inches long and had four strings, referring
to the ancient instrument; the T'ang History says that the
origin of the then modern instrument was unknown; the
Ku Chin Yo Lu conjectures that it was invented at the end
of the reign of Chin Shih Huang after the suppression of
the ancient music in the third century B.C. [Kang Hsi s.v.].
The Japanese Biwa seems in most respects identical with the
Pi Pa, but it has only the four divisions of the neck and
no frets [Pin] on the sound-board [Brussels Cat. 783].
This may show that the P'in are a comparatively modern
addition to the Chinese instrument. The Biwa has also the
sound holes which are now rare in the Pi P'a [Engel,
p. 195].
The Pi P'a is not very commonly seen in any religious
service, but it is said to be used by Taoist and by certain
Buddhist priests, and may be seen in religious processions.
On the stage it is said to be used at Soochow for the music
called T'an Huang, when the leader plays the Hsien
tzu; and at Ningpo for Wen Shu plays. Van Aalst says
that in the North it is played chiefly by men, and in the
South by women. It appears to be properly a solo
instrument, used for playing descriptive music such as may
be found for example in the Pi P'a Piu, a book in three
small volumes published in 1818. This book gives the names
of the parts of the instrument¹, directions for playing, the
special notation used [constructed in the same general
manner as that for the Chin], diagrams showing the notes of
In addition to the parts named above, the book gives Fêng Mei
, a mark [ joint] on the underside of the instrument, Feng Yen
, two crescent shaped holes in the sound-board, and Chen,
tuning pegs.
IV.B.a
§§

IV.B.a
§§
116
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
the open strings and of the various frets in the different
methods of tuning, and finally large numbers of pieces from
the collections of Wang Chün-Hsi of Chihli and Ch'en Mu-Fu
of Chekiang. The music is written in the Kung Ch'é
notation, with the special symbols written against certain
notes which require special fingering-as when two strings
are to be played in unison. Where no special direction is
given, either of the actions called t'an and t'iao may be used.
The strings are stopped with the first, second, or third finger
of the left hand, the change of position from the IIsiang to
the P'in being clearly marked in the music. The melody
is played with the thumb and first finger of the right hand,
and the other fingers are only used for the different
ornamental devices called lun.
3. (2) CHIN KANG TUI (KIN KANG TOUEI)
. A small three-stringed variety of Pi P'a, which
is also called, at Shanghai, Ssu pu hsiang
The
length is 26 inches, the width 7 inches. The neck is made
in one piece and is only slightly curved. There are ten frets.
The four Kings of Heaven in Buddhist Temples are said
to represent the four brothers Chin Kang of ancient Chinese
history, and are at least sometimes called by that name,
so that the name "thigh of Chin Kang" has perhaps some
connexion with the fact that one of the four Kings holds a
Pi P'a in his hands.
4. HSIEN TZŬ (HIEN TZEU). The Strings;
also called San Hsien or Three Strings. The body
is a heavy oval frame of redwood measuring 6 inches by
6 inches, and 2 inches thick, covered on both sides with
snakeskin, which is sometimes fixed with a little rim of
brass. The neck is made of redwood 30 inches long and
1 inch wide at the base, tapering slightly, and curved back
at the end. There are no frets. The three strings are

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
117
tuned to Ho, Shang, Liu, or more frequently to Ho, Ssu, IV.B.a
§§
Kung, and are generally played with a plectrum¹ [Van
Aalst]. The plectrum is a small oblong piece of jade. The
neck passes right through the body, and the strings are
attached to the projecting end which is covered with a cap
[sometimes of ivory] like that of the Hu Chin. In a
Cantonese specimen the strings were tied to a piece of wire.
This was bent in five places making three angles for the
three strings in one direction and two in the other for the
string by which it was tied to the ling [M]. After
crossing a broad and low bridge on the sound-board the
strings pass through and under a small slab of ivory, which
is tied flat to the neck and can be moved up and down. The
Hsien tzu is played often at Shanghai by blind men, and is
also used in processions and by strolling bands and in the
theatre.
A larger variety is made at Shanghai, of which the body
measures about 8 inches by 7 by 3. A specimen of this
size said to be Cantonese, but possibly a Siamisen from
Japan had the body oblong with slightly convex sides, the
neck not quite 30 inches long and 1 inch wide, and the scroll
made separate and moveable. An undoubted Cantonese
instrument was like the smaller variety given above.
The large Hsien tzu seems to be one of the commonest
instruments at Peking: it is generally made there of Ch'ai
wood with a red wood finger-board glued to the neck. [see
Plate X and XI.]
A four-stringed
5. HU PO (HOU POUO)
instrument with small pear-shaped body, covered with
snakeskin, and a long neck. The strings are attached to a
Most, if not all, of the Chinese guitars or lutes are played with a
plectrum I am told. Playing without a plectrum was introduced in the
seventh century, but perhaps again given up [Wên hsien tung kao § 137].

118
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
IV.B.b
projection at the end of the body. The scroll has a sliding
cover, perhaps to protect the strings from dust.
The
illustration [Plate VI, Fig. 1.] is taken from an old specimen
seen at Peking. The neck and body were made of tzu t'an
wood, with inlaid bone ornament. The instrument is said to
be used in the Palace. The characters given above are the
name of an old lute or guitar, and represent very nearly the
name of this instrument; the man in whose shop it was
found wrote, which does not seem to give the sound
correctly.
b. Struck strings.
6
1. YANG CHIN (IANG K'IN), The Foreign
Chin?' This is a dulcimer very much like the Persian
Santir, a fact which, added to the name, makes it probable
that it was introduced from Persia. It seems also to be
peculiarly a southern instrument, though not uncommon
about Shanghai and in the North. It consists of a shallow
trapezium-shaped box with a cover, and is strung with thin
brass wire. A Cantonese specimen, which was seen at
Shanghai, was made of wu t'ung, the sound-board not
coloured and the sides and cover lacquered black. The
strings were arranged in fourteen sets of three, those for the
two lowest sets made of two wires twisted together, and
either end of each wire was fastened to a tall brass tuning
peg
with a square head. At either end of the sound-board
was a fixed ridge of redwood with a brass edge, and nearer
the middle were two bridges. Along the top of each bridge
square notches about 1 inch wide were cut leaving seven
raised pieces to carry half of the string, and the two bridges
were so placed that the raised parts of one came opposite to
the notches in the other and vice versa, so that seven sets of

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
119
strings passed over the right hand bridge and through the IV.B.b
notches of the left hand bridge, and the other seven over the
left hand and through the notches of the right hand bridge.
By this arrangement every string gives two notes, one on
either side of the bridge which it passes over, but the notes
on the right side of the right hand bridge are not used.
The names of the notes were written on red labels under the
proper strings, and if they represent the same system of
tuning as that transcribed by Van Aalst and Mahillon
the notes I and Fan must both be flattened. There were
two openings in the sound-board, one in the middle and
the other near the left hand end, and each was covered with
an elaborately carved and perforated ivory cap. In the
middle of the long side was a narrow drawer containing the
massive brass tuning key, the top of which was fashioned into
a hammer to tighten the pegs with. The instrument is
placed with the longer strings near the performer. The
strings are struck with two delicate and springy bamboo
hammers called Ch'in Chur.
No Chinese instrument probably is more varied in form,
size, and arrangement than the Yang Ch'in. Those seen about
Shanghai are more roughly made than that which has been
described, and the strings are generally fastened to plain iron
pins looking like those of a piano. The number of sets of
strings is said to be commonly fourteen or sixteen, and the
number of strings in a set to vary from two to four. No. 792
in the Brussels Catalogue appears to have only one string to
each note or pair of notes, while a large instrument made at
Shanghai with nineteen sets of strings had two for the
longest set and five for each of the remaining eighteen. The
Yang Ch'in is played as a solo instrument by amateurs, and
Van Aalst
says:-"It may sometimes be heard together with
the violin and the guitar, accompanying songs and ballads."

IV.B.C
120
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
The scale is somewhat as follows:-
left of right bridge
right of left bridge
ho ssh shang ch'e kung fan liu
fan liu 2024
i shang ch'e kung
left of left bridge-
shang ch'e kung fan liu wu i
A different scale is given, partly based on and partly in
defiance of the Chinese labels placed under the strings, by
M. Mahillon [Brussels Catalogue 165].
In playing the Yang Ch'in the performer constantly
strikes two sets of strings together or in rapid alternation,
often ending a long note or a phrase in a tremolo made by
holding the hammers quivering against the strings. [see
Plate X.]
c. Bowed strings.
S.-Without a neck,
1. LA CHIN (LA KIN), Plate VI, Fig. 2.
A bowed psaltery. This instrument has a curved sound-
board and flat back like the Shé or Cheng, and is played
with a bow like that of the Hu Ch'in [see below]. There
are ten pairs of strings, each pair passing through two
holes at the top of a two-legged bridge 1.875 inch high.
The strings pass through holes in the sound-board near the
wider end, and are fastened at the other end to iron tuning
pegs. They are tuned as D, E, G, A, B, D, E, G, A, B,
beginning from the nearer side if the instrument is placed
with the wider end to the left. An iron tuning-key and

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
121
§§
hammer is used. The length is about 26 inches. The instru- IV.B.C
ment is held with the thumb and finger by the two holes on
the underside. The body is sometimes left plain, sometimes
coloured red and painted with flowers.
The La Ch'in is fairly common at Peking, where it is
said to be used to accompany songs; but it is not known in
the neighbourhood of Shanghai.
§§. With a neck.
HU CHIN (HOU K'IN). This is the general
name of the principal instruments of this division. The
characteristics of the Hu Ch'in are a small cylindrical or
cup-shaped body open below and covered at the top, called
Tung; a more or less long neck, Kan, which passes
right through the body; prominent tuning pegs, Chou ;
and a bow, Kung, strung with horse hair and inseparable
from the instrument. The Hu Ch'in may be broadly divided
into two groups, of which the first has the following common
features:--
a.
The body circular or polygonal, with straight or
concave sides.
b. The sound-board formed of snakeskin.
C. The tuning pegs parallel to the axis of the body.
d. A moveable nut consisting of a band of string or
other device for bending the strings towards the neck.
This group includes :-
1. (1) TAN CH'IN (TAN K'IN). The following
is an account of a good instrument. The neck, 16 inches
long and 11 inches to the nearer tuning peg, was
The lengths of the necks given are in every case exclusive of the part
that traverses the body.

IV.B.C
§§
122
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
The body was of old
inches high, and 2
with a piece of snake-
of old Lo-han bamboo, with an ivory top. Seven oblique
knots very close together at the upper end gave a firm hold
for the tuning pegs, which were of some dark coloured
wood and fluted. Immediately below the tuning pegs came a
smooth space of about 5 inches without a knot. This enables
a brass hook, which is tied to the neck and confines the strings
-acting as a capotasto, to be easily moved up and down.
There was an oblong hole cut right through the part of the
neck inside the body, and the end of the bamboo was
filled with a wooden plug. A piece of thin iron wire,
about 6 inches long, is generally put inside the neck and
one end of it is stuck into the wooden plug leaving the
upper end free to vibrate against the sides of the neck.
This is called Tan and gives its name to the instrument.
In this case the wire was missing.
dry bamboo about 1 inch thick, 4
inches in diameter. It was covered
skin, stretched not too tight to ensure a broad' tone, and
fixed with a band of blue cloth glued round the top of the
body. The skin commonly used is that of the Mang, with
handsome markings. On this instrument it was Shé skin,
which is thought far better. It was plain dull brown with
large regular scales. The difference between the two seems
to be that the scales of the Mang overlap one another, while
those of the Shé are slightly separated and so expose a certain
amount of the very thin skin, which is said to be specially
resonant. A very small moveable bridge stood in the middle
of the sound-board. There were two silken strings, the
thicker called the 'inner string,' and the thinner called the
'outer string.' Each string ended in a loop which was
hitched over the projecting lower end of the neck.
The
strings were tuned to the interval of a fifth. The ordinary
key is called Cheng Kung Tiao, the notes of the two strings

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
123
being called respectively Ch'e and Ho. This is transposed to
Fan Kung Tiao by calling the notes Liu and Shang, or by
sliding the hook on the neck so as to change the pitch while
the strings remain Ch'e and Ho, or sometimes Kung and Ssu.
These two keys seem to be the most commonly used [see
Additional Notes]. The bow, from Peking, was of cane,
long [over 26 inches] and straight, slightly bent over at
either end and with a shorter handle-piece than the Shanghai
bows have. The hair was white, stretched tight and evenly,
and fixed at either end by being put through a hole in the
The hair of the bow passes between the two strings.
Rosin was smeared over the side of the body near the neck.
The performer, a native of Peking, rested the instrument
against his left knee with the neck nearly horizontal, moving
the bow parallel to the axis of the body and pressing it
against the rosin constantly. The neck rested in the palm
of his left hand, the thumb holding it just below the hook.
The first, second, and third fingers were used to stop the
strings, touching them with the middle of the top joint and
not with the tip. The neck was said to be the shortest that
would be used at Peking.
cane.
The above will apply with slight modification to any Tan
Ch'in, and the account of the tuning to the Hu Ch'in generally.
The words in italics mark what were said to be the good points
of the instrument.
At Shanghai the Tan Ch'in is called Ching Hu, and
is said to have been unknown there till it was introduced
by Pekingese actors twenty or thirty years ago. The
measurements are:-body, 4 by 24 inches; neck, 14 inches
long.
A cheap variety is sold in the streets. A man from the
north of Kiangsu sells these at Shanghai, advertising his wares
with this tune incessantly repeated :-
IV.B.C
§§

IV.B.C
124
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
--
0-

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
125
They vary in size from toys 6 or 7 inches long to full-sized
instruments. The measurements of a larger specimen are:-
body, 3 by 1 inch; neck, 14 inches long, inch thick;
tuning pegs of deal, 5 inches long; the bridge made of a small
section of bamboo inch long and inch thick. The strings
are confined by a string loop instead of the brass hook. The
bow is 24 inches long.
The Tan Ch'in is the instrument commonly used in the
theatre to accompany the singing. The sound is sometimes
increased by the performer laying a cymbal on his knee for
the instrument to rest upon. [see Plate XI, fig. 4].
1. (2) HUI HU (HOUEI HOU) A variety
common at Hangchow, and said to be used in the theatre to
accompany the Hui Tiao, both music and instrument having
been introduced by actors from Anhui Province. It is
distinguished from the Ching Hu only by the small diameter
of the body about 1 inch-and neck. The neck is as long
as that of the Ching Hu, but is only inch thick.
The bodies of these two Hu Ch'in are made of bamboo
cut thin, and not coloured or dressed in any way.
The necks
are usually of bamboo, though at Shanghai redwood is
sometimes used, the wooden necks being rather longer than
the bamboo. The fixing of the skin with a band of cloth
seems to be peculiar to these two instruments.
This differs
1. (3) ERH HU (EUL HOU).
from the Ssu Hu [see below] only in having one pair of
strings instead of two. The neck is about 23 inches long,
-16 inches to the nearer tuning peg. At Peking, where it is
not common, it is called Erh Ku tzň, or Liang kén
hsien erh. Two strings. [see Plate XI.]
1. (4) PAN HU (PAN HOU). A variety
said to be preferred by Ningpo men, and common also at
Hangchow where it is made with a very thick body. It is like
IV.B.C
§§

126
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
IV.B.C
$$
the Erh Hu in all respects except that the sound-board is
made of wu t'ung wood instead of snakeskin. In Shantung it
is sometimes called Ch'i Chin. At Peking, where it seems to
be rare, it is said to be used with the Pang tzu.
Here may be mentioned two fiddles from Hainan; one
with a mahogany body 3 inches deep and 3 inches in
diameter, and a round neck of the same wood 16 inches long
and tapering towards the body; the other more roughly made,
the neck thicker and one inch longer, and the body formed of
a cocoanut shell about 5 inches in diameter. The sound-
board in each case is made of deal, less than 1 inch thick.
The tuning pegs are parallel to the axis of the body. The
bows are bamboo, unusually long and with less hair than the
northern bows, but more tightly and evenly strung. Both
instruments are locally called Ti Chin. They are
apparently rough examples of the ordinary Cantonese shapes.
Three instruments from Canton were marked generally by
their fine workmanship, the great thickness of the strings¹
used, the shape of the tuning pegs--ending in a pearshaped
knob instead of being conical, and by having the strings tied
down near to the neck by a simple loop of string. In other
respects, one was almost identical with the Erh Hu; the second
was like the Ching Hu, but with a redwood neck and with the
top edges of the body rounded off so as to give it a dome-like
The strings used for musical instruments are generally made of silk.
Those for the Ch'in and Shê are supposed to be of special make: and for
other instruments, at least in the eastern part of Mid- and North-China, five
kinds or sizes are distinguished, namely Ch'an, Lao, Erh or
Chung, Tzu, and Pi. Of these the first is said to be twisted and
also wound round with silk, the next three are only twisted, and the fifth is a
simple untwisted strand of silk. The Lao and Erh are said to be used for
the Hu Ch'in. The Pi Pa has the first four, but the Tzu string is said to be
sometimes changed for the Pi. The Yang Ch'in appears to be the only
instrument that regularly has wire strings.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
127
appearance; and the third had a barrel-shaped bamboo body
with a very thin sound-board of wu t'ung wood, and a
redwood neck. The bow of the first was a thin and much
curved reed; the other two were bamboo, long and thick.
[see Plate X, Figs. 8, 9, 10.]
It will be noticed that the Pan Hu and the southern
Hu Ch'in with wooden sound-boards, do not come strictly
within the two groups into which the more northern
instruments seem to be divided. The general look of the
Pan Hu would put it in the first group, while the other is more
like the Hu Hu, but both have wooden sound-boards, while
the tuning pegs are parallel to the axis of the body.
1. (5) SSU HU (SEU HOU). This is called
Ssu kén Hsien erh or Four Strings at Peking. The body is
of redwood, hexagonal, 43 inches high, tapering slightly
towards the bottom, and with slightly concave sides. The
greatest diameter is 4 inches. The bottom is formed of fret-
work in boxwood. The neck is of redwood, of square
section, with the lower angles rounded off, ġ inch wide and
25 inches long,-to the nearest tuning peg, 14 inches.
The upper end of the neck is curved back and finished with a
cap of boxwood; the lower end passes through the body and
projects slightly on the other side. This projection is covered
with a carved cap of boxwood called lingi, measuring
1 inch by inch. There are two double strings. Each
double string is put from above through a hole bored through
the ling and the end of the neck inside it, and the loop of the
string is brought up and passed over the ling and pulled
tight. The two parts of the thicker string are placed
respectively first and third and tuned in unison, and the
thinner strings are placed second and fourth, and are tuned a
fifth above the others. The strings are separated from each
other by spaces of not quite inch as they pass over the
IV.B.C
§§

IV.B.C
$$
128
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
bamboo bridge or horse [Ma ], which is inch high and
inch wide; and instead of being confined by a brass hook
like those of the Tan Ch'in, they are put through four holes
in a small semicircle of tortoise-shell which is tied to the
neck. The tuning pegs are of boxwood, fluted, 5 inches long.
The bow is of reed with the upper end curved back, and is
double strung-one set of hair passing between each pair of
strings. The length is 27 inches, and 4 inches from th
upper end is a bamboo peg over which the hair is hitched.
At Peking the neck of this fiddle is commonly 30 inches
or more in length.
A cheaper kind of Ssu Hu has a bamboo body, cylin-
drical, with concave sides, 4 inches high and 3 inches in
diameter. The neck is of redwood, 263 inches long,--
16 inches to the nearest tuning peg.
Bamboo, often stained red, is generally used for the body
of the Ssu Hu and Erh Hu whether round or polygonal.
Redwood is used for more expensive instruments. At Peking
the body is sometimes made of brass, cylindrical, about
3 inches in diameter and 7 inches high; but it is generally
of hardwood and octagonal. The neck seems generally to be
of redwood, but in the North other hard wood is used, and in
Shantung the Ssu Hu may be seen with a long bamboo neck.
The name Erh Hsien, which is given to the Erh Hu in many
European works, seems to be quite unfamiliar at Shanghai or
at Peking.
The second group has the following common features:-
a.
The body circular; barrel-shaped or hemispherical.
b. The sound-board made of wood.
C.
The tuning pegs at right angles to the axis of
the body.
d. A 'nut' on the neck.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
e. The neck made of wood.
129
f. A scroll' like that of the European violin in
arrangement.
2. (1) HU HU (HOU HOU)
[pronounced
at Hangchow]: also called Pang tzu Hu Ch'in because
it is played with the Pang tzu, and Wan Hu or Wan Ch'in
Cp fiddle, from the shape of the body. It is described as a
b... barous instrument from Shansi and Shensi, and is used both
in theatres and in private houses to accompany the Pang tzu
Tiao, a tune said to come from Shensi. The body, of cocoanut
shell with five holes below, is 4 inches in diameter and 3 inches
deep. The sound-board is fixed on top of the edge of the body.
The shop in Shanghai, where the specimen described was made,
seems to be rather peculiar in using cocoanut shell, although
it is used in the North; and other shops in Shanghai,
while using bamboo, make the body barrel-shaped and stain it
dark brown. The redwood neck is 333 inches long and is
round below the scroll, which occupies nearly 8 inches.
There is a nut of boxwood, wedge-shaped and cut out below
to fit the round neck, to which it is tied about 4 inches below
the tuning pegs.
The two strings are fixed to a boxwood cap
[ling] like that of the Ssu Hu. The Hu Hu and Ti Ch'in
both have the small bridge [ma] on the sound-board. [see
Plate X and XI.]
2. (2) T'I CHIN (T'I K'IN) or
.The body
is a cocoanut shell 5 inches in diameter and 3 inches deep,
with a hole below about 2 inches in diameter. The sound-
board is fitted into the top of the body. The neck of redwood,
flat above and rounded beneath up to the scroll, is 28 inches
long. A nut of boxwood, called Shan Kou, is glued
to the neck where it begins to grow wider-20 inches from
the body. This nut is straight on the side towards the body,
curved on the other side, and is inch high. The tail
10
IV.B.C
§§

IV.B.C
130
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
[wei pa, corresponding to the ling of the Hu Hu etc.,
is made of box tipped with redwood, 4 inches long and
tapering toward the lower end. Other makers taper it
towards the body, or not at all.
considerably. The two strings are
above, but the key cannot be altered in the same way since
the nut on the neck is fixed.
The length too varies
treated as described
The Ti Ch'in is common at Shanghai, but seems to be
little known in the North. It is rather like the Persian
Kemangeh. The latter has the globular body-sometimes a
cocoanut shell-and the same bow, and arrangement of the neck
and tuning pegs. But the body of the Kemangeh is covered
with snakeskin, and there are three strings [Engel p. 158.].
All the above instruments-or at least those at the first
group-are commonly called Hu Chin. The Erh Hu and
Ching Hu especially are very popular, being perhaps the most
commonly used of all instruments except the Ti t:ň. But
they are not often seen in any religious ceremony [II. A. 2.
(2)]. It should be noticed that the size and proportions of
the Hu Ch'in vary considerably even in different shops in the
same town. The specimens described were all made in
Shanghai, except where the contrary is stated.
Of the history and origin of the Hu Chin little seems to be
known beyond what is contained in the name. Hu seems to
have been one of the semi-barbarous regions of ancient China,
and is described as bordering on Chu-Kang Hsis.v..
But in the present connexion the word means perhaps little
more than foreign'. The use of cocoanut shells may suggest a
M. Mahillon says that the rh Hu is derived, according to Fétis,
from the ravanastron, a violin named after Ravana, King of Ceylon. The
Recana is almost identical with the Pan Ha [Brussels Catalogue 145, 144].
In Watters' Essays on the Chinese Language, p. 384, we read "this
term []] had a vague and wide application among Chinese writers up to
the period of the Tang dynasty. It then became restricted properly to tribes

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
131
southern origin for the Ti Chin. See also Introduction and
Additional Note F.
2. (3) TA HU CHIN (TA HOU K'IN) .
Of this and the following instrument only unfinished specimens
have been seen in the workshop of a well-known maker of
stringed instruments' in the Liu li Ch'ang at Peking. Very
little information as to their use or origin was obtained beyond
the statement that they were used in the Palace. The Ta
Hu Ch'in is made of ch'ai wood with a sound-board of tung
wood. The body is oval with a curved back; 14 inches long,
9 inches wide, and 3 inches thick. It has a thick wooden
neck, probably without frets, and a scroll carved into a
dragon's head, 5 inches long. The total length is about
36 inches. There are two strings, fixed to the tuning pegs in
a cavity in the scroll. The bow is like that of the Hu Chin.
[see Plate VI, Fig. 3.]
2. (4) ERH HSIEN (EUL HIEN)
See
under Ta Hu Ch'in above and Plate VI, Fig. 4. The sound-
board and back are of t'ung wood, the rest of ch'ai wood.
.
East of the Tsung ling range, while Fan became the name to be given
to the nations West of that range.
This distinction. has been
.. neglected by Confucianist writers, who have continued to give the
name Hu often to natives of India and to others who are not Mongolians."
At Peking the makers of stringed instruments sell practically nothing
else. Gongs, bells, etc. and all wind instruments are sold at a brazier's shop
outside the great south gate of the Tartar city; certain drums and other
pedlar's instruments are sold in lanes in the same neighbourhood; and
pigeon whistles and other musical toys are found at the almost daily Temple
Fairs. In large cities like Hangchow, Soochow, and Shanghai almost all
instruments can be had of one dealer, though at Soochow there are shops
devoted to the sale of brass instruments. In smaller towns musical
instruments are kept at the miscellaneous goods shops; and gongs and
horns may also be bought at the brazier's.
No account of the instruments or music used at Imperial ceremonies
has been attempted in the present list.
IV.B.C
§§

IV.B.C
§§
132
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
The bow is like that of the Hu Ch'in. The Erh Hsien must be
carefully distinguished from the Erh Hu [IV. B. c. §§ 1. (3) ].
These two instruments, 2. (3) and (4), are not included
in the two groups into which the Hu Ch'in proper are divided.
The numbers attached to the various Hu Ch'in indicate their
places in the general classification and have no reference to
the said two groups.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
133
ADDITIONAL NOTES
A
A TABLE showing the approximate relation of the Chinese Scales
to each other, and to the European Scale.
LÜ LÜ
律呂
WU YIN KUNG CH'E TZU ENGLISH
五音
工尺字
EQUIVALENTS
ch'ing Chung Lii
清仲呂
ch'ing Ku Hsi
Shang
G
仕
I
F sharp
淸姑洗
乙
ch'ing T'ai Ts'u
shao Shang
Wu
E
清太簇
少商
五
ching Huang Chung
清黄鍾
shao Kung
Liu
D
少宮
六
Ying Chung
應鍾
Wu I
無射
Pien Kung or Ho
ch'ing Fan
C sharp
變宮
和
清凡
ya Fan
C
亞凡
Nan Lü
Yü
ch'ing Kung
B
南呂
羽
清工

134
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Addit.
I Tee
Notes
ya Kung
A sharp
夷則
Lin Chung
亞工
Chih
ch'ing Che
A
林錘
徵
清尺
Jui Pin
Pien Chih
Kou
G sharp
蕤賓
變徵
勾
Chung Li
[Chung
Shang
G
仲呂
Ku Hsi
#]
Chiao
上
Chống I
F sharp
姑洗
flj
正乙[一]
Chia Chung
ya I
F
夾鍾
Shang
亞乙
T'ai Ts'u
太簇
Ta Lii
大呂
HUANG CHUNG
KUNG
HO
黃鍾
宮
chêng Ssu
E
商
正四
ya Ssú
D sharp
THE P
D
The above Table gives :-
:-
合
1. The names of the twelve degrees into which the
octave was anciently divided. These are notes of fixed pitch
determined by the exact measurements of the pipes which
produce them. The notes of the upper octave may also be
called Pan Huang Chung, etc., and the notes of the octave
below that given are called Pei. Both these name ['half"
and double'] have reference to the length of the pipes
required.
2.-The Five Sounds or degrees of the scale-increased
to seven by the addition [traditionally in the twelfth century
B.C.] of Pien Chih and Pien Kung. These, like our Tonic,
Super-tonic, etc., are of moveable pitch, and are placed in the
Table to show their relative positions only.

era.
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
135
3.-The Kung Ch'ê Notes, said to have been introduced
by the Mongols about the twelfth century of the Christian
In popular music these are now moveable degrees of
a scale [nearly the same as the western scale], and the
addition of the note Kou to correspond with the ancient
Pien Chih suggests that this was the case originally. In
modern ritual music however and throughout Lü Lü Ching I
and Wen Miao Yo Shu of the Ming dynasty, they seem
to be treated as fixed equivalents for the Lü Lü as shown in
the Table. In the latter book the music is written with
Chung Lü or Shang for the Tonic, and in this way the
Kung Ché and Wu Yin intervals correspond without the
use of Kou which never seems to have been popular and is
now quite forgotten. The older book occasionally uses Kou
for Pien Chih.
4. The approximate European equivalents for the
Lü Lü.
The meaning of the names of the notes seems very
uncertain. The Kung Che names appear to be mere
transliterations of foreign words; and with the two native
scales, whose origin is lost in antiquity, it is at least
conceivable that when the notes were first written down the
meanings of their names were already forgotten, and the
characters used may have been chosen simply to represent
the traditional sounds.
Tables like the above may be found in most of the
foreign works on Chinese music, and this is only printed for
convenience of reference. D is given, on the authority of
M. Mahillon [Brussels Cat. Tome II. p. 107], as the actual
note of Huang Chung as defined by Tsai Yü. The European
equivalents of the other notes are only approximate. The
more exact relation of the Chinese and European notes
is given in Van Aalst's Chinese Music, where, however, there
Addit.
Notes

Addit.
Notes
136
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
seems to be no sign of a scientific definition of the Kung Ch'é
notes independently of the Lü Lü. The names of the
Kung Ch'e notes in the Table are taken from Wen Miao
Yo Shu. The division of the octave at Shang, instead of at
Ho, is marked by the use of Chéng [normal octave] with
the diatonic notes below Shang, and of Ch'ing [upper octave]
with those above Shang. Shang is apparently still used as
the Tonic sometimes, but Fan is then flattened so that the
scale still corresponds with the European scale.
B
The Ancient Scale in Modern Books.
The relation between the modern scale and the ancient
is now very little understood, and the Wu Yin or Lü Lü
notations are rarely if ever used except in the manuals for
the State ritual. The confusion which prevails in some of
these manuals seems traceable to the Lu Lu Chêng I
[see p. 5], which gives this comparative table of the scales on
f. 28 of the second volume :-
WU YIN.
CHU TIAO
(Wu-Yin).
LÜ LÜ.
Note on the
Hsiao
(Kung Ch'e).
Note on the
Ti
(Kung Ch'e).
English
Note.
Kung
Kung
Shang
Chiao
Ch'ing Kung
Shang
Ch'ing Shang
Chiao
Huang Chung
Ta Li
T'ai Ts't
Chia Chung
Kung
Kung 8vo.
Fan
Fan Syo.
Ssu
E
Wu
F
I
F sharp
I 8vo.
G
Ku Hsi
Ho
Ch'ing Chiao
Chung Lũ
Liu
Shang
Shang 8vo.
G sharp
A
Pien Chih
Pien Chih
Jui Pin
Ssu
Ch'e
A sharp
Chih
Yü
Ch'ing Pien Chih
Chih
Ch'ing Chih
Yü
Lin Chung
Wu
ITsê
I
Ch'o 8vo.
Kung
B
C
Nan Lü
I 8vo.
WuI
Pien Kung
Ch'ing Yü
Pien Kung
Ch'ing Plen Kung
Ying Chung
Pan Huang Chung
Pan Ta Lü
Shang
Shang 8vo.
Ch'e
Kung Svo.
Fan
Fan Svo.
Ho
C sharp
D
D sharp
E
Ch'e 8vo.
Liu
F

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
137
The approximate English equivalents for the Lü Lü
notes have been added. In the original the notes are printed
in five concentric circles, of which the outermost [our left
hand column] is fixed, and the rest are on a revolving piece
of paper so as to illustrate the transposition of the
Wu Yin. In transposing, the following curious rule is
observed, as an attempt perhaps to overcome the difficulty
of making a scale of fourteen notes [or seven tones]
correspond with one of twelve:-To find the true Lü Lü
equivalent of the Wu Yin note that stands opposite the
upper Huang Chung or Ta Lü, go down one octave and two
notes. Thus when the scale in the above table is printed
on another page, Pien Kung [opposite Pan Huang Chung in
our table] becomes Wu I-two notes below the lower
Huang Chung; or if Kung were Nan Lü, Chiao, opposite
Pan Ta Lu, would become Ying Chung, two notes below the
lower Ta Lü. And the identification of the notes for the
flutes Hsiao and Ti, with the Wu Yin is scarcely more
successful, although, by good fortune, the two scales
concerned have the same number of notes and so get round
the circle more comfortably together. It is hard to be sure
whether the notes such as Ching Kung, Wu, Fan Svo., are
the octaves or the sharps of Kung, Ssu, Fan; but they are
printed in the way usually taken to indicate octaves.
The note of the first hole of both Hsiao and Ti is [or was]
called Kung I, but the pitch of the Hsiao is a fifth
below that of the Ti, so that when the music for the Ti in the
Confucian music books is written a fourth above that for the
Hsiuo, the two instruments sound in octaves or unison. The
scales of the modern ritual Hsiao and Ti, as ascertained by the
Rev. F. W. Galpin, begin [with all holes closed] on D and A
respectively, so making Huang Chung in the above table
Van Aalst gives the same notes for the popular Hsiao and Ti.
10 †
Addit.
Notes

Addit.
Notes
138
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
equivalent to E. In Wen Miao Yo Shu the Hsiao and Ti are of
one pitch, the first hole being narked TAI TSU on each,
and, on the Ti, Ssu as well. If, as is possible, this book
follows Tsai Yü in making Huang Chung = D, this shows that
the pitch of the Hsiao has not changed since the seventeenth
century, and that Huang Chung has been raised from D to E
in the present dynasty. In considering the names of the notes
of the Ti, it should be observed that the Ssu hole gives
probably the same note in Wen Miao Yo Shu as in Lü Lü
Cheng I, viz. E, though it represents T'ai Ts'u in the former,
and Huang Chung in the latter, and is the first hole of the older
instrument and the fourth of the later.
When it is remembered that the Lu Lu Chéng I represents
the authorized system of classical music for this dynasty, it is
not surprising that the modern Chinese look on the ancient
scales as a perplexing subject.
C
The Seven Tiao or Keys of the Ti.
笛譜七調
The following table is said to be copied from a book
for the Ti tzu player in the theatre music called Kun
Chiang崑腔
The Kun Chiang music is said to date from the eighth
century of our era, and it will be noticed that the notes I and
Fan are marked as not used, and that the Wu Yin scale begins
in each key on Shang instead of on Ho. There is nothing in
the original table to indicate the use of sharps or flats, but it is
probable that each scale is intended to have the ordinary
intervals of the Wu Yin, and this is confirmed by the scales for
the Pi P'a and for the Chin. The keys given in the Chinese

字
四五
合六
凡
G #
E
D
C#
B
A
乙
四五 合六
T
R
上
(J)
乙
CHINESR MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
四五
工
上
各
乙 四五
四五合六
節
ci
This table I owe to the kindness of Mr. Ching of Nanking.
7.
六
六 民
G
台
四五
139

Addit.
Notes
140
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
diagram above are: 1. Cheng kung; commonly called
Cheng. Kung ought perhaps to be written. Ch'e is the
note got with all the holes closed. 2. I teй; ch'e is got by
opening the first hole. 3. Shang tzu.
kung; very commonly called fan
4. Ch'é tzn. 5. Hsiao
kung or simply fan
Fan or hsiao are probably added to distinguish this key from
Cheng kung. Fan kung and chéng kung seem to be the
commonest keys in ordinary use. 6. Fan tzu. 7. Liu tzu;
ché is got by opening all sia holes.
I and Liu, the second and seventh names above, seem not
to be notes, but numerals-one, and six-describing the number
of holes to be opened to produce ch'e. The names of the four
intervening keys seem to be due to the coincidence that there
are four numbers between one and six, and four notes between
i and liu in the scale.
From a comparison of the above with the Pi Pia Piu
[a book of music for the Pi P'a], which however only uses
numbers 1, 4, 7, and probably 5, it seems possible that the
seven keys correspond to the Western keys beginning on the
seven natural notes in the following order G. A. B. C. D. E. F.
This is exactly the
A, Ilo is D, and the
On the Sheng also
In Wen Miao Yo Shu, Ho seems to be a fixed equivalent
for Huang Chung [D], and the Wu Yin scale begins
on Shang [G]; [see p. 170 ff.]
same as Chéng Tiao where Ch'e is
actual scale begins on Shang, G.
[III. B. b. 2.] the Western scale begins with the pipe
marked Shang. Van Aalst says on p. 16 of his book that
the notes I and Fan were omitted in the Ming dynasty.
This would produce a scale with the groups of two and of three
notes of the Wu Yin scale reversed, or, the Wu Yin scale
beginning on Shang, and the omission of I may have given
rise to the habit of beginning the scale whether Wu Yin
or Western, on Shang. The scales for the Ti tzu seem

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
141
Notes
intended to be all on the same plan, so that the Western scale Addit.
would begin in each case on Shang. Another explanation of
this arrangement is perhaps to be found in the fact that the
notes of the six holes of the Ti tzu have the same names as
those of the six holes of the Hsiao, although the pitch of the two
instruments differs by a fifth, as is shown on p. 137. Thus
the note Shang on the Ti tzu is called Ho or Liu on the Hsiao,
and it may be that the scales were first defined with reference
to the Hsiao, which was the official flute of the Mongol dynasty,
or some similar instrument. The use of the names Ho, Ssu, I,
etc. as names of the holes of the Ti irrespective of the actual
pitch of the notes, or, in a sense, of their position in the scale,
should be noticed.
Tsai Yü [Vol. VI. f. 20, sqq.] gives a number of tunes to
songs from the Book of Odes. The first twelve of these are in
a key called Huang Chung Chih Tiao, and begin and end on
Lin Chung [A], while the remainder are written in Huang
Chung Chiao Tiao, and begin and end on Ku Hsi [F sharp].
The first set use the notes D, F sharp, G sharp, A, B, C sharp,
and the second D, F sharp, G sharp, B, C sharp. This shows
two ways of treating the ancient diatonic scale which produce
to western ears something of the effect of a major key and its
relative minor-though it is true that the minor third is little
used in the second set of tunes.
D
Music in the Theatre.
There seems to be some uncertainty about the original
nature of the Kun-Chiang [Note C. above], as play-acting
is supposed to have been introduced by the Mongols in the
thirteenth or fourteenth century. But Ming-Huang of the
Tang dynasty, who reigned from 713 to 756, is undoubtedly

Addit.
Notes
142
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
looked upon as the patron of actors, who are still called Li-
Yuan Hang from the name of the old imperial
garden at Chang-An, in which he built a school for training
actors. And it was he who, in a dream, saw fairies in the
moon with rainbow skirts and feather jackets, acting and
singing; and when he awoke he wrote down the music which
he had heard, giving it the name of Kun Chiang, and taught
it to his actors. And though the music is difficult and
not very popular, every actor is supposed to learn it to
this day.
The music used in the theatres is perhaps the most
important branch of Chinese music, and at the same time
it is the most difficult to get a clear idea of. A considerable
part of the majority of plays is sung, and an experienced
native would have no hesitation in naming the tune which
was being used on any occasion. For it seems that special
music is by no means always composed for a new play, but
many plays are sung to the same tune which will be one of
the traditional tunes¹ known by the actors. The choice of
tune is no doubt limited by the nature of the piece; it is said
that Erh Huang Fan Tiao for example, would never be used
for a comedy. Of all the tunes, Erh Huang is now perhaps
the most popular, at least with Pekingese actors. This tune, as
its 'hame, the two Huang, implies, seems to have come from the
neighbourhood of two places in Hupeh, whose names include
the word Huang. There are now many varieties of Erh
Huang distinguished in different ways, such as by their time,
or tempo, or key. It is said that these are all derived from
the true Erh Huang, but the variations are so great that only
an expert can recognize their connexion with the original
tune. Further than this it appears that each actor has full
Of tunes accompanied on the Hu Ch'in, the commonest are Erh
Huang二黄 Hsi Pi 西皮, and Pang Tzu 梆子.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
143
Notes
liberty to vary and embellish the particular tune which he is Addit.
singing provided that he keep within certain limits. What
these limits are is not very clear, but it seems that, for one
thing, the time of the piece must be strictly adhered to; while
the fact that the singing is accompanied by the Hu Ch'in or
some other instrument makes it likely that there is at least
a sort of skeleton tune which runs through the whole
performance. This impromptu variation of tunes [comparable
perhaps to the variations introduced into recitative by some
European singers] is one of the tests of good singing, and the
great actor Sun Chou-Hsien is famous for his brilliant and
original treatment of familiar themes. What has been said
about the variations of Erh Huang will apply, as far as it is
right, to other tunes as well.
Another point which seems to be more or less clear
is that each tune has its proper key and is not as a
rule transposed. A Chinese gentleman thoroughly familiar
with theatre music seemed to consider the difference of pitch
as one of the most important distinctions between one tune
and another; and the difference of pitch was ascribed to the
difference of key-a fact which may suggest that Chinese
tunes are confined within a limited number of notes for
each key, as is the case with tunes in the Gregorian
modes.
The Kun Chiang is said to be published in a book of
about forty volumes. The more popular tunes, of which
every actor, as has been seen, has his own version, are
not written down. The instrumental interludes and the
accompaniments are of more fixed form and can be written.
A prominent feature of the instrumental parts is the constant
repetition of a short phrase easily remembered and often of
considerable beauty.

Addit.
Notes
144
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
E
Mr. Wead in a Paper entitled Contributions to the History
of Musical Scales, [Washington, 1902] gives the following
rule: "The primary principle in the making of musical
instruments that yield a scale is the repetition of elements
similar to the eye; the size, number and location of these
elements being dependent on the size of the hand and the
digital expertness of the performer." In establishing this
rule Mr. Wead discusses stringed instruments with frets;
flutes, including reed instruments; and especially resonators;
showing that originally scales were derived from instruments,
and instruments not designed to give certain known scales:-
the positions of frets and finger-holes, and the lengths of
strings and pipes being fixed first with a view to their artistic
appearance. The following arrangements of the above elements
are given:-1. Frets evenly spaced along the finger-board;
2. Frets divided into groups and evenly spaced within the
limits of a group; 3. Finger-hole on flutes evenly spaced;
4. Finger-holes divided into two groups, each of three evenly
spaced holes; 5. Finger-holes on resonators symmetrically
arranged, in squares, triangles, etc.
The Chinese seem to have had a theoretic scale from an
early date and to have made their instruments to conform to
it. Mr. Wead dismisses this scale with "the Chinese cycle
of fifths must be explained and determined on entirely different
physical principles." Nevertheless it may not be uninteresting
to examine Chinese instruments in the light of Mr. Wead's
remarks. First one may notice that ornament is now rarely
applied to any extent to instruments in China. The lacquer
and gilt of the ritual instruments is applied to them in
common with the stands, tables, etc., which are used in the
State services and is not an original or essential feature. Of

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
145
the five arrangements of frets and holes given above, 2. is
found on the Pi P'a, 3. on the Ti tzu, etc., 4. perhaps on the
ancient Ch'ih, and 5. on the Hsüan before the seventeenth
century. Symmetrical arrangement of parts may be seen in
the pipes of the P'ai Hsiao and Shéng, the strings of the Yang
Ch'in, and the 'frets' of the Ch'in. These last, as M. Mahillon
shows, do not give the theoretic Chinese scale and their
arrangement is curious. The middle point bisects the strings,
and the other twelve points are arranged symmetrically with
a group of two and a group of four points on either side of
the middle. There is no even spacing either in the whole
series or in the groups. Amiot says the groups are designed
to give the series 1, 2, 4. The middle point and the third
and sixth from it in either direction may be got by bisection.
See Plate V.
The modern Chih [Plate III, Fig. 5], is remarkable
for the spacing of the finger-holes roughly conforming to the
principle that the holes for the lower notes should be further
apart than those for the higher notes. As made from the
Sung dynasty till the seventeenth century it had the further
peculiarity of having one finger-hole smaller than the others.
In flutes like the Ti tzu the enlargement of the intervals as
the scale rises, which would seem to be the natural result of
the evenly spaced holes, is probably corrected by the propor-
tionately increased length of pipe below the successive holes.
Addit.
Notes
F
On the List of Instruments contained in the Wen Hsien Tung
Kao, an Encyclopedia compiled by Ma Tuan
linc. A.D. MCCC.
This list of ancient and mediæval instruments contains
more than four hundred names, but of this number a few are

Addit.
Notes
146
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
names of frames or stands or of methods of playing, while
many more are names of famous individual specimens known
in legend or history, so that the number of different kinds of
instrument described is not so great as at first appears. The
instruments are classified under the Eight Sounds, with an
extra Miscellaneous class, and each Sound is divided into
Classical [Ya E, Foreign [Hu], and Popular [Su ].
The defects of the list are the absence of pictures, the
vagueness of the descriptions-very often no description is
given at all-and the difficulty in finding out if an instrument
was still in use when the book was written. The list is
nevertheless of considerable interest and the following extracts
from notes made in looking rapidly through it may help to
illustrate some points connected with instruments of the
present day, and also to give some idea of the state of Chinese
music in the fourteenth century. I have used 'modern' below
always with reference to the fourteenth century, not to the
twentieth.
METAL金
Classical.
Nothing specially noteworthy.
Foreign.
The Fang Hsiang apparently still existed. It
consisted of sixteen pieces of iron hung in a frame. Each
piece was '8 inches long by 2 inches wide, round above,
square below. Cymbals [Cheng Tung Po Eare
mentioned as from Nan Chi, Hsi Jung and other foreign
countries. The brass horn []] of Kao Chang was like a
cow's horn; next to it is the dragon's head horn, cp. III. C. 4.

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
147
Popular.
Here among many interesting instruments [some of
fantastic shape or prodigious size] we may notice Feng To
bell hung from the eaves of pagodas; Tung Pol
, apparently the Buddhist bowl [I. B. 3. (1)]; two
instruments called Chêng not described; an iron flute
[T'ich Ti], a common instrument, the date of whose
origin was unknown; and an iron reed [T'ich Huang,
'a reed of thin iron fixed with wax.'
Bell chimes [Pien Chung] appear under both Foreign
and Popular instruments. It is noticeable that no bell
ancient or modern is called Ling, though one is described
as 'like a Ling.
STONE 石
Classical Foreign: Popular.
Here besides stone gongs [Ch'ing I. B. 2.] we find stone
drum, Ch'in, flutes, organ, panpipes, and Fang Hsiang.
CLAY 土
Classical Foreign: Popular.
Under Seven hole Hsuan [L] we read that the
ancient Hsüan had six square holes, produced the six lu
[diatonic scale] and had a 'middle sound.' 'The old Hsüan
A contemporary allusion to this instrument is perhaps to be found in
Marco Polo's statement that "each guard [in Hangchow] is provided with
a hollow instrument of wood [see under Yü Pang] and with a metal basin.
and with a time-keeper to enable them to know the hour of the day or
night. And so when one hour of the night is past the sentry strikes one on
the wooden instrument and on the basin, so that the whole quarter of the
city is made aware that one hour of the night is gone."-The book of Ser
Marco Polo [1903] vol. II. p. 187. The watchman of the present day has a
hollow bamboo instrument and a gong.
Addit.
Notes

Addit.
Notes
148
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
now kept by the T'ai Yüeh has seven holes, upper and lower
all round.' The Isüan should be lacquered earth colour, i.e.
reddish yellow. The Shui Chan is described as a
modern instrument consisting of nine cups [probably contain-
ing different quantities of water], struck with a stick. The
Chi Jang was made of wood [!], like an inverted jar,
about 1 foot high.
It was then a toy, but in the days of Yao
and Shun had been a classical instrument.
SKIN 革
Classical: Foreign.
The chief thing to notice is that a few drums are described
as tuned to certain notes. Thus the Chieh Ku [?'deer
skin drum] of Kao Ch'ang and India was tuned to t'ai ts'u.
The Chang Ku 杖鼓 [called also Wei 魏, Hsiang 相,Hsi
Yao thin-waisted,' Chêng E, or Ho seems to be
the Chang Ku [II. B. 1.] of the present day. It is not stated to
have been tuned, but the Fang Ku [a popular drum],
tuned huang chung, is described as like the Chang ku. The
body of the Chang ku, if large, was made of clay, if small, of
wood.
Popular.
The Fang Ku has been already noticed. The Huang
Chung Ku
for the winter solstice, may also have
been tuned, though the fact is not stated. The Tang Ku
has the note: Originally inside the Hall was the Po Fu
[II. A. 6. (3)], but no Ku; in later times this drum has been
used inside the Hall.' This may explain the common writing
of the name [Hall drum'] at the present day. At the
end of this section comes a horn [f] green, red, or black,

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
149
described as a conical tube 5 feet long made of wood,
bamboo, or leather, and used in the Emperor's train.
SILK 絲
Classical.
Nothing but varieties of ch'in and she. The seven
stringed ch'in is declared to be the true ancient instrument.
Foreign.
Under Hu Ch'in is the obscure note: The ch'in is one,
the distinction is that of Chinese and foreign.' No bow is
mentioned. Next comes Isi Ch'in with two strings,
'It is also
between which a slip of bamboo is put as a bow.
used by the [Chinese] people.' This looks like the embryo of
the Ilu Ch'in [IV. B. c. §§.] of our own times. The Gourd
Ch'in from Fu Nan and India may be the original of
the Hu Hu or Ti Ch'in [IV. B. c. §§. 2.], but again no bow
is mentioned. The lutes or guitars are very hard to identify
with the instruments we now know. The Tsou Pi P'a
was used on horse-back. It had a round body, a straight
neck, four strings and twelve frets. Round applied to the body
may describe the curved belly of the Pi P'a of the present
day, and does not necessarily mean circular. The common
Ch'in Han Pi P'a had four strings and four frets
[ke ]; the four open notes and twelve [sic] stopped notes
make altogether twenty.' Under the same heading we learn
that the Hsien Tao had a round body, a long neck like the Pi
P'a but smaller, and twelve frets [E], but differed in
having no sound-hole [eye ]. There seems to be no
reason except the long neck' why these two instruments
should not be respectively the Japanese Biwa and the Pi Pa
[IV. B. a. §§. 3. (1)] as we now know it. The snakeskin
11
Addit.
Notes

Addit.
Notes
150
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Pi P'a may be the Hsien tzn [IV. B. a. §§. 4].
The Pi P'a are divided into straight-necked and curved-
necked. Three Chéng from Corea are described. They had
twelve frets, and are perhaps the thing like a Ch'in with frets,
which is still used in that country.
The sculptures of the Chu Yung Kuan [a gateway in the
Great Wall, A.D. 1345] show a six-stringed Pi P'a with
sound-holes and apparently without frets, but otherwise of
the modern shape. See Chinese Art by S. W. Bushell, vol. I,
fig. 24.
A fifteenth century painting in the British Museum
shows a four-stringed Pi Pa with sound-holes and frets:
ib. vol II, fig. 131.
Popular.
The Yueh Ch'in was like the Pi P'a,' with round
body, long neck, four [or later, five] strings, and thirteen frets.
A monochord of the Wei dynasty is mentioned. There is
nothing like the Yang Chin; but there are two or three
instruments played with hammers. The Chi Chin had
five strings stretched on a bamboo pipe and struck with a
bamboo hammer. The Chi Chu was rather like the
Cheng' and had a chromatic scale like the Cheng, but that was
played with the fingers and this struck with a hammer [j].
The body was curved and 42 inches long; the neck thin and
4 inches long; the head 7 inches long, 6 inches wide.
There were thirteen strings. The left hand managed the frets,
the right hand held a bamboo foot-rule [R] to strike the
strings with.
GOURD 匏
Classical.
Modern organs are described as having nineteen pipes.
The scale given is hard to understand, but it is elsewhere said
to have been chromatic. In the Sung dynasty an ancient

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
151
organ [Y] was found with pipes but without reeds, the
series of pipes irregular, and also a curved neck, and all with
phoenix ornament.' Huang was an instrument originally
with bamboo reeds, but now the people use reeds of iron leaf.'
Foreign.
The Lich
was shaped like a small bell and
rubbed by the hands. It was like the Huang, but without a
mouth-piece.' Perhaps the Jews harp?
Popular.
The I Kuan Sheng had two pipes and seventeen
reeds. 'The surviving Sung dynasty Sheng all have seventeen
reeds.' Ch'iu was a pipe giving the sound ch'iu ch'iu, used
by hawkers: the same effect can be produced with the fingers.'
Chi Chu were two slips of bamboo several inches long,
clapped together in the hand to beat time. It seems as if this
last must be wrongly classified.
BAMBOO 竹
Classical.
Under Twe gather that the Kuan and Ti were much
alike [see under III. A. b. 2.]. The Han dynasty Ya Ti had
seven holes so that it gave the full scale. Tsai Yung 蔡邕
says that the Ti was 1 foot long, 1 inch round [? diameter],
open [as opposed to the Kuan, which is said to have been
stopped], and with finger-holes; now the Kuan and Ti have
one rule. A Han dynasty Ti gave the note Shang with
the back hole; the same hole of the Chin dynasty instrument
gave Chiao. The official Ti of the period was the Tung Hsiao
[III. A. a. 2. (3)] of the present time. The method of
producing the chromatic scale is given. The leading note'
is got by opening holes 3 and 6, the octave by opening 6.
'By having a second pipe tuned to Ying Chung the whole scale
Addit.
Notes

Addit.
Notes
152
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
is got on two pipes, but the modern plan of using half notes
[half opened holes] gets it all on one.' Under Chih we find
that Chen Shih calls it a stopped Ti.' There was no fixed
size. The first hole was at the end, the next four in front, the
sixth at the back. The blow-hole of the Chih is like a sour
jujube. The scale is: 1st hole open, t'ai ts'u, half open, ta
l; 2nd open, ku hsi, half open, chia chung; 3rd open, jui pin,
half open, chung lü; 4th open, lin chung; 5th open, nan lü,
half open, its; all holes open ying chung, half open, wu i.
Huang chung, ta lü, t'ai ts'u, and chia chung will all give their
octaves if blown' 'whistlingly.'
Foreign.
The Pieh Li [III. B. a. 1. (2)] was evidently common.
[At an earlier date it had been freely used in State services.]
It gave wu, fan, kung, ch'e, shang, i, ssu, liu, kou, ho, ten
All Pan pipes handed down from the T'ang dynasty
notes.'
Three military horns are named.
The
described than in other books. The
was a leaf rolled up, used by
have eighteen pipes.'
Hu Chia is not better
modern Ch'ui Pien
cowherds and children. The Chiang Tior Hu Ti
had four [or five] holes, and was said in recent books to be
The Hêng Chui was
or Lung Ching Ti
the original of the small Chih.
like the Ti. The Lung Tou
was a transverse flute with eight holes, used in China; and
was possibly the Ti tzu [III. A. b. 2. (1)]. The I Tsui Ti
[see III. A. b. 2. (1)] came from Hsi Liang and was also used
in Corea.
Popular.
Pan-pipes with 24, 23, 21, 17, 16, 13, and 12 pipes are
mentioned. Of these the Yen Yüeh Hsiao
with
21 pipes was a common modern instrument. Three
kinds of Ku Chui Hsiao [i.e. pipes used by
the bands hired for funerals, etc.] with 12 or 13 pipes

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
153
were used. Under Sung Hsiao it says that an
instrument was in use with 16 stopped pipes, of which
4 were not used, 5 or 6 inches long. The seven hole Yo
giving the two pien notes is a modern popular instrument'.
Under Chi Hsing Kuan is the note:-The Tang
dynasty seven stars pipe is the old Chang Ti
Kung Chén Kuan, a six-hole flute of the Sung
dynasty appears to have had finger-holes on either side of the
blow-hole like Tsai Ya's ancient Chih [see III. A. b. 1.].
The pipe was 9 inches long, tuned to huang chung, with six
holes, four on the left two on the right (...
.' The
.
左右兩竅左[v.1. 在] 右. A good scholar confidently
read 在左 for the first 左右). Under Hsiao Kuan 籠管
we read: The rules of the Hsiao Kuan are-six holes, at
the side one hole covered with membrane [chu mo ], the
scale begins on huang chung. Also called Chih Pa Kuan
RA or Shu Ti [vertical flute], or Chung Kuan
Chih Pa ['18 inches'] refers to the length.
The fashion of the Shu Ti is like the Ti. What the people now
call Hsiao Kuan is not the ancient Hsiao or Kuan [or
'ancient Hsiao Kuan'].' This is the only mention of membrane
noticed. The instrument in question was not the Feng Huang
Hsiao and may have been a whistle. Two or three flutes are
described as only 9 or 10 inches long; one at least was as
much as 42 inches. The Shuang Feng Kuan
was a
double pipe At the ends of the pipes are two reeds to form
the head.' Each pipe had four holes, the left pipe giving the
notes huang chung to chung lü, the right pipe giving jui pin
to ying chung. Another double pipe seems to have had one
pipe tuned a semitone above the other. The Tai Ping
Kuan, unlike the T'ai Ping Hsiao of the present
day, was a reed instrument. It had nine holes and was like
1 Ch'i Hsing-The seven stars: the Great Bear.
Addit.
Notes

154
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Addit.
Notes
the Po Hsi Kuan
which was like the Ti. These
reeds were no doubt double reeds, the single reed being probably,
Mr. Galpin informs me, a much later importation.
WOOD 木
Classical.
The Chung Tu was made of bamboo, 5 or 6 inches
in diameter, 7 feet long. The shorter variety was 1 or 2 feet
long. It was held in both hands and struck against the
ground. The Ying was 65 inches long, like a square
barrel with a hammer fixed to the bottom. It was
painted black inside and red outside, and was used to
answer the Chu [I.A. 1]. The Ya E was 56 inches long,
had a large mouth and was bound with thongs of sheepskin
with two knots. All three instruments were used to beat
time. These instruments were apparently obsolete, but there
is no allusion to the clappers now called Ch'ung Tu [I. A. 3
(1)]. A note in the Chou Li under Chung Tu confuses the
matter further by speaking of blowing [, the word used of
wind instruments].
Popular.
Pai Pan [I. A. 5] of nine and of six pieces are mentioned,
none of less than six. The wooden hammers for striking bells,
etc. are called Chuang Mu and should be carved in the
shape of a whale.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Fan Chu, the conch, was used by the Nan Man;
and for Buddhist [] music together with cymbals; and also
by soldiers. Ku Kuan was a pipe made of a sheep's
bone, with no finger-holes, and used for the Wei Hsü
ceremony. The modern bands have and set out the

CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
155
instrument, but do not play it, using the Pieh Li in its
place.' The Peach-skin Kuan or Pich Li was a
peach-skin rolled up and blown. It was anciently called
Kuan Mu and came from Kao Chang and Nan Man.
The sound was like that of the Kuan, Chia, or Héng Ch'ui.
'It survives in the modern bands.' The Hsiao Yeh was
a leaf held in the mouth. Orange or pomelo leaves were used,
evidently just as we use lime leaves in England. The leaf of
a reed, rolled up like the Chia, was also used.
The list ends with the technical names for the parts of the
ornamental frames on which bells, gongs, and other instruments
are hung.
Addit.
Notes
To I. B.-1. (5) CHIN KU add-Gongs bearing a
general resemblance to the above are made in the independent
Shan states in Yünnan. The rim is turned over at a sharp
angle and the knob is very prominent, but the rest of the
surface is more flat than in the Chin Ku. The measurements
of one of a commonly used size are:-diameter 8.5 inches;
diameter of central boss 2.25 inches; depth of boss 1.75
inches; width of rim 1.5 inches. Larger specimens measure
11 inches in diameter. Unlike the Chin Ku these gongs are
famous for their far-carrying sound, and are for that reason
much used by the Chinese Mohammedan mule drivers in the
mountains of Yünnan. A man with a gong goes in front of
each string of mules to give warning of their approach where
the road bends or is too narrow to allow two mules to pass.
Very long strings of mules are followed as well as led by a
gong.
To II. A.-3. YÜ KU add:- Yü Ku and Chien Pan
are the symbols of one of the Eight Genii [1].

156
INDEX.
INDEX OF INSTRUMENTS.
[F refers to Additional Note F.]
Eolian harp
Ah Tu
Ao Yü
Bells
Brass horn
Castanets...
Cha Chino
Ch'a
Chan Ku
Chang Ku
Ch'ang Hsiao
Chiang Ti
Ch'e Ling
Chêng
Chêng Ku
IV. A. 2.
III. C. 3.
... I. A. 6. (9).
I. B. 4., 5.
F. metal. f.
I. A. 5.
III. C. 2. (3).
Chien tzu
Ch'ih
Chih Pa Kuan
Chin Kang Tui
Chin Ku...
Ch'in
...
...
III. C. 2. (2).
III. A. b. 1., F. bamboo. c.
F. bamboo. p.
... IV. B. a. §§ 3. (2).
... I. B. 1. (5), II. A. G. (1).
IV. B. a. § 1., F. stone, silk. c.
Ch'in Han Pi Pa
Ching Hu
Ch'ing
Ch'iu
... I. A. 8. (1).
II. A. G. (6).
Chu
Ch'u
II. B. 1., F. skin.f.
III. A. a. 2. (3).
III. A. a. 2. (3), F. bamboo. p.
III. A. a. 2. (6).
IV. B. a. § 3., F. metal. p.
Chông Trung Po
Chi
Chi Chin
Chi Chu
Chi Jang...
Chi Na
Ch'i Ch'in
***
F. skin. f.
.F. metal. f.
... I. B. 3. (2).
F. silk. p.
F. silk. p., gourd. p.
F. clay. p.
III. B. a. 3. (2).
IV. B. c. §§ 1. (4).
F. bamboo. p.
III. B. a. 1. (3), F. misc.
III. B. a. 1. (2).
III. A. b. 2. (1), F. bamboo. f.
Chi Hsing Kuan
Chia
Chia Kuan
Chiang Ti
Chieh Ku
Chien Ku
Chien Pan
...
Ch'uan Ling
Ch‘ui Chi ếch
Chui Pien
Ch'un Kuan
Chung
Chung Kuan
Ch'ung Tu
Clappers
Cymbals
...
...
Drums
Drum (blind man's)
"
33
(cavalry)
(Lama)
Dulcimer
F. silk. f.
IV. B. c. §§ 1. (1).
I. B. 3. (1), [I. B. 2.]
...
F. gourd. p.
I. A. 1., F. wood, c.
III. A. a. 3. (1).
***
1. A. 4. (5).
III. A. a. 4.
F. bamboo.f.
III. B. c. 1.
I. B. 4. (1).
F. bamboo. p.
I. A. 3. (1), F. wood, c.
I. A. 3.
I. A. 8.
Class II., F. stone, skin
... II. A. 5. (2).
II. A. 6. (7).
... II. A. 5. (4).
IV. B. b. 1.
F. skin.f.
II. A. 6. (2).
Erh Hsien
IV. B. c. §§ 2. (4).
Erh Hu...
IV. B. c. §§ 1. (3).
... I. A. 3. (3).
Erh Ku tzu
IV. B. c. §§ 1. (3).

157
F. miscellaneous.
...
...
II. A. 4. (2).
F. silk. f.
IV. B. a. §§ 4., [F. silk..]
I. A. 8. (2).
1. A. 6. (10).
III. A. a. 1., F. clay. p.
II. A. 6. (2).
...
I. B. 1. (6).
III. B. a. 1. (3), F. bamboo. f.
IV. B. c. §§ [F. silk..]
IV. B. a. §§ 3. (1), F. silk. f.
Fan Chi
Fang Hsiang
Fang Ku
Fei Ling
Fei Po
Fen Ku
Fộng Chống
Feng Ch'in
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
F. miscellaneous.
F. metal. ., stone.
Hsiao Yeh
Hsien Jen Ta Ku
Feng Hsiao
Feng Huang Hsiao
Feng Ling
...
F. skin. p.
III. A. a. 2. (6).
I. A. 8. (1).
II. A. 6. (1).
IV. A. 1. (1).
... IV. A. 1. (1).
III. A. a. 2. (1).
III. A. a. 2. (3).
I. B. 5. (4).
Hsien Tiao
Hsien Tzu
Hsing Erh
Isu Pan
Hsüan...
Hsuan Ku
Hsuan Tzu
Hu Chia
Hu Ch'in
Feng To
Flutes
I. B. 5. (4), F. metal. p.
III. A. a. b., F. stone, bamboo.
Hu Ch'in
Hu Hu
Fu Ku
...
II. A. 6. (3).
Hu Lu
Hu Po
Glass horn
Gongs
III. C. 5.
Hu Ti
...
Gourd Ch'in
Guitars...
1. B. 1., 2.
F. silk.f.
IV. B. a. §§
Ha Ma
II. A. 7.
III. C. 1.
III. C. 3.
Hai Lo
Hao
Hao
Hao Trung
Hêng Ch'ui
Hêng Ti
Ho Ku
Horns
Hsi Chin
Hsi Yao Ku
Hsiang Ch'ih
Isiang Ku
...
III. C. 2. (2), 2. (3).
...
III. C. 2. (1).
III. A. b. 1., 2., F. bamboo f.
III. A. b. 2. (1).
...
...III. C., F. metal. f. skin. p.
Hua Chiao
Hua Ku
Hua Mei Chiao Tzu
Hua Mei Shao Erh
Huan Tou
Huang
Huang Chung Ku
Hui Hu
Hun Pu Ssu
Huo Lang (Ku Erh)
F. skin. f.
I Kuan Sheng
I Tsui Ti
F. silk. f.
F. skin. f.
Jen's Harp
I. A. 6. (3).
...
I. B. 1. (10).
...
IV. B. c. §§ 2. (1).
III. A. a. 2. (4).
... IV. B. a. §§ 5.
***
...
F. bamboo. f.
III. B. a. 2.
II. A. 6. (4).
III. A. a. 3. (2).
III. A. a. 3. (2).
I. A. 7.
F. gourd. c.
F. skin. p.
IV. B. c. §§ 1. (2).
IV. B. a. §§ 3. (1).
II. A. 4. (1).
F. gourd. p.
III. A. b. 2. (1), F. bamboo. f.
... I. B. 6.
Hsiang Pan
Hsiao
...
F. skin. f.
III. A. a. 2. (3).
(ancient) III. A. a. 2. (1), [F. bamboo,
K'ai Ti
Kang T'ou
Kang Tung
Ko Ling
K'ou Ch'in
Ku Chui Hsiao
Hsino Ku
stone.]
II. A. 2. (4).
Ilsiao Kuan III. A. a. 2. (3), III. B. a. 1.
Ku Kuai
Hsiao Ti
(1), F. bamboo. p.
III. A. a. 3. (1).
Ku Kuai
Ku Kuan
12
III. B. a. 3. (2).
III. C. 2. (4).
III. C. 4.
III. A. a. 2. (4).
... I. B. 6.
F. bamboo. p.
III. B. b. 1.
III. A. a. 3. (3).
F. miscellaneous

158
Ku Ku Tang
Kuan
Kuan Mu...
Kuan (peach-skin)
Kuan (tzu).
INDEX.
III. end.
Piai Pan
Pan Hu
Pan Ku
III. A. b. 2., F. bamboo. c.
F. miscellaneous.
F. miscellaneous.
III. B. a. 1., (1).
I. A. 5., F. wood, p.
IV. B. c. §§ 1. (4).
II. A. 2. (1).
Pan-pipes...III. A. a. 2. (1), F. bamboo. f. p.
Pan Tang Ku
Pang
Pang Ku
Pang Tzu ...
Pang Tzu Hu Ch'in
Pang Tzň Ti
Kuan Tz...
Kung Chen Kuan
Khung Chứng
Kung Hou
... III. B. c. 1.
F. bamboo. p.
III. A. a. 2. (6).
IV. B. a. §. 2.
IV. B. c. §. 1.
Pao Ku
Pei Li
III. B. c. 1., 2., III. C. 2. (2).
III. C. 2. (3).
II. A. 6. (2).
Pao Chün Chih
...
Peng Ku
Pi (or Pieh) Li
La Ch'in
La Pa
La Pa
Lei Ku
Liang Ken Hsien Erh
Lieh Yü
IV. B. c. §§. 1. (3).
Lien Hua Lo
Ling
I. B. 5. (1)., [F. metal, 2.]
Ling Ku
II. A. 6. (2).
Ling Tang
Ling Tzu
I. B. 5. (5).
Pien Ch'ing
I. B. 1. (8).
F. gourd. f.
... I. A. 4. (3).
11
"
...
...
II. A. 2. (2).
I. A. 6. (4), (5), (6).
...
***
II. A. 2. (1).
I. A. 6. (1).
IV. B. c. §§. 2. (1).
III. A. B. 2. (2).
1. B. 1. (6).
11. A. 2. (2).
III. B. a. 1. (2).
II. A. 2. (1).
III. B. a. 1. (2).,
F. bamboo. f. misc.
(peach-skin) F. miscellaneous.
Pi Pia
Pi Pa (or P)
IV. B. a. §§. 3. (1).
IV. B. a. §§. 3. (1).
Liu Shéng
Lo...
Lo To Ling Tang
Lu Ku
Lung Ching Ti
III. B. b. 2. (2).
... I. B. 1. (3).
... I. B. 5. (2).
II. A. 6. (2).
F. bamboo. f.
Lung Tou Ti III. A. b. 2. (1)., F. bamboo.f.
Ma Ling
Mu Yü
Pien Chung
Po
...
Po Chung .
Po Fu
Po Hsi Kuan
Psaltery
...
I. B. 2. (2).
I. B. 4. (3).
I. A. 8. (1).
I. B. 4. (2).
11. A. 6. (3).
F. bamboo. p.
...
21
(bowed)
mechanically blown
IV. B. a. §.
IV. B. c. §.
I. A. 4.
III. B. a.
III. B. b.
III. B. end.
III. B. c.
III. B. d.
Man Tou Ku
I. B. 5. (3).
II. A. 2. (3).
Rattles
Reeds, double
Mien Hua Che Tzu
III. A. a. 3. (4). a.
"
Mi Ta Lang
Monochord
II. A. 4. (2).
F. silk. p.
... I. A. 6. (8).
free
ribbon
"
"
single
Nao
Nao Chin Chieh
... I. A. 8. (1).
I. A. 4. (4).
San Hsien
Shao Erh...
Shao Tzu
Pa Fang Ku
P'ai Hsiao...
II. A. 1.
Shê...
III. A. a. 2. (1). F. stone,
Shêng III. B. b. 2. (1)., F. stone,gourd. c. p.
III. A. a. 3. (3).
III. A. a. 2. (4).
IV. B. a. §. 2., F. silk. c.
III. B. b. 1.
bamboo.f, p.
Sheng Tzu
IV. B. a. §§. 4.

Shou Ch'iu
Shou Ku
CHINESE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
159
Shu Ti
Shuang Ch'in
I. A. 4. (7).
II. A. 5. (1).
F. bamboo. p.
IV. B. a. §§. 2.
Tieh Pan...
I. B. 1. (1).
Tich Ti
F. metal. p.
Tien Erh...
I. B. 1. (5).
Shuang Feng Kuan
...
Shuang Kuan
F. bamboo. p.
III. B. a. 1. (1).
Tien Ku
Tien Tzu
Tien Ku
II. A. 5. (3).
I. B. 1. (2).
Shui Chan
F. clay. p.
Shui Chiang
So Na
Sonorous stone
Sau Hu
Ssu Kên Hsien Erh
Ssu Pu Hsiang
Ta Hu Ch'in
Ta Kuan...
Ta Wang
T'ai Ping Hsiao
Tai Fing Kuan...
Tan Ch'in ...
Tan Hsian
Tan Kuan...
Tang Lo
Tang Lo
Tang Tzu ...
Tang Ku...
...
...
...
...
...
III. A. a. 3. (4). d.
III. B. a. 3. (1).
...
I. B. 2.
IV. B. c. §§. 1. (5).
IV. B. c. §§. 1. (5).
IV. B. a. §§. 3. (2).
IV. B. c. §§. 2. (3).
III. B. a. 1. (1).
III. C. 2. (4).
III. A. a. 3. (1).
F. bamboo. p.
IV. B. c. §§. 1. (1).
III. A. a. 2. (3).
III. B. a. 1. (1).
... I. B. 1. (7).
... I. B. 1. (5).
... I. B. 1. (4).
II. A. 6., (5)., F. skin. p.
Tao Ku
Te Ching
Tê Chung .
Ti...
III. A. a. 2. (3), 3. (1),
Tien Weng
To...
Tou Kuan...
Tsou Pi Pa
Tsu Ku
Tui Hsiao
Tung Hsiao
Tung Ch'ing
Tung Ku...
Violin
II. A. 6. (2).
III. A. a. 2. (6).
I. A. 6. (5).
III. B. a. 1. (1).
...
F. silk. f.
II. A. 6. (2).
... III. B. c. 1.
III. A. a. 2. (3), F. bamboo. c.
F. metal. p.
I. B. 1. (5).
IV. B. c. §§., [111. B. a. 1. (3).]
Wa Wa Erh
Wan Ch'in
Wan Hao Tou
Wan Hu
Wei Ku
Whistles
Whistle (nut-shell)
"
(T'ai An)
(tin)
Wood-drums
II. A. 4. (1).
I. B. 2. (1).
I. B. 4. (2).
III. A. b. 2. (1).
Ti (ancient)
Ya...
Ti Ko Tzu...
Ti Tzu
F. bamboo. c.
III. A. a. 2. (5).
Ya Ku
Ya Ti
III. A. b. 2. (1), III. B. a. 3. (2).
Ti Wang Niu
Ti Weng
***
...
...
III. B. a. 3. (1).
IV. B. c. §§. 2. (1).
III. C. 2. (3).
IV. B. c. §§. 2. (1).
...
F. skin. f.
III. A. a.
III. A. a. 2. (7).
III. A. a. 3. (4).
III. A. a. 3. (3), 4.
I. A. 6.
III. A. a. 2. (6).
III. A. a. 2. (5).
IV. B. c. §§. 2. (2).
... I. B. 1. (9).
F. metal. p.
Yang Chin
Yao Ch'in
Yao Ku
Yao Pien...
Yao Tang Ku
I. A. 3. (1), F. wood. c.
II. A. 6. (4).
III. A. b. end.
... IV. B. b. 1.
IV. A. 2.
II. A. 4. (1), 6. (4).
IV. A. 1. (2).
II. A. 4. (1).
Ti Ch'in
Ti Tang
Tich Huang
Yen Ma
... I. A. 4. (S).
Tieh Ma...
I. A. 4. (8).
Yen Yuch Hsiao
F. bamboo. p.
Tieh Pai...
I. B. 1. (1).
Yin Ching
... I. B. 3. (2).

160
INDEX.
II. A. 3.
I. A. 6. (7).
II. A. 3.
IV. B. a. §§. 1., [F. silk. p.]
III. A. a. 2. (3).
I. B. 1. (11).
I. B. 2. (2).
Ying
Ying Ku
I. A. 3. (1), F. wood. c.
Yo
Yo (seren-hole)
Yü...
Yii ...
Yü K'o
II. A. 6. (2).
III. A. a. 2. (2).
F. bamboo. p.
I. A. 2.
F. gourd. c.
I. A. 4. (8).
Yü Ku
Yü Pang
Yü Tung...
Yüch Ch'in
Yün Hsiao
Yün Lo
Yün Pan
...

NOTE ON THE ILLUSTRATIONS.
It has unfortunately been impossible to make the
illustrations all of one kind. There has not been time or
opportunity to make a complete set of measured drawings, and
on the other hand it would have been impossible to get
photographs of all the instruments shown in the first six Plates.
It is hoped that references in the text and the explanation
which accompanies each Plate will make the illustrations easy
to use in spite of some inevitable confusion in their
arrangement. The Frontispiece is enlarged from a photograph
by the Rev. R. Allen. Plates VIII [except the Hua mei
chiao tzu], IX, X [except 6], and XII are from photographs
most kindly taken for the Society by the Rev. F. W. Galpin
from specimens in his well-known collection. Plates VII,
X6, and XI are from the work of a native photographer in
the Mei Hua Pei at Hangchow. All the illustrations are
photographs or carefully measured drawings of actual
instruments with the exception of two or three models in
Plate XII, and some copies from native books in the first
six Plates.

Explanation of Plate I.
STONE GONGS.
1. Te Ching (modern shape.)
la. Pien Ch'ing (modern shape, see Plate XII.)
2. Pien Ch'ing (ancient shape, tuned to D; after Tsai Yü.)
3. Pien Ching (from Shao Hsing.)

Scale of Inches
Figs. 1a. 2.3.
2
Scale for Fig. 1. only.
Inches
2.
1.
3.
Plate I
I. B.
1,a.

Explanation of Plate II.
BELLS WITHOUT CLAPPERS.
1. Ancient Bell (after Tsai Yü.)
2.
Pien Chung (section, modern.)
3, 3. Pien Chung (Sung dynasty pattern.)
4. ? Pien Chung (from T'ai Ts'ang.)
The Scale does not apply to Fig. 1.

22000
220
Z
I. B.
Inches
3
on
2
↓
Plate II.

Explanation of Plate III.
1. Yo (vertical flute, after Tsai Yü.)
1a. Yo (not played, Ming dynasty pattern.)
2. Fêng Huang Hsiao (vertical flute with top closed.)
3. Tai Ping Hsiao (whistle.)
4.
Ti (ancient whistle, after Tsai Yü.)
5. Ch'ih (transverse flute, modern.)
6. Ch'ih (transverse flute, ancient, after Tsai Yü.)
7.
Ch'ih (transverse flute, after a Sung dynasty drawing.)
S. Ti tzu (transverse flute, modern.)
9. Pang tzu Ti (transverse flute, modern.)

8
III. A. a, b.
1a.from Wên Miao Yo Shu
שם
о
6
f
о
b
3.
4.
[OPEN]
9
1
2
3
4
5
a
S
Scale for1.2-6,8., 9..
R
12 inches
7 from Erh Ya T'u
1.
Plate III.
о
O

Explanation of Plate IV.
1, 2. Kuan (double reed with cylindrical pipe.)
3. Hu Chia (double reed, after a native drawing.)
4. Hua Chiao (? double reed, after a native drawing.)
5. Chi Na (double reed with conical pipe.)
6. Ch'un Kuan (single reed with cylindrical pipe, toy.)

III. B. a, c.
O
st
Scale for 1. 2.5.6.
0
2.
3.
5.
0
0
0
0
+
Plate IV.

Explanation of Plate V.
Ch'in (horizontal psaltery, views of upper and under sides and
broad end.)

e
4
0000000
b
b
Plate V.
i
S
α
INCHES
IV. B a.

1.
2.
3.
4.
Explanation of Plate VI.
Hu Po (guitar, perhaps Mongolian.)
La Ch'in (bowed psaltery, see Plate X.)
Ta Hu Chin (violin, perhaps Mongolian.)
Erh Hsien (violin, perhaps Mongolian.)

14 inches
1.
点
3.
4.
Ten pairs of strings
with bridge for each pair
AD
2.
Plate VI.
00
D
V. B. a, c.
13

Explanation of Plate VII.
1. Mu Yü (wood drum.)
2. Po (cymbals.)
3. Chin Ku (gong.)
4.
Lo (gong.)
5.
Pao Chin Chih (gong.)
6. Ling (bell with clapper.)
7. 7. Ma Ling (horse bells.)
8. Pang Ku (drum, properly with folding stand; see Plate XII.)
9. Tien Ku (drum.)
10. Tang Ku (drum.)
11. Tao Ku (rattle drum.)
The above are all from Hangchow.

10
2
PLATE VII.
4
11
8
5

Explanation of Plate VIII.
Below:-Hsian (clay resonator, front and back views, from Soochow.)
Top left-hand corner:-Hua Mei Chiao tzň (toy whistle, from
Shantung.)
Top right-hand corner:-Ku Kuai (toy with free reeds of bamboo, from
Nanking.)

PLATE VIII.

Explanation of Plate IX.
1.
Hao Tung (brass horn.)
2. Glass horn. From Shantung.
3. La Pa (brass horn.)
4.
Hao (brass horn. III. C. 3. From Mr. Galpin's collection.)
5. Cha Chiao (brass horn.)
1, 3, and 5, probably from the South, closely resemble specimens found
in Mid and North China.

5
3 2 1
PLATE IX.

Explanation of Plate X.
1. Yao Ch'in (kite harp. From Shanghai.)
2. Chêng (psaltery, strung with brass wire, with plectrum; see
Plate XI. ? Cantonese.)
3. Yüeh Ch'in (guitar, with plectrum.)
4.
Pi Pa (guitar, with 12 frets.)
5. Hsien tzu (guitar, with snake skin table.)
6. Yang Ch'in (dulcimer. From Hangchow.)
7. La Ch'in (bowed psaltery. From Peking.)
8. Hu Ch'in (Tan Ch'in).
9.
10.
13
(Ssů Hu).
(Hu Hu).
violins. See description of Cantonese
specimens pp. 125-126.
Excepting 1, 6, and 7, the above are probably from South China.

10
5
4
PLATE X.

Explanation of Plate XI.
1. Chêng (psaltery, with silk strings; see Plate X. From Hangchow.)
2. Hsien tzů (guitar.)
3. Pi Pa (guitar, with 10 frets.)
4. Hu Ch'in (Tan Ch'in.)
5.
"
(Erh Hu.)
violins.
6.
23
(Hu Hu.)
The above are all from Hangehow.

Z
3
5
K
PLATE XI.
2

Explanation of Plate XII.
At the top-P'ai Hsiao (panpipes. S.)
On rack below:-Chih (flute, pair. S.) As used at the Confucian
Hsiao (
17
Ti ( "
"
ceremonies.
To the left:-Ch'un Kuan (single reed. Sh.)
Shêng (free reed organ.)
Yin Ch'ing (cup-gong and beater, from Tien t'ai.)
Hua Ku (hand drum. H.)
To the right-Kuan (double reed.)
In centre and
Shéng (organ.)
Huan t'ou (barber's sign. P.)
Tao Ku (rattle drum.)
below:-Po Fu (drum on stand, small model. H.)
Mu Yü (wood drum.)
Chu (box on stand, small model. H.)
To the left:-Gong, with beater.
K'ung Chêng (whistling top. Sh.)
Gong, with broad flat beater (cf. Ti Tang.)
Ko Ling (pigeon whistles, one large two small. P.)
Pang (wood drum with stick attached.)
To the right:-Hsing êrh (pair of small bells. P.)
K'ung Chêng (top, with sticks and string. P.)
P'ai Pan (castanets).
Chung (bell without clapper, ancient pattern.)
Abore Bell:-Kang Tung (? Mongol horn. P.).
On bracket-Hsüan (clay resonators, 6 finger-holes, modern. S.)
Hsüan (ancient, with 5 finger-holes, model.)
On left hand
bracket: Yü (Wooden Tiger, small model, with beater full-size. H.)
Below Chu-Chang Ku (Drum, with braces. Sh.).
To the left:-Ching (stone gong, one of set of sixteen. From Anhui.)
To the right:-Man T'ou Ku (Loaf drum,' on folding stand.)
The locality of each instrument is generally marked, when known, with a
capital letter.-H.-Hangchow, P.= Peking, S.=Soochow, Sh.=Shanghai.

ww
PLATE XII.

Explanation of Plate XIII.
Reduced copy of part of a rubbing taken in 1907 from the sculptures
in the Hsiao Tzu Tang
in the district of Fei Cheng
in Shantung. The original of this piece measures 16 by 11 inches.
"A large two-horse chariot in front, with a canopy supported upon a
central pole mounted with dragons' heads, carries two drummers, beating a
leather drum with hanging bells of metal attached, and a band of four
musicians [below] with pandean pipes, besides the charioteer; reminding
one of the chariot which always accompanied the general to battle in olden
times, when, we are told, the drum was sounded for advance, the metal bells
as a signal for retreat."-Chinese Art vol. I. p. 37.
The sculptures are attributed to the first century before Christ.
The drum is perhaps the Kao, "a chariot drum used in war,"
which is mentioned in several ancient books.