THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
By THоs. W. KINGSMILL.
Dr. Legge in his Prolegomena to Vol V. of his great
work, The Chinese Classics, tells us, apropos of previous
statements of his regarding the supposed early Calendar of the
Chinese:-
"I take this opportunity to touch on another subject
which has often perplexed students of ancient Chinese
history-the different commencements of the year in the three
great ancient dynasties of Hea, Shang and Chow. According
to the representations of the scholars of the Han, and all
subsequent dynasties, the beginning of the year was changed
to signalise the new dynasty by an exercise of the royal
prerogative." He then proceeds to correct an error into
which he had fallen through too closely following the later
scholiasts in his translation of the Shu King, and goes on to
say:-
"If I were translating the Shoo-King afresh I should
feel compelled to cast about for another meaning for the
phrase in that passage (E).¹ In point of fact the
Chuntsëw seems to shew that the new commencement arose
from the necessity of error, which there was not sufficient
science to correct."
2 Shu, III. 2. 111. 百扈氏威五行,三正. There
is that chieftain of Hu, he despises the five elements, and takes not the
slightest care for the three regulating [terms].
1

2
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
As a matter of fact, our direct sources of information on
the ancient calendar of the Chinese, such as it was, are
confined to the twenty-sixth chapter of the Shi ki, the Lih shu
, one of a series of eight antiquarian essays inserted in
the Shi ki, though bearing strong internal evidence of having
been composed by another hand than Sze-ma Ts'ien's. Other
accounts have been taken at second-hand from this, and by
repeated copying have not only lost in definition, but have
picked up a mass of extraneous rubbish for which no authority
can be shown.
The Shi ki is, however, a work not in favour with the
ordinary "teacher," who much prefers to trust to the
scholiast, and take from him on trust these glosses. He finds,
indeed, a difficulty in grasping the language, and the meaning
of the original, often, and especially in this instance, far from
clear. Even Dr. Legge did not venture on carrying his
chronology beyond 775 B.C., yet it is characteristic of the
school to which he belonged that he was content, almost in
the same paragraph, to accept not only the so-called Hia, but
even to allow a place for the spurious Yin-Shang to be
interpolated.
His explanation, that even up to the close of the Cheos
there was not sufficient science to correct" the period of
the vernal equinox, otherwise than by the most empiric of
formulæ, may be accepted as a statement of fact.
Returning to our authority, the Lih shu, it is of interest
to discover what its author really did say, and how far it
may be made to support the claims of a high antiquity for
the Chinese computation of time. It begins, as Chinese
essays usually do, with general statements to which little
exception can be taken.
"By the ancients the calendar was first established in
order to correctly define the beginning of spring. That is

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
3
the period when, the ice of winter having melted, insects
begin to move, plants to germinate, and grain to put forth
shoots. Corresponding with this awakening of nature the
year was born in the east, and the seasons followed in regular
succession till they closed with the winter solstice. The
three cock-crows closed with the daylight; the twelve
watches ended with H.
"The [motions of the] sun and moon being determined,
there succeeded [the investigation of] light. Light indeed
was as the senior, darkness the junior; darkness and light
were correlated as female and male. Female and male
having been evoked, there succeeded the adjustment of the
[calendaric] commencement. The sun started on his course
towards the west, and light arose in the east; the moon
followed in the east and light spread to the west. But the
rules [adopted] were not in accordance with the celestial
movements, and were misunderstood by men. Thus there
was a source of error difficult to correct.
"The sovereigns of the Yih surname received the
appointment and felt called on to place affairs on a proper
basis, and correctly define the new year. They changed the
methods of observation and closely investigated the first
principles of the celestial movements, reverently accepting the
purpose of Heaven."
So ends the exordium; it does not pretend to be historical, and may be
taken for what it is worth as the first crude idea of a Chinese thinker as to
the movements of the celestial sphere. The language is excessively involved.
The narrative proceeds, and is given as quoted from Sze-ma Tsien under his
posthumous title of the Historiographer Kung, who, we are told related.
Shennung was the first to make any attempt [at a
calendar]. He was overshadowed by Hwangti, who made a
careful study of the movements of the celestial sphere, recog-
nised the five elements, fixed the periods of rest, and introduced
the intercalary month. It was at this period that the

4
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
ceremonies proper for the worship of heaven, earth and the
spiritual hosts, and the classification of material and spiritual
essences, were inaugurated. They were called the five media;
each had its appointed station and there was no confusion. The
common people had faith, the spiritual beings (1 i.e. Asuri)
had intelligence and ability; people and spirits were perfect
in their several spheres; each respected the other without
interference. In consequence the spiritual beings conde-
scended to rejoice in the welfare of mortals, and the people
enjoyed prosperity and were happy. Evil and misfortune
did not trouble them, and they did not fail in their
undertakings.
When Shaohao succeeded misfortunes arose; the Kiuli
(Kaulai) introduced confusion; the relations of the people
The Kaulai (Kiuli); the characters here are entirely phonetic,
the allusion being to the Kurus, a tribe of apparently Aryan affinities.
However that may be, Kurus certainly crossed into India with the Aryan
immigrants. Here they gave their name to the country North of Delhi,
the ancient Kurukshetra, the holy land of the Hindus. In the mystic
geography of the Vishnu Purana, the Bhadra is made to wash the flanks of
the country of the Uttara Kurus (further Kurus) on its way to the Northern
Ocean. Ptolemy describes the Kurus as divided into two clans, for we
must class as such the Ithaguri (Adhara-Kurus, lower Kurus) and the
Ottoro-Korra (Uttara-Kurus, upper Kurus) mentioned in his account of
Serica (i.e. T'sin-kwok); and this position, joined with the identity of the
phonetic, makes me associate the Kaulai, with the Kiangs of the later
language. The Kiang lay west of the ancient Chinese in Lungsi. Their
capital at a later period received the Chinese name of Ninghya.
the home of the
According to Indian legend, Kuru, the eponymous ancestor of the Kurus,
was a son of Çamvarna, and Çamvarna is but the analogue of Samwei
Sammiao; whither, in the Chinese myth,
they were driven by Wushun. The Chinese have always associated the
Kiangs and the Sammiao as the forerunners of the Tangutian tribes. In
Indian story Çambara was an aboriginal king who lived in an unplaced
kingdom called Udavraja, the "country into which the waters flow" which
we may compare with the great depression of Lake Lob. He believed
himself invulnerable, but Indra discovered him issuing from the mountains,
and cut his hosts to pieces, and ruined his cities. [See The Serica of
Ptolemy, Trans. xix., part II., p. 43, et seq.]

19.外交部藏書
ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
5
and the spirits were embarrassed, and affairs went adrift.
Misfortunes of all sorts prevailed, there was no limit to the
distress.
Then Chwan hu succeeded to the throne. He appointed
Ch'ung as regent of the South to look after the affairs of
heaven and regulate the spirits. He appointed also Li¹ as
regent of the Fire [star] to look after the affairs of earth and
regulate the people. He directed them to restore the ancient
usages, and to do away with the wranglings and troubles. To
the Kiuli succeeded the Sammiao, who adopted all their evil
practices.
These two rulers utterly repudiated their official duties;
they made their intercalations at wrong periods, the practices
of the first month were neglected, the records of Jupiter's
() periods were not kept, the calendaric calculations
were allowed to go adrift.
Yao corrected the backslidings of Ch'ang and Li, not
neglecting the ancient usages. He restored the Canon, and
appointed Hiho director. He clearly defined the seasons,
and corrected the divisions; thus harmonising the ying and
yang, restraining the winds and rain, and reviving the breath
of nature. No longer did the people suffer from pestilence.
In his old age he resigned in favour of Shun, and presented
Shu king, xxvii. 6. .
id. Chungli (improperly divided) is the representative of Indian
Agni, the God of Fire. [Mayers' C.R.M., 121.]
We are here on the traces of an old Vishnaivite legend. The Kiuli
must be identified with the Kurus, the , Kiang, of later Chinese
history; the Sammiao with Çambara. See note.
Hiho (See Shu King, I., 2.). Though there divided Hiho is
really the representative of the Indian Garga, the first of astronomers.

6
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
him to his distinguished predecessors, saying: "Let the study
of [the movements of] the celestial sphere, and the making
of the calendar be your special care." Shun in turn delivered
over the commission to Yü, charging him to consider it as of
the utmost importance to his kingdom.
The Hya ordained that the year should begin with the
commencement of the first month; the Yin placed it at the
commencement of the twelfth; the Cheo made it begin with
the eleventh. Thus under the three dynasties the new year
went backwards as in a cycle, and would have eventually
returned to its starting-point.
So long as the Tienhya preserved its traditions, it did not
lose ground, but when these were forgotten, at the time
when it fell into the hands of the minor states, the calendar
was neglected. After the time of Yü and Li the house of
Cheo declined, and inferior ministers grasped the control of
the government. No record was kept of the seasons; the
rulers did not publish the calendar, and the agricultural
classes grew careless. In the state of Cheo, as amongst the
Is and Diks, the prognostications were neglected, and there
was no rule to go by. King Siang, in his twenty-sixth year
(B.C. 625), intercalated three months, which the Ch'un ts'iu
condemns. "The rule of the elder sovereigns as to the
seasons was that the Li twan
should be at the
beginning, so as to determine the succession to the middle,
and correct the inequality at the end. With the Li twan
at the beginning, even if there be a mistake it may be
put right in the middle, and the people be not led astray,
See the Tsochran to Duke Wan (Ch'un ts'iu, VI., 1.). The point was
as usual missed. In Siang's time the Calendar was so far astray that he had
to intercalate three months: the commentators misread the paragraph as
the third month.

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
and the inequality without trouble be corrected at the
end." 8
After this came the internecine strife of the Chen Kwoh
period and continual wars with the frontier tribes. What
leisure was there to attend to anything? Tsao alone,
kept any records of the five movements; the rest, and
conspicuously the dependent principalities, were dropping to
pieces, and already six had succumbed to Ts'in. Its arms
and soldiery were encroaching on all sides, and its influence
daily spreading, so that there was neither time nor
opportunity to consider anything.
It is evident that up to the time of the compilation of the Tsochuen
the astronomical knowledge of the Chinese was of the most primitive nature,
and the so-called calendar was merely empiric. The King was expected
every year to proclaim the seasons and announce the solar terms. The
most essential of these was the Li twan apparently the Lich'un
or commencement of spring of to-day, when the sun is midway in
Aquarius. This was always to be the beginning of the year, and by the
time they had come to the summer solstice they could check it by observation,
so that they might know how much was the error, sie, to be corrected at
the winter solstice; when apparently the announcement of the terms for
the next year were made. The intercalation of three months at once caused
some difficulty in the final adjustment, which was beyond the simple powers
of the court astronomers to rectify at once.
Had, as the school of Chuhi would have us believe, records been kept
from 2300 B.C., the Chinese must have discovered the precession, which they
lay no claim to have done.
The intercalation of three months has however a precedent in Babylonia.
Speaking of the intercalary periods in the calendar, F. Lenormant [Beginnings
of History, p. 256] says:-"Hence the periodic return of years when not one only
but two months were intercalated, the maçru sa addari after adder, and after
ulul an ululu sana, 'second ulul' (as in the tables of the motions of Venus
in Cuneif. Inscrip. of West Asia, Vol. III, pl. 63), which we positively know
to have been of 30 days, since we possess a hemerology of it. But over and
above all these came at intervals far apart years like those of which we find
the astrological prognostications in Cuncif. Inscrip. of West Asia
[Vol. III, pl. 565,] when three months were intercalated, a nisannu sani
'second Nisun;' an ululu sana, 'second ulul;' and a maçru sa addari." All
this in connection with the cycles of 12 and 120 years, as well as the soss
of 60 years. It is curious to find that the cycle seems to have borne in
Assyria the name of Karru, which is phonetically identical with Gr. Katpós
(possibly Kpovos) and Chinese kang (O.C. kar.) and it may be Ind, kala,

8
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
When however [Shi Hwangti] had gained his five
decisive battles, and assumed at Hwoh Shui in person the
Imperial Insignia, he ordered the name of the river to be
changed to the Tehshui, and at the same time ordered that
the New Year should correspond with the tenth month, and
that the standard colour should be black. In addition, to
adjust the calendar, an intercalation should be made.
Not yet had the true system been discovered.
The Hans after a period came into power, and Kaotsü,
the founder of the dynasty, presented the Imperial Sacrifices
at the Northern Altar. In the course of the ceremony he
addressed those present:-
"I here arise in person, and assume the Imperial
Insignia [as was done by my predecessor on the banks] of
the Hwoh Shui. It is my intention to clearly define the
Calendar and to have drawn up regular tables, so that all may
understand the times and seasons, and order be introduced
into the empire; and that settled principles being established,
our records shall be based on a solid foundation."
No
[This ceremony took place about the year 202 B.C.
The Emperor dying 194 B.C., his son, a minor, succeeded],
the Dowager Empress Lü assuming Imperial functions.
opportunity [for revision] presented itself, and the methods of
calculating the intervals and defining the standard colour
which had been introduced by Shi Hwangti remained in use
up to the time of Wen ti [179 B.C.].
Wenti succeeding, a man of Lu, Kung sun, became
Prime Minister. He undertook the task of putting on a
proper basis the five ruling principles in accordance with the
9
These five refer to the periods and motions of the five planets; in
the Assyrian system, afterwards adopted by the Babylonians, forming the
basis of the calendar. See notes quoted from F. Lenormant.

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
9
ancient books. His theory was that to Han appertained the
principle of earth.
Therefore [Saturn being the "earth" planet] he was the
natural regulator of the periods as well as the director of the
commencements and indicator of the standard colour. At the
time affairs were prosperous, and the indications of the
Hwanglung [geomantic influences] favourable. "Let the
minister draw up the scheme. Along with the scheme let
him make a study of the pitchpipes and the celestial
perturbations."
The attempt however failed and ended in disappointment,
and after this the observation of the Hwanglung, the
correction of the yearly term, and the draft scheme were
abandoned, and the proceedings left unfinished; as well as the
regulation of the stellar spaces, and the observations
[necessary] for the establishment of the solar terms. He
spoke doubtfully as to the business of correctly defining the
calendar and fixing the standard colour, which he considered
practically impossible. Finding things thus confused, the
Emperor Wenti made no further attempt to follow out the
Minister's investigations.
At last the time arrived when his present Majesty
(Wuti) came to occupy the throne. He summoned the
scholars of the Empire to meet at the capital, to consider [the
phenomena of] the celestial movements, to take note of the
transits and revolutions, to trace out the course of the
rotation and correctly calculate the divisions of the ecliptic.
By the summer they had assembled, and undertook the
reform of the commencements, and the promulgation of the
regular periods. At the T'ai shan accordingly the Imperial
heralds made the following proclamation:-
"WE are informed by our officers appointed for the
purpose that up to the present time the received divisions of
2

10
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
the celestial motions have not been correctly stated. These
officers have met and deliberated on the steps to be
taken to correct the measures of the starry movements, which
up till now have not been properly arrived at. From
traditions handed down from high antiquity, we learn that,
before his death, Hwangti had closely observed and verified
the right ascensions, and accurately fixed the musical notation
and the pitch of the tones. He had moreover discovered the
[occult] relations existing between the planets and the five
elements, had established the solar terms, and calculated the
astronomical constants. All honour to him! Now the
ancient books have been [irretrievably] lost and the
harmonies unstrung. WE are deeply grieved when we
ponder that we have hitherto not been able to define clearly
and correctly the daily flight [of time], nor to mark the
[hourly] influence of the planet Mercury.
"To-day is auspicious; on it occurs the summer solstice.
The Hwang chung answers to Kung, the Lin chung to Cheng,
the T'ai chuk to Shang; the Nanlü to Yü, the Kûsî to
Kiok.10 WE therefore decree, that from this time onward the
Solar Terms shall correspond with the New Year commence-
ment, and the musical accords keep time with the Ts'ing,"
and the names [of the periods] follow in order from the year's
beginning.
"When the term (tsze) is reached, the day will
correspond with the winter solstice, and the Yin and Yang
[hitherto] irregular unite in the ecliptic. At the beginning
of the 11th Moon on the day (Kiatsze) will occur the
winter solstice, the seventh year of the present term (Yuan
10 These are the Musical Accords of the Lu Shu, and are
described more fully in note 1. See also Mayers' Chinese Reader's
Manual [ii], 199, 200.
The vernal equinox, the of the Almanack.

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
11
feng 7). [WE direct that] it shall be the First Year of
the Grand Initiation (F) (i.e. the beginning of a new
epoch).
"The Year title shall be Yenfeng-Sh[ia]p t'i kak, 12 the
name of the month Patchü, ; the day will be Kiatsze,
, and the solstice will happen at midnight.
"Let the calendar be known as the Kiatsze."
[In accordance with these principles, the calendar, which
has since that period with slight modifications prevailed in
China, commenced in due course on the 24th December,
105 B.C., just fifty-nine years before Julius Cæsar issued in
Rome his Julian Calendar, which, with a single change in
the 16th Century, has continued to regulate the course of
events in Europe. Julius Cæsar owed his calendar to the
Greek astronomers of Alexandria, and acknowledged the aid
afforded by Sosigenes. The Chinese Emperor, whose scheme
was clearly drawn, as will be seen lower down, from the same
sources, characteristically omits to mention the real author of
the new calendar; and his reticence is followed by Sze-ma
Ts'ien and all his successors.
The day was to be the beginning of a new epoch, and
Wuti directed that the period just begun should bear the style
of the Grand Beginning . Possibly, like his predecessor
Prince Cheng, who on assuming the Empire denominated
himself simply as the First Hwangti, he intended that the
years should for ever follow in ordinal succession. If so his
intention soon changed, for we find him, after a bissextile
period, altering it to T'ien Han, a practice which he continued
to the end of his reign.]
12 The second part of this name is simply the transcript of the Indian
word, Briha(spati-chak)ra, "Cycle of Jupiter." The initial syllables
Yenfeng, are formed on the model of the day cycle of 60; their origin is
discussed lower down.

12
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
Returning, however, to Sze-ma Ts'ien's narrative, he
on to tell us :-
goes
"The year was the First of T'ai Cho, the title Yen feng
Shi[a]p-t'i-kak. The month name Patchü ; the day
happened on Kiatsze, the previous midnight occurred at the
Winter Solstice, the position [in the Calippic period] was
North. The year contained twelve [lunar] months. There
were [at the commencement] no cyclic nor decimal differences"
[to be taken into account.]
[It was the Emperor's intention to start fair; solstice,
new moon, the commencement of the Calippic period, and
of the regular bissextile period of four years, with an
intercalary day at the end, marking the initiation of the
Grand Beginning. The year was, in fact, to be the Julian
year, actually inaugurated in Rome fifty-nine years later,
only that the lunar months were to be preserved, strictly
subordinated to the solar terms, and the official year was to
begin on the day of the winter solstice instead of, as at Rome,
at the beginning of March. Sze-ma Ts'ien gives the Calendar
for the year as below) :-
Year of Cycle
Nienhao
Number of months (lunar)
Yen Feng-Shapt‘ikak. 13
T'ai Ch'o-First year.
404
Twelve.
13 The Chi Kwang, adds the scholiast, says that the year branch was at
Yin, going left; the year star (Jupiter) at Cheo H, going right. The
Soyin adds, referring to the Calippic period: the period was called the
commencement of the P'u (, 76 year cycle) as the 1st of the 11th moon
fell on, moreover the solstice was on F, and therefore the
commencement was denominated. Now as each year advanced to the
end there was found to be an overplus of 4.1 parts, over and above the
12 horary branches, the winter solstice being always four hours late. Thus
in a year it occurred at F, but in a 丑 year it was at 卯, in a
year at 4, and in
commencement being at
the other two
at, after a period of 19 years, the
and therefore called ; and so on through
and . This of course is only parrot-like
knowledge; the fact is the Chinese never assimilated the calendar, which
remained for them literally "Greek.". The Chengyi goes on in an
endeavour to assimilate the to the Metonic period!

YEAR B.C.
NIEN
HAOU.
CYCLICAL NAME
OF YEAR.
CHINESE CALENDAR FROM THE SHI-KI.
LUNAR YEAR,
CYCLE EXCESS.
No. OF DAYS
IN LUNAR YEAR.
NUMBER OF
LUNAR MONTHS.
COMPARATIVE TABLE OF CHINESE AND JULIAN CALENDARS.
DAY DECL.
OF NEW MOON.
NEW YEAR DAY,
CYCLICAL TITLE.
CYCLE OF
CALIPPUS.
SOLAR YEAR,
CYCLE EXCESS.
OF SOLSTICE.
HOUR-CYCLE
104 太初 焉逢攝提格 54
354
12
.348
103
2 端蒙,單閼 48
384 I. 13
.696
102
3
| 游兆, 執徐
12 355
12
.603
101
4 彊梧 大花落
7
354
122
011
100天漢徒維敦
1
384 I. 13
•359
99
2 祝犂, 協洽
25
354
12
.267
98
3
商僙涒灘
19
355
12
+614
97
4
昭陽, 作噩
14
283 I. 13 .022
96 太始横艾, 淹茂
37
356
12
122
.869
95
2 尙章淵獸
33
383 I. 13 +277
94
3
|焉逢困敦 56
354
12
181
93
4
|端蒙赤奮若
50
354
12
.532
92 征和| 游兆,攝提格
44
384 I. 13 .880
91
1G
2
彊梧, 單閼
8
355
12
.787
90
3
徒維執徐
3
351
12
•195
89
4
|祝犂大落 57
384 I. 13
•543
88 後元| 商敦
21
354
12 450
87
2
| 昭陽,汁洽
15
384 I. 13
.798
86 始元| 横艾,涒灘
39
355
12
·705
6940
NEW YEAR'S DAY,
JULIAN TIME.
JULIAN CALENDAR.
(Antedated).
MEAN
LENGTH OF
LUNAR YEAR.
PROGRES-
SIVE No.
OF DAYS
JULIAN BISSEXTILE.
HOUR OF NEW MOON,
NEW YEAR DAY
(SINGAN).
10
甲子戊午壬子丙子
B.C.
化
5
SO
105
Dec. 24
354.3672
11h.50 See Note 15.
2 10 16 104
13
383.8978
354.37 B 20h.42
وو
3
15 24
103
31
354.3672
738.26
18h.04 New Moon at Rome 11h.40.
"
4
21 L-Y
102
21
354.3672 1092.63
2h.57
"
5
26 8
101
10
888.8978 1447.00 11h.50
"
6
31 16
100
29
354.3672
1830.90 B
9h.26
دو
]丑癸未戊寅辛丑丁酉庚申甲寅戊申壬申丁卯辛西乙酉及
7
36 24
99
55
17
354.3672
2185.26
18h.04
8
42 L-Y
98
"
23
383.8978
7
2539.63
2h.54
9
47
00
8
97
25
354.3672
2928.53
23h.33
"
10
52 16
96
16
383.8978
3277.90 B
9h.26
,,
11
57
24
94
Jan.
21
354.3672
12
3 L-Y
94
Dec. 22
354.3672
13
8
S
93
11
383.8978
3661.79
4016.16
4370.53 23h.33
6h.47
15h.40
"
14
13
16
92
22
30
354.3672
4754.43 B 22h.09
,,
15
18
24
91
19
354.3672
5108.79
6h.47
"
16
24 L-Y
90
90
"
55
8
383.8978
5463.16
15h.40
17
29 8
89
27
854.8672 5847.06
13h.16
دو
18
34 16
88
16
383.8978
6201.42 B 21h.54
99
39
24
86
Jan. 3 354.3672
6585.32
19h.26
T
86
Dec. 24
6939.69

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
Cyclic difference (over multiple
of 60); lunar year
Decimal of day (at New Moon)
Cyclic difference (over multiple
of 60)大; solar year
Hour fraction at Solstice
Cycle of Caliphus
...
13
54; i.e. 354 days.
348; i.e. beyond 29 days ¹?
5; i.e. 365 days.
8; i.e.
... N. 15
day.
14
I append in tabular form the calendar of the Emperor
Wu for the first 19 years, between 104 and 86 B.C. (both
inclusive), compared with the Julian system, antedated
however 59 years, which will show the practical identity of
the two. The essential point of the Julian Calendar was the
introduction every fourth year of an extra day, to make up
the excess of the year over 365 days. It was assumed that
the difference was exactly 8 minims, counting the day at 32,
and the only change I have made in the table is in each
case in the last column, substituting the initials L-Y for
Chinese. In the preceding column is given the yearly
cyclical excess, agreeing with this, thus: T'ai c'ho, 1,
appears as 5 (6 cycles+5), 2, as 10 (12 cycles+10), 3 as 15,
(18 cycles+5), but 4 being leap-year, and the year 366 days
long, the excess appears as 21 (i.e. 24 cycles+21 days).
More or less the credit of this innovation has generally been
given to Julius Cæsar, but he evidently found it in working
order amongst the Greek astronomers at Alexandria; and
apparently the only original part of his calendar was the
introduction of the extra day by doubling the sexto calendas
Marti and making it the bissextus dies.
With characteristic jealousy the Chinese historians have
one and all suppressed all mention of the source whence they
"The compiler seems to have mixed up the solar and lunar "differences."
15 This properly referred to the antecedent year, as 19 is made.

14
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
derived the calendar. We, fortunately from other sources,
are able to trace the road. About the year 120 B.C., acting
on the advice of Chang K'ien, the Emperor Wu determined
to open up more frequent intercourse with Bactria (Tahia)
and Parthia (Ansik), as well as the adjacent countries. The
Tayuan chapter, No. cxxiii of the Shiki, gives some account
of these missions. [See Trans. China Branch R.A.S.,
Vol. xiv, p. 1, etc.] Missions, the historian tells us [p. 13],
were constantly going and coming between China and the
foreign countries to the North-west, to Yuan (Yarkand) and
far to the west, to Arachosia (and Ariana (),
i.e. Herat. Although they did not always "hit it off,"
still politeness prevailed and the envoys were treated with
consideration. They communicated with Wusun and even
further west, with Parthia. With Wusun, now Ferghana,
relations were so intimate that a Chinese Princess was sent as
the bride of the king's grandson. In another page we hear
of missions being sent to Parthia, Samarkand, Sarangia and
India, some of which consisted of as many as a hundred
individuals, many of whom had been regularly trained under
Chang K'ien. Every year ten or more parties were des-
patched, some of them being absent for eight or nine years at
a time. Parthia at the time was a powerful kingdom. It
had a short time previously utterly defeated Antiochus of
Syria, and had taken possession of Mesopotamia. But though
Syria was at the feet of her conquerors, the Parthians made
no attempt to extinguish it, but on the contrary it became
their highest ambition to assimilate its learning and civiliza-
tion. Ctesiphon, on the left bank of the Tigris opposite
the Greek Selencia, became the favourite capital of the
Parthian kings, and these openly acknowledged their admira-
tion by adopting on their coins the legend ΦΙΛΕΛΛΗΝ.
On the other hand, the two Greek kingdoms of Syria and

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
15
Egypt were at this period in close association; and Alexandria
and Seleucia became the joint homes of later Greek Science
and Literature, where, of the sciences, astronomy was most
conspicuously studied.
There is thus no difficulty in explaining the practical
identity of the two calendars,-that of Julius Cæsar drawn
up by Sosogenes the Alexandrian, and that of Wuti derived
directly from Ctesiphon, and both promulgated within the
space of sixty years. In both can be recognised the work of
the great Hipparchus, the true founder of scientific astro-
nomy, who was certainly alive B.C. 125 or only twenty
years before Wuti's proclamation. Hipparchus estimated the
length of the tropical year at 365 days, 5 hours 55 minutes.
It would have required 300 years before the difference
between this estimate and 365 days would have amounted
to a day, and the astronomers who drew up the Roman and
Chinese calendars evidently assumed that this difference could
be safely neglected.
Any student of Chinese will recognise the fact that the
cycle names given by the Emperor Wu to the years in his
calendars are not Chinese, the characters being simply used
phonetically. Though the great change from ancient to
modern Chinese, which marked the period of the later Cheos,
and which culminated during the iron rule of T'sin and the
subsequent revolutions, was by the time of Wu practically
accomplished, there were still many remains in current speech
of the ancient language. The present dialect of the city of
Canton is probably the nearest approach to the language
of the court of the Emperor Wu. It was only in the year
111 B.C. that the states of Eastern and Southern Yue,
Kiangsi, Fuhkien and Kwangtung, were annexed and settled,
and the immigrants there as elsewhere carried with them
their speech and customs.

16
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
Fancy of course then, as now, played a great part in the
representation of foreign names by Chinese characters, but
one or two rules may be depended on. We can never afford
to neglect the consonantal endings of the Juh sheng, and
initial Ch never in old Chinese represents a guttural.
Bearing these facts in mind I have made an attempt to
place in parallel columns the Chinese "branches," with their
recognised connexion with the Zodiacal signs, and the corre-
sponding Greek titles made use of by the Asiatic Greeks
under Selencidæ. The latter are taken from F. Lenormant's
well-known work, the Beginnings of History, London, 1882.
The list it will be seen begins with K'wan tun, representing,
according to the Chinese, the constellation Aries, and answering
to the Seleucian Xov which, however, is held to apply to
Capricornus. Shipt'ikak 1 which regularly should follow as
the representative of Taurus, and as such answering to Seleu-
cian oa (Shebat in Babylonian) is displaced one sign
and is made to represent Gemini, thereby confusing Shena(t),
Addar, Aap and Che(k) fen yo(k), Iapap; the latter the
only one of the twelve irreconcilable with the Chinese form.
It will thus be seen that both lines of investigation point to
the Greek astronomers of Mesopotamia as the originators of
the Chinese calendar, as their compatriots of Alexander were
of the Julian.
While, however, we are led to attribute the brand-new
Luni-Solar Calendar of the Emperor Wu to the immediate
I have suggested [note"] that Shipt'ikak may also represent
Brihaspati-Chakra. Shipt'i as representing Jupiter occurs in the abortive
scheme of Chwan hu [p. 4]. The ancient name of Jupiter was, however,
Hwang fu. See Shiking, II. 4, IX. The coincidence is curious, but the Chinese
astronomers also applied the name Shipt'ika(k) to Arcturus and the stars
in the feet of Bootes; and here it is the representive of the Indian Devaki
[as if Dipdaki].

CH.-YEAR NAMES.
ZODIACAL SIGNS.
GR. BABYLONIAN NAMES.
ZODIACAL SIGNS.
...
困敦
K'wan tun
...
Vernal Equinox X
Chi(k) fan yo(k) Taurus...
Tebit
Winter Solstice
Ayar represent Taurus
Gr. Iapap
ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
Shi(ap) t'i ka(k)
Gemini
Σοβαθ
"
Shepat Aquarius.
單閼
Shan a(t)
..
Summer Sols.
Νεισαν
執徐 Chi(ap)su
...
Leo
Nisân(a)... Vernal Equinox
Addar, Gr. Aap really
represents Pisces.
大落 Ta fong lok
...
Virgo.
...
Esap
"
Sivan (a)... Gemini.
iHf |Tun(t)sang
Aut. Equinox
Ταμμους
(S)hip (h)ap
...
Scorpio
涒灘* Tun dhan
...
Tso(k) (ng)o(k)
Saggitarius ... Ιουλ
Winter Sols..
淹茂 Immao
天淵獻 Ta un hin
Dûzu
Summer Sols.
...
Abu
...
'Aẞ
Leo.
***
Ulul
Virgo...
...
'A=
Tashrit
**
"
Aquarius
...
Θεσιροί
Pisces
...
Τελωμ
...
Aut. Equinox.
Arabshamma Scorpio.
Kisilif Saggitarius
...
*Also written Yuihan-Dildhan.
Apparently IldylorIldhar.
hin i.e. nam orlam.
17

18
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
successors of Hipparchus residing in Seleucia or Ctesiphon,
we must look to older sources for the form it took; and its
evident connection with a primitive cycle of sixty, itself in
some measure at least the outcome of an astrological study of
the planets Jupiter and Saturn.
Jupiter, especially, seems to have occupied a prominent
place in the astrological folk-lore of the primitive settlers in
China. In a former paper read before this Society, entitled
"A Comparative Table of the Ancient Lunar Asterisms" [Pro-
ceedings, N.S. Vol. XXVI, p. 44, et seq.] I pointed out that
the 28 Suk were really a trace of primitive lore having its
origin prior to the Aryan dispersal. We find similarly with
regard to the cycle of sixty years that it is found in ancient
Babylon as the Soss, the sixtieth part of the longer unit, the
Saros, the foundation of the modern time division of the hour,
as well as in mathematics of the degrees of the circle. So
Jupiter with his year cycle of twelve, which we find in the
primitive traditions of nations so far removed as Egypt,
Assyria, India and China, was also in the most ancient
lore of China a prominent object. An even earlier tradition
seems to have divided the Zodiac into ten parts, traces of which
may likewise be discovered from Rome to China. I do not
propose to enter on this denary cycle, the Yang, or male æon,
17, further than to remark that in connection with the duo-
denary cycle, the Yin, or female æon, it afforded the Chinese
a simple method of denominating their sexagenary cycle.
The Yin cycle of twelve was naturally connected with
the division of the ecliptic into the twelve solar signs, or what
17
Modern Chinese Sui, to pass a revolution, hence a year, where
the phonetic is Wui (s being enclitic), is identical with Sanscrit êv-as,
a course, a movement [as of day and night]; Gr. alá a space or period of
time; Lat. cevum.

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
19
came to be their equivalent, the twelve solar months of the
year, as well as the twelve original hours of the day, and all
these uses, as well as a simple cycle of days, have been in their
turn subserved by this cycle commonly known in China as
the twelve branches. From the extreme attrition the titles
have undergone there is even greater difficulty in arriving at
their primitive form than in the case of Sze-ma Ts'ien's year
calendar, and this attrition, there are other reasons to believe,
may be taken as an indication of hoary antiquity. The
original introduction of the arts and civilisation of China
was due to the Cheos, an Aryan race, who, driven from their
original home on the Upper Oxus by the encroachment of the
Turkish hordes from the north, found refuge after long
wanderings in the extreme North-west of China some twelve
centuries before our era. The so-called earlier dynasties had
either no existence or lived elsewhere than in China.
The cult, the family law, and the fundamentals of the
language itself are essentially Aryan, and Aryan of a type
not essentially different from the settlers in Northern India.
Hence the curious fact that the further we trace the
traditions of the two countries the more we find them in
accord. All history tends to show that the original occupiers
of what is now known as Eastern Turkestan were of Aryan
descent, and belonged to the Turanian branch of the Iranian
family. The name Turan has, by European authors, been
wrongly applied to the ancestral stock of the Turkish nomads.
It was by no mistake that Selm and Tur were made brothers,
sons of Feridun, nor that Afrasiab was made a descendant of
the second. The Cheos themselves claimed descent from
Kung liu, and Kung liu, whose name restored in the old
language was Kereçaspa or Keredaspa, was in turn the
descendant of the great Rustam, the renowned hero of
ancient Persian story. We have then to ascend no uncertain

20
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
nor illegitimate channel in carrying our researches back to
their primitive homes; and it is instructive to find the nearest
analogue to the 12 brances of the Chinese in the surviving
Parsee names of the months. I give a comparative table,
showing the connection.
It will be noticed that in the Chinese concept of the
Zodiacal relations, the signs are made to run backwards, and
this might be supposed to arise from want of knowledge;
the explanation is that the sequence is intended to follow
Jupiter's retrograde passage in his twelve years' journey
round the ecliptic. As a fact, it has been observed, that while
many nations have essayed [on paper] to make Jupiter's
yearly motion through a sign a time marker, in practice none
have ever done so. Jupiter's synodic revolution occupies
378 days, the earth's revolution round the sun 365, and the
relations become too complicated for ordinary use. The two
hands of a clock coincide 11 times before they finally meet
at the starting-point, but no one has ever taken this coinci-
dence as a time measure. But this connection of the Yin
Sui with the motions of Jupiter seems to indicate an older
use of them as a year measure than is usually accepted.
Though the cycle of sixty years was placed on a regular
footing for the first time by the Emperor Wu, it possibly, or
rather probably, was in existence in early times; though it
never was taken into official use, and its pretended application
to chronology, as Dr. Chalmers has well shown [Chinese
Classics, V; Prolegomena 99] must be accepted as a mere
interpolation.
The influence of Jupiter as the year star is of ancient
date, and was recognised equally in Egypt, Assyria, India
and China. The earliest mention we have in Chinese of
this influence of Jupiter occurs in the Shi King [Part II,
Book iv. 9]. The Shih yueh chi kiao.

CHINESE AND OLD PERSIAN ZODIACAL NAMES.
ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
Chinese.
OLD IRANIAN.
CORRESPONDING SIGN.
Modern
Name.
Old
Sound.
Zeud.
Bundalist.
Cappadocian.
Proper.
By Chinese.
yau
far
Fravashayodaênayão. Fravardin.
Artania.
Taurus.
Taurus.
süt
ard
Asha vohista.
Ardavahist.
Artaestin.
Gemini.
Aries.
hai
ghar
Haurvatât.
Horvadad.
Araiotata.
Cancer.
Pisces.
tsze tar
Tistrya.
Tir.
Tirix.
Leo.
AL
ch'eo dvar
Ameretât.
Amerôdad.
Martata.
Virgo.
寅 yan
vir
Kshathra vairya.
Shatvairô.
Xanthiri.
Libra.
Aquarius.
Capricornus.
Sagittarius.
卯 mao
mri
Mithna.
Mitrô.
Mithri.
Scorpio.
Scorpio.
辰
sze
dar
shen sar forçar Apam napât.
Âtars.
Âvân.
Aponenamami. Sagittarius. Libra.
Ataro.
Arthra.
Capricornus. Virgo.
wu
dvi(sh) Dadhwao.
Dîn.
Tethusia.
Aquarius. Leo.
未 wi (s)vadh Vohumano.
Vohûman.
Osmonia.
Pisces.
Cancer.
申 shan
sur
Spento Armaita.
Spendarmad. Sondava.
Aries.
Gemini.
Note.-The Persian and Cappadocian names are from Lenormant. The ancient pronunciation of the last,
asura, Zend Ahura. The name was probably thought too holy, and Çpento Armaiti (Sacred Wisdom) was
Zoroastrians.
1,
was sur, as
Fitty
substituted by the
21

22
22
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
The sun and moon presage evil,
Abandoning their proper paths;
The four quarters are without rule,
Through leaving their settled course.
That the moon should be extinguished (totally eclipsed)
Is an ordinary matter;
But that the sun should be blotted out,
What [calamity] does it not conceal!
Hwang fu (Vrihaspati) is Lord of the Ascendant,
Fân wei (Parâçara) Master of Misrule,
Ka pak (Kapuja) looks on complacently;
Chung yun (Cravana) 1s is insubordinate,
Tseo tsze (Savitar?) serves within;
K'wai wei (Javana) spurs his horses,
Yu wei is Captain of the host;
And fair Ts'ai (Dhruva, the Pole-star) twinkles from her
fixed abode.
Or again at the beginning of the Chang wu ballad, Shi,
III. iii. 9.
Shine on in glory!
The King charges his minister,
Nan chung was our distinguished ancestor,
His regent, Hwang fu.
The beginning of this latter ballad is, however, evidently
corrupt, and practically untranslatable. The elder name for
Jupiter, Hwang fu, contains the same phonetic elements
as the Indian Vrih-as-pati, "Lord of Increase." In this
respect it differs from its more modern name Shi(ap) t'i
which is simply an attempt to render by Chinese characters
the Indian sound. In the one case the two have an identical
origin, common to the languages before the Aryan dispersion;
in the other the title is but a loan-word introduced from a
strange language.
15 Parâcara is the Indian equivalent of Perseus; as Kapuja is of Cepheus.
Chung wan is apparently Cravana, the Eagle, and is counted one of
the lunar mansions. The names, Greek, Indian and Chinese, seem to
antedate the separation.

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
23
But if the early Aryan name of the planet has been
forgotten in China, as in Europe, his functions as ruler of the
year have survived. In Greek and Roman lore Jupiter (Zeus-
pater) or Zeus has, from his function of ruling the sky, become
the Supreme Lord, the President of the Heavenly Host.
Amongst the Semitic peoples he is universally the Just Man,
Çedük, so called evidently from his adjusting the calendar, in
his twelve years' journey to his starting-point round the
ecliptic. Amongst the Hebrews, Çedük was the superinten-
dent of justice; with the Phenicians, according to Sanchonia-
thon [Cory's Ancient Fragments, 9] he is associated with Misôr
and Sydyk (Upright and Just) the discoverers of salt. To
Misôr was born Taût, who introduced letters; and to Çedük,
the mysterious Cabiri, the inventors of navigation. So in
Chinese lore, Jupiter descends as the planet having specially
to do with the year, but whose influence is by no means
confined to it.
King Siang, we have seen above [p. 6], found the Calendar
so far out of reckoning that he had to introduce three inter-
calary months, and later (B.C. 543) the Ch'un ts'iu (Kung
Siang) IX. XXVIII. says:-"In his twenty-eighth year, in
spring, there was no ice." The Tsochuen, touching this,
goes on to explain, according to the received version as
translated by Legge, "There being no ice this spring, Tsze
Shin said: This year there will be famine, it is to be feared,
in Sung and Ch'ing. The year- [Star] (Jupiter) [ought to
be] in Sing-ke (Sagittarius Capricorn) and it has licentiously
advanced into Hëuen-hëaou (Capricorn Aquarius). Hence
this ominous character of the season, the yin not being able
to overcome the yang. The Snake is mounted on the
Dragon, which contains the stars of Sung and Ch'ing. Those
states will have famine. The middle star in Hëuen-hëaou is
Hew, but Heaou denotes consumption and waste. The land

24
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
empty, and the people with their resources consumed :-
what can this mean but famine."" This is a sufficiently good
translation of the text, as it appears in the accepted edition,
which I give at length.
不虛耟虛鄭文龍時紀平朱
饑而名中必星陽,而歲日,
何民也,也饑也宋蛇陰以淫在其今冰八
為耗,土枵宋鄭乘不有於星饑茲梓年
The author of the ancient text wrote anterior to the use of
radicals, and could hardly have intended so much nonsense. His
transcriber seems to have for some reason altered into
lascivious, and in consequence had to insert after The
original was plainly歲在星也,而壬於玄枵. The
sentence read: "In spring (calendaric) of this year there
was no ice." The calendar was as we have seen [p. 6]
actually three months wrong, and the supposed "spring"
had fallen back to August, September, October. The Tso-
chwan went on to say :-"Tsz'shen said: This year there will
be famine in Sung and Ch'eng: the year [branch] is in
Sing (cor Hydræ) and the stem (E) is in Hiünbiao
(Equuleus)" (exactly the opposite point of the Heavens).
"There will be a time of trouble; the yin (branch) and
yang (stem) are opposed; the Snake encroaches on the
Dragon. Now the Dragon is the [guardian] star of Sung and
Ch'eng, and they must undergo a famine. The Hiünhiao
corresponds with the middle of Hü, and Hiao is but
another name for (ruin). The land will be empty, and
How can a famine be averted?" 19
the people undone.
"The word-play was unnoticed by Legge, yet the Chinese geomancist,
as his fellows all over the world, founded his theory on these verbal
coincidences.

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
25
In the eighth year of Duke Ch'ao of Lu, the Tsochwan
tells us how the Marquis of Tsin asked the augur Ch'ao if
Ch'en were about to perish. "Not yet," was the reply, "(
"Ch'en
belongs to the Chwenhüh clan. The year [star] was in
Shunho when [its founder] died, Ch'en is in a like position.
Now the [year star] is in Sihmuh, and it will again rise."
In the thirty-second year of Duke Ch'ao we find a more
definite statement. The Tsochwan tells us: "In the summer
Wu attacked Yueh (Cheh Kiang). This was its first hostile
encounter, and regarding it the Augur Meh said: "Within
forty years Yueh will annex Wu. Yueh has gained the
favour of the year [star], and if Wu attack it, it must accept
its disfavour!"
There is then considerable reason to believe that the
fashion of naming the year from the position of Jupiter
existed long before the time of the Emperor Wu. The
modern Chinese historians allege indeed that antecedent to
the great regulation of the Calendar in the period T'ai Ch'o,
the cycle names were never applied to years; but the extracts
I have quoted seem to prove that a cycle of twelve, at least,
existed, though probably very irregularly kept.
This connects the old Chinese computation of time more
closely with the ancient systems of India and Western Asia.
Of the similarity I may adduce an example from F. Lenormant
[Beginnings of History, 259-60]. With the mythology we
have here nothing to do. "Hanok, who, as we are told, was
deified like Sheth, thus happens, in the essential features of
his physiognomy, to bear a remarkable resemblance to the
Babylonian Marduk, the "herald of the gods," the special
revealer, the common mediator between Ea, Master of supreme
Wisdom, and men, he whose planet [Jupiter] watches over
the maintenance of Justice in the world, and in that
character receives the appellation Cedeq from the Jews."
4

26
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
The connection, as well as the differences, between the
old Chinese and the old Chaldæo-Babylonian year are well
shown in a note appended by F. Lenormant [1.c., note,
p. 255]: "We know positively that the Chaldæo-Babylonians
added at frequent intervals a thirteenth month of thirty days
to the end of the year, analogous to the veadar of the Jews,
and called makru sa addari, incident to addar. At first it
was believed that this frequent intercalation had for its object
the correction of the inexactitude of the lunar year, and should
be referred to an eight-year cycle analagous to that which
Cleostratus of Tenedos introduced amongst the Greeks. But
this idea is no longer tenable. On the contrary, now that we
know the Chaldean year to have been 360 days long, we are
perfectly aware that the intercalation of the makru sa addari
became necessary every six years to bring it into agreement
with the solar revolution, which numbered 365.
As Sayce has correctly perceived, we have here the key to
the Chaldean cycle of twelve years, to which Censorinus
refers. If the computation of twelve years with two intercalary
months, was preferred to six with a single month, it must
have been because the character of a celestial apocatastasis was
attributed to it; for Censorinus states that, subsequently to its
renewal, atmospheric changes, abundant harvests, famines and
distresses recurred in the same order. Now every twelfth
year had an essentially apocatastatic character, since not only
did it bring the solar year into accord with the civil but
one of Jupiter's revolutions was then completed (12 years
in length) and also the sixth revolution of Mars (2 years)
from the beginning of the cycle."
year,
This left an error of a quarter day in the year, which led
to the introduction of another intercalary month at the end of
120 years or two sosses, "a more important apocatastasis than
that of the twelfth year, since Saturn then returned to the

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
27
same point in the heavens after four revolutions (of 30 years
each), Jupiter after 10, and Mars after 60."
A somewhat similar system prevailed in ancient Persia.20
Burgess [Translation of the Surya Siddhanta] describes the
Indian year.
After mentioning various more or less artifi-
cial years, with which we are not concerned, he goes on:-
"In all northern India the year is luni-solar; the month is
lunar and is divided into both civil and lunar days, the year
is composed of a variable number of months, either twelve or
thirteen, beginning always with the lunar month of which the
commencement next preceeds the true commencement of the
sidereal year." These years are summed up into ages which
exceed in absurdity those of the later Chinese. The Golden
Age measures 1,728,000 years, the Silver 1,296,000, the
Brazen 864,000, and the Iron 432,000. The Great Age thus
numbering 4,320,000 years. We, however, find the same
numbers figuring in the Chinese rhapsodies. The Indian astro-
nomical system is made to begin with a pretended conjunction
in the year B.C. 3102. Like the similar pretended epochs of
the Chinese, Fuhhi, B.C. 2852, or Hwangti, B.C. 2697, it
bears all the internal evidence of having been calculated
backwards from imperfect tables.
But Indian chronology, as Chinese, takes account of a
cycle of 60 years, called there likewise the cycle of Jupiter;
and this is what Burgess remarks on it [l.c.]:-
"This is the rule for finding the current year of the
cycle of sixty years, which is in use throughout all India, and
which is called the cycle of Jupiter; because the length of its
years is measured by the passage of that planet, by its mean
motion through one sign of the zodiac. According to the
data given in the text of the Siddhanta, the length of Jupiter's
20 See the Bundahist, Chap. xv.

28
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
year is 361 days Oh. 38m.; the correction of the bija makes
it about 12 minutes longer. It was doubtless on account of
the near correspondence of this period with the true solar
year that it was adopted as a measure of time; but it has not
been satisfactorily determined, so far as we are aware, where
the cycle originated, or what is its age, or why it was made
to consist of sixty years including five whole revolutions of
the planet. There was indeed also in use a cycle of twelve of
Jupiter's years, or the time of one sidereal revolution. Davis
and Watters have treated at some length of the greater cycle,
and of the different modes of reckoning and naming its years
usual in the different provinces of India."
It will thus be seen that the Indian and the Chinese cycles,
though each consisting of 60 and 12 years, are not commen-
surate, so no more need at the moment be said on the former.
Modern Hindoo astronomy also teaches the twelve
zodiacal signs, but they are absolutely derived from the Greek,
their titles being literal translations.
Chinese chronology owes little or nothing directly to
India, and its coincidences may be accepted as of a date anterior
to the Aryan dispersal. Taken in conjunction with the known
influence of Indian philosophy on Chinese thought, this
circumstance is worthy of note.
Returning, however, to the ancient Chinese attempts to
correlate music with astronomy in the evolution of the
calendar, our first impulse, on reading the abortive attempts
of Kung sun of Lu, is doubtless to smile at the credulity and
unpractical nature of these researches. I have already quoted
the Emperor Wu's allusions to the musical scale in his
proclamation. It is, however, a matter of importance, ethno-
logically as well as historically, to note that the ancient
Chinese shared this idea in common with the most advanced
nations of the time; and it is also noticeable that the area

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
29
over which this primitive idea prevailed corresponded with the
range of the primitive Lunar zodaic of twenty-eight mansions,-
from China to the classic lands of Greece and possibly Rome.
"
The Pythagorean phrase of the "Music of the Spheres
has long e'er this passed into a vulgar proverb; out of which
the popular astronomer has often sought to make momentary
capital, without knowing or considering that, long before the
growth of astronomy as a science, the regular motions of the
stars in their celestial orbits had already attracted the notice
and rivetted the thought of the early star-gazers of the Nile
and the Euphrates. Nor did the idea of the harmony of all
nature reflected in the concord of the musical notes end there,
for the notion spread east and west, to the dwellers under the
skies of Italy, and to the far-off wanderers who sought a
settled home along the banks of the Hwangho."1 Like many
others of the ideas handed down in China to the present time
we must antedate its origin to the great Aryan dispersal.
21 THE "MUSIC OF THE SPHERES."
The Chinese have, from the most ancient periods, ever associated the
idea of music with that of the celestial spheres. The length of the string or
the pitch-pipe necessary to produce certain notes they saw was controlled
by certain proportions, and as early as the Hans at least, they seemed to
have approached the subject in a somewhat scientific spirit. The Lu- (or
rather Lut-) Shu, Chapter XXV of Sze-ma Ts'ien's great work, gives a
summary of what was known at the time. Like the contemporary
astronomy it bears the stamp of foreign origin, for the Chinese have never
adopted its principles, and the diatonic scale is still practically unknown in
Chinese music.
According to the Chinese philosophy of the period, the number twelve
occupied a commanding station, next to it, and scarcely inferior, being the
number sixty. Chang'kien had lately opened up Western Asia (B.C. 126)
and the Chinese had availed themselves of the fact to send numerous
embassies, who penetrated as far as Syria, and who were instructed to make
themselves familiar with the arts and literature of the west. The Chinese

30
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
Many writers and thinkers have been content to look
upon this beautiful conception as one of the gifts to the world
of the Philosopher Pythagoras, whose influence in forming
modern thought is even now felt among us.
Speaking of the
great philosopher, G. H. Lewes tells us, apparently without a
suspicion that the idea was even then hoary with the passage
of ages: "The nature of the work (The History of Philosophy)
forbids any detailed account of the various opinions attributed
to Pythagoras on subsidiary points. But we may
instance his
celebrated theory of the music of the spheres as a good
were already familiar with both numbers, the old nomenclature bearing
evident traces of Iranic origin, but the new development was altogether on
Babylonish lines. This is not to be wondered at, as Babylon at the time was
considered to be the fountain-head of astronomical and astrological lore,
the two being as yet undistinguishable.
The predominance of the numbers 12 and 60 formed the basis of
development. The year was divided into twelve months. There being
however traces both in Chaldea and China of an earlier division into ten,
which it will be seen largely influenced, both in Mesopotamia and China,
the future progress of events. This influence was however secondary.
This division of the year, which must have been originally suggested by the
moon, left, however, in Babylon few or no traces of lunar influence. It led to
the division of the ecliptic into twelve equal regions, the origin of the Greek
system now become universal. But as the sun divided in his annual motion
the ecliptic into these twelve equal regions, so it was found that in his daily
motion the same marks could be taken for a division of the day, which thus,
both in Western Asia and China, came to be divided into twelve hours;
each of these twelfths was divided into sixty, making 720 divisions, and these
again were computed to be still further sub-divided by 60, making 43,200
seconds. This was apparently the first and simplest system; 60 was called
a soss, and its square, 60 by 60, a sâri.
But astronomical observations brought out a new coincidence. It was
found that after twelve years the planet Jupiter occupied practically the
same division that he had done at the same month of the year at the
beginning of the period. More close observations showed that he was just
4 days late, but this might at the moment be practically left out of
consideration. Each year he was just 333 days coming up to scratch, and

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
31
specimen of the deductive method employed by him. Assum-
ing that everything in the great Arrangement (Kóopos),
which he called the world, must be harmoniously arranged,
and assuming that the planets were at the same proportionate
distances from one another as the divisions of the monochord,
he concluded that in passing through the ether they must
make a sound, and that this sound would vary according to
the diversity of their magnitude, velocity and relative distance.
Saturn gave the deepest tone, as being the farthest from the
earth; the moon gave the shrillest, as being nearest to the
earth."
had dropped behind just one revolution in the twelve years. It was plain
that the natural duodecimal count could be extended to years, and that
nature had intended also a year cycle of 12.
From this circumstance, as the adjuster of years, the planet Jupiter, or
rather his regent, came, in all Semitic cosmogonies, to be the deity presiding
over justice, and as such, by the later Jews at least, came to be known as
Çüdük or Shedik. But there are numerous traces in the remains left of the
ancient cosmogonies which lead us to find this idea underlying all. Sancho-
niathon gives a geneology parallel with that of the children of Cain in the
Book of Genesis. Of Agros and Agrotes, leaders of husbandry, were descended
Amynas and Magus, who taught men to build towns, whose sons in turn
were Misor and Sydyk (Mishor and Çüdük, the upright and the just) who
found out the use of salt; while from Sydyk descended the mystic Kabiri of
Samothrace, the inventors of iron and the first navigators. Again,
according to F. Lenormant, Damasclus describes Çüdük as a god, and in
this sense he appears on a coin of the city of Berytus, appearing with the
eight Kabiri and attended with an ark, referring to the tradition of Noah,
the Just (çüdük), and his connection with the flood.
But in the old cosmogony Jupiter appears as the champion of his
mother Gê, against his father Kronos, the planet Saturn, or in the old
mythology its regent, and after killing him taking his place. Now Kronos,
Kpovos, Assyian Karra, a cycle, is connected with Greek Kaipos (a period of
time, a fixed interval, a watch) and this brings it into curious juxtaposition
with the identical phonetic in modern Chinese Kang, but in the old language
Kâr, apparently also connected with the Sanscrit Kâla, all with like
meaning of a period [of time]. Now the correspondence of Saturn with the

32
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
Chappell, in his History of Music, quotes Diodorus Siculus
on this subject. When Hermes, he says, invented the lyre,
"he gave it three strings in allusion to the three seasons
of the Egyptian year; for these three strings producing three
different sounds, the acute, the grave, and the mean, the acute
sound answered to summer, the grave to stormy or wintry
season, and the mean to spring," the Egyptians counting
only three seasons in their year. So of the Babylonians he
quotes Plutarch as saying in his commentary on Plato's
Timæus, that "the Chaldeans or native philosophers of the
cycle is even more remarkable than that of Jupiter. His synodic revolution
occupying a little over 378 days, in thirty years, plus one week, he returns to
the same spot in the heavens at a corresponding time of year. As Jupiter
occupies twelve in the same journey, the two planets will meet at intervals
of 60 years, forming the Hwa Kiatsze of modern China and the Sar of ancient
Babylon. The division of the ecliptic into either twelve or seven hundred
and twenty parts was probably not found convenient. The year was
divided into twelve months of thirty days apiece, and the surplus was made
up at the end, it probably seemed reasonable to make a similar division of
the great circle into 12 signs of 30 degrees, as suitable for the instruments
then in use, and for small quantities the portion of the path covered in
a day by the fixed stars was sufficiently near to a degree. The
30 degrees then would moreover tally with the years of Saturn's
cycle. The figure 360 lent itself readily to all the other measures.
When then the calendar came to be completed, the year consisted of
12 months of thirty days each, with a rest at the end of each year of five
days. As it was evident that the excess of quarter of a day would in a short
time throw the month out of order, a period of 120 years was selected, at the
end of which an intercalary month had to be added to make things square,
but as even then the calendar would run in excess three days in each four
centuries, another correction not fully explained was apparently provided,
possibly a day at each 120 years period.
The other nations do not appear to have adopted this calendar, but to
have continued the old lunar months; though alongside of them also a solar
calendar must have grown up to fix the seasons, and regulate the great
operations of agriculture.
This was the great problem which was ever before the Chinese, and which,
with the means at their disposal they found themselves unable to cope.

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
33
Babylonian empire connected sounds with the seasons in the
following order :-that spring bore the proportion of a
Diatessaron, or musical Fourth, to autumn; that of a
Diapente, or Fifth, to winter; and that of a Diapason, or
Octave, to winter."
Again, he tells us :-"The Greeks had no names of any
sort to distinguish musical notes. They were expressed only by
the titles given to the strings of the lyre-"That the Greek
[names] are names of strings and not of notes will remove a
long-felt difficulty in the language as to the words Nete and
Kung sun of Lu seems to have entertained an idea that in the relation of the
musical tones he had as it were grasped the solution of the question. Like
other primitive nations, the Chinese had founded their music on the
pentatonic scale, but someone had discovered the octave and had made out
its capability of division into twelve equal intervals, the modern diatonic
scale in fact. Further, the lengths of standard pipes capable of giving
these notes had been worked out with some approach to accuracy, and a
peculiar notation had been arrived at of twelve notes, whereof six were
upper (sharp), or male, and six lower (flat), or female. To these notes were
given a strange nomenclature, evidencing, however, the un-Chinese origin of
the invention. They were: First the Ying-chung, "Responsive-bell,"
answering to the tenth month and the character. Second the Hwang-
chung
"Yellow-bell," answering to the eleventh month and the
character Third the Ta-lü, "Great spine," answering to the
twelfth month and the character L. Fourth was called the "Clan of
notables," answering to the first month IE and the character
Fifth the Kapchung "Compressed-bell," answering to the second
month and the character . Sixth the Ku-si, "Ladies' bath,"
t, answer-
ing to the third month and the character . Seventh the Chunglü ff,
"Middle-spine," answering to the fourth month and the character E.
Eighth the Yuipin "Delicate guest," corresponding with the fifth
month and the character 4. Ninth the Linchung, "Forest bell,"
corresponding to the sixth month and the character *. Tenth the I tsak
"Outland standard," answering to the seventh month and the
character. Eleventh the Nan lü
the eighth month and the character
"Southern spine," answering to
. Twelfth the Wu She,
"Unshot arrow," answering to the ninth month and the character
5

34
THE CHINESE CALENDAR:
Hypate, which have seemed to vary from their original senses
when applied to music. Although Hypate is the lowest string
in point of pitch and sound, it is the 'highest' in the Greek
sense, which is as to length with any other. It is upon this
ground that Nicomachus tells us that the gravest, or lowest,
sound was ascribed to Saturn from his slow movement, and
being farthest from us; 'for,' says he, 'Hypate is the highest';
also that Nete, the string of quickest movement and shortest
length, producing the highest sound, was ascribed to the
Moon, which is the lowest of the planets and nearest to the
earth.'"
But in addition to this attempt to attune the twelve semitones to the
twelve lunar months, the Chinese philosopher went further and tried to put
them in accord with the lunar zodiac of 28 She, or halting-places. Of course
the 28 mansions have, from the beginning, been a trap, and had to give way
as soon as any attempt at precision came to be made. The moon really
performed her monthly revolution in 27 days, 7 hours and 43 minutes, so
that the paths of no two successive revolutions have more than the roughest
approximation. I translate what the Lut Shu has to say of the Chung lü,
7th in the above series, which will show how hopeless was the task
undertaken by the minister.
"As for the IVth month its medium lut is Chunglü; it is the natural
outcome of matter, and tends westwards. Amongst the twelve "branches" it
occupies the place of Sz' E. Sz' is the emanation of the male aura; west
it reaches to the "Seven Staves" (25th of the Lunar Mansions) the sign is
regarded as male, 7 being counted a complete number, and is hence called the
Seven Staves. West also it extends to Chang (26th of the Mansions);
Chang being denominated the general extender of matter. West also it
stretches to Chü (said to be another name for Liu, the Willow, the 24th of
the Mansions) in its relation to matter it is the commencement of decay.
It belongs to the male aura, as falling water, and is hence called Chü."
The Lut Shu goes on with calculations of the numerical functions which
are by no means clear. There are apparently the five notes of the
pentatonic scale, whose relations are not very evident; these are, kung,
ching, shang, yü, and kioh. Their numbers are given as,
Nine times nine, 81-denotes kung: three parts less one, 54-ching: three

ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY AND CONNECTIONS.
35
After this sketch of the Greek theories of the connections
of music it is both interesting and useful to turn to the contem-
porary Chinese theories glanced at [supra, p. 10]. The Chinese
writer, though as usual he does not mention his authority,
evidently owes his inspiration to foreign sources, most probably
the same whence the new calendar was procured. It is curious
to observe how closely the Pathagorean idea is followed.
parts plus one, 72-shang: three parts less one, 48-yü: three parts plus one,
64-Kioh.
The length of the longest pipe, hwang lung, is 8.71 inches, and is Kung.
The ta lü is in length 7.531 inches.
The t'ai tsuk is 7.72 inches, and is kioh.
The kap chung is 6.131 inches.
The ku si is 6.74 inches, and is yü.
The chung lü is 5.932 inches, and is ching.
The już pin is 5.631 inches.
The lin chung is 5.74 inches, and is kioh.
The i tsak is 5.432 inches, and is shang.
The nan lü is 4.78 inches, and is ching.
The wu she is 4.432 inches.
The ying chung is 4.232 inches, and is yü.
Then come the numerals of the 12 branches. is unity.
32.
寅 9÷8. 卯 27÷16.辰81÷64.243÷128.午729÷512.
2,187÷1,824.申6,5614,096.19,683÷8,192.戌59,049-32,768.
177,147 65,536.
Such was part of the task which the minister Kung sun set himself to
unravel. It was no wonder that he had to retire; re infectâ! It forms no
part of my task to seek to discover the clue. Notwithstanding the labour
displayed, it will be readily perceived that the calculations are incorrect.