60
60
REVIEW.
MYTHOLOGIE DES BUDDHISMUS IN TIBET
UND DER MONGOLEI.
Führer durch die Lamaistische Sammlung des Fuersten UCHTOMSKY von
A. GRUENWEDEL. Leipzig: F. A. Brockhaus 1900 (244. S.)
The name of the well-known Russian magnate, united with
that of the famous publishing house of Brockhaus in Leipzig,
sufficiently explains the elegant garb in which this new book on a
very interesting phase of Buddhism appears before us.
The printing
and paper are first-rate, and the numerous illustrations excellent.
But apart from this beautiful exterior, which will have its effect
even on people whom the subject-matter does not much interest,
the work by its intrinsic value will prove a welcome addition to the
library of the student of the various religious systems of the East.
The ethnologist also will find much of interest in it.
The work pretends to be a guide through the Lamaistic collec-
tion of Prince Uchtomsky. I would rather call it "Mythology and
Art of Buddhism in Tibet and Mongolia," for only about a quarter
of all the illustrations refer to the said collection. Prince Uch-
tomsky's Journal of the Czar's Travels in Eastern Asia contributes
many more illustrations, most of them extremely interesting, others
are taken from pictures in the Berlin Museum of Ethnology, etc.
The illustrations however, though so numerous that there is scarcely
a page without one, are badly arranged and seldom found in connec-
tion with the text which they are intended to illustrate. Text and
illustrations are not a whole. Having nothing to do with the
text in which they are placed, these illustrations divert the reader's

MYTHOLOGIE DES BUDDHISMUS IN TIBET UND DER MONGOLEI. 61
attention, who, while reading, must either take no notice of the
pictures at all or constantly turn the leaves to find them as the
text calls for them.
The introduction, written by Prince Uchtomsky himself, is not
the least interesting feature of the book. There is a great contrast
between these introductory remarks and the text. On one side we
have the idealistic dilettante, on the other the sober-minded scholar.
The history of Europe is in Prince Uchtomsky's opinion trivial
and not worth speaking of when compared with that of oriental
nations. They have always felt attracted to those etherial regions
of prayer and devotion, to those luminous spheres where the divine
influences silence all national hatred and stop the fraternal feuds of
the people. Russia loves the neighbouring continent like a dear
relative to which it is linked by sympathy, and with which it forms
an organic unity [page xvi]. It tries to win the smaller oriental
sister-countries, not by war alone nor by severity but by benevolence
[page xii]. Beautiful indeed! Prince Uchtomsky feels great
sympathy with Madame Blavatsky and the Theosophists, whose
tenets he quotes in full. He takes exception to the frequent
statements of tourists describing the Buddhist monks as lazy
parasites, speaks of centres of Buddhist learning, and finds it quite
natural that the people should love and venerate the priests for their
honesty and energy. In this respect we must vindicate the tourists
and globe-trotters. In China, at least, the Buddhist monks are, as
a rule, but a lot of ignorant fellows, held in very light esteem,
knowing of Buddhism little more than the prayers which they
chant without understanding their meaning, since they are in
Sanscrit. I presume that in Mongolia things are very much the
same.
We perceive the wide gap between primitive Buddhism, as
taught by Çakyamuni, and its modern corruption, when reading
Mr. Gruenwedel's book. Of the profound philosophy of early
Buddhism very little is left in its modern forms. The Lamaism of
Tibet and Mongolia ranks not much higher than the religious
systems of quite uncivilised countries, to such an extent has it

62
REVIEW.
degenerated into mere idolatry. The magic and witchcraft in-
troduced by the Tantra school takes a prominent place in it.
Mr. Gruenwedel is not a novice in the field to which his book
is devoted. He is the author of a handbook of Buddhist art.
The Pantheon of the Tschangtscha Hutuktu of E. Pander was
edited by him, besides he has written a series of articles on Lamaist
Iconography in the publications of the Ethnological Museum at
Berlin. His new work begins with a sketch of the Buddhist
Pantheon in India. We are told that during the first stage of
Buddhist art no images of Buddha himself were made, that he was
only represented symbolically [page 13]. Images of Buddha make
their appearance during the so-called Gandhara period, when,
under the reign of the Indoscythians, Greek influences came to bear
upon the Indian art. The Apollo type then became fashionable for
Buddha statues. Bodhisatvas and other deities look like Greeks or
Romans [page 22]. Later on, purely Indian types are introduced,
which with the spread of Buddhism find their way into Tibet,
Mongolia, China and Japan, but are more or less modified and show
a different style in different countries. Mr. Gruenwedel takes great
care in identifying and describing all the types of Buddhas, gods,
goddesses, demons, devils, saints and sages with which he acquaints
us. Their names are generally given in Sanscrit, Tibetan and
Mongolian. To appreciate beautiful names like sMan-gyi bla
Ve-du-ryai 'od-kyi rgyal-po or mKas-grub bSod-nams rgya-mts'o
and pronounce them correctly one must of course be a Tibetan
scholar.
He who expects to find in Tibet the poetical charm of Greek or
Germanic mythology will be disappointed. There is a striking
poverty of imagination in all the myths and legends. A great
monotony pervades them all. Many of their stories, taken from the
sacred texts, are quite puerile and insipid. It may be noted that
the Chinese mythology labours under the same defect.
The Tibetan Lamaistic art, which consists chiefly in the
fabrication of bronze statues, has reached a high degree of perfec-
tion, as far as workmanship is concerned. In larger collections

MYTHOLOGIE DES BUDDHISMUS IN TIBET UND DER MONGOLEI. 63
one finds real chefs-d'œuvres. The artistic conception, however,
is in most cases far from perfect. There is not much to be
said against the Buddhas and Bodhisatvas as long as they
preserve the Indian type pretty pure. Some are even beautiful
[cfr. pages 95, 122, 123], although their features are often con-
spicuously devoid of expression and somewhat dull [pages 115, 116,
117, 120]. But as soon as the artist departs from his Indian
models, his mind shows a fatal tendency towards the grotesque and
the ugly. His imagination seems to revel in all that is horrid and
dreadful. His gods, even the merciful, are standing or dancing on
corpses [page 153] or sitting on a human skin as a carpet [page 66].
Their most common accompaniments are chains of human skulls,
a bowl filled with blood and a trumpet made of a human thigh-bone.
Even Rati, the Hindu Goddess of Love, has under the form of
Kurukulle, the Goddess of Wealth, become such a hideous monster
[page 153]. The deities of the four seasons are decorated with a
skull and strings of white bones. Being naked, they cover them-
selves with human skins [page 177]. And woe to the poor demons
if they fall a prey to their pursuers, the terrible gods who protect
Buddhism They are killed, skinned and devoured, and their
blood is drunk by their enemies [page 192]. But it must be borne
in mind that the Tibetans and Mongols are not quite alone respon-
sible for all these atrocities. A great many of their gods are
evidently of Çivaitic origin. Çiva also is represented with skulls
and a
bloody skin. The obscene figures of Buddhas with their
Çaktis (their female energies) may likewise have been evolved out
of the Çivaitic cult of the Lingam. Mr. Gruenwedel informs us that
the peculiar dancing pose of those gods with their female companion
in the Purâna style of Çivaism means a creation [page 97]. The
Lamas themselves seem not to be quite mindless of the indecency of
these groups, for they are accustomed to cover them with veils in
their temples, in the Yung-ho-kung in Peking for instance.
As far as I know there is only one Çakti, that of Avaloki-
teçvara, Kuan-yin, in Tibetan Târâ, which is worshipped as the
Goddess of Mercy throughout China. Down to the 12th century

64
REVIEW.
she used to be represented as a man, but images of her as a woman
are said to have been produced already in the 9th century. It is a
very curious fact that the Buryats, who are Lamaists, regard the
Czar as an incarnation of the white Târâ [page 147]. The views
of temples of the Buryats, which we find on pages 21, 85 and 87, are
eloquent witnesses of the influence of Chinese culture on this
Mongolian tribe, for their architecture is completely Chinese.
The statement of our author that the Chino-Japanese God of
Thunder, Lei Kung, has the shape of the Indian divine bird
Garuda [page 161] will be of great interest to sinologues. Are we
to suppose then that the Chinese Lei Kung is of Indian origin?
In modern pictures the God of Thunder is depicted with a cock's
head and claws, carrying in one hand the hammer, in the other the
chisel. We learn, however, from Wang Chung's Lunhêng that in
the 1st century B.C., when Buddhism was not yet introduced into
China, the "Thunderer" was represented as a strong man, not a
bird, with one hand dragging a cluster of drums, and brandishing a
hammer with the other. Thus, the Lei Kung existed already in
China when the latter received her first knowledge of India. Yet
its modern image may well owe its wings to the Indian Rain God
Vajrapani, who in one form appears with Garuḍa wings.
Let us hope that the work under review may have a wide
circulation, and that its readers may not be the author's own
nationals alone, for it well deserves to be known. I believe that I
am right in asserting that no other book of the same kind has, as
yet, been published in any other foreign language.
A. F.