REVIEW.
DR. F. HIRTH AND THE HIUNG NU.
In Munich last year Dr. F. Hirth published under the title
of Ueber Wolga-Hunnen und Hiung-nu, a pamphlet, the
substance of which had been presented to the History Classe of the
Royal Academy of Munich, in which he sought to find additional
evidence in favour of the long exploded error of Deguignes that the
Hiung Nu of the old Chinese writers were to be identified with the
Hunni of Ammianus Marcellinus. Deguignes confessed that his
surmise arose only from the superficial and apparent resemblance of
the two names. Philologically there is absolutely no connection,
the elements that go to make up the Chinese characters in their
modern form having sounded very differently in the second century
before Christ.
I should be the last to question Dr. Hirth's scholarship, or
cast doubt on his profound knowledge of Chinese, and my note is
not to be taken as prompted by any such intention; yet it is
difficult to understand how he has been misled in the translation of
a sufficiently simple passage, which refers to the Hiung Nu only
incidentally, and to the Hunni not at all. I give from his notes the
text.
自初己奴西
後粟販三殺北
名特
無特貨世
溫國
使王及
朝克
使
見先至里
1名溫那沙居於大澤在康居
粟特國在葱嶺之西古之奄蔡
詔多王先在之
高忽是康奄
焉宗涼倪匈居蔡

DR. F. HIRTH AND THE HIUNG HU.
137
With the exception of the proper names this presents no
difficulty. I present a translation.
"Su[k]te[h] is situated west of the Ts'ungling; it was the
ancient Imts'ai and was also known as Wannasha. It lies close
by a great marsh to the north-west of K'angku, and is distant from
Tai 16,000 li. In former days the Hiung Nu killed its king, and
held possession of the country for three generations up to the
time of king [H] wui 'r sz.'
Formerly the merchants of this country went in numbers to
dispose of their wares in the land of Liang: [a party] having
entered Kutsang were made prisoners, and at the beginning of the
reign Kaots'ung [of the Wei] the king of Su[k] te [h] sent a
mission requesting their enlargement.
After this period no further diplomatic intercourse took place."
With the exception of the Wennas, the proper names here
given need but little explanation, most being well known to every
student of the Geography of Central Asia during the Roman period.
Sukte is, of course, the ancient Sughdha of the Zend Avesta, the
Sogdia or Sogdiana of the Greeks, and is conterminous with the
country watered by the Zarafshan, the Greek Polytimetus; its
capital then as now was Samarkand, the Marakanda of Arrian.
Sz-ma Ts'ien, in the 122nd Chapter of the Shiki, calls the country
in full
[I]m-Ts'ai-li-kan. I showed in 1879,
[Trans., vol. xiv, p. 7] that the first two characters were inverted by
the transcriber, and that the name intended was Ts'ai[i]mlikan,
standing merely for the letter m, while ts' represented s, the
name indicated was Sa[1]markand, agreeing with the old
tradition which made Selm, the son of Feridun its eponym. Sz-ma
likewise speaks of the great Marsh, which we must identify with
the Palus Oxiana of the Latin writers. The land of Liang
stretched along the western and north-western frontier of China, its
There seems a discrepancy here. According to Persian accounts, it
was King Firuz who, after having been aided by the Turks of Trans-Oxiana
to dethrone his brother Hormazd (see below), attacked, in 482, his former
benefactors, and was ignominiously defeated, and himself left dead on
the field.

138
REVIEW.
extent varying from time to time; the name survives in Liangcheo
in Kansuh. T'ai was the capital adopted by the House of Toba,
who established the Wei dynasty.
Kutsang here is the country called by Ma-twan Lin
Kweishwang, and by the Armenian writers Kushan. It formed the
most powerful of the five states into which the Ephthalite kingdom
was divided, its king Kitolo [Katulphus] having conquered
the others, extended his territories into Afghanistan. This
kingdom is better known from its coins, which bear the
inscription [K]SHA [tra] ONAM [K]SHA[tra] O KANESHKO
KOSHANA, which may be rendered "Kshatra of Kshatras,-
King of KUSHAN." Northwards it extended into the valley of
the Upper Oxus, as far as the mountains north of Shehr-i-sebz,
and was roughly conterminous with the Greek Baktria. Early in
the sixth century, Timur, the Khakan of the Tukueh, having joined
forces with the king of Persia, these kingdoms were divided
between them. These Tukueh were professedly the successors
of the ancient Hiung Nu, but had adopted the new tribal
name of Tughul or Tughrul.
So far we have heard nothing of the Huns in this connection,
but Dr. Hirth conceives he has found their name in that of the
King of Sughdh. Merely premising that if Dr. Hirth had found a
name which by some process might be made to resemble Hun or
Hunni, this would scarcely advance the proof. Hurnas, as Dr. Hirth
suggests, may have been a son of Attila, but in the failure of all
connecting evidence, a faint reminiscence of such a name in the
person of a king of Sughdh could scarcely be held to affect the
argument. The main population of Samarkand has at all periods
been Iranian, and we have no record up to the time of the Weishu
of it having ever been absorbed in any other nationality. As a
matter of fact history throws light on the case; but first we may
enquire what sound the Chinese author intended to reproduce in the
three characters, in modern Chinese Hwui i sz'. Our
author would have us believe that in old Chinese, say prior to our
era, the sound was Hut ngai ssi, but here all the indications point
in a different direction. The Weishu was not written before the

DR. F. HIRTH AND THE HIUNG HU.
139
sixth century, and the Weis were a northern race, closely related to
the Manchus of to-day, and under that influence the ancient
consonantal endings had already sloughed off and had been converted
into a mere echo,-the juhsheng tone of the Chinese lexicographers.
In all probability the Chinese of the Wei was not unlike that that we
know to have prevailed north of the Yangtsze in the Ming period.
But neither in old nor modern Chinese is the initial of
represented by h. In Cantonese the syllable is pronounced fa[t],
in Amoy it is hwu[t], in Ningpo hweh, in old Mandarin hwuh,
and it is only in the corrupt Pekinese as rendered by Wade,
that it drops its original sound and becomes h. The character is
composed of two elements, a radical which does not affect the sound,
and a primitive preserving in a great measure the old phonetic element
and here again, even in Pekinese, the initial breathing is preserved;
the sound is Wub, for an ancient wut. We cannot be far wrong in
assuming the writer intended to express the sound fi. Nor is the
second character less clear, the phonetic element of the character
ranges through n, ng and 'r. But ng and n in the old renderings
of foreign names introduced by Sz'ma Tsien represent the western r,
which gives us the second syllable. There is no difficulty about
the last, which is still s or z. The word is in fact Firuz, and
history fully confirms this. The reign of Kaots'ung, mentioned
above, lasted from 452 to 466; while in 438 Yezdegird II, King
of Persia, died through an accident. His son Hormazd succeeded
him, but the succession was disputed by his brother Firuz, who fled
across the Oxus, and raised the standard of revolt. With the aid
of a king of "Turan" called Khush Nuaz, he succeeded two years
later in defeating his brother and seated himself on the throne.
This is apparently the king Firuz to whom the Weishu refers.
Unfortunately our sources of information about Samarkand during
the Sassanian dynasty are extremely limited, but it was apparently
a bone of contention between Persia, the Ephthalite kings of
Kushan, and the rising power of the Tukueh. Finally, by a strange
combination of the Persian King, Anushirwan, and the Khakan of
the Tukueh, the Ephthalite kingdom was destroyed, and its territory

140
REVIEW.
partitioned, Trans-oxiana falling to the portion of the Khakan. It
is to these struggles that the author of the Weishu alludes.
The only other people in the extract quoted is the
Wennas, for there is little doubt that
Y,
[sha] is here the sign
of the plural. Of these people we do not seem to hear elsewhere,
but Ptolemy, in his account of Sogdiana, after describing the
Kirrhadae or Kirrhodees as living by the Jaxartes and Oxus, goes
on to describe the district of Wandabanda, Ouvôáßavda, as
midway between the mountains called Kaukasus and Imaus.
He speaks also within the Imaus of mountains called the Alan
range and places in this position his Alanic Scyths, 'Alavor
Zúbot. Alans and Wends are indeed placed side by side,
not only in this position, but almost everywhere from the
Danube to the Vistula. Writing at a later period, Ma Twanlin,
as quoted by Rémusat, tells of An, also called Puho, [Bokhara],
that at the time of the Wei it was called Numi, apparently
for Tumi, i.e. Derbend, it is bounded on the west by the
stream of the Oxus, and its capital is known as Alanmi. This
country, he proceeds to say, formed part of the state of
K'angku. As a general mess has been made by translators
over this country of K'angku, a few words ma" be useful.
K'angku first appears in Sz'ma Tsien, and is there, and, in the
early Chinese authors, invariably, Kashgar. In the eleventh
century the descendents of a Turk called Seljuk established an
empire which finally became conterminous with Ferghâna and
extended to the Byzantine realm. This country is, by the Chinese,
called the state of K'angku. Seljuk or his son seems to have
crossed the Jaxartes about A.D. 1000 and first established his seat
of government at the city of Kashgar, which hence gave its name to
the kingdom which soon reached to the Oxus. Seljuk's grandsons
were the celebrated Togrul and his brother David [Daûd].
Togrul died without issue, and was succeeded by his still more
celebrated nephew Alp Arslan, the son of Daûd, who, in the
west, is more generally known as Chakur. Ma Twanlin always
speaks of the sovereigns of K'angku as descendants of
Shaowu, that is to say, Daûd. A little knowledge, says Pope,

DR. F. HIRTH AND THE HIUNG HU.
141
is a dangerous thing, and in no instance do we find a better
exemplification of the general truth of the aphorism than in our
would-be Chinese authorities.
October 1901.
THOS. W. KINGSMILL.