THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
By BYRON BRENAN, C.M.G.
The practical efficacy of the Chinese system of govern-
ment in promoting the welfare of the people, and preserving
the internal peace of the Empire, primarily depends upon
that class of officers which are called chih-hsien-district
magistrate, as we usually designate them. They are in
immediate touch with the people, and stand in loco parentis
towards them. In Chinese official documents they are usually
referred to as the father and mother of the people; and this
very correctly describes the relationship, for the happiness
of the inhabitants of a district depends in a large measure on
the disposition of the magistrate; and the effect of the most
beneficent measures devised by the Supreme Government
will scarcely reach the people if their application is opposed
by the local official. The magistrate is the unit of government;
he is the backbone of the whole official system; and to ninety
per cent. of the population he is the Government.
The Chinaman is happiest who never sees an official, who
does not even know the name of one. He can ask no kinder
fate than that which allows him to pass his uneventful days
ignorant of any person more important than the village head
man. There are many such, especially in the rural districts;
but even amongst those who by reason of their position, of
their avocations, or their worldly goods, become aware of the

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
37
existence of a constituted authority over them, there are
many to whom anything more exalted or powerful than the
district magistrate is a vision-a name devoid of any real
meaning.
According to the latest edition of the Red Book-an
official publication which gives the name of every official in
the Empire-there are 1,300 districts in China proper.
The province of Chihli has the greatest number, 137; and at
the bottom of the list is Kueichow with 34; our own province
of Kiangsu has 62.
In his own district the magistrate has various duties to
perform which in Western countries are entrusted to separate
persons in distinct departments. He is, at one and the same
time, civil and criminal judge, collector of taxes, coroner,
sheriff, keeper of prisons, overseer of public works, registrar
of land, famine commissioner, and officer of education. This
surely suggests enough work for one man, whatever his
qualifications may be, but the surprising thing is that a
district magistrate receives his first appointment possessing
absolutely no qualification or previous training; and that
nevertheless he manages to acquit himself sufficiently well
to remain in office. Naturally he has to put himself entirely
in the hands of his staff of trained men, and as their fortune
is identified with his, they do their utmost to keep him straight.
I shall now proceed to describe how these officials obtain
their appointments. The belief is prevalent that in China
office is obtained by competitive examination. This is the
theory, and probably the practice held good in olden times,
but like most things in the degenerate China of the present
day there is a vast difference between theory and practice.
A Chinese author puts the case pithily in a sentence which
means that "In ancient times officials were scholars, but now
there are both officials and scholars." Even in the present

38
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
day scholarship is of assistance, but it may be truly said that a
very small minority obtain appointments solely through
literary proficiency. Literary distinction will give a man
a good start, but unless he is prepared to follow this up
with money he has little chance of obtaining a substantive
appointment.
The first thing a man has to do is to get his name on a
list which makes him eligible for a substantive appointment.
There are several doors through which the candidate for
office may enter. I shall set them out in their order of
importance.
1.-Hanlin san kuan shou chih hsien.
These are the successful candidates at the final palace
examination when scholars obtain the degree of Chin shih and
are admitted as members of the Hanlin college. The majority
of these obtain appointments in some of the metropolitan
offices, but a small number receive the rank of district magis-
trate, and those thus selected are sure to receive employment
as district magistrate within two or three months, and this
without the expenditure of any money except some small sums
as fees to the clerks in the Board of Civil Office. Those,
therefore, who can secure a district in this straightforward
way may be considered extremely fortunate, but it is seldom
that these favoured men get the valuable posts.
2. After the palace examination above referred to, there
is another competition called court examination which is held
in the palace, a theme selected by the Emperor himself being
given out for the compositions required. Some of the
successful candidates receive the rank or title of magistrate.
These do not obtain a substantive post, but they have to
proceed to one of the provincial capitals, and there wait until
they are selected to fill a vacancy.

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
39
3. Another class is composed of literary graduates who
have qualified at a certain examination which occurs once in
twelve years. These receive the title of pa kung sheng or yu kung
sheng. Holders of such titles are admitted to a palace
examination and, through this test, have a chance of obtaining
the rank of magistrate. These must repair to a provincial
capital and await employment.
4. A scholar of the Chujen, or M.A. degree, who has
three times failed to pass the higher examination may appear
before a special commission of selection, and, if he passes, he
is eligible for the rank of magistrate. This mode of selection
is called ta tiao chih hsien
5.-There are certain scholars who are employed after an
examination in copying the essays of the candidates at the
metropolitan examination. They are called Teng lu.
After a
certain number of years of this duty they may be recommended
for the rank of magistrate; and if the recommendation is success-
ful they have a remote' chance of obtaining a substantive post.
6. In every district there is an officer of education, or
director of studies. After he has served a certain number of
years in this capacity he may be recommended for the title
of magistrate.
7. A post in a metropolitan office is considered more
honourable than a small appointment in the provinces, but for
one reason or another a man in a Peking Board holding the
degree of Chin shih, may prefer to exchange into the provincial
service. These may, after a few years of duty in Peking, apply
for the rank of magistrate.
8. Another class is the sons of officials who have died in
their country's service, either in some military operations, or by
being killed at their post by rebels, or in any duty of a hazar-
dous nature. These are eligible for nomination to the rank of
magistrate. Such titles are known as Nan yung Chih hsien.

40
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
The above list is not exhaustive, but it will serve to
show from what ranks the important class of officials we
are dealing with is recruited. Any who get into the service
in the way described above are said to have come in by the
ching tu, straight road. There is, furthermore, the purchase
system; official rank may be purchased; and those who have
purchased rank may eventually obtain office. At the present
time no higher rank than magistrate may be purchased; but
there have been times when even a Taotai's rank could be
bought. Those who get into the public service through the
purchase system are said to have come in by the side path,
yi tu.
But so far our man has only got his foot in the stirrup;
to get up in the saddle still demands the exercise of much
patience and the expenditure of more money. His name is
now on the lists kept at the Li pu, or Board of Civil Office,
and he has to wait until his name is drawn.
As vacancies occur they should be filled by drawing by
lot names from some particular list; but there are so many
exceptions to this rule that it has ceased to be a rule at all.
The intricate system of selection is known only to the clerks
of the Li ри, who are all powerful in deciding the question of
eligibility of candidates; and the eligibility, it may be well
understood, is much assisted by the use of money.
Some officers get their appointment direct from Peking,
but more frequently they are sent to one of the provincial
capitals to await a vacancy. This attitude of expectancy is
called hou pu; and to many an official this period of hou pu
must be a painful experience. Debarred by his official status
from earning a living in an honest way, his time is chiefly
taken up in looking out for vacancies likely to occur, and in
scheming and intriguing to get the appointment when it does
occur. Many a man never gets beyond the expectant period.

He
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA. 41
passes his life in trying to occupy some post, and he goes
on expecting until he is past work. In the province of Kiangsu
there are about 600 of these expectant magistrates.
These expectant officials, while awaiting a regular
appointment, frequently get temporary employment, or chai
shih. There are many duties to be performed in connection
with provincial affairs for which provision has not been made
in the regular administration, and in this way there is always
employment for a large staff of wei yuan, as officers detached
for special duty are called. A good many expectant officials
thus manage to make a living, and have, moreover, an oppor-
,tunity of showing that there is something in them, and gaining
the approbation of the Governor; and then their chance of
getting a vacancy is much improved.
While residing at the provincial capital awaiting an
appointment, the expectant who thinks that a prize is within
reach looks about him and tries to get some knowledge of
official work. In a manual of instructions to magistrates
there is a word of advice given to the expectant magistrate.
He is, of course, directed to acquaint himself with the
conditions of the province; to gain experience by associating
with officials of good standing. In his social relations he is
advised not to live ostentatiously, or to allow the ladies of his
family to make many acquaintances. Particularly is it enjoined
on him not to employ local female servants. Family affairs
leak out through the gossip of these local domestics. Neither
when awaiting employment or after having secured a vacancy
is it wise to engage as female servants any natives of the
place. It is better to bring women from our own provinces
as then they will not become intimate with the people of the
town. Female influence is often felt in the yamen, and the
ear of the magistrate may be reached through the female
servants and the ladies of the family. That persons desiring
6

42
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
favours may find the shortest cut through the women's
apartments is recognised in the popular saying "that when the
ladies are pleased, and the female servants are content, then
you may know that the real master is not the magistrate."
When at last the expectant magistrate is appointed to a
vacancy the appointment is officially gazetted at the yamen
of the Provincial Treasurer. The nomination is posted upon
the notice board at the gate of the Treasurer's yamen, for all
such appointments are supposed to be made by the Treasurer.
In reality the latter is merely recording a decision already
come to by the Governor of the province. In former times
the Fantai or treasurer was the highest provincial official,
but about four centuries ago it became customary to send
high officers as inspectors to the provinces; and these gradually
extended their stay, and developed into permanent governors.
The title Hsün fu indicates that originally this high officer
went on circuit.
The newly appointed official chooses a lucky day for
starting on his journey. The day is fixed by a fortune-teller
who professes to discover some connecting link between the
man's horoscope and the ceremony of taking a seal of office.
Before quitting the provincial capital he takes leave of all
his superior officers, and particularly tenders thanks for his
appointment to the Governor and the Provincial Treasurer.
The permanent staff of the province to which he is proceeding
has already come to the capital to fetch their new master and
convey him to his destination. All preparations have already
been made by them, such as hiring boats or carts and pre-
paring lodgings on the road, for all of which he will have to
pay by-and-bye.
On reaching the end of his journey he is lodged in
temporary quarters until his predecessor has vacated the
official residence. The new magistrate on taking over office

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA. 43
-or receiving the seal as it is called-goes through a very
elaborate ceremony, of which the following is an outline:-The
outgoing official hands over the seal to his successor, who
causes it to be put on a table decorated with the Imperial
Yellow, and forthwith performs the ceremony of kotow nine
times, and then thanks the Emperor for having conferred the
post. In some yamens there is a small shrine where the
magistrate also goes through a ceremony, but this is a matter
of local custom and is not part of the official programme.
When all this kotowing is over, the magistrate takes his
place on the official seat in the middle of the intermediate
door of the yamen, and the staff of the establishment come
forward and do their kotowing, the magistrate meantime standing
aside and acknowledging the salutation by bowing. He then
retires into the guest-hall inside the yamen, where he receives
the congratulations of his secretaries and of his relations, when
kotows are mutually exchanged. After this he retires into the
inner apartments, where the female portion of the family also
do their prostrations. If the new magistrate has brought his
father or mother, he prostrates himself before them. All this
time he has been in his court robes, but now he is at liberty
to remove them and put on plain clothes.
Now we have the magistrate installed in office. His first
duty is to issue a notification announcing that he has taken up
his duties. On this auspicious occasion the document is
written on red paper. He then proceeds to publish a
proclamation informing his subordinates that he will not
tolerate any abuses and inviting the people to report to him
immediately any attempt at extortion. Then, on an early day,
he proceeds to the city temple and makes a bow before the
guardian deity,-a ceremony that may be compared with
taking the oath of office with us. The magistrate's oath is
as follows: "You the presiding deity are intelligent and

44 THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
far-seeing. You afford protection to the people and bring
prosperity to the district. My abilities are but limited, but
now that I have assumed office all my actions shall be in the
light of day. Old established customs which are not injurious
to the people I shall leave unchanged. May I be struck dead
if I accept the smallest bribe, or take even one bowl of rice
from the people; or allow my runners to extort money; or fail
to deal promptly with any case brought before me; or allow
innocent persons to be falsely accused. So do I humbly make
my vow and publish my intentions; and I call upon you to
witness that I pledge myself to fulfil them."
The multifarious duties which claim the attention of a
district magistrate, and for the due discharge of which he
alone is held responsible, are far beyond the power of one
man. There is scarcely any matter occurring in the district
in which he may not be called upon to take action. Every-
thing, from an inundation to a street brawl, may claim the
attention of this many-sided individual; and while those
entrusted to his keeping frequently fail to appreciate the
attention he would bestow on them, there are times when the
same people look to him for assistance in circumstances
absolutely beyond his control. To their thinking, it is the
magistrate's duty to control the seasons and to restrain the
forces of nature; and if anything goes wrong, the people
resignedly submit to their fate, comforted by the reflection that
it is all the magistrate's fault.
To discharge all the duties that are imposed on him a
magistrate must have a numerous staff.
The strength of the staff of a district magistrate must of
course vary with the importance of the post, and here it may
be explained that districts are classified under certain denomina-
tions. The four words Chung fan pi nan-meaning frequented,
troublesome, wearisome, and difficult-are used to designate a

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA. 45
very important post. The very important posts have the four
characters prefixed; and they are called four-character posts,
others have three, two, one, or none. The Shanghai district
has three characters; and in this yamen there may be as many
as 200 men of all ranks employed. A small unimportant post
would have 20 or 30 only.
In every Chih hsien's yamen a complete staff would include
the following persons:-First, there are the Mou Yu, whose
Chinese titles indicate that they are individuals in intimate
official relationship with the incumbent of the post. The most
important on the staff are two, the Hsing ming shih yeh, or
law secretary, and Chien ku shih yeh, or revenue secretary.
These men are nearly always from the Chekiang province,
and usually come from Shaoshingfu. A secretary in a yamen
has always some pupils or articled clerks with him, and these
in course of time are recommended for employment to
magistrates or other officials in want of secretaries. In this
way the office of secretary in all yamens has almost become a
monopoly of the Chekiang province, and it is as much in the
natural order of things for a yamen secretary to be a Che-
kiang man as for a banker to be a native of Shansi.
magistrate is entirely in the hands of his legal and financial
advisers in their respective departments. He goes to his first
post utterly ignorant of the duties he will have to perform;
and, to an extent which could find no parallel in our own
services, he is merely a responsible figurehead at the mercy of
his trained subordinates.
The
The next in importance is the accountant, who has charge
of the moneys passing in or out. Another important individual
is the Shu chi, or private secretary, who drafts all despatches,
reports and other official documents. Then comes the Cheng
shou, or tax collector.

46
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
There are furthermore two clerks who see that official
documents are properly prepared and finished. They are known
as the black ink and red ink clerks. The red ink man adds
the circles and flourishes in red ink which we see on all
official documents. Then comes a string of clerks whose
duties may be inferred from their titles: there is the Kao an,
clerk in charge of correspondence; the Chien tsao, clerk in
charge of revenue returns; the Chien kao, clerk who registers
documents; the Chih tieh, clerk who receives the petitions; and
the Tsa wu, clerk who does whatever is left over by the others.
He is a sort of general utility man, if room there is for one
in such an overstocked yamen. There is also the Chih tang,
or usher of the police court; Men chai, the yamen attendants
at the gate; and a host of assistants to all the above. All these
I have enumerated change with each new incumbent, but
occasionally an incoming magistrate may take on one or more
if he does not happen to be already suited, or if, for local reasons,
the outgoing official particularly advises him to do so.
The permanent clerks-those who remain through all
changes, and are part and parcel of the yamen establishment-
are the Shu pan, or clerks in charge of the six divisions of a
yamen. These divisions are called fang, and in their small
way they correspond to the Six Boards in Peking; and the
names by which they are known are the same as those of the
Six Boards-Li, Hu, Li, Peng, Hsing, Kung. There are
besides two more divisions, the Chen fa fang and the Chao kao
fang; their duties are the sending out and the receiving of
official documents. And yet two more departments have to be
mentioned, the Tsung tsao fang, in charge of the grain tax,
and the Tsung yin fang, in charge of the land tax.
The yamen lictors, runners, and constables come at the
end of the long list; they are called Tsao pan, Kwai pan and
Pu pan respectively. All these, from the Shu pan down to

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA. 47
the constables, are a permanent fixture; the office is hereditary
in certain families, and their vested interests are so firmly
established that they are known as yamen aborigines; and it
would be almost impossible to dislodge them.
Now to describe the various duties which a magistrate
has to perform.
The most important, and that to which he has to devote
the greatest care, is the judicial office. The yamen of a
magistrate is a court of first instance in all cases, civil or
criminal, for by Chinese law it is forbidden under a penalty
of 50 blows to make application to a prefect or higher official
until the case has been submitted to the magistrate; and
similarly the subordinate officials in a district, such as the
assistant or sub-magistrate, are required to refer all cases to their
superior officer as soon as they are brought to their notice.
These latter do, as a matter of fact, deal with minor offences
on their own responsibility, and take cognizance of many
matters which should strictly go before the magistrate; but
the work of the district could not be carried on unless this
was done, and the magistrate is very willing to wink at this
usurping of his authority.
To assist him in the discharge of these duties every
magistrate has, as I have already stated, an experienced law
secretary who has the criminal code at his fingers' ends. As
all important cases are liable to be taken on appeal to a higher
court, great care has to be taken that all proceedings are
regular, or at any rate that they will appear so in the record
of the case that is prepared for future reference. The first
consideration is to pay studious regard to the Taching lü li, or
criminal code of the dynasty. The magistrate has this always
in mind. There are many published works to which he may
look for guidance, such as "Instructions to judicial officers,"
"Leading cases in criminal law," etc., and in these he will

48
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
find instructions in almost any case that may arise. For
example, if it is a case of gambling: the magistrate refers to
the proper book, turns up the right page, and finds that he
has to enquire who it was that first proposed gambling; how
many associates were there; who produced the implements;
how much money did each person have; then, when the guilty
parties have been convicted, the gambling apparatus must be
destroyed in open court.
If the offence is that of unlawfully slaying cattle for food,
the magistrate must ask where the cow came from; was it
diseased; who cut up the carcase; and did the neighbours
object, etc.
There are also books which record the decisions of famous
judges-a sort of collection of judgments of Solomon. Here
are a few of them.
Two men were disputing about the possession of a fowl.
The judge inquired of each what he fed his fowls on. One
said barley and the other said beans. When the fowl's crop
was opened barley was found, so the bean man was punished.
Two men were quarrelling about a piece of silk. The
judge ordered the silk to be cut in two, and gave half to each
man, and sent them out. Then he secretly sent a man outside
to see how they took his decision. One man looked pleased
and the other looked discontented. This was enough for the
judge, who ordered both pieces to be given to the discontented
man.
An old widow Chang was living with her rich son. One
day an old man came and claimed that he was really his own
son, whom as an infant he had given away to a certain Chang.
The old man's intention was to fasten himself on the rich
family. The case came before the magistrate, who asked the
old man for proof that he had given away his son. Nothing
daunted, the old impostor produced a book where on the fly-

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
49
leaf was an entry as follows: "On such-and-such a day I gave
my infant son to old father Chang." This looked conclusive,
but the magistrate, turning to the widow, asked, "How old was
your husband when he died last year?" "Just 60," she replied.
"And how old is your son now"? "31," was the answer. "That
would then have made your husband 30 years old at the time
he is said to have taken the child," remarked the magistrate.
Then, turning to the old man, he said, "How is it you wrote that
you gave your child to old father Chang, if he was only 30."
The impostor looked confused, and was duly punished.
The underlings and hangers-on of a yamen live on
litigation, and they work hand-in-hand with a class of men
known as Sung kun, professional stirrers-up of strife. They are
ever on the look-out for opportunities of creating litigation;
and, being good judges of human nature, they know how to
fan a spark into a flame, and out of a small dispute between
rich persons to work up an intricate law suit in which both
plaintiff and defendant will be ruined. In their instructions
magistrates are specially directed to suppress these pests, and
to exhort the people to compose their differences without
having recourse to law. These Sung kun attorneys soon
discover the weak side of a magistrate. If he is down on
gambling they trump up charges against wealthy persons;
if the magistrate is much interested in irrigation they work
up a case against some rich proprietor who is accused of
diverting the streams, etc. There is a more reputable class of
men who act as attorneys. These men have a semi-official
status, and are appointed by each successive magistrate.
Before appointment they undergo an examination which tests
their ability in drawing up official documents. These men
are known as tai shu. They are required to satisfy themselves
that their client is the person he represents himself to be; and
that if several persons join in an action that they are all aware
7

50
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
of the contents of the petition. The attorney may not do
more than note down the facts as stated to him, and draw up
the petition in proper form. If a woman comes with a complaint
the attorney must ascertain whether she has a husband or a
son who may appear in her stead. It is only when a woman
has suffered a personal wrong that she may present a petition
in person. These attorneys may only prepare documents for
their clients; they are not allowed to appear in court to plead.
The fee charged for preparing a document varies with
the importance of the case and the wealth of the litigant. In
important yamens these tai shu make several hundred dollars
a month.
Petitions on ordinary matters are received on certain
days of the month, and an illegal fee has to be paid to the
yamen underling before it is handed in. Cases have come to
my knowledge in Canton where a plaintiff has had to pay $50
before his petition could be put before the magistrate. This
is one reason why Consuls are so often requested to transmit
a petition in some matter wholly unconnected with foreign
interests. I have frequently been requested to do this, and
have been assured at the same time that I would not again be
troubled in the matter; once the petition was in, the petitioner
felt sure of obtaining a hearing and perhaps justice. There
are certain cases where a petitioner may obtain a hearing at
once without waiting for the regular day when the court sits.
Outside the main entrance of the yamen there is hung a gong,
or there ought to be one, and when that gong is struck the
magistrate is supposed to appear at once. The gong may
only be struck on the occurrence of certain events which are
enumerated on a board over the gong. The occasions for
appealing by striking the gong are when it is desired to
announce-

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA. 51
1. That a secret society is plotting mischief.
2. That the police are making illegal arrests.
3. That the police are detaining someone secretly.
4. That the police are unlawfully removing goods.
5. That a murder has been committed.
6. That a highway robbery has been committed.
7. To give in charge conspirators or violent beggars.
It is a magistrate's duty to clear off cases which are on
the hearing list as expeditiously as possible. Even in civil
cases the defendant is often kept in custody for months before
the case comes on for hearing; and the delay is frequently the
fault of the plaintiff, who by this means hopes to force the
other side to come to a satisfactory agreement.
In such cases the magistrate should fix a date, and have
notice served on the plaintiff warning him that if he does not
appear with his witnesses at the time fixed the case will be
struck off the list. It happens, however, that the defendant
who is in custody will bribe the yamen runners not to serve
the notice on the plaintiff, who will thus fail to appear and
will lose his case. To guard against this a magistrate, in
addition to giving personal notice, must have the notice
publicly exhibited near the man's residence. When investi-
gating serious cases, such as highway robbery or murder, the
magistrate is instructed to examine the accused and the
different witnesses separately. Witnesses know how wrathful a
magistrate becomes when the evidence is contradictory; so if
they have the chance they will all tell the same story in the
same words. It is therefore a better plan to keep all the
witnesses apart; and then, if after this precaution the
testimony of all agrees, the magistrate may feel sure that he
has the right story.
The instructions to magistrates also suggests a way of
getting at the truth when two or three men stand accused of

52
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
a crime, and there is but little evidence against them. It is
not quite in accord with our principles of jurisprudence, but
a Chinese magistrate's motto is "a confession at any price."
When, two or three criminals are being tried the magistrate
should hold the trial in a room where a trustworthy clerk has
previously concealed himself in a cupboard or under a table.
The magistrate should proceed with the case for a time, and
then by pre-arrangement a servant comes in and announces
that some important visitor has arrived. The judge adjourns
the trial for a short time, and orders the door of the room to
be locked. Left alone, the prisoners are sure to talk about
the crime, and of their chances of an acquittal. They will of
course be overheard by the concealed person; and then, as the
Book of Instructions says, the evidence against them will be
complete.
One curious piece of advice is given to magistrates as to
their demeanour when dealing with offences which they wish
particularly to put down. It order to strike terror in the
hearts of evil-doers they must simulate uncontrollable anger.
They should strike the table and shout aloud, and make believe
that their patience is quite at an end. They should stand up
and make pretence of leaving the hall, as if the heinousness
of the crime was too much for them. The criminal must be
made to feel that no penalty contained in the criminal code
will meet the requirements of the case, and that something
exceptionally severe must be invented for the occasion. Then,
after the judge has worked himself up to boiling point, he
must with a great effort bring himself to give the criminal
one more chance, and resume his seat on the bench. Evil-
doers will then realize that they have no ordinary man to deal
with, and be terrorised into mending their ways.
A considerable portion of a magistrate's emoluments
comes from fees paid by litigants. These are considered

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
53
illegal; but it would not benefit the litigants even if some
strait-laced magistrate refused to accept them. The only
result would be that his staff would keep the whole amount,
instead of halving the fees with the magistrate, as is now
customary. Besides judicial fees, the magistrate receives
presents from those within his jurisdiction; some of these he
is at liberty to accept; others are looked upon as illegal, but
they are accepted all the same. The broad rule laid down is
that anything that comes directly from the people, or is offered
in connection with litigation, is illegal; but presents from
firms or associations, offered merely out of courtesy and
respect, may be accepted. An unusually clean-handed official
may sometimes decide to abolish a time-honoured fee or
present; in such a case he is recommended not to take his
yamen staff into his confidence, else they will go to the parties,
and offer for a consideration to get the fee abolished; and
thus the people will be misled into paying money for a relief
which the magistrate was prepared to afford them for nothing.
The term for these presents is lou kuei, which implies that
there is something disgraceful in accepting them, but the
disgrace is so universally shared that nobody is the worse for
it. The regulation salary of a magistrate is 200 taels a year,
with a further allowance of between 1,000 and 2,000 taels a
As a
year as an encouragement to honest administration.
matter of fact he never handles one or the other. His emolu-
ments are retained by the provincial treasurer to meet defalca-
tions in the magistrate's accounts or to pay fines inflicted for
some official offence; and when the settling-day comes the
salary is always withheld.
A magistrate has occasionally to intervene in very delicate
questions. His yamen is not exactly a divorce court, or a court
for matrimonial causes; but he may be called upon to decide
questions akin to these, and even actions for breach of promise

54
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
may occupy his attention. In this respect he possesses greater
authority than our judges in England, for whereas the latter,
with the assistance of a jury, can only fix the amount of money
which the faithless defendant shall pay to the disappointed
plaintiff, in China the judge may go so far as to decide that
the grounds on which one of the parties wishes to throw over
the other are insufficient, and to rule that the marriage shall
take place.
When a betrothal has been properly arranged
through the agency of the matrimonial agents, or when
presents have been sent to the girl and these have been
accepted, the proof of the betrothal is clear enough, and it is
difficult to back out of it. But there are times when, over a
cup of wine, the fathers of two young persons settle that their
children shall marry when they attain the proper age, and
there is no further evidence of the contract. In such a case
the Chinese say that a cup of wine took the place of the go-
between. In the absence of evidence, the parents on one side
or the other may think it safe to back out of the affair and a
law-suit is the result. In such a case the magistrate's duty is
to find out what is the cause of the rupture. The reason
usually is that subsequently to the engagement, which may
have been made years before, the man has become poor or the
girl has become deformed or very unattractive. The
magistrate should have the couple brought before him, and
interrogate them himself, and not allow their views to be
influenced by others. If they say they do not wish to marry,
then, rather than force on them a life of unhappiness, the
magistrate decrees a separation. If they are willing to marry,
then he orders them to marry, and thus conform to the earlier
wishes of their parents. But if the reason for the rupture was
that the woman is unattractive, it behoves the bridegroom to
give her face by carrying out the ceremony with much
publicity-full choral service, as we should say; and if the

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA. 55
reason was that the man was poor, it is proper for the bride to
contribute an extra amount of things to the ménage.
But where go-betweens have been employed, or when
presents have passed, then subsequent loss of fortune or of
attractiveness cannot be taken into account. A bargain is a
bargain, and there is no question of the parties being willing
or unwilling to marry.
gave
Then
I shall cite one of the cases which are quoted as prece-
dents for the guidance of magistrates. A man named Chao
promised his young daughter in marriage to a man named
Chen, and accepted 64 taels as sealing the contract. Without
waiting until he was married, Chen took a concubine and got
children. The man Chao then took offence, and objected to
his daughter going to the man as a second choice. Still, in
the face of the contract, he did not venture to give the girl in
marriage to anyone else. Chen meantime let matters be, and
showed no sign of claiming his bride. So things went on
until the daughter reached the age of 30. At last, in despair,
Chao his daughter in marriage to another man.
Chen began to make trouble against Chao; but mutual friends
interfered, and peace was made over a dinner, one of the
conditions being that Chao should return the 64 taels he had
received and that Chen should sign a document renouncing
his claim to the daughter. After some time Chen began to
think he might extort more money out of Chao, and he
brought an action against him before the magistrate. The
judgment was to the effect that Chen had made light of the
state of marriage by taking unto himself a concubine before
he was lawfully married; moreover he had shown disregard
for the parents' feelings when he ignored his fiancée until she
was 30 years old. Besides, he had taken back the 64 taels paid
by him to the girl's parents, and had signed a document
renouncing all claim to the woman. It was very evident

56
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
then that it was not the bride but more money that he was
seeking to obtain.
On the part of Chao, he too had been in error in giving
his daughter away to another man before publicly announcing
to the officials and the relations that the former contract was off.
The judge decided that Chen should get back his 64 taels,
and that the daughter should go to the other man and thus
escape the necessity of singing the "Plum Tree Ode."
This little bit of sentiment tacked on to a Chinese judg-
ment requires some explanation. It has reference to an ode
in the Shih King, or Book of Poetry, which represents a maid
lamenting the lack of suitors for her hand.
The aptness of the allusion will be understood if I read a
translation of the ode made by Mr. Clement Allen :--
The plums are ripening quickly,
Nay, some are falling too;
'Tis surely time for suitors
To come to me and woo.
See more and more are falling
From off the parent tree;
Why don't the men come forward
To win a maid like me?
At length upon the plum tree
No fruit can be espied;
Yet no one comes to court me
Or bid me be his bride.
young
And that is the song that a well-conducted Chinese
woman sings when the time has come to ask herself "Why
don't the men propose?"
A very important part of a magistrate's duties is the
collection of the land tax. It is chiefly out of the land tax
that he pays his current office expenses and meets the many
calls that are made on him. The land tax is paid in money or
in grain. It was immutably fixed at the beginning of the

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA. 57
dynasty. There would thus seem to be little room for illegal
exactions, but a district magistrate is not behind others in
getting round rules and regulations, and in causing theory
and practice to come in conflict.
One way of getting more than the proper quota is to
convert the tael into cash at an arbitrary rate; thus for every
tael due a man will have to pay 2,400 instead of 1,200 cash.
In addition to this there is a fee of from 10 to 15 per cent. for
meltage, a fee for collectors' receipt, and sundry local charges
of various kinds.
For taxing purposes the land is arranged on what is
known as the fish scale plan, that is, each division just overlaps
the next. A district is divided into tu and chia, and the chia
is the unit of taxation. There may be many owners in a chia,
but in the magistrate's books it is the chia that is responsible,-
the tax-collector has to get the money from the several
holders as best he may. The magistrate is not held responsible
for more than eight-tenths of the assessed amount, but hardly
a year passes without remissions being made on one plea or
other. Frequently a magistrate reports that he has been
unable to collect more than 50 per cent. Practically it
amounts to this, that the magistrate and his tax-gatherers extort
as much as possible from the people, and account for as little
as possible to the provincial treasurer. There is an ever
increasing debit against the district; and although the item
is preserved in the accounts of the yamen for years after,
recovery is hopeless, it has in the end to be written off.
There are some 1,300 districts in the Empire, and it is
estimated that 60 million taels a year is taken out of the people
over and above the amount officially reported. If an equal
distribution of this plunder was made this would mean about
46,000 taels per magistrate, but, of course, some get more
than others; and a good deal of the money which thus comes
8

58
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
into their pockets has to leave it again pretty soon to satisfy
the demands of those higher in office.
When the tax is payable in grain, the land is assessed at
so many tou (pecks) an acre. But instead of collecting the
grain, the magistrate levies the equivalent in money, at a rate
fixed annually by the provincial treasurer. The rate is always
above the market price of the rice, and with the proceeds the
magistrate purchases the proper quantity of rice and holds it
at the Grain Commissioner's disposal. The magistrate thus
pockets the difference between the market price and the com-
mutation price fixed by the Treasurer; so that in districts
which are heavily assessed he makes a very good thing of
it.
Another source of income is the registration of land sales.
The official fee is 3 per cent. on the declared value, with a
good many
additional small fees. A great many land sales
are not registered at the time; but the purchasers wait until
the end of the magistrate's term of office, when he reduces his
fees in order to get in all he can before his successor takes
office. He will even stamp fictitious deeds, and thus make
amends to his successor by sowing the seeds of future law-suits
which will in due time bring in their crop of fees.
A magistrate is coroner for his district, and as such he is
bound to investigate all cases where death has resulted from
violence, or where the attendant circumstances excite sus-
picion. For his guidance there is a book of instructions to
coroners, the literal translation of the title being "Record of
the Washing away of Wrongs"-the idea being that the manner
of the victim's death shall be discovered, and atonement made
by giving life for life. The instructions are most minute.
The book begins with a chapter on anatomy, which as a
scientific work is not of much value. In it we are told that
man has 365 bones, corresponding to the days of the year.

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA. 59
The skull of a male consists of eight pieces, but that of a native
of Tsaichow has nine. A female skull has only six.
When holding an inquest a magistrate is always attended
by one or more experts called Wu tso, who handle the corpse,
measure the wounds and do all the disagreeable part of the
work. Where more than one person have been engaged in a
murder, and there are several wounds, the magistrate must fix
on the mortal wound and discover who caused it, as only one
must pay the penalty of death.
In order to show the nature of the instructions I shall
read one or two extracts. They sound more like extracts from
a cookery book than directions for a post mortem procedure.
"Where a corpse has to be examined, prepare for use plenty
of onions, red pepper, salt, and white prunes, also grains and
vinegar, in case the wounds are indistinct or invisible. Take
besides, an earthenware basin for breaking, powdering, etc. In
examining a body where the wounds are not visible, spread
grains and sprinkle vinegar upon the corpse, hold up an
umbrella between the sun and the parts you want to observe.
The wounds will then appear. If the result is imperfect, then
take white prunes, adding red pepper, onions, salt and grains
and mix it up into a cake. Make this very hot over a fire,
and then, having first interposed a sheet of paper, lay it on the
part. The wound will then appear.
"In very cold weather, when the corpse is frozen hard
and no amount of grains and vinegar, however hot, will relax
its rigidity, dig a hole in the ground, lay in fuel and make a
roaring fire. Then dash over it vinegar, which will create
dense volumes of steam, in the middle of which place the body
with all its dressings right in the hole, cover it with clothes,
and pour more vinegar. When you think the heat has
thoroughly penetrated, take away the body for examina-
tion."

60
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
The same book states that the bones of parents may be
identified by children by the child cutting himself and letting
the blood drop on the bones. If there is a relationship the
blood will sink into the bones, otherwise not. Even a grand-
child may identify the remains of a grandfather in this
way.
There are some atrocious villains who when they have
murdered anyone burn the body and throw away the ashes.
The proper mode of procedure is this. Go round and search
for any spots where the grass is stronger and taller than usual.
When you I have found the spot, cut down the grass and burn
large quantities of fuel till the place is extremely hot. Throw
on several handfuls of hemp seed; the oil from the seed will
sink into the ground in the form of a human figure, and
wherever there were wounds on the dead man there will the oil
have collected together exactly in the shape of the wounds
inflicted on the victim.
It is not only in cases of murder, or death under suspicious
circumstances, that the magistrate examines wounds. If a man
has been seriously wounded in a brawl, so that there is danger
of the wounds proving fatal, the magistrate must fix what is
called the period of responsibility,-that is, he determines the
number of days within which, if death occurs, the accused will
be considered guilty of murder. The Book of Instructions to
coroners remarks that the relatives of a wounded man gene-
rally desire his death in order that they may extort money from
the slayer; but the accused wishes him to live that he himself
may escape death. Therefore the magistrate should order the
wounded man to be given into the custody of the accused, who
will do his utmost to restore him to health. This institution of
a period of responsibility is a merciful endeavour to save the
lives of both, says the book.

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA. 61
Prisons.
In every magistrate's yamen there is a prison. The care
of prisoners is a weighty responsibility, for if any great criminal
escapes the magistrate gets into trouble, as he also will if any
prisoner who has influential friends outside dies in prison. It
is well known that men are not infrequently done to death in
prison; it may be done by the jailers, who torture and starve
their prisoners in order to get money out of their friends; and
when a bitter feud exists between two parties, one will bribe
the jailer to make away with his adversary. When also one
of a gang of robbers has been caught, his confederates will
cause his life to be taken before he can be made, under torture,
to disclose the names of the rest of the gang, on the principle
that dead men tell no tales.
In an important city the prison is in three parts:-
1. The great prison, Ta chien, where are lodged
prisoners guilty of capital crimes. Such a prison is planned
with a view to prevent escape. It is surrounded by a high
wall with only one entrance, through the keeper's rooms.
Inside the high wall, separated from it by a paved alley six
feet wide, is the wall of the prison proper. This alley entirely
surrounds the prison, and from it are doorways which lead
into the wards.
2. The inferior prisons, Chi so, confine persons charged
with minor offences, such as theft, swindling, debt, etc. The
rooms are usually crowded, so much so that the occupants
cannot all lie down at the same time. Prisoners in these
rooms get nothing but rice, but if they have money they may
buy luxuries.
3. The third class of prison is the Chai kuan or police
prisons. These are for the detention of persons charged with
debt or lighter offences, and for the purpose of squeezing the
innocent or guilty who fall into the hands of the police.

62
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
The inmates of all prisons have the privilege of working
at any handicraft they choose, and of enjoying the proceeds of
their work. But the occupation one constantly sees in prison
is gambling. Besides those engaged in the game there are
others looking on with interest, and no doubt many thus spend
their time until the fatal hour arrives when they are hurried
away to the execution ground.
Executions.
If
The magistrate is sheriff of his district, and has to carry
out executions. When the death warrant is received from the
provincial judge, the magistrate orders his guard to go on
watch. When all is ready the culprit is brought out and
identified by the records. The criminal is then taken out to
the execution ground and delivered to the executioner.
the head has to be exposed it is given in charge of the local
headman. Where the penalty is strangulation the body is
delivered to the relatives. Care must be taken that the
executioner does not extort money before giving up the body.
Any effects belonging to the criminal must be handed to his
friends. If he has no friends, they should be distributed
amongst the other prisoners.
Famine Commissioner.
The magistrate is a sort of famine commissioner for his
district. It is his duty to see that the public granaries are
kept full, and to encourage the village communities to store
up grain against bad times. In time of distress the relief must
be distributed impartially; and no man may claim a larger
share by reason of his having contributed more largely than
his neighbours. Persons who have contributed in time of
plenty are not entitled to relief after they have left the

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA. 63
district; and in the same way a new-comer must not be denied
relief on the ground that he has not previously contributed
anything to the general stock.
In distributing relief in bad times the destitute and needy
are classified in two categories. The very poor are those who
have nothing left but four bare walls. The next are those who
have a little furniture, but nothing to eat.
A person over 12
years is a large mouth, below that age he is a small mouth,
and gets half rations. Should a member of the household die
in any month no reduction in the amount of relief must be
made during that particular month.
the
Locusts.
When swarms visit the district the magistrate has to take
steps to destroy them; and when the eggs are hatched and
young insects have not yet got their wings they must be
exterminated before they can grow up. The magistrate must
encourage the country people to collect the eggs and burn
them, and to that end he must establish various stations where
a good price is paid for every catty of
eggs brought in.
A curious fact in natural history comes out in the instruc-
tions given to magistrates in this connection.
When land is flooded, shrimps appear and deposit spawn.
When the waters recede the eggs get buried in the ground,
and the next year, if there has been no frost or snow, the shrimp
spawn produces locusts. To tackle locusts is bad enough, but
a magistrate is required to destroy tigers if they are found in
his district. He is advised to offer large rewards for their
dead bodies, and to keep up a corps of tiger-hunters, who must
be liberally rewarded for slaying the animals and severely
punished for refusing to face them.

64
THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA.
Repairs of Public Buildings.
The magistrate is responsible for the maintenance in good
order of city walls, prisons, official temples and public build-
ings. Where the outlay is considerable, funds must be obtained
from the Provincial Treasury, but for small repairs the
magistrate must find the money. For this purpose he may
employ the fines imposed by him on litigants, and in minor
offences he may allow the culprits to commute the penalty by
contributing bricks, lime, wood and other materials. Offenders
without any money may supply labour instead.
Where the work to be done is of great public utility he
should urge the rich people in his district to contribute money,
and see that it is expended under the supervision of a
committee. The magistrate is also educational officer and
guardian of the people's morals.
The students of each district throughout the Empire
undergo a series of preliminary examinations before the magis-
trate of their own district previous to their being examined by
the Literary Chancellor of the province. To the successful
students he issues a certificate of merit which enables the
recipients to style themselves Tung sheng, or students, and on
receipt of this diploma they may present themselves for the
examination for the first degree of Hsiu tsai.
It is also incumbent on the magistrate to see that free
schools are established throughout his district; and to
encourage education by offering rewards to the most proficient
pupils. In rural districts there is a good deal of encourage-
ment given to study, and the public college is a feature in
the landscape on many a country side.
I have attempted to give an outline of the matters which
occupy a magistrate's attention during his tenure of office.
The term of office extends over six years, and he may remain

THE OFFICE OF DISTRICT MAGISTRATE IN CHINA. 65
at his post for that time unless he is denounced for incapacity
or any serious offence. Every three years the Viceroy or
Governor reports on the conduct and capacity of all the magis-
trates in active service. They are classified in three lists. In
the first list are those who are specially mentioned for good
service; the second list contains the names of the mediocre
men, of whom there is nothing particular to be said, good or
bad. In the third list are the names of those who are
denounced as useless, dissipated, covetous or extortionate,-
these are always ordered by decree to vacate their posts.
Even a well-conducted magistrate may be prevented from
completing his term of office by circumstances over which he
has no control. He will have to vacate his post and go into
mourning should either his father or mother or paternal
grandfather or grandmother die; and should a near relative
like father, brother or uncle get appointed to the same
province, he will, if he is of inferior rank, have to apply to be
transferred to another province. After a successful tenure of
office, during six years, he will either obtain promotion to a
higher rank, or be transferred to a more important magistracy;
and should he die in office, if he has been a meritorious servant,
an Imperial Decree will order that all charges which are writ-
ten down against him shall be erased, so that he may rejoin his
ancestors with an unblemished record.
9