SCARCITY OF COPPER CASH AND THE
RISE IN PRICES.
The following circular was issued amongst the Members
of the Society :-
Dear Sir,
Shanghai, November 20th, 1897.
Mr. Grosvenor, in his Report for the year 1896 on the Trade of
China, states that there has been a steady rise during the last few
years in the silver price of cash, which is attributed to insufficient
minting and consequent scarcity of the coin. He further states that,
on the other hand, there has been a marked tendency for cash to
depreciate in regard to commodities in general. In other words, cash
have become dearer compared with silver but cheaper compared with
other articles. In their Reports on Trade for 1896 several Commis-
sioners of Customs have alluded to the scarcity and resulting dearness
of cash, and some even believe that Exports are being checked by this
circumstance just at the time when a low silver exchange with gold-
standard countries should greatly stimulate the trade.
The dearness of cash compared with silver may be explained by
scarcity, which is probably partly due to the rise in the silver price of
imported copper. But a restricted currency should send prices down,
and the cash ought to have a larger purchasing power than when the
coin was more plentiful. It is reported that vast quantities of inferior
cash have been produced by illicit coining, and of course a debased
currency has a depreciated purchasing value: but, in accepting this
explanation of the second part of Mr. Grosvenor's statement, we are
confronted by the difficulty of explaining how it is that cash have at
the same time acquired an appreciated purchasing value when exchanged
10

74
SCARCITY OF COPPER CASH AND THE RISE IN PRICES.
for silver. Apparently the only logical explanation of the double
statement would be that silver has fallen in value as a commodity still
deeper than debasement of the coinage has forced down the purchasing
power of cash. But what has lowered the value of silver in China?
There has been a considerable drain on the stock lately, and one would
have expected it to have become scarce and consequently dearer.
Customs' Statistics for 1896 show an export of sycee to the value of
Hk. Tls. 15,932,000, leaving a net import of Hk. Tls. 1,720,000 only;
otherwise it might be thought that low exchange and rise in the silver,
price of imports would lead to the substitution of silver as an import
in place of other articles in exchange for the increase in exports, and
thus augment the supply of silver and lower its value. We can hardly
suppose, under the circumstances, that the metal has been pouring
into the country until it has become cheap. Is it not more probable that
poverty has restricted the demand for silver by increasing the
number of people who use cash exclusively?
extended
.
It seems likely that while Mr. Grosvenor's double statement is
undoubtedly true when restricted to the large trade centres; especially
the Yangtsze treaty ports, where the rise in cash prices may be explained
by increase of population, enquiry will show that it is not generally
true of the Empire as a whole. It is anticipated that we shall find that
a debased coinage has sent prices up, but it will perhaps be shown that
the silver price of cash has not everywhere increased. The matter is
one of great interest and importance, and the Council of the Society
will be greatly obliged for any facts you may be able to supply. The
following questions will show the points upon which information is
requested :-
1.-What has been the average exchange (cash and tael) during
cach of the last five years?
2.-If cash has become steadily dearer compared with silver,
how is it explained?
3. Is there a marked scarcity of cash?
4.-Have the cash prices of articles other than silver steadily
risen?

SCARCITY OF COPPER CASH AND THE RISE IN PRICES. 75
5.-If so, how is it explained? By debasement of the coinage?
By short crops making foodstuffs dear? By increased
population leading to greater demand? By impoverishment
of the country increasing the number of the people who use
cash exclusively?
6. Have wages risen generally?
7. Why are not more cash minted? Have the local prices of
brass and copper risen?
8. Are any steps being taken to remedy the scarcity of cash?
9.-Is a subsidiary silver coinage coming into use?
10.-Finally, is the double statement true of your district that
while cash will purchase more silver they will purchase less
of other articles?
An early reply will be appreciated.
For the Council,
E. T. WILLIAMS,
Hon. Secretary.
Replies to the foregoing Circular were received from some
of the Members, from which the following Memorandum was
compiled.
MEMORANDUM
ON THE
SCARCITY OF COPPER CASH AND THE RISE IN PRICES.
BY F. E. TAYLOR, ESQ.
That cash have been growing steadily scarcer and that
the evil has been sharply accentuated quite lately (followed in
some places with a slight recovery in exchange from the lowest
depths) may be stated with certainty. Various explanations
are given, some of which are of local but most of them of
general application. The scarcity of cash is attributed to the
absence of minting, which has become unprofitable owing to the
dearness of copper; to the melting down of good cash for the

76
SCARCITY OF COPPER CASH AND THE RISE IN PRICES.
purpose of making utensils, instead of using copper; and to a
steady increase of population requiring an extended instead of a re-
stricted currency. Mr. Consul Tratman, in his interesting report
on the trade of Chungking during last year, wrote as follows:-
"Even more serious than likin is the condition of the
copper cash currency. This was referred to in my last report,
and in 1897 things have gone from bad to worse. If the
officials do not speedily take action it is difficult to see how
commerce between distant places in the province can continue*
at all. The local bimetallic question may be stated as follows.
All wages are paid and local purchases effected by means of
copper cash;-now a string of 1,000 good Government cash,
of which the present Chungking value is about 16 of a tael,
weighs 7 catties; thus in view of the difficulty and expense
carriage in Szechuen large quantities of the circulating
medium cannot be transported from place to place: accordingly
in the larger transactions between merchants in different
places silver (sycee) is used; Government accounts are also
kept in silver, but the value of silver in relation to cash is
continually falling, and during the last five years has dropped
at least 30 per cent. One catty of copper costs 0.32 tael of
of
silver, and copper sufficient to coin 1,000 cash would cost 2.24
taels; excluding cost of coinage, which is considerable if the
slow native method is to be used; that is to say,
the authorities
cannot coin cash of the Government standard except at a very
heavy loss; accordingly they have practically ceased to coin at
all. Meanwhile, more and more of the circulating medium is
required to carry out everyday transactions. Debased and
spurious coins increase in number, amounting in some places
to 30 per cent of the total circulation; the good cash are being
driven out of circulation and melted down in spite of the laws
prohibiting such a practice: at present even the smallest pur-
chases cannot be effected without haggling not only as to the

SCARCITY OF COPPER CASH AND THE RISE IN PRICES. 77
quantity, but also as to the quality of the cash to be employed.
Further, in different parts of the province the cash has
very different silver values according to its quantity and
quality."
This extract explains the whole difficulty as far as minting
is concerned. The reasons given are the exportation of cash to
other districts, and the hoarding of cash. The more valuable
cash become the more hoarding will increase, especially as such
a bulky article is difficult to remove without detection. During
the past five years the silver price of cash appears to have risen
speaking generally 25 per cent. And we are none the less
assured that almost all the necessities of life have risen in price,
whereas we should have expected cheap cash to bring about
cheap prices-just as the demand for gold in Europe and the
hoarding in war-chests have sent prices down. Increased
population is reported everywhere, making a greater demand
upon products of all kinds, while the fall in the gold value of
silver has stimulated exports to foreign countries in consequence
of the better prices there obtainable, and has reduced the supply
circulable for the natives. The enormous quantities of debased
cash in circulation have also contributed to send up prices. In
some districts short crops and in some the extended cultivation
of the poppy are held to be largely responsible for the dearness
of food. In Shantung it is said that the cost of agricultural
labour has been increased by the emigration of labourers to
Western Siberia. Szechuen complains of short crops, poppy
cultivation, and export of foodstuffs. General Mesny, speaking
of this district, mentions increased taxation, increased demand
for luxuries, and decreased hours of labour. From Foochow
we learn that the province is poorer owing to the falling-off in
the tea and timber trades, while taxation is heavier.
writers of several of the replies appear to think that poverty is
increasing, but this would be the natural result of an increase
The

78
SCARCITY OF COPPER CASH AND THE RISE IN PRICES.
of population where manufacturing industries have so small a
share in the occupation of the people.
The want of cash is in some parts being very slowly and
inadequately met by the circulation of a subsidiary silver
coinage, and this relief would no doubt extend rapidly was the
Government careful to keep the coins up to the fixed and
understood standard, and to receive all taxes in such coins.
It may be interesting to mention that the mints at
Tientsin, Wuchang, Foochow and Canton altogether turned out
the following numbers of subsidiary coins during last year :-
50 cents
20
10
5
دو
"
22
214,796
31,852,571
17,892,931
66,921
We
may probably take 920 cash to the dollar as a fair
average exchange for the districts served, and these subsidiary
coins, therefore, represent a substitute for 7,608,907,242 cash,
which sounds a large sum, which may represent something
over eight million dollars. It is difficult to understand why the
most useful coin, the 5 cents piece, has been coined in such
small numbers, but we may be allowed to hazard the guess
that it is to be explained by the smaller profit made in minting
-the official in charge considering the interest of the mints
rather than the necessities of the people.
The following figures taken from some of the replies
received will give an idea of the rise in the silver price of cash
during late years. The number of cash obtained for a dollar
has fallen
In Wenchow from 1,140 in 1892 to 980 in 1897,
In Shanghai from 1,050 in 1892 to 900 in 1897,
In Tungchow from 1,075 in 1895 to 925 in 1897.
The number of cash obtained for a tael has fallen
In Central Szechuen from 1,600 to 1,150,

SCARCITY OF COPPER CASH AND THE RISE IN PRICES. 79
In Chungking
In Wuhu
In Shantung
"
1,700 to 1,080,
دو
1,600 to 1,320,
23
1,450 to 1,210.
It will be noticed that these considerable variations in the
tael prices, are partly owing to the differences in the local
taels, and in part due to the percentage of spurious cash in
circulation.
I do not propose to detain the meeting by going into
details of the rise of prices of commodities. The fact is well
known and needs no proving.
The
It would appear that Mr. Grosvenor's statement, that
while cash will purchase more silver they will purchase less
of other articles, is almost universally applicable to the whole
Empire. It seems beyond question that cash are becoming
scarcer every year, and that the population is increasing; this
causing an increasing demand on a decreasing supply of cash,
and continually aggravating the evil. It is also forced upon
us that in most districts the population has so nearly reached
the limit of the available food supply, that quite a small margin
of safety is left to meet any partial failure of the crops.
cultivation of the poppy is widely extending and has certainly
caused a rise in the price of foodstuffs in some provinces,
and the cession of Formosa to Japan has cut off one source
of supply. The country on the whole is probably poorer than
it was, and the foreign loans which have been contracted
having been applied to other purposes than the development
of the country, represent, with the interest paid, practically so
much money drained out of the country. Money spent on
ironclads and gunboats destined to strengthen the navy of
some other power cannot be regarded as having increased the
wealth of the unfortunate taxpayer. There is an appearance
just now that the Central Government has at length become
alive to the absolute necessity of adopting a new policy, and

80
SCARCITY OF COPPER CASH AND THE RISE IN PRICES.
that the resources of the country will be opened up. Such a
policy, combined with heavy taxation of the land under poppy
cultivation, the encouragement of the tea and silk industries,
a more sensible fiscal treatment of inland trade, and improved
communication, would soon enable China to pay off all her
debts, and to establish a national and rational coinage which
would send down prices and relieve the present dangerous
pressure. The increase of population, however-due to early
and improvident marriages, which, however commendable
from an ethical point of view, are largely responsible for the
present distress-is likely to have consequences in the near
future which one cannot contemplate without grave anxiety.
The Chinaman is an eminently law-abiding man, principally
because he takes little interest in anything except two
absorbing topics-cash and rice. As long as he can obtain
a bare sufficiency of these two unattractive articles the most
exciting political events cause him no emotion. But if cash
are scarce, and rice is dear his most sensitive susceptibilities
are stirred; his apathy vanishes and he becomes the most
untractable of men. Cash are now scarce and growing
scarcer, rice is becoming dearer and dearer; and an ominous
spirit of unrest is making itself felt in many parts of the
empire. The Government would do well to bestir itself
before it is roused up unpleasantly.
NOTE.-According to the standard fixed in the last century 1,000 cash
weigh approximately 7 catties. With copper at £76 per ton the present price
of copper is from 31 to 32 candarins a catty. Good cash should contain an
alloy of about 3 copper to 4 spelter, so that the price of a string of 1,000 as
compared with silver with 6°, royalty would be about K. Taels 1.44. Cash
being thus undervalued, not only are the old coins exported in enormous
quantities but large numbers are melted down to form domestic utensils.
To supply the drain large quantities of inferior cash have been put
in circulation. An ordinary string of 1,000 circulating cash at Shanghai
will weigh only about 5 lbs. of very inferior metal. If the alloy were good
the par exchange should be about 860 to the dollar.