SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
By Rev. W. GILBERT WALSHB, B.A.
I
In venturing to introduce this paper some apology is,
perhaps, necessary for selecting a subject so familiar and
oft-discussed. But I may defend myself by remarking that,
with regard to our information on the subject of Chinese
funeral ceremonies, "the end is not yet," and it will be long
before the subject is exhausted, so varied are the methods
which obtain in different parts of the Empire; and that what
may be able to contribute may be found to contain some
elements which are sufficiently novel to merit attention and
excite interest. I will endeavour to give an outline not of
funeral customs generally, but, as the title of my paper
indicates, "some" such customs, i.e. those which are found
in that part of China with which I am most familiar, viz.
the Prefectures of Ningpo and Shaohing, in the Chehkiang
Province, with some divergencies which are exhibited in
other places, and which present some items deserving of
special mention.
The importance of the subject will be at once evidenced
when we consider that there is, perhaps, no event in the
"pilgrimage" of the Chinaman which demands so great
attention, such scrupulous observance of immemorial custom,
and lavish expenditure of labour and capital, as the carrying
out of a "decent funeral." Birth and marriage are occasions

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
27
of very great importance, but Death, in a double sense,
figurative and literal, overshadows all; and it is for this
reason that we may expect to find, in the study of some of these
customs, a further glimmering of light upon that mysterious
entity which we call the Chinese mind. The outward
observances upon which he devotes so great an expenditure
of time and money must, to some extent, exhibit the trend of
his inward thought, and this should be especially the case in
a matter of such importance as that which we are
considering. Here, too, we see him as he is, not posing for
his photograph, as it were, but naturally following the bent of
his nature and education. Another point which deserves
consideration is this, viz. that these ceremonies are, to a large
extent, "home-made"; they do not arise from Confucianism,
nor are they wholly Buddhistic or Taoistic,-the fact that
they differ so widely in adjacent districts may serve to
evidence their local origin; and it is further confirmed by
observation, for it is obvious to the most casual observer that
funeral observances grow from year to year in number and
variety, and, in a place like Shanghai, one might almost say
there is an evolution exhibited in each successive funeral.
Confucius lays down no rules with regard to the treatment
of the dead, beyond the admonition that all things should be
done "decently and in order," that the family circumstances
should be taken into account, and that the various classes
of society should be guided by the precedents which
obtain in each class, the tradesman should not seek
to emulate the official, and so forth; but he enunciates one
general principle, which should govern the conduct of the
entire affair: "In mourning it is better to be sorrowful
than punctilious." I need hardly point out that Chinese
funerals of the present day exhibit the exact antipodes of
these two principles-there is a frantic desire on the part of
all classes to "go one better" than their neighbours, and the

28
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
copious tears which are shed are less due to a feeling of heart-
broken grief than to the artful application of a piece of raw
ginger to the eyes. It is hardly necessary to say that the
observance of these customs is inseparably connected with
the extraordinary development of the idea of filial piety, and
the ancestral worship of which it is the inspiration and the
key. Time will not permit of a more detailed investigation of
the lessons which such customs are calculated to impart, but
one conclusion we may arrive at is this, that the conduct of
Chinese funerals supplies a cue to Chinese character which
has not been sufficiently emphasized. Nothing shows so
plainly the spirit of frantic egotism and emulation which seems
to possess every Chinese household; a spirit which insists
upon carrying out, to the utmost detail, all the traditional
funeral observances, without the slightest reference to the
pecuniary circumstances of the case, or the load of debt
which the outlay is sure to involve. Appearances must be kept
up at whatever cost, and though everyone knows that the
family is not worth $100 it is determined to make a show
of spending $1,000. Gambling and opium smoking are
perhaps the vices of the present day which most impoverish
the Chinese, but I venture to say that funeral expenses
make a good bid for third place. Innumerable cases are
met with of families being irretrievably ruined by the
extravagance of one funeral ceremony, and the acquisition of
a grave site; and the evil shews no sign of abatement but
rather of aggravation. It would be well for all students of
the Chinese and Chinese affairs, and especially for those
who have direct dealings with the Chinese-diplomatists,
merchants and missionaries-to bear this national characteristic
in mind. I believe that many of our failures to impress the
Chinese, in whatever way, have resulted from the inability to
comprehend this remarkable trait of the Chinese character.
Patronise the Chinese, and what is the result? Punish him,

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
29
and do you find yourself in any better position? By either
method you offend his pride without advancing your own
cause by a hair-breadth; he refuses to acknowledge himself
beaten, and is utterly unaffected by your assumption of
superiority. Full allowance must be made for the national
pride before armed remonstrance or lofty condescension can
be of the least avail. I submit the thought to your
consideration; but as my proper business this evening is to
describe rather than to discuss, I will address myself to the
subject in hand.
When all remedies have failed to retain the departing
spirit, the dying man is prepared for entering the presence
chamber of the Gods, before whom he must appear: the God
of the local temple, the God of the city walls and
moats 城隍神, and the God of Hades 閻羅王. His head
is shaved; his body and extremities washed; his nails on hands
and feet are cut, and the parings carefully preserved; and his
underclothing changed. When in articulo mortis he is
supported in a sitting posture, and not permitted to lie down,
it being believed that the soul makes its escape from a
recumbent figure by the lower part of the body, and, as a
result, on re-incarnation will be gross and stupid; whilst
from the upright body it flies aloft through the mouth, and
re-appears eventually by transmigration in a highly developed
condition. Tinsel money and charms are burnt before
him, and the ashes collected, wrapped in paper, and placed in
his hand, whilst he is informed that the expenses of the
journey have all been provided, and he frequently nods his
head in contentment if unable to give vocal expression to his
feelings [c.f. the Chaldæan custom of placing a bowl of dates in
the hand to provide food for the journey, and the Russian
custom of furnishing the dying with a printed paper in the
Slavonic character which has been already recited by a priest].
[In Shaohing no effort is made to assist the dying to a sitting

30
30
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
posture, but it frequently happens that a man just before
expiring makes an effort to sit up, in order, as they say, that
the messenger of Hades may put a chain around his neck
with which to lead him away, and it is at this stage that his
hand opens and the ashes of the burnt sycee are put in it,
when it immediately closes; dollars or cash he will reject, but
this he clutches convulsively.] Sometimes a small lantern,
obtained from a Buddhist temple, and already used in the
worship of heaven, is placed in his hand, and he is advised to
hold it fast, as the way before him will be dark; and again he
nods his acquiescence. If the family can afford it, a paper
sedan-chair with two bearers is purchased, and the bearers are
given distinctive names and invited to partake of food which
is set before them, and strings of paper money are placed
upon their shoulders; the small lantern is taken from the
hand of the dying man and fastened to the pole of the chair,
and the whole paraphernalia-chair, bearers, tinsel and lantern
-are burnt in the open air. If by any chance the sick man
should recover after the burning of the chair and bearers it
is supposed that they are still to be found within call if
necessary, so that in case of a relapse it will not be necessary
to buy a new outfit, but only to recall the bearers by name
and present them with refreshments, and a fresh supply of
paper money is burnt before the invisible conveyance and its
bearers. To die in the early morning is in some places
considered felicitous, because there are three meals left for his
posterity to enjoy, but to die after the consumption of the
evening meal is considered to be ill-omened, for then, by
implication, there is nothing left for his successors.
It is important that the several sons of the dying
man and other relatives should be present to attend the
death-bed; and, as they weep, they call upon him not to
leave them but to awaken from his sleep,-very much as the
ancient Romans did.

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
31
The cries of daughters are considered to have special
virtue in opening Heaven's gate, and a man who does not
possess a daughter or two is much to be pitied,-contrary to a
prevailing but very erroneous idea current among Foreigners.
The moment death takes place an elder conducts the
proceedings and orders the queues of the sons to be unravelled,
and candles to be lighted before the ancestral shrine and the
God of the Hearth, because the warrant for the capture of the
departed soul is supposed to have arrived from the God of
Hades, and it must be countersigned by the ancestral spirits, or
their representative, and the God of the Hearth. This warrant
is supposed to have arrived three days before death, and its
advent is frequently announced by the dying man, who
requests that arrangements be made for his departure which is
to take place at such a time three days later. When asked
what he has seen he will sometimes reply: "I saw a man
bearing a white thing about six inches long by one inch wide,
which he shewed me, bearing some characters written on it."
Sometimes the warning is given to some other person who
suddenly hears the peculiar sound made by a split bamboo
striking against something, and thrice repeated; occasionally
the dread messenger is said to be seen by others--a gigantic
figure clothed in white, whose back alone is seen, his face
being invisible.
The messengers of the God of Hades are said to be
two, viz. the living Wu-ch'ang and the dead Wu-ch'ang
the name Wu-ch'ang meaning "Uncertain" and
being explained by the uncertainty of the summons of Death.
The living Wu-ch'ang is not a demon, but the soul of a living
man who is employed by the Wu-ch'ang to guide him to the
house of his victim. The true Uncertain, as coming from the
hidden world, is unable to find his way in the light of day,
and requires a mortal spirit to guide him; and the living man
thus selected falls into a trance or faint, during which he

32
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
fulfils the behests of the messenger from Hades, and when he
awakens from his trance refuses to reply to all questions put to
him, except to say that he has been employed in catching a
soul: to say more would be to "reveal the secrets of his prison
house" and bring down the wrath of King Pluto. Some say
that these two characters represent not individual agents of
Pluto but only the two souls (the animal and the spiritual, i.e.
the psyche and the pneuma) which everyone possesses-the
Hun and the P'o as they are called in Chinese. The first of
these is written in Chinese with a character which means black
attached to the word for spirit or demon, and hence represents
black spirit and the other has the character which stands
for white prefixed to the same word meaning spirit, and hence
represents white spirit , and these have been personified, by
the ignorant, as the lictors which come to carry off the soul;
whereas they themselves are the essential parts of the soul
which of its own accord is about to leave its tenement.
hun, in conformity with its nature, soars aloft and is dissipated,
the p'o descends into the element of earth and haunts its
old neighbourhood.
The
[The p'o is said to be found in a concrete form in the case
of a suicide by hanging; in such a case the person must not
be cut down, but the knot must be unravelled; and digging
down into the earth immediately beneath somewhat less
than three feet, a small ball of a substance resembling charcoal
will be found, which is no other than the p'o; and when
this is put into the mouth of the suicide his life will return
to him and the hun also be ultimately restored.] The
matting on which the deceased is lying is given a pull, with
the idea that this will prevent a lingering illness in the
next incarnation. A party is dispatched to a neighbouring
canal to "buy water" with which to wash the corpse.
The water having arrived, the face, hands, feet and chest
of the corpse are perfunctorily washed, and the dead man is

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
33
removed from his bed and supported on a chair; the matting
and straw on which he has been lying are removed and
burned in the open street, at a distance of not less than one
hundred paces from the house; the direction taken is carefully
arranged according to the time of the year, e.g. in the
first, fifth and ninth months it must not be Eastward from
the house in the second, sixth and tenth months it must
not be Northward; in the third, seventh and eleventh
months it must be anywhere but West; and in the fourth,
eighth and twelfth months it must not be South. It is
of the utmost importance that the feet of the corpse should
not touch the ground, and they are supported in the
lap of the daughter-in-law, generally covered with a cotton
cloth; a small table is spread before the body, containing
two bowls, one of rice and the other containing vegetables,
etc., the vegetable being of the long stalk variety, represent-
ing a long life and firm root in the next stage of existence.
Meanwhile another party has gone to announce the
death at the local temple. [In Shaohing this is one of the
first things to be done the sons of the deceased, with
the braid removed from their queues, wearing their white
gowns, aprons, and white fillets round their heads, and shod
with straw sandals, take candles and paper money of two
kinds, one representing sycee or shoes of silver, and
another folded up in squares so that when released it
falls into long strings representing strings of cash ]
On arrival at the temple of the God of Agriculture, the
eldest son, as chief mourner, lights the candles, makes his
prostrations and burns the paper money; this money is
supposed to act as a cumshaw to the God of Agriculture,
who is represented as the agent of Pluto in the arrest of the
soul, and hence requires a little remuneration. In fact the
whole process is described as p'u t'ang for "strewing
the Hall," a phrase applied in real life to "squaring
3

34
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
the officials" at a Yamen in order to be assured of "justice,"
and it is fairly inferred that the officials in the nether
world are equally amenable to a "consideration." The chief
mourner then approaches one of the upright pillars (on
the left-hand side if he is mourning for his father or male
relation, and the right-hand one if the deceased happens to
be a female) and gives three rubs, as if to loosen the cords
which are supposed to detain the captive soul. Every
image in the temple, without exception, including those of
the attendant demons, is respectfully saluted, and all are
supposed to have a share in the rich outlay of (paper)
"money" which is submitted to the flames. In Peking the
visit is paid, not to the temple of Agriculture, but to the
"Wu Tao" temple,
i.e. a temple devoted to the five
Gods of Hills, Horses, Grain, Fire and Plague, which are
depicted upon the walls, and not moulded into statues as is
usual. No cries must be emitted en route, lest the spirit
of the dead should become confused and miss the way, but
once arrived at the temple weeping and wailing are
permissible. The visit must be repeated a second and third
time in the same way; the first time to escort the spirit
thither, the second time to visit it when there, and the
last time to escort it home again: on this last occasion an
old broom is invested with some garments belonging to the
dead, and placed in a chair carried by two men.
The son
precedes the chair to the temple, where, on arrival, he burns
incense and paper money and prostrates himself before
the Gods; then every member of the party grasps a handful
of paper money, and, either inside or outside the temple,
endeavours to recall the spirit, calling upon him as "Father,"
"Uncle," etc., according to the degree of relationship, and
at each cry he strikes the wall with the paper money,
relaxing his hold of the paper at the same time. Should
the paper by any chance adhere to the wall and remain there,

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
35
he at once cries out eagerly "He's here," "He's here," and
the son hurries forward, and, calling out repeatedly "Father"
or "Mother," as the case may be, reverentially places the
paper in his bosom, and, calling out all the time, whilst the
others cry in chorus Uncle," "Aunt," etc., walks to where
the broom is placed, and inserts the piece of paper, now
.supposed to contain the wandering soul, in the breast of
the effigy. The procession then returns home and the effigy
is placed in front of the coffin. On returning to the house
arrangements are made for removing the dead to the middle
hall, which is reserved for special occasions, and which also
contains the ancestral shrine [but in Shaohing the position
of the corpse is first reversed, indicating the hope that
the dead man may return from the hidden world, and this
is illustrated by the transposition of the foetus before birth].
A meal is laid out on a large sieve and placed before the
dead, with wine and candles, and is then carried in procession
to the front of the house and laid outside the door;
the members of the family, in white clothing, kneel on a
piece of coir matting, weeping and prostrating themselves
alternately. Poor people, at this stage, burn three pairs
of straw shoes, intended for the two messengers from Hades
and the son of one of them, whose name is said to be
"Ah-ling." Wealthier people burn instead a paper sedan-
chair, with bearers, a valet and a maid, one carrying a pipe
and the other a tea-cup. This process is called "sending
off the Wu-ch'ang" and must not be postponed until the
next day, for if the Wu-ch'ang is detained he may
be tempted to commit an act which will involve the
house in ruin. The shoes and sycee are burned, and
it is considered a fortunate circumstance to wear a pair
of these shoes which may have escaped the fire. The
candles are then thrown away and the family retires
inside. [In Peking a paper cow, in the case of a female,

36
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
or a horse, in the case of a male, is burned at the front door
to furnish a mount for the departed; and a man ascends the
roof, and with a long bamboo pole pokes the chimney from
above, in order to clear a space for the departing spirit,
which is now supposed to be liberated by the gods, and
is expected to return home before starting on his long
journey.] The bed is carried out and put in position, its
situation varying with the aspect of the building. If, for
instance, the hall faces East, the head of the bed is placed
towards the North, i.e. cross-wise; if West, the head is
towards the South; if South, the head is East; if North, the
head is West. It is considered unlucky to convey a corpse
into the house from the outside,-in such cases a temporary
shed must be erected on the spot, but, if the body should
be carried inside, in defiance of custom, then it will be
necessary to remove the ridge pole of the roof, and with
an ox-plough turn up the ground on the spot where the
coffin had rested: this is supposed to be equivalent to
rebuilding the house. In the case of an unmarried person
the bed is placed at the side of the hall with the head towards
the inside, the idea of this is that the position of honour,
i.e. crosswise, is reserved for those whose tablets are to have
a place in the ancestral shrine, at which unmarried persons
are allowed no representation. [In Shaohing the body is.
placed at the side of the hall with the feet towards the
north, and in Peking the head is always towards the door.
In Greece and Rome the position was reversed, the feet
being towards the outer door.]
The body is then carefully secured to a chair by broad
bands, and four strong men are selected to convey it to the
state apartment; the head is supported by the eldest son,
and the feet by the daughter-in-law. The burden must
on no account be laid down until its destination is reached;
a fall would be considered a frightful calamity. An

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
37
umbrella is held over the chair as it moves, to hide one who
is now a denizen of the shades from the light of Heaven,
and handfuls of rice are thrown upon it, with the idea of
expelling all evil influences. The corpse is placed on the
bed and covered with a coverlet. [In Shaohing a bed is not
used, but a door or two planks are substituted.] A sheet
of white paper is placed over the face-the Egyptians used
gold-leaf, and the feet are placed close together and propped
in position; to allow them to fall apart would mean the
death of the nuptial partner shortly after. A messenger
is then sent to a Taoist priest and informs him the date
of the deceased's first attack of illness, the time of his death,
and the number of his years. The priest writes a large
sheet of yellow paper mentioning these particulars, and the
date on which the spirit may be expected to return, together
with the classes of persons, born under certain auspices,
whose presence at the coffining is contra-indicated; and on
obtaining this information, which is sometimes pasted up
diagonally on the wall of the house, the family is able to
prepare for the return of the departed spirit and his at-
tendant, and a courteous treatment of the latter is considered
advisable, in order to secure good treatment for the dead
relative on his ghostly journey. Amongst other information
given by the Taoist is the date on which the process of
coffining should be undertaken, and the "double days" when
crying is not permissible, lest a second death should ensue;
together with the days when the Gods are making holiday,
on which days it is of the utmost importance that no dog
or other four-footed animal should be permitted to stray
under the bed, or rat to run over the coverlet, for if such
event were to happen, the dead man would certainly try to
get out of bed and move about in the manner of the
galvanised dead, i.e. by a succession of short hops as in a
sack race. To guard against any such emergency a chair is

38
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
placed at the side of the bed, on the left-hand of the dead
man, with its back close to the bedside; and a table set in
front of it containing two cups of tea, one for the dead and
one for his keeper; the idea being to make a show of
providing for the spirit in case he should decide upon
getting up, but really to prevent him doing so, for it is
understood that, as soon as the corpse embraces anything
with his arms, he at once falls back again into unconscious-
ness, and the chair is thus insinuated so that he may have
something on which to hold. A single straw shoe is
fastened to the cross-piece or round of the table, and its
fellow thrown into the canal; the intention being that
the attendant demon may not be able to travel so fast as to
tire his victim, and his pace is thus retarded by his being
shod on one foot only; another expedient is the placing of
one chopstick for the attendant, so that he may not be
able to eat his rice very expeditiously.
A large sheet is hung to screen the body from the
observation of people passing the door, and a basket of lime
containing a rude lamp, consisting of a bowl of oil with a
wick in it, which is kept constantly alight, day and night, so
that the deceased may have "a lamp to his feet" wherever
he journeys. (Sometimes a special lamp, six branched, is
borrowed from the temple for this purpose.)
If the deceased happens to be aged, say seventy years old
or more, the curtain at the foot of the bed is red in colour, to
shew that death, in his case, should not be considered an
occasion of sorrow; and no word of consolation is spoken or
sign of grief is shewn by the visitors; on the contrary, nothing
but compliments are heard that such a happy consummation
has been reached, full of years and in the midst of a numerous
posterity. Wine-drinking, the "Morra," etc. are all the rule,
and anyone would be laughed at who insinuated that there was
any occasion for grief. It is to be noted that until the actual

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
39
coffining takes place the candles used are of the usual red
variety; white candles are not employed until all hope of revival
has departed, and the body is about to be placed in the coffin.
The head and feet of the corpse are supported on specially
made pillows of yellow cotton, stuffed with paper waste [in
Shaohing the pillow is made of paper specially cut to represent
strings of cash; or, in country districts where cotton is
manufactured, a reel on which cotton is wound is used instead].
A swift messenger is despatched to inform the relatives
of the decease, who are expected to send gifts to the bereaved
family. [In Shaohing two duck-eggs are given to the
messenger by each family, and as the messenger travels very
fast, the gift has passed into a proverb, so that sometimes when
a man in a great hurry collides with another man in the
street, he is asked in an injured way:-"Are you going to
announce a death?" or "I suppose you are going to eat
duck-eggs." The messenger carries an umbrella under his
arm, and on arrival at a house he places it on end outside the
door, it being supposed that the soul of the departed is confined
within it. The presents consist of small quilts, about three
feet long and a little more than a foot wide, which are carefully
marked and reserved for placing in the coffin in due course;
they are thus marked to ensure that those furnished by
important members of the family should have a first place.
Someone is in constant attendance in the "Hall of Filial
Piety," as it is called for the nonce, generally the daughter or
daughter-in-law; and at night all the male members of the
family sleep in attendance on the dead. The day on which
visitors are invited to pay their respects to the dead (called Kai
Tiao varies in different places; in Ningpo it may be on the
third or fifth day before the funeral; in Shaohing it is held on
the day before the funeral. Notices are posted up announcing
the programme for each day. If, for instance, five days are so
arranged, five separate posters give the events. Notice of the

40
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
arrival of visitors is given by the gateman, who beats three
times on a drum, a trumpet is sounded and a hand-cannon
discharged. The musicians then strike up and the mourners
are warned of the approach. The chief mourner kneels at the
side of the spirit table-the stewards escort the visitor to the
curtain, where he kneels four times and bows four times. His
offerings have been sent on before him, and consist of paper
articles, meats for sacrifice, or a pair of small scrolls called
wan and a larger one of silk containing four large cha-
racters in gold, which is called chow. The two words wan
and chow contain a paronomasia implying a desire to bear
a hand in drawing the hearse, the word wan, meaning
"to pull," and chow "an axle." The name of the visitor and
the nature of his offering are recorded in a book by a writer
who sits at a side table, so that, when occasion requires,
a similar return may be made to the donor.
The servants who bring these gifts are given money or
pieces of calico, and a set of ten handsome bowls with a large
piece of calico is given them for presentation to their master;
numbers of people on such occasions go to the house of
mourning with cheap gifts of candles, etc., in the hope of
receiving presents in return, on the Chinese principle of
"presenting a quince in the hope of receiving a gem."
Refreshments are served to visitors before departing. At
noon a notice is posted bearing the characters
Pi
Ling, which indicate that the reception of visitors is concluded
for that day.
The style of the coffin varies throughout the empire. In
some places it represents the trunk of a tree; in the North the
lid projects considerably over the head. In Ningpo and
Shaohing there is nothing remarkable about the shape, and
the quality is determined by the circumstances of the family.
Wealthy people prefer to buy their own coffin beforehand and
keep it stored either in an outhouse or in a temple, paying

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
41
200 cash a year for rent. Some buy the planks, keep them
till seasoned, and then employ carpenters to make the coffin
when required; whilst others buy theirs from a coffin-shop or
from one of the Charitable Societies. At the end of the coffin
a lotus flower is carved, expressing the hope that the deceased
may become a Buddha and take his stand on a lotus, as Buddha
is represented doing.
When the time for coffining has arrived [at Ningpo it
takes place at the time of full tide, and preferably after dinner,
so that the deceased may not be put hungry to his "narrow
bed"; but in Shaohing it must be done before daylight in the
morning, or in the dark of evening, on a day bearing an odd
number, 3, 5, 7, etc., for fear of another death taking place if
an even day should be selected] the floor of the coffin is
covered with a layer of fine sifted lime or charcoal; then a layer
of large squares of coarse paper, five in number; upon these a
narrow strip of matting, sometimes manufactured of special
material like lamp-wick, is placed, and upon the top of all a
cotton mattress. [At this stage the "purchase of the water,"
to which I have referred, takes place at Shaohing and not at the
earlier period as at Ningpo.] The chief mourner (the eldest
son) invests himself in the clothes which are eventually to be
put upon the corpse; whether male or female garments makes
no difference.
While dressing he stands in the middle of a large bamboo
tray used for drying rice, etc., and the garments he puts on in
order must be in odd numbers; his head is bound with a white
fillet, and, holding a bucket in one hand and a bundle of incense
in the other, he walks, or, in the case of an infant, is carried to
the waterside, an umbrella being held over his head all the
time, as he is impersonating the dead and must be screened
from the eye of heaven. In some cases he is escorted with
music and fireworks. Paper money of different kinds is burnt;
a cash, with a large nail fastened in the centre, is thrown into

42
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
the water, and the water is thus supposed to be bought and is
drawn up and taken to the house. Here it is first warmed,
and a few rubs are given to the chest of the corpse by way of
a bath. The water is then carried away to a distance and
poured slowly away; it must not be done hurriedly, or the
demon attendant will be roused to anger. In some cases,
where there is no son, a number of loafers come forward and
offer to unravel their queues and act the part of sons, in order
to obtain a share in the dead man's effects, causing much
trouble thereby.
The hair of the dead man is then combed by the daughters
and daughter-in-law, each taking a turn, kneeling and weeping
at the same time; and then the hair is rolled up into a kind of
knot on the top of the head, something like the top-knot worn
by the Chinese of the Ming dynasty, thus exemplifying the
popular proverb "The living submit [to the Manchus], the
dead do not”生投死弗
The garments for the dead are specially made for the
occasion, if the family can afford it, and are fashioned after
the pattern of the old Chinese costume, like that of the present
Coreans; no buttons or knots are permitted,-the Chinese word
for knot being pronounced like that meaning difficulty or
trouble, and all such difficulties must be prevented from accom-
panying the traveller. Instead of buttons the wick of a candle
is sometimes employed to take the place of tape, and is said
to act as a walking-stick to beat off the dogs which beset the
traveller at certain stages. [In Shaohing no pregnant woman
is allowed a part in the making of these garments.]
The son then divests himself of the clothes he has
assumed, taking them all off in one movement without separat-
ing the several garments, and they are suspended over the
backs of two chairs and perfumed or aired, by means of a
brazier, containing fragrant herbs, placed underneath. Furs
or leather of whatever kind are carefully excluded, lest the

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
43
dead should be turned into an animal in his next re-incarna-
tion. [It is interesting to note that in Russia equal care is
taken to avoid a pigeon's feather being inserted in the pillow.]
Written characters of all kinds are entirely excluded, such as
might be found in the shape of shop-marks on the clothing
or shoes being carefully erased, for the burial of these with
the corpse would mean a defilement of the sacred literary
character, and the descendants of the dead man would inevitably
be punished by being born without intelligence.
A peculiar custom found in Hupeh and Ngan-hwui is
the swathing of silk balling which is wound tightly round
the trunk, body and limbs, being then joined together at
the edges. It covers the head and the whole body like
a glove, reminding one of the Egyptian mummy bandages;
a small section is afterwards cut out to expose the features.
This is worn between the inner and outer suits.
The clothes are then laid out on the inverted lid of the
coffin, and the dead man carefully placed in position for
convenience of dressing; his arms are drawn through the
sleeves; a long cord, which runs through the sleeves, is then
fastened in a "lucky" knot, and the clothes are carefully
smoothed into position. The hands are placed crosswise
over the lower part of the body, the left hand uppermost
in the case of males and the right in the case of females.
A pair of cheap shoes, gummed instead of stitched, are placed
on his feet, and an official hat with a red tassel is put on
his head. If he is entitled to wear a button on his hat,
as a sign of having graduated or of holding office, he retains
the button, but if he has obtained his decoration by purchase,
the certificate setting forth the fact must be burned, and
the ashes placed in a bag for burial with him, in case his
right to such distinction should be challenged in the next
world. A true graduate or officer has no need of such
credentials.

44
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
In upper class families a winding-sheet of deep red is
used, sometimes of satin and elaborately embroidered,
forming a sort of large bag like a sleeping-bag, in which
all but the head is enclosed, and it is fastened at one side
with tapes. [In Shaohing the dead is invited to partake of
food before he is placed in the coffin.] A satchel containing
paper money, a piece of silver, and the Taoist placard is
put on his shoulder; a piece of silver is placed under his
tongue [just as the Greeks placed an obolus in the mouth of
the dead, with which to pay the ferryman Charon]; a small
pearl, called "tranquilising the heart" pearl,, is placed
on the breast; [reminding one of the scarab which the
Egyptians placed there]; and, in the case of a woman, a small
pearl is inserted in the toe of each shoe.
Pious women, who have been ardent Buddhists in their
lifetime, wear a black fillet, with a small Buddha of silver
or jade in the centre, round their foreheads, and a silver
hair-pin, after the fashion of "Moginlin's staff,"
the
staff with which he forced the gates of hell and released
his mother, is placed in the hair.
When a young betrothed maiden dies before her wedding-
day has arrived, she is buried in the clothes she should
have worn at the marriage ceremony [reminding one of
the Russian custom of burying young married women in
their wedding-dress]. Young girls, too, have their heads
decorated with flowers, as in Russia. Another point of
similarity is the practice of having the grave-clothes prepared
beforehand, in the case of old people. The Chinese often do
this, and like to "hansel" the clothes by wearing them on a
visit to a temple: they are carefully preserved, and the loss of
them, through fire or otherwise, would be considered a dread
calamity, for "merit" is supposed to be stored up in them.
The mention of unmarried persons suggests a reference
to the curious custom of post-mortem marriage. If, for

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
45
instance, a young man of marriageable age should die
unmarried, the parents make enquiries in order to discover
a suitable bride for him amongst the young maidens who
have died about the same time, and when the arrangements
are completed the two coffins are buried together.
The corpse is now lifted and placed carefully in the
coffin, the son supporting the head and the daughter-in-law
the feet, with others assisting at the sides. It is important
that it should rest exactly in the centre, and in some places
a long cord, weighted at both ends, is placed over the coffin,
lengthwise, so as to find the exact centre, and the nose of
the corpse is brought into line with this. Small bags of
lime, varying in number [in Shaohing nominally 36, really
18; in Ningpo 24] are then inserted to keep the head and
feet in position; the feet must be kept close together, or the
partner of the deceased will be called away to keep company
in the world of spirits; the pipe, fan and handkerchief of the
deceased are also inserted, and five small bags of different
colours, containing nail parings, old teeth which have fallen
out from time to time, tea and rice [cf. Egyptian custom of
collecting the sawdust from the floor on which the body
was cleansed, and burying it in bags, 20 or 30 in number, so
careful were they that no fragment of the mortal frame
should be misplaced], a small casket containing a rosary,
and the undress cap and "riding" jacket are also added;
for the garments which the dead is at present wearing
are his ceremonial clothes, required for his audience with
the Gods; these others he will wear on his journey. If
the deceased happens to have parents living he is also
furnished with a complete set of mourning-clothes, which
he will be able to wear in the unseen world when his
parents' decease takes place. Then each person present
takes from his breast a small piece of cotton-wool, called
"warm the heart cotton" EL, and, rolling it up into a

46
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
small ball, throws it into the coffin; the relatives are then
invited to take a last look, and care must be taken that no
tears are allowed to drop in, lest the corpse should be found
in another existence with marks or stripes on his face. Then
the various coverlets are laid on in regular order, those
presented by near relatives being given first place, and
so on in order of precedence, until the coffin is quite full;
whatever quilts are unable to find a place inside the coffin
are burned. Before the lid is put on, all who are regarded
as representing astral influences inimical to the deceased
are requested to withdraw, either to the open air or to a
space more than one hundred paces distant, and are only
allowed to return when the lid has been put in place. The
lid is first smeared with crude varnish, to make it air-tight,
or sometimes a cement made of rice, vinegar and flour
is used. Usually four large nails are employed to fasten
the lid; but sometimes a sort of double wedge, fitting into a
socket in the lid above and another in the side of the coffin, is
used instead. Another very large nail is placed in position,
called "posterity nail" J, because the word for nail is
similar to that used for man, and the idea is that in adding a
nail, posterity will be also increased. This nail is not driven
home at once, but reserved until the day before the funeral.
The nails are driven in by a senior, the sons and, in
some cases, the daughters meanwhile crouching under the
trestles on which the coffin rests, lest the eyes of the departed
should start out at the hammering.
When the lid is fixed in position the mourners are
allowed to plait their queues with hemp-cord and wear coarse
shoes instead of the straw sandals they have been wearing,
and they are permitted to eat. The coffin is then bound with
strong ropes and a carrying-pole placed in position; this
pole is called "Tai-ping pole "Tand is never removed,
however long the coffin may remain in the house, the object

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
47
being to have everything ready for removal in case of fire.
Food is now placed at the side of the coffin, and the dead and
his gaoler are invited to partake; the friends and relatives
kneel to pay their last respects, and the chief mourner returns
the compliment on behalf of the departed. Two piles of paper
money are then burned, one for the dead and the other for his
guardian; and it is important that the supply intended for the
former should be first consumed, for if the keeper gets his
share first he may draw off his victim before he has had an
opportunity of taking his quota. [In Shaohing tall bamboos
with a cross-piece or yard, and bearing streamers and
lanterns, are set up after the coffining, but only when
Buddhist and Taoist priests are employed.]
The mourners then partake of a meal, and if the friends.
from a distance elect to return home at once they may do
so, but if they decide to stay longer they must not go before
the third day this is a further observance of the principle that
odd numbers must obtain in all funeral ceremonies. The
"Filial curtain", a white cotton curtain, is then hung
up before the coffin, drawn partially back at both sides, with a
table and chair placed at the opening, a white cover like an
altar-cloth draping the table. Regular meals are served to
the deceased on this table every day, tea about 5 a.m.,
breakfast at 8 or 9, tiffin at noon, and tea at night, and, each
time a meal is served, the server is expected to wail and
cry. This continues until the funeral. On each side of the
chair are placed tall paper structures representing hills, one
called the "golden" and one the "silver" hill, intended to
indicate the vast sums which the fond relatives have provided
for the voyager, and behind these are tall figures of the
"Golden Youth" and the "Jade Maiden", bearing
streamers to guide him across the " Fairy Bridge" 1.
The portrait of the deceased is hung up behind the chair,
supported on each side by scrolls bearing doleful inscriptions,

48
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
and with white candles placed in front. The chair is occupied
by the ancestral tablet, mounted on an inverted tub, and
crowned by a piece of red silk fastened with red cord. The
wording of the tablet reads "Ch'ing (dynasty) of the Rank
of such-and-such, Master So-and-so's Spirit Chief." The
last word Chief (E) stands for the character for Lord
(representing another word of similar sound which means
tablet and present (E), which contains an extra dot.
This dot is not inserted until later on, when a scholar of
eminence is invited to add the dot and thus become the
"Surety" or "Advocate" of the dead
person.
The day before the funeral Bonzes and Taoists are invited
to conduct "masses, called "The Water Mass" 7, the
object of which is to cleanse the departed of all sins and
transgressions committed during his life. In the afternoon a
bowl containing rice, and a thread rope consisting of seven
strands, on which are threaded and tied twenty-four cash, is
presented to a Bonze, who places it on a table in front of the
table already referred to, and, as he recites the virtues of
Buddha in releasing souls from pain and trouble, he unties the
knots in succession, putting the cash one by one into his vest;
he then appropriates the string, and finally hands the rice to a
novice, to be put aside in a place where he will be able to find
it again. The meaning of this untying of knots is to illustrate
the release from all tightness and difficulties in the next
world. When this is done the Bonze takes a "wooden fish"
in his hand, and, beating the fish with a small wand,
leads a procession of the women and children present,
including a younger son of deceased, who follows immediately
after the priest and holds a stick of incense in his hand; each
take paper "sycee" and all do a sort of "ring-a-ring-a-rosy"
around the coffin, repeating the Buddhistic formula Nan wu
o me to fu, each in turn dropping his
sycee in a brazier placed before the table, and taking up

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
49
another sycee for the next round; nine revolutions are made
in all, with a short interval after each third round. The next
thing is done by a Taoist, who takes a tray containing rice, a
nail, and a handkerchief containing forty-eight cash. He
places the tray on the coffin, and touches the four corners of
the coffin with the bundle of cash and the nail consecutively,
repeating at the same time some pious expressions for
the welfare of the family. He then empties the rice on to
the coffin-lid. The chief mourner having removed his inner
vest hands it to the priest, and, as he kneels down and holds
out the skirts of his robe, receives the rice which the priest
sweeps into his lap. This he carries off secretly and adds it to
the family store, which is supposed by this means to derive
the properties of the "barrel of meal" and the "cruse of oil"
of Scriptural reference. The cash, I need hardly say, is not
returned.
A Taoist then takes his stand at the corner of the table,
holding a bell in his hands, and, as he rings the bell, he
chants a sort of sermon whose text is "All is vanity," and
whose language has a remarkable similarity to the twelfth
chapter of Ecclesiastes. He then describes the different stages
of the journey to Hades. The journey is divided into seven
periods of seven days, or "weeks," which correspond with the
various stages of the spirit's wanderings in the infernal
regions. These stages are described in detail with a wealth
of impromptu illustration and elaboration. The first "week,"
when the traveller reaches the "Demon Gate Barrier
"
and is assailed by demons who demand his money, on
the excuse that at his last transmigration he borrowed so
much from the infernal treasury and must now return it. If
he has money to pay he is let pass, but if not he is beaten,
stripped, and suffers many indignities. The second "week"
he comes to a place where he is weighed: the good man proves
to be as light as air, but the evil are borne down by their ill
4
"

50
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
deeds and are punished by being sawn asunder, ground to
powder, etc. Nirvana, however, is still very far off, a wave
of the "two-sided fan" restores him to his former condition and
he is sent forward on his journey. The third "week" he
arrives at the "Bad Dog Village", where, if good, he is
recognised joyfully by the fierce beasts, but, if evil, he is torn
until his blood flows in rivers. At the fourth "week" a
gigantic mirror, called the "Mirror of Retribution", is
exhibited the good man on looking into it sees himself as he
is, in all the beauty of innocence, but the sinner sees only the
presentment of the doom which awaits him; is he to be
turned into an animal? then an animal form is reflected
before his horrified vision. The fifth "week" he begs to be
allowed to return to life, but the God replies that he is no
longer fit to take his place with uncorrupted mortals; he
thereupon begs at least to be permitted to take a last look at
his old home, and is allowed to ascend a high platform from
whence he may obtain a view. He sees his loved ones at
home, occupied with their various duties, and his heart is all
the more sorrowful as he realises that he himself has no
longer a place in mundane affairs; and it is in order to mitigate
his grief that his relations at this period make special
offerings of tea and sweetmeats. On the second day of this
"week" all the offerings are provided by his married
daughter, for, as the proverb says, "In the fifth 'week' he
does not eat at the expense of his own family." In the sixth
"week" he reaches the bridge which spans the "Inevitable
River". This bridge is very high and very narrow,
and the water rushes underneath like a whirlpool, shewing
enormous snakes lifting their heads high out of the water on
the look-out for human flesh. At the foot of the bridge
stand lictors who, with iron maces and other weapons, force
the unwilling travellers to ascend the bridge and essay the
crossing which inevitably ends in destruction. The bridge is

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
51
100,000 feet high and 1 inch and oths wide, and the only
possible way of crossing is by "riding" straddle-legged
as on a horse. The good are not forced to attempt the
passage, but are led by the "Golden Youth" and his
companion on to the "Fairy Bridges," the gold and the silver
bridges which cross the river at the side of this demon "Bridge
of Sighs." In the seventh "week" the abode of the "Rajah
of the Wheel" is reached, and he is petitioned by the
traveller to expedite the process of transmigration. The
petitioner is handed over to a "Runner," who takes him off to
the place of the wheel; and on the way a rest-house is visited,
where old Mrs. Mang gives tea "free gratis" to
passers-by, they being already thirsty after all their
experiences. When the good man has imbibed the tea he
enjoys a comfortable sensation, and a sense of coolness takes
possession of him, but the moment the evil-doer tastes the
liquid he forgets all the past, both good and bad. The victim
is then driven on towards the great "Wheel of the Law"
and takes his place between the revolving spokes. If he is
permitted to escape at the top right-hand corner he finds
himself, on re-incarnation, admitted into the ranks of nobility;
if by the top left-hand corner he is relegated to the status
of widower or widow, orphan or childless, the lame, the
halt and the blind; if he emerges on the right-hand, lower
down, he is classed among viviparous animals; if on the
left-hand, among oviparous animals. The right-hand, still
lower, is the place of creatures with shells or scales; the
left-hand corresponding is the sphere of insects.
All this and very much more is chanted in a melancholy
voice, together with descriptions of the Buddhist Inferno;
and the moral of all is the importance of repentance for
not having spent one's days in Vegetarianism and the
repetition of Buddha's all-potent name, in order to avoid
such horrors as have been related. Many of those present

52
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
are struck with remorse, and exchange notes on the
importance of a religious life. When this long discourse
is finished a space is cleared in front of the "spirit table".
and a large square with ornamental borders is mapped
out on the floor with chaff; in the centre of the square four
large characters are traced-twelve oil lamps, provided by the
Taoist priests, are disposed round the sides of the square, and
the chief mourner has them filled with vegetable oil and
supplied with wicks. These lamps are supposed to illumine
the darkness of the gate of the Hades. A table is placed,
and a Bonze and six so-called "Taoists" sit at this table,
each performing on a different instrument. In the intervals
they sing ribald or humorous songs with the intention of
exciting laughter, reminding one somewhat of the Roman
actors who accompanied funerals and made facetious remarks
and gestures. They also sing the "Flower Song of the 12
Moons", describing the different flowers which
bloom in the different months, and other compositions which
have apparently very little funereal reference. Ten articles
are placed on the spirit table, such as gold and silver, a
rosary, a candle, a bun or loaf of bread, a piece of black gauze,
fruit, etc., and flowers cut out of red paper are scattered
by the six singers in turn, and are eagerly snatched up by
the children and others, the idea of the flowers being that
the dead may imagine that his praises are being sung in
flowery rhetoric. The lamps are soon extinguished and
the oil appropriated by the priests, who are said to more
than cover the cost of their living by the sale of the oil
gained in this way. After a short space all the family
and friends join in an evening meal.
After
supper the
ceremony known as "Fang Yen kow"
takes place. The spirit table and chair are removed;
another chair is substituted and raised by the insertion of
something placed underneath, and a priest takes his seat in it;

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
53
the spirit table is raised up also and another placed in front
of it but on a lower level. A bushel measure full of rice,
supporting a small figure of Buddha, is placed on the high
table, and five figures of acolytes, bearing streamers, are
set in order in front, with a candlestick at each end of the
table and a censer in the middle. The six assistants sit at each
side of the lower table, with a book placed in front of each
triplet, together with their musical instruments. Two other
tables, supporting two large candles, and twenty-four bowls of
vegetable food are placed at a little distance in front,
intended for the delectation of the various gods. Five other
bowls of breadstuffs and a large basin containing "Buddha's
fingers", made of pastry, which if eaten by children
are said to ensure regularity of teeth.
Six small cups
of wine are placed on the front table, with three larger
cups of tea and three of wine put between. Four other
tables are disposed at
the sides of the hall, two on each
side, intended for the sacrifice to the family ancestors;
a small table a little lower down contains the offerings
intended for the dead person, and the spirit tablet sits at
this table in the chair as before, attended on each side by
relatives in light mourning garments. In the Court in front
six other tables are placed, three on each side, with food
and wine, and lighted by lanterns, and in front of all, in
the middle, is a table at the sides of which are placed the
"Gold and Silver Hills," reserved for the "Prince of the
Demons" E, whose effigy, made of paper and bamboo,
sits in place. Paper "Gods" are suspended on the backs of
chairs at each table, representing the ghostly visitants. On
the floor a door is laid to represent another table, intended
for the lowest grades of spirits, and the wine on this table
is contained in a large bowl, and the rice in a basket, no
wine-cups or rice-bowls being furnished. Two long ropes
of straw hang from the pillars at each side, from which

54
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
"
are suspended, as on a clothes-line, paper garments, cash,
cheques, and sycee in strings. One of the Priests, when
all is prepared, gives three rolls to the drum, and the Chief
Priest puts on his tiara and his patchwork robe with jade
buckle. He holds in his hand a piece of parti-coloured
stuff which he opens out at each genuflexion and rolls up
when he stands upright. The chief mourner now assumes
a lighter mourning costume, and follows the Priest as he
visits each table in turn and bows before it, and then
invites the Priest to resume his seat within the spirit
curtain, presenting him with a packet containing 100 cash.
Seven bowls of "Longan ' 龍眼 fruit are now placed
before the Priest and his assistants for their delectation.
When the priests have finished their reciting, a number
of paper garments and money are burned outside the
house. By this time it is about 10 p.m. The apartment
is now re-arranged, and preparations for the sacrifice to
the dead are made: musicians are requisitioned, large
quantities of flesh and fowls are laid out, lamps are
hung all over the room, and the chief mourner reverts
to his deep mourning garments and appears from behind
the curtain, leaning upon the "Filial Staff"
and
supported by attendants. He kneels before the tablet and
makes humble offering of the meats, etc. As he prostrates
himself, a person standing at the side reads a long panegyric
on the dead in a melancholy voice, and the chief mourner
weeps as he lies upon his face. He is then escorted to the
rear of the screen, and repeats the process three times; all
the relatives and friends present follow him in his
genuflexions. When all is finished, the offerings and all
the temporary fittings are removed and preparations are
made for the funeral. This may take place early or late,
sometimes as late as a year. If it is not done during the
seven "weeks," boards are put up in front of the coffin, and

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
55
it is not then necessary to offer the daily portions of food,
etc. until the boards are removed, some three days before
the funeral takes place.
In Shaohing the funeral takes place in the fifth watch,
i.e. between four and five in the morning, perhaps in the
fifth week, or as late as one hundred days after death,
sometimes even later, and in cases of poverty the coffin
is left in the house, or put in a mortuary chamber at an
annual rent of two dollars.
Wealthy families erect platforms at the door of the
house, the canal-side, the city gate, and the graveside,
which are decorated very elaborately and furnished with
musicians; and when the funeral procession stops at each
of these stations, sacrifices are offered and a panegyric is
read. Sometimes the platforms, when once passed, are taken
down and re-erected further on and the ceremony is repeated.
On the night before the funeral three or five Taoists
[in Nganhwui, etc., 32 helpers] are called to invite the
deceased to start on his journey; and at each watch paper
money and white paper balls, five in number, are burnt,
the last one being fired by an elder in order to "speed the
parting guest." Before day-light the mourners [in Nganhwui
and Hupeh] eat "Clothing Rice", composed of glutinous
rice, boiled with beans or lentils, and eaten in regular
sequence by all present. This is supposed to ensure that
the family will never be without food or clothing. Whatever
remains over is placed in a couple of bottles. [In Shaohing
the bottle is filled with eatables of all sorts, and is wound
round and round with cotton thread, each member of the
family giving a wind to the thread, kneeling and wailing
at the same time. The bottle accompanies the coffin to
the grave and is placed on one side for the benefit of any
hungry wayfarer who may pick it up.] The expenses of
this function are borne by the daughter.

56
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
"
66
Everyone is awake and stirring at day-light when the
day arrives, and arrangements are made for the start. An
immense paper figure, representing the "Clear-the-way God"
, leads the van; then come two large bamboos bearing
streamers, and four " Wagheads, paper figures of men,
whose heads bob continually as they are carried along;
then follow two large lanterns bearing the name of the family
on the one side and the titles of office, if any; or, in lieu of
this, the "T'ang ming", or nickname; then two large
gongs, which are beaten at intervals; a small lantern is carried
by a man following, who repeatedly burns quantities of
"right of way" or "buy the road" "money" as he
goes along, and when the procession arrives at a bridge
an extra amount is consumed; then follows a man who
sets off squibs from time to time; next in order come four
men bearing the "Gold and Silver Hills" and the two
figures of the "Golden Youth" and "Jade Maiden," followed
by the son-in-law or nephew, who carries a dish containing
rice, in which is placed the Ancestral Tablet. Another
person follows, bearing an umbrella, which he holds over the
tablet. In wealthy families the tablet sits in a sedan-
chair, which is supported on each side by the son-in-law
or nephew. The bearer of the tablet is robed entirely in
white, and the friends of the family walk on either
side of him. Then follows the coffin, borne by four men
or a larger number, according to the rank of the deceased,
and covered with a red pall or with a satin embroidered cover.
After the coffin comes the chief mourner, wearing a head-dress
of coarse hemp gauze, shaped something like a biretta,
with "pom-poms" of cotton-wool placed at the intersections
of the frame, and worn over a small white cap. Two long
ribbons of gauze hang down the back of his head. His white
gown reaches to his ankles and is not hemmed at the edges;
a jacket of coarse gauze is worn over this and a cincture

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
57
or belt of straw rope, twisted reversely from left to right, is
wound round his waist, and a bangle of muslin on his
wrist, the left wrist in the case of a male and vice versa.
In his hand he holds a short bamboo wand covered
with white paper clipped into a fringe at the edges. [In
Shaohing the staff is made of "Wu-t'ong" wood, if the
deceased is a male, of bamboo if a female.] He hangs his
head as he walks, and is followed by the relatives male and
female. The daughter-in-law wears a cowl or hood of coarse
gauze over her head, and a jacket and skirt of the same
material; she also carries a staff or wand like that borne
by the chief mourner; she sometimes sits in a sedan-chair,
and the heavy head-dress is then placed on the top of the
chair instead of on her head. She weeps and cries aloud
as she goes, like the "Keener" at an Irish wake. Rice is
thrown over the coffin and chief mourners as soon as they
move towards the outside door; and, whilst the carrying-
poles are being adjusted, in the street before starting, a
table containing three bowls of tea, three of wine and four
plates of sweetmeats, with candles, incense and paper sycee,
is placed at the foot of the coffin, and these are reverentially
offered up to the various gods concerned. One of the
bearers lights a paper "horse" (i.e. a painted effigy of a
"God" and intended to represent the horse upon which the
God mounts on his heavenward journey), and touches the
different poles one after another; and, in country districts,
a bearer, with a reputation for wit, pours a little wine at
the four corners, chanting appropriate or facetious remarks
at each. The figure of a crane, with outspread wings and
uplifted foot, is placed upon the centre of the coffin, and four
paper fan-like decorations bearing the character Ya are
set up at the corners. The crane is supposed to convey the
soul to the "Western Heaven," and the other fittings seem to
be connected with the white cotton sheets i, representing

58
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
the cords with which the chief mourner is supposed to drag
the coffin to its destination. The bearers then drink the
wine and pocket the sweetmeats. [In Peking, just before
the funeral starts, the effigy of the dead man, composed of
an old broom and some garments, is, by the way, washed
and combed, and food is placed inside the clothes.
He is pressed to make a good meal before starting,
for fear he should grow hungry en route. He is also
asked whether his henchmen, i.e. paper figures of male
and female attendants, have had enough to eat and have
received their "tips". A voice, that of a man counterfeiting
the dead, replies that all has been attended to and that there
is no occasion for anxiety. The attendants are then exhorted
to serve their master well on the way. The broom is burnt
outside the door just before the funeral starts, and the son
takes a large bowl and breaks it on the ground in front of
the coffin.] The son then takes his wand and walks
backwards in front of the coffin, but in Ningpo he simply
turns at intervals and kow-tows before it. On arrival at a
bridge the crying of the mourners increases in intensity.
In Peking the procession is accompanied by immense
quantities of paper goods, including men, horses, carriages,
chairs, opium, tobacco, flowers, birds, beasts and furniture of
all sorts, intended for the comfort of the departed in the Spirit
world. When the place of burial is reached the coffin is
temporarily supported by a couple of blocks, the streamers
placed at the head, and the wands propped up at the foot,
whilst the exact location is being considered, with special
reference to the points of the compass. When this is
ascertained the coffin is placed in position, and perhaps a
brick vault built over it, or a straw or matting case put
upon it. In wealthy families a stone receptacle is prepared
beforehand, and the coffin laid very carefully in the exact
centre, the son having first removed his inner vest, without

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
59
divesting himself of his other garments, and carefully dusted
the interior of the sarcophagus. The vest is presented to
the mason standing by. A bonfire is then lighted in the
vault, and paper money charms, together with sesamum seeds
and "Hundred Sons' Crackers" are burned in it.
The coffin is rolled in on a couple of bamboo rollers, and
a meal is laid out, to which the deceased and also the
denizens of the neighbouring tombs are invited. The
mourner's head-dresses and cinctures are then burnt, with
a lot of paper money, and the streamers and staves are
left at the grave.
All present then set up a cry; the stone
door of the tomb is placed in position and the tomb sealed.
The head-stone is then set up, bearing the names of the
deceased, with the date of erection. The mourners then join
hands and perform a sort of " merry-go-round "about the
tomb, which is repeated three days later. The procession
returns in the same order as before, escorting the Ancestral
Tablet to the home with crying and burnings. On arrival
at the house a great bonfire is made outside the door, and all
who have attended the funeral are expected to step across it
before gaining the threshold; no one is exempted. [In
Shaohing a little water is sprinkled over each person by the
Taoist priests. This process, through fire and water, was an
universal practice with the Romans.] The tablet is placed at
the side of the hall, and, at the place where the coffin had
rested, a weighing-beam is discovered, with a bag fastened
to the hook; this had been placed on the spot as soon as the
coffin was moved, and the sack suggests a punning reference
to a long line of descendants, the word for sack and
generation ft being similar in sound. On each side of the
beam, but a little in front, are placed two chairs, and, in
front of these, tables set close together, on which is spread a
meal for the twenty-four or forty-eight ancestors; and
another meal is placed before the tablet of the new ancestor,

60
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
who occupies, as I have said, an inferior place at the side of
the hall. The son, in (lighter) mourning garments of blue,
kneels and offers the viands prepared, and burns a quantity
of paper money. He then climbs by a ladder to the ancestral
shrine over the central partition, and lights candles before
each shrine, and then carries up the new tablet and places
it in position, on the right side, if the new ancestor is a male,
or the left side if a female, whilst the gongs are loudly
beaten below in the hall. All present are then invited to
partake of the feast. [In Shaohing the tablet is kept in
the hall and "invited" twice a day by the daughter-in-law
until the end of the seventh week, when it is placed in the
ancestral shrine. The feast above referred to is not spread
until the first day after the funeral.] On the third day a visit
is paid to the tomb, and provisions, candles, etc. carried
thither, together with a sort of hive or crate composed of
fourteen upright ribs of bamboo joined together at the top
and fastened to a wide rim at the base; on twelve of the
ribs is written one of the twelve honorary characters, and
on the remaining two, one on either side, the characters for
sun and moon respectively. This structure is placed on the
tomb or coffin whilst the offerings are being made, the spirit
being supposed to take its place therein; and, after the
offering is finished, the crate is burned with paper money.
All present then join hands, forming a ring round the grave,
circle round in one direction three times and then reverse
three times; this is with the idea of confining the spirit
The party then returns home.
in his proper habitat.
On the seventh day a number of Taoists are hired, seven
in all, to "open the road," and a great variety of ceremonies
take place on this day, morning, afternoon and evening. One
of the most interesting of these is "Walking the Fairy Bridge"
Ef, as it is called, consisting of a bridge composed of
tables and chairs, over which an effigy of the deceased is

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
61
assisted to move. Another function, known as "Treading the
Cardinal Points", is performed by a Taoist who, with
wild gesticulations and flourishing a sword, spouts water from
his mouth, and makes wild rushes in different directions,
followed by the chief mourner, who simulates the dead taking
advantage of the openings thus presented to him. There is
also the "Treading the Eight Diagrams", which
consists in a complicated series of movements, supposed to be
based upon the principles of the "eight diagrams," which are
believed to be an effective protection against all noxious
influences. The ceremony of untying the knots, referred to
above, takes place on this evening, at Shaohing, and also
the ceremony of "cursing the dogs." This is done by the
Priests, who curse all the dogs in the neighbourhood, men-
tioning them particularly, "Brown's dog," "Jones's dog,"
"Robinson's dog," dogs of all colours and kinds, and dogs
exhibiting various deformities, and ending by addressing
the crowd of bystanders to the effect that they, too, are a
pack of dogs. This ceremony is connected with the idea
of the "Bad Dog Village."
On the evening of this day the hall is again arranged,
with a table and chair, and a portrait of the deceased hanging
behind the chair. Two cups of tea are put on the table, and
two bowls of light food, together with candles and incense.
The daughter-in-law weeps before the picture, as she "invites
the spirit to partake of refreshment, and a quantity of paper
money is also burned. The lights are then put out, and the
family retires. At daylight tea, etc. is laid as before. At
breakfast-time food of different kinds is offered and candles
lighted. The performance is repeated at noon, with this
difference, that the viands are more elaborate. This takes place
every "week" until the seventh, the only exception being
that in the fifth week a further spread is made in the death
chamber. If it should happen that throughout the seven

62
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
upon
"weeks" the first day in every case should fail to fall
a day of the month containing the figure seven, then a special
extra day must be set apart and a meal offered. The odd
"weeks" are known as the great "weeks," i.e. the first, third,
fifth, seventh, and on the first of each of these weeks the relatives
make presents of small loaves, numbering forty from each
person, this quantity being supposed to last the spirit for one
year, and so he is provided for as many years as he possesses
relations. In wealthy families Bonzes and Taoists are hired
to conduct these proceedings.
In the fifth "week" Taoists are called to "Force the City"
or "Force the Gate of Hell" 破地獄門 A paper
city with men, horses, etc. is set up, and, when night comes, a
Taoist priest in full robes breaks through the city with the
sword he carries, and liberates the imprisoned soul; afterwards
a great bonfire is made in the open air, and three or four
priests take their stand around it, holding long bamboos to
which are attached elaborate "fireworks." They wave these
over the fire, and soon the outer covering in each case bursts,
and a beautiful fish or other object unfolds itself out of the
packet; this, too, is exposed in turn to the fire and shrivels
up, revealing some other lovely shape, and so on until at last
the effigies of the dead are exposed, and these are carried to
the house and given to the chief mourner.
In the sixth "week" the daughters are expected to provide
a feast for the dead, and they are given a share in the division
of the clothing which he has left.
At the end of the seventh "week" the chief mourner is
allowed to shave his hair for the first time, but, if the coffin
has not yet been removed, he is not permitted to do so until
one hundred days have expired.
The next year the mourners, wearing white garments, pay
their first annual visit to the grave on the day known as
"Clear Bright (Ts'ing-ming)", and on this day the

SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
63
sounds of wailing are heard in all directions. A small sum,
of one hundred cash or so, and a gift of food, are given to the
hillmen for looking after the grave. A further visit is
sometimes paid in the 9th moon, and at the winter solstice
paper garments, representing warm winter clothes, are
presented and burnt.
On the night appointed for the return of the spirit a table
of eatables is laid in the death chamber, which is then evacuated
by the relatives. In the kitchen a quantity of lime is placed
beneath and around the fireplace. When the hour arrives, as
announced by the Taoist priest, a procession is formed, the
Priest leading, and all enter the chamber; the kitchen is then
visited and the lime examined, and the traces of the spirit's
presence are discovered by the marks, as of the feet of a goose,
upon the lime. The story is told that, on one occasion, all had
retired with the exception of an old woman-servant, who was
sometime after heard crying out loudly for help; and when
the family re-entered the apartment she reported that she had
seen a creature, the size of a large dog and like a monkey in
semblance, which jumped on the table and was devouring the
eatables; on perceiving her the creature jumped down again
and began to attack her, hence her loud cries for help, which
penetrated to the outside and brought the family together; too
late indeed to see the creature, which had disappeared as
mysteriously as it had come. A white cock is caught and
carried in one hand in front of a basket-lid, and, as the lid is
struck by a measure held in the other hand, the cock crows;
he is thus escorted outside and paper money burnt. This
represents the sending off the spirit's escort, and if not done
the spirit is said to suffer for the uncivil treatment offered to
his attendant.
A white cock is said to be a protection against baneful
astral influences and to be the only capable guide of transient
spirits.

64
SOME CHINESE FUNERAL CUSTOMS.
In this connexion one is reminded of a custom observed
by modern Jews, viz. the substitution of a cock for the
scape-goat as a means of expiation. The sins of the offerer
are said to be transferred to the entrails of the fowl, and these
are exposed upon the house-top, to be carried away by birds
of the air.
This is but an outline of the more general customs which
are observed on funeral occasions; to give details of all the
ceremonies which appertain to the several classes of society,
the rich and poor, the official and the civilian, the modern
monstrosities such as are observable in Shanghai and elsewhere,
would require a much greater expenditure of labour in
preparation on my part. Unless where I have expressly
indicated the fact, the ceremonies I have described obtain in
the circles of the great middle class.