KWO TSI YI,
AN EMINENT MILITARY COMMANDER OF THE TANG DYNASTY.
By J. EDKINS, D.D.
The Chinese history of the Tang dynasty is in two forms.
The writer of the first was Fei Tsi, who was fond of realistic
description. His book was thought to be too full, and Ow Yang
Sieu was appointed to prepare an abridgement of it. He omits
many realistic passages. His history is considerably shorter.
But both books are printed in all new editions. I have found
it an advantage to use both their histories while preparing a
biography of Kwo Tsi Yi. The foreign student will appreciate
the help he can obtain from the Chinese minutely compiled
histories. The names of most of the officers in the army of
Kwo Tsi Yi may be recovered. The mass of facts collected in
the biographies of Chinese history is very remarkable. The
older History is called the Kieu Tang Shu, "The older Tang
History." The later History is the Tang Shu.
Kwo Tsi Yi was rich, hadi noble rank, had many sons,
seven in all, and many grandsons, and lived to be an old man.
He was able by prudence and bravery to restore the empire to
prosperity for a few years. There have been few epochs in
Chinese history when rebel armies were so powerful as when
Kwo Tsi Yi fought on the side of the dynasty.
He was a native of Cheng Hien in Honan.
His father
had been magistrate in five cities. He was a tall man of
1

2
KWO TSÏ YI.
noble appearance, fond of military exercises, and from his
youth a cultivator of the art of war. In the year 749, regiments
had been placed by imperial command at the northern border
to guard against raiding parties of Turks. Kwo Tsi Yi was
placed at the head of these regiments.
In 755 a man of Turkish extraction, An Lu Shan, rebelled.
Kwo Tsi Yi was made prefect of Ling Wu, a city to the east
of the capital, which was then Chang-an, the modern Sian Fu.
He was also appointed governor of northern Shansi and the
Ordos country, which had become a frequent battlefield on
account of the restless spirit of the Turks, who then shepherded
their flocks and herds in the pastures, now "the grass land"
of the Mongol nomads. An edict appeared commanding Kwo
Tsi Yi to suppress the rebellion. He soon sent the head of one
of the rebel generals to be suspended above the palace gate.
The rebels were at Ho Chu near Tai-yuen Fu. Our hero
gained a victory over them and advanced to Ta-tung Fu in
the north of Shansi, making a conquest of several rebel cities
in the northern part of the province. Not long after this he
made prisoners of 4,000 rebels in Chili near Chau Chow. A
Turkish rebel chief, Shï Si Ming, followed the army of Kwo
Tsi Yi on the way to Chang Shan. He had a following of
20,000 men, yet he did not dare fight. He stopped when the
loyal army stopped, and moved forward when they moved
forward. Kwo Tsi Yi selected 500 horsemen and went to the
east to attack this prudently cautious foe. He fought them
successfully at Sha Ho near Shun-te Fu in the south part of
Chili.
An Lu Shan heard that his confederate had been defeated
and added to his forces. Kwo Tsï Yi advanced to Heng Yang
at Chen-ting Fu, where now the Shansi railway branches off
from the Peking and Hankow main line. A great battle
was fought here. Forty thousand rebels were killed. The

KWO TSI YI.
3
prisoners were five thousand and the same number of horses
were captured.
Shï Sï Ming ran away without shoes or stockings and his-
hair loose and hanging down his back to Po Ling in Tung
Chang Fu in Shantung. All over Shansi the people were now
eagerly engaged in beheading rebels. The magistrates all
came out of their cities and obsequiously welcomed the imperial
army. But while Kwo Tsi Yi was successful in Shansi and
Shantung, and was planning the conquest of Chili, a rebel force.
was taking possession of Tung Kwan, the pass which separates
Honan from Shansi. This movement of the rebels was the
signal which convinced the timid emperor Hiuen Tsung that.
he should escape to Cheng-tu in Sichuen.
His successor, Su Tsung, proceeded to Ling Wu and
mounted the vacant throne in that city. Both the capitals-
Chang-an and Loyang were in possession of the rebels, and
the imperial commander Ko Shu Han sustained a defeat.
The loyal generals Kwo Tsi Yi and Li Kwang Pê now
collected an army of fifty thousand men. The young emperor
had few soldiers, and when this considerable force arrived at
Ling Wu a new feeling of confidence was diffused through the
court. The emperor reviewed the army. The prime minister
Fang Le Wan asked for 10,000 men, whom he wished himself
to lead in order to vanquish the rebels. This request the
emperor granted from his admiration for the minister. In the
battle that ensued this army was half cut to pieces by the enemy.
In December two rebel chiefs, Ashina and Tsungli, with
Tungto Lobokur went beyond the north frontier with 5,000
mounted men to entice the Turkish magistrates of the nine-
prefectures and six sub-prefectures of the Yellow River bend
(now occupied by the Ordos) to come with a force of several ten
thousands to attack the city where the emperor was residing.
Kwo Tsi Yi with the Wigur chief fought this army. There
was an immense slaughter and many prisoners were taken.

4
KWO TSI YI.
The Yellow River bend became a land where tranquillity
prevailed under the imperial ruler.
The Tung Kwan is the most important pass in China. It
is a few miles to the east of the old capital in Shensi. The rebel
chief Tsui Chien Yow, who held it, was attacked and defeated
by Kwo Tsi Yi. Shansi on the north now became the scene
of contention. Tsui Chien Yow escaped to Pu Chow.
Four
loyal officers gained successes outside of Pu Chow and went
into the city to open the gates to Kwo Tsi Yi when he should
arrive. This they did accordingly, but when he came in by one
gate the main body of rebels went out by another. They retired
eastward to An Yi, but the people of that city professed to be
submissive and planned mischief. When a part of the rebel
troops had entered, the gate guards let fall a porteullis. Tsui
Chien Yow succeeded in escaping eastward, not having entered
the gate. The Tung Kwan pass and the country round it were
now perfectly peaceful. An Lu Shan, who had originated the
rebellion, died at this time.
The emperor now commanded Kwo Tsi Yi to lead his men
to Feng Siang, where he could guard the sovereign and the
court. Subsequently he was sent to Chang-an, the capital. He
sustained a reverse when encamped on the banks of the Chin
River. He went to court and asked in the Chinese way for a
punishment to be inflicted on him. This was done.
He was
degraded a few steps and all his titles and employments were
continued as before. In October 757, he was second in rank in
an army of 150,000 men. The General-in-Chief was a prince,
Kwang Ping Wang. They attacked and secured the metropolis
Chang-an. The Wigurs sent an army to assist them, and Kwo
TsÏ Yi formed a friendly relationship with the Wigur prince.
They took an oath to pacify the country and not to rest till they
succeeded. The imperial army extended for ten English miles
in length. The rebels had 100,000 men. The battle was
fought on the west of the capital. Kwo Tsi Yi led the centre.

KWO TSI YI.
外交部藏書
5
rebels.
army.
The battle began with the capture of about sixteen mounted
It ended with the beheading of 60,000 of the robber
It was a complete victory. The Wigurs operated at
the back of the rebel forces, and the battle lasted from noon to
six in the evening. The rebel chiefs escaped the same night
through the Tung Kwan pass to Shan Chow. The next
morning the prince entered the capital. A million of people,
old and young, lined the streets with shouts of joy and much
weeping. People cried, "We never thought we should see our
own army again." The prince gave the troops a three days.
holiday and then led them eastward. The emperor was
congratulated by his courtiers, but he wept at the thought that
the temple of his ancestors was burned, and his courtiers
without one exception wept too with their sovereign.
In November the rebel chief, An Ching Sü, sent the
second in command, Yen Chwang, to collect his force, still
100,000 in number, at Shan Chow, which it will be
remembered is in Honan, a few miles east of the Tung Kwan
pass.
Here on the west of the city he arranged his camps-
and prepared for another struggle with the imperial army,
which he learned by scouts was in a state of activity.
Kwo Tsi Yi's army advanced to attack the rebels. The
Wigur force ascended the mountain to get round behind
them. Here they found an ambush of the enemy and
fought with them. There were three thousand rebels, and
they tried in the defile to prevent the Wigur junction with
the imperial army. Kwo Tsi Yi, by previous agreement,
drew back his troops and caught the rebels in a trap. He
gave the signal to the Wigur chief and the whole rebel
force in the defile was annihilated. He then attacked the
main body. Behind them he ordered ten or twenty arrows
to be shot. The rebels said in great alarm "the Wigurs
are coming." They then took flight and reached Lo
Yang, the second capital, which was in their power. The

$6
KWO TSÏ YI.
first in command, An Ching Sü, crossed the river and held
Siang Chow. Lo Yang was abandoned and was immediately
occupied by the imperialists. Three hundred of the rebels
now appeared to beg for mercy. They had changed the
revolutionary red, so much in favor with rebels, and wore
white, the color of mourners and penitents. The prince
dismissed them with gracious words.
Let us now consider the situation. Our hero had
driven the rebels out of the Honan capital of that time,
and with Lo Yang the province was recovered. The second
most important province was now restored to loyalty and
peace. When Kwo Tsi Yi went back to the Shensi capital,
the emperor sent out soldiers with drums and banners to
welcome him, and spoke some words of warm and grateful
praise for his noble victories on behalf of the dynasty.
The year 758, at which we have now arrived, reminds
me that the seven kingdoms of the Heptarchy divided
England between them at this time and the people learning
Christianity from monks who taught them charity abandoned
the cruel massacres of the heathen age and became
humane, intelligent and religious. In France, Charles
Martel defeated the Saracen hosts at Tours and checked
the spread of the Mahommedan religion in Europe.
The benign influence of Christianity is seen in the
growth of humane feeling in western countries. Prisoners
were not massacred after a battle, as in the days when
heathenism prevailed.
The emperor Su Tsung was anxious that the rebel
armies should be completely subdued. The governors of
all the provinces were ordered to join with Kwo Tsï Yi in
leading irresistible forces against the remaining rebels.
Li Kwang Pê was the chief coadjutor of Kwo Tsi Yi.
They besieged Wei Hwei Fu in north-eastern Honan. The
rebel forces came against them in three large bodies.

KWO TSI YI.
7
Kwo Tsi Yi used a stratagem. He placed 3,000 archers
in ambush under the shelter of a city wall. Wait, he said
to them, till I call our army to retreat a little. The enemy
will be sure to advance toward us. It will be your duty
to beat drums and shoot your arrows so as to inflict severe
loss on the enemy. Accordingly the imperialists advanced
and the battle began. The imperialists retreated. Drums
were heard. Arrows flew like a heavy shower of rain.
The rebels were alarmed and ran. Kwo Tsi Yi led his
army in pursuit and gained a notable victory. The rebel
chief An Ching Ho was taken prisoner and sent to the
emperor as a trophy. Kwo Tsi Yi now took possession
of the prefectural city of Wei Hwei. The north-east portion
of what is now Honan came into his hands. He pressed
on, gained another victory and planted his encampments
round the now dwindling army of An Ching Sü, who sent
ten horsemen with a pressing despatch to his confederate
Shï Si Ming, urging him to come and take his title of
prince, for he wished to resign it. Forty thousand of his
men had been beheaded by the imperialists at the hill of
sorrowful reflections. He was shut up in Siang Chow, and
here Kwo Tsi Yi used another stratagem to vex him. He
brought the water of the Chang River up to the city in
sufficient quantity to inundate the rebel quarters for four
hours. Still the city was not taken. But famine was doing
its work and the inhabitants were eating one another.
An Ching Si's message had its effect in bringing Shï Sï
Ming from Wei Hwei Fu, which had fallen into his hands.
He was met by Li Kwang Pê and Lu Ling, who in a
fiercely fought battle was killed by an arrow. In this
engagement the loss was equal on both sides and Kwo
Tsi Yi was not present. A tempest of wind which rooted
up several trees was blowing and the atmosphere was so
loaded with dust that he could not advance to take part

S
KWO TSÏ YI.
in the battle. The dust-storm changed daylight into
darkness and objects could not be seen. The rebels retreated
to the north and the imperialists to the south. Arms,
knapsacks, and flags were scattered on the roads, the sign
of a great catastrophe.
Kwo Tsi Yi with his Shofang brigade of Shansi men
held Hoyang and cut away the drawbridge there across
the river. Soon came another edict requiring him to
protect Loyang. Just at this time Yu Chan En, his enemy,
spoke against him to the emperor and procured his recall
to the capital. A prince, Chau Wang, was put in his
place as generalissimo, and Li Kwang Pê, the second in
command, took the duty of protecting Loyang, which had
been assigned to Kwo Tsi Yi. But General Kwo, although
he had lost his military command, still meditated deeply
on the war. His sorrow was not for his loss of power
but for the danger to the dynasty. Soon Loyang was
reoccupied by the rebel Shï Sï Lien. At the same time
Chang-an was threatened by Si Fan robbers from Tibet.
These robbers devastated a large part of Shensi. Censors
now began to say, "Why should Tsï Yi be kept idle in
the capital?" He was accordingly made general of troops
for all the provinces adjacent to the capital and his power
was increased. Soon after this Li Kwang Pê sustained
a reverse at Mang Shan and lost the city of Hoyang,
besides this two brigades assassinated their generals and
became rebels, one in Honan and one at Taiyuan in Shansi.
It was not the time to give high military position to young
men. Tsï Yi was made governor of Shansi-(
Tsie Tu Shï was then the title of a governor)-with the
rank of generalissimo and prince of the second order.
The emperor Su Tsung was attacked by a fatal sickness.
He could not transact business or be seen by anyone.
Kwo Tsi Yi begged to be allowed to see him. I shall die

41
KWO TSI YI.
9.
away from your majesty. If I cannot have an interview,
I shall be in darkness. He was admitted to the emperor's
sleeping apartment. The emperor said, "I trust to you the
defence of Honan." Kwo Tsï Yi shed a flood of tears.
The emperor gave him one of his horses, various silver
articles and 90,000 pieces of silk and grass cloth.
Kwo Tsi Yi then went to Shansi and at once beheaded
thirty or forty of the men who were guilty of assassinating
their generals. The news of this punishment had a good
effect on the soldiers at a distance who were meditating
junction with the rebels. They submitted to be ruled by the
laws.
The emperor Su Tsung died and Tai Tsung succeeded
him. Kwo Tsi Yi's enemies recommended that his bigh
military command should terminate. They advised that he
should be placed in charge of the late emperor's tomb
and that his other honours should be continued as before.
The subject of this biography presented a memorial,
describing what he had done and suffered during his ten
years of active service. The new emperor said in reply,
"I am deficient in virtue and intelligence. I listened to what
"ministers said in an insinuating way and suggesting
"suspicions. I have been wrong. I am ashamed of what I
"have done." Yet this emperor, though he spoke in this.
penitent manner, detained our general in the capital. As-
often is the case now in despotic monarchies, the emperor is
overpowered by the combined will of the army chiefs and
the high civil dignitaries.
But it was well for Kwo Tsi Yi to be in Chang-an.
Robber forces had passed the Wei River. They were
advancing at the foot of the southern or Nan Shan chain
of mountains towards Chang-an. The emperor in alarm
hastened eastward to Shan Chow. Kwo Tsi Yi on receiving
this intelligence shed copious tears and hurried back to..

10
KWO TSI YI.
Chang-an to find that the emperor and ten or more princes
were planning to throw themselves on the mercy of the
enemy. He proposed to them to go with him to the
emperor's present residence, and to this they agreed. He
then proceeded with 3,000 men to Shang Chow, 30 miles
south-east of the capital. He now collected 4,000
more meu. The strength of his army was spoken of every-
where in the province. Meanwhile the enemy, who were
Si Fan men from Tibet, had entered Chang-an and set up
a prince, Kwang Wu Wang, as emperor. Chang Sun Tsiuen
Su had now joined Kwo Tsi Yi with 10,000 men.
He was
sent forward to Hwun Kung Tui to camp his army there
with a great display of flags, to which was added the
incessant beating of drums. Chang Sun despatched into
the city some officers secretly, to collect a band of able
bodied young men who might assist in carrying out Kwo
Tsi Yi's plans when the time arrived. On a certain day
this band beat drums in the street before the palace.
The enemy were alarmed and left the city, which
occupied by the imperialist army. The commander of the
bowmen, Wang Fu, was acting as mayor of the city with
2,000 soldiers, who by plundering the people kept the city
in a disturbed state. Kwo Tsi Yi sent for Wang Fu and
beheaded him. The emperor Tai Tsung gave him by edict
full authority to rule in Chang-an. As he had restored
peace in the city and the emperor was in Honan, everyone
throughout the empire threw blame on the prime minister,
Cheng Yuen Chen, for his weak policy in allowing the
Si Fan robbers to approach the city and compel the emperor
to leave it. Many memorials impeaching him were sent in.
This minister saw that Kwo Tsi Yi was gaining great credit.
He therefore advised the emperor to stay in Loyang and
make it the capital in order to be at a safe distance from the
Si Fan army. To this Tai Tsung consented.
was

KWO TSÏ YI.
11
Kwo Tsi Yi took this opportunity to address to the
emperor a memorial urging the special claims of Chang-an
still to be the capital of China. It was prepared for him by
two high officers, one of whom was vice-president of the
Board of War and the other the governor of a province
Siuen Wei Shi. The emperor yielded and gave
the order to prepare his equipage for his return to Chang-an.
He wept after reading the memorial and remarked to
courtiers present, "Tsï Yi is truly a loyal and faithful servant
of the state and of my dynasty."
In December 764 the imperial procession reached the
palace in Chang-an. Kwo Tsi Yi knelt and prostrated
himself before the emperor, asking pardon for his short-
comings. The emperor in his carriage praised him and
said, "I employed you too late. It is for this reason that
affairs have gone wrong in this sad manner."
The emperor
gave him a steel ring and ordered his portrait to be placed
in the portrait hall of the palace. [The ancient customs
of the court are preserved as far as possible in the present
court of China. In 1901, I had the opportunity of visiting
the western park in Peking where in the Tsi Kwang Ko the
portraits of Tseng Kwo Fan, Li Hung Chang, Pen Yu Lin,
Lieu Ping Chang and other ancient statesmen of the
Tai-ping period, forty years ago, are preserved. I was not
able to enter this building, nor was it permitted to foreign
visitors to enter the portrait hall of the emperors at the back
of King Shan, then under the care of the French.]
Bokuhweien was at this time in charge of Chinese
troops at Fen Chow in Shensi. He was a Turkish
chieftain, who, when An Lu Shan raised the standard of
rebellion, offered assistance to Kwo Tsi Yi in subduing
the emperor's enemies. His troops were now scattered,
and he claimed Fen Chow and the adjoining cities as

12
KWO TSI YI.
his own. The Si Fan robbers from Tibet had retired.
It was the dead of winter, and his son had been killed by
a subordinate officer who sent his head to the capital as that
of an enemy whose father was now meditating treachery.
Chang Wei Yu, the officer just mentioned, led his troops
to Kwo Tsï Yi. Bokuhweien fled in alarm to Ling Chow,
leaving his mother behind. Kwo Tsi Yi was sent to
reduce Shansi to order and oppose Bokuhweien. This
chieftain now appeared at the head of more than 200,000
Turks and Si Fans. He entered China by way of Kansu,
and the emperor in alarm ordered Kwo Tsi Yi to lead an
army against him. At the same time he asked what should
be done. Tsi Yi replied, "In Bokuhweien there is nothing to
"fear.
He has lost his popularity with his men. They want
"to return to their homes, and that is the reason that they
"follow Bokuhweien. He has been my officer and his troops
"are all composed of my former army. I treated them
"well, kept my promises, and was generous in granting them
"largess. I know quite well they will not fight against me.
"It is on this account I say Bokuhweien is as weak as water."
Kwo Tsi Yi at this time sent his eldest son Kwo Yau
to the north-west of the capital where Fen Chow was suffering
from robbers. Bokuhweien now arrived on the north-
east with a host of 300,000 made up of Tu Fan, Wigurs,
Si Fans, Tanghiang, and mountain robbers. He first sent
an expeditionary force to Tung Chow. He himself followed,.
intending to find his way to the capital on the east side from
Hwa Yin, which is near Tung Kwan. The rest of his army
approached the capital on the north-west. The emperor
ordered his generals to post their troops all round the city
at suitable points. Kwo Tsï Yi was at King Yang on the
north. The names of the officers whom he placed on the
four sides of his encampments with his 10,000 men are
all given. He did not intend to fight. He meant by kind

KWO TSI YI.
13
words to draw over the troops of the enemy to the emperor's
side. He sent officers to talk with them. Bokuhweien
said, "The emperor is dead. Kwo Tsi Yi is no longer
living." The messengers did their work well. They said,
"Why should you fight for a traitor? You are our own men."
They saw Kwo Tsi Yi walking from one post to another of
his little army and asked "Who is that?" They were told "It
is Kwo Ling Kung." But they said, "Kwo Ling Kung is
dead. Bokuhweien told us so." They were then informed
that "It is certainly he." "Then," said they, "we have
been deceived." The messengers added, Do you not
"remember the time long ago when you marched with him
"from one battlefield to another?"
"we are.
"
Meantime Kwo Tsï Yi's officers said, "Do not trust these
"foreign people. If you go out to them they will kill you."
He replied, "If we fight they are ten times as numerous as
How could we conquer with such a disparity of
"force?" Kwo Tsi Yi went out on his charger with about
fifty mounted men. He rode slowly towards the enemy.
He removed his helmet that they might see his face, and
addressed them in a friendly way. "How are you," he said,
"An hu? Long ago you were faithful and loyal. What
"has brought you here as enemies?" On this the Wigurs
threw aside their spears, dismounted and bowed respectfully
to Kwo Tsi Yi. They said, "Truly you are our father." He
then called their officers to drink wine with him, gave them
presents of silks and embroidery, and they conversed in a
cheerful way. Our hero also said to the Wigurs, "The Tu
"Fan are the people to which my mother's brother and my
"nephew belonged. There has been no offence between us,
"and if you came here with hostile purpose you are fighting
against your own kindred. It will be an easy matter for
"you to change sides. It was heaven that gave you your
"countless flocks of sheep and innumerable horses. You

14
KWO TSI YI.
"might drive away the Tibetan men and be friends with us.
"Would not this be better?"
Just at this time Bokuhweien died of apoplexy at
Mingsha, and the great multitude he had brought together
were without a leader. They therefore consented to the
offer of Kwo Tsi Yi. The Wigurs' chiefs were conducted
to the court for an audience. The Tu Fan escaped as
quickly as possible. Kwo Tsï Yi sent one of his generals,
Pe Yuen Kwang, to join with the Wigurs in pursuing the
Tu Fan. The main body of imperial troops followed. They
inflicted a heavy defeat on the Tu Fans, who had a force
of 100,000. At Ling Tai they beheaded 500 and took
10,000 prisoners with the whole of their kidnapped men and
women, with oxen, sheep, horses and camels. Kwo Tsi Yi
returned from King Yang to Chang-an. He was rewarded
with 200 additional families. This gift would include their
lands and houses. He then returned to Ho Chung.
In the year A.D. 766, the governor of the province
of Hwa Chow rebelled. The emperor left his palace by a
private road and ordered Kwo Tsi Yi to attack him and
punish him with due severity. Officers of Hwa Chow
and Tung Chow succeeded in killing the rebel with his
son. They sent their heads to Chang-an.
In 767, a large army of Tu Fan tribesmen invaded King
Chow. The emperor ordered Kwo Tsi Yi to remove his
encampments to the south of King Chow and invite a battle.
The engagement took place at Ling Chow. Twenty thousand
of the enemy were killed. In 767, Kwo Tsi Yi returned
to Ho Chung.
The Tu Fan tribesmen came again to plunder the
country about Ling Wu. The emperor ordered Kwo Tsï Yi
to lead 50,000 men to Feng Tien and encamp there.
General Pê Yuen Kwang defeated the enemy at Ling Wu.
When this matter was under consideration the emperor was

KWO TSI YI.
15
advised not to leave Malin unsupported. The Tu Fans were
very destructive robbers and Ma's army was not strong
enough to resist them. Kwo Tsi Yi was ordered to encamp
his troops at Pin Chow
In 767, in March, when Kwo Tsi Yi arrived in the
capital he was entertained at a banquet by the chief ministers,
who spent 300,000 cash on the occasion. The eunuch
Yu Chau En made use of 2,000 pieces of silk embroidered
with figures to wrap round the hero's head, as it was said.
It was a time of great enjoyment to all the assembled party.
In January 768, robbers plundered the family tomb of
Kwo Tsi Yi. His father was buried there. The robbers
were sought for but were not captured. Many persons.
said that the eunuch Yu Chau was the cause of this. He
had been an enemy of Kwo Tsi Yi for a long time past..
Kwo Tsi Yi knew all this. But when he was present at
an audience and the emperor asked about this matter, he said,
weeping, "I have long been in charge of soldiers. It is
"difficult to repress their appetite for plunder. They not
"seldom rob private tombs. As to me, I am punished by
"heaven for my want of loyalty and filial piety. It is not
"a calamity inflicted on me by men." The emperor was
satisfied with this answer.
By us it may be compared with the Christian duty
of the forgiveness of injuries. It is a very fine element
in the moral character of a brave and skilful general. We
cannot but admire such a man.
Malin was made governor of King Chow and Yuen Chow,
both of them on the north-west of the capital and about 140
miles distant from it. Kwo Tsi Yi, to guard the capital, was
stationed 35 miles to the west. He was at the same time
made governor of the north part of Shensi including the
two prefectures Ming Hia and King Yang. His place was

16
KWO TSI YI.
to be near the emperor, he being the safest general at a time
when foreign enemies were very powerful.
The Wigurs wanted money and asked China to buy ten
thousand of their horses. The officers to whom they spoke
replied that China's finances were low, a thousand horses
would be enough. Tsi Yi said, "The service rendered us by
"the Wigurs has been very valuable. We ought to do what
"
they ask. China must have horses. If money is required
"I willingly offer my salary for a year to help in buying the
"horses." The emperor said, "This shall not be." Men praised
Kwo Tsï Yi for his loyalty. In the year 794 he went to court
and presented a memorial. While conversing with the emperor
on this occasion he wept as he mentioned the great strength of
the Tu Fan army.
In his memorial he said "it had always
been necessary during fifteen hundred years to guard the
northern frontier. Five fortresses had to be kept up along
the Great Wall for 1,000 miles to oppose enemies and receive
them when they came to announce their submission to Chinese
rule. On the north were the Hien Yün (Kam on),
the Turks in the Chow dynasty. On the west were the
Tibetan tribes, the Kuen-jung (Kon-nung).
"In the period A.D. 713 to 756, the army of China
contained 100,000 fighting men with 30,000 horses. They
could only guard a part of the frontier. Since that time there
has been no peaceful interval. War has been incessant during
twenty years. The army has been reduced to one-third of what
it was through the destructive raids of the a army of Bokuhweien.
If the army as it now is be compared with what it was 60 years
ago it has not more than a tenth of the soldiers it then had.
"The Tu Fan tribes have now come with an immense
force and have seized a large part of our territory. Each year
they invade the land near the metropolis, and as to number they
have ten times as many men as we can muster. How can we
resist them? My forces are not what they once were, nor are

KWO TSI YI.
17
they powerful enough for it to be prudent in me to risk a battle
with a foe so strong in numbers. The troops under my
command are not equal in number to the fourth of the enemy's
forces. I have but two horses to a hundred possessed by the
enemy. The foe is so powerful that our people are afraid.
How can peace be secured? My thought is in the present
distress that it is not beyond your majesty's power to conquer.
The troops need discipline. They must learn to obey the word
of command and keep step in marching. Each province in the
empire should furnish a fair number of men well drilled. I
would like to have 50,000 or even 60,000 trained men selected
for their military qualities in the various provinces. They
should form the army of the frontier in the north of Shensi and
Shansi. I feel sure they would be able to keep the
enemy
out. This programme for the defence of China would secure
a lasting peace. He was thinking of the great extent of the
country. At present the monthly pay of the troops, he said, is
wasted. They have been drilled and are not suited to win a
Let me instruct them. If your majesty will send the
men to me for instruction, their reputation will be widespread.
They may be depended on to make a good appearance in the
face of the foe or in defending a fortress. For twenty years
I have served the state. I am unworthy of the high
employments with which I have been entrusted. My hair is
now white and my teeth are gone. The spirits of the universe
are my witnesses that I am content.
place to able men who will follow me."
"
battle.
I need to retire and give
The emperor replied, "Your grief is profound and your
plans are far reaching. From my heart I admire you, on
"you I have always depended, and you must give up the idea
"of resigning."
It was in the year 780 that the emperor Tê Tsung
mounted the throne. He wrote an edict calling on Kwo Tsï
Yi to return to court and accept the rank of prime minister.
2

18
KWO TSI YI.
He was in addition made commissioner in charge of the
imperial tombs. He also received the titles of Shang Fu
(eminent father) and Tai Yu Chung Shu Ling. He received
the proceeds of the sale of 2,000 houses with the property
annexed, the grain of fifteen hundred persons, and 200 horses.
He
gave up his old offices on promotion to these higher posts.
His sons, nephews and sons-in-law received posts to the
number of twelve or fifteen. In 781 he became dangerously
ill. The emperor Tê Tsung deputed Prince Shu to inquire for
his health and convey to him the words of a special edict.
When the prince arrived at the gate the sons of Kwo Tsï Yi
received him on their knees. Kwo Tsï Yi was himself a prince
and did not need to bow to a prince, still less to kowtow. The
hero was ill on his bed. He made signs with his hands to
represent prostration and his thanks for the imperial favor.
He died on the 14th day of the 6th month, in the 85th year of
his
age. The emperor was much grieved and directed that
there should be no audience for five days.
Encomium on Kwo Tsi Yi by the historian Fei Tsi.
In the reign of Huien Tsung rebel bands began to collect
in Chili. The Emperor retired to Cheng-tu. Both the capitals
were lost to insurrectionary armies. The Fen Yang Prince
(Kwo Tsï Yi) led an army from the north of Shansi, destroyed
rebel forces in Shensi, faced the tiger and the wolf, and with
one wave of his hand brushed away the briars and thorns.
During seven or eight years he was most diligent in re-
establishing the imperial authority. The dynasty was restored,
which but for him would have disappeared in darkness.
merit transcended that of any other statesman. The state
recovered its authority. When backbiting and calumny
from men high in authority, but worthless in principle,
deprived him of imperial favour, he felt no resentment. He
did not in the day of calamity which followed his loss of office
His

KWO TSÏ YI.
19
rejoice in it as some men would, nor did he on this ground
press the emperor to restore to him his military command.
He did not feel hatred against his enemies nor did he aim to
punish them for their actions. He was calm in his loyalty
and till death retained his one feeling of faithful adherence
to his imperial master. He was noble in character, such
as the Ta Ya of the Book of Odes would admire. He was a
genuine patriot who would live and die for the honour of the
imperial house. During a thousand years from the days of
the Tsin and Han emperors there has been no one to equal
him in meritorious service and vigour of character. He
liked plain living. He cared not at all for luxury. He
could go to seek the tiger in his den. Where there was
suffering he went to deliver from it. Truly may it be said
that he inherited the loyalty and filial piety of all loyal
subjects and filial sons of whom history speaks.
[The last words of admiration mention the hero's heart
of iron and stone. His path was that of benevolence and
uprightness. During four reigns he subdued rebellions. In
this passage we hear of stone as a quality to be praised. In
the 12th chapter of the Prophet Ezekiel we read, "I will
take the stony heart out of their flesh." The Chinese writer
looks on the heart of iron as a quality to be thought highly
of. The Hebrew writer looks on it as unimpressible,
ungrateful and stubborn. In both senses the figurative
language is strikingly appropriate.]

20
KWO TSI YI.
APPENDIX.
The Tu Fan who came in large force to ravage north-western China
in the eighth century were of the Tibetan race. Their capital was Lassa.
In the seventh century they offered aid to Kau Tsung in A.D. 650, in case
any of his subjects were disloyal. The Tibetan race is now in a state of
decay. Twelve hundred years ago they were a warlike people. The climate
was warmer then than it is now. They were not then so frozen up by ice
and snows as at present. They poured into China, army after army, attracted
by the wealth of the country and moved by the love of plunder.
The Wigurs were then the western section of the Turks and the
ancestors of the present inhabitants of Chinese Turkestan, but far more
numerous and powerful.
The eastern Turks inhabited the region north of the Great Wall now
occupied by the Mongols.
An Lu Shan.
The rebel chief An Lu Shan belonged to a Turkish family in
Yung Ping Fu, to the east of Peking. He was very stout and weighed 300
catties. He was for several years a favorite of the emperor Hiuen Tsung.
The father of the emperor's favorite wife, Yang Kwei fei, became his enemy
and this led to his resolving to rebel.