65
99
WANG AN-SHIH (E).
By JOHN C. FERGUSON, PH.D.
Wang An-shih was a product of the age in which he
lived. It was the flourishing period of the Sung (Northern
Sung) dynasty, during which military glory was added to
the more permanent blessings of peaceful progress. The
dynasty was founded by the warrior Chau, who had led his
troops successfully against various rivals and Tartar enemies.
Though he was not above the vices of camp-life, yet after his
proclamation as Emperor by his military commanders, he
gave himself to the establishment of peace and to the restora-
tion of prosperity to the people. During the reigns of his
two successors, the power of the dynasty was extended over
several feudal kings to the west and south, and the Empire
was divided into fifteen provinces. Among these were names
which have been preserved down to our present time-Hunan,
Hupel, Fuhkien, Szchuan, Kwangtung, Kwangsi, Chehkiang
and Shensi. Around the capital city of Kaifengfu were
other provinces which have not preserved their names. The
capital was well separated from the Khitans and other
Tartar tribes, but war was carried against them into their own
borders, and under the Emperor Chen-Tsung the Khitans
suffered a severe defeat, the good effects of which, however,
were weakened by the subsequent treaty in which the
Emperor promised to make yearly payments of silver and

66
WANG AN-SHIH.
silk. A regency of ten years under the Empress Dowager
Liu greatly disturbed the general prosperity and incited the
Khitans to send an ambassador to Ren Tsung demanding the
cession of territory, but by the skilful diplomacy of the
Minister Fu-pi, these demands were changed into an increase
of yearly gifts. However, the humiliating addition was made
in the new treaty that these yearly gifts were to be considered
as tribute. Fan Chung-ren also secured a victory over
Yuan, the ruler of Hsia, who promised to acknowledge the
Emperor as his Lord. The result of these two treaties of
peace was to give the Emperor Ren-tsung a feeling of security
and to enable him to solidify the government of his country.
He surrounded himself with men of great ability-scholars,
statesmen and patriots-and these men continued their
influence through the reign of his successor Ying-tsung and
into the reign of Shen-tsung. In addition to Fu-pi and Fan
Chung-ren, already mentioned, there were Sz-ma Kwan,
Eo-yang Hsiu, Han Ki, Lü Hwei-king and Wang An-shih.
The period of time in which Wang An-shih came into
prominence is, roughly speaking, A.D. 1055 to 1085. It was
the time in Europe when the struggle between the Empire and
the Papacy was approaching a climax, during which the great
Hildebrand came into power and did so much to shape the
future policy of the Papacy. Both East and West were in a
turmoil in which great minds could assert themselves. A
contrast between Europe and China at this period would
show that China was in a more peaceful and more prosperous
condition than Europe. For this reason it was possible that
the socialistic and reformatory schemes of Wang An-shih
could be attempted.
One leading characteristic of the Emperors of the Sung
dynasty must be noted. They were ever ready to listen to
the advice of their ministers and encouraged them to speak
frankly. On one occasion Sz-ma Kwan pointed out to the

WANG AN-SHIH.
67
Emperor Ren-tsung that the benevolent duty of a sovereign
to his people was to provide for their education, their main-
tenance and their prosperity, and that an intelligent sovereign
would make it his constant duty to distinguish between good
and bad advisers. His advice is known as "The Three
Instructions.". On another occasion, the Emperor Ren-tsung
was complaining to his minister, Han Ki, of the scant courtesy
shown him by the Empress Dowager. Han Ki replied to the
Emperor that if he only showed filial respect to the Dowager
because she was kind to him, it would be nothing to his
credit; but that, if in spite of her ill-treatment, he was filial,
it would be a true mark of the sincerity of his heart. This
willingness of the Sung Emperors to receive advice even
when it was distastefnl was another favoring condition for the
governmental experiments of Wang An-shih. The open-
mindedness of the sovereigns gave a great stimulus to the
healthy development of the powerful minds among the
ministers of state, and was one of the chief causes which
enabled the Sung to add more names to the roll of China's
illustrious statesmen and scholars than any other dynasty.
Wang An-shih was a native of Ling-chwan city in the
prefecture of Fu-chow in the southern part of Kiangsi
province. He is said to have been fond of study in his
youth and to have been brought to the attention of Eo-yang
Hsiu while still quite young. After attaining his degree of
Tsing-sz he was made Prefect of Yang-chow, from which he
was afterwards transferred to Ningpo and Nganking. On
account of his aged mother, he at first declined recommenda-
tions from Eo-yang Hsiu and Wen Yen-poh to positions in the
capital, but finally accepted and was appointed as an assistant
in the Revenue Office. He showed himself at once to be a
man of extraordinary ability and acquired a great reputation
for his scholarly discussion of governmental affairs. At an
Audience with the Emperor Shen-tsung, he was asked what

68
WANG AN-SHIH.
he considered to be the most important thing in the govern-
ment, and he replied that it was the choice of method. He
then referred to the example of Yao and Shun, adding that
the men of his generation thought the principles of Yao and
Shun too exalted to be practicable, but that the reason of this
thought was their failure to comprehend what these principles
really were. At another time, when the government finances
were low on account of a famine, Wang An-shih contended
with Sz-ma Kwan that it was not necessary to increase
taxation in order to bring sufficient revenue to the Government,
but that this could be accomplished by plans to increase the
wealth of the people. This object he considered to be one of
the chief aims of government.
At first Wang An-shih made much of the example of the
sages Yao and Shun and of Chow Kung; but later, when
he passed from the academic discussion of governmental
problems with learned friends to the more difficult task of
government administration as Prime Minister, he rather
emphasized the present needs of his country, and tried to
show that the principles which underlay these needs were
the same as those which had helped the early sages to
settle the questions of their generation. In following the
principles of righteous government there should be unison
with the highest ideals of the past; but in method there
should be freedom to follow such as were adapted to present
needs. This seems to have been the position assumed by
Wang An-shih as the basis for his reformatory proposals.
In carrying out this principle he laid emphasis upon
improving the condition of the people, so that their wealth
might increase and their lives become less irksome. In
other words, he brought into prominence the material and
practical elements of social life rather than the intellectual
and moral. One is reminded of the general position taken
by Professor Huxley in his "Social Diseases and Worse

WANG AN-SHIH.
69
Remedies" when he
says: "What profits it to the human
Prometheus that he has stolen the fire of heaven to be
his servant and that the spirits of the earth and the air
obey him, if the vulture of pauperism is eternally to tear
his very vitals and keep him on the brink of destruction?"
Professor Huxley maintains the same general position as
Wang An-shih in making the material prosperity of the
people a question of primary importance. The reforms
introduced by Wang, which are now to be treated in detail,
rest upon this general principle as their basis.
These reform schemes embraced the (1) State Monopoly
of Commerce, (2) Equality of Taxation, (3) Militia Organiza-
tion and (4) Impressed or Conscripted Labor for the State.
In order to carry out his various plans, Wang asked the
Emperor Shen-tsung to appoint a Special Council of Three,
whose duty would be to inaugurate, develope and administer
them. This Council was independent of the ordinary admin-
istration of the Boards and was similar in organization to the
present Board of State Affairs, Chen-Wu-Chu, which deals
with all memorials recommending changes. The Emperor
trusted Wang and this Council very fully and gave them a
free hand to carry out their ideas.
1.-The State Monopoly of Commerce-Kuing-shu
-was the most far-reaching in its purpose and the one most
bitterly opposed of all the reforms. Wang considered it to be
modelled after a plan of the Han dynasty called Ping Chun
or Equalization of Prices. The records of the scheme
leave many minor points obscure on which more light is
greatly to be desired, but enough is given to show us the
general outline. The method was called Kuing-Shu or
Equality of Payment. The produce of a district was to be
used first for the payment of taxes, then for the direct use
of the district, and the residue was to be purchased by the
Government at a cheap price. The Government should

70
WANG AN-SHIH.
then either hold this produce in possession till there was a
demand for it in the district at an increased price or should
transport it to some other district in need of it. The
Government was to undertake, in short, the purchase,
transport and sale of all products which were in excess
of the local needs of any district. Special officers were
appointed to act with the local magistrates in the admin-
istration of this huge scheme. It was intended by Wang
to provide a fixed market for all products, thus increasing
the wealth of the people, and at the same time to give the
Government a large revenue from the profits of handling,
thus avoiding the necessity of increased taxation. Another
feature of the plan was called Tsing-miao Verdant
Sprouts, or what McGowan calls "State Advances to the
Cultivators of the Soil," by which the Government was
to lend to all farmers, at the commencement of sowing time
in spring, a fixed sum of money which was to be repaid
in the autumn when the crops were gathered. It was
probably meant at first to make loans to the needy, but
it was finally decided to make loans compulsory, making
no distinction between those who needed the money in order
to plant their crops and those who did not. All must alike
take the Government's loan and pay interest at the rate of
two per
cent
per mensem. Orders were issued that the plan
was to be inaugurated in the district adjoining the Capital,
Kai-feng-fu, and if successful that it was to be introduced
throughout the whole country. In later developments the
plan was known under the names of Shih-yi ifi
Ho-mai, the general idea of which two names was also
Equalization of Prices.
and
That such a far-reaching scheme, which penetrated into
every enterprise of the people, should be met with intense
opposition was only to be expected. Han Ki objected that the
better class of people would not want to be pauperized by

WANG AN-SHIH.
71
poorer
accepting loans from the Government, and that while the
class would be ready to take the money in the spring they
would be very slow to pay anything back in the autumn.
The only method of collection would be to make an assessment
upon the district. He called Wang the "Money-making
Statesman." Sz-ma Kwan objected that the scheme would
make the rich poor and the poor poorer. Su Chih said that
even well-intentioned people who drew money in such an
easy way in the spring would probably squander it in useless
expenditures and would have nothing to repay in the autumn.
Fu-pi said that the plan contemplated the collection of wealth
by the Government, whereas the proper function was to assist
in the diffusion of wealth among the people. The opinion
of this scheme of Wang's now held by the literary class is
that of Chu Hsi, who said that Wang had only the one idea
of making profits for the Government, and that his plan
made people weary of their lives while it afforded rascals
coveted opportunities for robbing industrious, well-labored
citizens. A time of great drought came on and there were
many complaints from the people and from officials that
the drought showed Heaven's displeasure of the scheme, but
Wang stoutly maintained that times of drought and rain
were beyond the reach of human power and that they were
not affected by his methods of administration. This was indeed
a bold stand for even such a strong man as Wang to take.
The plan did not long survive the Emperor Shen-tsung.
The Dowager Regent, who followed him, suspended the
Kuing-shu method, and his successor Cheh-tsung suspended
the Tsing-miao. The founder of the Ming dynasty, Hung-wu,
made an attempt to revive some features of the scheme
by establishing huge Provisionary Granaries. The Emperors
Kien-lung and Kang-hsi made also some attempts to regulate
the price of products, but the limits of the present paper
do not allow of their discussion.

72
WANG AN-SHIH.
2.-Equality of Taxation-Kuing-shui -by means
of an arbitrary division of the country into squares-Fang-
tien was another part of Wang's reform movement.
It was found that there had been great inequality in the
collection of taxes because of the difficulty of fixing proper
boundaries. Taxes were being paid on much less ground
than was being actually cultivated. To obviate this abuse,
Wang proposed to divide the countries into squares of
1,000 pu (say 5,000 ft.) on each side. Every year in the
ninth moon taxes were to be appraised on each square
according to the general average of the producing power
of the soil, which was divided into five classes, according to
its fertility. The amount of the taxes was to be announced
to the people in the following third moon. Taxes must be
collected in full and no discounts allowed. The principle
of payment according to the fertility of the soil seems quite
in harmony with Adam Smith's language in describing what
he considered to be equality of taxation. He says: "The
subjects of every State ought to contribute to the support of
the Government as nearly as possible in proportion to their
respective abilities; that is, in proportion to the revenue
which they respectively enjoy under the protection of the
State." The great difference in Wang's scheme was that it
was an amount fixed upon the fertility of a district inde-
pendent of the number of inhabitants. The scheme seems to
have been complicated and to have covered more than
was necessary to secure the purposes for which it was
inaugurated. It would seem that a simple re-survey of the
land of each owner would have been sufficient and would
not have involved any controversy with individual owners.
As it was, Wang's division into squares broke down from
the difficulty of excluding from a given square any parts of
it such as hills or sand-banks which were not arable. The
whole plan was abandoned soon after the death of Shen-tsung,

WANG AN-SHIH.
73
and it cannot be said ever to have come into effective
operation.
-is a name with
3. Militia Organization-Pao-kia
which we are still familiar in Chinese local administration.
Wang's plan was to organise every ten families into one
section-Pao-over which a headman-Paochang-should be
placed; fifty families were to be a large section over which
a higher headman should have the jurisdiction, and ten of
these large sections should form a district. In every home
which had more than one son, one must serve as a militiaman.
These men were to be provided with bows and were to be
regularly drilled. Each large section was to provide for five
men to act as night patrol. Apprehenders of criminals
were to be rewarded and any district which concealed
criminals was to be fined. The whole of the police and
defence of the country was to be in charge of the militia, and
each section was to be held responsible for the discipline of
its men and for its good order. This plan could claim many
ancient precedents, and the most that even an opponent like
Sz-ma Kwan could say against it was that the number of
militiamen was excessive. When Han Ki told the Emperor
in the presence of Wang that there were many complaints
against the scheme, Wang reminded the Emperor that, if
he weakly listened to foolish objection, it would never be
possible to accomplish anything.
In various forms the system has been revived by the
Emperors of the Ming and Tsing dynasties. Cheng-hwa and
Hung-chi, at the latter part of the fifteenth century,
introduced the military side, and Kien-lung, in the middle
of the eighteenth century, introduced the police side under
an elaborate system which has remained to the present time.
The Boxer movement three years ago was founded upon
the idea of a defensive militia, and in its organization used
many of the terms which have been handed down from the
6

74
WANG AN-SHIH.
the time of Wang An-shih. This feature of his reform
schemes has had more permanency than any other, and is
to be praised for its low estimate of militarism.
grown
4. The last of the great schemes to be noted is that of
Impressed or Conscripted Labor for the State
Wang's plan was to do away with the abuses which had
up around the system of the State's requiring service from its
subjects. He proposed to divide the people, including women
and the unmarried, into five classes, according to their wealth,
and then to issue money to them called "Tsu-yu", or
help for service, on which interest must be paid at the rate
of two per cent per mensem. This interest was to be taken
by the State in lieu of labour, which had been formerly
required. The plan was to commence in Kai-feng-fu as
an experiment and then extend to all parts of the Empire.
Sz-ma Kwan objected to the feature of causing women and
the unmarried to take money, as they had never formerly
been liable for work. He also pointed out that work had
not been required of the people all the time but only when
necessary, and that under the new money-plan the people
would be under an incessant burden. The scheme never
came into full operation and was finally abandoned in the
first year of Cheh-tsung.
These were great schemes for social and political reform.
introduced by Wang An-shih. There are many features
of his life which I have been obliged to pass over, such as
his intimate relations with Lu Hwei-ching, his degradation
to the Prefecture of Nanking and his death in that
city. Neither has it been possible to elaborate upon his
relation to the development of the Sung philosophical
system. I have endeavoured to confine myself to his reform
schemes. The conception of such schemes shows that Wang
An-shih was a man of deep thought and broad sympathies..
He was of the utilitarian school but his heart was with the

WANG AN-SHIH.
75
suffering populace. His moral enthusiasm never failed him
in the face of hostile criticism, and he labored steadily for
the good of the people. No suspicion of sordid means or
covetous purposes was ever hinted of him. His failing was
in being too sanguine of the readiness of the people to fall in
with what he considered to be for their good. Though he
was practical, he still sought to conserve the good of the
past which had been handed down but was anxious to
develop and to improve upon it. The terminology which
he invented for reform and reform schemes has been used
by all subsequent reformers even down to the Reform Party
of our own day. Mr. Lecky, in his "Political Value of
History," has observed that "the foundation of the prosperity
of nations is laid in pure domestic life, in commercial
integrity, in a high standard of moral worth and of public
spirit, in simple habits, in courage, uprightness and a
certain soundness and moderation of judgment which springs
quite as much from character as from intellect."
While Wang
Au-shih laid great stress upon the foundations of prosperity
being in the increased wealth of the nation, yet his intense
sympathy with the people and his anxiety for their welfare
ennobled all his plans with a high standard of moral worth.