Journey to Sungp'an.
By W. C. Haines Watson.
PART I.
The first part of my journey, from Chungking to
Chengtu, is so well known that, beyond making a few
preliminary remarks, I will confine this paper more especially
to the road between the provincial capital and Sungp'an.
The distance to Chengtu from Chungking by road is,
according to Chinese measurement, 1,030 li, divided ordinarily
into ten to twelve stages. As, however, it is possible every-
where along the road for chair-bearers and coolies to transfer
their burdens, for long or short distances, to be carried by
men who are stationed at every village waiting to be thus
engaged, the journey can be accomplished in seven days or
even less. Should it be decided to proceed by the ordinary
stages, the cost per man a day will be between 320 to 350
cash, each coolie to carry 80 catties weight, but the shorter
the time contracted for, the higher the rate will run. I
arranged for the whole distance to be traversed in eight or
nine days at most, at a cost of 520 cash a man per day; in
the winter, or cooler seasons of the year, the journey can be
easily done in this time, but I started on the 1st of August,
and the heat prevailing made it a very arduous undertaking.
Without pressing need, therefore, it is advisable in summer

52
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
average daily
to take the ordinary stages, which entail an
march of 90 li, and this will be more readily understood
when I state that the lowest thermometer reading taken at
night during my journey was 89 degrees Fahrenheit. The
inns along the road are, as Chinese inns go, fairly clean
and comfortable, while such food as chickens, eggs, vege-
tables, etc. was always procurable.
As for the road,
although good in many places it is exceedingly bad in
others, hilly parts being conspicuous most of the way.
After a fairly steep descent from the village of Tsa Tien-
chuang you reach the Chengtu plain at Lung Ch'uan-yi,
a market town 50 li from the capital. From this point
the road is paved with two parallel rows of stone, and
the wheelbarrows, so much in demand as means of con-
veyance for passengers and goods on the plain, are first
met with. The plain is so thickly populated-farmhouses
with their plantations of trees occurring every 100 yards
or so apart-that you see no sign of the capital until you
are just upon the East Gate of the city itself.
The praises of Chengtu have been so often sung that
it is only necessary for me to endorse the opinion of others
as to its being one of the finest, if not the finest, city, from
a European point of view, in the Empire. It was quite
refreshing to see policemen, a force organized by the
Viceroy Tsen, stationed at the corners of each street,
dressed in blue with numbers plainly embroidered on their
coats in red; on their heads they wear straw hats, the ribbons
of which bear the equivalent characters for
Chengtu
Gendarmerie." Each man was armed with a
long wooden
staff, which he brought up to "attention" when an official
passed. It was the idea of Viceroy Tsen to drill men at
Chengtu, and, when they had thoroughly mastered their
recruit exercises, to draft them off to the different cities of
"

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
53
the Province, under an especially taught Chinese to act as
Chief Inspector. In the carrying out of this scheme the
parade grounds of the capital were fully occupied by bodies
of men marching and counter-marching, while other parties
were busy at the different rifle ranges. The principal streets
of the city are well paved, broad thoroughfares, and it is
the custom of many of the European inhabitants to ride
bicycles all over the town. Inside the West Gate is situated
the Tartar City, a most charming park-like estate but badly
looked after; it separated from the Chinese portion of the
town by an inner wall.
On the 15th of August, all our preparations for the
journey to Sungp'an being completed, the porters and chair-
coolies were sent on to Pi-hsien, where they were to await our
arrival the next morning. We had decided to do the 120 li
to K'uan-hsien in one day, and, as this was rather more than
the coolies could be expected to do, we arranged to ride
on horseback the 45 li to Pi-hsien, and there take our
chairs to complete the remainder of the day's journey. On
the morning of the 16th we left the capital by the West
Gate, and, meeting our chairs at Pi-hsien, got into K'uan-
hsien the same evening at 7.30. It was a hard day's
journey, the li were long li, and, had we not ridden the first
portion of the way, and so picked up fresh men to carry us
on, could not have done the distance in the day. We had
settled to take small chairs, with three bearers, for the journey
to Sungp'an, in preference to riding on horseback, a decision
which turned out to be the right one; for, although it is
possible to ride the distance on ponies, it is certainly un-
advisable on account of the terrible stretches of bad and
dangerous road to be negotiated en route. The road
from Chengtu to K'uan-hsien is across the plain, and the
unpaved highway is fairly good though very dusty in dry

54
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
weather; after heavy rain, however, it becomes almost im-
passable. There is a rise of about 600 feet, but this is so
gradual as only to be noticed by observing the flow of water
in the streams. It is at K'uan-hsien where the hills close
in and the mountainous country in the west of Szechuan
begins in earnest. The town of K'uan-hsien is an important
place, containing some 40,000 inhabitants, and the streets
have a busy appearance though they are narrow and dirty.
It is here, also, where the great and deservedly celebrated
work of the irrigation of the Chengtu Plain was commenced
by Li-ping, of glorious memory, and completed by his son.
The task which Li-ping set himself to perform was the
division of the waters of the turbulent Min River by dams,
to divert the stream into artificially constructed channels
from which the plain receives an annual supply of water
during the rice-growing season. These channels are drained
each year, after the crops have been harvested, by damming
up the entrances and thus re-directing the flow of water to
the main stream. The dams and embankments, artificially
made of parcels of stones kept together in bamboo baskets,
are then renovated. So complete is the mastery main-
tained over a rushing river-which just above where the
irrigation works commence was at least 300 yards wide at
the time of our visit--that its waters may be diverted at will
in all directions in the plain (the area of which is estimated
at 25,000 square miles) or confined to one. In the early
spring of each year there is the great festival day, when
the Taotai of Chengtu comes in person to K'uan-hsien to
open the irrigation flow and to worship at the palatial Taoist
temple which an ever grateful Province has erected to the
memory of the authors of this great work-a work of which
only an engineer can appreciate the difficulties. The temple
referred to is situated outside the West Gate of K'uan-hsien,

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
55
and for beauty, good repair and cleanliness it will hold
its own with any in China. From the street the visitor
ascends a wide and well-kept flight of stone steps, and,
passing through a sort of outer court, is confronted by the
arch and doorway of the temple confine. This doorway and
arch are resplendent in gold and magnificent colouring,
while the carving and sculpture are works of the best Chinese
order. Up another flight of steps and you are in the
courtyard of the building containing the gorgeous figure
of Li-ping's son, called by the Chinese Wang Erh. Facing
one another on either side of this courtyard are two
extraordinary Crape-Myrtle trees--which the head priest told
me were over two hundred years old-trained and trimmed
in exact imitation of the shape of two enormous palm-leaf
fans. The leaves had just fallen when I visited the temple,
so the wonderful interlacing of the branches could be clearly
seen. As far as my recollection serves, these two trees, the
counterpart of each other, stood 25 feet high with a breadth
of 10 feet, and they were kept symmetrical by having the
ends of the branches bound round each other in such a way
as to at first sight look as if bamboo had been used for the
purpose.
At the back of the first hall is another courtyard, this
time forming the approach to the building wherein sit the
images of Li-ping himself and of his wife, the mother of
Li the younger. They are seated in the usual stiff manner
that Chinese deities are wont to affect-Li-ping on his
wife's left and the artist has made the lady look well on
the shady side of forty. Just outside this hall I noticed
two magnificent large bronze perforated urns of the early
Ming dynasty, perfect in workmanship and condition. These
priceless specimens of a lost art are well worth the study
of a competent antiquarian. From Li-ping's hall through

56
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
It is a
some side courts to the left, full of beautiful and well-
cared-for flowers artistically arranged, is situated the
celebrated temple for childless and barren women.
large hall wherein are enshrined all the goddesses supposed
to be the guardians of women, and the many little babies'
shoes that lie at the feet of the images-the votive offerings
of those whose prayers have been granted-show the
pathetic side of pagan worship. In fact, the accusation of
callous ingratitude so frequently made by foreigners against
the Chinese is discounted at K'uan-hsien when one sees.
the numbers of poor people who come from miles around
to burn their little sticks of incense at the shrine of Li-ping
and his son, out of gratitude for the benefits which their
irrigation works have conferred, while their memory has
been revered and honoured throughout Szechuan for over
2,000 years.
Outside the South Gate of K'uan-hsien, on a rocky
promontory-formed by the cutting through of the solid rock
cliffs to allow of the passage of water of one of the irrigation
channels-is another, though smaller, temple, dedicated to
Li-ping's son. From a balcony the tremendous rush of
water through this rock channel can be well observed, and
it is wonderful to see how timber rafts are navigated through
the narrow cutting. For anything but rafts the passage is
quite impossible, and the head Taoist priest of the temple
told me that fatal accidents to those in charge of these were
It was really exciting to see the rafts come
very common.
rushing past at a speed of quite 15 knots an hour, creaking
and straining amidst a foaming torrent, where the slightest
miscalculation on the part of the steerer meant being dashed
to pieces against the perpendicular sides of the cliff, those
on board who were not engaged in keeping the raft clear
crouching down in pardonable fear and trembling.

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
57
The West Gate of K'uan-hsien is situated some 200 feet
higher than the busy portion of the town, and one of the
grandest coups d'oeil I have seen in China can be obtained
from its portals; to the right, mountains rising successively
one above the other until lost in the clouds; to the left, and
stretching as far as the eye can reach, one of the most
fertile and perhaps the most populated place of its kind on
earth, the wonderful Chengtu Plain. In front you have
the river, whose clear blue waters are divided by the white
stone embankments of the irrigation system and islands
covered with waving tufts of grass; beyond which, amidst
well wooded and undulating hills, nestle clean white farm-
houses with open patches of grass land, the grazing ground
of numerous herds of cattle. The whole makes a picture-
of which the beauty is not likely to be forgotten.
Leaving the city of K'uan-hsien the Sungp'an road
passes Li-ping's Temple and the fine rope bridge, the An
Lan ch'iao. The bamboo ropes of which this bridge is made
are suspended across the river: it has a length of 322 paces,
a width of 8 feet, and is supported in the middle by one
stone and three wooden buttresses. At both ends are built
strong stone approaches, on each side of which stand five
perpendicular beams or windlasses, and around these the ten
bamboo ropes forming the railings of the bridge are wound
and can be tightened or loosened as desired. Horizontally,
on the ground, are also laid beams to which are fixed, on
the same principle, the ten bamboo strands on which are
laid the planks for flooring. These planks are kept in
position by two other bamboo ropes running the whole length
of the bridge above the flooring, which they secure by being
fastened to the strands below. The bamboo ropes used for
the bottom and sides of the bridge are 6 inches in diameter;
and when people walk over it, or during high wind, the

58
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
whole structure sways in a most disagreeable manner.
Constant supervision is necessary to keep the bridge in repair,
and there is not a nail or a piece of iron employed in its
construction. The road across the An Lan ch'iao leads to
Mou-tung Ting and Tibet.
A few li further on the road you cross a similarly made,
though smaller, bridge, the Li-sha ch'iao, which I measured
to be 240 paces long from end to end. Proceeding thence
along the side of the hills forming the left bank of the
Min, you suddenly leave the main river and ascend a small
path bordering a tributary which runs through a beautiful
narrow gorge to Yuchi. The hills along the roadside
showed signs of coal, and there must be quite a large
output from the mines already opened in the vicinity.
A curious and happy method, which was new to me,
of dealing with coal "slack" is here practised: a large
pit is dug, and the slack, after being thoroughly soaked
in water, is poured in and a cover put over it. A
sort of kiln is thus formed, fire is introduced, and the
slack allowed to smoulder until it is converted into a
solid mass of coke, which is then broken up and sold for
fuel. Below us, on the water's edge, I observed some
lime-kilns, which, however, turned out but inferior stuff,
made from the limestone boulders taken from the river-bed.
Along this stretch of road, or rather path, are established
depôts for timber which is here bound up into rafts for
transport to Chengtu, etc. It had been raining heavily
during the previous night, and, as it continued wet on the
morning we left K'uan-hsien, we started late, arranging to
go that day no further than Yuchi. The latter place, though
large, is not a very prosperous looking village, built in a
hollow and surrounded by hills of about 1,200 to 1,500
feet high.

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
59
18th August. After leaving Yuchi we proceeded up
a ravine for a short distance and then commenced the
ascent of the Yang-tzu ling, a pass which the boiling-point
thermometer showed to be 2,100 feet above Yuchi. The
ascent was a fairly steep one and took about two hours
to climb. At the gap we found a temple and rest-house
in one, and the road straightway descends the other side
of the range.
As we went down a fine view of the valley
below was obtained: the surrounding slopes were planted
with Indian corn, and beautiful wild flowers, growing
in profusion, scented the air. The Min River again comes
into sight and the road leads down to its banks at the
village of Yin-ching-wan. This place has quite a big
timber market, the whole foreshore being littered with
cypress logs, which have been brought in from the interior,
and they are floated down the river from Yin-ching-wan
to K'uan-hsien. We are now fairly in the Min Gorge,
while the river itself has become a mountain torrent, rushing
and foaming over large rocks and boulders. How sick and
tired of this same rushing stream does one become, seldom
losing sight of it and never leaving its gorge the whole way
to Sungp'an! A few miles on from Ying-ching-wan you
come upon the first bamboo rope system of crossing the river,
though it afterwards became a common sight. Two ropes are
here suspended across the stream from two wooden platforms
15 feet high, one on each bank of the river. The distance
over at this point is about 300 feet, and the bamboo ropes
measured 10 inches in circumference. The person wishing
to cross is supplied with a length of hemp rope, to
which is attached a runner of about a foot long, made
of thick split bamboo. He mounts the platform, and,
after securing the runner round the suspending bamboo
hawser with his length of hemp rope, lashes himself firm y

60
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
to it by passing the remainder round his waist and making
two loops for his legs. When thus properly secured he
throws his right arm over the runner, jumps off the platform
and slides down the slack of the suspending bamboo hawser.
The impetus of the downward rush brings him up to within
20 feet of the opposite bank, and this distance has to be
traversed by catching hold of the hawser and hauling along
hand over hand. I timed a man crossing the river in this
way in well under a minute; and, although it looks a pretty
stiff undertaking, there is really very little danger.
The mountains on every side of us were well covered
with trees, as were the many ravines breaking in from the
hills. Butterflies, large and small, of every colour of the
rainbow, kept flying in numbers across our path, but we saw
very few birds.
The halting-place for the night was the
village of Hsin-wen-ping, which we reached, after a good
day's tramp, at 5 p.m.
19th August. Shortly after leaving Hsin-wen-ping the
road, which up to then had been easy, began to run up and
down with monotonous frequency, the hill-sides forming
the river-bank or gorge, thus making our passage along
much slower. Added to this we had our first experience of
the extraordinary difference in the length of the Chinese
mountain li, a
difference which lasted all the way to
Sungp'an, so that it was impossible to make up our minds
on a reported-distance basis one day how far we could
proceed on the morrow. Sometimes we would walk for an
hour or an hour-and-a-half and be told we had come 10 li,
another stretch taking half the time would place as many as
15 li to our credit, while once it took us over eight-and-a-half
hours to get over 35 li, going very consistently the whole
time. The distance between our starting-point to-day and
Wen-Chuan Hsien is calculated at 60 li, but it is certainly

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
61
90 or even 95 if an inch. Half-way out the road became
very bad, with long stretches cut out of the sheer cliff to
negotiate. In one place there was hardly room for my chair
to pass, and I was suddenly made aware of the fact by being
heavily bumped against the inside rock of the roadway.
The bearers staggered, and for a moment I thought chair
and all were over the side-which meant a fall of over 200
feet sheer into the rushing torrent beneath. From that day
forth I was seized with a desire for walking exercise when-
ever such places appeared in front of us, and they happened
with most objectionable frequency. We met many coolies
on the road carrying loads of timber on a peculiarly made
pei-tzu for balancing their unwieldy burden; we also came
up with a mule-train taking up tea to Sungp'an under the
charge of a party of Hsifans; afterwards, caravans of 25 to
30 mules carrying down wool and medicines were common,
though it is a mystery how even these sure-footed animals
with their packs can possibly pass many of the difficult and
narrow pieces of road. That they do come to grief some-
times, however, is shown by the carcasses of animals lying
smashed up at the bottom of cliffs, the sight of which made
us quite satisfied that we had not selected horseback for our
conveyance. It is most awkward when traversing a portion
of road cut out of the cliff side to suddenly hear a tinkle of
bells, shortly afterwards to be followed by the appearance
of a mule, then another, round the corner, while their atten-
dants are perhaps some distance behind. Seeing that the mules
cannot turn back, one's first thought is to beat a hasty retreat,
but this is not always possible-on account of people coming
up behind-or dignified. A kind Providence, however, has
arranged that there is always a small widening of the road
somewhere near, and there you crouch while the mules
pick their way past without taking the slightest notice of

62
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
one's probably perspiring presence. Luckily these incon-
venient encounters are rare and can be avoided by having
a man in front to warn any advancing cavalcade.
Ten li out from Hsin-wen-ping it was brought to my
notice that there was a jade mine in the vicinity some 30 li
inland. I bought a few specimens, which showed the jade
to be of an inferior kind, and was told that the daily output of
the mine was from four to five piculs, the stone being worth,
in the rough, about 75 to 100 cash a catty. Further on we
reached the village of So-Ch'iao, so named on account of a
bamboo suspension bridge across the river. I was informed
that the way over this bridge led to a range of hills called
P'ao Shan, where there is a silver mine. Nei Cheng-kuan,
formerly Kansuh Titai, had considered it worth working,
and was about to start operations when his death occurred.
Nothing has been done since, however, to open the mine, which
is distant 200 li from So-Ch'iao, over a road too difficult for
horse or chair, and it can only be reached on foot.
We arrived at Wen-Chuau-hsien, our stopping-place for
the night, at 6.30 p.m., after a very trying day's journey.
The town consists of one street of poverty-stricken appearance,
and I quite believed the Magistrate when he pathetically
explained to me that his billet was considered one of the
worst catches, officially speaking, in Szechuan. The popula-
tion of the place I would estimate at 3,000 at most. The
upper part of the town, where the Hsien's Yamen is situated,
is almost deserted, and therefore comparatively clean; at the
north end is a bamboo suspension bridge which I measured
to have a span of 130 paces, built on the same principle as
those at K'uan-hsien though having no support or buttress
in the middle. The hills are fairly well timbered with fir
mill
trees, and the water in the river is here like a
caused by a steep, observable fall.
race,

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
63
20th August. On leaving Wen-Chuan-hsien the road'
becomes difficult on account of limestone rocks and boulders,
apparently washed down by the mountain torrents during
floods. It was difficult to see how this could have been done-
by the brooks, which were all these watercourses were when
we passed, but I was told that during really heavy rains
the path was entirely blocked to travellers on account of
the volume of water flowing down from the mountains.
Traces of once large and flourishing villages remain in some
places in the shape of a few dilapidated huts, showing how
well such inundations have done their work. Perched on
the top of a height was the first Mantzů village seen from
the road. The architecture of these square, stone-built
edifices, peculiar to the aborigines of these districts, with
their high towers, said to be for defence, have been often
described, so that we did not think it worth while to make
the ascent to the well-nigh inaccessible places where these
strange and isolated people have built their houses.
We
also commenced to find, at frequent intervals, the ruins of
former Mantzu habitations, which made it plain that the
encroachments of the Chinese had been resisted to the last.
The houses of the latter race are, or rather were, built for
defence, and the ruins of several of these could tell many a
story of bloodshed and massacre were they able to talk. The
Celestials who live along the road have adopted the Tibetan
square, stone-walled and flat-roofed style of house, to better
withstand the violence of the wind, which at times blows
through the narrow gorge with great violence. The outer
walls of these houses are built of shale-everywhere
plentiful-but the Chinese retain their dirty wooden interiors,
blackened with smoke. The mountain Chinese are much
finer and stronger-looking than those of the plains, and,
although here and there are to be seen women with bound

-64
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
feet, the majority do not bind, are strong and healthy red-
cheeked lasses, but dirty and slovenly to an extreme. In
the towns, however, one observes a distinct falling-off in the
physique of the inhabitants, both male and female, which
can be traced to the usually more confined mode of life and
the freer use of the opium pipe. Indian corn is the chief
food of the people, and I was surprised to see the important
part played at table by the common potato, which is eaten
au naturel and in the form of cakes. Enormous round
wheat-flour galettes were put away with great gusto by
our following, who, however, frequently bewailed the absence
of their beloved rice.
At noon we came to a small collection of huts, and
the road here leaves the river to take a short cut over a
steep hill, on the opposite side of which, as you descend to
rejoin the Min, is the extraordinary bank of sand described
by Gill. To-day, too, we met the first herd of yaks, and,
although the heat was by no means great, the poor beasts
were panting most distressfully. The town of Wei-Chow
was reached at 3.30 p.m., and we judged it to be, for this
part of the world, a fairly prosperous centre. It could
be more aptly described as a large enclosed village, the
wall being built up the steep side of a hill, at the foot of
which are the shops and habitations of the people. At
Wei-Chow you branch off the Sungp'an road for Li-fan-
ting, crossing the Min River by a bamboo suspension bridge,
and bearing in direct west. At the close of an exceedingly
tiring day's travel we put up for the night at the village
of Ching-po.
21st August.-Leaving Ching-po the road is very bad
for a distance of 10 li or so, when the gorge begins to open out
a little, forming valleys, the crossing of which was a great
relief after being cooped up so long in the narrow portion

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
65
traversed. On the other side of the river are to be seen
several Mantzu villages, so high up, however, and seemingly
so inaccessible, that the proper approach to them must be from
inland. They are situated too far away from the road for
any human life to be observed, though the cultivation of
wheat, Indian corn, etc. could be recognized through our
glasses. In fact, so far we had seen very few of the Tribesmen
of the different clans who inhabit the country above and to
whom I shall have occasion to refer later. We entered the
Mao-Chow valley at 4 o'clock in the afternoon, but, as the
road skirts round the southern limits in following the bend of
the river, we did not reach the town itself till 5.30 p.m. The
valley is about 3 miles long by one-half broad, surrounded by
mountains 2,000 to 3,000 feet in height, and is most picturesque
and striking, if not beautiful. The river here flows smoothly
over a sandy bottom, and, as on the day that Gill saw it, there
was the fisherman with his bamboo rod and reel placidly
fishing from the bank. When we passed, the wheat, which
was everywhere almost ready for reaping, shone out in its
golden splendour, while well up the hill-sides were planted
the more sober-looking crops of Indian corn. Paths, ascending
the hills and plainly outlined in white, were observable in all
directions, showing that Mao-Chow is the centre and market
for the surrounding mountainous districts. The town itself is
a poor-looking place, but on the northern side lies a suburb
(wai ch'eng) in which the number of respectable Kung-Kuan
go far to prove that many are enabled to live in comfortable
circumstances through its trade. What struck us most,
however, was the filthiness of the inn at which we stayed, and
I may here say that we invariably found that the larger
places en route, where better inns might be reasonably expected,
could never produce anything to compete, either in cleanliness
or comfort, such as it was, with the lodgings obtainable in
5

66
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
the villages. A mile outside the North Gate, branching
eastwards, is the road to Shih-Tsuen-hsien and Chung-pa,
now become an important route for merchandize, on account
of the heavy likin charges levied at K'uan-hsien on goods
passing down from the North. This being the point where
the teas destined for Tibet, grown around K'uan-hsien and
Shih-Tsuen, meet on the journey to Sungp'an, there are
established large receiving depôts in which the tea is stored
ready for despatch, that from K'uan-hsien in matted packages
containing 120 catties each, the Shih-Tsuen kind packed in
similar, though smaller, packages of 66 catties each.
22nd August.-Bidding good-bye to our uncomfortable
quarters at Mao-Chow we continued our journey, and, after
going about 5 li, dived once more into the Min Gorge. On
looking back we saw snow on the higher mountains, but
surmised it had fallen during the previous night, as it had
been raining at Mao-Chow. The road became absolutely
atrocious and the going most difficult-now on the level of
the river for a few yards, now running up and along the
sheer cliff-sides and then down again. In short, the road
between Mao-Chow and Tie-chi is the worst and most
difficult on the whole journey. In many places it is broken,
and supported along the cliff by beams of timber and paved
with rotten planking, while in others it was nearly obliterated
through landslips. I shall long bear the unpleasant recollec-
tion of one place, about 200 yards of crumbling path of not
more than a foot wide with a clean drop of some 200 feet on
to rocks below. A gang of men were busy repairing the
damage, and they had a collecting-box handy, into which
every passer-by, I am sure, would gladly pay a small
donation. I know I did so very willingly, in the hope that
they might have completed their work before we had to
traverse the same spot on our return journey. The country

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
67
Ruins
about, too, had changed for the worse, and instead of well-
wooded hill-sides were bare limestone precipices, covered
here and there with scrub and small fir trees. The rushing
water of the river, now heavily charged with lime as it
broke over its rocky course, added to the cold desolation
of a scene in which the only sign of life was a flight of
blue pigeons. These pigeons may be described as half
wild and half domesticated, as, although most of them
have their nests in the cliff-sides, yet the villagers hang
baskets under the eaves of their houses, where many nest
freely. The young birds are secured before they are able
to fly, and make a valuable addition to the limited menu of
these excellent people. We also saw a large black variety
of rock pigeon, but could never get a shot at one.
of former homesteads were in plenty along the road-whether
Chinese or Mantzu I could not discover-their unroofed,
square rooms being sometimes used as gardens. Elsewhere,
the flat, solid roofs of houses occupied by Chinese were
utilized for drying the just gathered Indian corn, whose
orange tint lent a bright colour to the dismal surroundings.
Crops such as wheat, peas, etc., instead of being left to dry
in the fields after reaping, are hung upon large wooden
framework structures, a system at once effective and safe
in preventing loss or damage in case of rain or damp. Our
destination for to-day was the small hamlet of Chang-ling,
which we reached at 6 p.m. The only inn, dark and
dismal, was situated in a hollow, an overhanging cliff on
one side, on the top of which was built a collection of
ancient-looking houses.
23rd August. We left Chang-ling at 6.30 a.m. and
proceeded along an up-and-down path for some 10 li to
Liang-Ho-K'ou, where the Liu-Hua Ho, flowing from the
west, joins waters with the Min. The latter here takes an

68
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
almost rectangular bend to the north, and is confined by a
narrow precipitous gorge: the tributary has a much
larger volume of water at the junction than the main
stream. This portion of the Min Gorge for 10 li is frequently
impassable for travellers, on account of the wind which blows
up, as through a funnel. During bursts of these wind-
storms men and mules are often blown off the high, narrow
stone path to instant destruction below. We were told
that had we arrived the day before our passage would have
been blocked, and it was quite apparent that some stoppage
of the traffic had occurred, pro tem, by the numbers of
carrying-coolies and mules met with on the road. As it
was, the stiff, gusty breeze we encountered made one readily
believe the difficulty of getting through during a really
strong blow.
I have remarked before on the wonderful way
in which the loaded mules negotiate the difficult passages,
and I now say it is equally marvellous how the carrying-
coolies get along, burdened as they are. Many of these
miserably-existing men toil along day after day with a load of
240 catties of tea-that is, two large packages-on their
backs, while women and boys are seen bearing the smaller
66-catty bundles. Poor wretches, with their tufts of wool to
wipe the dust from parched lips and their rings of bamboo to
scrape the sweat of hard labour from off brows and arms.
Well may they give the peculiar whistle of relief after
planting down the propping-stick, carried to ease their
backs, from the weight of their burdens when resting.
Badly paid, badly nourished, and with no excitement in
their life of toil, beyond being always on the qui vive to see
that they are not overcharged a cash or two for their food or
opium allowance, or done out of the verminous pu-k'ai, their
only bed-clothing. When these things happen the worm
turns indeed, and the tired, broken toiler will burst forth into

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
69
such a flame of vituperation that the immediate neighbour-
hood becomes lurid to an extent that gives reason for
congratulation to the bystander for not knowing sufficient
Chinese to understand the sentiments and requests expressed.
In bitter irony, too, are scrolls hung up everywhere to proclaim
good wishes to all: "Magnificent Prosperity await you";
"Wealth and Happiness to him who rests beneath this
roof"; "The Hall wherein are Virtue and Surpassing Joy";
"The Delights and Prosperity of Spring are Yours," and
hundreds of high-flown sentiments of a like nature, for the
benefit of those who can never hope for anything of greater
value than the opium pipe.
It had been our intention to reach Tie-chi that day, but
we had quite enough of travelling when we arrived at
Shui-K'ou-Chih at 5 p.m. The last 10 li were up a stiff
ascent of some 1,200 feet, very hard going, away from the
course of the river, which, however, remained in sight. On
the top of this ascent the country opens out somewhat, and
there we saw pheasants for the first time, though the cover
was very thick.
24th August.-A beautiful morning when we left
Shui-K'ou-Chih, and about 5 li out we came upon a lot of
pheasants, the cocks different in plumage from the common
Chinese bird in being without the white ring round the
neck, having shorter tail feathers and being smaller. Early
as it was, the young birds were well grown and strong on
the wing, and we committed the heinous offence of shooting
a few for the pot as a welcome addition to our commissariat.
From what we observed, both in going and returning 15
days later, a good shot should make a grand bag, shooting
over an easy country of cultivated fields. Tie-chi came
into sight below us shortly afterwards, and we descended by
a path which gave us a capital view of the town. It is a

70
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
small place, square in shape, with a wall forming three of
the sides, the fourth side being a sheer precipice with a drop
of some 400 feet. The town is built on an inclined ledge
or plateau, the greater part of which was under Indian
corn cultivation; the houses are few in number, the ground
within the walls being mostly given up to vegetable gardens.
The high road passes through Tie-chi, and, after an easy
ascent upwards, descends immediately again to the river-
bank. Standing on the summit where this descent (the Wu-
pantze, 650 ft.) begins, a splendid view is obtained of uplands
rising to about 4,000 feet above the river, the lower slopes
being thickly cultivated. At the bottom of the Wu-pantze,
and after passing the village of Hsiao-Sha-wan, the road
is again shut in by the Min Gorge. At 5.30 p.m. we
reached the village of Tai-ping, where we decided to stop
for the night.
25th August.-Leaving Tai-ping at 6.30, we traversed
a comparatively good road which lasted all day and until
we got to Chen-Chiang-Kuan at 5.30 p.m. The carrying-
coolies being far behind, it was decided to put up at this
village for the night. We had some difficulty, however,
in finding lodgings, as the place does not boast of a
respectable inn, but eventually we were able to get possession
of a room in a private house, which we gladly occupied.
Nothing of interest had been seen during the day, and we
were getting more and more tired of the Min River and its
continuous gorge. The sides of the hills were steep enough
to make it difficult to shoot, although we frequently heard
the defiant crowing of cock pheasants. Moreover, we were
now some 8,000 feet above sea-level, and the clambering
up hills at this altitude very soon becomes fatiguing.
Grazing along the roadside were flocks of sheep and goats,
while the ungainly looking yaks were getting quite plentiful.

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
71
I also noticed a breed of very small cows, not much bigger
than a Newfoundland dog, but, all the same, well-shaped
and handsome little beasts. Here and there were poppy
fields in bloom and in full pod, despite the lateness of the
season.
26th August. We left Chen-Chiang-Kuan at 6.30, the
air being quite chilly and fresh. To-day we commenced
to meet with Hsifans, who were driving cattle laden with
medicines, intended for sale at the different villages, or
carrying purchases back to their mountain habitations. The
country begins to open out, showing that we are getting
to the top of the uplands: the slopes of the hills are of a more
gentle gradient on every side, while there are no high
mountains towering above us as formerly. One can see,
too, that one is getting within the sphere of the Llama by
the prayer-flags fluttering from poles in the villages along
the road. We arrived, after doing a very easy stage, at
the village of An-Huang-Kuan at 5.30 p.m.
27th August. With only 50 li before us to reach our
journey's end, we left An-Huang-Kuan at 6.30 a.m., the
road getting better and better as we proceeded. 15 li this
side of Sungp'an the Min Gorge opens out for good, and
you traverse a thickly cultivated valley until, turning
a sharp corner, the town, or rather at first the top part of
the wall of the town, comes into view about a mile ahead;
you pass a green parade ground with barracks for troops,
and shortly afterwards enter the gate of the outer city of
Sungp'an. Coming in to the town by the South Gate
the road crosses the Min River by a covered bridge. The
Sungp'an Ting had kindly prepared a clean and roomy inn
for our reception, where we arrived in excellent health and
spirits at noon. The journey from Chengtu to Sungp'an was
thus accomplished in 11 days, without a mishap of
any kind,

72
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
and, with the exception of a few hours' rain in the morning
at K'uan-hsien and Mao-Chow, in perfectly fine weather.
seen.
The following brief but interesting note on the flora
of the district traversed was given me by my travelling
companion, Mr. E. H. Wilson:"From K'uan-hsien to
Wei-Chow the flora is interesting, shrubs and herbs abound
and the tops of the mountains are clad with remnants of
coniferous forest. From Wei-Chow to Tie-chi the flora is
excessively poor, plants of a xerophytic character pre-
dominating. The genus artemisia (wormwood) form fully
three-quarters of the vegetation, and it is associated with plants
that can withstand extremes. The Henbane and Thorn-apple
are the commonest roadside weeds. The nature of the rocks
and the strong winds which prevail are mainly responsible
for the aridity. Whenever limestone appears, and it
frequently does high up, remains of forest are still to be
Above Tie-chi the Min valley widens somewhat and
the mountain sides are clad with dense scrub. Genera and
species are still few and artemisia constitute still the
bulk of the vegetation. A couple of species of spiraa-a
fine yellow flower-clematis, the handsome Buddleia variabilis
and Caryopteris Mastacanthus, together with various
Leguminosee are the principal shrubs. Herbs are plentiful,
especially members of the mint family (Labiatece). Two
common shrubs growing in the shingle and sand of the river-
bed are Hippopha rhamnoides and Myricaria Germanica;
Populus euphratica and Willows are the common trees
of the roadside. Beyond Sungp'an the mountains are
more or less rounded and covered with grass. Herbs
are abundant, especially Gentians, Aconites and various
Composites. Two species of Spirea, Potentilla fruticosa,
and various Leguminosea form enormous heaths from 10,000
to 12,500 feet. The steep and more rocky mountain sides

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
73.
are clad with conifer forests, composed almost entirely of
two species of Spruce and a Juniper. All these are valuable
timber trees, and nearly all the houses both in and around
Sungp'an are built of them. Rice ceases at K'uan-hsien
(2,280 ft.) and maize at 8,500 ft. Beyond this the crops
are wheat, barley, oats, peas and broad beans. Black barley
is a peculiarity of Sungp'an, and flax (Linum usitatissimum)
is cultivated for its oil. The Irish potato is largely grown,
and the tubers have an excellent flavour. The opium poppy
is sparingly cultivated by Chinese and Hsifans; at the
time of our visit it was in full flower. Apples, pears, apricots
and peaches are cultivated around Sungp'an, but the
commonest fruit tree of the Min valley is the walnut."
PART II. TIBETAN BORDER.
Sungp'an, according to the "Szechuan Chih," or
Provincial Record, was originally a Chinese Military Post,
and it is only of late years that it has sprung into prominence
as a sharer with Tachienlu of the principal trade with Tibet
passing through the Province of Szechuan. The city is
situated in the north-west corner of Szechuan on the upper
waters of the Min River (whose source is some 35 miles
beyond to the north), at an altitude of 9,700 ft. above the
level of the sea, and is one of the border towns of China that
are linked with the uplands of the Amdon or grass country
of N.E. Tibet. It has, however, one serious rival as regards
trade in Tao Chow in Kansuh, but is slowly encroaching on
the former local monopoly of that place. The town is most
picturesquely located in a valley, the hills on either side
rising sharply from 1,000 to 1,500 ft. in height, the slopes
of these hills being everywhere under cultivation of wheat,

74
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
oats, with here and there green peas.
In August, when I
saw it, the landscape was one blaze of yellow grain. The Min
River, which flows down the centre of the valley, cuts through
the middle of the town, and it is not much more than 25 yards
wide at its broadest part, and in places narrows down to as
little as eight, but nowhere could I discover a really fordable
spot. The town is enclosed by a wall, in fair repair, with four
Gates N., S., E. and W.-and this wall runs up the side of a
steep hill, so that the West Gate is some 1,000 ft. higher than
the other three, which are, with the business houses and chief
inhabited quarter, built on the flat. Some 250 ft. up the
hilly portion of the town is the Yamen of the Ting official
and a small cluster of houses, but with the exception of these,
a few huts and a temple, the steep incline is under cultivation.
The one long street, extending from the North to the South
Gate, about three-quarters of a mile long, is occupied mostly
by shops in which are displayed for sale native cotton goods,
sheep-skins, provisions, clothing and medicines, with here and
there a few skins of animals brought from Chengtu and the
south for sale to the tribesmen ; here, too, are the usual tea and
eating shops and the Imperial Post Office. The first thing
that strikes a traveller is the new appearance of the houses, all
of which are built of wood, with porticos curiously and not
unhandsomely carved, while the establishments still under
construction pointed to a flourishing condition in the
carpentering trade. This energy in the building line is
explained when one hears of the great fire which took place
in the city in October 1901. The conflagration is said
to have completely destroyed two-thirds of the whole town,
and it evidently did this damage if the few old-looking
houses represent those that were saved. Outside the North
Gate is a suburb, where are to be found a number of flour
mills, the horizontal wheels of which are driven by the

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
75
river-water diverted on to them by dykes. In parenthesis
I may mention that the horizontal-wheel system for
turning the grindstones of flour mills is everywhere
adopted in this district. Through the East Gate and across
a bridge over the river is the road to Lung-An-fu and
An-ping. Sungp'an is the furthest point where one can
travel without being supplied with tents and camping-out
paraphernalia; beyond, except on the Lung-An road, you
have done with such conveniences as inns, while the Hsifan
villages at which it may be possible to get a night's lodging
have, at best, nothing to offer but a high-smelling apartment
common to all, wherein it is advisable not to risk being over-
whelmed. The town itself is of small size and contains, at
most, a Chinese population of 3,000 actual residents, but this
figure is less than half of the number always lodging within its
precincts, the majority being represented by countrymen who
visit Sungp'an for purpose of petty trading in food-stuffs and
sundries. The official figures of the resident population for
the whole district taken a short time ago were as follows:-
The City of Sungp'an
On the Eastern Road to Muting-tun
On the S. Road to Mao-Chow border
Houses 1,082. Males
1,570
Females 1,300
2,870
Houses 140. Males
194
Females 142
336
Houses 320. Males
393
Females 312
705
On the W. Road to Yang Chang-lo
Houses 345. Males
379
Females 310
689
On the N. Road to Chai K'uan
Houses 2,132. Males
3,220
Females 2,671
5,891
Living elsewhere in the Sungp'an District Houses 3,921.
Grand Total for the Sungp'an District.
Males 5,756
Females 3,806
Males 11,512
Females 8,541
9,562
20,053

76
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
I have every reason to believe that these figures
are, with the exception, perhaps, of the item for those
Chinese living amongst the Tribesmen, fairly approximate.
Sungp'an has been the scene of constant fighting
between the Chinese and Hsifans, and a few years ago
the latter actually succeeded in capturing the town
itself and held it for a short time. On that occasion the
chief civil official was killed and the Brigadier-General
was only just able to escape away under cover of the
darkness. The whole attack took the inhabitants by
surprise, and for some years afterwards none but Chinese
were allowed to be within the gates of the city between
sunset and sunrise: this rule has now been rescinded.
Properly speaking, and on paper, the whole of the
Sungp'an District Tribesmen are under the jurisdiction
of the Ting, who has the rank and title of a Fu; but this
official told me that he seldom interfered, except in cases
happening in the city itself, as it was found to work
more smoothly to leave these people to the care of the
different Tu Ssu, or Headmen, who are appointed on
the Fu's recommendation and made personally responsible
for the good behaviour of their sections. For the past few
years peace has been well maintained under this system,
and now the Chinese and Tribesmen, in the near vicinity
of the city, are assimilating one with the other more and
more, though there are still outbreaks happening in the
more remote districts, requiring troops to be sent to restore
order. These commotions arise owing to the natural
lawlessness of the Tribesmen and to the enmity felt for
the Chinese where the full pressure of their inevitable and
overpowering encroachment has not been experienced. That
the Celestial considers himself the ruler, and is looked upon
as such by the Hsifan, is undoubtedly evident, and the

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
77
friendly intercourse before mentioned is perhaps only so
mutual about Sungp'an; but there you see Chinese and
Hsifan farming the same field, living peacefully together
in the same house, treating each other sympathetically and
on an apparent footing of equality.
The chief civil Chinese official is the Ting, and this
gentleman, Huang ta-jen, is of a different sort from
most Chinese mandarins, in so far that he scorns the use of
a sedan chair, is seen superintending in person any public
works on hand, and regularly takes his daily riding
exercise. The Ting's emoluments-about Tls. 2,000 annually,
he told me-are very small considering the work and
responsibility of his post, he having frequently to make
long trips into the country to hear and settle Chinese
claims. Luckily he is young and energetic, and his lot
does not seem to lessen a gaiety which is as refreshing
to meet with in a Chinaman as it is rare. The Chentai
heads the military roster, and his billet, too, is by no means
a sinecure if the duties which he is supposed to perform
are properly carried out. For some reason this appointment
is held by a very old man, who is almost blind; so, if
suddenly called upon to take command of any expedition
in this very difficult country, he would, through infirmity,
be unable to go. The force under him consists of 10 Ying,
or regiments, of horse and foot, principally the former, and
his command extends from K'uan-hsien on the Southern
Road with a detachment at Lung An-fu and another at
Anping. The old gentleman was most disconsolate over
his position and confided to me that the whole 10 Ying
together did not muster more than 1,800 men. He lives
alone without his family, for he said it was impossible to
bring them to Sungp'an, and his miserable Yamen is by
no means suitable to such a high official. The Chentai

78
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
also told me that his stable consisted of one pony, which
he dare not ride himself and
lend to me.
was quite solicitous to
Europeans can live very well at Sungp'an, and food is
both cheap and plentiful: capital beef, mutton, poultry of
all sorts, milk and butter are always obtainable. There is
also a very
delicate little fish resembling a dace, caught
in the river; and in season partridges, pheasants and hares
can be procured in the market. For vegetables, noticed
excellent potatoes, peas, cabbages, turnips and carrots;
fruit, however, was neither plentiful nor very good, and
I only saw pears, peaches and a small kind of apple.
Mutton and beef sell for 25 to 35 cash a catty, a quart of
rich milk can be bought for 20 cash, fowls 100 cash each,
potatoes 10 cash a catty, and I heard that in winter a
pheasant could be purchased for 25 cash.
are slaughtered in the open street by
gruesome sight is always seen round their stalls, where
numbers of dogs of all sizes and shapes congregate, with
their thick coats matted with the blood that has dripped
on them from freshly killed animals, slaughtered with
the knife.
Sheep and pigs
butchers, and a
The environs of the town are most interesting, and in
places the scenery is really beautiful. To get about, however,
it is almost necessary to ride, since the climbing of hills on
foot in the rarified atmosphere is both trying and fatiguing to
those not accustomed to it. One of the places we visited was
the Llama temple, Ho Shih, quite an easy distance on horse-
back of 35 li. To reach there you leave Sungp'an by the
South Gate, cross the river and mount by a ravine the
western range of the valley, from the summit of which a
splendid view of the Hsueh Shan, covered with eternal snow,
can be obtained. A short stretch of grassland is traversed

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
79
before descending into another valley, presenting a beautiful
coup d'oeil as you go down. On all sides are hills covered.
with thick fir forests, while below one might almost think he
was looking on a rural scene at home. Hsifan villages are
dotted about the vale, a good half-mile wide at the bottom,
with oxen (but here also yaks), horses and sheep grazing in
enclosed fields. Down the centre flows a beautifully clear-
stream, alongside of which is the roadway, bordered on each
side by a hedge of willow and wild gooseberry. The temple,
like all Llama temples, has its grassplot in front and village
of dirty white houses-the homes of the Llamas, of whom the
temple boasts about 200. If vice of the most degrading
order was ever stamped on faces, then it is on those of these
priests, who, moreover, treat one with a show of indifferent
insolence as galling as it is unmannerly.
Cleanliness they
wot not of, and their close proximity is, in consequence, a
strain on one's power of endurance, to say the least. The temple
itself is evidently a rich one, but we were unable to see it
all on account of a service that was going on and which we
were evidently not wanted to witness. Out through the
East Gate of Sungp'an and along the Lung An road is
another Lamasery, but of smaller size, which is worth
inspecting if only for the beauty of the view. The Llamas
have a ferocious dog there, however, which somewhat mars
the pleasure of the visit on account of its marked desire and
evident power to make a meal of you. The worshippers at
these temples are Chinese as well as Hsifans, old and
young, and women predominating, who go marching round
and round turning the prayer-wheels, hung up in a sort
of gallery.
Through the North Gate is a splendid stretch of level
road for some miles along the Sungp'an valley. This is the
highway to the Grass Country and it makes a capital ride,

80
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
full of novelty and interest, not lessened by meeting teams
of yaks with gaudy-becapped Tibetan attendants bringing
in merchandize.
Good riding is possible in all directions, though, of
course, a lot of hill-climbing is necessary. The ponies mostly
used are those from Kansuh, which are bigger than the small
but well shaped Szechuan steed. The Kansuh pony is about
the same size as the Manchurian one, though heavier and
more ungainly-looking, with big fiddle-heads and massive
quarters, and not, I should say, capable of much speed.
Unlike most of their Manchurian brothers, they are extremely
steady and docile, threading their way along without ap-
parently taking the slightest notice of anything-a most
excellent quality, more particularly appreciated when amidst
a herd of yaks or sheep on a difficult piece of road.
Sport in the shape of pheasant shooting is everywhere
plentiful, and from what I saw in the beginning of September
a good shot, when the snow on the hills has caused the birds
to seek the valleys, should have no difficulty in accounting
for a bag of 25 or 30 brace of birds in a day's outing. The
going, too, is not at all difficult, and the trying effort of
climbing up hills can be easily avoided. Wherever we went
birds were found in numbers sufficient to gladden the heart of
any sportsman. We never, however, saw a partridge, though
there are said to be plenty enough; but along the Anping road
hares were numerous, fine big fellows they were, too, like
those we get at home. For one who is more ambitious there
ought to be good deer-stalking in the neighbourhood, but
this sport would require an outing among the mountain-tops.
The Hsifans are great hunters of deer, which they shoot with
their Tibetan guns resting on a fork attached to the barrel
and stuck in the ground. I tried hard to purchase one of
these weapons, but nothing I had with me would induce the

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
S1
owner to part. I saw one of the deer that had been lately
shot a handsome big stag with six fine antlers and weighing
quite 300 lbs.
The climate of Sungp'an is, of course, cold during most
months of the year, though dry and very bracing. Snow
begins to fall about the end of September, and it is only
possible to get one crop out of the ground annually. During
the few days we were there, 27th August to 5th September,
the thermometer stood at its highest, 75 degrees Fahrenheit,
and on one rainy night it fell to 49 degrees. In the day-
time it was warm in the sun, with a cool snap of morning
freshness, most exhilarating and pleasant. The Chinese
wear their wadded clothing all the year round, dressing
themselves in sheepskins when the really cold weather sets
in.
The thermometer then goes down to zero, but I was
told that most of the days were bright and sunny, so, with
the dryness of the atmosphere, it must be surmised that
Sungp'an possesses a climate bracing and healthy.
One of the most interesting sights in Sungp'an is the
appearance of the different Tribesmen who come in to do
exchange business with the Chinese in the city. I regret
that, owing to the shortness of my stay in their neighbour-
hood, I am able to give but a very uncertain account of this
people, and, in consequence, cannot add much to the little
already known about them. By their picturesque though
frequently grotesque garbs the Hsifan Tribes are con-
spicuous, and these are the people most seen about the streets.
The term Mantzu, which is promiscuously given by the
Chinese to all of the tribes inhabiting the district between
Chinese Szechuan and Tibet, is as misleading as it is con-
fusing, but for want of a better I will employ it here as a
general name for those tribes whose country lies to the south
of the Liu Hwa River and in contradistinction to the word
6

82
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
Hsifan, which will do to describe the undoubted Tibetan
tribes to the north of it and round about Sungp'an. Of the
two Hsifan tribes, namely, Lapp'a and Moorukai, and the
Mantzu tribes, Po Lu-tzu and Hofan, of whose different
languages I took a small vocabulary, I found that the two
former differ little in speech and are Tibetan in origin, the
customs and manners of both tribes being identical.
On
the contrary, the dialects of the two Mantzu tribes have
hardly anything in common with each other or with that of
the Hsifans, as a comparison of the few words of the
vocabularies which are given in the Annex to this report
will show. The Tibetan gutteral sounds are impossible to
reproduce on paper, but they are far more pronounced in the
Hsifan dialects than in that of the Po Lu-tzu, while the
Hofan sounds are the softest of them all. Very few of the
Tribesmen speak Chinese, and each village has its particular
interpreter (Tung-Shih) who transacts all outside business
for his fellows. It was extremely difficult, therefore, owing
to the limited knowledge of Chinese possessed by the natives
questioned, to be sure that the words spoken were really
those wanted, so I have confined myself here to giving the
few examples where a mistake was not likely to occur.
The dress, too, of the Hsifan and Mantzu differ; the men
of the former tribes wear coats of claret-coloured serge
(Pu-Lu) confined at the waist by a girdle and often
ornamented round the edges with fur, cotton breeches and
high felt boots. In cold weather a sheep-skin robe is added,
the hair of which is worn inside. On their heads they wear
stone-coloured low soft felt hats, the rims of which are turned
up and bordered with black; many of them round Sungp'an,
however, have strange sugar-loaf shaped headgear. The
women envelope themselves in a garment reaching to the
ankles with body and petticoats in one, and generally of blue

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
83
with deep red or yellow fancy borders round the bottom
of the skirt and up the front. On their feet they wear high
boots of untanned leather. Their long black hair is plaited
into numerous small plaits beginning at the temples, and
these are brought up and bound round the outside of a felt hat
similar to that worn by the men; the plaits thus showing are
decorated with numerous amber beads and shells of different
colours. When en grande tenue, from the sides of this
coiffure hang fancy embossed silver rings from which suspend
gaudy red and yellow silk tassels. The whole garb gives a
clumsy, overdressed appearance to the wearer, but its strange-
ness and bright colouring make it undoubtedly picturesque.
Beauty is certainly not possessed by the Hsifans, the women
being invariably flat-faced creatures, greasy and dirty to look
upon,
but withal more character and expression in their
countenances than is usually found among the Chinese
belles. The Mantzu dresses himself almost exclusively in
the undyed serge cloth of the country: his headgear is a dirty
white turban, his legs are swathed in felt puttees, and he
has usually--though this is adopted from the Chinese-straw
sandals on his feet. Along the Sungp'an road, and in its
vicinity, many of the villagers have adopted the Chinese shaven
head and queue, the latter always being wound round the head
coolie-fashion. They are bright and more intelligent-looking
and even dirtier-looking than their Celestial neighbours, this
last saying a good deal. The women go bareheaded with their
hair parted down the middle and hanging down the back in
one plait: the few I saw were dressed in a pepper-and-salt
coloured native serge garment, bound round the waist with
a scarf and reaching to just below the knee; their legs and
feet were bare. Thus clothed, though not at all pretty in
face, their sturdy, small, well-set-up figures could not have
been shown off to better advantage.

84
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
Both the Hsifan and Mantzů are timid and absurdly
afraid of strangers-a state of affairs quite contrary to what I
had always been led to believe. It was with difficulty that I
could coax them anywhere near me, even in Sungp'an, and
this made the getting of information all the harder. When
you did get hold of a man, he stood before you hat in hand,
bowing and scraping at everything you said and only too ready
to admit all you suggested. He would belong to the Lapp'a,
the Po Lu-tzu, the Moorukai or any other tribe if he
thought it would please you. To give an example of this
timidity, I visited, in company with the Chinese headman of
the village of Hsin Feng-kuan, a Hsifan hamlet on the opposite
side of the river; but on our approach all the male members
of the community fled into the hills, while the females
barricaded themselves up in their houses. In spite of the
presence of the Chinaman-who, of course, was well known--
some hours were spent in trying to get a hearing, and,
although I offered a big reward to a Hsifan, who eventually
summoned up sufficient pluck to present himself, it would not
induce him to let us enter the portals of his house. It
was only at the last moment, and then too late, when the
opportunity for further research presented itself: this was in
the person of a distinctly independent old Hsifan dowager of
some 50 summers, who called upon me at Sungp'an with her
two sons. She became most friendly, and after a pretty stiff
potation of whisky, invited me to come and see her at home.
Before partaking of this drink, she dipped her forefinger into
the glass, murmuring the while what seemed some kind of
prayer, wetted both temples and between her eyes with her
finger-tips, after which she made some mystic passes with her
hands over her body, flicked what was left of the liquor on
her fingers into her hair, and then, catching up the glass, she
drained it in quick time with evident gusto. I gathered that

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
85
this old woman was the head of a large-village not far from
Sungp'an, and, as she spoke a little Chinese, ran quite a big
business entirely by herself. Her two sons were hulking big
fellows, who stood sheepishly round the table whilst their
mother did all the talking. It was a pity, indeed, that I had
not seen her earlier, for under this old lady's guidance and
chaperonage I am perfectly convinced that I could have gone
among the Hsifans quite freely.
:
Neither the Hsifan nor the Mantzu make use of artificial
light they arise with the sun and retire when it sets. They
possess no beds, and sleep on the floor with straw and their
own clothes for a covering. At Sungp'an and other Chinese
centres, special rooms upstairs are kept by innkeepers for use
of Tribesmen-visitors, who will not, from choice, sleep on the
ground floor. Men and women, if from one village or if
well acquainted, all put up in the same room, and this is
doubtless the cause of the reputation for immorality given
them by the Chinese. There were a number of these upstairs
rooms for Tribesmen, opening on a corridor in the inn
where we lived at Sungp'an; and just after nightfall I
frequently heard very clever whistling, which I was told was
performed by the men to entertain themselves and companions
before going to sleep. They always bring their own food,
and require nothing from the innkeeper but shelter and
sleeping room. Polyandry is not practised among any of the
Tribesmen, but polygamy is general, if a man has sufficient
means to keep more than one wife. It may here be noted
that the Tribesmen are all considered to possess more wealth
than their Chinese neighbours, such wealth consisting of live
stock and land property. In many villages there are men
who can count their head of cattle by the thousand, while the
only thing they want from the Chinese is tea, native cloth,
silver and other ornaments, and a few strange skins for

86
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
dresses. The rites of marriage appear simply to consist in
handing over so many oxen or sheep to the girl's parents, as
her price, if she herself is quite willing. Among the
Hsifan and Hofan tribes a widow can marry again; but with'
the Po Lu-tzu this does not seem to be permitted. The
Hsifan and Po Lu-tzu bury their dead during the winter; in
summer they throw them into the rivers, probably because the
water is then sufficiently high to carry corpses away. The
Hofan usage is that of burial only.
A member of either the Sagurai or of the better known
Sumu tribes I never met, and from the information about
them given me by the Chinese it was impossible to deduce
much. The latter race occupy the country directly south of the
Liu Hwa River and are said to be governed by a Queen. This
Nu Wang, as she is called by the Chinese, is, however,
even from their accounts, only a myth, the real monarch being
actually a man, who for some obscure reason calls himself a
Queen. My old Hsifan lady friend told me the same story,
and could offer no further explanation beyond that it pleased
the Chinese to think that a Queen reigned, for what object,
however, she did not know.
From the meagre information regarding these people that
I was able to procure, I am of the opinion that the original
inhabitants of these regions were the Po Lu-tzu and, perhaps,
the Sumu tribe. The Hsifan, from their language, appearance
and style of their houses, are undoubtedly Tibetan by origin,
whose forefathers forsook the life of nomads for that of
agriculture and stock-raising, and, coming from Tibet through
the Amdon, settled in the valleys and gorges of the mountains
to the north of the Liu Hwa River. The Mantzŭ tribes found
about K'uan-hsien and Lifan Ting, i.e. the Hofan, Chiufan,
etc. etc., I believe to be-and in this I am borne out somewhat
by the Chinese records of these people-the aboriginal

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
87
cave-dwellers of Szechuan, whose former habitations are still
seen along the course of the Yangtse and about Kiating, they
having been gradually driven back by the Chinese to the patch
of mountainous country bordering this eastern portion of
Tibet. That they are a different race from the Po Lu-tzu, who
resemble more the Tibetan type, is evident not only by their
features, which are rather European in appearance, but by
their language; while the only similarity which exists is in
the architecture of their dwellings, and this may be explained
by them not unnaturally adopting the style of living of the
people whose country they invaded, in preference to again
constructing the more labour-involving cave apartments.
What I have written on this subject is deduced from the
little I was able to observe, and, as such, is only a theory put
forward with all diffidence. I must therefore leave to others,
who will have better opportunity to judge than I had, the
task of studying the origin of this strange, interesting, little-
known and well-to-do people.
PART III-TRADE.
Kuan-hsien. The trade of K'uan-hsien is of considerable
importance, as may be seen by the figures given in the
Table. Situated as the town is on the border-line dividing
Chinese Szechuan Proper from that portion of the Province
inhabited by the Mantzu tribes, the chief business of the
place consists of dealings in wool, soda (1), indigo (E),
and of the medicines of the Chinese pharmacopoeia for
which these districts are noted. It is also the centre of
many coal-mines, the produce of which is in demand on
account of the excellence of the output.
Medicines are

88
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
brought in by merchants who periodically visit the
Tribesmen for purposes of trade and with whom dealings
are conducted by a system of exchange and barter. A
Chinese merchant will come into K'uan-hsien with the
stock he has thus procured, proceed to one of the many
inns and inform the innkeeper of what he has for sale.
The innkeepers act as a sort of broker, having the daily price
of staples posted up in their establishments and introducing
customers. Customers thus introduced, mostly agents for
Chengtu firms, buy on credit of one or two months, as the
case may be, and the innkeeper is responsible to the seller
for payment for the goods when due. For his services he
charges a fixed rate at 3% on all transactions taking place
at his inn. Ready-money dealings are rare and do not
appear to be appreciated.
Estimated Annual Quantities of Goods passing inwards
through Kuan-hsien.
Classifier of
Description
Value
Quantity.
Quantity.
Taels.
-
Medicines
value
180,000
Young Deer Horns
catties
1,500
30,000
Old
piculs
1,500
6,000
Musk
taels
16,000
216,000
Wool
piculs
5,000
55,000
Indigo
value
150,000
Soda
"
150,000
Timber
60,000
دو
Total Value
847,000

89
68
(大)
Pei Mu
Rhubarb
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
List and Price of Kuan-hsien Medicines.
"
() value per catty Taels 1.80
0.08
"
Chung Tsao
Huang Ch'i
(蟲草)
4.50
23
(黃)
0.09
23
22
Chiang Ho
(羗活)
0.07
"
Ch'uan Hsiung (J)
0.08
"
Tsê Hsieh
Kan Sung
(澤瀉)
(甘松)
0.09
"
0.07
9
Mao-Chow.-Mao-Chow, as a trading centre, ranks
in importance much below either K'uan-hsien or Sungp'an,
though for its size and position it is a distinctly
busy place it is of note, too, in view of the saltpetre
produced there, the leaching of which is under Chengtu
Government control. A kind of pipeclay is manufac-
tured at Mao-Chow and sold in sticks; it is employed,
I was told, for whitening the felt soles of Chinese
boots.
A Table, showing the estimated value of the annual
produce of the town, is given below.
Description.
Classifier of
Quantity.
Quantity. Value.
Musk
Taels
1,000
12,000
Medicines
Value
8,000
Tobacco
Piculs
500
4,000
Pepper (Zanthoxylum Bungei)
Piculs
130
2,000,
Saltpetre
Value
10,000
Goat Skins
Pieces 18,000 9,000
Total Value 45,000.

90
90
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
Sungp'an. The total annual value of the trade passing
through Sungp'an is, as far as I could gather, under
Tls. 1,000,000. The place itself is a depôt from which to
draw goods for despatch into Tibet, and a centre for the collec-
tion of the different commodities from that country received
in exchange. The chief portion of the business is in the
hands of the four Ch'a Hao, or Government Tea Monopolists,
and the rest may be said to be divided up amongst the
number of petty traders who visit Sungp'an during the
different trade seasons. As regards the different imports
from Tibet, the seasons are fixed as follows:-1st, 2nd and
3rd moons for medicines; 4th, 5th and 6th moons for
skins; 7th, 8th and 9th moons for deer horns and musk,
nothing apparently being brought in during the remaining
three months of the year. The business between the
Chinese and Tribesmen is entirely one of barter, the latter
coming in to exchange their goods for others with the
small shopkeepers; and these, in their turn, sell what they
have been able to secure to traders who have journeyed
up from Chengtu for business. It is the four Ch'a Hao
and a few local skin and wool merchants who are able
to afford to send agents into the interior for the purpose
of trade; and, as a rule, they forward the results, with a
view to better profits, to their branch establishments at
Chengtu and elsewhere, thus avoiding the employment of
a middleman. There are, however, also a certain number
of smaller Chinese merchants, who, knowing the Hsifan
dialects, travel inland on their own account and bring in
goods for sale: these find accommodation at the different
inns, where they either store their merchandize or send it to
shops for disposal. In either case a recognized fee (called
Hang-yung) averaging about 3 % is charged for such
storage, this fee being payable on sale or removal. A most

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
91
important matter for one to thoroughly understand is the
different weight in catties of the picul (I-pai-chin). In
Sungp'an rhubarb has 140 catties, Pei-mu, Kan-sung and
old deer horns have 120 catties, while other medicines
have generally 110 catties to the picul. At K'uan-hsien
and Mao-Chow this difference varies to a greater or lesser
degree, and, as far as I could see, the principle obtains
for the purpose of imposing on those not "in the know"-
in fact, this was the reason given me for the practice by
one of the merchants themselves. The following Table
will show my estimate of the trade of Sungp'an.
Imports into China.
Value in Taels.
Skins
Sheep
150,000
Goat
2,000
Cow and Yak
5,000
Furs, sundry
5,000
Medicines
Kan-sung
20,000
Rhubarb
2,000
Pei-mu
4,500
Tang-kuei
1,000
Sundry
6,500
وو
Musk
Deer Horns
Live Stock
60,000
Young
15,000
Old
2,000
Sheep, value Tls. 36,000
Goats, " " 33,000
Wool
Yaks,
Sheep
دو
وو
20,000
89,000
150,000
512,000

92
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
Exports into Tibet.
Tea 20,000 bales @ 120 catties
160,000
دو
30,000
دو
@ 66 "
75,000
Silk and Woollen Goods
20,000
Cotton Goods
8,000
Iron Ware and Salt
8,000
Sundries, Clothing, Provisions, Wines,
Needles, etc. etc.
18,000
Total Taels 801,000
Skins. As will be seen, the trade in sheep-skins passing
through Sungp'an is of considerable value, and the skins are
almost all sent to Chengtu. The quality, however, is inferior
to those procured in Mongolia and Manchuria. They are
brought down every year from the Amdon, or Grass Country,
the grazing ground of large flocks of sheep. At Sungp'an
the skins are packed for transport in bundles of 110, each
bundle (Kun) containing a more or less proportionate
quantity of superior and inferior undressed skins. The
sheep are fine, large animals, long-fleeced when full grown.
A few of the skins are prepared at Sungp'an, but not
so satisfactorily as at Chengtu, whence the better class
sheep-skin garments are brought back for sale. The chief
supply of goat-skins comes from the Tie-chi and Mao-
Chow districts. Other furs obtained at Sungp'an are not
considered sufficiently good or plentiful for the supply to
get further than the confines of the Szechuan Province, and
consist of the skins of the following animals, mostly of the
fox tribe :-

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
Hu-li, or common yellow fox
Ma-sha, a yellowish grey thick fur
Ma Lo-tzu, tortoise-shell fur
Hung-chun, a brown black-spotted fur
Tu-Erh-shih, a browny grey fur
She-li, a light weighing, thick valu-
able fur of an animal of the lynx tribe
Lang, or wolf
93
value Tls. 1.60 each
"
"
وو
وو
دو
وو
دو
29
59
دو
.45
.35"
"
1.60
" 1.50,
5.50
1.75
دو
وو
دو
وو
With the exception of the wolf-skins, which are generally
sold whole, all the above skins are cut and divided by the
furriers for making up into the various fur garments so dear
to the heart of the Chinaman; such finished garments
have their special value if prepared with either the fur
of the back, chest or legs of the animal. The mode
of securing these different wild animals is by shooting or
trapping.
Medicines. The different varieties of medicines brought
to Sungp'an are well known and held in great esteem by the
Chinese all over the Empire. Those of a vegetable kind
grow wild and are gathered by the Tribesmen and Chinese
from hill and dale in the surrounding country.
Musk is a
secretion in the navel of the Chang-tzu, or musk deer,
that are found in herds everywhere along the eastern border
of Tibet and on the shores of the Koko-nor. The Chinese
complain of the difficulty of obtaining musk in its pure
state, owing to adulteration by the Tribesmen, whom they
report as being, most expert in injecting blood into the
"pod" containing the secretion directly after the animal is
killed. It is, however, an open question whether the Celestials
are not themselves the worst offenders in this respect;
anyway, musk when it reaches Shanghai is said to contain
20% and over of foreign matter. Lu-jung, or deer-horns

94
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
in velvet, is a much-prized medicine among the Chinese,
but the quality of horn obtainable at Sungp'an is
reported as inferior to that coming from Tachienlu and
K'uan-hsien.
Live Stock.-The Tribesmen around Sungp'an go in
extensively for raising sheep, oxen and horses, the grassy
slopes of the hills, in addition to the moorlands of the Amdon,
providing most excellent grazing ground for their flocks and
herds. The figure for beasts given in the Table is the
number sent down annually to supply the markets of North-
Western Szechuan, including those of the Chengtu Plain. A
fine full-grown sheep can be bought at Sungp'an for Taels
1.30, smaller ones for 9 mace. Goats are a little more
expensive, the price ranging from Taels 1.20 to Taels 2.00
a head.
Besides those exported, some 7,000 sheep are
slaughtered annually at Sungp'an. Oxen and yaks fetch
from Taels 5.00 to 7.00 each.
Wool. Large quantities of this staple must be used by
the Tribesmen for the manufacture of the serge-cloth (called
by the Chinese Pu-lu) which is worn by all, not excluding
Llamas and women. Of the quantity of wool sent south but
a minute proportion is used by the Chinese; it is only, in
fact, within late years, since the foreign demand became
known, that there was any considerable trade at Sungp'an in
this article, and the wool purchases now made are mostly
on account of foreign firms. Owing to this new demand
the local price of wool has increased to more than double
its former figure, i.e. from Taels 5.00 ten years ago to Taels
10.00-11.00, the present price per picul. The wool sent down
is said to contain quite 25% of dirt; and it might naturally
be asked, considering the cost for transport and likin before
it reaches Chungking, why means have not been devised to
have it properly cleaned at Sungp'an. I purposely brought

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
95
this point before the leading merchants, and they informed
me that the matter had been well considered, and, although
the place offered facilities for the establishment of cleansing-
houses, the water of the river was too cold to work with
locally. If this-to them-insuperable difficulty could be got
over, they would be able to pack the wool well and cheaply,
ready for direct shipment abroad. The present practice is
simply to separate, as it arrives from inland, the better and
cleaner quality wool from the rest before making it up into
rough unprotected bundles for conveyance south by coolie
or mule.
Tea. This is by far the most important on the list of
articles brought up from the south for sale to the Tribesmen,
it being, in fact, to them an absolute necessity. The stuff,
however, is hard to recognize as the staple from which is
brewed "the cup that cheers." The contents of the bundles
I saw opened resembled more than anything else a packed
collection of dried twigs, while the infusion obtained from
them is as unlike one's idea of tea as it is possible to conceive.
These things, anyway, are a matter of taste, and the cheapness
of the twigs is a consideration; the better quality tea comes
from the K'uan-hsien district and is invariably packed in
large square matted parcels (pao) containing 120 catties.
Each of these pao is valued at Taels 8.00, but the
purchasing price at K'uan-hsien, untaxed, is Tael 1.10. The
supply coming from the Shih Tsuen districts is packed in
smaller parcels holding 66 catties, valued in Sungp'an at
Taels 2.50 each. The trade is a monopoly in the hands of
the five Ch'a Hao, or Tea Hongs, which control the
chief business of Sungpfan as well. The names of the four
chief hongs are 本生,義合全,豐盛合·鼎立元 and that
of the fifth, which has not the same importance, is
Branches of these establishments are maintained in the

96
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
commercial centres of Chengtu, K'uan-hsien, Mien Chow and
Shih Tsuen and other places; the head offices are managed,
with one exception, by Mahomedans, who are looked up to
by all with the greatest respect. The control of the tea
traffic supplying Tibet is vested in the Yen-Ch'a Tao at
Chengtu, and all packages are supposed to have a label bear-
ing the characters Yin Ch'a stamped with his seal. The
number of these Yin Piao issued annually does not exceed
30,000, and the tax for each Piao is Tael 1.20, to cover one
package, two small pao being reckoned as one. I heard,
however, that by a mutual concession the Ch'a Hao have
agreed to take up and pay for 28,000 Piao annually if
they be supplied with 30,000, and further, so long as the
monopolists do not overdo it, a matter of 5,000 packages
more can be conveyed up without any impost whatever.
Thus the burden of taxation is considerably lessened for the
Tea Hongs, while the Government derives a certain revenue
from this source of Taels 33,600 a year and is spared the
trouble and expense of the upkeep of an efficient controlling
staff. On account of the difficulty of being always able to
obtain a sufficient means of transport, and to stoppage of
traffic-which not infrequently happens through a spell of
rain making certain sections of the road impassable-the Tea
Hongs have established depôts at Mao-Chow and Ping Ting-
kuan, where tea is stored to meet any unforeseen demand.
From Sungp'an the tea is conveyed inland on the backs of
yaks under the charge of a Chinese employé of the Ch'a
Hao or of a trusted Hsifan agent. Caravans are regulated
so as to proceed in fairly strong numbers, the men accom-
panying them being well armed; they are thus enabled, if
necessary, to keep off roving bands of ch'a-pa, or robbers,
who are said to be ready to pounce on and pillage any party
they think they can overcome. These caravans return laden

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
97
with the goods of different kinds for which they have exchanged
their previous cargo, and the profits made on transactions
seem to be sufficient to compensate for the length of time-
sometimes nine months-capital has to remain idle. The
manager of the principal Ch'a Hao told me that his firm had
always as much as 60,000 Taels up-country in merchandize.
The hongs do not, as previously stated, confine themselves
to business in tea alone, but despatch by caravan any other
goods from which they think profit can be made.
Transport. To and from Sungp'an the carriage of
merchandize is done by coolie and by mule over all
extremely difficult road, which, however, could be greatly
improved if a little money were expended on its repair.
When a landslip or fallen boulders make places quite
impassable, an effort is made to patch up the damage, the
expense being defrayed by subscription collected from the
village inns whose business is in danger of suffering from
the loss of passing traffic. The workmen engaged also
levy a toll of a few cash from passers-by during their
work, which, when finished, is anything but really
satisfactory. The Sungp'an merchants complain bitterly
of the existing state of affairs, and several of them begged
me to represent the matter to the Viceroy, in the hope
that something might be done to lessen this drawback to
trade. The cost of transport from K'uan-hsien to Sungp'an
by coolie is 3,200 cash per man, while for a mule it runs
up to Taels 5.00; the former will carry as a rule 120
catties and take 13 days over the journey, the latter bear
burdens of 240 catties and are a little quicker. Mule
transport, however, is not always procurable, and the head
muleteers, who are not at all to be depended upon to carry
out their contracts, frequently drop goods en route to
enable them to take up a better chance offering, and then
7

SE
98
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
come back to continue with those they have, for the time
being, left lying. So bad has this custom become that.
merchandize will sometimes take as long as six months to
reach its destination. The difficulty in securing transport
is the reason why there is always a large stock of wool
stored at Sungp'an, for it is the class of cargo the least
liable to damage by being kept, and other merchandize has
therefore the preference of carriage. Whether it would
pay the larger firms to run their own mule caravans, and
thus be independent of the gang of muleteers, is a moot
question, I think, although the merchants themselves
emphatically assured me that it would not, and that they
consider it the better plan to lessen the existing evil by
the establishment of depôts en route. The yaks, however,
employed exclusively for the inland transport belong to firms
engaged in the up-country business, and the drivers are
always Hsifans. It may here be mentioned that carrying-
coolies on the road are invariably Chinese, the Tribesmen
never being seen with loads on their backs.
Likin. Before concluding I will add a few words on
the subject of likin. The total sum reported to the Throne
last year as collected for the Province under the heading of
Pai-Ho likin was Taels 500,000, while the cost of its collection
ran up to Taels 100,000. Salt Likin was reported at Taels
2,000,000 and that for Opium Taels 900,000. It was only in
the year 1894, at the instigation of the then Viceroy, Lu
Chuan-lin, that a likin collectorate was established at K'uan-
hsien. Barriers were erected at the two rope bridges, but
were instantly demolished by the people, who refused
compliance with the new levy. No drastic steps were then
taken to enforce obedience; but at the present moment
Weiyuan are deputed to collect likin at both these places,
and they do so now without any opposition. This additional

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
99
impost has, however, diverted a lot of the trade from
Sungp'an, which now branches off at Mao-Chow for Chung-pa
and Mienchu-hsien. I was unable to get a tariff of this likin,
which appears to be collected without method or rule; and
merchants complain of great extortion as they speak of the
time when the barrier outside of the North Gate of Mao-
Chow was the only likin station between Sungp'an and
Chengtu. This Mao-Chow Barrier levies a San-fei, i.e.
Three-expenditure likin (expenses for Crown litigation,
travelling expenses for officials on duty, wages of ch'ai-jen,
etc. etc.) on all goods from Mao-Chow, and also a transport
tax (Kuo-shui) on medicines and wool from Sungp'an. The
tariff is as follows:-
San-fei. Musk, 1 candareen 5 cash a navel.
Tobacco, 60 cash a picul.
Medicines, 2% ad valorem.
Young deer-horns, 2 mace a pair.
Kuo-shui. Medicines from Sungp'an, 6%, ad valorem.
Wool
دو
"
7 mace a picul.
At Sungp'an there appears to be only a fixed tax levied
by the officials on live-stock at the following rates :-
Goats and Sheep, 2 candareens each.
Yaks and Oxen, 160 cash each.
A portion, however, of the Hang-yung, or shopkeeper's
perquisite, to which I have previously referred, is claimed
by the Prefect in aid of his Yamen expenses (San-fei), and
this impost seems to be regulated by mutual agreement
between the official and the payer-it is sometimes even
paid in kind.

100
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
Below are the names and uses of all the different
medicines procured at Sungp'an:-
Pei-mu (), Fritillaria Roylii, prescribed for colds
and coughs.
Ta-huang (), Rheum palanatum, is an aperient.
Chung-tsao (4), Sphæria Chinensis, a tonic and
used for consumption.
Huang-ch'i (), Polygonatum sibericum, a remedy
for stomachic coughs.
Ch'iang-ho, red) Peucedanum Decursivum, used
Tu-ho, white () to produce perspiration.
Mien-chi (), Eucommia ulmoides, a remedy for
stomachic coughs.
Kan-sung (H), Nardostachys Chinensis, a blood
purifier, and used for scenting soap.
Tang-shen (), Codonopsis tengshen, a tonic.
Kan-tsao (), Glycirichiza uralensis, a blood purifier.
Tang-kuei (), Ligusticum Thomsonii, a woman's
medicine; a blood purifier.
Chuan-hsiung (J), used to produce perspiration.
Tsè-hsieh (3), a remedy for diarrhoea.
Hsing-jen (), apricot seeds, a female medicine.
Chai-hu (), used to produce perspiration.
Pao-shen (), a mild tonic.
Hung-ch'i (I), a stomachic remedy.
Ching-ch'iao (), a remedy for colds.
Hsueh Lien-hwa (E), a remedy for consumption.
Jen-kuo (), apricots, a restorative.

A

consumption.
tion.
草图
Sketch
of
Map
North Western
Western Szechuan
20
0
Sifang
Murookai Tribes
Sifans
Grass
Count
Sung-pan
9,700
Hung Hwa-teng
Hsin Ling-kuan
Lappa Tribes
Pollurzu Tribes
An Huang-kuan
9,100
Sifans
Hsueh Shan
13,000
Hsin Tang-kuan
Kwei Iwa
R. Lin Hwa
Sumu Tribes
Sifans
Lappa Tribes
Chen Chiang-kuan
8,400
Chin Ping-ai
Cheng Fan-pu
Ping Ting-kuan
Taiping
7,450
Tie chi
Shui-k'ou-chib
7,300
Shib-ta-kuan
Liang-ho-k'ou
Chang Ling
5,550
Wei-men-kuan
Mantzu
Lifanting
Sagurai & Fan Tribes
To Mou Tung Ting
Maochow
5,100
Shih-ku
-40
Scale in Miles.
Trade Routes shown thus
Route taken shown thus
Feng Mao Ping
Ching-po
4,450
Weichow
Pan Chino
Wenchuan
3.950
So Chiao
Lang An
Shib Tsuen
Mien Chio
60
80
Chungpa
Anhsien
Lo Chang
CHENGTU
Te Yang
Sha Ping-kuan
Hsin Wen-ping
Ying Ching Wan
3,240
angtseLing
Yuchi 4,570-
Peng Hsien
Chungning
PLAIN
Hun Chow,
Kuanhsien
2,280
Hsintu
Pilsien
CHENGTU
1,700
Chung Ching
Tn Chungking
Chiang-k'ou
To Chia-ting
To River
Mienchow
Fu River
Rochow & Chung King
Chao Chai Tu
To Luchow

JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
ANNEX.
Vocabularies of Hsifan and Mantzu Tribes.
Hsifan Tribes
101
室
交外
Mantzu Tribes
Chinese name
Chinese name
Lapp'a
Proper name
Aro
Moorukai
Proper name
Moorukai
Chinese name
Pu Lu-tzu
Proper name
Ermay
Chinese name
Hofan
Proper name
Hofan,
One
Tsee
Ts'ee
Ura
Oh
Two
Gn'ey
Gn'ee
Nootch
Yio
Three
Sung
Sung
K'shitz
Su
Four
Jer
Jer
Tezutch Ju
Five
Gn'ar
Gn'ar
Watch
Wo
Six
Djū
Djū
Dzutch
H'roo
Seven
Di
ᎠᎥ
Stutch
Hsin
Eight
Djê
Djê
Crootch
Crow
Nine
Ger
Ger
Gütch
Jemu
Ten
Tamb'a
Getamb'a
Hodu
Hoyou
Eye
Gn'ee
Gn'ee
Kên
Me
Nose
Nangko
Nangko
Stock
Swiss
Mouth
Ker
Ker
Step'pu
Schwor
Hand
Lapp'a
Lapp'a
Japp'a
Ipp'a
Sheep
Lu
Lu
Gnü
Newerwa
House
Kor
Kor
K'ee
Chee
Cow
Dso
Yak
Kusha
So
Horse
Sch'ta
T'a
Oor
Djewa
Milk
Ooma
Oma
Book
Barbar
To come
Ho
Но
Hei
Suko
To go
Sung
Sung
Derken
Ulla
Good
Zonga
Zonga
Noi
Nar
Bad
Mê zonga
Mê zonga
Mêher
Marnar
Yes
Tererji
Tungari Kowei
Ungwa
No
Maree
Maree
Mao
Mao-oo
Dog
Chingê
Chihoor
K'er
K'or

102
JOURNEY TO SUNGP'AN.
ITINERARY.
CHENGTU to-
Li.
Li.
Pi-hsien
45
K'uan-hsien
Yu-chi
30
Yang-tzu-ling
Yin-ching Wan
Hsin Wen-ping
20
Sha Ping-kuan
15
So Chiao
Wen Chuan-hsien
P'an Chiao
20
Weichow
Chingpo
Feng Mao-ping
Shih-ku
Mao-Chow
422222222222
Wei Mên-kuan
75
Chang Ling
Liang Ho-kow
20
Shui Ta-kuan
15
Shin K'ou-chih
Tie-chi
Tai-ping
23
Ping Ting-kuan
Cheng Fan-pu
Chen-Ping-ai
20
Chan Chiang-kuan
20
Kwei Hwa
20
Hsin Tang-kuan
30
An Huang-kuan
20
SUNGP'AN
Total
2222222222|2||
20
40
15
25
15
50
20
25
20
20
20
25
20
50
765

The History of the Loochoo Islands.
By Charles S. Leavenworth, M.A.
Some history has been made in regard to the Loochoos
since the last paper on the subject was read before this
learned Society by the late Dr. S. Wells Williams, of
revered memory, thirty-four years ago, in the year 1871,
for, during the interval, the Loochoos have become, for a
time, an important piece on the great chess-board of the
international politics of the Far East.
The history of the islands naturally falls into two
parts (1) Their earlier history and the dual relationship
they held toward China and Japan, and (2) Their later
history, including the process by which they became an
integral part of the Japanese Empire. There are very
few documents extant in modern European languages
dealing with the first portion of the subject, and I have
relied mainly on two sources.
At the kencho, or prefectural office, at Naha, the capital
of the islands, there is a history of the Loochoos which is in
manuscript. This has been compiled by successive annalists
at different times and may be regarded as the official
Loochooan history. Through the kindness of the officials at
Naha an abstract of this was made for me, which I have
had translated and have used as one source. This will