Chinese Children's Games.
By Isaac Taylor Headland.
Little has been written thus far on Chinese games, and
what has been written is by no means a careful statement of
facts nor an evidence of thorough investigation and inquiry
on the part of the writer. Nor can the writer or writers be
blamed for this, as what they have written has been for the
most part a mere reference to children's games in the treatment
of other, perhaps more important, subjects. A request from
an American educator, who is making a thorough study
of children's games for psychological purposes, coming to us
for material on Chinese games, led us to pay particular
attention to the subject with the following result.
Chinese games or play-like their language, philosophy,
science (in all branches), architecture, instruments, tools,
government, everything else Chinese-have never gone beyond
what may be called the natural stage, or the condition
resulting from necessity. Children must, have exercise and
entertainment, and so the ball, the bat, the marble, the top,
the cash, blindfold, running, leaping, lifting, throwing,
swimming, and such other sports as nature prompted or
circumstances suggested came into requisition. But here the
matter ended so far as the Chinese games were concerned. A
people whose inventive faculties are not sufficiently developed
to improve on the style of carts and ploughs, and other useful
instruments, tools and implements, given them by their
ancestors of a thousand or two thousand years ago, may be
Dr. Luther Gulick, Y.M.C.A. Training School, Springfield, Mass.

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
151
pardoned for not exercising a faculty they do not possess in
the invention of games for children.
The games played by Chinese children are in many cases
interesting, but in few are they complicated. They have
nothing which corresponds to the more complicated inventions
of western lands-such for instance as cricket, football,
baseball, croquet, golf, and a hundred others-which by the
way are the result of the most modern inventive genius, and
were not known or but little played in the time of our
grandfathers. They are of the age of electricity, steam,
photography, stenography, and a thousand other kinds of
scientific progress, not known before the nineteenth century-
the greatest of all centuries in the matter of scientific
inventions. Inventive genius is the chief characteristic of the
descendants of Japheth. But if his descendants feel disposed
to laugh at the Chinese or other descendants of Shem for
being so wretchedly simple in their manners, and so far
"behind the times," let them look at the moral and religious
condition of the world and remember that every religion that
the world has known that has been widespread has come
from the descendants of Japheth's elder brother.
The play life of Chinese children is probably as rich as
was the play life of English and American children a century
or two ago.
Until the invention of the kindergarten by
Froebel in 1826, the play life of European children was by no
means rich. Cricket dates from about the beginning of the
18th century, and baseball from the middle of the 19th, with
which games the Chinese, up to the present time, have no
national games to correspond, unless we except the Chinese
game of battledore and shuttlecock. This game is played by
using the feet, hands and arms as battledore-mostly the
feet while the shuttlecock is composed of a bunch of feathers
fastened to a cash, or piece of Chinese money.

152
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
I.-Games which require Activity or Exertion.
It is a mistake to suppose, as has often been done, that
the Chinese care nothing about games which require muscular
exertion or activity, or that they do not pair off and choose
sides. Archdeacon Gray says: "The Chinese are not much
given to athletic exercises." Doolittle confirms this when
he says: "Their sports do not require much physical exertion,
nor do they often pair off, or choose sides and compete, in
order to see who are the best players."
guarded in his statement when he says:
Williams is more
66 Active, manly
This could, of course,
Baseball is not a popular
sports are not popular in the south." 4
be accounted for by the climate.
game in the southern part of the United States. The
statements of these three otherwise eminent authorities do not
apply as we think to North China. Several of the games
common over a large area of North China and extending
as far as to Szchuan and the Yangtse, require the most
vigorous muscular exercise, at the risk also of injuring the
hands as badly as by baseball. What has usually been termed
the Chinese aversion to active, manly sports can be accounted
for, we think, by the lack of suitable games and the absence
of the inventive power necessary to produce them. And we
are led to this belief by the fact that the students of Peking
University took as readily to Indian clubs, baseball, and
football, and have kept up their practice as assiduously as do
the students of American colleges in the absence of rival clubs
as a stimulant.
China, vol. 1, p. 396.
Social Life of the Chinese, p. 290.
Middle Kingdom, vol. 1, p. 824.

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
158
Among the
games which illustrate this theory is one
called Forcing the City Gates. This is a game played by
children from 8 to 12 years of age. They appoint captains
who choose sides, each endeavoring to get the largest,
strongest and swiftest boys. When all are chosen, they
join hands in two straight lines facing each other, then one
side sings:
He stuck a feather in his hat,
And galloped to the town,
And boys and girls came running out,
For the gates were broken down.
Then one from this side runs with all his force, throwing
himself upon the hands of the weakest boys in the other line
for the purpose of breaking through. If he breaks through,
he takes back with him the two boys whose hands were
broken apart. If he fails to break through, he stays on their
side. Then one from this side tries to break through that
side, and so by turns until all the boys are taken from one
side or the other. This game necessitates most vigorous
running, collision, and holding of hands, as well as of
muscular, nervous and mental tension. The song indicates
that it is played by boys and girls together, but if so, it is
probably played by children under seven, as they seldom play
together after that age.
Other games which illustrate this theory, but which,
because of their familiarity it is unnecessary to describe,
are games similar to our games: Blind Man's Buff, Hide
and Seek, The Old Black Man or Prisoner's Base,
Hockey or Shinney, Cock-Fighting or Crutch-Bumping,
the Horizontal Bar. All of the above games are played
by boys from 8 to 12 years, it being understood, of
course, that they are played by both older and younger boys
as well.

154
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
Again, this vigorous exercise theory is illustrated by
games played by boys from 12 to 16 years. Among these
may be mentioned the Man Wheel. This game is played by
five boys. The largest in the middle has two others on his
right and left, each with an arm around him and his arms
around them, to bind them firmly together. Besides these
there are two smaller boys who clutch fast hold of these two
boys' belts, they also taking hold of the belts of the small boys
with one hand. The wheel then begins to revolve, the small
boys being gradually lifted from the ground are swung in the
air, whirling around in a horizontal position. It is a very
pretty game and vigorous exercise.
Still other
games
which illustrate this same theory, played
by boys from 16 years upwards, are Throwing the Stone
Lock, Lifting the Stone Wheels and Pitching the Sand Bag,
not to mention Running, Jumping, Swimming, and other
exercises which can scarcely be called games.
The first of these games is played with a large stone
in the shape of a Chinese padlock. This is used in private
practice much like dumbbells are used by Westerners, and
thus used it often weighs fifty to sixty-five pounds or more.
When designed to be pitched, it is lighter, weighing only
from fifteen to thirty pounds or more. The game is played,
or more properly speaking the exercise is indulged in, by two
or three, to five or six persons. They stand in a ring. One
of them pitches the stone up into the air from ten to twenty
or thirty feet, whirling it at times as rapidly as he can make
it whirl, when it is caught by the one next to him as it comes
down. To the looker-on it is a risky, not to say dangerous,
game. The person who catches it, pitches it in the same way
to his next neighbor, and so it goes around the ring.
The Sand Bag is thrown in the same way. This is a
bag filled with small bits of iron made round by throwing

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
155
molten metal through a sieve into water, and is equal to the
stone lock in weight. It, however, lacks the danger and
risk, and hence the interest.
Lifting the Stone Wheels.-Lifting the stone wheels is
called Chi Tun tza. This is a kind of dumbbell made by
fastening two stone wheels on the ends of a pole or iron bar
four or five feet long. These dumbbells weigh from seventy
to one hundred and fifty or sixty pounds. The practitioner
taking the pole in his two hands, raises it up to his knees,
then to his body, to his breast, to his face and finally above
his head. He pushes it out in front at arms' length, and
often uses it in performing various feats of skill, such as
resting it on his shoulders and neck and whirling it round.
This practice exercises the majority of all the muscles of
the body.
II. Games which Develop Skill.
There are certain games which tend to develop skill in
the physical organs of the players. Among these we may
mention all such games as pitching, throwing, striking and
catching, such as baseball, croquet,. quoits, and the like.
While the Chinese have none of these, they have others
which correspond to them and contribute to the same end.
Among these the most important is Striking the Stick.
This game is played by boys from 8 to 10 or 12 years, all
playing together. The children mark out a square about
six feet each side. Then one takes a position in this square
with his feet spread apart as wide as possible to give him a
better command of the square. In his hand he holds a stick
about fifteen inches long. One of the others takes a small
block about six inches long tapering to a point at each end
and places it in the square in a position in which it is difficult

156
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
for him to hit it. The striker is then at liberty to twist
around on one foot, placing the other foot outside the square,
so as, if possible, to secure a position from which he can hit
the block. He then throws the stick at the block with the
idea of driving it out of the square. If he fails, the one
who placed the block takes the stick and another places
the block for him. If he succeeds, he has the privilege
of striking the block three times as follows: he strikes
perpendicularly on one of the tapering ends, causing the
block to bounce up two or three feet when he strikes it,
driving it as far as possible. This he does three times, and
if he succeeds in driving it the distance agreed upon, which
may be 20, 50, 200, 300, 500, or any number of feet, he
wins the game.
If not, he brings back the block and tries
again, continuing to strike until he fails to knock it out
of the square. The game is very interesting and popular
with the boys.
Another game which develops skill, steadiness, and
accuracy is called Pitching Brick Bats. This game may
be played by two or any number of boys usually 8 to 12
years. The children draw two lines, 5, 10, 15, 20 or more
feet apart. They each take a piece of brick, and, standing
on one line, pitch to see who comes nearest the other. The
one farthest from the line must place his brick perpendicularly
on the line for the other to pitch at, the object being to
knock it over. If he fails, he must set up his brick and
the other pitches at it. If he succeeds, he next pitches it
near the other, hops over to it, and à la hop-scotch, kicks it
against the other to knock it down. When he has succeeded
in this, he carries it on his head, walks across the space, and
drops it on the other brick, knocking it down. Then he
carries it successively on his shoulder, on his breast, on the
back of his neck (dropping it hehind him), in the bend of

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
157
his thigh (hopping), in the bend of his knee (hopping), and
between his legs (shuffling), thus walking, hopping, or
shuffling over he drops it on the other brick knocking it
over. Finally he marks out a square around the other
brick, one and one-half feet per side, and hops back and
forth over the brick and square ten times, which constitutes
him the winner of the game. Some boys become very expert,
and play the game through without a single error.
shuffling and hopping often cause great hilarity.
The
Another game which develops skill in throwing is called
Knocking the Stick. This is on the same principle as the
former, except that this game consists in driving a stick
fifteen inches long from one line over another by throwing
it at it. The stick thrown is also about fifteen inches long,
and the distance between the two lines over which the stick
must be driven is determined by the players-usually six
to ten feet or more. The game is played by boys from 10 to
12 years.
Still another game which develops skill is called Pitching
Cash. This game is very much like quoits except that the
children pitch the cash into holes instead of at pegs. Two
small holes are made in the ground eight or ten feet apart.
They then pitch the cash, the object being to get as near
the hole as possible. It is always the privilege of the one
nearest the hole to pitch last. It is also this boy's privilege
to span, and if by a span from his cash, he can reach the
cash of any of the others, he wins the
game.
Still another game which develops skill is called
Throwing Cash. This game like the above is played by
boys from 6 to 10 years of age. They each take a cash and
press it against the wall, letting it drop. The possessor of the
cash that rolls farthest away from the foot of the wall takes
his cash and throws it against the wall in such a way as to
21

158
turn.
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
make it bounce back as far as possible. Each does this in
The possessor of the cash that bounces farthest away
then takes up his cash and with his foot on the place from
which he took it, he tries with it to hit each of the other cash
in turn. Those whom he hits do not play again until the
game is finished. When he misses one, all take up their
cash and strike the wall again.
Still other games which develop skill and played by
adolescents are Shooting with the Bow, Spinning the Top,
Battledore and Shuttlecock, Throwing the Stone Lock,
Shooting Stars, Pat Ball, Jack Stones, Tossing Three Balls,
Two Bachelors beating an old Bachelor.
Shooting Stars is a game played by a boy or man, often
played by, but not relegated to, the sleight-of-hand performers
and jugglers. Two balls are fastened to the two ends of a
string eight to ten feet in length. The performer then takes
hold of the middle of the string at two places and sets the
balls whirling until they whirl so rapidly as to stretch the
string when he keeps them going as though they were on the
two ends of a bamboo stick. Sometimes he swings the balls
in one direction, sometimes in another, indeed, there seem
to be as many ways of swinging them as there are of
swinging Indian clubs, to which there is more or less of a
correspondence.
It is tossed into
Two Bachelors beating an old Bachelor is played with
three sticks, each about a foot and a half in length. The
performer takes hold of two of those and tosses the third
between them, the two being shaped like pointers and the
third larger at the ends than in the middle.
the air and caught as it comes down, beat back and forth by
the two sticks, and tossed about in a great variety of ways.
This also is a juggler's trick, or corresponds rather to
professional club swingers in the States.

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
159
Much skill is also developed by Shooting with the Bow,
and especially by shooting while riding on horseback. North
of the City of Peking there is a race-track where they test the
graduates as to marksmanship in the following way: there is
a ditch on one side of which are set up three rolls of matting,
about thirty feet apart. The graduates are required to ride a
horse at full gallop along the ditch and shoot an arrow into
each roll of matting as they ride past.
The ditch is for the
simple purpose of keeping the horse from turning aside
without being guided by the rider. He is given but three
arrows which are carried in his girdle.
III. Guessing Games.
A certain proportion of Chinese games are what may be
termed guessing games.
In most of these the eyes of the
one guessing are blindfolded, and he is made to depend upon
chance, upon his ears, or upon his powers of observation
from examination by feeling. These games tend to develop
observation, especially auricular observation, as well as a
certain detective power of discovering the guilty party by
questioning, gesture or pantomime. Among these may be
mentioned the game called Selecting Fruit. This game is
played by either boys or girls from 8 to 12 years. The
children divide themselves into two groups selected by
captains, and to each person in each group is given the
name of some kind of fruit, as apples, pears, quinces, etc.
All except the captains squat down in two rows facing each
other. The captain on one side then blindfolds one of his
boys, usually by putting his hands over his eyes, and one
from the other side steals over lightly tapping him on the
head, after which he steals back and squats down as before.
In case his companions are uncertain as to whether his

160
.CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
position is exactly the same as it was before, they all change
more or less in order to keep the blindfolded one from
guessing who it was who left his place. The hands of the
captain are then removed, and the boy walks over to the
other side, examines carefully if perchance he can discover
any trace of guilt on the face of anyone of them, or if he can
discover by change of position, discomfort in squatting or
otherwise, the guilty party. He "makes faces to try to
make him laugh. He gestures, grimaces, does everything
he can think of, but they on their part try to look blank
and unconcerned, or perhaps all laugh together, allowing
no tell-tale look to appear on their face or in their eyes.
Often his pantomimes will bring out the guilty one, but in
case they do not, his last resort is to risk a guess, and he
makes his selection. If he is right, he takes the boy to
his side; if wrong, he stays on their side. This side then
blindfolds one, and the whole is repeated, until one side or
the other loses all their men.
I Point at the Moon or the Stars as they Pass.-There
are two games which may be placed under this title, played
by boys (and) or girls from 6 to 12 years. As the boys play
it they form a ring holding hands. One of their number is
blindfolded in the centre. The ring revolves and the boy
puts out his hand pointing at some part of the ring. The
ring stops as he puts out his hand, and he guesses at which
one his finger is directed. If he guesses right, that person
comes into the ring; if wrong, he tries again. The girls'
game corresponds to this and to the former game of selecting
fruit. The girls pass the blindfolded one in a straight line
or a ring. As each one passes, she taps her, pulls her ears,
tweaks her nose, or does something to mark herself as a
target. The blindfold is then taken off, and she tests the
girls as the boy tested the fruit to see if she can discover

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
161
any one of them by what they did. They may have clapped
their hands or made a squeaking noise with their voice,
and in this way she gets a clue to them. The game has
this advantage, that it sets forth the roughness or gentleness
of the boys or girls. A rough boy will slap, or pull, or do
some other rough thing, a gentle boy or girl will be gentle.
The first one the girl guesses properly must be blindfolded.
12
IV. Quick Reaction Games.
Many of these children's games depend upon the
quickness of the reaction and movements of the players, and
these tend to cultivate quickness of reaction and agility of
movement in the children. The games have a mental as well
as a muscular effect on the child. When a child's honor or
success depends upon the time it takes it to make up its
mind and execute a movement, it wastes no time in the
process. The first of these games is called The Game with
the Cue. This is a group game played by boys from 8 to
years of age. The children all bring their cues around
in front of their shoulders, and then watch for an opportunity
to catch one with his cue down his back. A sudden
unconscious twist of the head of a boy of eight or ten years
will cause the short cue to flip back over his shoulder and
down his back before he knows it, and at once he is
slapped by a half dozen of his companions all waiting for
the opportunity. This is the object of the game, to catch
a boy with his cue down his back when you are at liberty
to slap him. Some of the boys slyly move away a little
distance, put their cue down their back, and then depend
upon the quickness of their legs or their ability to get it
back before a foe reaches them. The game is interesting and
causes great hilarity.

162
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
Another game is called Honor. This game is played by
boys from 8 to 12 years. Each boy plays against one other,
and depends upon his quickness of reaction for winning
the game.
It may be played by two boys, or by a group
dividing themselves off into twos and play as follows: each
boy hooks the first finger of his right hand with that of a
companion; they then pull until their fingers break apart,
when they each utter the word "honor." Of course, this
must not be uttered before they break apart, but must be
as soon as possible after, and the one who utters it last
must salute the other as an inferior salutes a superior.
This is an excellent test of mental as well as physical
quickness, and is a good form of experiment for the new
psychology.
Another game which illustrates this same subject is
called Put it in the Large Hole, and corresponds more or
less to "hockey," or, as it is called in America, "shinny."
The children make a hole in the ground as a general nest
or hole. Then each child makes a hole for himself. The
whole number of holes equals the number of boys. Each
boy has a stick about eighteen inches long, one end of
which he holds in his hand, the other end he keeps in his
hole. One of the boys has a ball which he with his stick
tries to roll into the general hole. He moves it up as close
as possible, then gives it a shove, and has his stick in
readiness to put the end of it into any hole that is vacant.
The other boys or some of them must take out their sticks
to prevent the ball from going into the large hole, and
while their stick is out he puts his in, and the boy whose
hole he gets has to put the ball in the general hole. In
case they knock it away and he does not secure a hole, he
has to bring the ball up and try again.
If he gets it into
the general hole, they must all change holes and in the

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
163
haste to secure a hole, he stands a very good chance. This
is one of the best games I have seen the children play.
It is very popular, and a good test of agility.
V.-Games which Develop the Parental and
Protective Instincts.
There are certain games which develop the parental
and protective instincts in children, while certain others
develop the combative and destructive. The former are
usually unselfish and elevating; the latter may be selfish
and demoralizing. Playing with dolls develops the mother
instinct in little girls. Tea-parties, or host and guest,
develops an unselfish love of society, and prepares children
for passing the tea in later years; as well as develops an
ease and grace in entertaining friends. Paper dolls with
the accompanying paper furniture teaches children how to
furnish a room and what kinds of things "go together."
While on the other hand, wrestling, boxing, sparring,
battles, and all such games, if constantly engaged in by
boys, tend to make them, if properly guided and instructed,
brave and patriotic; but if not properly instructed, lead
them to be quarrelsome, cruel, coarse and rough. While
I have never seen Chinese children playing with dolls, from
the fact that dolls are for sale at all toy shops for a few
cents each, we feel driven to the conclusion that they are
bought and played with. Their games of host and guest
are not very different from those of European and American
children, except that it is Chinese. The children divide
themselves up into groups. One of them with all the
ceremony of his race, having a few peanuts, dates or
other eatables, invites his friends to dine with or take tea
with him.

164
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
One of these games of host and guest is especially
notable. It is called Roast Dog Meat. The game is played
by children, boys or girls, from 6 to 12 years. The children
all squat in a ring, and with their palms pressed together,
they put their hands all in a bunch in the centre to represent
the pot. One of the boys stands at one side representing
Mrs. Wang, the guest of the occasion, and another goes the
round, putting his hand on each boy's head in turn as he
repeats or sings:
Boil, boil, boil dog meat,
The big pot tastes bad,
The little pot is sweet,
Come, Mrs. Wang, please,
And eat dog meat.
Then he says to Mrs. Wang:
Do you have any sauce?
No.
Oh! I am very sorry, because I wanted you to come and eat dog meat.
Well, I have some but it is in the back yard.
Go and get it, but do not steal the children's apples.
[The boy goes away and comes back munching.]
What are you eating?
Apples.
Again they go through the boiling process, and again they
invite Mrs. Wang to come and partake of the delicacies of
dog meat. Mrs. Wang answers:
I cannot walk.
I'll hire a cart for you.
I'm afraid of the bumping.
I'll hire a sedan chair for you.
I'm afraid of the jolting.
I'll hire a donkey for you.
I'm afraid of falling off.
I'll carry you.
I have no clothes.
I'll borrow some for you.
I have no hair ornaments.
I'll make some for you.
I have no shoes.
I'll buy some for you.

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
165
This conversation may be carried on to any length according
to the fertility of the minds of the children. All Mrs. Wang's
excuses being thus met, he carries her off on his back to
partake of the dainties of dog meat. The game is more for
sport than for anything serious.
A better game for illustrating the topic in hand is the
Hawk Catching the Young Chickens. This is a game in
which one boy plays against a group, played by boys from
8 to 12 years.
The children select one of their number to
represent the hawk, and one to represent the hen. The
latter is usually one of the largest and best natured of the
group, one whom the small boys look to for protection. The
group then form a line, each behind the other, the mother
hen in front, each clutching fast hold of the two sides of
the belt of the one in front of him, leaving a large and
active boy for the last of the line. The hawk then comes
to take the chickens, and the mother hen spreads out his
arms and moves from side to side keeping between the hawk
and the brood, at the same time the line moves from side to
side in the opposite direction from the eagle. The hen and
brood represents the circumference of a circle, but each of
the brood is more or less hampered in his movements by
holding and being held by his companions. The game
is an excellent one for developing the feeling of mutual
responsibility and care on the part of the older for the
younger children. Girls have a similar
called The
Cow's Tail, which will be described in another place. The
method of playing it is, however, different:
game
Another game which illustrates this feeling of mutual
responsibility is called Skinning the Snake. This game is
played by boys from 8 to 12 years. The boys all stand
face to back in a straight line. They all bend forward,
each putting his right hand through between his legs and
22

166
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
with it taking hold of the left hand of the boy behind him.
They are thus all bent over and bound together.
They then
begin backing. The one at the back end lies down and the
rest all back over him, each lying down as he backs over the
one next to him, thus the head of each is between the legs
of his next neighbor. They all keep hold of hands. They
are thus all lying in a straight line cach with his head
between the next one's legs, and having hold of the one
before and the one behind him. The last one that lay down
now gets up and "straddles" over the entire line, each
pulling the one next to him up until all are up, when they
let go hands, stand up straight, and the game is finished.
This is an excellent game for the muscles of the back and
limbs, and to teach the children to be painstaking and
careful, not to let go hands and let each other fall, or to
tread on each other as they pass along the line.
VI. The Instinct of Curiosity or Hunting and Catching.
We have already referred to several games of this
kind, viz., Hide and Seek, Prisoner's Base, also called
Black Man and White Man, and Blind Man's Buff,
three games so similar to games in the United States as
to make it unnecessary to describe them. In addition to
these, there are others which may have their counterparts
among American
games with which I am not familiar.
The instinct of hunting and catching is one of the earliest
developments of childhood, as is testified to by the popularity
of "Peek-a-boo" with the little folks. Among these may
be mentioned The Cat Catching Mice. This game is played
by children from 8 to 12 years. The children select one of
their number to represent the cat, and another to represent
the mouse.
The remainder of the company form a ring with

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
167
the mouse inside and the cat outside, when the following
conversation takes place :
Cat.-
Crowd.-
What o'clock is it?
Nine o'clock.
Is my big brother mouse at home?
He is [if he is ready]; he is not [if he is not ready].
Isn't it time to eat?
It is,
It is not.
The children revolve the ring while the above conversation
takes place. They then stop, the mouse being careful to keep
at the opposite side of the ring from where the cat is.
The cat pops into the ring at this side, and the mouse out
at the other, thus winding in and out, the cat always
having to go in and out at the same holes the mouse
does. This is continued until the mouse is caught and
"eaten." The eating often causes great merriment.
Catching Robbers.-This game is played by children from
8 to 12 years of age. One or two children are left at "home,"
presumably for the purpose of watching the goods. The rest
all run about at a distance like wild Indians, or hide behind
whatever is convenient, and then steal upon the watchmen and
snatch up whatever happens to be convenient, making away
with it. Those who are caught remain as prisoners.
Under this head it may not be improper to describe the
girls' game of catching, called The Cow's Tail. We have
already referred to this game. It is played by girls from
8 to 12 years. The girls arrange themselves in a line as the
boys did in the Hawk Catching Chickens, and then walk up to
a place where a girl is digging a hole in the ground, when
the following conversation takes place:
What are you doing?
Digging a hole.
What are you digging it for?
To put my pot on.

168
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
What do you want to set your pot for?
To heat some water.
What do you want warm water for?
To wash some old cloth.
What do you want to wash old cloth for?
To make a bag.
What do you want to make a bag for?
To put knives in.
What do you want knives for?
To kill your lambs.
What have my lambs done to you?
They have eaten my grass.
How high was your grass?
This high.
Oh! That isn't very high.
This high (holding hands higher).
Oh! That isn't very high.
As high as the sky.
What is your name?
My name is Grab. What is your name?
My name is Turn.
Turn once for me.
They all turn; that is, walk around in a circle and come
back to their former position, and while they turn they sing:
We turn about once,
Or twice, I declare,
And she may grab,
But we don't care.
Can't you grab once for us?
Yes, but what I grab I keep.
She then runs to catch some of the "lambs" but they switch
around behind the front girl, and thus sway back and forth to
keep out of her way. Why this game is called The Cow's Tail
and the girls called lambs, I do not know. I asked the girls
why, and they said: There is no why.
perhaps none more
Among the catching games there is
attractive than Letting out the Doves. This is a game for
little children from 3 to 6 years. The nurse or the person
in

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
169
charge of the children selects one who is to represent the
hawk or the eagle, who stands behind the nurse a few paces.
She then takes both hands of each of two little children in her
two hands, and pitches or throws them away from her as she
would pitch doves into the air. The children run with all
their might waving their arms like wings. The one standing
behind at a signal from the nurse pursues them, and when
they have run to a sufficient distance, the nurse claps her
hands, as the Chinese clap their hands to call their birds, and
the doves if not caught return to the cage. The game
exhilarating and very pretty for little children.
The Lame Man.-This is another catching game played
by children from 8 to 12 years. There are two methods of
playing this game, one by tying one boy's ankles together,
and giving him an old shoe. Whoever he hits with the shoe
has to be the lame man. Another method is by tying a rope
around one ankle and looping it around his neck so as to draw
one foot up to about the height of his knee, thus making him
a lame man, leaving him but one foot to hop about
on, and in
this way he expected to catch some one of the group. The
one caught is the catcher.
VII. The Instinct of Striking or Pounding.
Some of these games have already been described under
games which develop skill, viz., Striking the Stick, and
Knocking the Stick. There is still another which develops
regularity in children similar to that developed by beating
time in music. I have found that children who have learned
to play this game well keep step more easily in walking than
those who have not, thus indicating a "cross-education" of
the feet, as Prof. Scripture calls it, in the education of
the hands and arms. I fancy that this "cross-education,"

170
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
however, can be accounted for by the mental discipline
obtained in the practice with the hands and arms.
The game
12
is called Striking the Poles. It is played by boys from 8 to
years, and by two or any number of twos, and is one of
the best and most attractive of all boys' games for boys of this
age. There are several methods of playing it. The method
used by the children in Peking is as follows: the boys stand
about four feet apart, each having a stick about five feet long
in his hands (the length varies with the age and size of the
boys). As they repeat the following rhyme, they strike the
poles together. They strike alternately the upper and lower
ends, often half inverting them, striking once for each
accented syllable of the rhyme. It should be remembered
that this is but one of the various rhymes used in this game.
I have heard the students of our small schools use not less
than three different rhymes, improvised probably for the sake
of variety. Each being a trifle different from the other, they
required slight changes in the method of striking. The
rhyme is as follows:
Strike the stick,
One you see,
I'll strike you and you strike me.
Strike the stick,
Twice around,
Strike it hard for a good big sound.
Strike it thrice,
A stick don't hurt,
The magpie wears a small white shirt.
Strike again,
Four for you,
A camel, a horse, and a Mongol, too.
Strike it five,
Five I said,
A mushroom grows with dirt on its head.

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
Strike it six,
Thus you do,
Six good horsemen caught Liu Hsiu.'
Strike it seven,
Because 'tis said
A pheasant's coat is green and red.
Strike it eight,
Strike it right,
A gourd on the housetop blossoms white.
Strike again,
Strike it nine,
We'll have some soup and meat and wine.
Strike it ten,
Then you stop,
A small white flower on an onion top.
.171
VIII. The Instinct of Kicking and Bumping.
These are games which might as properly be referred to
under quick reaction and the development of skill, but I
prefer to classify them under this head as it sets forth another
phase of play life. A thorough examination of the play life
of children will show that all the various mental and muscular
needs are unconsciously provided for. It is as natural for
boys to kick and strike as it is for young lambs to butt, and
to try to prevent them because it wears out their shoe toes, or
skins their knuckles, is to stunt their mental or muscular
development.
game
Under this head may be placed the
called Kicking
the Shoes. This is a game in which boys from 8 to 12 years
all play together, each one for himself. They all take off
their shoes-an easy matter for an oriental-and pile them
up in a heap. Then at a given sign they all kick the pile
scattering the shoes in every direction, when each one
Liu Hsiu was the founder of the Second or Eastern Han Dynasty A.D. 25.

172
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
snatches up and, for the time being, keeps the shoes he
gets. Those who are agile may get their own shoes, or a
pair to fit them, or even a pair and a half or two pairs,
while those who are slow may get but one or none, and the
one they get may be either too large or too small for them.
Here a large-footed boy has a small shoe, and there a
small-footed boy has a large shoe. The game is an excellent
test of reaction and agility.
One of the bumping games is much like the American
boys' game of Cock-fighting. It is called Crutch Bumping.
Several boys from 6 to 12 years, instead of folding their
arms as American boys do, each take up one foot by the
knee or by the ankle, and in this condition bump against
each other. All those who get knocked down or drop their
foot are conquered, and the one who stands longest wins the
game.
The game which corresponds most nearly to American
football and marbles combined is the game called Kicking
the Marbles. This game may be played by two or more
boys of very indefinite age. We have seen boys of 6 to 8,
as well as men of 20 to 25 years play it. The boys have
two stone marbles an inch and a quarter to an inch and a
half in diameter. They put one on the ground, and with
the front part of their shoe upon it, give it a shove. Then
they put the other down, and kick it in the same way, the
object being to hit the first. The first boy kicks them into
such a position as to make it very difficult for the other to
kick with any prospect of success. There are two ways,
however, in which one may win. The first boy says to the
second: kick this ball north (south, east or west) of the
other at one kick. If the second fails to put it in the
position suggested, he loses and the first wins. If he
succeeds, he wins. He may then kick it a second time to

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
173
hit the other ball. If he strikes the other ball, he wins
again. If when told to go north, he kicks it so as to strike
the other ball and still go north, he has won double. If he
kicks the ball north, or in any position where it is difficult
to strike the other ball with it and then tells his companion
to kick, the latter may refuse to kick, and thus the former
must play the difficult game himself, and if he fails the latter
wins. In other words, it is a game in which the player,
like Haman, is always liable to be hung on his own gallows,
if he constructs such for his companion.
IX.-
-The Instinct of Hopping.
games in which
We have already referred to several
hopping formed a part, such as Pitching Brick Bats, Crutch
Bumping, The Lame Man, etc. Children want to test their
legs in the same way as they test the depth of their mouth by
sticking their finger back so far as to choke themselves, or
stick beans into their nose and ears. That ungovernable
desire to know, which distinguishes man from the lower
animals, appears in this as well as a thousand other forms in
children. They will run the risk of hopping themselves to
death, as the chemist runs the risk of blowing himself up with
explosive chemicals, because of this desire to know and to do.
One of the best games of this kind is the girls' game of
Meat or Vegetables. This game is played by girls 8 to 10
years of age. Each child takes a pair of old shoes, which
may be picked up almost anywhere in China, and putting one
crosswise of the other, lets them fall. The way they fall
indicates what kind of meat or vegetables they are. For
instance, if they both fall upside down, they are the big black
tiger. If both fall on the side, they are double beans. If one
falls on its bottom and the other on its side, they are beans.
23

174
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
If both are right side up, they are honest officials. (What
kind of meat or vegetables honest officials are it is difficult
to say, but that never troubles a Chinese child.) If one
is right side up and the other wrong side up, they are dogs'
legs. If the toe of one rests on the top of the other and at
an angle of 90°, they are a dark hole or an alley. The child
whose shoes are in this position must throw a pebble through
this alley, that is under the toe of the shoe, three times, or,
failing to do so, one of the number takes up all the shoes, and
standing on a line throws them back over her head. Then
she hops to one, kicks it back over the line, hops back over
the line herself, then hopping to each of the shoes in
succession, she kicks it over the line following it herself, until
all are over the line. In case she becomes tired or fails,
another picks them all up, pitches them over her head in the
same way, and tries kicking them over the line, and so on till
some one succeeds. This one then takes the two shoes of the
one who got the alley and, hanging them successively on the
toe of her shoe, kicks them as far as she can. Then the one
who possesses the shoes, starting from the line from which
they were kicked, hops to each successively, picks it up, and
hops back over the line with it, which ends the game.
X. Contortion and Acrobatic Games.
Chinese children are as much addicted to the use of the
horizontal bar as are the children of other countries, and for
this purpose they invoke the aid of a friendly tree limb, or
appropriate a carrying pole, two of their number acting as
supports. And not infrequently in our school courts may they
be seen "skinning the cat," or suspended by the bend of their
knees, their heels, or their instep, their hands or elbows, or
lying across it on their back or stomach, or whirling themselves

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
175
around very much like an American boy in his similarly
improvised gymnasium.
Pounding Rice. The boys' game of pounding rice will
be recognized by every American boy as one of his own old
Two boys standing back to back, lock arms and
alternately bending backward and forward raise each other
from the ground, while they sing the following song:
games.
Pound, pound, pound the rice,
The pestle goes up and down so nice.
Open the pot, the fire is hot,
And if you don't eat I'll feed you rice.
The girls have the same game which they call Going to
Town, in which they sing or repeat the following:
Up you go, down you see,
Here's a turnip for you and me,
Here's a pitcher, we'll go to town,
Oh what a pity we've fallen down.
At this point they both sit down on the ground back to back.
Then occur the following questions and answers:
What do you see in the heavens bright?
I see the moon and the stars at night.
What do you see in the earth, pray tell?
I see in the earth a deep, deep well.
What do you find in the well, my dear?
I find a frog and its voice I hear.
What is it saying there on the rock?
Get up, get up, Ke'rh, Kua, Ke'rh Kua.
Then they try to get up with locked arms, but find it
impossible to do so, and so they usually roll over and unlock
arms with great hilarity.
Another game played by both girls and boys from 8 to
10 years is called Baking the Cake. It corresponds to the
game played by American boys called Churning Butter. Two
children facing each other take hold of hands, and thus

176
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
holding they turn back to back, their heads going under their
arms, while at the same time they say or sing:
We turn the cake,
The cake we bake,
We put in oil or pork or steak,
And when 'tis done,
We'll have some fun,
And give a piece to every one.
Turning the Mill.-A game very similar to the one just
described and played by girls from 6 to 10 years is called
Turning the Mill. The girls take hold of hands just as the
boys do in Churning Butter, but instead of turning around
under their arms, they turn half way, put one arm up over
their head, bringing either their right or left sides together,
one facing one direction and one the other. Then standing
still the following dialogue takes place:
Where has the big dog gone?
Gone to the city.
Where has the little dog gone?
Run away.
Then as they begin to turn, they repeat or sing the following:
The big dog's gone to the city,
The little dog's run away,
The egg has fallen and broken,
And the oil's leaked out they say.
But you be a roller,
And hull with power,
And I'll be a mill-stone,
And grind the flour.
XI. Catching Hand Games.
Many of the games already described are of this class,
and might have been thus classified, but they seemed to be
more appropriately grouped under other heads. The following

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
177
games seem to have no characteristic more prominent than
that of holding or catching hands.
The Flower-Pot.-This is a game played by three girls
from 6 to 10 years. They stand in the form of a triangle,
facing each other, and then take hold of hands, each with her
left hand taking the right hand of the other, all their hands
crossing and forming a bunch in the centre. The hands must
be held in the proper way or it cannot be done. Then by
putting the arms of two back of the head of the third she is
brought into the centre, and by stepping over two other
arms, she goes out on the other side. So that whereas she
was on the left side of this and the right side of that, she now
stands on the right side of this and the left of that. In the
same way,
the second and third girl go through, and so on as
long as they wish. At the same time they say or sing:
You first cross over, and then cross back,
And step in the well as you cross the track,
And then there is something else you do,
Oh! Yes, you make a flower-pot, too.
years is called
Another game played by girls from 6 to 12
Buying a Lock. This game may be played by any number
of girls. They all take hold of hands, forming a line. Then
they all sing, either together, or one half asking the questions,
and the other half answering:
Oh! Here we all go to buy us a lock.
What kind of a lock shall it be?
We'll buy one of silver, or buy one of gold,
But what shall we use as a key?
We'll use a broom handle, if that will not do,
With a poker we'll hit it a knock,
But if neither the broom nor the poker will do,
We'll open it then with a rock.
Then the first two on the end of the line hold up their hands
and the whole line passes under until they come to the one

178
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
whose hand is up, who turns half around and holds up her
other hand with the next girl, and again the line passes
through, and so on until all are thus half turned around, or,
as they say, locked up. They then begin to unlock themselves
by beginning at the other end and passing back through as
they passed through at first, thus unwinding themselves, and
the play is done.
XII. Games Illustrating various Employments.
The various trades, professions and employments have a
great attraction for children. A country boy looks forward
with longing to the time when he can "stand up in the wagon
and drive a team." The child, seeing the gold buttons and
fine uniform of the policeman, soldier, car-driver, conductor
or mail carrier, secretly determines, or publicly announces,
that he is going to be one of these when he grows up. His
mind changes, however, when he gets among machinists and
engineers. The attraction and interest of controlling such a
great, powerful and almost living machine overcome the
attractions of a uniform, and he determines to become an
engineer. A fine lecture or sermon, a political speech on the
Fourth of July, or a patient brought back from the gates
of death, again unbalance him, and he determines to be a
professional man.
It is this attraction of the various employments which
makes shovels, hoes, pails, chests of tools, and all such usefully
useless instruments, such appropriate gifts and attractive
playthings for children. And so various children's games are
little else than toy trades and professions, in which the child
is imitating its parents or their friends. This attractiveness
often leads them to take the place of an animal in the play,
but you will have often noticed that when children play

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
179
horse, it is not because of the attraction or desire to be the
horse but the driver. Indeed, I saw this well illustrated not
long since.
child.
A larger child was playing horse with a smaller
This continued for some time, when the smaller,
either discovering that a horse was larger than a man, or that
it was more noble to be man than horse, balked and said,
"Now you be horse." The older tried in vain by coaxing,
scolding and whipping, but the horse was firm. The man was
also firm, and not until the horse, in a very unhorselike
manner, gave way to tears, could the man be induced to let
himself down to the level of a horse. From this it will be
seen that Chinese children are no exception to this general
rule, and so we find among their games names very similar to
those found among American children. It is unnecessary to
explain such games as The Sheep Drawing the Cart, played
by children from 3 to 6 years; Playing Horse, played by
children from 3 to 6 years; Riding Horseback played by
children from 4 to 8 years; Riding the Donkey, played by
children from 4 to 8 years; Making a Chair, played by
children from 6 to 10 years. Much of the play of children
illustrating this subject of the employments are not set
games, but are improvised for the occasion. The following,
however, are played by girls from 5 to 10 years.
Watering the Flowers.-All the children but two squat
down in a bunch very much like the boys when they Boil
Dog Meat.
One of these two, gathering the front of her
garment in her hand so as to make a bag, goes around the
group as if sprinkling water, and sings as she goes. (Here
again it never occurs to the children that water is not usually
carried in a cloth vessel.)
I water the flowers, I water the flowers,
I water them morning and evening hours,
I never wait till the flowers are dry,
I water them ere the sun is high.

180
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
She then says to the other girl:
Here, you watch these flowers while I go and eat.
While she is away, the girl left to watch takes one of the
flowers away.
How is it that one of my flowers is gone?
A man came from the south on horseback and stole one before I
knew it. I followed him, but could not catch him.
Again she sings:
A basin of water, a basin of tea,
I water the flowers, they're opening you see.
Again she leaves the girl to watch the flowers while she
partakes of her midday meal, and again one is stolen, this
time by a man coming from the west.
Again she waters and sings:
A basin of water, another beside,
I water the flowers, they're opening wide.
Once more she leaves the girl to watch, and once more a
flower is stolen, and this continues until all the flowers are
gone, and the watch-girl, though hired for a stipulated sum,
is dismissed in disgrace without either recommendation or
wages. It should be remarked that the reason she
gave for
the last flower being taken was that a chicken ate it.
The second game, and result of the above, played by the
same girls is called The Flower Seller. In this game, the
girl who was left to watch the flowers appears with all the
others holding each to the back of the other's skirt, and as
she walks around she calls out:
Flowers for sale, flowers for sale!
Hey! Come here, flower-girl, those flowers look like mine.
(The first girl takes one away.)
The flower-seller hurries off crying:
Flowers for sale, flowers for sale!
Ho! Flower-seller, come here, those flowers are certainly mine.
(takes them all and whips the flower-seller, who runs away).

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
181
Other games such as the Store-keeper and the Physician
are in our Nursery Rhymes, and we will not repeat them here.
XIII. Miscellaneous Games.
Among the miscellaneous games, some of which might
have been classified with those already given, we may
mention: Buttoner, Buttoner, Who's got the Button, 6 to
10 years; Top-spinning, 6 to 20 years; Kite-flying, 6 to 50
years; Skipping Stones, 12 to 16 years; Jumping the Rope,
6 to 16 years; Whipping the Ice Top, 12 to 16 years;
Pat-ball, 6 to 12 years; Jack Stones, 6 to 10 years. All of
these games are so familiar to us as to make it unnecessary
to describe them.
XIV. The Instinct of Exclusion.
I am not quite certain that this subject is exactly the
expression which describes the games I have in mind. They
are games some of which correspond to Jack-straws, in the
excluding of one of which it is unlawful to move another; while
others correspond to Tit-tat-toe; Ene-mene-mine-mo, etc.
The first of these games is called Seeking for Gold.
This game is played by girls from 6 to 10 years. They
scatter a lot of pebbles much as they do jack-stones. They
then draw a finger between two of them and the remainder as
if to cut them off from the rest, after which this same girl
snaps one against the other. If she hits the other, these two
are both taken out and put aside. Then she draws her finger
between two more and snaps them. If she misses, another
girl takes up what remain and scatters them and snaps, and
so on till all are taken up. The one who gets most gets the
game.
24

182
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
A second game, corresponding to Tit-tat-toe, is called
The Cow's Eye, and is played by girls from 6 to 10 years.
The children sit down in a circle on the ground, putting their
feet together in the centre. Then one of them repeats the
following rhyme, tapping a foot for each accented syllable:
One, two, three, and an old cow's eye,
When a cow's eye's blind she'll surely die.
A piece of skin and a melon too,
If you have money, I'll sell to you;
But if you're without,
I'll put you out.
The foot her finger happens to be on when she says "out" is
excluded from the group, and from this one she continues,
repeating the rhyme once more, excluding one foot each time
she repeats the rhyme until all but one are excluded. From
this one the shoe is taken, and it is the privilege of every one
in the ring to slap the foot, which they do with a heartiness
and good-nature that makes the game very amusing as well
as interesting. The interest lies in the uncertainty as to
which foot will be left, and the fun is in slapping the foot. It
is very popular with the children.
XV. Games with Insects, Birds and Animals.
The Chinese as a people are extremely fond of pets. The
Chinese woman with her pet dog will rival the proverbial
American dame, and the man with his birds will probably
eclipse any other people known. Birds and dogs, however,
are not their only pets. Cats, crickets, and fish are equally
popular with a large proportion of them.
Crickets. Crickets seem at first thought to be queer
pets, and so they are, nevertheless the Chinese woman is very
fond of them. She has a cage made of a small gourd with
a neatly carved lid, in which she carries a large, green

CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
183
grasshopper or cricket, often hung about her neck on a silver
chain and carried in her bosom. Boys carry them about in
sniall cages made of corn-stalks. That screeching noise
which would wear out the nerves of ordinarily quiet people
seems to be looked upon by the Chinese as music. It is true
also, as has often been written hitherto, that the Chinese are
fond of fighting with crickets; nevertheless, what has often
been described as gambling by the observer was considered
nothing more than play by the participators. Very cruel
play sometimes, it must be confessed, as has always been the
case when boys or men have indulged in such sports at the
expense of the bull, cock, or dog.
Birds. Chinese of all ages play with birds, and their
sport as compared with that with the cricket is much to be
preferred. As we have remarked, there is probably no people
in the world so fond, or more fond, of birds than the Chinese.
They are the pets of all classes, poor as well as rich, servants
as well as masters and mistresses. When the cook goes upon
the street to buy provisions, he often carries a bird in a cage
or two birds in two cages with him, one in either hand.
When your teacher goes for a stroll, he may be seen with a
bird perch, or two or three perches in his hands, with perhaps
his little boy of four or five years with two more perches
running by his side. Your coolie may be found out on the
common with a hundred other men and boys "training" or
"practising" their birds. When carried on their perch, the
birds have a string fastened on their neck and to the perch,
but when out on the common, they are perfectly free. They
pitch them up in the air, and at the same time throw a seed,
and the bird flies and catches the seed as it would a fly or
other insect, and returns to his arm, hand, or shoulder to eat it.
Again, you may see men on the street with great hawks
on their arms, or with pigeons in their handkerchiefs. Flocks
"

184
CHINESE CHILDREN'S GAMES.
of pigeons may be heard almost any time flying over Peking
with whistles fastened to their tails. Bird-markets are stocked
with birds of every hue and color, of every form, size, and
kind-singing birds, whistling birds, chirping birds, and
talking birds. A pair of geese or ducks is given to the newly
wedded bride, and a cock is fastened to the coffin-lid of the
husband when he dies.
Snail. Children from 6 to 12 years have a game which
they play with the snail, if indeed it can be considered a
game. When a boy or girl finds a snail, he kneels down on
the earth near it if he is timid, or takes it in his hand if he is
brave, and sings the following song:
Little snail, little snail,
With your hard, stony bed,
First stick out your horns,
Then stick out your head.
Your father and mother
Have brought you some food,
A piece of fried mutton,
Now, isn't that good?
And now, little snail,
Just as sure as I say,
You must eat it at once,
Or I'll take it away.
Oh! Where is the little snail gone, I pray tell?
He has drawn himself up head and horns in his shell.
The above paper is by no means complete, but may serve
to give some idea of Chinese children's games.