The History of the Loochoo Islands.
By Charles S. Leavenworth, M.A.
Some history has been made in regard to the Loochoos
since the last paper on the subject was read before this
learned Society by the late Dr. S. Wells Williams, of
revered memory, thirty-four years ago, in the year 1871,
for, during the interval, the Loochoos have become, for a
time, an important piece on the great chess-board of the
international politics of the Far East.
The history of the islands naturally falls into two
parts (1) Their earlier history and the dual relationship
they held toward China and Japan, and (2) Their later
history, including the process by which they became an
integral part of the Japanese Empire. There are very
few documents extant in modern European languages
dealing with the first portion of the subject, and I have
relied mainly on two sources.
At the kencho, or prefectural office, at Naha, the capital
of the islands, there is a history of the Loochoos which is in
manuscript. This has been compiled by successive annalists
at different times and may be regarded as the official
Loochooan history. Through the kindness of the officials at
Naha an abstract of this was made for me, which I have
had translated and have used as one source. This will

104
THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHO0 ISLANDS.
hereafter be referred to as the " Manuscript History." The
second set of sources has been found in extracts from the
Chinese Imperial History of the Ming Dynasty and from
the Chinese work called "The General Survey of Important
Historical Facts of the Present Dynasty," translations of
which have been made for me by a post-graduate student
at the Nanyang College. For the later period a number
of documents exist in modern European languages, and
interesting side-lights are thrown on the subject by the book
in Chinese, recently published, entitled "The Miscellaneous
Letters and Dispatches of Li Hung Chang," extracts from
which I have also had translated.
The origin of the Loochooans is lost in the mists of
obscurity. The " Manuscript History" says that nothing
definite can be gathered from the vague record of the past.
One thing, however, is certain to any observer who visits
the islands-that is, that the inhabitants are not of Malay
race. Their character is of sufficient weight as evidence
in this regard; for their docility and amiability, and the
instances of kindness shown to shipwrecked mariners, are
in marked contrast to the more or less cruel and blood-thirsty
nature of the Malay, as found in islands further to the
south. However, this is a question which can be left to
the anthropologist, and we may proceed to the narration of
the earliest myths of the Loochooans.
The "Manuscript History" of the Loochoos says that,
"According to some records, once in remote antiquity a
god and a goddess came down from the castle of Heaven.
They had three sons and two daughters. The eldest son
was called Tenson, who was the first king of this country.
The second son became the first noble and the third son
was the first farmer." The two daughters were the first
Shinto priestesses. Twenty-five generations descended from

THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOO ISLANDS.
19
外交部藏書
Tenson, and the period of these rulers is called by the annalist
the Age of Tenson, which corresponds with the ancient
history of foreign countries. Apart from these events,
the chronicler says there is no trustworthy record of the
era or names of the kings. It is stated, however, that
the country was divided into three parts, and the capital was
founded with the name of Shuri and a castle was built
called the castle of Shuri. The land was divided into
districts, and these again into villages. There was an official
called an anzu, under the direct control of the king, in
each magiri or district. An official called a yucho, under the
direct control of the anzu, was appointed in each village.
There were no regular taxes, but in case of necessity a
tax was levied equally upon the people. There were no
regular laws, but criminals were dealt with by the village
officials. They had the right of appeal, however, to the
king, who gave final judgment after consulting with his
retainers. Capital punishment was executed by means of an
iron awl. Wheat, millet and rice were raised, and it is
said that the customs of those early times were cruel and
warlike.
The Loochoo Islands lie in the pathway of much larger
and stronger nations of the Far East, and very early in their
history we find that invasions of their territory occurred. First
came the Chinese. The " Manuscript History" states that in
the third year of Ta Yeh ( ) [A.D. 607] of the Sui ()
Dynasty in China, the Emperor Yo, or, in Chinese, Yangti
(), sent out a man to search for foreign lands. This
person, accompanied by another, arrived in the Loochoos, but
they were unable to understand the language and went back
to China, carrying a captive with them. The next year the
Emperor Yangti sent again to the Loochoos, advising them
to yield. This was refused, and the Chinese Emperor sent an

106
THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOO ISLANDS.
army with other leaders, who defeated the Loochooans and
returned to China with about a thousand captives.
Now turning to the Chinese records, we find it stated
in the Ming Dynasty history that Loochoo never had com-
munications with China before the Yuen Dynasty. In the
"General Survey of Important Historical Facts of the Present
Dynasty," however, it is said that the Loochoos are mentioned
in history in the Wei () and Tsin () Dynasties, and that,
during the Sui () Dynasty, the first Chinese were sent to the
Loochoos. In the note at the end of the same, a General,
named Zen Ling (), is mentioned as having been sent
across the seas to the Loochoos by the Emperor Yangti, of the
Sui Dynasty. This man's name is the same as that of one of
the leaders of the third expedition, sent by the Emperor
Yangti, mentioned in the Manuscript History." Thus it
would seem that it was in A.D. 607, during the Sui Dynasty,
that the first recorded invasion of the Loochoos by China took
place. This date was about contemporaneous with the rise of
Mohammed in more Western history.
"
There are vague references to intercourse between China
and the Loochoos during the T'ang and Sung Dynasties, and
Chinese history states that during the Yuen Dynasty the
islands were asked to become a dependency of China, but it
was not until later in history that a definite relationship was
established.
The other great Far Eastern Empire, Japan, appears on
the scene, for it is said that Tadahiro Shimadzu, the ancestor
of the Daimyo of Satsuma in Southern Japan, was made lord
of the "twelve islands of the South Sea," and this territory
included Okinawa, or Loochoo, but the ties between Japan
and the Loochoos did not become very close until long
afterward. Meanwhile, the later kings of Tenson's Dynasty
in the islands became less and less powerful and a new line

THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOO ISLANDS.
107
started with King Shunten. This King ascended the throne
in A.D. 1189. He was the son of the celebrated Tametomo,
of the Minamoto clan of Japanese history, and we may digress
for a space to see how that leader reached the Loochoos. The
beginnings of the Japanese influence in the Loochoos, it will
be seen, occurred during the period of the Southern Sung
Dynasty in China and are contemporaneous with Richard the
Lion-Hearted of England and the Third Crusade of European
history.
It will be remembered that in the Middle Ages of Japan,
two strong clans, the Minamoto and the Taira, struggled with
each other for supremacy, and the conflict finally culminated
in the great naval battle at Dan-noura, near the western
extremity of the Inland Sea, in which the Taira clan was
completely conquered. Prior to this, however, the Minamoto
had been defeated in a battle in A.D. 1156. Tametomo, the
mighty warrior of this clan, in whom we are interested, was
descended from a former Emperor of Japan and was famous
for great strength and for his skill in archery. After the
defeat of his clan he had escaped to the island of Hachijo and
thence had made his way to the Loochoos. The reputed
arrow of Tametomo is still shown at a temple near Naha in
the islands. The Japanese historians say that Tametomo
brought the kana characters, or Japanese alphabetical system
of writing, to the Loochoos, and a Chinese historian says that
Tametomo's son, King Shunten, gave that system to the
people.
In regard to the Taira clan, which, as has been said, was
finally defeated at the great naval battle, it is said that a
remnant of the fugitives escaped to Kyushu, in southern
Japan, and there is a tradition in the Loochoos that some of
them reached the island of Yonakuni in that group, where
they settled down.

108
THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOO ISLANDS.
There is a quaint story in the " Manuscript History" of
the Loochoos, in regard to Tametomo and his wife, which
suggests a Far Eastern Jonah, and I give it here verbatim as
follows: "Tametomo came to the islands in order to escape
from some trouble and married a younger sister of an anzu
(that is, official) of Taira. She gave birth to a boy called
Souton. Afterward, intending to return home, Tametomo set
sail with his family. The party encountered a typhoon, which
endangered the boat until it almost overturned. All the sailors
said to Tametomo that the Dragon God () made this
wind blow because there was a female on the boat, and asked
him to send her ashore in order to save their lives. Tametomo
was obliged to land her with her son Souton at the place called
Makiminate and sailed away. The woman with her little son
went to Urazeye and spent some time there in a humble
-cottage." This young lad Souton afterward ascended the
throne of the Loochoos as King Shunten, as we have already
seen.
Later on in the "Manuscript History
" we read of
aking named Eiso, of the blood of the first king Tenson,
who obtained the throne after the abdication of King
Shogen, because the latter considered that a famine and
pestilence, which had prevailed in the islands during his
reign, were due to his lack of virtue. During the reign
of Eiso [A.D. 1260], a Buddhist Temple was constructed
and a priest appointed to take charge, although we read
much later [in the year A.D. 16031 of the Buddhist prayer
called Nembutsu as being first introduced into the islands
by a Buddhist priest from Japan. King Gijokujo, who
ascended the throne in A.D. 1314, was careless of the
government, and three kingdoms were established, for we
read of the King of Sannan and the King of Sanhoku as
well as of the monarch of the original government, now called

"
THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOO ISLANDS.
109
the King of Chusan. These correspond to the divisions spoken
of by the Chinese Ming historian as Shang Nan (I),
"Southern Mountain," Shang Peh () "Northern
Mountain and Chung Shan (L) "Middle Mountain."
But these dissensions in the islands made it easy for the Emperor
of the newly established dynasty of the Mings in great China
to begin to interfere. The Ming Dynasty began in A.D. 1368,
and in A.D. 1371 the Ming Emperor, T'ai Tsu (K) or Hung
Wu, sent an envoy to the Loochoos to demand submission,
and the king acknowledged himself to be a subject of
China and sent tribute to the Emperor. As the Chinese
historian of the Ming Dynasty quaintly records, "In the
first moon of the 5th year of Hung Wu, the first Ming
Emperor, an ambassador was appointed, named Yang Tsa
(), to go to the Loochoos to tell them about the
accession of the Chinese Emperor. Tsi Don (), the King
of Chung Shan, appointed his brother Tai Ge () and some
other officials to go with Yang Tsa to China to pay audience
to the Emperor. They presented China with many kinds
of products from their country as tribute. The Chinese
Emperor was then so glad that he ordered his officials to
give to the Loochoos the Chinese calendar and many
kinds of fine coloured cloth woven from a mixture of
silk and cotton." At another time the Emperor gave
to the envoy cloth, chinaware and iron articles, and
the Chinese sent chinaware and iron goods to the Loochoos
in exchange for horses. But the envoy said that the
Loochocans did not care for the cloth but would like
chinaware and iron kettles, so that "from that time the
Chinese gifts to the Loochoos were mostly chinaware and
kettles." Later on, in A. D. 1391, the Emperor T'ai Tsu sent
thirty-six families of the name Bing (A) to the islands,
some of whose descendants are still found at Kumemura,

110
THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOO ISLANDS.
a suburb of Naha. When a new king succeeded to the
throne of the Loochoos in A.D. 1396, his appointment was
received from the Chinese Emperor. These events in the
Orient were occurring during the period occupied by the
Hundred Years' War in European history.
In
It is necessary to bear in mind that suzerainty, in the
Chinese acception of the term, involved something entirely
different from the European idea of that political condition.
China was like the Roman Empire when it had conquered
the Western World, in that China was not yet acquainted
with any rival for power in the Eastern World.
European history even the mildest form of continuous
interference in the affairs of another country aims at
control, or at least at influence, as is shown by the words
themselves, "spheres of influence" and "protectorates."
This is because various rivals, more or less equal, have
struggled to extend their sway or influence over outside
peoples. But with China the philosophy of the situation
was entirely different. She had no rivals. Hence why
should she trouble herself to control or influence peoples
on the fringes of the world. It was, as has been well
shown, her ideal to be the teacher of her civilization to
these peoples and not to be their ruler or their protector.
She was content as long as tribute came from them as
an acknowledgment of her superiority as a teacher. When
Japan appears again in a later act of the Loochooan drama
we shall find that she entertained the usually received
European conception of suzerainty, and hence a conflict of
ideas arose between China and Japan.
To resume our narrative, a strong king, Hashi, arose
in the Loochoos, who combined again into one state the
three separate kingdoms which had arisen. To this king
the Ming Emperor Hsüan Tsung gave, in A.D. 1430, the

THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOO ISLANDS.
111
family name of Sho, which continued to be used by
the Loochooan kings. The further records of the Ming
Dynasty history are filled with references to tribute from
Loochoo, to gifts from the Chinese Emperors and to the
arrival of Loochooan students to study in the universities
of China. That the islanders also had some slight relations
with far-lying countries is proved by the fact that references
are made in the "Mauuscript History" to a Siamese ship
which came to the Loochoos to trade, to the sailing of an
interpreter in A.D. 1467, and to a voyage of one hundred
men to Malacca in A.D. 1503.
Again Japan appears on the scene of action. We must
remember that it was during the Middle Ages of her
history, and among the great feudal lords, the Daimyo of
Satsuma was very powerful. By the geographical position
of that fief, situated as it is in the south of Japan near the
Loochoos, a great interest would be felt in those islands.
In the year A.D. 1609 we find that the Daimyo of Satsuma,
Iyehisa Shimadzu, obtained permission from the Shogun
to conquer the Loochoos. He sent his forces, commanded
by his two generals Kabayama and Hirata, and invaded the
islands. The Loochooans were defeated and their king was
carried away captive to Satsuma. He was cordially treated
there and later on returned to the Loochoos. The Japanese
Daimyo established a local government in the islands, took
a census, surveyed the lands and collected taxes from the
inhabitants. After this we find a state of dual dependence
of the Loochoos both on China and on Japan. The
Loochooans were content with this double allegiance, saying
that they regarded China as their father and Japan as
their mother. But it was an ambiguous condition of affairs,
which was liable to breed trouble, as we shall see in the
sequel. In order to fix the time in our minds, on a peg, as

112
THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOO ISLANDS.
it were, of Western history, it will be remembered that
Jamestown in Virginia was founded by the English in the
year 1607 and that the adventures of Captain John Smith
took place at about this date. The Ming Dynasty in China
was drawing near its end, and while we read the record in the
dynastic history of the coming of the Japanese to the
Loochoos, no effective protest was made, and China seemed
content as long as she continued to receive her own tribute
from the islanders.
In the records of the early period of the present dynasty
we read of Loochooan students coming to China as under
the Mings. During the reign of Kang Hsi a Confucian
Temple was built near Naha, and the natives continued to
show fondness for Chinese literature. K'ang Hsi also
established a Confucian school in the islands and helped
them in many ways. On the other hand, the dual relationship
still continued, for the Japanese historians tell us that while
China sent an envoy at every coronation of a Loochooan
king, yet the Loochooans also sent an envoy and an assistant
envoy to Yedo to thank the Japanese for the accession to the
throne. In Chinese history we read that, at a certain period,
while the Loochooans had formerly sent as tribute gold and
silver cups, gilded fans, spices, armour, swords, etc., the
tribute was then fixed to be horses, sulphur, red copper,
winkle shells, etc., although later on horses were exempted.
One passage of the Chinese historian is worthy of being
transferred to this paper. After a voyage to the islands, the
Chinese ambassadors reported that birds had been seen flying
alongside the ship and two fishes swimming on either side of
the ship, so that they could be considered as giving a
welcome to the ambassadors of the Emperor of China.
Furthermore, the waves and winds stopped in certain places
where the ship passed, and this, the ambassadors averred, was

THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOO ISLANDS.
113
due to the goodness and merit of the Emperor, which had
appealed to God himself. Moreover, since the Emperor's
own handwriting was on board, God had favoured them,
they said, with good fortune, and they concluded, "Kindly
order your officers to put this down in the Imperial History."
A long period now elapses, filled with the records of the
accessions and deaths of Loochooan kings. The "]
"Manuscript
History" ends with the accession of King Sho Iku in 1835
and concludes with the words "Since his reign European
and American ships have made frequent visits." A number
of foreign ships touched at the islands, and these travellers
have left us accounts of what they saw there. We thus
come to the time when the nations of the modern world
first learned about the Loochoos.
When the guns of Perry's Expedition came thundering
at the gates of Japan, with a message which was to bring
a new era to the Land of the Rising Sun, the Loochoo
Islands became a rendezvous for the American ships,
and, in the narrative of that voyage we find a store of
useful information about the group. Commodore Perry had
proposed to occupy ports in the islands, but fortunately
for the future of international relations this plan was
not carried out. Dr. S. Wells Williams was the interpreter
for Perry's Expedition, and the celebrated writer and
traveller, Bayard Taylor, accompanied it. Much assistance
was received from the missionary, Dr. Bettelheim, who
resided in the islands at that period and whom other
travellers also mention.
After the Mikado had been restored to supreme authority
in Japan a new age dawned, when ambitious thoughts of a
mighty destiny in the the Far East began to stir in the
breasts of the Japanese, and we find that the Loochooans were
forbidden to send their annual tribute to China. We can
8

114
THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOO ISLANDS.
regard this as the beginning of the second and later portion
of Loochooan history.
It has been reserved for a later generation in China to
feel the impulse of the new ideas coming from the Occident,
and that Empire continued in the unfortunate sleep of the
Middle Ages during this critical period in the history of the
Loochoos. Hence, when the trouble arose over the dual
relationship of the islands to the two great empires of the Far
East, we find China inert and acquiescent, still holding her
original theory of suzerainty, while Japan, energetic and
awake, changed this uncertain condition of the group into a
definite direct relation as a dependency of her own Empire
only. Let us study the process, accounts of which are given
by Professor Ariga in the recent work, edited by Alfred
Stead, entitled "Japan by the Japanese," and by M. Henri
Cordier in his "Histoire des Relations de la Chine, etc." It
must be remembered that there might have been danger of
some strong European Power seizing the Loochoos in case
the problem still remained unsolved, and, furthermore, that
there was an economic cause for Japan's interest in the
islands, as she took nearly all the produce of sugar exported
from the group.
In December 1871 a Loochooan junk was stranded on
the southern coast of Formosa. There were sixty-six natives
of Loochoo who composed the crew, and of these fifty-four
were killed by the Botan savages. The Loochooan Government
asked for the protection of Japan. In September 1872 the
new king of the Loochoos, Sho Tai, was requested to send a
member of his family to Tokyo to announce his accession and
to congratulate the Mikado on his restoration to power.
When the mission came to Japan the king was recognized as
King of Loochoo by the Japanese Imperial Government and
was made one of the peers of Japan. According to law, all

THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOO ISLANDS.
115
the peers must reside at Tokyo, and therefore a house was
given him at the capital and a sum of 30,000 yen was granted
to him. Loochoo had a national debt of 200,000 yen. New
bonds were issued to cancel this debt, which were guaranteed
by the Japanese Imperial Department of Finance. The
European Powers and America had in general regarded
Loochoo as independent and had made treaties with her. The
United States had made such a treaty in 1854. The
American Minister at Tokyo, in view of the changed condition
of affairs, asked the Japanese Government if Japan intended
to bear the international responsibilities of Loochoo. The
Japanese Minister of Foreign Affairs, in reply, stated that
Loochoo had been a dependency of Japan, but by the recent
transformation had been changed into a province, and that
Japan would keep it intact and assume all its obligations.
Other nations agreed to this new relationship of Loochoo, but
the question of the attitude of China still remained open, as
she could raise claims on account of the dual dependency
which existed.
The murder of Loochooans by the savages in Formosa
in 1871 has already been mentioned. The Japanese Govern-
ment ascertained verbally that the Chinese Government did
not object to calling the natives of Loochoo Japanese subjects,
and, furthermore, would not object if a Japanese force was sent
to Formosa to punish the savages there. It was, moreover,
a question whether the Formosan savages could be considered
as being under Chinese jurisdiction, or whether this part of
Formosa was a kind of No-man's-land. Accordingly in 1874
an expeditionary force was prepared to be sent to Formosa,
but it seemed that China would now make a protest. Then
a step was taken which for a time, in the initial stages,
somewhat resembled the attitude of the statesman Cavour
towards Garibaldi's expedition to Sicily during the welding

116
THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHO0 ISLANDS.
of modern Italy in recent European history, that is, ostensibly
disregarding it while at the same time not effectively
hindering it. The Government at Tokyo, wishing to avoid
international complications, commanded Yorimichi Saigo, the
nephew of the great Saigo, who was the commander of the
expedition, not to depart. Saigo, however, refused to listen,
and said that in case of need the Japanese Government
could say that he was acting without the consent of the
Government. The Japanese Government, however, took the
responsibility and the expedition sailed for Formosa. A
detailed account of its operations there and the punishment
of the savages will be found in Hon. James W. Davidson's
book "The Island of Formosa, Past and Present."
China protested, and for a time it appeared that war
was imminent between China and Japan. The Japanese
Government then appointed Minister Okubo, Minister Pleni-
potentiary to China, and through his efforts and the mediation
of Mr. Wade, British Minister in Peking (afterwards Sir
Thomas Wade) the crisis was tided over and an agreement
between the two empires was signed at Tientsin on the 31st
October 1874. It is as follows, and the important phrases
bearing on the status of the Loochoos are italicized :-
"AGREEMENT.
"[Preamble.] Whereas, Okubo, High Commissioner
Plenipotentiary of Japan, Sangi, Councillor of State and
Secretary of the Interior Department [on the one part], and
[names of Prince Kung and nine other Chinese officials] of
the Tsung li Yamen of China [on the other part], having
discussed the subject of Articles of Agreement and fixed the
manner of their settlement; and it having been understood
that the subjects of every nation must be duly protected from
injury; that therefore every nation may take efficient measures

THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHO0 ISLANDS.
117
for the security of its subjects; that if anything [injurious]
happen within the limits of any State, that State should
undertake the duty of reparation; that the aborigines of
Formosa formerly committed outrages upon subjects of Japan;
that Japan sent troops for the sole purpose of inflicting
punishment on these aborigines, and that the troops are to be
withdrawn, China assuming the responsibility of measures for
the future; therefore, the following Articles have been drawn
up and agreed upon :-
Article I.
"The present enterprise of Japan is a just and rightful
proceeding, to protect her own subjects, and China does not
designate it as a wrong action.
Article II.
A sum of money shall be given by China for relief to
the families of the shipwrecked [Japanese] subjects that were
maltreated. Japan has constructed roads and built houses,
etc. in that place. China, wishing to have the use of these
for herself, agrees to make payment for them. The amount
is determined by a special document.
Article III.
"All the official correspondence hitherto exchanged
between the two States shall be returned [mutually] and be
annulled, to prevent any future misunderstanding. As to
the savages, China engages to establish authority, and promises
that navigators shall be protected from injury by them.
CONTRACT.
"With regard to the question of Formosa, Mr. Wade,
H.B.M.'s Minister, having spoken on the subject to the two
parties, they, the said Commissioners of the two nations, have
arranged for settlement, thus :-

118
THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHOо0 ISLANDS
"I.-China agrees that she shall pay the sum of one
hundred thousand taels, for relief to the families of the subjects
of Japan who were murdered.
"II.-China wishes that, after Japan shall have
withdrawn her troops, all the roads that have been repaired
and all the houses that have been built, etc. shall be retained
for her use; at the same time consenting to pay the sum
of four hundred thousand taels by way of recompense; and it
is agreed that Japan shall withdraw all her troops, and China
shall pay the whole amount without fail, by the 20th day of
December, the seventh year of Meiji, with Japan, or on the
22nd day of the eleventh moon, the thirteenth year of Tung
Chi, with China; but, in the event of Japan not withdrawing
her troops, China shall not pay the amount.
This settlement having been concluded, each party has
taken one copy of the contract as voucher."
From the above it will be seen that China acknowledged
the Loochooans as subjects of Japan, without making any
reference to the islands as a dependency of China, and they
were treated by Japan henceforth as her own territory only.
The Loochooans objected at first to this condition of
affairs and still wished the dual dependency to continue.
Appeals were made to foreign Powers, including China, but
none of them interfered, and China herself, becoming involved
with Russia over the Kuldja incident, made no effective
protest. General Grant, who was at this time on a tour
around the world, used his influence in 1879 toward avoiding
a conflict between China and Japan over the question; and
although we find many references, in Li Hung Chang's Letters
and Dispatches, to the islands, nothing definite was done by
China to revive her claims, which she had tacitly given up by
the Agreement of 1874. In these Letters and Dispatches of

THE HISTORY OF THE LOOCHO0 ISLANDS.
119
Li Hung Chang the assertion is made that General Grant
promised Li to use his good offices toward arbitration in case
China would prohibit the emigration of laborers to San
Francisco for a certain period of time.
An attempt was made a little later to revise the
unsatisfactory treaty of 1871 between China and Japan (not
the Formosan Agreement of 1874), and the Japanese, while
holding to their original contention that the Loochoos were
an internal domestic affair of their own, proposed to cede to
China two islands of the group, namely Miyako and Yayeyama,
which lie near Formosa, in return for treaty revision allowing
greater facilities for Japanese trade in the interior of China.
A conference was held at Peking, but some hitch occurred in
the negotiations, it being related that, at the last moment, the
Chinese plenipotentiary said that he could not make a
conclusive agreement without referring to some other
dignitaries, and the matter was not discussed any further
by Japan.
The last king of the Loochoos died recently in Tokyo,
and no successor has been appointed. The natives of the
islands were in favour of China up to the period of the Chino-
Japanese War, but since that time they have been very loyal
to Japan. Their devotion to that Empire is now undoubted,
and with the progress of the Japanese language, Japanese
education and manners and customs in the Loochoos, they
seem in a fair way to be completely assimilated in time.