THE TWO ZODIACS
(SOLAR AND LUNAR)
Their Origin and Connections.
A STUDY IN THE EARLIEST DAWN OF
CIVILISATION.
By Thos. W. Kingsmill.
It has been accounted a fact by many historians in all
ages that important historical secrets lay hidden behind the
Zodiacs which have divided between them the suffrages of
civilised humanity; and that if we could discover the true
origin of one or the other we should have gone a long way
towards ascertaining the conditions and locality of our
earliest civilisation. Many attempts have been made from
time to time to solve the tempting enigma, but from want of
the necessary knowledge, geographical, historical or ethno-
graphical, none have quite succeeded; though thanks to recent
explorations in Egypt, Babylonia and elsewhere, and to
increased knowledge of ancient Asiatic literatures, the
boundaries of the disputed territory have been much
narrowed.
Tradition, and the constant repetition of the numbers
twelve and sixty, have generally pointed to old Babylon as
the birthplace of the Solar Zodiac at least. That of the
23

166
THE TWO ZODIACS.
Lunar Zodiac, with its twenty-seven or twenty-eight
mansions, has remained a much more open question, and
Arabia, India and China have been confidently named as its
place of origin. It is sufficient to say that no one of these
propounders of theories had a sufficient grasp of the subject
in its entirety, and they were for the most part dependent on
ridiculous mistranslations of original documents in one or
other language concerned, or had an insufficient acquaintance
with the astronomical principles entailed. Proctor, Burgess
and, more recently, Miss Plunket have attacked the subject
from an astronomical point of view and have thrown
considerable light on it, and to all three I am much indebted.
So also a better knowledge of the earliest antiquities of
Egypt and Babylonia has been acquired by the numerous
excavations into ancient sites which have marked the past
ten years; and more than all these have been the improved
methods of study, and the better understanding of the
canons of historic criticism which these archaic studies have
provoked.
Some thirty years ago R. A. Proctor drew attention to
the importance in historical studies of realising the position
of the heavenly bodies in past times. By restoring these for
the third millennium B.C. he showed that the constellations
as we still depict them must, for the most part, have had
their origin about the time of the great Babylonish king
Khammurabi. King Khammurabi, according to the most
trustworthy calculations, died in or about the year B.C. 2231,
and during his long reign succeeded in raising Babylon to
the highest pitch of power and influence amongst the
nations of the earth. It was under his instructions that his
scribes committed to writing the great Epic of the Creation;
and it was likewise by his orders that his astronomers placed
in the sky, for everlasting record in the new constellations,

THE TWO ZODIACS.
167
the legend of the Deluge and the destruction of the elder
race of men. Such seems to have been the origin of the
mighty constellations, the Ship Argo, the Kentaur, the Altar
and the Raven.
The story of the Deluge was of course already old ages
before the time of the great king, but it could only have been
in his time, or within a few years backwards or forwards, that
the great Ship Argo could have been seen by all in the
latitude of Babylon majestically crossing the southern
horizon on an even keel, with her mast upright and her sails
all set.
The division of the ecliptic into the twelve great zodiacal
constellations took place long before the period of Kham-
murabi. It may with certainty be traced back to the time of
the Akkadian monarch known as Sargon I, when it was
already almost in universal use. From the beginning the
Babylonians and their predecessors seem to have adopted a
sidereal rather than a tropical calendar, possibly at the first
in ignorance of the progress of the seasons, and, when this
was discovered, from disinclination to alter what had already
become sacred. Thus it happened that the commencement of
the month Nisannu, with which the Babylonians commenced
their year, was in the reign of Sargon I nearly two months
in advance of the Vernal Equinox, and in Khammurabi's
time it was actually a month in advance of the same period.
It was not till the epoch of Hipparchus [cir. 130 B.C.] that
the entrance of the sun into the constellation of Aries,
commonly called the First Point of Aries, coincided with the
Vernal Equinox.
Now in the latitude of Babylon, about 32° N. Lat., the
most natural division of the year would be by the Vernal
Equinox, marking the change from the raw, wet winter to
returning spring, when the labours of the field begin. The

168
THE TWO ZODIACS.
change, sufficiently well marked in the plain about the city
itself, is still more conspicuous in the neighbouring lands.
But curiously enough, as we have seen, in Khammurabi's
time the commencement of the year, following as it did the
stars, did not mark any tangible period seasonably, nor
coincide with either the solsticial or equinoctial colures. It
certainly then would not have recommended itself to the
practical astronomers, who had just mapped out the heavens
and done their work so effectively that after more than four
thousand years their scheme remains in working order. But
long before King Khammurabi's time the Zodiac with its
twelve signs, and the division of the year into twelve
corresponding months, had been in use; and in Sargon's time,
fifteen hundred years previously, fitted in equally badly with
any scheme of dividing and commencing the year which
could have recommended itself to any practical observer.
To arrive at any epoch for commencing the Zodiac which
would have corresponded with any important astronomical
period we would have to go back nearly three thousand
years before the reign of Sargon I, when the entrance of the
sun into the constellation Aries coincided with the winter
solstice. Against this there are several important objections
to be raised. In the first place we have no authority of
any kind to refer to so high an antiquity the dawn of
civilisation in Chaldea, our earliest date for the very earliest
records scarcely going back beyond 4000 B.C., and a very
considerable period being required before the study of
astronomy was sufficiently far advanced to enable the first
generalisation of the annual track of the sun to be worked
out. In the second place the most primitive cult in Chaldea
and the neighbouring countries of Asia Minor and Syria was
centred in the annual death of the sun under the deadly tusk
of winter and his rebirth at the Vernal Equinox. We are

THE TWO ZODIACS.
169
thus effectually debarred from looking to Chaldea for the
origin of a Solar Zodiac beginning with the winter solstice.
To Miss Plunket belongs the honour of having been the
first to point out from astronomical combined with chrono-
logical data the necessity of carrying back the introduction of
the Solar Zodiac to so early a date as, at least, 6,000 years
B.C., the date 6750-6500 would answer better the
astronomical necessities of the case. We have also to look
for its commencement to some locality where the winter
solstice formed the most natural date for the commencement
of the annual cycle. Geographically the fertile lands of
Shomer and Nejed in Central Arabia answer the require-
ments of the case. Here the extremes of winter and summer
are far less felt than in the Syrian and Mesopotamian lands,
and the change from winter to spring is hardly noticeable.
The great event of the year is the solstice, when the sun
makes his furthest excursion to the south, when the days are
slightly shorter, and vegetation momentarily, but only
momentarily, receives a check.
Recent discoveries in Egypt and the adjacent lands
have afforded us many glimpses into the earliest history of
civilised man, which even a few years ago were absolutely
unattainable; and these all tend to connect the introduction of
its earliest civilisation into Egypt with the land of Arabia.
With some degree of confidence the reign of Menes,
with whom began the long line of Egyptian monarchs known
to history as "dynastic," may be put down as approximately
5000 B.C. Professor Petrie, indeed, from his latest researches
adopts the date B.C. 5590 for the commencement of the
reign. Menes was the first king of united Egypt, but there
was before his time a period of unknown length, not
altogether unlike the Anglo-Saxon Heptarchy, during which
kings of the same race held sway in kingdoms more or less

170
THE TWO ZODIACS.
isolated. These monarchs were of a different race from the
aboriginal Egyptians and possessed of a culture considerably
in advance of theirs.
According to all tradition the ancestors of this race had
landed as immigrants at or about Koseir on the Red Sea,
and partly by force and partly through the influence of a
superior culture had succeeded in making themselves the
ruling caste throughout the greater part of the land from
the Cataracts to the Delta.. There is no doubt, from the
monuments which they have left behind them, that they
introduced the use of bronze implements and weapons, the
cultivation of the cereals wheat and barley, the use of bricks
for building and, above all, the art of hieroglyphic writing.
So far is allowed by all Egyptologists. That they came from
the eastward is also admitted.
Having appeared first at Koseir we can trace them by
the monuments which they left behind them through the
Wadi Hammamet to Koptos, where they entered the land of
Egypt proper, and here they seem to have made their first
permanent settlement. There are a few traces of a serious
battle having taken place hereabouts, but from the inferiority
of their weapons the natives were easily overcome, and the
subsequent occupation seems to have been for the most part
bloodless. The occupation, and the subsequent growth of
the monarchy, must have occupied some centuries at least,
so that we can hardly place the arrival at Koseir later than
5500 B.C.-more probably it took place nearer to 6000.
There are then no chronological difficulties in attributing
the first introduction of the Solar Zodiac to so remote a period
as the sixth millennium before Christ. The people who
landed in Egypt, and established there the first Empire, were
already well advanced in the arts. They were metal workers,
were acquainted with the use of bronze, cultivated wheat and

THE TWO ZODIACS.
171
barley and used bricks in their buildings; and all this implied
a long period of settled residence in their former home.
Moreover, they were acquainted with writing, so that they
could keep records and make calculations, and so were in a
position to hand down their observations and conclusions to
their successors. Their country must have been at least
reasonably fertile and well watered and suited to the pro-
duction of cereals; and all these we meet with in the highlands
of Central Arabia; which moreover produce in abundance,
and of quality elsewhere unsurpassed, large crops of dates,
here an important article of food.
Now persistent tradition has always associated these
immigrants with the east, and the land of Punt is equally
persistently spoken of as their original home, and it is always
mentioned in connection with the gods as a semi-divine land.
But where was this holy land of Punt? Here we seem to
have indications from two separate sources, both external and
both perfectly independent of each other and of Egypt. One
is the legend of the Ethiopians and their chief Memnon, as
told by Homer in the Odyssey, the other the list of the
descendants of Ham as given in the tenth chapter of Genesis.
Besides we learn that it lay to the east of Egypt, and is
spoken of as a southern land. Reasoning from these two
statements it is sometimes assumed that it was in some way
connected with Somali land. The evidence on this head
does not, however, amount to much.
Homer calls Memnon the son of Eos, the Dawn, and
equally associates his Ethiopians with the gods, going to the
banquet on equal terms with Zeus and Poseidon. Memnon in
Greek myth is associated not only with the land of the
Ethiopians but also with Kissia or Susiana (i.e. the lands of
Kush or Çush, for the two are identical), and as well with Egypt.
Homer likewise speaks of his Ethiopians as the most distant

172
THE TWO ZODIACS.
of men, dwelling afar off, and divided into two parts equally
associated with the rising and the setting sun. It was not,
indeed, until the time of Herodotus that these bright-eyed
Ethiopians came to be confused with the sooty tribes of the
Sudan; and even with him the tradition of their semi-divine
character lingered, and we find him relating how Cambyses
planned an expedition to explore their land, now supposed to
be in that part of Libya which lies on the South Sea, and sent
his messengers to spy out the "Table of the Sun," still fabled
to exist amongst them.
It is generally allowed, as stated by Dr. Budge,' that these
immigrants came from the east across the Red Sea, and that
the land whence they came was somehow connected with
Babylonia. Two routes have been suggested: according to one
they entered Egypt from the north-east by way of the peninsula
of Sinai and the Delta; according to the other, starting from
some point in Southern Arabia they crossed over the Straits
of Bab el Mandeb to the African shore, which they followed
northward until they arrived at Kuseir at the entrance of
the Wadi Hammâmet. The first of these may be partially,
but only partially, true, as we shall see further on; to the
second there are such grave objections that we may dismiss
it briefly. From the landing opposite the Straits of Bab el
Mandeb to arrive at Kuseir but two ways could have presented
themselves either by land or by sea. The former would
have entailed a march of considerably over a thousand miles
along a rugged sea-coast or through a howling desert, in both
cases without water. The way is, in fact, trackless, and
probably has never been essayed even by small parties, much
less by a regular migration. For the sea voyage the early
Egyptians certainly had no equipment; their boats at best
A History of Egypt, I. 43, seq.

THE TWO ZODIACS.
173
were mere punts, and their use was confined to catching fish
or digging roots in the marshes about the Nile. Beyond this,
ancient migrations never took place from predetermination
on the part of the emigrants to better their condition: they
were always the result of pressure from behind, owing to the
invasion of some hostile tribe, and were matters of necessity,
not deliberation, and accordingly invariably took place along
the lines of least resistance. The most natural course for a
party of fugitives to take after crossing the Straits would
have been to make for the highlands, where they could at
least have met food and water.
The migrants, whatever they were, fugitives or free
settlers, at all events landed or found themselves at Kuseir,
and the presumption is that they had taken refuge there: in
such a case we are justified in concluding that they made
their way there by the nearest way. This would have pointed
to El Widj as their place of departure, and plainly suggested
that they were fugitives who had been expelled from their
native homes by some hostile invasion. Now behind El Widj
were the comparatively fertile and productive highlands
of Central Arabia, eminently suited both by climate
and productions for the residence of a highly civilised
and intelligent people. Even at the present day, after
centuries of Mohammedan and, more recently, Wahabee
dominion, the inhabitants of this portion of Arabia are
distinguished for the superiority of their physical and mental
development.
We gain little precise information from the Egyptian
monuments as to the exact site of Punt. Some indications
would place it northward about the Sinaitic peninsula, some
in Arabia generally, and the last and most definite, the
expedition of Queen Hatshepsu, in Afar near the Gulf of
Aden. As a fact Punt was of continental extension and
24

174
THE TWO ZODIACS.
included the Arabian country generally. We seem to learn a
good deal about it from outside sources.
Although there is abundant evidence that the genealogical
chapters of the Book of Genesis were recensed, if not written,
after the Skythic invasion of Syria in the 6th century B.C.,
the most confirmed sceptic has not doubted that they
contained authentic and ancient legends which throw a flood
of light on the earliest history of these countries, from Elam to
Egypt. Now all modern authorities have noticed the very
large admixture, even in Central Arabia, of non-Semitic
strain in the population, and the conditions under which this
non-Semitic element occurs would seem to indicate that it
was the older. One of the most important of these legends is
that of Ishmael, who is made a son of Abraham by an
Egyptian [cir. B. C. 2000]. As ordinarily accepted the story
is made to imply that the whole population of Arabia was
Semitic and descended from the stock of Eber. The tale does
not naturally bear this interpretation, and Arabia long before
the time of Abraham was a settled and apparently populous
country. Ishmael, it states, was to be a "wild man, his hand
will be against every man, and every man's hand against
him"; yet he shall continue to exist in spite of his contumacy.
The Semitic Ishmael, in the person
of his modern
representative the Bedawin, still contrives to exist in the
presence of his pre-Semitic brethren, a perpetual menace to his
settled neighbour.
Equally consistent is the so-called genealogy of the
Noachids given in the tenth chapter. Leaving out Japhet,
who represents the mixed peoples of Asia Minor and Northern
Syria, who do not now concern us, Noah is represented as
having two sons-the elder Ham, the younger Shem. Ham,
the
eponym of the settled agricultural peoples who inhabited
the Gharmsir, the warm fringes where civilised life first

THE TWO ZODIACS.
175
sprung, and Shem of the pastoral dwellers in the open country
who wandered hither and thither in search of fodder for their
flocks. This habit of representing in a genealogical form the
ethnic connections of closely allied peoples is natural with all
primitive folk, more especially Asiatic, and we meet it all the
way from Greece to China. In fact unconsciously almost we
use it every day in our natural history nomenclature of
families and genera. Ham, then, had four sons-Kush,
Mizraim, Phut and Kanaan. Kush, always identified with
Ethiopia, was the land on the upper portion of the Persian
Gulf, known to the Greeks as Susiana (really Cushiana, the
Syriac Kushan) otherwise Kissia, the modern Khuzistan.
Josephus [Antiq. viii, xii, 1, and again ix, v, 3] identifies
Kush with the lands of Arabia, closely adjoining the territories
of Judæa, so that we have not to go to Abyssinia in every
case for the identification. It in fact was like Punt, a general
term applying to Arabia and Arabic lands in their widest
extent. Regarding Mizraim there never was any misunder-
standing; it applied to the "Two Egypts," Upper and Lower.
Equally certain is the identification of Kanaan with the
"low" countries along the Mediterranean coast of Syria.
The only one remaining, then, is Phut. The word occurs but
seldom in the Old Testament-in the recapitulation of the
generations in 1st Chronicles, and in the prophets of the time
of Ezekiel. Ezekiel [xxx, 5] classes together Ethiopia
(Kush), Phut and Lydia, and [xxvii, 10] he tells us Persians,
Lydians and men of Phut were in the armed crews of Tyre;
we thus are quite justified in looking for Phut as in not very
distant communication with Tyre. Now we find at this
period that east of the lands of Palestine lay the country of
the Na-bat-æans. According to a widespread tradition these
Nabatæans once extended from the borders of Judæa to
Chaldea, and we find them in Strabo reaching along the Gulf

176
THE TWO ZODIACS.
of Akaba down to Leuke Kome. Nabatean influence to the
present day reaches as far as El Hasa, and even, according to
Palgrave, to Oman. The Nabat, as they are called by the
modern Arabians, were distinctly Saban in their religious
ideas, and the pre-Semitic form of versification known as Nabti
is still current in all these parts of Arabia. There is then
little difficulty in identifying the Phut of the Generations and
Ezekiel with the original home of the Nabateans. If so
much be allowed, and there is apparently no reason why it
should not be, we shall for very similar reasons be compelled
to see in them the originals of the people of the Egyptian
Punt. Phonetically the introduction of the n before the final
t creates no difficulty; and the traditional connection of the
Nabateans with the worship of the Host of Heaven offers a
full explanation of the association of these people of Central
Arabia with the old gods in both Egyptian and Greek myth.
In agreement with this may be mentioned the discovery in
these regions of the ancient solar temple of Eyun on the
borders of Kasim, this besides being only one amongst others
reported as still existing.
Returning, however, to the migration into Egypt at the
very dawn of history, and to the fact that we hear of no
emigration in ancient times having been known to take place
willingly and of set purpose, we may enquire under what
conditions did the present originate? We seem to find an
answer in one of the oldest of the Hebrew legends-that of
the quarrel between Cain and Abel. The narrative tells us
plainly in so many words the origin of the dispute. "Abel
(or rather Habel) was a keeper of sheep, but Cain (Qain) was a
tiller of the ground." It was, indeed, the sempiternal quarrel
between the husbandman and the nomad, which continues with
Central and Eastern Arabia, II. 158, seq.

THE TWO ZODIACS.
177
almost equal virulence to the present day in the everlasting
antipathy between the wandering Bedawin and the city dweller.
As we have mentioned above, the crossing of the Red
Sea by the immigrants must have occurred somewhere about
6000 B.C., so that something unusual must have occurred
about that period in the Ethiopian land, or land of Punt,
for the two, as we have seen, were practically synonymous.
History in ancient, as in modern, times repeats itself, and
we may reason as to what occurred at the earlier date from
what we know happened within historic times. Somewhere
about the year 2200 B.C. these Semite wanderers, who
called themselves sons of Eber, where the phonetic element
is seemingly identical with that in Abel (Habel, the strait-
waistcoat of modern written Semitic speech not then existing),
were making themselves objectionable to the settled people
of the Euphrates valley and were forced to move. They
journeyed first to Haran in Mesopotamia, and from that
moved on to the land of Kanaan: still continuing their
depredations, Khammurabi, the powerful king of Babylon,
organised a league of the settled kingdoms, and undertook
with varying success, but on the whole successfully, a
campaign against the desert tribes. These latter were
gradually forced back, part into Central Arabia and part
into the Sinaitic peninsula along the borders of Egypt.
Egypt was at the period under the weak rule of the later
monarchs of the decaying 14th dynasty, and the end was that
there was no force at hand to prevent the entrance of the
intruders into the Delta, and finally the remainder of the
empire, which they overran, and superseded the native line of
rulers. These raiders were known to the Egyptians as
Hyksos. Not the least interesting part of the narrative is
that we find Abraham himself going down to Egypt at this
very period, the chronicler tells us on account of a famine,

178
THE TWO ZODIACS.
at all events there was some trouble: we find the Egyptians
"plagued," and suspiciously Abraham is said to have returned
from Egypt, "very rich in cattle, in silver and in gold." The
story throws a strange light on the circumstances of the time.
A little more than four thousand years previously a
similar condition of affairs seems to have existed in Central
Arabia. The wandering Semite tribes had been attacked by
the settled agricultural Hamites, in their rear, and been
driven on to the settled and thriving communities who
occupied the lands now known as Shomer and Nejed, where
they upset the existing rule and drove a considerable number
of the inhabitants down to the sea-coast, whence they were
fain to escape by crossing the Red Sea to Koseir. The
impelling cause of the movement had doubtless been an
unrecorded irruption of the Oghuz peoples of Northern Asia,
who, driven by the deteriorating conditions of their home-
lands, broke on the Athwyan tribes lying along their southern
flank and impelled them in turn on to the already settled
peoples of Elam, Sumer and Akkad, amongst whom
civilisation had already made considerable
The
progress.
friction induced by the irruption seems to have given a fresh
start to the growing culture in these lands; at all events we
owe to this early time the very first recognisable traces of
its beginning.
In the Ethiopic region of Central Arabia the effect was
momentarily disastrous; the governments were upset, the
country ravaged and the greater part of the settled
population either destroyed or driven to take refuge elsewhere.
For a time civilisation itself seemed to have come to an end;
but, as has happened in many cases since, a new impulse was
given to it through the enforced migration of the Ethiopians:
they set up a new civilisation in Egypt and gave the needed
impulse to the incipient culture of the valley of the Euphrates.

THE TWO ZODIACS.
179
This is the true explanation of the many similarities of the
early cultures of the lands of Egypt and Chaldea-neither
took theirs from the other direct, but both derived it from
the antecedent Ethiopic culture of Central Arabia.
The claim to the invention of the Zodiac has during
all historical time been a subject in dispute between Egypt
and Babylon, and it is not wonderful to find the contention
carried down to modern times. Herodotus [2. 4.] makes the
claim boldly in favour of the Egyptians: he tells us that
the Egyptians were the first of all men to invent the year,
which they divided into twelve parts, and they profess to
have made the discovery from the stars. Sayce in his
Herodotus ap. hoc. as stoutly denies the claim, making it on
behalf of the Babylonians. It is more consonant with
the conclusions arived at above, founded on a reconsideration
of the entire ground, to decide in favour of the old
Ethiopian dwellers in Central Arabia, especially as both
Egypt and Babylon before the beginnings of history were
in communication with these districts. Egyptian and
Babylonish civilisation lasted well into the Greek period and
was handed on direct through Rome to modern times;
Ethiopian culture died in giving birth to that of Egypt.
That, as Herodotus represents, the "discovery" was
made from the stars is borne out by the fact that both the
Egyptian and Babylonian years were sidereal; but the
suggestion is even more far-reaching. Myth, tradition, and
history so far as it reaches, all concur in placing in this
Ethiopian land the origin of the primitive religion known
as Sabaism, or the worship alongside the one deity of the
Host of Heaven, the Hebrew Tsaba Hashimaim, b
The situation was thus eminently favourable for the
initiation of the sidereal calendar. Now, the Supreme God of
these early immigrants was Horus (the overarching sky), and

180
THE TWO ZODIACS.
appropriately his symbol on the earliest inscriptions is the
hawk, the bird for ever soaring aloft in the firmament of
heaven. His followers, too, are the Mesniu or Mesenti
(the metal-workers) who introduced into the land of their
adoption the art of metal working, more especially that of
bronze. Accompanying him was the Sun God Osiris with his
sister-wife Isis, known elsewhere by the names of Ptah, Ra,
or Tum. Now in Horus we meet with the same attributes,
if not the same name phonetically as in Greek Oupavós
Sanscrit Varuna, Zoroastrian Varana and Chinese Yao.
More remarkable still as Horus has eventually to make
way for Ptah or Osiris, or for his second self as son of
Osiris and Isis, so has bupaós to yield to Zeus, Varuna to
Indra, Yao to Wushun, while the prime deity Varana,
himself, amongst the Zoroastrians becomes degraded into the
chief demon of the sky.
A like tale comes to us through Sanchoniathon from
ancient Phoenicia :-" Contemporary with these was one
Elioun, called Hypsistus (i.e. the most high), and his wife
named Beruth, and they dwelt about Byblus (the Hebrew
Gebal). By these was begotten Epigeus or Auchthon, whom
they afterwards called Ouranos (i.e. Heaven); so that from
him that element which is over us, by reason of its beauty,
is named heaven. And he had a sister of the same parents,
and she was called Ge (i.e. Earth), and by reason of her
beauty the earth was called by the same name.
Ouranos, succeeding to the kingdom of his father, contracted
matrimony with his sister Ge (the Earth) and had by her
four sons- -Ilus, who is called Kronos, and Betylus, and Dagon,
which signifies Siton (corn), and Atlas. But by other wives
Ouranos had much issue; at which Ge, being vexed and
jealous, reproached Ouranos, so that they parted from each
other. But Ouranos, though separated from her, still by

THE TWO ZODIACS.
181
force came and had intercourse with her whenever he
pleased, and then went home again. But when he attempted
to kill the children he had by her, Ge also often defended
or avenged herself, gathering unto herself auxiliary powers.
But when Kronos came to man's estate, by the advice
and assistance of Hermes Trismegistus, who was his
secretary, he opposed his father Ouranos, avenging his
mother.
And thus Kronos, overcoming Ouranos in
in battle, drove him from his kingdom and succeeded him
in the Imperial power." The legend, then, of the supreme
god, be he Horus, Uranos, Varuna or Yao, superseded by
his son or assistant, pervaded all the countries in which the
Saban worship had once prevailed; and we cannot but
attribute it to the inability of the primitive man to grasp
the idea of a deity too etherialised for his conception.
But of these Saban or Ethiopian worshippers, for
the two words appear to have a distinct connection
phonetically, we learn something incidentally. According
to Pliny [no great authority it is true], Ethiops was the
son of Vulcan (Hyphæstus), and the myth falls in curiously
with others of more respectable parentage. The immigrants
who crossed the Red Sea were, as we have seen, Mesniu or
metal-workers, and Qain, the settled agriculturist, had for
his descendant Tubal, the first worker in metals. According
to the story as told in Genesis, he was a worker in brass,
i.e. bronze, and iron; and it was bronze, as we have seen, that
the immigrant Ethiopians introduced into the land of Egypt.
Bronze is an alloy of copper and tin; copper is a comparatively
widely distributed metal, whereas tin is confined to
comparatively few localities, and it is still a moot point
where it was first obtained. S. Laing names the valley
of the Upper Oxus about Bamian, but in any case we first
hear of it in connection with these or kindred tribes. The
25

182
THE TWO ZODIACS.
first trade-route, too, of which we have any notice stretched
across Arabia from El Hasa to Widj, and it must have
been along this road that the new occupiers obtained their
supplies of tin. This brings us to the land of Kissia or Kush,
and it is instructive to find amongst the most ancient nations
that tin is invariably called the Kushite metal. The Greeks
knew it as xaooit-epos, the Akkadian in the plain of the
Euphrates as Id-Kasdaru, the Assyrian Kasugeteira, the
Sanscrit - speaking Indian as Kastira and the Arabian
Kasdir. The first vendors of the metal in the Mediterranean
regions were the Phoenicians, and they were situated at
the extremity of this road, where it forked off to the N.E.
through the Wadi Sirhan.
Philologically as well as ethnologically there seems some
reason to connect the Homeric Æthiopes with the Saban
or Tsaban worshippers, somewhat incorrectly spoken of
ordinarily as Sabaean; Aibop, of course, has to be translated
as "sparkling-eyed," not as by the later Greeks rendered
"sooty-complexioned" : it is more likely merely an attempt to
domicile in Greek the Semitic Tsaba.
Ethnologists, till very recently at all events, have been
unable to realise the geologic fact that the advent of man on
the earth was antecedent to the present distribution of land
and sea.
In Egypt and Libya, as well as throughout
Arabia and Central Asia, the change in the relative position
of continent and ocean has been specially marked. It has
been long established as a geological fact that as late as
pleistocene times there was complete land connection between
Europe and Northern Africa, the modern Mediterranean
being then represented by two lakes. At the same period
the Sahara was wholly or partially the bed of a great sea
which cut off communication with Southern Africa, by most
of our modern authors, led astray by Herodotus, confounded

THE TWO ZODIACS.
183
with Ethiopia. At a slightly earlier period, geologically,
the ocean penetrated through Arabia into Central Asia, and
on its receding the new lands, including what is now North
Africa, became the resting-place of the Ethiopic race. In
the higher fauna we notice the same distribution: in this
new land were the homes of the lion, the African?
elephant which we find in Babylonian lands as late as the
eighteenth dynasty, the ostrich, and apparently the buffalo,
and these only became residents of South Africa after the
departure of the intervening sea. That these changes took
place while early man was an inhabitant of these regions is
abundantly proved by the remains of flint weapons found
over the regions adjoining Egypt on both sides, distributed
by water in regions now rainless, and high above the level of
the greatest floods, and when the drainage system was
entirely different from the present.
Now it was over these lands, too, that extended the
ancient Saban cult of the Lord of the Empyrean, as Milton
describes him, with his Heavenly Hosts :-
Almighty Father from above,
From the pure empyrean, where he sits,
High throned above all height.
and we find plain traces of the cult, whether amongst the
Egyptian immigrants, the ancient Greeks, or even as far as
the ancient kingdom of Yima Kshaêta, in the happy Airyano
Vaêjo in the very heart of Asia; and this in its turn served
as a second point of dispersal, after its destruction at the
hands of the plundering Oghuz-the Azhi Dahâka of the
Zoroastrian legends, had dispersed his Aryan people south,
west and east.
But as Horus, god of the Empyrean, was associated
with the Host of Heaven, so we find Mazdao, the modern

184
THE TWO ZODIACS.
substitute for the older Varana, having for his helpers the sun
and moon, the five planets, and the four celestial asterisms-
Tistrya (Sirius), Vanant (apparently, Vega) the Haptoiringa
(the seven stars of Ursa Major, then [cir. 6000 to 2500
B.C.] there being no polestar, fairly representing the north
pole), and the Çatavaêça (Crux and Musca, then conspicuous
in the southern sky), and, possibly, the earth. Later on
these became the twelve superior gods, the Di Superi of the
Romans, but who in one form or other appear in all the
cosmogonies from the Tiber to far distant China. In the
scheme of the ancient Solar Zodiac these became naturally
the twelve Zodiacal Signs of the dwellers in ancient Arabia,
with which our notice began.
Nor do these analogies fail us when we come to the
more detailed developments. Thus bennu, the bright bird
of the sun, that occupies so conspicuous a position in
connection with the Central Arabian land, is in one form or
other found pervading all the others. Herodotus [ii. 73] has
a wonderful story to tell of him, in which we can trace
the familiar likeness. The bird, he tells us, he has seen only
in a picture, but the likeness he draws is unmistakeably that
of the legendary fenghwang of China; the plumage of his
wings is partly golden-coloured and partly red; in outline
and size he is very like an eagle. He only appears at rare
intervals, and not to everyone-only once, in fact in five
hundred years, at the great temple of the Sun at Heliopolis,
when he carries the body of his father, embalmed in an egg-
shaped ball of myrrh, and deposits it in the temple. Herodotus
clearly identifies him with the Phoenix of the Greeks, and
the phoenix in the myth is associated with the ravished
maiden Europa and the brilliant land of Phoenicia, and one
very clear tale associates him with the introduction of
the alphabet into Greece, the invention of which by all

THE TWO ZODIACS.
185
authorities, ancient or modern, is allowed to have taken
place in Arabia or its immediate confines.
But, if with Herodotus we must identify the Bennu of
old dwellers in the land of Arabia with the Phoenix of
Greece, we shall similarly find him occupying a conspicuous
place in the Zoroastrian myths of old Iran. We meet him
in the Varenjana bird of the Bahrâm Yasht, one feather
of whom had so great an effect on the demons that
Zarathustra had only to stroke his body with it to render
himself invincible by the powers of darkness; we also meet
him in the Varaghna, who on the fall of Yima bore away on
his pinions the glory of the departed hero.
In China, again, we discover him in the mysterious
Fenghwang, for the word is indivisible,-the exact render-
ing of old Persian Varenj, and who in the Chinese version of
the myth is still the bird of Hwangti and Wushun, the
Chinese sun god, who gambols in the courts of virtuous
princes, and only appears when a sage is to be glorified.
When the myth arrived in China we know not, but it appears
fully fledged in the Confucian literature, e.g. in the Lünyü,
where the sage himself is represented as telling his disciples :-
"Not for me does the Fenghwang soar on high, nor the
River God display his mysterious chart: I am but a fardel
bearer." 4
In the original myth the Dragon, again, was the
"far-seeing" one who conducted the sun on his annual
course through the twelve Zodiacal Signs, and who reappears
in the story of the dragons given to the wise woman Medeia
by Helios. Going to the extreme verge of Asia, we find the
Dragon reappearing with all bis original attributes in the
Lung, a word which, however unlike in external appearance,
Verse 35,
Ch. Cl. An., IX. viii.

186
THE TWO ZODIACS.
contains identical phonetic elements. The Lung, then the
great Dragon of China, most famous of its family, possesses
in itself the power of transformation, and ascends with its
correlative, the sun himself, in the spring to heaven, while in
autumn it as regularly descends to hybernate on earth; it
desires to mount, and it rises till it affronts the clouds ; to
sink, and it descends till hidden below the fountains of the
deep. Unlike the serpent, the emblem of evil, it is eminently
beneficial, and is peculiarly symbolical of all that pertains to
the Son of Heaven, the T'ientse-now the Emperor, but once
the Sky God, leader amongst the celestial deities, and the
correlative of the Indian Indra. In the Tibetan Drug, the
counterpart of the Chinese Lung, the initial d is still
preserved, and hence we can phonetically connect it with the
old Persian Drvants, Dvarants, or Dregvants of Zoroastrian
lore, changed, like the other devas of the Vedic faith, into the
destructive daêvas, or demons, of the later Zoroastrian cult.
We are still ignorant of the processes at work which
were effective in transforming the simple nature worship of
the Vedas into the highly abstract and spiritualised religion
preached by Zoroaster. There is, however, little doubt that
they were intimately connected with the break-up of the
proto-Aryan people in their original homes in the old
Airyano Vaêjo in the Oxian Mesopotamia on the western
flanks of the great Pamîr ranges. Here were the happy
lands ruled over by Yima Kshaêto, first of mortals, where
during his long reign "there was neither cold nor heat,
neither decay nor death, nor malice produced by the demons;
father and son walked out together, each a youth in
appearance." But Angro Mainyu came, and with the aid of
his demons brought on the winter, till in those once happy
lands cold reigned supreme for ten months of the year; and
in the end came the Azhi Dahâka (Gnawing Serpent), in

THE TWO ZODIACS.
187
other words the fierce Oghuz tribes from the north-the
Diks of the Chinese version-who, forced ever southwards
by the increasing cold of their steppes, finally broke up the
earthly paradise and drove south, east and west its Aryan
inhabitants, to carry the old civilisation into the distant lands
of India, China and Persia.
This secular lowering of the mean temperature of
Northern and Eastern Asia since the retreat from North-west
Europe of its ice-age is, in fact, one of the most prominent
phenomena that strike the geologist in his study of the later
geological features of Eastern Asia, and has left an indelible
mark upon not only its fauna but upon its ethnology as well.
We are at the moment more immediately concerned
with the western stream of this migration consisting of the
Iranian and Salyan (Hellenic) branches. These crossed the
Parætakênian ranges; and the Iranian branch in Southern
Persia found itself thrown in contact with the Proto-Semitic
peoples who still, in part at least, occupied the lands of Elam,
and amongst whom traditions of the earlier Saban worship
still lingered.
Of these was Zoroaster, under whose teaching
a religion, in the main founded on the old Saban worship
of the Host of Heaven, came to be adopted by the Iranians.
The new religion raised the powers of darkness to an
eminence not far removed from that of the Lord of Light
himself, who under the title of Ahura Mazdao succeeded to
the attributes of the primeval Lord of Hosts. It retained
practically all the old nature deities of the Vedic cult, but
with the remarkable change of position that what before had
been Devas, or deities, now became Daêvas, or demons; and
in place of the old deities a number of abstract conceptions
were made the coadjutors of Ahura Mazdao (Ormazd)
in the rule of the universe. Amongst them were such
abstractions as Haurvatât and Ameretât (Health and Life),

188
THE TWO ZODIACS.
Vohu-mano (Good-thought), Khshathra - vairya (Perfect
sovereignty), Asha-vahista (Excellent holiness), Cpenta-
armaiti (Divine piety), etc. While, as Ormazd had his
antitype in Ahriman, each subordinate deity had also his
in a demon, whose special task it was to undo all the good
done by the other in the interest of humanity.
The Salyan family never in their long journey came
under the same influences; they seem to have passed west-
ward to the north of the other, but as yet no trace of their
passage has been discovered, and when we first meet with
them they were already domiciled in the west of Asia Minor.
They in consequence carried with them their old nature
worship, and we find in a great measure the old Vedic faith
in its main features reproduced in the deities and myths of
ancient Greece.
PART II.
THE LUNAR ZODIAC.
Between the Oghuz land and the Airyano Vaêjo had
spread in primitive times a fair-haired people, or rather series
of peoples, roughly known by the ancient Greeks as (1)
Skyths-more definitely as Getæ or Çakæ, for the two words
are synonymous; (2) Asii or Asiani, the Wusuns of the
Chinese; and (3) Tokhars, who to the west faded imper-
ceptibly into Daæ or Dahæ, the Ta hia of the Chinese.
According to the old Iranian tradition these people, equally
with the Aryans proper and the Çauromats or Sarmatians,
were descendants of the great hero Thraêtaona, the Feridun
of Firdusi's epic the Shahnameh, through his three sons
named respectively Tura, Airya and Çairima. The myth runs
parallel with the very similar genealogy of the Noachids given

THE TWO ZODIACS.
189
in the tenth chapter of Genesis, each being an attempt to
classify the races with which the writers were respectively in
contact. The immediate effect of the southward pressure
from the impending Oghuz tribes was to force these Turanian
peoples down on the Airyano, so that while in the more
primitive tradition it is the Azhi Dahâka that is the great and
deadly foe of the entire Airyano, in the later Iranian version
the strife narrows down to a sempiternal struggle between
Iran and Turan. This confusion of the myths has led to an
entirely erroneous ethnic classification of the relations of
Oghuz and Turk, both of whom (the former under the
fantastic title of "Mongols") are made to do duty as
Turanians. As a fact we must confine that designation to
the ancestors of the Getic and Teutonic peoples who in the
third century and onward poured down on the Roman
Empire and finally destroyed the old civilisation of Europe,
to give place at the Renaissance to our modern cult.
Associated with a distinctly different series of climatal
phenomena from that which underlay the primitive worship of
the Lord of Heaven and his celestial Hosts, was the more
northerly cult of Osiris, Attys or Adonis. As the worship of
Horus was the natural outcome of a residence in a tropical or
subtropical land, where the cold of winter was not sufficiently
severe to interfere to any serious extent with the growth of
vegetation, the other cult, whose most distinguishing feature
was the commemoration of the annual death of the Sun
beneath the deadly tusk of winter, could only have arisen in
districts where the approach of winter was accompanied by
an entire cessation of vegetation. Asia Minor, the more
lofty parts of Syria, the highlands of Elam and Central Asia
were accordingly the countries where this peculiar cult most
prevailed. The Egyptian worship of Osiris is a more or less
conscious intermingling of both forms.
This climatic distinction is again marked in the different
Zodiacs in the evolution of which the climatic differences
were the most efficient factors. In all these northern lands,
and in those that owe their civilisation to emigration there-
26

190
THE TWO ZODIACS.
from, we find the annual course of the seasons regulated by a
Zodiac founded on the position of the moon amongst the
ecliptic stars; and, notwithstanding that the year is still
divided into twelve months, the ecliptic itself is parted into
twenty-seven or twenty-eight portions known as "mansions"
or resting-places. This Zodiac is of very considerable
antiquity, and at one time certainly spread from China to the
confines of Arabia, having left its traces through the
intermediate lands, and in a few cases even as far as ancient
Greece. It is still in current use amongst the peoples in
China and India; and at one time, as seen from the notices of
it in the Bundahish, must have prevailed thoughout all the
Zoroastrian regions.
Allusions to this Zodiac are frequent in the old balladry
of China. The Tatung [Shi King, ii. v. 9], describing the
miseries of the retreat of the people of Cheo from their old
home in the valley of the Wei in Shensi to the banks of the
Lok in Honan, when the old appanage of Cheo was destroyed
by the Hiung Nu [circiter 770 B.C.] thus sings:-
Once in good wine the jests we flung,
Now skilly is our only brew:
Once from our girdles jewels hung,
Now nought but tatters meets our view.
Unmoved athwart the autumn sky
The Milky Way walks with disdain.
The Weaving Maids their shuttles ply,
As round the Pole revolves the Wain.
Now in the north the Wain reclines,
And bending low its shaft descends,
While from aloft proud Altair shines,
But careless still no help he lends.
Then rising bright the Star of Day
Our way-worn exiles calls from sleep,
To still once more their tasks essay,
Ere o'er the east the Hyads creep.
The Southern Sieve is sinking low,
No grain to sooth our woes it bears,
No liquors from the Ladle flow,
As useless still its stem it rears.
The Sieve, indeed, may show its lips,
Its lazy tongue vibrating still;
While towards the north the Ladle dips,
But from its brim no hopes distil.

THE TWO ZODIACS.
191
We gain but little information from the ballad, which has
perhaps been recensed out of knowledge. The north pole at
the period was between Draconis and e Ursa Minoris,
and was distant about 14° from a Ursa Majoris, but the
allusion is too obscure to enlighten us as to its position or
appearance. The Wain then circulated in a close circle
round the pole, and was called by the early Chinese the
T'si(t)siang ("Seven Goers"), equivalent to the Haptaoiringa
with like meaning of the Zoroastrians. The "Weaving
Maid," or Maids, was Vega and its companions in Lyra,
then much nearer the pole than at present; the Ox-leader,
Chinese K'ien-niu, Altair and his companions-all
these with the Milky Way, would at the period have been
conspicuous in the autumn sky, and need no further
explanation.
ε
The other two groups require some notice. The Ladle
in the north is identified in the Chinese astronomical work, the
Sing King, with the stars >> (n, 49, 54 and 292 Flamstead) in
the arm and club of Hercules. It is coupled with the four
well known and conspicuous stars, 7, 8, & and ß, in the bow
of Sagittarius. This asterism has a long and interesting
history, occurring, as it does, in the earliest Indian and Zoro-
astrian lore. In Zend it is the Çufra. The 2nd Fargard of the
Vendidad [v. 7], speaking of the Airyano of King Yima, tells
us: "I, Ahura Mazdao, brought two implements unto him,
a golden çufra and a goad inlaid with gold." His territory
had been becoming too straitened for the growing people,
and these he was to use to increase its capacity. Differences
regarding the Çufra have risen high: Ferdinand Justi
translated it simply plough. The root is çif (to strive, wound,
overturn), and this corresponds with Sanscrit kship, with similar
meaning: but in Sanscrit the same word, here spelled curpa,
is taken to mean "winnowing tray," and a like meaning is

192
THE TWO ZODIACS.
given to its Chinese representative ki, and this interpretation
it undoubtedly must carry in the ballad quoted. At some
former period the word had a much wider distribution
westward, and we meet it in Latin in an almost identical form
as hirpex, the English harrow, both connected with Greek
cupuós, from cúpa (to drag along). The later Persians,
apparently under Sanscrit influence, translate the Zend Çufra
as ring, but mask thereby the plain intention of the narrative.
Continuing in verse 10, Ahura is made to say "I brought
two implements to Yima, the harrow and the boring rod,
whereupon Yima stepped forward to meet the sun; he pressed
his earth with his golden harrow, and bored it with his rod,
addressing it thus:-0 Cpenta Armaita, open asunder, and
spread thyself afar to bear flocks and herds and men." It is
evident that any such words as golden ring and poniard, as
rendered by Darmesteter, completely destroy the plain meaning
of the myth.
It is noteworthy that in the imperial state-worship of
China the whole ceremony is preserved to the present day.
Each year, at the Vernal Equinox, the Emperor goes before
dawn to meet the sun at the Sien Nung T'an, the Altar of the
"Genius of Agriculture," and with his plough opens the first
furrow of the
year.
Another allusion to this same group of stars occurs in the
ancient Ballads [Shi, I. i. 10, 3.], where the Ju fen thus
sings:-
The Scorpion in the west descends,
Antares red the Archer flies;
The Royal Chamber downward bends,
As in the east the Pleiads rise.
The verse in the current version has been recensed almost
out of recognition: the ballad is a simple country ditty, on
the same theme as the Scotch ballad "There is nae luck

THE TWO ZODIACS.
193
about the house," and the last verse, quoted, simply implies
that the good-man's return takes place in the early summer.
To any student acquainted with the old Chinese names of
the constellation, and without in any way altering the sound,
the task of restoration is not difficult: I give an amended
version.
畢昴孔邇
雖王
則 室
孔如如
邇毁毁
房於潁尾
赬
fang (the four stars forming
In the modern text for
the claws of Scorpio) has clearly been substituted the modern
"
character fang (the bream), and yü (preposition) has been
converted into yü (fish); the other two characters in the
first line then naturally stand for Antares the "Red" and
the "Tail" respectively. In the second line the ordinary
character wai (to fall) has by the addition of the fire radical
been converted into an imaginary symbol, and translated
"blazing"; the real translation is simply the "
Royal House
is descending [in the sky]. The Sing King, according to
Schlegel, states that in primitive times the name applied to
the two asterisms the Tail and the Ki was that of the "Royal
House." In the fourth line the expression Fu-Mu father and
mother is absolutely meaningless; the characters, as suggested,
must have been Pi-Mao (the Hyads and Pleiads). In Northern
China, in the second half of August, these are seen to rise as
the others are about to set, and three thousand years ago the
same phenomenon would have been noticed at the beginning
of July.
But how did the Çufra become connected with the Vernal
Equinox? The answer is interesting, if sufficiently simple.
The Solar Zodiac, we have seen in the first part, could only

194
THE TWO ZODIACS.
have originated far to the south, where the most marked
feature in the year was the winter solstice, introducing in
Central and Southern Arabia its comparatively cool winter
season. This division would seem in the last degree unnatural
in the less favoured (climatically, at least) countries of the
Airyano Vaĉjo, along the 40th parallel of north latitude,
where there were practically but two marked seasons, winter
and summer, the others, spring and autumn, gradually
fading into their successors. The most marked of these
divisions was, of course, the Vernal Equinox; and here we find
most of the northern peoples placed the commencement of
their year. Then the sun commenced to have sufficient power
to melt the accumulated ice and snow of winter, and then the
soil, loosed from the ice and frost, commenced to break up in
readiness for the harrow of the agriculturist.
Now it happened that quam prox. 4750 B.C. the full
moon at the Vernal Equinox shone amongst these very four
stars in the bow of Sagittarius; the stars themselves plainly
enough represented the Çufra (harrow), so that the pious
agricultural population of the land, which as we can recognise
from the language itself included the entire, could not but see
that the sign itself had been placed there by Heaven to
indicate the time to commence their annual labours. Appar-
ently, amongst these people at least, the harrow had been
anterior to the plough; and there aloft the Celestial Harrow
in conjunction with the full moon shone down upon them
just to notify that now was the time to begin to break up the
fallow ground. It was plainly fitting then that the full moon,
in all northern languages and by all northern peoples recog-
nised as the celestial measurer, should mark the beginning of
the new year, and no more suitable conjunction could be
found than that wherein her temporary stay with the Harrow
denoted that the storms of winter had fled, and the husband-

THE TWO ZODIACS.
195
man might once more fetch out his harrow and prepare to
sow his seed.
Even so late as the time of Vergil the husbandman is
found attentive to the motions of the stars:-
Nor must the ploughman less observe the skies,
When the Kids, Dragon and Arcturus rise,
Then sailors homeward bent, who cut their way
Thro' Helle's stormy straits, and oyster-breeding sea.
But when Astrea's balance hung on high
Betwixt the nights and days divides the sky,
Then yoke your oxen, sow your winter grain,
Till cold December comes with driving rain.
In the time of Vergil, the husbandman had for ages been
provided with a regular calendar, and the reckoning of time
had been reduced to a science. In the days before the
flight of the old inhabitants of the Airyano, the husbandman
was entirely dependent on the celestial movements to regulate
his daily labours; and his desire to discover the secret of the
annual rotation of the stars must have been all the stronger
that his more advanced neighbours in Babylonia had already
a calendar to work from. Such a calendar did not, however,
agree with his own conceptions of the nature of things, and
he anxiously sought for something more suited to his daily
needs. This must have been the origin of the Lunar Zodiac,
which while still retaining the twelve months of the other,
made those months lunar, and divided the ecliptic into the
varying twenty-seven or twenty-eight stations.
Of course it is impossible to ascertain the exact period
when the primitive husbandman first began to regulate
his agricultural labours by the position of the moon amongst
the stars; that must have been almost contemporary with
the invention of the plough it is significant, however, that
in almost every nation, from the shores of the Atlantic to those
of the Pacific, we find the name of that implement referable
Georgic, I. Dryden's translation.

196
THE TWO ZODIACS.
to the still existing root ar. Even Chinese, which it was the
fashion till yesterday to refuse association with the more
highly developed tongues of more westerly Asia, preserves
it still in the form li, or in the older southern dialects lai
(to plough). So the name of the moon as the "measurer" (of
time) occurs in all the (so-called) Aryan tongues as far as the
Pamirs, and though the Chinese yuet has no connection
with this root, it has (as likewise the Sanscrit vidhu, also
a name of the moon) a very intimate connection with the
equivalent root vidh (to rule).
When, possibly under the influence of their more advanced
neighbours, these people commenced to plan out their zodiac
as divided into recognisable groups of stars, there would
naturally have arisen a desire to mark the other annual periods,
especially the solstice. Thus quam prox. 4780 B.C. the
solsticial colure passed through the star 7 Pegasi, and at
midnight of midsummer's day the full moon would have been
in conjunction with Algerib, while at the winter solstice it
would have shone just north of Corvus. We accordingly find
in the names attached to the two some recognition of the
fact: thus the stars 7 and Pegasi are still known to the
Chinese as pik, i.e. the "Partition" wall between the old
and the new years; as likewise in the Bundahish they are
called Miyan, Zend midhyana, i.e. "middle." So Corvus
is with the Chinese known as A, the "Crossbar" or threshold
over which the chariot of the
year must
pass before entering
the new this in Indian lore is called Hasta, generally trans-
lated "hand," but which we may well compare with Greek
Xaoux, the "chasm" lying between the two years-a similar
idea, apparently, to that of the Romans when they placed their
deity Janus in the passageway between the two.
So much for the mysterious realm of the Airyano,
which as yet we only know from the myths, and a few

THE TWO ZODIACS.
197
genuine traditions which have survived. Its connection with
the beginnings of civilisation in China equally rests on a
few old traditions fortunately preserved in the old Classic
of Ballads, the Homer of the Chinese, and the remains
of Mencius. Neither of these can, it is true, be looked
upon as history, but they agree so completely with what
we learn from other sources, especially Indian and Zoroastrian,
that we cannot reject the evidence for their authenticity.
This by no
means binds us to accept the ipsissima verba
of the ballads, but with this reservation they are more
valuable than the so-called records of history, which for
the most part are brazen faced forgeries. In this respect
the records of ancient China may be compared with those
of ancient Rome-both profess to be founded on ancient
records, which on investigation prove non-existent; both
have been built on a foundation of ancient ballads, which in
both cases have been misinterpreted and wantonly falsified.
In both the (so-called) original rulers of the state have been
dragged into the service from abroad, and are of a period
long anterior to any trustworthy local tradition; and in
consequence whole so-called dynasties, existing only in the
imagination of their inventors, have had to be inserted
to fill in the gaps.
Thus, if the Roman romancers found it necessary to
invent a long line of Alban kings to fill in the gap between
the Trojan Anchises and the twins Romulus and Remus,
where the first trace of local myth comes in, the Chinese
history embroiderer found that to bridge the space between
the old Aryan deities, Yao and Wu-shun (Varuna and
Vishnu), he had to spin out a Hia (? Tokhar) dynasty, and,
this not being sufficient, to insert the whole of the twenty-
eight lunar constellations en bloc, to fill in the vacant space
between the world-marked epoch of the twenty-fourth century
27

198
THE TWO ZODIACS.
B.C. and the advent of the Chinese twins, the Cheokung
[circiter B.C. 1200], where likewise commences the first
genuinely local myth.
In one respect China has the advantage over Rome;
the old ballads and stories from whose tatters Q. Fabius
Pictor and his successors patched together the romance of
the foundation of the ante-Roman state have all perished,
so that the scientific student of ancient history has no means
of probing into the past of Rome prior to the foundation
of the Republic. In China, mainly owing to the archæologica!
mind of Confucius, a good many fragments of the ancient ballad
poetry have bridged the gulf of the period of disturbance
anterior to the establishment of order under the Hans, at
the commencement of the second century B.C. These were
patched together and recensed by the wise men of the
Hans, from one to two hundred years after that date. As
the ballads had never been committed to writing, but had
been handed down by oral tradition; and as during the period
of anarchy incidental on the successful invasion of the old
hegemony by the rude and uncultured princes of T'sin, the
language had undergone radical change, these wise men made
but a poor show for their task. Still it is possible with the
aid of comparative philology to restore in part the original.
Here, however, a still more serious stumbling-block comes
in the way. The pretended scholars of the eleventh century,
conceited in the ratio of their ignorance, took upon
themselves the ungrateful task of a second recension, in
order to make the old ballads conform to their conceptions
of what they should have been. The result is bizarre, and
it is only with uncertain and timid steps that the modern
explorer can pick his way through the ruins.
Now the consensus of these old ballads, and of what
traditions have descended the stream of time, goes to

THE TWO ZODIACS.
199
connect the ancestral stock of the tribes amongst whom
the first historical indications open with these very lands
of Central Asia. The Sipak K'anli [Shu King, IV, x],
"Western-chief's occupation of Li," is an evidently much
decayed fragment: it simply describes the new chieftain
from "the west " as already in occupation of the agricultural
land. As in the Shi-ki this territory of Hosi was occupied
by the Hwanyas, a considerable tribe, it was apparently
on the frontiers of history more fertile than at present.
The Hwanyas about 120 B.C., we learn from chap. cxxiii,
submitted to the Emperor Wu, and this enabled him to
clear of the Hiung Nu the entire country from Sining to
the Lop Lake. Immediately to the west of this, and
actually abutting on the waters of the lake, then far more
extensive than at present, was the territory of Kusse, or
Ch'esse, now Gash, and in the oasis now known as
Charkhlik, at the foot of the Altyn Tagh, was the site of
the semi-mythical Ki, the first settlement of the Cheo
people after their weary plod across the plains of the Tarim
Basin. According to a tradition of uncertain age the
Western Chief, whose name is not mentioned in the fragment
preserved, is to be identified with Ch'ang, the "glorious,"
who, like King Tyndareus of Sparta, is afterwards to become
the father of the Chinese Dioskuri, the renowned Cheo-Kung,
for the word is really plural. Ch'ang's holiday name was
Wan or Man, the "coloured" or the "spotted," perhaps the
tattooed, but at all events here we begin to touch ground.
With his sons Fat (the Flasher) and Tan, Dan (the
Dawn), comes forth in full panoply the great Chinese myth of
the bursting of the day, and the celestial Twins. Cheo,
the name adopted for the new kingdom, is but a slightly
condensed form of the ideograph with identical sound,
denoting the daylight, a word stretching from China to the

200
THE TWO ZODIACS.
Egean and identical with the dios in Dioskuri. Even in the
emasculated version put forward in Legge [Shu, v. iii.] this
is prominent: "On the day kia-tse at early dawn Sheo led
forth his hosts like a forest, and ranged them in the wilderness
of Muk; but they would offer no opposition to our army.
Those in front inverted their spears and attacked those behind
them till they fled; and the blood flowed till it floated the
pestles about!" i.e. the dawn reddened the sky higher than
the heads of their spears. There is no need here to enter on
detail: various of the old ballads enlarge on the theme, but
always with the same accompaniments of the dawning day
and the reddening sky. The Shu further tells us that the
great battle appropriately took place on the crossing of the
"Ford of Mang," i.e. at the Vernal Equinox, when the
parting of the years is crossed.
The land now reached was the upper part of the valley
of the Wei in Shensi, near where is now the city of Feng-
t'siang fu, "where the phoenix soars," so that the Mangtsin
(ford of Mang) crossed had no relation with the geographical
Mangtsin on the Yellow River in the province of Honan, that
name in fact only dating back to the Kin Dynasty.
But a distinct tradition carries us back long beyond the
appearance of the Celestial Dioskuri on the frontier of Shensi.
The tale of the wanderings occupies a distinct place in the
epic lore of the ancient Chinese. Fortunately we possess the
story in its almost primitive condition, divided into many
ballads not yet worked up, like Homer's great epic, into a
single poem. If we lose, then, in the case of China the
grandeur of the Iliad or Odyssey, we have in some slight
measure a consolation, inasmuch as we have a few of the
original ballads on which the epic was founded. It is true
that the fragments are, as they appear, sadly corrupted by the
ignorance of the early scribes, who wrote them down from the

THE TWO ZODIACS.
201
vernacular idiom in which they had been handed down for
nearly a thousand years; and worse even than this by the
subsequent ignorant recensions of the medieval commentators.
Yet, in the main, amidst the varying changes of the language,
written and oral, the ancient ballads of China, even in the
incomplete and ruinous condition in which they have
descended to our days, in the light which they throw on
ancient history and ancient lore, remain amongst the most
valuable records of the past. The main body of them have
been handed down in the collection known as the Shi King,
or "Classic of Ballads," which owes its preservation to the
piety of Confucius, though not committed to writing till
650 years after his death. But in addition to these many
other fragments are to be found in the Shu King concealed
in a mass of verbiage, and even in the reputed conversations
of Confucius and Mencius, as well as a few other writings
which came to the front in the search after the ancient
remains in the days of the early Hans. It is not to be
supposed that at any time prior to the commencement of the
reign of Kao Ti in B.C. 202 there was any body of current
literature in China. Nor are we to attribute any striking loss
to the ordinances of T'sin Shi-hwang-ti. It is likely that a
few highly prized manuscripts were burnt which were in the
hands of the recalcitrant scholars of the Poksse, but there is
no trace of any general persecution nor of any wholesale
auto-da-fé such as the prejudiced scholars of the Hans would
have us believe. As a fact the greater part of the so-called
literature of the third century B.C. only existed orally, and
the first real attempt to reduce it to writing was due to Li
Sse, the well known minister of the terrible T'sin Shi-hwang-ti
himself.
A ballad quoted by Mencius [I. ii. 15] tells of the ancient
wanderings of the Cheo people before arriving at K'i, which

202
THE TWO ZODIACS.
is worth quoting as it curiously agrees with the Zoroastrian
legends in the Vendidad :-
Of old King T'ai dwelt in Pin;
The people of the Diks harried him.
He paid them tribute of furs and gems,
But could not satisfy them:
He gave them hounds and horses,
But they were not content:
He presented them pearls and jade,
But still they had not enough.
He assembled his elders,
(And told them):
What these Diks want is our land;
It is not meet that your prince should thrive,
To the detriment of his people.
Why be distressed at having no prince?
I will leave you and Pin;
Will cross the Liang mountain, and
Plant a home at the foot of Mount Ki.
(His folk said):
This is a man who cares for us;
We cannot desert him.
They followed him (in crowds) as folk going to market.
Now it is especially noteworthy that the Zoroastrian
legend preserved in the Vendidad enables us to throw some
light on the position of this land of Pin, and connect it with
the Iranian "Varena of the Four Corners."
"The fourteenth of the good lands and countries which
I. Ahura Mazdao created was the four-cornered Varena, for
which was born Thraêtaona, who smote the Azhi Dahaka.
Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he
created by his witchcraft untimely issues and the oppression
of foreign rulers." [Fargard, 1. 18.]
Now Pliny places his town of Cartana, "hereinafter
called Tetragona" (four-cornered), opposite Baktria under the
Hindu Kush; and this we must identify with the Karnasa of

THE TWO ZODIACS.
203
Ptolemy [vii. i. 43] as if Sanscrit Chatur-karna (four-eared),
The name is still preserved in the plain of Charikar near
Kabul, where the Panjshir and Ghorband rivers join; from
this the fugitives to gain the basin of the Yarkand River
must have crossed the mountains of Dardistan, which with
the usual phonetic changes we find in the Liang Shan of the
Chinese story.
The third book of the Shi King-the Ta-ya, or Greater
Epic contains most of the surviving ballads relating to the
Great Migration. Appropriately it opens with the Apotheosis
of King Wan (the "Spotted") where he is represented in
Heaven, sharing on equal terms the life of the devas. We
have in the Shi King no trace of the pretended dynasty of
Yin-shang, which looms so conspicuously in the Shu King.
The tribes of Cheo have already crossed the mountains
and descended into the great plain of the Tarim, now Eastern
Turkestan, but which before the irruption of the Hiung Nu
had been inhabited by fair-haired tribes of Turanian affinity.
In these ballads the people then resident in the plain are given
the general title of Yin-shang-a word of doubtful meaning
and pronunciation; we must, however connect the former
syllable with a root ar and so with arj (white), as if Arjun or
Arghun. Now Yule, on the authority of Cunningham [Marco
Polo, 3rd ed., 290] says that arghun in Turki means fair,
white; and the name survived for the inhabitants of Tangut
as late as the time of Polo. The word as a proper name is
found in connection with these original inhabitants of the
plain in Arjunas, the third of the Pându princes; in Kuru,
apparently a Turanian form of gaura (yellowish, white); in
Kunti the Turanian form of Gandhârb-a, always associated
with fair complexions, and in Pându (the white), also seemingly
a Turanian form of Sanscrit Bbârata, connected with bharga
(radiance, lustre).

204
THE TWO ZODIACS.
There was naturally a good deal of fighting when the
Aryan immigrants descended from the Dard mountains into
the Yarkand plain, and the Hwang-i ballad [iii. i. 7] describes
the capture of T'sungyung (Cherchen) by Wan Wang :-
Fierce in his wrath our king uprose,
Quickly his armies raised, and now
The foes in vain his arms withstand.
Thus he from ruin saved our Cheo,
And from dire strife preserved the land.
So the Shu King, in the passage already quoted, describes
the mythical battle at the Mangtsin; so that we find here, as
elsewhere in the case of the Airyano and the Indian
immigration, that the meeting of the Aryan and Turanian
elements was not to take place without a fierce struggle. The
fighting in the Tarim basin may not have been as fierce as
elsewhere, but at all events it ended, according to the first
ballad of the series, in the submission of these tribes :-
Magnificent was King Wan,
As with his robes gathered around him he did his reverence,
And acknowledged the decree of Heaven.
The children of Shang
Enjoyed themselves without thought of the future,
But when the gods gave the command,
They submitted to the rule of Cheo.
It was a branch of these Turanian Pre-Turkish inhabitants
of the Tarim basin who under the name given to them by the
Aryan immigrants of the Lunar Race, the Chandra Vança,
crossed Western Tibet and settled on the Upper Jumna,
where they gave to the new home the name of Kurukshetra
(the "Plain of the Kurus"). Here was founded the city of
Hastinapura, whose origin is traced to the imaginary Hastin,
son of an imaginary Su-hotra, but which is simply the
Turanian Gastburh ("Stranger-town"). Slender as are the

THE TWO ZODIACS.
205
Chinese tales of the relations of the two peoples, the Indian
are even more slender. Tradition does, however, throw a
single ray of light on the subject. The Vishnu-Purana thus
describes the contest :-"Paraçu-Rama cleared the earth
thrice seven times of the Kshatriya caste, and filled with
their blood the five large lakes of Samanta-panchaka, from
which he offered libations to the race of Bhrigu. Offering a
solemn sacrifice to the king of the gods, Paraçu-Rama presented
the earth to the ministering priests. Having given the earth
to Kaçyapa, the hero of immeasurable prowess retired to
the Mahendra mountain, where he still resides; and in this
manner was there enmity between him and the race of the
Kshatriyas, and thus was the whole earth conquered by Paraçu-
Rama." [History of Ancient Sanscrit Literature, 17.]
But who are these Kshatriyas? There is little doubt
that they must be connected with the "aurva Hunavo
Vaêçkaya," the gallant Hunus of Vaêçko, the Wusun of the
Chinese, who were undoubtedly a fair race of pure Turanian
blood-the Asii or Asiani of the Greeks, who dwelt about the
upper waters of the Jaxartes. With Kurus and Pândavas these
tribes entered India, but jealousies arising between the two
branches we find them at open war, and this war becomes
the groundwork of the great Indian epic of the Mahabharata.
A part of these peoples remained, however, in the Tarim basin,
and here we find both living at the opening of history, the
Kurus as Kiang and the Pandavas as Yuet-ti, the latter the
exact translation of the Indian Chandra Vança ("Lunar
Race"). Philologically Kshatriya here is not to be derived
from kshayat (ruling) but from the very similar (in appearance)
form kshaya (dwelling). It was a translation, in fact, of
Asiani or Wusun, i.e. Turanian wason (dweller), denoting the
fixed Huuavo Vaêçkaya as contrasted with their wandering
neighbours.
"Abân Yasht, ver. 57.
28

206
THE TWO ZODIACS.
Now all myth and tradition has connected the primitive
seats of the Aryans, the Airyano Vaêjo, with the Sogdian
mesopotamia; and here, when the Vendidad opens, we find
the home of King Yima on the "good river Daitya." In the
primitive geography of the plain we find the four great
rivers, the Irgai, the Chui, the Syr (Jaxartes), and the Amu
(Vaksh or Oxus), all uniting and flowing through the
mesopotamia into the Caspian Sea, which then stood at a
somewhat higher level than at present. The two principal of
these were the Jaxartes and the Daitya. Now it is
noteworthy that Herodotus always calls the Jaxartes the
Araxes, and modern authors, unaware of the reason, have
supposed that he copied the name from the Armenian river of
that name.
As a fact the converse was the case.
In all ages
emigrants have indulged in the habit of carrying with them to
their new abodes old names and old recollections. These
names have actually been carried in the stream of migration
to all the intermediate countries between Armenia and
Western China. The original name of the Upper Jaxartes was
undoubtedly the Saraç, and the more modern name of the
Jaxartes apparently arose from a confusion between the Saraç
and the Daitic. Wherever, then, these Aryan emigrants
migrated we find the recollection of the old sacred names:
thus in Armenia we meet the Araxes and the Kyrus, as if
Cyrus; in the old Seistani country about the Hamun,
inhabited by Iranian tribes, we have the Haraqaita and the
Daraya, and in the sacred land of Sthanesvara, along the
Upper Jumna in the region of Kurukshetra itself, we find the
holy rivers of the Saras-vati and Dhrishad-vati, still venerated
and still places of pilgrimage for the pious Hindu. Finally,
in the Shu King, in the "Tribute of Yü," we find the two
sacred rivers, now in modern Chinese pronounced the T'su
and Tsat, removed to the almost sacred precincts of

THE TWO ZODIACS.
207
Singan, the ancient capital of the Cheo state in modern
Shensi.
The name of the Oxus, Veh or Vaksh, is not so far
reaching, but we meet it still in the Wei, the main river
of Shensi, and the great affluent of the Hwangho, on which
was founded the first of Chinese capitals.
We have then an unbroken stream of myth and tradition
leading from the early settlers who founded in North-western
China the first hegemony, afterwards to develop into empire,
up to the original seats of Aryans, Iranians and Salyans, in
the then fertile and well-wooded lands of the Sogdian
Mesopotamia. And as we have established a prima facie case
for the original invention in these regions of the Lunar
Zodiac, and we find that that Zodiac has spread to the
principal, at least, of the countries settled by the emigrants,
and that it still exists as a living entity in both India and
China, we have made a fair claim for placing here the first
beginnings of our Athwyan cult as distinguished from the,
undoubtedly more ancient, civilisation which had its origin on
the table land of Central Arabia.
NOTE.
There does not seem to be any clear reason why the two bands of
immigrants into India should have adopted the distinguishing names of the
Solar and the Lunar families. There is no doubt that at the first contact
of the two races there was a very considerable difference in complexion
between the two, and that this difference of complexion-both, however,
being blonds-it was that led to the application of the word varna (tint,
stain) to distinguish the two castes of the Brahmans and the Kshatriyas.
As we have seen, the two races belonged to the two sub-families of the
Blonds, the Aryan and Turanian respectively, and so far the indications
seem to be that while the former were more especially marked by hair of a
bright golden hue, the Turanian, like their Scandinavian kindred in modern
Europe, were distinguished by flaxen, almost white, hair. This would at
once render intelligible the epithet of Lunar which we find consistently

208
THE TWO ZODIACS.
applied to them. Thus while the white edible water-lily blossoming during
the night is called the chandra-kântam (the moon-loved), the corresponding
sun-desired (surya-kamala) is the yellow sunflower.
There are few more obscure chapters in human history than that
which tells of the entrance of the blond races into the story. There is little
or no doubt that at some remote period, apparently towards the early part
of the second millennium before Christ, certain restless tribes in Northern
Asia commenced to make inroads on their more settled neighbours who
lived in the then more fertile lands which were watered by the Oxus, the
Jaxartes and the Chui. These rivers seem in those days to have united
and, flowing in a channel somewhat to the east of the present Aral Sea, to
have somewhere in the neighbourhood of the present Khivan oasis-turned
westward and discharged into the Caspian Sea. These restless tribes were
probably racially connected with the dark, swarthy folk known as the
Oghuz, into whose history it is unnecessary here to enter; but from whatever
cause, at the very beginnings of history we find them pressing on their more
southern neighbours-so much so, indeed, that the districts north of the
water-parting between the Chui and the Irtish came many centuries ago to
be known as the "Officina gentium" (the "Workshop") of nations. South
of these Proto-Turkish or Pre-Turkish peoples extended a long range of
fertile lands, reaching from the Caspian on the west right up to the Pamir
Highlands, and from these latter up to the borders of China on the east.
These regions, as we learn from various sources, but more especially Chinese,
were inhabited by blond peoples of settled agricultural habits, who had
advanced a considerable way on the road towards civilisation. Within the
immediate district they consisted mainly of two families who, from the
Iranian story of their common descent from the hero Feridun, have been
classed by modern ethnographers as respectively Aryan and Turanian.
The choice of these names was ingenious, and quickly superseded the clumsy
nomenclature of Caucasians introduced at the beginning of the last century;
and had it been founded on a little more knowledge, and been used with a
little more consistency, would have suited admirably all purposes.
Unfortunately, almost from the beginning, while Aryan was made to
include all the peoples from Iceland to Northern India who had fair skins
and spoke languages as diverse as Celtic (including Welsh and Gaelic),
Teutonic, Slavic, Finnic, Iranian and Sanscritic, the correlate Turanian
was made to cover an equally diverse group of Oghuz, Turk, Mongol, Tartar,
Manchow, Tibetan, and, with some, even Chinese, every people, in
fact, whom they could not find it in their heart to dub as Aryan. The
confusion was as great as prevailed at the beginning of the nineteenth
century, when every people that had not a black skin, nor could lay claim

THE TWO ZODIACS.
209
to the extremely narrow family of the Semites, was forthwith classed as a
descendant of Japhet. The position was not much improved when the
two new terms Indo-European and Ural-Altaic were introduced, and
the latter was formed out of a select circle of those previously called
Turanian.
According to the old Zoroastrian tradition, Çairim, Airya and Tura
were three brothers, and notwithstanding the fact that a blood feud
subsequently sprang up between Airya, the youngest, and Tura, the quarrel
was always classed as a fraternal one, and never assumed the shape of
national antipathy, as did the contest between their father Feridun and the
Azhi Dahaka.
The three brothers had, in fact, very much in common: they were
all blonds; their speech, though it differed so much that they were not
mutually intelligible, belonged to one family; they were all on much the
same level of civilisation, and all equally hated their swarthy neighbours,
to whom they gave the appellation of Azhi Dahaka (" the Gnawing Serpent").
They had, according to their old tradition, all three been once common
residents in the Airyano Vaêjo, under the equable rule of the fabled king
Yima Kshaêta ("the Shining "), and it was only on the ruin of this fair land
that they had to take up separate abodes. On the north-east the land of
Rum (the Rhymmi of Ptolemy) became the home of Çairim, stretching
from Turgai to the plains of the Volga. Along the northern part of the
great nesopotamia of the Chui-Jaxartes-Oxus and about Yarkand Tura took
up his abode. While to the south, resting on the Hindu Kush and the
northern ranges of the Himalayas, were the temporary homes of the
descendants of Airya.
How long the three families continued in these positions we have no
means of ascertaining, but it was in all probability for a considerable time.
The Oghuz tribes, however, did not cease their encroachments, and the
consequence was that in the end the Turanians were forced on to their
Aryan neighbours, and this led to hostilities. In the subsequent legends
of the Iranians the place of the Azhi Dahaka-the Oghuz Diks-is taken
by the hosts of Tura, and the contest becomes that of Iran against Turan.
This episode has contributed to a large extent to cause the confusion
between Oghuz and Turanian.
Meanwhile the Aryan stock became differentiated into three main sub-
families: the Aryans proper, who for a time remained in Baktria and adjacent
lands; the Iranians, who crossed the Parætakenian mountains into Media and
Persia; and the Salyans (Wanderers), who passed westwards and finally
appeared on the Egean as Hellenes. Subsequently the Aryan branch again
divided, a part crossing the Hindu Kush into the basins of Parashawar and the

210
THE TWO ZODIACS.
Panjab, while the others, under the name of Cheos, crossed the highlands
of Dardistan and found themselves in the basin of the Tarim, whence their
eventual route to China has been explained within.
When these Aryan Cheos arrived in the upper basin of the Yarkand
River they found the land already occupied by people of a type even more
decidedly blond than themselves, as fair indeed as the fairest of the
Low German folk about the mouths of the Elbe and Weser. These people
were divided into several tribes, but would seem to have recognised a
common appellation recalling the Argon of Marco Polo and the Arjuna
of the Sanscrit-speaking peoples-not improbably some such form as
Arghun, meaning simply "White"-and this gave origin to the name by
which they are known in the ancient Chinese ballads of the Taya [Shi
King, II], namely Yinshang: the word is connected with the Sanscrit
root ark (to shine) and forms the foundation of such words as argentum
(the "white" metal), Chinese yin, etc. As a tribal name Argun
still survives in Ladak, where it is the ordinary designation of the
peasantry.
A story very similar to the Chinese appears in Indian myth. Arjuna,
the third of the Pândavas (White) princes, was a son of Indra, the Sky-God,
and Kunti, the Turanian form of Sanscrit Gandhara: Arjuna falls in
love with the lady Draupadi, and is at once accepted by her of her own
free will; and this practice of permitting the lady to have a say in the
selection of her husband seems so extraordinary to the Brahman relater of
the tale that a special word Swayamvara is invented for the custom-
which, it is superfluous to add, has survived amongst all our Teutonic
Turanians to the present day. The rest of the tale becomes so mixed with
Brahmanic corruptions that it throws little further light on the subject.
The tale of Nala is, however, more to the point. Nala belongs to the Solar
race but falls in love with Damayanti, the pearl of the other. At her
swayamvara Damayanti accepts Nala in preference to her other suitors,
rejecting even Indra, who determines in consequence to ruin Nala. He
encourages Nala in gambling, and when he has lost everything else proposes
he should stake Damayanti herself. This is indignantly refused, whereupon
the pair are driven out into the wilderness. In his misery Nala advises
her to go back to her father's house, but she is unwilling to desert her
husband, whereupon, she sleeping heavily, Nala in pity leaves her.
Deprived of his kingdom, and in despair, Nala accepts menial service
and is appointed to the office of charioteer, and in that low position tries to
conceal himself from his devoted wife, who is seeking him everywhere.
Finally Nala becomes cook in the service of the king at whose court
Damayanti is residing, thinking he is now so black that he will not be

THE TWO ZODIACS.
211
recognised; but his wife recognises his driving, and after some further
byeplay they are again united, and Nala restored to his kingdom greater
than ever.
A recollection of a similar myth is to be noticed in the Chinese
ballad, the Ta-ming [Shi King, III. i. 2]. Contrary to all rule the new
monarch of Cheo must find his bride amongst the despised race of
Yinshang-
Heaven is not easily moved,
Nor lightly bestows the throne.
Heaven was not satisfied with the rule of Yin,
And determined it should not attain the kingship.
Chosen was the lady Yam
From the land of Yinshang (Arghun).
She came as the bride of Cheo,
To be his wife in the citadel.
She and King Ki
Were capable in their administration.
Taiyam conceived,
And gave birth to King Wan.
Curiously, as we find in the Indian story Nala relying on his begrimed
countenance for concealment, so here the son of Taiyam is called the
"spotted," for so-or the tattooed-we must translate the title Wan. Again,
forgetting apparently the story of the wedding of King Ki, in the latter
part of the ballad the myth is duplicated in the person of Wan Wang
himself:-
On lower earth High Heaven looked down,
Who'twas the great Behest should gain:
King Wan, our chief of high renown,
Did from the Gods the gift obtain.
Then far away by Hiah's tide.
Where changeful Wei still gnaws the land,
In happy mood the scene he scanned,
And there he found a peerless bride.
In yon wide land a lady lies,
Of Tientse's realm the richest prize:
Propitious were the omens then,
As by the Wei he claimed his bride!
His skiff he steers athwart the tide-
Too dazzling bright for mortal ken.
From Heaven aloft the word has come,
Worthy alone King Wan the throne!
In Cheo's fair land shall be his home,
And Ushas as his wife he'll own.
The eldest born of Nature she :-
In time she'll bear a worthy heir.
Guardian and stay the Doom he'll bear;
And faithless Yin shall own his sway.

212
THE TWO ZODIACS.
The whole of the ballad is unmixed myth, but consorts well with the
daylight story of the celestial Twins. I have translated the Chinese
character sin, by Ushas. The word is intimately connected with uro-
Sanscrit ush (to burn); and in the similar myth in Mencius [V. i. 7. 2.), where
Iyin (the planet Mercury) is represented as ploughing in the land of Sin,
can only thus be explained as referring to Ushas (the Dawn land).
Appropriately the ballad ends with the triumph of the rising sun over
the mists of darkness and the establishment of the bright kingdom of the
Daylight Cheo-And so, some 1,200 years before Christ began the long
history of China. I give below the conclusion of the song:-
See where across yon eastern sky,
O'er pastures wild the banners fly:
Dark as a forest spreads the line!-
So spake our prince; and speaking rose :-
Stay not your hands to smite our foes;
To crush Yinshang is Heaven's design.
Dauntless as heaves the ocean's surge,
So onwards swift the chariots urge,
And prancing proudly speed the teams!
Aloft the star of morning gleams,
Like eagle, poised at heaven's gate,
Our king's triumphant march to grace,
And smite proud Yinshang's impious race.
Thus Heaven with vict'ry blessed our state!
Incidentally, by comparing Indian and Chinese lore, we learn a good
deal of these peoples and the various tribes into which they were divided,
and here I must acknowledge my indebtedness to the late General
Alexander Cunningham [Archeological Survey of India, Vol. II]. As
represented in the Mahabharata the two main divisions of the Lunar Race
had been the Yadavas and the Kurus, or Kauravas. The Yadavas,
descendants of Yadu, were still a pastoral people, and were accustomed to
move about a good deal in search of fodder and water; and a portion of the
tribe had at an early period migrated into India, where according to
tradition they fixed their head-quarters at Mathura, now Muttra on the
Jumna. Of this section of the tribe came the divine hero Krishna, with
whom, according to one account, the tribe became extinct. There is no
doubt whatever that with these Yâdavas we must identify the ancient folk
known to the Chinese as the Yueh-ti, i.e. "Moon-Family." When we first
meet these in the pages of the Shi Ki they were residents in the present

THE TWO ZODIACS.
213
Kansuh, but extended on the east into Shensi and on the west reached as
far as Shacheo, and even to the pastures by Lake Lop. When history opens
they are described in the 110th chapter as a formidable people, and seem
to have ranged indefinitely towards the West.
About the year 176 B.C. they were utterly defeated at the hands of the
Hiung Nu Turks and compelled to flee from their ancient abodes in the
basin of the Tarim. A portion made their way across the mountains by
Tashkurgan into the valley of the Upper Oxus, where after a struggle they
joined a kindred race, the Wusuns of the Chinese-the Asii or Asiani of the
Greeks-and the two, as "Indo-Skyths," soon became formidable. The
smaller portion escaped apparently across the mountain range into Western
Tibet, and later on acquired a domicile in Kophêne. This route had
centuries before been followed by their predecessors in their first immigration
to India; and there is little doubt that this later movement must have
considerably added to the strength of the Jat families in the Panjab. The
Shi Ki describes these Yueh-ti in the second century B.C. as eminently fair,
with great beards and blue eyes. Modern research identifies them with the
people called by the Greeks "White Huns," and who are also described
as having fair complexions, handsome, of lively dispositions and given
to mirth and enjoyment, in strange contrast to their neighbours.
At the period told of in the Mahabharata another branch of these light
complexioned people was, however, more in evidence. This was divided
into the two closely allied families of the Kurus and Pandavas, whose family
strife forms the subject of that epic. Garrett's Classical Dictionary of India
thus describes them :-"Kurus,-A very ancient people, who seem to have
been originally situated in Central and Northern Asia, as the Vishnu
Purana says they inhabited the middle districts of Bharata. They probably
entered India with the Aryans or were a branch of that great race, and
settled in Kurukshetra. With this meaning the name applies to both Kurus
and Pândawas-hence Arjuna is called the best of the Kurus."
We are in complete ignorance of the period when this ancient
immigration of the Lunar Races took place, but the indications are that it
occurred after, though not at a long interval of time, the great Aryan
immigration which brought the Solar peoples into the Peninsula. That
migration did not transfer the entire of the Kauravas from their ancient
homes to India, indeed in all probability the greater part of the tribe still
remained in possession of their original homes. Ptolemy speaks in his day
of Ottorokorrhas and Ithaguri in connection with his Serica on the northern
flanks of the Himalayas, and these we must render as "Upper and Lower
Kurus" respectively; while equally the early historical notices of the
Chinese place in these regions their Kiang, which according to the usual
29

214
THE TWO ZODIACS.
phonetic rules of interchange we must render in Sanscrit as Kuru. At all
events the indications are that leaving the plain of Eastern Turkestan above
Khotan they made their way to Rudok in Western Tibet, and from that by
way of Gartok they arrived at the foot of Mount Meru, present Mount Kailas,
the holy land of Hinduism and Buddhism alike. From that their way was
clear into the Gangetic plain, where they founded the City of Hastinapura,
-apparently the Sanscritic rendering of the Turanian Gastburh, i.e.
"Stranger-Town."
Other tribes noticed in these regions are called in the Shi King Mats,
or at greater length Matsus, whom we meet in the Hwang I ballad [III, i. 7].
There is no doubt that these, who dwelt about the site of the present
Cherchen, must be associated with the name of Madhu which occurs several
times in connection with the Indian legend of the Pândavas. The Matsu of
the Chinese version may be read as Maddhal, and this will account for
another name given by the Greeks to the old Yuehti tribes of "Ephthalites,"
also described as a fair complexioned, handsome and light-hearted folk.
From a comparison of the various sources of information available, we
find the following peoples, all belonging to closely allied tribes of the light
complexioned Turanian family, of which the Massageta of Herodotus may
be taken as the type, inhabiting these regions now roughly classed as Eastern
Turkestan-(1) The Tahia of the Chinese, the Tokhari of the Greeks-
more to the West known as Dahae, Daae, or Daki. (2) The Getæ, the
Çakas of the ancient Persians, in Greek mouths converted to Sake or Skyths.
These formed the basis of the inhabitants of Çugdh (Sogdiana) and had
their Indian connections in the Kathæi of Arrian. (3) The Yuehti of the
Chinese, Yadavas of the ancient Indian legends; the Ephthalites, White
Huns, and Iatii of the Greeks, now represented by the various Jat peoples of
the Panjab. (4) The Matsus or Maddhals of the old Chinese, the Madhus
of the Mahabharata, and represented in modern times by the Meds of the
Panjab, and (5) The Kiang of the old Chinese, the Kurus of the
Mahabharata, afterwards divided into the two allied stocks of Pauravas and
Kauravas. The successors of the last appear in the Tang-hiang of the Wei
Shu, where they appear as the predecessors of the inhabitants of Marco
Polo's province of Tangut, the Ta Hia of the Chinese chroniclers.
Even at this early period the speech of the two branches of the
Athwyan peoples had been differentiated on the same lines as in modern
times. According to the myth, Kunti was the adopted father of the Yadava
Kunti and was the eponym of the race of Kuntis. The meaning was
plainly not understood by the Brahmanic author, or authors, of the Mâhâb-
hârata. Kunti was the Turanian form of the Aryan Gandhŵra, whence came
the Gandarii of Herodotus, whom again we must associate with the

THE TWO ZODIACS.
215
Gandharas of the Indians, a section of whom we find about Attock on the
Indus. Herodotus associates these Gandarii with the Dadikæ-the modern
Tadjiks-and the Aparyta, whose name we find in the Greek Paropanisus
(Hindu Kush). These fair-haired Kuntîs were the originals of the mythical
Gandharbhas, and the name is found all the way from Khorâssân, where
they appear in the Farvardin Yasht as Çaênas, to Marco Polo's Caindu,
the modern Kiench'ang in Southern Ssech'wen.
A similar instance is found in the Yâdavas. These in Indian lore are
made descendants of Yadu, a name without connections in Sanscrit it can,
however, be explained by Getic Hwet ("White"), which becomes çveta in
Sanscrit. Colloquially these Hwetas came to be called in Sanscrit Yadus,
whence the adjectival form Yâda vas.
But the words Pându, Pândava may be traced far to the west, in fact
all along the line of the Salyan (Hellene) migration. The Sanscrit cerebrals
n and d are, as usual, in the other Athwyan languages represented by liquids,
and so Pândava stands as the representative of the Greek Ile) (not dark,
but ashen grey)-the Latin pallidus. The word we find repeated in IIs)aprós
(the stork) and in the predecessors of the Hellenes in the Grecian lands, the
people called by them Πελασγοί (more correctly Πελαργοί), both words
meaning grey, as well as in Helo, (the "grey-eyed " immigrant from Lydia).
As in ancient Central Asia we find these words interchangeable with
Turanian forms, in old Greece we meet a similar phenomenon. Thus we
may compare the Aryan form Πελαργός with the Turanian Φαληρός, both
meaning white or grey, and discover why Phalerus was one of the heroes of
the Lapithæ, (the glistening [with oil]), in their contest with their half-
brothers the Kentaurs, Turanian Kuntis, and Sanscritic Gandharbhas.
The points in common with the Argive legends of the Peloponnesus
are suggestive, but too numerous to discuss here.
Hesiod, "Shield of Hercules."