Irrigation of the Chen-tu Plain and
beyond.
By Joshua Vale, C.I.M.
A paper on the irrigation of the Chen-tu Plain was
read before the China Branch of the Asiatic Society at
Shanghai on the evening of the 5th of October 1900, and
subsequently printed in that Society's journal in the following
spring [Vol. 33, No. II]. Since the publication of my paper,
several distinguished travellers have visited this part of China
and expressed their interest in the subject. From their
friendly criticisms and suggestions I gathered that further
information on the subject would be acceptable. I also
gathered from their remarks that the value of the information
already given would have been greatly enhanced if maps,.
showing the dam (), had accompanied the paper, and
the subject dealt with more from the practical and less from
the historical side. Realising the truth and justice of these
criticisms, and being conscious that the paper contained many
imperfections and lacked completeness, I set about collecting
additional material for a second
which should
paper,
cover the whole system, with its numerous dikes and
channels, from its commencement at Kuan-hsien to its
completion below the district city of Ching-shen, a distance
of about 120 English miles. This paper I have designated
the Irrigation of the Chen-tu Plain and beyond.

bis.
R
THE CAPITAL RIVER DAM
Innor
都江大程
Outer 江外
The Main South River
p'en Hsien
Kuan Hslo
The South Rush River
E
Tsong ling Helen
P Helen
*R=451
The Cedar Stam River
Water Gauge
正南 江
Sand Ditch River
Hein-tan
Hsin Tu
Walking Horse River
Tui Hill
Peaceful River
Uen Chiang
4?
正南江僚半馬河
The Black Stone River
Chen Tu
song Tsing Chou
Han chou
Shuang Llu
Chin Tang
Hain Chin

IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND.
37
Through the courtesy of the Chinese officials in charge
of the various Irrigation Bureaux, and other friends, I have
been able to secure copies of maps which show the river
"Min," with its divisions of "Inner" and "Outer" branches
at Kuan-hsien, and the numerous dikes and channels,
by which means the fertilizing waters are distributed
over the plain, making the barren places to blossom as
the rose.
The present paper deals almost entirely with the
regions properly outside, but forming a continuation of,
the plain proper ; but, in order to show the connection of the
dams beyond the plain and their relation to the great dam at
Kuan-hsien, it will be necessary to repeat some portion of
first paper.
my
Although there are scores of small dams or dikes, each
with its appropriate "manager," yet the Chinese always
group them under four chief dams, as follows:-
1. The Capital River Dam (I).
2. The General Relief Dam (1).
3.-The Frog's Chin Dam (0).
4. The Great Transforming Dam (1).
As these are the divisions followed by the Chinese, it will
be convenient in this paper to deal with each dam under
its distinctive head.
In
1.-The Capital River Dam (B).
my first paper I endeavoured to give a clear outline
of the origin, later developements and present condition of
this dam. I also tried to trace the various dikes and channels
of the inner and outer branches. So that, to prevent repetition,
I shall take it for granted that those interested in the subject
have already read the first
paper.

38
IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND.
The map, it is needless to say, is entirely Chinese
workmanship, and is not drawn to an accurate scale. It is,
however, the best procurable at present and will give some
idea of the separation and distribution of the waters of
the Min.
On the map the two great branches and their various
channels are quite distinct. The inner branch, after passing
Kuan-hsien city, divides into three main streams: the first,
called the Walking Horse (), flows directly east,
irrigating the districts of Tsong-ling (), Pi-hsien (
), Uen-chiang (I), Chen-tu () and Hua-yang
(華陽)
The second, or central stream, called the Cedar Stem
River (), flows north-east, irrigating the western
and northern parts of the districts above named, and unites
with the Walking Horse River at different points on the way.
The third stream, called the South Rush River (),
flows north towards the district city of P'en-hsien () and
then south through the districts of Hsin-fan (f), Hsin-tu
(), Han-chou (), Kin-tang () and thence
to Chien-chou (), Tz-chou (), Lui-chiang
(), uniting with the Yang-Tz-Chiang at Lu-chou
(濾州)
The "Outer" branch is the original channel of the
Min. This branch is divided into four streams almost
The
immediately opposite the Li-Tui hill at Kuan-hsien.
first (on the left) is named the River of Peace (I),
P'i-hsien
and irrigates the districts of Kuan-hsien (),
(B), Uen-chiang (I), Hua-yang (), and
Shuang-liu (). The second, or central stream, is
called the Main South River (E) or Sheep-Horse River
(), and irrigates portions of the above-named
districts of Kuan-hsien, P'i-hsien, Uen-chiang and Shuang-liu,

IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND. 39
and unites with the first branch at Hsin-chin ().
The third stream (on the right) is called the Black Stone
River (), and irrigates the districts of Ts'ong-ching-
chou (H) and Hsin-chin (), uniting with the
other branches at the last-named place. The fourth, called
the Sand Ditch River (), separates from the main
stream some distance below the rope suspension bridge
() at Kuan-hsien and flows south-west, irrigating
parts of the districts of Kuan-hsien, Ts'ong-ching-chou and
Hsin-chin.
Before closing the description of the Capital River Dam
it may be of interest to point out a few special features in
connection with the main branch of the "Inner river after
passing the capital to its junction with the "Outer" branch
at Kiang-kou. This branch, which is the chief waterway to
the capital from the south, is known locally as the Fu
river, i.e. the Prefectural river (this is the name given
to the Min locally from this point on to its junction with
the Yang Tz at Sui-fu). During the flood season, usually
from May till September, it forms quite a considerable stream,
and large passenger-boats ply between the capital and the
south; but when the waters are cut off at Kuan-hsien, to
clean the inner channel, this river becomes a very shallow
stream which can be forded at many points. During this
season the larger boats tranship their cargo at Kiang-kou
and either go on the rest of the journey empty or stay
at Kiang-kou. For the purpose of irrigating the plain
on either side for a distance of about 40 miles, there are,
at stated intervals, some 44 dams or weirs with some
200 Persian wheels in groups of three, four or six. These
wheels raise the water from the river and spread it over
the plain, irrigating a wide area some distance from the river-
side. In addition to the weirs above mentioned, or in

40
IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND.
conjunction with them, there are a number of places with
channels for mills. But the chief point of interest is the dams,
of which there are three. The first is the Stone Ox Dam
(4), one mile below the capital. This dam supplies
the plain with water for a distance of about eight miles,
where there is a second dam, called the Elder Sister Dam
(). During the early summer, when the water is
needed for the fields, these two dams are closed, i.e. the river
is cut off completely and all boat traffic is stopped. During
this season, which usually falls between the end of April and
the end of May, hundreds of boats congregate above and
below the dam, and when the dam is opened to allow official
boats to pass up or down a perfect panic takes place amongst
the boatmen. The third dam is some 20 miles below the
capital and is much larger and more substantial than the
two others, being built of stone. This dam irrigates 1,733
acres of land on the left side of the river, re-uniting with the
main stream again at Kiang-kou.
2.-The General Relief Dam (W).
map
It would seem from a glance at the map that the
waters of the "Outer" and a large proportion of the "Inner"
rivers all converged at Hsin-chin; but the in this
particular is somewhat faulty and fails to show where the
main branches of the inner and outer rivers actually unite:
that point is Kiang-kou (I), some 40 miles south
of Chen-tu.
It will be seen by examining the map that the
numberless channels of the outer river all unite at Hsin-chin,
and then receive the waters of the South river () or
Kiang-chou river, after which it flows in a south-easterly
direction to where it joins the inner branch of the Min at
Kiang-kou. The General Relief Dam begins at the junction

IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND. 41
of the various branches of the outer with the south or
Kiang-chou river at Hsin-chin. Some two-and-a-half English
miles north-east of the district city of Hsin-chin, the West
river (), which flows south-east from the Departmental
city of Ts'ong-ching chou (J), receives the waters
of the Main South (正南河), the Golden Horse(金馬河)
and the Stone Fish rivers (), and then flows south-
east to a point about a mile-and-a-half from the city, and
there unites with the south or Kiong-chou river. From
this point the waters are diverted by the dam into the channel
which irrigates the southern district of Hsin-chin, and the
districts of Pen-shan and Mei-chou, and finally rejoins the
main branch of the Min at a place called Yellow Centre
Plain (), some four English miles south of Mei-chou.
The waters of this dam irrigate some 12,000 English acres.
The length of the channel is about 37 English miles, and
the breadth at the dam entrance about 50 feet.
The earliest notice of this dam is in the T'ang dynasty
(A.D. 618-905). It was then known as the Distant Relief
Dam (). In the 28th year of Kai-üen ()
A.D. 713, one Chang Lin (), the incumbent of the
Department of Mei-chou, cleared out the old channel at Hsin-
chin and directed the waters south-west to Mei-chou, where
they united with the waters of the Min. At various periods
since that time the dam has been allowed to go to ruin and
the bed of the channel to fill with sand and pebbles; but at
the present time the importance of the dam is fully recognised
by the officials and people, and no expense is spared to keep
it in good order.
From the junction of the waters of the outer branch
of the Min with those of the South river, to a distance of
about three English miles above the city of Hsin-chin,
there are some sixteen or seventeen large and small islands or

42 IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND.
sand-banks. During the flood season in the summer these
are more or less covered with water, and the river appears to
be about a mile-and-a-half wide; but in the low-water season
the river divides into four channels and these islands are
more exposed to view. From the 1st of the 10th moon
(about October 1st) to the 1st of the 4th moon (about May
1st) wooden footbridges are erected for passenger traffic,
but as soon as the spring freshets begin in the beginning
of May these are removed and ferries ply between the
larger islands.
The construction of the dam is similar to that of the
Capital River Dam, which has been fully described in my
first paper. The actual length of the dam is 4,850 yards.
Selecting a spot on the left bank of the West river ()
just above the junction of the Golden Horse river, the
Chinese have cut off the waters of the main stream by running
a barrier across from a large island to the next below. This
barrier is continued along the western shore of each island
till the junction of the West and South rivers takes place, a
distance of about two-and-three-quarters English miles from
the commencement of the barrier. The barrier varies in
height at different stages: at commencement, and for about
two miles of the whole distance, the height is about three
feet, but as it approaches the junction of the two rivers it
rises to a height of about six English feet. Every season,
on a fixed day, some time after the 1st of the 9th moon
(about the middle of October), the magistrates of Mei-chou,
Pen-shan and Hsin-chin meet together at the dam to
examine into the amount of damage done by the floods of
the previous season, and assess the cost of repairs for the
ensuing year. This official visit is called Dam Inspection
(). If the damage is unprecedented and special outlay is
, the local officials petition the Governor-General, and
necessary,

IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND. 43-
a special Commissioner is deputed to consult with the local.
officials and fix the amount to be collected for the ensuing
season. After the inspection is completed the estimated
expenditure is apportioned, and a certain fixed rate amongst
the farmers of the districts using the water regulated by dam.
The amount paid by Hsin-chin is three-fifths of the whole and
the remainder is apportioned out between Pen-shan and Mei-
chou. The annual cost of repairs varies considerably: the
amount assessed for the season of 1902 was 2,800 dollars
Mex., and the number of days work was 3,500. The mode of
paying the amount assessed varies in the different districts.
In Hsin-chin the amount is collected partly in rice and
partly in cash, and the districts of Mei-chou and Pen-shan
pay their proportion in cash, which is collected by the officials
of the irrigation offices (H) established by the officials in
their respective districts. The amount paid by Mei-chou and
Pen-shan varies from three to three-and-a-half cents per
English acre in ordinary seasons. The farmers are always
slow in paying this tax, and the officials have devised a plan to
encourage early payment: if the amount is paid within a
certain period the rate is fixed at two or two-and-a-half cents
per acre, but if the sum due is not paid within that period
the rate is raised to four or five cents.
Dam Managers () are nominated by the "runners
who collect the Land-tax () and are appointed for one
year by the magistrate. After acting in that capacity for one
season they are not called upon again for ten years. These
managers are selected from among the landed proprietors of
the district. If the repairs are small they often make money,
but in most cases they have to expend money of their own to
complete the necessary repairs.
After the official inspection has taken place, the Dam
Managers are notified by the officials of their respective

44 IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND.
irrigation offices and ordered to engage their squads of coolies
and proceed to the dam head to carry out the necessary
repairs. The full complement of coolies consists of twenty-
four squads of from twelve to twenty men each.
Each squad
is provided with a small boat. Bamboo huts are erected for
the use of the men on the western shore of the large island
at the junction of the West and South rivers. The dam is
carefully measured into lengths of six English feet and then
portioned out to the respective districts according to the
amount of water used to irrigate their fields. When this is
done the managers with their respective squads take up their
positions, and certain men are told off to plait the bamboo
crates used for the dam embankment; others, with their
boats, gather out the cobble-stones dislodged by the floods,
and build up the embankment to the regulation height;
whilst others, after running a temporary barrier of sand across
the canal entrance, to divert the waters into the main stream,
proceed to dig out the sand in the channel. A water-gauge
(k), which is cut in the rock on the right bank of the
channel, with numerals from one to eight, about fourteen
inches apart, serves as a guide as to depth. The foot of this
gauge must be reached in order to give the amount of water
requisite to irrigate the 12,000 acres connected with this dam.
Until the canal channel is properly cleaned out the barrier
across the main stream is not entirely closed; an opening of
about fifty feet is left to allow the water to flow through and
boats with goods for the city to pass up or down. The dam
across the river's mouth is about six (English) feet high
and thirty-six feet thick. As it is built entirely of cobble-
stones of from two to twelve pounds in weight, there are many
cracks through which the water can leak. These are closed,
on the front of the dam, by forcing straw into the holes, over
which are laid bamboo mats 12 x 6 (feet) extending from the

IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND. 45
top of the dam to the bed of the river. Bamboo crates, 36 × 3
feet, filled with cobble-stones, are laid on the face of the
dam to prevent the stones, of which the embankment is
built, from being dislodged by the water. Other crates, of
the same length and size, are placed two deep along the
edge of the dam; and a final row, with one end resting at
the foot and sloping up the face of the dam and stretching
over the edge, gives a finishing touch to the whole. If the
dam is built too high the city of Hsin-chin is in danger
of being flooded; if it does not reach the regulation height
the water is insufficient to supply the districts dependent on
the dam for its water supply.
The official date for commencing the repairs is the 1st
of the 9th moon (some time in October), and the date for its
completion the 1st of the 3rd moon (some time in April);
but the main part of the work is finished in the 10th or
beginning of the 11th moon (some time in December). A few
days before the "Beginning of Spring" () the officials
of the three districts, whose lands are irrigated by the waters
of this dam, meet at the entrance of the canal to inspect the
Dam Works (I). On the day fixed they worship at
the temple of the God of Streams (JE), which is built on
the right bank of the river opposite the water-gauge, and then
proceed with their respective retinues, the literati and gentry
of the district, and the Dam Managers, to examine the dam,
close
up the breach (k) and remove the sand barrier from
the entrance of the canal. A similar visit is paid by the
officials in the third month when the work is finally and
officially completed; but the first one is the great day.
The canal, which has been cut alongside of the hill, is
about 50 feet wide at the entrance but varies in width as it
proceeds on its way down the plain. It is an impossible task
to describe all the numberless channels and ditches into which

46
IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND.
it is sub-divided in its course; but a glance at the
map will
show that about twelve miles from the mouth it divides into
two main branches. The main stream flows in a somewhat
circuitous manner southward past the district city of Pen-shan
and the Department of Mei-chou, distributing its fertilising
waters in all directions on its way. The other branch wends
its way in a westerly direction, distributing its waters east
and south-east all along the way to a point about seven miles
west of Pen-shan, and then turns abruptly eastward and
re-unites with the main stream at a point about five miles
west of Pen-shan.
At certain intervals, near the upper end of the canal,
there are a number of Persian wheels at work raising the
water to higher levels. The number of these wheels is
regulated by the officials, but in dry seasons the farmers
exceed the regulation number, and clan fights and lawsuits
are of frequent occurrence.
3.-The Frog's Chin Dam (0).
The waters of the General Relief Dam, which irrigate
the plain west of the Min, are a continuation of the waters
of the "Outer" branch of the Min; but the stream which
is diverted by the Frog's Chin Dam, and which irrigates
the plain east of the Min, is a continuation of the waters
of the central branch of the "Inner" river.
The hinterland
east of the Min, some twenty miles below Chen-tu, is undu-
lating, with here and there a small valley or plain irrigated by
Persian wheels or small dikes. A low range of hills forms the
boundary of the Min for a distance of about forty miles on the
east. At a point some five miles above the city of Mei-chou the
hills are somewhat lower, and it is at this point that the
Frog's Chin Dam commences. Passage has been cut along

IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND. 47
the base of the hill, directing the waters of the Min south-
eastwards across the plain for a distance of about twenty
miles. The construction of this dam is much simpler and less
expensive than either of the other dams in this region. The
spot selected is where the Min is divided into three streams
by sand-banks or islands. At this point a stone wall, about
five feet high and four feet thick, has been built from the
south-east corner of the smallest island and carried along
the side of the hill for about half-a-mile, effectually cutting
off the waters of the smaller stream and diverting them
into the channel of the Frog's Chin Dam and thence, by
numerous canals and dikes, across the plain.
The hills gradually extend eastward, forming the
boundary of the plain, but about half-way down there
is a break which admits the waters of the Wild Fish
river (I) into the plain, flowing southward along
the base of the hill for a distance of about six miles,
and then, turning gradually towards the west, flows into
the Min at about two miles below the village of Great Peace
(太平場).
The waters of the Frog's Chin Dam are distributed by
means of several large channels and a number of dikes
and canals. For official purposes the plain has been divided
into twenty-four sections, each presided over by a Dam
Manager, who collects the dam tax and keeps the channels in
good repair. The waters of this dam irrigate a plain some
twenty miles long by four wide. The total acreage irrigated
is about nine thousand. The wall of the dam being built
of stone instead of cobble-stones, the annual expenditure
on repairs is comparatively small. A small tax, however,
is levied for this purpose. In the reign of Hsien Fung
(), A.D. 1851-1862, the amount assessed was about
two cents per acre, but in the twenty-seventh year

48
IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND.
of His Majesty Kuang Hsü the land was measured and
an expenditure of several hundred dollars was entailed;
the consequence was that for the following three years the
tax amounted to three cents per acre, but after that date the
old sum was reverted to.
This dam has no Irrigation Office: the Dam Managers
meet at the Wang Family (E) for the transaction
of business in connection with the dam. The twenty-four
sections into which the plain is divided are marked on the
map by red lines, and the name of each section is indicated
by a single Chinese character. The sections are grouped
together in six sets of four each, and form a sort of rhyme
to aid the memory.
4.-The Great Transforming Dam (1).
The waters of the General Relief Dam re-unite with the
Min some four miles below Mei-chou at Yellow Centre Plain.
The Great Transforming Dam commences at a place some four
miles below this point on the same side of the river. The
region below Mei-chou being largely given up to the
cultivation of opium, wheat and tobacco, the demand for water
is not so great as in the rice-growing districts. The land
lying between the Great Relief Dam and the commencement
of the Great Transforming Dam, a distance of about four
miles, only depends on a small stream, an offshoot of the
General Relief Dam, which has not reverted to the Min at
Yellow Centre Plain.
This dam, like the General Relief, dates from the Tang
dynasty (A.D. 618-905), and has also had its periods of
prosperity and ruin during successive dynasties.
At a point some eight miles below Mei-chou a barrier,
formed with bamboo crates, is built out from the mainland
in a slanting direction for a distance of about a quarter-of-

IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND. 49
a-mile, directing the waters of the main stream into a channel
which has been cut through the sandy soil for about another
quarter-of-a-mile, where the waters, thus diverted, unite with
a small stream called the Chou river (I) and then flow
south almost parallel to the main stream. About half-way
between the junction of the waters diverted by the channel and
the Chou river and the Chou river joining the Min the Chou
river is cut off by a stone barrier built across the stream in a
slanting direction for a distance of about 250 yards, and then
carried on at the foot of the hill for another 300 yards till it
reaches a properly prepared channel which runs parallel to
the Min for a distance of about two miles and then turns
south-westward across the plain. The stone barrier is very
strongly built and kept in excellent repair. The canal is
about fifteen to twenty feet wide and the water about ten
feet deep at flood season but almost dry at other times. The
yearly cleaning of the channel for successive generations
has raised the embankment to a height amost equal to the
hill at the base of which it flows. The length of this channel
is something like fourteen English miles. The area irrigated
is 1,700 acres. The yearly expenditure amounts to about
300 dollars Mex.
In conclusion. The traveller, as he passes through the
districts irrigated by the waters of these four great dams
and realises the density of the population and general
prosperity of the people, is filled with admiration for a people
who conceived, carried out and maintain such a system,
which has made the Chen-tu Plain the great centre of wealth
and prosperity, apart perhaps from the salt-producing
districts, in the province. What the future of this plain
will be, when a properly organised railway system is added
to the numerous facilities offered by the rivers and channels
of the irrigation system, forms interesting material for thought
4

50 IRRIGATION OF THE CHEN-TU PLAIN AND BEYOND.
and speculation. If the above description of the irrigation.
of the plain and beyond should help those interested in the
subject to form a clearer idea of its magnitude and value,
the time spent in preparing this paper will not be in vain.