Java.
By Juan Mencarini.
Looking over the extensive and varied mass of papers
read before our learned Society, I was astonished to find
so very little relating to Java, this most interesting
island of the Indian Ocean,-supremely interesting from its
geographical position, its history, and especially so to all
who take an interest in the Far East. Now, when the
eyes of the whole world are centred on the sanguinary
struggle unfortunately going on between the Russian and
Japanese forces, is the time, I conceive, for the white man
to occupy himself with all, and any part, of this corner of
the globe, where, sooner or later, a conflict will surely
arise between the natives and the white dominant power.
From the time of the great Sepoy Mutiny, various attempts
have been made by the Asiatics to rid themselves of the
ever-conquering Caucasian. Crushed in India, he was
likewise subdued in Sumatra, the Malay Peninsula, in the
Philippine Islands; and lately at our own doors during the
Boxer troubles, the arms of the white man have been kept
busy in subjugating the Asiatic hosts, who, with fanatic
despair, in vain tried to free their mother-country from
the hated intruder.

JAVA.
121
Suddenly a minute spot on the globe's surface rises
from the darkness; and in less than a man's generation we
see a little country grow formidable, acquire all the white
man's knowledge, and with the enemy's own arms oppose
itself to the intruder, arriving with astonishing fool-hardiness
as a second David to meet in single combat the Goliath
of Europe. Its undoubted success all along the line up to
date has astounded the most incredulous, and has set Europe
thinking seriously of the imminent menace prepared for the
white man, should the victorious Japanese have the upper
hand in this deadly struggle. The Asiatic, or yellow man,.
as we are accustomed to know him, once convinced of the
possibility of ousting the white man from his soil, will not
be long before rising en masse against his dominator; and
the vast markets so dearly bought with the blood of our
ancestors will surely be lost to our manufacturers and traders,
whose millions of employees would necessarily starve for
want of work, making the economical and social situation
of Europe more troublesome and more difficult to solve. The
natural patriotic aspiration to free Asia from the dominant
white is one with which we can sympathize, but I leave
it to my indulgent readers to solve these two most
important questions. Is it not an unattainable illusion
for the Asiatic to hope for such liberty? Would not the
united West consider that this loss concerned its very
existence? Pray forgive my digression from the main
object of the paper, but my pen unwittingly traced these
impressions of my preoccupied mind, for I maintain it
concerns every white man, and especially those who, like
myself, have made their homes in the Far East.
But let us go back to our Java, the pretty Island, the
spot which to my mind, if there was an earthly paradise,
Nature must have selected as the most appropriate for the

122
JAVA.
From very
abode of quietness and happiness.
ancient times
much has been written by learned men as to the probable
origin of the name given to the Island. In my opinion
the most accurate surmise is that it was so called by ancient
traders, and is a corruption of the Sanscrit word Yawa,
barley, which was the principal food-stuff of the aborigines,
as narrated by the early Persian and Arabic travellers to
the Island. Java was known at the beginning of our era,
as Indian, Chinese, Arabian and Persian works testify. All
these speak highly of the natural richness of the soil, the
beauty of its scenery and the industry of its population.
Although at the time Java was visited by the first
Europeans the whole of the Island was under one sovereign,
local history shows that at one period it was divided into
two independent Sultanates, which in turn had a large
number of petty Rajahs under their suzerainty. Ancient
Chinese works often mention the island. Chia-po is the
name given to it in most of the books I have seen, but in
the Tung Tien it is mentioned as having changed its name
during the Yuen Dynasty in A.D. 1279 to Kwa-wa. It is
mentioned also as Holin, which is probably a corruption of the
name Holland. In several works, long chapters are dedicated
to its large trade with Southern China; they describe its people,
and mention is made of several tributary embassies to the
Chinese Emperors, the first one arriving at Kaifeng, in
Honan, in A.D. 962, the seventh year of the Emperor
Tai-Tsung of the Sung Dynasty.
Foreign authors do not agree as to the probable
origin of the Javanese. In a paper on the Philippines which
I had the honour to read before this learned Society three
years ago touching on the origin of the aborigines of that
archipelago, I ventured the opinion that all aborigines in
the extreme Orient probably came from the same stock.

JAVA.
123
I will take the liberty to re-state my theory, as applying also
to Java.
I said :-
"Of undoubtedly volcanic origin, the archipelago would
seem from many of its features to have been once connected
with the mainland as well as with the Kamchatka Peninsula,
the islands of Japan and Formosa in the north, and Borneo,
Java and Sumatra in the south and south-west. The chain
of volcanic mountains which runs across all these islands,
is in my opinion a strong indication of their having once
formed an integral part of the adjacent continent. It is
a well-known fact that the China Sea is exceedingly shallow
compared to other similarly vast expanses of water. It is
therefore probable that a vast and extraordinary cataclysm
separated the islands, and inundating the valleys left the
higher lands dry, and that on them the aboriginal inhabitants
took refuge. Hence the undoubted similarity of the
aboriginal tribes of Kamchatka, the Ainos of Japan, the
variously named aboriginal Formosans, the Negritos and
Igorrotes of the Philippines, and the Dyaks of Borneo,
Java and Sumatra. A comparative study also in craniology,
their languages and manners, has shown many a similarity
between these tribes. As science progresses, and the
attention of scientists is attracted to these regions, I have
no doubt more marked resemblances will be discovered to
confirm my theory. These rapidly disappearing races are
a most interesting study, and I venture to call them to the
attention of our learned men at home in the hope that they
will take up this subject before it is too late."
Whatever may
have been the origin of the inhabitants,
the descriptions supplied by the first foreigners who arrived
on the Island show that the race at that time was of Malay
descent very much mixed with Chinese. My own observations
during my visits confirm this opinion. There is no doubting

124
JAVA.
the evidence that there are many salient Mongolian character-
istics in the features of the Javanese. This is especially
noticeable in the shape of their heads, which are lozenged,
the forehead and chin sharpening, and the cheek-bones broad
and protruding. The eyes are oblique and small, being shaded
with very little eyebrows or eyelids. The nose is flat and the
lips are thin. The colour of their skin is brown, and another
peculiarity is that they are not hairy, few being able to grow
a moustache and far less a beard. In stature they are small,
rather below the middle-sized man, but well shaped and very
agile. Intelligent and industrious, their chief qualities are
obedience to law and respect for superiors. In fact, if I have
any criticism to make from my personal observations of
the system of Government carried on by the Dutch, it is-
their having, perhaps, abused too much the peaceful disposition
of their subjects, and held them in such a state of subjection
that when a native meets a foreigner, especially in the interior,
he not only steps aside for the Tuan (Master), as the white
man is called, but crouches on his heels, bending low his
forehead, so as not to meet the white man's eyes.
I must confess I have not been able to find that the-
Javanese women possess the excessive beauty which many a
foreigner had assured me they are graced with. In my visit
to the Island I was honoured with an invitation to a reception
by H.R. H. the Susunan of Sorekarta, or, as he is commonly
called, the Sultan of Java. About two hundred women were
in the magnificent marble hall, which was lighted by electricity.
To melodious, soft music, twenty-seven finely dressed and
superbly jewelled girls danced, or rather contortioned. I
could not see one that had even average beauty-not one
with what the French would call la beauté du diable;
and as to their dancing, I much regret to say I could not
admire their supposed gracefulness. It was all supremely

JAVA.
125
interesting and pleasing, and the tout ensemble quite effective
-with their pretty native court dresses, and the aristocratic
bearing of all in the hall-but nothing to cause one to rave
about the beauty and gracefulness of the Javanese women.
The climate of Java, as of all countries in the tropics, is
damp, but although along the sea-coast the thermometer
often registers as high as 100° Fahr., it is wonderful what an
agreeable change one can obtain with only a few hours'
climbing to the interior in a train. Forming a plateau
in the centre from the sea-coast, the whole of the island
rises, attaining a height of from three to eleven thousand
feet above the sea level. Of undoubted volcanic origin, the
country is full of volcanoes, some in perpetual eruption.
It must be on this account that the natives live in thatched
dwellings and the foreigners in bungalows.
I have never seen such lavish use of white marble as
in Java. The most unpretentious foreigner's house is paved
with this white stone, and elegant columns of the same
material support the roofs of the entertaining rooms. In
the evenings as one passes in front of these small but dainty
looking palaces, especially with open doors and windows
splendidly lighted, the effect is superb and cannot easily be
forgotten.
According to the Annuaire Statistique pour le Royaume
des Pays-Bas for 1902, the last census of the Island was
taken in 1900, and showed a total population of 61,700
Europeans, 272,800 Chinese, 16,200 Arabs, 3,000 Orientals
not natives, and 26,635,000 natives, making a grand total of
26,988,700 inhabitants; reckoning the island to contain 2,290
square miles this gives nearly 12 people to the square mile.
The population is densest in the provinces of Pagelen and
Kedoe, which contain nearly 24 inhabitants per square mile,
and least in Besôcki, which has only five. The native, as I

126
JAVA.
have already said, is an industrious, hard-working individual,
and it is certainly wonderful how cheaply he labours. A
working-man's wages are from 0.40 florin cents to a maximum
of 2 florins or guilders. A coolie's wages are still more
ridiculously low, from 0.15 to 0.50 florins, etc.
The Dutch Government looks very well after the
intellectual welfare of its subjects, for in 1902 there were
258 State schools and 324 private ones, having a total of
84,527 pupils attending them.
The religion of the inhabitants is Mohammedan. Little is
known of the religion of the aborigines, but it is fair to
suppose that they, like all sons of the forest, must have
been superstitious and worshippers of Nature. As in most
countries, history and religious movements in Java have been
connected, so I will give a brief sketch of both. Fa-Hsien,
the celebrated Chinese traveller, mentions that in A.D. 414,
when he visited the Island, he found the natives to be
Brahmins. According to tradition, the Java era begins with
Aji Saka, corresponding with the 75th year of our era.
Inscriptions point to the fact that Buddhism was the State
religion in A.D. 656, and refer to the magnificent temples
of Boro Boedor. Aji Saka is supposed by some to have
been a traveller from the west, who established a colony on
the Island. Becoming a powerful prince he dominated most
of the tribes and introduced letters, government and religion.
This latter must have been the re-establishment of Brahminism,
for tradition says that in A.D. 1018 1,000 temples at
Brambanan, distinctly Brahmin in character, were completed,
although tradition also says they were constructed in A.D.
525. About A.D. 289 Bam Kati was the first Hindu
sovereign of Java. The establishment of this race in the
Island is enveloped in a mass of mystery and legends, and
little is definitely known.

JAVA.
127
During the long reign of the Indu dynasty, which brings
us to 1381, Java attracted considerable attention from its
neighbouring countries, especially during the domination of
Panji, a supposed adventurer from India, who soon subdued
the whole of the Island and placed it under one government.
He is supposed to have been the introducer of the Kris, the
famous Malay sword, and many useful articles are also
attributed to his invention. In the year 1118 during the
reign of Prabu Moding Sari, his elder brother, who had visited
India, returned, accompanied by an Arab, and this is the first
instance in Javan history in which Mohammed is mentioned.
The rulers were soon converted to this new religion, and the
whole of the population followed them. Idols were abandoned,
and, in the place of the neglected temples erected by their
forefathers, new mosques were erected.
About the year 1500 the first European navigators,
mostly Portuguese, visited the Island and established trade.
In 1524 the Dutch visited Java, but it was not till about
1540 that they established themselves at Yakatra, now
known as Batavia. Little by little the Hollanders took
possession of the whole Island, profiting by the feuds existing.
between the Susunan and the numerous petty chieftains
on the Island; but this was not accomplished without
great loss of blood. In August 1811 the British forces
arrived and Sir Stamford Raffles was appointed first Governor
of the Island. The British occupation lasted till 1819, when
the Island was restored to the crown of Holland, to which, up
to this date, it belongs.
As I have already mentioned, Java from remote times
has been noted for its great richness. A tropical growth, well
manured by volcanic detritus must necessarily render the soil
excessively fertile. The Dutch have dedicated all their energies
to the cultivation of the soil and have at Buitenzorg the

128
JAVA.
celebrated botanical gardens where every known plant suitable
to the soil of the Island is introduced, reared and cultivated.
Java produces the following principal staples of trade, which
I give with their respective statistics for 1902: Sugar,
14,536,100 piculs; coffee, 252,000 piculs; chinchona,
3,183,000 kilos; tobacco leaf 19,721,000 kilos; tea, 7,524,000
kilos; indigo, 601,300 kilos; cocoa, 537,000 kilos, and rice
ever 70,000,000 piculs. The total value of Imports during
1903 was 110,000,000 dollars; of Exports, 160,000,000
dollars. The Import Duty received was, in 1902, 10,073,000
guilders; the Export Duty 1,179,000 guilders.
Buitenzorg is only a little over an hour's train ride from
Batavia, and my visit to this place will ever remain impressed
upon my mind. Landing from the train, just before dark, I
was conveyed to the hotel in a comfortable dos-à-dos, as the
dog-carts are called. After dinner, as I was preparing to
retire, a thunder-storm, accompained with a terrible shower
of rain, burst upon us with the rapidity and ferocity of these
tropical phenomena. The magnificence of the scene, revealed
to me through the open windows, is ever to be remembered.
My room, situated on the summit of a hill about a couple of
hundred feet high, overlooked a vast valley through which
ran a narrow rivulet, the beautiful tropical palm-leaves on
both banks forming a natural canopy over it.
At the further
end of the valley rose the pretty and majestic Mount Salak,
ever green with wondrous vegetation. Imagine the magnificent
appearance of this beautiful mountain-side with thousands of
lightning flashes crossing it from every direction. In ecstasy,
I remained nailed to the window during the time the storm
lasted, which was much too short, for I never expect to see
again a scene so grand, so magnificent as this was.
The Dutch, who are second only to the British as
colonists, understanding the necessity of easy communication

JAVA.
129
have made beautiful roads all over the Island, and where
possible railway traffic has been adopted. During my
enchanting sojourn on the Island, and in visiting Garut,
Pranbanang and the ruins of ancient temples, I had some-
times to be conveyed in carriages, and I must confess I was
enchanted not only with the comforts of the vehicles and
their rapidity, but also with the paternal care bestowed
upon the traveller by the Government. All over the Island
the Dutch have built comfortable passagrahaus, as the
rest-houses are called, which are in charge of pensioned Dutch
army men, and where one can find everything desirable for
comfort, and all tariffed at very reasonable prices.
In my pilgrimage through the Island I naturally went to
see Java's wonder, the ruins of Boro Boedor, and I can assure
my readers that the visit is worth the trouble it may give.
This magnificent temple, now in complete ruin, still shows
the high civilisation of its constructors. Over 140 feet in
height rises a stupendous pyramid of uncemented stones,
forming five uncovered galleries, the walls of which are all
covered by beautiful bas-reliefs of exquisite finish. The whole
life of Buddah, from his infancy to his entrance into Nirvana,
is depicted in these wonderful pictures, carved on the coarse
trachyte stones brought from the three volcanoes across the
valley. These volcanoes are the Svemburg, the Merbaboe and
the Merapi, the last two being in constant eruption, and
producing a magnificent scenic effect.
Added to the interest which the specially beautiful scenery
of Java possesses, one can enjoy the marvels shown in the
ruins of Boro Boeder, Mendot, Prambanam and Djok jakarta,
and the highly excitable and exhilarating effect of volcano
climbing. The visit is also highly educative, and I know of
no better place in which a holiday may be spent.
9

Shanghai Folk-lore.
By Rev. Ernest Box, M.A.
A few years ago
I prepared a paper for this Society
on Shanghai Folk-lore, from notes gathered during the years
1890-1898. Since then, though having little leisure for
further study of this interesting subject, I have continued
to make a note of anything I have come across bearing on
this question, and by request I now give a selection
from these notes. Thinking it would make more interesting
reading, I have arranged my material in the form of a
"Chinese Book of Days," somewhat after the fashion of
that famous and fascinating work called "Chambers's Book
of Days." We can in this way study Shanghai Folk-lore
from the point of view of the home life of the people. Some
of the facts we shall give will of necessity be already
familiar to students of Chinese Folk-lore, as they are
common to the greater part of China; others, which are
peculiar to this district, will probably be new. Of course
I cannot attempt in one short paper anything at all complete
or exhaustive, but I offer these notes as a contribution
towards this subject.
In the cycle of a year we come then first to the great
day in China's "Book of Days," viz. New Year's Day,
the 1st Day of the 1st Moon (called B). At daylight

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
131
on New Year's morning all the members of the family
partake of sweet rice-cakes, round and oval in shape ()
(圓團). Even prisoners in the gaols have these cakes
given them by the official in whose custody they are.
The sweetness typifies pleasant things, and the shape,
round and oval, is suggestive of a complete family circle,
and also of things that pass easily and without friction.
It is the custom here, for all who can, to rise very
early on New Year's morning, from 3 to 5 if possible,
and go out to meet the God of Good Luck (). The
Court Astrologer determines each year from which point
of the compass this auspicious visitor may be expected, and
it is recorded in the almanack (*), which the people
are careful to consult. They then, early on New Year's
morning, take a walk in the direction advised, often after
having first worshipped in the temples. The first person
who is fortunate enough to meet the God of Good Luck
will, it is supposed, enjoy the best of good luck during
the
year.
At the New Year Season the Laughing Buddha
(FE), they say, gives everyone a holiday, and it is
therefore unlucky to do any unnecessary labour at this time.
All business is suspended, and no domestic duties, such as
cooking, sweeping, etc., are performed. Scissors and
Needles must not be used on New Year's Day, nor must
dirty water be thrown out of the door or window on to
the ground. What you do on this day you will do all
the year round. If you work, you will have a year of toil.
you throw out water, you throw out the money you ought
to receive during the year. Slave-girls and daughters-in-law
should not be beaten on this day, nor should the feet of young
girls be freshly bound. Everyone should, if possible, be
dressed in new or clean clothes, and one's words be respectful,
If

132
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
mild and pleasant to the ear. Neglect of this latter precaution
is a frequent cause of quarrelling, as the one offended against
regards such words as an ill omen. The word for death is
especially taboo. As far as possible, only food laid up in
store in the old year should be eaten on this day, as this is
suggestive of abundance. A fish suspended in the house is
also potent in bringing about a year of plenty (=),
symbolizing, as it does, the cornucopia.
The 15th of the 1st Moon, or the first full moon of the
year (called or ), is the next day of importance.
On this day the Kitchen God () is welcomed
back, after giving his report of the family at head-quarters.
Some people, however, still follow the old date, viz. the
24th.
About 9 or 10 in the evening candles are placed on the
kitchen stove. Incense is then burnt and the candles
lit, and crackers are also fired outside the house, and the
god is thus welcomed back with signs of reverence and
pleasure.
The Kitchen God's paper image (or) is
placed in the little receptacle and surrounded with a gold paper
screen, and is then worshipped by each member of the
family from the eldest to the youngest. Earlier in the day
the women of the family have been busy preparing sweet
round cakes (F) similar to those eaten on the 1st of the
month but with a small piece of pork inside.
The head of the family places four of these round cakes,
typical of double pairs or unbroken pairs of husband and
wife, in each generation, on a ledge outside the shrine.
Cakes similar to these are now eaten by all the members of
the family, who thus in feasting express their joy at the
return of the Kitchen God, and rejoice too that the family
circle, typified by the round cakes, is unbroken.

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
133
The day (the first full moon of the year) and the round
moon-like cakes clearly connect this festival with the old
custom of moon worship.
The Feast of Lanterns ().
At this season there is also the custom of making
lanterns of silk or paper over bamboo frames in the shape
of birds and beasts, and, especially on this evening, the 15th
of the 1st moon, to perambulate the streets and yamens. The
children much enjoy this Lantern Festival, and enter heartily
into the fun. Poorer people take advantage of the festival
to solicit alms from the wealthier people. The Buddhist
priests, on the 13th of the month, make a tower of bamboos
in the temple gardens or enclosure, and each family in the
vicinity contributes four lanterns, and these, in number
varying from 100 to 300, are suspended aloft in tiers like a
pagoda and lit up every night until the evening of the 24th,
which is the last day of the New Year festivities, after which
life resumes its normal condition.
There are several other customs associated with the first
full moon of the year in which women and girls take part
and which are observed after sunset.
Wallking the Three Bridges (走三橋).
The
younger women at this season often get up parties to
"walk the three bridges" together by moonlight. Setting out
from home they choose a course which enables them to cross
three bridges and make a circuit back again to their homes.
In this way their cleverness in choosing the shortest route is
exercised, and success is supposed to confer additional
wisdom and mental alertness. This custom may have arisen
out of the belief that leading into the "Fairy World"

134
SHANGHAI FOLK LORE.
(仙入界) or "Western Paradise (西方極樂世界
there are three famous bridges (西方接引三橋)
The first is a red bridge, dazzling bright: he who crosses
this is born again into an illustrious family. One must be led
across this bridge by fairies, for no man alone could find his
way. The second bridge is of gold: cross this and you will
be born into a wealthy family. The third is of silver: cross
this and you will be born again to a life of happiness and
pleasure. At all these bridges a fairy stands with a flag, and
decides who is able to cross, and then leads the fortunate ones
across.
Another explanation of the origin of this custom of
"walking the three bridges," connects it with the three
bridges found in the vicinity of the Confucian temples. On
ceremonial occasions, only a First Hanlin, or Chinese Senior
Wrangler, is permitted to cross the central bridge, a Second
Wrangler that on the left, and a Third Wrangler that on the
right.
Girls and young women in crossing the three bridges
have the hope that they may either marry a husband
with a high degree or give birth to sons who will become
Hanlins.
There was formerly a custom in Shanghai, which is still
observed in the country districts, called "Feeling into Space"
() or groping for things in the dark, also called
"Guessing Things by Touch and Sound" (T). The girls
and younger women in their own homes, or in the homes of
their girl friends, or sometimes in empty houses or in.temples,
where arrangements have already been made, grope in the
dark, feeling for objects. When they lay hold of something
they try to guess what it is by touch and sound. Whatever
they obtain is supposed to indicate what their future fate is
to be (後身之結局)

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
"
Seeking the Pumpkin" (M).
135
In the country districts, women who are childless, on the
evening of the 15th of the 1st moon or on the 15th of the
Sth moon, go secretly by moonlight to the fields, searching
for a pumpkin or squash. If they are successful in finding
one they take it home rejoicing, believing that a son will be
born to them (得子之兆)(綿綿瓜瓞)
«
Carrying the Third Maiden" ()
Another custom observed by girls and young women,
especially in the country, from the 15th of the 1st moon
until the 24th, is called " Carrying the Third Maiden." She
is the goddess of the corner behind the door, the youngest of
the three sisters of the God of Wealth (). It is supposed
that she has the power of making her favourites quick and
nimble with their hands and clever in all things that
concern the domestic welfare. The following is the usual
method of procedure.
A square table is covered with a layer of flour, the seat
or throne of the goddess being placed on the same, with
lighted candles and sticks of incense in front. The empty
throne is first worshipped as a token of respect by those
taking part in the ceremony.
The small basket used for washing the daily rice is now
taken and placed bottom up, and a woman's hat or head-band
placed round it, with paper flowers stuck into it. Suspended
inside from the centre of the basket is a long hair-pin, like a
hat-pin. Two girls about the age of 10 or 12 now lift up the
basket and carry it to the corner behind the main door of the
hall, or the principal entrance, and say "Please, San Koo
Niang, come and see the red lanterns and drink fairy
tea." They then carry the basket to the table. If heavy the
goddess is supposed to have come; if light, she has not come.

136
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
If enquiry is, made "Are you there?"
"Have you come?"
the basket will nod in the affirmative three times.
The girls now place the basket over the table, and, as
they hold it, it is supposed to move of its own accord and,
with the pin suspended from its centre, to trace out the flour
figures of various flowers and designs such as are used in
needlework. If beautiful and interesting patterns are traced
all are happy, believing the goddess regards them with favour
and is pleased to teach them. They then ask questions as to
their fortunes, and if the reply is in the affirmative the basket
gives a sign; if in the negative, there is no movement.
"Establishing the Spring" (#).
About this period the moveable feast known as "Esta-
blishing the Spring" or "Meeting the Spring" () is
observed, of which an account was given in my previous paper
[published in Vol. 34, page 101]. To this I now add a few
notes. Sometimes a real ox (4) and boz (A) or (D)
take part in the procession, but more frequently paper figures
are used as substitutes. In both cases the two are made the
medium of making known to the people the "Astronomer
Royal's" forecast of the forthcoming year. First the body of
the ox is painted with one or other of various colours, having
the following significance: :-
Yellow. Good harvest and a year of good luck.
White. A wet season.
Red. A drought; also indicating frequent fires.
Black. A year of sickness.
Blue () By a play on the sound of the word,
indicating an unfavourable year
for young people (青年).
Secondly. The figure of the boz () or () is
made to indicate the same by his dress,-everything, however,
going by the rule of contrary.

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
If he wears boots--the year will be wet.
"
no boots
"
دو
dry.
99
a hat
"
hot.
"
دو
no hat
cold.
23
دو
137
This may not seem contrary to the Westerner, but it is
to the Chinese, who wear hats in the winter and not in the
summer, and who, in the country at least, remove their boots,
made of cloth and easily spoilt, when the rain comes, finding
it easier also to walk barefoot on the muddy pathways that do
duty for roads.
The explanation of this going by the rule of contrary is
given as follows.
T'ai-Sui (when alive was animated by a spirit of
contrariness, doing always the very opposite of what was
asked or required of him. He acted in this same contrary
spirit towards his parents. When his old father came to die
he naturally wished to secure burial in a good dry spot of
earth. He called his son to his bedside, and, bearing in mind
his contrary disposition, he commanded him to bury him,
when he died, in a piece of ground well soaked with wet.
When the old man died the son reasoned thus with himself:
"When my father was alive I always did the opposite of what
he wished me to do. In this I was unfilial. This his last
dying request I must not disobey." So he chose a grave in
damp soil, where the floods came in the rainy seasons, and
thus to the last, true to his innate spirit of perversity, frustrated
to the last the wishes of his old father.
"The Festival of the Flowers' Birthday" (EB).
وو
The 12th day of the 2nd moon is the festival of the
" Flowers' Birthday [already described in Vol. 34,
p. 117], when the women and children adorn the flowering
shrubs with paper rosettes, and recite verses and prostrate

138
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
themselves in token of respect and in hope of a fruitful
season.
In the south-east of the native city of Shanghai there is a
temple of the "Flower Gods" (TE). There are twelve
Flower Gods in all, each presiding in turn over one month of
the year, as the twelve different flowers are in season, as
follows:-
1st month, the Plum (E).
2nd
دو
3rd
י,
4th
وو
5th
"
6th
25
7th
"
8th
وو
9th
23
10th
دو
11th
12th
دو
the Apricot (杏花).
the Peach (桃花)
the Rose (薔薇花).
the Persimmon (石榴花)
the Lotus (荷花).
the Balsamina impatiens (E).
the Olea fragrans (桂花).
the Chrysanthemum (E).
the Hibiscus mutabilis (芙蓉花).
the Narcissus (水仙花)
Calycanthus or Chimonanthus fragrans
(臈梅花).
Each of these flower deities is worshipped in turn by the
florists and gardeners, who place a sprig of the corresponding
flower in the hand of the God or Goddess, or plant a small
tree of the same in the courtyard in front of the temple.
There are three 12th days in all (+)=-
1st moon 12th day (+) Mandarin's Twelfth Day.
2nd moon 12th day (+) Flower's Twelfth Day.
3rd moon 12th day (+) Tradesmen's Twelfth Day.
If it rains on any of these days it is unlucky. If it rains
on the first, the officials will not make large fortunes that
year; on the second, it will be a bad year for flowers;
on the third 12th, business people will make small profits.

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
有利無利看三个十二
有吃無吃看三个十八
139
[Proverb relating to the 12th and 18th of the first three months;
fine weather on these days, propitious; wet, unpropitious.]
These Twelfth-days remind us of our own Twelfth Night
-twelve days from Christmas-and the twelfth-cakes
associated with that festival.
Next comes the Great Chinese Festival called Ts'ing
Ming, or Pure Brightness (), about the end of the
2nd or the beginning of the 3rd moon, when at home
and at the grave-side the Chinese worship their ancestors,
burning incense and paper money, and offering a sacrifice
of meat and drink. The whole period covers twenty days,
centreing in the "Ts'ing Ming Day." Many prefer to
visit the graves early, as it is supposed that paper money
burnt at the beginning of the festival becomes gold, in
the middle of the period silver, and at the end brass. The
day before Ts'ing Ming all who are able to do so go out
of doors and pluck off twigs from willow trees, and bring
them home to put up over the doorways. This is a similar
custom to that which still exists in England where the
catkin, or willow in flower, is used to decorate the homes-
and especially Churches on Palm Sunday-the willow, in
the absence of the palm, doing duty for it. *
The use of the willow seems connected with the idea
of mourning, being frequently planted by the graves,
especially the weeping-willow, and also with the idea of
victory, like the palm. Perhaps the idea of resurrection is
the most prominent thought suggested, combining both that
*"Young people go a-palming on the Saturday before Palm Sunday
and return with slips of willow, which they stick up in their homes or
in the Churches."-[Chambers's "Book of Days," Vol. I, p. 396.]

140
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
of mourning and of victory. The use of the willow in this
connection is a very natural one, as it is the first tree to put
forth its leaves in the spring. This use of the willow evidently
goes back a very long way. The custom in China is connected,
according to local folk-lore, with a revered hero of the Chou
Dynasty, called Kiai Chi Tui (周朝晉國之介之推), who
saved the young prince (A) when his father
() was driven from his throne.
.
When the prince became king he at first forgot his
benefactor, who retired to the depths of a forest, having given
up the desire for satisfaction in this life, and fixing his hopes
on the life to come. When at last the young king was
reminded of his faithful protector, he repented of his neglect,
but tried in vain to persuade
to return to Court.
retreat, he set fire to
Thinking to drive the hermit from his
the forest. Kiai Chi Tui having renounced the world
preferred death to flight, and so perished in the flames lit by
the hand of the prince whom he had saved from death. In
some parts people refrain from lighting fires on this day,
thinking it unlucky, because regarded as showing disrespect
to his memory. After Kiai Chi T'ui's death, in honour of
his memory the people began to pay pilgrimages to his
shrine, and these pilgrims used to bring back sprigs of the
willow, which grew in the vicinity. Hence the present-day
custom of bringing home the willow on the eve of Tsing
Ming, suggesting to all, at this great festival of the honoured
dead, a spring-tide promise of life after death.
Festival of the Hungry Ghosts (H).
It is on this Ts'ing Ming Day and on the 15th of the
7th moon and the 1st of the 10th moon (the 15th of the 10th
in the country) that the Chinese in this part observe the
"Festival of the Hungry Ghosts," which custom and its

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
141
origin (D) has been so frequently described
that I need only refer to it here. On these days the "God
of the City" is carried in procession, followed by a host
of people-men, women and children-dressed in red clothes,
representing prisoners (A) who are condemned to
suffer the death penalty, with hands manacled and with
chains dragging their feet. All have been sufferers from
severe illnesses, which have, it is supposed, been sent as a
punishment for their sins, and they are now doing penance
in fulfilment of vows promised on their behalf during their
illness by friends and relatives.
Establishing the Summer ().
This is a moveable feast, varying in date from the 3rd
to the 5th moon. On this day everyone who can procures
some new season's fruit to eat, such as cherries or plums.
They also make yeast cakes () and partake of small
sea-snails (), which are supposed to give clear eyesight.
Another custom is for all the members of the family on
this day to weigh each other and compare their weights with
those of the previous year. This weighing is said to be
efficacious in warding off cholera and other summer
complaints.
The Feast of the Summer Solstice-the 5th day of the
5th Moon (called 端陽節,天中節 or端午節). The
chief observances of this day are in connection with the
Dragon Boat Festival (#), which is said to have
had its origin in the death of Küh Yuan (or Kuh Yüen)
**), a poet and statesman famous for
his virtues, who drowned himself near Changsa, the capital
of Hunan, about 450 B.C., because, through the plottings
of his enemies, he had lost the favour of his prince. Ever
after, as the anniversary of his death has come round, he

142
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
has been kept in memory by the people, who mourn him
in this "Dragon Boat Festival." These boats, gaily dressed
with flags, go in procession along the waterways, each
with its band of music. Racing is indulged in between
the boats, and enormous crowds gather to witness the
sight. Little three-cornered rice-balls (or in the north
millet-balls) with dates inside, wrapped up in flags gathered
from the river-side, are thrown into the water as a sacrificial
offering (角黍or 粽子). Each family on this day feasts
on these rice-balls, and friends exchange them as gifts
with each other. Another idea connected with the 5th day
of the 5th moon is that it is a day full of deadly influences.
It is at this season that the spirit world lets loose an army
of sprites and spectres, demons and vampires (E)
who, on this day, are permitted to visit the upper world.
Spirits that have the power of assuming the form of human
beings or animals at this time resume their original condition.
The five poisonous things () snakes, scorpions,
centipedes, toads, spiders, also at 1 o'clock come out from
their lurking-places, quickened into new life by the
great heat.
Small children, as a cure for colic, or as a preventive of
cholera, have their one garment of the hot weather, a close
fitting apron, worked with figures of these five poisonous
things (called 五毒肚兜)
On the 5th day of the 5th moon then the upper and
lower worlds alike send forth baneful influences to harm
humankind. To avert these all the efforts of the people are
on this day directed. The most potent charm is orpiment,
or yellow sulphide of arsenic (called in Chinese ).
A thick yellow paste is made from this chemical, and the
faces of the children, the doorways and walls are freely
daubed with the mixture. The children, poor little things,

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
143
are a sight fearful to behold, and one does not wonder
that even evil spirits are supposed to be frightened off by
this use of so potent a charm. Usually the character for
"king" (E) is made with the yellow mixture on
the children's foreheads. This is explained as signi-
fying the "king of the beasts," the tiger (not the lion),
the fiercest of animals, who is supposed to take under his
protective care all children who have his name on their
foreheads.
Another potent charm, and antidote of poisons, is a
herb called the or the Artemisia Moxa, a bitter root
used in dyeing.
In connection with the belief that the Artemisia
is an antidote against poison, the Chinese say that a
pheasant invariably builds its nest over or near to this plant,
to protect its eggs and young from snakes. It is said
that if a snake approaches anywhere near this plant it
dies.
Just at the deadliest time, on the 5th of the 5th moon,
from 12 to 1 o'clock, some of the root of this plant (
and also some Orpiment (E) is burned in front
of the doorway, as the noxious fumes keep off all evil spirits
and other baneful influences.
Onions and garlic also, on this and other occasions, are
eaten to keep off evil spirits, the scent of which is said to
cause these devils to fall down overpowered and helpless.
[One might ask if the all too common use of garlic by the
Chinese, the odour of which is so much disliked by Westerners,
has its origin in an endeavour to keep at a distance the
"foreign devils."]
On the 5th of the 5th moon almost every doorway and
bed is protected by a charm consisting of three kinds of
green stuff already mentioned, viz.:-

144
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
(1) (Ch'ang p'u). The Calamus (Acorus Calamus),
the sword-like leaves of the sweet flag, hung up crosswise
in the shape of a sword (called "flag" sword).
(2) or (Ai jung). The mugwort, or Artemisia
Moxa, used as a counter-irritant, for cauterisation, etc.,
also used in making red ink paste for seals. This is said
by some to represent a flag, by others a rope to drag away
prisoners.
(3)Garlic-bulb, efficacious as mentioned above,
because its strong scent is harmful to the spirits.
The doors and walls are daubed with streaks of Artemisia
paste as a protective remedy.
A paper charm () is stuck over the doorway of
the guest-room, with the Seal of the Taoist Pope (5)
Chang Tien Shih or the portrait of Chung Chin Shih
(t) or Chung K'uei (). Chang T'ien Shih is the
spirit of the first Taoist Pope, which is supposed to pass into
and
possess s all the Taoist Popes in succession. All the spirits
and demons are his subjects, and to have his protection is
to ensure safety from spiritual and malignant foes.
Chung Kuei, with the fearsome face, is a spirit from
whom all the devils even flee. The story goes that a scholar
of the third degree in the Sung Dynasty was about to
proceed to the Hanlin examination. The night previous to
the examination a demon suddenly caused his face to be so
changed that it became a thing fearful to look upon. As
a consequence he was not allowed to enter into the emperor's
presence to be examined. One can well understand that
such a sad ending to his ambition caused this scholar to be
furious against the race of demons who had wrought him
such harm. The tradition is that he entered upon a crusade
to exterminate these foes of his, and would, whenever
possible, catch and devour them. Thus the people invoke

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
145
the aid of his spirit to protect them from the demons,
especially on this day, when they have power to work out
their evil designs on men. Another account of the origin
of Chung K'uei runs as follows. There were two friends,
renowned scholars, Chung, a Ching Shih, or scholar of
3rd degree, and Sung, an official Chung died, and his
two sons prepared no ancestral temple in their father's honour,
but proceeded to build a mansion for themselves to live in.
One night the father's friend, Sung, painted a life-like portrait
of Tsoong, on the door of his sons' new house. On seeing
this in the morning they were nearly terrified to death,
believing that the spirit of their father had come to punish
them for unfilial conduct. They there and then determined
to make their new house the family ancestral temple. The
people when explaining why they put up Chung's portrait to
frighten away demons say 鍾大人嚇殺活小鬼(“The
great man Chung frightened to death the little live devils").
This phrase is used against those who lose their boldness
before the official in the yamen, or of a son who trembles in
his father's presence, but is bold when his father is away.
Hence the phrase
E("affrighted like the
little devils").
On the 5th day of the 5th moon there is also a custom
for women to take a number of very fine silk threads of five
different colours and make them up into a charm ()
against the five poisonous influences. This charm is stuck
into their head-dress.
H
About this time there is a day called the
("Day when Heaven forgives sins"). The more devout older
women obtain from Buddhist or Taoist priests little coins
or charms of gold or silver, brass or wood, called
("The tablet of Heaven's forgiveness"). Sometimes they are
shaped like locks. These are stuck into their head-dress or
10

146
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
round the necks of their children, and prayers for the
forgiveness of heaven for their sins are earnestly offered up.
In addition to the "Tablet of Heaven's forgiveness,"
proof of free pardon in case of spirits or devils attempting to
arrest the wearer, they also wear a
hair-pin, which can be used to
"pewter-wand"
prise open
the prison-door in the lower regions in case of failure to
escape arrest.
7th day of 7th Moon
Seventh Night
Lucky
Day. We now come to the seventh day of the seventh moon,
the day sacred to the two stars the Herdboy and the Weaver,
in the constellation of Aquila and Lyra respectively. On this
night these two stars are nearly equidistant from the zenith at
midnight. The popular story of the separation of the lovers
by the Milky Way, or River of Heaven (), is well
known. Once a year, on this evening, they are allowed to
meet. The magpies render help by spreading their wings
and thus making a bridge for the herd-boy to cross the river
to meet his true love. In some places these stars are on this
evening worshipped by the women, who hope to have similar
good luck and the power of being equal to emergency.
An old custom in connection with this day is to "Pray
for Skill in Needlework" (1).* The women take rice
* A Tang dynasty scholar wrote the following lines in connection with
this custom-
云詩夕七入唐
梭金弄女織邀須 何若意牛牽會未
多已巧間人道不 巧間人與乞年年
Why long we for the cow-boy festival?
To invite the spinster of the golden shuttle.
Each year praying for skill in our (needle)work,
Lo our skill becomes incomparable.

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
147
flour, make it into a paste, and then shape it to represent
flowers and animals. These are boiled in oil and are then
stitched together into a chain with needle and cotton and
eaten one by one (called). This night is regarded
as a fortunate one,-as the mind thinks and desires, so
one can obtain one's wishes, and shapes formed both
in the mind and in the pastry can be realised in actual
life.
At night also, in the moonlight, they try to thread a
needle, holding it up to the light of the moon or placing it on
paper or floating in water. If at the first attempt they
succeed in threading the needle, they regard it as a prophesy
of great good luck, and that they will be clever in all
emergencies.
On the 15th of the 7th Moon is observed the second of
the three festivals, when the God of the City comes out in
procession, followed by his prisoners, and when the "Hungry
Ghosts" are provided with ample paper "pocket money" by
the officials. This day is called the
Middle Festival.
At the three festivals and
the Spirits of the
District (2) who have no one to sacrifice to them
are provided for. At the or Middle Festival, which
extends over a considerable part of the month, the spirits of
strangers () or () are appeased by sacrificial
offerings, and exorcised and expelled, especially by the
Buddhist or Taoist priests. This custom is called T M.
Masses are said for the souls of all who have met with death
by sword, fire or water. The boat processions on the Whang-
poo at Shanghai, when paper money is thrown alight on
the water, and sometimes also rice, meat and vegetables, to
the accompaniment of the beating of gongs and firing of
crackers, are a familiar sight to all residents here (A)
(超度亡魂)

148
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
The Mid-Autumn Festival (X) falls on the 15th
Day of the 8th Moon. On this evening the people worship
the North Pole Star or Dipper (peck measure) (), the
centre of the starry system around which all the stars revolve
(). This star with the South Pole Star is supposed to
have the power of determining the length of a person's life,
and so the two Pole Stars are worshipped by the people in
hope of attaining long life. A structure of incense, shaped
like a Chinese dipper with a tower-like structure in the centre
(called ) is placed in the open court of the house, or
outside the main door, or in some cases at the foot of a
bridge, and burnt slowly to the accompaniment of much
sounding of gongs and drums. This is called "worshipping
the old father and mother Pole Stars" ()
the North Pole being regarded as the male and the South as
the female. The Sth moon, which is known in England as the
"harvest moon," is peculiar in that it rises for several days in
succession, about full moon, at approximately the same time,
rising too just as the sun sets and setting as the sun rises.
It is therefore not strange to find that there are special
observances at the middle of the 8th moon (A) in
connection with moon worship. An offering of moon-
cakes () is placed before the Dipper of Incense (
) mentioned above. These cakes are flat and round and are
made by the confectioners of flower and sugar with dried
fruits inside. Each member in every family partakes of these,
hoping that the family will be like a globe, an unbroken circle
(), like the full moon.
9th day of the 9th Moon (II)-This day
is called the Double Nine Festival or the Double "Yang"
Festival. It is also known as the Festival of Ascending the
Heights (). On this day, following an old custom,
the people climb some high hill. Failing a hill, in Shanghai

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
149
the people go to some elevated place, as a grave or a high
building. The lofty tea-shops in the Foochow Road answer
this purpose very well and also the artificial hill in the
tea-gardens behind the city temple in the native city of
Shanghai. This custom is said to have had its origin as
follows. A certain man, when about to become a fairy or an
immortal (A), told a friend of his that on the 9th day of
the 9th moon some calamity would overtake him and his
family unless they escaped on that day to some elevated spot.
He obeyed the advice given him, and with his whole family
sought safety on a high mountain. On the following day,
when the family returned to their home, they found all the
dogs and chickens dead; some mysterious and deadly
influence had exerted its baneful power over them. From
this time all who can have tried to escape to some hill on
this day.
There is a certain herb Cornus officinalis, a sort
of dog-wood, the seeds of which are used as a cough tonic,
which is most efficacious when gathered on this day, the 9th
of the 9th moon.
Some of this plant is also gathered by the
persons "ascending the hill," and on arrival at the summit
it is stuck into the ground. Before descending each examines
his plant, and he whose plant is the least withered will, it is
supposed, be the most robust of the party on the feast day of
the following year.
There is a curious custom in Shanghai,
due I expect to the difficulty caused by the absence of high
hills. Cakes of glutinous rice are made and eaten
on this day, and the custom is known as "Chuh kau" (吃糕),
a play on the similarity of sound in the two words
.
Eating these cakes is supposed to be as efficacious as ascending
a high hill. Words truly are most potent in China.
滿城風雨近重陽. It is a common saying that within a
few days of this time there is sure to be a great deal of wind

150
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
and rain, fulfilling a prophecy made in the Tang Dynasty,
"The whole city will be full of wind and rain about the time
of the Double Yang Festival."
10th Moon 1st Day (+) the third and last
of the three festivals called, or the "Feast of the
Hungry Ghosts." In the country near Shanghai it occurs
on the 15th of the 10th moon.
12th Moon 8th Day (AA). The
12th month is called Lah Yueh, or the "Sacrificial
Month." On the 8th of the moon the people partake of
rice-soup with eight different kinds of vegetables in it (called
A). This day was formerly observed as a fast, and
all flesh food was forbidden. The fast was in preparation for
the close of the year, when the Kitchen God is supposed to go
up to the Ruler of the Heavens to give in his report of the
family during the year.
We now approach the end of the Chinese year. Connected
with the New Year's Eve customs are, first,
L
the Kitchen God's Ascension to Heaven on the 12th
Moon 23rd or 24th Day, about 9 or 10 in the evening.
During the day a paper sedan chair is prepared, and
in the evening candles and incense are burnt. The
cakes () already referred to under 15th of 1st Moon,
and the sticky sweet stuff, in shape like a shoe of silver
(), are now placed before him. As these are both
sticky substances it is hoped he will eat of them and be
unable to open his mouth to speak ill of the family. His
paper image is now placed in the sedan chair and burnt
outside in the open. The a water tuber (Tulipa
Edulis) is also put before him, as the
dialect is almost the same
as the words for
"Yes." So that, as the explanation goes, if the Ruler of
Heaven asks the Kitchen God if the people are
sound in the Shanghai
are good,

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE..
he will answer "Yes." If the question is
151
put in the
negative, "Are the people bad?" then the sticky stuff
given to the Kitchen God will prevent him opening his
mouth.
From the 20th to the New Year's Eve is the great
season when the people worship their ancestors, and
these ceremonies bring to a close the Chinese year and
the different festivals and customs which continue to be
observed now as they have been through many many
generations of the past.
Through all the months and days of the years as they
pass we must not forget that there are countless other beliefs
and customs which form the small links binding the great
links together into one strong and solid chain.
I must now mention a few of these.
Luck, Good and Bad (F) and Taboos.
(). As we all know, Good and Bad Luck play a most
important part in the thought and life of the people.
Recently, in visiting the wards of the Shantung Road Hospital,
Shanghai, I was speaking to a man who had been brought in
with a broken leg. On enquiry I ascertained that his injury
was caused in a brawl arising out of a quarrel about 5 cash.
The man, however, said: "It was my bad luck that
caused my leg to be broken; it was fated and therefore
unavoidable."
The ring which we often see in a child's ear is in many
cases put there to keep off bad luck.
So with the lock called the 100 Family Lock (M).
The parents of a small child who, according to the fortune-
tellers, lacks a good destiny, take a paper bag (foong de) to
100 different neighbours, begging one or two cash from each.
From these they make a chain and lock which is put round
the child's neck and kept there until the child is seven or

152
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
eight years old. The child is said to be under the protecting
influence of 100 families.
If in getting up in the morning you hear a magpie's
cry, you are bound to have good luck during the day.
If
you
news. If
hear a
rook crying caw! caw! it fortells bad
you hear a rook cawing as you are just going out
of the door from home, turn back at once if you would
avoid ill fortune.
A dove or pigeon cooing foretells rain. A cock crowing
in the evening foretells fire: you must be on your guard!
It is unlucky to sit on a chair upon which a bad man has
recently sat, his evil deserts will fall on you.
If a cock flies on to the roof it is bad luck. If it escapes
to a neighbour's roof and is captured and put in their cooking
pot, they will still look for an apology for the harm done
them.
Sometimes the twittering of the nine-headed bird
(JL) is heard at night. It is a bird of ill omen. One
neck is headless and drips with blood; if a drop falls on to
any roof, either a fire or some other calamity will result.
You must not mistake the twittering of this night-fowl for
the twittering of devils, which it is said to greatly resemble.
There is also a bird called the the (Bellringer),
which makes a noise like the ringing of a bell. The popular
notion is that it is unlucky if you hear this bird, as it is
ringing your death bell.
If rats bite holes in anyone's clothes or hats, some
calamity will shortly follow.
It is supposed that a rat has a kind of second sight,
which enables it to know when it can come out from its
hole and escape danger. In coming out it sometimes knocks
its head, it then loses
may then be caught.
this power, gets bewildered and

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
153
If rats are heard making a noise at night like the
counting of money it is very unlucky, as it is unlucky also to
see a snake just coming out of its hole. If a goat enters a
house someone in that house will shortly die, but if a
strange cat enters a house that family will become rich. If
you wish to adopt someone else's cat or kitten you must
give some salt in exchange, then they will remain in their
new home. You must also make it go round the leg of the
table several times. To meet a dog or a cat with a WHITE
TAIL is most unpropitious. If a dog sleeps with its head on the
threshold of the door, it must at once be driven away or the
head of the house will meet with calamity. If a dog is
restless and barks much at night, or if, whether in the
daytime or nighttime, it scratches on the ground, the
family owning it will lose one of its members by death. If a
dog or a snake bites anyone, this is regarded as a
punishment for sins committed in a previous stage of existence.
To meet a Buddhist priest or nun on the road, especially on
first going out in the morning, is unlucky, and all are much
vexed when this happens to them. You must spit on the
ground in passing, otherwise no business you undertake can
be successful. It is also unlucky to meet a coffin ()
on going out from your house. If you meet one you should
say Se Shang, or Fa Dzai (May I make wealth!),
and the unpropitious influences will be averted. You should
try to avoid going to a house where there is mourning; this
also is unlucky. If you do visit such a house, on returning
you should light straw on the threshold of your house
and step over the fire, thus cutting off the
luck or evil fate). When a person dies, a corn measure
is frequently put on the body of the corpse, lest it should
get up on to its feet and become a jangss (vampire). It is
unlucky for a spider to pass over one's body when one
(bad

154
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
is sleeping. Some say that there is the spirit of a dead
person in every spider. It is also unlucky to borrow a
light, oil, tinder and flint or candle on the days of the
1st and the full moon: if one forgets this and asks for
the loan of such things the person asked will show signs of
displeasure. On these days too it is said to be unlucky to
borrow money or to quarrel. No good luck can come to
those who cook beef in their kitchens, but those who
refrain from doing this are immune from plague. It is also
rash to chop onions and garlic on the kitchen brick range
(). As this is unlucky, so also is it to put the sancepan
cover or lid on crookedly, it should be in a line with the
range, and not pointing to the chimney. If the snuff of the
wick in a candle or lamp suddenly falls apart, there will be some
"quarrelling," but if a round pearl-like knot is seen on the
snuff of a candle or a lamp, that is a sign that there will be
guests on the morrow, The twitching of eyelids foretells the
coming of some calamity. Sneezing, flushing of the cheeks,
and burning of the ears indicate that someone is speaking
ill of one. The efficacy of the broom () was well known
to western witches, and it is known and used here in our
midst to-day. The adornment of twigs on the top of scaffold-
poles when new houses are being erected are probably related
to this superstition. With small children up to the age of, say,
four years it is very customary for parents to put a broom up-
side down against the mosquito-net or bed-curtains, to
keep off evil spirits from them; a knife or mirror, metal or
glass, is also suspended to children's clothes, to protect them
against evil spirits. These mirrors are also hung over the
bed and on the door, for the same purpose.
The first time a baby laughs or speaks the people
say the "Fairy Midwife" is teaching the child (4
婆婆在告他)

SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
155
The first time a child is taken by the mother to her old
home, some soot from the domestic hearth, preferably
the copper, is rubbed on the child's nose, to keep off evil
spirits, and especially with the hope that the child will
hereafter become attached to the mother and the mother's
family.
Medicines, Sickness, etc.
There are many superstitions in connection with sickness,
of which I have time now only for one or two.
In case of bloodshot eyes it is usual to burn red beans
in the oil lamp at night, as you thus consume red, and
restore the eye to its normal condition.
When a patient's mind wanders and he is incoherent
in his speech, it is supposed that an evil spirit is in
possession of his body, and charms must be used to drive it
out. In the women's ward of the Shantung Road Hospital
Shanghai, last year such a patient when lightheaded was
found with a number of Christian books in a circle round her
head the New Testament, a hymn book and the Catechism
and some tracts,-a new and, it was thought, a most efficacious
charm.
For ague you must beg a Taoist charm or incantation
and hide it in the hair at the back of the head.
For a rash on the face or body, make a circle of lime,
place the person inside, put two reeds on the ground,
and, after reciting prayers and incantations, take a knife
and cut the reeds into four pieces, and the sickness will be
arrested.
When your leg or arm "goes to sleep" you should
take a stick of straw, or a splinter of firewood, or a piece of
used lampwick and put it across the bridge of your nose,-
this is an infallible cure.

156
SHANGHAI FOLK-LORE.
If in boat travelling it is rough and you feel sick, you
may cure yourself by secretly drinking a little water dropping
from the punting pole. This is the Chinese "Brush." The
effort to perform this feat very naturally would make you
forget your sickness.
A doctor's prescription ought always to be folded up
with the writing outside,-this custom is followed by all.
Whilst medicine is being prepared by cooking over the
fire, if anyone lights a spill from the fire the sick man who
afterwards takes the medicine will get worse. Most important
of all-Care must be taken to place on the cover of the
saucepan, in which the medicine is being boiled, a knife or
a pair of scissors, lest the devil should put his finger into
the pot and stir it round.