Notes on Chinese Law and Practice
preceding Revision.
By Ernest Alabaster.
Says Mencius: "If the ruler be without guiding
principle and the ruled without regulations to hold fast to,
then in the Palace principle will be disregarded and in an
official position system and order will be set aside. The
gentleman will fail to do his duty and the lower classes
will transgress the penal Law. Under such circumstances it
will be but luck if the State be preserved." Thus of the
recognized importance of Law. Its origin in what we now
call China may be traced to the institution of marriage with
some idea of order which is to be ascribed to Fu Hsi ()
-whoever and whatever Fu Hsi may have been, some
five thousand years since. Fu Hsi may have experienced
personal difficulties in this connexion, but in any case Fu Hsi
prescribed that no union might take place within the various
groups or families into which his turbulent followers were
divided. Secondary Education had, however, not greatly
spread, and each such union was accordingly and generally
speaking a rape, though a rape permissible on those without
the group.
The family within itself, at least, might live
「(上無道揆也下無法守也朝不信道工不信度君子)
犯義小人犯刑國之所存者幸也—Mencius離婁)

84
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
at peace. Various references to these early days will be
found in the Tung Chien (), which records in its terse
style the kind of gifts to be brought by the male-skins,
etc., and likewise records the classification of families by
name, the introduction of middlemen, etc.
In the 76th year of the reign of the deified Yao (*),
according to this same work, the Wu hsing () or "Five
Punishments were fixed, though the working details de-
volved upon the illustrious Shun (*). These punishments
were death (B), castration (), maiming (), cutting
off the nose (), branding the forehead (). But Shun
went further than merely to define punishments; he acted
on the adage which will be found in the Ritual Record
(E) with reference to this very matter, that is, that "the
penalty should be adjudged reasonably" (VÚ
X). Shun also introduced commutation of these penalties
to banishment, the cangue, the bamboo, or a simple fine
where any doubt as to guilt existed. If the offence was
chance or accidental, he pardoned the offender; on the other
hand, for a second offence the capital penalty was to be
inflicted. Shun likewise divided transportation into two
degrees, within and beyond the Empire. In this connexion
we may remember that "Law" and "Corporal Punishment"
of some sort, as expressed in the word hsing, were, naturally
enough, ideas very intimately associated; the same hieroglyphic
did duty for both, and its meaning is frequently only to be
differentiated by the context. In the Confucian remark that
"the gentleman bears in mind hsing, and the ordinary and
average man favours to come," we have an example.
2
The conception of the force of the Law is well shown
where Mencius converses with his disciple, T'ao Ying ().
2 (君子懷刑小入懷惠-Lun Y八佾)

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
85
T'ao Ying asked what would have been done to Ku Sou
(), the father of Shun, if Ku Sou had committed murder
-Shun being on the Throne, with Kao Yao () as his
Chief Judge. Mencius replied that Kao Yao would merely
have had him arrested. "But would not the Emperor have
forbidden such a course?" asked T'ao Ying. "How could
Shun so act?" replied Mencius, "Kao Yao had received the
Law from a proper source." That is the conception, the
ethical conception, but the ground of privilege, I ch'in
(L), Imperial Connexion, would knock such a conception
sky-high. "The Law makes no distinction between Prince
and Peasant; if the Prince offends he must pay for it, just
as does the Peasant" (RT). Very
pretty indeed is this saying of the common herd, but it is
wide of the mark in practice.
An illuminated and judicial mind must have been
possessed by the distinguished Wu Wang (EE) of the
Chows, for we find in the Shu Ching () his fears of
the spread of alcoholism and his views as to the right way
to adjust penalties consequent on indulgence. If the toiler
has a glass too much at the end of a hard day's work, let
him off; admonish the drunkard pure and simple; and then
if he again offends, have bim executed. Capital punishment
has its advantages; it is cheap, and in days when it was
scarcely possible to imprison, efficacious. Imprisonment,
indeed, was not introduced until a comparatively late date,
and then only for the purpose of retaining prisoners in safe
custody until their execution or acquittal, as the case might
be; but in the second year of Tao Kuang it was devised to
meet those cases of offences by women where the gravity of
the crime seemed to render it advisable to prevent their
escaping with the fine by which, in the ordinary course, they
were allowed to commute their sentence of transportation,
12

86
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
and where, at the same time, sending them to slavery
appeared unduly severe. There are, however, records of
even distinguished persons being imprisoned, and a grandson
of Ch'eng Tang () of the Hsia dynasty was imprisoned
for not obeying his tutor and until he recovered his right
But this was rather being "sent to a fortress," much
as Frederick William consigned his charge a century and a
half ago.
mind.
As the Law developed and was recorded, the idea of
codification naturally suggested itself to the common-sense
leaders of a common-sense race, and legal codification, too,
was pre-eminently consonant with the co-marching idea of
ethical codification. What says the Lun Yü-"The Yin
dynasty adopted the Regulations of the Hsia
the Chou dynasty adopted the Regulations of the Yin."
I do not, of course, mean to say that the code of the
present is an ethical document; it is nothing of the sort;
it is essentially matter-of-fact, but the roots of it, of
course, lie in the ethical idea. I have shown that Shun,
over four thousand years since, was reaching for order,
but the first definite system appears to be that ascribed
to Ch'eng Wang (E) in B.C. 1115. Mu Wang (穆王),
a prince of the same line, when a centenarian, put forth an
edict in which he stated his intention of preparing a code,
and he expressed his wishes in its application. He wished
this code to be not harsh but merciful; he desired that none
should be punished unless committed up to the hilt. Where
the balance of evidence favoured the prisoner, he wished him
to be given the benefit of the doubt and to be allowed to
commute the penalty for a fine. It would seem, incidentally,
that this monarch did not favour lawyers. This all in B.C. 952
3 (殷因於夏禮周因於殷禮-Lun Yü爲政)

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
87
or thereabouts. It is to this period that various passages in the
Institutes of Chou (refer. Certain broad features are
laid down for the then legal supervisorate, which corresponds
to the present Judiciary Board or Ministry of Justice. In
one of the early sentences the principle is laid down that in
newly settled countries penalties (or in other words, the Law)
should be applied lightly; in countries more developed, but at
rest, rationally; in countries when disturbed, harshly. The
"Five Punishments" and the "Eight Grounds for Privilege"
(A) are likewise dealt with in this work. The legal
regulations of Marquis Lü ()-the great minister of Mu
Wang () of the Chows, are to be found in the Lü Hsing
() portion of the Shu Ching (). Here, also, we
find the germ of the triple distinction of felony, misdemeanour,
and offence-i.e., the five grave offences (J), the five
misdemeanours liquidatable by fine (), the five offences
(). About the eighth century B.C. we get to the system
known as Li Kuei ()-the Regulations of Li-the Li
probably referring to the Chow monarch thus named. This
appears to have been a highly methodical production, and
was divided into six parts, of which the first three related to
practice, the fourth to procedure, and the last two to definitions
of offences. It was some three hundred years later that we find
Confucius himself as Chief Justice to the State of Lu ().
His habit of introspection seems to have placed him on the road
to the jury system, for, not content with his own mind, he had
a habit of consulting seniors unconnected with the case before
arriving at a decision. Shih Huang-ti (B.c. 220), more suo,
framed a scheme without regard to precedent, which only
remained in force until the close of his dynasty some fifteen
years later. The founder of the Han line, Kao Tsu (),
materially modified the laws of the Ch'ins, which incidentally
appear to have been exceedingly harsh, not to say inequitable.

88
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
Kao Tsu, before his accession and while as yet merely an
aspirant for the sovereignty-coming, as the record naively
puts it, "first on the scene "-expressed his views before
the people (the populus, not, I think, the plebs) as follows:
(1) that to kill another should involve capital punishment;
(2) that injury to another should involve redress; (3) that
robbery and theft should involve compensation; and finally,
that all the unsatisfactory portions of the Laws of the previous
line should be excised. With this bid for popularity, Kao
Tsu won his seat, and when he began to feel on very sure
ground and had consolidated his power, he entrusted to his
chief minister Hsiao Ho (1), the duty of elaborating the
above three general principles and of distinguishing between
the relative gravity and levity of offences, paying due respect
to status. The original three thus became nine. Taking all
things together, it is an open question whether a code, in the
present accepted sense, existed before the reign of Yung Lo
(k) of the Mings, about A.D. 1400. Then, however, was
framed the well-known system upon which the present Code has
been grafted. Yung Lo, indeed, was either China's Edward I.
or her Justinian, and though I am prepared to award to
him the latter title, it perhaps more properly belongs to that
monarch of the Great Clear dynasty under whom the present
collection was arranged-I allude to the illustrious Shun Chil
(); though seeing that the Emperor was but nine
years
A distinguished scholar (Chinese) describes Kao Tsu as the Napoleon
of China. Kao Tsu supported reason with sword in hand but he had both
reason on his side, and tact likewise. Kao Tsu I should rather describe
as a common-sense man who rose through the mass, Napoleon as
unconsciously specious. I doubt if Napoleon was a natural or national
necessity; Kao Tsu was. In one sense only do the two men closely resemble
one another they were society reformers and fundamental law-givers, and
both possessed the genius of capacity in taking infinite pains to see that
they got what they wanted.

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
89
old when the Code was first published, the title had best,
perhaps, remain in abeyance. Who, however, was China's
Tribonian, the then President of the Board of Justice? Let
us examine the preface which bears the name of the monarch
just alluded to, and is the first document in the Code. We
note his appreciation of a more complex age; that he observes
while the laws were originally suited to a simpler state of
society they need adjustment to the changed conditions; that
confusion was worse confounded without a code; that he
had therefore assembled a committee of judicial officials to
revise the Ming Code.
In this connexion we may bear in mind the present
subject of re-codification. The Code naturally provides for
itself, not for other codes, and Imperial will backed by
popular sympathy can, of course, do anything. But
re-codification even can but follow the Code as a basis.
We may well ponder over what I have quoted of the Code
preface, and reflect too that wei hsin (E), to "reform," 5
is a Confucian maxim.
Parenthetically I may add that Confucius was essentially
a man of the world, and no error is greater than to suppose
that he was a mere conservative, nor is he understood by the
modern Chinese in that light. One of his conceptions of
perfection in wisdom was
"to cherish origins
and keep in touch with the present." True, he "valued the
past and was zealous in seeking for wisdom there" (
"fruit."
-but this was search for what would bear
Confucius desired the reign of common-sense
Reason. "What is done, is done; what has had it's time, has
had it's time; what is passed, is passed-it is idle to discuss, or
recriminate, or blame," says he in his Remarks. The codified
It is, perhaps, rather to "keep up-to-date" than to "reform."

90
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
thoughts of this wonderful man, with their common-sense
practical precision, depth of insight into humanity, crystalliza-
tion of thought, felicity of expression and application, majesty
of diction, may culminate in an intellectual invasion of the world.
As education advances and the reasoning faculties are
developed by education, and as soon as quick transit misces
area and area, and all barriers are broken-for the frontier of a
country is in general artificial, and not arising from nature, so
soon will mind rise superior to matter, spheres of influence
melt away, harmony prevail, and riots no longer take place.
Confucius saw nothing particularly swagger in being a
soldier, he would rather regard a soldier as being the expression
of a wrong idea, though his practical matter-of-fact tendency
would admit the necessity of his existence and his generosity
admire physical "bravery," which does not mean the over-
coming of a weak body by a stronger one.
The Code, as we all know, is divided into six portions,
dealing with Civil or Government, Fiscal or Popular, Ritual
or Religious, Martial, the so-called "Criminal," and Public
Works Law. It consists of Lü (1), the Code proper, and
following it (in most cases) the Li (), supplementary
Laws. The former is not changed; the latter modify the legal
treatment originally specified, and are subject to constant
additions and a decennial revision. There is one Lü; follow-
ing may be a score or more of t'iao li (1). Robbery with
violence, for example, has 52 supplementary laws attached to
the article-varying from the 6th year of Chia Ch'ing (1802)
to the 9th year of T'ung Chih (1871). The Li are not neces-
sarily arranged chronologically one after the other, the variation
in the order being due to an idea of fitness of sequence which
may well disaccord with existing views. The Li bear at their
close the date when they were revised or added, the terms

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
91
hsiu kai (1), hsiu ping (F), hsu tsuan (), pan
hsiu (1), being employed in this connexion-the latter, of
course, as an Imperial mandate. Thus a Li may have been
revised in Chia Ch'ing sixth year (1802), and again in the
19th year
of that reign (1815); and again in T'ung Chih ninth
year (1871) His Majesty may have issued instructions that the
revision should again be promulgated. In this connexion the
periods of Chia Ch'ing () and of Tao Kuang (t) were
prolific in addition and amendment. The practice of dating
the li does not, however, appear to have become definite before
the first-mentioned reign, and very many li for one cause and
another are undated. Amendment and addition will be found
in all parts of the Code, but naturally chiefly in the over-
whelmingly preponderating "Criminal Law;" and the Fiscal
Laws, too, show numerous changes; the small division on the
Ritual Laws comparatively few, and as a rule not of late date,
though there are exceptions. Besides Commentary, the lü
contain notes exactly explaining any little doubtful point. Thus
"whoever commits high treason" (definition given); or, "no
distinction is to be made between principals and accessories;"
or, "no matter whether plunder be obtained or not," etc., etc.,
etc. These notes form part of the lü in point. There are also
similar explanatory notes in the Supplementary Laws. The
article rules as against the li, and if a case arises which cannot
be treated under an article exactly, it is treated under the article
most nearly applicable, a report being made to the Throne.
Where it is found necessary to provide for an unforeseen
contingency, a li is established, but no fresh lü are made
though old lü, i. e., lü anterior to the present dynasty, are
occasionally adopted in the form of a li. A Supplementary
Law is frequently definitely stated as being intended to be
provisional and to become nugatory so soon as, e.g., the offence
in point has been curbed by special rigor. While the lü lays

92
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
down the root of the matter, the li, say the Chinese, "follow
human disposition;" the Law never changes, but the
Supplementary Law adapts the former both to circumstances
and time. Thus in cases of theft, where, in resisting arrest, the
thieves kill or wound anyone, by the Law no distinction is
made between principal and accessory, and the sentence is in
every case decapitation, subject to revision, but the Statutes
herein distinguish between the one who kills and the one who
wounds, the former the principal, the latter an accessory; and
furthermore, in cases of wounding between injuries from edged
weapons and blows, hacks, etc., specifying different penalties
for each. Finally, we may note that as soon as a new law (li)
is published, the offenders of a former case are to be all tried
and punished under it; and we may take note too, that so soon
as such Law has been announced to the Empire, if an official
disregards it with intent to do an injustice to either party he
shall be punished as for purposely setting aside the Law.
s
In all there are 427 articles and, in my edition, about
2,000 Supplementary Laws. All classes are provided for,
from high official to peasant; the note of the Code is indeed
comprehensiveness combined with exactness. There is in
this general connexion a point to remark, i.e., the sovereignty
of the Law. Military interference, for example, is not
tolerated, and many cases bearing on the matter are quoted.
The fact of incorporating a section of Military or Martial
Laws means nothing-except that there is specific penaliza-
tion for specific subjects. The general principles remain and
the Martial Law takes no different a position vis-à-vis the
Code as a whole than does, for example, Ritual Law.
Exclusive, of course, of preparatory matter-prefaces, tse li, tables
of affinity, of punishment, etc., etc., etc.; and exclusive of the last
and miscellaneous section (), with its regulations regarding the
Autumnal Assize (秋)

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
93
Indeed we find the following under the Civil or State Laws.
"Military officials wounded in battle shall be rewarded
according to their rank and merit; but if killed in battle are
to receive hereditary rank (), according to the rank
held at time of decease." Incidentally, military merit is a
point which has always been recognised in China-a point
sometimes forgotten. Here we have an example of its
crystallization in Law. The conferring of hereditary rank
is, of course, within the province of the Li Pa; but study
the first sentence and we find the matter to be one of
inclusion of Military Law within the Civil Laws. It is
merely of a piece with the arrangement of the Code as a
whole. There is a further interesting point in this connexion
-the incidence of Tartar Law. An article specifically
prescribes that Tartars are to be dealt with according to
Tartar Law and by the Li Fan Yuan (). It is in
this connexion provided that on receiving Tartar cases of a
kind entitled to be sent to the Department, the latter will
despatch a Tartar Official and a competent interpreter to the
Judiciary Board, the former of whom will act as an assessor
conjointly with the official who deals with the case. Various
distinctions are in this connexion drawn as to when the
assessor is to sign jointly with the official judging. This
particular article has a further interest. Sir George Staunton
has thus remarked on it :-
"This section of the code has been expressly quoted by the pro-
vincial government of Canton and applied to the case of foreigners
residing there and at Macao for the purpose of trade. The laws of
China have never, however, been attempted to be enforced against
those foreigners except with considerable allowances in their favor,
although on the other hand, they are restricted and circumscribed
in such a manner that a transgression on their part of any specific
article of the laws can scarcely occur, at least, not without at the
Art. XLI.
13
5 Art. XXXIV.
"id.

94
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
same time implicating and involving in their guilt some of the
natives, who thus, in most cases, become the principal victims of
offended justice.'
"The situation of foreigners in China is certainly by no means
so satisfactory on the whole as might be desired, or even as it may be
reasonably expected to become in the process of time.
It is one of the necessary but embarrassing consequences of the footing
upon which foreigners are at present received in China, that they can
neither consider themselves as wholly subject to, or as wholly
independent of, the laws of the country in which they live. When
unfortunately involved in contentions with the Government, there is
a line, on one side of which submission is disgraceful, and on the
other, resistance unjustifiable; but this line being uncertain and
undefined, it is not surprising that a want of confidence should
sometimes have led to a surrender of just and reasonable privileges;
or that at other times, an excess of it should have brought the whole
of this valuable trade and of the property embarked in it to the brink
of destruction."
But this was written a century ago. If it was sought to
be applied (or was Sir George possibly in error?) then one
can easily picture the intense misunderstanding which must
have prevailed and wrapped one side from the other as in a
fog. 10 As a matter of fact the article only applies to the
outlying Mongol tribes, note particularly the characters
hua wai (1); the five Supplementary Laws (in my
edition) under it all treat of Mongols, etc.; and the adminis-
tration in point is the Li Fan Yuan ()-the
Colonial Board.
10 The fullest admiration is due Sir George Staunton, the first translator
of the Chinese Code, for his elegant work. It is a monument-a labour
not sufficiently recognised. It is possibly not entirely accurate, as we
now measure accuracy, and my own translations and notation are entirely
independent of Sir George's. Indeed, I do not possess a copy, and my
comments are based on recollection. But considering that Sir George's
work was produced a century ago and that (so far as I know) no complete
translation has since appeared, Staunton's exposition, though only of the
lü and not of the li, is wonderful.

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
95
What may be called the general principles of the Code
and of its practice are surely thoroughly sound. The
provision for a knowledge of the Laws, the provisions for
the conduct of Magistrates, the precise classification of
relationship, the definite operation of mitigation, such points
in procedure as "voluntary surrender to justice," the very
simplicity of the forms of trial kneeling (a right and proper
obedience to the Court), no jury (a possible advantage),
no or little pleading (also a possible advantage), and over
and above such, such concrete parts as the Laws of Inheri-
tance, the Land Tax Regulations, etc., etc., etc., are full of
admirable principles and what we term "sound law." Some
of these points I shall deal with later in more detail.
One of the first things that we have to remember is, of
course, that the effect of the Code is based on and quickened
by penalties. There is no need to particularise; glance
through the Code. It is the benevolent principle of "spare
the rod and spoil the child." The mere fact that a penalty
attaches as will later be incidentally gathered-does not,
however, mean so much, for I suppose in a way that all
penalties, whether mental or physical, whether contrived
by humanity or nature, attach to omission and especially
to commission. In fact, beth commission and omission are from
one view of the general question, and as 1 shall specifically
point out, penalised complementarily. A person commits an
offence, his punishment is detailed; an official fails to detect,
and so is his. But rather what I desire to distinguish is
what I may define, and what we call, criminal commission
as distinct from civil commission or omission. Criminal
commission is a point we can all seize the leading
suggestions of which have been particularised in the
Chinese classification of the hsing lü-homicide, property

96
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
acquisition, etc. Of civil commission and omission there
are examples, for example, in the census laws; for there is
surely no suspicion of what we call mens rea in many of these
points. But here and elsewhere even natural distinction
has had to give way to the magnetic influence of a rigid
division and what may be from our view "criminal" becomes
attached perforce to a civil commission or omission. That
rigidity is one point, and the mere penal idea is another,
which tends to the fluxing of the distinction.
The great body of the Law consists of what I have
translated " Criminal "Law. But what we understand by
such a designation is not only found under the hsing lu
(), but as I have hinted, is to be found scattered
throughout the Code in connexion with the particular
subject to which it belongs; the six category classification,
of course, merely referring to that portion of the general law
(or rather Regulation) which more properly came under the
cognizance of the particular Board in question, e.g., Civil or
State Board, Revenue, War, etc.-the Hsing Pu, Disciplinary
or Judiciary Board, being charged with special legal
disciplinary powers. So we find misprision of treason under
the Civil or State Laws; sacrilege under the Ritual or
Religious Laws. On the other hand we find High Treason
as the first article of the Criminal Law, and Treason Felony
following it. There are two ways of looking at a thing.
and this arrangement may be as convenient as any other.
What sometimes may be overlooked is that the articles, etc.,
of the Code-I refer to the "Criminal" section, deal not
so much with a complete offence per se, but rather with a
complete subject-in just the same way as the Code as a
whole. All manner of circumstances and of other offences,
pertinent and sometimes not so pertinent to the subject in

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
97
point, are introduced to obtain completeness and perfection,
as a result of perpetual revision and additions, and not
infrequently as a result of attempted appliance of matter
sometimes archaic to present day life. But if I may for the
moment be discursive, it would be a bold man who should
say that, for example, English Law does not hold to the
archaic our procedure which is so perfect (our rejoinders, and
our sur-rejoinders, our rebutters, and our sur-rebutters, our
torts, our "rule in Shelley's case," our "rule of Hotchpot,"
our "law of Gavelkind"). So competent a judge as a Japanese
jurist comments adversely on our jury system, yet I suppose
we shall stick to it as we do to free-trade. Even so progressive
a nation as the United States preserves its conservatism,
and I notice "now comes the plaintiff" in the prints of
to-day. Certainly there is much that is archaic in the
Chinese Code (strictly in the lü) and there is some irrelevance
(nearly always in the li, sometimes or never in the lü).
Sometimes, not infrequently these apparent irrelevances are
in reality pertinent. There is, for example, an article"
headed larceny of trees and shrubs from the Imperial
Mausolea." The lü is entirely pertinent. The first of the
"t'iao li" 12 commences "whosoever rides in a carriage or upon
horseback and passes the Imperial Mausolea, and in similar
case persons who arrive thereat and desire to enter therein
shall in any case dismount at a distance of not less than 100
paces, under penalty of being sentenced to 100 blows of the
heavy bamboo for disrespect." A short li to begin with,
but more important is the point that this particular matter
was dealt with under this lü because it was the lü which was
most nearly applicable. So do seeming impertinences
become pertinences and so in hundreds of other instances
"Art. CCLIV.
12 Art. CCLIV (1).

98
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
more impertinent than this. Lord Esher's remark on
English Law is true of this Code: "There is nothing (or not
much) which is not consistent with common sense.
י,
I give below my translation of that articles of the Criminal
Law concerning the "making of corrupt books and speeches."
It is a short article, but it will bring out the distinction
between the lü and the li I have previously referred to, and
it will show, though not so well as an article I shall later
quote, the refinement of the Chinese legal mind the same
here as elsewhere, and it will show also that the Code does
not need so much to bring it up-to-date.
The lü, or article,
in point runs thus:-
"Whosoever frames prophecies, whether by corrupt book or speech,
and circulates such with intent to delude the public, shall be sentenced
to decapitation subject to revision. Those who have been so deluded
shall not be punished. Where the number of persons deluded does
not exceed three, a penalty of transportation for life to a distance of
3,000 li shall be adjudged according to the circumstances of the case.
Those who possess corrupt books and clandestinely secrete such
instead of delivering them to the officials, shall be sentenced to 100
blows of the heavy bamboo and transportation for three years."
Such then is an idea of what the Law calls "laying down
general principles-She ta fa ()." Let us proceed
to the "accommodation of these principles to human nature,"
as exemplified in the first Supplementary Law of this Article."
"Whosoever wantonly publishes corrupt speeches, or writes placards
calculated to mislead public opinion, shall, if a principal, be sentenced
to immediate decapitation, and, if an accessory, to decapitation subject
to revision. Those who having framed prophecies by corrupt book
or speech and by the circulation thereof have deluded not more than
three persons shall be sent to the Mahommedan cities to serve as
slaves for the greater and lesser begs, and likewise for those of the
Mahommedan population who possess status. As regards reckless
characters who compose a topical song and chant it through the
streets, and those who publish and circulate ribald and obscene
13 Art. CCXLVIII.
"Art. CCXLVIII (1).

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
99
writings, it is the duty of all territorial officials within or without
the capital city, to forthwith arrest and examine, and if it be then
found that such persons have not in fact used corrupt language
calculated to deceive the public, they shall be treated under the
article awarding a severe penalty for doing what ought not to have
been done. Revised in the 6th and 19th years of Chia Ch'ing, and
amended in the 1st year of Tao Kuang." 15
The following Supplementary Law 16 deals with the treatment
to be awarded booksellers within the Capital City who may
vend such productions. The third 17 and last supplementary
Law or section of this Article is quite pertinent to these
times, and sets forth what unwary newspaper correspondents
may expect. I quote part.
"Correspondents of the several provinces sent to Peking for news,
who invent reports and transmit the same to various places, shall, if
officials, be dismissed, and, if members of the military class or private
individuals, be sentenced to 100 blows of the heavy bamboo and
transportation to a distance of 3,000 li," etc., etc., etc.
This is undated but must be somewhere about 1830. This,
then, is a further accommodation of general principles
to human nature. A feature of the Code is not only the
manner in which it penalises the primary law-breaker, but
likewise officials or magistrates who may be lax. Thus in
the matter just quoted, if officials are careless in detection,
they are "to be delivered over to the proper Board for
punishment ;" and the same in scores of other sections, and
whether as regards Viceroys or mere constables. As regards
precision, and refined distinction, I will but refer briefly to
the Law regarding False Accusation 18:-
"Where two or more accusations are brought, the more serious of
which are established while the less grave charges are disproved,
or where the several charges brought all involve the same punishment,
15 A.D. 1802, 1815, 1821.
16 Art. CCXLVIII (2).
17 Art. CCXLVIII (3).
1s The Law regarding False Accusation is treated under Art. CCCXXVII.
with its twenty-six Supplementary Laws,

100
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
and one be found true and the others false, no penalty attaches to the
accuser. As it is laid down in the general law that, if two counts
be proved, the prisoner shall be sentenced under the more serious and
no notice shall be taken of the less serious, or if various counts proved
be of the same gravity, the prisoner shall be sentenced on one count
only, so in these cases of several charges, some false and some true,
the falsity of some is not to affect the penalty due the others, and
there is no excess of punishment to be transferred to the accuser."
I might here observe that Law of Libel or Slander does
not, in our sense, exist. The mere perpetration of a libel or
or a slander is not punishable criminally, but will become so
punishable if leading to some criminal act, such as suicide.
From this view the law on the point is part of the general
law of responsibility; this portion of the law is intangible,
and melts away into the substantive offence.
The following, being the first section appended to the
Article concerning Treason Felony 10 is a concise example of
the Law being softened by the Statute.
"Whensoever a person having been found guilty in a case of
rebellion has been sentenced to be transported for agricultural
labour in the New Dominion and chances to die before arriving
thereat, his wife and sons may be granted their liberty. If the
grandsons of convicted rebels are too young to be separated from
their parents, their mothers shall be allowed to accompany and
take care of them.
Both the multiplicity of distinctions (and we recollect that
"the size of even a hair is relative,") 20 and the modification
of the force of the lü arise from the natural desire to reconcile
law and justice. From a point of view the lü may be said to
represent rigid Law, the li practical justice; on the other
hand if the Law does not provide a remedy for injustice, one
has to be found, so it is said: "Though the Supplementary
12 Art. CCXLVI (1).
20
*(德輶如毛毛猶有論- Chung Yung.)

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
101
Law on the point is not clear, it is not proper that two cases
exactly similar should be decided differently." But it has
not always been found possible to reconcile the frequently
irreconcilable. "Person is more important than property,"
it is said, but in practice a robber who kills or wounds the
owner of property is more severely dealt with than a person
who kills or wounds the protector of a bawd. The Emperor
in his injunction to the Judiciary Board contended that while
it was worse to steal a woman than to steal property, a
robber who wounds his victim will be capitally sentenced,
while in the other case the offender will only receive a
penalty two degrees above the ordinary. Perhaps one of
the most obvious efforts in the Code to reconcile the two
ideas is in that article headed 6 Where there are two charges,
the heavier only is to rule" (UM). "
Again, the penalties meted out in High Treason seem fearful,
and the law applicable to those remotely involved, or even
not involved, seems unjust. Giving its gist merely, that
Law 22 runs thus:--
"Whosoever is guilty of High Treason, without distinction of
principal and accessory, shall suffer death by being sliced to pieces.
The principal's grandfather, father, sons, grandsons, brothers, all
relations whether of the same or a different surname living under
the same roof with the principal, being above sixteen years of age,
shall be decapitated, disease or infirmity notwithstanding. Males
among the aforesaid categories of fifteen years of age and under,
mothers, daughters, wives, concubines, sisters, and sisters-in-law
shall be given into slavery in the families of meritorious officials,
and their property shall be confiscated. It shall be permissible
for engaged daughters to pass to the engaged husband. Sons and
grandsons who have passed into another family by adoption, and
a woman engaged to the offender, but not yet married, shall not
be punished. Aiders and abettors in harbouring the offenders, or in
allowing escape, shall be decapitated," etc.
14
1
21 Art. XXVI (with three Supplementary Laws).
Art, CCXLV.

102
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
The first Supplementary Law 23 then proceeds thus:-
"An offender guilty of High Treason having been sentenced
to be sliced to pieces, his sons and grandsons, if found to be
altogether ignorant of the aforesaid's plans and intentions,
irrespective of whether they be over or under sixteen years of
age, shall be delivered to the Imperial Household Department
to be emasculated and thence sent to the New Dominion to serve
as slaves for the officers and soldiers thereat. If the age of the
aforesaid be under ten years, they shall be confined in prison until
they have attained the age of eleven, when they shall suffer
punishment as aforesaid. When the Comptroller of the Household
has received such prisoners he shall depute subordinate officers to
make a minute and careful examination at the operation. The
prisoners shall then be delivered to the Judiciary Board for a further
scrutiny, and thence be delivered to the Board of War for despatch
to the New Dominion to serve as slaves for the officers and soldiers
thereat, etc. etc."
This latter law, it is to be noted, in conjunction with
historic events then proceeding, was added in the 6th year
of Chia Ch'ing (1802), and was revised in the 19th
year
of the same reign, and also in the 10th and 15th years
of Tao Kuang.24 But the severity of the Law regarding
High Treason is susceptible of the fullest explanation, its
object being merely to exterminate so dangerous a species,
and prevent its propagation. This very point arose some
seventy years since, the Judiciary Board considering the
manner in which the relations and connexions of the traitor
were involved to be over-hard. The Emperor, however,
held otherwise, his note being inexpediency. By special
Act of Grace the possibility of pardon is admitted; but the
Law was specially and rightly severe, and ought not to be
altered. His Majesty also remarked that merely to forbid
the marriage of the persons transported in such cases at
the place of transportation would be ineffective. The
Art. CCXLV (1).
24 A.D. 1802, 1815, 1831, 1836.

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
103
Emperor, however, pointed out that there was in this
connexion one inequality which appeared to have slipped
the Board, i.e., that juniors are emasculated, whereas those
who have arrived at years of discretion are merely despatched
to military servitude. The inequality was adjusted, as far
as I can find out, by levelling up, and both seniors and
juniors became liable to emasculation. Such may be the
effect of political expediency in this connexion.
And other ventures, whether in the Code or in its
application, to reconcile Law and Justice are numerous and
subtle.
If we turn to homicide pure and simple, while there is
no getting beyond the fact that it is regarded as a debt, and a
debt which can only be repaid in kind, yet from this view there
are no more excellent examples of reconciling Law and Justice
than the recognised operation of innumerable justificatory or
extenuatory circumstances in liquidating this debt in whole or
part. In the case of accidental homicide the sentence is
recorded, but is purely formal, and the penalty is commuted
to a fine paid to the relatives of the deceased. When there
are extenuating circumstances in such case, the capital
sentence may be commuted to transportation, thence to a fine
in lieu thereof. Justificatory circumstances are allowed as a
matter of course in certain cases, sometimes arising from the
mere conditions or circumstances under which an act was
done, sometimes from the mere position of the parties (i.e.,
relationship), and sometimes from both these causes combined.
Examples of the first category are very obvious. A man in
self-defence kills an assailant who attacks with murderous
intentions; or, of another class, where an offender in certain
offences stops short of the commission of the full offence, or
the case of persons taking a minor part in the commission of
a serious offence. Examples of the second category are
extremely numerous, arising chiefly in cases where the

104
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
position of the parties is that of parent and child, husband
and wife, etc. Examples of the third category are also
numerous. Thus, if a husband catches the paramour of his
wife or daughter in the act, and in the first heat of righteous
indignation or without deliberate intention he kills him, the
circumstances will be allowed. Not so, however, if the said
husband tied up the villain and cuts his throat because he was
abusive, nor where a person chances to kill a man he catches
with his brother's wife. Again, justificatory circumstances
will be allowed as a matter of course if a man kills his wife
intentionally or unintentionally, if she is shown to be guilty
of unfilial conduct to and abuse of his parents, or when
she commits adultery without his connivance, or where
she does him actual bodily harm, if he kills her in the
heat of the moment. On the other hand, in this general
connexion, let me dissect the phrase "unauthorisedly
killing an offender" (A). Its character depends
upon the nature of the slain malefactor's wrong-doing, and
the time and circumstances under which the killing took
place. The phrase is constant, but its application and the
penalty vary. The phrase strictly applies where a person,
being in a position to hand over a malefactor to the proper
authorities, dispenses summary justice on his own account.
A steals B's chickens and furthermore abuses B; B in wrath
kills A. X applies to Y for a small loan, Y refuses, X
threatens Y's life and Y in fright drops some money; X
picks this up, and Y in wrath kills X. If Y had herein
summoned others to assist him, he could not claim that he
was unauthorisedly killing an offender, and his offence is that
of killing in affray-the penalty being the same, the distinction
is perhaps irrelevant. Again, concisely put, there are nice
distinctions between killing a thief who has stolen another's
property and killing a thief who has stolen another's

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
105
moment of slaying supposing
The former is shan sha; the
property, the slayer at the
that he has stolen his own.
latter is "jointly striking a person with resultant death"
(A), with sentence as accessory thereto. The
penalty is the same in either case. So does the painful
striving after justice lead to numberless and subtle distinc-
tions, and much after all must be left to the construction
of the Code by the Courts, and human fallibility, though
nominally the judge in criminal matters has no latitude. This
latter view, I may incidentally remark, is, however, a matter
which the Supreme Appellate Court (His Majesty) strictly
upholds. L stole from L H and fled; L H pursued and L
dropped the plunder; but L H, being dim of sight, did not
observe this, and capturing L commenced to beat him severely
with his fist. L, excited thereat, rushed at L H, butted him
with his head, and thereby caused his death. It was urged
in favour of L that he did not use violence to the owner of
the property, nor did he plan his death; the slaying was
unintentional and done in a fit of excitement. These views,
put forth by the Board itself, were negatived by the Emperor
as contrary to the letter of the Law. So sometimes does
apparent justice defer to law, and yet the root of the matter
here is perhaps that very common feature of homicide-
indirect responsibility for death, L in this case being the fons
et origo mali.
Having now dealt with certain general features, I offer
a very few words on the penalties. Apart from the large
choice and their character, perhaps the most singular feature
is the scientific method in which the various scales are drawn
up. The exact meaning and effect of increasing () or
decreasing () a penalty is set forth in a specific article.25
25 Art. XXXVI.

106
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE,
The whole law on the point is explained with much precision,
and the scales give all that is required to assess the relative
value of one penalty as compared with another. Excessive
or undue or improper punishment is, of course, provided for.
Capital punishment includes, or did include, the ling chih
(), not necessarily so slow a process. This may either
be of itself, or to it may be added the supreme addition
of extinction of the family. Then follows decapitation and
exposure of the head (), decapitation simple certain
(T), decapitation subject to revision (), stran-
gulation certain (), strangulation subject to revision
C), transportation for life (), which is divisible
according to distance into three degrees, the distances being
2,000, 2,500 and 3,000 li, the three being collectively known
as the san liu (). Then there is transportation for a
term (E), divisible according to duration into five degrees,
the time limits commencing with one year, and advancing by
an increase of six months at a time until the limit of three
years is reached. Probably the most usual sentence is that
for three years. The maximum penalty is indicated by the
prefix man (), "full." There is also penal servitude,
divisible according to distance into four degrees, the mildest
form commencing with a distance of 2,000 li, and advancing
by increments of 500 li until the distance of 3,000 li is
attained, and thence by an increment of 1,000 li to 4,000 li.
Its position is very usually as an additional penalty to trans-
portation for life. A person may be sent, e.g., to simple
service(當差), or to perform hard labour (當苦差), or, as
e.g., into slavery in the families of deserving Bannermen
(X), the latter of which may be classed as domestic
servitude. Finally, there is the still more severe "military
servitude" (E), which may be near at hand (F), or
on the near frontiers (), or on the remote frontiers

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
107
(), or on the extreme frontiers (), or at the mines
(); these are collectively known as the wu chun (i).
Servitude in whatever form of course ranks as a more severe
penalty than mere transportation. Finally, we have the
bamboo, styled the chang () or "heavier," and the ch'ih ()
or "lighter." Either form is divided into five degrees: the
"heavier" starting nominally with sixty blows, and advancing
by tens till the nominal maximum of 100; the "lighter"
starts nominally with ten blows, and advances by tens until
fifty blows are reached. The "heavier" bamboo forms either
with liu or with t'u-and especially with the latter, a very
common combined penalty. Then there is also the cangue
(tm), which may be for life, but which is most commonly
for one month. It exists also in combination with other
penalties and adds, so to speak, a final and finishing touch of
perfection to the previous portion of the sentence, and
likewise gives the offender time to ruminate on the perfect
working of justice. Transportation may be commuted to
cangue in certain cases. There is also imprisonment ($)
and branding (). Then there is specific punishment for
a specific grave class-emasculation ().
There are
miscellaneous punishments, such as fetters and the wearing of
an iron bar. Finally, there are penalties countenanced but not
legally recognised, exposure until death (). Fines
(J) are seemingly not recognised as an initial penalty.
Forfeitures exist. The penalties operate largely in terrorem.26
To be sentenced to decapitation or to strangulation does not
mean that an offender will be decapitated or strangled. To
be sentenced to transportation does not mean that an offender
will be transported to the "mines" (or "the
remote borders of Yunnan, Kweichow, or the Two Kwang;"
as We may also bear in mind 懲一儆百

#
108
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
it does not necessarily mean that he will ultimately find
himself there. It is a convenient formula.
An offender may
be sentenced to 100 blows of the heavy bamboo. He may or
may not receive that precise number, and this apart from
the rules of commutation. In this connexion, and while there
is so much talk of legal improvement, a self-registering
beating machine might be devised. There should be a
demand, too, for mechanical decapitating machines. The
hint is thrown out as a possible opening for foreign traders.
It would, of course, be necessary to test such a machine on
delivery. The fact that the penalties operate now in terrorem
is, however, of gradual growth. The germ is, of course, in
the Code; for example, as regards the bamboo, where in
the scale it is provided that the penalty is so many blows,
but that so many only are to be inflicted. The prescribed
operation of revision, commutation, and mitigation likewise
serve in the same direction. But the most potent cause of all
has been efflux of time, with the natural operation of the
three principles as to the application of the Law which I have
previously quoted from the Ritual Record. It may perhaps
be worth while alluding to the psychic aspect of the capital
penalties. The spirit, then, of one who has undergone the
now abolished ling ch'ih () would be patchwork; of one
decapitated (), in two pieces; while that of one who has under-
gone the probably far more painful process of strangulation
() would be intact. Thus the chief terror of the dismem-
bering penalties lies not in physical but in mental anguish.
Conceive the idea of ancestral worship and what I mean
becomes very plain. From the point of view of mere horror,
the very perfection and routine of our own hanging system
should, one would think, be not easy to beat, and it is not
absolutely swift and sure; but then neither is electrocution,
though I know not what improvements may have been effected.

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
109
If the penalties provided be severe, and the tendency is
perhaps rather in terrorem, there are numerous recognised
forces which operate in mitigation. Some of these factors
have already been incidentally introduced. Leniency may
arise, roughly speaking, from three motives: considerations
of equity, considerations of political expediency, and
considerations of morality or religion. Thus, the commutation
of punishment prescribed by the Code in the case of various
offences (homicide by misadventure, etc.), commutation
originating from circonstances attenuantes, etc., in general
arises from equitable considerations, and so also do
commutations on account of lunacy, delivery to justice, etc.
The privilege allowed certain classes arises from considerations
of political expediency. The mitigation or commutation or
special treatment provided in cases of sex, youth, great age,
or a sole representative, arises from moral or religious
considerations, though as time passes the motive tends to
become equitable rather than purely moral or religious. By
religious I mean the regard paid to the tenets laid down in
Chinese philosophy generally, and especially the respect
which the Chinese attach to seniors, the filial relation, and
family succession-the foundations of their religion and the
fabrics of their Government. In addition also to certain
fixed and definite reasons for mitigation, there must likewise
be mentioned the Acts of Grace issued from time to time,
commuting, mitigating, or absolving penalties. The cause
of this, now a regular practice, was probably originally political
expediency to gain popularity.
I select a few points for review. A common reason
for mitigation is self delivery to justice (L). The
law 27 runs thus :-
15
27 Art. XXV.

110
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
"When an offender, whose guilt has not been discovered, delivers
himself to justice, his offence shall be forgiven, and if plunder has
been obtained it shall be restored to the owner. If a light offence
be discovered, and a graver one be confessed, the latter shall be
excused; and in like manner when on hearing an accusation the
offender discloses other offences, the latter shall be taken no notice
of," and so on.
A murderer's punishment may be reduced a degree.
Irreparable injury, stealing official signets, smuggling,
adultery, bar; and the offence must not be within the
cognizance of peace officers during the period of the offender's
concealment. An accessory will be entitled to mitigation
of his sentence if he gives information leading to the arrest
of his principal, but it must lead to the arrest within a given
time-ordinarily a year. 28 And the information must be
given to the magistrate, not to the police."
I have referred to the point that taking life involves a
debt. In this connexion there is a special circumstance
which may give rise to a form of special commutation. I
allude to the case where one offender dies in prison before the
case is settled, when the actual murderer can claim that the
capital punishment to which he is liable shall be commuted
to transportation for life, on the ground that life has answered
life, but the person who dies must be one who might have
been capitally liable in the case, and he must have died in
actual custody and not while out on bail (bail is not allowed
principals in this connexion), and again he must have died
before the case was settled. That the offender in point
committed suicide is immaterial.30 The injury inflicted by
the offender who dies must have been of a really mortal
character, and not a mere contusion.31 The imprisonment
must be on account of the homicide in point and not on
account of another offence. In the case of Ch'ên Ta Kuei
* Quoted in the Hsing An Hui Lan.
29 id.
30 id.
31 id.

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
111
(), the deceased was accessory to the murder in
point and had inflicted serious injury, but the imprisonment
was on account of another offence, and the murdered could
not be said to have obtained satisfaction in his death.32
Mental and physical disability afford grounds for mitiga-
tion. The insane are held responsible for their acts, but the
ordinary penalty applicable is commuted, as, for example,
in murder or the false bringing of a capital charge, to
imprisonment with fetters subject to His Majesty's pleasure.
On recovery, and if the malady does not recur within a fixed
time, the lunatic will be given over to his friends, and
released. Mere proof of cure is not sufficient. Twenty years
was the time limit fixed by law originally, but if the insane
person is aged seventy years or more, or if he is in failing
health, the period is reducible. Release after seven years on
proof of recovery was allowed when a wife was killed, and
after five years when the slayer was a sole representative.
A fit of transitory lunacy is not sufficient to excuse murder.33
Where at the moment of trial there is question as to the
sanity or insanity of the prisoner, bona fides of the plea, etc.,
the prisoner is to be sentenced as sane but retained in
perpetual imprisonment, and this treatment is liable to press
hard, in so far that the lightness of the sentence is immaterial.34
And so "mitigation" may not always be mitigation. While
it is of course matter for congratulation to be able to "hold"
a good deal, those whose inclination may lead them to look
upon the wine when it is red (or other colour), and plead
blissfulness when testing the strength of another's cranium,
will not be excused, but neither will the offence be aggravated,
and accidental homicide will still be such, though chancing
in such a period. And this case is interesting. N F S and
32 Quoted in the Hsing An Hui Lan.
33 id.
31 id.

112
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
LL K have been drinking. N F S asks his friend to have
another glass, and in so doing trips over him and kills him.
This is homicide by misadventure. Similarly also if N F S,
forgetting that he has a knife in his pocket, puts forth his
hand to support L L K, and the latter, falling upon the
knife, kills himself; or if in answer to the query L L K says
he will if his friend will support him, and instead of so doing
the friend falls over with him and breaks his leg." Physical
disability within certain limitations may also effect mitigation.
But the disability must be a real disability. The clemency
does not extend to certain offences such as heresy-a person
may be a complete cripple and yet may make converts 35
(sympathetically speaking, perhaps more converts).
Great age or youth, especially the former, are common
circumstances for mitigation, and as also the plea of being the
sole representative of a family () or the sole support of
parents are especially consonant with the ethical idea. The
lü 37 on the point, and in this general connexion, states that
those who are above eighty years of age, or are below ten, or
who are are blind in both eyes, or lame in both legs, shall, if
the offence be capital, await the Imperial Decision. Exceeding
ninety years of age, an offender is to be excused, except for
treason. It is also laid down that if the crime was committed
when the party was younger, yet he shall have advantage of
the age
clause if the case was dealt with when his age came
within the clause. 38 The same applies to disability. Fraudu-
lent attempt to plead age or disability entails severe penalties.
It is to be noted that those who are seven years old or under
may with impunity cause the death of another; but that if the
age of the deceased be but three years or less in advance of
that of the offender a sentence of strangulation, subject to
36 id.
33
Quoted in the Hsing An Hui Lan.
37 Art. XXII.
38 Art, XXII (1).

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
113
revision, will be adjudged. Further, that in the case of those
aged fifteen years or less, and who have been the subject
of injustice and hatred from the slain party, and provided
the deceased is at least four years senior to the offender, and
furthermore was unreasonably violent, they may be excused.
The Code Supplementary Law in point herein quotes with
approval the case of Ting Chi San Tzu (TEF), which
is reported in the Hsing An Hui Lan (ƒ).
40
As regards the plea of being a sole representative (L).10
It is extremely efficacious. So in false accusation; if the
crime of which X has falsely accused Y be not unpardonable,
and if the slandered man has not been imprisoned, tortured,
and ruined before the falsity of the accusation be discovered,
mercy may be shown.11 Also (with the exceptions below) if
a criminal sentenced to death has confirmation deferred two
years running, he may utilise the privilege. There are
well-defined limitations; the plea is useless in cases of
treason. The very punishment for treason shows that, the
object being to exterminate so poisonous a weed. In the
case of rebellion, the stringent character of the penalty will
be borne out though the patient's mother be sick and helpless
and the patient but three years old when his grandfather
offended. I am not sure that the plea strictly extends to
cases of intentional homicide, though in the latter case,
where junior relationship is concerned, the plea would
probably prevail in every instance. Nor if firearms be used
is the plea effectual, though the offender be only an accessory.
Sacrilege also bars. Character, again, is a cogent considera-
tion. A profligate who never goes near his parents cannot
gain by the plea, as a substitute for the examinations found
30 Art. XXII (7).
19 Treated in Art. XVIII and its 17 Supplementary Laws.
"Quoted in the Hsing An Hui Lan.

114
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
to his cost. The following point is undecided. X, Y, Z, and
others are concerned in an offence. X is in custody; the
others at large. What attention shall be shown X's
application to be allowed to be released in order to support
his aged parents.12 The complement of the plea of sole
representative or sole support is naturally a more stringent
legal view where such person is the offended party. But how
where the parties are more or less on the same footing and
sole representative kills sole representative?
In cases
involving human life, if the man who lost his life was the
grown-up son of aged parents, the criminal guilty of
manslaughter, though in the third degree, cannot plead
benefit of aged or helpless relative unless the person killed
was profligate and unfilial. Adoption affects this aspect in
so far that had the party killed in the foregoing instance
been an adopted son, and the family able to adopt another, the
slayer may utilise his plea.
The "weaker sex" is considered. Transportation is held
to be an inapplicable punishment, and is commutable to fine;
the bamboo is improper in such cases, and is similarly
commutable. Imprisonment, save in capital cases, was by
the old law inapplicable, but is so now, for reasons already
incidentally explained. As regards mitigation of transporta-
tion; the leniency does not obtain in its entirety in the case
of certain offences, and that even where age comes under
note; so a lady missionary seventy years of age was sent to
transportion. The converts in this case, in accordance with
the general rule, were imprisoned, conditioned that if they
truly repented them of their sins they might after the
expiration of one or two years be released.13
Again, where
husband and wife are concerned and convicted, and the former
42 Quoted in the Hsing An Hui Lan.
13 id.

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
115
has in the meantime died, the widow must yet be transported,
and this though the Authorities be thereby perplexed as to
her proper disposal. The leniency does not extend in any
degree to infringement of the Opium Laws, nor to kidnapping
(as a result of a Censor's Memorial, "Peking Gazette," 1834),
the women taking undue advantage of their immunity.
The Memorial in point recommended that the punishment be
made domestic servitude. Again, the leniency does not
extend to serious offences against the State, e.g., treason.
For decent women the bamboo is thought to be indecent, and
transportation generally speaking, inapplicable. In Peking,
women of such character, if guilty of committing an offence
entailing a penalty of military servitude or transportation for
life, are to be sent into slavery at the Manchu Tartar posts in
the various provinces; if their offence entails transportation
for a term and the heavy bamboo, the transportation may be
commuted, but the bamboo may not, and is to be inflicted
according to the Supplementary Law applicable to ordinary
cases of female license.
Another ground for mitigation is privilege. The eight
grounds for this are set forth in the Chow Li and have been
incorporated in the Code. They are:-Imperial connexion
(議親), length of service under Government (議故),worth
of service (J), ability (E), righteousness and sapiency
(議賢),patriotic zeal (議勤), high rank (議貴),and
privileged descent () to the second and third generations.
It may be noted that, as regards honorary official rank, it
neither confers the immunities nor imposes the responsibilities
attaching to actual officials, active or retired. 45 Finally,
Acts of Grace () are frequent channels of mitigation. The
ten chief offences-High Treason, Parricide, Sacrilege,
"Quoted in the Hsing An Hui Lan.
45 id.

116
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
etc.,16
are, as a general rule, excepted from the benefit of
such Acts. Such the Code provides, and it also provides
that murder, appropriation of Government property, adultery,
kidnapping, etc., shall likewise be excepted, and in general
terms practically lays down that the test to be applied
is whether or not there was mens rea; if there was not,
the offence may be pardoned by Act of Grace in whole
or part. Offences have been entirely excused under Acts
of Grace, or merely bambooing has been inflicted; and
many offences have been excepted.18 But an Act of Grace
is its own law, and there are no definite rules. There are
occasional refinements, of which I consider the following
to be one (an offence excepted from the operation of an
Act of Grace) The killing, at his mother's command, of
an elder brother of a former wife (who has since re-married)
of the slayer's late father." The following are also a few
offences which have been excepted :-affiliation in an illegal
society or brotherhood; the bringing of false capital charges
by the police; poisoning; killing a bystander by accident,
intending to kill someone else; beating to death, or killing
with a sharp instrument, an immediate senior relation,
though on the spur of the moment and consequent on the
misbehaviour of the said relation; witchcraft, with fatal
results thereby; raping the wife of a senior relation;
attempting to rape a daughter-in-law; defiling a sister-
in-law; the defiling by a slave of his master's concubine;
defiling half-sisters by the same mother, etc. It may be
noted that an official who embezzles the taxes may plead
an Act of Grace as far as concerns the penalty, but is
still liable for the refund. I have before now stated that
Acts of Grace and their interpretation proceed on no
n no fixed
48 See Art. XVI.
47 Sundry Acts.
43 id.

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
117
system, and are the servants of circumstances; a judge in
the Courts has stated that the subject is full of peculiarity,
and with that I take leave of them.
A factor which constantly enters consideration, and
which may entirely overthrow all notions of a case discussed
simpliciter, is relationship. If one may thus put it, a crime
may become a mere misdemeanour or be absolved; or, ex
converso, a misdemeanour may become a crime of the first
magnitude by reason of this all-pervading factor. The
subject is treated in the Code with the usual precision; tables
of great exactness are provided, and the various shades will
be found dealt with with much refinement all over the Code in
connexion with various specific subjects-especially (in the
criminal law) homicide, rape, and larceny. The matter
has already freely entered into cases quoted by me, and it
is better to leave it so and merely select a few curious points
and cases.
As regards powers of corporal correction, though
the limits are ample, the actions must be reasonable. It
is held (or rather supposed) to be improper to correct a
disobedient son unreasonably. Thus, if a father beats his
disobedient son to death, he will be liable to 100 blows;
or if he kills his son without just cause, he will be liable
to sixty blows and one year's transportation. But if the
killing be consequent on the son's abusing or striking his
justly angry parents, no notice will be taken of the affair.
It is to be noted that the Code prescribes strangulation
for a son who abuses his parents. The plea of provocation is
made full use of:-a grandfather who buried his son alive
was let off because the boy abused him; again, where the
son of a certain secretary committed robbery and murder,
and was thereon killed by his irate father, who concealed his
16

118
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
son's offence to save his own reputation and purse. Whereas
a senior has more than considerable powers over his junior,
a senior is to a junior sacred, and though acting under orders
or assisting his senior to correct him, the juniors will be
sentenced capitally if they kill him, and the utmost grace
shown them will be that execution may be deferred and
subsequently commuted. This is an effect of the cross-
bearing of relationship, which, colloquially put, is a tug-of-
war between the potency of relationship upon one or the
other side. The sides are often so equally matched that a
slight variation of the forces, caused by special circumstances,
will affect the struggle; but, generally speaking, the weight
of senior relationship is such as to counterbalance the plea of
an acting-under-orders junior. It may therefore easily
follow from relationship that an accessory may incur more
severe punishment than the principal, and indeed may incur a
penalty when the principal escapes free. Y T C, by
direction of his mother, strangles his sister, who has been
doing what she ought not to have done. Y TC was
sentenced to 100 blows, but the Board did not think it
necessary to inflict any punishment on the unnatural mother.
Indirect responsibility for death is a subject frequently
affected by relationship. To take the case of those whom
we call cousins. A senior cousin assaults a junior of
tolerably near degree because the latter will not accommodate
him with a loan; the junior responds, and the senior is
overthrown. The senior, thus feeling ashamed, commits
suicide, and the junior is sentenced to 100 blows heavy
bamboo and three years transportation, under the article
relating to the forcing a senior, for whom hemp mourning
is worn, to commit suicide and awarding military servitude
less one degree. To slander a nephew or a niece is
punishable one degree less severely than in the case of

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
119
ordinary persons. As regards the artificial relation of master
and servant, it is to be observed that service in the household
of a relative does not per se constitute the relation. Either
a deed, or an agreement for a term of years, or the fact
of employment for five years or more in the employ of the
particular individual, is essential. An understanding to
serve for a portion of a year at a fixed wage has been held
insufficient.
Coming now to specific offences, I select homicide for
first notice. This is the most complex, diverse, and subtle
subject of the Criminal Law. It is treated in sequence
in some seventeen articles of the Code, and it enters
incidentally into all of the six divisions-that is, it may
enter as an element or an aggravation of the primary
subject in point. In the collection of cases in the Hsing
An Hui Lan (), there are not less than 950 in
sequence, primarily dealing with all manner of variations
of the offence, and there are at least an equal number
scattered throughout the collection introducing the subject
incidentally as a specific factor. The general term for
homicide is sha (), to kill. Of this the Law recognises
six classes, styled the lu sha (), or "six classes of
homicide." These are entitled mou sha (), "schemed
homicide" that is, homicide by previous design, whether
an individual plots of himself or with companions; ku sha
(故殺),
,50 "intentional homicide"-homicide by instant design,
wilful at the moment, though unpremeditated; tou sha
(鬭 殺),1 homicide during affray "a literal enough
translation, but scarcely representing the exact shade of
meaning. The term includes an element of chance; it is
intentional homicide, under circumstances which go to
"Arts. CCLXXIII-CCLXXV.
30 Art, CCLXXXI.
31 id.

120
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
53
53
show want of intention without malice, and unpremeditated,
and approximates to, but is not exactly, "chance medley."
Then there are also hsi sha (), "killing during
sport" not only dangerous sports, such as cudgelling, but
likewise sports per se innocuous; wu sha (), " mistaken
homicide"-by mishap, hitting and killing the wrong person,
one with whom there was no quarrel and to whom no harm
was intended; kuo shih sha (), "killing fortuitously"
-by misadventure, by pure accident: for example, a hatchet
flies off from its haft. The five classes first mentioned are con-
sidered capital offences; the sixth, censured as carelessness, is
not. But these primary distinctions are inadequate. Intent
is regarded with great nicety.
Suicide affords examples,
justifiable homicide many others. Thus, the impression when
one slays another that the latter had committed one offence
when he had in reality committed another. A has entered
B's house by night and has committed an illicit offence
therein. B kills A under the impression that he is a thief.
B is sentenced to transportation for "killing one who enters
a house by night without good cause (夜裏無故入
人家).54 It is elsewhere laid down that in ordinary cases
of simple homicide it is no defence to state that the slayer
had intended other results, if the effect can be traced to the
slayer. There is no overriding of intent here; on the
contrary, circumstances tend to show that the slayer states
in his defence other than his real intent. It is, in effect, a
refinement. The operation of relationship, and the manner
in which the subject enters into combination with other
offences, extend the field very greatly.
52 Art. CCLXXXIII.
53 id
54 A subject dealt with in Art. CCLXVIII. When the general subject
has been thrashed out, more or less, we shall, in due evolutionary course,
get treatises on "Burglary," etc. Chuang Tzu, however, refers to an element
of it (that is, the above "entering a house by night," etc.

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
121
If we analyse the word sha (), we shall find that doing
anything sufficient to cause the death of another is to "kill"
him. Whether a man dies from his wounds, or is drowned
running away from another, or falls down and gets a mortal
hurt when struggling with another, or is forced to commit
suicide, he is sha'd. Then there is killing a trespasser, a
distinction being made as to the nature of the trespass;
killing a person who enters one's house by night without
just cause, or who commits robbery in one's field by day
or by night. Again, distinction is drawn between killing
a robber in the house, or in pursuit, or after he has been
captured; and did or did not the robber offer resistance
on capture? Then enters relationship, killing a parent,
grandparents, mother-in-law or her husband; killing an
uncle, aunt, or elder brother, or senior of any sort; killing
a wife or younger brother; killing one's children, grand-
children, their wives, etc., which may or may not be a
crime. There is likewise the aggravation of killing several of
the same family (A).55 Then there is the effect
of artificial relationship, killing a policeman, commanding
officer, magistrate, or tutor; and conversely, killing a person
by one who has been sent to arrest him, is in the act of
arresting him, or after he has been arrested, etc. Then as
to the mode of killing. Perhaps eyes have been gouged
out, or the victim has been strangled with a sash,
or has been bitten to death, or has been buried alive,
or even more scientific and modern methods have been
employed.
Passing over certain characteristic features, such as the
operation of a limit of time between injury and decease, the
35 An interesting topic dealt with in Art. CCLXVIII (1-17).
35 Art. CCXCIV.

122
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
killing of several of the same family, the effect of using
firearms, indirect responsibility for death, the refinements of
what may be classed as justifiable and excusable homicide, and
the peculiarities of suicide, I select for brief notice offences
against property.
Of these, there is a group savouring partly of offences
against the State, and partly of offences against Religion, in the
Code articles immediately subsequent to the Treason Laws, and
with larceny proper, all under the general heading of
"wrongful acquisition" () .58 The question arises, on
what possible plan could offences or subjects, so apparently
incongruous, be boxed up one with the other under the same
general heading? The reason is plain. It matters not what
may be the object sought to be acquired, valuables of any sort,
a slave, the kingdom, may all be the subject of the generic
term tao (). In fact, the origin of the use of the term is to
be found in Chuang Tzu (EF), who distinguishes ta tao (
) and chieh tao (). Ta tao, he explains, is applicable
to grave offences, such as treason, robbery with violence, and
any acquisitive offence where severe corporal injury is inflicted.
Chieh tao, on the other hand, applies to theft, etc., without any
suspicion of corporal injury. With efflux of time the use of
the term has not become restricted. So at this day we find
treason, laws regarding corrupt books and doctrines, theft,
robbery, and kidnapping sorted together; and so also affiliated
offences, such as embezzlement and cheating, and classes of the
same offence, rifling graves, and even mere breaking and
entering-for the ordinary man who breaks and enters does so
to get something. And all these matters themselves subject to
the kaleidoscopic variations caused by the operation of factors
07 Art. CCLXXVIII. 35 Art, CCXLV et seq.

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
123
tending to aggravation or to mitigation, e.g., relationship, use of
weapons, homicide. In an interesting appendix a table of the
various brandings is shewn, exhibited in Chinese and in
Manchu, and setting forth (1) the appropriate marking for
the class of offender, "escape" (G), "thief" (),
"constant offender" ( ); and (2) the further marks for
the name of the place to which the offender is to be
transported, e.g., Kirin (). The convenience of thus
ear-marking an offender is obvious.
To effect larceny of the Imperial sacrificial utensils,
screens, hangings, gems, silks, cattle, and oblations to
the Gods of Land and Grain and Heaven and Earth,
will, without distinction of principal and accessory, entail
decapitation. The note observes that the same penalty
will attach to those who were on watch, and, further, that
larceny from a temple or other place of sacrifice comes within
the section. It is to be noticed that larceny of sacrificial
utensils or oblations which have not been properly prepared,
or which have already been used at sacrifices, entails a lesser
sentence of 100 blows of the heavy bamboo and transportation
for three years. The rigidity with which the sacred
character of ancestral graves is preserved is also referred
to in this part of the Code; and so a son or grandson who
furtively and of his own motion sells the shrubs arranged in
proper order before his ancestral graves, or the "lofty trees"
on either side thereof, and provided the trees so sold do not
exceed five in number, will be liable to a penalty of 100
blows of the heavy bamboo and the cangue for one month, co
and so on, and so on, in detail, the penalty rising according
to the number of trees in point. Larceny of Imperial
Instructions involves decapitation, and a mere copy is to be
59 Art. CCXLVIII.
Go Art, CCLIV (5).

124
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
held the same as a despatch. Larceny of any ordinary official
despatch entails 100 blows of the heavy bamboo. If the
despatches treat of military dispositions, strangulation, subject
to revision, is the penalty. It is undesirable to steal clothes
or other necessaries belonging to his Imperial Majesty from
any of the Imperial Travelling Lodges; the principal will
just save his neck, and an accessory will be translated "to
the unhealthy regions on the remote borders of Yunnan,
Kweichow, or the Two Kwang." Should the Emperor be
actually resident at such place, the offender will be treated
under the Supplementary Law relating to theft of clothes
and property from the Imperial Palace.2 A further
Supplementary Law in this connexion 3 deals with theft
from officials on guard within the Imperial City. Incidentally,
it exhibits happily the microbe of distinction, and the
introduction of all circumstances and of other offences in
any way pertinent to the matter in hand. Irrespective of
the number of offenders, or of the value of the plunder in
point, the Supplementary Law relating to theft from a
Government office is to be applied, and the penalty there-
under-military servitude-increased by one degree to
agricultural labour in the New Dominion. If at the time of
arrest the offenders offer resistance and kill persons, irrespective
of whether by edged or other weapons, and whether hands or
feet be employed, immediate decapitation shall be adjudged
to all concerned. If in such case persons be wounded by
edged weapons, a penalty of decapitation, subject to revision,
will attach. Those who in such case inflict wounds otherwise
than by means of edged weapons, or who carry edged weapons
but have not inflicted wounds, will be sentenced to
strangulation, subject to revision. Those who in such case
61 Art. CCXLIX.
62 Art. CCLI (2).
Art. CCLI (3).

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
125
inflict injury by hand or foot, or who carry weapons but not
edged, and have not inflicted wounds, will be sent to the
New Dominion to serve as slaves for the officers and soldiers
thereat. The above does not apply to common affray, which
with the various distinctions as to edged and other weapons,
hands and feet, incidental thereto, will be considered under
the Supplementary Law applicable.
61
Referring to the point that larceny proper consists of
two chief divisions, according as it be furtive or open; that
the elements of the offence-the taking and the asportation-
do not greatly differ from the view held in the Anglo-
Saxon countries; that the gravity of the offence (apart from
special circumstances or aggravation) is chiefly dependent
upon the value of the property taken, and then, generally,
the amount taken on the one occasion; and that a distinction
may be drawn in robbery between simple robbery (where
the offenders be few and unarmed) and robbery with violence
(where the offenders are many and are armed), I treat fifst
of the offence of theft (), "furtive larceny." Those who
have committed theft, but are not in actual possession of
plunder, are liable to 100 blows of the heavy bamboo. They
need not be branded. Where the plunder has been secured,
and notwithstanding whether it has or has not been divided,
the penalty will be assessed for all the offenders on the basis
of the largest amount of plunder taken by any one offender.
Upon the offender's right arm are to be branded the charac-
ters on a second offence such characters are to be
;
branded on the left arm; on a third offence, strangulation,
subject to revision, is to be awarded (without regard to the
value of the plunder), the two brandings being accepted as
"The definition will be found in the preliminary note to Art. CCLIX
(人少而無兇器搶奪也人多而有兇器强刧也).
17

126
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
proof. A scale of penalties is appended to the article in
point, 65 varying, according to the value of the plunder taken,
between sixty blows of the heavy bamboo for an amount below
one tael, to strangulation, subject to revision, for an amount
exceeding 120 taels (or a third offence). I may here note that
Manchus and Bannermen, at least in robbery, are to be punished
just as everybody else. As regards repeated offences, the
original article has been modified in various Supplementary
Laws. So the penalty for a third offence is made dependent on
the value of the plunder, and not fixed at strangulation. It is
further distinctly stated that the value of the property stolen in
previous offences which have been dealt with is not to be cast
up with the third offence. Again, on a second offence, in
addition to the original punishment, the cangue is to be im-
posed, varying from twenty days if the penalty be sixty blows,67
and the responsibility of sureties is recognised-being punish-
able equally with the offender, if they permit him to again offend,
and according as to whether or not they bear relationship
to the prisoner, etc. If the owner of the property should
succumb to a fall when chasing the offender, or commits
suicide as a result of perturbation from the loss of the
property, the offender will be dealt with under the provision
regarding attempted rape with resultant homicide.
As regards the factor of relationship. Relations who
steal from one another (s are treated more
leniently than the ordinary offender-such property is, in
a way, held in common, and a relation who so acts does
not steal, but in an off-hand manner exhibits his right to
what will later on accrue to him. It is rather a severe
breach of decorum. Relations, whether of the same or
63 Art. CCLX.
Art. CCLX (11, 12).
67 il. (21).
68 Art. CCLXIII.

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
127
different roofs, are punishable in such case with five degrees
less severe punishment than for ordinary theft, if they be
within the regulation one year's mourning period; with
four degrees less, if within nine months similarly; with
three degrees less, if within the five months period; with
two degrees, if of two months mourning; and with one
degree less, if not coming within the morning limits at all.
Branding is not to be inflicted. Assuming there be both
principals and accessories in such case, the accessory will
receive one degree less penalty. A distinction is drawn
between a senior taking from a junior, and the latter from
a senior. In this connexion, slaves or servants who steal
from their masters are to be punished without deduction-
as for theft; and the same applies to employés.
As regards a few specific varieties. Where theft is
perpetrated from a treasury or granary adjacent to the Yuan
Ming Yuan Gardens or an Imperial Travelling Lodge,
and provided His Majesty be actually resident thereat, a
penalty attaches varying according to the distance of the
site of the offence from the residence in point, resistance
to arrest, etc. The distances quoted are:--within 1 li
distance of the boundary wall of the residence and between
1 li and 3 li similarly. Theft from public offices, whether
a first or a second offence, and regardless of the value of
the plunder, is punishable with transportation to Yunnan,
etc., except in the case of those whose punishment by the
original article would be strangulation. Theft from officials
when en route to discharge official duties, whether as envoys,
or to fill certain provincial posts, or to report on certain
provincial working, and whether such officials and their
families be on shipboard, or in a temporary residence, or in
69Art. CCLVII (38).

128
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
a more fixed abode, is penalised with one degree heavier
punishment than ordinary theft, provided that the value of
the plunder in point exceed 1,000 cash. If the place of
sojourn of the official be merely an ordinary house in a
narrow lane, or a rented monastery or temple, or a shop
in a part mostly populated by the common herd, so that the
offenders could not recognise that the residence was that of
an official, then the article applicable to ordinary theft is to
be applied. Truly a refinement; but an equitable refinement!
The privilege of Representatives is recognised. When an
envoy from some Foreign State arrives to offer tribute at
Peking, the local authorities shall at once send soldiers to
keep watch at the doors of his residence. Whosoever steals
the property of such envoy shall be punished more heavily
than in ordinary cases, unless the amount of plunder is great,
when the ordinary law is to be applied. To the ordinary
penalty the cangue for one month is to be added, and then,
after being thus cangued, the bamboo shall be applied, and
likewise branding, in accordance with the ordinary law.
Should the envoy in point complain of theft, and that the
thieves cannot be arrested, then the sentinels are to be
punished with 100 blows of the heavy bamboo, and the
responsible local officials are to be punished by the Board."
As regards the Corean envoy, if his money or property be
taken when he is en route to Peking, the attendant officials
in escort will be punished according to the article applying
to the loss of revenue in transit, and the Viceroy, Governor,
local officials, and their immediate superior, are proportion-
ately liable for the refund. The thieves are to be hunted
out, and are to be treated under the article dealing with the
loss of Revenue in transit.72 It is to be observed that if
70 Art. CCLX (29).
71 Art. CCLX (5).
id. (6).

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
129
Foreign envoys, in this general connexion, should bring
false charges and create unnecessary trouble, they are, on
report to the Sovereign by the Board of Rites, likewise to
be punished.73
Coming next to robbery, As regards procedure, the
complainant should set forth the particulars of the robbed
property in a list, and should the property in point be
numerous in kind, he may send in a supplementary list
within a period of five days-the reason for making such
supplementary list being specified. Police officers are to
be despatched to witness the return of the plunder to the
owners. 74
Those who lodge untrue complaints, or exaggerate
theft as being robbery with violence, or rape as being
robbery, are liable to 100 blows of the heavy bamboo.
Certain duties are incumbent on neighbours, and such as
perceive that an act of robbery is being committed and
offer no assistance in arresting the offenders are to receive
80 blows of the heavy bamboo. Neighbours or other
ordinary persons, the owner or his servants, who have
arrested the offender in a case of robbery with violence
are to receive as a reward 20 taels for each robber arrested.
This Supplemenary Law proceeds to state that should military
officials or soldiers be wounded during the arrest of such
a criminal, they are to be rewarded as a regular soldier
who is wounded in combat. 75
As regards robbery with violence. Those who have
so acted, but who have not yet seized any property, are
to receive 100 blows of the heavy bamboo and transportation
for life 3,000 li away; and if in such case, the property
be secured, one and all, principals and accessories, are to be
decapitated. Other distinctions in this article are drawn
73 Art. CCLX (6).
71 Art. CCLVII (5).
id. (15).

130
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
between those who plan the robbery but have not taken
actual part nor received any share of the plunder; those
who simply received no share of the plunder; other accessories
in such case. 76
Drugging, with a view to secure property,
is considered under this head. Larceny and subsequent
rape likewise. Robbery by means of drugging is further
dealt with in several Supplementary Laws under this article,"
specifically in this very interesting way. "There is a class
of robbers styled lao kua (I), whose custom it is to
seize property in lodging-houses after drugging the owners
into a state of insensibility, or by murdering them on the
high road in the early morning. When such robbers are
arrested, they are to be temporarily incarcerated on the
spot, and are not to be removed elsewhere, and they are
further to be very keenly questioned as to whether or not
they have companions or have or have not committed
previous similar offences. The officials shall then communi-
cate with the authorities of the districts concerned, and on
receipt of evidence of various such cases a careful examination
is to be held and immediate report to the Throne made.
Principals and accessories are then to be forthwith decapitated
at the place of incarceration
and the officials
are to notify the public of the same.'
978
As regards robbery (or theft) and rape, which is also
referred to in several of the Supplementary Laws under
this topic. This is an excellent example of a joint offence-
I mean an offence which may, so to speak, run into another
and produce the effect of an aggravation. The boundary line
of the two offences is, however, it will be noted, well defined.
Those who have succeeded in raping women or girls during
theft are to be sentenced to immediate decapitation. Those
Art. CCLVII.
e.g., id. (30).
s Art. CCLVII (3).

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
131
who took part in the robbery (or theft), but not in the ensuing
rape, or those who have not succeeded in the rape, are liable
to strangulation, subject to revision. 79
As regards what may be called incidental robbery.
Those who take advantage of a conflagration to rob are to be
punished one degree more severely than in ordinary cases,
and the characters are to be branded upon their faces.
But where the value of the plunder is great or the offenders
have suffered incidental injury, the original article is to be
applied. 80
Dealing more specifically with robbery. Those who
pierce a city wall to rob are liable to decapitation and
exposure of the head. $1 Again, inhabitants of the sea-shore
or junk people who effect robbery from an endangered vessel
are, when once the plunder has been received, and even
though no wounds be caused, to be penalised one degree
more severely than the original law for robbery prescribes.
If such offenders destroy the vessel in the course of the
offence, and so cause traders to be drowned, or if they directly
wound persons, but not kill them, they are to be punished
as the law prescribes. On the other hand, those who rescue
the endangered traders and ships, and take away neither
money nor cargo, are to be rewarded by the Viceroy or
Governor. 82
As regards robbery definitively performed in bands or
savouring thereof and what we may call brigandage. Those
who commit ordinary robbery in the inland waters of
Kwangtung a matter which has exercised a good few minds
in time past, and only once or twice, and with a company
of less than forty persons, are to be reported and punished
in accordance with the appropriate article. But if such
29 Art. CCLVII (36).
51 Art. CCLVII (9).
50 Art. CCLIX (18).
Art, CCLIX (19).

132
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
assemblage numbers more than forty, or even less than forty
if they be a sworn fraternity, they are to be decapitated
and their heads exposed. And those rascals of Fengtien
who commit robbery, no matter what may be the number
of the assemblage, and whether or not wounds have been
caused, but so that there be one only among them armed
with a gun,
will be treated as the mounted bandits of
Shantung and be one and all decapitated instanter, and
their heads exposed.81 The bandits of Shantung are to be
investigated as to whether or not they are members of the
Nien () or Fu () bandit fraternity, and then, whether
or not they have obtained plunder, they are to be one and
all immediately decapitated and their heads exposed. If the
disturbers of Kwangtung pass to Kwangsi to join the various
associations for robbery, burglary, extortion, etc., they will
be treated under the Supplementary Law applying to similar
disturbers in the Nan-an (), Kan-chou (), and
Ning-tu (B) prefectures of Kiangsi. While the dis-
turbing elements of Kweichow who possess such appellations
as Mao Ting (I), Ta Wu (), and Hsiao Wu ()
are to be punished more heavily; for example, where the
penalty is merely blows and cangueing, after having been
so treated, they are to be chained to an iron bar for a year.
86
As regards kidnapping. For Kwangtung and Kwangsi
there are special articles, on account of the extraordinary
prevalence of the offence. The various Miao tribes are also
particularly provided for, and if they hide themselves in the
jungle and kidnap and fetter people, on a first offence the
principle becomes liable to decapitation, subject to revision,
and the accessories to three months cangue. They are to
S4 Art. CCLVIII (23).
86 Art, CCLXIV (18).
si id. (14).
53 Art. CCLVII (42).
Art. CCLVII (45).

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
133
be branded on their forearms.88 Among the Supplementary
Laws dealing with kidnapping is one applicable to institutions
styled in Anhui Shui yen hsiang (7)-a species of
secret brothel, and if the proprietors of such keep young
males, and do what ought not to be done, and instruct
them in what they ought not to do, they are to be transported
"a distance of fully 4,000 li." 89 Kidnapping by pirates
and instruction in wrong arts, but without assent, on
voluntary surrender, will lead to excuse; but on arrest means
three years transportation and 100 blows of the heavy
bamboo, though if under sixteen redemption by fine is
allowable. The use of drugs in all kidnapping cases, it is
to be noted, brings the offence under the article regarding
theft or robbery in similar case.
Dealing next with extortion. To extort money by
threats involves a penalty one degree heavier than theft;
there is to be no branding, and, in a general way, the offence
follows the usual larceny rules-distinctions being drawn as
to whether or not plunder has been obtained, and the effect
of relationship operating much as in theft.1 A Supplementary
Law thus prescribes for serious cases :-" Caitiff's who by
cunning devices extort money from the officials or au
ordinary person in such ways as, for example, by posting up
placards and bringing false accusations before the magistrates,
by forcing people by duress to sign promissory notes, or by
using threats, or by gathering a mob and assaulting people,
and by semi-strangulation compelling them to write I.O.U.'s,
are cases of such gravity that, whether plunder has been
obtained or not, the principal is to be immediately decapitated,
and the accessories are to receive a penalty of strangulation,
subject to revision.
The master or
55 Art. CCLXIV (5).
00 Art. CCLVII (34).
69 id. (11).
01 Art. CCLXIV.
18

134
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
93
the fathers and brothers of the offender are to receive fifty
blows, or if they be officials, they are to be punished by the
Board." 92
It is to be observed, however, on this latter point
that if the offender's master report the case, or his father
or brothers similarly "peach," the informants will be
pardoned, but the offender will have to undergo the
punishment. As regards threatening letters, a Supplementary
Law provides that lawless swindlers of Kwangtung, and
those who extort money by threatening letters, will be treated
with penalties varying from life transportation down. It may
be noticed that those who have assisted in extorting money,
and that on only one occasion, are to be branded (for future
identification) and are to be chained to iron bars or stones
for five years. The duty of the District Magistrate in this
general connexion is to render an exact statement of evidence,
with complete particulars of such cases thus settled, to the
Viceroy, Governor, and Provincial Judge, who will forward
a quarterly report to the Board. In the case of prisoners to
whom attaches a penalty heavier than life transportation,
separate reports are to be made. The liberation of prisoners
on the expiry of their term of punishment is likewise to be
reported to the Board." Another Supplementary Law deals
with blackmailing in Kwangtung and Kwangsi in an
ingenious instance where robbery with violence has been
perpetrated, but the plunder being inadequate the owner is
recaptured and held to ransom: penalty for the principal,
decapitation and exposure of the head.95
Finally, in Formosa loafers who commit any sort of
wicked or riotous act were to be treated under the article
relating to swindling-with, however, increased penalities.
92 Art. CCLXIV (16).
55 Art. CCLVII (40).
id.
93 id. (23).
Art, CCLXIV (7).

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
135
In conclusion, the arrangement of the Courts may be
dismissed in a few words. Centralisation of judicial powers
resides with the Hsing Pu (J) Judiciary Board, which is
the chief office for superintendence and revision. A case
may proceed in due gradation from the magistracy (which
somewhat answers to our County Court) until the Supreme
Provincial Court is reached, and thence may pass to the
Hsing Pu. The existing rule regarding report of cases is
this the magistrate is to make up the record within two
months and forward it to the Prefect; the Prefect is to
forward the revised report to the Provincial Judicial
Commissioner within twenty days; the Judicial Commissioner
is to forward the report to the Governor within twenty days;
the Governor is to approve or otherwise within twenty
days. Return is to be made periodically by the Judicial
Commissioner and forwarded through the Governor or
Governor-General to the Board.97 I may point out in this
general connexion that the one officer exercises a concurrent
civil and criminal jurisdiction, and, with one peculiar class
of exceptions, the one Court tries all causes that arise. The
exception relates to the incidence of the military class in the
case of larceny, adultery, assault, fraud, breach of pecuniary
contract, offences against the marriage laws, and offences
against real property laws. But the military official who
under such circumstances has a right to sit does so rather as
an assessor, and the matter is not an example of military
aggrandisement upon the Law. Finally, I may just refer to
the highest process known to the Law-something like a trial
in the Lords, and not far removed from Impeachment. I
mean when a trial of high state criminals is held before the
combined intelligence of the Censorate (), and the
97 Working details quoted in the Hsing An Hui Lan,

136
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
Hsing Pu, in the persons of their representatives, the
combined San-fa-ssu (J).
I have no space to deal in detail with the duties of
officials. Obviously the duty of the District Magistrate
chih-hsien is to administer the hsien. His duties are
obviously two-fold. He has to administer the district in
the broad executive sense, and more rigidly he has to
administer rules which are confided to him as Law. It
occasionally happens that his knowledge of Law is scarcely
adequate ; but then, like a political under-secretary, he invokes
the assistance of the "permanent" staff-the lao fu-tzu.
Taking all things into consideration, the mind of a chih-hsien
in these highly complicated and of course improved days,
when in full cerebral operation, would be a highly interesting
psychological study. Especially when that full course of
thought is suddenly rounded up by the latest legal
improvement. I should not like to be a chih-hsien in these
days. Suppose he inflicts the bamboo-assuming it is
abolished-he lays himself open perhaps to life transportation,
and in China, as elsewhere, "ignorantia legis non excusat."
And there is even one further difficulty, and that a more
subtle one.
His little family-the district he administers-
understand both him and his methods. They have a feeling
for him because he is one of them, and they like his Law,
because, in fact, it is not too rigidly administered as Law.
That is to say, cases are in fact dealt with to the satisfaction
not only of the parties concerned but of the district as a
whole. Our Japanese jurists will benefit China much in the
benevolent desire to produce rigid legal administration and
"red tape." China, in fact, needs neither red tape nor
other kind of tape. Her sons are justly constituted and need
no artificial rules; they are absolutely contented and
comfortable and need no more than the application of their

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
137
own system. One of these days there will be a cataclysm
with the insensate rush of this, that or the other person, or
this, that or another nation to confer "benefits" where they
are not really wanted. It is merely a carrying of coals to
Newcastle. China, that is, the people, would much rather not
be drilled, either legally or militarily speaking; and those
who attempt to introduce such a state of affairs are
introducing a poison far worse than opium, and will end
in destroying the fine qualities of a magnificent race.
Chinese and Foreigners, taking a broad view, are quite
contented in China with existing conditions. There are
occasional ebullitions, as will happen anywhere; but both
sides live together with, on the whole, great harmony. I am
not laudator temporis acti, but then I have no auspicium
melioris aevi. Extremes meet, and two great nations are
sometimes contiguous; but the general legal principles of one,
however suited to that great nation, may not suit another
great nation, especially where geographical propinquity
has produced a current of thought from a nation of one race
essentially civilised in the most exquisite degree, to a nation
equally civilised, of course, and with much domestic charm,
but of an alien race, and dwelling where the prevalence of sea
breezes and the irregularity of the physical configuration of
the country has no doubt necessitated rigid discipline.
I have just referred to the family. One of the most
vital points of society in China is this: the patriarchal system.
The idea is fully expressed in the Code. Indeed, the basis of
the Code-penalties-takes root from the same source, just as
the natural instinct of the head of a family is, when moved, to
exhibit his authority physically. Moral suasion is a gift the
existence of which varies with education and the uncertainty
of human character. From this view the Code is the exact
essential codified expression of the lapses of Chinese society.

138
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
I would add very softly here how wonderful is the Chinese
family idea and how instrumental it has been in producing
Chinese civilisation; how fathered it has been by that
statesman and common-sense philosopher, Confucius, and
how respected by Rulers as a principal factor in the co-
ordination of classes. The Chinese race by natural disposition
is not less fierce than we, but the operation of the family,
with its rigid conventions based on principles of the utmost
sanctity, has effected a greater domesticity. From such a
source true patriotism takes its rise. In a following paragraph
I shall somewhat deprecate the too close pressing of
comparisons, but certainly the doctrine of patria potestas is
to-day as fully developed in China as ever it was in Rome.
I have no space left to treat of other offences, much less
to deal with further sections of the Code taken generally,
and still less to indulge in a review of the system-procedure
and working. This is a country not very well explored, and
I am an early explorer. Libraries will be written by
Foreign observers on the Chinese system. Perhaps the old
Law may take to that coming something of the position
of Roman Law to the European systems. No space!
Volumes could be written-and then only of one section-
not merely on the intricate Law of Homicide or on the
comprehensive Law of Wrongful Acquisition, but volumes
might be written on elements of these subjects, e.g., on the
killing of several in the same family, on indirect responsibility
for death, on what may be called "compound larceny "-
larceny aggravated by another offence, e.g., rape; and lesser
volumes on lesser subjects such as the quaint Wei chih (!)
and chia chih (i) or "contempt of authority" or
"court," gaming offences, etc. And if volumes can be so
written, how much could be carefully presented on, for
example, what I dissect as the vast subject of relationship?

the more
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
139
Let me here briefly direct attention to the Code as it exists
as a whole-the interesting provisions regarding devolution
of hereditary rank and the several Supplementary Laws, 38
tiresome but doubtless interesting ceremonial
provisions, the military provisions, 100 the highly important,
if somewhat meagre, Property Law, 101 etc.
All is there save
mining laws as now understood. There is even, and of
course, a law of accretion and accession, 10 though one who
ought to have known better describes as existing in certain
districts, Custom, when what really existed was Law. As it
happens, this was not a Foreign official, but I make the
suggestion that a study of the Chinese Code or its elements
be a subject of examination for a Foreign official before he
reaches the post of Vice-consul. When somewhat progressed
he may advantageously study besides the Code Commentary
such collections of leading cases as the Hsing An Hui Lan
(刑案滙覽) and the Po An Hsin Pien (駁案新編).
The cases quoted in these treatises are admirably done-
lucid, logical, to the point, nothing de trop. A student
interpreter in his third year (and a third year of pure study
for those who show some ability in Chinese should be
essential) could read them easily, save the not occasional
technical phrases. The style is despatch Chinese.
I may, in this connection be permitted to refer to one
snare. Nothing is more tempting for a student of Chinese
Law than comparison with other systems-and nothing is
more elusive. As a matter of fact there are a vast number of
resemblances, but very few genuine analogies, for China
08 Art. XLIV (1-15).
Art. CL-CLXXIII (and 57 Supplementary Laws in my edition).
100 Art. CLXXIV-CCXLIV (and 148 Supplementary Laws).
101 Art. LXXI-CXLVIII (and 279 Supplementary Laws).
102 Art. LXXXVI (15) see Appendix.

140
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
in Law, Commerce, or what other, has produced for itself.
The impact of even world-wide currents of thought has
had little effect on China. Especially is this so in what I
would call the domain of intelligence. To return to Law-
which is not necessarily intelligent. Obviously the principle
of the Code is diametrically opposed to the principle of Anglo-
Saxon countries, and obviously it is a Code. In England,
a highly civilised country, we depend on our transcendental
judicial personnel. China depends on its Code. In China,
penalties quicken the operation of Law. In both England
Ireland, and Scotland also, people are so highly rational
that quickening is not required, until they are caught. I
asked a friend of mine (a native of this country) one day,
how it is that there are so many cases with chien ching
() in China, what we call indecent cases, (and indeed
the number of rape cases and the like is extraordinary).
My friend, an old gentleman of some 65 years, said: "In
China, ladies have small feet and cannot move far. In some
other countries there is-and, of course, with the most perfect
reason-freedom of locomotion." This passivity in action
resulted in his view in greater liability to detection. In
another case, a gentlemen, who, if anybody should know,
ought to know, gave me to understand that a root distinction
between a felony and a misdemeanour is also drawn in China,
and he gave me the following in proof:以不 論以違制
My informant stands too high for criticism, but I ask :
Does the average Chinese judge bear this distinction in mind?
To my mind this rather represents the essence of the idea.
For as matter of fact, China has no need for such a distinction
in Law. With us the idea of felony, misdemeanour, and
offence is the result of codification of thought which even
after painful striving has not yet resulted in codification in
fact. It is an artificial distinction. Think of what we class
A

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
141
perjury as, and the penalty which, nevertheless, we attach to it,
and an English lawyer will understand me. As a matter
of fact wei chih (i) does exist in China as a definitive
offence. What are the so-called "Ten Felonies" (+)?
Felony is short and convenient, but the phrase merely means
the "ten atrocious offences." It is a great danger in this
general connection to apply Foreign legal terms to Chinese
Law. I did so some years back and I was not satisfied.
It clothes the language artificially and gives it a baboon-like
look. Chinese Law, to be translated properly, must be
translated faithfully from its fount, and moreover ought not
to be arranged in any other way except its native way.
What is ku sha (), is it murder? It is not. It is one of
the six definite classes which the Law distinguishes of doing
your worst to another. Our idea of murder is distributable.
What is wei chih () and what is chia chih ()?
They are themselves, and look monkey-like dressed as
Contempt of Court, and so on. Only for this paper do I use
such a word as larceny and all the peculiar jargon of
English Law, though the jargon of Chinese Law is, if
anything, even more peculiar. But comparison and use of
terms have their place when applied to the larger issues.
Naturalis acquitas, (chung yung ), equity, are terms
applicable to all rules framed by thinking animals who
later find fallibility. In England we distinguish Equity
from Law, and the former depended on the length of a
Chancellor's foot. Equity in China is not measured by
a foot, and as for the head, it is given no chance at all.
The Code supplies the head for a Chinese judge in this
country of refined distinction. The idea underlying the
addition of the Supplementary Laws is equitable, as I have
shown, and that article which prescribes 100 blows heavy
bamboo for any offence which is not definitely provided for
19

142
NOTES ON OHINESH LAW AND PRACTICE.
is a further example, and the Hsing Pu exercises something
like the old Roman Prætorian jurisdiction in equity. So
we can discuss interminably with much "fruit."
S
A few last words. The Code needs possibly some
arrangement, possibly some re-arrangement, possibly some
pruning. Rights in personam and rights in rem might be
more clearly distinguished and less confounded; and the
same of criminal and civil wrongs and right inter se. The
ideas are there for the observer, but they are merely there
as the natural process of evolution; they are not defined
in the sense of ultimate definition. The country has (to
use a geographical metaphor) not been demarcated in the
modern sense.
Austin is an author for the future Chinese
jurist to ponder over. He gave some headaches, but he
need not give all headaches. Revision might be more
frequent than decennial (the human frame undergoes meta-
morphosis every seven years), and revision should be revision.
Periodically, the more essential parts of the li might be
incorporated in the Code proper; the less essential parts
remaining as li. What needs pruning should be pruned,
but do not alter too much or too violently. Some of the
penalties need re-adjustment to the offence in light of
changed and changing conditions. Doubtless the spectacle
of a foreigner with his head in a cangue, or on the way
to transportation to "remote regions," or receiving 100
blows heavy bamboo would create very natural merriment
and be in every way highly amusing, and very many
will
agree with me that there are some foreigners for whom
all three penalties would not be inappropriate. The exposure
of a head, 103 especially if it be a bald head, would be less
103 These cases all quoted in the Hsing An Hui Lan.

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
143
agreeable, aesthetically at least. Branding, skilfully applied,
would be of value, though doubtless causing personal
rumination after release. In this connection I would suggest
vaccination in place of mere branding, and thus combine
at once utility with ornament. Should prisons be made
more comfortable? I do not know. It is better possibly
to have them as they are-uncomfortable. What happens
abroad does not often happen in China, that a man commits
an offence to get a square meal. And yet there are beggars
in China. But we must remember that the treatment of
prisoners is very precisely and justly provided for. Let
me quote a case or two illustrating the responsibility of
gaolers in this general connection. A gaoler did not retain
possession of an axe used for breaking coal. A prisoner
became possessed of it and killed a person (the case does
not expressly state whom). The gaoler was treated under
the article relating to gaolers allowing edged weapons within
the prison and thereby enabling a prisoner to kill a person,
with penalty mitigated one degree to 100 blows heavy
bamboo and transportation for life 3,000 li. A prisoner
extracted a piece of masonry from the prison wall and
therewith killed a fellow prisoner. The gaoler was treated
under the article relating to gaolers allowing extraneous
objects within the prison and thereby enabling a prisoner
to kill a person, with penalty mitigated to life transportation
3,000 li. A gaoler bought some anti-mosquito preparation
for a serious offender. He knew the preparation contained
arsenic. The offender killed himself. The gaoler was treated
under article relating to gaolers allowing edged weapons
and extraneous objects within the prison and thereby enabling
a prisoner to kill himself, with penalty 80 blows heavy
bamboo and two years transportation. 101 And so on, and
101 These cases all quoted in the Hsing An Hui Lan.

144
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
so on. So much for the custodians of the imprisoned.
Procedure needs modification in some points. So-called
"torture" might be gradually relinquished (it is stated it
has been). As an aside. Is physical acceleration of ideas
any worse than the mental suffering produced by an acute
cross-examination on minds nervously wrought by the rush
and hurry of the western world? And we must reflect,
too, that the use of physical acceleration is strictly limited
by the Law, and that in any case, age and youth and absolute
physical infirmity and privilege bar its application. Delay!
Is there greater delay than in our own Courts? I think
not. Mayers speaks of the all-pervading "officialism" of
China. It is that officialism which renders difficult the
effective separate existence of the Judiciary, which might
otherwise be well. For what is specially desirable, and the
Code specifically provides for it, is the perfect acquaintance
with the Code and its cases, of those entrusted with its
application. To instance no other post, a man must be a
living lexicon to perfectly discharge the multifarious duties
with which a District Magistrate is now charged, and yet
perhaps his most important duties are purely judicial. The
personnel of Appellate Courts-District, Provincial, or
Central-should, in particular, be unexceptionably informed.
Legal education in the whole existing system should be
effected. The legal profession (it may be said to be
practically non-existent) might, within limits, be encouraged.
Official Law Reports, as distinct from the admirable private
compilations now existing, might be published.
Some point with horror to the punishments. They
forget that the tendency is in terrorem, and overlook the
numerous provisions for commutation and mitigation. They
forget also the ethical ideas underlying these punishments.
Some point to the operation of the system in practice. Such

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
145
not seldom fail to make allowance for the operation of certain
innate features of the polity, the system of responsibility for
the occurrence of crime for instance, and the influence of
the family.
People talk glibly about a sudden change in laws, without
reflecting that laws are themselves an exact growth on custom
and usage.
Laws should be made for the benefit of the
people and the polity as a whole. But in these days there
are so many philanthropists-and philanthropy in China has
(and to a certain extent, perhaps, always has had) a special
and sometimes a selfish meaning. Their journeying Ex-
cellencies now sent abroad to investigate the laws and
institutions of foreign countries will no doubt incidentally note
the advantages and defects of all systems. To introduce a
new system, is, so to speak, artificial and unnatural, and the
results may be equal and not apposite. If alteration is
needed, alter as circumstances first require, in minor points.
Alter as the spread of a novel set of ideas compels alteration.
Such is the spirit of the Code. Begin, by all means, by
remedying such points as kneeling-it is really necessary to
remedy-but reflect, kneeling only dirties and creases the
trousers of those who clothe in the foreign garb and does not
hurt the horned knee of the peasant in Yunnan. It is the
fashion now to talk of "improvements" on Western lines,
but foreign modernities do not necessarily mean either
improvement or regeneration, or any other of the catch
phrases which are as "Mesopotamia" in the mouths of many.
A peaked cap with a nice yellow border does not necessarily
mean an "improved" brain, but, as a rule, is a direct
advertisement of the Darwinian theory. If the system needs
revision, the many foreign-educated natives of this country,
who number not a few lawyers in their ranks, know their
own needs and their own business best. They will know how

146
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
to supply the lacunae; how to draw up the best possible
system of mining laws for no doubt the best possible mining
experts in this best of all possible worlds, and they will know
how to place them, when they have got them, in their right
geographical position (the laws, not the experts) in the Code.
They will not create what already exists (the Hibernianism
may be excused). I mean, for example, Press Laws. They
will, in short, graft and improve, for in this world all is
understood to be "improvement" on the original. They will
turn daisies into double daisies, and the humble scarlet
geranium into a pencilled one. They will see-or will they
not see?-that it is possible the Code has outgrown itself;
that it is possible an admirable arrangement originally has
become distorted it an amorphous shape by eternal additions
and construction, ending in what really all belongs to one
category being distributed and tucked away, not seldom
without apparent meaning, in all corners and nooks and
crannies. I have said without apparent meaning. I mean
the meaning of the man who tucked it away there. For they
(the t'iao li, and especially the latter t'iao li) depend, just as
does the Common Law of England, on the " personal
equation," and in this case also, plus the Metropolitan official.
The new revisionists in this connection will of course
remember too, that they are few, and that those who drew
up the Code were many and, of course, too, that just as
everywhere else and with everything else there is a period
of good Law and a period of not so good Law, a period of
good judges and not so good judges. Will they alter, or will
they not alter then such an arrangement as we find in the
hsing lu, to take but one section? Here the explorers will
find, or have long ago found, wrongful acquisition (),
homicide (), affray, (), abusive language (),
complaints and accusations (A), bribery (), cheating

NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
147
(詐偽),rape, etc. (犯姦), miscellaneous offences (雜 犯),
arrest, etc. (), decision of cases (). So much
of order or disorder, of the principle or no principle, as it
has come to. What will they discover under the heading
of wrongful acquisition? Nothing more nor less than
treason, treason felony, larceny, specific larceny (of horses
oxen, crops, clothes), inter-relation larceny, acquisition
by threats (), kidnapping, disturbing graves
(but mark the purpose), entering a house by night without
cause, branding for larceny. What will they discover under
homicide? Homicide in all its six chief rigid classes:-
killing several of a family, killing parents, etc., killing an
adulterer, forcing a person to kill himself (AE).
And they will discover more pertinences and impertinences-
from one or other point of view, just as you like-in the
subsequent divisions. I feel sure they will be horrified or
smile, or have been horrified or have smiled, at some of the
Supplementary Laws, and see how the ingenuity of the
human mind can transcend original genius. Hsing Hsiang
Chin, Hsi Hsiang Yuan (E) is much too
poor a truism to be worth even a passing condescension from
the clever people of these days. However, taking the weight
of the Code as being from four to six liang, perhaps we may
say there are four liang which really do need looking into
and these include mainly the Supplementary Laws. In
selecting cases for consideration regarding the well-being of
the Pápßapor and themselves, the revisionists will doubtless
consider the case of P'ei Ping-jo (), the Blue Beard;
of Wu Erh-tzu (F), who might have been the Gascon
in the famous French case, and murdering his father and
mother, could plead that he was an orphan (a sole repre-
sentative case, of course). Finally they will proceed to the
opticians and get "double million magnifying glasses" (of

148
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
foreign make, of course) and ponder over such a case as
that headed ch'u hsieh ou jen p'eng t'sao shi huo shao ssu erh
ming(取械毆人逢草失火燒死二命)-a very short
case, but, in two seuses, a decidedly illuminating one.
One of these days they will perhaps present that perfect
Code.
Multa dies et multa litura coercuit acque.
Perfectum decies non castigavit ad unguem.
If China needs Laws on what is styled "modern lines,"
if such really makes for the greatest good of the greatest
number, if the miscibility of the world points to the necessity
for such, education on "modern lines" must not only be
contemporaneous with, but precede the alteration of a system,
the roots of which lie deep in the national antecedents. And
to be reasonable, to be effective, any change must surely not
merely be in concordance with the spirit of a special section,
nor with the spirit of a specific individual, but with what
nine people out of ten want. Some may talk about the
"spirit of the age." It is artificial-purely artificial. "In
the olden days men of perspicuity enlightened others by
means of their own enlightenment, but in these days though
being themselves in a fog they attempt to make others
enlightened." 105 Alteration in Law can surely not be violent
sudden. It must presuppose, for one point, the creation of
a specially trained Justiciary for altered methods. The mere
sudden eradication of this, that, or the other penalty, or
sudden change in definition or scope of offence or subject,
without system, without method, can surely but lead to
chaos.
105
Perfection is generally considered impossible, but
(賢者以其昭昭使人昭昭今以其昏昏使人昭昭)
MENCIUS-Chin Hsin (L) Part 2.

20
20
NOTES ON CHINESE LAW AND PRACTICE.
149
the Code is an old, a tried, and an exceedingly exact system,
and has been a source of untold blessings to a law-abiding
people for ages past. And perhaps we may bear in mind
what the old sage said of himself: "As a judge, I am as
others; the essential is rather to eliminate the causes for
litigation.'
106
105
IE 聽訟吾猶人也必也使無訟乎—LUN Y% 顏淵