Notes of a Journey Overland from
Szemao to Rangoon.
By Fred. W. Carey.
* *
After spending seven years in Yunnan, I obtained
permission to proceed home from Szemao through the
Shan States and Burma, making Rangoon my port of
departure. To those who, either from choice or necessity,
may follow my footsteps, this brief record of my trip
through a little known corner of Indo-China may prove
useful, if not actually entertaining.
On the morning of the 12th January 1902 I left
Szemao on my homeward journey. My long residence
there had enabled me to make numerous friends, and as
my chair passed along the streets for the last time it
was greeted by those fusilades of crackers with which
the Chinese love to "speed the parting guest." The
effect on me was somewhat depressing, for my experience
of Szemao had been a pleasant one: I was glad when
we at length emerged from the streets, and struck the
open road across the rice fields. The Szemao T'ing,
Mr. Hsü Chih-tsai, was awaiting me at the Pei Chih-ssu
temple, where he had thoughtfully prepared a substantial
1

2
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
luncheon, after partaking of which, and saying good-bye
to the friends he had invited to meet me, I jumped on
my pony, and made haste to overtake my caravan.
I had engaged my caravan through the Mollah,
or priest, of the Mahommedan temple at Szemao.
Mahommedan, or more correctly Mussulman, muleteers.
are much to be preferred when one is travelling through
malarial districts. Either their different diet, or their
manner of living altogether, render them more physically
fit than the average Yunnanese to withstand the attacks.
of that insidious fever common to the low-lying plains
near the Mekong and Salween rivers. It is probably for
this reason that most of the caravans trading between
Yunnan and Burma are conducted by Mussulmans. My
caravan was composed altogether of twenty-seven animals,
mostly small mules. Half this number sufficed for my
belongings, the remainder carrying a mixed cargo of
ironware, dried turnips, and salt, for sale along the road.
The weight carried by each animal when we started was
about 145 lbs gross, i.e. including the pack-saddle and
trappings; and the distance traversed each day was about
60 li, or 20 English miles. The animals were in charge
of six men, all apparently related to each other, who
looked after them in every way-walking behind and
urging them by various means (but not soft words) along
the road, saddling, unsaddling, and feeding them at
regular intervals. That gift of abuse which is the
characteristic of the mule-driver all the world over is
possessed in full by the "mafus" of Yunnan: and it
was really wonderful how a ribald reference to his female
relatives of a past generation would hasten the pace of
the leading mule, or make a laggard pony suddenly
abandon his attempts to snatch a mouthful of grass from
the roadside. Except for this disregard for their finer

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
feelings, caravan animals are as a rule fairly well treated
in Yunnan. They are wonderfully sagacious, answering
readily to their master's call, or to the sound of a brass.
gong, of which no caravan has less than a pair.
I must not omit to mention that I had my own pony
-[the chair I sent back from Pei Chih-ssu]-and a coolie
to look after it and carry my camera. Another servant
also came with me as cook, and on leaving Szemao I
was accompanied by five soldiers.
:
camped for the night
small lake. There I
West of Szemao there
Shortly after quitting Pei Chih-ssu we caught a
last glimpse of Szemao, then, descending 700 feet, traversed
the rice-plain of Man Hsi-pa, and
on some marshy ground near a
pitched my tent for the first time.
are no inns, and a tent of some kind is therefore
indispensable for it is not always convenient, even if it
were possible, to arrange the day's journey so as to
arrive in the evening at a village, the villages along
the way being often more than 60 li apart, and sometimes
quite off the road. The muleteers, on arrival at the
camping ground, generally collect branches and make a
rude shelter, roofed with grass, sufficient to protect them
from the heavy night dew or the rain. My tent was
often very wet in the morning, and a heavier load in
consequence for the mule whose lot it was to carry it.
There was no remedy for this; but at our noon-day halt
we dried it whenever possible by spreading it in the
sun.
Next morning I sent back three out of the five
soldiers forming my escort. There is inconvenience in
having too many followers when travelling. Apart from
the difficulty of carrying supplies, one has often to take
shelter on rainy days in small villages, where accommodation
and food are both extremely limited,

NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
On our way from Man Hsi-pa to Puteng we passed
through a pretty, well-wooded country. Puteng, called by
the Shans Meng Hing, is one of the Sip Song Panna,
or Twelve States. In my account of a former journey
through this place I mentioned the feud that existed
between the Kenghung Sawbwa and the T'ussu of Puteng.
It ended in the extermination of the latter's family. One
poor little girl is the only survivor, and she is obliged
to live under the close protection of the Chinese officials
at Pu-Erh-fu, who, since my departure, have taken over
control of the Puteng State. In civilized countries a
present day parallel to this vendetta, with its somewhat
pathetic ending, may be found in the terrible feuds that
so often occur between families in the mountainous districts
of Kentucky.
We did not reach Puteng until quite late in the
evening, and, as the weather had changed for the worse, I
was glad to seek the shelter of my tent. Just as night was
falling we were joined by a party of three Mussulman
traders, who asked permission to travel with us to Burma.
They had heard of my departure from Szemao the day
before, and had made double stages to catch us up.
Owing to the number of cattle-thieves that roam about
the Chinese Shan States, small parties will never travel
unless they can join some caravan; and these merchants
were glad to have the protection afforded by our numbers
and escort, whilst I was equally pleased at the prospect
thus opened to me of having the monotony of a long
journey relieved by conversation with men of a more
intelligent stamp than my muleteers. Mr. Ho, the eldest
of the new arrivals, had been trading in the British Shan
States, Burma, and Siam for the past seventeen years,
and knew a great deal about life in those countries.

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
外交部藏書
From the Puteng plain, which lies low, we climbed
up next day, in heavy rain and by slippery roads, to a
height of 4,800 feet. Our way led along the sides of
wooded hills, teeming with such small game as jungle
fowl the progeners of our "bantam "-peacocks, partridges,
and the rarer silver pheasant. Out of one thicket, half
covered with bracken, jumped a barking deer, the "chi-tsz"
of Yunnan, a little animal which makes a terrific noise
for its size, usually at night. With what envy must the
huge water-buffalo, with its ridiculously feeble cry, hear
the powerful call of this sleep-disturbing little beast!!
All caravans stop about 11 o'clock for the mid-day
meal and to give the animals a rest. Amongst the hills
it is often difficult to find water, and, such was the irony
of circumstances, that although it was raining unpleasantly
hard there was no drinking pool that morning for the
animals, and they had to be served in turn with a bucket
from a small spring.
From noon until three o'clock on the following day
we rested at the small village of Ta Tu-k'ang, where we
dried our belongings. Then going on we mounted by
slippery roads to 5,200 feet before descending again
through dense woods to a narrow valley (altitude 3,750
feet only) where we camped for the night. This lonely
spot, known as Pan Kuo-ching, is reputed to be the
haunt of many tigers. I was informed that only a short
time previously eight pack-animals had been carried off
in one night by these beasts, near the very spot - where
we were camping. At first I thought this was a cheerful
little fairy-tale, related with a view to disturbing my
appetite; but, later on, as the men were preparing their
supper we heard the cry of one tiger quite distinctly. We
immediately called in our animals, fired off a gun or two,

6.
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
and, having replenished our watch-fires, were not further
disturbed. Trader Ho informed me that the odour of
frying pork-fat attracted tigers to a camp more than
anything else; but his religious antipathy to the delicacy
in question may have prompted this remark. The Chinese
can do nothing without pork-fat, even when travelling,
whereas the Mahommedans always carry with them a
plentiful supply of dried beef.
All the roads to the south of Szemao are merely
tracks, open during the dry period, but completely effaced
by the heavy rains of each succeeding monsoon season,
when all travelling ceases. During the winter the night
dews are
very heavy, and in the early morning it is
necessary to don a rain-coat if one wishes to keep dry.
Otherwise contact with the long jungle grass that over-
hangs the path is unpleasant, each bending blade jealously
reserving its quota of water to trickle down the neck of the
first unwary traveller that passes. To escape the shower
of dew which thus greeted us, I soon learnt that it was
best to wait until the rest of my caravan had gone on
ahead. Later in the year, when the grass has dried up
and turned golden, passing caravans set fire to it, and
incidentally to the forest in many places, large areas
being thus carelessly destroyed.
The whole of next day we traversed a thick jungle,
the home of many kinds of wild animals-elephants, tigers,
pigs, bears, and their less formidable associates, besides
feathered game in great variety. Wild buffalo (i.e. Indian
bison) are also found in these forests, which extend from
the Salween to the Red River.
After what seemed rather a long march, we at last got
away from the forest and reached the pretty plain of Hsiao
Meng-yang, where we rested a whole day. Owing to the

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
7
height of the surrounding hills, and their wooded character,
the morning mist hangs heavily on these low-lying plains,
and the sun's rays are apparently unable to penetrate it until
quite late in the forenoon of each day.
We were now fairly in the Shan country, and, judging
at least by outward appearances, far beyond the sphere of
Chinese influence. The Shans are a mild, good-humoured
race, always cheerful, but very indolent and ignorant. The
women are pretty and energetic enough, doing practically all
the work. The men loaf around all day, only bestirring
themselves to drive their cattle out to graze in the morning
and fetch them in at night. In the interval they do little but
smoke. Like the American tramp, they cultivate laziness to
such an extent that it becomes a fine art. The women,
besides performing all the household drudgery, work in the
fields. There can be no doubt that the custom of binding the
feet saves the Chinese woman from this kind of degrading
toil, for the women of every other Eastern race are ac-
customed to slave in the fields, whilst their husbands enjoy a
dolce far niente existence at home. The Chinese Shan
children are noticeably pretty, particularly the little girls,
who are far more charming and friendly than their Chinese
:sisters.
The Shans of the Chinese Shan States in general are
known as Lü, those of Kengtung as Kun. The distinction
is merely a tribal one, all the Shans bearing the race-name
"Tai." The "Tai" are as a rule fairer, taller and more
muscular than either the Burmese or Siamese. Their eyes
have not the almond shape of their Mongolian neighbours:
the nose is flat, and the mouth rather large, displaying, when
open, teeth discolored by constant betel chewing, a habit
common throughout the Shan States. Most of the men are
tattooed from the waist to the knee, and those of higher rank

NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
to the ankle. Many of the patterns tattooed represent charms
against death by drowning. The custom of thus tattooing
the body is said to have originated many years ago in the
following way.
At that time the Shans of both sexes not only wore their
hair long (as indeed they do now) but dressed in very similar
fashion. The King of Burma, their ruler, meeting them at
his Court, was himself so often confused that he forthwith
decreed that in future all the Shan men were to have
their bodies tatooed, and the garments arranged in such
fashion that there could be no mistaking the sex of the
individual.
Amongst the men the dress is now usually nothing more
than a pair of trowsers and a jacket, the latter wadded with
cotton in the cold weather. All the men in the British Shan
States wear as headgear the big, limp, woven grass hat made
by the Chinese of Tali-fu and imported by the caravans that
pass annually on their way to Siam or Mandalay. This hat
is not so generally worn in the Chinese Shan States.
The Shan women are as a rule fair-skinned and good-
looking, particularly the Lü. They wear skirts, fastened with
a half-hitch at the waist, but not open in front as it is with
the Burmese girl. In many places the women consider no
other garment necessary, and expose the bust to the waist;
but in the Chinese Shan States, probably in deference to
Chinese prudery, they wear a pretty jacket with tight sleeves.
The Shans are Buddhists, but not such strict ones as the
Burmese. They are great believers in talismans, anything
curious serving as an antidote to some calamity or other.
There is plenty of magnificent timber in the Chinese
Shan States, and it is a pity that, owing to impossibility
of communication with the coast, no use can be made of it
commercially.

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
9
Leaving the Meng Yang plain we crossed the range of
hills which shut in the Mekong, and after half-a-day's march
reached the left bank of that fine river at Kenghung. The
width there is about 200 yards from bank to bank, and the
river though swift is free from the rapids that farther down
render it useless as a means of communication or transport.
We crossed by means of a rude raft, two dug-outs lashed
together with a bamboo staging on top. Near the shore
there were a number of Shan ladies bathing and filling up
their water pots. They did not seem at all embarrassed by
my presence, and I therefore had no scruples in taking a
few snapshots of them.
The altitude of the Mekong at Kenghung is 2,100 feet
above the sea,
while the mountains on either side rise up
to between 5,000 and 6,000 feet. Malaria is very prevalent
in the valley of the Mekong, as in all the lower levels of
the Shan States. The Yunnanese, brought up generation
after generation in the uplands of Yunnan, are peculiarly
susceptible to sickness when they go south of Szemao,
and once attacked by fever they succumb very quickly. The
Shans seem to suffer less; but they are wise, too, in building
their houses above the ground on wooden piles.
We did not get across the river until late in the after-
noon, and were consequently obliged to remain the night at
the first village in the Kenghung plain, Khat Lang-kai.
Here I replenished our supplies of rice and eggs, and
purchased some pullets. It is sometimes difficult to obtain
provisions in Shan villages on other than market days.
Next morning (19th January) it was very foggy. The
leading muleteer took the wrong turning, and did not discover
his error until we were quite close to the town of Kenghung
itself, where the Sawbwa lives. This man is nominally the
head of the Twelve States. He is a most incapable ruler,

10
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
entirely under the evil influence of two of his ministers, and
by their advice constantly giving trouble to both the Chinese
and British on either side of the frontier. In consequence of
our mistake we camped that night again in the plain, which
is about 90 li long by 30 broad. It is well watered by several
streams which there join the Mekong; but during the day the
heat is unbearable, and I could understand the inability of the
Yunnanese to live there.
From the end of the plain our road led up through
bamboo groves and light forest to a height of 5,150 feet.
The steep hills on either side the route are peopled by
Akk'as, a curious tribe, belonging to the Woni division of
the Lolo race. They are extremely simple and timid, and
when we met them on the road would hang together like a
flock of sheep. It is hard to guess from what place this
tribe originally came, but about the time of the Mussulman
rebellion large numbers of them migrated from Talang,
in South Yunnan, and came to live in the Shan States,
where in places they are merely the drudges of their Shan
neighbbours.
In the British Shan States the Akk'as are known as
Kaws. There is an extraordinary variety of them, as they
are divided into clans, and again into families. The women
of each family have adopted a different head-dress, and
by this distinctive mark one may know them apart. These
hats form the most important part of a costume which is
extremely picturesque but entirely inadequate, consisting
as it does only of a short skirt, an open jacket, and the
inevitable Woni gaiters. The Chinese distinguish the
different tribes of Akk'as by such names as Pointed Hats,
Level Heads (not alluding I imagine to their mental
capacity) and Short Heads. They know nothing of
ethnology, and take no interest in any further classification

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
11
of these inferior races. One need not be surprised at their
indifference; for, to make an "odorous comparison,"
scarcely an Englishman of to-day has any notion of the
tartans proper to the various Scottish clans!
The Akk'as are a hard-working race. They clear the
hill-sides, and cultivate cotton, opium and a little tobacco.
besides hill rice and maize. The men are bigger than
most of their neighbours, and swarthier, though much
of the darkness of their complexion is due to a dislike to
the use of water. They are very stolid, though not wanting
in intelligence, and little can be learned from them of their
origin and customs. Some of their ceremonies are beautifully
simple. A young Akk'a wishing to marry does not consult
the girl of his choice, but (cunning fellow!) offers a pig,
a fowl and four eggs to her mother. After this, should
the girl refuse to marry him, her people must console his
disappointed parents by a small gift of money. When the
actual wedding takes place, the bride crosses her wrist,
holding an egg in each hand. The bridegroom takes one,
and she the other: they eat the eggs, and the ceremony is
complete.
The Akk'as have no written language. Their religion
consists principally of sacrifices to the Nats, i.e. good and
malevolent spirits; but many villages now possess a temple,
and Buddhism, as preached by the Shan priests, is taking
the place of their more primitive beliefs. In some of the
Akk'a villages I also found unmistakeable evidences of
Phallic worship.
Theft amongst the Akk'as is at first punished with a
fine repeated theft renders the culprit liable to be buried
alive-a punishment calculated to convert the most hardened
kleptomaniac!

12
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
Like the Cantonese and the Annamese, the Akk'as are
dog-eaters. But there is this difference: the Annamese
will only eat black dogs which have a black palate; the
Cantonese will eat any kind of Chow dog with a black palate;.
the Akk'a will eat any kind of dog they can lay their
hands on, and when I stayed in their villages I had always
to see that my own canine followers were not appropriated
for the Akk'a pot.
Allied to the Akk'a, and speaking the same language,
are the Nahê, a tribe living on the outskirts of Pu Erh
and Szemao. These people lead a wretched existence, acting
as hewers of wood and drawers of water to the Chinese.
Every day they go out, young and old, to the neighbouring
hills in search of firewood, which they bring into town
towards evening. They sell as much as they can carry for
seventy-five cash. They never grow rich!
The second day after leaving Kenghung we crossed a
range of hills at a height of 5,300 feet, and then, descending
a thousand feet, camped in the Meng Hun plain. The evening
before we had passed the night amongst the hills, in a lonely
spot far from any human habitation, and had been nearly
frozen by the cold. The plain of Meng Hun is a large,
well watered one, inhabited entirely by Shans. It was fully
20 li broad where we crossed it, and about the same length.
There were quite a number of cattle in the plain, and at
least a dozen villages dotted around. A good deal of tea
is grown in the district, and is purchased by passing
caravans for the Szemao market. The Shans of Meng Hun
are inclined to be impudent and nasty to the traveller,
probably because they inhabit a sort of "No Man's land,"
away from the actual jurisdiction of either the Chinese
or British officials. One can only get courtesy there by
paying for it; provisions are comparatively a lot cheaper,

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
13
my two soldiers getting two nice pullets in exchange for a
couple of empty bottles that I had given them.
The first sound that breaks the stillness of the morning,
when one is camped near Shan villages, is the regular
thump, thump, thump of the wooden foot pestles, used for
husking the day's supply of rice. This is the Shan maiden's
first task, and from that time in the early dawn until the
close of day she has hardly a minute's respite from work
of some kind. Industry and beauty combined are sufficiently
rare to merit admiration when met with!
We crossed the Meng Hun plain in a south-westerly
direction, and bore to the right of a pagoda-the first we
had met that was built in Burmese style-its gilded spires
glittering in the sun. Coming to the end of the plain, we
had another climb up to 5,700 feet before reaching the
summit of the range, after which we descended gradually,
and camped for the night in the woods by the side of a
small stream. The whole of next day our way led through
thickly wooded country. The atmosphere of the forests had
that damp, chilly feeling, as though the sun were not
sufficiently powerful to penetrate to their depths. High
up on the branches of the larger trees I noticed different
varieties of orchids-some of them worth, perhaps, a small
fortune at home. There are men who come out from Europe
every year, and spend the whole of the dry season searching
for new kinds of orchids in the forests of Burma, but
they never get so far as the Yunnan frontier.
We stopped for luncheon in the Meng Pan plain. Half
of the adults who came from the little village near to stare
at us were afflicted with goitre, whilst one or two poor
idiots were wandering about. Goitre is very common in
the hilly districts of Yunnan. The inhabitants of the villages
suffering most from it attribute it to the water; but they

14
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
seldom move from the spot, nevertheless, and would laugh
at the idea of there being any connection between goitre
and cretinism. I suppose there can be no doubt that it is
really due to some mineral in the water that they drink.
I have often noticed intermediate villages where the disease
was unknown, and found on enquiry that the inhabitants
obtained their water from a different source.
On the twelfth day out from Szemao we camped in a
small plain (altitude 2,600 feet) not far from the British
frontier. The road thereabouts was in many places simply
a succession of quagmires, into which my pony often sank
up to his girths. Communication between Kengtung and
Szemao would be vastly improved were a little attention
but paid to the roads. The making of new, or repairing
of old, roads under Chinese or Shan supervision, however,
would mean heavy taxes on the inhabitants and passing
traders, and of the two evils I imagine the people prefer bad
roads.
We reached the frontier village of Talo on the 24th
January, and there forded the Namlam river. The water was
pretty deep, and we did not escape a wetting. Crossing
the plain, and following the course of the Namma, a
tributary of the Namlam, we at length came upon two old,
tottering, wooden posts, which marked, in the absence of
fitter monuments, the junction of two great Empires. The
frontier just here is by no means a perfect one. The
Chinese claim to the whole of the Talo plain was allowed
by the British Commissioners, after a five weeks' wrangle.
Instead of taking the natural boundary-the Namlam
River a rough curve was made, and the frontier marked
by a few posts.
Just beyond the frontier I was received in style by
a small military official (Shan) with an escort, sent to

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
15.
meet me from Kengtung. We rested a short while, then
continuing, crossed and re-crossed the Namma stream several
times, our way leading through the Meng La valley. I saw
several " Noria or waterwheels at work. With the power
thus obtained, the Shans were crushing juice from the sugar
cane, and boiling it down into sugar on the spot. This is
one of the principal industries of the district. The sugar
obtained is of very coarse quality but eatable. The pack-
animals are particularly fond of it, and the muleteers
generally carry a small supply for them.
At the Shan village of Man Hok that evening we met
with a cordial reception-rice, eggs, straw and firewood
being brought in quantities for our use. I noticed at Man
Hok that all the water came from a spring above the village,
and was ingeniously conducted by bamboo pipes through the
streets-if such a name can be applied to the spaces between
the houses.
It rained during the night, and next day we experienced
considerable discomfort in consequence. Travelling with
a caravan in rainy weather is unpleasant work, especially
when one has to climb up to the summit of the ranges
separating every little plain. About mid-day we passed an
isolated Wa village, situated on the hill-side to our right.
The inhabitants were "Chia Kawa," as the Yunnan
people call them, meaning a partly civilised variety of
the Wa tribe, or those Wa who have lost some of their
savage characteristics by contact with the milder natured
Shans.
The Was are, if possible, a dirtier people than the Akk'as,
though judging by their general appearance I think it
possible one might discover good looks in the men, and beauty
in the women, could one but remove that facial mask of
stratified mud. The Was are believed by some authorities to

16
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
be of Tibetan origin, and are chiefly noted for their head-
hunting proclivities. In these days of high civilisation, when
there are few corners of the earth that have not been
penetrated by the missionary, it is difficult to credit the
existence of races who still indulge in such savage practices.
The Was believe they are descended from two ogres, who
devoured men, and enjoined on their children the necessity of
always having a human skull in their settlements. Without
one they could not hope to have good crops, peace or
prosperity. This command the Was have always piously
obeyed. When therefore a new village is formed, or a
sacrifice of a special kind is needed, the young Was
go out
in bands head-hunting,-which means that they waylay any
strangers they may happen to meet, and deprive them of
their heads. The hunting season opens in March and
lasts through April-until, in fact, sufficient heads to ensure
a good harvest have been obtained. Small parties of pedlars,
or a fever-stricken straggler from some Chinese caravan, are
considered fair game. The neighbouring Shan villages are
never attacked, and that is probably the reason why these
savages are still allowed to continue their barbarous practice.
Also, it must in all fairness be noted, heads are not sought
after out of mere wantonness or lust of killing, but merely
on what may be termed mistaken agricultural theories!!!
The Chinese assert that the Was are cannibals, but it
seems certain they are not habitually so, and a closer
acquaintance with them obliges us to abandon belief in the
graphic story of the good wife putting the kettle on to boil
when the men of the village go head-hunting. Famine and
terrible necessity may have driven them adventitiously, as
with more civilised races, to anthropophagy, but it can only
be ignorance or malice which prompts the Shans to say that
the Was eat their parents. When they become old and

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
17
feeble, so the story runs, the children tenderly and
lovingly help them to climb into the branches of a tree.
Then they shake the boughs until the old people fall down.
"Come," they say, "the fruit is ripe: let us eat it," and
immediately proceed to do so. This same story is told of
some of the tribes of Borneo, who find no grave so honourable
for their old people as their own insides. In the case of the
Was this is all fiction; but as to the head-hunting there is,
unfortunately, no manner of doubt.
On the 26th January we crossed the Namloi River, or
Hsiao Hei-chiang, and, passing another high range (5,400
feet), arrived that evening in the Kengtung plain. During
the day we saw some Pumeng villages, the inhabitants being
under Shan influence and employing Shan "poongyis," or
priests, in their small temples. Cotton was growing on the
hill-sides in places, and a number of fields contained remains
of the opium crop in the shape of poppy stalks. The poppy
thrives best on steep ground, and for this reason no doubt
opium is the chief crop in all the wilder parts of the Shan
States. Two-thirds of the entire cultivation in the Wa and
Pumeng hill-communities consists of poppy fields, i.e. for
every twenty acres of Indian corn, hill rice, or beans, the
natives grow sixty acres of poppy. The average return
is about four to five catties to the acre. With the opium
thus obtained these hill people pay for the necessities of
their existence-salt, powder, rice and tobacco, though
this latter is also grown in places up in the hills. The
Akk'a as a rule only cultivate sufficient opium for their own
consumption. The Wa and Lohei tribes use a pipe similar
to the Chinese "yen-ch'iang," and smoke reclining; amongst
some of the other hill people the opium is mixed with dried
plantain leaves, chopped up, and smoked in ordinary clay and
metal pipes. I have no doubt that the present Chinese opium
2

18
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
pipe is merely an improved form of the one used by the hill
tribes of Yunnan, where the habit of smoking the drug
probably originated.
Almost all the opium produced in the Chinese and
British Shan States eventually finds its way into Yunnan.
It is collected by the Cantonese and Hunanese pedlars,.
who, tapping their little snake-skin drums, travel about
from market to market with their baskets of foreign
ribbons and sundries.
On the morning of the 27th January, 16 days out
from Szemao, we reached Kengtung. Captain Drage, the
Political Officer, met me about two miles from the town, and
invited me to be his guest during my stay there. Further
on we were received with great politeness by six of the
Sawbwa's ministers.
The distance from Szemao to Kengtung is, roughly
speaking, about 840 li, or 280 English miles, by road-
probably not much more than 200 miles as the crow flies.
The plain of Kengtung is some 30 miles long by 12
broad and has a population of 30,000 people, according
to a recent census. The town itself is situated in a
depression in the middle of the plain. It is of considerable
extent, and is surrounded by a mud wall, semi-Chinese
in character. The wall, however, is in a bad state, and
the Political Officer is trying to induce the Sawbwa to
level the whole lot, and to repair the streets with the material.
The huge gates are tumbling down, and will disappear
altogether in a short time. The town contains several Shan
temples of interest. A number of fine sheds are in course of
erection for the use of the people who frequent the market,
which is by far the most important in the Shan States. The
sight on a market day is unique. Hundreds of villagers and
hill people then come pouring into the town with their

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
19
produce, and take their places in rows in the open spaces of
the market square. Traders and sellers of such goods as
silks, silverware, clothing, etc. occupy the sheds, and the
bazaar is crowded until late in the afternoon with Akk'as,
Pumeng, Was, Muhsos, Taloks or Chinese Shans, and other
curiously apparelled tribes from the hills around, not to
mention Burmese, Siamese and Indian traders, and the
ubiquitous Cantonese pedlar.
Good roads are in course of construction all over the
plain and will be carried eventually to the Mekong on the
east and to the Chinese frontier on the north. The Sawbwa
had just returned from the Viceroy's Durbar at Mandalay
when I met him at Kengtung. He is quite a young man,
and brought back with him several bicycles and a buggy.
He is therefore taking an active interest in the question of
better roads. Hitherto, elephants have been his principal
means of locomotion. He possesses between fifty and sixty
of these animals, but most of them are employed in the teak
forests to the south.
:
Kengtung is a large and important state. It extends
from the Chinese frontier on the north to Siam on the south,
and east and west from the Mekong to the Salween. The
Sawbwa is allowed a free hand in matters of domestic
legislation on all other questions he has to consult the
Political Officer, who is again responsible to the Super-
intendent of the Southern Shan States, resident at Taunggyi.
Extensive teak forests exist in the southern part of the
Kengtung state, and these are being worked by the Sawbwa,
who for the privilege pays a sum of money annually to the
Burmese Government. Attention is now being paid to the
rich forests all over the Shan States, and efforts made
to protect and increase the cultivation of teak and rubber
trees.

20
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
Our stay in Kengtung was a pleasant one. It gave us
all, even the tired pack-animals, renewed vigour for the
continuance of our journey westwards. Before leaving I
sent back the Szemao Ting's two soldiers, with a letter of
thanks, and my cook also accompanied them. To replace
the latter, I engaged a smart young Shan, having some
knowledge of Chinese. Trader Ho and his small party,
whom I have already mentioned, wished to continue in our
company until we had crossed the Salween; and as he could
speak both Burmese and Shan I was glad to have him with
me. We left Kengtung on the 31st January, but got no
further than the end of the plain that night.
Between Kengtung and the Salween there are two
high mountain ranges. The road over them is at present
only a wide mule-track in good condition. It is intended
to build a Government cart-road, and a way has been found
through the mountains where the gradient is not more than
the prescribed 1 in 20. Following the mule-track we found
the ascent in places rather steep; but the road was so
much better than those we had been accustomed to that
we did not complain. In Burma a day's stage is calculated
as a military march, i.e. ten miles, and at every place this
distance apart along the road there is now constructed, or
under construction, a bungalow for travellers. We found,
however, that we could often do double stages; and if by
chance we did not arrive at a bungalow we camped ont
as before.
These rest-houses are undoubtedly a great
convenience. Each one is in charge of a "durwan
(Indian servant), and one gets a comfortable lodging
at the end of a long day's journey. Passing travellers
leave their magazines and journals in the bungalows, and
these provide some distraction, even if they are a few
months old.
"

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
21
The distance from Kengtung to the Salween is about
375 li, or 125 English miles. The scenery along the road
is sometimes superb-notably so just before reaching the
plain of Meng Ping; whilst the gorges that one traverses
between that place and the Salween are simply lovely.
I noticed in many old camping grounds a number of
curious figures of twisted bamboo stuck up all around. On
enquiry I found that the Shans make these to protect
themselves against tigers, Nats and malign influences of
all kinds whilst they sleep. Our plan was to keep fires
burning all night. It was often cold up on the hills, and
I would then have one made quite close to my tent: and
after dinner I found amusement in listening to the camp-fire
conversations of my servants and the muleteers. Wonderful
were the tales then related of the habits and customs of
the various tribes we had seen on our journey: horrid
stories of the savage Was-of their ability to cut a pig in
two with one stroke of their swords-of their preference for
heads with long beards-of their cunning ambushes, and
impregnable villages. Tales of places where one went to
sleep at night a living man and woke a corpse! Anecdotes
that made the trembling listeners glance furtively at intervals
over their shoulders at the dark forest behind. Tales of
the war with the Lohei tribes, and of how they were reduced
to submission, after the Shans had been gained over to
the Chinese side, or of the wary "Yao" with "tails like
monkeys" and their manner of hunting the elephant and
tiger. And sometimes the conversation would turn, in lower
tones, to foreigners; and I would learn new and occa-
sionally startling theories with regard to our curious ways.
How prone man is to discuss questions he knows nothing
about after dinner! Sometimes I would stroll over and join,
for company's sake, Trader Ho's smaller and more select

22
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
circle, and the talk would be of the past glories of the
Burmese Kings; or of the futile invasion of Kengtung by
the Siamese, fifty years ago; and of the advantages of British
rule in Burma. But never a word of the Mahommedan
rebellion, that forms so important a part of the history
of Yunnan. That is a sore subject with the Mussulmans.
Deep down in their hearts, I am convinced, still lies the hope
(never to be realized) that one day they may have their
revenge for the insults heaped on them since that disastrous
attempt to form a kingdom of their own in Western China.
The ferries at the Salween, and elsewhere in the Shan
States, are sadly in need of improvement. At present
they are worked by a handful of villagers living on the
banks. These men ferry across when they feel inclined to,
and are never by any chance in a hurry. The crossing is in
consequence a most tedious operation. Ferries in British
territory are supposed to be free. The Sawbwa of Kengtung
collects a tax on all caravans passing through, and this is
supposed to free them from further taxation of any kind in
their journey through his State; but at all the ferries
something has to be paid nevertheless. Foot passengers
usually have to wait until a caravan comes along before they
can get across, and it will be a good thing for trade when
properly organised and regular ferry services are established.
Just before reaching the Salween, we met one morning
a string of seventeen elephants, on their way to Kengtung
with His Majesty's Parcel Post. Their passage created a
lot of excitement, and the abusive powers of my men
were taxed to the utmost; for the mules showed every
sign of fear, and wanted to bolt into the jungle at the side
of the road.
Water is not always easily obtainable at some places
between Kengtung and the Salween, or farther
on; towards

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
23
Taunggyi. The muleteers generally know where water is
to be found, and though it may be inconvenient to stop at
uncertain hours for meals, it is better than running the
risk of going on to some place where no water can be
obtained for the animals.
On the 6th February we crossed the Salween at Takaw,
where we struck the Government mule-track, and found
travelling much easier. The track is really a good, wide
road not metalled it is true, but fairly level. All streams
are bridged, and, to prevent elephants from being driven
across, each bridge has a horizontal beam, supported on two
uprights, at each end. This, it appears, is a very necessary
precaution, as the native drivers are careless, and would try
to cross over the flimsiest structure without hesitation.
Perhaps the better plan would be to allow them
to do so.
A few broken necks might teach the others
wisdom.
As a
The population of that part of the Salween lying directly
west of the Salween is very scanty. Villages along
the main road to Taunggyi are few and far between; and in
some places it is difficult to obtain supplies of rice.
remedy for this paucity of inhabitants, colonies of "natives
of India" have been proposed, and are being tried in some
places. The Indians mix readily with the Burmese, but the
result, from a race point of view, has not so far been
successful. Chinese are much preferred as settlers, and.
attempts are to be made to promote immigration from.
Yunnan. But the climatic conditions are so different, as
I have repeatedly shown, that such schemes are doomed
beforehand to failure-even had Yunnan any surplus popu-i
lation to spare. The Shans have considerably increased in
numbers under British rule, so that the question may
eventually solve itself.

24
44
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
He
At Pang Pak-saw, just beyond Takaw, I met a young
German who was travelling around the world on foot.
seemed pretty tired of his undertaking, and uncertain of his
route. I was able to set him in the direction of Szemao and
Mengtsz, both of which places he ultimately reached safely.
Across the Shan States he travelled with the Dak-
runners (letter couriers), sharing their food by day and their
camp at night. His journey, so he informed me, was the
result of a foolish bet.
The day following we reached the Namkham river, a
wide and extremely pretty affluent of the Salween. Crossing
by boat was, as usual, a tedious affair, and we stayed the night
on the right bank, close to the Shan town which gives the
river its name.
Here we celebrated Chinese New Year. I
searched amongst my stores, and found a bottle of
peppermint, which I gave to my servants, who had already
made preparations for a "wild debauch;" and to the
Mussulmans I made a present of some tinned beef. And then
was heard the "sound of revelry by night." About one
o'clock I was awakened by the Kengkham night-watch-the
local "Dogberry" with his men-who wanted to know the
reason for the disturbance. He seemed perfectly satisfied
with my explanation.
At noon next day we arrived at Hsaikao, where there
is a telegraph station, in charge of a clerk who is always
most hospitable to passing travellers. So as not to miss the
weekly market, I remained at Hsaikao all the following day;
and, besides replenishing my stock of fresh provisions, was
rewarded by a sight of the busy spectacle presented by the
hundreds of natives who flocked in from the surrounding
country.
From Hsaikao our road led across wide, grassy,
undulating plains, apparently perfect as a place of

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
25
residence, yet sparsely inhabited. At Ko-ut we forded the
San Tiao-ho, a junction of three streams. The animals
swam across; the baggage had to be transported by boat.
Hundreds of small parrots hereabouts enlivened the woods
with their colour and noise; and the big "Imperial" pigeon,
common to the district, makes a desirable addition to one's
restricted menu. After leaving Palip we passed a village
where they were preparing for a big "pwe," or festival, and
later in the morning we met some of the guests invited
-quite two hundred men and women of the Yang Xiet (Red
Yang) tribe, who are allied to the Lohei of the Chinese Shan
States (trans-Mekong). The women wore a kind of overall,
striped red and white, and with a V-shaped opening at the
neck. They had also gaiter rings, made of brass wire. I
detained some of the men, but found them very timid, and
not at all disposed to answer questions. An important
feature of their festivals is the dances. One of these
is a most vigorous performance, apparently representing
courtship. Twenty or thirty young men, singing a sort of
chant, prance around some half-a-dozen girls, who every now
and again turn sharply round, and evade the advances
made to them by threading their way to the other side
of the circle. Later, when they have become merrier
and more excited with wine, the young men perform
a religious dance, singing at the same time a chant
to the "Nat," or spirits of the village. The Shan
"Nat" seems to be the equivalent of the Chinese
"kwei" (disembodied spirits), or the gods of the Greek
mythology. All the "Nats" have histories, relating their
lives (not always estimable) as human beings, and their
metamorphosis at death into powerful sprites, capable, if
not mollified by worships and offerings, of inflicting great
injuries on the inmates of a village. One of the generally

26
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
recognised Nats, as distinct from the purely local spirit
is the Min Chiao-sua, who in his lifetime was a King's
Minister, married to Ma Bo-mè, a village wine-seller. For
a time the two lived happily together, but Chiao-sua
became too fond of his wife's liquor, and spent his spare
time in riotous living. He was eventually murdered by his
brother, and became a Nat [why?]. At the festival in his
honour the dancers come forward, dressed in red, and sing
a chant of which the following is a close translation:-
"Here am I come, Min Chiao-sua, the dearly loved
"husband of Ma Bo-mè, of Popa village, clad in a
"red garment. I who drank deep of strong drink, and
"loved fireworks and cock-fighting. I was the youngest
"of four brothers, who long and faithfully served
"the monarch of Pagan. Daily I went from place to
"place, to gratify my foibles, with my fighting cock
"hidden in my arms and my money concealed from
"the wife of my bosom. Many a main did we fight under
"shade of the peepul tree, and many a time did I reel
"along the streets, to be picked up by the pretty little
"maids from the gutter. But my jealous brother killed me,
"and I became a Nat."
Then the music strikes up, and the dance commences!
This digression from my narrative need not be lengthened
by any discussion as to the ethics of this spirit worship, which
is common to all the tribes of the Shan States and Yuunan.
The fact of its existence is sufficiently curious.
Continuing on our way we struck a small yellow lake,
with a spring of fresh water, about noon, and camped there
for our mid-day meal. During the afternoon we met two
large caravans on their way to Kengtung with foreign
sundries. Next day we crossed a steep range of hills, and
descended into the plain of Meng Pawn, an important Shan

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
.27
centre. From there an excellent cart-road leads to the next
stage, Hopong. But my muleteers preferred to get into the
hills again-there being a shorter road via Ko-tsz T'ung, or
the pigeon caves-where we stopped for tiffin. Trader Ho
and his party, who had been with us so long, there took leave
of us, going off by a road leading to Moné. At Hopong that
evening I met Mr. Hildebrand, the Chief Commissioner and
Superintendent of the Southern Shan States, who had been
visiting some native chiefs. He invited me to be his guest
during my stay, and I accompanied him next morning into
Taunggyi.
Taunggyi (pronounced Town-gee) was selected by Mr.
Hildebrand about twelve years ago as the political capital
of the Southern Shan States. Under his fostering care it
has become a large and thriving town, and will in time be
the principal hill station of Burma. The plain of Taunggyi
is most favourably situated, 4,600 feet above sea-level, and
sheltered on all sides by mountains running up to 6,000 feet.
Fruit and flowers of every description grow readily in the
Government Experimental Farm of forty acres, and there
I saw strawberries actually rotting because there was
nobody to eat them. Pears and apples have been grafted
on to native stock with success, and potatoes grow with very
little trouble.
[N.B. The same description might be applied to
nearly all the high-lying plains of Yunnan, which Taunggyi
resembles both in situation and climate.]
The Superintendent of the Southern Shan States controls
a very large territory. All the chieftains of the numerous
states, large and small, including the Sawbwa of Kengtung,
are under his jurisdiction, and in some cases the reins are
more firmly held than in others. A school for the education
of the sons of native chiefs has been established at Taunggyi,

28
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
and there are now more than eighty scholars undergoing
tuition there.
Mr. Hildebrand retired to England shortly after my
visit, and was succeeded by Sir George Scott, who was in
charge of the Burma-Yunnan Frontier Commission of 1899-
1900. Sir George is an able man, well known for his works
on Burma, written formerly under the nom-de-plume of
"Shwe Yo." He knows something of Chinese, too, having
studied the language for a time at Peking.
A railway from Rangoon to Taunggyi is being
advocated, and if built might easily be carried on to the
Salween. This would bring the Shan States, both British
and Chinese, within easy reach of Rangoon, and would
undoubtedly augment the trade with South-West Yunnan.
In the busy market at Taunggyi I met some of the
natives of the district, known as Taungyo and Taungthu.
The birth and burial customs of these tribes are borrowed
from the Burmese, but some of their other customs are rather
quaint. Love-making must not be carried on by stealth,
though the correct time is after dark. The young man comes
to the house, where the object of his affection lives, playing
on a flute. This is more to let the old folks know that a
suitor has come for their daughter than for the more
romantic purpose of serenading the damsel. Knowledge of
music is not required, and the tune is a matter of indifference
so long as there is an obvious tootling. Having thus an-
nounced his arrival, the young man can open the door and
walk in. When he has satisfactorily settled the matter with
the girl, the youth goes one morning to her parents, taking
with him a few presents, varying from a bunch of bananas to
a buffalo, and says he wishes to marry their daughter. If the
parents approve they simply tell him to take her
As
the happy pair go to their future home, they are stopped on
away.

FROM SZEMAO TO BANGOON.
29
the way by his bachelor friends, who demand payment before
they will remove a cord which they hold across the path. In
some parts of Yunnan the natives have a similar custom.
At Taunggyi I paid off my Shan cook, and employed in
his stead an old Afghan, who spoke English and Burmese.
He told me he had been in the Army, and by his papers
proved that he was a baker in Lord Roberts' famous
Kandahar Field Force. On the 21st February I left
Taunggyi, and turning south made for Fort Stedman,
about 20 miles away. The Chinese name for Fort Stedman
is Meng So; the Burmese call it Myne Thaok. It is situated
on the eastern shore of Lake Yanghwe, a broad but shallow
expanse of fresh water more than 1,000 feet below the
level of the Taunggyi plain. Proximity to water seems to
have been the principal reason for choosing Fort Stedman
as a big military camp. The place is shut in by hills,
and is most unhealthy. Steps are now being taken to
remove the whole camp up to the Taunggyi plain.
I stayed the Sunday at Fort Stedman, and was most
hospitably entertained by the officers of the 2nd Burma
Regiment. I had already sent my caravan on by road
around the lake, and on the 24th I crossed by boat to
Kongdine, where I overtook them. The shores and islands
of Lake Yanghwe are inhabited by the Inthas, a hybrid
tribe of Burmese origin. Their houses are built on piles
over the water, sometimes as much as half-a-mile from the
shores and all communication is by water in small dug-outs.
Their method of paddling is absolutely unique. Standing on
the gunwale of the boat, they balance themselves on one leg,
and twisting the other round the long paddle, force the
blade back through the water. In this way they send the
boat along at a great speed. The name "Intha means
"Sons of the Lake," and the legend they relate to explain

30
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
how they first came to settle in that spot sounds, with its
reference to lovely princesses and flying ships, like a tale
from the "Arabian Nights Entertainments."
The legendary tales of the Burmese and Shans refer
frequently to the eating of human bodies to obtain
magical powers, extraordinary strength or the ability to
fly in the air. I was told of an actual instance of this belief
that occurred in the Shan States as recently as 1888. A
captured dacoit chief was condemned to death, and was shot
and buried by his sepoy guard. He had been a "pongyi"
(priest) he had a great name as a sorcerer, and he was
elaborately tattooed. The nearest Shan Sawbwa dug up the
corpse, and boiled down the head and other portions of
the body into a potent decoction. He was with difficulty
dissuaded from sending a small phial of this for the
consumption of the Chief Commissioner! A similar super-
stition prevails in Yunnan, where a tiger's heart is sought
after and eaten for the courage it is supposed to impart.
We climbed the hills above Kongdine, and made our
way to the Shan village of Kan Pan-di, where we stayed'
the night. Away to our right, across the plain, we could
see long strings of bullock carts wending their way along
the main road to Taunggyi. We struck this big road about
two miles from Kalow, the morning after leaving Fort
Stedman, and stopped for lunch by the side of a spring
of clear water that bubbles from beneath a rock, and near
to a fine pagoda, the entrance to which is guarded by two
huge lions of white stone. Afterwards I went on alone along
the fine, metalled road, but had to wait a long time before
being rejoined by my caravan. The head muleteer's dog
had chased and bitten some young kids at Kalow, and his
master was obliged to compensate the owner, hence the
delay. We made up for lost time by following the old

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
31
hill road, which cuts straight across country, leaving the
cart road winding around below us. The country was hilly
and densely wooded, and our way led for some distance
above deep gorges, where the scenery was magnificent.
Nature herself has clearly marked the division between the
Shan States and the plains of Burma, which we were now
fast approaching. Next day, in fact, we finally left the
hills behind us, and from Weppiu descended by a short cut
to Nam Pan-det. In some places the path we followed
down the course of a mountain stream, was extremely
steep, but it shortened our journey by about 14 li.
From Nam Pan-det the road is level the whole way,
but travelling was unpleasant because of the heat and dust.
It was my intention to have rested half-a-day at the next
place, Yamabin; but my caravan followed a smaller road
through the woods, and went on to Thlaingdet. In
endeavouring to catch them up I lost myself, and spent
the whole afternoon wandering about the dusty, leafless
woods. Eventually I found the main road, and arrived late
in the evening at Thlaingdet, thoroughly tired out after my
unpleasant experience.
Starting early next morning, we made our way into.
Thasi, and caught our first glimpse of the Rangoon-Mandalay
railway. The road was encumbered with bullock carts, on
their way to and from the Shan States.
Thasi is a growing, busy little place, important as the
junction of the branch line to Meiktila, besides being the
terminus of the main road to Taunggyi. It is sadly in
need of a hotel, the only shelter for travellers at present
being the refreshment rooms at the station. I paid off
my caravan at Thasi. We had taken 48 days to come from
Szemao, and we accomplished the journey without mishap
of any kind. In spite of the different altitudes traversed,

32
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
we had no sickness worth meantioning en route; and I was
rather sorry to part from my travelling companions, both
men and beasts. I kept with me for a time my coolie, who
had worked willingly during the whole trip; and with him
and my Afghan servant I took the night mail down to
Rangoon, arriving there on the morning of the 2nd March.
I stayed two or three days at Rangoon, where I had
the pleasure of meeting the Governor, Sir Frederic, and
Lady Fryer. They took great interest in the account I
was able to give them of my journey. Then, wishing to
see little more of Burma, I travelled by train a two-and-
a-half days' journey up to the northern terminus, Myitkina
(pronounced Me Che-na), a town on the Irrawaddy, some
distance above Bhamo, and not far from the Yunnan frontier.
Through the courtesy of Sir Frederic Fryer, who telegraphed
up and had a launch placed at my disposal, I was enabled
to descend in comfort from Myitkina down through the
upper gorges of the Irrawaddy, which are really magnificent,
and well repaid me for my long railway journey. We
stopped in the evening at Sinbo, just above the first defile.
A water gauge, running up from the river to the top of the
bank, there shows the rise of the river during the rains to
be sometimes as much as 90 feet, the defile below being so
narrow that the water is unable to force its way through.
Next morning we steamed down through the narrow gorges
and arrived about noon at Bhamo.
Bhamo is an important frontier town and military
station. It is the port of Tengyueh and West Yunnan, and
the terminus of the Irrawaddy Flotilla Company's steamers.
There is, naturally, a big Chinese population at Bhamo,
and the opening of Tengyueh is sure to give an impetus
to trade across the frontier. At Bhamo I had the good
fortune to meet Mr. Warry, the Adviser on Chinese Affairs

12264
20
18
22
24
Gwa o
94 E. of Greenwich.
AM
+-+--
96
Myitkina
S
Nabu
Katha
Sinbo
Irrawaddy River
Bhamo
Chindwin River
98
100
Tengyüeh
Yungch'ang
Salween River
Shunning Fun
Y
U
Tsan penago
Kyaukmong
Shwebo
Kunlung
Ferry/
Lashio
Wild Wa
Country
c
Chenpien
Mengleni
Northern Shan States
Mandalay
Maymyc (Hill Station and
Sanatorium)
B
U
Amarapura
R
M
Pagham
Meiktila
Taunggyi
Meng PawnHsaikao
Thazi
Kalow
Lake Yanghwe
Fort Stedman
Yamethin
Yenang Young
Patenago
Irrawaddy River
Thyetmyo
Prome
Toungoo
N
Mekong River
102
Tali
To Yunnan Fu
4
N
Red River
To Mengtsz
Yuan Chiang
Talang
APu Erh-fu
24
Ta Ya-k'qu
Lungtang
Chen Le-pa
Szemao
o Menglieh
Puteng
Hsintu-k'ou
Muonghou
Chinese Shan State's
I Rang
Menghai
Mengyang Iwu
B
Kenghung
Menghun
-
Tale
Kengtung
Hsien Menge
Meng Ping
Takaw Ferry
Kengkham
Shan
States
Southern
o Moné
Salween River
Chiengmai
To Bangkok
S
French Laos
A
M
Mekong River
Luang Prabang
20
Baggein
16
Mouths of the Irrawaddy
To Calcutta
94
Pegu
Rangoon
Gulf of Martaban
96
Martaban
Moulmein
MAP
Illustrating Mr. F. W. CAREY'S
"Notes of a Journey overland
FROM
Szemao to Rangoon."
Road followed as described.
Routes previously traversed.
Other trade routes.
Railways
completed.
16
98
100
102
18
22

FROM SZEMAO. TO RANGOON.
to the Indian Government.
We
33
dined together and
discussed many interesting questions; and when I left he
kindly promised to look after my coolie until a favourable
opportunity should occur to send him back to his home in
Yunnan.
From Bhamo I travelled down the Irrawaddy in luxury,
on board one of the fine river steamers, to Mandalay, the
trip being most enjoyable and interesting. All the steamers
anchor at night, usually at some station where one can run
shore and visit the quaint Burmese pagodas that seem to
ine the banks almost the whole way down. Amongst the
most interesting sights, too, were the huge rafts of teak that
we passed floating slowly down the river on their way to
Rangoon.
At Mandalay I stayed several days as the guest of
the Upper Burma Club, who occupy by special permission
a portion of King Theebaw's Palace. Very few alterations
have been made in the rooms since that memorable day
when Theebaw and his cruel Queen, Supayalat, left them
for their place of exile in India; and wandering through
the deserted rooms it required no great stretch of the
imagination to picture the scenes of bloodshed and cruelty
that immediately preceded the annexation of Upper Burma
in 1884 and led to Theebaw's downfall.
The population of Mandalay includes 40,000 Chinese,
many of whom are the descendants of Yunnanese, who
settled down there years ago and married Burmese wives.
Continuing my journey down the river, I eventually
arrived at Prome, where I landed and took the night
train to Rangoon, having been advised to avoid the less.
interesting voyage on the lower part of the Irrawaddy.
From Rangoon there is an excellent line of steamers
to London, and the rates are moderate. My own choice,
3

.34
NOTES OF A JOURNEY OVERLAND
however, was the Overland Route across India; and so,
on the 17th March, I bade a final adieu to the lovely
"Golden Pagoda" of Rangoon, and, with a thousand
regrets at having to quit a country where everyone had
treated me so kindly, went on my way towards Calcutta.
STAGES AND DISTANCES FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
[A star indicates places where we actually camped at night.]
SZEMAO TO KENGTUNG.
1º.
Szemao to Man Hsi-pa*
Man Hsi-pa to Putêng'
Putêng to Ching Tung-chai *
Ching Tung-chai to Ta T'u-k'ang
Ta Tu-k'ang to Pan Kuo-ching (no village) '
Pan Kuo-ching to Hsiao Mêng-yang*
Hsiao Mêng-yang to Ferry on the Mekong
Mekong Ferry to Khat Lang-kai *
Khat Lang-kai to Ka Sai-kai
Ka Sai-kai to Man Piet*
Man Piet to Hei Lung-tang (no village) *
Hei Lung-tang to Mêng Hun plain
Mêng Hun plain to camp on 22nd January (no village)
Camp to Mừng Pan
"
Mêng Pan to camp on 23rd January (no village) *
Camp to Talo village
Talo village to Frontier
Frontier to Man Hok*
Man Hok to the Namloi River *
30 li.
75
65
"
35
65
55
7
30
5
50
55
53
"
32
30 "
25
Namloi River to Van Sa (in Kengtung plain) :
Van Sa to Kengtung town *
...
Total, Szemao to Kengtung
843 li.
2°. KENGTUNG TO THE SALWEEN.
Kentung to Pang Sang *
Pang Sang to Nan Lêng
Nan Lêng to Mêng Pi*
Mêng Pi to Tung Ta
Tung Ta to Nêng Hsio*
Nêng Hsio to Pang Ping
Pang Ping to Pang Tung
Pang Tung to Mêng Ping *
Mêng Ping to Pang Ki (native rest-house)
Pang Ki to New Rest-house on summit of hill 1
New Rest-house to Naw Ma-malé
83222222
30 li.
30
"
30
25
26
31
12
24
Naw Ma-malé to Hsien Mêng *
40
Hsien Mêng to Hwe Hêng
30
Hwe Hêng to Takaw Ferry on the Salween *
25
Total, Kengtung to the Salween ... 375 li.

FROM SZEMAO TO RANGOON.
3°. THE SALWEEN TO TAUNGGYI.
Takaw Ferry to Pang Pak-hsaw
Pang Pak-hsaw to Hoko (a deserted village)'
Hoko to Man Tung
Man Tung to Keng Kham (Namkham River)
Keng Kham to Hsaikao (Telegraph station)"
Hsaikao to Nan Niung
Nan Niung to Ko-ut'
Ko-ut to Neng Yu
Nêng Yu to Palip
Palip to Wan Ping*
Wan Ping to Ming Pawn *
38 li.
S
16
34
30
18
45
40
30
62
"
44
21
35
دو
45 23
40
35
Mêng Pawn to Ko-tsz T'ung
Ko-tsz T'ung to Hopong*
Hopong to Taunggyi'
Total, the Salween to Taunggyi... 485 li.
4. TAUNGGYI TO RANGOON.
Note. Following is itinerary of main road. I went to Fort Stedman, and
rejoined this road at Kalow.
Taunggyi to Sin He
Sin He to He Ho....
He Ho to Thamakan
Thamakan to Kalow
Kalow to Weppiu*
Weppiu to Nam Pan-det
Nam Pan-det to Pien Yaoung
Pien Yaoung to Yamabin
Yamabin to Thlaingdet*
Thlaingdet to Thasi
30 li.
37
"
38
34 "
32
27
27
32
22
34
35 "
26
Total, Taunggyi to Thasi... 324 li.
TOTAL, SZEMAO TO THASI, 2,027 li.
Thasi to Rangoon, 15 hours by Mail train.