The Jewish Monument at Kaifungfu.
By W. A. P. Martin, D.D., LL.D.
China surpasses all nations in the number if not the
antiquity of her stone monuments. Yet even among the
most ancient there are not many that interest a foreign
student, because they have little or nothing to add to her
historical records, which are so copious and in general so
reliable.
There are two, however, that form a notable exception
in both aspects, viz. the Nestorian Tablet at Singan and
the Jewish Tablet at Kaifung. The first records the earliest
attempt to propagate the Christian Faith in this Empire;
the other commemorates not a propaganda but the fortunes
of a colony professing an ancient faith to which all the
churches of Christendom owe their origin. Not only does
this fact appeal to our sympathies, our interest is intensified
by the circumstance that native historians make little or
no reference either to the Nestorian Mission or to the Jewish
colony.
The existence of a company of Chinese Jews at the
ancient capital in Honan was made known in a curious
way to Ricci and his colleagues, who were the first Christian
missionaries to establish themselves in Peking. A Chinese
of official rank introduced himself as belonging to their
faith, but it soon became apparent that there were only
1

2
THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
two points of likeness-he believed in one God and he was
not a Mahommedan. Yet of Jesus Christ he had never heard!
From that day the Jesuit missionaries began to make
enquiry concerning the colony, and they put themselves in
communication with these Jews in the hope of winning
them over to the Christian creed. That hope has not been
realised; yet the interest awakened three centuries ago in the
bosom of those disciples of Loyola has not altogether
died out from among their successors of the present day.
For is it not to Père Tobar of the Jesuit Mission at Ziccawei
that we are indebted for the most recent as well as the most
complete collection of documents relating to that lonely
colony? I advise all who seek for ample and accurate
information on this subject to consult his painstaking
brochure Les Inscriptions Juives de Kaifongfou,-published
in 1900.
The researches of Protestant missionaries in that direction
began in 1849. At the instance of the London Society
for Promoting Christianity among the Jews, a deputation
consisting of two native Christians was despatched to
Kaifungfu by Bishop Smith and Dr. Medhurst. Several
Hebrew MSS. were obtained, and a full report of their
expedition was translated from their journals by Dr. Edkins
and given to the world with a valuable preface by Bishop
Smith. The messengers also brought back copies of this
monument, together with sundry minor inscriptions, all of
which were translated by Dr. Edkins and comprised in
a little volume.
Among the discussions to which this report gave ri
one of the most striking was a paper by Mr. Alex. Wyl.
in which he attempted to show that a religion caled
hien kiao, and described in Chinese books
as existing in many parts of the Empire, was Ju

THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
3
Mr. Deveria has, however, according to Père Tobar, proved
conclusively that by hien kiao the Chinese meant Manichæans
or Persian fire-worshippers.
It remains a mystery why a community that had a
large and conspicuous place of worship sanctioned by the
Throne were so completely ignored by native writers. Père
Tobar affirms that not even the most distant allusion to them
is to be found in two typographical works which give an
account of the temples and mosques of this city. The only
certain reference to them hitherto discovered is in a book
"Against Corrupt Doctrines," quoted by R. P. Havret and
cited by Père Tobar.
The author offers the information (or is it conjecture?)
that the Nestorian Tablet was fabricated by the Jews of
Kaifung in collusion with those of Singan, and buried it
in the earth in order that after being exhumed it might claim
the credit of a venerable antiquity. From this specimen of
antiquarian research what are we to think of the intelligence
and opinions of writers of his class? Is it not obvious
that the Jews were not overlooked, but studiously ignored
as if by conspiracy of silence? Such a glaring omission
goes far to shake our confidence in the good faith of
Chinese historians generally. In fact, it is only where
there is no motive for perversion that we can venture to
take their statements at their face value.
In reading over the new tract, Sur les Inscriptions
Juives, I find no evidence of any direct intercourse between
the early Missionaries and those Jews. They were not free
any time to circulate through the interior, as we are now,
there is room to suppose that in their communications
they made use of native agents, just as did Smith and
Medhurst, and for the same reasons. If this surmise be well
nd it confers on me a distinction to which, until this

4
THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
hour, I never aspired, viz. that of being the first foreigner,
not merely of recent times but absolutely the first without
exception, to visit those exiles and to witness their deplorable
condition.
Early in 1866 I set out from Peking with the intention of
crossing the Hwangho at Kaifung, and, after inquiring into
the state of the Jews, to strike the great River at Hankow.
The first part of this journey I was happily permitted to carry
into execution, but the continuation of my voyage through
Honan and Hupei was defeated by the occurrence of troubles
in the interior which made it impossible to obtain means of
transport. After passing through Shantung, and making a
pious pilgrimage to the tomb of Confucius, gaining the honors
of a hadji, I accordingly proceeded to Shanghai by way
the Grand Canal.
of
The whole journey lay over comparatively untrodden
ground, everything was novel, and I made use of more
vehicles than the "four" employed by Yu the Great, viz the
feet of a biped and those of a quadruped; the wheels of a
monocycle and a bicycle (wheelbarrow and cart); sedan,
sailboat and steamer. But I have given the narrative in my
Hanlin Papers and in my Cycle of Cathay, and I do not
propose to give a repetition of the details.
Well do I recall the sad impression made on my mind
by the aspect of a vacant lot, with nothing but a stone to
mark the spot where a synagogue of the "Pure and the
True" had once stood. My presence attracted a promiscuous
crowd, some of whom professed themselves descendants of
Abraham. Their claim, I fancied, was confirmed by their
features, although through mixture with the people of the
land their complexion had become as yellow as that of any
other dwellers on the banks of the Yellow River. The
earliest settlers must have taken Chinese wives, as on the

THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
monument there is no reference to the coming of Jewish
women.
Standing on the site of their demolished temple, I was
surrounded by members of most of their seven families, and
resting my hand on the gravestone of a buried Faith I spoke
to them of Him who was born King of the Jews, who is now
the spirit and King of the greatest nations of the earth, of
whom a prophet declared at His birth that He would be a
light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of His people
Israel.
No language can exaggerate the decadence in which I
found them. Their demolished house was a sad symbol of
the congregation. They confessed with shame that, having
become a ruin, it was torn down by their own hands. They
had sold its stones and timbers to save themselves from
perishing of hunger. All knowledge of the sacred tongue
had been lost; and though they still possessed a few copies
of the Law written on sheepskins or goatskins, they
only waited for purchasers, and I secured two of them.
A Mahommedan mufti, by whom I was politely received,
denounced them as kafirs (unbelievers) and said that while
some had come over to the Prophet of Mecca others had
become Buddhists, and one of them had risen to the dignity
of the Buddhist priesthood. Alas! That fragment torn from
Mount Zion and projected into the plain of central China,
after standing there and pointing Heavenward for so many
centuries, was on the eve of being engulfed in the ocean of
error!
Its testimony has not been altogether lost, but if it is not
become a thing of the past, if the golden candlesticks are ever
again to give light, the first essential is to rebuild the temple.
What would have become of the Jews who returned from
Babylon if they had not rebuilt the sanctuary in Jerusalem ?

6
THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
Not only was it a rallying centre to their tribes, it became a
light to the whole world, fulfilling that wonderful prediction
that the glory of this latter house shall be greater than that
of Solomon's Temple. Arriving in Shanghai, I urged this
plea on the rich Jews of that Settlement, and they were not
backward to ask questions, but not one of them came forward
to lend a helping hand. Two or three of these poor fellows
were indeed invited to Shanghai to take lessons in Hebrew;
but that was like giving a company of shipwrecked people
lessons in navigation, instead of providing them with a ship
to continue their voyage!
my
The year after visit Herr Liebermoun, an enterprising
Jewish traveller, made his way to Kaifung, but, ignorant of
the Chinese language, he was not able to learn anything of
consequence. Two or three years later (I believe in 1870)
those poor Israelites were visited by another foreigner, the
Rev. Dr. Schereschewsky (now Bishop). His mission was
expressly to try to gather in the wandering sheep, to say to
them "we have found the Messiah of whom Moses and the
Prophets spake." He was not allowed time to deliver his
message, but summarily expelled by an angry crowd, set on,
no doubt, by suspicious mandarins.
In the Spring of the present year (1904) they were
honored by the attention of another distinguished visitor,
Professor Jenks of the U.S. Monetary Commission. Though
called to aid the Chinese Government in wrestling with the
perplexing problems of a disordered currency, his thoughts
were not confined to gold and silver. Besides enquiring into
the condition of the Jews and procuring rubbings of their
solitary monument, he left the Rev. G. D. Wilder, who had
acted as his interpreter, at Kaifung to make further enquiries.
Two of these rubbings he presented to me, and afterwards
sent me a letter of Mr. Wilder's, from which I shall make a

THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
7
few extracts. Every line reveals a deepening shadow settling
over the heads of that doomed colony. Desperate as their
condition appeared to me in 1866, their circumstances have
certainly not improved in the nine and thirty years since
elapsed. The only spark of hope remaining is the fact that a
chapel has been opened in Kaifung by the China Inland
Mission, where some of these castaways may find a door
of refuge. Mr. Wilder conducted a religious service in
that chapel more than once during his stay. He says:
"Five or six Jews came in one evening. They seemed very
much at home in the chapel, but devoid of any religious
interest. They all have idols, but declared that some of the
Jews had none on enquiry it appeared that these latter were
only such as were too poor to have anything more than
food and clothing."
"
Many names have been erased from the tablet, and
Mr. Wilder throws a curious light on the cause of it. "A
foreigner," he says, came to Kaifung in 1870, and was
well entertained at a good restaurant; but the next day
the gentry proceeded to smash all the furniture, dishes,
etc., and presumably the foreigner was driven out. Was it
Schereschewsky? Whoever it was, the Jews were scared and
several families scratched their names from the tablet."
"Ai
(one of the Jews) says that forty years ago his family had a
parchment scroll that hung from the ceiling to the floor,
covered with curious letters in gold. They scraped off the
gilt and made the skin into coats and trousers."
Rev. Mr. Bevis of the C.I.M. sent me a manuscript
copy of the Monument in January last (1904), and I made a
translation of it, at his request, in idiomatic English, without
the insertion of numerous parentheses and Chinese characters
such as render most translations unreadable. Receiving the
rubbings shortly after, I collated the copies and rectified

8
THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
errors of transcription. Precious as they are, these documents
set forth the ancient Faith in a very diluted form, openly
asserting its identity with Confucianism, and borrowing largely
the phraseology of Taoism. Yet those Jews who clung to the
faith of their fathers with such tenacity appear to have felt
that it was something higher than an ordinary school of
philosophy. Says one of the inscriptions, in words to which
we can cordially assent, "Alas! people only know of the
Temple of the Pure and True as a place of worship in honor
of a doctrine; but they do not know that this doctrine had its
great source in Heaven! Is it merely for our own worldy
advantage that we thus honor our Religion?"
Reiterating the wish that some benevolent person or
association, Jew or Christian, may be induced, even at this
late hour, to come to the rescue, rebuild the synagogue, and
gather their children into schools, I leave the Monument to
speak for itself.

THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
9
NOTE TO ACCOMPANY TRANSLATION.
The two inscriptions are engraved on opposite sides of
one stone. The oldest is dated in the 3rd year of Hung Chi
(1485) and records a rebuilding of the synagogue. The other
is only twenty-three years later (1512) and commemorates
the erection of a special building to serve as a depository of
the sacred books.
Along with much useless repetition, and some personal
items of no interest to us, they both contain a precious record
of the Faith, practice and history of those wandering Israelites.
The restoration on this occasion was not the first of the
kind, as the edifice appears to have been rebuilt or repaired
more than once. Its materials were perishable, and its site on
the banks of an unruly stream exposed it to peculiar dangers,
not to speak of risks which in common with all Chinese
temples it had to encounter from war and rebellion.
Some of the dates seem to betray a hazy conception of
the early history of their forefathers, e.g. they make no
reference to the sojourn in Egypt, and in the comparatively
short interval which they make between Abraham and Moses
they do not allow time for it. Again, they place the birth of
Abraham in the "146th year of the Chow dynasty." This,
says Dr. Edkins, would coincide with the reign of Rehoboam,
and he finds an ingenious solution of the difficulty in supposing
that the writer intended the 146th year of the State of Chow,
founded by Howtsieh about B.C. 2254.
2

10
THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
JEWISH MONUMENT INSCRIPTION I.
[Translation.]
To Record the Rebuilding of the Temple of the
Pure and True.
The founder of the religion of Israel was Abraham, the
19th generation from Adam or Panku. Thus from the
beginning of Heaven and Earth, sages have handed it down.
It moulds no image, offers no flattery to gods or devils,
puts no faith in magical practices. In fact, gods and devils
bring no help, images no protection, magic no benefit.
We think of Heaven as something light and pure above
our heads, the most august without a rival. Heaven does
not speak in words. The four seasons run their course, and
all things come to life. Seeing how grain grows in spring,
ripens in summer, is gathered in autumn, and stored for
winter; how birds, fishes, worms and plants bloom and fade,
open and fall; each propagating its kind :-our founder
awoke to a conception of this sublime mystery, and sought
for a right religion, which should coöperate with the True
Heaven; in singleness of heart seeking Heaven with
reverence and sole devotion. Such is the origin of the
Religion set up by Abraham and transmitted to the present
day. We find that Abraham lived in the 146th year of
the Chow Dynasty.
Again in the 613th year of the Chow Dynasty, it was
transmitted to Moses, Patriarch of the True Religion. Moses
was born with a knowing and profound mind, in which

THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
11
mercy and justice were complete, truth and virtue combined.
Seeking for the Scriptures on the top of Mount Sinai, he
fasted forty days and nights, expelled bodily appetites, forgot
food and drink, praying with a sincere mind, and his devout
soul was in communion with the heart of Heaven. The
Right Scriptures in one volume contain fifty-three books;
and they all have an authentic origin. In them are things
most mysterious, most wonderful. Examples of good to
move men's good feelings, and examples of bad to show
the punishment of evil passions.
Another stage brought the tradition down to Ezra, a
Patriarch of the right law. The institutions coming from
this patriarch are in linked succession; and this way of
honoring Heaven by ritual worship is sufficient to explain
the mysteries of our ancestral doctrine. That doctrine
certainly has its root in a pure and true ritual worship. The
pure is single without any second; the true is right without
any wrong; rites express reverence, and worship is bowing
down in humble attitude.
In our daily conduct we ought not for a moment to
forget Heaven; yet to worship morning, noon and night,-
three times a day is the true rule of our Heavenly Doctrine.
What preparation is required for this worship? The first
thing is a bath, and a change of raiment; the heart must be
pure, and the senses not distracted; then we respectfully
enter the presence of the Scriptures.
The Heavenly Tao (principle) is without form, yet it
seems to be above us. Let us give an outline of the reverent
worship of Heaven. First we bend the body in reverence
to the Tao,-Tao is in that act. Secondly, we stand in the
centre without inclining to either side,-Tao is in that
position. We are still and meditate in silence, paying honor
to Tao, without forgetting Heaven. In every movement

12
THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
we seek for and praise aloud that Heaven which suffers not
the Tao to fall. We go back three steps to reverence the
Tao that is behind; then advance five steps to honor the Tao
in front of us: bending to the left to honor the Tao as a good
Tao on the left hand, and to the right to honor Tao. Though
the right is held to be unlucky, Tao is on the right hand. We
look up and honor the Tao that is on high; we look down
and honor the Tao that is near us. Finally we bow down
and worship the Tao,-honor is in the act of worship. To
honor Heaven and not to respect your ancestors is not to
honor Heaven. In spring and autumn we make offerings
to our ancestors, serving the dead as we serve the living.
We make offerings only of beef and mutton, with fruits of
the season. We do not because they have passed away cease
to honor our ancestors. In every month there are four days
for fasting. Fasting is the gate of Tao (truth), the basis
on which to store up merit. By storing a good act to-day
and a good act to-morrow, merit is treasured up, taking care
to shun all sorts of evil, and to perform all sorts of good
actions. Seven days of good conduct coming to an end,
they turn about and begin again. This is what the Yih King
(Book of Changes) speaks of when it says, "the happy man
does good and finds the day too short." In each of the
four seasons we spend seven days in abstinence in memory
of the sufferings of our ancestors. Making offerings to
ancestors we recompense the authors of our being, we abstain
from food and drink for one day. In calling on Heaven
we repent of the sins of the past, and apply ourselves to
the new duties of to-day. This is what the Holy Sage meant
in the Book of Changes under the diagram of Benefit ()
by saying that "wind and thunder are a benefit to the
superior man; seeing the good he adopts it; and if he
has faults he corrects them." Thus have our moral teachings

THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
13
come down to us with no uncertain tradition. They came
from India with Li, Ai, Kao, Chao, Chin, Shih, Chang, etc.-
seventy Commissioners who were sent by authority to
being a tribute of Western cotton cloth to the Emperor of
Sung. He said "You may come to our Empire and still
observe the customs of your forefathers," and he retained
them (the Commissioners) in Pien-liang (Kai-fung).
In the year of Kuei Wei the first of Lung-hsing in the
reign of the Sung Emperor Hsiao (1163) the Wussuta,
Rabbi Levi, took charge of the religion, and An-tu-la
(a prefect) first built a temple. In the 16th year of
Chih-yüan of the Yüan (or Mongol) Dynasty that ancient
temple was rebuilt by the Wussuta-rabbis. It was called
Ch'ing Chen Ssu, the Temple of the Pure and True, and was
situated in the S.E. Corner of the T'u-tzu Market Street,
with a circumference of three hundred and fifty feet.
Coming to the great Ming Dynasty, the founder (Hung Wu)
conciliated all under Heaven by bestowing on soldiers and
people who submitted to him plots of ground and villages,
where they might dwell in peace and enjoy the fruit of their
labors. Truly he had a heart of impartial kindness.
It was
then felt that the temple should not be without the observance
of a ritual. Accordingly Li Ch'êng, Li Shih, An-p'ing-t'u,
Ai Tuan, Li Kuei, Li Chieh, Li Shêng, Li Kang, Ai Ching,
Chou An, Li Jung, Li Liang, Li Chih, Chang Hao, noted
for knowledge of our text books, were employed to exhort
men to virtue, and bore the title of Moula. Their mode of
teaching has been handed down to the present. In dress and
social courtesy they conformed to the time, while in speech
and act they followed the teaching of the ancients. Every
man kept the law, and knew how to honor Heaven and
show respect to ancestors, to render homage to rulers and
piety to parents, all this was due to their teaching. In the

14
THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
19th year of Jung Lo (1421) the physician An Ch'êng
received orders from Prince Ting of the Capital to offer
incense and to rebuild the Temple of the Pure and True;
in the middle there was placed an Imperial tablet of the
Ming Emperors,-may they reign ten thousand years!
In the 21st year of Jung Lo (1423), An Chêng being
recommended for merit had the name Chao conferred on
him by Imperial decree, and he was appointed to a command
in Cheh-kiang. In the 10th year of Chêng-t'ung (1495),
Li Jung and Li Liang at their own expense repaired three
divisions of the front temple. In the 5th year of T'ien Shun
(1461) the temple was overwhelmed by the River, and
nothing but a ruin was left on the ground. Ai Ching and
others on presenting a petition received through the prefect,
as before, permission from the Provincial Treasurer to rebuild
the ancient ruin of the year Chih-yuan, the temple of the
Pure and True. Li Jung collected funds and restored its
gilded ornaments, making it look as bright as if it were
new. In the reign of Cheng Hua (1465-1487) Kao Chien,
Kao Jui and Kao Shên contributed funds and added three
sections to the rear temple. They also renewed the gilding
and other ornaments, and deposited three copies of the
Scriptures. They further made a covered passage to connect
with the front temple; all being improvements of a
permanent character. Such is the history of the temple
front and rear. In the year of T'ien Shun (1461) Shih Pin,
Li Jung, Kao Chien and Chang Hsüan procured one copy
of the Scriptures of our religion from Ningpo. Chao Ying
also brought a copy and joined the temple at K'ai-fèng.
Kao Nien rose from a choice scholar to be magistrate of Hsi
in Huichou; Ai Chün from M.A. became sub-prefect of
Tê Fu. Chin Hsüan of Ninghsia had a grandfather who
filled a post of grandee in the Council of State, and his

THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
15
granduncle Shêng was commander of a thousand in the
Imperial guard.
Hsüan bought brass furnaces, bottles and candle-
sticks for the table of offerings; and his brother Ying, in
the 2nd year of Hung Chi (1489), contributed funds to buy
a plot of ground for the temple. Ying and Chung by the agency
of Chao Chün set up memorial stones. An-tu-la was first
to lay the foundations; Li Jung and Kao Jui superintended
the work to its completion. Others aided in restoring the
temple by contributing money to build a Scripture shrine,
a Scripture gallery, a Scripture table, a winding balustrade,
a table for offerings, curtains and such like furniture. They
also embellished its surroundings so as to make it an
ornament to that quarter of the city.
We reflect that each of the three religions has a temple
in honor of its founder. The Confucian has a "Hall of Great
Perfection" in honor of Confucius. The Buddhist has a
"Hall of the Holy Visage" in honor of Shakzamuni. The
Taoist has a "Hall of the Pearl Sovereigns" in honor of the
Three Precious Ones; and our Religion of the Pure and
True has a Hall of Israel in honor of the King of Heaven.
The Confucian and our own religion are in harmony
in all essentials, differing only on minor points. Their
leading motive is to honor Heaven and show respect to
ancestors, to show due regard to prince and minister, piety
to parents, kindness to wife and children, and in intercourse
with friends to give everyone place, high or low: in all
this not departing from the doctrine of the Five Relations.
Alas people only know of the Temple of the Pure
and True as a place of worship in honor of a doctrine;
but they do not know that this doctrine had its great source
in Heaven; being handed down from ancient times, it should
not be misunderstood. Is it merely for our own worldly

16
THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
advantage that we thus honor our Religion? Receiving
the honor of the the Throne, and serving the Throne we
do not fail in worship to ask Heaven to reward the sovereign
and the state-praying that the Emperors of the great Ming
Dynasty in virtue may surpass Yü and T'ang; in wisdom
may equal Yao and Shun; that their lustre may rival sun
and moon; while their clemency is vast as Heaven and
Earth. May the Throne last forever! may His Majesty live
ten thousand years! and the Empire stand unshaken as long
as Heaven and Earth! May Wind and Rain be favourable,
and all enjoy unbroken peace!
These prayers we engrave on this stone, to hand them
down for a long time to come.
Composed by Chin Chung, Hsiu-ts'ai of Kaifungfu.
Written by Ts'ao Tso, Hsiu-ts'ai of Hsiang-fu Hsien.
Title in antique head-lines written by Fu Ju, Hsiu-ts'ai
of Kaifungfu.
Descendants of the Pure and True have on a lucky
day in midsummer set up this stone.
Date 2nd year of Hung Chih (1489).
The Masons Wuliang and Wuhai did the work.

THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
17
INSCRIPTION II.
[Translation.]
To Record the Building of a Temple in
honor of the Book of Truth.
Composed by Tso T'ang, Doctor of Letters and Assistant
Treasurer.
Copied in red by Kao K'ao, Member of the Hanlin
Academy.
Antique head-lines written by Hsü Ang, Doctor of Letters.
Books are called the vehicle of Truth (Tao); but what is
Truth? It is the principle to which men in all ages have
looked for guidance of their daily life. Its higher manifesta-
tions are seen in the three relations and five virtues. While
such is its minuteness that nothing can escape its influence.
Tao pervades them all. Tao is not transmitted without books,
and books are ineffective without Tao. Were there no books
Tao would want a vehicle, and men would grope about not
knowing where to go, eventually losing themselves in darkness
and folly. The Tao of China's sages has been handed down
in the Six Classics, a guide to posterity for ten thousand
generations.
As to the Religion of the Israelites our first ancestor
was Adam, who originated in Si Yu (Central Asia). Our
books appeared in the Chow Dynasty.
Our Books of Doctrine (Tao) in four parts contain fifty-
three works. Their principles are profound, and their
3

18
THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
teachings admirable. We honor them like Heaven. The
founder of this religion was Abraham. Then our books were
handed down from Moses, who was our law-giver. After
his time this original religion came and dwelt in China,
in the dynasty of Han. In the first year of Lung Hsing
of the Sung dynasty (1163) a place of worship was built
in Kaifungfu. In the 16th year of Chih-yüan of the
Yüan dynasty (1275) it was rebuilt as an ancient temple
and devoted to the reverential preservation of these Scriptures.
Not only in Kaifung, but under the whole Heaven, there are
found professors of this religion; and they do not fail to
venerate these Scriptures and to respect this doctrine.
Though the letters of these Scriptures differ from those of the
books of the Confucian school, their teachings are identical,
resting on the duties of common life. If put in practice by
father and son, the father will be kind and the son filial; if
practised by sovereign and subject, the ruler will be merciful
and the subject obedient: if practised by brothers, the elder
will be friendly and the younger respectful: if practised by
husband and wife, the husband will be patient and the wife
submissive if practised by friends, the friendship will gain
in good faith. There is no higher Tao than Charity and
Justice; in practice it awakens conscience and brings out a
sense of shame. There is no higher Tao than order and
prudence in practice it produces dignity of carriage and
sincerity of purpose: if practised in fasting, the fast will
be strict and reverent: if practised in the worship of ancestors,
that worship will be filial and sincere: if practised in public
worship, praises are offered to High Heaven for giving life to
all things; and every act springs from sincere reverence.
In case of widows, orphans, diseased and cripples, it makes
men give them succor, so that not one will be out of place.
In case of those who are too poor to marry, or to bury their

THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
19
dead, it makes men help with all their might to supply funds
for marriage or funeral.
In times of mourning with abstinence from meats and
wine, it lays no stress on outward show, but conforms to the
authorized ritual, and puts no faith in superstition.
Coming to weights and measures, there is not one in
which a believer would dare to cheat his fellowmen.
In the pursuit of letters there are those who have shed
lustre on their parents, and made a name for themselves.
There are some who have held office in and out of China
proper, dispensing the Imperial favor to the people. Some
have sacrificed their lives in resisting an enemy, thus repaying
the favor of the Emperor; some by personal virtue have
extended their influence to an entire neighbourhood. Coming
down to those who plough the fields, they pay their taxes.
Those who practise handicrafts meet the wants of the public.
Our merchants have gone abroad and made a name on lake
and river. Some too have got gain by staying at home and
trading. All these have stood in awe of Heaven's will, and
kept the laws of the king. They have observed the five
relations and the five virtues, showing respect to ancestral
usage and piety to parents; honoring their seniors, and
treating neighbours with kindness; keeping close to teachers
and friends, and teaching their offspring. Pursuing their
calling, they have borne petty grievances with patience, and
stored up merit. Such are the words of encouragement and
restraint treasured up in these volumes; and such is the effect
of their doctrines in common life. In them Heaven's will is
completely set forth as the guide of nature, and the cultivation
of Tao by means of teaching finds an open road. The virtues
of Charity, Justice, Politeness and Prudence are thus
cherished.

20
THE JEWISH MONUMENT AT KAIFUNGFU.
If moulded in images or painted in colors they are an
idle display to beguile eye and ear; they are heresies not fit
to be followed. But those who venerate these Scriptures,
know what they stand on; for Scripture and doctrine have no
uncertain source. In the beginning our ancestor Adam
transmitted the doctrine to Noah; Noah handed it down to
Abraham; Abraham passed it on to Isaac ; Isaac to Jacob;
Jacob to the heads of the twelve tribes; the heads of the
twelve tribes passed it on to Moses. Moses passed it to
Aaron; Aaron to Joshua, and Joshua to Ezra. With him
the religion of the Fathers bloomed out into fresh brightness.
All who follow this religion pursue the good and shun
the evil, day and night cultivating personal virtue with
sincere earnestness. We fast on certain days, and in food
and drink conform to our books, which we honor and believe.
May Heaven grant prosperity without stint! May men
seek the praise of virtue, and every family have the joy of
offspring! Such is the spirit of our ancestral religion. May
its ritual worship be undisturbed!
We carve a stone in this temple to hand down to future
ages; that those who come after us may known its origin and
and keep it in mind.
In the 7th year of Chêng Tê of the Ming Dynasty
(A.D. 1512) this temple was rebuilt by An, Li and Kao.
Chin P'u of Yang chou contributed a copy of the Scriptures
and set up a second gate. Chin Jun of Ning-hsia erected a
pavilion over these stone tablets.
Chin Chung repaired the pavilion.
Chang Luan and Chang Hsi engraved the stone.