THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
By T. W. KINGSMILL.
The Third Edition of Yule's Book of Ser Marco Polo,
with the additional notes of M. Henri Cordier, contains
notices of nearly all our extant sources of information
bearing on the immediate subject of the work. Not the
least interesting of the old traveller's wanderings was that
undertaken by him in his journey to the West and South-
west of Cathay, contained in the second part of Book II;
and, along with all serious students who have perused the
book, I am pleased to be able to express my admiration for
the extremely careful and able manner in which the work
of annotation has been carried out. Curiously neither the
late Sir Henry Yule nor the newer Editor, M. H. Cordier,
has even named one of the most important, if not actually
the most important mention of these regions amongst the
Classical writers,-The Periplus of Marcian the Heracleot.*
H
Περίπλους τῆς ἔξω θαλλάσσης εώου τε και ἑσπερίου καὶ τῶν ἐν αὐτῆ
μεγίστων νήσων. This somewhat scarce work was first published from the
existing fragments by Dr. HOESCHELINS in his Geographica, A.D. 1600.
Afterwards by Morell, Paris 1602, and subsequently by Hudson in the
1st volume of his Geographi Græci Minores, Oxon. 1693. Smith mentions
only two later editions, in 1830 and 1841 respectively, one in Paris and one
in Leipzig.

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
77
Ptolemy, writing in the second century, seems to have
been the first, in the Seventh Book of his Geographia, to
bring to the notice of the West these Far-Eastern lands;
but his descriptions, based on imperfect information, and
moreover confounding the opposite coasts of the Bay of
Bengal, are so utterly untrustworthy that they have hitherto
only served to lead into a veritable slough of despond those
who have attempted to unravel them. Two centuries after the
time of Ptolemy Marcian wrote his Periplus of the principal
Coasts and Islands from Ireland to the Straits of Malacca.
He speaks in the highest terms of his predecessor, whom
he does not hesitate to describe as "most divine and wise,"
but evidently does not hold himself debarred thereby from
availing himself of the additional knowledge and experience
gained in the interval. In the earlier portions of the work,
which has been handed down unfortunately in an imperfect
state, our author describes in brief the countries which he
intends to mention more at length after parting from the
lands of the Homerites, the Himyarites of the Arabian
authors, including the coasts of the Persian Gulf to
Gedrosia and "India intra Gangem." This takes him to
Taprobane, the Island of Ceylon, after which he goes on to
that "other India," that "Extra Gangem," which marches
with the former.
"In India beyond Ganges," he tells us, "is the
Chersonese called Chrysê (Golden), by which is the Bay
called the 'Great,' (Megas)." [It seems here possible that
Megas should be taken as a proper name as seen in modern
Mergui, and with a change in the fourth letter from g to t
in Martaban.] "Here is the middlemost of the marches of
India beyond Ganges, and the people of the Sinæ and their
metropolis known as Thinæ,-the furthest limit of the earth,
whether known or unknown."

78
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
Whoever may have been his authority for his description
of the lands beyond Ganges, the chapters treating of them
bear internal evidence of having been written or inspired
by an expert who had actually seen what he describes,
and are invaluable in the light they throw on the condition
and the distribution of the peoples inhabiting these regions
in the fourth century. I append a translation of the chapters
relating to these districts, as far as the text permits; there
are, however lacunce in the MSS. on which the text
was founded, and through the ordinary carelessness of
copyists the distances, expressed in the Greek numeral
alphabet, are plainly untrustworthy. After a description
of the Island of Taprobana occurs a hiatus, and the
next chapter seems to begin in
sentence:-
the middle of a
"From this emporium reaches a vast gulf called the
Gangetic Bay; near whose inmost recess by five mouths
debouches the River Ganges, which, as we have stated,
forms the boundary line between the two Indias. The
length of India within Ganges at its greatest extent, from
the fifth mouth of the Ganges, which is called Antibolê
(Sans. Anta-bala, for Anta-bala-sthiti, "border stronghold"),
to the shipping port on the Kanthian Gulf (Rann of Cutch),
is 18,290 stadia: its width from the cape called the
Aphetêrion to the sources of the Ganges is 13,000 stadia.
It contains 54 nations or provinces (lit. satrapies), 216
cities, towns or emporia worthy of note, 6 conspicuous
mountains, 23 rivers, 2 capes, 1 distinguished port, 5 bays,
12 estuaries. Besides these are one important fitting-out
port, 10 river confluents and 9 islands. The run from the
fitting-out port (Aphetêrion), through part of the Gangetic
Bay to the fifth mouth called Antibolê, is in all 5,660 stadia.
From the port on the Rann of Cutch to the same spot is
35,695 stadia.

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
Periplus of India without Ganges and its Rivers and Gulfs.
79
"India without Ganges its bounded on the north by
portions of, Skythiæ and Serica; on the west by the
River Ganges itself; on the east by the (country of) the
Sinæ as far as the gulf called Megas and the gulf itself,
(Gulf of Martaban); on the south by the Indian Ocean, and
partly by the Prasôdan (Sans. prasâda, tranquil) Sea,
which beginning at the island of Methusias, or Menuthias
(Sans. Madhvasaras, Sweet-water), extends in a line parallel
with the opposite coast to the Great,' as before explained,
Gulf.
"The length of India without Ganges where it is greatest
is 11,650 stadia (say 900 miles, which is about the actual
distance from the Baleswar mouth to Rangoon). Its extreme
width is (about) 10,009 stadia. It contains 50 (separate)
nations or provinces ; cities, towns or emporia 67, conspicuous
mountains 18, headlands 5, ports 3, large bays 1, and
noteable islands 30. The entire length of the navigation
from the promontory [sic] up to the boundary close to
Sinæ of the part of the Great Gulf' which lies near
India without Ganges comes to 2,500 stadia. [There is
evidently some error here; the MS. seems imperfect: the
Latin gloss reads 12,550 stadia; neither meet the case.] The
navigation of the entire littoral of India without Ganges
from the fifth mouth of the Ganges called Antibolê up to the
boundaries near the nation of the Sinæ comes to 4,550 (or
5,550) stadia." There is an error here of importance, the
text reads der' which is an impossible number.
Periplus of the Region of the Sina and the Adjoining Gulfs.
"The nation of the Sinæ lies on the north alongside
Serica; on the west is India without Ganges, along the before-
mentioned boundary to the Great Gulf.' On the east is

80
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
unknown land, and on the south the Southern Sea and the
unexplored southern land. This is the account given in all
quarters.
"Beyond this begin to dwell the Fish-eating Sinæ up to
the unexplored southern land. For it is needful to assume
here two unknown lands,-
-one lying east, inhabited, as we
have said, by Sinæ, and the other south, which stretches
along the entire of the Indian Sea, called the Prasôdan,'
and which is a part of the Indian Sea: so that either meeting
describes, as it were, an angle about the Gulf of Sinæ.
Whatever may be the site of the Seres and their metropolis,
it overlies Sine: the land which runs the more easterly of
these is unknown, being a marsh covered with forest, where
the reeds are so great and thick as to interfere with communi-
cation."
Periplus of the Thériódan Gulf.
"To the vessel, then, sailing past the 'Great' Gulf, and
the Rainy Cape' and keeping on the left and east the
land of Sinæ, the Thêriôdan Gulf presents itself, (with the
Wild-beast Gulf of Marcian we may compare the modern
Singapore, Sans. Sinha-pura, City of Lions, situated at the
extremity of these very regions); this gulf extends to the
Promontory of Satyrs, Apes' Head,' (the modern Acheen
Head). The run from the Promontory (Rainy Cape?')
to Apes' Head is counted 503 stadia." [The missing figure
here is probably 7 say 7' 3,500 stadia: the text bas y'.
Periplus of the Gulf of Sino.
"After Apes' Head follows an extremely large bay called
the Gulf of Sinæ, which reaches up to the unexplored
land on the south, and conjoins also the unexplored land to
eastward, near which, as we have said, dwell the Sinæ.
From Apes' Head, then to the mouths of the Kottiaris R.,

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
81
which empties into the Gulf of Sinæ, are 1,250 stadia. [The
Kottiaris here spoken of clearly represents the modern
Irrawadi, the word is pure Sanscrit, Çatavari, 'Hundred-
streams,' and evidently is named from the almost innumerable
mouths of the delta. The distance mentioned, in Greek
numerals ' 1,250, is certainly incorrect: it should probably
read 10,250, which according to the author's general
estimate of distances would be approximately correct.
In the
first two syllables of Irra-wadi the Irra is probably a last echo
of the Sanscrit vara, stream, river. The River Kottiaris leads
to Kattigara (evidently for Çata-nagara "Hundred-town"),
the emporium of the Sinæ, the terminus of the explored
and habitable earth towards the south.
"The number of stadia reckoned in this peregrination,
(periplus) is [blank in original]; indeed it is by no means easy
for anyone, even if inspired by wisdom approaching that of the
celestials, clearly to describe the course which extends beyond
the emporium of the Sinæ, or to open out to human knowledge
those unexplored lands lying to the extreme south, or the
region which bounds on the east the unexplored parts of
Sinæ.
"The length of Sinæ is at most stadia [so states the
MS.: it seems useless to attempt any conjectural amendment];
the width at its greatest 7,250 stadia. It contains 5 nations
or provinces (satrapies), cities or towns worthy of note 7;
one conspicuous mountain; four great rivers; two extensive
gulfs, the Thêriôdan and that of Sinæ, and two well marked
promontories. The whole navigation of the coast of Sinæ
from the limit of the Sinæ in the Great Bay' towards
India without Ganges on the River Kottiaris amounts to,
in all, stadia 2,650." [This figure is of course incorrect:
the text reads '; a figure has dropt out at the beginning.
For a similar reason to that stated above it is inadvisable to
seek to supply the omission.]

82
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
The next chapter gives a recapitulation of the distances
from the Gulf of Akaba to India, which it is not necessary to
quote. It however goes on to tell us of India, that the
distance from the westernmost mouth of the Indus River to
Antibolê is 35,695 stadia. The actual distance is 3,000 miles,
so that the stadium may be roughly estimated as about the
twelfth part of an English mile.
!
Having arrived at Antibolê, it goes on to tell us that
the distance from that to the limits opposite the Sinæ, which
touch the middle of the "Great Gulf," is -5330 stadia: then
along the coast from the extreme limit of the Sinæ back to
the Kottiaris is 2,650 stadia; if by the insertion of in
each case we add 10,000 stadia we shall get 15,330 or, say,
1,275 miles for the distance from Antibolê to Rangoon, which
is some 350 miles in excess. The second estimate of 12,650
stadia, say 1,050 miles, would, however, fairly well represent
the position of the Isthmus of Kra, which was seemingly then
the limit of Sinæ, as in modern times of Burma. A
discrepancy, however, difficult of explanation occurs between
the first estimate of the extent of 11,650 stadia given on p. 4
as that of India beyond Ganges.
However we manipulate Marcian's figures, it is im-
possible to avoid coming to the conclusion that the land of
Sinæ, as represented by him, lay on the west side of the
Indo-Chinese peninsula. India without Ganges commenced
at the fifth or Antibolan mouth of the Ganges, in which
we must find the modern Baleshwar. This India, as
Marcian called it, extended to the Great Gulf, itself in
immediate connection with the "Prasôdan," which is pure
Sanscrit for Tranquil, Sea. The voyager, still going south
towards the unexplored land, has, the periplus is careful to
explain, on his left, and towards the east, the land of Sinæ,
while all to the south is utterly unknown, so that even to
one endowed with "celestial" knowledge it would be

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
83
The
difficult to speak with confidence as to what came next.
old Greek voyager, if he succeeded in reaching Rangoon,
which even is doubtful, certainly never got beyond it, his
guides having evidently failed him at this point.
Curiously enough, we have from an almost contemporary
writer, a glimpse of light thrown on the subject in an
unexpected quarter. About the year 412 the Buddhist monk
Fahhien, on his travels in search of Buddhist texts, found
himself in Kandy on the island of Ceylon. Here he found
a number of wealthy merchants living in large and elegant
houses whom he calls Sabu, There is no doubt
that these Saban merchants were Arabians, who under the
name of Sabæans during the earlier centuries of the
Christian epoch carried on an extensive trade with the East,
and are mentioned by practically all the Greek and Roman
geographers.
Fahhien, finding himself after eleven years' journeying
at Ceylon, and probably feeling unequal to the task of
retracing his steps by the long and dangerous route over
the Hindu Kush, took advantage of the opportunity offering
of returning in a ship bound for Batavia. The ship was
evidently Arabian, or at all events not belonging to a
Buddhist country. For two days the ship sped merrily
with a favourable wind; when the wind must have changed
to N.E. and freshening, the skipper found himself on the
verge of a cyclone; the wind suddenly increasing to a
hurricane, and the craft labouring heavily enough to spring
a leak. To ease her everything that could be spared was
hove overboard, and Fahhien, fearing that the unbelieving
skipper would insist on pitching overboard the manuscripts
he had collected during his weary journey, and knowing
that it would be useless to appeal to any religious scruples
on the part of the skipper or crew, had recourse in secret
to prayer to Avaloketeshvara. After drifting at the mercy

84
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
of the wind for thirteen days, during which the ship must
have been driven by the cyclone south of the equator, and
carried round in a circle to the northward again; the gale
going down, they found themselves off a small and
apparently uninhabited island. This turned out to be one
of the innumerable islands skirting the outer coast of Sumatra
near Acheen head, the Apes' Head of Marcian. Here
advantage was taken of the tide to repair the leak, and,
finding her position, the ship took the outer course through
the Straits of Sunda to Batavia.
It is evident that all these passages were at the time
of Marcian perfectly well known to the Arabian traders.
The knowledge was, however, carefully preserved as a trade
secret; and hence the yarn about divine wisdom told to
Marcian's authority. The Arabians were only doing for
the East what Parthia did for the West, and seeking to
keep in their own hands the monopoly of the profitable
trade. The incident is paralleled by the experience of
Kanying at the Persian Gulf. Towards the close of the
first century that intrepid traveller found himself at Hormuz,
whence he desired to make his way by sea to Egypt and
and Rome. The Arabian shipmen, probably inspired by
Parthia, told him just such another yarn about the uncertain-
ties of the voyage and the strange longings that seized the
the adventurous voyager.
From other sources, as well as from the numerous and
enormous ruins which they have left behind in Cambodia and
Java, we know of the wide diffusion of Indian influence,
as well as of the prevalence and power of the religion of
Buddha in the east of the Indo-Chinese peninsula and the
East-Indian islands. Marcian's Periplus displays to us
the existence of a similar condition of affairs in the valleys
of the Irrawadi and Salwin. The whole country is
saturated with Indian influence, and the cities, towns, rivers

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSON ESE.
85
and headlands all bear Sanscrit names. India beyond
Ganges was in fact a good deal more than a mere
geographical expression,-the "other" India being for all
practical purposes nearly as Indian as the hither.
According to Marcian, the inhabitants of this country
were Sinæ, and it has been taken for granted that these
Sinæ, spoken of by both Ptolemy and Marcian, were the
Chinese under another name. Both these authors state
distinctly that the Sinæ were bounded on the north by
the Seres, and on the east and south by the unknown land.
I have shown elsewhere that Serica, the land occupied by
the Seres, was the state of Ts'in, and on the conquest of
China by Ts'in Shihwangti the name came to be applied
to the whole of the Chinese state. Here, however, the Chinese
records come to our aid. The Shi Ki [chap. cxvi] first
lifts the veil on these south-west frontagers of China, and
describes a mission, partly exploratory and partly political,
sent into these regions by the great Emperor Wu Ti, in the
second century B.C. [China Review, vol. xxv, p. 103].
Wu Ti, a prince far in advance of his age, was as anxious
as any English statesman of the nineteenth century to open
up to Chinese trade the entire of Asia, and as a fact did
succeed in establishing intercourse through Central Asia which
lasted several centuries; he was equally desirous, though in
the end not so successfully, of promoting intercourse with
India by way of the south-west. All the countries to the
south were known in an indifferent way as Yuet, which
is simply the transliteration of Sancrit varsha, a general
name for a large expanse, a country. Thus we find Nan-
yuet, Southern Yuet; Tungyuet, Eastern Yuet; Minyuet,
Fuhkien and Chehkiang, etc. Nanyuet was subsequently
conquered and annexed, but lying towards its west the
explorers found the powerful state Tien, occupying all
the lands south of Shuk, the present Ssch'wen. The king

86
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
of Tien did not receive Wu Ti's envoys very cordially: when
they complained of the obstacles placed in their way by the
tribes on his northern frontier, he made the reply, that,
compared with Han, his was but a small country; the
obstruction, had, however, not proceeded from him but from
the prince of the Yelangs, tribes along the modern Yalung
River. For himself he only wanted to be left in peace,
and did not care to pry into the affairs of Han. Wu Ti,
however, did not care to be baulked, and sent a second mission
who assured him of the perfectly peaceful intentions of the
Emperor; and, apparently convinced that no conquest was
intended, he joined in the measures taken to restore order.
In reward for this, in the usual grandiose manner, "the
Emperor presented the king with a royal seal, and gave him
authority over the various chiefs of the South-west."
It was not, of course, for fourteen centuries that Tien came
under the dominion of China. Up to the present day, in
the official language of the Chinese court, Yünnan preserves
its original name of Tien.
Now there is not the slightest doubt that geographically
the country, called by Marcian Sinæ, and which had its
emporium in the delta of the Irrawadi, corresponds with the
position of the Chinese Tien while philologically there is
as little difficulty in the representation of Chinese Tien by
Greek Sinæ. Nor is this all; Marcian gives us as "their
metropolis Thinæ," which apparently we find in the still
surviving province of Theinni, south of Bhamo, and which
apparently included at one time a former capital, old
Pagân, of which I shall have occasion to speak later on.
If not identical with the widely extended people of the
Shans, there is little doubt of the ethnological connection
of the two races.
So much for the information to be drawn
from Greek sources.
* Rather Tin

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
87
For further enlightenment as to the intimate ethnology
of the southern frontagers of China, we must naturally look
to our Chinese authorities. The Nanchao Ye-shi, written
in the 16th century by Yangts'ai of Ch'engtu, gives us some
of the earlier legends. It has been translated in part by
Mr. G. W. Clark. Ages ago there came to Yunnan from
the kingdom of Malikut
Malakuta—which
Cunningham [Ancient Geography of India] identifies with
the modern Travancore and Madura-a certain prince called
Ah-yu, in other words, as we learn from Fah-hien's Travels,
Açoka.
He had a son, in modern Chinese Ti-mung-tsu
where the phonetic value is Tâla-maurya. In time
Tâla-maurya had a family of nine sons, who became the
eponymic founders of as many states, the Chinese Mung, ;
Shan and Burmese Muang or Maung. There is so much
foundation for this story, which can hardly be called myth,
that Chandragupta, the founder of the famous line of kings.
of Magadha, and grandfather of the still more celebrated
Açoka, was actually a descendant of the Maurya family. Still
the story is not history. The son of Açoka who went to
Madura and Ceylon, and there introduced the religion of
Buddha, which spread from thence over the entire Indo-
Chinese peninsula, was named Mahinda; he was an ordained
Buddhist priest, and as such vowed to celibacy, and left no
issue. Still there must have been some reason for inventing
the tale, and we can only find this in the wide expansion of
the Maurya race, which ranged from Magadha, the modern
Bengal, through the greater part of the region called by
the old geographers India beyond Ganges. To trace the
connection we must go back far beyond the rise of Buddhism.
At any rate this Maurya race must have been widely
diffused, and has left its mark everywhere, not only over
the entire of the Indo-Chinese peninsula, but into Yunnan,
Ssch'wen, and even far into the Hukwang provinces.

88
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
This fact is well exhibited on the face of the maps of these
regions in the frequent occurrence in place names of the
syllables mung, meng, mieng, muang, man, etc., where the
final ng in Chinese and the Indo-Chinese languages is the
regular representative of Sanscrit r.
To return to the legend, Timungtsu (Tâla-maurya) had
a family of nine sons who became the eponyms of as many
peoples. Unfortunately Mr. Clark's narrative does not give
here the Chinese characters, and it is somewhat difficult
to discover what he really intended. The first was the
ancestor of the "Sixteen States," apparently the Siamese,.
Cambodians and the other southern peoples. The second
was ancestor to the T'ufans, Tibetans [apparently here
the writer went beyond his brief]. The third was called
Mungtsule, and was the ancestor of the Hanjen, Chinese, of
which the same may perhaps be said. The fourth was
Mungtsu cheo, eponym of the Mantse peoples. The fifth
founded the Mung families, (?) the Muong of the "Black"
River. The sixth founded the Lion peoples, (?) the Shans.
With the seventh and the eighth we are on more familiar
ground. The former Mungtsulung, of whom I shall speak
lower, was the founder of Kiao-chi, Annam; and the latter
of Paktse kwoh, apparently the same as Pakngai,
the capital of Tien, which must, I take it, be identified
with old Pagân on the Irrawadi about 120 miles due west
of Theinni. This leaves only the ninth, Mungtsu yuet,
Maurya-varsha, and this we must apparently place amongst
upper Laos in the extreme south of Yunnan, somewhere
about the junction with Annam.
the
In a work so ancient and respectable as the Heo-Han
Shu, written in the fifth century, another form of the legend
is to be found, but here referring to a different tribe-the
Ngailaos, co-residents with the Mauryas. This version of the
story indicates that in the third century, as at present, there

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
89
were at least two races dominant in south China and the
Indo-Chinese peninsula, both, however, intimately associated
with India. The story is told in chapter lxxxvi, and
accounts for the origin of these Ngailaos by a miraculous
birth. A woman dwelling in the Lao-shan [where the
phonetic power is dra or drai], when fishing came in con-
tact with a sunken stake and conceived. The name of the
woman was Sha-yak Here the phonetic power is
(S)Marak, apparently Maurika, an adjectival form from
Maurya. After ten months she gave birth to ten sons, nine
of whom disappeared, but the tenth, bearing the name of
Kiulung, or older Kaulung, grew up and eventually became
king of the Ngailaos. The phonetic element in Kaulung
Juis, however, the same as in Kiao-chi, an old name for
Annam and the adjacent countries, the connections of which
I shall refer to lower down. Ngailao, of which Kaulung
became subsequently king, seems to represent phonetically
Drau-i-drai, and this we must connect with a form Dravida,
the name given to the dark tribes of Central and Southern
India. The story of Chandragupta, and Açoka's conversion
to Buddhism, is by Rhys Davids taken to imply that the
Maurya family to which Açoka belonged was of low caste
or aboriginal origin, so that in this respect the two
accounts do not seriously clash. These people, although they
pierced their noses and extended their ears, were otherwise
in a fair stage of civilisation; they wore their clothes so that
from behind they seem to carry tails, a peculiarity they
shared with the Mâns. This custom seemingly does not
survive at the present day.
Two thousand years ago the Mâns had a much wider
distribution than at the present day, ranging from the centre
of Ssch'wen over the entire of the Hukwang, and even
further east. The Heo-Han Shu finds for them a supernatural
origin. The mythical Emperor Kaosin had a favourite dog,
7

90
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
so goes the story [chap. lxxxvi], seemingly a Tibetan
mastiff, called P'wanhu. Kaosin had been robbed by some
Turkish outlaws, and made an unsuccessful raid on the tribe.
He then offered rich rewards in "
yellow gold" and a
well dowered wife to anyone who would bring him the
head of the chief of the robbers. None cared to undertake
the task, but one day the dog appeared with the head and
laid it at his feet. The puzzle was how to reward the
animal, but as he had promised a wife he thought the promise
should be fulfilled, and issued a proclamation calling for
a volunteer. After some time a woman appeared, and the
dog showing his willingness everything was arranged and
P'wanhu and the woman were married. He took the woman,
threw her across his back, and carried her into the mountains
where they were most thickly covered with forest. In due
course the woman gave birth to twelve children, six boys
and six girls, who became the ancestors of the Mâns: they
wove the bark of trees, dyed the grasses and made of
them many coloured clothes, which always had the appearance
of a tail hanging down behind. Such was the appearance
of the Mâns two thousand years ago, and to the present
day they keep to the lofty wooded hills, and wear brightly
coloured clothes.
The tale is, of course, purely mythological, to account
for the personal peculiarities of these tribes. The Mâns,
two thousand years ago, had already become more or less
mixed in blood with the Tibetans, then living very much
more to the east than at present. The name of the dog,
P'wanhu, in the story is Tibetan, and is apparently
identical with that of a Tibetan town on the
Dzunggo, in modern Chinese the Tung, and which is
mentioned in Sz'ma Tsien's history. The Tibetan form of
the name would be Baryul, or Bardul, the Pa of
history.

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
91
We can, however, trace the Mâns many centuries further,
when they were limitotropes of the ancient Cheo settlers in
the basin of the Hwangho, and formed the chief obstacle
in the way of their advance into Central China. The
Mien-man [Shi, II., viii. 6.] sings:-
66
In swarms the Mâns round Min's steep crest,
Like orioles on the housetops crowd.
So rash a task how dare we breast?
With palsied fear our hearts are cowed.
E'en food and drink offend our taste,
Our boldest schemes aye bootless prove,
As our war chariots homeward haste,
Or from our flanks in panic move.
The Min Shan as Williams [sub voce] informs us, formed
a range of mountains in the north of Ssch'wen province,
a spur of the Pihling, separating the valleys of the Yellow
River and Yang tsz kiang." The northern states had
planned an invasion of the Yangtse basin, and had advanced
to the foot of the Min Shan; when the soldiers saw the
formidable hosts of the Mâns, with their bright coloured
jackets capping the crests of the Min mountains, they refused
to advance further.
The Mâns are always closely associated with King #l,
which may be roughly described as corresponding with
modern Hukwang, extending, however, along the lower
country as far as the boundaries of Wu; the Lunyü couples
Mân with mak,, as if intended for some form like
Manyak, i.e. Mauryika, the probable original of the Manyaks
of the extreme west of modern Ssch'wen. In connection
with the character J, in modern Chinese pronounced King,
occurs one of those changes, which merely phonetic in
the gradual development of the language, have been
interpreted as implying an actual change of name. Thus
Leolan became Shenshen; Sienpi Wuhwan, etc. In a
precisely similar manner King changed to Ts'u, and the
literate explains that the name of the country was altered:
*So in the Great Learning; the Shi has, but the sound is identical.

92
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
what really took place was, however, merely a change in
the name of the ideograph: and originally represented
the same sound, Kshar or Kshur, signifying the watery, or
flooded country [Sans. Kshara, the modern Hukwang], but
coming to be understood as the country of the thorny tribulus,
[Sans. Kshura]. The original tongue of the Maurya settlers,
a polysyllabic language allied to the Sanscritic dialects of
India, was gradually assuming its modern monosyllabic form:
the Maurya woman had coupled with the Tibetan Fân,
and the Mâns were the offspring. The Yin-wu ballad
[Shi, IV, iii, 5] indicates the gradual change by using the
double word King-t'su,
The kingdom of Ts'u was finally put an end to by the
Seres (Ts'in) about B.C. 339, when Ts'in Shihwangti attacked
it, and in a comparatively short space of time succeeded
in overrunning the country and extinguishing the royal
house. In connection with this a curious incident is
incidentally recorded by Sz'ma Ts'ien in the cxvth chapter
of his history. A few years before Ts'in's attack, the king
of Ts'u had sent his general Chwang Kiao, a near relation
of the house, to make an attack on the states bordering
the upper Yangtse. The old hegemony of the Cheo states
was being broken, and Ts'u and Ts'in were both aiming
at the establishment of an empire to include the whole of
China from the Great Wall to the borders of Annam.
Chwang Kiao was so far successful that he had already
advanced up to the lake of Yunnan Fu, and had reduced
the intervening lands to submission, when he was recalled
by dangers at home. He was leading his army back when
he met Ts'in Shihwangti's forces returning after the
destruction of Ts'u; fearing to risk a battle he halted, and
turned back, and, adopting the dress and ways
of the
countries he had conquered, became the first king of Tien.
This he was the better able to do that the substratum of the

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
93
population of his new country was closely related to that
of Ts'u, both being Mâns. The story need not be accepted
as historic, but it points to the wide expansion of the
Maurya race at the opening of history.
Nor are other and more tangible evidences of the former
wide distribution of these races before the time of written
history wanting. From K'wei Fu, at the very entrance to
Ssch'en, to Pingshan and Yacheo in the west-wherever,
in fact, the great sandstone formation of the province is
to be met with-are everywhere to be found river banks
honey-combed with caves, known to the natives as "Mantse
caves," the residences or tombs, for the two almost
imperceptibly run into one another, of these ancient people.
Of their age
we have no record: the early histories
incidentally speak of them as then existing much as at
present, but no Chinese author of any age has ever interested
himself in their exploration. A few foreigners in their
travels through these recently opened lands- foremost
amongst whom was Baber-have made a beginning; but,
moving about from place to place, their investigations were
merely superficial. Enough has been done to prove that
they were the work of a highly civilised people, who had
made considerable progress in the arts. The art is, however,
not Chinese, and its predominant features approach more
nearly to ancient Indian types. Besides the caves along
the river banks in evidence to the most careless passer-by,
there is reason to believe that the soil of Ssech'en and a
large part of Yunnan, especially about the sites of the larger
cities, is deeply bored with excavated graves dating back
to a similar antiquity; and discoveries are constantly
made of antiquities disturbed by the most superficial
of excavations which must be referred to pre-Chinese
occupation.

94
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
The style of the so-called cave dwelling, probably induced
by the conditions of the site, is peculiar. One of the most
marked peculiarities is the lowness of the entrances, from
three to three-and-a-half feet, so that it is necessary to stoop
almost double in entering. Ornament is sparingly used,
but the stonework is solid and carefully finished: the
doorways were originally closed by portcullises, apparently
of stone, and the jambs and lintels are carefully
grooved for the purpose. No inscriptions of any sort
have been noticed, writing not having been as yet intro-
duced in India. When the rock was of such a nature
as not to permit of the formation of caves, brickwork
was adopted the bricks were frequently ornamented with
well-designed patterns on the surface, but the patterns
are distinctly un-Chinese and approach more nearly an
Indian type. Doubtless when the Empire becomes more
settled, and the more learned amongst the Chinese begin
to take an intelligent interest in their own antiquities,
these caves will be excavated with care, on account of the
light they are capable of shedding on the early history of
Chinese civilisation.
:
Equally distinct from ordinary Chinese types are the
physical characteristics of the descendants of the old
inhabitants still to be found in the wilder and more elevated
districts of Ssch'wen and Yunnan. All travellers in the west
of China have noticed the very great distinctions, mental and
bodily, between the so-called aboriginal tribes and the more
modern Chinese squatters in the rich valley bottoms, who
with their national dogged persistence are little by little
pushing to the rugged western mountains the older tribes.
From a European point of view these remnants of the ancient
populations are especially interesting,-gay and light-hearted,
brave and open, they are in marked contrast with their

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
95
prudish, selfish and calculating neighbours; and in consequence
have inch by inch had to give way, and are now only to be
found in the thickly wooded uplands unsuited for the Chinese
terrace cultivation.
Nor are the physical characteristics of the two races in
any degree in less marked contrast. The principal distinction,
noticeable at first sight, is that in the Mantses, and in a less
degree in their more mixed neighbours the Lolos, the yellow
pigment, characteristic of the Pareæan races, is either
altogether absent or at most slightly developed. Another
marked distinction is the absence of the fold of the upper
eyelid which gives to the Chinese and their allied races the
peculiar appearance known as the almond-eye. The
distinctive colouring, in fact, closely approximates to the
Aryan type of the Indian Peninsula, where the foundation is
pink, more or less tinged with brown in proportion to the
admixture of Dravidian blood. The stature is tall and slight,
erect and graceful; the face oval, with the cheek-bones but
slightly prominent; the nose elevated, though rather broader
than in the pure Aryan; the lips thin and well formed, and
the hair with a tendency to chestnut, and sometimes decidedly
wavy; the eyes, as Baber informs us, are large and level, and
in all these characteristics they form a marked contrast to
their Chinese neighbours.
So much for the people: the land they inhabited merits
some notice. The oldest allusion to it seems to occur to the
ancient topical ballad enclosed in the more modern Yükung.
Internal evidence would place this ballad prior to the fifth
century B.C., how much earlier we have no means of judging
[see on this subject China Review, XIV. 17]. The ballad
sings [Pt. I. Chap. ix]:-
Min and Po (came under) civilisation.
Along the courses of the T'o and Ts'im.
The Ts'ai-Mung were planted.
The Ho (Ghor) tribes were brought under.

96
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
The gloss, itself ancient, ascribes these localities to Liang
Chow, a name still existing in Liang Shan, a general name for
the districts inhabited by the Mântse. The gloss then goes on
to enumerate the articles of so-called tribute-pearls, iron,
silver chased work, turned pottery, and embroidered bear and
fox skins. These, it adds, came from the western passes, and
Hwan? went up the Kialing valley to Hanch'ung, and were
thence carried to Singan, the Capital. This gloss cannot be
earlier than the 3rd century B.C. but contains doubtless
older tradition.
Min, as I have explained, is the range of highlands
parting the basins of the Hwangho and Yangtse. Po, as if
Bod, is the great Tibetan plateau. The T'o is the modern
T'ung and its tributary the Min, the old Tibetan Dar-chu.
By a process of exhaustion, then, Ts'in must be the modern
Kialing, which agrees with the conditions. Ts'ai-Mung, in
the third line quoted, is then plainly the Tâla-maur-ya of the
of the Nanchao Yeshi, referred to above [p. 87, ante]. Of the
Ho or Ghor mentioned in the last line we shall hear a good
deal lower down.
Liang, the name given in the gloss to this country, was
not its oldest designation. Liang still survives in Tibetan
under its older form of Dêrgè, or Dêrjè; this, however, was
not the name by which it was known to its Maurya settlers.
This was Gandhar, a name still surviving under a scarcely
recognisable form in modern Kiench'ang. Sir Henry Yule
[M. Polo, 1st ed. II. 43] quotes at second hand from
Quatremère the Arabian writer Rashid :- "To the
south-west of Cathay is the country called by the Chinese
Dailiu or Great Realm," and by the Mongols Karajang, in
the language of India and Kashmir Kandar, and by us
Kandahar. This country, which is of vast extent, is bounded
on one side by Tibet and Tangut, and on others by Mongolia,
Cathay and the country of the Gold Teeth."

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
97
In modern times the name transliterated by the Chinese
as in the old language Gan-dar, but by the regular
changes becoming Kiench'ang, is applied to the rich valley of
Ningyuen Fu, but anciently it had a much wider extension,
including apparently the entire country occupied by the
Mauryas, as far as Kiulung, but another form of the same
word. The territory of Kiench'ang on its conquest by the
Mongols became transformed into Mongol Karajang, but, the
tradition of its former wide extension surviving, it was
officially made to cover the whole of the new conquest of
Yünnan. We meet with the same word in Kiaochi, the old
name of Annam, and possibly in Kiangtung, in the upper
Shan States. Caindu, Polo's name for Kiench'ang, is but an
echo of the same sound, as if he heard it as Kandar. It was
the name by which their country was designated by the
Maurya peoples.
The other and alternative name for the country was that
by which it was known to the Tibetans, Dêrgè, spelt also,
by Baber, Degè. Dêrgè still survives as an independent
principality in Eastern Tibet on the Drêchu, the Tibetan
name for the upper course of the Kinsha. As before
mentioned, this name survives in the old Liang Cheo, where
the phonetic value was Dar. The same word occurs in the
name given to the Tung River in the Shiki J, which
Playfair transliterates as , Tsangke, and gives as the
mame of a cheo extending in the Han period into Kweicheo
and Hunan, but where the old pronunciation was Dargè, or
Dêrge. The old general name for the province of Ssch'wen,
still its literary name, was Shuk, which, as the phonetic
portion of the character shows, was pronounced Tuk; the low
tone of which points to an initial D. i.e. Dergè. Shuk was
*According to the Shi Ki, Tsangki was a name given to the country
about the Tung R. when formed into a Kün by the Emperor Wu of
the Former Han.

98
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
of sufficient extent to be chosen as the appellation of the
western kingdom, when after the fall of the Later Hans the
Empire was divided into three states.
Nor is this all we have to show the former wide extent
of the country known as Dergè in the time of the Hans. We
find it, in fact, during the Early Han officially know as Yik
Cheo M, which we must apparently read as Dik, or Derg
Cheo. According to Playfair, it included Ch'engtu and
Yunnan Fus. The name still survives in modern Tali, a
name simply phonetic, and intended as nearly as possible in
modern Chinese to recall the traditional appellation of Darg,
or Dêrge.
These traces of the old nomenclature, extending far
to the east of the present limits of Tibet, coincide with what
the common tradition of the country relates, as well as
agree with the record of maps. Indeed it was not till after
the beginning of the last century that the official maps
included in Ssch'wen any of the districts west of the Tung
river.
Another instance of the western shift of Tibetan names
before the Chinese advance is seen in what in northern
Chinese is called Chantui. In official language this is a term
applied to Eastern Tibet generally, and Baber uses the term
as synonomous with Menia. Most writers too would associate
the name, from a fancied similarity, with Kiench'ang
(Gandar); the latter, in the corrupted northern dialects,
being pronounced Chiench'ang. Chantui in the
southern, and older form, is Chimtui, or Chiamtui. The
name survives, but has been moved to the upper Meikong in
about 31° N.L., where, as the independent state of Chamdo, it
interposes between Hlassa, Dêrgè and Assam.
I do not here propose to enter into details of the present
nomenclature and former distribution of the many tribes,
Maurya or Tibetan, in these still but half-settled lands,

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
99-
further than is necessary to indicate the original tribal
connections of the more important. These tribes, though
inhabiting the same land, are split up into innumerable
sections and subsections, as the blendings of the original
stocks are more or less complete. There are, however, one
or two divisions calling for more particular note. Above
[p. 89] I have connected phonetically the tribes called in the
Heo Han Shu (NG)ailao with Drau-i-drai. About 60 A.D.
Hien Tsung, otherwise the Emperor Ming, second of the
of the Later Han, according to the same authority, divided
these territories into two parts, which he named the Ailao-
and Paknam Hiens respectively. He also cut off from Yik
(Dergè) Cheo six liens, which were under the jurisdiction
of the Tuwei of the western tribes, and, uniting them all, con-
stituted the Principality (Kün) of Yungch'ang, which lay along
both banks of the Lantsang (Upper Meikong) River. In
97 A.D. Yungyutiao i.e. Dravidra, King of Shen,
i.e. Ceylon (Sans. Simhala), sent an embassy to China,
bearing presents of ivory, water-buffaloes and humped oxen.
In 120 A.D. this embassy was repeated, and amongst
other presents were a number of conjurers who performed
some wonderful sleight-of-hand tricks. In answer
enquiries as to who they were, they replied: "We are
men of the Western Sea. To the west of the sea (Bay of
Bengal), south-west of Shen, lies Tats'in (Syria), and the
two are in close communication." The next year, at the
annual feast, the Emperor conferred on Dravidra the
(honorary) rank of Tuwei.
to
But the name of the new state Yung-ch'ang, which
still exists as the name of a prefecture, within which is
Momien, where Margary was murdered, contains the same
phonetic elements, and is but an echo of the old NGailao under
new ideographs. Commonly we find that the phonetic
element was strong when selecting names for new towns or

100
THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE.
territorial divisions, and more especially does this
prove to
have been the rule in the modern provinces of the south-west,
not incorporated into the Empire till the 13th century. In
tracing back, moreover, the country of Yungch'ang to
ancient Dravidra we conform not only with Chinese and
Greek indications, but with the Buddhist histories of Ceylon.
Burma, we learn from them, was not indeed officially converted
to Buddhism till about 450 A.D., but Burma received Buddhism
from Ceylon, which in turn received it from Mahinda, the son
of King Açoka. The "Bo Tree" of Anurâddha-pura marks
the introduction of the religion into Ceylon, and it was
planted in 288 B.C. Notwithstanding the late official
acceptance of Buddhism in Burma, we have every reason
to believe that Buddhist monks, taking advantage of the
constant intercourse existing between Ceylon and the mouths
of the Irrawadi, carried there the "Doctrine" almost as soon
as it had taken root in Ceylon itself. It was under the
auspices of the Han Ming Ti, as we have seen above, that
the Principality of Yungeh'ang was officially acknowledged
by China. It was the same monarch who had the celebrated
dream of the golden image of Buddha. The inspiration had
doubtless reached him by the same route of Yungch'ang as
did the subsequent Western jugglers of King Dravidra. At
all events the result of the dream was that Ming Ti sent
messengers to the ancestral home of the Mauryas in Central
India, and thence obtained, from the holy land of primitive
Buddhism, copies of the sacred writings.
It is to this embassy that we owe the compilation of
that much disputed work, the Taoleh King. As I have
elsewhere shown [China Review, XXIV, 147], the Taoteh
King, so far from being of Chinese origin, is essentially
Buddhistic. "Tao, the WAY, (the Marga), to Nirvana,
(the Wuwei of the author), is essentially a Buddhist con-
ception, and so also is the , Kungch'eng (the Karma),

THE MANTSES AND THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE. 101
the merit obtained during previous existence." But the
Buddhism of the Taoteh King is not that of the Northern
School, but the essentially philosophic doctrine taught under
the shade of the Bo Tree of Anurâddha by the royal monk
Mahinda and his successors.
I have not included in the present memoir the more
distinctly Himalayic peoples of the eastern Tibetan lands-
Horbars, Sharbas, etc.-nor have I made any attempt to
elucidate the early history of the so-called Tangutian peoples
of the north-eastern frontiers, generally, but erroneously,
classed as Tibetans. The subjects thence arising are too
vast and important to be discussed at the tail end of a paper,
and will need a separate notice.